Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 




<b 




& 



/ ?-$-/?& 



V 



i 

L 



\ •* 






»#T 



% tV. J>%\ ■- *v* * 



^ - V '**>■ -> 



. V v ' 



L 



LESSONS IN MODERN FARMING; 

o 

OR, 



AGRICULTURE FOR SCHOOLS ; 



CONTAINING 



SCIENTIFIC EXERCISES FOR RECITATION; 



AND 



ELEGANT EXTRACTS FROM RURAL LITERATURE, 



foil 



ACADEMIC OR FAMILY READING. 



BY REV. JOHN L. BLAKE, D.D. 

AUTHOR OF "FARMER'S KVBRT DAY BOOK/' 44 A OKSBRAL EIOOSAPBICAl, DIC- 
TIONARY," AND u FAMILY BNCYCl.OrXDIA OF USEFUL KNOWLEDGE." 



NEW-YORK : 
MARK H. NEWMAN k COMPANY, 

199 BROADWAY. 
1851. 







"! t ' 



t i 



HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 



(#£• %. /*z ST. J 



Entered, according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1851, by 

JOHN L. BLAKE, D. D. 
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the 

District of New Jersey. 



J. P. JONES A CO., STBREOTTPER8, 
183 William-street, N. Y. 



INTRODUCTION. 



The fact has been long apparent, that there has been a constant 
decline hi most agricultural products ; that in numerous instances, farms 
have become so worn out and unproductive, as not to yield an equivalent 
for the labor of cultivation. The consequence was a natural one, the 
tenants being reduced to great destitution, the farms were abandoned, 
and new lands taken up for culture. A few such cases, land in this 
country being abundant, did not necessarily create general alarm; but 
when whole districts of country were affected in the same way, when it 
was seen that thousands of farms were thus becoming worthless— that 
the calamity, if it might be so called, was every year making fearful 
progress westward, threatening in the end the insufficiency of the earth 
to support its inhabitants — verily, a gloomy spectacle was presented to 
the imagination. 

To the philosopher and the political economist, this was indeed 
matter of deep alarm, and requiring profound investigation. Their 
investigations were attended with satisfactory results. Science, as in 
other departments of knowledge, came to our relief, demonstrating the 
self-sustaining energy of the soil to all the purposes for which it was 
designed, provided we keep it under the dominion of those physical 
laws which govern material nature. The principle suggested was a 
simple one, easy of comprehension ; the remedial process was natural, 
and attended with no serious obstacles. It was simply to restore to the 
earth such fertilizing agents as are taken from it in each successive crop. 
Indeed, with a small expense and with materials found in unlimited 
profusion, this original capacity may be greatly augmented. To do this 
is the aim of scientific man who are turning their attention to agriculture. 
Hence, the praiseworthy efforts that have latterly been made to dispel 
the gloom that had been gathering around the husbandman — to scatter 
light in bis path — to alleviate his labors — to augment his profits — and 
to make his occupation appear to him, what it is designed to be, and 
what it may be, among the most honorable and useful among meu. 

Among the instrumentalities for achieving these laudable objects, 
has been the more extensive production of books on agriculture, the 
circulation of periodical literature, and the delivery of scientific lectures 
on the subject; and, especially, the establishment of agricultural schools, 
where the sons of farmers and all others may receive an agricultural 
education analagous to the education provided for young men designed 
for the various other professions in useful labor. This is the great 
enterprise of scientific agriculturists of the present day. The scheme 
I is a magnificent one. It embraces within its telescopic range the welfare 
of the whole human family. It looks not simply to the generations of 
now living men ; but to the long succession of unborn generations, to the 
end of time, luxuriating in that abundance which the earth may thus be 



iy nrntOTTTcnow. 

made to yield. 11ns Bdieme, to be complete Mid efficadoas,winembrt09 
of necessity such of those simple elements of scientific agriculture as may 
be imparted in the common schools of the country, so that all our youth 
and, ultimately, our whole population-— every laboring man that tills the 
ground, shall be as fluniliar with them, as at present with the elements 
of general education, reading, penmanship, arithmetic, geography, and 
grammar, or history. 

Let this be done— well done — thoroughly done — learned professors 
on agriculture, in all our colleges, with model farms at control, whece all 
the young men of the country, educated for the learned professions, shall 
also be made competent to become teachers in agricultural chemistry ; 
and every district school provided with good teachers and good text 
books on the subject, and we shall be likely to hear no more of exhausted 
soils and diminished crops — no more of social and mental degradation in 
connection with agricultural labor — no more of necessary poverty as the 
result of rural occupation. If such a scheme of enlightened philanthropy 
does not originate in minds of the highest grade of moral excellence ; if 
it does not array itself with the most gifted embellishments of the human 
intellect; and if it does not now commend itself to the sympathies 
of the good, and the wise, and the powerful of the age ; it is difficult to 
imagine of what scheme this can be affirmed. 

The present volume is designed to be an humble agent in elevating 
and enlightening the agricultural community ; to be one of the instruments 
used in the foregoing scheme for rendering the soil more productive, and 
those who cultivate it better remunerated. In this volume an effort is 
made to introduce into the common schools of the country a taste at 
least for scientific agriculture and rural literature. It seems absurd 
that children in the country should receive an educational smattering on 
almost every thing, save that on which they are to depend for a reputable 
subsistence. If a boy is to be taught how to make shoes, or pantaloons, 
or hats — to use the jack-plane and hand-saw, or the mason s hammer 
and trowel — to blow the bellows of a blacksmith, or to build wagons, or 
to repair watches and clocks, he must spend an apprenticeship of five or 
six years; but if he is to be a farmer, he is treated as though by instinct 
he may perform every act required of him in the occupation, as the new 
dropped calf, or colt, or pig, instinctively turns to the teats of its dam. 

The absurdity of this policy is manifest, when we consider that the 
business of agriculture, in all its various details, requires an amount of 
general intelligence far beyond what is required for conducting the 
business of most mechanical trades. The farmer who understands the 
composition of soils, and the theory of manuring them, the physiology of 
vegetables and animals, the general nature of tillage, and the principles 
of cropping and raising stock, must not only possess general intelligence, 
but must be a man of some science, or he is obliged to perform his labors 
without understanding the nature of them, as parrots talk, or persons 
sometimes will sing by rote, without any knowledge of the principles of 
music. The farmer, too, should be a man of sound judgment, and of 
habits of philosophical observation, thus being enabled to take advantage 
of his own experience, and of every agricultural and meteorological 
incident presented to view. Without this mental endowment he may 
perhaps raise potatoes, and pork, and Indian com, sufficient to keep his 



imaopuuijuw. T 

anmly alive; baft he do more deserves the name of a tana; ten the 
mason's hod-carrier deserves the name of architect or master-builder. 

Id adapting the present work to the taste and to the apprehension 
of persons in the country, the author has adopted a prinaple, as he 
believes, in accordance with the soundest developments of intellectual 
science. He has pursued the same course that he would pursue in in- 
troducing to a community any other branch of study, of which all were 
comparatively ignorant, or against which, many ought be supposed to 
have an aversion. If, on the first attempt to introduce arithmetic in 
the schools of a country, the voluminous treatise of Hotton or Webber 
were furnished to the scholars as a text-book ; or, on the first effort to 
introduce Natural Philosophy, the elaborate and learned treatise of 
Bnfield were furnished as a text-book, would these efforts have been 
attended with success I We think not In all cases, so for as we 
know, and our experience and means of information have been by no 
means limited, when new and scientific branches of study have been in- 
troduced, text-books have been required free from all pompous display 
of great learning ; containing the simple elements of the science only, 
and these elements so mixed up with popular illustration, that the 
reality at first was scarcely recognised ; the same as offensive medicine 
may be so embedded in jelly as not be tasted. If scientific agriculture 
is ever extensively made a branch of common school education, the 
text-books first used for it must be prepared on the same plan. 

We are happy to offer a good authority in support of our hypothe- 
sis-— en authority in agricultural matters much superior to our own. 
We recently have read the last lecture of Prof. Johnston before the New- 
York State Agricultural Society, in which he speaks of agricultural 
education. His words are, " You know how difficult it is to introduce 
anything new into our schools or seminaries. If you ask a great deal 
you get nothing ; if you ask only for a small portion of time, or a little 
additional labor to the schoolmaster, requiring no new machinery to 
carry it out, then you are more likely to succeed than if you at once 
demand, as some have done, a large portion of time, both of the pupil 
and the master in imparting new instruction." The philosophy of ue 
learned professor's theory, as here intimated, is easily understood, and is 
similar to that we have adopted. The processes in our common school 
systems are essentially voluntary. The scholars learn what they choose 
to learn, and very little besides. And the introduction of agriculture 
into our schools requires the co-operation of the pupils* the consent of the 
parents, the sanction of the superintending committee, and what is more 
to the point, the ability and willingness of the master. Here is a 
quadruple power that must act in concert The committee may resolve 
tdl the day of doom to make agriculture one of their studies, and it will 
be of no use, if the young men say they will not learn it, or the master 
•aye he will not, or cannot teach it These contingencies will be as 
fatal to progress as our presidential vetoes are to congressional bills. 

An exigency like this may be rendered more clear. It is known 
that most of our district school-teachers have had no classical instruction 
in the chemistry of agriculture. This is probably true of ninety-nine 
out of every hundred. Now, if a text-book were put into their hands 
from which to instruct their pupils, abounding in all the scien t i fi c array 



Ti INTfiODUCTIOX. 

of terms common in books ttsed by college professors, the masters would 
feel compelled to decline the task. The sight of the book would lead 
them to do so. They would feel their incompetency to act in any other 
way. It would prevent their doing, or attempting to do, what they 
might be induced to do from a text-book differently prepared* In this 
case the text-book should be as much adjusted to the taste and the 
ability of the master as to the scholars ; indeed, it should be one from 
which he might, and from which he would be disposed to be the in- 
structor of himself as well as of his pupils. With such a work, though 
he had previously known nothing of the subject, he would easily keep 
in advance of them. An Agricultural Text-Book, therefore, for common 
schools, must, with teachers, as well as scholars, be attractive and not 
repulsive, in its very appearance ; and, so far as the topics proposed for 
study are concerned, it should contain those which are the most simple, 
and which to the common mind are easily rendered most interesting. 
And even these topics may be made additionally winning from being 
combined freely witn ingredients for which they had no scientific affinity 
— with literary sweetmeats. 

It is possible that persons may be found who will take half an hour, 
and turn over the leaves of this volume from beginning to end, and be- 
cause they do not find page after page filled with decimal fractions 
giving the relative proportions of vegetable or animal constituency, as 
imposing as Bowditcn's Navigator; or, because they do not find column 
after column of chemical terms, drawn up in formidable order, like the 
columns of an army about entering battle with their guns and bayonets 
glittering in the sun, will imagine that this work is not sufficiently 
scientific. Now, it has verily been our deliberate intention to 
place in ambush throughout the work, in small squads, whatever of 
science we have cooked up, so as not to frighten the unlearned out of 
their wits, with a martial exhibition of our forces. We think we are not 
mistaken in our philosophy upon this point ; and we request such per- 
sons to read the whole of Prof Johnston's lecture alluded to. More- 
over, we apprehend, that if they will examine our pages throughout, 
they will find more science than they expected ; and enough, at any 
rate, if all is used, as we design it to be, to give hundreds of thousands 
of young men a taste for more elaborate productions. 

A few words of explanation may be added for teachers. It will 
probably be perceived by them, that the twenty chapters, making 
nearly one-third of the work, in Question and Answer, are particularly 
designed for class recitation. The other portions are particularly de- 
signed for reading exercises. It will appear, however, that the former 
may be read for class exercises, as well as studied and recited. And, 
perhaps, when used in the latter way, it might be well, prior to recita- 
tion, that the whole should be carefully read over, each question read 
by the teacher, and then the answer to it read by a scholar, till the end 
of the chapter is reached. Nor is it le<*s apparent that the greater por- 
tion of prose articles designed for reading abound in the choicest scien- 
tific gem<*, which so far should be made an occasion for study and reci- 
tation, that they may be indelibly fixed on the memory To this end, the 
teacher, on the conclusion of the reading, should examine each member 
of the class to see if all are familiar with these portions of the work. 



AGRICULTURE FOR SCHOOLS. 



MOEAL DIGNITY OF AMEKICAN LABOR. 

It is not a condescending effort of the high, to exalt the 
low, nor of the peculiarly cultivated to elevate and benefit the 
less refined and privileged of men. But it is a mutual agree- 
ment, to honor that imperishable element in man, which the 
power of the Creator has implanted within him ; and to ex- 
cite and cultivate to the highest possible degree, by an honor- 
able competition, the skill and effort of man for the improve- 
ment and elevation of his present condition of being — not for 
the mere attainment of the means of luxurious indulgence, 
but for the widest disposal of benefits upon mankind ; for the 
utmost melioration of the difficulties, and enlargement of the 
advantages, which the wisdom of the Creator has appended 
to the human station. No object beneath the effort to secure 
and bless the future immortality of men can be considered 
greater or of more importance. 

The whole history of the prosperity of our country, whether 
general or sectional, will bear to a demonstration the asser- 
tion, that not to soil nor climate, nor sea nor land, nor zones nor 
temperatures, nor valleys, nor mountains, nor rivers, are we in- 
debted for the wonderful display of genius and skill, and in- 
dustry and resulting wealth, by which our nation has been 
marked, but to the elevating influence of Christian education' 
upon youthful minds, and upon the society in which they 
have been trained, dignifying as the most honorable condition 
of man, free labor upon a free soil ; making the cunning arti- 
ficer a perfect equal to the eloquent orator ; exalting the head 
that has humbly bent, through many a toilsome day, over the 
bench of industry, to preside with a dignity which commands 
united reverence upon the bench of judgment , and leading 
the feet that have followed through many a weary fu r> ow in 
the field, to stand on a level with statesmen in the councils 
of the nation. 



9 MORAL DIGNITY OF AMEMCAN LABOR. 

There is that, in all the influences and promises of this 
system of heavenly light, which is precisely adapted to excite 
man to stir up the gift that is in him — to make him feel that 
he was made to serve no master hut God — to call him out to 
the utmost effort, in mental competition, for the improvement 
of his race — to make him deem himself inferior to no under- 
taking to which the line of his manifest right and duty shall 
lead him — to give him patience in effort, coolness in judg- 
ment, skill in discernment, and determination in execution — 
the elements of indubitable and certain success : and whether 
the wilderness blossom like the rose under his skill in agri- 
culture, or the works of his hands seem almost to live, and 
speak, and act, in the beauty of his mechanical invention, 
Christianity honors his effort, and commands men to honor 
and protect the claims which it originates. It prepares a 
state of public mind, which smiles encouragingly upon his 
attainments and productions, and which confesses the honor 
that the whole community justly feels in having in its bosom, 
and cherishing as its own, individuals who have so distin- 
guished themselves and their race. 

This moral dignity of labor is purely an American scheme 
and thought. It has marked our country's history, from the 
earliest periods of its colonial establishment ; not more aris- 
ing from the ikst struggling condition of its original settlers, 
than from the very principles with which they emigrated, 
and upon which they determined to erect the empire which 
they ibunded. It is undoubtedly true that labor was at first 
the necessity of their being. Hands and arms that had never 
toiled before, were required to toil unceasingly upon the rug- 
ged shores which were selected as their future home. And, 
in this very fact, a dignity was given to human industry, 
which had never before been connected with it in modern 
times. The Winthrops, and Johnsons, and Endicotts of that 
day, would have dignified any station in life. And when 
they were seen, hewing out their future independence from 
the wilderness, and rearing their partial but honorable sub- 
sistence from a sterile and unwilling soil, never had the axe 
glittered with such light, nor the plough moved with such 
majesty before. 

Within the recollection of our oldest citizens instances 
were not unfrequent, where our most eminent men considered 
it no degradation to discharge with their own hands, if occasion 



mtiii Dmmrr of ambbicah labor. $ 

required it, service* usually esteemed menial in the extreme ; 
the grooming hones and blacking boots, not only for them- 
selves, but for their guests. No station could exalt men who 
would voluntarily and cheerfully do this ; and boot-blacking, 
in their hands, rose to a dignity which, in this country, luxu- 
rious idleness, though charioted in wealth, can never com- 
mand. In the spirit which was thus cultivated, an honor 
was affixed to labor, and in the general feeling of the people, 
there was transmitted a moral dignity as connected with in- 
dustry, even in the lowest shapes, in which the needs of man 
required it, which should be cherished by the present genera- 
tion and made perpetual in the future. 

The extreme difference between this general feeling, and 
the whole moral condition of the eastern continent, is a very 
remarkable fact. Throughout monarchical Europe the per- 
manent distinctions of castes and classes make labor disreput- 
able, .and give no encouragement to the general enlargement 
of the human mind, nor to the innate ambition of individual 
thought. Agriculture in the hands of a peasantry who must 
live and die in the rude hamlet in which they were born ; 
whose ignorance must never be enlightened beyond the 
clumsy implements of culture which their forefathers have 
used ; who must feel themselves marked and distinguished, 
as the mere tolerated denizens of a soil which can never be 
their own ; whose fare is of the coarsest and meanest provi- 
sion which can sustain the life of man, and the average wages 
of whose labor is, in Austria, less than one seventh, in France 
less than one third, and even in England, less than one half 
of the average of agricultural wages among the freemen of 
America. Attempts to rise above this state, to attain a posi- 
tion in which man may have his honor as a man, and exer- 
cise a better influence upon the destiny of his own family, or 
his fellow-men, far from being considered a virtue which is 
to be encouraged, or a right which is to be acknowledged, is 
a crime for which men are to be Bhot. 

One beneficent operation of the French Revolution, in the 
midst of all the horrors of its spirit, and its march, has been 
to break up this system of servile peasantry, and to multiply 
indefinitely the owners of the soil. But even in the agri- 
culture of France, the mildew of the past is still thickly 
coated upon the efforts and hopes of the present ; and the 
minds of men, cramped in infancy like the feet of Chinese 

1* 



10 MORAL DIGNITY 0* AMEHICAX LABOft. 

women, by an unnatural and detestable pressure from with'* 
out, are feeble and slow in all attempts to run into a new 
path, however attractive and promising. 

In mechanical labor and skill, the absence of all honor 
as an habitual attendant, is in Europe equally manifest. It 
is known, that luxury purchases, often at a great price, the 
beautiful results of handicraft and skill. It is known, that 
individuals of boldness and energy— those irrepressible spirits 
whose elasticity no bounds can limit — have occasionally 
forced their way through all this downward pressure, and 
have compelled an acknowledgment of their greatness, and a 
respect for their mighty developments of mental and moral 
power, from those titled tribes who habitually fancy their in- 
terest to be in widening the gulf of their separation, and in- 
sulating their own condition as completely as possible. But 
what are these among so many ? Their class are tradesmen 
and tradespeople still. And the habitual fact in their history 
is, not only no encouragement to rise, but great discourage- 
ment and jealousy of their possible ability to break the shell 
of caste, whose accumulated scales ages have riveted upon 
them. 

I stood the other day by the bench of an English me- 
chanic, whose remarkable skill I was admiring, and the 
genius of whose youthful son in his work I was noticing, 
when the father took from the drawer some beautiful crayon 
and pencil sketches, which this working boy had made. 
" Ah ! sir," said the father, "this is America. My boy was 
taught all this for nothing, at your public school. Had I 
stayed at home, he would have lived and died unnoticed at 
the bench. Here he may take a stand, and be honored and 
encouraged." Yes, and this is but one of the multitude of 
illustrations, which a knowledge of facts would bring out, of 
the encouragement which American freedom gives to innate 
talent. 

I knew a poor English carpenter, who with the utmost 
difficulty gathered the needful bread for his family. His 
children were in the public school of a neighboring city. His 
eldest son, having no chance of education before, laid hold of 
his opportunity greedily, passed with honor through all the 
stages of public education, at the public expense ; and on his 
graduating at the summit of the career of the city's provision, 
was immediately appointed teacher, and is now (1848) a pro* 



MORAL DIGNITY OF AMERICAN LABOR. u 

lessor of ancient languages in one of the highest institutions, 
and honored the more for the industry which had made him, 
from neglected poverty, what he is. This is America. That 
boy might have lived and died a beggar in the streets of Lon- 
don, and no titled man have taken him by the hand, to bring 
out, in an elevating education, the noble powers his Creator 
had implanted within him. 

Let a man make a tour of the single state of Connecticut, 
with no other knowledge or observation upon this subject than 
that which belongs to every intelligent American, he will 
never forget the impression of dignity, beauty, and power 
which will be made upon his mind. From the heading of a 
pin to the hammering of granite ; from the polishing of the 
brass button to the beating of the brazen kettle ; from the 
India-rubber suspender to the variegated and beautiful Brus- 
sels carpet ; in every possible variety and shape and beauty 
of machinery ; upon every flowing river, and upon every little 
rocky rivulet ; from the immense brick or stone edifice of 
many stories, to the rude shed of pine boards in the woods, 
upon the margin of the hidden stream ; he will see the effects 
of the American system, honoring, dignifying, prospering, and 
protecting American labor and American skill. 

Human talent, industry, wisdom, and skill, under the 
favoring blessing of Heaven, must now go forth to sow and to 
gather in the harvest of the earth. We are teaching lessonB 
of political economy which the world has never heard before. 
It is a noble dispensation for our country. Other nations may 
see us, but not with the vines or olives of Italy or France ; 
nor with the oranges and grapes of Spain or Portugal ; nor 
even the rich and glowing verdure, and the teeming harvests 
of England and lowland Scotland. The magnificence of their 
time-honored architecture we have not attained. And yet 
there are intelligence, prosperity, dignity, independence, and 
self-respect, marking the laboring classes of our population, 
which lift us far above all envy of the grandeur and glory of 
European display. They see that we have a people, flourish- 
ing and prosperous beyond comparison ; but we have no rab- 
ble but that which their own degradation has thrown upon 
our Bhores. It is the province of America to build, not palaces, 
but men ; to exalt, not titled stations, but general humanity ; 
to dignify, not idle repose, but assiduous industry ; to elevate, 
not the few, but the many ; and to make herself known, not 



12 THE HARBINGER OF SPRING. 

bo much in individuals, as in herself; spreading to the high- 
est possible level, hut striving to keep it level still, universal 
education, prosperity and honor. 

The great element of this whole plan of effort and in- 
struction, is the moral, relative dignity of labor ; an element 
which we are to exalt in public estimation in the highest pos- 
sible degree, and transmit to our families and to posterity, as 
the true greatness of the country and the world. We are to 
look at this enlarging elevation of the working classes of men 
— a fact which may be considered the main index of our age 
— not as a difficulty to be limited, but as an attainment in 
which we greatly rejoice. • And if our heraldry is in the ham- 
mer, and the axe, and the awl, and the needle, we are to feel 
it a far higher honor than, if in their place, we could have 
dragons and helmets, and cross-bones and skulls. Our coun- 
try's greatness is to be the result, not of foreign war, but of 
domestic peace ; not of the plunder of the weak, but of the 
fair and even principles of a just commerce, a thriving agri- 
culture, and beautiful and industrious art. 

Let us glory in every thing that indicates this fact, as an 
index also of our desire for renown. This great lesson — honor 
to the working classes, in the proportion of their industry and 
merit — the world will yet completely learn. And when the 
great exalting, leveling system of Christianity gains its uni- 
versal reign, mountains will be brought down, and valleys 
will be filled ; an highway shall be made for human prosper- 
ity and peace — for the elevation, and dignity, and security 
of man — over which no oppressor's foot Bhall pass ; the poor- 
est of the sons of Adam shall dwell unmolested and fearless 
beneath his own vine and fig-tree ; the united families of 
earth shall all compete, to acquire and encourage the arts of 
peace ; nation shall not rise up against nation, and men shall 
learn war no more. — Address before Fair of American In- 
stitute, 1848. By the Rev. Stephen H. Tyng, D. D. 



THE HARBINGER OF SPRING. 

The happiest bird of our spring, and one that rivals the 
European lark, in my estimation, is the Boblincon, or Bob- 
link, as he is commonly called. He arrives at that choice 
portion of the year, which, in this latitude, answers to the 
description of the month of May, so often given by the poets. 



THE HAEBIN0SR OF SRIM. If 

With us, it begins about the middle of May, and lasts untfl 
nearly the middle of June. Earlier than this, winter is apt 
to return on its traces, and to blight the opening beauties of 
the year ; and later than this, begin the parching, and pant- 
ing, and dissolving heats of summer. But in this genial in- 
terval, Nature is in all her freshness and fragrance : " the 
rains are over and gone, the flowers appear upon the earth, 
the time of the singing of birds is come, and the voice of the 
turtle is heard in the land." The trees are now in their 
fullest foliage and brightest verdure ; the woods are gay with 
the clustered flowers of the laurel ; the air is perfumed by the 
sweet-briar and the wild rose ; the meadows are enamelled 
with clover-blossoms ; while the, young apple, the peach, and 
the plum, begin to swell, and the cherry to glow, among the 
green leaves. 

This is the chosen season of revelry of the Boblink. He 
comes amidst the pomp and fragrance of the season ; his life 
seems all sensibility and enjoyment, all song and sunshine. 
He is to be found in the soft bosoms of the freshest and sweetest 
meadows ; and is most in song when the clover is in blos- 
som. He perches on the topmost twig of a tree, or on some 
long flaunting weed, and as he rises and sinks with the breeze, 
pours forth a succession of rich tinkling notes ; crowding one 
upon another, like the outpouring melody of the skylark, and 
possessing the same rapturous character. Sometimes he 
pitches from the summit of a tree, begins his song.as Boon as 
he gets upon the wing, and flutters tremulously down to the 
earth, as if overcome with ecstacy at his own music. Some- 
times he is in pursuit of his paramour ; always in full song, 
as if he would win her by his melody ; and always with the 
same appearance of intoxication and delight. 

Of all the birds of our groves and meadows, the Boblink 
was the envy of my boyhood. He crossed my path in the 
sweetest weather, and the sweetest season of the year, when 
all Nature called to the fields, and the rural feeling throbbed 
in every bosom ; but when I, luckless urchin ! was doomed 
to be mewed up, during the livelong day, in that purgatory 
of boyhood, a school-room, it seemed as if the little varlet 
mocked at me, as he flew by in full song, and sought to taunt 
me with his happier lot. how I envied him ! No lessons, 
no tasks, no hateful school ; nothing but holiday, frolic, green 
fields, and fine weather. 



14 THB HARBINGER OP SPRING. 

Farther observation and experience have given me a dif- 
ferent idea of this little feathered voluptuary, which I will 
venture to impart, for the benefit of my school-boy readers, 
who may regard him with the same unqualified envy and 
admiration which I onoe indulged. I have shown him only 
as I saw him at first, in what I may call the poetical part of 
his career, when he in a manner devoted himself to elegant 
pursuits and enjoyments, and was a bird of music, and song, 
and taste, and sensibility, and refinement. While this lasted, 
he was sacred from injury ; the very school-boy would not 
fling a stone at him, and the merest rustic w T ould pause to 
listen to his strain. But mark the difference. 

As the year advances, as the clover-blossoms disappear, 
and the spring fades into summer, his notes cease to vibrate 
on the ear. He gradually gives up his elegant tastes and 
habits, doffs his poetical and professional suit of black, as- 
sumes a russet or rather dusty garb, and enters into the gross 
enjoyments of common, vulgar birds. He becomes a bon 
vivant, a mere gourmand ; thinking of nothing but good cheer, 
and gormandizing on the seeds of the long grasses on which 
he lately swung, and chanted so musically. He begins to 
think there is nothing like " the joys of the table,' * if I may 
be allowed to apply that convivial phrase to his indulgences. 
He now grows discontented with plain, every-day fare, and 
sets out on a gastronomical tour, in search of foreign luxuries. 
He is to be found in myriads among the reeds of the Dela- 
ware, banqueting on their seeds ; grows corpulent with good 
feeding, and soon acquires the unlucky renown of the ortolan. 
Wherever he goes, pop ! pop ! pop ! the rusty firelocks of the 
country are cracking on every side ; he sees his companions 
falling by thousands around him ; he is the reed-bird, the 
much-sought-for tit-bit of the Pennsylvanian epicure. 

Does he take warning and reform ? Not he ! He wings 
his flight still farther south in search of other luxuries. We 
hear of him gorging himself in the rice swamps ; filling him- 
self with rice almost to bursting ; he can hardly fly for corpu- 
lency. Last stage of his career, we hear of him spitted by 
dozens, and served up on the table of the gourmand, the most 
vaunted of southern dainties, the rice-bird of the Carolinas. 

Such is the story of the once musical and admired, but 
finally sensual and persecuted Boblink. It contains a moral, 
worthy the attention of all little birds and little boys ; warn- 



Tfi£ OLD Gfti8f-MILL. |5 

ing them to keep to those refined and intellectual pursuits, 
-which raised him to so high a pitch of popularity, during the 
early part of his career ; hut to eschew all tendency to that 
gross and dissipated indulgence, which brought this mistaken 
little bird to an untimely end. — Washington Irving. 



THE OLD GRIST-MILL. 

The grist-mill stands beside the stream, 
With bending roof and leaning wall ; 

So old, that when the winds are wild, 
The miller trembles lest it fall ; 

But moss and ivy, never sere, 

Bedeck it o'er from year to year. 

The dam is steep, and weeded green ; 

The gates are raised, the waters pour, 
And tread the old wheel's slippery steps, 

The lowest round for evermore ; 
Methinks they have a sound of ire, 
Because they cannot climb it higher. 

From morn till night, in autumn time, 
When yellow harvests load the plains, 

TJp drive the farmers to the mill, 
And btck anon, with loaded wains ; 

They bring a wealth of golden grain, 

And take it home in meal again. 

The mill inside is dim and dark ; 

But peeping in the open door, 
You see the miller flitting round, 

And dusty bags along the floor ; 
And by the shaft, and down the spout, 
The yellow meal comes pouring out. 

And all day long the winnowed chaff 
Floats round it on the sultry breeze, 

And shineth like a settling swarm 
Of golden winged and belted bees ; 

Or sparks around a blacksmith's door, 

When ,beJlowsl>low and forges roar. , 



I# 



THAKKSOIVINe DAY. 

I love our pleasant, quaint old mill ! 

It minds ma of my early prime ; 
*T is changed since then, but not so much 

As I am, by decay and time ; 
Its wrecks are mossed from year to year, 
But mine all dark and bare appear. 

I stand beside the stream of life ; 

The mighty current sweeps along, 
Drifting the flood-gates of my heart, 

It turns the magic wheel of song, 
And grinds the ripened harvest brought 
From out the golden field of Thought ! 

Stoddabd. 



THANKSGIVING DAY. 

Thus shines the present, safe from war's alarms— 
You till in peace your old ancestral farms ; 
Blithe with the Spring the busy task begin, 
And feast at Autumn, when the harvest 's in. 
Crowned is the board with all that man desires, 
Bright blush the ceilings with your ruddy fires— 
But brighter eyes are beaming round the board, 
With mirth and fun, with love and frolic stored. 
For who is sad when old Thanksgiving comes, 
With all its wealth of sweetmeats, pies, and plums ? 
Behold the farm-house ! — At the old farm gate 
A merry group in high expectance wait — 
The happy farmer, and the welcome guest, 
The city cousin — very nicely dressed ! 
The village beauty, in her bran-new hood, 
The happy children — most discreetly good ; 
The mother waiting for her eldest son, 
Who brings the bride he has but lately won ; 
The village lovers, who have come to Bhare 
The evening revel and the generous fare ; 
The little boys, with collars white as snow, 
Who all the good things in the larder know ; 
The little girls— their hair with ribbons tied, 



SCIENTIFIC TERMS IN AfMtlCCLTUBB. If 

Who wait to welcome the expected bride ; 
The trusty house-dog, with his knowing face, 
Who seems tothink that something will take place, 
Though what that something is, he does not know, 
Walks gravely round, with steps serenely slow. 
But see, they come, the jingling bells are heard, 
Forth flies to meet them, many a welcome word ; 
The mother holds within her warm embrace, 
The new found daughter, with her smiling face ; 
The boys and girls around their brother crowd, 
With eyes all welcome, and with greetings loud. 
Oh ! happy group ! and oh ! most happy day ! 
Ne'er shall New-England see its fame decay : 
It still shall live — and all the future yet — 
Shall never once Thanksgiving Day forget. 

Eugene Batcheldek. 



SCIENTIFIC TERMS IN AGRICULTURE. 

It is generally supposed, that in books on agriculture there 
is an array of scientific terms of which the common reader 
has no knowledge. It is indeed true, that these books neces- 
sarily have more or less of such terms, and without a knowl- 
edge of the terms the books cannot be read to the best ad- 
vantage. This is too evident to need proof. Nevertheless, 
the labor requisite in the acquisition of this knowledge is 
far less than would be imagined, even if the reader had pre- 
viously known nothing of chemistry. A very sensible man, 
who wrote letters to a young lady on botany, said, to encour- 
age his pupil, it was possible to be a very good botanist 
without knowing one plant by name. So it is possible to be 
a very good agricultural chemist without knowing much be- 
yond the names of a very few substances. Suppose an author 
were to introduce a succession of Latin terms or phrases into 
a work on any common subject, no matter what it is, and that 
some one or more of these words or phrases were to be 
found on every page, it is evident that the reader, not under- 
standing them, would lose much of the meaning in what he 

1 . With what is it supposed that agricultural books abound f 2. What 
is said of the labor of obtaining a knowledge of them f 8. What is said 
about learning botany f 4. What is said of Latin terms f 



|g -SCIENTIFIC TERMS IN AGRICULTURE. 

read. But if there were a glossary of these terms and 
phrases, giving a translation of them, and he would spend a 
few hours in studying, it is clear he might read the entire 
book understandingly. It would be the same with agricul- 
tural books. If a very little time were spent in learning the 
few scientific terms as a preliminary exercise, the books would 
be read with interest and great profit. 

A vast amount of knowledge may be gathered up by 
every person, on various subjects, with small effort, and in a 
manner altogether miscellaneous ; that is, without any sys- 
tematic habits of research or study. How easily do per- 
sons from frequently in the evening glancing an eye upon the 
heavens learn the names of the principal stars, though they 
had never studied astronomy ? How readily do they learn 
the names of the common plants and trees, from seeing them 
so frequently, though they never studied botany ? How soon 
do they become familiar with the names of new fabrics used 
in wearing apparel ; or with new names in geographical 
science ; or with new articles in domestic economy ? In the 
same way we learn the names of the streets of a city, or 
the landmarks by the roadside in the country where we fre- 
quently sojourn ; or the names of persons among whom we 
live, and think nothing of the labor of doing all this — indeed 
there is no labor in it. Yet this, if it were done at one lime, 
as a matter of formal study, would require far more mental 
effort than to learn the chemical terms occurring in an ordi- 
nary book on agriculture. 

A person uneducated in chemical science opening a book 
on agriculture — perhaps in fifty places — and discovering 
wherever he opened it half a dozen scientific terms, would not 
reflect but what they were all new terms from their to him 
peculiar and unwonted formation, whereas they were the 
same terms occurring over and over again, and perhaps not 
fifty different ones in the whole book, and half of these deriva- 
tives from the other half. Hence he is, as it were, appalled 
at the first aspect, by a merely imaginary or fictitious obstacle 
which has but little reality. Thus in looking at the stars in 
a clear winter evening, from their perpetually twinkling ap- 

5. In what manner may a vast amount of knowledge he easily gained t 
6. By what examples is this shown? 7. How is a person deceived 
in regard to the number of scientific terms in a book of chemistry f 
8. How is a similar mistake made as to the number of the stars! 



(Scientific terms m agriculture, i § 

pearance, be apprehends the number of them an hundred or 
a thousand times greater than it is. So with these chemical 
terms. It is necessary, therefore, to divest the subject of this 
scare-crow incident in the study. Accordingly we say, that 
by making ourselves perfectly familiar with twelve or fifteen 
of these terms and their philological modifications— only 
one half the number of letters in our alphabet — and the 
task is made comparatively light. Who ever thought of be- 
ing frightened to death at the idea of learning the letters of 
the alphabet ; or, of being accused of cruelty in having his 
children taught to learn them ? If children can learn these 
letters, adults might certainly learn a corresponding number 
of the terms of which we are speaking. 

Again, suppose a person were to visit a menagerie and see 
there fifteen or twenty curious animals which he had never 
before seen, or of which he had not before heard, would he 
not in two or three hours learn the names of them all, and be 
able to give some general and appropriate description of each 
one of them ? Or suppose he were to visit the Fair of the 
American Institute, or some similar Fair, and were to see a 
dozen or fifteen curious machines for the useful purposes of 
life, would he have any difficulty, after inspecting them, to 
tell pretty much all about them ? Or suppose there were to 
be sent to him, by a friend, from some distant country, a 
basket containing fifteen kinds of ripe and rich fruit, of which 
he had never before heard, would he not speedily become 
familiar with the names and the distinctive attributes of 
each ? Why should it then be thought a hardship to learn 
the names of the constituent elements of plants ? The 
names and properties of these few elementary substances in 
plants might be as easily learned, if farmers and their sons 
would feel as much interested and apply themselves to it as 
in the other cases we have supposed. • Besides, with most 
of the names of these fifteen substances most persons, with- 
out the aid of chemical knowledge, have some familiarity. 

Let us now look at the list, and see if it is so formidable, 
as at first imagined. These fifteen terms which generally 
make the basis of scientific agriculture, or the names of the 

9. What is said of learning the letters of the alphabet f 10. How is 
the subject illustrated by the menagerie ? 11. How is the subject illus- 
trated by the Fair of the American Institute? 12. Or by a basket of 
fruit! 



2$ (SCIENTIFIC TERMS IN AGRIOTJLTimB. 

elementary substances that enter into the composition of 
plants, are carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen — potash, soda, 
magnesia, silex, lime, phosphorus, alumina, oxide of iron, 
oxide of manganese, chlorine, and sulphuric acid. No one 
surely ought to consider it a great task to make himself 
familiar with these fifteen terms, even if he felt no particular 
interest in the nature of the objects denoted by them — if they 
were simply names for objects in the moon ; and especially, 
when he considers they are the names of substances found in 
plants he is annually cultivating, and that no plant exists 
without containing more or less of them. Out of these every 
plant is made. Every part of every plant that grows, from 
the rose and the dahlia that delight the eye with their deli- 
cate hues, to the stately oak that spreads its broad branches 
in Nature's wildness, contains some or all of these. How 
then can a person, especially in the country, fail to feel a 
most lively interest in such a subject ? A man building a 
house needs more than twice the number of materials wanted 
in raising his crops on the farm ; but does he not make out a 
list of the whole — become familiar with it, and ascertain 
where each one is to be had ? And a mason or a carpenter 
would not deserve the names by which they are designated, 
if they could not tell the names and the qualities of the ma- 
terials used by them in all departments of their labor. Or, 
what would be thought of a professed artisan who could not 
enumerate and describe every article required in the construc- 
tion of a steam-boat, a carriage factory, or a cotton mill ? 
Would such a person be deemed competent for such labors, or 
receive patronage ? Yet, it might be asked, how such a case 
differs from that of the farmer who is ignorant of the ele- 
mentary substances of plants, and of the ingredients compos- 
ing soils and manures which produce vegetable growth ? 

Nor can it be said, in excuse for neglecting them, that 
they are all new and lock-jaw terms ; or, in other words, 
terms of which the farmer has never heard ; terms of great 
length and arbitrarily pronounced, like Russian and Polish 

13. What are the scientific names of substances entering in vegetable 
composition? 14. Has the uneducated person no knowledge of them! 
15. Why might it be supposed that every farmer would feel interested 
in them ? 16. How is this explained by his building a house ? 17. How 
it it explained by allusion to the professed artisan? 18. Are these terms 
particularly difficult to be remembered! 



names of men. This objection does not apply. He if familiar 
with several of them, although he may yet have to learn the 
agency they hare in vegetable composition. Who, without 
any formal scientific instruction, is not familiar with the 
names of iron, sulphur, potash, soda, and lime ? No one ; 
for they are of every-day occurrence. And, who does not 
know that carbon is coal ; or rather that coal is carbon ? 
And, who has never heard that oxygen and nitrogen form the 
air we breathe ; or that water is composed of oxygen and 
hydrogen ? With alumina or alum all are familiar. Silex 
or silica is but the name of portions of hard stones. Most 
persons too are no strangers to what is called ammonia, which 
is a combination of nitrogen and hydrogen, and is sometimes 
called sal volatile, and is what gives the sharp smell in the 
smelling-bottle or the manure heap. It is the ammonia in 
manure which is so efficacious in agriculture. And, if the 
reader is less familiar with the name of chlorine, it is easy to 
give him some hints of it. This is the substance used in 
bleaching cotton goods, and for a long time on opening them 
the smell is very pungent. And what is still more in point, 
chlorine united with soda makes our common salt ; or, if 
united with ammonia, the product is what is called in the 
shops sal ammoniac. The circumstance that chlorine is a 
constituent of common salt is of itself sufficient to give it an 
interest in impressing it on the memory of every individual* 
Chlorine also is important from being used to disinfect the air 
when impregnated with foul vapors, as in the case of cholera 
and other diseases. Here then is the whole catalogue of these 
obnoxious terms, save manganese, which is simply a dark 
colored metal used in the manufacture of glass as well as in 
agriculture. 

The list above, says Dr. Dana, may be divided as follows : 
First, the airy or volatile ; secondly, the earths and metals ; 
thirdly, the alkalies ; fourthly, the inflammables. Only the 
third and fourth divisions require to be explained or denned. 



19. Which are the fiye with which every fanner is familiar? 20. 
What does he probably know of carbon ? 21. What does he probably 
know of the combination of oxygen and nitrogen ? 22. And of oxygen 
and hydrogen f 23. What is said of alumina and silex ! 24. Of ammo- 
nia f 25. And of chlorine? 26. What forms common salt ? 27. What 
is said of chlorine as a disinfecting agent I 28. Into what four classes 
does Br. Dana divide these substances? 



22 SCIENTIFIC TERM8 Of ASBICUtTtJlUS. 

The substances called potash and soda arc termed alkalies. 
They are said to have alkaline properties. Touch the tongue 
with a bit of quicklime, it has a hot, burning, bitter taste. 
These are called alkaline properties. Besides these, they 
have the power of combining with and taking the acid out of 
all sour liquids, that is, the acid and the alkali neutralize each 
other. This word alkali is of Arabic origin ; its very name 
shows one of the properties of alkalies. Kali is the Arabic 
word for bitter, and al is like our word super, we say fine and 
superfine; so kali, is bitter; alkali, superlatively bitter, or 
truly alkali means, the dregs of bitterness. It is important 
that the reader should fix in his own mind what is here said 
about alkali and alkaline properties. 

Further. Alkali is a general term. It includes all those 
substances which have an action like the ley of wood ashes, 
which is used for soap making. If this ley is boiled down 
dry, it forms potash, as all know. Now lime, fresh slaked, 
has the alkaline properties of potash, but weaker, and so has 
the calcined magnesia of the shops, but in a less degree than 
lime. Here we have two substances, earthy in their look, 
having alkaline properties. They are called, therefore, alka- 
line earths. But what we understand chiefly by the term 
alkalies, means potash, soda, and ammonia. Potash is the 
alkali of land plants ; soda is the alkali of sea plants ; and 
ammonia is the alkali of animal substances. Potash and 
soda are fixed ; that is, not easily raised in vapor by fire. 
Ammonia always exists as vapor, unless fixed by something 
else. Hence there is a distinction among alkalies which is 
easily remembered. This distinction is founded on the source 
from which they are procured, and upon their nature, when 
heated. Potash is a vegetable alkali, derived from land 
plants; soda is a marine alkali, derived from sea plants; 
ammonia is animal alkali, derived from animal substances. 
Potash and soda are fixed alkalies ; ammonia is a volatile 
alkali. Potash makes soft soap, with grease, and soda forms 
hard soap. Ammonia forms neither hard nor soil ; it makes, 
with oil, a kind of ointment, used to rub a sore throat with, 

29. Which two are alkalies ? 80. How is it shown that they have 
alkaline properties f 81. Of what is the term alkali composed, and how 
is it explained f 32. How does lime as an alkali differ from potash I 
83. What do we understand chiefly by alkalies f 84. From what are the 
three obtained? 85. What is the difference between fixed and volatile 
alkalies ! 36. What is made from these three alkalies ? 



SCIENTIFIC TERMS Of AGBICtTLTtFRB. $£ 

under the name of volatile liniment. But though there be 
three alkalies, and two alkaline earths, it should on no ac- 
count he forgotten, ' that they all have common properties, 
called alkaline, and which will enable a person to under- 
stand their action, without any thing being said about their 
chemistry. 

The inflammables, or the fourth division, are sulphur and 
phosphorus, both used in making friction matches. The 
phosphorus first takes fire by rubbing, and this sets the sul- 
phur burning. Now, the smoke arising from these is only 
the sulphur and phosphorus united to the vital part of the 
common air. This compound of vital air, or oxygen, as it is 
called, and inflammables, forms acids, called sulphuric and 
phosphoric acids. So it is well known, that if coal or car- 
bon is burned, carbonic acid or fixed air is produced. That 
is, by burning, the coal or carbon unites with the oxygen or 
vital part of common air, and forms carbonic acid. The 
heavy, deadly air, which arises from burning charcoal, has 
all the properties of an acid. Now let us see what these 
properties are. All acids unite or combine with the alkalies, 
alkaline earths, and the metals. When acids and alkalies 
do thus unite, they each lose their distinguishing properties. 
They form a new substance, called a salt. It is very im- 
portant that this definition of a salt should be clearly under- 
stood, and kept in memory. The idea of a salt is not to be 
confined to common Bait. Common salt is a capital example 
of the whole class. It is soda, an alkali, united to an acid, 
or chlorine, or, to speak in the most intelligible terms, to mu- 
riatic" acid. So saltpetre is a salt. It is potash united to 
aquafortis. These have united, and their characters are neu- 
tralized by each other, so that in saltpetre one will not per- 
ceive either potash or aquafortis. They have formed a neu- 
tral salt. 

By the above analysis, the list of substances to be found 
in plants — which is the same to be found in manures and 
soils on which plants grow — is reduced from things not known 
to things that are known. In this way, persons may feel 



37. What makes the fourth division of Dr. Dana's classification? 38. 
How are friction matches made? 39. By what other name is fixed air 
called, and how is it produced 9 40. How are salts formed ? 41. What 
u common salt 9 42. What is saltpetre 9 43. What is said in the last 
paragraph of this chapter 9 



24 AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 

familiarized with them without further acquaintance with 
chemical science. And, by analogous processes, it will be 
seen that, in a multitude of cases, they understand the prin- 
ciples of the science, although ignorant of the terms which 
represent and explain these principles. Thus the house-wife 
proceeds in making bread on scientific principles, although 
she never saw a book on chemistry, or learned the meaning 
of a scientific term. 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 

What are we to understand by Agricultural Chemistry \ 
as the term is now used by scientific farmers ? 

Before answering that question, it is expedient to explain 
the meaning of chemistry, without reference to agriculture, it 
being one of the fundamental sciences, the study of which is 
interwoven with every branch of Natural History or material 
philosophy, as well as with agriculture. Before we can 
rally appreciate its importance, when relating to the latter, 
we must understand its use in other departments of knowledge. 

What then is the proper definition of chemistry as a 
science? 

Perhaps no better definition can be given than that of 
Ure ; to wit, that it investigates the composition of material 
substances, and the permanent changes of constitution which 
their mutual actions produce ; or, that it treats of the mutual 
action of the integrant or constituent parts of a body. Brande 
gives a more copious definition, but the same in reality ; to 
wit, that branch of natural knowledge which teaches us the 
properties of elementary substances, and of their mutual com- 
binations ; it inquires into the laws which effect, and into 
the powers which preside over, their union ; it examines the 
proportions in which they combine, and the modes of separat- 
ing them when combined; and endeavors to apply such 
knowledge to the explication of natural phenomena, and to 
useful purposes in the arts of life. 

What are some of the most obvious examples of the 
science, as thus defined ? 

The detection of alloys in counterfeit coin ; of poison 
mixed with other substances, either before being used, or when 



▲ettOULTUKAL CHEMSTKY. f$ 

farad in the stomach ; of the component parts of any medi- 
cine, and hence its effect on the animal constitution or any 
particular disease ; of the materials used in dye-stuffs, and 
hence the measure of their durability ; of the elementary con- 
stituents forming any particular description of food, and 
hence its adaptation and power for sustaining animal life and 
growth. Indeed, there is seemingly no end to the benefits 
derived from chemical knowledge. By it we leant that 
grease or oil will prevent friction in machinery, or rust on 
metals ; that the contact of the atmosphere on certain liquids 
will produce vinegar — on butter will cause it to become 
rancid, and on eggs will hasten putrefaction ; and that yeast 
mixed with kneaded flour will occasion fermentation. Hence 
it may readily be seen how chemistry may be made beneficial 
to agriculture. 

What are some of the cases tluit first occur to you of the 
beneficial effects of chemistry to agriculture? 

To remedy defects in soil. If the soil is too light to pre- 
serve fertilizing agents, mix with it clay or other substances 
to increase its power of retaining them. If it is too cold, mix 
with it sand to render it warm. If clayey and impervious, 
mix with it substances that will cause it to be mellow and 
light. If sour, mix with it what will neutralize this property 
in it. Or, if wanting in some particular agent needful to the 
growth of a particular crop, cast upon it that description of 
manure which contains this agent. So, if the soil is found to 
be naturally too moist, chemistry will admonish the farmer to 
resort to draining ; or, if naturally too dry, to resort to irri- 
gation. 

But most of this is probably known by most farmers, 
who never studied chemistry ; Jww then do the cases named 
apply to the subject ? 

True, some of these things may have been learned from 
one's own experience in agriculture ; some from observing the 
practice of others, or from the exercise of mere common sense. 
Nevertheless, they involve chemical principles ; and if por- 
tions of a science are thus learned, as it were, from necessity, 
it shows the importance of pursuing the study more systemat- 
ically in other matters that will be found equally valuable, 
although less obvious, to the uneducated farmer. It is by no 
means the fact that chemistry is learned from books only at 
school ; but the fact that portions of it are learned under such 
2 



20 AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 

disadvantageous circumstances, and by a slow process, shows 
the advantage, to farmers especially, of making it a part of 
elementary or common school education to their sons. 

How can tfie necessity for a rotation of crops be ear 
plained on principles of agricultural chemistry ? 

It is easily done. Here the knowledge imparted by the 
science is of immense value. It has ever been known that, 
in raising a succession of the same crop for a long course of 
years, there would be gradually and regularly a diminution 
in the amount of the product. The fact was apparent, be- 
cause it was constantly observed by the most intelligent of 
uneducated farmers ; but the reason of it was a perfect mys- 
tery. Now chemistry explains the mystery. It tells them 
that one crop requires mainly in its growth one particular fer- 
tilizing agent ; that another crop in the same way requires 
mainly another fertilizing agent ; and so of a third, and a 
fourth. Thus, for instance, potatoes being planted! one year ; 
then Indian corn ; then oats ; then wheat ; and then grass 
—or any analogous rotation — there will be no lack or diminu- 
tion of production : when the same, or a similar alternation 
of culture, may be followed to any indefinite extent, and with 
similar results. All this is made plain by chemistry, as the 
most familiar process with which one can be acquainted. 

How is it that chemistry is able to compreliend these 
facts, unless by a succession of experiments, like those oftfie 
common farmer ? 

The chemist, in the first place, ascertains of what par- 
ticular substance each particular vegetable to be raised is 
composed, or what material from the soil enters into its 
growth. He then ascertains of what elementary substances 
any particular portion of soil is composed. This being done, 
if the soil is deficient or destitute of any one elementary sub- 
stance required in the growth of a particular vegetable, that 
vegetable cannot be produced on it. Thus four different 
vegetables being examined and found to require each mainly 
for itself a particular elementary substance ; and that the 
soil contains these four substances, but only enough of each 
for one crop, it follows that either one of them planted more 
than one year in succession would fail of receiving nourish- 
ment, but if each one were planted one year only and in suc- 
cession or rotation, there would be nourishment enough in 
the soil for all four of them, and there would be a good crop 
of each. 



▲eUCULTUBAL CHEMISTRY. f7 

But is it a part of the theory in this supposition, that 
each of these vegetables in its own year and for its own crop 
extracts from the soil all of the elementary substance mainly 
required in its growth ? 

By no means* It is literally so in theory but not in fact. 
Portions of this substance may not be brought into contact with 
the roots of the regetable, and hence not be absorbed. Con* 
sequently such portions of it will remain in the soil, and 
might be available for the same vegetable another year, but 
yielding a diminished crop ; and, not only for one year but for a 
succession of years, but each one with diminished results. 

How is it that the chemist can ascertain the elementary 
substances entering into the composition of vegetables, and 
the component parts of the soil ? 

An answer to this inquiry comes not properly into view in 
the present place. It would occupy too much space. It will 
receive attention elsewhere. Here it is assumed as a fact, to 
show the importance of chemical knowledge. All to be said 
at present is, that the chemist as much has the means at con- 
trol for doing it, and doing it with accuracy, as the boy, on 
finding a bag of medals, — some gold, some silver, some copper ; 
or a bag containing peas, beans, kernels of corn, and grains 
of wheat, is able to separate the mixture, putting each kind 
into a parcel by itself, and telling with accuracy how many 
of each kind there are. The one is as simple to the chemist, 
as the other is to the boy often years old. 

Of what benefit to the farmer in the preparation and 
use of manures ts agricultural chemistry ? 

It enables him to judge of the degrees of efficacy as fer- 
tilizing agents of the different kinds of manure ; of the best 
modes of preserving and applying it ; of the different sub- 
stances that may advantageously be converted into it ; and 
especially the most expeditious and certain process for the ope- 
ration. The great secret of successful farming lies in the 
ability to provide manure of the best quality and in all need- 
ful measure ; and the agricultural chemist has an advantage 
for this over all other persons. 

In what way can tlie farmer be materially aided in 
feeding his stock by a knowledge of this science ? 

The fact is too palpable to need reiteration, that different 
kinds of vegetables used for the feed of horses, cattle, swine, 
sheep, and poultry contain different degrees or different pro- 



j$ THE CROP OF ACQUIS. 

portions according to their bulk of nutritive aliment. When, 
therefore, it is known how much it costs to produce these 
several kinds, it is easily ascertained which kind in the feed- 
ing of stock is most economical. If one farmer in this way is 
enabled to raise pork at four dollars per hundred, while it 
costs another five dollars per hundred ; or if one is enabled to 
produce milk on his farm at one and a half cents per quart, 
while it costs another two cents per quart, it is evident that 
the one in agricultural profit has a material advantage over 
the other. 

Does a knowledge of agricultural chemistry enable the 
farmer the better to distribute the crops upon his farm ? 

It truly does. What was said on the rotation of crops 
is applicable to the present question. And, in addition to 
that to the common observer it might be apparent that all 
soils are not alike adapted to every species of vegetable pro- 
duction. A deep soil is required by some, and a more light 
one by others. Some require great moisture and others less. 
Some admit of a more cool and shaded position, and others as 
much of a direct exposure to the sun as possible. The indi- 
vidual who would consider a piece of land that answers for 
buckwheat well adapted to the growth of carrots is an agri- 
cultural simpleton ; and the same might be said in reference 
to many other similar ill-judged distributions of crops. Much 
on these matters is to be learnt by experience and observa- 
tion; but, if experience is based on scientific knowledge, 
much time and money are saved. 

What are some of the cases that illustrate this position ? 

On very light lands, rye, of all grains, grows best ; and 
of all food for cattle, says Professor Johnston, spurry grows 
best on light sandy soils. On loamy and gravelly soils, bar- 
ley is a kind that grows best ; and turnips and Indian corn 
will grow well on such soils. And he says barley could not 
grow on a stiff clay; while on heavy, clay lands, wheat, clo- 
ver, and grass grow most luxuriantly. 



THE CROP OF ACORNS. 

There came a man in days of old, 
To hire a piece of land for gold, 



THE AMERICAN PLOUGHMAN. 

And urged his suit in accents meek,— 
" One crop alone, is ail I seek ; 
That harvest o'er, my claim I yield, 
And to its lord resign the field. 11 

The owner some misgivings felt, 
And coldly with the stranger dealt, 
And found his last objection fail, 
And honied eloquence prevail, 
So took the proffered price in hand, 
And for one crop leased out the land. 

The wily tenant aneer'd with pride, 
And sowed the spot with acorns wide ; 
At first, like tiny shoots they grew, 
Then broad and wide their branches threw, 
But long before those oaks sublime 
Aspiring reach'd their forest prime, 
The cheated landlord mouldering lay 
Forsaken with his kindred clay. 

Oh ye, whose years unfolding fair, 

Are fresh with youth, and free from care, 

Should Vice or Indolence desire, 

The garden of your soul to hire, 

No parley hold, eject the suit, 

Nor let one seed the soil pollute. 

My child, their first approach beware, 
With firmness break the insidious snare, 
Lest as the acorns grew and throve 
Into a sun-excluding grove, 
Thy sins, a dark o'ershadowing tree, 
Shut out the light of Heaven from thee. 

Mrs. Sigourney. 



THE AMERICAN PLOUGHMAN. 

Clear the brown path to meet the coulter's gleam ! 
Lo ! on he comes behind his smoking team, 
With toil's bright dew-drops on his sun-burnt brow, 
The lord of earth, the hero of the plough ! 



30 THE AMERICAN PLOUGHMAN. 

First in the field before the reddening sun, 
Last in the shadows when the day is done. 
Line after line along the burning sod 
Marks the broad acres where his feet have trod ; 
Still where he treads the stubborn clods divide, 
The smooth, fresh furrow opens deep and wide ; 
Matted and dense the tangled turf upheaves, 
Mellow and dark the ridgy cornfield cleaves ; 
Up the steep hill-side where the laboring train 
Slants the long track that scores the level plain ; 
Through the moist valley clogged with oozing clay, 
The patient convoy breaks its destined way ; 
At every turn the loosening chains resound, 
The swinging ploughshare circles glistening round, 
Till the wide field one billowy waste appears, 
And wearied hands unbind the panting steers. 

These are the hands whose sturdy labor brings 
The peasant's food, the golden pomp of kings ; 
This is the page whose letters shall be seen 
Changed by the sun to words of living green ; 
This is the scholar whose immortal pen 
Spells the first lesson hunger taught to men ; 
These are the lines, Heaven-commanded toil, 
That fill thy deed — the charter of the soil ! 

gracious Mother, whose benignant breast 
Wakes us to life, and lulls us all to rest, 
How sweet thy features, kind to every clime, 
Mock with their smile the wrinkled front of time ! 
We stain thy flowers — they blossom o'er the dead ; 
We rend thy bosom, and it gives us bread ; 
O'er the red field that trampling strife has torn, 
Waves the green plumage of thy tasseled corn ; 
Our maddening conflicts scar thy fairest plain, 
• Still thy soft answer is the growing grain, 
Yet, ! our mother, while uncounted charms 
Hound the fresh clasp of these embracing arms, 
Let not our virtues in thy love decay, 
And thy fond weakness waste our strength away. 

No by these hills, whose banners, now displayed, 
In blazing cohorts Autumn has arrayed ; 



PHYSIOLOGICAL REFLECTIONS ON WATER. |J 

By yon twin crest, amid the sinking sphere, 
Last to dissolve, and first to reappear ; 
By these fair plains the mountain circle screens, 
And feeds in silence from its dark ravines ; 
True to their home, these faithful arms shall toil, 
To crown with peace their own untainted soil ; 
And true to God, to Freedom, to Mankind, 
If her chained bandogs Faction shall unbind, 
These stately forms, that bending even now, 
Bowed their strong mauhood to the humble plough, 
Shall rise erect, the guardians of the land, 
The same stern iron in the same right hand, 
Till Greylock thunders to the parting sun 
The sword has rescued what the ploughshare won ! 

Dr. Holmes. 



PHYSIOLOGICAL REFLECTIONS ON WATER. 

Absolutely pure water, fresh drawn of the chemist's still, 
or formed from its elements by burning a gallon of hydrogen 
gas in half a gallon of oxygen, seems as simple and inert a 
substance as one can well conceive— devoid as it is of color, 
taste, and smell. Yet in the whole range of material sub- 
stances there is perhaps not one whose transformations are 
more surprisingly Protean, or whose relations are more ex- 
tensive and intricate. A solid body, stone-hard, falls from 
the sky and breaks your window. You pick it up, and find 
it a dense angular crystal ; which, while you examine it in 
the palm of your hand, changes to a transparent fluid ; which 
again, dwindling gradually as you gaze at it, becomes invisi- 
ble, and vanishes into thin air. If the weather be frosty, the 
vanished substance soon re-appears in dew drops, softly de- 
posited on the cold window — which just before its momentum 
had power to break ; and these drops, while you examine 
them, shoot into delicate ramifications, and resume their 
previous crystalline solidity. 

Nor is the hail stone less soluble on earth than in air. 
Placed under a glass bell with thrice its weight of lime, it 
gradually melts and disappears ; and there remain four parts, 
instead of three, of perfectly dry earth under the glass. Of 



32 PHYSIOLOGICAL REFLECTIONS ON WATER. 

a plaster of Paris statue weighing five pounds, more than one 
pound is solidified water. Even the iridescent opal is hut a 
mass of fluid and water, comhined in the proportion of nine 
grains of the earthy ingredient to one of the fluid.' Of an 
acre of clay land a foot deep, weighing twelve hundred tons, 
at least four hundred tons are water ; and, even of the great 
mountain chains with which the globe is ribbed, many mil- 
lions of tons are water solidified in earth. 

Water, indeed, exists around us to an extent and under 
conditions which escape the notice of cursory observers. 
When the dyer buys of the drysalter one hundred pounds of 
alum, carbonate of soda, and soap, he obtains in exchange for 
his money, no less than forty-five pounds of water in the first 
lot, sixty-four pounds in the second, and a variable quantity, 
sometimes amounting to seventy-three and a half pounds, in 
the third. Even the transparent air we breathe contains in 
ordinary weather about five grains of water diffused through 
each cubic foot of its bulk, and this rarified water no more 
wets the air than the solidified water wets the lime or opal 
in which it is absorbed. But while water is thus capable of 
incorporating itself with earth and air, and of assuming 
alternately their respective conditions, it can, on the other 
hand, in its turn, dissolve both air and earth; giving to 
invisible gases its own palpable form, and liquifying, without 
chemically changing, the densest constituents of the crust of 
the globe. 

Of the absorptive power of water for gases we have & 
practical example in the frequent contamination of London 
water by the coal gas, which leaks from the gas pipes into 
the soil, and is sucked into the water pipes by the vacuum 
which the water creates in its secession towards the mains 
when turned off. This pollution takes place to so great an 
extent in certain streets, where the ground is so saturated 
with escaped gas that the fire-plug boxes if covered over at 
night collect enough to take fire the next morning. So abun- 
dantly is this gas drawn into the service pipes that it has 
frequently been known to ignite at the water-taps ; to the 
great consternation of those who, coming with their pitchers, 
have seen fire issue where water was wont to flow. Drain 
air and grave-yard gas must in some situations be pumped 
by this Vacuum process into the pipes, and contribute to 
pollute the water. 



PHYSIOLOGICAL REFLECTIONS ON WATBS. 33 

As lor the solvent power of water on solids, the phenome- 
non is as familiar to us as it is profoundly marvellous. Every 
one has seen salt vanish in water ; the particles, just now 
opaque fend fixed, strangely acquiring mobility and translu- 
eence. Every one, however, is not aware how extensive the 
range of this power of water is. The glass we drink from 
seems insoluble ; yet Lavoisier found that glass retorts used 
in distilling water lost weight, the water at the same time 
acquiring an equivalent impregnation of the elements (fluid 
and alkali) of glass. This erosive action of water and the 
gases it contains on glass, takes place also, though more 
slowly, at the ordinary temperature of the air ; and its results 
become apparent in the lapse of time. The old stained glass 
windows at Westminster Abbey are honey-combed on the 
outside by the rain, and in many parts nearly eaten through. 

Comminution quickens the effect ; if a common drinking- 
tumbler be pounded and moistened, enough of the powder 
will be dissolved to give the water a powerful reaction on tur- 
meric paper. Pure flint, which, as opal, we have seen solidi 
fying water, may, in its turn, be converted by combination 
with water into transparent tremulous jelly — or even, in 
minuter portions, be taken up as clear aqueous solution of 
flint. Thus granite rock, of which silicates, such as form 
glass, are a main ingredient, is gradually disintegrated by 
water; and the hot springs of Iceland bring up from the 
deep Plutonic strata so much siliceous matter in solution that 
objects dipped in them become coated with a flinty deposit. 

The salubrity of earthy, alkaline, and metallic salts in 
water used as beverage, is strenuously asserted and denied 
by authorities of equal eminence. Some physiologists con- 
tend that lime, magnesia, iron, and the alkalies in combina- 
tion with carbonic, sulphuric, phosphoric, and other acids, 
are essential constituents of the animal body, their presence 
in water is not only harmless, but positively beneficial, and 
their elimination from our beverage would, in particular, 
according to these writers, deprive our bones of the material 
necessary to their growth. In opposition to this view, the 
cogent fact is alleged that the citizens of Aberdeen, who 
drink the purest water in Great Britain, have also fully 
developed bones ; whence it is inferred that the earthy and 
alkaline salts supplied to us in our solid food furnish the 
organism with .a due proportion of mineral constituents. 
2* 



d 



34 s PHYSIOLOGICAL REFLECTIONS OW WATER. 

This position is still more indisputably established by the fact 
that the ejected residue of the solid food contains a large pro- 
portion of superfluous mineral salts. On the whole, the 
weight of scientific evidence seems in favor of the salubrity 
of water free from earth ; towards which, at all events, the 
instinct of mankind manifestly inclines. 

Such is our own experience, and such is the evidence 
furnished by observation from facts all around us. As for 
the inferiority of soft water, in point of freshness and sapidity, 
to the hard water drawn from wells and springs, this differ- 
ence depends not on any pleasantness of savor inherent in 
the earthy salts, but on the superior coolness and more abun- 
dant ©ration of newly drawn spring water. Let the pure 
water be cooled to forty-five degrees and the spring water 
warmed to sixty-five degrees, and deprived of its carbonic 
acid, and the former will be chosen in preference to the latter. 
Alexander knew this ; who, at the siege of Petra, had thirty 
pits filled with snow to cool his water ; and this also Mahomet 
knew, who describes, as one of the principal tortures of the 
damned, a quenchless thirst, with nothing to slake it but 
warm, filthy water. The subterranean tanks of Madrid, 
and the colossal cisterns of Constantinople, protected from 
the sunshine by groined coverings, argue the acquaintance of 
their ancient constructors with the value of coolness in water, 
and put to shame the London reservoirs — exposed, as they 
are, not only to the solar heat and light, with all the growths 
which they encourage, but also to the impure exhalations of 
two millions of people, and to the filthy droppings of the 
London air. - 

But whatever differences of opinion may exist as to the 
palatability of hard or earthy water, its inferiority for deter- 
gent, culinary, and manufacturing purposes is admitted on 
all hands. Lime and magnesia in water spoil alkaline soaps, 
by combining with the fatty acids which give them their 
lubricity, and so reducing them to the state of insoluble earth- 
soaps, which are unpleasant to the skin in the bath, and inju- 
rious to linen in the wash-tub. The tannin of tea — its 
astringent part — is thrown down by the lime of hard water 
as a tannate, along with coloring, extractive, and aromatic 
matter ; so that of the tea infused in spring water of average 
hardness, at least one third is wasted. Hard water, used for 
boiling meat and vegetables, extracts their juices less thor- 



PHYSIOLOGICAL REFLECTIONS ON WATER. 35 

onghly than soft, and toughens* their fibres, shriveling greens 
and peas, giving spinage and asparagus a yellow tinge, and 
seriously impairing the flavor of soups. Hard water is equally 
prejudicial, for like reasons, in many manufactures. The 
tannin of oak bark, like that of tea, is precipitated from solu- 
tion by lime, to the great injury of leather. The valuable 
juices of certain dye-woods, of the brewer's malt and hops, 
and of apothecary's drugs, are, like those of meat and vegeta- 
bles, less readily yielded to hard water than to soft ; and, as 
the extra dose of carbonic acid, by which chalk is upheld in 
water, is driven off by heat, steam-engine boilers, in which 
hard water is used, become rapidly encrusted with an earthy 
deposit, which hinders the transmission of heat to the water ; 
and thus not only occasions waste of fuel, but exposes the 
over-heated iron to burn and burst. 

Of organic bodies, whether vegetable or animal, water 
is also a large constituent during life, and a powerful solvent 
after death Potatoes for example, contain seventy-five per 
cent. — by weight — and turnips no less than ninety per cent, 
of water ; — which explains, by the way, the small inclination 
of turnip-fed cattle and sheep for drink. A beef-steak strongly 
pressed between blotting-paper yields nearly four-fifths of its 
weight of water. Of the human frame, bones included, only 
about four-fifths is solid matter — chiefly carbon and nitrogen ; 
— the rest is water. If a man weighing 160 lbs. were 
squeezed flat under a hydraulic press, 120 lbs. of water would 
run out, and only 40 lbs. of dry residue would remain. 
A man is therefore, chemically speaking, a little more 
than fifty pounds of carbon and nitrogen diffused through six 
pailfuls of water. Berzelius, indeed, in recording the fact, 
justly remarks, " the living organism is to be regarded as a 
mass diffused in water ;" and Dalton, by a series of experi- 
ments tried in his own person, found that of the food with 
which we daily repair this water-built fabric, five-sixths is 
also water. Thus amply does science confirm the popular 
saying that water is the " first necessary of life." 

Nor of life only. Of death, considered as the final pre- 
dominance of chemical over vital forces, water is also the in- 
dispensable minister ; taking as it does, an active part in the 
processes of fermentation, putrefaction, and decay — through 
which organized bodies pass in their gradual relapse to the 
inorganic condition. These changes deserve our particular 



3$ PHYSIOLOGICAL REFLECTIONS ON WATER. 

attention, for they go on in our ordinary rivers ; and at a cer- 
tain degree of activity they turn water into a deadly poison. 

Some years since the putrescent residuum of a starch fac- 
tory at Nottingham was suffered to contaminate a brook con- 
taining nsh and frogs, and resorted to by cattle for drink. 
The nsh and frogs disappeared from the water, and the cattle 
suffered a series of symptoms of disease. Their muscles, their 
blood, and all the more putrenable tissues of their bodies 
wasted ; their coats became rough and staring ; their yield 
of milk fell off rapidly ; a bloody purging ensued ; and they 
died in a state of extreme emaciation. After twenty-four 
cows and nine calves had thus miserably perished, the con- 
tamination of the water was stopped by an action at law 
upon which the fish and the frogs began to reappear, and 
the mortality of the cattle ceased. 

Advancing to a higher point of view, we note properties 
and functions of water, as it operates in the organism of 
plants and animals, and in the still wider laboratory of the 
world at large, we shall find it still the great solvent, the 
principal carrier of circulating substances and forces, and the 
universal medium of physical and vital transformations. 
The sap of plants is a solution of nutrient matters, saline and 
organic, in water, which distributes them so rapidly, that its 
upward course through the minute vessels looks like the 
rushing of a swift stream. A pailful of water suitably im- 
pregnated with Baits is speedily sucked up by the root of a 
growing tree immersed in it ; the salts are assimilated, as 
also is part of the water, the remainder being evaporated 
from the leaves. Food or poison may be thus artfully ad- 
ministered to plants, and timber is thus hardened in France, 
and even stained, while living, of divers different hues. As 
for the evaporation from foliage, it is so abundant that a 
sunflower perspires five gills per day, and a cabbage nearly 
as much ; and, it appears from experiments, that a wheat- 
plant, during the period of its growth, 172 days, exhales 
100,000 grains of water ; so that, taking the ultimate weight 
of the mature plant at one hundred grains, and its main 
weight at fifty grains, which is a full estimate, its mean daily 
transpiration actually exceeds ten times its own weight. At 
this rate an acre of growing wheat, weighing at least two 
tons at maturity, should exhale on an average fully ten tons 
of water per day. However, it is calculated that the rain 



THE SUPERIORITY OF EDUCATED LABOR- Jf 

daily falling on an acre of land is not equal to this quantity* 
Hence the exhalations from the plant with which the expert- 
meut was made must have been above the average of those 
from plants growing in a wheat field.— Abstract from Low- 
don Quarterly Review. 



THE SUPERIORITY OF EDUCATED LABOR. 

The most abundant proof exists, derived from all depart- 
ments of human industry, that uneducated labor is compara- 
tively unprofitable. I have before me the statements of a 
number of the most intelligent gentlemen in Massachusetts, 
affirming this fact as the result of an experience extending 
over many years. In Massachusetts we have no native born 
child wholly without school instruction ; but the degrees of 
attainment in mental development are various. Haifa dozen 
years ago, the Massachusetts Board of Education obtained 
statements from large numbers of our master manufacturers, 
authenticated from the books of their respective establish- 
ments, and covering a series of years, the result of which 
was, that increased wages were found in connection with in- 
creased intelligence, just as certainly as increased heat raises 
the mercury in the thermometer. 

Foreigners, and those coming from other states, who made 
their marks when they receipted their bills, earned the least ; 
those who had a moderate or limited education occupied a 
middle ground on the pay-roll ; while the intelligent young 
women who worked in the mills in winter, and taught 
schools in summer crowned the list. The larger capital in 
the form of intelligence yielded the larger interest in the form 
of wages. This inquiry was not confined to manufacturers, 
but was extended to other departments of business, where the 
results of labor could be made the subject of exact measure- 
ment. 

This is universally so. The mechanic sees it, when he 
compares the work of a stupid with that of an awakened 
mind. The traveller sees it, when he passes from an edu- 
cated into an uneducated nation. There are countries in 
Europe, lying side by side, where, without compass or chart, 
without bound or land-marks, I could ran the line of demar- 



}g TRIBUTE TO GENIUS ANT) LABOR. 

cation between the two, by the broad, legible characters 
which ignorance has written on roads, fields, houses, and the 
persons of men, women, and children on one side, and which 
knowledge has inscribed on the other. 

This difference is most striking in the mechanic arts ; but 
is clearly visible also in husbandry. Not the most fertile 
soil, not mines of silver and gold, can make a nation rich 
without intelligence. Who ever had a more fertile soil than 
the Egyptians ? Who have handled more silver and gold 
than the Spaniards ? The universal cultivation of the mind 
and heart is the only true source of opulence ; — the cultivation 
of the mind, by which to lay hold on the treasures of nature ; 
the cultivation of the heart, by which to devote those trea- 
sures to beneficent uses. 

Where this cultivation exists, no matter how barren the 
soil or ungenial the clime, there comfort and competence will 
abound j for it is the intellectual and moral condition of the 
cultivator that impoverishes the soil, or makes it teem with 
abundance. He who disobeys the law of God in regard to 
the culture of the intellectual and spiritual nature, may live 
in the valley of the Nile, but he can rear only the " lean 
kine" of Pharoah ; but he who obeys the highest law, may 
dwell in the cold and inhospitable regions of Scotland or of 
New England, and " well-formed and fat-fleshed kine" shall 
feed on all his meadows. — Horace Mann. 



TRIBUTE TO GENIUS AND LABOR. 

The camp has had its day of song ; 
The sword, the bayonet, the plume 
Have crowded out of rhyme too long 
The plough, the anvil and the loom ! 
0, not upon our tented fields 
Are Freedom's heroes bred alone ; 
The training of the workshop yields 
More heroes true than War has known ! 

Who drives the bolt, who shapes the steel, 
May, with tjie heart as valiant, smite, 
As he who sees a foeman reel 
In blood before his blow of might ! 



A FLEA FOR OUR PHYSICAL LIFE. Jf 

The skill that conquers space and time, 
That graces life, that lightens toil, 
May spring from courage more sublime 
Than that which makes a realm its spoil. 

Let Labor, then, look up and see 
His craft no path of honor lacks ; 
The soldier's rifle yet shall he 
Less honored than the woodman's axe ? 
Let Art his own appointment prize, 
Nor deem that gold or outward height 
Can compensate the worth that lies 
In tastes that breed their own delight. 

And may the time draw nearer still 
When men this sacred truth shall heed, 
That from the thought and from the will 
Must all that raises man proceed ! 
Though Pride should hold our calling low, 
For us shall duty make it good ; 
And we from truth to truth shall go, 
Till life and death are understood. 

Epes Sargent. 



A PLEA FOR OUR PHYSICAL LIFE. 

We do our nature wrong, 

Neglecting over long 
The bodily joys that help to make us wise ; 

The ramble up the slope 

Of the high mountain cope — 
The long day's walk, the vigorous exercise, 

The fresh luxuriant bath, 

Far from the trodden path, 
Or 'mid the ocean waves, dashing with harmless roar, 
Lifting us off our feet upon the sandy shore. 

Kind Heaven ! there is no end 
Of pleasures as we wend 



40 ORGANS AND STRUCTURE OF PLANTS. 

Our pilgrimage in life's undevious way, 

If we but know the laws 

Of the Eternal Cause, 
And for His glory and our good obey, 

But intellectual pride 

Sets half these joys aside, 
And our perennial care absorbs the soul so much, 
That life burns cold and dim beneath its deadening touch. 

Welcome, ye plump green meads, 

Ye streams and sighing reeds ! 
Welcome, ye corn-fields, waving like a sea ! 

Welcome, the leafy bowers, 

And children gathering flowers ? 
And farewell, for a while, sage drudgery ! 

What ! though we're growing old, 

Our blood is not yet cold ! 
Come with me to the fields, thou man of many ills, 
And give thy limbs a chance among the daffodils ! 

Come with me to the woods, 

And let their solitudes 
Re-echo to our voices as we go, 

Upon thy weary brain 

Let nature come again, 
Spite of thy wealth, thy learning, or thy woe ! 

Stretch forth thy limbs and leap— 

Thy life has been asleep ; 
And though the wrinkles deep may furrow thy pale brow, 
Show me, if thou art wise, how like a child art thou ! 

Charles Macket. 



ORGANS AND STRUCTURE OF PLANTS, 

What is the first step to be taken in understanding 
what may be termed vegetable physiology or the processes 
employed by nature in the growth of plants ? 

It is to learn the organs possessed by each plant, and the 
functions for which they are designed in the development of 
the different parts of the vegetable structure. 



0RGAN8 AND STRUCTURE OF PLANTS. 4| 

What tcitt be tJie consequence, if this is neglected? 

Without this knowledge, it will be impossible to under* 
stand how plants derive their nutriment from the air and 
the soil, and indeed it is and must be the basis of all our 
studies in relation to the subject. 

To tcJuU are Hie organs of the plants analagous ? 

They are analagous to the organs of an animal. The 
one as much needs a specific structure, through the agency 
of which the aliments of vegetable life are maintained, as the 
other. An animal might as well live and grow without food ; 
and might as well receive and assimilate the food when fur- 
nished, without mouth and teeth and stomach, and without 
veins and arteries, as a plant can flourish without correspond- 
ing organs. The organs of a plant answer precisely the end 
that these organs do in the animal economy. 

What other similarity is there between the growth of 
animals and vegetables ? 

A supply of fresh air is alike needed by both. Food and 
drink of some kind or other — that is, solid and fluid or gaseous 
substances, also. Without them animals and vegetables 
would both sicken and die. This fact should never be for- 
gotten. 

What are the most obvious organs of plants ? 

It is a general law in vegetable economy, that all plants 
consist of a root, a stem, and leaves ; and these organs consist 
of distinct parts, each designed to answer a specific purpose, 
and is essentially necessary to the perfection of the whole. 

To wJiat have the organs of a plant distinct reference ? 

The production of a fruit, which being accomplished, the 
plant either dies entirely, or lies torpid for a season, until a 
succession of the same circumstances which gave it life in 
the first instance, shall again call its productive organs into 
action. 

What are the offices of the root ? 

In the first place, the root keeps the plant fixed in a 
proper position ; and, in this respect is therefore analagous 
to the limbs of an animal. In the second place, the plant 
receives most of its nourishment through the root ; which is 
therefore analagous to the mouth of an animal. 

What is said of the form of the root ? 

The form of the root is diversified to an unlimited extent ; 
sometimes it is large ; sometimes it is small ; sometimes 



42 ORGANS AND STRUCTURE OF PLANTS* 

straight; sometimes crooked; sometimes rough; sometimes 
smooth. The roots of plants are as much diversified as the 
tops or branches. 

WluU is said of the instincts of the root ? 

The instincts of roots are truly wonderful. If there is in 
the vicinity a little spot of soil more rich than the rest, they 
are sure to find it as a mouse is sure to find a little crumb of 
cheese sunk into the crevice between the edges of two boards. 
Or, if there is a seam in a large stone obstructing their pro- 
gress, they will be as sure to find and penetrate this avenue, 
as a man with a good lantern, in a dark night, would search 
out and pursue a small foot-path in a grass field. 

Of how many parts does a root consist ? 

The body, the crown or collar, the branches, and the 
fibres ; each of essential importance in its place— the fibres 
particularly ; so also is the crown, being the portion of the 
plant between the stem or leaves and the body of the root. 

What is said of the importance of the crown ? 

In many plants, of a hardy nature, nearly the whole of 
the body of the root may be cut away, and yet, if the crown 
be uninjured, still the plant will flourish ; but, in the gene- 
rality of plants, if the crown be injured, no matter how per- 
fect so ever the body may be, the plant is usually destroyed. 

If the crown is slender what will be tlie consequence ? 

If the crown of plants is slender, they dry up as the seeds 
ripen, and the plants soon die. Such plants are termed 
annuals, including wheat, barley, oats, and a multitude of 
others — but when the crown from any cause, such as the soil, 
climate, or culture, is rendered strong, such annuals are 
brought to grow two years, and then are called biennials ; or 
for a succession of years, and-then are called perennials. 

What is said of tlie fibres of a root? 

The fibres are an essential part of each root, yet in most 
cases they may be removed without injury to the plant, pro- 
vided the crown is sufficiently healthy and vigorous to push 
out new ones. 

What are the spongelets of a root and what is said of 
them? 

The spongelets are the tips or the extreme ends of the fibres; 
and they absorb the pabulum from the soil. In case the 
spongelet, from any cause, is removed from the point of the 
fibre, two lateral shoots are immediately thrown out, pro- 



OttGANS AMD 8TKVCTUBE OF PLANTS. 43 

yided the plant is sufficiently vigorous to bear the tempor a ry 
loss it thus sustains, — each furnished with its spongelet, and 
thus the destruction of the one becomes a source of strength 
to the plant. 

How does tillage operate to make this power of the plant 
in reproducing spongelets advantageous ? 

In ploughing between the rows of corn, if the small roots 
are cut, the number of spongelets will be increased and con* 
sequently the vigor of the plant will be promoted. The same 
may occur with other crops, particularly in garden culture. 

What is said of the duration of fibres on the root? 

They are produced annually like leaves, in some cases, 
the old ones having fallen off. The Dahlia is an instance 
of it. In other cases the fibres are constantly increasing in 
size, and becoming harder like the parent of the root, and 
subsequently throwing out new fibres themselves, as is the 
case with large trees. 

What general description is given of the stem of plants ? 

The stem of all plants rises immediately from the crown 
of the root, and is, consequently, always above the ground. 
The same variety prevails in this part of the plant as in the 
root ; for instance, the stems of wheat, barley, and the grasses, 
rise to some height, and are termed the straw ; the stems of 
mushrooms, fungi, and the like, are termed the stalk; and 
the stem of the strawberry is termed the runner ; all of them 
being appropriately described from the appearance each 
presents. 

Of what severed parts is the stem composed ? 

The pith, the wood, and the bark. This will appear by 
cutting across a young twig of a common tree or shrub. This 
is readily seen in the Ash and Elder, because in them and 
some others the parts are more distinctly seen, yet where less 
apparent to the eye they exist. 

What is said of the pith ? 

It is a soft spongy substance occupying the centre. If a 
slice of it be cut, either across or vertically, and magnified, 
it is seen to consist entirely of cellular tissue, the cells of 
which are mostly of a regular form. When young it con- 
tains a good deal of fluid ; when the branch is old it becomes 
white and hard ; and in an old stem or branch, it is often 
found to have shriveled up and almost entirely disappeared. 

What curious product is obtained from the pith? 



44 ORGANS AND STRUCTURE OF PLANTS. 

Generally the pith of trees is applied to no important 
use ; but one curious product is obtained from the large pith 
which constitutes nearly the entire stem of a herbaceous 
plant. This is the substance known as Rice Paper, which 
is made by cutting the soft portion of the stem with a sharp 
knife in a spiral manner, so as to cause it to spread out, as 
if a sheet of paper were being unrolled from a round roller. 
It is then flattened out and made smooth by pressure. 

Wliat is said of the formation of the wood ? 

It surrounds the pith in rings or layers, the number ano 
thickness of which depend upon the age of the branch ox 
stem. These rings or layers occupy the entire space between 
the pith and the bark. The number of them is easily reck- 
oned on cutting the stem or branch across ; and they corres- 
pond exactly in this climate with the number of years which, 
the part has existed ; or in other words, a distinct ring 01 
layer is formed each year, so that in this way the age of an} 
tree is easily ascertained. 

How is it supposed that this takes place ? 

There is reason to suppose, that on the falling of the 
leaves, which is annual in temperate climates, or in corres- 
pondence with the formation and decay of each set of leaves, 
an additional layer or ring of wood is also produced. 

What exception is there to this ? 

In tropical climates there are many kinds of trees haying 
two or three successions of leaves in each year, and the pre- 
sumption is a corresponding number of layers of wood is also 
formed. Unless this be the fact, the Boabab trees of Senegal, 
in many instances, have reached the age of 5000 years, their 
wood being composed of that number of layers. It is not 
credible that they have reached that age ; and the appear- 
ance of supposed evidence for such a hypothesis, is explained 
by their having an additional layer with each succession of 
leaves. 

What changes are constantly taking place in the wood 
of trees t as they increase in age ? 

In most trees, of which the wood is used as timber, the 
inner and older portion is much harder and dryer than the 
exterior. Sometimes there is an evident line of demarca- 
tion between the heart-wood or duramen, as it is called, and 
the sap-wood, or alburnum. This is seen in the lignum; 
vit®, and cocoa-wood. But in most cases, the exchange of 



4MAHi AKD 0TBUOTUH OF ffatfTlV. 44 

character is more gradual, and the lines of demarcation are 
leas distinct. 

To what is this change owing ? 

It is attributed to the consolidation of the interior wood, 
by the deposition in its tubes of resinous and other matter 
secreted by the plant. The portion of the stem in which this 
has taken place thus acquires great toughness and durability, 
but it is no longer fit to perform any office in the living sys- 
tem, save that of mechanically supporting the rest ; since no 
fluid can now pass in any way through the now-fUled-up 
channels. It is through the new layers, or sap-wood, there* 
fore, that the sap entirely ascends ; and these, in their turn, 
become enclosed by others, and are at last consolidated, like 
the more aged ones, into duramen. The heart-wood alone is 
used by the artisan ; for the sap-wood soon splits and decays. 

How does it appear that sap does not ascend to nourish 
the plant through the heart-wood ? 

It is well known, that the heart or duramen of an aged 
tree with some portions of the exterior stem sometimes en- 
tirely decays, leaving the remainder a mere shell or hollow 
trunk. Yet, vegetable life does not become extinct. The 
sap continues to ascend as before. New layers of alburnum 
are annually made. Annually there is a new succession of 
leaves ; and the process of throwing out new branches con- 
tinues without change. 

What account is given of the formation of bark ? 

It is obvious to the sight that the wood is enclosed by the 
bark ; and the latter, like the former, is composed of regular 
layers, although they cannot be so plainly seen. The layers 
of the bark are formed from the interior. So that the older 
are on the outside. These are generally lost, either by de- 
cay, or falling off ; so that it is very seldom that the same 
number can be traced in the bark as in the wood, although 
an additional one is formed in each at the same time. As 
the new layer of wood is formed on the outside of the previous 
one, — at the point, therefore, at which it is in contact with 
the bark, and as the new layer of bark is added to the in* 
side of the previous one ; at the point, therefore, at which it 
was in contact with the wood, it is obvious they are produced 
at the same spot, and that the newest layers of both will be, 
always in contact with each other. 

What is said of the bark from which cork is obtained ? 



4* ORGANS AND STRUCTURE OF FLAHTfl. 

It contains a great quantity of cellular tissues, and is 
therefore thick and spongy, and may he regarded as a sort 
of external pith. The tree producing this hark is a species 
of the oak, found in the southern part of Europe, and mostly 
in Spain and Portugal. 

Why is the inner coat of some bark called Liber ?. 

Liber, in the Latin language, is the name of a hook ; and 
before the invention of paper, the Romans used these inner 
coats of certain bark, which were very fine and delicate, for 
the purposes of writing. Thus the inner eoat of bark and a 
book had the same name. 

For what other purposes has the inner coat of bark some* 
times been used ? 

In the Polynesian Islands especially it is wrought into 
cloth, mats, sails, and cordage. It is said that a very beau- 
tiful kind of this substance is obtained from the Vegetable- 
Lace tree of Jamaica. When its layers are unfolded, it has 
the appearance of a delicate lace. 

What is the most obvious agency of leaves in the growth 
of vegetation J 

Leaves perfonn in the vegetable kingdom, the same 
offices as the lungs in the animal kingdom. Through them, 
from the pores covering their surface, the respiration of the 
plant is carried on ; and, more than this, for at the same 
time that the respiration is going on, through the pores, a 
constant assimilation of one of the gases of the atmosphere is 
taking place. From this source to a considerable extent, the 
plant derives its nourishment. 

What other agency is performed by the leaves ? 

A constant chemical action is always in operation in the 
leaves, in the formation of the resinous, and oleaginous, and 
acid matters they contain. These processes of the leaves are 
constantly in operation, from the first formation of the leaf 
until the seed is perfected, and they only cease when from the 
ripening of the fruit, their assistance is no longer required. 

How is it known that plants do absorb water ', and other 
nourishment from the ground in their growth ? 

It may be known from their being dried and burnt, and 
found to contain the same elementary substances existing in 
the ground. It may be known also from placing certain 
plants in a vessel of water, the water disappearing at a much 
more rapid rate, than it would evaporate if there wen no 
plants immersed in it. 



ORGANS AND STRUCTURE OF PLANT*. 47 

What experiments of this have been made ? 
An experiment has been made with four plants of spear- 
mint. They had been placed with the roots in water for the 
period of fifty-six days. During this time, they had taken up 
54,000 grains of water, or about seven pints of the fluid, 
although their own united weight was but 403 grains, show* 
ing also that the remainder had been evaporated, or cast off 
by the leaves. 

. How can it be proved that the sap ascends through the 
alburnum or the new layers of wood? 

By coloring the water provided for the nourishment of the 
plant, it will be found that this part of the stem is tinged with 
the coloring matter. It may also be known by making an 
incision or boring a hole into this wood, from which the sap 
will ooze out. In this way the sap is procured for maple 
sugar. 

What singular fact has been related to show that every 
succeeding new layer of wood is on the outside? 

Adamson relates, that, in visiting Cape Verd in the year 
1748, he was struck by the venerable appearance of a tree, 
50 feet in circumference. He recollected having read in some 
old voyages an account of an inscription made on a tree thus 
situated. No traces of such an inscription remained, but the 
position having been accurately described, Adamson was 
induced to search for it by cutting into the tree, when, to his 
great satisfaction, he discovered the inscription entire under 
no less a covering than three hundred layers of wood, proving 
that each new layer is formed on the outside of the last pre- 
ceding one, and that the inscription had been made 300 years. 

Jf the sap in its ascent meets with any obstruction what 
trill be the consequence ? 

When this happens, there-is an accumulation of the sap 
at this point which causes a protuberance or wart on the tree, 
and sometimes a new shoot for the formation of an additional 
branch . 

What is said of the size to which leaves sometimes attain ? 

Leaves are of every imaginable form, and their size varies 
almost as much as their forms. In the mosses which abound 
in cold climates, they are extremely minute ; and the forest trees 
of the North are adorned with leaves which appear very diminu- 
tive, when compared or rather when contrasted with the foliage 
of equatorial plants. There we find the leaves of the Banana, 



49 PATRIOT FARMERS OF NEW- YORK. 

perhaps the same which were employed by our first parents, 
to supply the want of more artificial dress ; they being in the 
opinion of many writers, the " Fig leaves" of sacred history. 
In Ceylon, a country alternately exposed, for many months in 
succession, to tne rays of the vertical sun, and the inclemen- 
cies of an unceasing Storm, is found the singular Talipot, a 
single leaf of which is sufficiently large to shelter twenty men 
from the vicissitudes of the climate in which they dwell. This 
tree is venerated by those who find beneath its branches sp 
kind a shelter, and travellers consider it the greatest blessing 
which Heaven has bestowed on the country. And when we 
regard its subserviency, to the wants of the human race, it is 
not surprising that by the ancients, the wide spreading tree, 
decorated with leaves, and occasionally beautified with flow- 
ers, should have been held sacred as the very temple of the 
Deities they worshipped. 



PATRIOT FARMERS OF NEW-YORK. 

Farmers of New-York — the hour of separation for this 
dazzling array of beauty, this vast multitude of men, is at 
hand. Fruits richer than ever graced the gardens of Pomona 
—a paradise of flowers — needle- work the most exact, delicate 
and even — ingenious farming implements and manufactures 
of all sorts, cloths of the finest quality, from your own looms, 
and from looms in Massachusetts — horses fit to win prizes at 
Olympia— -cattle such as never fell in a Hecatomb to Jove, 
and never were dreamed of by the highest of the Dutch 
painters— all these and more have arrested our gaze and 
rilled us with wonder and delight. And now I am commis- 
sioned to summon you, and through you the population of 
this mighty commonwealth, to come up and join us, as, under 
the auspices of the State, honor and distinction are awarded 
to agricultural industry and genius. 

But the farmers of New- York are not content with im- 
provements in the material world alone. From their gener- 
ous impulses spring your system of free schools. They have 
proved themselves the liberal benefactors of academies and 
colleges. They too have been careful for the means of their 
own special culture, and have founded and nurtured societies 
for promoting agriculture. For an example of the virtues of 



FATBJOT FAKMB&8 OP KKW-YOlUL 49 

private life, I name to you the fanner of Westchester county, 
the pure and spotless Jay, who assisted to frame our first 
treaty of peace, which added Ohio and the lovely West to 
our agriculture. Side by side with him, I name the friend of 
his youth, Robert R. LivingBton, the younger, the enlight- 
ened statesman of our Revolution, whose expansive mind 
succeeded in negotiating for our country a world beyond the 
Mississippi, and gained access for our flag to the gulf of 
Mexico. Here, on the banks of the Hudson he is celebrated 
as it were by every steamboat, and remembered on your farms 
through his experimental zeal. On this day be remembered 
the virtues of Stephen Van Rensselaer, who first brought 
Durham cattle to this State, and liberally diffused the breed. 

Join with me also in a tribute to Mitchill, the faithful 
advocate, and perhaps institutor, of one of the earliest agri- 
cultural societies ; to Jesse Buel, who connected science with 
fact, taught how the most barren soil may be made vastly 
productive, diffused his acquisitions by the press, and by life 
and by precept was the fanner's friend ; to Willis Gaylord, 
whose agricultural essays are standard authorities, honorable 
to the man and the State ; to Le Ray de Chaumont, who 
kept alive an agricultural society in Jefferson county, when 
all others had expired, and gave the impulse, to the formation 
of the State Society, of which he was the first president ; to 
James Wadsworth, for his skill as a cultivator, and still 
more for his liberal exertions, pouring out thousands after 
thousands, at the impulse of a generous mind, as if from a 
well-spring of good will, to promote agricultural science in 
primary schools. 

And I should be wanting on this occasion, did I not ten- 
der the expression of your regard to the present president of 
the State Society, to the influence of that institution of which 
he is the honored head ; to its Journal of Agriculture, to its 
annual fairs. But let me also entreat its friendly wishes to 
its purpose of establishing an agricultural school ; and to that 
other more diffusive design of introducing through its secre- 
tary, scientific works on agriculture into school libraries. I 
am happy also to announce that efforts are now making to 
constitute agriculture, as it deserves to be, a branch of in- 
struction in one, at least, of your universities. 

I have named to you some of the benefactors of agricul- 
ture in New- York. Their benefits endure. The pursuits 



50 PATRIOT FARMERS OF WEW-YOJUC- 

of the fanner bind him to home. Others may cross conti- 
nents and vex oceans ; the fanner must dwell near the soil 
which he subdues and fertilizes. His fortunes are fixed and 
immovable. The scene of his youthful labors is the scene 
of his declining years ; he enjoys his own plantations, and 
takes his rest beneath his cotemporary trees. 

But the farmer is not limited to the narrow circumfe- 
rence of his own domain ; he stands in relation with all ages 
and all times. Your Society has done wisely to urge on those 
who bear the Gospel to untaught nations, to Btudy their agri- 
culture, and report for comparison every variety of tillage. 
All ages and all climes contribute to your improvement. 
For you are gathered the fruits and seeds which centuries 
of the existence of the human race have discovered and ren- 
dered useful. Tell me, if you can, in what age and in what 
land the cereal grasses were first found to produce bread ? 
Who taught to employ the useful cow to furnish food for 
man ? When was the horse first tamed to proud obedience ? 
The pear, the apple, the cherry, where were these first im- 
proved from their wildness in the original fruit ? 

And whose efforts led the way in changing the rough 
skin of the almond to the luscious sweetness of the peach ? 
All ages have paid their tribute to your pursuit. And for 
you the sons of science are now scouring every heath and 
prairie and wilderness, to see if some new grass lies hidden 
in an unexplored glade ; if some rude stock of the forests 
can offer a new fruit to the hand of culture. For you the 
earth reveals the innumerable beds of marl; its mineral 
wealth, the gypsum and the lime, have remained in store 
for your use from the days of creation. For you Africa and 
the isles of the Pacific open their magazines of guano ; for 
you old Ocean heaves up its fertilizing weeds. 

And as the farmer receives aid from every part of the 
material world, so also his door is open to all intelligence. 
What truth is not welcomed as an inmate under his roof? 
To what pure and generous feeling does he fail to give a 
home ? The great poets and authors of all times are cher- 
ished as his guests. Milton and Shakspeare, and their noble 
peers, cross his threshhold to keep his company. For him, 
too, the harp of Israel's minstrel monarch was strung ; for 
him the lips of Isaiah still move, all touched with fire ; and 
the apostles of the new covenant are his daily teachers. No 



PATRIOT FARMERS OP NEW-YOSX. 5| 

occupation is nearer heaven. The social angel, when he 
descended to converse with men, broke bread with the hus- 
bandman beneath the tree. 

Thus the farmer's mind is exalted ; his principles stand 
as firm as your own Highlands; his good seeds flow like 
•elf-moving waters. Yet in his connection with the human 
race, the fanner never loses his patriotism. He loves Amer- 
ica — is the depository of her glory and the guardian of her 
freedom. He builds monuments to greatness, and when des- 
tiny permits, he also achieves heroic deeds in the eyes of his 
race. The soil of New- York, which he has beautified by his 
culture, is consecrated by the victories in which he has shared. 
Earth ! I bow in reverence, for my eyes behold the ground 
wet with the blood of rustic martyrs, and hallowed by the 
tombs of former heroes ! Where is the land to which their 
lame has not been borne ? Who does not know the tale 
of the hundred battle fields of New- York ? Not a rock juts % 
out from the Highlands, but the mind's eye sees inscribed 
upon it a record of deeds of glory. Not a blade of grass 
springs at Saratoga, but takes to itself a tongue to proclaim 
the successful valor of patriot husbandmen. 

Here the name of Schuyler, the brave, the generous, the 
unshaken patriot, shall be remembered ; the zealous, reliable 
George Clinton, a man of soundest heart, a soul of honesty 
and honor, a dear lover of his country and of freedom. Nor 
do we forget him — the gallant Montgomery — twin martyr 
with Warren — who left his farm on the Hudson, not, as it 
proved, to conquer Quebec, but to win a mightier victory 
over death. 

I renew the theme once more, to recount how the far- 
mers of New- York have served their country and mankind. 
They were invested with sovereignty, and abdicated. Glo- 
rious example ! Highest triumph of disinterested justice ! 
They themselves peacefully and publicly renounced their 
exclusive authority, and transferred power in this republic 
from its territory to its men. May your institutions, under 
the spirit of improvement, be perpetual. May every pure 
influence gather round your legislation. May your illustrious 
example show to the world the dignity of labor ; the shame 
that lights on idleness ; the honor that belongs to toil. To 
the end of time, be happiness the companion of your busy 
homes, and the plough ever be found in the hands of its owner. 



32 GOOD IN ALL SEASONS. 

The farmer is independent. With the mechanic and 
manufacturer as his allies, he makes our country safe against 
foreign foes, for it becomes perfect by its own resources. But 
why do I say this ? To foster a spirit of defiance ? Far 
otherwise. Let us rejoice in our strength, but temper it with 
gentleness and the spirit of lore for all mankind — a love that 
shall perpetuate tranquility, and leave the boundless and 
rapidly increasing resources of the country at liberty for its 
further development. 

And has it occurred that this great commonwealth — the 
most numerous people ever united under a popular form of 
government — is emphatically a commonwealth of the living ? 
Go to the Old World, and your daily walk is over catacombs ; 
your travel among the tombs. Here the living of the present 
day outnumber the dead of all the generations since your 
land was discovered. All, all who sleep beneath the soil of 
New- York, are fewer in number than you who move above 
their graves. Look about you and see what the men of the 
past have accomplished. 

Concentrate in your mind all that they have achieved ; 
the beauty of their farms, the length and grandeur of their 
canals and railroads, the countless fleets of canal boats they 
have constructed ; their ships that have visited every conti- 
nent and discovered a new one ; their towns enlivening the * 
public plains ; their villages that gem the valleys ; the im- 
perial magnificence of their cities ; and when you have col- 
lected all these things in your thoughts, then hear me when 
I say to you, that you of this living generation, as you out- 
number all the dead — "are bound before your eyes are sealed 
. in death, to accomplish for New- York more than has been 
. accomplished for New- York thus far in all time. Mighty 
commonwealth ! lift up your heart ; let your »sun ascend 
with increasing splendor towards its zenith. You shall be 
a light to humanity ; a joy to the nations — the glory of the 
world. — George Bancroft, LL. D., Address, New- York 
State Fair, 1844. 



* GOOD IN ALL SEASONS. 

I love to see a city street, 

With all its living swarm ; 
Men, women, coaches, carts, to meet, 



GOOD IN ALL SEASONS. £| 

Children -with bright eyes and quick words, 
And infants that, like little birds, 
Sit perch'd upon the arm. 

Yet not the less I love to go, 

Leaving all these behind, 
To where the brooks and rivers flow, 
And where the wide sky may be seen, 
Where flowers are sweet and leaves are green. 
And stirring in the wind. 

*T is merry, merry in the spring, 

And merry in the summer time, 
And merry when the great winds sing 
Through autumn's woodlands brown- 
When from the tall trees scatter down, 
Ripe acorns fringed with rime. 

And in the winter, wild and cold, 

'T is merry, merry too ; 
Then man and boy are blithe and bold ; 
Then rings the skate upon the ice ; 
Then comes the hoar-frost in a trice, 
And everything is new. 

Free are the woods and hills ! There dwell 

Creatures that serve not man — 
Glad things, that neither buy nor sell, 
That want not aught we have to give, 
That ask us not for leave to live, 
But live just as they can. 

To God who made and loves them all 

They hymn their praise serene ; 
Things great, things wondrous, things so small 
Their very forms escape your sight 
Two worlds of beauty and delight — 
The hidden and the seen. 

• * 

When first leaves cluster on the trees, 

And spring flowers star the ground ; 
And birds come o'er the southern seas, 



g£ THE COUNTHY BUKIAL-GROUNP. 

And build their nests and sing aloud ; 
And insects, a gay, shining crowd, 
Glitter and hum around. 

When winter comes, and beasts and men, 

Retreating from the field, 
Seek fire-lit house, and winter den ; 
In town or country still the same, 
God's love all living things proclaim, 
Their good all seasons yield. 

Therefore, for us let seasons change ; 

Let the sun shine, or tempests rage ; 
Through street or forest still we'll range, 
And find God present in each spot, 
His guiding hand in every lot ; 
His grace from age to age. 

Wm, Howitt. 



THE COUNTRY BURIAL-GROUND. 

I like that ancient Saxon phrase, which calls 
The burial-ground God's Acre ! It is just ; 

It consecrates each grave within its walls, 

And breathes a benison o'er the sleeping dust 

God's Acre ! Yes, that blessed name imparts 
Comfort to those, who in the grave hare sown 

The seed, that they have garnered in their hearts, 
Their bread of life, alas ! no more their own. 

Into its furrow shall we all be cast, 

In the sure faith, that we shall rise again 

At the great harvest, when the archangel's blast 
Shall winnow, like a fan, the chaff and grain. 

' Then shall the good stand in immortal bloom, 

In the fair garden of the second birth ; 
And each bright blossom, mingle its perfume 

With that of flowers, which never bloomed on earth. 



THE BABfBOW. SB 

With thy rude ploughshare, Death, turn up the sod, 
And spread the furrow for the seed we tow ; 

This is the field and Acre of our God, 

This is the place, where human harvests grow ! 

Longfellow. 



THE RAINBOW. 



I sometimes have thoughts in my loneliest hours, 
That lie on my heart like the dew on the flowers, 
Of a ramble I took one bright afternoon 
When my heart was as light as a blossom in June ; 
The green earth was moist with the late fallen showers, 
The breeze fluttered down and blew open the flowers, 
While a single white cloud, to its haven of rest 
On the white wing of peace, floated off in the west. 

As I threw back my tresses to catch the cool breeze, 

That scattered the rain drops and dimpled the seas, 

Far up the blue sky a fair rainbow unrolled 

Its soft tinted pinions of purple and gold. 

'T was born in a moment, yet, quick as its birth 

It was stretched to the uttermost ends of the earth, 

And, fair as an angel, it floated as free, 

With a wing on the earth and a wing on the sea. 

How calm was the ocean ! how gentle its swell ! 

Like a woman's soft bosom it rose and it fell ; 

While its light sparkling waves, stealing laughingly o'er, 

When they saw the fair rainbow knelt down on the shore. 

No sweet hymn ascended, no murmur of prayer, 

Yet I felt that the spirit of worship was there, 

And I bent my young head, in devotion and love, 

'Neath the form of the angel, that floated above. 

How wide was the sweep of its beautiful wings ! 
How boundless its circle ! how radiant its rings ! 
If I looked on the sky, 't was suspended in air ; 
If I looked on the ocean, the rainbow was there ; 
Thus forming a girdle, as brilliant and whole, 
As the thoughts of the rainbow, that circled my soul. 



5$ ELEMENTARY CONSTITUENTS OF PLANTS. 

Like the wings of the Deity, calmly unfurled, 
It bent from the cloud and encircled the world. 

There are moments, I think, when the spirit receives 
"Whole volumes of thought on its unwritten leaves ; 
When the folds of the heart in a moment unclose, 
Like the innermost leaves from the heart of the rose. 
And thus, when the rainbow had passed from the sky, 
The thoughts it awoke were too deep to pass by ; 
It left my full soul, like the wing of a dove, 
All fluttering with pleasure, and fluttering with love. 

I know that each moment of rapture or pain 
But shortens the links in life's mystical chain ; 
I know that my form, like that bow from the wave, 
Must pass from the earth and lie cold in the grave ; 
Yet Oh ! when death's shadows my bosom uncloud, 
When I shrink at the thought of the coffin and shroud, 
May hope, like the rainbow, my spirit unfold 
In her beautiful pinions of purple and gold. 

Amelia B. Welby. 



ELEMENTARY CONSTITUENTS OF PLANTS. 

What is meant by an elementary constituent or sub- 
stance entering into the composition of vegetables ? 

It is a simple substance ; that is, a substance not com- 
posed, or compounded, or made, of two or more other sub- 
stances ; or, which we have as yet no means of reducing to 
two or more other substances. 

How can the difference between a compound and a 
simple substance be explained ? 

A measure or a bag of grain having portions of wheat, 
rye, barley, oats, rice, and maize, would be neither a simple 
nor a compound, but a mixture of different compound sub- 
stances. But if these were reduced to flour and then kneaded 
into one mass of paste they would form a compound substance. 
Silver and gold, or any other metals, melted into a solid con- 
sistence, would be a compound substance. This is a process 
-comprehended by the eye alone. The parts in a mixed body 
can be separated by the hand or machinery ; but the simple 



BLSMBftTASY CONSTmTBNTS 01 PLA1TM. ft 

substances in a compound one can be separated from the 
others only by the aid of chemical agents. 

But are the substances specified ', different kinds of grain 
and metals, simple substances ? 

By no means. Each of them is a compound substance ; 
and, they were selected simply to show in what manner a 
compound substance may be formed ; that persons with the 
eye and without the aid of chemistry may understand the 
nature of the difference between the two things* 

What other illustration may be given of the difference 
between a compound and a simple substance ? 

One of the most familiar examples is water. Formerly 
it was supposed that water is a simple substance ; yet chem- 
istry has demonstrated that it is a compound; completely 
reducing any quantity of water into two other substances- 
called oxygen and hydrogen — two of the gases in our atmos- 
phere. This analysis or separation of the constituents of 
water is rendered perfect and clear as would be the separa- 
tion of gold and silver which had been melted together and 
made into a spurious coin. 

What inference should be drawn from such facts ? 

It might be supposed that every person would desire a 
knowledge of chemistry ; at least to understand the nature 
of the objects with which we are surrounded, and with which 
we are constantly coming in contact. Without this know- 
ledge we may unconsciously use for food the most destructive 
poisons ; or may cast away as worthless objects of the greatest 
value. 

What opinion formerly prevailed on this subject ? 

It was the doctrine of ancient philosophers, that the vege- 
table and the animal kingdom were composed, in various 
combinations and proportions, of four elementary principles, 
called earth, air, fire, and water. Later investigations show 
that neither of these is a simple substance ; and, hence, that 
each of them is a compound of elementary principles or 
essences, which are now known to exist, and to form the 
basis of the whole mass of matter. 

What are the elementary constituents of vegetables ? 

They are, according to some writers, ten in number — » 
others say fifteen-— carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, 
which are denominated the organic; and, potash, soda, mag- 
nesia, silex, lime, phosphorus, alumina, oxide of iron, oxide of 
3# 



59 ELflMEKTARY COIttTlWfitfTS 6V ftAtfta. 

manganese, chlorine, and sulphuric acid, which are denota** 
nated the inorganic. As one or more of these is a component 
part of every plant that exists, it may thence be fairly in- 
ferred that its presence is absolutely necessary. 

What fufthef reason is there to affirm that all of these 
substances are indispensable to the perfection of vegetable 

life? 

Plants growing in situations where these substances can* 
not be had, are diminutive in size, their organs are* not fully 
developed, and in many instances, they perish altogether, after' 
having attained a certain growth. Besides, soda, lime, mag" 
nesia, and phosphorus enter largely into the structure of bones 
and teeth. Animals are depending on Vegetation lor their 
support, either directly or indirectly, and at no other means 
naturally exist for supplying these necessaries to the animal 
frame, it is not too much, perhaps, to say that this property 
of plants was designed for that purpose. 

What is the foundation for me distinction between the 
organic and the inorganic parts of Vegetables ? 

The organic portions of a plant are gases, as will appear 
from the fact that in the combustion of wood or any other 
vegetable substance nothing of it remains, having passed off 
in the atmosphere ; whereas the inorganic portions of wood 
or other vegetables, on being decomposed by combustion, will 
remain in the form of ashes. 

What is the relative proportion of the organic and the 
inorganic parts of a plant ? 

It varies in different plants, from one-tenth to one-hun' 
dreth part of the Weight. This may be ascertained by 
weighing a piece of wood, and of other vegetable formations, 
before combustion, and the ashes that afterwards remain. 

What account is given of carbon ? 

Till reduced, by combustion, to gas, when it is called 
carbonic acid gas, it is a solid substance, usually of black 
color, without taste or smell, and burns more or less readily 
in the fire. Wood-charcoal, coke, black-lead, and the dia* 
mond, are varieties of carbon. The gas or air that is pro- 
duced from their combustion, is likewise exhaled from the 
lungs of animals in breathing, and being unfit for respiration/ 
is destructive of animal life. 

Where else is this gas to be found ? 

It exists in eoal*raines,and sometime* in eavern^aad deep 



EU5MKKTAHY COKSnTtTEKTS OP PLANTS. j» 

wells, and is there called fixed air ; and, it is used in cities 
and large towns for lighting houses and streets. When thus 
need, it is a combination of carbon and hydrogen. 

How does carbon effect the quality of wood ? 

It is chiefly to the carbon which it contains that the hard* 
ness and solidity of wood is owing ; and, in proportion as the 
tissues of the plant are deficient in carbon, do we find them 
deficient in firmness of structure. 

How is this great amount of carbon, needed in vegeta- 
ble productions, furnished ? 

The quantity of coal used, especially in cities, is immense. 
The gas proceeding from it, all returns in process of time, to 
its previous condition ; that is, to the formation of new plants. 
In addition to this, no one can estimate how much gas is ex* 
tricated by the respiration of the countless millions of Anim^la 
on the globe. 

WJtat is said of hydrogen ? 

It is a kind of gas or air which burns as coal gas does, 
but in which a candle will not burn, nor an animal live, and 
which, after being mixed with common air, explodes when 
brought near the flame of a candle. Hydrogen is contained 
largely in plants ; and in most substances into whose com- 
position it enters, it is combined with oxygen nearly in the 
same proportion as in water. Being an important constituent 
of water, it passes readily by their roots into the substance of 
plants. 

What is said of oxygen ? 

This gas enters largely into the organization of vegetable 
substances. It makes one-fifth part of the air we breathe ; 
and without it, plants will no more flourish, than animals 
can live. A portion of this air is combined with water ; and 
it is in this manner that fishes and other aquatic animals, as 
well as plants, are supplied with it. Without oxygen, com* 
bustion will not take place ; and it is estimated that it forms 
the basis of one-third part of all solid substances. 

What are some of the most common effects of the combi- 
nation of oxygen with other substances ? 

By the aid o£ this gas, iron or steel may be burned. It 
is this gas, as existing in the atmosphere, which principally 
causes rust on metals, and hence this rust is called oxidation. 
It is the principal agent in producing acids ; and hence, 
when an acid is to be produced, the substance with which, 



<jg ELEMENTARY CONSTITUENTS OF PLANTS, 

as for instance in the making of vinegar, it is to be combined, 
should receive the free and constant contact with the atmos- 
phere. And it also causes rancidity in butter, lard, and oiL 
Hence they should be kept secluded from the atmosphere. 

What may be said of nitrogen ? 

Nitrogen forms an important part in the growth of both 
animals and vegetables. It constitutes about four-fifths of 
the atmosphere. In vegetables it is the substance called 
gluten, which exists so largely in the seeds of various kinds 
of corn ; and most of all in wheat. On this account in part, 
wheaten bread is the most nutritious of all vegetable sub- 
stances ordinarily used as food. The value of wheat, and all 
grain, depends on the quantity of gluten it contains. If per- 
sons breathe for a few minutes the gas, they will be affected 
much the same as if they had drank an excess of fermented 
liquors. 

What becomes of the organic portions of a plant, on be- 
ing liberated by combustion ? 

It has been said that they pass off in the atmosphere, and 
are invisible. The carbon uniting with the oxygen, and 
some additional oxygen from the air, becomes carbonic acid. 
Hydrogen, uniting in the same manner with oxygen, be- 
comes a watery vapor. Thus in connexion with the carbon 
and the hydrogen, the oxygen is entirely disengaged. And 
the nitrogen combining with what remains of the hydrogen, 
becomes ammonia. 

What is said of potash ? 

The substance found in the shops, and used as merchan- 
dize, called potash, is prepared from ashes deposited in the 
burning of vegetables. As the article is manufactured in iron 
pots, the name is a compound of the word pot, and the first 
syllable of the word ashes. The taste is extremely acrid ; 
and it is so corrosive, it destroys the texture of the skin the 
moment they touch each other. On this account it is em- 
ployed in surgery, for the purpose of opening abscesses, or for 
destroying excrescences, and is called a caustic. 

What is soda ? 

This is an alkaline salt, much resembling potash, but is 
more fusible ; and when it conies into the air, it crumbles 
into a fine powder. It is manufactured from marine plants, 
and plants growing upon the sea shore, as well as from sea 
water ; and it may be found occasionally in its natural state. 
Common salt is the muriate of soda. 



SLBMSKTAJir COSBTTTXTRm* OF PLANTS, $\ 

What is said of lime ? 

Lime or quick lime, is obtained by exposing limestone and 
shells to a very strong beat — usually in some kind of a fur* 
nace. After being subjected to this heat, if water be poured 
upon it, heat is evolved, and it slakes, or becomes a fine white 
powder. Quicklime is called calcareous earth, and the soils 
which abound in this substance are called calcareous soils. 
Most soft stones contain more or less of lime. 

What is the use of lime in agriculture ? 

One of its most obvious purposes is to give stability and 
substance to those parts of the plant which otherwise would 
not, perhaps, have sufficient strength to perform the functions 
alloted them ; but that it answers other purposes there is lit- 
tle doubt, as it is found not only in the stalk, but in the leaves, 
unit, and indeed in almost all parts of the plant. 

What is said of magnesia ? 

Magnesia is called a primitive earth, having for its base 
a metallic substance, denominated magnesium. The name 
is said to be derived from the place where it was first found. 
It may be obtained from sea water, and from some kinds of 
limestone rock, known as magnesian rock. It is used for 
medicinal purposes, having the power to correct the acidity 
of the stomach. As an object of merchandise or medicine, 
it exists in the form of a white powder. 

What is said of silex ? 

Silex and silica denote the same substance ; or rather 
the latter is the scientific name of the former. It is one of 
the primitive earths, and is a constituent of all stones, being 
found in greatest abundance in agates, jasper, flints, quartz, 
and rock crystal. In the latter it exists nearly in a state of 
purity. When pure it is perfectly white or colorless, and 
without taste or smell. 

What is said of jpltosplwrus ? 

It is a combustible substance, not as yet decomposed, and 
classed among those that are elementary. It is of a yellowish 
color, and semitransparent, resembling fine wax. It burns 
in common air with great rapidity ; and in oxygen gas, with 
the greatest vehemence. Even at the common temperature, 
it combines with, oxygen, undergoing a slow combustion and 
emitting a luminous vapor. It was originally obtained from 
urine ; but it is now manufactured from bones, which con- 
sist of the phosphate of lime. 



What is the oxide qf irxm ? 
The existence of iron is too abundant, and its use too com- 
mon, not to be well known by all. When polished and 
exposed to the air, it becomes gradually covered with rust. 
"This rust, or oxide qf iron, as it is called, is formed by por- 
tions of the metal combining with the oxygen of the atmos- 
phere. Of course between the iron and the oxygen there is 
an affinity. 

What is said qf the oxide qf manganese ? 

Manganese is a metal of a dusky white, or whitish gray 
color, Very hard and difficult to be fused. It never occurs as 
a natural product in a metallic Btate. The substance usually 
called manganese is an oxide of the metal, but not pure. It 
occurs in soils and vegetables only in Very small quantities* 

What is the substance called chlorine ? 

Chlorine is a new name given to what was formerly called 
oxymuriatic gas. It is a kind of air which has a greenish 
yellow color, and a strong suffocating smell, existing largely 
in common salt. Chlorine means* green, and hence its new 
name. Hitherto, it has resisted all efforts to decompose it> 
and is now reputed to be a simple substance. 

What is said qf the substance called ndphuric acid f 

It is sometimes called oil of vitriol. It derives its name 
from sulphur and a liquid, formed by sulphur saturated with 
oxygen. It exists in common gypsum or plaster of paris, in 
alum, and in glauber and epsom salts. 

.Does every vegetable contain a portion qf each qf the 
four organic elementaty substances ? 

All vegetables do not contain the four ; most plants con- 
tain only three of them— carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. The 
more common ones which contain these three only, are oils, 
fats, starch, gum, sugar, and the fibre of wood. 

Are all the inorganic parts qf plants above named to be 
found in the ashes of all plants ? 

Generally in ail the cultivated plants, but not in the 
same proportion, nor in the same amount. Some leave a 
larger quantity of ashes than others ; and, there is also a 
manifest unequal proportion in different ones. For instance, 
in a ton of hay there are 180 lbs. of ashes, while in a ton of 
Wheat there are but 40 lbs. of asheB. Then, the ashes of 
wheat contain more phosphoric acid than the ashes of hay ; 
and in return the ashes of hay contain more lime than the 



lOtttCfts 6* *Uftd*AL WSALtlt g| 

■she* of wheat. Similar inequalities and di sprop or ti oai 
will be found in the ashes of other plants. 



THE SOUHCES Of NATIONAL WEALTH. 

What is wealth ? In what does it consist ? Wealth k 
every thing that supplies human wants, natural or artificial. 
Here is, of course, an end to its multiplication. The artificial 
wants of mankind have no limits, of course wealth has no 
hounds, hut the productiveness of nature, and the capacities 
of human industry. And what are human wants ? The first 
is food. This can he procured only from the soil. Hence, 
the first and most universal of human pursuits is agriculture. 
The first item in a nation's wealth is cultivated land. Before 
this, every other species of property dwindles into insignifi* 
cance, and strange as it may seem, the greatest investment 
in this country, the most costly production of human industry 
is the common fences which divide the fields from the high* 
lands, and separate them from each other. No man dreams, 
that when compared with the outlay of these unpretending 
monumentB of human art, our cities and our towns, with all 
their wealth are left far behind. You will scarce believe me, 
when I say that the fences of this country have cost mora 
than twenty times the specie there is in it. 

In many of the counties in the northern states, the fences 
have cost more than the farms and the fences are worth. It 
is this enormouB burden, there can be no doubt, which keeps 
down the agricultural interest of this country, and it is free* 
dom from it which enables the north of Europe, with a worse 
climate and an indifferent system of cultivation, to undersell 
us in the markets of England. There, travellers tell us, 
fences are almost Unknown. The herds and flocks are under 
the care of herdsmen and shepherds, and thus an untold ex- 
penditure is saved, besides the loss of the land which the 
fences occupy and the accumulation of soil, that, with the 
most careful management, is apt to be thrown up around 
them by the plough. 

The farmer contributes to the weath of a country by his 
perpetual toil. Every thing begins with him. Every day 
in the year has its various and its continuous operations ; all 
directed, however, to this one point— -to bring the greatest 



$4 SOURCES OF NATIONAL WBALTft. 

quantity of produce from a given number of acres. Such is 
the nature of his work, that little can be done to expedite or 
shorten the process. Every foot of every field must be passed 
over by the plough. There are no fire-horses yet invented to 
do this at the rate of twenty miles an hour. The ploughman, 
therefore must rise early and work late. His labors, too, 
must be generally confined to the hours when the sun is above 
the horizon. In autumn and winter these are few. He must 
work the harder during that part of the year when the days 
are long. Every industrious farmer is continually adding to 
the substantial and permanent wealth of a nation. He is 
continually adding to the productive power, which is the best 
species of wealth. His savings, if any he makes, go back 
into the soil, to increase its fertility, or they go into fixtures, 
which add comfort or diminish the labors of all coming years. 
The savings of the farmer, and he cannot make any thing 
only by the most assiduous industry, increase the fund that is 
most wanting, especially in such a country as this, i. e., agri- 
cultural capital. The farmers of this country can do nothing, 
they say, for the want of money. How are they ever to get 
it, but by the improvement of their farms ? as things have 
been managed in this country hitherto, there has been a ten- 
dency to deterioration. 

The radical mistake has been committed, of supposing 
that the best investment for the farmer is the purchase of 
more land, whereas, in most instances the latter policy would 
have been the better cultivation of that which he already had. 
The plan has been to exhaust the soil of one field, and then 
turn to another. Such a plan can result in nothing but ruin. 
Nothing has been more neglected in this country than agri- 
culture. The soil of the United States is capable of sustain- 
ing two hundred millions of inhabitants better than it sustains 
seventeen. 

Eighty years ago the population of England and Wales 
was only six millions, and a most miserable living did they 
get, black bread, barley cakes, and oatmeal porridge, were the 
main food of the rural population. Since that time, the popu- 
lation has more than doubled, and, in ordinary times, fare 
better than half the number did then. Their annual agricul- 
tural productions have increased more than two hundred 
millions of dollars, and yet the productive powers of the 
whole island are scarcely as great as those of the single state 
of Illinois. 



SOURCES OF NATIONAL WEALTH. ££ 

But agriculture, to flourish, must have a market for its 
surplus productions. And what is a market ? Does that 
magic word reside in any place ? most people seem to think 
so. A market is every where. It is people, not a place — 
people not engaged in agriculture, hut employed in the pro- 
duction of something which supplies human wants. And 
the nearer it is found to the farmer's door the hotter, the less 
of his productions are spent in getting them to market. Ag- 
riculture can flourish, then, only where there is a large popu- 
lation engaged in manufactures and commerce. 

The second source of national wealth is manufacturing in- 
dustry. No nation ever became wealthy by raising the raw 
material, and then exchanging it for the manufactured article. 
The manufacturing people always have the advantage. They 
may work day and night, summer and winter, in fair and 
stormy weather. An agricultural population work only in 
the day time, when the earth is free from frosts, and when 
the clouds are not disburdening themselves upon the earth. 
A manufacturing population can avail themselves to any ex- 
tent, of the aid of machinery. The fall of water in the town 
of Lowell is made to do the work of a million of human 
beings. Every thing the farmer raises must be brought out 
of the earth by main force, by hard work. The farmer's 
productions are bulky, and are often almost consumed in 
getting them to market. The manufactured article is usual- 
ly comparatively light in proportion to its value. 

The farmer, moreover, is obliged to take the chances of 
unpropitious seasons, and occasionally a short crop. But no 
variation of the seasons has ever been known to produce a 
short crop of boots and shoes, and drought has never been so 
great as to blight the labors of the loom. With these advan- 
tages, a manufacturing people will always continue to keep 
an agricultural people in debt. Towns and cities will spring 
up among them, and the very fact of a condensed population 
gives them great advantages. An exclusively agricultural 
people, in the present age of the world, will always be poor. 
They want a home market. They want cities and towns, 
they want a diversity of employment. They want that en- 
terprise and activity, which is engendered merely by briuging 
masses of people to act upon each other by mutual stimula- 
tion and excitement. Why is the balance of trade continually 
in favor of the North ? Because our labor is not sufficiently 



ft SOURCES OF NATIONAL WEALTH. 

diversified, because the raw material goes from this very city 
to the North to be manufactured, and then comes back to be 
worn by our citizens, while we have among us thousands and 
thousands who might work it up, but who are lying here idle, 
and many of them supported by public charity ! 

One of the postulates of national wealth, is education, 
universally diffused. It is this alone that can give skill to 
the hand, and wisdom in the general conduct of affairs. 
Without that, the physical power of a nation is like the 
strength of the sightless Cyclops, working in the dark. Physi- 
cal strength is generally available in proportion to the intel- 
ligence by which it is guided. Most of our readers have 
heard of the Lowell Offering, a periodical written exclusively 
by the girls, who are engaged every day in carding, spinning, 
and weaving. Mr. Dickens tells us that he carried home a 
number of that work, as one of the most wonderful phenomena 
of the western world. I was told myself, at that place, by 
one of the superintend ants, that the principal writers in that 
publication were the most profitable operators in the several 
establishments, obtained the highest wages, and made* the 
best use of their money. So, after all the sneers which are 
cast on literary ladies, — to them blue stockings is no disquali- 
fication for the most common employments of life. So it is, 
all the world over. The schoolmaster's wages is an invest- 
ment which yields, in an economical point of view, the 
highest per centum. 

It is to enlightened education that we must look for the 
extinction of that false sentiment, so adverse to the true pros- 
perity of a nation — the degradation which sometimes attaches 
to personal toil. No community can ever grow rich, when 
it is thought to be more respectable to be a genteel loafer, 
than to get an honest living by the labor of the hands. 

No nation can be prosperous and rich without a good 
government. And what is a good government? It is one 
which protects, instead of making war upon property. It is 
one which hallows the marriage between capital and labor, 
two things, which God's providence has joined together, and 
nothing but human folly will ever put asunder, — a union 
from which proceeds the fair family of industry, wealth, con- 
tentment, harmony, peace. Once divide them, and the whole 
structure of society is broken up. — Rev. Mr. Burnap, of 
Baltimore. 



VALUE OF THE OOOOA-NUT TREE. ff 

VALUE OF THE COCOA-NUT TREE. 

The cocoa-nut, one of the most profitable fruits that the 
earth produces, is turned to no account whatever by the 
Jamaicans, though it grows as luxuriantly there aa in any 
quarter of the globe. I was told by a gentleman who had a 
large number of these trees growing, that he would esteem it 
the best property on his estate, if he could get one dollar a 
hundred tor the nuts, but that there was but a very limited 
market for them at any price. And yet there is no part of 
this fruit that is not valuable. It thrives in a sandy soil, and 
bears in Jamaica within three or four years after it is planted. 
From its flowers the finest arrack in the world may be dis- 
tilled, and the best of vinegar. A coarse brown sugar may 
also be prepared from the flower. The green fruit yields a 
nutritious and delightful drink, and a more substantial food 
in the pulp which contains the liquid. When ripe, the fruit 
is popular as an article of diet in all parts of the world. From 
that fruit a pure oil may be extracted, which may be manu- 
factured into candles, soap, and used in a variety of other 
ways, in which vegetable oils are available, while the refuse, 
or oil cake, as it is called, is a most excellent food for cattle. 

A medicinal oil is extracted from the bark, which is used, 
I understand, in Ceylon as an efficacious remedy in cutane- 
ous diseases ; the root is also used for medicinal purposes ; 
its elastic fibres are sometimes woven into strainers for liquids, 
while the timber may be used in building, or converted into 
beautiful articles of furniture. The husk consists of a tough 
fibre, from which cordage and rigging of the best quality may 
be manufactured, and which furnishes the finest stuffing for 
mattresses that is used, not excepting hair. I saw some of 
this fibre manufactured at the Penitentiary in Kingston, for 
mattress stuffing. I satisfied myself that if its value was 
known in America, it would bring a higher price than any 
commodity now in use for bedding. The specimens that I* 
saw were manufactured by the convicts, at a cost, I was 
told, of six cents a pound. Hair costs with us, I believe, 
about twenty-five cents. The process of manufacturing it is 
very simple — the husk shells are soaked till perfectly soft, 
and then are pounded out until the fibres are all separated. 
This was done in the prison by hand labor, and without the 
use of machinery, and yet the article could be produced by 



ftg THE FAMILY MEETING. 

them for six cents a pound. By the aid of a very simple ma- 
chine, something, for instance, like that to which rags in a 
paper mill are first subjected, it is very apparent that the cost 
of manufacturing it might be reduced at least one half. When 
I asked why machinery was not employed in this department 
of the prison, I was told that they had not work enough to 
occupy the convicts if machinery was employed. Of course 
I had nothing to say to a reason so conclusive as that. 

The supply of these husks would be almost inexhaustible. 
They have no more use or value than walnut shells have 
with us, and may be had by the ship-load for the mere ex- 
pense of cartage. A cargo of a thousand tons could be manu- 
factured for a thousand dollars, and be worth in the port of 
New- York not less than $4,000, as soon as the usefulness of 
the article became generally known. — Selected. 



THE FAMILY MEETING. 

We are all here ! 

Father, mother, 

Sister, brother — 
All who hold each other dear. 
Each chair is filled, we 're all at home; 
To-night let no cold stranger come ; 
It is not often thus around 
Our old familiar hearth we 're found. 
Bless then the meeting and the spot, 
For once be every care forgot ; 
Let gentle peace assert her power, 
And kind affection rule the hour — 

We 're all — all here. 

We 're not all here ! 
Some are away — the dead ones dear, 
Who thronged with us this ancient hearth, 
And gave the hour of guiltless mirth. 
Fate, with a stern, relentless hand, 
Looked in and thinned our little band. 
Some like a night-flash passed away, 
And some sank lingering day by day. 



THB OLD ARM CHADL 

The quiet graveyard— some lie there, 
And cruel ocean has his share— 
We're not all here. 

We are all here ! 
Even they — the dead — though dead, so dear. 
Fond memory, to her dnty true, 
Brings hack their faded forms to view. 
How life-like, through the mist of years, 
Each well-remembered face appears ; 
We see them as in times long past, 
From each to each kind looks are cast ; 
We hear their words, their smiles behold, 
They're round us as they were of old— 

We are all here. 

We are all here ! 

Father, mother, 

Sister, brother — 
You that I love with love so dear* 
This may not long of us be said : 
Soon must we join the gathered dead, 
And by the hearth we now sit round, 
Some other circle will be found. 
Oh, then, that wisdom may we know, 
That yields a -life of peace below ; 
So, in the world to follow this, 
May each repeat in words of bliss* 

We're all — all here. 

Charles Spraque. 



THE OLD ARM CHAIR. 

I love it, I love it ; and who shall dare 

To chide me for loving that old arm-chair ? 

I have treasured it long as a sainted prize, 

I've bedewed it with tears, and embalmed it with sighs ; 

'Tis bound by a thousand bands to my heart : 

Not a tie will break, not a link will start. 

Would ye learn the spell? a mother sat there, 

And a sacred thing is that old arm-chair. 



fO TH« FOOD Of VEGETABLES. 

In childhood's hour I lingered near 

The hallowed seat with listening ear ; 

And gentle words that mother would give, 

To fit me to die and teach me to live. 

She told me shame would never betide, 

With truth for my creed and God for my guide ; 

She taught me to lisp my earliest prayer, 

As I knelt beside that old arm-chair. 

I sat and watched her many a day, 
When her eye grew dim, and her locks were gray ; 
And I almost worshipped her when she smiled 
And turned from her Bible to bless her child. 
Years rolled on, but the last one sped— 
My idol was shattered, my earth-star fled ; 
I learned how much the heart can bear, 
When I saw her*die in that old arm-chair. 

'Tis past ! 'tis past ! but I gaze on it now 
With quivering breath and throbbing brow : 
'Twas there she nursed me, 'twas there she died ; 
And memory flows with a lava tide. 
Say it was folly, and deem me weak, 
While the scalding drops start down my cheek, 
But T love it, I love it, and cannot tear 
My soul from a mother's old arm-chair. 

Eliza Cook. 



THE FOOD OF VEGETABLES. 

What is to be understood by the food of plants ? 

All those substances which are derived from the soil and 
the atmosphere by plants, and are assimilated or changed 
into the several component parts of the vegetable structure, 
are called food. These substances are the elements or Bimple 
bodies, of which all vegetables are composed. 

What is the propriety of calling them food ? 

Because they subserve the same end in the vegetable 
kingdom that food does in the animal kingdom. Food is 
something that is used for nourishment and the support of 
life ; and, this is as much needed by plants as by animals. 



THE FOOD OP VB0BTABLB8, 71 

We commonly say that tbe latter eat their food ; and that 
the former assimilate theirs. This is the only difference. 
The food of plants is sometimes called pabulum. So is the 
food of animals. 

In what form should the food of plants be furnished ? 

It is not very common to speak of cooking the food of 
plants; but it Bhould undergo a process that is similar to 
cooking ; it should be reduced to a state that renders it sus- 
ceptible of being taken up by the organs through which it is 
to be transmitted, and of being digested or assimilated to 
the different materials found in the full grown plant. 

How can the necessity for this preparation of vegetable 
food be further explained ? 

Animal food must be divided into small parcels so as to 
be admitted into the mouth; then it must be masticated 
and converted into a kind of pulp, before being conveyed to 
the stomach. Otherwise the gastric juice cannot act upon 
the different particles, a process necessary to cause the sup* 
port and growth of the animal. It is so with vegetable food. 
In the one case food might as well be forced into the stomach 
in half pound lumps, as to place in the ground for their 
nourishment the food of vegetables in a compact mass. The 
latter must be placed, not only within the reach of the 
spongelets of the plant, which are to it the same as the 
mouth is to the animal ; but it must be made fine and pulp- 
ish, and hence easily received and converted into vegetable 
matter. 

Into what vegetable matter is vegetable food converted ? 

Plants consist chiefly of woody fibre, starch, and gluten ; 
and, of course these are the substances for the production of 
which the food or nourishment of vegetables is mainly de- 
signed, and into which it is converted or assimilated. 

What description is given of woody fibre ? 

A woody fibre is defined to be a filament or slender thread 
in plants ; or the slender root of a plant ; and is the sub- 
stance which forms the principal portion of trees, shrubs, 
the shells of nuts, bark, hay, flax, hemp, cotton ; the straw 
of wheat, rye, oats, and barley ; the vines of peas and beans ; 
the stems of flowers, and all analagous vegetable productions. 

What description is given of starch ? 

It is that portion of the flour of wheat and other grain, 
sometimes called fecula, which, when the flour is mixed 



72 THE FOOD OV VEGETABLES. 

with water, settles to the bottom. It is then, on being dried, 
a white powder, and in weight about half the flour from 
which it was taken. It is also obtained from potatoes, of 
which it forms nearly the entire substance. 

What is said of the gluten of vegetables ? 

It is the viscid or ropy and tenacious substance found in 
most plants, and particularly in the flour of wheat and other 
grain. It contributes much to the nutritive quality of flour, 
and may be obtained in a separate state, by washing the 
flour wrapped in a coarse cloth, placed under a stream of 
water so as to carry off the starch and soluble matter. 

In what proportions are the different kinds of vegeta- 
ble food required in the production of woody fibre, starch, 
sugar, humic acid, and gluten ? 

Woody fibre consists of equal portions of carbon and 
water ; dry starch consists of four-fifths of carbon and one- 
fifth of water; sugar consists of about three-sevenths of 
carbon and four-sevenths of water ; and humic acid consists 
of four-sevenths of carbon and three-sevenths of water ; and 
as water is composed of oxygen and hydrogen, these vegeta- 
ble substances are composed of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. 
But in the composition of gluten may be found carbon, oxy- 
gen, hydrogen, and nitrogen. 

What are the constituents of air and water? 

Common air, or the air we breathe, consists of one-fifth 
oxygen or thereabouts and four-fifths nitrogen. And water 
consists of oxygen and hydrogen in the proportion of four 
parts of the former and one of the latter. 

Through what medium are these different kinds of food 
conveyed to the plants they are to nourish ? 

The carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen are in part absorbed 
by the leaves of the plant from the air, and in part by the 
roots from the soil ; but the nitrogen found in the gluten is 
supposed to be obtained directly from the soil by the roots of 
the plant. 

How is it that leaves are able to obtain so much of their 
food from the air ? 

Leaves are furnished with vessels adapted to the office of 
this absorption. They are not visible to the naked eye. but 
are no less real. When we consider the countless number 
of leaves on a tree, and that each one has two surfaces ex- 
posed to the air, it is not surprising that they are able to 
take in an adequate amount of nourishment. 



THB POOP OP VEGETABLES. 73 

What are some of the most incomprehensible facts in 
the science of vegetable physiology? 

We could not believe it did we not know it, that the 
brilliant diamond and the black charcoal are of the tame 
nature ; that water will extinguish fire, when the substances 
of which it is composed, oxygen and hydrogen, are both com- 
bustible ; that the only ingredients of pure white starch are 
water and charcoal ; and that gum and sugar are composed 
of the same substances that enter into the composition of 
starch and woody fibre. 

To what is the size of a plant owing f 
It has been affirmed that the size is in proportion to the 
surface of the organs destined to convey food to it. When 
the food is more abundant than the existing organs require, 
the superfluous nutriment is employed in the formation of 
new organs ; so that • at the Bide of a cell, a twig or a leafc 
arises another. 

To what is the amount of food from the air propor* 
tioned? 

The nutriment received by plants from the air is evi- 
dently in proportion to the extent of the surface of the leaves ; 
and new developments correspond with this amount. When 
new products are no longer employed, the nutriment they im- 
bibe goes to the formation of woody fibre and other solid parts. 
Wlvat are ike particular products of the food received 
through the agency of the leaves ? 

After contributing to the woody fibre and other solid 
parts of the plant the nourishment received in this way from 
the air goes to the production of sugar, starch, and the acids ; 
and also to the production of the blossoms and the maturing 
of the fruit. 

What is said of the amount of leaves on the globe ? 
It has been estimated, that the superficies of leaves and 
other green parts of plants which absorb carbonic acid gas, 
are more than double the whole surface of the globe, yet are 
furnished adequately with all the carbon necessary for the 
support and growth of the vegetable creation. Such esti- 
mates must indeed be quite indefinite and uncertain : never- 
theless they serve to impress the mind with something like 
an approximation to the reality. 

What calculation has been made of the entire quantity 
of carbon in reserve for vegetable production ? 
4 



74 THE FOOD OF VEGETABLES. 

The quantity is evidently sufficient for the support of the 
whole vegetable world. It is easily ascertained; that a col- 
umn of air of about 2400 lbs. rests on every square foot of 
the earth's surface, the one thousandth part being carbonic 
acid, 27 per cent, of which is carbon. The whole atmos- 
phere, then, contains 3,306 billion lbs. of carbon, a weight 
more than equal to all the plants and mineral surface of the 
earth. 

What is said of ammonia, as food for vegetables ? 

Every part of vegetables contains ammonia ; the root, as 
beet — the tree stem, as maple— and in all blossoms and un- 
ripe fruit. It forms the red and blue coloring matter of 
flowers. Ammonia is a gas, one part being nitrogen and 
three parts hydrogen. It has a peculiarly pungent smell, 
and is the same article known under the name of hartshorn 
used for smelling bottles. It forms the gas that rises from 
the vaults of privies, heaps of manure, and fermented urine. 

What curious fact exists in relation to the extraction 
of nourishment from the food of vegetables by the different 
organs ? 

Each organ extracts from its food that which is neces- 
sary for its own sustenance, and other parts, not assimilated, 
are separated, as excrements. This coming in contact with 
another organ in its circulation, affords nutriment to it, and 
so on with a third, and a fourth ; and, when incapable of 
further transformation, it is separated from the system by 
appropriate organs. Each part or organ, therefore, is fitted 
for special functions and one may receive very different sub* 
stances from another. 

To what is this analagous in the animal economy ? 

Man may receive carbonic acid into the stomach with 
impunity, and even with advantage ; but, to receive it into 
the lungs, might, as it often does, produce death. So also 
with other transformations in the animal economy ; the kid- 
neys, for example, separate from the body substances con- 
taining a large proportion of nitrogen, the liver those with 
an excess of carbon, and the lungs principally those com- 
posed of oxygen and hydrogen. Volatile oils and alcohol, 
which are incapable of being assimilated, are exhaled through 
the lungs. Superabundant nitrogen is excreted as a liquid 
excrement from the body and passes through the urinary 
ducts ; all gaseous matter passing through the lungs and all 



THE FOOD OF VEGETABLES. 75 

incapable of further transformation, through the intestinal 
canal. 

What particular cases of this in the vegetable function 
are among the most prominent ? 

Transformations of the compounds of plants are con- 
stantly taking place during their Life ; and, as a consequence, 
gaseous substances are eliminated by the leaves and blos- 
soms. Solid excrement is deposited in the bark. Soluble 
substances containing carbon, are excreted by the roots and 
are absorbed by the soil, 'where they decay or putrify and 
become nutriment, as humus, for another generation of plants. 
Generally, what food in the soil is necessary for the 
growth of plants ? 

Such substances as contain carbon or nitrogen, or which 
are capable of yielding these two elements for its organiza- 
tion ; and, also water, or its two elements, oxygen and hy- 
drogen ; and finally a soil is required which will furnish the 
plant with the metallic oxides, or inorganic bases. 

How are the different hinds of food to be adapted to 
the different kinds of plants ? 

Each genus of plants requires special conditions for their 
life ; and individuals require many conditions. They cannot 
be brought to maturity, even if but one of these be wanting. 
Their organs, like those of animals, contain substances of 
very different kinds ; - and in all are found metallic salts. 
For the production of all their organs, therefore, the soil must 
contain all their elements. These may be united in one 
substance, or they may exist in several. 

What reciprocation, in the way offood t is there between 
vegetables and animals ? 

The life of plants is evidently connected very closely with 
that of animals. Vegetation may exist without animal life, 
but the existence of animals depends on the life and growth 
of plants. These, therefore, afford both nutriment for the 
existence and growth of animals, and the essential gaseous 
element, oxygen, for their respiration. Animals expire car- 
bon and plants inspirg it ; plants expire oxygen and animals 
inspire it. Thus, by this wonderful economy of nature, both 
are enabled to exist, and the due composition of the air is 
uniformly maintained. 

What besides, food, in its more obvious signification, 
has an influence on the growth of plants ? 



75 THE PRACTICAL USE OF LEAVES. 

They have habits strikingly illustrative of the harmony 
of nature. We see them adapted to the peculiarities of 
their situations. If indigenous to the tropical climate, they 
cannot live in our temperate zone without the aid of art ; if 
inhabitants of the valley, they cannot dwell on the mountain 
summit ; nor, if the rugged tenants of the bleak and frosty 
mountain, can they endure the enervating dalliance of the 
luxurious vale ; nor can either dwell with the aquatic plant 
immersed in a liquid element. 

How do plants become objects of peculiar interest when 
we administer to their growth ? 

They almost seem emulous to administer to our pleasure 
as a reward for what we do for them. We call them inani- 
mate ; yet, it is no great effort of the imagination to endow 
them with attributes that will respond to every kind adminis- 
tration to their wants. How are their numberless shoots and 
branches urging into life and action millions of buds that 
are expanded into light and being by the genial sun, rival- 
ling one another in their efforts to produce the fairest flower 
and the choicest fruit ! 



THE PRACTICAL USE OF LEAVES. 

There are two facts in the function of the leaf which are 
worth consideration on account of their practical bearings. 
The food of plants is, for the most part, taken in solution 
through the roots. Various minerals — silex, lime, alumina, 
magnesia, potash, — are passed into the tree in a dissolved 
state. The sap passes to the leaf, the superfluous water is 
given off, but not the substances which are held in solution. 
These, in part, are distributed through the plant, and, in 
part, remain a deposit in the cells of the leaf. Gradually 
the leaf chokes up, its functions are impeded, and finally 
entirely stopped. When the leaf drops it contains a large 
per cent, of mineral matter. 

An autumnal or old leaf yields, upon analysis, a very 
much larger proportion of earthy matter than a vernal leaf, 
which, being yet young, has not received within. its cells any 
considerable deposit. It will be found, also, that the leaves 
contain a very much higher per cent of mineral matter than 
the wood of the trunk. The dried leaves of the elm contain 



THE PRACTICAL USB OF LEAVES. 77 

eleven per cent, of ashes, (earthy matter,) while the wood 
contain* less than two per cent. ; the leaves of the willow 
eighteen times as much as the wood ; the leaves of beech an 
excess over the wood a small fraction less ; the leaves of the 
European oak nineteen times as much as the wood ; and 
those of the pitch pine twelve times as much as the wood. 

It is very plain from these facts, that, in forests, the 
mineral ingredients of the soil perform a sort of circulation ; 
entering the root, they are deposited in the leaf ; then, with 
its fall to the earth, and by its decay, they are restored to the 
soil, again to travel their circuit. Forest soils, therefore, in- 
stead of being impoverished by the growth of trees, receive 
back annually the greatest proportion of those mineral 
elements necessary to the tree, and, besides, much organised 
matter received into the plant from the atmosphere ; soils 
therefore are gaining instead of losing. If the owners of 
parks or groves, for the sake of neatness, or to obtain leaves 
for other purposes, gather the autumnal harvest of leaves, 
they will in time take away great quantities of mineral 
matter, by which the soil ultimately will be impoverished, 
unless it is restored by manures. 

Leaf manure has always been held in high estimation by 
gardeners. But many regard it as a purely vegetable sub- 
stance ; whereas, it is the best mineral manure that can be 
applied to the soil. What are called vegetable loams, (not 
peat soils, made up principally of decomposed roots,) contain 
large quantities of earthy matter, being mineral-vegetable 
rather than vegetable soils. Every gardener should know 
that the best manure for any plant is the decomposed leaves 
and substances of its own species. This fact will suggest 
the proper course with reference to the leaves, tops, vines, 
hanlm, and other vegetable of the garden. 

The other fact connected with the leaf, is its function of 
exhalation. The great proportion of crude sap which 
ascends the trunk, upon reaching the leaf is given forth 
again to the atmosphere by means of a particularly beautiful 
economy. The quantity of moisture produced by a plant is 
hardly dreamed of by those who have not specially informed 
themselves. The experiments of Hales have been often 
quoted. A sunflower, three and a half feet high, presenting 
a surface of 5,616 square inches exposed to- the sun, 
was found to perspire at the rate of twenty to thirty ounces 



78 THE DELIGHTS OF AUTUMN. 

avordupois every twelve hours, or seven times more than a 
man. A vine, with twelve square feet, exhaled at the rate 
of five or six ounces a day. A seedling apple tree, with 
twelve square feet of foliage, lost nine ounces a day. 

These are experiments upon very small plants. _The 
yast amount of surface presented by a large tree must give 
off immense quantities of moisture. The practical bearings 
of this faot of vegetable exhalation are not a few. Wet 
forest lands, by being cleared of timber, become, dry, and 
streams fed from such sources become almost extinct as civi- 
lization approaches on wild woods. The excessive damp- 
ness of crowded gardens is not singular, and still less is it 
strange that dwellings covered with vines, whose windows 
are choked with shrubs, and whose roof is overhung with 
branches of trees, should be intolerably damp, and when the 
good house wife is scrubbing and scouring, and nevertheless, 
marvelling that her house is so infested with mould, she 
hardly suspects that her troubles would be more easily re- 
moved by the axe or saw than by all her cloths and 
brushes. 

A house should never be surrounded closely with shrubs. 
A free circulation of air should be maintained all about it, 
and shade trees so disposed as to leave large openings for the 
light and sun to enter. The unusual rains that, some seasons 
produce great dampness in our residences, cannot but be 
noticed by all, both on account of the effect on the health of 
the occupants and upon the beauty and good condition of 
their household substance. Such facts should always be 
kept in mind, when locating houses, and when planting trees 
and shrubs about them. — Rev. Henry Ward Beecher. 



THE DELIGHTS OF AUTUMN. 

With what a glory comes and goes the year ! 
The buds of Spring, those beautiful harbingers 
Of sunny skies and cloudless times, enjoy 
Life's newness, and earth's garniture spread out ; 
And when the silver habit of the clouds 
Comes down upon the autumn sun, and with 
A sober gladness the old year takes up 



THE RAINY DAT. 79 

His bright inheritance of golden fruits, 

A pomp and pageant fill the splendid scene. 

There is a beautiful spirit breathing now 
Its mellow richness on the clustered trees, 
And, from a beaker full of richest dyes, 
Pouring new glories on the Autumn woods, 
And dipping in warm light the pillared clouds. 
Morn on the mountains, like a summer bird, 
Lifts up her purple wing, and in the vales 
The gentle wind, a sweet and passionate wooer, 
Kisses the blushing leaf, and stirs up life 
Within the solemn woods of ash deep-crimsoned, 
And silver beech, and maple yellow-leaved, 
Where Autumn, like a faint old man, sits down 
By the way-side a-weary. Through the trees 
The golden robin moves. The purple finch 
That on wild cherry and red cedar feeds, 
A Winter bird, comes with its plaintive whistle, 
And pecks by the witch-hazel, whilst aloud 
From cottage roofs the warbling blue bird sings, 
And merrily, with oft-repeated stroke, 
Sounds from the threshing-floor the busy flail. 

Oh what a glory doth this world put on 
For him who, with a fervent heart, goes forth 
Under the bright and glorious sky, and looks 
On duties well performed, and days well spent ! 
For him the wind, ay, and the yellow leaves 
Shall have a voice, and give him eloquent teachings. 
He shall so hear that solemn hymn, that Death 
Has lifted up for all, that he shall go 
To his long resting-place without a tear. 

Longfellow. 



THE RAINY BAY. 

The day is cold, and dark, and dreary ; 
It rains, and the wind is never weary ; 
The vine still clings to the mouldering wall, 
But at every gust the dead leaves fall, 
And the day is dark and dreary. 



3Q A DEFENCE OF AGRICULTURE. 

My life is cold, and dark, and dreary ; 
It rains, and the wind is never weary ; 
My thoughts still cling to the mouldering Past, 
But the hopes of growth fall thick in the blast 
And the days are dark and dreary. 

Be still, sad heart ! and cease repining ; 
Behind the clouds the sun is shining ; 
Thy fate is the common fate of all, 
In each life some rain must fall 

Some days must be dark and dreary. 

Longfellow. 



A DEFENCE OF AGRICULTURE. 

"When harvests are exuberant, joy and health follow in 
their train ; but let delusive prosperity draw industry from 
agriculture ; let an insiduous disease attack one of its import- 
ant products ; let an insect, or a parasite, fasten on a single 
esculent, and mark the effect upon commerce and human 
life. Upon such an event all business is deranged ; the com- 
mercial marine of the world proves itself unequal to the crisis ; 
sloops of war and frigates become carriers of grain ; ware- 
houses, canals, railroads, and ports, prove insufficient for the 
exigency ; masses of specie flow from the guarded treasuries 
of the old world to the rude cabins of the prairies ; manu- 
factures and public improvements stop in their course , 
famine and pestilence invade provinces and states ; and the 
pale survivors, reckless of those ties which bind man to his 
birth-place, brave storms and shipwreck, sickness and death, 
on the route to new and untried regions. 

Agriculture has become essential to life. The forest, the 
lake, and the ocean, cannot sustain the increasing family of 
man. Population declines with a declining cultivation, and 
nations have ceased to be with the extinction of their agri- 
culture. In ancient times, agriculture was esteemed and 
honored. In classic Greece and Rome it was the theme of 
the popular poets of the age, and was not deemed unworthy 
of distinguished warriors and statesmen. We read of Cicero 
at his Tusculan villa, of Cato at his farm, of Cincinnatus 
leaving his plough to command the armies of the republic ; 



A DEFENCE 0* AGRICTfLTtfltt gj 

while the great naturalist, Pliny, in his beautiful letters, 
prides himself on his vineyards. 

The overflow of the Nile, the fertiliser of Egypt, has been 
celebrated for centuries as the great festival of the country ; 
and in that " central flowery land," which claims such re- 
mote antiquity, the sovereign of three hundred millions, " the 
son of heaven, whose person is too sacred to be seen, whose 
imperial despatch is received amid burning incense and pros- 
tration, and in whose presence no one dares speak but in a 
whisper," annually exhibits himself to his subjects, holding 
a plough in honor of agriculture. 

In England, too, whose nobles shrink from all connection 
with trade, agriculture is highly honored. Earls, dukes, and 
princes, preside at agricultural festivals, compete for prizes, 
and do not disdain to write treatises on the culture of roots, 
the rotation of crops, and manufacture of composts. Sir 
Robert Peel, the great statesman of the age, is one day bear* 
ing down by his eloquence the opposition of Parliament to hit 
vigorous and enlightened policy, and another discussing the 
prospects of agriculture among the farmers of Tarn worth. 

It is, too, with mingled pleasure and pride that we recur 
to the fact, that the hero and statesman, who led the armies 
of our Revolution, was himself a practical fanner. Amid 
all the excitement) harrassing duties, and embarrassments of 
a protracted war, he directed by letters the operations of hit 
farm, and finally retired from the highest position to which 
talent and patriotism could aspire, followed by the love of his 
countrymen, to devote to agriculture the close of his life ; and 
it is a little remarkable his example has been followed by 
nearly all who have succeeded to the office of President. 

Our fathers did not enjoy, as farmers, the privileges which 
we possess. The country, emerging from a long war, was 
deficient in capital. Implements and buildings were rude 
and defective ; a few small seaports and fishing towns formed 
their principal markets ; and access to these was by no means 
easy ; for the bridle-path blazed through the forest, the ford 
and the ferry, were but a poor substitute for the country road, 
the turnpike, canal, and railroad. 

At a period, too, when the wars of Europe made us car* 

riers of the world, it is not astonishing that talent and enter* 

prise should have been drawn from the secluded home of the 

farmer to the perilous " march upon the deep ;" to the un* 

4* 



g| A DEFENCE OF AGRICULTURE. 

certain pursuits of trade, or to the sharp competition of 
professional life ; growing with the growth of commerce, or 
be tempted to exchange the rudeness of the country for the 
enervating refinements of the city. Besides, temperance, 
taste, and progressive art, education and the weekly press, 
had not yet gilded the home of the farmer ; judicious enter- 
prise had not yet drawn the daughters of New England from 
the distaff to the water-falls, and enlivened the adjacent dis- 
tricts by the creation of valuable markets. 

Contrast Massachusetts to-day (1847,) with Massachus- 
etts half a century since. Counties checkered with factory 
villages, tied together by a fast spreading net-work of rail- 
roads, sparkling 'with school-houses, churches, and tasteful 
residences, and improving farms, and peopled by an intelli- 
gent and energetic race — compare these with all that pre- 
ceded them, and we shall find much to cheer us in the 
oontrast, without detracting in any degree from the courage 
and patriotism of our progenitors. If in addition to the pro- 
gress of the country, we take into account the vast increase 
of wealth, the advance in the mechanic arts, the discoveries 
of chemistry, shall we not arrive at the conclusion that agri- 
culture now presents a new aspect, assumes a new import- 
ance, and offers new attractions to all who engage in it ) 

In estimating the importance of science and capital to 
agriculture, we learn, from the lessons of experience, that a 
fertile soil alone does not carry agriculture to perfection. 
Should we seek the spots where agriculture gives the largest 
and most remunerative returns for a given space, we should 
find them not on the fertile banks of the Nile or the Ganges, 
the rich plains and valleys of Sicily, or the prairies of the 
West, where a virgin soil and low prices attraot so many 
youthful cultivators. Far otherwise. You must look to 
Flanders and Holland. There, science and capital combined, 
in a harsh climate, have rescued vast wastes from the ocean, 
and converted sterile marshes and barren sands into produc- 
tive fields, the very garden of Europe ; or look at England, 
our parent land, where the same powerful combination has 
transformed the sandy plains of Norfolk, for centuries aban- 
doned to the rabbit, into luxuriant fields of wheat, clover, 
and turnips ; and changed the fens of Lincolnshire, which 
encircle the old town of Boston — fens, for centuries, the re- 
sort of wild ducks, geese, and other birds of passage, into the 
granary of England. 



A DEFENCE OF AGHICULTURE. 33 

The soil of Belgium was originally sand and clay alone. 
It has been enriched by ashes and composts, until it has be- 
come rich, black, loamy mould. Tanks are provided on the 
farms for liquids, and each cow is estimated to produce ten 
tons of solid, and twelve of liquid manures. Every expedient 
is resorted to, both to increase their quantity, and to improve 
their quality. Rotations of crops are followed ; and the re- 
sult of these efforts is, that Belgium sustains a population of 
350 people, 67 cattle, and 17 horses, to the square mile ; 
usually raises her own bread stuffs, and exports wheat, mad- 
der, flax, wool, and bark, to other parts of Europe. In Hol- 
land, where the dike, steam engine, and wind mill are 
employed to prevent the incursion of the sea upon the land 
gained from its bosom, a population of 214 to the mile is 
sustained, and large exports are made of butter, cheese, and 
other agricultural products. The average value of land is 
nearly $300 per acre, although it is burdened with oppres- 
sive taxes. 

Does the farmer aim at a life useful and beneficial to his 
race ? — let him remember that every acre that he reclaims, 
every blade of grass that he bids to grow where none grew be* 
fore, ameliorates the oondition of his fellows. Does he aspire 
to wealth ? — let him reflect that his gains, if less brilliant 
and striking thau those of trade and the professions, are more 
certain and uniform ; and that gradual improvement of his 
estate, and the silent but continued rise of property, promise 
eventual prosperity. Is he tasteful ? — he will here find a 
theatre for taste in woods, orchards, and flowers, and the de- 
sign of his buildings. Is he ambitious ? — here are obstacles 
to be surmounted, objects to be controlled, races to be im- 
proved, a kingdom in miniature to be governed by wise and 
wholesome regulations. 

Or would the fanner make conquests and achieve vic- 
tories ? — here weeds and water are his enemies : here un- 
cultivated plains are his Mexico, and deep fens and morasses 
his Texas and California ; and no philanthropist or casuist, 
will complain of his conquests, should he subdue them. Let 
him guard against the ambush of the crow, the wire-worm, 
the squirrel, and the fox ; and repel the invasion of the blight, 
the white weed, and the sorrel. He shall see his battle-fields 
not stained with blood, but blossoming with clover ; and 
when, in his green old age, he points out to his children hi* 



84 THE THEORY OF MANURES. 

Palo Alto, Buena Vista, Cerro Gordo, and Cherubusco, and 
recounts his bloodless achievements, he shall feel greater 
satisfaction than if his victories had been saddened by the 
sacrifices and tears of thousands ! — From the address before 
the Middlesex County Agricultural Society, Massachusetts, 
1847, by E. H. Derby, Esq. 



THE THEORY OF MANURES. 

What does the agriculturist understand by manures ? 

Manures consist of the remains of organized bodies of 
every description, whether animal or vegetable, in a state of 
decomposition ; that is to say, resolving themselves into those 
principles and elements which can re-enter into the vegetable 
system. Hence, they may be composed of animal or vege- 
table substances ; or they may consist of mineral matter ; or 
they may be derived partly from mineral and partly from 
animal and vegetable substances. 

What is the design of manures ? 

It is to furnish the soil with those elementary substances 
that enter into the formation of vegetable structures ; for if 
the soil do not contain an adequate quantity of these sub* 
stances, the farmer would obtain only a feeble crop. With- 
out this supply a vigorous vegetation cannot be produced. 
This is seemingly self-evident. In human art, if a machine 
is to be formed there must be a supply of the materials of 
which it is to be constructed. A man might be considered 
insane were he to talk of constructing a fence, or a plough, or 
a wagon, without the wood and the iron needed for them. 
And not less so in talking of raising plants without the 
requisite elements for them. 

Whence arises the necessity for this artificial supply of 
the soil with the substances in manure ? 

The soil may be compared to a rain-water cistern which 
is successively filled with the falling liquid collected on the 
roofs of houses or otherwise, and from which, so long as thus 
replenished, the water may be daily drawn for the purposes 
of domestic economy. But if it ceases to rain, or if the 
fixtures for saving the water be destroyed, the supply will 
soon be exhausted, and the cistern will be of no daily use for 
household purposes. It is much so in obtaining plants from 
the ground. They can no more be produced from a soil 



TEE THEORY OF HANUU8. g5 

destitute of the elements which compose them than water 
can be drawn from an empty cistern. 

How does this appear ? 

The fertilizing substances in manure are mostly the same 
ones that in previous years had been drawn or taken from 
the soil in producing a crop of vegetables. The vegetables 
either decayed or were used for food by animals, from which 
in the form of excrements they became manures. To be 
able to produce again a similar crop, the soil must be made 
by artificial means, or by manuring, to contain a sufficient 
amount of the same substances. If it does not contain them 
a new crop of vegetables cannot be raised ; or if obtained, it 
will be a diminished one. 

Is it true that nothing can be produced from the soil 
without manure ? 

So long as there is water in the cistern one may draw 
water from it though it be not replenished by the falling 
rain. So likewise a soil already supplied in ample quantity 
with the constituent elements for plants may yield a good 
crop without manure. The theory is, that to keep his crops 
from diminution the farmer must put as much into his soil 
as his crops take from it. And, if he desire to increase his 
crops, he must put more into it, than they take out of it. 

What other illustration of this can be given ? 

A man who takes money out of his pocket faster than he 
puts it in will soon have none to be taken out and will be a 
bankrupt. It is so with the farmer who takes away from 
his soil more than he returns to it. The woman who is 
constantly cooking up her provisions without replenishing the 
larder will soon have nothing remaining to be cooked. So it is 
with the husbandman who is all the time using: up the very 
stamina of his laud, and does nothing to fill the consequent 
vacuum. And the cloth dyer who is constantly extracting 
from his dye stuffs all the coloring agents for new fabrics 
without replenishing his vats, will soon run down in his 
occupation. So it will be with the agriculturist who allows 
his fields to become impoverished from not causing them to 
be invigorated with successive new supplies of fertilizing 
substances. 

Must then the soil be manured in every case before a 
crop can be obtained ? 

If the crop is permitted to remain and rot upon the soil ; 



£6 THE THKOEY OF MANUftBS. 

or if it be ploughed in, as it is occasionally done, this become! 
a manure, and none beside is requisite. In this way forest 
lands for ages retain and perhaps increase their powers for 
vegetable production by the annual decay of the fallen 
leaves. The necessity for other manures is only where the 
crops are removed from the soil. 

In what condition should be the substances used for 
manures before being cast into tlie ground ? 

They should be reduced to their original state ; not 
simply reduced to fine lumps or particles as meat is chopped 
up for sausages ; but, be so decomposed that they may be 
assimilated and combined with all the other vegetable ele- 
ments in the formation of new vegetable compounds. Till 
thus reduced, they cannot become fertilizing agents any 
more than would be a stone or a piece of solid metal. Let a 
stone, or a piece of iron, or a piece of hard wood be converted 
into small dust and they will readily mix with the soil and 
become subject to that chemical action connected with the 
formation of new compounds. 

How are the substances used for manures to be reduced 
to an elementary condition ? 

The process employed by Nature in this work is fermen- 
tation. By this process the elementary parts of the sub- 
stance fermented assume new forms of combination and 
become fitted to supply the matter for nutrition to plants in 
that form in which it can be received by the pores of the 
roots. This may be done by first mixing the matters to be 
fermented with the soil ; as the process in this way is very 
slow, it is usual to collect them, previous to being mixed 
with the soil, in heaps or masses, where heat will be gene- 
rated, which in connection with the moisture will hasten the 
process of fermentation. 

What are some other results from fermentation, besides 
the decomposition of the primary elements ? 

In addition to the separation of these elements in vege- 
table substances from fermentation, the whole mass is re- 
duced to fine particles, so as to mix readily with water and 
thus be speedily conveyed to the roots of the plants. It is 
mainly by being well mixed with water as it exists in the 
soil, that the fertilizing properties of manure are conveyed to 
the growmsr plant. 

To wliat lias the process of fermenting decaying vege- 
tables been compared ? 



THE TBSOBY OP MA1CUM68. §y 

To a slow mouldering fire. It is well known that fire 
reduces compound bodies to simple ones. For instance the 
inorganic portions of wood are reduced to ashes, while 
the organic or gaseous portions of it are at the same time 
disengaged and disappear. The result is the same as that 
which comes from the decay of bodies in the process of fa- 
mentation. 

What are tlie relative advantages and disadvantages 
between fermenting manures before being cast into the soil, 
w at first mixing them urith the soil ? 

it at first mixed with the soil prior to fermentation and 
the disintegration of its parts, there may be and usually will 
be much delay before its effects will be fully manifest in the 
augmentation of the crops ; but, then as an offset for the 
delay there will be less loss from the escape of the fertilizing 
gases when exposed to metereological influences. On the 
other hand, the beneficial effects will be sooner felt ; but in 
the end the soil will be less enriched from it* The presump- 
tion is, that a field of clover or buckwheat ploughed in and 
completely buried up till well rotted will enrich the ground 
far more than it would if it were removed and used for feed 
or were reduced to putrefaction in a mass, and then cast 
upon the soil, for in the latter mode of preparing it much of 
its fertilizing properties would be lost. 

Do animal substances, particularly the solid excrements 
as much require an accelerated process of fermentation as 
vegetable substances ? 

They do not. Ordinarily the dung of animals will soon, 
if at first mixed with or buried up with the soil, combine in 
the formation of the vegetable structure. But if there is con- 
nected with it straw, which is usual in the barn-yard, it 
should previously be subjected to fermentation when in 
masses. The urine also especially, which is an important 
part of animal manure, should, before being applied to the 
soil, be well fermented. 

What injury results to manure, if exposed to the sun 
and air? 

The fertilizing gases are liable to escape and be lost. 
Hence manures should always be under cover to shield them 
from the action of the sun's rays, the rain, and the atmos- 
phere. Provided a farm have no shelter for them thus to 
shield them from the metereological influences, they should 



gft THE THEORY OF MANURES. 

be carefully arranged in regular and solid heaps, and then be 
well covered with a thick coat of mould. ThiSj in a measure, 
will prevent the escape of the gases. 

What amount of water is needed in fermentation ? 

Only a moderate amount ; barely sufficient for a slight 
moisture, similar to a sweat. If immersed in water the 
generation of heat is prevented ; and, without heat fermenta* 
tion is impracticable. It is known that wood, buried in 
water, will continue in an undecayed state for an indefinite 
length of time. Hence, a barn-yard should be so constructed 
as to avoid an excess as well as a deficiency of moisture. 

How long should vegetable substances, particularly in 
the barn-yard, in connection with animal manure, be con* 
tinned in a state of fermentation ? 

Simply long enough to be made tender, so that one can 
take up a wisp of hay or straw of the size of his arm, and 
with his hands easily break it off; or so that a spade 
will readily pass through it lying in a mass, or that it will 
offer no adhesive resistance when removing it with a fork. 
When it has reached this period of decay, it will rather re* 
ceive injury than benefit from protracted fermentation. 

What description of manures is ordinarily preferable t 

None for general use are equal to those of the barn-yard ; 
for these are supposed to embrace, and do embrace, if there 
has been no waste of materials susceptible of conversion into 
fertilizing agents, every element of vegetable structure that 
had been removed from the soil the previous year; a far 
greater number of such elements than can be found in any 
other fertilizer. For particular crops indeed, other fertilizing 
agents may be applied with augmented efficacy. 

What should be the great aim of every farmer in relation 
to the subject of manures ? 

To understand the nature of soils, the physiology of vege- 
tables, the theory of mauures ; and, then by every possible 
means to increase his stock of manure to the greatest extent, 
letting no substance which can be converted into it be lost, 
and searching out wherever to be found every hitherto unob- 
served substance which can be discovered and reached. In 
this way a farmer will soon renovate his grounds and render 
them highly productive. In this way he will thrive and be- 
come independent. 

What has the poor farmer to do who has only scanty 
means for the creation of manures ? 



LIGHTNING RODS. $$ 

If a farmer is poor, there is bo much more need of his 
having them. Without them, he is not half paid for his 
labor in tillage, and is constantly declining in his circum- 
stances ; with them he becomes thrifty by obtaining good 
remuneration for his labor. A prudent poor farmer should 
ordinarily shudder at the idea of running into debt, especially 
for victuals, clothing, or furniture ; but, it is wise in him to 
do it for manures, if he cannot obtain them otherwise, be- 
cause they will not only enable him to raise enough more on 
his farm to pay for them, but he gets doubly paid for his 
tillage, and greatly improves his farm for future use and profit. 



LIGHTNING RODS. 

In erecting rods for the protection of buildings from the 
effects of lightning, a few things must always be kept in 
mind, in order to ensure efficiency and consequent safety. 
As to the point of erection, the most exposed and elevated 
part of the building should be chosen. If a dwelling house, 
the chimney is the point that will require protection ; if there 
are several of them, the most elevated one, or the one most 
exposed to the general course of storms— as the westerly one ; 
or if but one has a fire in it, that one will be found most liable 
to be struck by lightning, and will of course more require 
protection. Numberless recorded cases prove that all heated 
currents of vapor, whether rising from a chimney, or the 
masses of hay and grain in a barn, are excellent conductors 
of the electric fluid, and are to be considered as such in all 
arrangements for protection. 

The materials to be used as the conducting medium or 
rod, is another point that should be Attended to. Iron is the 
most generally used for this purpose, but copper is preferable, 
as it possesses greater conducting powers, is not liable to rust 
or fusion, and, being tougher, is not broken to fragments by 
an electric discharge, as iron sometimes is. The greater 
cheapness of iron, however, will probably continue its use, 
and when well put up, it gives all reasonable security. No 
iron rod should be used of a less diameter than three fourths 
of an inch, and an inch rod is still better ; as it must be re- 
membered that the surface only has any effect in conducting 
electricity, and, therefore, the larger the surface over which 



90 



LIGHTNING ROBS. 



it passes, the less intense its action, and the less danger of 
breaking or fusion. A small quantity of metal, if of the 
right kind, and a large surface given to it, will make a better 
conductor, than a larger quantity in an improper form. 

Thus a copper ribbon, two inches wide, and of the proper 
length, will be superior to a copper wire of the same weight, 
as the process of rolling and flattening it, gives a much larger 
surface ; and the same remark will be true in regard to iron. 
A number of small iron or copper wires, twisted into a rod, 
is better than a solid rod of the same weight, for the same 
reason ; that is, a greater surface is exposed by the small 
wire than by the solid one, and this would be the best man- 
ner of constructing rods, were it not to be apprehended, that 
heavy discharges passing over wires would fuse and destroy 
them. Such have been recommended for ship conductors, 
as they would be entire and flexible, and perhaps it would 
be found that the distribution of the fluid over such an ex- 
tent of surface as such a rod would afford, would prevent the 
danger of fusion in any case. 

In preparing the rod, the most essential thing is the 
making of the elevated points. These should be several in 
number, slightly diverging from the main rod, and the sharp 
points gilded or tipped with silver, so as to prevent their 
rusting, and losing, in a great degree, their conducting power. 
Perhaps the easiest mode of pointing them, is to make points 
of large silver wire an inch in length, turning a screw on one 
end, and insert this into an opening drilled in the tapered end 
of each branch of the conductor, to receive it. If wire of the 
proper size is not convenient, they may be made by cutting 
them from a half-dollar, and hammering them into the right 
form. Jf the rod is made in pieces, they should never be put 
up by turning hooks on the ends, and connecting them in that 
way ; as interruption to the fluid in its descent is frequently* 
attended with bad consequences. The several pieces should 
be put together with screws, the connecting-piece receiving 
the ends of two rods, and being as near the size of the con- 
ductor as strength and security will admit. The rod should 
never be secured to the building by metal staples or fasten- 
ings ; or if such are necessary, the connection between the 
rod and these should be broken by pieces of glass, which is a 
non-conductor. Wood is the best for fastenings, and should 
always be used, except from necessity. It is not enough that 



MOUNTACf SCENERY. 91 

the rod attract and receive the discharge ; it must also con- 
duct it to the earth, or no adequate security is afforded. 

It has been estimated that a rod properly made, affords 
protection to a distance of five or six times its height above 
the roof; that is, a rod standing six feet above a building, 
-will protect the building for a distance of thirty feet. In- 
stances have been known, however, in which a chimney 
having a column of heated vapor rising from it, has been 
struck, when within the limits usually considered safe, in a 
protected building. In such cases, the result must be as- 
cribed to the height and conducting power of the vapor. The 
loot of the conductor should gradually recede from the walla 
of the building, and enter the earth to such a depth as to 
reach moist earth, and if the bottom of the rod is pointed, or 
split and parted different ways in the earth, the passing off 
of the fluid will be facilitated. No paint should ever be al- 
lowed on a conductor. — Albany Cultivator. 



MOUNTAIN SCENERY. 

Mountains ! how one's heart leaps up at the very word ! 
There is a charm connected with mountains so powerful, 
that the merest mention of them, the merest sketch of their 
magnificent features, kindles the imagination and carries the 
spirit at once into the bosom of their enchanted regions. 
How the mind is filled with their vast solitude ! how the 
inward eye is fixed on their silent, their sublime, their ever- 
lasting peaks ! How our heart bounds to the music of their 
solitary cries — to the tinkle of their gushing rills, to the sound 
of their cataracts. How inspiriting are the odors that breathe 
from the upland turf, from the rock-hung flower, from the 
hoary and solemn pine ; how beautiful are those lights and 
shadows thrown abroad, and that fine, transparent haze 
which is diffused over the valleys and lower slopes as over a 
vast, inimitable picture. 

Whoever has not ascended mountains, knows little of the 
beauties of nature. Whoever has not climbed their long 
and healthy ascents, and seen the trembling mountain* 
flowers, the glowing moss, the richly-tinted lichens at his 
feet ; and scented the fresh aroma of the uncultivated sod, 
and of the spicy shrubs ; and heard the bleat of the flock 
across their solitary expanses, and the wild cry of the mountain 



92 MOUNTAIN SCENERY. 

plover, the raven, or the eagle ; and seen the rich and russet 
hues of distant slopes and eminences, the livid gashes of 
ravines and precipices, the white glittering line of falling 
waters, and the cloud tumultuously whirling round the lofty 
summit ; and then stood panting on that summit, and beheld 
the clouds alternately gather and break over a thousand 
giant peaks and ridges of every varied hue, — but all silent as 
images of eternity ; and cast his gaze over lakes and forests, 
and smoking towns, and wide lands to the very ocean, in all 
their gleaming and reposing beauty, knows nothing of the 
treasures of pictorial wealth in rural scenes. 

We delight to think of the people of mountainous regions ; 
we please our imaginations with their picturesque and quiet 
abodes ; with their peaceful secluded fives, striking and un- 
varying costumes, and primitive manners. We involuntarily 
give to the mountaineer heroic and elevated qualities. He 
lives amongst noble objects, and must imbibe some of their 
nobility ; he lives amongst the elements of poetry, and must 
be poetical ; he lives where his fellow-beings are far, far 
separated from their kind, and surrounded by the sternness 
and the perils of savage nature ; his social affections must 
therefore be proportionally concentrated, his home-ties lively 
and strong ; but, more than all, he lives within the barriers, 
the strong-holds, the very last refuge which Nature herself 
has reared to preserve alive liberty in the earth, to preserve 
to man his highest hopes, his noblest emotions, his dearest 
treasures, his faith, his freedom, his hearth, and home. 

How glorious do those mountain ridges appear when we 
look upon them as the unconquerable abodes of free hearts ; 
as the stern, heaven-built walls from which the few, the 
feeble, the persecuted, the despised, the helpless child, the 
delicate woman, have from age to age, in their last perils, in 
all their weaknesses and emergencies, when power and 
cruelty were ready to swallow them up, looked down, and 
beheld the million waves of despotism break at their feet : — 
have seen the rage of murderous armies, and tyrants, the 
blasting spirit of ambition, fanaticism, and crushing domina- 
tion, recoil from their bases in despair. 

" Thanks be to God for mountains !" is often the excla- 
mation of my heart as I trace the history of the world. 
From age to age, they have been the last friends of man. In 
a thousand extremities they have saved him. What great 



MOUNTAIN 8CB5MY. §8 

Hearts have throbbed in their defiles, from the days of 
Leonidas to those of Andreas Hofer ! What lofty souls, 
-what tender hearts, what poor and persecuted creatures, 
have they sheltered in their stony bosoms from the weapons 
and tortures of their fellow men. 

" Avenge, Lord, thy slaughtered saints whose bones 
Lie scattered on the Alpine mountains cold !" 

was the burning exclamation of Milton's agonized and in- 
dignant spirit, as he beheld those sacred bulwarks of freedom 
for once violated by the disturbing demons of the earth ; and 
the sound of his fiery and lamenting appeal to Heaven will 
be echoed in every generous soul to the end of time. 

Thanks be to God for mountains ! The variety which 
they impart to the glorious bosom of our planet were no 
small advantage ; the beauty which they spread out to our 
vision in their woods and waters; their crags and slopes, 
their clouds and atmospheric hues were a splendid gift ; the 
sublimity which they pour into our deepest souls from their 
majestic aspects; the poetry which breathes from their 
streams, and dells, and airy heights, from the sweet abodes, 
the garbs and manners of their inhabitants, the songs and 
legends which have awoke in them, were a proud heritage 
to imaginative minds; but what are all these when the 
thought comes, that without mountains the spirit of man 
must have bowed to the brutal and the base, and probably 
have sunk to the monotonous level of the unvaried plain. 

When I turn my eyes upon the map of the world, and 
behold how wonderfully the countries where our faith was 
nurtured, where our liberties were generated, where our 
philosophy and literature, the fountains of our intellectual 
grace and beauty, sprang up, were as distinctly walled out 
oy God's hand with mountain ramparts from the eruptions 
and interruptions of barbarism, as if at the especial prayer of 
the early fathers of man's destinies, I am lost in an exulting 
admiration. Look at the bold barriers of Palestine ! see how 
the infant liberties of Greece were sheltered from the vast 
tribes of the uncivilized north by the heights of Hannus and 
Khodope ! behold how the Alps describe their magnificent 
crescent, inclining their opposite extremities to the Adriatic 
and Tyrrhine Seas, locking up Italy from the Gallic and 
Teutonic hordes till the power and spirit of Rome had 



jg SUNRISE ON TUB HILLS. 

reached their maturity, and she had opened the wide forest 
of Europe to the light, spread far her laws and language, 
and planted the seeds of many mighty nations ! 

" Thanfcs to God for mountains ! Their colossal firmness 
seems almost, to break the current of time itself ; the geolo- 
gist in them searches for traces of the earlier world, and it is 
there too that man, resisting the revolutions of lower regions 
retains through innumerable years his habits and his rights. 
While a multitude of changes has remoulded the people of 
Europe, while, languages, and laws, and dynasties, and 
creeds, have passed over it like shadows over the landscape, 
the children of the Celt and the Goth, who fled to the moun- 
tains a thousand years ago, are found there now, and show 
us in face and figure, in language and garb, what their 
fathers were ; show us a fine contrast with the modern tribes 
dwelling below and around them ; and show us, moreover, 
how adverse is the spirit of the mountain to mutability, and 
that there the fiery heart of Freedom is found for ever. 

William Howitt. 



SUNRISE ON THE HILLS. 

I stood upon the hills, when heaven's wide arch 

Was glorious with the sun's returning march, 

And woods were brightened, and soft gales 

Went forth to kiss the sun-clad vales. 

The clouds were far beneath me ; — bathed in light, 

They gathered mid-way round the wooded height, 

And, in their fading glory, shone 

Like hosts in battle overthrown, 

As many a pinnacle, with shifting glance, 

Through the gray mist thrust up its shattered lance, 

And rocking on the cliff was left 

The dark pine blasted, bare, and cleft. * 

The veil of cloud was lifted, and below 

Glowed the rich valley, and the river's flow 

Was darkened by the forest's shade, 

Or glistened in the white cascade ; 

Where upward, in the mellow blush of day, 

The noisy bittern wheeled his spiral way. 

I heard the distant waters dash, 
I saw the current whirl and flash, — 



BBLI0I6U8 INFLUENCES IN THE COUNTRY. 95 

And richly, by the blue lake's silver beach, 

The woods were bending with a silent reach. 

Then o'er the vale, with gentle swell, 

The music of the village bell 

Came sweetly to the echo-giving hills ; 

And the wild horn, whose voice the woodland fills, 

Was singing to the merry shout, 

That faint and far the glen sent out, 

Where, answering to the sudden shot, thin smoke, 

Through thick-leaved branches, from the dingle broke. 

If thou art worn and hard beset 
With sorrows, that thou would' st forget, 
If thou wouldst read a lesson, that will keep 
Thy heart from fainting and thy soul from sleep, 
Go to the woods and hills ! — No tears 
Dim the sweet look that Nature wears. 

Longfellow. 



RELIGIOUS INFLUENCES IN THE COUNTRY. 

No situation in life is so favorable to established habits 
of virtue, and to powerful sentiments of devotion, as a resi- 
dence in the country, and rural occupations. I am not 
speaking of a condition of peasantry, of which, in this 
country, we know little, who are mere vassals of an absent 
lord, or the hired laborers of an intendant, and who are, 
therefore, interested in nothing but the regular receipt of 
their daily wages ; but I refer to the honorable character of 
an owner of the soil, whose comforts, whose weight in the 
community, and whose very existence depend upon his 
personal labors, and the regular returns of abundance from 
the soil which he cultivates. No man, one would think, 
would feel so sensibly his immediate dependence upon God, 
as the husbandman. For all his peculiar blessings, he is in- 
vited to look immediately to the bounty of heaven. No 
secondary cause stands between him and his maker. To 
him are essential the regular succession of the seasons, and 
the timely fall of the rain, the genial warmth of the sun, the 
sure productiveness of the soil, and the certain operations of 
those laws of nature, which must appear to him nothing less 
than the varied exertions of omnipresent energy. 



Aft RELIGIOUS INFLUENCES IX THE COUNTRY. 

In the country we seem to stand in the midst of the 
great theatre of (rod's power, and we feel an unusual prox- 
imity to our Creator. His blue and tranquil sky spreads 
itself over our heads, and we acknowledge the intrusion of 
no secondary agent in unfolding this vast expanse. Nothing 
but omnipotence can work up the dark horrors of the 
tempest, dart the flashes of the lightning, and roll the long- 
resounding rumor of the thunder. The breeze wails to his 
senses the odors of God's beneficence; the voice of God's 
power is heard in the rustling of the forest ; and the varied 
forms of life, activity and pleasure, which he observes at 
every step in the fields, lead him irresistibly, one would 
think, to the source of being, and beauty, and joy. How- 
auspicious such a life to the noble sentiments of devotion ! 

Besides, the situation of the husbandman is peculiarly 
favorable, it should seem, to purity and simplicity of moral 
sentiment. He is brought acquainted, chiefly, with the real 
and native wants of mankind. Employed solely in bringing 
food out of the earth, he is not liable to be fascinated with 
the fictitious pleasures, the unnatural wants, the fashionable 
follies and tyrannical vices of a more busy and splendid life. 

Still more favorable to the religious character of the 
husbandman is the circumstance, that, from the nature of 
agricultural pursuits, they do not so completely engross the 
attention, as other occupations. They leave much time for 
contemplation, for reading and intellectual pleasures; and 
these are peculiarly grateful to the resident of the country. 
Especially does the institution of the Sabbath discover all its 
value to the tiller of the earth, whose fatigue it solaces, 
whose hard labor it interrupts, and who feels, on that day, 
the worth of his moral nature, which cannot be understood 
by the busy man, who considers the repose of this day as in- 
terfering with his hopes of gain, or professional employments. 

If, then, this institution is of any moral and religious 
value, it is to the country we must look for the continuance 
of that respect and observance which it merits. My friends, 
those of you, especially, who retire annually into the country, 
let these periodical retreats from business or dissipation bring 
you nearer to your God ; let them restore the clearness of 
your judgment on the objects of human pursuits, invigorate 
your moral perceptions, exalt your sentiments, and regulate 
your habits of devotion ; and if there be any virtue, or sim- 



NATURE AND VARIETY OF SOILS. 97 

plicity remaining in rural life, let them never be impaired 
by the influence of your presence and example. — Rev. Jos. 

8. BUCKMINSTER. 



NATURE AND VARIETY OF SOILS. 

Wluxt in agriculture is to be understood by soil ? 

The soil is the portion of the ground in which plants <ure 
produced. It forms a stratum varying from a few inches to 
a foot or more in depth. It is usually somewhat dark in 
color, arising from its intermixture with decomposed stems, 
leaves, and other parts of plants, which have grown upon it, 
and, in part, often by the presence of animal substances. 

What else enters into the formation of the soil ? 

Primary rocks, on their surface, are constantly under- 
going a kind of decomposition, by the crumbling from them 
of an infinite number of fine particles. These particles 
combine with the vegetable substances in the formation of 
the soil in an endless variety of proportions ; and the entire 
process of disintegration and combination is effected by the 
mechanical and chemical action of the air and water, and 
the different degrees of temperature to which they are sub- 
jected. 

By what other names is soil sometimes called ? 

The finer portions of it are called mold. It is ako called 
loam. Both terms are derived from the fine and smooth 
quality of the substance denoted. 

What is marl ? 

It is defined by Webster, to be a species of calcareous 
earth, of different composition, being united with clay and 
fuller's earth — that is, a species of earth which absorbs 
grease ? 

Wfiat is the subsoil? 

The subsoil is the bed or stratum of earth lying between 
the surface soil and the base on which it rests. The name 
is derived from the prefix to the word soil, signifying under; 
and the definition is the same as undersoil. It is in part 
composed of the same materials that form the soil ; but ordi- 
narily only in a small degree. 

What is the use of the sub-soil ? 

When loosened by the sub-soil plough or otherwise it 
becomes a broad reservoir or fountain for the rain not retained 
5 



99 NATURE AND VARIETY OF SOILS. 

by the surface soil. Hence here it remains to fertilize vege- 
tation in seasons of drought. And the subsoil is also valu- 
able, when thus loosened, foi the roots of such plants as 
require more space than is found in the surface soil. 
What is the use of the soil ? 

It. affords a place for vegetable life, by enabling the seed 
and plant there to become fixed, to receive nourishment in 
all .stages of its development till reaching maturity, and thus 
furnishing a supply of food for man and animals. The 
aliment required for this nourishment is in the soil, to be im- 
parted to the plant as wanted. 

What are the fertilizing agents in the soil produced by 
the decomposition of rocks ? 

Among others are potash, soda, phosphoric acid, mag- 
nesia, and silex. It is evident that the particles thus 
furnished to the soil possess a fertilizing power from the fact 
that even lava from burning mountains is, after a while, 
covered with a rich loam that could come from no other 
source. 

To what is this fertility owing ? 

Undoubtedly to the alkali contained in the lava, and 
which by exposure to the combined action of the air and 
moisture are reduced to a state capable of being absorbed by 
plants. As the lava is formed of stony substances, it is 
apparent, that when reduced to small particles, whether 
before or after having been melted, they enrich the soil and 
become important agents in vegetable development. 

By what means does the soil become impoverished or 
exhausted ? 

Ordinarily by removing from it the vegetables that grew 
upon it. They, it is obvious, are composed mostly of materials 
existing in the soil. If permitted to remain upon it, and 
rot where they grew, the particles would again mix with 
the soil, leaving it much as it was before. But, if they are 
carried away, the soil is as much exhausted, as though the 
materials composing them had been dug up by a spade and 
removed in a waggon to some other place. 

How is this exhaustion of soil to be prevented ? 

In agriculture the crops are ordinarily of course removed 
to the barn or granary of the farmer. Therefore to prevent 
the exhaustion thus occasioned, he must return to the soil in 
the form of manure the amount of fertilizing agents absorbed 



NATURE A3D VARIETY OF SOILS. 99 

by the growth of the crop taken away. If this he done, it 
may continue for any indefinite period capable of producing 
good crops. 

What besides this manure is needful in producing good 
crops ? 

Good, thorough tillage. The soil is to be frequently 
loosened by the plough, spade, or some other instrument, so 
that all the different particles shall be well mixed together, 
and the whole rendered mellow by an exposure to the action 
of the sun and the atmosphere. Crops are ordinarily abund- 
ant as much in proportion to the degree of tillage as the 
amount of manure used in the culture. Without either, the 
benefit of the other will be comparatively small. 

How does it appear that such tillage is needful ? 

In the first place, without it, the rain instead of sinking 
into the soil, will pass from it as if falling upon a board or 
stone, and of course there would be no moisture in it to nour- 
ish plants. In the second place, if in a hard uncultivated 
soil the seed were to germinate, the roots could not extend 
themselves to be brought into contact with fertilizing agents. 
It would cause a smile, to drill a hole into a stone to receive 
seed with a view to germination and vegetable development. 
But this is no more absurd than to cast seed into a hard and 
compact soil, like a public highway, for a like purpose. Yet, 
reduce the stone to powder, mix with it fertilizing agents, 
cast seed upon it, and a crop may be expected. The princi- 
ple is the same for thorough tillage. 

Why is it that gardens are more productive than other 
cultivated lands ? 

' Simply because of better tillage and more ample manur- 
ing. If fields were in these respects made equal to well 
managed gardens, we should rarely hear of unproductive 
farms, or lost labor in agriculture. 

How are the different kinds of soil denominated ? 

Some of the more obvious and common distinctions of soil 
are the following — rich and poor soils — stiff and free or light 
soils — wet and dry soils— clayey and sandy soils— calcareous 
soils — peaty soils — gravelly soils, and some others. Though 
soils are thus distinguished by external characters, they pass 
into each other by such minute gradations, that it is difficult 
saying to what class they belong. And these intermediate 
sods are the most numerous in all countries. It may be said, 



100 KATURK AND VARIETY OF SOILS. 

therefore, that the greater portion of noils consists of inter- 
mediate classes, and that it is often difficult to bring them 
under any division, derived from their texture or any exter- 
nal features. 

What is said of rich and poor soils ? 

This classification would include all others of every 
variety, having reference to their powers of producing useful 
plants. Those that have this power in a good measure are 
called rich soils, and those which have it not are called poor, 
the distinction being based solely on their productive quali- 
ties. Their fertility, all other things being equal, is indicated 
by the greater or smaller proportion of mold which enters 
into their composition. 

What is said of stiff and free, or light soils ? 

The stiff soils are those which are* tenacious and cohesive 
in their parts ; the light or free soils are those which are 
of looser texture, and whose parts are easily separated. All 
soils which possess this tenacious or cohesive property in a 
considerable degree, are termed clayey ; while all the looser 
ones are termed free or light soils. And all soils are more 
or less clayey, or more or less light, as they possess more or 
less of this tenacious or cohesive property, or of this looser 
texture. The transition from the one to the other is by such 
imperceptible gradations, that it is often difficult to tell to 
which class a particular soil belongs. 
What is said of wet and dry soils ? 
When water, from any particular cause, is generally abund- 
ant, the soils may be termed wet ; and when there is ha- 
bitual deficiency of water, they may be termed dry. The 
cultivator may very easily learn how to adapt his crops, and 
the season for their tillage, to these states of the soil. It will 
usually be found advantageous to have each on a farm. 

What is said of clayey and sandy soils ? 

In the former of these, clay preponderates or forms the 
principal element, while the same may be said in reference 
to the latter of the preponderance of sand. The one is te- 
nacious, stiff, very retentive of moisture, and can be worked 
only in favorable periods, and requires extra labor in its til- 
lage. The other is loose, easily worked, but is not retentive 
of manure or moisture, owing to its porous texture. The 
former when well prepared, yields a heavy crop, and owing 
to the expense of tillage is usually appropriated to meadow 



NATUBK AND VARIETY OP SOILS. ftl 

and pasture. The latter is better adapted to tap root plants, 
as carrots, turnips, clover, Indian corn, and alternate hus- 
bandry. 

What is said of rich sandy soils ? 

They are early in maturing the cultivated plants, and are 
fit for the production of every kind of herbage and grain. 
They yield to the richer clays in the power of producing 
wheat, but they surpass them in the production of rye and 
barley. They are well suited to the growth of the cultivated 
grasses ; and, when left in perennial pasture, they are quick- 
ly covered with the natural plants of the soil. But their 
distinguishing character is their peculiar adaptation to the 
raising of the plants cultivated for their roots and tubers. 

What is said of gravelly soils ? 

The composition of a gravelly soil is indicated by its very 
name. It is even more porous than a sandy soil, and is 
easily exhausted, for the animal and vegetable matters which 
it receives not being attracted by earthy constituent parts of 
it, rarely sufficiently abundant for that purpose, are more 
liable to be decomposed by the action of the atmosphere, and 
carried off by the water. With gravelly soils should be 
mixed clay, chalk, marl, peat, and other earthy substances ; 
and especially they should receive frequent applications of 
manure. Being easily heated they are the earliest crops, 
and most liable to suffer from the droughts of summer. 

What is said of peaty soils ? 

These soils abound in swamps and marshes, where vege- 
table matter exists in excess, in consequence of their being 
habitually saturated with water, which prevents its decom- 
position. On being thoroughly drained, some of these soils, 
in which the vegetable has been reduced to something like 
soft black powder, or where the earths constitute a considera- 
ble portion of the surface stratum, have become very produc- 
tive. But where the vegetable matters greatly preponderate, 
or are coarse and woody, it has been found necessary, in 
order to render them valuable, after draining, to bring on a 
decomposition by paring and burning the surface, or by the 
application of lime, or barn-yard manure ; and sometimes a 
good dressing of sand, or loam, has induced fertility. The 
cause of sterility is not the want of vegetable food, but the 
want of this food in a soluble or cooked state, prepared for the 
mouths and nourishment of plants. 



102 BOW TO OBTAIN GOOD CHOPS. 

What are alluvial soils ? 

They are, first, those soils which have been formed by 
the action of the sea, and are composed principally of sand, 
with but little organic matter except marine shells, such as 
the great level sandy districts lying along the border of the 
Atlantic ; and' secondly, those which have been formed from 
the deposits of rivers, as upon the Mississippi, the Ohio, and 
most of the secondary and minor streams of our country. 

What is said of the temperature of soils ? 

The temperature of a soil depends much on its humidity. 
Damp, wet land is generally cold, whereas dry land is usually 
warm. And land which contains a considerable quantity of 
mold, or manure, which has been exhausted, or even other 
substances in a state of putrefaction, is much warmer than 
that which is not well supplied with them. And calcareous 
soils, or those partaking of chalk or lime, are always warmer 
than others. 

What most impoverishes the soil? 

There is nothing which exhausts either the plant or the 
soil in which it grows, so much as the ripening of its fruit and 
seeds. No animal labors with greater effort to support its 
offspring than the poor plant to bring its seed to maturity. 
It pumps up sap with all its powers of suction ; yet, if it has 
much seed to ripen, after having accomplished its task, it 
frequently perishes through exhaustion from the intensity of 
its efforts. 



HOW TO OBTAIN GOOD CROPS. 

Practical agriculture is wholly indebted to science for a 
knowledge of the elements which nature must have to form 
each plant, seed and fruit grown on the farm or in the 
garden. We have known a kernel of corn in Georgia to 
produce one thousand kernels equal in weight to itself. The 
matter in the parent seed could form but one kernel, leaving 
that contained in the other nine hundred and ninety-nine, as 
well as that which exists in stems, leaves, roots, and cobs to 
be derived from the substance of the earth, air, and water. 

Now, why should one kernel of seed corn give a harvest 
of one thousand kernels in one soil ; and a harvest of only 
one hundred in another ? The same degree of sunshine, 



HOW TO OBTAIN GOOD CROPS. 103 

dews, and rains ; the same atmospheric gases and metereoric 
influences affect both corn plants alike.' But if you analyze 
the soil critically, one will be found to abound in the ele- 
ments consumed in organizing a large yield of this important 
grain ; and the other will show a lack of some one or more 
of the things which God has appointed for the formation of 
corn. For years we have labored to convince our readers 
and hearers not only that good crops of the fruits of the earth 
cannot be formed out of nothing ; but that each plant mnst 
have its appropriate constituent elements within reach 6T its 
living germ, in due quantity and in available form. 

A wise farmer husbands all of these raw materials, out 
of which his grain, grass, roots, apples, and other fruit are 
literally made. He studies to accumulate in his soil the 
substances known to be indispensable to produce bread, 
meat, milk, wool, and cotton. To render land more and 
more fertile, is better than to deposit money in increasing 
sums in any bank in the world. A rich soil has an intrinsic 
value for hungry human beings that appertains neither to 
gold nor any other precious metal. The fertilizing of whole 
farms as a general practice will never obtain in the United 
States, till our children are taught a knowledge of those 
natural laws, by the operation of which poor soils may be 
transformed into fertile ones ; and rich soils changed into 
sterile fields. The growth of plants is governed by laws as 
fixed and enduring as those which cause day and night, 
winter and summer, rain and snow. 

Why then will not American farmers believe this simple 
truth, and permit their sons to study tillage, the formation of 
crops, and the improvement of cultivated earth as a science ? 
If plants must be well fed to be fat, as well as animals, and 
their food must come from somewhere, why not learn how 
to feed the germs of corn, wheat, potatoes, oats, and apples, 
with the highest attainable skill and economy ? Experience 
demonstrates that bone earth, or bones themselves, sulphur 
and lime, or gypsum, chlorine and soda or common salt, and 
other elements of crops, serve to augment the harvest. There 
are millions of tons of the elements of bones and flesh wasted 
in this country, before they are organized in any living plant 
as food for man or beast. 

. This waste accrues from a defective system of husbandry 
—one that permits no inconsiderable share of the dissolved 



104 HOW TO OBTAIN 6009 CHOPS. 

minerals and organic matter in good soils to run with the 
water that holds them in solution, into creeks, rivers, lakes, 
and the ocean. This loss, more than the removal of crops, 
often exhausts ploughed and hoed land. The loosened soil 
is washed and leached till the food of corn and wheat, 
potatoes and turnips, in an available shape, becomes scarce 
indeed. The substances in the earth which form crops are 
lime, potash, iron, soda, magnesia, silica, sulphur, phosphor- 
ous r chlorine, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen. Every 
substance that grows takes up from the soil through the 
pores in the roots most, if not all these elementary bodies, 
and fixes them in its organized tissues. 

Cultivate a field and permit no plant whatever to grow 
therein, and both its vegetable mold and earthy salts of 
lime, potash and soda for instance, will be slowly dissolved 
and washed away. Partial, if not complete sterility can be 
induced without cropping at all. Nature renovates poor 
soils by constantly augmenting the annual yield of vegeta- 
tion. This she does without the aid of tillage or manure of 
any kind applied from abroad. The farmer should study 
nature while at work drawing the food of plants from the 
subsoil and the atmosphere, to be organized and decay to 
enrich the surface soil. 

This is one way to improve land. Another is to carry 
on, and spread over it just such things as are known to be 
indispensable in forming the crop. What are they ? They 
are salts voided in the liquid and solid excretions of all 
animals, from man down to the bottom of the cast. These 
salts come from our daily food which took them from the 
soil. In cities and villages these elements of crops accumu- 
late in stables and privies ; because all tillers of the earth 
send something from the soil to market. Go then to the 
nearest city or village and take back on to your farm what 
will pay the debt you owe it. There are many soils in which 
an ounce of the voided elements of wheat, or corn, perfectly 
dry, will give a gain of a pound of dry corn at the harvest, 
if skilfully applied. By greatly extending the roots of a 
plant at a proper season, it is able to draw a much larger 
quantity of nourishment from any given soil, in addition to 
all that the fertilizer yields to it. 

An exhausted horse may be within twenty miles of rich 
pasture, which one good feed of oats will enable him to 



TBB POSITION Of THB 9ASMSA. 105 

reach. So there may be food for the hungry corn plant just 
beyond where its roots extend ; and a little of the matter 
stored up in the kernels of corn to feed the germs when they 
begin to grow, if taken from the pig-sty or the privy and 
brought into contact with the roots, will cause them to grow 
into fresh pasture. It is the elements of the plant in this 
fresh pasture, not really the manure, that double the harvest. 
The way that a pound of guano or rich, light soil ope- 
rates to produce sixteen pounds of grain, is what we want all 
young farmers to study. When they do this experimentally 
they will see that all soils possess far more of the things 
necessary to feed and clothe mankind than is generally sup- 
posed. It is not necessary in the economy of Providence to 
give the earth a pound in order to get a like weight back 
again without detriment to the soil.— -Hon. Isaac Hill. 



THE POSITION OP THE FARMEB. 

The intelligent farmer who directs his energies with the 
fiseal and spirit which begin to characterize his class — who 
looks at his profession with pride and pleasure, and considers 
agriculture an art to be associated with, and assisted by 
scientific inquiry, is as far superior to the silken dandy, who 
may think him a clod-hopper, as one class of beings can be 
to another. The one is the prop of the State — the other a 
trifling excrescence upon it. To the intelligent farmer 
nature unfolds her beauties as well as her bounties. His is 
the honest heart, the liberal soul, the ardent mind, the fresh 
imagination. He makes the best of parents and citizens, 
the most disinterested of patriots. — ^Between the well syste* 
tematized labors of his life are intervals of leisure for gene- 
ral reading and improvement, enough to give him all the in* 
formation necessary for individual culture, and social enjoy- 
ment. Though every farmer should look first to the general 
fertility of his farm, as the foundation on which all improve- 
ments are to be laid, he would be utterly wanting in the 
true spirit of his profession, if he did not design, in due time, 
to crown his whole work, by every domestic comfort and 
appropriate rural ornament. The business of agriculture is 

not one of merely practical utility. The farmer is not necea* 

5# 



10H THE POSITION O* THB F AfiMSfe 

sarily a dull swain. His pursuits are consistent with the 
keenest admiration of the beautiful in nature and art, with 
the most refined taste, and with all the graces of cultivated 
life. He owes it to himself as a rational being, gifted with 
all the capabilities of his race, to the obligations of domestic 
duty, and above all, to the devotion which we will acknow- 
ledge, to that gentle sex, whose smiles are the crowning bliss 
of life, to provide, for his own and his family's enjoyment, all 
the comforts and embellishments, which belong to a mature 
civilization. Among other high duties, is that of properly 
educating his children. And to such of them as are destined 
to pursue his own profession, he should give much more 
than that teaching, which stops at a knowledge of the mere 
routine of farm-practice. 

A good agricultural education is both scientific and prac- 
tical. The knowledge which is necessary to make a 
thoroughly intelligent farmer is to be drawn from a great 
Variety of sources. Geology and mineralogy must instruct 
him as to the formation of the crust of the earth, the quali- 
ties and elements of the substances which compose it, and 
the character, nature, and properties of all the minerals im- 
bedded in it. Chemistry will teach him to analyze the soil, 
to trace out every element of its fertility, and its just pro- 
portion—will develope to him the principles of its exhaustion 
and replenishment, and guide him in every effort to improve 
and ameliorate. Indeed without analytic chemistry he can 
never know the money value of the ameliorators which he 
purchases. It will teach him also the properties and value 
of the different kinds of food for stock — what kind supplies 
the bone, what the muscle, and what lays on the fat. 
Botany will inform him of the nature and structure of plants, 
from the forest tree to the herb ; of their uses, value, medi- 
cinal properties, and adaptation to the climate and soil of 
his residence. Entomology will teach him the habits of 
insects injurious to vegetation, and how to prevent or remedy 
as far as possible their attacks. Natural philosophy will 
explain to him the principles of mechanics, and from these 
he will know how to estimate the value of every mechanical 
contrivance employed or proposed in rural art. Much im- 
portant knowledge may be gathered from this source. These 
principles, for example, regulate the construction of wheat 
threshers and horse powers— the forms of good ploughs and 



THE POSITION OF THE FARMER. 107 

their use, making them easy of draught and efficient in turn- 
ing over the tough sward or crumbling the broken follow. 
Even in the digging of a drain, the construction of a good 
axle tree, or the proper harnessing a horse, the principles of 
natural philosophy are involved. 

In all these branches of science, the highest genius and 
the most persevering research have long been devoted to the 
ascertainment of truths simple only when demonstrated, and 
of the greatest practical value to those who dream not of the 
ler.rning and toil necessary for their discovery : and all these 
should be taught the agricultural pupil. 

It is gratifying to see the attention beginning to be paid 
to this kind of education in our country — to know that agri- 
cultural chemistry is becoming one of the branches of 
collegiate instruction, and that institutions are projected, 
and, indeed, in existence among us, where the best methods 
of rural art and every branch of farming work will be taught 
experimentally, practically and scientifically. In such insti- 
tutions, the labors of the field, the barn and the workshop, 
will be followed by the lessons of the school room. Thus 
practice and science will be combined, and the agricultural 
pupil will become the finished farmer. Let me commend 
such institutions to your favor, gentlemen, for the benefit of 
your sons. 

I trust that I may be permitted, also, to recommend 
every farmer to subscribe and pay for at least one agricultu- 
ral paper or periodical. Knowledge is power in agriculture, 
as well as in every other department and business of life. 
No man can keep up with the improvements of the times 
who does not thus avail himself of the experience and know- 
ledge of the many active and practical minds which are 
annually condensed into the columns of these useful journals. 
What science applied to practical uses has done for other arts 
it is now beginning to do for agriculture. While no one 
thinks, or pretends to think, that it has explained all those 
mysteries which perplex the farmer, no well informed man 
can doubt that it has already solved many difficulties and 
ascertained truths of great practical benefit. As little can 
he question that in its further progress it will remove doubts, 
expose errors, and develop facts and principles of the highest 
practical utility. The process by which these results will be 
arrived at may not and need not be understood by the great 



10 8 THE AMERICAN SCHOOLMASTER. 

body of farmers. But the fruits of such scientific inquiries 
will be found in our agricultural journals, not buried among 
technical terms in learned treatises, but made clear to the 
comprehension of the ordinarily intelligent farmer. 

The book farmer may be a thriftless theorist, but the 
practical man, while he avoids visionary speculations and 
hazardous experiments, knows how to turn to account the 
experience and the suggestions of others. He adopts what is 
consistent with reason and his own observation — tests what 
is doubtful, and rejects the inefficient or extravagant. Such 
a man will read without either credulity or disdain, and r 
therefore will be benefited by what he reads. Indeed, the 
practical character of most of the agricultural periodicals of 
the present day is such as to make them entirely acceptable 
to practical men. — Hon. James A. Pearce, Maryland, 



THE AMERICAN SCHOOLMASTER. 

It has been to me a source of pleasure, though a melan* 
cholly one, that in rendering this public tribute to the worth 
of one departed friend, the respectable members of two bodies, 
one of them the most devoted and efficient for philanthropy 
and learning, have met to do honor to the memory of a 
schoolmaster. There are prouder themes for the eulogist 
than this. The praise of the statesman, the warrior, or the 
orator, furnish more splendid topics for ambitious eloquence ; 
but no theme can be more rich in desert, or more fruitful in 
public advantage. 

The enlightened liberality of many of our state govern- 
ments, by extending the common school system over their 
whole population, has brought elementary education to the 
door of every family. In New York, it appears from the 
Annual Reports of the Secretary of the State, there are, be* 
sides the fifty incorporated academies and numerous private 
schoojg, about ten thousand school districts, in each of which 
instruction is regularly given. These contain at present half 
a million of children taught in that single state. To these 
may be added nine or ten thousand more youth in the higher 
seminaries of learning, exclusive of the colleges. 

Of what incalculable influence, then, for good or for evil, 
upon the dearest interests of society, must be the estimate en* 



TOE AMERICAN SCHOOLMASTER, ftft 

tertained for the character of this great body of teachers, and 
the consequent respectability of the individuals who compose 
it ? At a recent general election in that state, the votes of 
above three hundred thousand persons were taken. In thirty 
years the great majority of these will have passed away ; 
their rightB will be exercised, and their duties assumed, by 
those very children, whose minds are now open to receive 
their earliest and most durable impressions from the ten thou* 
sand schoolmasters therein employed. 

What else is there in the whole of our social system of 
such extensive and powerful operation on the national char* 
acter ? There is one other influence more powerful, and but 
one. It is that of the mother. The forms of a free govern- 
ment, the provisions of wise legislation, the schemes of the 
statesman, the sacrifices of the patriot, are as nothing com* 
pared with these. If the future' citizens of our republic are 
to be worthy of their rich inheritance, they must be made so 
principally through the virtue and intelligence of their 
mothers. It is in the school of maternal tenderness that the 
kind affections must be first roused and made habitual — the 
early sentiment of piety awakened and rightly directed — the 
sense of duty and moral responsibility unfolded and en- 
lightened. 

But next in rank and in efficacy to that pure and holy 
source of moral influence, is that of the schoolmaster. It is 
powerful already. What would it be if in every one of those 
school districts which we now count by annually increasing 
thousands, there were to be found one teacher well-informed 
without pedantry, religious without bigotry or fanaticism, 
proud and fond of his profession, and honored in the discharge 
of its duties ! How wide would be the intellectual, the moral 
influence of such a body of men ! Many such we already 
have amongst us — men humbly wise and obscurely useful, 
whom poverty cannot depress, nor neglect degrade. But to 
raise a body of such men, as numerous as the wants and 
dignity of the country demand, their labors must be fitly re- 
munerated, and themselves and their calling cherished and 
honored . 

The schoolmaster's occupation is laborious and ungrate- 
ful ; its rewards are scanty and precarious. He may indeed 
be, and he ought to be animated by the consciousness of doing 
good, that least of all consolations, that noblest of all motives. 



U0 THE AMERICAN SCHOOLMASTER. 

But that, too, must be often clouded by doubt and uncertain- 
ty. Obscure and inglorious as his daily occupation may ap- 
pear to learned pride or worldly ambition, yet to be truly 
successful and happy, he must be animated by the spirit of 
the same great principles which inspired the most illustrious 
benefactors of mankind. If he bring to his task high talent 
and rich acquirements, he must be content to look into dis- 
tant years for the proof that his labors have not been wasted—- 
that the good seed which he daily scatters abroad does not 
fall on stony ground and wither away, or among thorns to be 
choked by the cares, the delusions, or the vices of the world. 
Indeed, such a schoolmaster must solace his toils with the 
same prophetic faith that enabled the greatest of modern 
philosophers, amidst the neglect or contempt of his times, to 
regard himself as sowing the seeds of truth for posterity and 
the care of Heaven. He must arm himself against disap- 
pointment and mortification, with a portion of the same noble 
confidence which soothed the greatest of modern poets when 
weighed down by care and danger, by poverty, old age, and 
blindness, still 

" in prophetic dream he saw 

The youth unborn, with pious awe, 
Imbibe each virtue from his sacred page." 

He must know and he must love to teach his pupils, not 
the meagre elements of knowledge, but the secret and the 
use of their own intellectual strength, exciting and enabling 
them hereafter to raise for themselves the veil which covers 
the majestic form of truth. He must feel deeply the reverence 
due to the youthful mind fraught with mighty, though unde- 
veloped energies and affections, and mysterious and eternal 
destinies. Thence he must have learnt to reverence himself 
and his profession, and to look upon its otherwise ill-requited 
toils as their own exceeding great reward. 

If such are the difficulties and the discouragements— such 
the duties, the motives, and the consolations of teachers who 
are worthy of that name and trust, how imperious then the 
obligation upon every enlightened citizen who knows and 
feels the value of such men, to aid them, to cheer them, and 
to honor them ! But let us not be content with barren honor 
to buried merit. Let us prove our gratitude to the dead by 
faithfully endeavoring to elevate the station, to enlarge the 



Usefulness, and to raise the character of the schoolmaster 
amongst us. Thus shall we best testify our gratitude to the 
teachers and guides of our own youth, thus best serve our 
country, and thus, most effectually diffuse over our land light, 
and truth, and virtue. — »Verplanck. 



SEED TIME AtfD HARVEST, 

As o'er his furrowed fields which lie 
Beneath a coldly-dropping sky, 
Yet chill with winter's melted snow, 
The husbandman goes forth to sow ; 

Thus, Freedom, on the bitter blast 
The ventures of thy seed we cast, 
And trust to warmer sun and rain, 
To swell the germ, and fill the grain. 

Who calls thy glorious service hard ? 
Who deems it not his oWn reward ? 
Who for its trials, counts it less 
A cause of praise and thankfulness 1 

It may not be our lot to wield 
The sickle in the ripened field ; 
Nor ours to hear, on summer eves, 
The reaper's song among the sheaves } 

Yet where our duty's task is wrought 
In unison with God's great thought) 
The near and future blend in one, 
And whatsoever is willed is done ! 

And ours the grateful service whence 
Comes, day by day, the recompense ; 
The hope, the trust* the purpose stayed, 
The fountain and the noonday shade. 

And were this life the utmost span, 
The only end and aim of man, 
Better the toil of fields like these 
Than Waking dream and slothful ease. 



U% VEGETABLE BlAmJlUSfl. 

But life, though falling like our grain, 
Like that revives and springs again ; 
And, early called, how blessed are they 
Who wait in heaven their harvest-day ! 

Whittiee. 



VEGETABLE MANURES. 

What may be affirmed generally of vegetable substances 
for manure ? 

There is no plant that grows, but what contains the ele- 
ments for its own reproduction at least, and when reduced to 
the simple substances of which it is composed, will subserve 
that end. And. there is so much similarity in the composi- 
tion of the vegetable kingdom generally, that all plants may 
answer a good purpose, when in a decayed state for manures, 
although some are much better than others, both on account 
of the ingredients of which constructed, and the abundance 
in which they can be procured. Organic vegetable matters 
in various conditions, constitute the largest part of manure 
in use. 

What is said of hay, straw, and chaff, as manure ? 

When they are ploughed into the soil, they are slow in 
decomposing, and act more slowly than when previously fer- 
mented. The question of applying straw without previous 
decomposition, is, in practice, only a question of time. It is 
doubtless true that it furnishes about the same amount of 
manure in both cases ; but in the one case it has more speedy 
and powerful, and in the other a more prolonged effect. The 
more common way, and probably on the whole, the prefera- 
ble one, is to mix these substances with animal excrements 
in the barn»yard # % 

What does chemical analysis show us ? 

It shows us that all plants, and all the products of plants 
are resolvable into a small number of simple bodies in various 
states of combination ; and, that these bodies when disin- 
tegrated may and will go into the composition of other plants, 
if mixed in the soil as a manure. 

What is said of saw dust for manure? 

Saw dust has been highly recommended, because it mixes 
readily with other substances, whether animal or vegetable. 



VEGETABLE HAXUBSS. U3 

t is a peculiarly good absorbent of the gases and of liquid 
manures ; and, as serviceable in rendering stiff and clayey 
lands loose and mellow. The objection to it is, a long time 
is wanted for saw dust to ferment, and of course, is not felt 
by the soil as a fertilizing agent for a year or two. 

In wJtat respect is charcoal valuable far manure? 

Charcoal is not so useful to the soil on account of any 
element it may furnish the soil, as by an intermediate agency 
of absorbing gases and neutralizing offensive odors. As an 
absorbent it is especially valuable for holding and preserving 
those volatile matters, which plants require, and which might 
otherwise make their escape and be lost. However, it evolves 
carbonic acid in its decomposition, and is in this way directly 
useful to vegetable growth. And being also a powerful 
antiseptic it keeps the soil free from putrefying substances, 
that might bring disease on the spongelets, and hence it keeps 
the plant in a healthy and vigorous condition. Pulverized 
charcoal is frequently of great service about the trunks of 
fruit trees. 

What is said of wood ashes for manure ? 

It is apparent that the ashes of vegetables consist of such 
elements as are always required for the perfect growth of 
plants, and, must hence furnish one of the best saline ma- 
nures which can be had. They contain all the inorganio 
substances that enter into vegetable composition, and usually 
in the right proportion, being much the same to the nourish- 
ment of the plant, that milk is to the nourishment of an ani- 
mal. They should never be wasted, and if purchased at fair 
prices are a cheap manure. 

What is said of leached ashes ? 

They are indeed less valuable than before having been 
subjected to the process of being leached, yet contain all the 
elements of the unleached, having been deprived of only a 
part of their potash and soda. They may be drilled into the 
soil with roots and grain, sown broadcast on meadows or pas- 
tures, or mixed with the muck-heap. They are good on all 
soils, varying from twenty to fifty bushels to the acre. 

Are coal ashes of value for manure ? 

Some have esteemed them of no value ; not worth the 
labor of preserving them ; but it is now more generally ad- 
mitted that the ashes of both anthracite and bituminous coal 
axe of considerable value, although less so than those made 



114 VEGETABLE MANTEE8. 

from wood and the smaller vegetables. They should, there- 
fore, be saved and applied to the soil. If they contain cinders 
from not having been thoroughly burned, they are more 
suitable to light, than to heavy soils. 

What is said of the value of peat ashes ? 

Sir Humphrey Davy did not consider soils as coming 
under the denomination of peat, unless consisting of vegetable 
fibre to one half their bulk. It is evident, therefore, that 
ashes of peat must be valuable from this fact, as well as from 
the mineral substances in the earthy parts of it. If it does 
not become perfectly reduced to ashes, it will make a benefi- 
cial dressing to the soil. It is better to reduce peat to ashes, 
than to attempt mixing it with the soil without being burnt, 
especially if it be at a distance from the land that is to re- 
ceive it. 

If not reduced to ashes, how sltould peat be used for 
manure ? 

It may be decomposed by long exposure to the air, or by 
mixing it with quicklime. But it is better to carry it to the 
barn-yard, and cover it over with the dung ; or to mix it 
with the dung in alternate layers. In this case it should be 
previously dried by the sun and wind, and then not be used 
in too large quantities. When the fermentation has arrived 
at blood heat, the mass should be turned over into another heap. 

How is sea-weed prized for manure ? 

In places where it can be had it is esteemed of much im- 
portance, although transient in its effects. The most con- 
venient method of using it, is to convey it directly to the land 
and apply it fresh, as a top dressing to the growing crops. 
If left in a heap by itself, its more soluble parts are exhaled, 
and a dry, fibrous matter alone remains. If, therefore, it is not 
applied in its recent state, it should be formed into a com- 
post with dung, or with a mixture of dung and earth. Sea- 
weed may also be burned to ashes and applied to the soil like 
wood ashes. This is preferable if the weed is far distant 
from the land where it is to be used. 

How are green crop manures described ? 

Sometimes a crop of clover is ploughed under and com- 
pletely buried up, where fermentation soon succeeds, and the 
elements again mix with the soil. Buckwheat and other 
seeds are sometimes sown, and ploughed under in the same 
manner. The period at which the plants are ploughed down, 



VEGETABLE MANURES. ]|5 

is 'when they hare come into flower, for then they contain 
the largest quantity of readily soluble matter, and have the 
least exhausted the nutrient substance of the soil. 

What is said of green crop manure ? 

The practice of applying it has been long known and not 
a little used, and is pronounced of great service. Neverthe- 
less, it is chiefly suited to the warmer countries where vege- 
tation is very rapid. In colder countries where we are able 
to raise food of any kind, it is better that we apply it in the 
first place to the feeding of animals, for then it not only yields 
manure, but performs the no less important purpose of afford- 
ing food. If persons have more clover than they need for 
hay, it is doubtless better to plough it under than to let it rot 
on the surface. 

How are leaves valued as a manure ? 

The opinion of agriculturists is divided in regard to the 
utility of them. Some esteeming them scarcely worth the 
labor of collecting them, and others esteeming them of great 
value. 

Winch of these opinions is most worthy of attention ? 

They are evidently deserving more general regard than 
they receive. The prejudice by some entertained against 
them is based on the small amount of substance in a single 
leaf, or in a given volume without reference to the weight, 
not considering that a ton of leaves when reduced to their 
original elements, may contain as much fertilizing matter as 
a ton of other vegetable substances. 

How does it conclusively appear that leaves are valuable ? 

From the fact that the soil is never impoverished by na- 
tural vegetation. What is there to enrich the soil in the 
dense forest where has been a successive growth of trees for 
thousands of years, except the leaves which annually fall and 
mix with it ? In this way nature is constantly enriching the 
soil. The soil becomes impoverished only by cultivation 
and removing from it the plants which it had produced. 
And, it is known that nursery men prefer the mold from the 
forest, which is mainly the product of leaves, to any other 
soil. A farmer in the neighborhood of a forest never need 
fear a deficiency of manure, if he will apply himself to the 
collection of leaves. 

What is the best mode of collecting and using leaves? 

They should be collected in the morning when a heavy 



H5 VEGETABLE MANURES. 

dew is on them, or immediately after a fall of rain ; other- 
wise it will be difficult to confine them in a cart. For the 
purpose of gathering them up, a common rake may be used. 
An iron one is better. They make excellent litter for hogs ; 
and in one week's time a single hog will so trample and tear 
them to pieces and mix them with his own excrements, that 
it would not be easy to tell of what the mass had been com- 
posed ; so that in a week or ten days a new supply will be re- 
quired. The process is hastened by throwing in daily upon 
them a few handfuls of shelled corn. In this way a hog will 
make perhaps manure enough to pay for his feed. Leaves 
are also good for the litter of horses and cattle, absorbing the 
urine and mining with the dung they soon ferment and de- 
cay. Or they may be at once mixed with the compost heap. 

What is said of muck ? 

Muck, which is the black earthy substance obtained from 
swamps, and other low lands, is of incalculable richness for 
a fertilizing agent. It being composed of decayed leaves, 
roots, and branches of trees, and the saline substances washed 
upon it and mixed with it from the surrounding uplands, it is 
one of the best substances for manure a farmer can have. It 
is like a mine of gold or silver from which he may at plea- 
sure extract the most unfailing elements of wealth. With 
such a mine within his reach and at his control, he need not 
be poor. His prosperity is in his own hands. 

What is said of the mud of rivers and fords for com* 
post manure ? 

It has much the same to recommend it that muck has ; 
and in addition to what has been collecting for ages from a 
drain of the adjacent uplands, there are in it the organic re- 
mains of fish, shells, reptiles, and water fowls. A moment 
of reflection must satisfy any one that here may be found, es- 
pecially at the bottom of ponds having no deep outlet for the 
escape of what is thus deposited, substances of the richest 
material for improving the soil. It is generally easy in dry 
seasons, so to drain mill-ponds especially, as to make tnese 
substances available. 

What is said of sods or turf for manure? 

It is clear that here may be found a large amount of the 
roots of grasses and other decayed vegetable substances ; 
here, too, have been deposited animal excrements ; so that 
the entire sod is capable of being converted, in a well pre- 



A0XICULT1TRE AHJ> THE HOMESTEAD. 117 

pared compost heap, into a manure of great energy. Often- 
times by the road side, or other waste places, particularly by 
fences which cannot be cultivated, large quantities of turf 
may be obtained. Instances might be named, where hun- 
dreds of loads are annually collected, and then mixed with 
lime, making in the following season one of the best fertilizers. 

What is the design of compost manures ? 

Composts are an artificial mixture of vegetable or animal 
matters, with earthy or mineral substances, and may be 
profitably resorted to in two contingencies — -first, to arrest and 
detain, for useful purposes, fertilizing matters which might 
otherwise be wasted and lost, as the urine of animals, or the 
gaseous matters which are evolved from animal or vegetable 
substances while undergoing fermentation ; and, secondly — 
to render soluble, or available as the food of plants, matters 
which are not already so, as muck, woody fibre, and the like. 



AGRICULTURE AND THE HOMESTEAD. 

Let us say a word on the importance of the pursuits of the 
husbandman. What rank does agriculture hold, in the 
scale of usefulness among the pursuits of civilized communi- 
ties ? We shall arrive at a practical answer of the question 
by considering, that it is agriculture which spreads the great 
and bountiful table, at which the mighty family of civilized 
man receives his daily bread. Something is yielded by the 
chase, and much more by the fisheries ; but the produce of 
the soil constitutes the great mass of the food of a civilized 
community, either directly in its native state, or through the 
medium of the animals fed by it, which become, in their 
turn, the food of man. In like manner, agriculture furnishes 
the material for our clothing. Wool, cotton, flax, silk, 
leather, are the materials, of which nearly all our clothing is 
composed ; and these are furnished by agriculture. In pro- 
ducing the various articles of clothing, the manufacturing 
arts are largely concerned, and commerce, in the exchange 
of raw materials and fabrics. These, therefore, to a consider- 
able degree, rest on agriculture, as their ultimate foundation ; 
especially as it feeds all the other branches of industry. 

Agriculture seems to be the first pursuit of civilized man. 
It enables him to escape from the life of the savage, and the 
wandering shepherd, into that of social man, gathered into 



Hg AGRICULTURE AND THE HOMESTEAD. 

fixed communities and surrounding himself with the comforts 
and blessings of neighborhood, country, and home. The 
savage lives by the chase, — a precarious and wretched inde- 
pendence. The Arab and the Tartar roam, with their flocks 
and herds, over a vast region, destitute of all those refine- 
ments which require for their growth the features of a per- 
manent residence, and a community organized into the 
various professions, arts, and trades. They are found now, 
after a lapse of four thousand years, precisely in the same 
condition in which they existed in the days of Abraham. It 
is agriculture alone, that fixes men in stationary dwellings, 
in villages, towns, and cities, and enables the work of civili- 
zation, in all its branches to go on. 

Agriculture was held in honorable estimation, by the 
most enlightened nations of antiquity. In the infancy of 
commerce and manufactures, its relative rank among the 
occupations of men was necessarily higher than now. The 
patriarchs of the ancient Scripture times cultivated the soil. 
Abraham was very rich in cattle, in gold, and in silver. 
Job farmed on a very large scale : he had seven thousand 
sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen, 
and five hundred she-asses. In Greece, the various improve- 
ments in husbandry, the introduction of the nutritive grains, 
and the invention of convenient instruments for tilling the 
soil, were regarded as the immediate bounties of the gods. 
At a later period, land was almost the only article of 
property ; and those who cultivated it, if they were freemen, 
were deemed a more respectable class than manufacturers or 
mechanics, who were mostly slaves. 

Among the Romans, agriculture was still more respected 
than among the Greeks. In the best and purest times of 
the republic, the most distinguished citizens the proudest 
patricians, lived on their farms, and labored with their own 
hands. Cato the censor was both a practical and a scientific 
farmer, and wrote a treatise on the art ; and, who has not 
heard of Cincinnatus ? When the Sabines had advanced 
with a superior army to the walls of the city, at the earnest 
request of the people he left his plough, and was made 
dictator. And, after having raised an army and defeated 
the enemy, in sixteen days, laid down the dictatorship which 
he was authorised to hold for six months, and on the seven- 
teenth day got back to his farm. 



AGRICULTURE AND THE HOMESTEAD. 119 

On the destruction of the Roman empire, the feudal sys- 
tem arose in Europe, a singularly complicated plan of mili- 
tary despotism. In this system, the possession of the land 
was made the basis of military defence of the country. The 
king was the ultimate proprietor ; and apportioned the terri- 
tory among the great lords, his retainers. Those who culti- 
vated the soil were slaves, the property of their lord, and 
were bought and sold with the cattle which they tended. 
Sir Walter Scott, in describing, with his graphic pen, one of 
this class of the former population of England, after depict- 
ing the other peculiarities of his costume, says, there wan 
about his neck a brass ring, resembling a dog's collar, but 
without any opening, having been soldered fast ; so loose an 
to form no impediment to his breathing ; yet so tight as to 
be incapable of being removed, except by the use of the file. 
On the collar was engraved the name of the wearer, and a 
record denoting, that he was a born thrall, or slave. 

The first and lowest in the scale of those, by whom the 
soil is now cultivated in Europe, are the serfs of Russia. In 
the different provinces of this vast empire, about thirty 
millions of souls, nearly the entire population employed in 
husbandry, are found almost exactly in the state which has 
already been described, under the feudal system. Some 
ameliorations have been introduced in some provinces, and 
not in others ; and in the south-western portions of the 
empire, as Gourland and Livonia, principally settled by 
Germans, the system of actual slavery has been abolished by 
law. But with these local exceptions, the Russian peasantry 
continue the property of the land owner, and may be sold by 
him with or without the land, as he pleases. He has power 
to give or sell them their freedom, and power to keep them 
in slavery ; the power to chastise them, and to imprison 
them ; and in all respects to dispose of them, with the excep- 
tion of taking life, or preventing their being enlisted in the 
army. But when a draft is ordered by the government, the 
landlord directs who shall march. 

The wealth of the great landholder is estimated by the 
number of his peasants; and individuals in the Russian 
empire are named, who possess a hundred thousand and 
even a hundred and twenty thousand slaves. Each indi- 
vidual peasant, of either sex, is bound from the age of fifteen 
to pay the avrock, or capitation tax, of about four dollars per 



120 AGWCULTUW5 AND THE HOMESTEAD. 

annum. This is taken in lieu of performing three day's 
labor, in each week, to which the landlord is entitled by law. 
In addition to this, the serf has to account to his lord for a 
certain part of all his produce ; and besides all, he is subject 
to the government taxes. If the peasant chooses to make an 
offer to rise above his condition, he must apply to his lord for 
permission to leave the spot where he was born, and pursue 
some other trade. If this, occupation be a more lucrative 
one, his annual tax is proportionably increased. Such' is the 
condition of the entire civilized portion of the Russian 
empire ; and it is needless to state, that it places this portion 
far below the wild Tartars, who own a nominal subjection 
to the Russian sceptre, and pay a trifling tribute for the 
privilege of roaming their remote steppes, unmolested and 
free. 

On the continent of Europe, when the servitude of the 
feudal system was broken up, the peasants became tenants 
by the halves ; and such are a considerable portion of the 
cultivators of the soil, at the present day. It was calculated 
that in France, before the revolution, seven eighths of the 
agricultural population were of this class. The revolution 
has greatly increased the number of small proprietors, in 
consequence of the sale of the estates of emigrants, and of the 
public domain ; but one half of the cultivators of the soil, it 
is supposed, are still tenants at the halves. Such a tenancy 
is not wholly unheard of in this country. The estates in 
Lombardy, and in some parts of Italy, are cultivated in this 
way. The terms of the contract between the landlord and 
the tenant are not uniform ; in some cases a third, and in 
others a half of the produce belongs to the landlord. In 
some cases, the tenant has a property in the lease, which 
descends to his children ; in others, he is a tenant at will ; 
in others, the leases are periodically renewed at short inter- 
vals. 

But, however the details may vary, the system resolves 
itself, in the main, into a general system of tenancy at the 
halves. It is considered highly unfavorable to the improve- 
ment of agriculture. There is a constant struggle, on the 
side of each party, to get as much as possible out of the land, 
with the least possible outlay. The tenant has no interest in 
using the stock with care and prudence, as this is to be re- 
plenished by the landlord. In France, the effect of this 



AGRICULTURE AMD THE HOMESTEAD. \^\ 

system is acknowledged by the best writers in that country 
to be pernicious. A better account of it is given in Lorn- 
bardy. There the tenant has the whole of the clover, and 
divides only the wheat, Indian corn, flax, wine, and silk. 
The landlord advances nothing but the taxes. 

It has been a question much debated in England, 
whether a system of this kind, by which the laud is princi- 
pally held in large farms belonging to the aristocracy of the 
country, and cultivated by the tenants on lease, is more 
favorable to the improvement of agriculture than the multi- 
plication of small iarms. It has been urged that the great 
and expensive improvements in farming, cannot take place 
without great capital, which can only be furnished by large 
proprietors. It is these alone, who reclaim wastes-— convert 
sandy plains into fertile fields— drain extensive fens — or shut 
out the sea from large tracts of meadow. All this is true ; 
but where great improvements are made by the application 
of large amounts of capital ; the return is not to the tenant, 
but to the capitalist. 

A judicious operation upon a poor soil may turn it into a 
good one — the soil may produce twice as much as it did 
before ; but the rent, in that case will be doubled. The 
landlord has doubled his capital ; but it will depend on other 
circumstances, whether any beneficial change is produced in 
the condition of the tenant. The neighborhood, it is true, 
will be improved by the new creation of property — the popu- 
lation will increase — and, indirectly, every individual will 
be improved, by living in a larger community ; but, directly, 
I cannot perceive that the tenant is benefited ; inasmuch as 
it is plain, that precisely as the land is rendered more pro- 
ductive, the rent increases. 

As the landed interest in England is the main interest 
of the country, and the accumulation of large estates in land 
is the most important element in their system, everything is 
made to favor this mode of cultivating the land, and the 
small proprietor labors under great disadvantages. Wher- 
ever he moves, he has a wealthy rival to contend with, able 
to overbid and undersell him ; and as things now are in 
England, it is very possible that the condition of the tenant 
in that country is more desirable than the small farmer. 
But this, I conceive, proves nothing in the argument, 
whether the condition of the tenant or the proprietor of a 
6 



1^2 AGRICULTURE AND THE HOMESTEAD. 

small farm is to bo preferred. It is, in fact, justly made a 
leading objection to the English system of tenancy, by a 
learned French writer, that it tends to the extermination of 
the small proprietors, and to reduce the cottagers, peasants, 
and all those by whom, under whatever name, the labor of 
cultivation is performed, to a state of abject and servile 
dependence. 

In a country like our own, where every man's capacity, 
industry, and good fortune, are left free, to work their way 
without prejudice, as far as possible ; there will be among 
the agricultural, as well as among the commercial popula- 
tion, fortunes of all sizes ; from that of the man who owns 
his thousand acres — his droves of cattle — his flocks of sheep 
— his range of pastures — his broad fields of mowing and 
tillage* — down to the poor cottager who can scarce keep his 
cow over the winter. There will always be, in a popula- 
tion like ours, opportunities enough for those who cannot own 
a farm, to hire one ; and for those who cannot hire one, to 
labor in the employment of their neighbors, who need their 
services ; and when we maintain that it is for the welfare of 
the society, that the land should be cultivated by an inde- 
pendent yeomanry, who own the soil they till, we mean only 
that this should be the general state and condition of things, 
and not that there should be no such thing as a wealthy 
proprietor, whose lands, in the whole or in part, are culti- 
vated by a tenant ; no sucji thing as a prudent husbandman 
taking a farm on a lease ; or an industrious young man, 
without any capital but his hands, laboring in the employ of 
his neighbor. 

There is no way in which a calm, orderly and intelligent 
exercise and control of political power can be assured to the 
people, but by a distribution among them, as equally as 
possible, of the property of the country ; and I know no 
manner, in which distribution can be effected, legally, per- 
manently, and peacefully, but by keeping the land in small 
farms, suitable to be cultivated by their owners. Under 
such a system, and under no other, the people will exercise 
their rights with independence. The assumption of a right 
to dictate, will be frowned at, if attempted ; and even the 
small portion of the people who may be tenants, will possess 
the spirit and freedom of the proprietors. But when the 
great mass of the land is parcelled out into a few immense 



AGftlCtFLTtTlLE AttD THB HOMESTEAD. J23 

tracts, cultivated by a dependent tenantry, the unavoidable 
consequence is a sort of revival of the feudal ages, when the 
great barons took the field against each other at the head of 
their vassals* 

But, I own, it is not even on political grounds, that I 
think our system of independent rural freeholders is most 
strongly entitled to the preference. Its moral aspect; its con- 
nexion with the character and feelings of the yeomanry give 
it, after all, its greatest value. The man who stands upon 
his own soil ; who feels that the laws of the land in which 
he lives — by the law of civilized nations — he is the rightful 
and exclusive owner of the land which he tills, is, by the 
constitution of our nature, under a wholesome influence, not 
easily imbibed from any other source. He feels — other 
things being equal — more strongly than another, the charac- 
ter of man as the lord of the inanimate world. Of this 
great and wonderful sphere, which, fashioned by the hand of 
God, and upheld by his power, is rolling through the heavens, 
a portion is his : — his, from the centre to the sky. It is the 
space, on which the generation before him moved in its 
round of duties ; and he feels himself connected by a visible 
link, with those who preceded him, as he is, also, to those 
who will follow him, and to whom he is to transmit a home. 

Perhaps the farm of this man has come down to him 
from his fathers. They have gone to their last home ; but 
he can trace their footsteps over the daily scene of his labors. 
The roof which shelters him, was reared by those to whom 
he owes his being. Some interesting domestic tradition is 
connected with every enclosure. The favorite fruit tree was 
planted by his father's hand. He sported, in his boyhood, by 
the side of the brook, which still winds through his meadow. 
Through the field, lies the path to the village school of his 
earliest days. He still hears from his window, the voice of 
the Sabbath bell, which called his father and his forefathers 
to the house of God ; and near at hand is the spot where he 
laid his parents down to rest, and where he trusts, when his 
hour is come, he shall be dutifully laid by his children. 
These are the feelings of the owner of the soil. Words 
cannot paint them ; gold cannot buy them ; they flow out of 
the deepest feelings of the heart ; they are the life spring of 
a fresh, healthy, generous national character. 



124 AGRICULTUHE AND THE HOMESTEAD. 

The history and experience of the world illustrate this 
power. Who ever heard of an enlightened race of serfs, 
slaves, or vassals ? How can we wonder at the forms of 
government which prevail in Europe, with such a system of 
monopoly in the land, as there exists ? Nothing hut this 
explains our own history ; clears up the mystery of the Revo- 
lution ; and makes us fully comprehend the secret of our own 
strength. Austria or France must fall, whenever Vienna or 
Paris is seized by a powerful army. But what was the loss 
of Boston or New York, in the Revolutionary war, to the 
people of New England ? The moment the enemy set foot 
in the country, he was like the hunter going to the thicket, 
to rob the tigress of her young. The officers and soldiers of 
the Revolution were farmers and sons of farmers, who owned 
the soil for which they fought ; and many of them, like the 
veteran Putnam, literally left their ploughs in the furrow, to 
hasten to the field. The attempt to conquer such a popula- 
tion, is as chimerical, as it would be to march an army down 
to the sea-shore, in the bay of Fundy, when the tide is roll- 
ing in seventy feet high, in order to beat back the waves 
with their bucklers. 

There are other countries that surpass us in wealth and 
power ; in military strength ; in magnificence, and the dis- 
play of the expensive arts ; but none, which can justly lay 
claim to that glorious character — a free and happy common- 
wealth ; none in which the image of a state, sketched by the 
fancy of the philosophic poet, is so beautifully realized — 

" What constitutes a state ? 
Not high-raised battlement, and labored mound, 

Thick wall on moated gate ; 
Not cities proud, with spires and turrets crowned ; 

Not bays and broad-armed ports, 
Where, laughing at the storm, proud navies ride ; 

Not starred and spangled courts, 
Where low-browed baseness wafts perfumes to pride- 
No ! men ! high-minded men, 

Men who their duties know, 
But know their rights ; and knowing, dare maintain ; 

Prevent the long-aimed blow, 
And crush the tyrant while they rend the chain ;— 

These constitute a state, 



AGRICULTURE Df MARYLAND. 12§ 

And sovereign law, that state's collected will, 

O'er thrones and globes elate, 
Sits empress, crowning good, repressing ill." 

Address, Massachusetts Agricultural Society, 1833, by 
Hon. Edward Everett, LL. D. 



AGRICULTURE IN MARYLAND. 

It has been very much the fashion of late, with a certain 
elass of writers, whose views are readily adopted by the un- 
thinking multitude, to decry the state of agriculture among 
us. Maryland and Virginia are usually selected, by way of 
illustration. A few half-observed facts are hastily collected, 
dignified with the name of statistics, and in defiance of the 
true principles of the Baconian philosophy, made the founda- 
tion of a comprehensive theory. A stranger, who has never 
visited our cheerful firesides, seen our well-tilled fields, or en- 
joyed the elegant hospitality of our refined and enlightened 
people, has no conception of our true condition. He has been 
taught to believe that poverty grass, broom straw and old field 
pines, constitute our chief productions. And because our 
population has not kept pace with that of the manufacturing 
States of the East, or the new and teeming West, we are 
supposed to have reached a premature decay, exhibiting a 
melancholy picture of homes abandoned, flocks dispersed, 
and lands desolate and uncultivated. 

Moral and political philosophers, eager to build a system, 
taking this to be our true condition, immediately set about to 
account for it. Some, with ready zeal in the cause of a sen- 
timental philanthropy, find this blighting curse in our pecu- 
liar institutions, and the species of labor with which our fields 
are cultivated ; others, who deem our labor the best and most 
productive in the world, trace, with certainty, our supposed 
decline to the grinding influence of Northern monopoly, and 
would find for it an effectual remedy in unlimited free trade ; 
whilst a third class, at the head of which stands the Nestor 
of the agricultural press, attributes it, with equal confidence, 
to the dispersion of our population, and the separation of " the 
plough, the loom, and the anvil," and thinks we can be re- 
lieved from our condition of degrading inferiority, only by an 
"efficient tariff of protection." 



]26 AGRICULTURE EN MARYLAND. 

It is true, our population has not rapidly increased. But 
can this he a subject of astonishment to any well-informed 
and reflecting mind ? Should it not rather he a matter of 
wonder, that notwithstanding the adverse circumstances we 
have had to encounter, hoth our wealth and population have 
been steadily progressive ? Ours are almost exclusively an 
agricultural people, of Anglo-Saxon descent, inheriting that 
strong desire for the possession of land, which distinguished 
our ancestors. The policy of the federal government, by 
throwing open for settlement, almost without money and with- 
out price, our boundless public domain, has encouraged and 
gratified this desire. And those among us, without land or 
the means of purchasing it, have very naturally sought inde- 
pendence by settling on the publio lands in the West ; whilst 
many of our large farmers have been allured from their old 
homes and associations by promises, too often fallacious, of 
greater profits to be derived from the cultivation of the rich 
staples of the South. 

Nor is this all : " Westward the star of empire takes its 
way," and our young men of talent and education, deeming 
the field at home too narrow for their efforts, and burning 
with the strong desire for political distinction, (which, unfor- 
tunately, is far too common in the South,) have rushed in 
countless numbers to the West. Many of them, after a brief 
and fitful struggle for distinction, fall under the pestilence, 
or that more terrible moral scourge, which annually slays its 
thousands ; some, more fortunate, attain to eminence in their 
new homes ; whilst others, after years of absence, return to 
the councils of the nation crowned with honor, and throw into 
the laps of their old, mothers a garland of fame, which, al- 
though it may gratify a generous pride, repays none of the 
treasure expended in fitting them for success in the contests 
of life. 

The industry of a people who have not only sustained, 
without ruin, all these drains upon their resources, but, not- 
withstanding them, have steadily advanced in wealth and 
general improvement, cannot be unproductive. If other evi- 
dence of this fact be required, survey for a moment the 
crowded streets of this great city ;* cast your eyes on the 
noble structures, public and private, that adorn it. Almost 

* Baltimore, 



A SOLILOQUY OF THE CLOUDS. 127 

within the memory of man it was a poor collection of wretched 
huts of fishermen ; now, it is a great emporium, rivalling in 
enterprise the larger cities of the North, and pushing its com- 
merce into every portion of the globe. What created, what 
sustains this noble city ? 

It may be answered, its commerce, its manufactures, its 
arts. But what sustains them ? Who are the customers of 
your merchants, manufacturers and artizans ? If on any fine 
autumnal morning you will look from your heights on that 
beautiful expanse of water, as far as the eye can reach, you 
will see it studded with the white canvas of the moving 
messengers of trade, which, pressing onward, as they near 
their port, crowd upon each other, like trained coursers pant- 
ing for their goal They come freighted with the products of 
agriculture, from the James, the York, the Rappahannock, 
the Potomac, and from the numerous rivers and tributaries of 
your own State, which with ours serve to swell the flood of 
this beautiful inland sea, and to pour into your port the ma- 
terials of a rich and profitable commerce.— Hon. Wil- 
loughby Newton, of Virginia. 



A SOLILOQUY OF THE CLOUDS. 

I bring fresh showers for the thirsting flowers, 

From the seas and the streams ; 
I bear light shade for the leaves when laid 

In their noon-day dreams. 
From my wings are shaken the dews that waken 

The sweet buds every one, 
When rocked to rest on their mother's breast, 

As she dances about the sun. 
I wield the flail of the lashing hail, 

And whiten the green plains under, 
And then again I dissolve it in rain, 

And laugh as I pass in thunder. 

I sift the snow on the mountains below, 
And .their great pines groan aghast ; 

And all the night 'tis my pillow white, 
While I sleep in the arms of the blast ; 

Sublime, on the towers of my skyey bowers, 
Lightning my pilot sits, 



12$ A SOLILOQUY OF THE CLOUDS. 

In a cavern under is fettered the thunder, 

It struggles and howls at fits ; 
Over earth and ocean with gentle motion, 

This pilot is guiding me, 
Lured by the love of the genii that move 

In the depths of the purple sea ; 
Over the rills, and the crags, and the hills, 

Over the lakes and the plains, 
Wherever he dream, under mountain or stream, 

The spirit he loves remains ; 
And I shall the while bask in heaven's blue smile, 

Whilst he is dissolving in rains. 

The sanguine sunrise, with his meteor-eyes, 

And his burning plumes outspread, 
Leaps on the back of my sailing rack, 

When the morning star shines dead. 
As on the jag of a mountain crag, 

Which au earthquake rocks and swings, 
An eagle alit one moment may sit 

In the light, of its golden wings. 
And when sunset may breathe, from the lit sea beneath, 

Its ardors of rest and of love, 
And the crimson pall of eve may fall 

From the depth of heaven above, 
With wings folded I rest, on mine airy nest, 

As still as a brooding dove. 

That orbed maiden, with white fire laden, 

Whom mortals call the moon, 
Glides glimmering o'er my fleece-like floor, 

By the midnight breezes strewn ; 
And wherever the beat of her unseen feet, 

Which only the angels hear, 
May have broken the woof of my tent's thin roof, 

The stars peep behind her and peer ; 
And I laugh to see them whirl and flee, 

Like a swarm of golden bees, 
When I widen the rent in my wind-built tent, 

Till the calm rivers, lakes, and seas, 
Like strips of the sky fallen through me on high, 

Are each paved with the moon and these. 



THE VINE AND THE OAK. 129 

I bind the sun's throne with the burning zone, 

And the moon's with a girdle of pearl ; 
The volcanoes are dim, and the stars reel and swim, 

When the whirlwinds my banner unfurl. 
From cape to cape, with a bridge-like shape, 

Over a torrent sea, 
Sunbeam proof, I hang like a roof, 

The mountains its columns be. 
The triumphal arch, through which I march, 

With hurricane, fire, and snow, 
When the powers of the air are chained to my chair, 

Is the million-colored bow ; 
The sphere-fire above its soft colors wove, 

Whilst the moist earth was laughing below. 

I am the daughter of the earth and water, 

And the nursling of the sky : 
I pass through the pores of the ocean and shores ; 

I change, but I cannot die. 
For after the rain when, with never a stain, 

The pavilion of heaven is bare, 
And the winds and sunbeams with their convex gleams, 

Build up the blue dome of air, 
I silently laugh at my own cenotaph, 

And out of the caverns of rain, 
Like a child from the womb, like a ghost from the tomb, 

I arise and upbuild it again. 

Shelley. 



THE VINE AND THE OAK. 

A vine that hung to an oak in its pride 
And drank the nourishment drawn from its side, 
Grew strong and broad in its coiling height, 
But stronger still in its giddy sight, 
Broke from the oak in an ill-starr'd hour, 
And toss'd its head to display its power ; 
The storm-king gnashed his teeth at the sight, 
And swept it off in retributive might ; 
For the thing that reaches too high and too wide, 
Shall draw the lightning's stroke to its side. 
6» 



130 THE VINE AND THE OAK. ' 

It clung round each tree as it swept along, 
But it passed unheeded by all the throng ; 
None cared to look at a false one so vile 
With bow, or nod, or with welcoming smile, 
And the vine was thrown in its early prime 
Amid nettles and weeds in filth and slime. 

But the oak stood still in its lonely glade 
With its furrowed sides that the vine had made, 
Like the bird that had given its own life's blood 
To cherish and feed its featherless brood, 
The deep winding grooves, like the serpent's track, 
Were pierced by the storm and the sap shrunk back. 
(The mark of guile that it touched in its rise, 
Was the track of a fiend in Paradise ;) 
And soon with a solemn and rustling sound 
The leaves fell withered and dead to the ground ; 
The sun shone forth and the moistening rain 
Was shed upon hill, and dale and plain ; 
The trees put forth their foliage green, 
Nature was dressed in her vernal sheen, 
But the oak stood shorn of its dark green dress, 
The victim cost of a faithless embrace ! 
A beacon to warn a confiding one 
To trust in nought but a cold heart of stone. 

Thus upon earth when the heart's fondest tie 

Is severed by faithlessness, both must die ; 

The union of hearts is the soul's deep well 

Where Truth in her purity loves to dwell, 

As clear and bright in the heart's faithful love 

As the crystal fountain that's floating above. 

When the well is broken the deep clear flood 

Runs bubbling and purpled with streams of blood, 

And Truth in agony shrinking flies 

To her sisters bright, the stars in the skies, 

(The glittering sentinels, night and day 

That watched in the well where their sisters lay.) 

The pledges of love we may never reclaim 
Without perjury, treachery, sin and shame ; 
The bolt that strikes such true friendship apart 



ANIMAL MANURES. J$J 

Comes back to the breast that directed the dart ; 

The strong one may pull down the temple's proud walls, 

But its ruins shall cover them both when it falls. 

Judge Lewis, Pennsylvania. 



ANIMAL MANURES. 

What is said generally of animal manures ? 

Animal substances are better fertilizers than those of 
vegetable origin, on account of their chemical constitution 
and the facility with which they decompose ; thus acting 
more promptly and rapidly ; and they also furnish more ma- 
nure in proportion to their bulk. 

What are the most common animal substances used for 
manures ? 

The liquid and solid excrements of domestic animals; 
night soil, or human excrements usually manufactured into 
what is called poudrette ; guano, or the excrements of sea 
fowls ; the bones of all animals ; all kinds of fish ; and, also 
the flesh, blood, wool, hair, horns, and hoofs of animals. 

What is said of the excrements of horned cattle ? 

They are generally esteemed more valuable than those of 
sheep and horses ; fermenting more slowly on account of the 
smaller quantity of their nitrogen ; but, on this account they 
retain their fertilizing energy longer, and produce more last- 
ing effects" on the soil. They also contain much less heat 
than the dung of the horse, which is in part owing to the 
greater amount of water in them. 

What is said of tJve excrements of the horse ? 

They have more nitrogen than those of horned cattle, 
and consequently are liable to a rapid fermentation ; and in 
a few weeks will lose half of their original weight. On thifi 
account they should as speedily as possible be mixed with 
charcoal, muck, or earth rich with vegetable matters. For 
the same reason, horse dung may to advantage be at once 
ploughed into the soil before fermentation occurs ; and from 
its tendency to ferment and develope heat, it is admirably 
adapted to enter into all composts. 

To what is the animal body compared ? 

To a furnace in which vegetable substances are burned, 
where every thing assumes a gaseous form, and escapes into 



132 



ANIMAL MANURES. 



the atmosphere, with the exception of the inorganic or mine- 
ral constituents of the plants ; these remain in the furnace in 
the form of ashes, whilst from the animal body they are 
evacuated in the faeces and urine. The ashes of the furnace, 
and the faeces and urine of animals, consist of exactly the 
same ingredients. 

Wliat is said of human excrements, as a manure ? 

They are very active, and differ essentially in composition 
from those of all domesticated animals. Their own quality 
probably varies according to the food from which they are 
produced. The excrements voided by human beings who 
live chiefly on animal food, are much more active and effi- 
cient as manure, than those which proceed from persons 
whose food is principally composed of vegetables. 

What is said of the excrements of sheep ? 

They are particularly beneficial to soils containing much 
vegetable matter. The dung placed in the soil, before de- 
composition has taken place, or is voided over it, produces a 
speedy and energetic effect, but is soon exhausted. When 
used abundantly it often gives too much vigor to the first 
crop, and accelerates vegetation in too great a degree. It 
• should, therefore, be used in smaller quantities, both as re- 
gards weight and volume, than any of the other kinds of ma- 
nure. In most cases its action does not extend beyond the 
second crop. 

What is said of the excrements of swine ? 

Although there may be some difference of opinion on the 
subject, it is generally conceded that they form a rich manure. 
Having, however, a strong and unpleasant odor, and often 
imparting a rank taste to crops upon which they are used, it 
is advisable that other manure be used in the culture of roots 
designed for family food. The excrements of swine are colder 
and less inclined to ferment than those even of the cow, and 
should therefore be combined with other manures, or made 
into composts. If hogB are kept supplied with vegetable 
substances with which to mix what falls from them, an 
amount of manure is formed far greater than would have 
been imagined — perhaps equal in value to their ieed — at 
least, till the period of being fattened. 

What circumstances operate to effect the value of dung 
from farm animals ? 

It is effected first, by the season of the year ; second, by 



ANIMAL MANURES. J 33 

the age of the animal; third, by the sex; fourth, by the 
mode of employment ; and fifth, by the kind of food. Ac- 
cordingly the dung voided in warm weather is better than 
that in winter ; that from young animals is not as good ai 
that from older ones ; that from males is better than that 
from females ; that from animals at .work less valuable than 
that from those not laboring ; and, that from those fed on 
grains and seeds better than those fed on straw or hay. 

What is said ofpoudrette ? 

It is a preparation of night soil or human excrements, by 
being mixed with powdered charcoal, half burnt peat, or soil 
which is rich in vegetable matter. Quicklime has some- 
times been used for the same purpose ; but, although it destroys 
the odor, it dissipates at the same time a large portion of its 
ammonia. During the decomposition of night soil, an evolution 
of carbonic acid, ammonia, sulphuretted and phosphuretted 
hydrogen takes place. After the escape of these gases, the 
odoT ceases, and the remainder, when dried, constitutes what 
is sold under the name of poudrette. The odor of recent 
night soil may be destroyed, and the volatile elements re* 
tained, by adding to it gypsum or dilnted sulphuric acid. 

Wliat is said of tlie importance for manure of the hu» 
man liquid excrement ? 

It has been calculated that the urine of one man will 
produce in a single year a sufficient supply of nitrogen for 
the formation of 800 pounds of wheat, or 900 pounds of 
barley ; and, that if all this human excrement were applied 
to the purposes of agriculture, there would be no necessity 
for other animal manures. 

Of what value is t)ie liquid excrement of a cow ? 

This is said to be of even more value than that of the 
human species, because it contains more solid soluble matter, 
oeing not less than 900 pounds in a year, and worth at least 
ten dollars, when guano is sold for twenty dollars per ton, 
being sufficient to manure one acre and a quarter of land. 
The value of the urine of a cow is nearly double that of the 
dung. 

What does Squarry say of human excrements ? 

That the liquid and solid excrement of man used together, 
forms, from its combination of ammonial salts with the phos- 
phates of magnesia and soda, the most valuable compound 
that can be devised, and its extensive use, will confer a double 



234 ANIMAL MAXURS8. 

benefit to the farmer and to the public, as well by the re- 
moval of matter which is now considered as a nuisance, as 
by increasing the produce of the soil. Macaire says that 100 
parts of human urine are equal in the.ir fertilizing power, to 
1300 parts of fresh dung of the horse, or 600 of those of the cow. 

Wherein generally are farmers neglectful of their in- 
terests ? 

In not having their stables, and cattle stalls, and barn- 
yards so constructed as to save the liquid as well as the solid 
excrements of their stock. If they did this in connection with 
other available means for increasing the amount of fertilizing 
agents, rarely would they be under the necessity of purchas- 
ing manure. In this way they would soon double the amount 
of their products. 

What is said oftJie excrements of birds ? 

They are so valuable as fertilizers as to deserve the at- 
tention of every agriculturist. The droppings in the poultry 
yard should never be permitted to be lost. They are worth 
far more than the labor of saving them. And the excre- 
ments of pigeons are particularly valuable. In some parts 
of Europe they are used to advantage for flax crops. The 
dung of birds owes its fertilizing power to the large amount 
of ammonia and phosphates which it contains. To be rendered 
in the highest degree efficacious, it should be mixed with 
other substances before undergoing fermentation. 

What account is given of guano? 

Guano consists principally of the dung of sea birds, and 
is found on islands of the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, in 
tropical latitudes. There are also mixed with it the remains 
of food and the carcasses of these birds, and seals; those 
islands having been their places of resort for rearing their 
young through unknown ages. Here there is but little rain, 
and of course there has been but little loss to the substances 
thus deposited ; and, in some places it is found to the depth 
of fifty or sixty feet. The food of those animals being fish, 
their faces are rich in nitrogen, and consequently of the first 
grade of fertilizing efficacy. 

For what properties are bones valuable ? 

Both for the organic and mineral matters they contain. 
The bones of different animals may differ in their composi- 
tion ; but the phosphate of lime constitutes the greatest pro- 
portion of the matter of dry bones ; the amount being from 



ANIMAL MANURES. jgjg 

forty to sixty per cent, of their weight. Eight pounds of 
bone dust are equal in phosphates to 1000 pounds of hay or 
wheat straw. And the value of bones is additionally valua- 
ble on account of the gelatine and other organic matters in 
their composition. 

How are bones prepared for use as manure ? 

They may be ground or otherwise reduced to powder, or 
small fragments, and then mixed with the soil. They are 
generally boiled before being ground, to extract from them 
their oily substances. This, it has been said, does not di- 
minish their fertilizing power beyond the weight of what 
was removed* In the neighborhood of large cities, where 
bones may be collected in large quantities, there are mills for 
grinding them. Where mills do not exist, bones might be 
crushed, and the fragments put in compost manure heaps. 

What is said of fish as a manure ? 

They become a powerful fertilizer. On the sea coast, 
and in some instances at the mouth of large rivers, where 
found in abundance, they are used for this purpose. The 
most common way is to spread the fish on the surface, and in 
a few days to plough them under. But the better mode is 
to cover them with quicklime, and subsequently to mix them 
with earth. In a short period they are decomposed. Or 
they may be strewed in layers, on compost beds, with peat, 
ashes, slacked lime, charcoal, and vegetable matters. Any 
kind of fish that can be had, and is of but little or no value 
for food, is taken for manure. 

What other animal substances are good for manure? 

The blood, and flesh that has become unfit for food ; ani- 
mals that have died from disease ; the horns and hoofs ; hair 
and wool ; woolen rags, feathers, and old hats ; old shoes and 
boots, and the fragments of leather from the shops of those 
who work it, are all good for manure, and should be carefully 
preserved and mixed in compost heaps. Also the refuse of 
the shambles, filth and all, should be used in the same way. 
The same may also be said of the animal offal of tan-yards. 
English agriculturists consider that five or six hundred pounds 
of the shavings of horn found about the shops of turners and 
comb-makers, and of the hoofs when chopped fine, are suffi- 
cient for an acre of land ; yet more would doubtless be better. 

What is said of the action upon the soil of different 
kinds of animal substances ? 



136 ANIMAL MAXTOAES. 

Animal substances containing much water, as with flesh 
and blood, decay rapidly, and operate immediately and pow- 
erfully; but those which are dry, as horn, wool, and hair, 
decompose and act slowly, and last perhaps several seasons ; 
while bone, like horn, may act for several years, as they are 
very productive of earthy matter. 

How may the value of some animal substances, very 
frequently lost by neglect, be estimated ? 

It is said that the dead body of a cow, ox, or horse, that 
has died from disease, if properly buried in a bed of peat, or 
other similar vegetable substance, will yield at least a dozen 
loads of rich manure. And butchers' offal, when thus pre- 
served and used, will yield ten times its weight of more 
valuable manure than is found in the barn-yard. 

What estimate has been placed on human excrements ? 

If every human being voids annually enough urine to 
manure an acre of ground, then a family of ten persons, if so 
minded, could save enough to enrich ten acres ; and, the in* 
habitants of the city of New York, provided there were 600,- 
000, if means were provided to collect and convert their 
liquid evacuations into manure, would fertilize 600,000 acres 
of land ; which if well cultivated would yield vegetable food 
double the amount for their own consumption ; and enough 
also to rear and fat the farm animals required for their nour- 
ishment. The same estimate may be made of the inhabitants 
of all other localities. 

How might the liquid excrements be best preserved ? 

In the country there should be for each barn, stable, and 
barn-yard, a large cistern or tank for the purpose, of dimen- 
sions to contain all that could be collected. To this there 
should be gutters from the stalls to convey whatever is voided 
from the horned cattle and horses. Into this cistern or tank 
might also be carried in slop pails whatever is taken from the 
chambers of the mansion. Here also, could be deposited the 
soap-suds formed in the various operations of the kitchen. 
The value of what would thus be saved in a single year 
would balance the cost of the fixtures. 

In what other way might they be preserved ? 

In the barn-yard and the cattle stables there might be 
successive coats of vegetable mold placed to receive them ; 
and when sufficiently saturated, to be removed to a compost 
heap, that a new coat may succeed it. And in a retired 



LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF AGRICULTURE. 137 

place at a convenient distance from the mansion, might be a 
heap of this mould, on which daily the chamber slops might 
be emptied ; aud, as frequent as needful, to receive on its 
upper surface, a fresh coat of this mold, so that by the end 
of the year it would contain many cords of the very best of 
manure. 

How might the human liquid "excrements of the city be 
saved ? 

If there were to each house two thirty gallon oil casks 
placed in the yard, to be alternately used for receiving them, 
the process would be simple. Let it be supposed that one 
cask would be filled in the first half of the month. At the 
middle of the month the teams from the neighboring farms 
would simultaneously appear, and in a single night would 
remove these casks from a whole city. From the middle of 
the month to the end of it, the alternate casks would be 
filled ; when the same teams would return with the casks 
they before took, to be again filled, and at the same time 
taking away as before, the ones filled in the two preceding 
weeks. 

How much profit would this probably yield to each 
family ? 

According to the above scheme, each family will have 
filled in the year twenty-four casks, which at five New- York 
shillings each, will be a saving of fifteen dollars to a family 
annually, and more than a million of dollars to the city of 
500,000 inhabitants. At that low price, it is believed, there 
would be the greatest competition for the privilege of obtain- 
ing it, as it would be the cheapest manure to be had. 

What otlier gain would be derived from such a plan ? 
In a few years, if it were fully carried into efFect, the lands 
in the neighborhoods of large cities would become so fertile, 
there would at least double this sum be saved, in the redac- 
tion of the price of summer vegetables and milk, from being 
produced in so much greater quantities. 



LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF AGRICULTURE. 

We live and move in a world of wonders. Every blade 
of grass, every leaf that flutters in the breeze, and every germ 
is an organized and living body. Every plant and vegetable 



138 LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF AGRICULTURE. 

is as capable as the human system of imbibing and digesting 
its appropriate food, and although it becomes me to speak 
with modesty on a subject in which I myself am but a learner, 
yet allow me to say that the application of science to agricul- 
ture has already settled many of the laws that regulate the 
growth of trees and plants, with a certainty approximating 
that which attends the Calculations of the astronomer. 

For instance, by an analysis of wheat, we ascertain the 
ingredients and the food it requires for growth and produc- 
tiveness. We know that it needs phosphate of lime, and 
that it is useless to attempt its cultivation where the soil is 
wholly deficient in this element. Hence we are as compe- 
tent to feed a crop of wheat, as a flock of sheep, or a brood 
of chickens ; but without this knowledge, which science alone 
can furnish, we might apply a kind of manure which would 
be injurious, and perhaps destructive. But, suppose, how- 
ever, such food be not administered, that the ground is pre- 
pared, and the grain sown ; it may flourish for a season, 
because it may find its proper nutriment in the soil, but let 
it be sown year after year, and it will prove less and less 
productive, and ultimately fail. 

It has been the practice of countries producing wine, to 
bury the prunings of the vine at its root; and chemical 
analysis has lately discovered that it contains a large propor- 
tion of potash, which is essential to its growth and produc- 
tiveness. Again, it has long been known, that a tree planted 
in a soil in which one of the same species has previously 
grown, will flourish but poorly. Why is this ? If a chemist 
analyses both the tree and the soil, the former will be found 
to contain, and to require for its growth and fruitfulness, 
elements of which the latter is deficient. Hence we learn 
with what kind of material that soil should be fertilized. We 
have seen instances also, in which barn-yard manure had 
been so abundantly applied, as to retard or prevent vegeta- 
tion, and where sand, gravel, virgin loam or clay, was worth 
more to that soil than these manures ; and we have seen 
other instances in which mineral manures, as lime, had been 
so profusely applied as to lose all efficacy. Why was it ? 
Chemical analysis affords the reply, and discovers to us that 
the soil was surcharged with these elements, and makes 
known the materials and the proportion requisite to revive 
productive energy. 



LIGHTS AMD SHADOWS OF AGRICULTURE. 139 

If by the application of science to agriculture, we can 
fathom the depths of nature, and bring up to the light, for 
the admiration and benefit of mankind, her previously hidden 
treasures, shall we hesitate to do it ? Or, if others, fired with 
greater zeal, and endowed with more ample means, venture 
into the labyrinths of science, explore the springs of nature, 
learn how her curious machinery acts, and then returning, 
unfold and explain her various processes, and teach how to 
practise art more successfully, shall we refuse to avail our- 
selves of the benefits of their labor ? What vast quantities of 
vegetable and mineral manures now lie buried in the earth, 
which might, by the application of these sciences, be appro- 
priated to the fertilization of the soil ! 

By a natural law every tree, plant, and herb, from the 
cedar of Lebanon, to the flag on the Nile ; from the loftiest 
oak of the forest, to the humblest daisy of the meadow ; from 
the fantastic parasite luxuriating in solstitial air, to the little 
flower that peeps from Alpine snows ; every thing endowed 
with vegetable life, requires its own peculiar aliment to sus- 
tain its vigor, and propagate its growth. However varied 
the sustenance may be, and whether derived from earth, air 
or water, if it be withheld, or mixed with uncongenial ele- 
ments, deterioration and decay are inevitable. 

One of the greatest embarrassments of the farmer is the 
want of proper education for his calling. In other arts and 
professions we employ only those who are properly trained for 
their business. The reason is evident. We do not expect 
others to succeed. But why do we not apply the same logic 
and practical sense to agriculture ? We do not encourage an 
uneducated physician or a meohanic who is not master of his 
trade ; why then do we expect men to succeed in farming 
who know no more of the nature of soils, nor of the adapta- 
tion of different species of manures to the various kinds of 
grain, grass, vegetables, and fruits, than they do of the rota- 
tion of day and night, or the seasons in one of the newly 
discovered planets ? 

Why have so many of our sons forsaken the farm, for the 
office, the oounting-room, the warehouse, and the professions ? 
Why 6uch a rush fiy sea and land from the homes of their 
childhood, for the glittering dust of California ? Why have 
they not retained 



140 LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF AORICULTUSE. 

"That fond attachment to the well known place, 
Where first they started into life's long race, 
Which keeps its hold with such unfailing sway, 
We feel it e'en in age at our last day ?" . 

Alas ! what has driven them from the homestead over- 
shadowed by the elms which their fathers planted, and under 
which in their boyhood, they wrought out so many youthful 
wonders ? Nothing, save that lack of interest and skill in 
farming, which would have rendered it as lucrative and 
honorable as other pursuits, and which education alone can 
supply. Such examples which have fallen under our own 
observation, create a demand which I only reiterate, when I 
say that our farmers must be educated. 

" Our fathers," it is said, " were not educated, yet they 
were successful farmers." True, but they possessed advan- 
tages which we cannot enjoy ; then the soil was new, and of 
course more productive ; now when its fertility has been di- 
minished by successive crops, it must be restored and in- 
creased by artificial processes, to the success of which know- 
ledge is indispensable. Besides, the progress of the other 
arts enables men to realize better profits than they then 
received, and corresponding improvements not having been 
made in agriculture, labor has here been less liberally re- 
warded. 

Others insist that common sense alone is needful to be a 
good farmer. Common sense, indeed, such as they recom- 
mend, is a very good thing ; yet, if it were possessed by all, 
why not rely upon it to make skillful mechanics, artists and 
teachers, as well as farmers ? When common sense can 
manufacture a steam engine, construct a rail road, or teach 
mathematics, without education, we may expect it will suc- 
cessfully conduct the operations of the farm. Till then, let 
us not rely upon common sense for miracles, nor offer it as an 
apology for ignorance or idleness. Common sense is as 
valuable as it is rare, but let us remember that it never yet 
made a plough or planted an orchard, till it was properly in- 
structed. » 

Our country boasts of men who have distinguished them- 
selves in arts, letters, and morals ; of men whose fame is our 
inheritance and glory. We are proud of the names of Rit- 
tenhouse in astronomy ; of Franklin in philosophy ; of West, 



LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF AGRICULTURE. f 4f 

AUston and others in the fine arts, and in politics of John 
Hancock, of Patrick Henry, of Samuel Adams, of John 
Adams, and of his illustrious son John Quincy Adams, and 
not least of Fisher Ames, who gives to this town* an enviable 
distinction ; whose hands planted many of the beautiful elms 
that adorn this village, and whose bounty distributed trees 
among his fellow-citizenB, of the fruit of which its present in- 
habitants partake. 

But where are the men whose names will go down to 
posterity honorably associated with these in the art or science 
of agriculture ? True, we might speak of the farmer of Mount 
Vernon, who first called the attention of Congress to this sub- 
ject — of Washington, whose name awakens the most grateful 
sensations in all our hearts; of the farmer of Monticello, 
whose genius first gave proper curvature to the mold board 
of the plough, and whose taste for rural life sought gratifica- 
tion in the perusal of his favorite classics in the bowers of his 
garden, with the earliest songsters of the morning ; of Charles 
Cotesworth Pinckney, and Madison, and of other worthies, 
distinguished in this art, whose names are embalmed in the 
memory of their grateful countrymen. 

At the present time we especially need young men who 
will devote exclusively to agriculture their talents, their for- 
tunes, and their lives, and will rely on posterity to appreciate 
their improvements and discoveries, and to honor their 
memory. And, here the aspirant for fame has a fairer pros- 
pect of distinction, than he can find in any kindred art or 
science ; first, because less progress has been made, and 
secondly, because the successful farmer of New England 
must be well educated for his profession, or he can never 
compete with the cultivator on the prairies and intervals of 
the West. There the soil is new and productive, and nature 
does at present do for him, what education must accomplish 
for us ; and, it is capable of demonstration, that with the aid 
of science, the farmer of Massachusetts can compete success- 
fully either with the southern planter or the western cultivator. 

Nearly one thousand are added to the population of New 
England every week. And how are they to be fed ? By 
the surplus products of the West ? But how are the latter to 
be purchased ? By the proceeds of the arts and manufac- 

*Dedham, Masa. 



|4$ LIGHTS AND SHADOWS Of AGRTCtTLTTftJS. 

tares ? Highly as we prize these handmaids of this art } 
much as they have benefited the farmer in increasing the 
value of his land, and creating a ready home market for his 
productions ; much as we think it the duty of our country to 

Srotect its own industry, and much as we believe that this 
as added to the independence, wealth, and importance of 
Massachusetts ; yet shall the descendants of the Puritans, of 
Brewster, of Endicott, of Winthrop, spurn the chief inheri* 
tance of their fathers, and leave the natural resources of 
wealth and power for the uncertain results of trade and 
manufactures ? No/ A remote remonstrance breaks on my 
ear ! It comes from a thousand cottages and happy firesides ! 
It rings through our Valleys and echoes among the hills. 
No ! ! Our descendants shall range the hills which their 
fathers cultivated ; they shall eat the fruits of their gardens 
and orchards, and shall fling on the passing zephyrs a melo- 
dy in praise of agriculture, sweeter than any songs which 
Grecian or Roman bards ever sung in honor of Ceres. 

There is even in New England, much land to be pos* 
sessed, but it consists not so much of forests to be converted 
into cultivated fields, as of deteriorated land, bogs, and 
meadows to be reclaimed, and of barren hills and plains to 
be fertilized, and covered with waving grass and grain. Fof 
such purposes, science alone is adequate and indispensable » 
Let, then, the immigrants who throng our shores, go and set- 
tle in the far "West ; but let the sons of New England, with 
their muscular frames, industrious habits, and generous hearts, 
divide among themselves the farms of their fathers ; so that 
with less land and higher cultivation, they may be able to say 
with the poet, — » 

" Rough is her soil ; yet blessed in fruitful stores ; 
Strong are her sons, though rocky are her shores ; 
And none, ah ! none, so lovely to my sight, 
Of all the lands that heaven o'erspread with light." 

What wonders has science wrought in other departments 
within the last half century ? With a power and skill almost 
divine, man has seized on the very elements of nature* and 
made them subservient to his will. In obedience to estab- 
lished physical laws, he generates an agent which works for 
him in air, earth, or water ; and from the tips of his fingers, 
with as much ease as one plays on an instrument, he sends 
forth the " winged lightning" to do his bidding. 



AGRICULTURE FAVORABLE TO MORALS, 143 

Bat why should not these agents work for the fanner, as 
well as for the mechanic, the manufacturer, or the navigator ? 
Why should not steam aid in the production of manure, as 
well as in the manufacturing of acids and alkalies ? Doubtless 
it would ere this, if thought, enterprise, and capital had 
sought its application here, with equal zeal and perseverance 
as in other departments of labor ; and we should to-day have 
been driving our ploughs as well as our cars, filling our barns 
as well as our warerooms and storehouses, and expediting the 
various processes of agriculture, as well as those of the other 
arts, by its magic power. 

We may be deemed chimerical, but we have long ago 
ceased to wonder or be surprised at any discovery or inven- 
tion. The improvement of to-day supersedes that of yester- 
day. No project, of whatever magnitude, whether the 
building of a rail road from the Atlantic to the Pacific ; the 
tunnelling of the Rocky Mountains ; the traversing of old 
ocean's bed with the mystic wires, or winding them round 
the globe, is too great for the enterprise of the nineteenth 
century. — Address before the Norfolk Agricultural Society, 
1849, by Hon. Marshall P. Wilder. 



AGRICULTURE FAVORABLE TO MORALS. 

Agriculture, pursued as a mere branch of trade or com- 
merce, or a mere instrument of wealth, will be found to have 
influences upon the mind, narrowing and restricting its opera- 
tions and aspirations, corresponding with any other of the 
pursuits of mere avarice and acquisition, and which even 
those of the learned professions, when pursued wholly with 
such views, are sure to have. But when followed without 
exclusive views to mere gain or profit, it is far from being in- 
compatible with a high state of intellectual cultivation. 
Many of the sciences are the handmaids of agriculture, and 
serve, as well as ennoble it. Its practical pursuit, though it 
occupies, yet it does not exhaust the mind ; but, within cer- 
tain limits, inspirits and invigorates all its faculties. A 
spiritual mind may spiritualize all its operations ; a religious 
mind sees, in its wonderful and curious processes, and their 
marvellous results, many of the adorable miracles of a benefi- 
cent Pre vidence. 



144 AGEICULTUEB FAVORABLE TO MORALS. 

It is believed that the agricultural profession is highly 
favorable to good morals ; I shall not presume to say more 
so, than any other ; but it will not be too much to say more 
so than many others. Perhaps it will be said, that the agri- 
cultural districts of England and other countries yield their 
full -proportion of crime. I will not peremptorily deny what 
is often confidently asserted ; but I am not ready to concede 
to it until other proof than I have yet received, is furnished. 
As far as my own personal observation and experience go, 
my conviction is the reverse of this. Two fruitful sources of 
crime are to be found in excited passions and in powerful 
temptations. Agricultural occupations, so far from exciting, 
tend to exhaust and allay the passions ; and the retirement 
and seclusion of the country present fewer temptations than 
the tumultuous life, the opportunities for vicious association, 
the disorderly hours, and the infinite variety of attractions 
and engagements of city life. 

Among, however, a degraded population, poor and half 
fed, without education, without any interest in the soil, with- 
out friends to take an interest in their welfare, without any 
sentiment of the value of character, without self-respect, ac- 
customed to pass their unoccupied time in drinking-houses 
and in degrading pleasures, and treated and lodged without dis- 
tinction of sex, and without any regard to the common de- 
cencies of life, it is not surprising to find a nursery and hot-bed 
of crime, where it shoots up in startling luxuriance. My 
acquaintance with many of the villages and rural districts of 
England and Scotland, satisfies me that the favorable moral 
influences which might be looked for from rural life and ag- 
ricultural pursuits, are there found in full operation ; and 
under a system of more general and improved education, and 
especially under institutions which would give those encour- 
agements to labor which are the most powerful motives, as 
well as the proper rewards of industry and good conduct, 
these influences might be expected to be even more general. 
Let me speak of a district of country with which I have 
been many years familiar — I mean the State of Vermont ; — 
it is a purely agricultural district ; it contains about three 
hundred thousand inhabitants; its climate is cold and se- 
vere ; its soil, with some exceptions, of moderate fertility,, and 
requiring the brave and strong hand of toil to make it pro- 
ductive. It has public and free schools in every town, and 



AGRICULTURE FAVORABLE TO MORALS. 145 

parish, and several seminaries of learning of a high charac- 
ter, and where the branches of a useful and literary education 
are taught, at an expense so moderate, that it is placed within 
the reach of persons even of the most humble means. It has 
everywhere places of religious worship, of such a variety, that 
every man may follow the dictates of his own conscience, 
where religious services are always maintained with intelli- 
gence and decorum, sustained wholly by voluntary contribu- 
tions ; and sects of the most discordant opinions live in per- 
fect harmony, recognizing in their mutual dependence the 
strongest grounds of mutual forbearance and kindness. 

Taken as a community, the people of Vermont are the 
best informed I have known ; and they have numerous and 
well chosen circulating libraries in almost every town. They 
have no connection with any large market ; and the produce 
which they have for sale goes through intermediate hands to 
the great marts. They have few or no poor, and those only 
the immigrants who may stroll there from neighboring prov- 
inces. The sobriety of the people is remarkable ; they are 
every where a well dressed people ; their houses abound in 
all the substantial comforts and luxuries of life : and their 
hospitality is unbounded. They understand their rights and 
their duties, and have often distinguished themselves by an 
extraordinary bravery and manliness, in their vindication and 
defence. 

No where is public order more maintained, or public 
peace better preserved, than in Vermont ; large portions of 
the inhabitants never bolt a door, nor fasten a window, at 
night; and in a village of some thousand inhabitants, I have 
known a garden stored with delicious fruit, with no other 
fence than one which served as a protection against cattle, as 
entirely secure from intrusion and plunder, as if it had been 
surrounded even with a prison wall. In this State crimes 
are comparatively rare ; courts of penal justice have little oc- 
cupation ; the prisons are often without a tenant, and there 
has scarcely been a public execution for half a century. From 
such an example of a community almost exclusively agricul- 
tural. I have a right to claim for agriculture and rural life, 
all the beneficial moral and social influences to which its en- 
thusiastic admirers pretend. * 

The present excited state of the civilized world ought 
more than ever to call the attention of philanthropic indi- 

7 



146 AGRICULTURE FAVORABLE TO MORALS; 

victuals and of governments to the immense importance of 
agriculture. I have been in France during the exciting 
scenes of political revolution, in which I have seen very 
many thousands of workmen without the means of support 
from their labor, and large bodies of them actually dependent 
on public charity for their daily bread. It is not the danger 
to public liberty and order, growing out of such large unem- 
ployed and destitute multitudes, which so much disturbs me, 
as the actual suffering to which they are exposed, and the 
melancholy future that lies before them. 

In London I have encountered, with an extreme depres- 
sion of heart, thousands of squalled, ragged, miserable poor, 
without resource but from crime or charity. A distinguished 
manufacturer in one of the most industrious counties in En- 
land, states that there are at least five hundred thousand 
operatives without employment, (1848), and many on the 
borders of starvation. Tradesmen and professional men will 
tell you that every trade and profession is over stocked ; and 
one is daily saluted with the melancholy, not to say pre- 
sumptuous exclamation, that there are too many people. 
This reminds one of the sad shipwreck of the French frigate, 
the Alceste, when many of the wretched survivors, who were 
floating upon a raft composed of fragments of the ship, deemed 
it necessary to their own safety to drive by force a large por- 
tion of their suffering companions into the sea — a sa4 and 
horrible alternative. 

Must we affirm, that there are too many people in the 
world ? and that thousands and millions are born into it, for 
whom there is no place at the table of a beneficent Provi- 
dence ? Why, in France there are more than nineteen mil- 
lions of untilled and unoccupied acres, and in England more 
than eight millions, all capable of yielding food and clothing 
to countless human beings ; and here and in other lands there 
are millions of acres, for the want of labor which might be 
applied, that produce not a moiety of what they might be 
made to produce. In ancient Rome, seyen acres were the 
ordinary size of farms, on which a family might be sustained. 
In Flanders, on a soil which was once sterile, but which hu- 
man labor made productive, two and a half acres will give 
ample support for a man and wife, and three children, or 
what is considered equal to three grown up men and a half ; 
and add to it three acres more, which this amount of labor 



AGRICtfLTUKE FAVORABLE TO MORALS. 147 

is more than sufficient to cultivate, and you add a considera- 
ble surplus for other purposes. 

The great cause, then, of the evils complained of, is, that 
the cultivation of the earth is deserted ; and that such in- 
numerable multitudes pour into cities and towns, and, filling 
every profession and every mechanical art and trade, destroy 
each other by a competition in articles of which the demand 
is necessarily limited. There may be too many physicians, 
too many lawyers, and too many ministers, for them all to 
get a sufficient and honest living ; and too many hatters, and 
too many printers, and too many shop-keepers ; for, besides 
that these persons furnish more of a particular article or ser- 
vice than the community require, their work is in general 
only formal ; they only manufacture — they do not produce ; 
they do not, like the grower of bread and clothing, create 
that which may be said to have a substantial and permanent 
value. For when was the time when there was too great an 
abundance of the materials — I mean particularly of those 
which can be kept from year to year — for food and clothing, 
for human subsistence and comfort ? As long as this state of 
things continues, there must be misery in the community ; 
as the population increases, this misery must increase. 

In cities, money becomes the standard of prosperity. 
Wages are paid in money ; money is the instrument of sub- 
sistence, of gain, and of pleasure. Avarice, under these cir- 
cumstances, becomes stimulated to excess, and often leads to 
crime. Men's happiness becomes dependent upon that which 
has no intrinsic, but only an arbitrary value, — ra value which 
is always capricious, and continually changing. If men 
could be induced to cultivate the earth, and, trained to sim- 
ple habits of laborious and rural life, be satisfied with what 
that affords them ; if they would measure their prosperity 
and wealth, not by so many shining pieces of gold or silver, 
which they have hoarded in their closets, but by the produce 
of their 'labor in bread and clothing, and the various and in- 
numerable simple luxuries of life, with which a kind Provi- 
dence so often blesses the labors even of the most humble, 
how changed would be their condition. 

If men could be as well satisfied to breathe the fresh air 
of their native mountains and forests, as the corrupt and pes- 
tilential atmosphere of crowded streets and confined dwell- 
ings, from which both sun and light axe shut out ; as well 



148 AGRICULTURE FAVORABLE TO MORALS. 

content to enjoy the simple and healthful sports of the coun- 
try, as the exciting and exhausting pleasures of city life ; if 
their taste could be better satisfied to contemplate the verdant 
fields, waving with crops or enamelled with flowers, than 
carpeted and gilded halls ; if they could be taught to prefer 
skies painted with clouds of brilliant hues, and studded with 
stars whose lustre never grows dim, to palaces blazing with 
artificial lustres and adorned with the far inferior magnifi- 
cence of man's genius and taste ; if, indeed, by any possible 
means, you could induce men and women, and, above all, 
the young, to love the country ; if, in a word, you could keep 
them in the country by an attachment to its simple labors 
and recreations, and prevent their crowding cities to reple- 
tion, and thus destroying by competition the ordinary profes- 
sions and trades which prevail there, where so many vigorous 
young men, and so many fair and blooming maidens rush in, 
like flies in a summer evening into a blazing taper, to find 
too often the grave of their health, hopes, happiness, and 
virtue, — what an immense gain would be achieved for morals 
and for humanity. 

But while matters continue otherwise, while such mil- 
lions of acres remain unoccupied, while such thousands upon 
thousands crowd into the learned professions, and into the 
mechanic arts and trades, and fill cities to excess, under the 
powerful stimulus of a vain ambition, an inordinate avarice, 
or a love of excitement, luxury, and pleasure as inordinate 
and unrestrained, we shall continue to complain of a supera- 
bundant population ; and that superabundance, wherever the 
wave accumulates, will bring with it crime and misery. The 
decrees of Providence cannot be violated with impunity. 
Every inordinate and unrestrained passion will yield its bit- 
ter fruits. Every infraction of the laws of man's moral con- 
stitution, will be followed with its just and inevitable penalty. 

Competition, which, when excessive, is so hurtful and 
serious in the mechanic arts and trades, is, in agriculture, 
always a good. Under proper management the earth can- 
not be made to produce too much. It is a generally received 
theory, that as yet there has been no surplus produce ; and 
that one year's entire failure of the crops would cause the de- 
struction of the human race. I shall not speculate upon this 
theory, which, possibly may be well founded, but which 
Heaven forbid that it should be put soon to experiment, la 



THE GLADXE88 OF NATURE. 14$ 

some yean there may be a surplus of some products, and 
then there may be a dearth of others. But I have never 
known too much grown. I have never known the great 
mass of mankind enjoying too much bread, or too much 
clothing, or too many of the substantial comforts of life. If 
they get the comforts, or their substantial necessities are sup- 
plied, then certainly we should desire that they should have 
the luxuries of life in addition, — above all, those simple luxu- 
ries which are the produce of their own honest labor, and to 
which that circumstance alone will always give a peculiar 
zest. — Rev. Henry Colman. 



THE GLADNESS OF NATURE. 

Is this a time to be cloudy and sad, 

When our mother Nature laughs around ; 

When even the deep blue heavens look glad, 

And gladness breathes from the blossoming ground ? 

There are notes of joy from the hang-bird and wren, 
And the gossip of swallows through all the day ; 

The ground-squirrel gaily chirps by his den, 
And the wilding bee hums merrily by. 

The clouds are at play in the azure space, 

And their shadows at play on the bright green vale, 

And here they stretch to the frolic chase, 
And there they roll on the easy gale. 

There's a dance of leaves in that aspen bower, 
There's a titter of winds in that beechen tree, 

There's a smile on the fruit, and a smile on the flower, 
And a laugh from the brook that runs to the sea. 

And look at the broad-faced sun, how he smiles 
On the dewy earth that smiles in his ray, 

On the leaping waters and gay young isles ; 
Ah, look, and he'll smile thy gloom away. 

Bryant. 



|50 TH£ VERNAL SHOWER, 

THE VERNAL SHOWER. 

In a valley that I know — 

Happy scene ! 
There are meadows sloping low, 
There the fairest flowers blow, 
And the brightest waters flow 

All serene ; 
But the sweetest thing to see, 
If you ask the dripping tree, 
Or the harvest hoping swain, 
Is the rain I 

Ah the dwellers of the town, 

How they sigh, 
How ungratefully they frown 
When the cloud king shakes his crown, 
And the pearls come pouring down 

From the sky ! 
They descry no charm at all 
Where the sparkling jewels fall^ 
And each moment of the shower, 

Seems an hour ! 

Yet there's something very sweet 

In the sight, 
When the chrystal currents meet, 
In the dry and dusty street, 
And they wrestle with the heat, 

In their might ! 
While they seem to hold a talk. 
With the stones along the walk, 
And remind them of the rule, 

To "keep cool!" 

But in that quiet dell 

Ever fair, 
Still the Lord doth all things well, 
When the clouds with blessings swell, 
And they break a brimming shell 

On the air ; 
There the shower hath its charms, 
Sweet and welcome to the farms, 
As they listen to its voice 

And rejoice ! Rev. Ralph Hott. 



i 



MINERAL MANURES. 15] 

MINERAL MANURES. 

What is said of mineral manures ? 

It is well known that various substances belonging to 
the mineral kingdom are capable of promoting the growth of 
plants. These substances have been termed stimulating 
manure in contradistinction to manures derived from the 
animal and vegetable kingdoms, which are called nutritive 
manures. This distinction, however, was applied before it 
was known that mineral substances are nutritive ; and the 
present theory is, that they act upon the soil by improving 
its texture, or by rendering soluble the parts of it which are 
insoluble,— or by otherwise fitting it to promote the growth 
of plants ; and, that they act immediately upon the plant 
itself, by being received inlo its substance. 

Is the process of this action understood ? 

It may not be fully understood. Nevertheless, it is well 
ascertained, that certain earths, oxides, and alkalies, or 
earths, oxides, and alkalies, combined with acids, pass into 
the substance of the plant, absorbed it may be, in part, from 
the atmosphere, but chiefly, along with the aqueous portion 
of the sap, from the earth in which the roots are fixed. 

What mineral substance is said to be most prominent 
as a manure ? 

Of all mineral substances known to us, lime is that 
which performs the most important part in improving the 
soil and promoting the growth of vegetables. It is found in 
nearly all soils that are capable of sustaining vegetation, and 
in combination with different acids, in nearly all vegetable 
substances. 

What is said of lime in its natural state ? 

Limestone is the natural state of lime, or quicklime, and 
is by chemists called the carbonate of lime — that is quick- 
lime and carbonic acid ; 281bs of the former and 221bs of 
the latter, making 501bs. of limestone. In its natural state, 
limestone is too hard and compact to be diffused in the 
soil ; and even quicklime would be too solid, were it not, 
that through its combination with water and carbonic acid 
from the atmosphere it splits and crumbles to powder. 

How is limestone converted into quicklime ? 

By exposing it to a very strong heat. The process is by 
first reducing or breaking the stone into lumps of the size of 



152 MINERAL MANURES. 

a child's head, and then placing these in a kiln prepared for 
the purpose, so that a fire being made at the bottom, the 
heat will ascend through the whole, and cause the carbonic 
acid to disappear, or to be disengaged from it. What re- 
mains is called quicklime, because it is of a caustic, burning 1 
nature, having a strong affinity for water and carbonic acid, 
from which it has been thus forcibly separated. 

Are tJtere different kinds of limestone ? 

There are. The most common is hard, and of a grayish 
white, and is the one most used for mason work as well as 
for manure. Then there is a soft limestone, of which chalk 
is a sample. There is also a yellow limestone, called mag- 
nesian limestone, from which magnesia is obtained. And it 
is found in dark colors of numefous shades even to black, as 
may be seen in different kinds of marble. 

In wlvat states is lime most frequently known to exist ? 

First, as a carbonate, that is, in the compact state of 
limerock, combined with water and carbonic acid ; second, 
as hydrate of lime, that is, immediately after being slaked 
and when it retains its caustic properties ; third, as the sul- 
phate of lime, which is the same as plaster of 'Paris or gyp- 
sum ; and, fourth, marl, which is the same as lime stone, or 
the carbonate of lime, reduced to a powder and mixed with 
earthy matter. 

By what names is limestone called after being burnt ? 

Most frequently quicklime, because of its caustic, burn- 
ing quality ; and, it is also called burned lime, caustic lime, 
and hot lime ; but, all these names denote the same thing ; 
that is, limestone, or the carbonate of lime, from which the 
carbon is expelled by heat. 

What is tlte slaking of burnt lime ? 

Its literal signification is to extinguish thirst. Hence, 
when the term slake is applied to burnt lime, it is to pour 
water upon it. The quicklime as it were drinks in, or 
absorbs the water, and immediately becomes hot, swells up, 
and gradually falls to powder, The heat thus generated is 
sufficient to ignite or set fire to any combustible substances 
contigious to it. In this way vessels freighted with lime are 
sometimes consumed when water accidentally gets admission 
to it. 

Why does quicklime become slaked from exposure to 
the air ? 



MINERAL MANURES. 153 

Because of its power to absorb from the atmosphere both 
water and carbonic acid. The process is less rapid than 
when water is poured upon it ; but, is equally complete, the 
large lumps all crumbling to fine powder. 

Where is lime found besides in limestone ? 

Sea shells subjected to heat in a furnace or otherwise 
become quicklime of equal value, and some think of more 
value than that obtained from limestone. Shells also with- 
out the agency of heat, when lying on the ground in masses 
or mixed with it, become broken and reduced to fine particles, 
and are then called shell sand. As such they make a valu- 
able manure, either for top dressing or composts, essentially 
the same as the pulverized carbonate of lime, or slaked lime. 

What is said of gypsum ? 

It is the same as sulphate of lime, that is a salt formed 
from the oxidation of lime. It is reduced to powder by being 
pounded or ground in a mill, and then spread on the ground, 
when the leaves of clover and other plants begin to cover 
the surface ; and the operation should be performed, if pos- 
sible, during slightly showery weather, it being beneficial 
that the leaves should be somewhat moistened, so as to re- 
tain a portion of the dust. On clover crops gypsum is of 
most use. 

What is said of salt as a manure ? 

Salt, or the muriate of soda, as it is more correctly termed, 
is probably essential to the health of vegetables, as well as 
animals, and we may presume that a mineral thus widely 
diffused, performs important functions. It exists in all plants, 
is a constituent of almost every kind of animal and vegetable 
manure, and is found in most soils in sufficient quantity for 
the purposes of vegetation. Yet experience has shown that 
the application of salt as a manure, save in a moderate 
measure, is attended with no advantage, and usually with 
injury. 

What is said of marl ? 

Marl consists, as before stated, of a mixture of clay and 
calcareous earth or lime, in various proportions. The great 
advantage of marl is, that it dilates, cracks, and is reduced to 
powder by exposure to moisture and air. Marl in masses 
would be totally useless on the ground ; yet it is necessary to 
begin by laying it on the surface in heaps, for the more it is 
heaped the more it dilates, splits, and crumbles to dust ; in 

which state it is fit to be spread upon the ground. 

7# 



]04 MINERAL MANURES* 

With what substances should lime be mixed ? 

The best earthy materials for mixing with lime are those 
which contain a certain proportion of decomposing organic 
matter ; such as the scouring of ditches, the sediments of 
pools, mud deposited by rivers and tides, and similar sub- 
stances. The lime may be applied at the rate of two bushels 
to the cubic yard, and fifty cubic yards of this mixture to the 
acre, will form an efficient manuring for almost any soil. 

What would be the consequence if quicklime were ap- 
plied to plants ? 

If quick lime were applied immediately to plants, it would 
be to them like poison ; it would burn them up ; but, when 
spread on the earth, it rapidly attracts water and carbonic 
acid from the atmosphere, and it is only when thus modified 
that it promotes vegetation. 

How can the greatest benefit be had from lime ? 

To do this, it must be kept as near the surface as possi- 
ble. The reason is this ; its weight and minuteness give it 
a tendency to sink ; and after a few years of cultivation, a 
large portion of it will be found to have gone beyond the 
depth of its most efficient action. Hence it is advisable to 
spread it on the ground after ploughing ; then harrow it well 
in ; and allow it to remain in grass as long as good crops can 
be had. When the lime is settled down below the reach of 
a common plough, the subsoil plough will prolong its effect, 
by enabling the atmosphere and the roots of plants to pene- 
trate the subsoil likewise. 

How should lime be proportioned to different soils ? 

The quantity of lime applied to soils is various, and is de- 
pendent upon the nature of the soils, the climate, and other 
circumstances. In warm countries, a smaller quantity need 
be used than in those which are cold and humid. The stiff' 
clays for the most part, require a larger proportion of it than 
the lighter soils ; and in the case of such soils as contain much 
undecomposed vegetable matter, as peat, a quantity should 
be applied sufficient to decompose effectually the inert matter. 

How much lime is to be applied to the acre ? 

On common soils the first dressing is ordinarily in the 
neighborhood of an hundred bushels ; and, then in four or 
five years, half as much more. On some heavy clays abound- 
ing in vegetable mold, there have been applied six hundred 
bushels to the acre with decided beneficial results to the land ; 



MINERAL MANURES. 155 

yet, it is not impossible nor improbable that half that quan- 
tity would have answered as well. 

Why does lime require to be repeated ? 

Partly for the same reason that other manures are to be 
repeated. And the reasons may be stated, as follows : first, 
because the crops eat up and carry off a portion of the lime ; 
second, because of its sinking into the subsoil ; and, thirdly ; 
because the rains are always washing a portion of nt out of 
the land, and carrying it away to brooks and rivers, where it 
becomes mixed with the mud and decaying vegetables. 

In the ashes of what plants is lime found ? 

Every plant that has been analysed, with one exception, 
contains a portion of lime in some form or other, which it 
must have derived from the soil in which it grew. Wheat 
in flower, when ripe, the straw, the bran, all yield lime when 
analysed ; so likewise do barley, oats, vetches, and the leaves of 
various trees, the bark, and the timber ; indeed this substance 
is so universally present in all portions of the vegetable struc- 
ture, that it may fairly be assumed to be an integral part of 
all, varying however, according to the quantity existing in 
the soil in which plants are cultivated. 

How is it proved that lime invigorates plants ? 

It is known that the roots of some plants actually pene- 
trate rough limestone, and in a manner decompose it. This 
is particularly true of sainfoin, the tap root of which pene- 
trates from ten to twenty feet deep in calcareous stones, and 
then puts forth new clusters of lateral roots which render the 
stone loose and friable all around. The deeper the roots of 
this plant penetrate, the more vigorous does it shoot, even on 
calcareous rocks or stony places which are only covered by a 
very thin layer of poor soil. 

How have salt and soot been used for manure ? 

Mr. Sinclair mixed six and a half bushels of salt with the 
same quantity of soot, and used the mixture on lands sowed 
with carrots. The result was, that unmanured land gave 
twenty-three tons of roots to the acre, and the manured 
yielded forty tons per acre ; and Mr. Cartwright found that 
where unmanured soil gave 157 bushels of potatoes per acre, 
thirty bushels of soot and six bushels of salt made it produce 
240 bushels per acre. 

In what manner are salt and lime mixed for manure ? 

Dr. Dana directs that the proportions shall be at the rate 



156 THK OLD FARM HOUSE. 

of two bushels of lime to one of salt ; that the salt shall he 
made into a brine, with which the lime is to be slaked, and 
then both well mixed together, and remain ten days. It is 
now to be mixed with peat or analogous vegetable sub- 
stances, and shovelled well together, and after six weeks, is 
fit for use in the hills of corn, or otherwise. In such a com- 
post, for every five bushels of salt and ten bushels of lime, 
there may be fifteen cords of peat. 



THE OLD FARM HOUSE. 

I love these gray and moss-grown walls, 

This ivied porch, this trellis' d vine, 
The lattice w r ith its narrow pane, 

A relic of the olden time ; 
The willow with its waving leaves, 

Through which the low winds murmuring glide, 
The gurgling ripple of the stream, 

That whispers softly at its side. 

The spring house in its shady nook, 

Like lady's bower is shadowed o'er 
With clustering trees and creeping plants, 

That cling around the rustic door — 
The rough hewn steps, that lent their aid, 

To reach the shady, cool recess, 
Where humble duty spreads a scene 
- That hourly comfort learns to bless. 

Upland and meadow lie around, 

Fair smiling in the sun's last beam ; 
Beneath yon solitary tree 

The lazy cattle idly dream, 
After the reaper's stroke descends, 

While faintly on the listening ear 
The teamster's careless whistle floats, 

Or distant song or call I hear. 

• 

And leaning on a broken stile, 

With woods behind and fields before, • 

I watch the bee who homeward wends 

With laden wing — his labors o'er ; 



THE EVENING WIND. 157 

The happy birds are warbling round 

Or nestling in the rustling trees, 
'Mid which the blue sky glimmers down, 

When parted by the passing breeze. 

And slowly winding up the road, 

The wain has reached the old barn floor 
Where plenty's hand has firmly heaped 

The golden grain in richest store. 
This 'mid the dream land of my thought, 

With smiling lip I own it real, 
Yet fancy's fairest visions blend 

With all I see and all I feel. 

Then tell me not of worldly pride 

And wild ambition's hopes of fame, 
Or brilliant halls of wealth and pride, 

Where genius sighs to win a name ; 
Give me this farm-house quaint and old, 

These fields of grain, the birds and flowers, 
With calm contentment, peace and health, 

And memories of my earlier hours. 

Mary A. Lawson. 



THE EVENING WIND. 

Spirit that breathest through my lattice, thou 
That cool'st the twilight of the sultry day, 

Gratefully flows thy freshness round my brow ; 
Thou hast been out upon the deep at play, 

Riding all day the wild blue waves till now, 

Roughening their crests, and scattering their Bpray 

And swelling the white sail. I welcome thee 

To the scorched land, thou wanderer of the sea ! 

Nor I alone — a thousand bosoms round 

Inhale thee in the fulness of delight ; 
And languid forms rise up, and pulses bound 

Livelier, at coming of the wind of night ; 
And, laughing to hear thy grateful sound, 

Lies the vast inland stretched beyond the sight. 
Go forth into the gathering shade ; go forth, 
God's blessing breathed upon the fainting earth. 



j£g A RILL FROM THR TOWN PUMP. 

Go, rock the little wood-bird in his nest, 

Curl the still waters, bright with stars, and rouse 

The wide old wood from his majestic rest, 
Summoning from the innumerable boughs 

The strange, deep harmonies that haunt his breast ; 
Pleasant shall be thy way where meekly bows 

The shutting flower, and darkling waters pass, 

And where the o'ershadowing branches sweep the grass. 

The faint old man shall lean his silver head 
To feel thee ; thou 6halt kiss the child asleep, 

And dry the moistened curls that overspread 

His temples, while his breathing grows more deep ; 

And they who stand about the sick man's bed, 
Shall joy to listen to thy distant sweep, 

And softly part his curtains to allow 

Thy visit, grateful to his burning brow. 

Go—but the circle of eternal change, 

Which is the life of nature, shall restore, 

With sounds and scents from all thy mighty range 
Thee to thy birthplace of the deep once more ; 

Sweet odors in the sea-air, sweet and strange, 
Shall tell the homesick mariner of the shore ; 

And, listening to thy murmur, he shall deem 

He hears the rustling leaf and running stream. 

Bryant. 



A RILL FROM THE TOWN PUMP. 

Noon, by the north clock ! Noon, by the east ! High noon, 
too, by these hot sunbeams, which fall, scarcely aslope, upon 
my head and almost make the water bubble and smoke in 
the trough under my nose. Truly we public characters have 
a tough time of it ! And among all the town officers, chosen 
at March meeting, where is he that sustains, for a single 
year, the burden of such manifold duties as are imposed, in 
perpetuity, upon the Town Pump ? To speak within bounds, 
I am the chief person of the municipality, and exhibit, more- 
over, an admirable pattern to my brother officers, by the cool, 
steady, upright, downright, and impartial discharge of my 
business, and the constancy with which I stand at my post. 



A RILL FROM THE TOWN PUMP. 159 

Summer or winter, nobody seeks me in vain ; for, all day 
long, I am seen at the business corner, just above the market, 
stretching out my arms to rich and poor alike ; and at night, 
I hold a lantern over my head, both to show where I am, and 
to keep people out of the gutters. 

At this sultry noontide I am cup-bearer to the parched 
populace, for whose benefit an iron goblet is chained to my 
waist. Like a dram-seller on the mall, at muster day, I cry 
aloud to all and sundry in my plainest accents, and at 
the very tiptop of my voice — Here it is gentlemen ! Here is 
the good liquor ! Walk up, walk up, gentlemen, walk up, 
walk up ! Here is the Superior stuff! Here is the unadul- 
terated ale of father Adam — better than Cognac, Hollands, 
Jamaica, strong beer, or wine of any price, here it is by the 
hogshead or the single glass, and not a cent to pay ! Walk 
up, gentlemen, walk up, and help yourselves. 

It is a pity if all this outcry should draw no customers. 
Here they come. A hot day, gentlemen ! Quaff, and away 
again, so as to keep yourselves in a nice cool sweat. You, 
my friend, will need another cupful, to wash the dust out of 
your throat, if it be as thick there as it is on your cow-hide 
shoes. I see that you have trudged half a score of miles to- 
day ; and, like a wise man, have passed by the taverns, and 
stopped at the running brooks and well-curbs. Otherwise, 
betwixt heat without and fire within, you would have been 
burnt to a cinder, or melted down to nothing at all, in the 
fashion of a jelly-fish. Drink, and make room for that other 
fellow, who seeks my aid to quench the fiery fever of last 
night's potations, which he drained from no cup of mine. 
Welcome, most rubicund sir ! You and I have been great 
strangers hitherto ; nor, to express the truth, will my nose be 
anxious for a closer intimacy, till the fumes of your breath be 
a little less potent. Mercy on you, man ! the water abso- 
lutely hisses down your red hot gullet, and is converted into 
steam, in the miniature tophet which you mistake for a 
stomach. Fill again, and tell me, on the word of an honest 
toper, did you ever, in cellar, tavern, or any kind of dram- 
shop, spend the price of your children's food for a swig half 
so delicious ? Now for the first time these last ten years, you 
know the flavor of cold water. Good-by ; and, whenever 
you are thirsty, remember that I keep a constant supply at 
the old stand. 



160 A BILL FROM THE TOWN PUMP. 

Who next ? Oh, my little friend, you are let loose from 
school, and come hither to scrub your blooming face, and 
drown certain taps of the ferule, and other school-boy troubles, 
in a draught from the Town Pump. Take it, pure as the 
current of your young life. Take it, and may your heart and 
tongue never be scorched with a fiercer thirst than now ! 
There, my dear child, put down the cup, and yield your place 
to this elderly gentleman, who treads so tenderly over the 
stones, that I suspect he is afraid of breaking them. What ! 
he limps by without so much as thanking me, as if my hos- 
pitable offers were meant only for people who have no wine 
cellars. Well, well, sir — no harm done, 1 hope ! Go draw 
the cork, tip the decanter ; but when your great toe shall set 
you a roaring, it will be no affair of mine. If gentlemen love 
the pleasant titillation of the gout, it is all one to the Town 
Pump. This thirsty dog, with his red tongue lolling out, 
does not scorn my hospitality, but stands on his hind legs, and 
laps eagerly out of the trough. See how lightly he capers 
away again ! Jowler, did your worship ever have the gout ? 

Are you all satisfied ? Then wipe your mouths, my good 
friends ; and while my spout has a moment of leisure, I will 
delight the town with a few historical reminiscences. In far 
antiquity, beneath a darksome shadow of venerable boughs, 
a spring bubbled out of the leaf-strown earth, in the very spot 
where you now behold me on the sunny pavement. The 
water was as bright and clear, and deemed as preciouB, as 
liquid diamonds. The Indian Sagamores drank of it from 
time immemorial, till the fearful deluge of fire-water burst 
upon the red men, and swept their whole race away from the 
cold fountains. Endicott and his followers came next, and 
often knelt down to drink, dipping their long beards in the 
spring. The richest goblet then was of birch bark. Governor 
Winthrop, after a journey afoot from Boston, drank here out 
of the hollow of his hand. The elder Higginson here wet his 
palm, and laid it on the brow of the first town-born child. 

For many years it was the watering place, and, as it 
were, the washbowl of the vicinity. — whither all decent folks 
resorted, to purify their visages and then gaze at them after- 
wards — at least the pretty maidens did — in the mirror which 
it made. On Sabbath days, whenever a babe was to be bap- 
tized, the sexton filled his basin here, and placed it on the 
communion-table of the humble meeting-house, which partly 



A RILL FROM TOE TOWN PUMP. Jftl 

covered the site of yonder stately brick one. Thus one gene- 
ration after another was consecrated to heaven by its waters, 
and cast its waxing and waning shadows into its glassy bosom, 
and vanished from the earth as if mortal life were but a flit- 
ting image in a fountain. Finally the fountain vanished. 
Cellars were dug on all sides, and cart loads of gravel flung 
upon its source, whence oozed a turbid stream, forming a 
mud-puddle at the corner of two streets. In the hot months, 
when its refreshment was most needed, the dust flew in clouds 
over the forgotten birthplace of the waters, now their grave. 

But, in the course of time, a town pump was sunk into 
the source of the ancient spring ; and when the first decayed, 
another took its place — and then another, and still another— 
till here stand I, gentlemen and ladies, to serve you with my 
iron goblet. Drink and be refreshed ! The water is pure and 
cold as that which slaked the thirst of the red Sagamore be- 
neath the aged boughs, though now the gem of the wilderness 
is treasured under these hot stones, where no shadows fall but 
from the brick buildings. And be it the moral of my story, 
that, as the wasted and long lost fountain is known and prized 
again, so that the virtues of cold water, too little valued since 
your fathers' days, be recognized by all. 

Your pardon, good people !* I must interrupt my stream 
of eloquence, and spout forth a stream of water, to replenish 
the trough of this teamster and his two yoke of oxen, who 
have come from Topsfield, or somewhere along that way. 
No part of my business is pleasanter than that of watering 
cattle ! Look ! how rapidly they lower the water-mark on the 
sides of the trough, till their capacious stomachs are mois- 
tened with a gallon or two apiece, and they can afford to 
breathe it in, with signs of calm enjoyment. Now they roll 
their quiet eyes around the brim of their monstrous drinking 
vessel. An ox is your true toper. 

But I perceive, my dear auditors, that you are impatient 
for the remainder of my discourse. Impute it, I beseech you, 
to no defect of modesty, if I insist a little longer on so fruitful 
a topic as my own multifarious merits. It is altogether for 
your good. The better you think of me, the better men and 
women you will be yourselves. I shall say nothing of my 
all important aid on washing days ; though on that account 
alone, I might call myself the household god of a hundred 
families. Far be it from me also to hint, my respected friends, 



|02 A BILL FROM THE TOWN PUMP. 

at the show of dirty faces which you would present, without 
my pains to keep you clean. Nor will I remind you how 
often, when the midnight hell makes you tremhle for your 
combustible town, you have fled to the Town Pump, and 
found me always at my post, firm amid the confusion, and 
ready to drain my vital current in your behalf. 

No ; these' are trifles compared with the merits which 
wise men concede to me — if not in my simple self, yet as the 
representative of a class— of being the grand reformer of the 
age. From my spout, and such spouts as mine, must flow 
the stream that shall cleanse our earth of the vast portion of 
its crime and anguish, which has gushed from the fiery foun- 
tains of the still. In this mighty enterprise the cow shall be 
my great confederate. Milk and water ! The Town Pump 
and the Cote ! Such is the glorious copartnership that shall 
tear down the distilleries and brew-houses, uproot the vine- 
yards, shatter the cider presses, ruin the coffee and tea trade, 
and finally monopolise the whole business of quenching thirst. 
Blessed consummation ! Then, poverty shall pass away from 
the land, finding no hovel so wretched, where her squalid 
form may shelter itself. Then disease, for lack of other vic- 
tims, shall gnaw its own vitals, and die. Then sin, if she 
do not die, shall lose half her strength. 

Until now the phrensy of hereditary fever has raged in 
the human blood, transmitted from sire to son, and rekindled 
in every generation, by fresh draughts of liquid flame. When 
that inward fire shall be extinguished, the heat of passion 
cannot but grow cool, and war — the drunkenness of nations — 
perhaps will cease. At least, there will be no war of house- 
holds. The husband and wife, drinking deep of peaceful 
joy — a calm bliss of temperate affections — shall pass hand 
in hand through life, and lie down, not reluctantly, at its pro- 
tracted close. To them, the past will be no turmoil of mad 
dreams, nor the future an eternity of such moments as fellow 
the delirium of the drunkard. Their dead faces shall express 
what their spirits were, and are to be, by a lingering smile 
of memory and hope. 

Ahem ! Dry work, this speechifying ; especially to an un- 
practiced orator. I never conceived till now, what toil the 
temperance lecturers undergo for my sake. Hereafter they 
shall have the business to themselves. And, my dear hear- 
ers, when the world shall have been regenerated through my 



SUCCESSFUL RURAL ENTERPRISE. 133 

instrumentality, yon will collect your useless vats and liquor 
casks into one great pile, and make a bonfire in honor of the 
Town Pump. And when 1 shall have decayed, like my pre- 
decessors, then, if you revere my memory, let a marble foun- 
tain, richly sculptured, take my place upon the spot. Such 
monuments should be erected everywhere, and inscribed with 
the names of the distinguished champions of my cause. 

One o'clock ! Nay, then, if the dinner-bell begins to speak, 
I may as well hold my peace. Here comes a pretty young 
girl of my acquaintance, with a large stone pitcher for me to 
fill. May she draw a husband, while drawing water, as 
Rachel did of old. Hold your vessel, my dear ! There it is, 
full to the brim ; so now run home, peeping at your sweet 
image in the pitcher as you go ; and forget not, in a glass of 
my own liquor, to drink — " Success to the Town Pump !" 

Nathaniel Hawthorne. 



SUCCESSFUL RURAL ENTERPRISE. 

When the fanner has obtained the requisite information 
lor his appropriate duties, his next step will be to provide 
himself with the most approved implements, the most profita- 
ble flocks and herds, the most commodious buildings for utility 
and comfort. Without regard to these particulars, success* 
ful results will be greatly impaired, if not wholly thwarted. 

In the manufacture of tools, the problem first to be solved, 
is to combine lightness with strength and efficiency. Every 
ounce, added to the weight of an implement, to be wielded 
by the hand or drawn by animals, beyond what is necessary 
to fulfil its appropriate functions, diminishes the productive 
industry of man and beast. The strength of the laborer is 
exhausted, by unnecessary weight in the instrument he uses ; 
and, no advantage is gained by way of compensation. Within 
fifty years, the toils of the husbandman have been greatly re* 
lieved by the invention of light and convenient tools. The 
clumsy and heavy hoes, that were forged by our country 
smiths, but a few years ago, required nearly double the ex* 
penditure of strength which the light and sharp instrument, 
now used, demands. The heavy oaken ploughs which our 
fathers used, with mold-boards sheathed with old ox shoes 
and bits of sheet iron, required, at least, a third more strength 



164 SUCCESSFUL RURAL ENTERPRISE. 

to draw them and guide them, than the slender, keen-cutting 
implement now generally employed by fanners. 

It has been ascertained by experiment, that a rake that 
weighs two pounds, will do the service of one that weighs ten 
pounds ; and, that the rapid execution of the horse-rake, is 
far preferable to the slow and toilsome labor of the hands. 
In every department of husbandry, the labors of the farmer 
have been lightened by the introduction of improved tools and 
machinery. It is also fast becoming the prevailing opinion, 
that cheap outbuildings, leaky and shattered barns, and open 
sheds, are not the most convenient or profitable shelters, either 
for crops or animals. It is demonstrable that a large part of 
the food which frninrmla consume is directly employed in the 
production of animal heat, consequently, artificial warmth is 
equivalent to an additional supply of food. The greater the 
degree of cold to which the animal is subjected, the more 
nourishment he requires to supply internal heat. Hence 
some of the most scientific farmers, in England, not only 
warm their barns by artificial heat, but cook the esculent 
roots which their animals consume. They deem this the dic- 
tate of true economy. 

Another method of bettering our condition is the improve- 
ment of our domestic animals. When a farmer has once 
learned the value of the best breeds of animals, he will never 
tolerate the small, ugly, stunted, and contemptible races, 
which still linger about the barns of many of our husband- 
men. There is a well authenticated account of a dairy in 
New- York State, of forty-one cows, which yields annually, in 
butter, cheese, and milk, a product of sixty-two dollars for 
each cow. The average income of cows, in the United States, 
does not, probably, exceed twenty dollars. Now supposing 
that the millions of cows, throughout the Union, were so im- 
proved as to raise their average income from twenty dollars to 
thirty-one, only one half of the income of the best herds, what 
untold wealth it would add to our farmers' estates. New* 
York alone would derive an annual revenue of $12,100,000 
from this process. The outlays for the accomplishment of 
this result would be small ; for the expense of keeping a good 
cow is but little more than is required for a poor one. 

There are thirty millions of sheep in the United States. 
The best of them yield double the amount of wool produced 
by ordinary sheep. Now supposing the wool clip to be in- 



8UC0BS8FUL JUTftAL ENTBBW8E. 155 

ereased one half, by the substitution of the best blooded ani- 
mals for common breeds, this improvement would increase the 
annual income of farms, in our own country, at least fifteen 
millions of dollars, which would be equal to the creation of 
new capital to the amount of two hundred and fifty millions 
of dollars, yielding an annual interest of Bix per cent. General, 
Washington, in one of his letters to Sir John Sinclair, says in 
substance, " that at the time he entered the public service in 
the war of the Revolution, his flock, of about one thousand, 
yielded five pounds of wool per fleece. Several years later, 
when he returned to his estate, his flock had so degenerated 
that it gave an average of only two and a half pounds per 
head." The deterioration of his flock was evidently the re* 
suit of bad management on the part of his agent. There are 
mure than Bix millions of horses and mules in our country. 
Let the value of these animals be increased to an average of 
twenty dollars a head, and the available property of the 
owners would be increased one hundred and twenty millions 
of dollars. 

Another method of increasing the value of our products 
is by introducing new varieties of seeds, roots, and fruits. In 
accordance with an admitted law of nature, cultivated fruits 
and plants, as well as domestic animals, are subject to con- 
stitutional deterioration, when reproduced for a long series of 
years, upon the same soil. Hence the importance of exchang- 
ing seeds and importing new breeds of animals. Where the 
true spirit of improvement has for some time been active, and 
agricultural fairs have yearly presented better animals and 
richer specimens of fruits and grains for premiums, agricul- 
ture has not only become more profitable to the farmer, but 
it has conferred upon him dignity and honor. The efforts of 
wise and good men, in this department of industry, have been 
crowned with the most flattering success. Information has 
been disseminated, soils and grains have been analysed, the 
stock of the farm has been improved in value and utility ; 
better implements of husbandry have been invented and 
adopted ; and, the rewards of labor have been materially ad- 
vanced, while the labor itself has been greatly diminished. 

Indeed, every department of industry has been laid under 
contribution to secure these inestimable results. The me- 
chanic has applied all his skill and ingenuity to the perfect- 
ing of agricultural implements ; the chemist and geologist 



fftft SUCCESSFUL RtllAL tiNTSftFRlSS. 

hare summoned the whole encyclopedia of the sciences to 
their aid, in ascertaining the composition of various soils, and 
in preparing manures to enrich them, the inquisitive traveller 
and commercial adventurer have brought to our doors the 
fruits and grains of foreign climes, while men of the highest 
professional eminence, have devoted their time and attention* 
to the cultivation of grains, grasses, and roots, and have im- 
ported the best blooded cattle, sheep, and swine, to feed upon 
them. Our public halls have therefore been adorned with 
the portraits and statues of men who. have been distinguished 
at the bar, in the senate, or on the battle-field ; but we are 
fast changing all that. It is now becoming the common sen* 
timent, that more true glory is won in providing honest labor 
with its appropriate implements, and increasing the fertility 
of the earth, the common mother of us all, than in improving 
the destructive engines of war, or in waging a profitless con- 
test of words in the forum, or the halls of legislation. 

" The plough and the sickle shall shine bright in glory, 
When the sword and the sceptre shall crumble and rust ; 

And the farmer shall live both in song and in story, 
When warriors and kings are forgotten in dust." 

Another important method of bettering our condition, is 
by furnishing local markets, by bringing the plough, the loom, 
and anvil, into proximity with each other. All branches of 
productive industry are mutually related, and mutually de- 
pendent. Every laborer who is employed at the forge, in the 
mill, or factory, must be provided with food and raiment. 
Every little village which springs up around a factory, fur- 
nishes a local market for a little circle of farms in the vicinity. 
In such cases the cost of transportation to a distant market 
is saved. 

The State of Connecticut illustrates the value of local 
markets as fully as any state in the Union. Her soil was 
once fertile and highly productive. By continual cropping, 
without properly enriching the land, it became comparatively 
barren. The people began to emigrate to the richer Western 
lands. Those who were left behind, sought to improve their 
condition at home. They resorted to manufactures for a 
livelihood. The town of Bristol, fiften miles south-west of 
Hartford, forty years ago, was fast declining in population and 
wealth. Its soil was exhausted ; its inhabitants were seek- 



SUCCESSFUL RUKAL ENTERPRISE. Jtf 

ing new homes. There was then resident in that town, a 
single clock maker, who patiently wrought out his timepieces 
by hand, at an expense of sixty or seventy dollars each. 
About the year 1815, some individuals, stimulated by the in- 
dustry of the solitary clockmaker, set up the business of mak- 
ing wooden clocks. This article went all over the United 
States, and brought rich returns to the inventors. When the 
market was supplied with these, cheap brass clocks were 
made by machinery, which could be afforded as low as two 
dollars each. 

The business of making clocks by machinery has been set 
up in twenty other towns in Connecticut; and the whole 
world are now their customers. On the authority of Fraser's 
Magazine, it is asserted that " every hall and cottage in Eng- 
land is furnished with them." Every one of these towns has 
become a profitable market to the neighboring farmers, and 
has given a new stimulus and increased profits to agriculture. 
Other towns in the same state, are engaged in the manufac- 
ture of tin ware, cutlery, jewelry, hookB and eyes, pins and 
needles, and every kind of implement of brass and iron, used 
by our citizens. At Collinsville, fifteen miles west of Hart- 
ford, there is a manufactory of axes, with a capital of three 
hundred thousand dollars, where six hundred axes are made 
in a day. One hundred and seventy-five workmen are em- 
ployed. These, with their families, must be fed from the 
products of the soil. 

The farmers are, therefore, directly interested in the pros* 
perity of such manufactories, and in the consequent increase 
of population. By the introduction of these kinds of manu- 
factures, emigration has been arrested, and agriculture has 
become more profitable. The worn out lands have been 
recruited. The soil that was deemed worthless, by right cul- 
ture haB become almost priceless. In some instances, the 
value has risen from two or three dollars to fifty or sixty dol- 
lars per acre. The desert may be made a fruitful field, by 
patient industry ; and, the unhealthy and unsightly swamp, 
may be converted into a rich garden. Such is the fact in 
some instances. The merest gravel beds, by skilful culture 
are changed into fruitful fields ; and offensive bogs, which 
were made the receptacle of the loose stones from the higher 
lands, are now drained — the stones are taken out from their 
deposit, and the surface of the swamp converted into a rich 



168 SUCCESSFUL RURAL ENTERPRISE. 

meadow. The vicinity of the factory, the forge or the loom, 
produces such results: 

Our state abounds in water power, and in the materials 
for many valuable manufactures. But neither water power 
nor steam are essential to the introduction of certain kinds of 
manufactures. The man who made the first pair of pegged 
shoes, ever seen, in this or any other country, is still living. 
The trade in this article in Massachusetts alone, amounts to 
eighteen millions of dollars, employing sixty thousand hands. 
How are these men fed ? Bo not the fanners in the vicinity 
of Lynn and other towns, where this business is prosecuted, 
pocket the money which these sixty thousand laborers are 
annually earning — at least, a good portion of it ? Massa- 
chusetts has a comparatively barren soil, yet her agriculture 
is advancing. Within fifty years, her population has in- 
creased one hundred per cent., while that of one of the other 
states of the Union has increased but two per cent. What 
makes the difference ? 

The mystery is of easy solution. The answer is at hand. 
The former employs every species of power ; — capital, ma- 
chinery, labor, and intellect. She encourages manufactures 
and agriculture, by uniting them on her own soil. The lat- 
ter,, containining as much cultivated land as the whole of 
Great Britain, eschews those kinds of productive industry, 
which are employed in working up, at home, the heavy and 
bulky materials which the earth produces, pays tribute to 
England by importing her wares, and furnishes no stimulus 
to her farmers by the encouragment of local markets. And 
the little State of Rhode Island has one hundred and ninety- 
eight manufacturing establishments, engaged in working wool 
and cotton ; and one hundred and sixty of them has each a 
distinct village, and of course a local market. One little, 
tortuous river, of twelve miles in length, twenty-five feet wide 
and three feet deep, drives nearly forty thousand spindles, in 
twelve different factories, employing nearly one thousand 
operatives. These laborers are fed from the produce of the 
adjacent farms. Here agriculture lives and thrives near to 
the newly-created markets. — Agricultural Address, Orford, 
N. H., 1S50, by Prof. Edwin D. Sanborn, A. M., of Dart- 
mouth College. 



A SOUTH WESTERN nUIHK. jgg 

A SOUTH WESTERN PRAIRIE. 

The world of prairie which lies at a distance of more 
than three hundred miles west of this inhabited portion of 
the United StateB, and south of the river Arkansas and its 
branches, has been rarely, and parts of it never, trodden by 
the foot, or beheld by the eye, of an Anglo- American. 
Rivers rise there, in the broad level waste, of which, mighty 
though they become in their course, the source is unexplored. 
Deserts are there, too barren of grass to support even the 
hardy buffalo, and in which water, except in here and there 
a hole, is never found. 

Imagine yourself standing in a plain to which your eye 
can see no bounds. Not a tree nor a bush, not a shrub nor 
a tall weed, lifts its head above the barren grandeur of the 
desert ; not a stone is to be seen upon its hard beaten sur- 
face ; no undulations, no abruptness, no break, to relieve the 
monotony — nothing, save here and there a deep narrow 
track, worn into the hard plain by the constant hoof of the 
buffalo. Imagine, then, countless herds of buffalo, showing 
their unwieldy, dark shapes, in every direction as far as the 
eye can reach, and approaching at times to within forty steps 
of you ; or a herd of wild horses feeding in the distance, or 
hurrying away from the hateful smell of man, with their 
manes floating, and a tramping like thunder. Imagine here 
and there a solitary antelope, or perhaps a whole herd, fleet- 
ing off in the distance, like the scattering of white clouds. 

Again, imagine bands of white, snow white wolves, 
prowling about, accompanied by the little gray collottes or 
prairie-wolves, who are as rapacious and as noisy as their 
bigger brethren. Imagine, also, here and there, a lonely 
tiger-cat, lying crouched in some little hollow, or bounding 
off in triumph, bearing some luckless little prairie-dog, which 
it has caught straggling about at a distance from his hole. 
If to this you add a band of Camanches. mounted on noble, 
swift horses, with their long lances, their quiver at the back, 
their bow, perhaps their gun, and their shield ornamented 
gaudily with feathers and red cloth, and round as Norval's, 
or as the full moon ; and imagine them hovering about in 
different places, chasing the buffalo or attacking an enemy — 
you have an image of the prairie, such as no book ever de- 
scribed to me. 
8 



170 * SOUTH WESTBEN PRAIRIE. 

I have seen the prairie under all its diversities, and in 
all its appearances, from those which I have described, to 
the uneven, bushy prairies which lie south of the Red river, 
and to the illimitable Stake prairie, which lies from almost 
under the shadows of the mountains to the heads of the 
Brazos and of Red river, and in which neither buffaloes nor 
horses are to be found. I have seen the prairie and. lived in 
it, in summer and in winter. I have seen it with the sun 
rising calmly from its breast, like a sudden fire kindled in 
the dim distance, and with the sunset flushing in the sky 
with quiet and Bublime beauty. There is less of the gor- 
geous and grand character, however, belonging to it, than 
that which accompanies the rise and set of the sun upon the 
ocean, or upon the mountains; but here are beauty and 
sublimity enough to attract the attention and interest the 
mind. 

I have also seen the mirage, painting lakes, and fires, 
and groves, on the grassy ridges near the bounds of Missouri, 
in the still autumn afternoon, and cheating the traveller by 
its splendid deceptions. I have seen the prairie, and stood 
long and wearied guard in it, by moonlight and starlight, and 
in storm. It strikes me as the most magnificent, stern, and 
terribly grand scene on earth.. 

A storm in the prairie is much like a storm at sea, except 
in one respect — and in that it seems to me to be superior — 
the stillness of the desert and illimitable plain, while the 
snow is raging over its surface, is always more fearful to me 
than the wild roll of the waves ; and it seems unnatural — 
this dead quiet, while the upper elements are so fiercely dis- 
turbed ! it seems as if there ought to be the roll and roar of 
the waves. The sea, the woods, the mountains, all suffer in 
comparison with the prairie — that is, on -the whole ; in par- 
ticular circumstances either of them is superior. 

We may speak of the incessant motion and tumult of 
the waves of the ocean ; the unbounded greenness and dim- 
ness, and the lonely music of the forests ; and the high mag- 
nificence, the precipitous grandeur, and the summer snow of 
the glittering cones of the mountains ; but still the prairie 
has a stronger hold on the soul, and a more powerful, if not 
so vivid an impression upon the feelings. Its sublimity 
arises from its unbounded extent — its barren monotony and 
desolation — its still, unmoved, calm, stern, and most impres- 



THE TOtST FALL OP SNOW. J7J 

give grandeur — its strange power of deception — its want of 
echo — and, in fine, its power of throwing a man back on him- 
self, and giving him a feeling of lone helplessness, strangely 
mingled at the same time with a feeling of liberty and free- 
dom from restraint. It is particularly sublime as you draw 
nigh to the Rocky Mountains, and see them Bhoot up in the 
west, with their lofty tops looking like white clouds resting 
upon their summits. Nothing ever equalled the intense 
feeling of delight with which I at first saw them marking 
the western edge of the desert. — Albert Pike. 



THE FIRST FALL OF SNOW. 

I love to watch the first soft snow, 

As it slowly saileth down, 
Purer and whiter than the pearls 

That grace a monarch's crown. 
Though winter wears a freezing look, 

And many a surly frown 

It lighteth like the feathery down 

Upon the naked trees, 
And on the pale and withered flowers 

That swing in every breeze ; 
And they are clothed in such bright robes 

As summer never sees. 

It bringeth pleasant memories, 

The falling, falling snow, 
Of neighing steeds, and jingling bells, 

In the happy long ago ; 
When hopes were bright, and health was good, 

And the spirits were not low. 

And it giveth many promises 

Of quiet joys in store ; 
Of bliss around the blazing hearth, 

When daylight is no more- 
Such bliss as no where else hath lived 

Since Eden-days were o'er. 



|7S NIGHT MUSINGS. 

God bless the eye that views with mine 

The falling snow to-day ; 
May truth her pure white mission spread 

Before its searching ray, 
And lead, with dazzling garments, towards 

" The strait and narrow way." 

Julia H. Scott. 



NIGHT MUSINGS. 

Hushed like the o'erweary child too late at play, 

Who sobs to sleep upon its mother's breast, 
Lies the vast city. The perturbed day, 

With all its load of care and pain oppressed, 
Sinks softly into slumber— down the West 
Creeps the gray curtain of the peaceful night, 

And hearts which break by day, in dreams are blessed- 
While with a spring of fierce and far delight, 
The soul unchained, resumes her heavenward flight. 

Now, like a mother's blessing, the rich dews — 
Tears of Heaven's pity — kiss the gasping flower, 

Now every banished star its smile renews, 

And winds new fragrance shed upon the hour— 
Now the tired brain regains its wonted power, 

And thoughts, like beauty bright, flash on the mind, 
Which, upborne above earth's clouds that lower, 

Seeks once more commune with her lofty kind, 

And spurns the' grovelling things of earth far, far behind. 

Once more is nature beautiful. Once more 
The bitter dregs of life have passed away 

From my sick soul. Oh how Night's ministers pour 
Their incense over me ! How dim the day 
Seems, with its dusty glare, to the soft ray 

Of yon fair-smiling Goddess beaming light 
And love and beauty o'er her starry Way ! 

E'en my dark fortunes catch some hues of bright 

And glowing radiance from the beauty-beaming night ! 

Now playful fancy from her world of dreams 

Looks out and smiles ; and a bright host of forms 



might NtTsnrot. 17| 

With lore and beauty sparkling, like the gleams 
Youth sees of glory, on my vision swarms, 
And makes my heart beat as when youth was warm, 

And life one dream of rapture. Each bright hope 
Crushed to a fragrant ruin 'mid the storms 

Of darksome life, feels its dry petals ope, 

And once more boldly dares with life's sad ills to cope. 

Now in this sweet and peaceful night, what fires 

On life's forgotten altars gleam anew ! 
What glowing visions and what high desires 

Like unsought spectres start upon my view ! 

Young life's sweet garden, where my heart-flowers grew, 
Blooms freshly round me — and the busy hum 

Of murmuring bees who not in vain pursue 
Life's toil, distils its music round me. Come 
Back to my weary heart, dreams of my childhood's home ! 

My father blesses me again — and she 

Whose tears like heart-gems glistened on my hair 
Beneath her parting kisses, bends o'er me, 

As in that hour of hushed and solemn prayer ! 

Mother ! oh mother ! since we gathered there 
Around the hearth-stone I shall see no more, 

Darkness and gloom and anguish and despair 
Have racked my soul to torture-*-but they bore 
No power to tear ttiee from my heart's deep core. 

Oh, bitter" as the Dead Sea's hollow fruit, 

Which turns to ashes on the lips, has been 
The cup of life to me — and cold and mute 

The music dreams which sang to me between 

The pauses of thy blessing. I have seen 
The flowers of hope, leaf after leaf decay, 

And felt their canker-worm with poison keen, 
Eat to my soul, where on its altar lay 
My broken heart-strings, with their music passed away. 

Yet mother, in this bright and hallowed hour, 
My soul is once more with thee ; and again 

The spells of love have o'er me their old power. 
Once more thine eyes beam into mine, as when 
Thy parting glance was on me ; and again 



174 APPROVED MODES OF THJJLGE. 

Thine arms encircle me. Oh bless me now, 

Ere yet my dream breaks up ! — 'Tis o'er ! My pen 
Blots as with tears the page which 1 endow 
With the wild thoughts that swell beneath this aching brow* 

G. G. Foster. 



APPROVED MODES OF TILLAGE. 

What is to be understood by the term tillage ? 

it is the operation, practice, or art of preparing the land 
for seed, and keeping the ground free from weeds which might 
impede the growth of crops. Tillage includes ploughing, ma- 
nuring, harrowing, and rolling land, or whatever is done to 
bring it to a proper state to receive the seed ; and, also, the 
operations of ploughing, harrowing, and hoeing the ground to 
destroy weeds and loosen the soil after it is planted. 

Every boy in the country is familiar with the operation 
of ploughing, but it may be well that he be able to describe 
it; hence, it is asked — In what does the process consist? 

It consists of cutting the ground into slices and turning 
them over. These slices usually vary in width from twelve 
to eighteen inches ; and they are turned over in such a man- 
ner, that an entire new surface is presented to the atmosphere. 

To what depth should these slices be cut ? 

The medium depth of good ploughing may be estimated 
at seven inches. When the circumstances, arising from the 
particular description of the crop and the nature of the soil, 
do not require deep ploughing, the depth may be less ; but, 
in some cases where the upper soil has become enfeebled by 
long culture, or where the roots of the crop require more am- 
ple space, much deeper ploughing will be found expedient. 

How is the ploughman enabled to regulate the width 
and the thickness of these slices ? 

Much depends on the particular construction of the plough. 
All ploughs are designed to effect this object as far as pos- 
sible. Yet. it is perhaps impossible so to construct them, as 
to accomplish this work, unless aided by an experienced 
operator. As in the case of all implements for manual opera- 
tions, good instruments are required, and skillful agents to ap- 
ply them in the proposed work. 



APPROVED MODES OF TILLAGE. 175 

In what consists the application of the ploughman's 
skill ? 

In this operation, the left hand or near-side horse, or ox, 
walks on the ground not yet ploughed, the right hand or off- 
side horse, or ox, walks in the furrow last made, and the 
workman follows, holding the handles. By means of these 
handles he guides the plough, and directs the animals of 
draught by the voice and the reins. If the plough cuts too 
deep, he is to press down the handles, so that the heel of the 
plough becomes a fulcrum, and the point of the share is raised 
upwards. If it does not cut sufficiently deep, this can be 
remedied by raising the handles and giving the point of the 
share a downward direction. And, if the plough inclines too 
much to the right or the left, in either case he is to give it a 
contrary pressure. 

How can the ploughman discover defects in regard to the 
width or the thickness of the slices ? 

When the sods are considerably too wide in proportion to 
their depth, he will be admonished of it by their lying too 
flat, and too slightly overlapping each other. When their 
depth is considerably too great in proportion to their width, 
they will stand too upright, and be apt to fall back again into 
the furrow. 

How much land can ordinarily be ploughed in a day 
by one team ? 

The common calculation, where good ploughing is prac- 
ticed, is, that a pair of horses will plough an acre of -grass 
land in nine hours. In very stiff soils less will be done ; and 
in very light soils, more. When land is in a loose and pul- 
verized state, from one-third to one-fourth part more may be 
done in the time mentioned. And it is very apparent that a 
pair of good horses well trained to the work, with an efficient 
man at the plough, will accomplish far more in the same 
time, than is performed by those of inferior quality. How- 
ever, an acre a day, on average of different soils, different 
seasons in the year, and teams of varying quality, is a fair 
amount to be ploughed. 

What should be a primary object in ploughing ? 

In the first place, the ground should be well prepared for 
the plough by the removal of large stones and other obstruc- 
tions. In the second place, the farmer should use none but a 
first rate plough, and in prime order. And in the third place, 



176 AFPROTBD MODES OP TILLAGE. 

he should employ a team well trained and well fed. With 
such appliances double the amount of labor will be performed, 
that could be effected by inferior instrumentalities ; or where 
a miserable old plough is used, with a feeble or unmanagea- 
ble team, and the whole brought to a dead stand from encoun- 
tering a large stone in the ground, every ten rods. 

For what purpose is ground ploughed ? 

To loosen or disintegrate the parts of which it is com- 
posed. This is necessary in order to enable the roots of the 
plants in the succeeding crop to extend themselves in every 
possible direction, downward and laterally, which they could 
not do, if the ground were hard and impenetrable. And, it 
is also necessary that the soil be rendered mellow and light, 
that the fertilizing substances designed for the growth of the 
plants, be thoroughly mixed with it, and especially that it 
be thus rendered capable of receiving the rain, which is to 
nourish the plants, instead of running off upon the surface. 

Does any other benefit arise to tlie soil from ploughing ? 

There is. The lower strata are brought into a position to 
receive the influences of the sun and the atmosphere. If the 
soil is cold, it thus becomes warm. If too moist, it becomes 
drier ; and, whether cold or warm — moist or dry, it is ena- 
bled to absorb from the atmosphere those gases which are so 
needful in the formation of vegetable substances. 

What is sub-soil ploughing ? 

It is ploughing in the sub-soil, that is, in the stratum or 
layer «f earth lying beneath the upper soil, or surface of the 
ground. The process is performed by what is called a sub- 
soil plough, which is drawn by four or six oxen, following in 
the furrow of a common plough, and penetrating this sub- 
stratum, or sub-soil, to the depth of ten, twelve, fifteen, or 
even twenty inches. If the sub-soil is very hard, six oxen 
may be none too much. If nqj, four will answer. It is not 
designed to raise the sub-soil above the surface soil ; but only 
to break it up and pulverize it, and to mix a portion of it with 
the lower portions of the surface soil. 

What are the supposed advantages of sub-soil ploughing ? 

The hard, sterile earth is thoroughly pulverized, thereby 
being exposed to the meliorating influences of the atmosphere, 
and furnishing increased supplies of food and moisture in dry 
seasons, for the roots of plants. These are the primary and 
general advantages of a deep wrought loam, and they are 



APPROVED MODES OF TILLAGE. 177 

certainly such as to commend themselves to the attention of 
every reflecting farmer. 

How does it appear that sub-soil ploughing is conducive 
to the growth of plants ? 

It has been said that it secures a better supply of heat 
and moisture, than where common ploughing only is per* 
formed. The fact is palpable, that in time of drought the 
vegetation of a garden will be much more vigorous than that 
in the adjacent field. This is mainly owing to the greater 
looseness of the soil. 

What experiment has been made to prove this ? 

Mr. C. N. Bement, the distinguished agriculturist, some 
years since, sub-soiled several strips of a sandy knoll, which 
he planted with Indian corn. In the dry summer that fol- 
lowed, the corn of those strips was green and flourishing, 
while that on the other portions of the lot was almost burned 
up with the heat ; and at the harvest, the difference in the 
yield was not less remarkable t 

What is a more permanent benefit from sub-soiling ? 

The minute particles of the surface and sub-soils are 
gradually mixed together ; the natural resources of the ground 
are wakened into life by the influence of the atmosphere ; 
the thread-like web of roots with which it is filled decay when 
the plant dies, or is removed ; and, in time, the sterile, un- 
profitable substratum becomes a valuable loam of great depth 
and fertility. 

Is sub-soil ploughing always attended with profit f 

In some instances it ha? been found of decided injury. It 
is where the sub-soil plough breaks through a more retentive 
stratum, and turns up a thirsty sand or gravel, which ab- 
sorbs all the moisture and soluble manures of the surface soil. 
Land of this description ought to be kept in wood or perma- 
nent pasture, as under the most careful management it is 
always unprofitable for tillage. 

How does the harrow contribute to the fertility of the soil ? 

The tendency of it, like the plough, the hoe, or the spade, 
is to reduce to fineness the large masses and hard lumps of 
earth that remain after ploughing. And, in preparing the 
soil for seed, it fills up caverns and brings down protuberances, 
thus better preparing it to receive the seed. By this means 
the seed is more uniformly scattered, and more likely to have 
a speedy and uniform germination. And, when the harrow 
8* 



178 AFPSOYBD MODES OF TILLAGE. 

is applied after the seed is sown, it is to mix it well with the 
•oil, and to bury it at a moderate depth beneath the surface. 

By the use of what other implements is the soil rendered 
fine and mellow ? 

The spade and the hoe have been most used ; but of more 
recent origin the cultivator is applied to great advantage, es- 
pecially as a time-saving implement. For deep action the 
spade answers admirably, both for the disintegration of the 
combined parts of the soil, and the removal of stones from it ; 
but the process is extremely slow. Notwithstanding the in- 
vention of the sub-soil plough, in England, on some lease 
lands, the tenant is still required, in field culture, to upturn 
the soil with a spade. 

What is said of the use of the hoe and cultivator ? 

The hoe has been so long used, and is so generally used 
lor all purposes of the kind, that there is no occasion to speak 
of it. The cultivator is coming into general use for the ex- 
termination of weeds between the rows of Indian corn, and 
other crops in rows or drills ; but, as it operates only on and 
near the surface, the plough, and subsequently the hoe, are 
more effectual for melioration. As a time-saving implement 
the cultivator is of great value ; and every farmer may save 
the cost of it in a single year. 

Of what ruinous neglect in regard to tillage are many 
farmers guilty ? 

Particularly in allowing weeds to grow, which exhaust 
the strength from the soil, and if allowed to mature, fill it 
with pernicious seeds, requiring years for their extermination. 
A farmer should no more allow weeds to remain on his lands, 
than burglars in his house, or wild animals to eat the grain 
wanted for his family, cattle, and swine. 

What are the benefits from the use of the roller ? 

The first and most obvious benefit is, to break those clods 
or indurated masses of earth which have resisted the action 
of the harrow ; or, at all events, to bury them in the ground, 
so that at the next harrowing, which, when thus buried, they 
cannot well escape — they must of necessity be somewhat di- 
minished in size. It is for this reason that in countries where 
the soil is very tenacious, and tillage very carefully conducted, 
it is the custom, even after the preparatory ploughings, first 
to harrow, then to pass the roller over the ground, and then 
to harrow again, 



THB AMERICAN FARMER. 170 

What is a second benefit from the use of the roller ? 

This is to give a somewhat greater degree of compactness 
to a soil which is too light and friable, and to unite its com- 
ponent parts. The roller is not employed for this purpose to 
so great an extent as it might be with advantage. This ap- 
plication of the roller is particularly resorted to on the spongy 
soils of valleys. In such situations it cannot, indeed, be well 
dispensed with. 

What is a tJUrd benefit arising from tlie use of the roller ? 

Again, the roller is used to press down and make firm the 
ground about newly sown seeds, and to cause the latter to ad- 
here better to the soil. Sometimes, when very small seed is 
to be sown, it is found advantageous to pass the roller over the 
ground before the seed is sown, so as to level it thoroughly, 
and to facilitate a more equal distribution of the Beed than could 
otherwise take place. Where the ground has been thus 
leveled, those seeds which happen to fall together, separate 
from each other ; and it is seldom that two are found lying 
on the same spot. The harrow is then passed over the ground ; 
and this operation is followed by repeated rollings, which ob- 
literate the lines drawn by the narrow. 

What is a fourth benefit from the use of the roller ? 

This is to cover with mold, or press against or into the 
ground, the roots of those plants sown in the preceding au- 
tumn, which have been detached by the frost. Soils rich in 
humus, such as those found in valleys, sometimes swell up in 
the spring to such a degree, that the roots of the plants con- 
tained in them are forced up. In such cases, if a fall of rain 
does not speedily occur, the roller is the only means of restor- 
ing them to their proper position. Hence, a grass field can- 
not be too often rolled ; and, it is not going too far to assert, 
that the application of the roller in autumn to prepare the 
roots for resisting the winter frosts, and in spring to render 
them firm after the frosts, every year while the field remains 
in grass, will amply repay the expense. 



THE AMERICAN FARMER. 

What is the position of the American farmer, when 
compared with that of the merchant, the politician, the 
lawyer ? Should he be content with his lot for himself and 



180 THE AMERICAN FARMER. 

his children ? Or should he leave his occupation and adopt 
some other ? Like every other position, that of the fanner 
has its dark side as well as its bright one. And to decide 
on its comparative advantages, we must inquire what is the 
object of man's existence, and how he shall attain the end of 
his being ? 

To these questions, history and revelation, the world 
around us, and the spirit within us, answer, that the object 
of man's existence is happiness. Happiness here, and 
happiness forever. And the condition of that happiness 
is the diligent and proper exercise of his affections and 
faculties. If this be the case, 'does the situation of the 
American farmer offer a fair opportunity of insuring this 
happiness ? To be happy is the object of life, and all that 
the world can give toward it, ^is health and competence. 
" Health of body is above all riches, and a strong body is 
above infinite wealth." And where is health to be found ? 
There is no need of an audible answer. Look around on an 
assembly from the rural districts of the country, and we shall 
see bright eyes and blooming cheeks, as well as strong arms 
and untiring strength, giving testimony that the earth's first 
blessing is bestowed upon those who labor upon her bosom. 

But health is often undervalued by its possessor, or only 
appreciated when lost. Wealth, the more obvious and im- 
mediate reward of labor, is the chief pursuit of the active. 
And here the farmer thinks he has a right to complain. 
The merchant will sometimes make more in a year than he 
can make in a lifetime ; and it is not wonderful that he 
sometimes asks, would it not be better to leave small re- 
wards, though regular and certain, for the chance of obtain- 
ing greater ? To decide this question, we must ask, What 
is the price he pays ? What is the reward he obtains ? 
What is the price he pays ? To say nothing of his moral 
exposures, in the great majority of cases, health of body and 
serenity of mind. Follow such a one into the crowded 
streets, or the close workshop. His strength for a time sus- 
tains him, but confinement and bad air soon deprive him of 
his healthful energy, and disease and premature decay be- 
come too often his portion. But supposing health can be 
preserved, where is his serenity of mind ? 

The risks attendant on rapid accumulation are always in 
proportion to the chances of success. The farmer sows his 



THE AMERICAN FARMER. jgj 

seed, and has no doubt but that the harvest will repay him. 
But he who embarks in speculations that promise sudden and 
great wealth, knows that he may be " sowing the wind to 
reap the whirlwind." And the constant fear of such a re- 
sult imbitters his days and renders his nights restless. And 
it' attained, success gives but little satisfaction. The higher 
the rise, the wider the horizon ; the greater the accumula- 
tion, the more exorbitant the desire. And this is not the 
extent of the evil. A total want of independence is too often 
the result. Few men in our community have those re- 
sources that will enable them to carry on extensive opera- 
tions on their own means. Almost all depend on borrowing, 
and the borrower is the servant of the lender. 

But, even if success should be the portion of the aspirant 
for riches, when is he to attain it ? Does it come forward 
to meet him ? Years of anxiety may be repaid by wealth ; 
but how seldom is this the case ! More than ninety in every 
hundred, even in regular mercantile pursuits, fail. There 
are but few capital prizes in this lottery. The name of the 
fortunate holder may be seen at every corner, but where are 
the ninety and nine who draw blanks ? And if attained, 
how uncertain its possession ! Wealth " gotten by vanity," 
by which I suppose Solomon meant by speculation, " shall 
be diminished, but he that gathereth by labor shall increase," 
is a doctrine as true now as when first delivered, and is one 
which the experience of every age tends to corroborate. 

And after all, what is the advantage of great wealth, or 
what is great wealth itself? It exists only in comparison. 
" A man is as well off," said the great capitalist of the United 
States, "who is only worth half a million of dollars, as he 
would be if he were rich." And one of the satirical papers 
of the day tells us that when Baron Rothschild, the Jewish 
banker, read that the income of Louis Philippe was only fifty 
dollars a minute, his eyes filled with tears, for he was not 
aware of the existance of such destitution. After the comforts 
of life are supplied, wealth becomes merely an imaginary 
advantage, and its possession does not confer any material 
for happiness, which an industrious and forehanded farmer 
does not possess. " We will conquer all Italy," said Pyrrhus, 
to his prime minister, " and then we will pass into Asia ; 
we will overrun her kingdoms, and then we will wage war 
upon Africa, and when we have conquered all, we will sit 



|32 THE AMERICAN FARMER. 

down quietly and enjoy ourselves." "And why," replied 
the minister, " should we not sit down and enjoy ourselves 
without taking all this trouble ? " And why may not you, 
it may he said to many an aspirant after wealth, enjoy in 
reality all you seek, in your present condition : 

" Give me neither poverty nor riches," was the prayer of 
one of the sages of antiquity. And Lord Bacon, the wisest 
man of modern time3, says, " Seek not proud riches, but 
rather such as thou mayest get justly, use soberly, distribute 
cheerfully, and leave contentedly." And can there be a 
truer description of a farmer's fortune ? There is no greater 
independence than that possessed by the contented, fore- 
handed farmer. " Tell your master," said a Roman general, 
to the ambassador of the King of Persia, who came to bribe 
him with great wealth, and ibund him washing the vegeta- 
bles that were to constitute his dinner with his own hands, 
"tell your master that all the gold in Persia can never bribe 
the man who can contentedly live upon turnips." The 
answer was as true in philosophy, as it was elevated in 
patriotism. To be happy man must limit his desires. And 
when he has sufficient for his needs, he should remember that 
the temptations and perplexities incident to overgrown 
wealth more than counterbalance its seeming advantages. 
Health of body and competence of estate are all the requisites 
for organic happiness that the world can bestow. And to 
say that agricultural pursuits are eminently calculated to in- 
sure these, is only to reiterate the language of past ages, and 
to repeat the testimony of our own. If you leave such 
pursuits, the hazard increases as the profit augments. The 
amount of the premium is always proportioned to the great- 
ness of the risk. 

But health and the conveniences of life are not all that a 
man requires to make him happy. He desires to be useful, 
he wishes to be esteemed. And what profession can boast of 
a higher claim to utility than that of the farmer? The 
greater part of mankind must be agriculturists, and on their 
characters the well-being of every state must depend. Our 
free institutions are valued, but how shall they be preserved ? 
By the virtue of the people. History gives no other answer. 
No truth is more clearly emblazoned on her pages than that 
if a nation would be free, they must be intelligently virtuous. 
And here the agricultural class becomes of the first impor- 



THE AMERICAN FARMER. 183 

tance to the state. The influence of a virtuous yeomanry 
on her character, like that of the air on the individual, is 
seen in the strength of those who are unconscious of its 
presence. 

The agricultural life is one eminently calculated for 
human happiness and human virtue. But let no other call- 
ing or pursuit of honest industry be despised or envied. One 
cannot say unto another, " I have no need of thee ; " and to 
every one there are compensations made that render all, in a 
great degree, satisfied with their lot. Envy not the wealth 
of the merchant ; it has been won by anxieties that you never 
knew, and is held by so frail a tenure as to deprive its pos 
sessor of perfect security and perfect peace. While your 
slumbers have been sound, his have been disturbed by cal- 
culating chances, by fearful anticipations, by uncertainty of 
results. The reward of your labor is sure. He feels that 
an hour may strip him of his possessions, and turn him and 
his family on the world in debt and penury. 

Envy not the learning of the student. The hue on his 
cheek testifies of the vigils by which it has been attained. 
He has grown pale over the midnight lamp. He has been 
shut up from the prospect of nature, while sound sleep and 
refreshing breezes have been your portion and your health. 
Envy not the successful statesman. His name may be in 
every one's mouth. His reputation may be the property of 
his country, but envy and detraction have marked him. His 
plans are thwarted, his principles attacked, his ends misrep- 
resented. And if he attain to the highest station, it is to 
feel that his power only enables him to make one ungrateful, 
and hundreds his enemies, for every favor he can bestow. 

Envy no one. The situation of an independent farmer 
stauds among the first, for happiness and virtue. It is the 
one to which statesmen and warriors have retired, to find, 
in the contemplation of the works of nature, that serenity 
which more conspicuous stations could not impart. It is the 
situation in which God placed his peculiar people in the land 
of Judea, and to which all the laws and institutions of his 
great lawgiver had immediate reference. And when, in the 
fullness of time, the privileges of the chosen seed were to be 
extended to all his children, it was to shepherds, abiding in 
the field, that the glad tidings of great joy were first an- 
nounced. Health of body, serenity of mind, and compe- 



184 PERSEVERING LABOR AND WEALTH. 

fence of estate, wait upon this honorable calling ; and in 
giving these, it gives all that the present can bestow, while 
it opens, through its influence, the path to Heaven. — Ad. 
before New-York State Ag. Society, by Hon. Josiah 
CIuinoy, Jr., of Massachusetts. 



PERSEVERING LABOR AND WEALTH. 

If there be any aristocracy of wealth in our country, it is 
a genuine, a native growth. It has been produced by the 
labor, enterprise, and persevering economy of the people 
themselves. Who, that has lived so long as I have lived, 
has not seen the progress of wealth in almost every depart- 
ment of acquisition ? I can recollect a ship-boy whose whole 
paternal wealth was a warm, and anxious parental blessing. 
What vocation can be more toilsome, what more perilous ? 
Sleep, which in other callings seals the weary eye of labor 
on something like a bed of repose, weighs his eyelids down, 
and steeps his senses in forgetfulness, with no better pillow, 
it may be, than the head of the "high and giddy mast, 
when the wind takes the ruffian billows by the tops, curling 
their heads, and hanging them with deafening clamor in 
the slippery shrouds." Yet he, by perpetual toil, continued 
enterprise, and untiring economy, comes at last to be a 
wealthy and extensive ship-owner. 

The vocation of the school-master is a life of toil, humble 
acquisition, and honest obscurity. His capital is altogether 
of the mind. There he is rich, in science, integrity, and 
habits of persevering labor and economy. How many of 
these men in our country, after toiling years, in this employ- 
ment, gather up the earnings and saving of those years, and 
turning their attention to commerce or other industrial pur- 
suits, become, by the practice of the same process of integrity, 
labor, and economy, men of wealth and eminence ? And, 
how many, after a devotion in early life to these unpretending 
labors, have adopted one of the learned professions, and 
thence rising from one point of distinction to another, till 
ranked with the leading men of the nation ? 

I have seen the young mechanic, at the age of twenty- 
one, standing on the threshold of his father's humble dwell- 
ing. He was just about to step out into the world, and to 
begin life for himself; with no other earthly wealth than hifl 



PERSEVERING LABOR ANT) WEALTH. 195 

own summer frock, truwsers, and straw hat. His whole 
capital was his hands, and his skill in the use of them. Not- 
withstanding all these discouragements, this same man, by 
perpetual toil and perpetual economy, became a wealthy 
and extensive manufacturer. Such instances are by no 
means rare. They are confined to no particular locality. 
They may be found in every part of our land. There are 
thousands, and tens of thousands of them. 

The plough-boy belongs to another class of humble and 
toilsome employment ; and who, that has ever shared in the 
toils or the sports of that vocation, can look back upon it, 
from any point in after life, without feelings of complacency 
and regret? The plough-boy drives his team across the 
field, when the first sunbeams of morning are spreading over 
the earth ; when the world is bursting into life, and song, 
and action ; and, buoyant with youth, and health, and hope, 
he, " as he turns over tho furrowed land," joins the rude 
notes of his own voice to the jocund sounds of the merry 
morning. This laborious lad, by years of continual toil and 
continual economy, does at last become the owner of fields, 
and is himself rich in farms and plantations. He belongs, 
moreover, to that class of citizens, more numerous than all 
others, constituting the bulwark of the nation, and giving 
sustenance to the whole world. 

The wealth of a nation is its labor, its skill, its machinery, 
its abundant control of all the great agents of nature employed 
in production. Wealth is power ; and the defence of every 
nation depends on its wealth. Nevertheless, a large store of 
goods laid up for many years, was the wealth of a fool ; but 
such a store is the poverty of a nation. A great annual con- 
sumption, alone, can ensure an augmented annual repro- 
duction. The labor of a nation can no otherwise be sustained, 
than by the consumption of its products. The products of 
human labor in food and clothing, like the fruits of the 
earth, are annual ; and God, in his wisdom, has adjusted 
human wants to the powers of production. Like the bread 
from heaven, that the Giver might not be forgotten, the dew 
of every night produced the crop, and the labors of every 
day gathered in the harvest. 

What but a mighty phalanx of labor, an almost boundless 
power of consumption and reproduction, has defended and 
now sustains England in all the athletic vigor of the most 



}06 PERSEVERING LABOR AND WEALTH. 

glorious days of that extraordinary nation ? Men who specu- 
late on the duration of nations, seem to assign to the in the 
several periods of human life ; youth, manhood, and old age, 
and final dissolution. They draw their conclusions from 
the nations of antiquity, and apply them to those of modem 
times. They forget that those ancient nations were like 
beasts of prey, which find an enemy in every living thing ; 
and must be, sooner or later, circumvented by stratagem, or 
overpowered and destroyed by force. Producing nothing by 
their own labor, and consuming all which, by violence, they 
could plunder from the labors of others, their whole existence 
was a burden to the human race, and they were finally des- 
troyed as a common nuisance to mankind. 

Not so with England ; she is a glorious example of the 
self-subsisting, the all producing, and all defending powers 
of labor. With a valor purely Spartan, she builds no walls 
against the wars of the world. Her little island, accessible at 
a thousand points, and often within gunshot of the embattled 
fleets of her enemies, has not, for more than seven hundred 
years, been stept upon by a hostile foot. What has enabled 
her to do this ? Her untiring labor ; her unrivalled skill ; 
her unequalled machinery ; her exhaustless capital, and un- 
bounded control over all the agents of production. Her 
goods, her wares, and merchandise, are in all the markets of 
the world ; and wherever she wants a tongue to speak in her 
cause, or a sword to be drawn in her quarrel, if such things 
can be found in those markets, she can command them. 

But, if there can be no wealth without labor, the former 
usually gives impulse and successful direction to the latter. 
Do we hear the sound of the axe, see the forests fall around, 
and the clearing extended over new regions. The idea of 
money in prospect, or in actual possession, gave energy to 
the first blow. Is the plough in motion on a thousand fields, 
and carrying culture to the very hill tops of our country ? 
It is no hyperbole to say, that the idea of money sharpens 
the share, and feeds and invigorates the team. Do the sounds 
of our spindles and looms make music with the sound of our 
waterfalls ; and are our fabrics sent into all parts of our 
country, and to foreign nations ? The accumulated wealth 
of the people from previous labor was the great agent moving 
all this machinery. Are the saw and the hammer heard 
over the whole country, building work shops, warehouses, 



GOD'S ratST TEMFLB8. I37 

mansions, temples, villages, cities? What but a store of 
wealth, collected and laid up, by the labor and economy of 
the people, has called into activity the skill and the strength of 
mechanical labor, and thereby ornamented, as if by enchant- 
ment, the whole face of our country ? 

Nor is' this all ! What sea is left unvexed, by the oars 
or the keels of our fisheries or commerce ? Let it be remem- 
bered, that not a line is drawn ; not a harpoon thrown ; not 
an oar-blade glitters in the sun ; nor a sail whitens above 
the wave, without that invigorating current of vitality, the 
money of our country, which feeding and sustaining every 
department of labor, puts it all into animated and productive 
motion ; and which, for that great purpose, has in former 
years, by so much toil, care, and economy, been earned, 
saved, and then made available in developing an increased 
and combined human industry throughout every member 
and limb, of the whole vast and gigantic body of our national 
labor. There is, therefore, a beautiful reciprocity between 
labor and wealth ; if the latter is produced by the former, 
the former is invigorated and sustained by the latter. Thus 
it is with the husbandman in tilling the ground. His labor 
causes the fruits of the earth to spring up, and without it 
they would not be made to exist ; yet without them for food 
the farmer could not live and toil. — T&istam Burgess, LL. D. 



GOD'S FIRST TEMPLES. 

The groves were God's first temples. Ere man learned 

To hew the shaft, and lay the architrave, 

And spread the roof above them,— ere he framed 

The lofty vault, to gather and roll back 

The sound of anthems, — >in the darkling wood, 

Amidst the cool and silence, he knelt down 

And offered to the Mightiest solemn thanks 

And supplication. For his simple heart , 

Might not resist the sacred influences, # 

That, from the stilly twilight of the place, 

And from the gray old trunks, that, high in heaven, 

Mingled their mossy boughs, and from the sound 

Of the invisible breath, that swayed at once 

All their green tops, stole over him, and bowed 



Igg GOD'S TOtST TEMPLES. 

His spirit with the thought of boundless Power 
And inaccessible Majesty. Ah ! why « 

Should we, in the world's riper years, neglect 
God's ancient sanctuaries, and adore 
Only among the crowd, and under roofs 
That out frail hands have raised ? Let me, at least, 
Here, in the shadow of this aged wood, 
Offer one hymn ; thrice happy, if it find 
Acceptance in his ear. 

Father, thy hand 
Hath reared these venerable columns ; thou 
Didst weave this verdant roof. Thou didst look down 
Upon the naked earth, and, forthwith, rose 
All these fair ranks of trees. They in thy sun 
Budded, and shook their green leaves in thy breeze, 
And shot towards heaven. The century-living crow, 
Whose birth was in their tops, grew old and died 
Among their branches ; till, at last, they stood, 
As now they stand, massy, and tall, and dark, 
Fit shrine for humble worshipper to hold 
Communion with his Maker. Here are seen 
No traces of man's pomp or pride ; no silks 
Rustle, no jewels shine, nor envious eyes 
Encounter ; no fantastic carvings show 
The boast of our vain race to change the form 
Of thy fair works. But thou art here ; thou fiU'st 
The solitude. Thou art in the soft winds 
That run along the summits of these trees 
In music ; thou art in the cooler breath, 
That, from the inmost darkness of the place, 
Comes, scarcely felt ; the barky trunks, the ground, 
The fresh, moist ground, are all instinct with thee. 

Here is continual worship ; nature, here, 
In the tranquility that thou dost love, 
Enjoys thy presence. Noiselessly, around, 
From perch to perch, the solitary bird 
Passes ; and yon clear spring, that, midst its herbs, 
Wells softly forth, and visits the strong roots 
Of half the mighty forest, tells no tale 
Of all the good it does. Thou hast not left 
Thyself without a witness, in these shades, 
Of thy perfections. Grandeur, strength and grace, . 



0tt>'S FUST TBMKE0. \& 

Are here to speak of thee. This mighty oak— 

By .whose immovable stem I stand, and seem 

Almost annihilated — not a prince, 

In all the proud old world beyond the deep, 

E'er wore his crown as loftily as he 

Wears the green coronal of leaves, with which 

Thy hand has graced him. Nestled at his root 

Is beauty, such as blooms not in the glare 

Of the broad sun. That delicate forest flower, 

With scented breath, and look so like a smile, 

Seems, as it issues from the shapeless mold, 

An emanation of the indwelling Life, 

A visible token of the upholding Love, 

That are the soul of this wide universe. 

My heart is awed within me, when I think 
Of the great miracle that still goes on, 
In silence, round me — the perpetual work 
Of thy creation, finished, yet renewed 
Forever. Written on thy works, I read 
The lesson of thy own eternity. 
Lo ! all grow old and die : but see, again, 
How, on the faltering footsteps of decay, 
Youth presses— ever gay and beautiful youth — 
In all its beautiful forms. These lofty trees 
Wave not less proudly that their ancestors 
Molder beneath them. Oh ! there is not lost 
One of earth's charms : upon her bosom yet, 
After the flight of untold centuries, 
The freshness of her far beginning lies, 
And yet shall lie. Life mocks the idle hate 
Of his arch enemy Death ; yea, seats himself 
Upon the sepulchre, and blooms and smiles, 
And of the triumphs of his ghastly foe 
Makes his own nourishment. For he came forth 
From thine own bosom, and shall have no end. 

There have been holy men, who hid themselves 
Deep in the woody wilderness, and gave 
Their lives to thought and prayer, till they outlived 
The generation born with them, nor seemed 
Less aged than the hoary trees and rocks 
Around them ; and there have been holy men, 
Who deemed it were not well to pass life thus. 



f £0 THS WDfTfift NIGHT. 

But let me often to these solitudes 
Retire, and, in thy presence, reassure 
My feeble virtue. Here, its enemies, 
The passions, at thy plainer footsteps, shrink. 
And tremble, and are still. 

O God ! when thou 
Dost scare the world with tempests, set on fire 
The heavens with falling thunderbolts, or fill, 
With all the waters of the firmament, 
The swift, dark whirlwind, that uproots the woods, 
And drowns the villages ; when, at thy call, 
Uprises the great deep, and throws himself 
Upon the continent, and overwhelms 
Its cities ;— who forgets not, at the sight 
Of these tremendous tokens of thy power, 
His pride, and lays his strifes and follies by ! 
Oh ! from the sterner aspects of thy face 
Spare me and mine ; nor let us need the wrath 
Of the mad, unchained elements, to teach 
Who rules them. Be it ours to meditate, 
In these calm shades, thy milder majesty, 
And to the beautiful order of thy works 
Learn to conform the order of our lives. 

Bryant. 



THE WINTER NIGHT. 

'Tis the high festival of night ! 

The earth is radiant with delight ; j 

And, fast as weary day retires, 

The heaven unfolds its secret fires, I 

Bright,— as when first the firmament 

Around the new made world was bent, I 

And infant seraphs pierced the blue, 

Till rays of heaven came shining through. 1 

And mark the heaven's reflected glow 

On many an icy plain below ; 

And where the streams with tinkling clash 

Against their frozen barriers dash, I 

Like fairy lances fleetly cast 

The glittering ripples hurry past, 



< 



AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS. fgf 

And floating sparkles glance afar 
Like rivals of some upper star. 

And see, beyond, how sweetly still 
The snowy moonlight wraps the hill, 
And many an aged pine receives 
The steady brightness on its leaves, 
Contrasting with those giant forms 
Which, rifled by the winter storms, 
With naked branches broad and high, 
Are darkly painted on the sky. 

From every mountain's towering head 
A white and glistening robe is spread, 
As if a melted silver tide 
Were gushing down its lofty side ; 
The clear cold lustre of the moon 
Is purer than the burning noon, 
And day hath never known the charm 
That dwells amid this evening calm. 

The idler on his silken bed 

May talk of nature cold and dead ; 

But we will gaze upon this scene, 

Where some transcendent power hath been. 

And made these streams of beauty flow 

In gladness on the world below, 

Till nature breathes from every part 

The rapture of her mighty heart. 

FSABODY. 



AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS. 

What are the most important agricultural implements ? 
The plough, the harrow, the spade, the hoe, the roller, the 
fork, the scythe, the rake, the cultivator, the cradle, the seed- 
sower, the corn-sheller, the straw-cutter, the fanning-miil, the 
cart, the wagon, and many others of an unknown number. 

What is said of the history of the plough ? 

It is the most valuable, and probably the most ancient of 
all agricultural implements. There are traces of it in the 



19S A0EICULTU1AL IMPLEMENTS. 

earliest written authorities ; and Hesiod advised the Greek 
farmers to have a spare plough, so that in case * of accident 
the work might not be interrupted. The ploughs of Rome 
were of the most simple construction, much resembling in 
form the anchor of a ship. Rivaling these in simplicity and 
rudeness of form, are the never-altered or improved ploughs 
of the Hindoos and Chinese, from whose implements it is 
probable the shape of those of Rome were borrowed. The 
ploughs of the early Saxons and Normans were furnished with 
wheels ; and, it is supposed that the ploughs of the former 
were drawn by being fastened to the tails of their horses. 
The same practice also was known to exist in Ireland. 

When and by whom did ploughs receive improvements 
indicating the present mode of construction ? 

Somewhere about the year 1730, the Dutch got up a 
plough which had some general resemblance to that now in 
use. It was constructed chiefly of wood ; the draught-irons, 
share, and coulter, with the additional plating of iron to the 
mold-board and sole, being the only parts made of iron. 
Thirty years afterwards, in Scotland, ploughs were further 
improved by an iron mold-board and otherwise, so that in 
most respects, we now use much the same model, with less 
important variations. 

What advantage have the ploughs now in use over those 
which preceded them ? 

The wood plough, as generally made, had many objec- 
tionable points and properties. It was very liable to get out 
of order from exposure to the soil and weather, and con- 
tinually required repair. For want of a correct principle or 
guide, it would frequently happen that if two ploughs were 
made by the same maker, they would not work exactly alike ; 
and it was a matter more of chance than certainty whether 
either would perform its work properly. Besides, it was so 
unwieldy and occasioned so much resistance, that double the 
draught power was required, now necessary ; that is, with our 
present ploughs one yoke of oxen will perform about the same 
amount of work that two did with the old wood ploughs. 

How are ploughs now made ? 

They are composed principally of cast iron ; and this is 
not only much the cheapest, but for ordinary use it is much 
the best. The point being of cast iron, is easily replaced at a 
moment's notice, and with a trifling expense, when either 



AGRICULTURAL IMPLKMSNTft. 193 

broken or worn out ; and, in consequence of being made from 
a mixture of several kinds of the best metal, it has the te- 
nacity, strength, and durability of steel. 

How many ploughs are probably manufactured annual' 
lyinlhe United States? 

It is impossible to tell the exact number, or a near ap- 
proximation to it. There are, however, about two millions 
of farmers, or persons who cultivate farms on their own ac- 
count. Three ploughs are supposed to be the average num- 
ber owned by each one ; some have five or six, and no one 
oan be expected to do with less than two, and rarely less than 
three. The wear on the whole cannot be less than one en- 
tire plough, so that each farmer, on an average, purchases a 
new one each year. This is a moderate estimate ; and as- 
suming it as a fact, two millions of new ploughs are de- 
manded annually in the whole country. In the city of 
New- York there is one establishment which manufactures 
annually, ten thousand ploughs. There may be others still 
larger. If they average five dollars each, it is seen that the 
farmers in the United States, every year, pay ten millions of 
dollars for the single article of ploughs. 

What is said of the construction of harrows ? 

They are of various sizes and shapes. The more common 
ones, triangular, square, or paralellogram, with unequal 
angles. The particular shape is not very material ; but it is 
important that the teeth be so arranged that no two are on 
the same line as the harrow is carried forward ; and that 
they form lines within two or three inches of each other, and 
at equal distances. Harrows that are made of two equal 
parts, and connected with hinges are best, because they work 
better on uneven ground, and when the teeth are required to 
be cleared of vines or any refuse vegetables with which they 
may become entangled, they may be cleared without lifting 
the whole weight of the harrow. 

How are the best rollers constructed ? 

The most approved rollers are constructed wholly of iron, 
except the tongue, which is of wood. These rollers are usually 
made either eighteen or twenty-four inches in diameter, in 
separate sections, each one a foot long, turning on a wrought 
iron arbor, independent of each other, and without much fric- 
tion. They can be of any weight, and used by hand, or so 
heavy as to require one or two horses. A roller of four sec- 
9 



194 AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS. 

turns only, thills or shafts being applied instead of a tongue, 
can be operated by one horse ; but if it consist of six sections, 
two horses are necessary. It is a modern invention, but is 
coming into general use with the best farmers. 

What is said of the cultivators ? 

They are designed to stir the earth and to destroy the 
weeds between the rows of corn, and other crops in rows or 
drills, and are among the most important labor-saving imple- 
ments in modern husbandry, inasmuch as one man and horse, 
with one, will accomplish as much work as four men, at least. 
In form they much resemble the triangular harrow, with fix* 
tures to expand and contract, according to the distance be- 
tween the rows where they are to be used. They have teeth, 
but variously constructed ; some to penetrate deep into the 
soil, and others resembling small ploughshares, so as the bet- 
ter to cut up weeds, and to change the position of the soil. 
No farmer, once acquainted with its use, would willingly do 
without one. They are also good for being passed over a field 
after the sowing of wheat, to mix the seed with the soil, in- 
stead of doing it with a plough, as often done. 

How is the cradle described? 

It is a broad scythe and sneath, with long bending teeth 
in a frame, to be used in cutting and laying in a swath, oats, 
wheat, and other grain, instead of doing it, as formerly done, 
by a sickle. It performs the labor with so much expedition, 
that the common sickle is almost wholly superseded. If the 
grain has not been blown down by storms or otherwise, a 
hand with the cradle will cut from two to four acres in a day. 

What is the construction of reaping machines for horse 
power? 

There are machines of this description which will reap, 
it is said, fifteen acres of wheat in a day, and will cut the 
grain as smooth and clean as it can be done with a sickle, or 
scythe. The machine has low wheels, and is drawn by a 
pair of horses, and cuts a swath five feet wide with twenty 
knives working horizontally, which require sharpening only 
once a day. A man sitting on the side of the platform with 
a rake, pushes off the grain as fast as it is cut. A field of 
oats or barley may be cut as neatly and expeditiously, as one 
of wheat or rye. They are of course designed for those ex- 
tensively engaged in agriculture. 

How are rakes constructed ? 

With the common hand farm rakes all axe familiar; but 



AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS. 195 

these will soon fall into disuse, except on small rough farms, 
or where the owners have not learned how much may be 
gained in raking hay by the use of horse-power. Horse-rakes 
are made of different patterns ; and, what is called the re- 
volving rake, is probably the best. With this, a man, a boy, 
and a horse, can rake over, from fiReen to twenty-five acres 
in a day — a saving of immense importance, at a season of 
the year when labor commands a high price, and cannot al- 
ways be had. It is easy for any one to estimate in how short 
a time the cost of it would be saved. Besides, its importance 
is increased from the fact that sudden showers and storms are 
constantly liable to arise in the season of hay-making. It is 
of simple and durable construction, and is not expensive. 

What is said of the modern inventions for souring and 
planting different kinds of seed ? 

The machine for sowing garden seeds, and all small seeds 
in field culture, such as carrots, turnips, parsnips, and beets, 
is moved by hand. The operator pushes it before him, and 
by a single operation, the furrow or drill is opened, the seed 
is deposited, and the earth turned over it and compressed. 
The seeds are dropped with the greatest precision, at any de- 
sired distance from each other, whether in hills or drills. The 
horse-drill is for planting wheat, rye, Indian corn, oats, peas, 
beans, or any thing else, in large fields. A man with two 
horses and this machine, can put in from ten to twelve acres 
of wheat in a day ; and with one horse he can plant twenty 
acres of Indian corn in a day. The drill is bo arranged that 
it can be used on rough and hilly land ; and, will deposit any 
desired quantity of seed to the acre. 

What account is given of straw, hay, and corn-stalk 
cutters ? 

There are several different instruments in use coming 
under this denomination, more or less expensive, and varying 
in excellence for the purpose designed. Ordinarily, they have 
a crank, and are operated by hand ; but can be made so firm 
as to be used by horse-power, cutting a ton in an hour and a 
quarter. There is a great saving in the cutting of corn-stalks, 
hay, and straw, in two ways. The animals do not waste it 
by drawing it out of the mangers, and trampling it under 
their feet, and time and labor are saved them in masticating. 
They obtain their supply of food readily, and then lie down 
to digest it. Fermentation also developes the nutritive mat- 



196 AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS. 

4er, and requires less work for the stomach, and this, by 
saving muscular exertion, leaves more strength with the ani- 
mal to be expended on ordinary work. Both hay and straw 
should be slightly wet ; and if seasoned with a little meal 
and salt, is the better. The best machines are those with 
spiral knives and cutting against a roller of raw hide, being 
self-feeders, and without any complicated fixtures. Some feed 
their horses altogether with cut hay and straw, mixed with 
ground provender. 

How are vegetable cutters made, and what is the bene- 
fit from them ? 

The cutting wheel of this implement is made of cast iron, 
faced on one side, through which are inserted three or more 
knives, like plane-irons. These cut the vegetables into thin 
slices with great rapidity, and then, by cross knives they are 
cut into slips of convenient form and size for cattle or sheep, 
without danger of choking. The pieces after cutting lie 
loosely, and can easily be taken up by the animal. One of 
these machines in good order, will cut fifty bushels of turnips 
or carrots in an hour. 

How is the corn and cob crusher made ? 

In such a machine the cobs are first cut in short pieces 
by means of a strong spiral knife attached to the axle, and 
then pass between two grinding plates made of composition 
metal, that will last two or three years, when they are re- 
placed by new ones. They are of sizes to be worked by 
horse-power, or with a wheel and crank by hand. This ma- 
chine, where it is deemed an object to use the cobs for feed, 
and where other means of reducing them to small atoms are 
not within convenient distance, are of great value to the 
farmer. There are also grain mills of somewhat similar con- 
struction ; one of which, with one horse-power, will grind four 
bushels of fine meal in an hour ; if the meal is coarse, a greater 
quantity. In seasons of drought, when the common grist- 
mills are deficient in water, one of the above grain mills 
would be of great convenience. 

What account is given of the fanning mill? 

It is a contrivance employed for separating, by an artifi- 
cial current of air, the chaff from the grain, after it has been 
threshed out of the straw. Various accounts are given of the 
introduction of this machine into England and Scotland, and 
of the many claimants for the credit of having been the first 



▲GBICTTLTURAL IMPLEMENTS. 197 

maker* of this ingenious piece of mechanism. All, however, 
agree that the idea, model, or design was first furnished front 
Holland. Different patents have been taken out for those of 
. different construction ; but either, probably, of those now in 
use, will answer the purpose. The presumption is, that those 
are to be preferred which are the least complicated in their 
machinery. 

Of the utility of com shelters, what may be said ? 

The large quantities of corn raised in this country, render 
it, as it were, indispensable that there should be machines for 
shelling it from the cob in some expeditious manner. For- 
merly, to shell the corn by hand, growing on a farm, was a 
winter's occupation for one man at least. No wonder then 
that so many efforts have been made to supply this desidera- 
tum. Two men with one of the best, having a double hop- 
per, can shell two hundred bushels of corn a day. So the 
venders of it affirm ; but, if only half of that quantity were 
shelled, the inducements for possessing one would be ample. 
A sheller with a single hopper will be sufficient for all 
moderate corn growers. Of the different patents each pur- 
chaser can be guided by his own fancy and judgment, keep- 
ing in mind the amount of labor to be performed by it. 

What is said of the relative value of wagons and carts 
for use on a farm ? 

It would be well for farmers to own both, if able, and 
their labors are extensive and of diversified character. For 
heavy burdens and for going long distances, especially on pub- 
lic roads, wagons are doubless preferable. The weight resting 
on two axles instead of one, the wheels press less heavily on 
the ground, and there is of Course less friction on the axles, 
as the wheels turn round. The load also is kept, in ascend- 
ing hills, from settling backward and thus tending to choke 
the animals upon draught ; and in descending hills, settling 
forward and thus pressing too onerously upon them. But 
from the more convenient facility with which carts are turned 
round, much time will be saved in using them in doing most 
of the work on the farm, particularly the removal of manure 
and other objects for short distances only. 

What is said of the importance of the grindstone ? 

It is surprising that any farmer should neglect to be fur- 
nished with a good grindstone, as it is found most necessary 
every few days. The individual that depends on his neigh- 



jgg AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS. 

tor, if only a fourth of a mile distant, for this useful imple- 
ment every time his edge tools require being sharpened, will 
he likely to lose the cost of two or three stones in time wasted 
in going back and forth. A.nd, if mounted on friction rollers, • 
which cost but a mere trifle, more than half of the toil in 
turning it will he saved ; and, in addition to this, when put- 
ting an edge to small tools, and others requiring but little 
grinding, the labor of a person at the crank is saved altogether. 

What may be said of the importance of being amply 
supplied with the implements generally needed in doing the 
different labors of the farm ? 

There is no economy or saving in not being furnished 
abundantly with them. It is better to have too many than 
not enough. The catalogue required would be too long for 
enumeration here. Suffice it to say, that in the saving of 
time they all pay for themselves many times over. The 
farmer who is destitute of the more constantly needful of 
them, would make a slow progress in his work, like that of 
the shoemaker who should attempt to manufacture shoes by 
using the tine of a table fork instead of an awl, or like that 
of the tailor who attempts to sew by fastening his thread to 
the head of a pin, instead of using a needle. 

And, what is said of the expediency of using the more 
expensive kinds of agricultural implements ? 

It is very evident, that in all cases where they would lead 
to a saving of labor, varying from a hundred to a thousand 
per cent., the neglect to have them is an absurdity. This is 
especially true, where horse-power can be substituted for hu- 
man labor. It is similar to a man, not owning a horse, 
spending a whole day in carrying to the grist-mill a bag of 
corn on his back, when he might hire a horse to do it, and - 
pay for it in his own labor in one -fourth part of the time ; or, . 
like carrying to market in his own wagon a load of produce, 
when he might send it on the rail road, or some other public 
conveyance, for half the amount paid for tolls and other inci- 
dental expenses in the journey. 

What is said of taking good care of farm implements ? 

The aggregate amount of loss to farmers who are inat- 
tentive to this subject, is incredibly great. A slight yielding 
of an implement is cheaply repaired, and then it answers the 
same as a new one ; but, if neglected, it soon goes to ruin, 
and another is wanted. It is not unlike neglecting to close. 



EOMANCB IN REAL LIFB. jgg 

a small rent in our garments, which is almost sure to catch 
upon something that will further rend them, till completely 
worthless. All farm implements should be kept in perfect 
repair, every now and then as needed, receiving a coat of 
paint ; and above all, when not in use, should be kept shel- 
tered from the sun and weather, and well packed away. By 
such precautions a farmer well supplied with them will save 
annually one hundred dollars This is a fair calculation. 



ROMANCE IN REAL LIFE. 

We have assembled here to-day to commune together, 
upon one of the great departments — the greatest indeed— of 
human employment. In the task assigned to me, I shall not 
enter into the practical details, which belong to this vast 
subject ; interesting to all, however diversified their avoca- 
tions in life. I feel my incompetence to perform the part of 
a teacher in the great art of agriculture ; the art of directing 
and aiding nature in the performance of those functions, 
which were designed by Providence for the comfort and sub- 
sistence of man. A large portion of this intelligent assembly 
unite experience with observation, an intimate knowledge of 
practical operations, with a just theory of their application, 
and a full appreciation of the value of combining personal 
experience with those enlarged views, which are essential to 
progressive improvement. But omitting those practical de- 
tails, which a familiar knowledge of the subject can alone 
furnish, there are still many general and important con- 
siderations, as well moral and statistical, as historical, which 
are neither inappropriate to the occasion, nor unworthy of 
your attention, and some of these I propose to present to you. 

The more active portion of my life has been devoted to 
other and harsher duties ; and much of it to ranging the 
forests in the pursuit of the red man in time of war, and to 
counsel with and restrain him in time of peace. And this 
is not the first time I have been here. I have been here, 
when he who now speaks, if he had spoken then, would 
have found no hearers. When the silence of the forest was 
unbroken by the cheerful hum of human industry, and its 
solitude uninterrupted, but by the wandering Indian, and 
the animals that ministered to his wants — when a world of 



200 ROMANCE Of REAL UFB. 

primitive, gigantic vegetation extended its sway across our 
own beautiful Peninsula, and on to the very shores of the 
Pacific, where our fathers* flag and our own now waves in 
the breeze, that comes from the continent of Asia. 

He alone, who has traversed these regions, day after day, 
in the freshness indeed, but in the silence and solitude of na- 
ture, almost appalled by a sense of loneliness and insignifi- 
cance, amid these wonders of creative power, can justly 
appreciate the efforts of man in subduing and reclaiming the 
prairie and the forest, and preparing them for those scenes of 
improvement and cultivation, which cheer the eye and glad- 
den the heart of the traveller ; and, above all, of the traveller, 
who preceded the march of civilization, and now follows it 
in its glorous progress. Never has human industry achieved 
a prouder triumph, than in this conflict between nature and 
man. As in the exodus from Eden, he has been " sent forth 
to till the ground," and in the " sweat of his face" has he 
thus far fulfilled his mission. And a proud one it was ; aye,* 
and yet is ; tor, though it has done much, it has still much 
to do. It began at the beach of Jamestown, and the rock of 
Plymouth, where its first labors were broken by no sound but 
the surges of the Atlantic, and they will finish only, when 
the last echo of the woodman's axe shall mingle with the 
surges of the Pacific. 

Do not these miracles of enterprise resemble the fictions 
of an Eastern imagination, rather than the sober realities of 
human experience ? Do they not speak to us in trumpet 
tones of the value and dignity of labor, for by labor have 
they been wrought — ^persevering, unyielding, triumphant 
labor. There is no lesson more important to be taught to 
our young countrymen than that, which is taught by this 
great characteristic feature of American history; the im- 
mense conquest, which man has achieved, over the world of 
matter, that opposed his progress, and the scanty resources he 
brought to the work. His own exertions, and the axe and 
plough, have accomplished this mighty task ; always indeed 
with toil and exposure, and sometimes under circumstances 
of privation and suffering, before which the stoutest resolu- 
tion might give way. But if time brought its trials, it 
brought also its reward ; it converted the wilderness into a 
garden, and spread over the face of the country, those beau- 
tiful habitations, and those fertile and productive fields, such 



B01UHCS IN EBAL LOT. foi 

as this region offers to view, and which are at once, the 
evidence and the recompense of that industry and enterprise, 
which quail not before toil or danger, but still go on pre- 
paring this goodly heritage, as well for ourselves, as those, 
who are to follow us, when our task is done. 

And how would this great work of subduing nature and 
preparing the forest for the residence of man have been ac-, 
complished in the older regions of the globe, so long the 
theatre of human exertions ? The answer to this pregnant 
question describes by a single trait the great marked differ- 
ence between the condition of agricultural labor in the East- 
ern and in the Western hemispheres; between the laborer 
for others, and the laborer for himself. Across the water, 
which does not separate us more widely in space, than do 
the position and prospects of the people in their condition, 
great enterprises are never concerted, and conducted by the 
mass of the inhabitants. Counsel and capital are furnished 
by the few and fortunate.; "the sweat of the face" by the 
many and the wretched. And the profitable results belong 
to the former ; while the latter eke out a scanty and preca- 
rious subsistence, as poor and depressed at the termination 
of the most successful and gigantic undertaking, as at its 
commencement. Here it needs not that any one should tell 
you the difference. He, who runs, may read it in the his- 
tory of our whole progress, individual and national. 

The forest has fallen before those, who established their 
habitations in its dark recesses ; dark till their toil made 
way for the light of Heaven to shine upon them. They 
labored themselves, and for themselves. No taskmaster 
directed their work, and no speculator garnered the profits. 
And thus exertion was stimulated by the most powerful mo- 
tives, which can operate upon human nature ; by the neces- 
sity of present subsistence, and the hope — the certainty, I 
should say, of future competence and comfort ; and therefore 
it is, that upon the immense domain from Lake Erie, almost 
to the shadow of the Rocky Mountains, a vigorous, intelli- 
gent, and enterprising people have fixed their residence, and 
by their own labor, and for their own advantage, have pre- 
pared it for all the purposes of civilized life. And the time, 
within which this has been done, is not the least extraor- 
dinary feature in this great national migration — a migration 
going forth to invade the forest, and to fulfil the first com* 
9* 



SO* ROMANCE IN REAL LIFE. 

mand of the Creator, " to replenish the earth and subdue h," 
and not, as in the history of human conquest, to lay waste, 
and destroy, having before it fertile and flourishing regions, 
and behind it ruin and desolation. The man yet lives, who 
was living, when almost the first tree fell before the pioneer's 
stroke in this magnificent region, and the man is now living, 
who will live to see it contain one hundred millions of people. 
I have myself known it for half a century, and in that space, 
long indeed in the life of man, but brief in the life of com- 
munities, our own region of the Northwest, marked with its 
distinct boundaries upon the map of nature, by the Lakes, 
the Mississippi and the Ohio, has risen from infancy to man- 
hood, from weakness to strength, from a population of a few 
thousands, to five millions o£ people ; of freemen, owning 
the soil they occupy, and which they won by their industry, 
and will defend by their blood. 

Where, in the long annals of the human race, can you 
find such an augmentation of the resources and numbers of 
a country, gained in so short a period, and under such cir- 
cumstances of trial in its progress, and of prosperity in its 
issue ? And may we not well say, that the mighty agent, 
which has built up this monument of productive power, de- 
serves the gratitude and the fostering care of the American 
people ? And that agent is labor, and our duty is to elevate 
it in the scale of employment. To show what it has done, 
and is doing, and is destined, I trust, yet to do. It has not 
founded a monarchy indeed, whose burthens are for the re- 
jected, and its benefits for the chosen ; whose splendor daz- 
zles the eye, while its oppression sickens the heart. But it 
has laid the foundation of a Republic, broadly and deeply in 
the rights of man ; whose equal protection covers all, as its 
equal honors are open to all; and whose career, if not 
checked by our own folly, or by the just judgment of God, 
promises a glorious and encouraging spectacle to the lovers 
of freedom through the world— aye, and an example too for 
long ages to come. 

Human occupation should be measured by its useful con* 
sequences and by its moral tendencies, and by the principles 
and conduct of those, who are devoted to it, and whose 
character is formed by its pursuit. Tried by this standard, 
where shall we find an employment more worthy of honor 
and regard, than that which drew from Sir William Jonef 



ROMANCE IN REAL LIFS. gQg 

the eloquent panegyric, that " he who makes two spears of 
glass grow, where but one grew before, is a public benefac- 
tor, far in advance of the noblest chieftains, who, aided by 
armies and the enginery of war, sack cities, carry conquest 
onward, only to conquer, and subjugate and desolate king* 
doms? " And yet so wayward is human nature, and so un- 
justly are its honors distributed, that the temple of Mars is 
thronged with the votaries of fame, while silent are the 
altars of Geres, and those, who worship there must find their 
reward, not in public renown, but in the consciousness of a 
duty, self-imposed and faithfully performed. 

But a better day has begun to dawn. Many old things 
are passing away, and with them is waning that military 
glory, which has so long led captive the best affections of our 
nature. The time is coming when the supporter of human 
life will find his station far higher in the world's estimation, 
than the destroyer. We are beginning to learn, that the 
splendor of victory is a fearful pageant, while conquest over 
the earth, and the multiplication of its products are accepta* 
ble sights in the eyes of God and man. He, who puts his 
hand to the plough, and does not look back upon more bril- 
liant, but less useful employments, will not fail to find his 
reward in a happy and honorable life. What a perversion 
of terms, or rather what a perversion of moral sentiment does 
it exhibit to talk of the dignity of indolence, the dignity of 
doing nothing, and the un worthiness of useful, honest labor ! 
Whatever of this feeling there is among us, and there is 
some, is exotic, not indigenous ; imported whence many other 
notions, equally unreasonable and injurious, have come, to 
exercise a baneful influence upon our social system. 

My own experience may not be without profit to some 
who hear me; certainly not, if it furnishes motives for en- 
couragement or hopes to stimulate to exertion. It is fifty 
years and more, since I crossed the mountains on foot, a 
young adventurer, seeking that land of promise, which has 
been to me, as to so many others, a land of performance. I 
had many difficulties to contend with, many obstacles to 
encounter, and many privations, in peace and in war, to en- 
dure ; and I have probably undergone as large a share of 
fktiorue and exposure, in the early part of my life, as often 
falls to the lot of our countrymen. But thanks to the nature 
fif our institutions, to their glorious equality, and thanks 



S04 



BOMANCE DC REAL UFB. 



above all to the favor of my countrymen, I have had a meat* 
nre of political prosperity, far beyond what I merited, or even 
dared to anticipate. The youthful emigrant, now in the 
decline of life, communicating to his youthful hearers the 
result of his experience, that they may go and do likewise—* 
in all but the errors he committed — has been borne onward 
by his generous fellow-citizens to the high posts of the nation, 
and has represented his country at the court of kings. And 
he has returned with the conviction, as abiding as his life, 
that the sun never shone upon as happy a region as this con- 
federation embraces ; nor one where human freedom meets 
less opposition, or the human intellect less restraint ; nor 
where there are such powerful motives for exertion, or such 
distinctions for its reward. 

Our history furnishes many striking examples of this pro- 
gress from unprotected self-dependence to public confidence, 
and to the highest honors. The Father of his country com- 
menced life as a land surveyor, and he died, leaving the 
brightest name that mere man has left in all the long annals 
that record the days and deeds of the human race. Greene, 
his friend, and undoubtedly his most confidential general, a 
distinction he well merited by his courage and conduct, was 
a blacksmith, and laid down the hammer, when he girded 
on the sword. Putnam, the very impersonation of hardihood 
and intrepidity, was driving his plough, when the musketry 
at Lexington aroused a continent. He left that plough in 
the furrow, and mounting his horse, repaired to Boston, and 
joined the throng of patriots who, with a devotion to freedom 
as true and holy, as ever animated the human breast, entered 
into a contest more unequal, perhaps, than any which oppres- 
sion has ever waged against power. 

And we learn from the Holy Scriptures, that the chosen 
champion of a higher warfare, the prophet Elisha, when 
summoned to his mission, was found by Elijah in his field, 
" ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he 
with the twelfth." Morgan, the most enterprising partisan 
of our revolution, was a wagoner ; Starke, whose memorable 
defeat of the British at Bennington, prepared the way for the 
capture of Burgoyne and his army, was, in early life, a field 
laborer. Roger Sherman, equally renowned for the power 
of his intellect, and his active and efficient exertions in the 
councils of the nation, was a shoemaker ; and . Franklin, 



SAGACITY OP THE SFIDSt. f06 

whole name recalls his world-wide reputation, and the deeds 
in the Arts, in Science, and in the service of his country, 
which he did to acquire, and to deserve it, was a printer, la* 
boring assiduously at his work, during many years of his 
life. But I need not add to these illustrious names. It 
would be easy to do so, were more examples of success re- 
quired. But sufficient are these for all, who desire to profit 
by this characteristic and encouraging chapter of our history. 
Young men, whom I see around me, ponder over the lives of 
these great men of the past generation. Follow their course 
with probity and perseverance, and you will follow them 
also in their useful career. You cannot all, indeed, attain 
the highest stations, but you may all attain respectability 
and prosperity, and enough of both to satisfy the measure of 
a reasonable ambition. — From Address of Lewis Cass, 
LL. D., Michigan. 



SAGACITY OF THE SPIDEH. 

Animals in general are sagacious, in proportion as they 
cultivate society. The elephant and the beaver show the 
greatest signs of this, when united ; but when man intrudes 
into their communities, they lose all their spirit of in* 
dustry, and testify but a very small share of sagacity for 
which, when in a social state, they are so remarkable . 
Among insects, the labors of the bee and ant have employed 
the attention and admiration of the naturalist; but their 
whole sagacity is lost upon separation, and a single bee or 
ant seems destitute of every degree of industry, is the most 
stupid insect imaginable, languishes for a time in solitude, 
and soon dies. 

Of all the solitary insects I have ever remarked, the 
spider is the most sagacious, and its actions, to me, who 
have attentively considered them, seem almost to exceed be- 
lief. This insect is formed by nature for a state of war, not 
only upon other insects, but upon each other. For this 
state, nature seems perfectly well to have formed it. Its 
head and breast are covered with a strong ceat of mail, 
which is impenetrable to the attempts of every other insect, 
and its belly is enveloped in a soft, pliant skin, which eludes 
the sting even of a wasp. Its legs are terminated by strong 



gftft SAGACITY OF THE SMDER. 

claws, not unlike those of a lobster ; and their vast length, 
like spears, serve to keep every assailant at a distance. 

Not worse furnished for observation than ibr attack or 
defence, it has several eyes, large, transparent, and covered 
with a horny substance) which, however, does not impede its 
vision. Besides this, it is furnished with forceps above the 
mouth, which serves to kill or secure the prey already caught 
in its claws or its net. 

Such are the implements of war with which the body is 
immediately furnished ; but its net to entangle the enemy 
seems what it chiefly trusts to, and what it takes most pains 
to render as complete as possible. Nature has furnished the 
body of this little creature with a glutinous liquid, which, 
proceeding from the anus, it spins into thread, coarser ox 
finer as it chooses to contract or dilate its sphincter. In order 
to fix its threads, when it begins to weave, it emits a small 
drop of its liquid against the wall, which, hardening by de- 
grees, serves to hold the thread very firmly. Then receding 
from the first point, as it recedes, the thread lengthens ; and 
when the spider has come to the place where the other end 
of the thread should be fixed, gathering up with its claws 
the thread, which would otherwise be too slack, it is stretched 
tightly and fixed in the same manner to the wall as before. 

In this manner it spins and fixes several threads parallel 
to each other, which, so to speak, serve as the warp to the 
intended web. To form the woof, it spins in the same 
manner its thread, transversely fixing one end to the first 
thread that was spun, and which is always the strongest of 
the whole web, and the other to the wall. All these threads, 
being newly spun, are glutinous, and therefore stick to each 
other, wherever they happen to touch ; and in those parts 
of the web most exposed to be torn, our natural artist 
strengthens them, by doubling the threads sometimes sixfold. 

Thus far, our naturalists have gone in the description of 
this animal : what follows is the result of our own observa- 
tion upon that species of the insect called the house-spider. I 
perceived, about four years ago, a large spider in one corner 
of my room, making its web, and though the maid frequently 
levelled her fatal broom against the labors of the little 
animal, I had the good fortune then to prevent its destruc- 
tion, and, I may say, it more than paid me by the entertain- 
ment it afforded. 



SAGACITY OP Tnti 6Plt)Ett. §37 

In three days the web was with incredible diligence 
completed ; nor could I avoid thinking that the insect seemed 
to exalt in its new abode. It frequently traversed its round, 
and examined the strength of every part of it, retired into 
its hole, and came out Very frequently. The first enemy, 
however, it had to encounter, Was another and much larger 
spider, which, having no web of its own, and having proba- 
bly exhausted all its stock in former labors of this kind, came 
to invade the property of its neighbor. Soon, then, a terrible 
encounter ensued, in which the invader seemed to have the 
victory* and the laborious spider Was obliged to take refuge 
in its hole. Upon this I perceived the victor Using every 
art to draw the enemy from his stronghold. He seemed to 
go off, but quickly returned, and when he found all arts 
vain, began to demolish the new web without mercy. This 
brought on another battle, and, contrary to my expectations, 
the laborious spider became conqueror, and fairly killed his 
antagonist. 

Now then, in peaceable possession of what was justly its 
own, it waited three days with the utmost impatience, re- 
pairing the breaches of its web, and taking no sustenance 
that I could perceive. At last, however, a large blue fly fell 
into the snare, and struggled hard to get loose. The spider 
gave it leave to entangle itself, as much as possible, but it 
seemed to be too strong for the cobweb. I must own I was 
greatly surprised when I saw the spider immediately sally 
out, and in less than a minute weave a new web around its 
captive, by which the motion of its wings was stopped, and 
when it was fairly hampered in this manner, it was seized 
and dragged into the hole. 

In this manner it lived, in a precarious state, and nature 
seemed to have fitted it for such a life ; for upon a single fly 
it subsisted for more than a week. I once put a wasp into 
the net, but when the spider caftne out in order to seize it 
as usual, upon perceiving what kind of an enemy it had to 
deal with, it instantly broke all the bands that held it fast, 
and contributed all that lay in its power to disengage so for- 
midable an antagonist. When the wasp was at liberty, I 
expected the spider would have set about repairing the 
breaches that were made in its net ; but those, it seems, 
were irreparable, wherefore the cobweb was now entirely 
forsaken, and a new one begun, which was completed in the 
usual time. 



£04 SAGACITY 0? THE SPIDER. 

I had now a mind to try how many cobwebs a single 
spider could furnish ; wherefore I destroyed this and the insect 
set about another. When I destroyed the other also, its 
whole stock seemed entirely exhausted, and it could spin no 
more. The arts it made use of to support itself, now deprived 
of its great means of subsistence, were indeed surprising. I 
have seen it roll up its legs like a ball, and lie motionless for 
hours together, but cautiously watching all the time ; when 
a fly happened to approach sufficiently near, it would dart 
out at once, and often seize its prey. 

Of this, however, it soon began to grow weary, and re* 
solved to invade the possession of some other spider, since it 
could not make a web of its own. It formed an attack upon 
a neighboring fortification, with great vigor, and at first was 
as vigorously repulsed. Not daunted, however, with one de» 
feat, it continued to lay siege to another's web for three days, 
and at length having killed the defendant, actually took pos- 
session. When smaller flies happened to fall into the snare, 
the spider does not sally out at once, but very patiently waits 
till it is sure of them ; for upon his immediately approaching, 
the terror of his appearance might give the captive strength 
sufficient to get loose : the manner then is to wait patiently 
till, by ineffectual and impotent struggles, the captive has 
wasted all his strength, and then he becomes a certain and 
easy conquest. 

The insect I am now describing lived three years ; every 
year it changed its skin, and got a new set of legs. I have 
sometimes plucked off a leg, which grew again in two or 
three days. At first it dreaded my approach to its web ; 
but at last it became so familiar as to take a fly out of my 
hand, and upon my touching any part of the web, would 
immediately leave its hole, prepared for defence or attack. 

To complete this description, it may be observed, that 
the male spiders are much less than the female, and that 
the latter are oviparous. When they come to lay, they 
spread a part of the web under their eggs, and then roll 
them up carefully, as we roll up things in a cloth, and thus 
watch them in their hole. If disturbed in their holes, they 
never attempt to escape without carrying their young: brood 
in their forceps away with them, and thus frequently are 
sacrificed to their paternal affections. 

As soon as the young ones leave their artificial covering, 



PHYSICAL BENEFITS OF WINTER. 209 

they begin to spin, and almost sensibly seem to grow bigger. 
If they have the good fortune, -when even but a day old, to 
catch a fly, they fall too with a £ood appetite ; but they live 
sometimes three or four days without any sort of sustenance, 
and still continue to grow larger, so as every day to double 
their former size. As they grow old, however, they do not 
still continue to increase, but their legs only continue to 
grow longer ; and when a spider becomes entirely stiff with 
age and unable to seize its prey, it dies at length of hunger. 

Oliver Goldsmith. 



PHYSICAL BENEFITS OF WINTER. 

Winter has its physical benefits and its moral lessons. 
First in order we shall notice the physical advantages of 
winter. One of the most prominent of these is the repose 
which it secures to the earth after the productiveness of sum- 
mer. It has been beautifully said, " The days of w^inter are 
the days of nature's rest. In the preceding months she has 
been exhausted with incessant labor for the good of man. 
How rich has the spring been in flowers ; how the seeds have 
expanded and the foliage sprouted. What abundance of 
fruits the summer prepares for the autumn's maturing hand. 
Every month, every day, we receive some fresh gift from na- 
ture. As the tender mother provides for her young with 
anxious care, so nature is busied from morn to evening in 
supplying our wants, and in procuring us a succession of com- 
forts and blessings to make life's fleeting moments smile with 
joy and with delight. Food, raiment, and the chief sources 
of our pleasures, are all derived from her fostering bosom. 
For us she makes the seeds to open and expand, the herbs to 
bud, the trees to look gay with foliage, beautiful with blos- 
soms, and to pour forth their riches in fruit of every kind that 
can please the eye or gratify the taste. For us the golden 
grain waves over the fields, the vine offers her varied treas- 
ures, and the whole creation is clothed in verdure, and pre- 
sents to the delighted observer an infinitely varied and beau- 
tiful field of attractions. Wearied by so many labors, nature, 
for a space, reposes, in order to acquire new force, that she 
may again be equally fruitful, and again be able to assume 
her wonted resplendency." The farmer well understands 



210 PHYSICAL BENEFITS OP WINTS1L 

that land, to be made most highly and permanently produc- 
tive, must have occasional rest. It must not be sown with 
grass or grain year after year, lest the strength and goodness 
of the soil Bhould soon be exhausted, but it must be favored 
with a change of crops. The Jewish law required that every 
seventh year the land should rest and lie still ; and farmers 
who have made the experiment testify that they find this to 
be good economy. On the same principle the temporary re- 
pose of the earth in winter, like rest in sleep, is favorable for 
augmenting the vigor and productiveness of the soil. 

But winter is not to be regarded as the mere repose of 
nature ; it is also a preparatory season — the seed-time of the 
coming year. Even when the ground is stiffened and covered 
with snow, secret processes are at work in the laboratory of 
nature, preserving and elaborating " the seeds, buds and roots 
of future plants and flowers," and unfolding the germs of the 
future harvest. The fall-sown grain, subjected to these pro- 
cesses, slowly developed till it just peers above the surface, 
and then covered with its warm blanket of snow to await the 
return of the sun, attains a fullness, vigor and maturity never 
reached by that which is sown in spring. One of the most 
beautiful sights in nature is that of a fresh green field of grain 
shooting up, when all around it is desolate, to indicate that 
nature's life is not extinct, and that seed-time and harvest 
shall not fail. Under the cold hard surface of winter lie 
hidden in the yet warm and nutritous earth, the spring, the 
summer, the autumn of the coming year. A new harvest is 
germinating there, to be quickened into life and fruitfulness 
by the warm summer's sun. Moreover there are plants and 
trees that preserve their verdure through the winter ; flowers 
that spring up under the snow and bloom with a delicious 
fragrance ; shrubs, herbs, and vegetables that come to ma- 
turity amid frosts and ice ; showing that nature, though in 
comparative repose, is not dead — that winter is not all a 
waste. Some of the most kindly processes of nature in the 
preservation and development of the various species of grains 
and grasses, plants and vegetables, are carried forward in the 
dark recesses of winter. 

But this is not the full extent of the physical operations 
of winter. The diversity of climate is one of the chief ad- 
vantages of the present constitution of our earth, and of its 
relation to the solar system. Let us suppose that there was 



PHYSICAL BENEFITS OF WINTER. 211 

throughout the globe " an equal distribution of heat and cold, 
the same degree of fertility, and the same division of day and 
night." In the opinion of some, that would be to make the 
earth a Paradise. But the immediate effect of such a state 
of things would be the loss of that diversity in the appearance 
and the productions of the earth which is now so pleasing 
and -so beneficial. A vast variety of the productions of the 
earth now so nicely adjusted to certain degrees of tempera- 
ture, must perish by such a change, and men have every- 
where the same limited and uniform means of subsistence. 
As a consequence of this, commerce must almost entirely 
cease ; for neither the natural productions nor the artificial 
fabrics of one country would be needed in another,— each 
country affording a full supply of the same articles, and hav- 
ing nothing else to offer in exchange. There being no ne- 
cessity for commercial intercourse, many of the arts and also 
of the physical sciences which have been developed or stimu- 
lated by commerce, would remain hidden in the secrets of 
nature, and the entire race would be far below its present 
position in cultivation and enjoyment. A uniformity of tem- 
perature would be a serious disadvantage. The withdrawal 
of winter from the earth, would render the heat intolerable — 
for even the heat of the torrid zone is now mitigated by the 
prevalence of cold in the polar regions. And though the 
temperature were moderate and endurable, but still uniform, 
we should be deprived of the benefit of winds, — those salu- 
tary disturbances in the equilibrium of the atmosphere which 
are owing to changes of temperature, — and should soon be 
transformed into a race of grovelling Cretins at the bottom of 
the sea of stagnation. One of the prime offices of winter 
with its storms is ventilation ; the purifying of the atmos- 
phere on a great scale, from the damps and noxious gases of 
the summer. 

Nor should we overlook the effect of winter on the human 
system. This in general is invigorating. While some by 
reckless exposure, and others by excessive caution, make the 
season one of physical discomfort and ailing, most persons find 
the cold, clear, bracing air of winter a welcome tonic, after 
the lassitude and debility of the summer months. In general, 
winter is a season of health and physical vigor ; when we 
breathe freer, and the blood, stimulated by our increased ac- 
tivity, courses more warmly and briskly through our veins. 



2] 2 THE TWILIGHT OF THE HEABT. 

Welcome then winter, its cold and storms ; for amid its dark- 
ness and desolation, it keeps alive our vital energy, and re- 
juvenates the earth exhausted by the labors of spring and the 
fruits of autumn ; it multiplies our comforts, by varying the 
products of the earth, and stimulates our commerce with the 
vast brotherhood of man ; it sweeps away the pestilence, and 
nerves us for that hardihood and toil which produce the best 
physical development and the purest physical enjoyment. 
Thou, the beneficent Father of all, " hast made Winter" 
for the good of thy creatures. — New- York Independent. 



THE TWILIGHT OF THE HEART. 

There is an evening twilight of the heart, 

When its wild passion waves are lulled to rest, 
And the eye sees life's fairy scenes depart, 

As fades the day-beam in the rosy west. 
'Tis with a nameless feeling of regret 

We gaze upon them as they melt away, 
And fondly would we bid them linger yet, 

But Hope is round us with her angel lay, 
Hailing afar some happier moonlight hour ; 
Dear are her whispers still, though lost their early power. 

In youth the cheek was crimsoned with her glow; 

Her smile was loveliest then ; her matin song 
Was heaven's own music, and the note of wo 

Was all unheard her sunny bowers among. 
Life's little world of bliss was newly born ; 

We knew not, cared not, it was born to die. 
Flushed with the cool breeze and the dews of morn, 

With dancing heart we gazed on the pure sky, 
And mocked the passing clouds that dimmed its blue, 
Like our own sorrows then — as fleeting and as few. 

And manhood felt her sway too, — on the eye, 
Half realized, her early dreams burst bright, 

Her promised bower of happiness seemed nigh, 
Its days of joy, its vigils of delight ; 

And though at times might lower the thunder storm, 
And the red lightnings threaten, still the air 



AN EYENING SKETCH. )}* 

Was balmy -with her breath, and her loved form, 
The rainbow of the heart, was hovering there. 
*Tis in life's noontide she is nearest seen, 
Her wreath the summer flower, her robe of summer green. 

But though less dazzling in her twilight dress, 

There's more of heaven's pure beam about her now ; 
That angel-smile of tranquil loveliness, 

Which the heart worships, glowing on her brow ; 
That smile shall brighten the dim evening star 

That points our destined tomb, nor e'er depart 
Till the faint light of life is fled afar, 

And hushed the last deep beating of the heart ; 
The meteor-bearer of our parting breath, 
A moon-beam in the midnight cloud of death. 

Halleck. 



AN EVENING SKETCH. 

'Tis twilight now ; 
The sovereign sun behind his western hills 
In glory hath declined. The mighty clouds, 
Kissed by his warm effulgence, hang around 
In all their congregated hues of pride, 
Like pillars of some tabernacle grand, 
Worthy his glowing presence ; while the sky, 
Illumined to its centre, glows intense, 
Changing its sapphire majesty to gold. 
How deep is the tranquility ! the trees 
Are slumbering through their multitude of boughs, 
Even to the leaflet on the frailest twig ! 
A twilight gloom pervades the distant hills ; 
An azure softness mingling wijh the sky. 
The fisherman drags to the yellow shore - 
His laden nets ; and, in the sheltering cove, 
Behind yon rocky point, his shallop moors, 
To tempt again the perilous deep at dawn. 

The sea is waveless, as a lake ingulfed 
'Mid sheltering hills — without a ripple spreads 
Its bosom, silent, and immense— the hues 
Qf flickering day have from its surface died, 



214 ftOTATlON OF CROPS. 

Leaving it garbed in sunless majesty. 

With bosoming branches round, yon village hangs 

Its row of lofty elm trees ; silently 

Towering in spiral wreaths to the soft sky, 

The smoke from many a cheerful hearth ascends, 

Melting in ether. 

As I gaze, behold 
The evening star illumines the blue south, 
Twinkling in loveliness. ! holy star, 
Thou bright dispenser of the twilight dews, 
Thou herald of Night's glowing galaxy, 
And harbinger of social bliss ! how oft, 
Amid the twilights of departed years, 
Besting beside the river's mirror clear, 
On trunks of massy oak, with eyes upturned 
To thee in admiration, have I sat 
Dreaming sweet dreams till earth-born turbulence 
Was all forgot ; and thinking that in thee, 
Far from the rudeness of this jarring world, 
There might be realms of quiet happiness ! 

Blackwood's Magazine. 



ROTATION OF CROPS. 

What is to be understood by rotation of crops ? 

The word rotation signifies a turning round, as a wheel 
or any other body revolves on a real or imaginary axis, till a 
complete revolution is made ; that is, till each part is brought 
to the point or place occupied by it before the revolution com- 
menced. And, such revolutions may be continued to any 
fixed or indefinite length of time. When the term is applied 
to agriculture, it signifies a succession of different crops, in- 
stead of a succession of the same crops ; no two years in the 
period assigned for a rotation or cycle, to have the same crop. 

How may this be explained ? 

In garden culture, should early potatoes be planted on 
any given tract one year, sweet corn the second year, cabbage 
the third year, carrots the fourth year, peas the fifth year, 
beans the sixth year, and melons the seventh year, this would 
be called a rotation. And when completed, the same order 
of change might be observed, if judged best, for a second ro- 



ROTATION OF CROPS. $15 

tation ; or for another period of seven years. This is the 
principle of the rotation of crops in agriculture, as well as in 
horticulture. 

What is the reason for a rotation of crops ? 

It is known that * ne proportion of elementary substances 
that enters into the composition of plants, is not the same in 
all. Probably it is not precisely the same in any two plants. 
The soil containing the substances for the growth of plants 
imparts them as needed till nothing remains, when the plants 
will cease to grow. Supposing a particular ingredient for a 
particular plant were lime, it is evident that when the lime 
is all exhausted, or drained from the soil, that plant can no 
longer be produced on it. So also of all other plants and all 
other substances which compose them. 

How did this become manifest ? 

The rotation of crops grew out of experience. The prac- 
tical farmer observed that, in most cases, when the same 
plants were grown for two, three, or more years consecutively 
upon the same soil, it did not yield the same abundant har- 
vest ; whilst, when another crop was tried upon that soil, the 
production was satisfactory. Observation and experience sub- 
sequently and gradually established for different parts a dif- 
ferent alternation of crops. In this, at firet, science had no 
agency. The reason for it was wholly unknown. 

In what way was the reason of it unfolded ? 

Whilst the practical farmer was content to rest simply on 
the facts supplied by experience, and remained satisfied with 
believing that some plants exhaust the soil, while others do 
not, the theorist endeavored to discover the key to this re- 
markable phenomenon, as it then appeared. Different theories 
were suggested, but it was a long time before one was adopted 
that seemed exempt from objection. 

What is this theory? 

The same as has been intimated ; that the utility of the 
rotation of crops depends exclusively upon the circumstance 
that cultivated plants withdraw from the soil unequal 
amounts of certain ingredients for their nutrition. Assuming 
this as the hypothesis, all the known facts relating to it are 
satisfactorily explained. Thus science comes to the aid of 
experience, demonstrating what was before .a mere matter of 
fact, without a knowledge of the reasons for it. 

But if any one crop is sought successively every year f 
will there be an entire failure? 



f 10 ROTATION OF CROPS.. 

There may not be an entire failure the second, third, 01 
even the fourth year ; but each succeeding year, all other 
things being equal, there will be a diminished crop. But 
other things may not always be equal. Drought or cold may 
destroy or greatly injure a crop of Indian corn one year, and 
the next year, being no drought and abundance of heat, the 
crop of corn may be far better than the preceding year. The 
soil too, may be so amply furnished with a particular elemen- 
tary substance for vegetable growth, that several crops of the 
same plant may be raised in succession, before material dimi- 
nution will be perceived ; but this makes no exception to the 
principles for a general rotation. Sooner or later this sub- 
stance will be exhausted, and there would then be a complete 
failure. 

How may the theory for rotation be further illustrated ? 

If we take a field, the soil of which contains the mineral 
and saline materials required to produce wheat, and yet only 
in a quantity exactly sufficient to produce a single crop, it 
follows, of course, that a second crop of wheat cannot be 
reared on the same field. The soil is completely^ exhausted 
for the moment, and will remain so forever, if it does not con- 
tain substances which may, by disintegration and decomposi- 
tion furnish a new supply of the ingredients necessary to the 
growth of plants, or if these essential matters are not artifi- 
cially supplied. 

Is such a complete exhaustion of soil common ? 

It is not. The case supposed is for illustration, and is 
not likely ever to happen in fact. But what really happens, 
and common enough, is, that although all the salts are not 
exhausted, yet being present in the soil in relative proportions 
very different to the amounts required by various plants, & 
smgle crop of wheat may deprive the soil so completely of 
one of its mineral constituents, that another crop of wheat 
would not grow upon it, and yet this soil may still contain 
abundant mineral constituents for the production of a good 
crop of clover or turnips. 

What period is generally assigned by agricidtwrists for 
a complete rotation ? 

There is no fixed period followed by all. It depends upon 
the particular crops that constitute the rotation. Different 
individuals vary it according to fancy or to the results of their 
past .experience, or the productions of which they have- most 



ROTATION OP CROP*. $17 

Heed. Five, six, or seven years, is the usual time, unless it 
be for lands that may advantageously remain a long period 
in grass. In that case, as long as a good grass crop is yielded, 
they are permitted to remain. 

In what, case is the necessity for rotation prevented? 

By keeping up an annual supply, by artificial means, of 
the fertilizing agents of the soil equal to what is taken away 
by the plants. Thus gardens are usually kept so highly ma- 
nured as to require no rotation ; and, it might not be neces- 
sary on the farm, if it were as highly enriched in the same way. 

Has rotation of crops always been practiced? 

It has not. Farms were formerly divided into meadow, 
plough or tillage land, and pasture ; and each section was 
permanently used for these specific purposes, till the meadows 
were covered with moss, and the tillage ground was so im- 
poverished as to yield inferior crops. 

Under this system how were farms restored ? 

Meadows might have been, and frequently were restored 
by what is called a top-dressing, which is a scattering upon 
the surface a coat of fine manure of some kind or other. The 
tillage land was restored by what was called a fallow, which 
meant a suspension of cropping, letting the soil remain inac- 
tive or uncultivated, till nature should restore the equilibrium. 

WJiat is the objection to this mode of farming t 

The objection is a serious one. For during the continu- 
ance of it the use of the land is lost, the same as the use of 
money is lost if permitted to lie idle without drawing interest. 
The very idea of a fallow is, the ground is let alone, to pro- 
duce just what springs up spontaneously, or nothing at all ; 
and whatever does thus spring up, is permitted to remain and 
decay where it grew. 

Who first resorted to the rotation sif stem for keeping the 
soil in a proper state ? 

The Flemings are the first known to have made it a fixed 
part of their system of agriculture. They insisted that where 
it was practiced, the land did not need rest ; and, it was this 
system which gave their husbandry a pre-eminence over that 
of every other country at that period. They relied so much 
upon it, that ia some instances they were able to obtain two 
crops in the same year. 

Where else has it been found signally beneficial ? 

In Scotland it has been scrupulously pursued with the. very 
10 



2J g ROTATION OF CHOP8. 

best results. The improvements in their agriculture were 
incredible. It was also introduced into England, and is be- 
come general there ; and, it is now constantly gaining advo- 
cates in this country. 

From what species of alternation in crops is the greatest 
benefit received ? 

It is that which is made between culmiferous and legu- 
minous crops. The former include wheat, oats, barley, rye, 
Indian corn, tobacco, and most of the grasses. The latter 
include peas, beans, other pulse, potatoes, turnips, carrots, 
beets, cabbage, and clover. Accordingly it has by some been 
adopted, that good husbandry requires that these two classes 
should follow each other uninterruptedly, unless where grass 
is made to intervene ; the farmer, however, selecting whatever 
particular ones from each of these classes he may think best. 

What is tJie basis of this classification of plants ? 

Culmiferous plants are termed robbers or exhausters of 
the soil. They are particularly so during the process of ma- 
turing their seeds. Hence, if cut green, or when in blossom, 
they are far less exhausting. Leguminous plants, as a class, 
are less exhausting ; in the first place, because only a few of 
them mature their seeds — and, in the second place, all of 
them having broad leaves, draw more moisture from the at- 
mosphere than the narrow-leaved plants which compose the 
culmiferous class. 

What is the difference of the roots in the two classes ? 

The roots of culmiferous plants are generally more fibrous 
and more divided, spreading themselves near the surface, and 
draw their nourishment principally from the upper stratum 
of the soil. Leguminous roots are generally spindle formed, 
having what is called a tap-root, with few radicals, and con- 
sequently draw most of their nourishment from the lower 
stratum of the soil, and through the lower extremities of 
their roots. 

How does this difference in the roots effect the tJieory ? 

An eminent chemist says that plants exhaust only that 
portion of the soil which comec in contact with their roots ; 
and a spindle root may be able to draw an abundance of 
nourishment from land, the surface of which has been ex- 
hausted by short, or creeping roots. The same writer re- 
marks, that the roots of plants of the same or analagous 
species, always take a like direction, if situated in a soil 



ROTATION OF CROPS. 219 

-which allows them a free development ; and thus they pass 
through, and are supported by, the same layers of earth. 

What fact may be given in confirmation of this theory ? 

It is proverbial that trees of the same species will not 
flourish in succession in the same place. Hence, if a worn 
out peach orchard is to be removed, and young trees of the 
same species are to occupy the same ground, instead of being 
planted in the holes from which the old ones were taken, 
they must be arranged in rows intermediate to the old ones. 
So likewise in regard to all fruit trees, unless a suitable 
period has been allowed for producing the decomposition of 
the roots of the removed trees, and thus supplying the earth 
with fresh manure. 

What argument in favor of alternations in crops can 
be drawn from the natural course of vegetable growth? 

In forest lands the new growth seldom resembles alto- 
gether that which has been felled. Hard wood frequently 
succeeds the pine and hemlock, while the pine and cedar, in 
innumerable instances, succeed the primitive growth of hard 
wood. In agreement with this tendency, we may see the 
strawberry and raspberry, and some other plants, sending out 
their roots or stollens to establish a new progeny in a soil 
they had not previously exhausted ; thus by their own in- 
stincts changing their locality. 

What may be said of the natural adaptation of par~ 
ticular soils to particular crops ? 

As a general thing it may be considered that calcareous 
and stony loams are better adapted to wheat than silicious 
gravels and sands ; while the latter are better fitted for In- 
dian corn, turnips, clover, and other tap roots, than clayey soils. 

What are the plants raised in this country on a large 
scale? 

The cereal grasses, including wheat, barley, oats, and par- 
tially rye, cultivated chiefly for the farina of their seeds ; cer- 
tain leguminous plants, as the bean and the pea ; the turnip, 
the cabbage, and the potato, cultivated for their leaves, roots, 
and tubers ; hemp and flax, cultivated for their fibres ; and 
the plants cultivated mainly for their forage, of whatever 
name or description. 



220 WEALTH AMD LABGft. 

WEALTH AND LABOR. 

There are instances in this country of enormous indi- 
vidual wealth — frequent instances of independent individual 
fortunes. But who are they that possess, and whence did 
they derive them? From some old ancestors, who won 
broad lands and proud titles in the field of battle-— or in the 
senate — at the bar — or the counting house ? If you look lor 
such inherited fortunes as these, you will discover that they 
were long since dismembered — that with every revolution of 
the seasons, they are diminishing — and in a very few in- 
stances can one of their descendants call the roof-tree of his 
father's house his own. 

No ! These are the fruits of individual industry, skill, 
or enterprise. And you can seldom trace their history 
farther back than to find them commanding a trading sloop 
to the West Indies, purchasing fur in small quantities on 
the frontier, or selling excellent groceries at a first-rate stand 
for business. They are self-made men — the architects of 
their own fortunes ; and I yield a thousand fold more respect 
to such as they, than I can ever feel for one who owes his 
wealth and his standing in the world to the mere accident 
of birth ; and when their names are uttered in the marts of 
commerce, and the country rings from side to side with the 
story of their success, I feel that this, of all countries, is the 
best for human labor and enterprise. 

A very important and striking feature in our political 
and social system, which indeed is the inevitable result of 
our institutions and laws, is, that there is no aristocracy 
amongst us — not even an aristocracy of wealth. An aristoc- 
racy cannot exist without peculiar and exclusive privileges 
and rights, recognized, sanctioned, and upheld by law. 
There cannot be, in this country, even a confederacy or com- 
bination among the rich men to acquire peculiar privileges. 
They have none to defend. There is no clanship, no esprit 
du corps among them. They are not like the hereditary 
nobles of Europe, whose names are enrolled in a heraldic 
college, set apart from the rest of mankind, designated by 
titles, marked by badges of honor, bound together by inter- 
marriages, by a community of interests and of feelings, a dis- 
tinct order in the state ; nothing of all this, and they are as 
mutable besides as the motes that float in the summer air. 



WSALTH AND LABOIt Sfti 

Death is ever busily at work in dismembering all overgrown 
fortunes. Misfortunes too — and, alas ! they occasionally rain 
thick and fast, and do their part in the ceaseless work of dis- 
tribution. The rich man of to-day is the poor man of to- 
morrow. 

And, while from these causes, multitudes are passing 
out, thousands are, in the land, passing into this charmed 
circle ; for, those who commenced life with no inheritance 
but poverty, are usually the individuals that rise to affluence. 
If a line could be drawn between the two classes, at any 
given moment, and then five years pass away, I doubt 
whether the smaller portion could be recognized as the same. 
Hundreds on hundreds would be found to have changed 
places. And to speak of a clan of men thus constituted as 
an aristocracy, is as sound and sensible philosophy as to 
point to the insects of summer as the emblems of eternity. 

The condition of the laboring classes in the United States 
is universally admitted to be better than in any other country 
in the world. They are already in that position which the 
laborers of other countries are struggling to attain. The 
rate of wages is incomparably higher than in any other 
country — the means of comfort, not to say wealth, more 
easily accessible. Owing to their vast numbers, and to the 
possession of all political .rights, their influence in the gov- 
ernment is controlling and resistless, and all legislation is 
shaped in promotion to their interests rather than to those of 
any other class. Without having examined the laws of all 
the states, which would be a Herculean task, I dare to affirm, 
that not a statute can be found in force, in any one of the 
states, which establishes or recognizes any inequality of right 
or privileges between them and other persons ; or if such a 
statute can be found, it is their fault that it remains on the 
statute book a single year. They have but to speak the 
word and it is done — to command, and it is repealed. 

Nay, the universal sentiment among American states- 
men is that the legislation and policy of the government 
should be such as to lend aid and encouragement to the 
poorer classes, and leave the rich to take care of themselves. 
They have accordingly been extremely liberal in granting 
acts of incorporation, by which men of small means may 
combine and compete with the richest capitalists in any 
branch of industry. With the laws of this state I profess to 



222 WEALTH AND LABOR. 

have some acquaintance, and in their general hearing and 
character I suppose them to he similar to those of other 
states. And I challenge any man to put his finger upon a 
statute there, that gives a man of a million one jot or tittle 
more of right or privilege than to the laborer that ploughs 
his field, or the needy knife grinder, that spins his wheel at 
his door. What magic words were those which have been 
for years upon the lips of statesmen, to which the people 
have responded, as deep calleth unto deep ? Not the pro- 
tection of American wealth, but the " protection of American 
industry." 

And what are all the Societies and Institutes, that are 
established in almost every state, and sustained at great ex- 
pense, but the voluntary efforts of the people, who can afford 
it, to stimulate American industry ? This great and splendid 
Institution, which I have the honor to address, is of itself a 
noble practical illustration of American policy. Here are 
the "merchant princes," the capitalists, nay, the very 
" aristocrats " of New- York, giving freely of their time, of 
their influence, of their wealth, not to obtain special privi- 
leges for themselves, but to stimulate and encourage art and 
industry, and to spread through the length and breadth 
of the Union, broadcast, those improvements in agriculture 
and the arts, which skill, thus stimulated, has made. There 
is not a laboring man, in the most distant and sequestered 
nook of this far spreading country, who is not, or may not be 
benefited by its patriotic efforts. 

Yes, ye laborers, there is no land like yours. It is yours 
to possess, to enjoy. Here is a fair field for all to labor, in. 
whatever vocation they please, and the rewards of diligence 
are ample and secure. There is not an avenue to wealth or 
distinction which is closed — not a post unattainable. There 
is no ground for any hostility or unkindness of feeling between 
the rich and the laboring classes, but the strongest reason, 
on the contrary, for mutual friendship and the most cordial 
union. It may well be questioned, whether they should 
ever be spoken of as classes, since the term presupposes a 
line of demarcation, which cannot be drawn. Both are 
striving with the same eagerness for the same object — some 
portion of wealth — and both are interested in the protection 
of property. If instead of spending time in mutual jealousies 
and recriminations, they would join heart and hand in all 



WEALTH AND LABOR. £23 *' 

great and good undertakings, the one contributing the means, 
the other the skill and labor, they would accomplish more 
for themselves and their country in one year than by fifty 
years of dissension. 

We should not forget that there are those who grace and 
gladden our festivities by their presence ; who do not mingle 
with us, indeed, in the walks of business, but exert a more 
potent influence upon the affairs of men than we are always 
willing to acknowledge ; whose empire is absolute over the 
world of fashion ; whose appearance in the midst of dissen- 
sions is like^ the radiant bow that spans the storm. If their 
smiles do sometimes kindle dissension, they oftener allay it, 
and I would invoke their gentle influence in the work of re- 
forming the national manners. If they would bestow more 
of their kind regards upon those athletic and manly forms 
that make our hill sides and valleys laugh and ring with the 
wealth of golden harvests, and less upon those whiskered and 
bedizened apes that infest the drawing room, we should love 
them better, and our country would regard them as her 
jewels. 

What honest vocation can be named that does not con- 
tribute, in a greater or less degree, to the enjoyment of man ? 
It may be humble, indeed, but it goes to swell the mighty 
aggregate ; it may be the rill that trickles from the moun- 
tain side, but it diffuses fertility through the valley, and 
mingles its drops at last with the ocean. The true American 
motto is and must be — marked upon our foreheads, written 
upon our door-posts — channelled in the earth, and wafted 
upon the waves — Industry — Labor is Honorable, and 
idleness is dishonorable, — and I care not if it be labor, 
whether it be of the head or the hands. Whitney, whose 
cotton gin doubled the value of every acre of "land in the 
South, raised more cotton with his head than any twenty 
men ever raised with their hands. Let me exhort those of 
you who are devoted to intellectual pursuits, to cherish, on 
your part, an exalted and just idea of the dignity and value 
of manual labor, and to make that opinion known in your 
works and seen in the earnest of your actions. The laboring 
men of this country are vast in number and respectable in 
character. We owe to them, under Providence, the most 
gladsome spectacle the sun beholds in its course — a land of 
cultivated and fertile fields, an ocean white with canvass. 



29| EXHAUSTION OF THE SOIL. 

We owe to them the annual spectacle of golden harvests, 
which carries plenty and happiness alike to the palace and 
the cottage. We owe to them the fortresses that guard our 
coasts — the ships that hare borne our flag to every clime, 
and carried the thunder of our cannon triumphant over the 
waters of the deep. 

Sir Walter Scott, a mere writer of poetry and romance, 
has given employment to ten thousand paper makers, type 
founders, printers, tanners, book-binders ; and beyond that, 
has awakened the love of elegant literature in millions of 
minds. Sir Isaac Newton spent his days partly in sleep, 
and his nights in watching the stars in the midnight sky : 
and yet his discoveries have enabled the mariner to pursue 
his foaming pathway in the deep, as safely as on the land, 
and thus poured the products of every clime into the lap of 
labor. The benefactions of these men were indeed great 
and illustrious ; but there are men in our midst engaged in 
similar pursuits every day of their lives, bestowing the same 
kind of benefits upon mankind. The merchant's life is a 
life of excitement and care, of risk and uncertainty, but of 
the first importance to every community ; as indispensable to 
the laborer as the laborer is to him. 

The village school master, who devotes the years of his 
youth or his manhood to the exhausting drudgery of instruc- 
tion ; who moulds the character and fixes the principles of 
an advancing generation— 4s as eminently useful, though he 
sink at last into the grave un honored and unsung, as the 
demagogue whose presence is greeted in caucuses, or whose 
voice is heard in the halls of legislation, discussing the con- 
stitutional power of congress to buy a penknife. — Address, 
Anniversary Am. Inst.. 1842, by Hon. H. G. O. Colby of 
New Bedford, Massachusetts. 



EXHAUSTION OF THE SOIL. 

When will our statesmen awake to the necessity of view^ 
ing agriculture as a fundamental source of our national pros- 
perity ? So loug as we have more land in the far West to 
cultivate, the wearing out of that in the older States seems to 
be looked upon as a matter of little consequence. The older 
States, with all their best land in cultivation, do not at this 



EXHAUSTION OP THfl SOTJL 395 



tbae raise half the quantity of wheat they raised a few years 
ago ; and the consumers in the Atlantic States are paying 
nearly as much for transportation on a large proportion of 
their breadstufis, as the fanners who grow it receive for their 
grain. The wheat crops of New- York are less than half 
per acre what they were thirty years ago, and still no effort 
is made to disseminate the necessary information for arrest- 
ing the evil. Stern necessity has rendered such action as we 
shall soon require in this country* imperative in Europe. 
Ohio no longer surprises the seaboard farmers by large crops, 
and the same course of cropping and modes of tillage which 
have impoverished the lands of the older States, are daily 
producing similar results in the far West. Many farmers 
are still living and carting manures upon their poor farms, 
who in the Mohawk and Genesee Valleys threw their ma* 
nures into the river when younger — 4his removal of manures 
from the vicinity of their stables and throwing it into the 
river, was called a Bee, and the winter time was chosen for 
this suicidal frolic. Whole neighborhoods would get to- 
gether with their teams and sleds for this purpose, and the 
same practices are now followed in the Wabash Valley : the 
tributaries of the Mississippi and other rivers, are suffered to 
drain the very essence of our future prosperity, and to convey 
it to the ocean. 

Nature's laws tell us that the decay of the crops of one 
year furnishes the raw materials for the creation of those of 
the next year ; but we must retain the results of this decay, 
and not suffer them to part from us — present individual en* 
terprise being answered, must not cause us to forget the debt 
we owe to posterity— and that we have no moral right to 
permit the ultimate constituents of plants, the agricultural 
capital of our country, to find its way to the ocean, or into 
the ocean of atmosphere, by sheer ignorance and negligence. 
It may be answered that Europe, when necessity demanded, 
found the means of restoring her worn out soils to fertility— 
this is true ; but how will the same means continue through 
all time ? If it had not been for the importation from our 
Continent of breadstuffs, raw materials of all sorts, guano, 
saltpetre, cubical nitre of Peru, and other materials, the re- 
sults of which, by decay and by direct application to their 
soils, recovered their lost ultimate constituents of plants, they 
WjQuid long ere this have suffered from famine. Every buahfl) 
10* 



226 exhaustion of ?mz sort, 

of corn, bale of cotton, barrel of resin or other commodity VNf 
now send to Europe, and which are consumed there, place* 
just so much of the ultimate constituents of plants in their 
soil for continued and repeated reproduction, and removes it 
from ours. 

If the importations were at all equal to the exportations, 
or if we took the same care as they do of what we have, or 
import, our exhaustion would be slower ; but as it is we are 
rapidly parting with our capital, never to return. The ul- 
timate constituents of vegetables pay at least one hundred per 
cent, profit when re-used for producing new growths, and this 
may be repeated almost yearly ; but part with them to the 
ocean through our rivers, and they are lost forever. All this 
may appear very farcical to the casual observer, but never- 
theless it is true ; and the falling off of our crops is only un- 
observed from our great area of territory and consequent 
continuance of supplies. Should we be contented to ren* 
der it necessary each year to bring our supplies further 
from the seaboard ? Or should We adopt the proper means to 
produce an excess by keeping our Eastern lands in their 
present or in an improved condition ? and thus, by cheaper 
products, be able to compete with Europe as manufacturers. 

Individual farmer* may continue to move West as they 
wear out their lands ; but as a nation, what effect must this 
have on our general prosperity ? It rnay be answered, that as 
our enterprising farmers look for better lands, the tide of emi- 
gration, composed of European agriculturists, will take their 
places, and thus restore the old lands by European styles of 
farming. If the best farmers of Europe were among those 
who come, this might be true ; but those who understand 
their business seldom migrate ; it is the laborers only who 
Come to us ; the more intelligent and better educated remain 
at home. 

We have but one remedy, and that is entirely within our 
reach. Let our legislators spend part of the nine-tenths of 
the whole national income which is now paid by farmers in 
placing proper instructions within the reach of those who till 
the land—and that, too, in a way to be immediately effec- 
tive. We must not wait to remedy the difficulty by educat- 
ing the rising generation ; we must inform the many what is 
doing by the few who are successful as agriculturists. Some 
farmers raise a hundred bushels of shelled corn to the acre. 



EXHAUSTION OF THE SOIL. 227 

and some raise fifty bushels of wheat to the acre, but these 
are the one in ten thousand. Send competent persons among 
the ten thousand to tell them how the one manages his crops ; 
let any well educated practical man be called from his plough, 
and employed solely in collecting and disseminating informa- 
tion, and instead of raising large crops himself he can cause 
a tJtousand others to do so. Every farmer should hear such 
a lecture at least once in each year ; and should have an op- 
portunity of propounding questions for his examination — such 
teachers would soon know what the farmers required, and 
could obtain the information for them from other and more 
successful practitioners. 

It need not be urged that farmers will not listen to ac- 
credited teachers; we have lectured in many counties in 
New Jersey for three years, and in those where we first lec- 
tured most evident improvement has ensued. Farmers can- 
not leave home, and hence do not learn of the improvements 
of the day, unless they occur in their own immediate neigh- 
borhoods—nor will they have confidence in the recipes of 
mere book-makers; they must see those who would teach 
them, and have an opportunity by listening, and questioning, 
to form their own estimate of their capacity to teach ; and, 
if they approve of the teacher, no set of men are more ready 
to be instructed. The improvements in agriculture in Europe 
are greater than at any former time— the free trade system, 
by lowering the prices of farm products, has rendered it im- 
perative on Governments to enable the farmers to produce 
proportionate increased quantities to compete with foreign 
prices ; and did they not pursue this course, revolutions would 
be inevitable, or their farm products must be protected by 
high duties; and while our ratio of crops have been yearly 
decreasing, those of England have as steadily increased, until 
the opponents of their new school of politics are daily becom- 
ing converts to the new system. Every county in England 
now receives per annum more benefit in the form of agricul- 
tural information, disseminated at the public expense, than 
the total amount paid for similar purposes since the forma- 
tion of our Government. 

Our politicians at Washington say that the powers of the 
general Government do not reach the case, and that it should 
be done by the States — if so, the States should not be inac- 
tive. New- York does much by publishing large editions of 



228 A SIBERIAN WINTER, 

the Transactions of her State Society and of the American 
Institute, but not half so much as she should and could do 
by the appointment of a few lecturers to visit each county, 
collecting and disseminating information. Maryland has ap- 
pointed a State Agriculturist, and already the good results 
have rendered both the office and the incumbent popular. 
No other State has acted as yet in any way to improve their 
greatest source of wealth. Two men might exchange their 
hats once per hour for a year, and neither of them would be 
improved in fortune at the end of the time, but if each of 
them could produce new merchandise, as does the farmer, not 
only themselves, but the body politic of which they form & 
part, would be benefited ; and as one per cent, increase of 
crops would be more than equal in value to the whole of the 
present receipts of the Government, it is at least proper that 
less than a one-thousandth part of that receipt should be 
spent to produce a probable gain of many times one per cent* 

P&of. Mapes, 



A SIBERIAN WINTER, 

The traveller in Siberia, during the winter, is so enveloped 
in furs that he can scarcely move, and under the thick fur 
hood, which is fastened to the bear skin collar and covers 
the whole face, one can only draw in, as it were by stealth, 
a little of the external air, which is so keen that it causes a 
very peculiar feeling to the throat and lungs. The distance 
from one halting place to another takes about tea hours, 
during which time the traveller must always continue on 
horseback, as the cumbrous dress makes it insupportable to 
wade through the snow. The poor horses suffer at least as 
much as their riders, for besides the general effect of the 
cold, they are tormented by ice forming in their nostrils, and 
stopping their breathing. When they intimate this by a dis- 
tressed snort and convulsive shake of the head, the drivers 
relieve them by taking out the pieces of ice* to save them 
from being suffocated. 

When the icy ground is not covered by snow, their hoofs 
often burst from the effects of the cold. The caravan is 
always surrounded by a thick cloud of vapor ; it is not only 
living bodies which produce this effect, but even the snow 



THE LEAFLESS TUBE. ^ 

smokes. These evaporations are instantly changed into 
millions of needles of ice, which fill the air, and cause a 
constant slight noise, resembling the sound of torn satin or 
thick silk. Even the reindeer seeks the forest to protect 
himself from the intensity of the cold. In the tundras where 
there is no shelter to be found, the whole herd crowd together 
as close as possible to gain a little warmth from each other, 
and may be seen standing in this way quite motionless. Only 
the dark bird of winter, the raven, still cleaves the icy air 
with slow and heavy wing, leaving behind him a long line 
of thin vapor, marking the track of his solitary flight. 

The influence of the cold extends even to inanimate na- 
tures. The thickest trunks of trees are rent asunder with a 
loud sound, which, in these deserts, fall on the ear like a 
signal shot at sea ; large masses of rock are torn from their 
ancient sites ; the ground in the tundras and in the rocky 
valleys crack, forming wide yawning fissures from which the 
waters which were beneath the surface rise, giving off a 
cloud of vapor, and become immediately changed into ice. 
The effect of this degree of cold extends even beyond the 
earth. The beauty of the deep polar star, so often and so 
justly praised, disappears in the dense atmosphere which the 
intensity of cold produces. The stars still glisten in the 
firmament, but their brilliancy is dimmed. — Travels in the 
North. 



THE LEAFLESS TREE. 

Poor cheerless tree ! how desolate ! 

Bereft of all thy beauty now, 
Which decked thy stately form so late, 

And crowned thy lofty, sunny brow. 

Each leaf breathed forth a kindly air, 
In native strains most sweetly sung, 

When gentle zephyrs wantoned there, 
With harps so delicately strung. 

The birds too sang melodiously, 

Among those boughs once wreathe^ to gay, 



J30 *ftfi LEAFLESS TREB. 

With softest notes of minstrelsy, 
Oft ushered in the rising day. 

When first I saw thy verdure fado, 
I turned my tearful eye away, 

Lest sorrow should my mind pervade, 
To see thy loveliness decay. 

But ah ! the rude winds did not spare, 
Thy verdant rohe — hut reckless tore, 

That lovely mantle — wrought with care, 
By vernal beauty, seen no more. 

Thy leaves were scattered by the blast, 
And borne upon the eddying stream, 

To mingle with the earth at last, 

The grave for all which ere hath been. 

The freshest, fairest, coronal, 

Which nature in its pride could boast, 

Is shrouded in a funeral pall, — 
To humble beauty in the dust. 

The leafless tree, and faded bower, 

In silent eloquence declare, 
That man too has a dying hour, 

And must the parting anguish share. 

While I now their requiem sing, 
I see my own approaching doom, 

Sealed fast on time's expanded wing, 
To bear me onward to the tomb. 

The sullen wail which strikes my ear— - 
Sweeps o'er the lyre's responsive string, 

As if the mournful bier was near, 
Where beauty lies all withering. 

But that is all that Death can claim— 
The fragile form which must decay, 
The nobler powers of mind remain, 
To shine in virtue's sunny ray. 

Then cease my troubling heart — be still, 
And mourn no more o'er autumn's gloom, 



* tttf fifiASOtfS OP THE YtfAi. fgf 

A clime there is which has no chill, 
Or blight of death — beyond the tomb. 

There friendship shall her wreath entwine, 

Composed of never fading flowers, 
And bind it round love's sacred shrine, 

In Heaven's own bright perennial bowers. 

Miss Brewer. 



THE SEASONS OF THE YEAR. 

These, as they change, Almighty Father, these 
Are but the varied God. The rolling year 
Is full of thee. Forth in the pleasant Spring 
Thy beauty walks, thy tenderness and love. 
Wide flush the fields — the softening air is balm- 
Echo the mountains round — the forests smile j 
And every sense, and every heart is joy. 
Then comes thy glory in the Summer months, 
With light and heat refulgent. Then thy Sun 
Shoots full perfection through the swelling year ; 
And oft thy voice in dreadful thunder speaks ; 
And oft, at dawn, deep noon, or falling eve, 
By brooks and groves and hollow whispering gales, 
Thy bounty shines in Autumn unconfined, 
And spreads a common feast for all that live. 
In Winter, awful thou ! with clouds and storms 
Around thee thrown — tempest o'er tempest rolled : 
Majestic darkness ! on the Whirlwind's Wing 
Riding sublime, thou bidst the world adore, 
And humblest nature with thy northern blast. 

Mysterious round ! what skill, what force divine, 
Deep felt, in these appear ! a simple train — 
Yet so delightful mixed, with such kind art, 
Such beauty and beneficence combined — 
Shade, unperceived, so softening into shade— 
And all so forming a harmonious whole — 
That, as they still succeed, they ravish still. 
But, wandering oft with brute unconscious gaze, 
Man marks not thee, marks not the mighty hand, 
That, ever busy, wheels the silent spheres— 



fff THE SEASONS OF TAB TRJJt 



i 

4 



Works in the secret deep— shoots, streaming, thence 
The fair profusion that overspreads the spring — 
Flings from the sun direct the flaming day : 
Feeds every creature — hurls the tempest forth : 
And, as on earth this grateful change revolves, 
With transport touches all the springs of life. 

Nature, attend \ join every living soul. 
Beneath the spacious temple of the sky, 
In adoration join— and, ardent, raise 
One general song ! To him, ye vocal gales, 
Breathe soft, whose Spirit in your freshness breathes : 
talk of him in solitary glooms ! 
Where, o'er the rock, the scarcely waving pine 
Fills the brown shade with a religious awe. 
And ye, whose bolder note is heard afar, 
Who shake the astonished world, lift high to heaven 
The impetuous song, and say from whom you rage. 
His praise, ye brooks, attune, ye trembling rills— 
And let me catch it as I muse along. 
Ye headlong torrents, rapid and profound — 
Ye softer floods, that lead the humid maze 
Along the vale — and thou majestic main, 
A secret world of wonders in thyself — 
Sound his stupendous praise, whose greater voice 
Or bids you roar, or bids your roarings fall. 

Soft roll your incense, herbs, and fruits, and flowers, 
In mingled clouds to him, whose sun exalts, 
Whose breath perfumes you, and whose pencil paints. 
Ye forests bend, ye harvests wave to him : 
Breathe your still song into the reaper's heart, 
As home he goes beneath the joyous moon. 
Ye that keep watch in heaven, as earth asleep 
Unconscious lies, effuse your mildest beams, 
Ye constellations, while your angels strike, 

Amid the spangled sky, the silver lyre. . 

Great source of day ! best image here below, 
Of thy Creator, ever pouring wide, 
From world to world, the vital ocean round, 
On nature write with every beam his praise. 
Ye thunders roll ; be hushed the prostrate world, 
While cloud to cloud returns the solemn hymn. 
Bleat out afresh, ye hills ; ye mossy rocks 



THE SEASONS 07 THE TEAR. 

Retain the sound : the broad responsive low, 
Ye valleys raise ; for the great Shepherd reigns, 
And his unsuiFering kingdom yet will come. 
Ye woodlands all, awake : a boundless song 
Burst from the groves : and when the restless day, 
Expiring, lays the warbling world asleep, 
Sweetest of birds ! sweet Philomela, charm 
The list'ning shades, and teach the night his praise. 

Yet chief, for whom the whole creation smiles ; 
At once the head, the heart, the tongue of all : 
Crown the great hymn ! In swarming cities vast, 
Assembled men, to the deep organ join 
The long resounding voice, oft breaking clear, 
At solemn pauses, through the swelling base ; 
And as each mingling flame increases each, 
In one united ardor rise to heaven. 
Or if you rather choose the rural shade, 
And find a fane in every sacred grove- 
There let the shepherd's flute, the virgin's lay, 
The prompting seraph, and the poet's lyre, 
Still sing the God of Seasons as they roll. 
For me, when 1 forget the darling theme, 
Whether the blossom blows, the Summer ray 
Russets the plain, inspiring Autumn gleams, 
Or Winter rises in the blackening east ; 
Be my tongue mute, my fancy paint no more, 
And, dead to joy, forget my heart to beat ! 

Should fate command me to the farthest verge 
Of the green earth, to distant barb'rous climes, 
Rivers unknown to sons: ; where first the sun 
Gilds Tndian mountain, or his sotting beam 
Flames on the Atlantic isles ; 'tis nought to me ; 
Since God is ever present, ever felt, 
In the void waste as in the city full ; 
And where He vital spreads, there must be joy. 
When even at last the solemn hour shall come, 
And wing my mystic flight to future worlds, 
I cheerful will obey ; there, with new powers, 
Will rising wonders sing — I cannot go, 
Where Universal Love smiles not around. 
Sustaining all yon orbs, and all their suns : 
From seeming evil still adducing good, 



234 THB DISTRIBUTION OP PLANTS. 

And better thence again, and better still, 

In infinite progression but I lose 

Myself in Him, in Light Ineffable ! 

Come then, expressive Silence, muse His praise. 

Thomson. 



THE DISTRIBUTION OF PLANTS. 

In what proportion are plants distributed in different 
latitudes ? 

Botanists compute that, at Spitzbergen, which lies near 
the eightieth degree of north latitude, there are only about 
thirty species of plants ; in Lapland, which lies under the 
seventieth degree, about five hundred and thirty ; in Iceland, 
under the sixty-fifth parallel, about five hundred and fifty ; 
in Sweden, from the southern parts of Lapland to the fifty- 
fifth degree, about thirteen hundred ; in Brandenburg, be- 
tween the fifty-second and the fifty-fourth parallel, two thou- 
sand ; in Piedmont, between the forty-third and forty-sixth, 
two thousand eight hundred ; nearly four thousand in the 
Island of Jamaica, which is between the seventeenth and 
nineteenth degrees ; and in Madagascar, situated under the 
tropic of Capricorn, between the thirteenth and fourteenth 
degrees, more than five thousand. 

What may be said of tlte same plant growing in differ- 
ent latitudes ? 

Plants of the frigid zones, are also found in the torrid ; 
but they occur only in situations where they find a tempera- 
ture as low as that of the colder zones, viz., upon high 
mountains. Thus the plants of Greenland and Lapland are 
found not only on the Alps and Pyrenees, but even on the 
Cordilleras. Edwards says, that while no tropical fruits 
grow upon the mountains of Jamaica, many European fruits 
thrive admirably ; European Alpine plants occur on the cold 
mountains of Terra del Fuego ; and the pine occupies the ex- 
treme limit of arborescent plants in the mountains of America, 
of Switzerland, and Lapland. The same physical climate, 
therefore, favors the growth of the same plant. 

Why are exceptions found to this principle ? 

If under the same climate we do not observe the same 
plants produced, we must attribute the difference to local pe- 



THE DISTRIBUTION OF PLANTS. 235 

culiaiities, such as the quality of soil, the degree of shade, the 
atmosphere, and other circumstances. 

What constitutional difference in plants in regard to 
their power of grouting in different climates, may be ob- 
served? 

Some plants are found universally distributed, and are 
consequently adapted to every climate ; while others are con- 
fined to very limited districts, beyond which they cannot be 
cultivated. Many plants, particularly the most useful ones, 
may be successfully naturalised by judicious management, in 
countries far distant from their original habitation, and under 
climates very different from that in which they were origi- 
nally found. Most of our fruits, our corns, and edible vege- 
tables are of foreign extraction. 

By what means are plants transferred to new localities ? 

The migration of plants has been assisted by the wind, 
and graniverous birds and quadrupeds, as well as by the hand 
of man himself. Thus the seeds are carried from their na- 
tive soils, over rivers and mountains to distant countries, by 
the former means, as well as over oceans by the latter agency. 

Under what circumstances have men done it ? 

Many of our choicest fruits and vegetables were brought 
into Italy by the ancient Greeks and Romans, from territories 
they had subdued ; were thence scattered over Europe ; and 
finally transported to this continent by the first settlers. 
Others were brought from the East by the Crusaders on their 
return from the Holy Land. This is one of the means by 
which war has promoted civilization, and encouraged the 
arts of peace. And at the present day, it is our boast that 
the same blessings follow in the track of our navigators and 
missionaries, who. instead of inciting men to strife and blood- 
shed, teach the holy precepts of love and universal brotherhood. 

Has there been any change in the character of these 
plants since their first cultivation ? 

The improvement in their appearance and quality has 
been surprisingly great. Those which were of little value, 
now rank with our most important crops. This marked 
change has been the result of skill and care through a great 
number of years, and it is by no means certain that these 
plants have yet reached their highest point of perfection. 

Is the origin of these plants well ascertained ? 

In some cases it may be so considered, but in general, any 



ftt THE DISTRIBUTION OF PLANTS 

attempt to fix upon their native countries is a mere matter 
of speculation, or at best of strong probability. 

What plants, or classes of plants, are most widely dif- 
fused? 

The anti-scorbutic and edible plants seem to be most wide- 
ly disseminated throughout the earth. Such are the different 
varieties of cresses, celery, parsley, and scurvey grass, which 
are found on every coast which has yet been visited by navi- 
gators. Many plants bearing edible berries are also of very 
general distribution, and form an important article of food for 
man. These graminea also, which are of most valuable ser- 
vice to man and to inferior animals, are very widely spread, 
although different species of them appear to thrive best in 
certain climates. The mosses and lichens, however, are of 
widest distribution. They are found in every part of the 
world, and in every situation. 

What is known of the early history of Indian corn ? 

America is commonly called the native country of this 
grain, where it was cultivated by the natives at the time of 
the discovery. It is certain that it was unknown to those 
ancient writers whose works have come down to us, and that 
it did not attract attention in the eastern hemisphere until 
after the voyage of Columbus. Yet, as it has not been found 
growing wild on this continent, its origin has been variously 
attributed to India, Persia, and the western coast of Africa. 

What is the early history of cotton ? 

Cotton appears to have been known in the earliest ages 
of antiquity. The Egyptians were familiar with its use,' and 
Herodotus, in speaking of the Indians, says, " They possess 
a kind of plant which, instead of fruit, produces a wool of a 
finer and better quality than that of sheep." It was found 
in this country when discovered. Within the past few yean 
its culture has* increased to an astonishing degree ; and, al- 
though grown in the Indies and Egypt, as well as North and 
South America, two-thirds of the whole annual crop is the 
product of our own soil. 

What is known about the early history of tobacco ? 

The discoverers Of America noticed the free use of tobacco 
by the aborigines, who claimed for it several important medi- 
cinal properties. It was first known in Europe about the 
year 1560, when some of the seeds were carried from Portu- 
gal by the French Ambassador to that country. The word 



THB WfiTEHUWOlf OP PLANTS. %tf 

tobacco in the Haytian language signifies the pipe used by 
the natives in smoking, and it was very naturally transferred 
by the Spaniards to the plant itself. In 1580, it was intro- 
duced into England by the colonists who had returned from 
Virginia. Although the practice of smoking was everywhere 
met in Europe by ridicule and persecution, yet it spread itself 
rapidly through England, as it had previously done through 
Portugal, Spain, and France. 

Are we acquainted with the origin of wheat ? 

This valuable cereal is supposed to have been brought 
from the central table land of Thibet, where it is said that 
its original still exists as a wild grass. But, like the other 
grains, it has been so long and so extensively cultivated, that 
it is impossible to decide upon its native country. Travellers 
have found it growing spontaneously in many different re- 
gions, and it is doubtful whether the plant may not have 
been carried there at very distant periods, and have remained 
as an evidence of ancient civilization. It is now generally 
diffused, and as an article of food, maintains a high and un- 
disputed rank. 

Do we know the native country of rye and buck" 
wheat? 

. Many have supposed that they originated in Northern 
Asia, because buckwheat was thence brought to Europe, and 
rye is said to be now growing there in its wild state. This 
is the most we know on the subject. 

. What is known about the natural locality of barley ? 

Barley has been cultivated from time immemorial, and 
its origin is altogether uncertain. It exists wild in the 
mountainous regions of central Asia, and is evidently a na- 
tive of a warm climate. We have the best authority for its 
having been raised in Syria more than three thousand years 

a 6 r °- 

Is any thing certainly known of the origin of the oat ? 

There is not, except the single fact of its being the natural 
inhabitant of cold latitudes, where it is extensively cultivated, 
being used not only for the food of horses and other stock, but 
y-lnn in some countries for the food of man, and in others is 
distilled for beer and ardent spirits. The oat is said to grow 
wild in Northern Africa. 

Wliat is the history of rice ? 

That it was carried from Africa to India, whence it was 



23S 'MCE DISTRIBUTION OV MiANTS. 

taken to Egypt and Greece. It is more probable, however, 
that it originated in Eastern Asia. It has* formed the chief 
support of the people of China and India for centuries back, 
. and to its successful cultivation has been frequently attributed 
their early civilization. It has been said to have altered the 
face of the globe, and to have changed the destiny of nations 
It was introduced into this country about the year 1697, and 
is now raised in large quantities in all warm climates. In 
the east, a population- so vast that it almost surpasses credi- 
bility, is dependent on the rice crops, and when they fail, 
thousands of human beings perish of hunger. 

What is the native country of the potato ? 

We are indebted for this invaluable root to South America 
It has been found in the highlands of Chili and Peru. In 
the natural state the tubers are small and of very inferior 
quality ; the excellence of the varieties now in use is wholly 
owing to careful cultivation. It was first carried to Europe 
by John Hawkins, a slave trader, but did not attract much 
attention until its merits were proclaimed by Sir Walter 
Raleigh. He first raised it on his estate near Cork, in Ire- 
land, from the seed brought from the colony of Virginia. Its 
progress in the favor of the people on the continent was 
slow, and not until the middle of the eighteenth century did it 
get into general use, nor until the beginning of the nineteenth 
century were the strong prejudices of the French overcome. 

Where did ilie sugar cane originate ? 

There are several varieties of the sugar cane, but all of 
them appear to be natives of the eastern part of Asia. If not 
unknown to the ancient Egyptians, Greeks, or Romans, its 
value was only imperfectly understood by them. By the 
Chinese, however, it has been cultivated from remote an- 
tiquity, and their sugar occasionally found its way into Europe, 
in small quantities, by means of the Arabian merchants. Our 
term sugar is probably derived from the Bengalee shukur, 
the name by which it is still known in India. The cane 
was carried by the Saracens into Northern Africa, and 
thence into Southern Europe. It was taken by the Por- 
tuguese to the West India islands and the Brazils. Until 
the middle of the fifteenth century sugar was considered 
in Europe chiefly valuable as a medicine; but it has 
come into such general use that it now ranks next to wheat . 
and rice among all the vegetable products of the world. • - - 



DIBTOBUTION OF PLAlfTS. ggp 

What is known of the history of flax, or linseed ? 

It has been cultivated from remote antiquity in Europe, 
Asia, and northern Africa ; but its original locality is not 
known for a certainty. Olivier says it grows wild in Persia. 
The ancient Scandinavians and other barbarous nations 
were clothed with lincfti. The mummies of Egypt are in- 
veloped with it, and immense quantities are still raised in 
that country, and especially about the mouths of the Nile. 

Of what countries is hemp a native? 

Of India and Persia, whence it was transported to Europe 
and more recently to our own country. It is probably more 
cultivated in Russia than anywhere else. 

What is the original locality of our most common 
fruits J 

The apple and pear trees are mostly from Europe. The 
currant and gooseberry came also from the south of Europe. 
The cherry, plum, olive and almond came from Asia Minor. 
The mulberry tree, walnut and peach from Persia. The 
citron from Media ; the quince from the Island of Crete ; 
and the chesnut from Italy. The whortleberry is a native of 
Asia, Europe and America; and the cranberry is a native 
of the two latter countries. 

Whence are received our most valuable garden escu- 
lents? 

The turnip and mangold wurtzel came from the shores 
of the Mediterranean ; but the white turnip is a native of 
Germany. Celery is a native of the same country. Jeru- 
salem artichoke is a Brazilian product. The carrot is by 
some supposed to have been brought from Asia, and by 
others from Germany. Spinach is attributed to Arabia; 
okra, to Tartary ; the cucumber, to the East Indies ; the 
melon, to Kalmuck ; parsley, to Sardinia ; the onion, to 
Egypt ; the radish, to China ; and the horseradish, to the 
south of Europe. 

To what countries are to be referred our principal 
vegetables of the pulse species ? 

The origin of peas is unknown. Tho lentil grows wild 
on the shores of the Mediterranean. Vetches are natives of 
Germany. The chick pea was brought from the south of 
Europe ; the garden bean, from the East Indies ; the horse 
bean, from the Caspian Sea; and the lupin, from the 
Levant. 



§40 WONDWtS OF VBOBTATIOX. 

Where icere obtained our principal plants for condi- 
ments, or for medicinal or narcotic purposes ? 

Hops come to perfection as a wild plant in Germany. 
The same may be said of mustard and carra- way seed. Dill 
is an Eastern plant. Anise was brought from Egypt and 
the Grecian Archipelago. Koriander grows wild near the 
Mediterranean. Saffron came from the Levant. The poppy 
was brought from the East ; the sun-flower from Peru. 

Where is the natural locality of some other well known 
farm plants not yet named ? 

The gourd is probably an Eastern plant ; spurry is aa 
European one ; chickory grows wild in Germany ; rape 
and cabbage wild in Sicily and Naples ; one species of millet 
i3 a native of India, and another species is from Egypt and 
Abyssinia ; white melilot is from Greece ; most grasses are 
native plants ; and so are clovers, except lucerne, which is 
a native of Sicily. 



WONDERS OF VEGETATION. 

The time, required to attain the magnitude that trees 
sometimes reach, is a subject of controversy among scien- 
tific botanists ; but though actual precision cannot be ex- 
pected, still we know, that the rate of increase diminishes as 
the size augments, and that many centuries are required to 
produce these wonderful monuments of the vegetable creation. 
And this power of longevity affords Isaiah an expressive il- 
lustration of the duration of God's chosen people. " As the 
days of a tree," says the prophet, repeating the promise of the 
Lord, " As the days of a tree shall be the days of my people." 

In Oregon, pines are found upwards of 300 feet high, and 
in other regions trees are produced not less remarkable for 
their prodigious circumference ; like the plane tree in the val- 
ley of Bouyouderck near Constantinople, which measures 150 
feet in girth. Some have attained historical celebrity, and 
have been associated with remarkable events in the progress 
of nations. In the Province of Oaxaca is a cypress 122 feet 
round, said to have been mentioned by Cortez in his des- 
patches, and to have afforded shelter from the sun, to the 
whole of his Mexican army. To this class belong the Parlia- 
ment Oak, in Clipstone Park, in England, under which a 



Y WONDKM OP VEGETATION. 241 

parliament was held in 1290, during the reign of Edward 
the First ; the Ankernyke Yew, at Staines, which witnessed 
the conference between King John and the Barons, and in 
sight of which Magna Chart a was signed; and the Syca- 
more Maple in the Grisoris, beneath whose branches their 
Grey League, the foundation of their freedom, was ratified 
in 1424. 

At Morat, in Switzerland, was fought the great battle 
where Helvetian patriotism triumphed over the oppressor, 
and secured that liberty, which makes its dwelling place in 
the fastnesses of the Alps. A Linden tree, contemporary of 
this desperate conflict still marks the site where it occurred, 
and is approached with reverence by the Swiss patriot, when 
he performs his pilgrimage to this high place of his country, 
to recall the deeds and the dead, which gave her a station 
among the nations of the earth, and gave her also those equal 
rights, and a determination to defend them, in weal and in 
woe, which have made the name of Switzerland a name of 
honor through the world. 

But the most interesting relic of the ancient vegetable 
creation is to be found upon one of the ridges of Lebanon, not 
lor from the renowned temple of Baalbec. It consists of 
twelve gigantic cedars, the remains of the primitive forest, 
which once covered that great mountain chain of Syria, and 
which yet rear their heads, prodigies of vegetation, and £ach 
surmounted with a dome of foliage overshadowing the spec- 
tator, as in the time of Biblical story. One of them is 45 
feet in circumference, and all, both in size and height, tell of 
the long ages that have swept over them, leaving them the 
the most striking natural monuments that the eye can rest 
upon. What interesting associations cluster round them! 
They have been consecrated by history, religion and poetry. 
Their beauty has been recorded by Ezekiel, and their excel- 
lence and perfume by Solomon, who placed them at the head 
of the vegetable creation, when he discoursed of trees " from 
the cedar, which are in Lebanon, even to the hyssop that 
gpringeth out of the wall." Could these mute memorials of 
bygone times tell of the scenes that have passed in the shadow 
of their foliage, what lessons of power and of instability might 
they not teach, in the long interval that has elapsed, since 
these hills resounded with the noise of the workman, prepar- 
ing the timber for the Temple of Jerusalem, to the solitude, 
11 



242 WONDERS OP VEGETATION. 

which establishes its dwelling place wherever the Moslem 
plants his standard. 

I have worshipped in many of the high places of the old 
world ; in the Cathedral of Christendom, the Basalic of St. 
Peter, when the Sovereign Pontiff, the head of the Catholic 
Church, ministered at the altar ; and though educated, as I 
have been, in the simplicity of the Presbyterian faith, yet I 
could not look upon the imposing solemnities without feeling 
a reverential awe pass over me, as though I were in the 
presence of Him, whose visible glory descended upon the 
Temple of Mount Mori ah. And yet a naked Greek mass, 
for it happened to be an annual fete when I was there, cele- 
brated under the patriarch cedar, before a rude altar of un- 
wrought stones., by a poor priest, surrounded by a little band 
of worshippers, with the cliffs of Lebanon around them, and 
the canopy of heaven over them, this act of primitive devo- 
tion, in a temple not made with hands, has left traces upon 
my mind and memory more powerful than the most gorgeous 
ceremonies, and which no subsequent event can eradicate. 

And this power of association, which seems to make us 
almost contemporary with the earliest and the latest incident^ 
of history, with Socrates and with Washington, is not con- 
fined to the giants of the forest, throwing out their broad 
branches for the sun to vivify, but it is connected with seeds, 
deposited in the dark recesses of the catacombs, companions 
of the bodies of the mummies of Egypt, which poor human 
nature attempted to rescue from destruction, and which for 
more than thirty centuries have found there a resting place. 
Seeds have been taken from these receptacles of the dead, 
with the power of germination yet existing, and have borne 
plants, the immediate descendants perhaps of those growing 
in the days of Abraham. This very season, it is said, a small 
plat of ground in Caithness, in Scotland, planted with wheat, 
thus resuscitated from its cemetry, produced a crop honora- 
ble to the character of Egyptian agriculture in the days of 
the Pharaohs, yielding, such is the report, a thousand fold ; 
two seeds only having been planted upon every three feet 
square — a degree of fecundity heretofore unknown in modern 
husbandry. 

The human imagination loves to revel in facts like t^iis. 
It is interesting, as illustrating one of the most wonderful 
laws of nature ; and it calls into action that beautiful and 



VISIT TO AN ENGLISH DAIRY. 243 

beneficent faculty of association, which enables us to with- 
draw ourselves from the present, by connecting it with the 
past, and seems to make us spectators of events in the earliest 
periods of recorded time. This Scottish wheat may be the 
offspring of grain, taken perhaps from the granaries of Joseph, 
where was gathered corn, as the sand of the sea, against the 
seven years of famine. But this triumph of the intellect, by 
which time and space are annihilated, is rebuked at the very 
moment it is achieved. The efforts of man to preserve the 
body, when death had done its work, and thus to reverse 
the decree of Providence, have signally failed. The mis- 
shapen matter is but earth, more revolting to the feelings, 
than if left to its natural decomposition. It will awaken into 
being but at the sound of the last trumpet, which will gather 
together the scattered members of every human body, how- 
ever separated and however changed, as easily as it will 
rouse into life the mortal remains of Cheops, so long reposing 
in solitary magnificence, and guarded by the pyramids erected 
for that purpose. But the little seed obeys its law. Time 
passes harmlessly over it, and it is ready to start into life, 
whenever placed in a favorable position. The lesson is a 
pregnant one — may it prove a profitable one, teaching us to 
confine our operations to aiding the laws of nature, and not 
to endeavor to reverse them. — Lewis Cass, LL. D., Michigan. 



VISIT TO AN ENGLISH DAIRY. 

Let the reader accompany us half a dozen miles out of 
town. We pass through Camberwell, through Peckham, 
and Peckham Rye, and we presently find ourselves in a 
district that looks uncommonly like "the country," consider- 
ing how short a time it is since we left the "old smoke " 
behind us. We alight and walk onward, and certainly, if 
the sight of green fields, and cows, and hedges, and farm- 
yards, denote the country, we are undoubtedly in some region 
of the kind. We pass down a winding road, between high 
hedges of bush and trees, then climb over a gate into a field ; 
cross it, and then over another gate into a field, from which 
we commence a gradual ascent, field after field, till finally 
the green slope leads us to a considerable height. We are 
on the top of Friern Hill. 



244 TOFT TO AN ENGLISH DAIRY. 

It is a bright sunny morning in September, and we be- 
hold to perfection the most complete panorama that can be 
found in the suburban vicinities of London. Step down, 
with us to yonder hedge, a little below the spot where -we 
have been standing. We approach the hedge — we get over 
a gate, and we suddenly find ourselves on the upper part of 
an enormous green, sloping pasturage, covered all over with 
cows. The red cow, the white cow, the brown cow, the 
brindled cow, the colley cow, the dappled cow, the streaked 
cow, the spotted cow, the liver-and- white cow, the straw- 
berry cow, the mulberry cow, the chestnut cow, the gray 
speckled cow, the clouded cow, the black cow — the short- 
horned cow, the long-horned cow, the up-curling horn, the 
down-curling horn, the straight-horned cow, and the cow 
with the crumpled horn — all are here — between two and 
three hundred — spread all over the broad, downward-sloping 
pasture, feeding, ruminating, standing, lying, gazing with 
mild earnestness, reclining with characteristic thoughtful- 
ness, sleeping, or wandering hither and thither. A soft 
gleam of golden sunshine spreads over the pasture, and falls 
upon many of the cows with a lovely, picturesque effect. 

And what cows they are? as we approach and pass 
among them ! Studies for a Morland, a Gainsborough, a 
Constable. We had never before thought there were any 
such cows out of their pictures. That they were highly 
useful, amiable, estimable creatures, who continually, at the 
best, appeared to be mumbling grass in a recumbent position, 
and composing a sonnet, we never doubted ; but that they 
were ever likely to be admired for their beauty, especially 
when beheld, as many of these were, from a disadvantageous 
point of view, as to their position, we never for a moment 
suspected. Such, however, is the case. We have lived to 
see beauty in the form ol a cow — a natural, modern, milch 
cow, and no descendant from any Ovidian metamorphosis. 

We will now descend this broad and populous slope, and 
pay a visit to Friern Manor Dairy Farm, to which all these 
acres — some two hundred and fifty — belong, together with 
all these " horned beauties." We find them all very docile, 
and undisturbed by our presence, though their looks evidently 
denote that they recognize a stranger. But those who are 
reclining do not rise, and none of them decline to be caressed 
by the hand, or seem indifferent to the compliments addressed 



VISIT TO AN ENGLISH DAIRY. 245 

to them. In passing through the cows we were specially 
presented to the cow queen, or "master cow," as she is 
called. This lady has been recognized during twelve years 
as the sovereign ruler over all the rest. No one, however 
large, disputes her supremacy. She is a short-horned, short- 
legged cow, looking at first sight rather small, but on closer 
examination you will find that she is sturdily and solidly 
built, though graceful withal. " She is very sweet-tempered," 
observed the head keeper, " but when a new-comer doubts 
about who is the master, her eye becomes dreadful. Don't 
signify how big the other cow is — she must give in to the 
master cow. It's not her size, nor strength, bless you, it's 
her spirit. As soon as the question is once settled, she's as 
mild as a lamb again. Gives us eighteen quarts of milk a 
day." 

We were surprised to hear of so great a quantity, but 
this was something abated by a consideration of the rich, 
varied, and abundant supply of food afforded to these cows, 
besides the air, attendance, and other favorable circum- 
stances. For their food they have mangold-wurzel, both 
the long red and the orange globe sorts, parsnips and turnips. 
But, besides these articles of food, there is the unlimited eat- 
ing of grass in the pastures, so that the yield of a large 
quantity of milk seems only a matter of course, though we 
were not prepared to hear of its averaging from twelve to 
eighteen and twenty quarts of milk a day, from each of 
these two or three hundred cows. Four and twenty quarts 
a day is not an unusual occurrence from some of the cows ; 
and one of them, we were assured by several of the keepers, 
once yielded the enormous quantity of twenty-eight quarts a 
day during six or seven weeks. The poor cow, however, 
suffered for this munificence, for she was taken very ill with 
a fever, and her life was given over by the doctor. Mr. 
Wright, the proprietor, told us that he set up two nights 
with her himself, he had such a respect for the cow ; and in 
the morning of the second night after she was given over, 
when the butcher came for her, he couldn't find it in his 
heart to let him have her. J ' No, butcher," said he, " she's 
been a good friend to me, and I'll let her die a quiet, natural 
death." She hung her head, and her horns felt very cold, 
and so she lay for some time longer ; but he nursed her, and 
was rewarded, for she recovered ; and there she stands — the 



346 yISIT T0 Aii ENGLISH DAIRY. 

strawberry Durham short-horn — and yields him again from 
sixteen to eighteen quarts of milk a day. 

Instead of proceeding directly down the sloping fields 
toward the Dairy Farm, we made a detour of about half a 
mile, and passed through a field well inclosed, in which 
were about a dozen cows, attended by one man, who eat 
beneath a tree. This was the Quarantine ground. All 
newly-purchased cows, however healthy they may appear, 
are first placed in this field during four or five weeks, and 
the man who milks or attends upon them is not permitted to 
touch, nor, indeed, to come near, any of the cows in the 
great pasture. Such is the susceptibility of a cow to the 
least contamination, that if one who had any slight disease 
were admitted among the herd, in a very short time the 
whole of them would be affected. When the proprietor has 
been to purchase fresh stock, and been much among strange 
cows, especially at Smithfield, he invariably changes all his 
clothes, and generally takes a bath before he ventures among 
his own herd. 

From what has already been seen, the reader will not be 
astonished on his arrival with us at the Dairy Farm, to find 
every arrangement in accordance with the fine condition of 
the cows, and the enviable (to all other cows) circumstances 
in which they live. The cow-sheds are divided into fifty 
stalls, each ; and the appearance presented reminded one of 
the neatness and order of cavalry stations. Each stall is 
marked with a number ; a corresponding number is marked 
on one horn of the cow to whom it belongs ; and, in winter 
time, or any inclement season (for they all sleep out in fine 
weather) each cow deliberately finds out, and walks into her 
own stall. No. 173 once got into the stall of No. 15 ; but, 
in a few minutes, No. 15 arrived, and " showed her the dif- 
ference. " In winter, when the cows are kept very much 
in-doors, they are all regularly groomed with currycombs. 
By the side of one of these sheds there is a cottage where the 
keepers live — milkers and attendants— each with little iron 
bedsteads, and in orderly soldier fashion, the foreman's wife 
acting as the housekeeper. # 

These men lead a comfortable life, but they work hard. 
The first "milking" begiii3 at eleven o'clock at night; and 
the second, at half-past one in the morning. It takes a long 
time, for each cow insists upon being milked in her own pail, 



THE GALWAY WOMEN. 



247 



i. e. 7 a pall to herself, containing no milk from any other 
cow — or, if she sees it, she is very likely to kick it over. She 
will not allow of any mixture. In this there would seem a 
strange instinct, accordant with her extreme susceptibility 
to contamination. 

The milk is all passed through several strainers, and 
then placed in great tin cans, barred across the top, and 
sealed. They are deposited in a van, which starts from the 
Farm about three in the morning, and arrives at the dairy, 
in Farringdon street, between three and four. The seals are 
then carefully examined, and taken off by a clerk. In come 
the carriers, commonly called " milkmen," all wearing the 
badge of Friern Farm Dairy ; their tin pails are filled, 
fastened at the top, and sealed as before, and away they go 
on their early rounds, to be in time for the early-breakfast 
people. The late breakfasts are provided by a second set of 
men. Such are the facts we have ascertained with regard 
to one of the largest of the great dairy farms near London. 

Dickens' Household Words. 



THE GALWAY WOMEN. 

A very large fair is held at Gal way, Ireland, in the coun- 
ty of Gal way, called the Fair of Rose Mount, at which I was 
present. This was chiefly for the sale of ponies, or horses of 
a small breed, with some few cattle. On this occasion, the 
collection of people was surprisingly great ; and I could then 
well understand what was intended by the public meetings 
in Ireland, called " monster meetings," in respect to which, 
until I saw this collection of people, I had always supposed 
the account of the numbers assembled had been much exag- 
gerated. There were here, on this occasion, some cattle and 
sheep ; but there were, also, four thousand ponies, the catch- 
ing of which, for examination or sale, as they had, in general, 
neither bridle nor halter, was sufficiently amusing, and I was 
about to add, sufficiently Irish. The fair was held on the 
sea-shore, where the receding tide left a large bed of mud. 
The ponies, when required to be caught, were surrounded 
and driven into this mud ; and here, in a very ignoble way, 



248 TKR GALWAY WOMEN. 

they were secured, though it was not always without some 
difficulty they were extracted after being caught. 

There was another circumstance, perfectly unique in its 
character, to which I shall be pardoned for alluding. There 
was another species of live stock exhibited at the fair, which 
I cannot say is never seen at such places, but which does not 
always present itself under the same frank circumstances. 
The kind nobleman who accompanied me, and who, like 
many others, noble and simple, whom it has been my good 
fortune to meet with on this side of the water, left no effort 
un essayed for my gratification, after looking at the various 
objects of the fair, asked me, at last, " if I would like to see 
the girls ? rT I confess my natural diffidence at once took the 
alarm ; and my imagination cast a few furtive glances over 
the sea at some precious objects I had left behind. However, 
upon a voyage of discovery, why should I not see what was 
to be seen ? I gave him an affirmative reply. 

Upon inquiring of one of the trustees, or masters of the 
fair, "if the girls had come," we were informed they would 
be there at twelve o'clock. At twelve o'clock we went, as 
directed, to a part of the ground higher than the rest of the 
field, where we found from sixty to an hundred young women, 
well dressed, with good looks and good manners, and pre- 
senting a spectacle quite worth any civil man's looking at, 
and in which, 1 can assure my readers, there was nothing to 
offend any civil or modest man's feeling. These were the 
marriageable girls of the country, who had come to show 
themselves, on the occasion, to the young men and others of 
the fair. I am free to say that I saw in the custom no very 
great impropriety. It certainly did not imply that, though 
they were ready to be had, anybody could have them. It 
was not a Circassian slave market, where the richest pur- 
chaser could make his selection. They were in no sense of 
the term on sale ; nor did they abandon their own right of 
choice ; but that which is done constantly in more refined 
society, under various covers and pretences, — at theatres, 
balls, and public exhibitions ; I will say nothing about 
churches, — was done by these humble and unpretending peo- 
ple in this straightforward way. 

Between the noble duchess, who presents a long train of 
daughters, rustling in silk, and glittering in diamonds, at the 
queen's drawing-room, or the ladies of rank and fashion, who 



THE GALWAY WOttfiN. 249 

appear at public places with all the beauty and splendor of 
dress and ornament which wealth, and taste, and art, and 
skill, can supply, meaning nothing else but " Admire me !" 
and these honest Gal Way nymphs, with their fair complexions 
and their bright eyes, with their white frilled caps and their 
red cloaks and petticoats, — sfor this is the picturesque costume 
of that part of the country — »all willing to endow some good 
man with the richest of the gifts of Heaven, a good and faith* 
ful wife, 1 can see no essential difference. 

" Let not ambition mock their useful toil, 
Their homely joys, and destiny obscure." 

I hope I shall be excused, if I say something more of 
these Gal way women. I never saw a more handsome race 
of people. I have always been a great admirer of beauty— - 
natural beauty, personal beauty, mental beauty, moral beauty, 
For what did the Creator make things so beautiful as they 
are made, but to be admired ? For what has he endowed 
man with an exquisite sense of beauty, but that he may cul- 
tivate it, and find in it a source of pleasure and delight ? As 
1 have grown older, this sense of beauty — and I deem it a 
great blessing from Heaven-— has become more acute ; and 
every day of my life, the world and nature, nature and art, 
the animal, the vegetable, and the mineral creation, the 
heavens and the earth, the fields and flowers, men, women, 
and children, wit, genius, and learning, moral purity and 
moral loveliness, deeds of humanity, fortitude, patience, 
heroism, disinterestedness, have seemed to me continually 
more and more beautiful, as, at the setting sun, man looks 
out upon a world made richer and more glorious by his lin- 
gering radiance, and skies lit up with an unwonted gorgeous* 
ness and splendor. 

But the human countenance seems in many cases to 
concentrate all of physical, of intellectual, and of moral 
beauty, which can be combined in one bright point. Why 
should it not, therefore, be admired? In the commingled 
beams of kindness and good humor brightening up the whole 
face, like heat-lightning in summer on the western sky ; or 
the flashes of genius sparkling in the eyes with a splendor 
which the fires of no diamond can rival ; or in the whole 
soul of intelligence, and noble thoughts, and heroic resolu- 
tion, and strong and lofty passion glowing in the counten* 
11* 



250 MoftKWG ttttflf . 

ance,— -there is a manifestation of creative power, of divine 
skill, unrivalled in any spot or portion of the works of God, 
The extraordinary personal beauty of these Galway 
Women was not mere imagination on my part, nor the result 
of any undue susceptibility I said to the eoachman, as we 
passed through this part of the country, that 1 never saw a 
handsomer people. "That,'' said he, "travellers always 
remark ; " and when I left the country, in casting my eyes 
over a recent book of travels in Ireland? I found the author's 
impressions corresponded with my own. Tradition says 
that a colony of Milesians formerly settled in this part of the 
country, and the remains of this race, or the offspring of the 
intermixture of them with the native tribes, present these 
results. This is a remarkable fact, and not without its 
bearing, upon one great branch of agricultural improve* 
ment.— Rev. HbnrY Colman. 



MORNING HYMN. 

These afe thy glorious works, Parent of good, 
Almighty ! thine this universal frame, 
Thus wondrous fair ! Thyself how wondrous, then \ 
Unspeakable ! who sitt'st above these heavens, 
To us invisible, or dimly seen 
In these thy lowest works : yet these declare 
Thy goodness beyond thought, and power divine* 

Speak ye, who best can tell, ye eons of light, 
Angels, tor ye behold him, and with songs 
And choral symphonies, day without night, 
Circle his throne rejoicing. Ye in heaven : 
On earth, join, all ye creatures, to extol, 
Him first, him last, him midst, and without end ! 

Fairest of stars, last in the train of right, 
If better thou belong not to the dawn, 
Sure pledge of day, that crown'st the smiling mom 
With thy bright circlet, praise him in thy sphere, 
While day arises, that sweet hour of prime 
Then Sua, of Hm great world both eye and soul/ 



MORNING HYMN. 251 

Acknowledge him thy greater ; sound his praise 

In thy eternal course, both when thou climb'st, 

And when high noon hast gained, and when thou fall'st 

Moon, that now meet'st the orient sun, now fliest 

With the fixed stars, fixed in their orb, that flies ; 

And ye five other wandering fires that move 

In mystic dance, not without song ; resound ; 

His praise, who out of darkness called up light. 

Air, and ye elements, the eldest birth 
Of nature's womb, that in quaternion run 
Perpetual circle, multiform, and mix, 
And nourish all things ; let your ceaseless change 
Vary to our great Maker still new praise. 
Ye mists and exhalations, that now rise 
From hill or steaming lake, dusky or gray, 
Till the sun paint your fleecy skirts with gold, 
In honor to the world's great Author rise, 
Whether to deck with clouds the uncolored sky, 
Or wet the thirsty earth with falling showers ; 
Rising or falling, still advance his praise. 

His praise, ye winds, that from four quarters blow 
Breathe soft or loud ; and wave your tops, ye pines, 
With every plant, in sign of worship wave. 
Fountains, and ye that warble as ye flow, 
Melodious murmurs, warbling tune his praise. 
Join voices, all ye living souls ! ye birds 
That, singing, up to heaven's gate ascend, 
Bear on your wings and in your notes his praise. 

Ye that in waters glide, and ye that walk 
The earth, and stately tread, or lowly creep, 
Witness if I be silent, morn or even, 
To hill or valley, fountain or fresh shade, 
Made vocal by my song, and taught his praise* 
Hail, universal Lord ! be bounteous still 
To give us only good : and if the night 
Have gathered ought of evil, or concealed, 
Disperse it, as now light dispels the dark ! 

Milton. 



252 



THE MOTHER'S JEWEI* 

THE MOTHER'S JEWEL. 

Jewel most precious the mother to deck, 
Clinging so last by the chain on my neck, 
Locking, thy little white fingers, to hold 
Closer, and closer, the circles of gold. — 
Stronger than these are the links that confine 
Near my fond bosom this treasure of mine ! 
Gift from thy Maker, so pure and so dear, 
Almost I hold thee with trembling and fear, 

Whence is this gladness so holy and new, 
Felt as I clasp thee, or- have thee in view ? 
What is the noose that slips over my mind, 
Drawing it back, if I leave thee behind ? 
Soft is the bondage, but strong is the knot, 
Oh ! when the mother her babe has forgot 
Ceasing from joy in so sacred a trust, 
Dark should her eye he, and closed for the dust. 

Spirit immortal, with light from above, 
Over this new-opened fountain of love, 
Forth from my heart as it gushes so free, 
Sparkling, and playing r and leaping to thee, 
Fainting the rainbow of hopes till they seem 
Brighter than reason, — too true for a dream ! 
What shall I caD thee ? My glory ? My sun ? 
These cannot name thee, thou Beautiful one ! 

Brilliant ? celestial ! so priceless in worth, 
How shall I keep thee unspotted from earth ? 
How shall I save thee from ruin by crime, 
Dimmed not by sorrow, untarnished by time 7 
Where, from the thief and the robber who stray 
Over life's path, shall I hide thee away ? 
Fair is the setting, but richer the gem, 
Oh ! thou'lt be coveted, — sought for by them \ 

I must devote thee to One who is pure, 

Touched by whose brightness thine own will be sore ; 

Borne in His bosom, no vapor can dim, 

Nothing can win, or can pluck thee from Him ; 

Seamless and holy the garment he folds 

Over his jewels, that closely he holds. 

Hence, unto him be my little one given ! 

Yea, " for of such is the kingdom of Heaven ! " 



ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY. £& 

ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY. 

What is to be understood by animal physiology ? 

Physiology literally means the science of nature, and is 
synonymous with the term, physics or natural philosophy 
When applied to the vegetable creation, it is called vegetable 
physiology. When applied to the structure of man, it is 
called human anatomy, or human physiology. And when 
applied to the animal kingdom generally, it is called animal 
physiology. 

Why are vegetables and animals called organic bodies ? 

Because they each possess the principle of life and certain 
organs or members active in the maintenance of this princi- 
ple. For instance, plants possess roots and leaves which 
perform certain offices in collecting, assimilating, and per- 
fecting the various elements of vegetable life. In like 
manner the heart and the stomach of an animal are called 
organs, because their functions are to circulate the blood and 
digest the food requisite in the animal economy. 

Wliat are called inorganic bodies ? 

Those bodies without vitality which are unable to perform 
the functions of living bodies, such as water, air, the various 
gases, rocks, and metallic substances. 

How are living bodies described ? 

They pass through a certain routine of existence, from 
what may be called their birth to their death. Being in 
the possession of the quality called life, they take in nour- 
ishment from food and air, by virtue of which they grow to 
maturity ; are afterwards, by the same means, supported for 
a certain period ; and, at last, when the purpose of their ex- 
istence in the world is accomplished, they cease to live, and 
are resolved into the elements from which they were formed. 
This is true of vegetables as well as animals. 

How in this respect do animals differ from vegetables ? 

In addition to these peculiarities, common to animals and 
plants, animals possess properties which give them what is 
called sensibility, and which enables them to fulfil certain 
functions which do not belong to plants. In organic bodies, 
wherever there is sensation or voluntary motion, we have 
an animal ; where these are wanting in a vegetable. In ad- 
dition to this, animals have a will or a spiritual essence 
which gives them a measure of control over their physical 



^54 ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY. 

organs, enabling them to move from place to place, to slip* 
ply themselves with the means of subsistence, and also to 
indulge themselves in what may be called the social habits 
of orgauic hie ; not the least important in these habits is their 
own reproduction. 

Why is animal physiology particularly interesting t 

Because the animal structure is the most wonderful pro* 
duction in the whole range of the material creation ; the 
complicated machinery of a Match or a steam engine bears 
but a faint resemblance, in contrivance, to the animal frame ; 
but, the wisdom displayed in the mechanical perfection of 
an animal, scarcely deserves to be named — is a mere baga- 
telle — compared with that which is manifest in what is 
called animal sensibility or sensation— the mental attributes, 
which control the physical organs. 

Wliat branches qf animal physiology are most desert)* 
ing our attention and critical study ? 

Human physiology, or that which relates to man first 
deserves our regard. On a knowledge of the mechanism in 
the human structure ; of the laws by which it is operated ; 
of the agencies which may disturb its power of action ; and, 
especially of the means for preserving and augmenting its 
vigor, depend what we esteem most valuable in this world. 
Physically as well as mentally the most valuable study is 
that which enables man to know himself — the mysteries of 
his own complex organization. 

Without this knowledge what might be the conse- 
quence? 

Suppose any intricate and complex machinery, for in* 
stance, an extensive factory for spinning and weaving, or for 
any results of mechanical labor, was placed in the care and 
under the management of an individual wholly destitute of 
all mechanical skill and taste, would it not speedily become 
deranged and useless ? So likewise, if we are ignorant of 
the curious mechanism in our own bodies, and of the means 
for preserving its efficiency, the chances are the whole will 
become deranged and inoperative, the same as would a watch 
if placed for repair in the hands of a stevedore or any other 
common laborer. 

But, independent of any such motives of interest for 
acquiring a knowledge of human physiology, what other 
rational motive is therefor it ? 

An ignorance of and an indifference to this study, is not 



PtfVStOLddY Of ANIMALS. £££ 

vary dissimilar to one's ignorance of his own local geography* 
With the existing instrumentalities for acquiring geographi- 
cal knowledge, we can scarcely realize how any one with 
the least pretension to mental endowment, can willingly re- 
main destitute of this knowledge. But, for an individual to 
continue ignorant of the geography of his own country and 
state, and especially of his own town, denotes a degree of 
Stupidity as well as ignorance, absolutely disgraceful, and 
almost giving him rank among the brutes. The same may 
he said of the individual who is ignorant of himself ; of the 
organization of his own body ; and of the laws which con- 
trol the preservation of his own life* 

What other motives are there, especially in moral life t 
for tJte thorough and critical study of animal physiology ? 

It is apparent, that the animals upon a farm cannot be 
reared, fed, and fattened, to the best advantage, without a 
familiar acquaintance with their general habits, and par- 
ticularly With the elements in their feed contributing most 
to a full and rapid development of their physical proportions 
and strength, Otherwise, the farmer can neVer make this 
branch of his business in the highest degree satisfactory or 
lucrative. A large proportion of his expenditure for feed will 
be essentially lost. 

Itow can this be made to appear ? 

Some breeds of horses, horned cattle, swine, and sheep, 
It is well known, grow larger, acquire more symmetrical 
proportions, and in cows give more milk, On the same outlay 
in feed, than other breeds. So it is likewise in the labor of 
oxen. The husbandman must, therefore, by crossings and 
otherwise, procure the best kinds of farm animals, and be 
able to know the particular descriptions of nutriment for 
strength in those for Work ; also, for the production of fat 
in those designed for slaughter; and not less for milk in 
those on which the dairy products depend. 

Wltat other advantages to tlie farmer result from a 
particular and full knowledge of animal physiology ? 

A knowledge of the anatomy of farm animals enables 
one to judge better of their strength for labor. Besides, they 
are always liable- more or less, to disease and broken or 
deranged limbs. If their owner has no knowledge of their 

Ehysical organization how can he prescribe for fractured 
ones or for any diseased organs 1 A knowledge of the cU» 



256 PHYSIOLOGY OP AlftMAt*. 

eases of animals, of the remedies for these diseases, and of the 
mode of treatment in case of severe accident, may frequently 
save the life of one of great value. This knowledge is 
as needful as skill in a medical practitioner -when those of 
the human species are suffering from fever or dislocated 
joints, so far as restoration in both cases is of parallel im- 
portance. Without this knowledge, many a profitable cow, 
many a noble horse, many a powerful ox has been lost to 
the owner. 

Are there any other motives for an acquaintance with 
the subject of animal physiology ? 

There are ; motives of a sympathetic character. There 
is certainly a great pleasure felt in understanding and being 
able to converse on the attributes and points of all objects 
constantly about us, and on the profits of which we depend 
for our prosperity and comfort. And to be able to relieve a 
distressed or sick dumb animal must be a pleasure to every 
person of humane and kind sensibilities. A person has but 
a frail claim to a kind and Christian heart who is indifferent 
to the sufferings of the brute creation. 

How many bones are in the human skeleton ? 

In the body of an adult there are two hundred and 
eight principal bones, besides eight very small ones in the 
thumb and great toe, making in all two hundred and six- 
teen. And if the teeth be added, thirty-two, when the set 
is completed, the whole number will be two hundred and 
forty-eight. Some, by distinguishing parts of the same bones, 
have reckoned the whole at two hundred and fifty. 

Of what elementary substance are the bones and teeth 
composed ? 

Mostly of lime, which is received into the system from 
such articles of food as contain it. Hence, it is particularly 
needful that young animals, whose bones are maturing, 
should be liberally furnished with those articles. 

What scientific advantage results from a knowledge of 
the particulur conformation of bones ? 

When some prominent bone of an animal is found im- 
bedded in the earth, the articulations of it denote the species 
of animal to which it belonged. Thus, if the radius of the 
human skeleton were thus found, which is the large or prin- 
cipal bone of the arm below the elbow, it would be clear 
from its articulations that it belonged to a moveable organ 



PHYSIOLOGT OF ANIMALS. 257 

used for seizing objects. Such an one is called moveable, in 
distinction from those called fixed, which are to support the 
body, ^nd are, instead of being connected with fingers or 
claws, connected with hoofs. 

If such a prominent bone be found Jiaving had connec- 
tion with lwofSy what inference is drawn ? 

The hoofs imply that the animal to which it belonged 
was a vegetable feeder, with grinding teeth, and a particular 
form of alimentary canal, and also a certain conformation of 
the spine. Hence, a pretty good idea would be had of the 
size, form, and general habits of the animal, simply from 
this bone. 
• How would a naturalist reason in such a case ? 

He would conclude that the animal had been put to- 
gether, as in all cases with which we are familiar, upon 
rational and philosophical principles. Hence he concludes 
that no organ stands isolated, but that each has intimate re- 
lations with the rest, always forming a harmonious and 
symmetrical whole ; and that, whether we examine the 
structure of the individual parts, or their relations, we must 
equally feel that all has proceeded from the hand of a being 
infinitely wise and good. 

What practical illustration of this have we ? 

The following fact is stated by Dr. Buckland in his 
Bridgewater Treatise. Many years previous, a few bones of 
an extinct species of an animal were found. At that time 
nothing of the general form of the animal was known. But 
from these bones, Mr. Connybeare, a celebrated geologist, 
set himself to work to construct an animal, such as he sup- 
posed that to which these bones belonged. Some years 
afterwards, a complete skeleton of this singular animal, the 
Plesiosaurus, was discovered, with which Mr. Connybeare'a 
drawing was found in a surprising degree to correspond. 

Into what three classes are animals divided, when con- 
sidered in relation to their food ? 

Carnivorous, or those which feed on flesh ; herbivorous, 
or those which feed on herbage or vegetables ; and omni- 
vorous, or those which feed on flesh and herbage. 

How are these different classes known by their teeth ? 

It is said that the teeth give us decisive indications of an 
animal's habits, of his bodily conformation, and of his general 
attributes. The general distinctive classification of teeth it 



258 PHYSIOLOGY OF ANIMALS. 

into those called cutting and grinding ; or incisors and 
molars ; the former thin and sharp edged, and the latter 
double. In the human species and in herbivorous animals, 
the molars, or double teeth, are essentially flat, so as to 
operate, in reducing food to a fine state, like the stones of a 
mill, while in carnivorous animals, the lion and all the cat 
tribe, all of them are sharp-pointed except two ; the ferret 
and polecats have four not pointed, and dogs have eight 
not pointed. 

What remark is made respecting the design of Provi- 
dence in the variation of the structure of teeth in different 
animals ? 

It is quite impossible that the sharp teeth of the tiger 
and the shark should ever be used for grinding food, like 
those of the horse and the ox, or that the teeth of the latter 
could be intended for seizing and tearing flesh ; and this be- 
comes still more striking, when we observe how the jaws in 
which the teeth are set have been articulated. In the car- 
nivora, or carnivorous animals, as the teeth merely cut, the 
jaws are pointed like the blades of a pair of scissors, bait the 
jaws of the herbivora, or herbivorous animals, and of man, 
allow of a grinding motion. This motion of the cow and 
horse is from side to side, or nearly circular, whereas in the 
rodential family this motion is rapidly performed in a longi- 
tudinal direction. 

What is said of the provision in animals for teeth ? 

So long as animals are young and subsist on milk or 
pulpy substances, the teeth, which would then be an incon- 
venience, do «iot appear ; but, in the jaws even before birth, 
provision for them may be seen, so that, as the wants of the 
animal require, the teeth begin to develop themselves — not 
all at once, but those most needful first, and then, at varying 
intervals with different species, the others in due succession. 
In the human species the set of teeth is not completed till 
the individual arrives at maturity — say, eighteen years of 
age, or in that neighborhood. 

Ofwliat are tJie teeth composed ? 

The human teeth are composed principally of two sub- 
stances, the enamel, and the ivory, or bone. The enamel is 
placed externally and on the body of the tooth, and forms 
only a thin layer, and is so hard as to strike fire with steel ; but 
when any part of it is destroyed, it is never restored. The 



PHYSIOLOGY OF ANIMALS. ggg 

internal part of all teeth is much of the nature of bone, and 
is produced by the lime contained in the food furnished for 
the animal. The teeth, bones, shells, fish-scales, cartilages, 
and coral are all compounds of the same elements combined 
in different proportions, and rendered harder or softer as 
they possess a larger or smaller quantity of calcareous saints ; 
ivory and the enamel of teeth possessing the largest quan- 
tity, and consisting almost exclusively of phosphate of lime, 
with a small proportion of animal matter. 

What is one of the most extraordinary facts in the ani- 
mal economy that strikes the attention ? 

It is the law of nature, that animals feed on each other, 
or on vegetables, that seem to be produced for that end. 
This law applies to the greatest and to the least ; the strong* 
est and the weakest ; in the sea and on the land. Whole 
species of animals apparently exist for nothing else, but to 
become food for other species. This is remarkably the case 
with marine animals. Who can imagine the millions of 
these smaller tribes that are annually consumed in this 
manner in nurturing a single whale, that in the end fur- 
nishes man with the means of dispelling from his abode the 
darkness of midnight ? For what purpose do the clouds of 
insects fill our atmosphere but to become food for larger races 
of the animal kingdom, who in their turn serve the same end 
to others larger than themselves ? 

Through what processes does the food pass before answer- 
ing the purpose of animal nutrition ? 

In the first place it is masticated or reduced to a fine, 
pulpy consistence ; then, it passes into the stomach, where 
it is subjected to the action of what is called the gastric 
juice ; by this action, digestion, or the decomposition of its 
elementary constituents, ensues ; and, finally the nutritious 
portions mingle with the blood. The parts of the food not 
nutritious pass off through the alimentary canal, and are 
voided under the name of excrements. 

To what has the process of digestion been compared ? 

To the making of soap. The grease used for the pur- 
pose is mixed in ley from ashes, or with potash, which is ley 
boiled down to a concrete substance. By this means the 
grease is dissolved and combines with the ley. If, however, 
too much grease is used for the alkali, portions of it will re- 
main solid, that will not become soap. In a similar way the 



|60 PHYSIOLOGY OF AHIMALS. 

food is digested or dissolved by the gastric juice in the 
stomach ; but, if a person eats too much for the gastric juice 
to dissolve, a portion of his food will remain in solid or undi- 
gested lumps, analagous to the lumps of undissolved grease 
in the soap barrel. This undigested food in the stomach not 
only produces the most disagreeable sensations, seemingly 
like what would be felt from having swallowed whole raw 
potatoes or small stones ; but, it destroys the healthy action 
of the stomach, and leads to general derangement in the 
whole system. Hence intemperance in eating is nearly as 
detrimental to health as intemperance in the use of drink. 

Is the food of all animals masticated in the mouth ? 

There are some exceptions. Some animals swallow their 
food first and then comminute it afterwards. This is the 
case with the lobster, the grasshopper, and some others, 
which have their teeth immediately connected with the 
stomach. One species of the grasshopper has no fewer than 
two hundred and seventy teeth. The same purpose is served 
by the gizzards of granivorous birds, only that the grain is 
ground between two hard, horny surfaces, which act like 
millstones, their effect being increased by numerous small 
stones swallowed instinctively by the animal. As many as 
two thousand of these stones have been counted in the giz- 
zard of a single goose. 

Hoio is tlie sensation of hunger produced ? 

When there is no food in the stomach on which the 
gastric juice can operate, it acts on the inward coats of the 
stomach ; if not to their destruction, yet to the production of 
a most disagreeable and painful sensation. 

What is said of the power of the gastric juice ? 

In dogs it is so great that it is known to dissolve ivory 
and the enamel of teeth. In hens it will dissolve the hard- 
est stones. And some years since, upon examining the 
stomach and intestinal tube of a man who had died in one 
of the hospitals of London, and who had in his lifetime out 
of hardihood swallowed quite a number of clasp-knives, their 
handles were found digested, and their blades blunted, though 
he had not been able to discharge them from the body. 

What is said of the circulation of the blood ? 

The circulation of the blood is carried on by two distinct 
sets of vessels, the arteries and the veins. The arteries take 
the blood from the heart, loaded or impregnated with the 



PHYSIOLOGY OF ANIMALS. 261 

nutrition from the food, and of a bright scarlet color, and 
carry it to every part of the animal system. It then returns 
to the heart, in the veins, receiving, as it courses along, the 
impurities of the system, particularly the wasted carbon, so 
that before reaching the lungs it has changed to a dark pur- 
ple color. Here, by being spread over the lungs, in a beau- 
tiful, fine net work of air vessels, every particle of it is brought 
in contact with the pure, fresh gases just inhaled. Here the 
carbon is thrown off, not only from the blood, but from the 
system, by respiration. The blood being again restored to its 
scarlet hue, passes again to the heart, and is .again freighted 
with nutritious aliment, to perform a second circulation, and 
so on in perpetuity to the end of life. 

At what rate of time does the blood circulate ? 

It moves in its circulation with astonishing rapidity. Did 
it flow at an equal rate in a straight line, it would run in 
one minute through one hundred and fifty feet, or therea- 
abouts. This swiftness, however, exists only in the larger 
vessels near the heart ; the farther the blood recedes from 
the heart the slower its motion becomes. At the above rate, 
the blood rushes forward in its appointed channels more than 
forty miles in twenty-four hours, a greater distance than a 
horse should travel, or can travel for a protracted period. 

What is understood by animal heat ? 

It is that property of all animals, by means of which 
they preserve a certain temperature, wholly independent of 
that of the medium by which they are surrounded, and ap- 
pears rather to be in proportion to the degree of sensibility 
possessed by them. In birds it is the greatest. 

How is the study of animal heat important to the 
farmer ? 

It is well known, that farm animals kept warm require 
less food and fatten better than those which are not sheltered 
in cold weather. It is supposed that their fat is consumed 
in generating, when exposed to the cold, the internal warmth 
necessary to preserve life, the same as the oil in a lamp is 
consumed in generating light and heat-M)r, as wood and 
coal are consumed in producing heat to warm our ordinary 
dwellings. 



262* PROGRESS OF AGRICULTURE. 

PROGRESS OF AGRICULTURE. 

Why is it, that the subject of agricultural improvement 
commands such general attention ? Why has it become a 
favorite topic with the statesman and the philanthropist ? — 
with the scientific man, as well as with the man of business ? 
— with the deep-thinker, as well as the hardy operator ? Is 
it alone for the pecuniary profits which may be secured ? Or 
do more exalted considerations enter into the account ? To 
increase the reward of honest labor — to ensure a just return 
for capital invested — are objects legitimate and worthy to be 
considered. But the spirit of the age is directed to higher 
and nobler ends ! It aims at intellectual conquest — to ele- 
vate the immortal mind, and to establish its dominion over 
animate and inanimate matter ! It is, then, a leading ob- 
ject of this enlightened effort, to improve not only the culti- 
vation -but the cultivators of the soil — to combine in their 
behalf the principles of science, with the strength and skill 
of labor ; and so to direct their efforts as to secure a just 
elevation of character to the one, and a profitable return to 
the other. 

Agriculture has been termed the primitive art. To the 
savage the earth yields a spontaneous but precarious and in- 
adequate support. Hunger, necessity — the mother of inven- 
tion, lead him to that rude culture which alleviates, first, the 
cravings of appetite. The very act awakens within him 
the nobler spirit and properties of his nature. This is the 
dawn of civilization. With it agriculture commences. 
With civilization agriculture advances, and recedes with it 
wherever civilization recedes. Agriculture has flourished 
most in the most enlightened ages and nations of the world, 
and has been most elevated and prosperous where the people 
have been most free. Her true friend and disciple may 
therefore exclaim, with the American sage and patriot, — 

" Where Liberty dwells, there is my country." ^ 

In the palmy clays of Greece and Rome, when originated 
those bright examples of patriotism and virtue which have 
been venerated, quoted, and deemed worthy of imitation, in 
all succeeding ages, the cultivation of the soil was held to be 
the most honorable of pursuits. The sages and heroes of 
that period, not only directed the operations of farming, but 



PROGRESS OF AGRICULTURE. 263 

thought it no disparagement to till the soil with their own 
hands. From the plough they were called to deeds of valor 
and renown in the service and defence of their country ; and 
after the performance of those deeds, they returned volun- 
tarily to the peaceful walks of rural life. The names of 
some of the noblest families of Rome were derived from pro- 
ducts of the soil in the cultivation of which their ancestors 
excelled. It was deemed to be the highest praise of a good 
man to call him " an agriculturist, and a good husbandman; 
and he was thought to be greatly honored (says Cato) wjio 
was thus praised." The writers upon the subject, of that 
era, the most eminent men of the day, both Greek and Ro- 
man, appear to have been well acquainted with the princi- 
ples and practices of good tillage. 

The Roman conquest introduced into Great Britain a 
better system of husbandry than then existed there, and 
which has since been greatly improved. To that old 
and wealthy portion of the world, we have been in the 
habit of looking for examples, and although self-dependence 
is our true policy, we may still learn much from her expe- 
rience and practice. Comparatively free, enlightened and 
enterprising, Great Britain has outstripped almost every 
other country of the old world in agricultural as well as 
manufacturing skill. Although she possesses an extensive 
commerce — although numerous colonies in all parts of the 
globe are tributary to her — the great truth is recognized by 
her statesmen and intelligent subjects, that the true wealth 
and power of a nation consists in its soil. 

And yet, while vast improvements have been there ac- 
complished, in every branch of husbandry — while science 
and practice have brought forth abundant fruits of their 
united skill, doubling within the last twenty-five years the 
yield per acre of grain and hay ; doubling in the same time 
the number of domestic animals, and enabling the farmers to 
keep twice as many on the same amount of food as they did — 
while the finest of cattle, horses and sheep, of improved 
breeds, are sprinkled in numerous herds over her fertile 
meadows — while the lordly and privileged owners of the 
soil, and the wealthy tenantry of large estates, have been 
greatly profited — the mass of the people, the actual operators 
— still labor in unrequited toil. It is not, however, to be de- 
nied, that within the last half century, through the spirit of 



2$4 PROGRESS OF AGRICULTURE. 

agricultural improvement and the philanthropic zeal which 
has been exerted in behalf of popular education, both in 
Great Britain and on the continent of Europe, the condition 
of the toiling millions has been greatly ameliorated. 

In France, the government has established experimental 
farms and agricultural schools in the various departments of 
husbandry, and is annually expending large amounts to promote 
agricultural improvement throughout its domains. One of the 
results of this policy,has been, to double the product of wheat 
in that kingdom, which now produces annually more wheat 
than is grown in Great Britain and the United States. Simi- 
lar results have followed a similar policy in the German 
States. " Flemish husbandry " has long been acknowledged 
to surpass that of any other country of Europe. The soil of 
Flanders is naturally sterile ; but by a systematic and skilful 
plan of cultivation, combining the plough with the spade 
husbandry, upon small farms of from forty to fifty acres 
each, nearly the whole face of that country has been made 
to present the features of garden cultivation. 

But it is not my intention to attempt a history of agri- 
culture, ancient or modern, past or present. I have stated 
these facts by way of illustration, to show that, long centuries 
ago, great, patriotic and intelligent men appreciated the 
pursuit, and understood the essential theories and practices 
of the art, of cultivating the soil — that the spirit of improve- 
ment, which has lingered through ages, is now abroad and 
active in other lands, speaking to us in the voice of instruc- 
tion, of encouragement and admonition ; and that, though 
much has been discovered and accomplished, much remains 
to be developed and matured, in this great and beneficial 
field of enterprise. 

And upon whom, let me ask, within the wide compass 
now occupied by civilized man, rest stronger and deeper ob- 
ligations to come up to this great work with energy and ef- 
fect, than upon the people of these United States of America ? 
With advantages, such as no other people ever possessed — 
with a variety of soil and climate known to no other divi- 
sion of the habitable globe ; with institutions more wise and 
more free than were ever enjoyed by man — we are under 
obligations, in gratitude to Providence, in justice to our fel- 
low men, to set an example not only of political but of moral 
greatness, and to excel all other nations in the arts and pur- 



PROGRESS OF AGRICULTURE. 265 

■nits of civilized life— in the production, the extension, and 
the enjoyment of happiness. Proclaiming to the world the 
broad doctrines, that all men were created equal, and that 
man, even in the imperfection of his nature, is competent to 
self-government, — it becomes us to elevate, not only theoreti- 
cally, but practically ; not only politically, but morally — the 
laboring and productive classes. Honest labor, to be deemed 
honorable, should only be required to be virtuous and in- 
telligent. 

And, fellow-citizens, I lay it down as a position not to 
be controverted, that the cultivators of the soil, the agri- 
cultural class, constitute in this country the basis of society— 
the foundation of our social and political system. From this 
basis spring all other classes, productive or non-productive. 
On this broad and deep foundation rest the prosperity and 
liberties of our country. Trace the records of our history, 
past and present ! Cast your eyes around, among the mul- 
titudes of men ! Can you name a patriot, a hero, or a states- 
man, who could not or cannot trace his genealogy, directly 
or indirectly, to the cultivators of the soil ? Can you name 
a man who is distinguished in any profession,— -on the bench, 
at the bar — in our halls of legislation — as a poet, as an ora- 
tor, as a man of literature or science — who is not himself a 
farmer, the son of a farmer, or the son of a farmer's son ? So 
with our merchants, proud and wealthy as they may have 
become — so with our mechanics, who constitute, with the 
farmers, the bone and sinew of our country. And so it 
must continue to be while our free institutions endure. 

In our own country the tillers are the owners of the land, or 
may become so by industry and economy. Here, all is diffu- 
sive. The elements of our social and political order are con- 
tinually active : Freedom, enterprise, the equality of rights, 
and the equal protection of the laws, stir up and intermingle 
the masses of which it is composed. High and humble, rich 
and poor, are terms which distinguish but the position of a 
day. Wealth and honors, possessions and pursuits, undergo 
continual changes. The professional man, the merchant, 
the mechanic, deriving directly or remotely their existence 
from the tillers of the soil, return, themselves or their de- 
scendents, in whole or in part, to that pursuit with which 
their earliest and dearest associations are connected— thus 
filling the places of those whom the allurements of fame or 
12 



sea 



PROGRESS OF AGRICULTURE. 



fortune have drawn from its peaceful paths. Indeed, the 
business of agriculture, ever productive, honorable, untram- 
melled, open and free to all —furnishes a refuge to those who 
are driven, by the force of circumstances, by excessive com- 
petition, by the substitution of machinery for manual labor, 
and other causes, from other employments. It affords an 
asylum to disappointed hope, to exhausted energies and to 
satiated ambition, in all other pursuits. They return, like 
the dove to the ark, to that refuge where peace, where com- 
petence, and independence, are ever the fruits of honest toil 
and well-directed efforts ! 

But, who can estimate the importance of agriculture, in 
a national point of view, as controlling the character, the 
prosperity and independence of our country ? Upon it, all 
classes depend for subsistence. It furnishes the elements of 
commerce and the materials of manufactures. It aids in the 
development of those mineral resources which supply the 
useful arts, constitute the essentials of household goods and 
structures and the useful implements of trade, and which set 
the mighty power of steam in motion. Who can estimate, 
who conceive, the value in dollars and cents of those un- 
numbered acres which constitute the surface of this vast re- 
public? — of this immense terra firma, which remains, with 
all its productive powers, while all things else perish ? — 
which now nourishes upon its bosom twenty millions of 
human beings, and is capable of sustaining innumerable mil- 
lions yet unborn ? Who can look forward, through the long 
vista of time to come, and foretell "what vast improvements 
future ages are destined to witness — what, upon this great 
theatre of action, freedom, and enterprise, science and in- 
dustry are yet to accomplish ? 

Agriculture, while it oilers reasonable inducements for 
the investment of capital, affords a competence, which is 
better than wealth, to all who pursue it with becoming skill 
and energy. But let no one hope for success in that pursuit, 
without labor, or at least without vigilant application and 
strict economy. The declaration made by God to man — 
"by the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread," was 
rather a gracious promise than a threat or denunciation. It 
was a guaranty to him, of a full reward for labor bestowed — 
a sweet return for honest toil : and the abundant harvests 
which crown the labors of the industrious and skilful hus- 
bandman, are consummations of the Almighty promise ! 



PROGRESS OF AGRICULTURE. 267 

The pursuit of agriculture, is as favorable to intellect- 
ual as to physical improvement. It promotes the strength 
of the mind, as well as that of the body. Surrounded by 
scenes the most beautiful and sublime in creation — " looking 
from Nature up to Nature's God," — the mind of the intelli- 
gent farmer must become imbued with the most exalted con- 
ceptions. Men of genius, in every department of literature 
and science, have written amidst the scenes of rural life ; 
and the best of poets, in all ages, have from thence derived 
their inspirations ! 

Health, too, without whose presence there is no enjoy- 
ment, holds her favorite seat amidst fields and forests. She 
sports on the mountains and gambols in the valleys. She 
loves the grove and the fountain. She loves to inhale the 
fragrance of the new-mown hay ! She loves to follow the 
ploughman, whistling at his plough; and listen at early 
dawn to the music of the birds : 

" Often by the sound of tabor, 
She the rustic's care beguiles, 
On the brow of honest labor 

Are bestowed her richest smiles." 

Woman, " Heaven's last, best gift to man," was placed 
by his side in Eden, to help him in dressing and tilling the 
garden. She is ;| at home " amidst the charms of rural life, 
and clusters around the farmer's fire side his choicest and 
richest blessings. Relieved by mechanical skill from the toil 
of carding and spinning and weaving, — exempt by the just 
estimate of civilization, from the labors of the field — woman 
finds her appropriate sphere in domestic duties — in culti- 
vating the minds of her children— in the pursuits of house- 
hold economy — -in spreading the neat and frugal meal, and 
in cheering and softening the cares of labor to him upon 
whom its heaviest burthen falh. She finds, too, her delight, 
as in the days of primeval innocence, among the fruits and 
flowers : and for her sake, and for his own most rational and 
healthful enjoyment, the grateful husbandman will cherish 
the orchard and the garden ! — An Address before the Tomp- 
kins County (N. Y.) Agricultural and Horticultural 
Society, by Hon. Ebenezer Mack. 



268 THE FORMATION OF SOILS. 

THE FORMATION OF SOILS. 

The soils which now exist upon the face of otur earth, 
have been produced by a variety of agencies ; the chief of 
these have been the gradual decomposition and crumbling 
down of the rocks themselves, and deposition by water. We 
know that the external outline of the earth has undergone 
most extensive changes. In some places it has sunk, in 
others risen. Sometimes it is evident from the present con- 
formation of surface, that violent currents of water nave 
swept across strata of rocks, wearing away the uppermost, 
and transporting their ruins to £11 up depressions elsewhere. 
We often find strata upheaved and dislocated by action from 
below, and in many cases see the inferior rock presenting it- 
self on the surface, having burst upwards in a state of fusion, 
in despite of every obstacle. Scarcely a region can be found 
which does not present striking evidence of the throes, con- 
vulsions, and changes, which took place before man became 
an inhabitant of this planet. 

It is for geologists to decide, if they can, how long a time 
was occupied in these changes ; suffice it for our present pur- 
pose that they have taken place, and that they seem to have 
been especially ordered for our benefit. Had the stratum last 
deposited or formed, continued unbroken and unchanged 
around the whole earth, we should have had none of the 
beautiful variety of scenery which now greets our eyes on 
every side ; no alternation of hill and dale, mountain, plain 
and valley, with the attendant variations of climate and pro- 
duction, which now so often remind us of perfection itself. 

The soil would have been identical in composition over 
vast districts, if not over the whole earth, being all formed 
from at least allied species of rocks. Now as few rocks con- 
tain all the material fcr a good soil, this soil would doubtless 
have been imperfectly fitted to sustain most of the plants ne- 
cessary for our existence and comfort. When exhausted too, 
we should have had no stores of mineral substances in forms 
convenient for supplying the deficiency. The convulsions of 
nature, however, have been directed for our good, and they 
seem to have continued in a very long series before this earth 
was deemed fit for the abode of man. 

Geological researches have shown us the existence of 
races of animals, that lived and died, and succeeded each 



THE FORMATION OF SOILS. 209 

other in countless myriads, through long and indefinite periods 
of time. We find them all changed to stone, entombed in 
rocky sepulchres. Sometimes the appearance of the rock de- 
notes that it was deposited from a calm and quiet sea, where 
the animals died naturally, and in consequence seldom re- 
main whole or unharmed. Id other cases life and its func- 
tions seem to have been suspended by some sudden change, 
so that we find large fish with smaller ones in their mouth, 
but half swallowed, and others with their thorny fins yet 
erect in the attitude of fear or rage with which they received 
their death shock, when that sudden mysterious destruction 
came upon them. In some of these periods also, upon that 
part of the land elevated above the water, there flourished a 
vegetation of exceeding luxuriance. 

Internal fires have borne a decided part in all of these 
changes, if they have not been the chief agents. It is well 
known that even now, as we go towards the centre of the 
earth, for each foot in depth the heat increases, indicating in- 
terior combustion still active. In the earlier history of our 
globe these fires must have burst forth many times. The 
masses of melted matter may be plainly seen, penetrating the 
stratified rocks, filling cracks in their substance, flowing over 
their surfaces, or upheaving and contorting them. 

But while some rocks were thrust upward, others sank 
into corresponding depressions ; and vast currents of water 
produced by these convulsions, seas and lakes turned out of 
their beds, seem to have swept over the world ; completing 
the scene of confusion by tearing away and grinding down 
strata, bearing the materials to other regions, there to form 
beds of sand, clay, or gravel, according to the nature of the 
original rock. The vegetation at such periods, seems to 
have been carried into hollows and buried deep by succeed- 
ing or continuing shocks, to form under enormous pressure 
and a high temperature, beds of coal for the advantage of 
beings yet to be created. 

Thus all of these tremendous revulsions and changes of 
surface, seem to have been made with the great end of pre- 
paring the earth for the habitation of man, making its re- 
sources more available to him. In sueh a view, the globe 
appears to have been a vast manufactory for our benefit. Its 
beds of limestone, of marl, of gypsum, are dispersed in every 
direction, that they may be accessible to all ; the various 



270 THE FORMATION OF SOILS. 

composition of its rocks, produces soils capable of growing 
every necessary plant ; its ores are abundant in proportion as 
they are the more indispensable for the formation of neces- 
sary implements ; while on the walls of our coal mines, we 
may still trace the forms of a gigantic vegetation whioh 
flourished long ages ago, and was then stored for our use. 

It is not to be supposed that the present surface assumed 
its present shape, in every place at the same time. Some 
regions, without doubt, became tranquil long before others, 
but all must at first have presented a strange naked aspect. 
There was of course no soil, except in the tract of some 
former current where matter in suspension had been de- 
posited. This appearance of absolute ruggedness and sterili- 
ty, could not have continued long unaltered. Atmospheric 
influences, heat and cold, moisture and dryness, worked surely 
then as now, and after a time the most enduring rocks began 
to crumble. As the decomposing fragments became minute, 
little patches of soil were formed here and there. If it were 
on the side of a hill, the fine particles had a tendency to de- 
scend into the hollows, being washed down by the rain. In 
ordinary circumstances, therefore, soil must have first ap- 
peared in the valleys, and in every little hollow of the hUl 
sides. The durability of each particular species of rock, 
had of course much influence upon the readiness with which 
the soil formed. Thus most of the slates, many limestones and 
sand stones, soften and decay readily when exposed to the 
air ; on these were to be seen soils at a comparatively early 
period, and such soils soon became deep. But the granites, 
and some of the harder limestones, remain almost unchanged 
for a long period of years, and we see even at this day that 
the soils upon those formations are thin, while at frequent 
intervals project masses of the naked rock, yet defying the 
influence of time. 

Almost all of the deep, and apparently inexhaustible soils 
which occasionally occur in our own and other countries, 
seem to have been originally formed by depositions from 
water, either as a stream or a lake. The distance to which 
finely divided particles are carried by a rapid stream, is 
truly astonishing. The fine clay found in the bottom of some 
lakes in Holland, is known from its composition to have been 
brought down by the Rhine from its upper waters, in the 
mountains of Switzerland and Germany. The deposit even 
from waters which flow through a very inferior soil is of good 



' THE FORMATION OF SOILS. 27 1 

quality, or at least much better than would be expected. I 
have recently had an opportunity of seeing this fact exempli- 
fied in New Haven, Ct. The Farmington Canal, which 
terminated at that place, ran for nearly thirty miles from the 
city through a very light sand, so light that it was a long 
time after its completion before its banks could be made to 
hold water at all. This canal is now abandoned, and in 
cleaning out one or two basins near the city, a deposit of 
nearly a foot in depth was found, having quite a clayey char- 
acter, baking hard, and cracking when dry. This deposit 
has proved worth nearly or quite as much as manure, on the 
light sandy soils of that neighborhood. 

Soils formed in this way by water, are common in every 
country, and there are also large tracts covered by some of 
those terrible ancient floods of which 1 have spoken. This 
may all have been done at the period of the deluge, but how- 
ever that may be, the original formation is covered some- 
times to a vast depth by the debris of others. In all of these 
cases of superficial deposit, the character of the underlying 
rock has of course little or nothing to do with that of the 
soil : but in most situations it has a controlling influence, and 
a study of the one will give us a general idea of the other, 
beside leading to important practical results. 

The variations in the composition of different rocks, are 
far greater than is ordinarily supposed. It might be thought 
by many, for instance, that the soils of limestone countries 
would, as a general rule, be nearly identical in composition, 
but this is by no means true. The pure limestones contain 
as high as ninety-five per cent, of carbonate of lime, but there 
are many which contain impurities to the amount of much 
more than half their weight. Then, too, there is a large class 
of limestones in which magnesia is found in greater or less 
proportion. The soils produced by these last, when the mag- 
nesia is in large quantity, are frequently very poor and cold ; 
differing extremely from those formed by a limestone in which 
little or no magnesia is present. An unpracticed eye would 
be unable to distinguish between the two kinds of stone, and 
a farmer who had lived upon a good limestone soil, might be 
miserably deceived when he thought he had settled upon 
another of the same character. — From an Address at the 
Annual Cattle Show of the N. York State Agricultural 
Society, Buffalo, 1648, by Prof. John P. Norton, A. M., 
of Yale College. 



272 AGRICULTURE FAVORABLE TO KNOWLEDGE. 

AGRICULTURE FAVORABLE TO KNOWLEDGE. 

There is a prevailing impression, especially among intel- 
ligent young men, that the pursuit of agriculture is unfavora- 
ble to the pursuit of knowledge, and the general cultivation 
of the mind — that the life of a farmer is a life of drudgery 
and toil, without any stimulus or opportunity for intellectual 
improvement — and that if a farmer is intelligent, he is so in 
spite of the earthly, degrading tendency of his occupation. 
We maintain just the opposite view — that the occupation of 
the farmer is favorable to the pursuit of knowledge — favora- 
ble to intellectual health, activity, and vigor of mind, so that 
if a young man has a taste for knowledge, he should for this 
very reason be a farmer, because he can thus gratify this 
taste for knowledge better than in any other calling. 

The life of the farmer is favorable to the pursuit of know- 
ledge, because it is favorable for health. . The farmer, who 
breathes the fresh air, and listens to the songs of birds, and 
sees so much in nature to interest him, is seldom troubled 
with hypochondria, dyspepsia, and indigestion, which are as 
injurious to the pursuit of knowledge as to happiness and 
health. Can there be any doubt that the occupation which 
gives such health and cheer to the farmer, is favorable to the 
development of the mind, and the pursuit of knowledge, es- 
pecially when we consider the intimate connection between 
health of body and health of mind, and how many minds are 
necessarily feeble, stinted, and sickly, because dwelling in a 
feeble and sickly body ? 

The farmer has leisure for the pursuit of knowledge. 
Aside from the leisure which winter evenings, rainy days, 
and intervals between hurrying seasons of labor afford ; he 
can, almost every day, snatch a few moments, or an hour for 
road in g, if hi has a desire for improvement. If the farmer 
chooses to spend his leisure at the stores and taverns, or in. 
idle vacancy, dreaming and dozing away his life, working 
like his ox, and like his ox only eating and sleeping, he can 
do so — but let him not blame his occupation, for if he only 
has thirst for knowledge, he can gratify it. No laborer has 
more leisure for improvement than the farmer. 

And besides, the leisure of a farmer is worth more to him, 
in the pursuit of knowledge, than that of other laborers, not 
only because from his good health and spirits, he is better 



AGRICULTURE FAVORABLE TO KNOWLEDGE. 273 

prepared to improve this leisure, but because it will furnish, 
him with food for thought, reflection, and inquiry, during the 
day ; his work, much of it, being of such a nature as to afford 
opportunity for digesting what he has read, especially if it 
relates to agriculture. The reason many farmers are no 
more intelligent is, not because they have no leisure, but be- 
cause they do not improve their leisure. The most ignorant 
farmers are by no means the*most industrious. Some of the 
most industious, efficient farmers of my acquaintance, are the 
most intelligent also. Nor does their intelligence make them 
lazy, but rather stimulates them to labor. They take hold 
of labor, too, with more zeal and interest, and feel less tired 
at the close of the day, than the mere drudge , whose vacant 
mind is uninterested in what he sees and does. The man 
who is to work on a compost heap will not do less, but more 
work, if he spends a few moments in reading an essay or 
lecture on manures, so that he may labor intelligently. 

Agricultural pursuits have a healthy influence on the 
mind, and thus favor the pursuit of knowledge. The farmer 
is free, on the one hand, from the tormenting excitement, 
anxiety, and perplexity of the merchant and trader, on the 
other hand, from the dullness and monotony of the day la- 
borer, or the mechanic, who does one thing the year round. 
The influences that surround the farmer are as favorable to 
health of mind as health of body ; hence, if a man has a 
taste for knowledge, he may choose the life of a fanner, as 
being well adapted to gratify hie taste. 

The occupation of the farmer affords him an opportunity 
to cultivate an acquaintance with the natural sciences, and 
is thus favorable to the pursuit of knowledge. The shoe- 
maker, or the blacksmith, may be interested in the study of 
meteorology, but his daily occupation does not, like that of 
the fanner, give him an opportunity to observe the weather, 
the wind, clouds and storms, and their influence on vegetable 
and animal life. The book of nature is constantly open be- 
fore him, inviting him to read her laws. The investigation 
of the laws of nature affords a pure and exalted source of 
happiness; but who is so favorably situated to investi- 
gate these laws — while pursuing k4s appointed labor — as 
the farmer ? Who can so well learn the laws of vegeta- 
ble life, as he who is constantly experimenting on those laws ! 
Who can so well observe flowers, grasses, plants, grains, and 
12* 



974 AGRICULTURE FAVORABLE TO KNOWLEDGE. 

trees, and their habits, as the farmer, whose business it is to 
cultivate them, and bring them to perfection ? 

The practical advantage to be derived by the farmer 
from an acquaintance with science, renders his occupation 
favorable to the pursuit of knowledge. The natural sciences, 
botany, geology, chemistry, and many others, are not only in- 
teresting in themselves, but intimately connected with the 
cultivation of the farm. It is by the aid of these sciences 
that the great improvements in agriculture have been made 
the past few years, and that we may expect improvements 
hereafter. If the farmer will not study science because it is 
interesting, he must study it because it is useful — because it 
is necessary to the successful cultivation of his land. How- 
ever interesting science may be, the great mass of laborers, 
having little leisure, and no particular taste for science, do 
not pursue it. Even professional men do not. They have 
no stimulus to pursue it, as the farmer has. 

The farmer, on the contrary, has extraordinary facilities 
and motives to become acquainted with science, for almost 
every science aids him in his work, gives him skill and 
power, as well as pleasure and profit. He can read the 
theory, and then test the theory by his observation and ex- 
periments. Science comes not only to please but to profit ; 
not only to enrich his mind with knowledge, but to enrich 
his farm — to improve his fruit and stock — to fill his barns 
and granaries. Formerly, it was thought a farmer had no 
use for knowledge. Now it is found that no laborer has 
more use for knowledge. 

The pursuit of agriculture is favorable to the general de- 
velopment and cultivation of the mind. It furnishes a home 
for the farmer and his family, a pleasant, rural home— one 
of the most essential means of moral, social, and intellectual 
improvement. The farmer and his children are free from 
many temptations to vice, intemperance, idleness, and ex- 
travagance, which are the bane of intellectual improvement. 
His life is adapted to develop self-reliance, energy, manly in- 
dependence, as well as habits of observation, comparison and 
reasoning. In the rotation of crops, the application of ma- 
nures, the cultivation of fruit and raising stock, and in plan- 
ning the work of a farm, as well as in buying and selling, 
there is abundant exercise for the judgment of the farmer. 
The business of the merchant is said to be favorable to de- 



THE RICHES OF A POOR MAN. 275 • 

▼eloping the judgment, but we submit whether the occupa- 
tion of the farmer does not afford a more enlarged and healthy 
sphere for the exercise of the judgment, than that of the 
merchant and mechanic. 

If the farmer, therefore, remains ignorant and stupid, it 
cannot be for want of opportunity for improvement. He is a 
workman, an experimenter in the great laboratory of Nature, 
where all he sees and hears invites him to observe, and in- 
quire, and learn ; where he can employ in his daily labors 
whatever knowledge he may possess, and find motives to ob- 
tain more knowledge. The means of knowledge, too, are 
within his reach, so that his life need not be a life of 
drudgery and toil, unless he chooses to make it so. To be 
sure, the farmer must work, and work hard, and therefore he 
needs the stimulus of knowledge ; for knowledge will stimu- 
late and encourage him to work, so that he can not only do 
more work, but do it also to better advantage. Intelligent 
labor is the most successful labor. Many men who find no 
stimulus to labor, when it is a mere exercise of physical 
strength, will labor with zeal and enthusiasm, if the mind is 
only interested, as it may be, in almost all the work of the 
farmer. — James Tufts, in the Albany Cultivator. 



THE RICHES OF A POOR MAN. 

Others in pompous wealth their thoughts may please, 

And I am rich in wishing none of these. 

For say, which happiness would you beg first, 

Still to have drink, or never to have thirst ? 

No servants on my beck attendant stand, 

Yet are my passions all at my command ; 

Reason within me shall sole ruler be, 

And every sense shall wear her livery, 

Lord of myself in chief ; when they that have 

More wealth, make that their lord, which is my slave. 

Yet I as well as they, with more content, 

Have in myself a household government. 

My intellectual soul hath there possest 

The steward's place to govern all the rest ; 

When I go forth, my eyes two ushers are, 

And dutifully walk before me bare. 



276 



A COUNTRY CLKKGYMA*. 



My le^s run fcotmen by me. Go or stand, 

My ready arms wait close on either hand ; 

My lips are porters to the dangerous door : 

And either ear a trusty auditor. 

And when abroad I go, Fancy shall be 

My skilful coachman, and shall hurry me 

Through heaven and earth, and Neptune's watery plain, 

And in a moment drive me back again. 

The charge of all my cellar, Thirst, is thine ; 

Thou butler art, and yeomen of my wine. 

Stomach the cook, whose dishes best delight, 

Because their only sauce is appetite ; 

My other cook, Digestion, where to me, 

Teeth carve, and palate will the taster be. 

And the two eye-lids, when I go to sleep, 
Like careful grooms my silent chamber keep. 
Say then, thcu man of wealth, in what degree 
May thy proud fortunes over-balance me ? 
Thy many barks plough the rough ocean's back, 
And I am never frighted with a wreck. 
Thy flocks of sheep are numberless to tell, 
And with one fleece I can be cloth'd as well ; 
Thou hast a thousand several farms to let, 
And I do feed on ne'er a tenant's sweat. 
Thou hast the commons to enclosure brought ; 
And I have fixt a bound to my vast thought. 
Thou hast thy landscapes, and the painters try 
With all their skill to please thy wanton eye : 
Here shadowy groves, and craggy mountains there ; 
Here rivers headlong fall, there springs run clear ; 
The heaven's bright rays through clouds must azure show, 
Circled about with Iris' gaudy bow. 
And what of this ? I real heavens do see, 
True springs, true groves ; whilst yours but shadows be. 

Randolph. 



A COUNTRY CLERGYMAN. 

Near yonder copse, where once the garden smiled, 
And still where many a garden flower grows wild ; 
There, where a few torn shrubs the place disclose, 



A COUNTRY CLERGYMAN. 577 

The village preacher's modest mansion rose. 

A man he was to all the country dear, 

And passing rich with forty pounds a year ; 

Remote from towns he ran his godly race, 

Nor e'er had chang'd, nor wished to change his place ; 

Unskilful he to fawn, or seek for power, 

By doctrines fashion'd to the varying hour ; 

Far other aims his heart had learn'd to prize, 

More skill'd to raise the wretched than to rise. 

His house was known to all the vagrant train, 

He chid their wand 1 rings, hut reliev'd their pain : 

The long remember'd beggar was his guest, 

Whose beard descending swept his aged breast : 

The ruin'd spendthrift, now no longer proud, 

Claim' d kindred there, and had his claims allow'd : 

The broken soldier, kindly bade to stay, 

Sate by his fire, and talk'd the night away ; 

Wept o'er his wounds ; or, tales of sorrow done, 

Shoulder' d his crutch, and show'd how fields were won. 

Pleas'd with his guests, the good man learn'd to glow, 

And quite forgot their vices in their woe ; 

Careless their merits, or their faults to scan, 

His pity gave, ere charity began. 

Thus to relieve the wretched was his pride, 
And e'en his failings lean'd to virtue's side : 
But in his duty prompt at every call, 
He watch'd and wept, he pray'd and felt for all. 
And, as a bird each fond endearment tries, 
To tempt its new-fledg'd offspring to the skies ; 
He tried each art, reproved each dull delay, 
Allur'd to brighter worlds, and led the way. 

Beside the bed, where parting life was laid, 
And sorrow, guilt, and pain by turns dismay' d, 
The rev'rend champion stood : at his control 
Despair and anguish fled the struggling soul ; 
Comfort came down, the trembling wretch to raise, 
And his last faltering accents whisper'd praise. 

At church, with meek and unaffected grace, 
His looks adorn'd the venerable place ; 
Truth from his lips prevail'd with double sway, 
And fools, who came to scoff*, remain'd to pray. 
The service paBt, around the pious man 



278 0DE T0 THE olow-worm. 

With ready zeal each honest rustic ran : 

Ev'n children follow'd with endearing wile, 

And pluck' d his gown, to share the good man's smile. 

His ready smile a parent's warmth express'd, 

Their welfare pleas'd him, and their cares distress'd ; 

To them his heart, his love, his griefs were giv'n, 

But all his serious thoughts had rest in heav'n : 

As some tall cliff that lifts its awful form, 

Swells from the vale, and midway leaves the storm, 

Though round its breast the rolling clouds are spread, 

Eternal sunshine settles on its head. Goldsmith. 



ODE TO THE GLOW-WORM. 

Bright stranger, welcome to my field ; 
Here feed in safety, here thy radiance yield ; 

To me, oh ! nightly be thy splendor given ! 
0, could a wish of mine the skies command, 
How would I gem thy leaf with lib'ral hand, 

With every sweetest dew of heav'n ! 

Say, dost thou kindly light the fairy train, 
Amid their gambols on the stilly plain, 

Hanging thy lamp upon the moisten' d blade ? 
What lamp so fit, so pure as thine, 
Amid the gentle elfin band to shine, 

And chase the horrors of the midnight shade ? 

Oh ! may no feather'd foe disturb thy bow'r, 
And with barbarian beak thy life devour ! 

Oh ! may no ruthless torrent of the sky, 
O'erwhelming, force thee from thy dewy seat ; 
Nor tempest tear thee from thy green retreat, 

And bid thee 'mid the humming myriads die ! 

Queen of the insect world, what leaves delight ? 

Of such these willing hands a bow'r shall form, 
To guard thee from the rushing rains of night, 

And hide thee from the wild wing of the storm. 

Sweet child of stillness ! 'mid the awful calm 
Of pausing Nature thou art pleas'd to dwell ; 



HISTORY OF THE OX. 379 

In happy 'silence to enjoy thy balm, 

And shed through life a lustre round thy cell. 

How diff 'rent man, the imp of noise and strife, 
Who courts the storm that tears and darkens life ; 

Blest when the passions wild the soul invade ! 
How nobler far to bid those whirlwinds cease ; 
To taste, like thee, the luxury of peace, 

And silent shine in solitude and shade ! 

Woloot. 



HISTORY OF THE OX. 

How is the term cattle used ? 

In the United States it is commonly applied to the bo- 
vine family ; or, quadrupeds that bellow, have teats and 
horns, and are employed by man for labor and for food. 
Primarily it included not only these, but horses, camels, asses, 
sheep of all kinds, goats, and perhaps hogs. In the latter 
sense it is always used in the Bible. In England it now 
.includes horses. In Great Britain, also, farm animals are 
arranged in two general divisions— 6/ac£ cattle, including 
bulls, oxen, cows and their young ; and small cattle, in- 
cluding sheep of all kinds, and goats. 

What is said of the ox or bovine family ? 

It is that class of animals to which naturalists have as- 
signed this general name, comprehending eight species, the 
principal ones being the buffalo, the bison, and our domesti- 
cated ox. Of these three the last named is by far the most 
generally diffused, as well as the most important. 

How was the ox esteemed by the ancients ? 

Their devotion to rural pursuits led them to consider him 
the most valuable of all domesticated animals. This animal 
constituted the chief wealth of the patriarchs, whose herds 
were so extensive that "the land could not bear them," arid 
induced emigration to distant countries. So much depend- 
ence was placed upon his labors in the field, that Solomon 
says, " Where no oxen are, the crib is clean ; but much in- 
crease is by the strength of the. ox." The Egyptians regarded 
the cow with such respect and veneration, as to elevate her 
among their deities, and to this day she is worshipped by the 



£10 HISTORY OF THE OX. 

natives of India and Hindostan. By the Greeks and Ro- 
mans, the breeding of cattle was ever thought one of the 
most dignified and profitable occupations. In fact, in all 
ages of the world, and in every climate, the ox has received 
the attention which his excellent qualities so richly merit. 

How are oxen now regarded in India and Africa ? 

In southern Africa they are as much the associate of the 
Cafrres as the horse is of the Arab. They share his toils, and 
assist him in tending his herds ; they are even trained to 
battle, in which they become fierce and courageous. In 
central Africa the proudest ebony beauties are to be seen 
riding on their backs. They have drawn the plough in all 
ages ; in Spain they still trample out the corn ; and in India 
they raise the water from the deepest wells to irrigate the 
thirsty soils of Bengal. 

How long has the ox been known in England ? 

From the earliest times, and Cesar, upon his invasion of 
the island, found the riches of the people consisted in their 
large flocks and herds, which have contributed in no small 
degree to her opulence and position at the present period. 
They have been greatly improved by skilful breeding, and 
maintain an undisputed superiority over the cattle of all 
other countries. 

Are the varieties in England numerous ? 

They are; the ox breeds freely, and his character is 
easily changed by the influence of climate, food, or culti- 
vation. He always accommodates himself to the situation 
in which he may be placed. In some countries he attains 
an immense frame, while in others he barely exceeds -the 
size of a large sheep. Thus in England, where the climate 
and soil are both favorable to his development, much credit 
is due to the breeder, who, by judicious crossings, has cor- 
rected faults and perpetuated the good qualities of the animal. 

Which are the most celebrated breeds of Great Britain ? 

The Durham, the Devon, the Hereford, the West High- 
land, the Ayrshire, the Galloway, and the Alderney. There 
are others which maintain a good reputation in their native 
districts, but have not as yet been brought into general 
notice. 

What is said of Robert Bakewdl ? 

He was an eminent farmer who died in the year 1795. 
He distinguished himself by his success in the breeding of 



HISTORY OF TIIE OX. 291 

cattle and sheep. One of the most noted of his efforts was 
the improvement of the Long-horned cattle of Yorkshire. 
By perseverance he established a disposition to fatten, to- 
gether with an early maturity, and corrected the other capi- 
tal defects of the parent stock. At the time of his death no 
breed was in equal favor, but it has now lost its reputation, 
and is rapidly giving way to the later improved varieties. 

How long liave the Durhams been known ? 

The counties of York and Durham have for ages been 
celebrated for the possession of a most valuable race of cat- 
tle, noted for their extraordinary milking qualities. Some- 
where about the year 1750, they were crossed with some fine 
stock from Holland, and the good points of the progeny thus 
obtained speedily attracted attention. Two brothers, Charles 
and Robert Colling, commenced the business of breeding, 
and prosecuted it with so much success that their names 
have become identified with the breed. At the sale of their 
stock, in 1810, forty-seven animals sold for over thirty-five 
thousand dollars, and a famous bull by the name of Comet 
brought one thousand guineas, or about five thousand dollars. 

For w/iat are the Durhams distinguished ? 

A large and symmetrical form ; particularly agreeable to 
the eye ; and their excellence for milkers is undisputed. They 
feed well, and mature at an early age. Their flesh is ex- 
cellent, and always meets a ready sale. Of this breed was 
the noted ox, called Spottiswoode, probably the largest ever 
exhibited, which in 1812 measured as follows — height of 
shoulder six feet and ten inches ; girth behind the shoulder, 
ten feet and two inches ; and was computed to weigh 4480 
pounds. It is certain, however, that the Durhams are inferior 
to some others for use as working cattle, as well as in the 
richness of the milk. Durhams are frequently called Short* 
horns. 

To what are the Devons indebted for their popularity ? 

A beautiful form, strength of limb, hardihood of constitu- 
tion, the richness of their milk, together with the superior 
flavor of their flesh. The oxen are the best known for agri- 
cultural purposes, and the milk of the cows, when compared 
with that from Durham cows, makes up in richness for any 
deficiency in quantity. Both sexes are gentle, intelligent and 
docile ; and no animals afford a better return for the atten- 
tion bestowed on them. The breed is a very ancient one, 
although largely indebted to the skill of the modern breeder* 



ggg HISTORY OF THE OX. 

What is tJte character of the Hereford* ? 

They are peculiarly adapted to the wants of the grazier, 
but are not much used in husbandry, although their size and 
strength fit them for heavy work — and they have all the 
honesty and docility of the Devon, if not his activity. The cows 
have generally been considered inferior to other breeds for 
the dairy, but from the statements of such men as Corning 
and Sotham of our own country, it would seem that this 
opinion is not well founded. 

What is said of the West Highlanders ? 

They are small black cattle, bred in the highlands of 
Scotland, and on the northern islands of Great Britain. They 
are very hardy, and will thrive in almost any locality. Al- 
though of moderate size, they will attain a very respectable 
weight, and their meat is of such superior quality that it 
commands the highest price in the markets. They are 
brought annually in immense droves to the southern part of 
the kiugdom, and there fattened for sale. They are thought 
to afford a better profit than any other breed. 

How is the Ayrshire breed esteemed ? 

This stock prevails principally in Ayrshire, Scotland, and 
are thought by many good judges to be indebted for some of 
their good traits to a remote intermixture with the Durham 
breed. They are highly esteemed in their native haunts for 
the dairy. The milk is abundant, and noted for its rich- 
ness. But when intended for the butcher, the Ayrshires are 
not considered equal to the Herefords or Durhams. There 
is not, however, entire uniformity of opinion in regard to this 
breed. Mr. Tennant, of Scotland, says that these cows, 
in the best part of the season, will yield fifteen quarts of milk 
on an average per day ; and, that the annual average for 
'butter is one hundred and seventy pounds. Another person 
says that a good cow of this breed, on the best pasture, will 
yield four thousand quarts of milk in the year. But Mr. 
Cushing, of Massachusetts, is of the opinion that the Ayr- 
shires are not better than our own native breeds, unless crossed 
with the Durhams. 

Why are the Galloways esteemed ? 

They have some excellent points — such as a compact 
body, aptitude to fatten, and docility of disposition. They 
are mostly black, and without horns. The cows are indiffer- 
ent milkers ; but large numbers of this breed are annually 
fattened for market. 



HISTORY OF THE OX. 283 

For what in particular are the Alderneys valuable ? 

They are chiefly valuable for their dairy qualities. The 
quantity of their milk is small, but it has an extraordinary 
degree of richness, affording a large proportion of cream, and 
butter of a beautiful color and fine flavor. The reputation of 
the breed is so well established, that a few of the cows are 
kept by nearly all the nobility of England, and even by 
friends of the other varieties. Apart from this, they do not 
possess a high rank in the estimation of farmers ; yet, it has 
been made evident that they are susceptible of improvement. 

Why is it that these English breeds of cattle deserve 
tuck particular notice ? 

Because the breeding of cattle has for centuries been a 
principal department of English husbandry, and, owing to a 
variety of causes, has been prosecuted with unparalleled suc- 
cess. In no other country have such results been obtained. 
The history of these improvements is important to American 
farmers, for the reason that our stock has been derived from 
England, and that from England must we make our future 
importations, whenever they become necessary. 

At what period was the domesticated ox brought to this 
country ? 

At the time of its settlement. The greatest number of 
animals was brought by the English colonists, and they have 
been most extensively diffused. In certain sections, we can 
perceive traces of the stock brought by the French, Dutch, 
and Spanish emigrants. 

Have these animals been bred with care ? 

They have not, except in a few instances. Little or no 
effort has been made for perpetuating valuable points, or the 
peculiar characteristics of a breed. Within the past few 
years, however, a great change has taken place ; and, partly 
in consequence of the formation of Agricultural Societies, an 
increased interest has been manifest in the improvement of 
horned stock. 

In what part of our country do we find the best native 
stock ? 

Probably in New England. The cattle here are sup- 
posed to have been brought from Devonshire, England, 
as the early settlere were mostly emigrants from that dis- 
trict. We can thus account for the remarkable similarity 
in the best native animals to the Devons of the present day. 




£34 HISTORY OP THE OX. 

Their general characters are alike ; having much the same 
features, the same ready disposition to acquire flesh, the 
same excellence for labor, and the same value for the dairy. 
Without doubt, the mixture of some good English Devons 
with the best of this native stock, would be attended with 
the happiest results. 

Have the Short-horns been introduced into the United 
States ? 

They are said to have laid the foundation of the fine stock, 
known as the milk, or beef, breed, which existed in Virginia 
about the close of the last century. The first authentic im- 
portations, however, were made by Mr. Heaton of New- York 
state, in the years 1791 and 1796. Many subsequent im- 
portations have been made from time to time, and the Short- 
horns appear to be more extensively diffused than any other 
breed. 

Are the Durham* much esteemed in the United States ? 

They are in certain localities, as in the fertile regions of 
the west. It is generally well understood, that they cannot 
flourish on poor lands. Thus far they have been mostly 
used for breeding, and only a small number fattened for the 
shambles, yet their merits in this respect are fully appre- 
ciated. At one time, they sold for extraordinary prices — 
sometimes for a thousand dollars a piece, — and now they 
have not recovered i'rom the reduction in value, which was 
occasioned by the commercial revulsion that passed over the 
country a few years since. 

What oilier breeds have been introduced into the United 
States ? 

The Devon, the Hereford, the Ayrshire, the Alderney, to- 
gether with many others of less note. In some instances 
these importations have been made by societies, but as a 
general thing, by the enterprise of a few spirited individuals. 

Have these importations been of much benefit ? 

Occasionally we come across herds where the blood has 
been preserved pure and uncontaminated by mixture with 
animals of different breeds, but the greatest good has been 
effected by crosses upon our native stock. The grade animals 
thus produced have become very popular among farmers, and 
are evidently considered as possessing superior qualifications. 
In the course of a few years, when the number of high-blood- 
ed cattle is much increased, the improvement of the native 
breeds will be more decided. 



I&STOEY 0* Tfl* OX ftf 

Why have cattle in so many instances deteriorated in 
value? 

It appears to foe a law of nature, that progress, improve- 
ment, or advancement in excellence, is the result of care and 
labor, and not of neglect. Hence, in addition to necessary 
tillage, vegetables flourish best, if seeds are changed every 
few years; so also, animals must change their locality or 
be crossed, every now and then, to maintain their vigor 
and full development. If this is neglected, they will usually 
degenerate in character. 

What other cause has led to a deterioration in 
American cattle? 

In numerous cases farmers have raised their poorest, and 
not their best calves. The latter would be sold for the sham- 
bles, because they would command a high price ; and, for a 
contrary reason, or because not fit for the shambles, or would 
only bring a low price, the former would be kept alive to per- 
petuate the stock. As absurd as this is, it has often been 
done. The best calves and the best only should be raised. 
Inferior ones should not be suffered to remain on a farm any 
more than the seeds of pernicious weeds should be sown in 
company with wheat. 

Why should so much interest be cherished in regard to 
the improvement of the breeds of cattle ? 

Because no small portion of the farmer's available prop- 
erty is in them. He depends on them and his crops for his 
ready cash. Hence, if his cows eat more than the milk is 
worth ; if his oxen eat more than their labor is worth ; and 
if both eat more than their flesh is worth for slaughter, it is 
evident they impoverish rather than enrich him. They are 
like shares in a bank or railroad which pays no dividend. 
But, if his cows give milk annually double in value of their 
feed ; if the labor of his oxen is annually worth double of 
their feed ; and if the flesh of both is worth double in the 
shambles of what it cost to raise and fatten them, it is clear 
that he is enriched by his cattle. 

For what different purposes is the ox family valuable ? 

The male is used for draught, and, in some countries as 
a beast of burden. The female supplies us with milk, that 
affords cream, butter, and cheese. Their flesh is a favorite 
article of food ; their tallow is made into candles and soap ; 
their skins are tanned for leather ; their hair enters into the 
composition of mortar ; their horns are manufactured into 



gg£ HISTORY OF THE OX. 

various ornamental articles ; the bones make cheap substi- 
tutes for ivory, and are used as a manure ; their blood is em- 
ployed in the manufacture of Prussian blue ; and the refuse 
of the skin, hoofs and shanks, is made into glue. 

How many horned cattle may there be in the United 
States ? 

Although a census is made once in ten years, it is im- 
possible to tell, for the number is subject to constant varia- 
tion. With the increase of our population the number ne- 
cessarily increases too. It is fair to conclude that there are 
three cows, two working oxen, and five young or beef cattle 
to each family. Then, if we have at the present time three 
millions of families, there will be in all thirty millions of 
horned cattle, which, at twenty dollars per head, will make 
this department of our national wealth amount to six hun- 
dred millions of dollars— an amount showing its importance 
and the occasion for improving our breeds as well as our gen- 
eral culture in rearing them. 

What is said of the buffalo t 

Although by naturalists, from some general resemblance, 
assigned to the ox family, it is evident that the alliance is 
more fanciful than real. For if the two species are kept 
under the same roof and fed on the same meadows, they 
manifest no sympathy for each other and refuse to couple to- 
gether. And such is the antipathy between them, that the 
cows of neither will suckle the calves of the other. Besides, 
the period of gestation with the buffalo is twelve months, 
whereas with our cow but nine. The buffalo is a native of 
India, but is found in various hot countries. 

In what consists the value of the buffalo ? 

In hot countries almost all the cheese is made from the 
buffalo's milk, which is more abundant than from our cow, 
although not so good. As these animals are in general much 
larger and stronger than our oxen, when domesticated, they 
are very serviceable in the plough ; they draw well, but do 
not carry burdens ; they are led by a ring drawn through 
their nose. Two buffalos, harnessed, or rather chained, to 
a wagon, will draw as much as four strong horses. Their 
hides are valuable, and their tongues are saved to be eaten, 
but the other flesh is not. In Africa and India great numbers 
of them run wild. 

What is said of tlie bison ? 

The bison, or the American bison, usually called Jhe 



CHANGE OF MATERIAL SUBSTANCES. gg7 

American buffalo, wanders constantly from place to place for 
food. He is particularly fond of the tender grass on our 
western prairies, which springs up after a fire has been over 
them. The bulls and cows live in separate herds, for the 
greater part of the year, but at all seasons, one or two old 
bulls generally accompany a herd of cows. The flesh of the 
bison, in good condition, is very juicy and well flavored ; 
much resembling that of well-fed beef. And the tongue is 
considered a delicacy, and may be cured so as to surpass^in 
flavor the tongue of an English cow. 

What is said of the form and size of the bison ? 

The form is better perceived from a picture of the animal 
than any verbal description. The head, shoulders, and upper 
part' of the anterior extremities, are covered with a long, 
brownish, woolly hair. The tail is tufted and black. The 
horns are black, and turned laterally upwards. His length 
is about eight feet. 



CHANGE OF MATERIAL SUBSTANCES. 

• 
It will be seen that a vast series of changes of position 

and form termed physical ; of composition termed chemical ; 
and if in connection with vegetable or animal life, termed 
vital, is incessantly going on ; all concurring and harmoniz- 
ing with one another, to bring about the great result — the 
final end of creation — the fitting of the earth to yield sub- 
sistence to man in return for labor ; allowing the agricultural 
laborer, like the strong man, "to rejoice in his strength ;" 
the intellectual farmer to find his happiness in the search 
after truth, and impress upon all a deep conviction of the 
wise and benevolent arrangement of creation. 

Neither the written word of God, or the material uni- 
verse, his created revelation, affords any ground for the belief 
that there ever has been any second creation of matter, or 
that even a single particle of new matter has ever been called 
into existence since the beginning, when all was made. Of 
this matter when created, it is equally certain that not an 
atom has been lost or destroyed. What we see going on 
around us is change, incessant change ; change of place or 
combination, and change only. 

Besides the myriads of worlds in the firmament, visible to 



2$8 CHANCE OF MATERIAL SUBSTANCES. 

the naked eye, the telescope brings into view numberless 
others, all moving on their axes and in their orbits, with a 
rapidity that defies conception, and in perfect harmony. The 
loss of a single atom wonld destroy the harmony of their 
movements. On the other hand, the microscope reveals 
movements in small masses of matter equally astonishing. 
The transparent web of a frog's foot, small enough to be 
covered by the cut end of a fine hair, exhibits in its circulat- 
ing particles a degree of intestine movement which may be 
compared to that within the Exchange room in Wall-street 
at its busiest hour, to that of a legislative hall at the time of 
dividing the house, or to a bee-hive preparatory to swarming. 
These axe physical movements ; changes of place merely. 

Changes in the composition of the bodies called chemical 
changes, are going on, alike wonderful both in manner and 
degree. Limestone, for instance, is quarried to be burned, to 
build houses and to enrich fields. In this process an air is 
separated which is food for plants. Besides this source of 
carbonic acid, for so this air is called, millions of tons of coal 
are raised from mines, and being burned for steam engines, 
for culinary purposes, and pur social hearths, and also for 
artificial light ; are thus fitted to become a component part 
of plants and next of animals. Large masses of wood and 
other vegetable matters are rotting on the surface of the 
earth. Animal substances are also undergoing decompositon, 
and rocks and earths are being dissolved. Thus carbonic 
acid, the wood gas, and ammonia, or the animal gas, as it 
may be termed, and the mineral earths, are supplied to be- 
come again parts of plants and animals, and each kingdom 
of nature gets back what it has given up. A tree is burned ; 
its particles are either dissipated in the form of air, or remain 
behind as ashes. The ashes return to the earth from which 
they were extracted ; the rest of the wood has been dissolved 
into gases, and both are fitted to become the food of future 
forests. The grazing animal while yet alive, supplies food 
to the herbage he feeds on ; when he perishes, plants and 
animals alike feed upon his body. 

When Major Andre was disinterred, nearly half a century 
after his execution and burial, " the roots of a peach tree," 
so says the official account of the British Consul, " were found 
entwined among the bones of bis skull." Of those here 
present, there may be some who have eaten of the fruit of 



CHANCE OF MATERIAL SUBSTANCES. 289 

that tree, and in whose bodies have thus become incorporated 
particles of matter that once formed a portion of the living 
frame of that gallant and accomplished soldier. Thousands 
of tons of bones from the battle-fields of Europe, have been 
used to enrich the soil of England ; and in our own country, 
many hundred Germans are employed in gathering bones for 
our corn lands. 

The cast-off bark and leaves of trees become decomposed, 
and afford nourishment to their roots. Every part of the 
animal body is in a state of perpetual change. The organic 
and mineral excretions an individual casts off, even his 
breath, may return to him no less than to others, and again 
become a part of his living body. The same matter forms 
the bodies of successive, and even of the same generations 
and individuals of the animal and vegetable kingdoms. 
Were it otherwise, the existence here of all living things 
would be limited. The materials necessary to their support 
would ultimately be all consumed. 

The results of vital chemistry are yet more wonderful. 
We inspire vital air, one^ source of which is the leaves of 
plants under the influence of the sun ; we expire another air, 
carbonic acid, which is their food. Animals are kept warm 
by a fire ever burning within them. The fat of their bodies 
is burned by the air inhaled into their lungs. The product 
of this combustion is the same as that of fat burned in a 
candle, viz., carbonic acid and water. If a man is struck 
down by a blow, or a poison, or an apoplexy, so that he 
hardly breathes, his body becomes cold ; the fire is almost 
extinguished. If he exercises or contracts a fever, he 
breathes more rapidly than usual, he becomes heated ; the 
internal fire is increased. 

If an animal is kept cold, it gets poor ; its fat is con- 
sumed to keep it warm. You all know, gentlemen, the ad- 
vantages of warm stables for your stock, in winter. Perhaps 
some of you may not know the reason why large lunged ani- 
mals are fattened with difficulty. It is that they burn up 
their fat. Yet they are capable, with proper feeding, of be- 
coming even fatter than others, because they keep their 
health and good digestion longer. 

All living things are compounds of four elements. First, 
oxygen, or vital air, a part of the atmosphere which supports 
combustion, rots wood, rusts metals, and turns cider sour. 
13 



2V0 CHANGE OF MATERIAL SUBSTANCES. 

Second, hydrogen, which with some of its compounds, with 
carbon, is a gas, and which burns with a flame, explodes in 
mines, forms burning springs, and with oxygen becomes 
water. Third, nitrogen, a part of the atmosphere, and a 
principal constituent of manure, and with hydrogen forming 
ammonia, otherwise called hartshorn. This is the product 
of animal decomposition, whether by burning or putrefaction, 
and it holds a relation to animal decomposition, not unlike 
that which carbonic acid does to. vegetable decomposition. 
Fourth, carbon* the residuum of wood where the hydrogen 
gas and its compounds have been burned away. Carbonic 
acid, carbon and oxygen, is the gas which gives briskness to 
cider and to water, kills those who descend into wells in 
limestone localities, who sleep in close rooms where charcoal 
fire is burning. 

Mineral springs and hundreds of volcanoes, some of them 
apparently extinct, and all breathing animals, are con- 
stantly casting forth carbonic, acid gas. It enters largely into 
the composition of plants, and is discharged from them in the 
process of fermentation, of rotting, and of combustion. In 
fine, it is wood dissolved in air. But there are some parts of 
wood and some parts of animals, which will not dissolve in 
air. There are what are termed mineral portions, in con- 
tradistinction to the former, which are called the organic 
portions. A log of wood is burned, some of it is dissipated 
in air, chiefly into carbonic acid gas ; a smaller portion, the 
ash, remains, differing somewhat in its nature according to 
the species of wood or vegetable consumed. When an ani- 
mal substance is burned, or left to decay, the organic portion 
in like manner is dissipated in the air, in the form of harts- 
horn, together with hydrogen, holding in solution sulphur and 
phosphorus. The other mineral or earthy parts remain. 
These are the bones, which are formed chiefly of lime and 
phosphoric acid, the same which we smell after burning a 
loco-foco match. 

The composition of plants and animals is the food they 
receive, deducting that which they cast off. No plant or 
animal creates any element that enter into its structures. It 
only combines them into new forms. There is, however, 
this great difference between plants and animals: plants 
collect unorganized atoms, matter not arranged in definite 
regular forms, and build up from them their beautiful struc- 



CHANGE OP MATERIAL SUBSTANCES. 291 

tures. Animals, on the contrary, receive their food from 
matter already organized ; the herbivorous animals directly, 
the carnivorous through the medium of the herbivorous. 

The sea furnishes fish and guano, and thus renders back 
some of the nutriment washed into it, in rain water falling 
upon it. What immense quantities must be washed into the 
sea by the Nile, the Ganges, the Mississippi, and the great 
rivers of South America, not of vegetable matters only, but 
of animal and mineral. These are the food of the animal 
and vegetable inhabitants of the sea. Some of these matters 
come back. In a certain sense, fishing boats and whale 
ships are manure boats, no less truly than those which bring 
guano. Coal mines, volcanoes, and limestone quarries, are 
immense manure beds. Thus the sea and the earth give 
back what they have received. 

The changes of matter are three-fold : first, from earth 
and air to the condition of plants ; next, to the animal crea- 
tion ; and lastly, back again to earth and air. In the various 
processes by which these materials are rendered available, 
there is a striking analogy. The rotting of manure in the 
ground may be described as a low, smothered, imperfect burn- 
ing, much of the smoke or coal remaining behind. The 
smothered fire of a charcoal bed leaves still more of the coal 
unconsumed. In the burning of peat in smothered fires, 
some ash is formed, and the quantity of coal-like residuum is 
still less. When oil is burned, or rapidly* rotted (if I may so 
say,) in a clear burning lamp, no soot, smoke or lampblack, 
(which is powdered carbon,) is left ; all is consumed — that 
is — all is converted into carbonic acid gas and water. 

The blacksmith sprinkles water on his coal fire, and stirs 
it up to make the coal rot faster. So, too, the farmer stirs 
up the earth to promote decomposition. The ship carpenter 
keeps his timber under water until he wants to use it, to pre- 
vent it from decay by securing it from the air, or he puts it 
under cover to keep it dry. The presence of both air and 
water is necessary for the rotting or slow combustion. When 
the old London bridge was being constructed, the remains of 
a former wooden structure, built by the ancient Romans, 
were found unrotted. The farmer wets his manure heap, 
and turns it over to make it rot ; if it rots too fast, he puts on 
more water to moderate the combustion, and prevent the 
carbonic acid gas, ammonia, sulphur, and phosphorus from 



(92 CHAICGE OF MATBRIAL BtTBSTAJTCBS. 

escaping. Deeply buried manure rots slowly, so do compact 
bodies of manure. The more slowly vegetable substances 
are decomposed, the greater the carbonaceous, coaly, or sooty 
residuum. 

In preparing manure, heating and rapid decomposition 
should be carefully avoided, for by it is lost not only carbonic 
acid, the wood -forming gas ; but also ammonia, sulphur, and 
phosphorus, essential elements of animals and vegetables. 
The aim of the agriculturist in the application of manure, 
should be, to make the period of its rotting coincide with the 
period when the crop wants the nutriment it furnishes in the 
act of rotting. Thus half rotted manure is preferred for po- 
tatoes, its greatest action being wanted for the tubers and not 
for the haulm. 

Our social fires, whether of wood or coal, manure the 
atmosphere ; but it is wasteful to keep burning when no 
one is present to enjoy them. It is equally wasteful to let 
manure rot in the ground, or be washed away, when there 
is no crop to feed upon its gases or its salts. As manure be- 
gins to decompose the first moment it is dropped from the 
animal, so of course it immediately begins to lose some of its 
valuable qualities. It might be supposed, therefore, and Sir 
H. Davy inclined to the opinion that it should be used im- 
mediately, either by putting under the earth, or on the sur- 
face. But general experience is rather against the practice, 
at any rate the rule is not absolute. It is a question to be 
settled by careful observation, and not by scientific reasoning. 

As the subject has been discussed theoretically, it may be 
proper to remark, that dung is valuable as manure : first, 
from the mineral ingredients contained in it ; second, from 
the ammoniacal compounds. Now these are mostly formed 
in the manure by fermentation, and so far as respects them, 
the droppings of animals are no more manure, than an apple 
is cider, or barley is beer. Certain chemical changes must 
first take place before the organic portion of the droppings is 
available. The case seems to stand thus : — If a farmer keep 
his manure, ammonia is escaping, and he suffers a loss ; the 
rain is washing away the mineral salts from it. If he put 
it on the surface of his ground fresh, it dries, and the chemi- 
cal change on which the formation of ammonia depends, is 
partly prevented, and of the ammonia that is formed, much 
escapes in atmosphere, instead of combining with the soil 



I 



CHANGE OF MATERIAL SUBSTANCES. 293 

If be ploughs it in fresh, it may be so separated that fermen- 
tation does not take place, for want of the requisite warmth, 
before the rain washes away the urea or principle upon 
which the formation of ammonia depends. 

The mineral food, or ash of plants, comes from the earth, 
rocks and stones ; which are only solid earth, as earth is only 
crumbled, crushed or dissolved rocks and stones, and all are 
rusty metals, chiefly distinguished from metals properly so 
called, in the facility with which they rust. They are slightly 
soluble in rain water, which combining with carbonic acid 
and ammonia, in its descent first purines the atmosphere, and 
then enriches the soil. Who among us has not been struck 
with the grateful purity of the air after a fall of rain or snow. 
This is another striking illustration of the ordering of all 
things for our well being. The presence of organic matter 
undergoing decomposition, constitutes the difference between 
soil and earth. Earth, when first brought to the surface, is 
barren, incapable of supporting vegetation. A large portion 
of the globe was originally, or in remote periods, in this con- 
dition. 

In removing rocks from his fields, the farmer often brings 
to the surface masses of earth. These are barren, and re- 
main so for years, unless manure is applied, and that, too, 
liberally. Such earth is said to be hungry ; hungry it is, for 
the organic food of plants ; for left to itself, its first act, if I 
may so express it, is to acquire carbonic acid from rain water, 
and ammonia from the same source, and from the atmosphere. 
These are the organic food of plants. It combines also with 
foetid gases. These gases often contain phosphorus and sul- 
phur, which are mineral food. Thus, if old clothes are fetid 
with ammonia, sulphur, and phosphorus, are buried in the 
earth, they are sweetened. The earth combines with these 
substances. So, too, if foul water from a wash tub is passed 
through earth, (and still more through charcoal,) it is puri- 
fied, and the earth is enriched. Here is now another kind 
provision for the purification of the air we breathe, and the 
water we drink. 

As many animals live entirely upon plants, the materials 
of flesh and bone and whatever enters into the composition of 
their bodies, must be contained in such food. How do plants 
get the materials by which they form flesh, bones, and fat ? 
When an animal dies, and is left on the ground, if not con- 



294 CHANGE OF MATERIAL SUBSTANCES. 

gamed by other animals, and the air be not (as in some parte 
of South America) so dry as to convert it into a mummy, the 
soft parts of the body rise in the form of certain offensive 
gases, consisting of hartshorn with phosphorus and sulphur 
dissolved in hydrogen. It is this combination which gives to 
stale eggs and decaying teeth, their intolerable fcetor, and 
which blackens silver. All these matters are capable of, and 
actually do combine with water, and of course come back to 
the earth in rain water. The bones remain, and after a 
great length of time crumble into dust. This is in fact, ani- 
mal ashes, the residuum after slow combustion, and like the 
ashes of vegetables, came originally from the earth. 

The property in earth to combine with gases, is exhibited 
in the fact that animals buried therein are no longer offensive 
to the senses. The gases evolved from them (and into which, 
except the mineral part, they are resolved.) are not im- 
prisoned, but combined with the earth. But the earth may 
become saturated, and then the gases escape, some portions 
go down with the water, rendering springs foul, and others 
rise and mixing with common air, render it unhealthy, unless 
plants are present to appropriate them. Hence the propriety 
of having grass or trees in grave-yards. A tree and a foun- 
tain are also appropriately placed in connection, the fountain 
nourishes the tree, and the tree purifies the fountain. 

During a season of unusual health, a valued connection of 
mine lost his life by a fever, contracted in overlooking a 
swampy field, long cleared, but then for the first time ploughed 
up. The coarse grasses had before been sufficient to com- 
bine with the gases which the mass of vegetable matter 
covered by it, and protected from the sun and rain, had 
afforded. But under the double influence of the destruction 
of the herbage, and the increased supply of gases consequent 
to tillage, the stirring up of the slow fire and closing the 
chimney flue, the noxious gases or malaria, as they are 
termed, being diffused in the atmosphere and respired, a fatal 
fever followed. 

These gases, when they rise from the earth, combine with 
water in whatever form they meet with it. Hence the pro- 
verbial fatality of inhaling the moist air of the night in un- 
healthy localities, especially at the period of the first dew, 
for the heat of the sun by increasing the exhalation of the 
gases from the surface, renders that more highly charged. If 



RURAL LIFE IN ENGLAND. 295 

we could suppose plants to be imitable like animals when 
they are taking their repast, one would imagine they would 
"warn us to keep out of their way, to stay within doors, pot 
to interrupt or rob them of any portion of their supper, aner 
they had borne the heat and burden of the day, and were 
thirsting for the rich dew of the evening. — From an Ad- 
dress before the State Agricultural Society, members of the 
Legislature, and of the Medical Society of the State of 
New-York, at the Capitol in Albany, 1848, by Alex. If. 
Stevens, M. D. 



RURAL LIFE IN ENGLAND. 

" Oh ! friendly to 'the best pursuits of man, 
Friendly to thought, to virtue, and to peace, 
Domestic life in rural pleasures past ! " — Cowper. 

The stranger who would form a correct opinion of the 
English character must not confine his observations to the 
metropolis. He must go forth into the country ; he must 
sojourn in villages and hamlets ; he must visit castles, villas, 
farm-houses, cottages ; he must wander through parks and 
gardens, along hedges and green lanes ; he must loiter about 
country churches ; attend wakes and fairs, and other rural 
festivals ; and cope with the people in all their conditions, 
and all their habits and humors. 

In some countries the large cities absorb the wealth and 
fashion of the nation ; they are the only fixed abodes of ele- 
gant and intelligent society, and the country is inhabited 
almost entirely by boorish peasantry. In England, on the 
contrary, the metropolis is a mere gathering-place, or general 
rendezvous, of the polite classes, where they devote a small 
portion of the year to a hurry of gaiety and dissipation, and, 
having indulged this kind of carnival, return again to the 
apparently more congenial habits of rural life. The various 
orders of society are therefore diffused over the whole surface 
of the kingdom, and the most retired neighborhoods aflbrd 
specimens of the different ranks. 

The English, in fact, are strongly gifted with the rural 
feeling. They possess a quick sensibility to the beauties of 
nature, and a keen relish for the pleasures and employments 



296 



RUBAL UFB IN ENGLAND. 



of the country. This passion seems inherent in them. Even 
the inhabitants of cities, born and brought up among brick 
walls and bustling streetB, enter with facility into rural 
habits, and evince a tact for rural occupation. The merchant 
has his snug retreat in the vicinity of the metropolis, where 
he often displays as much pride and zeal in the cultivation 
of his flower-garden, and the maturing of his fruits, as he 
does in the conduct of his business, and the success of a com- 
mercial enterprise. Even those less fortunate individuals, 
who are doomed to pass their lives in the midst of din and 
traffic, contrive to have something that shall remind them of 
the green aspect of nature. In the most dark and dingy 
quarters of the city, the drawing-room window resembles 
frequently a bank of flowers ; every spot capable of vegeta- 
tiou has its grass-plat and flower-bed ; and every square its 
mimic park, laid out with picturesque taste, and gleaming 
with refreshing verdure. 

Those who see the Englishman only in town are apt to 
form an unfavorable opinion of his social character. He is 
either absorbed in business, or distracted by the thousand en- 
gagements that dissipate time, thought and feeling, in this 
huge metropolis. He has, therefore, too commonly a look of 
hurry and abstraction. Wherever he happens to be, he is 
on the point of getting somewhere else ; at the moment he is 
talking on one subject, his mind is wandering to another ; 
and while paying a friendly visit, he is calculating how he 
shall economize time bo as to pay the other visits allotted in 
the morning. An immense metropolis, like London, is cal- 
culated to make men selfish and uninteresting. In their 
casual and transient meetings, they can but deal briefly in 
commonplaces. They present but the cold superficies of 
character — its rich and genial qualities have no time to be 
warmed into a flow. 

It is in the country that the Englishman gives scope to 
his natural feelings. He breaks loose gladly from the cold 
formalities and negative civilities of town ; throws off his 
habits of shy reserve, and becomes joyous and free-hearted. 
He manages to collect round him all the conveniences and 
elegancies of polite life, and to banish its restraints. His 
country-seat abounds with every requisite, either for studious 
retirement, tasteful gratification, or rural exercise. Books, 
paintings, music, horses, dogs, and sporting implements of all 



kinds are at hand. He puts no constraint either Upon his 
guests or himself, but in the true spirit of hospitality provides 
the means of enjoyment, and leaves every one to partake ac- 
cording to his inclination. 

The taste of the English in the cultivation of land, and 
in what is called landscape gardening, is unrivaled. They 
have studied nature intently, and discover an exquisite sense 
of her beautiful forms and harmonious combinations. Those 
charms, which in other countries she lavishes in wild soli* 
tudes, are here assembled round the haunts of domestic life. 
They seem to have caught her coy and furtive graces, and 
spread them, like witchery) about their rural abodes. 

Nothing can be more imposing than the magnificence of 
English park scenery. Vast lawns that extend like sheets of 
vivid green, with here and there clumps of gigantic trees, 
heaping up rich piles of foliage : the solemn pomp of groves 
and woodland glades, with the deer trooping in silent herds 
across them ; the hare bounding away to the covert ; or the 
pheasant> suddenly bursting upon the wing; the brook, 
taught to wind in natural meanderings, or expand into a 
glassy lake : the sequestered pool, reflecting the quivering 
trees, with the yellow leaf sleeping on its bosom) and the 
trout roaming fearlessly about its limpid waters ; while some 
rustic temple or sylvan statue, grown green and dank with 
age, gives an air of classic sanctity to the seclusion. 

These are but a few of the features of park scenery ; but 
what most delights me, is the creative talent with which 
the English decorate the unostentatious abodes of middle 
life. The rudest habitation, the most unpromising and 
scanty portion of land, in the hands of an Englishman of 
taste, becomes a little paradise. With a nicely discriminate 
ing eye, he seizes at once upon its capabilities, and pictures 
in his mind the future landscape. The sterile spot grows 
into loveliness under his hand ; and yet the operations of art 
which produce the effect are scarcely to be perceived. The 
cherishing and training of some tree ; the cautious pruning 
of others ; the nice distribution of flowers and plants of tender 
and graceful foliage; the introduction of a green slope of 
velvet turf ; the partial opening to a peep of blue distance, 
or silver gleam of water : all these are managed with a 
delicate tact, a pervading yet quiet assiduity, like the magio 
tottchinga with which a painter finishes up a favorite picture. 
13* 



29§ 1LU&AL Utt tN BttGLANfi. 

The residence of people of fortune and refinement in the 
country has diffused a degree of taste and elegance in rural 
economy, that descends to the lowest class. The very la* 
borer, with his thatched cottage and narrow slip of ground, 
attends to their embellishment; The trim hedge, the grass- 
plot before the door, the little flower-bed bordered with snug 
box, the woodbine trained against the wall, and hanging its 
blossoms about the lattice, the pot of flowers in the window, 
the holly, providentially planted about the house, to eheat 
winter of its dreariness, and to throw in a semblance of green 
summer to cheer the fireside : all these bespeak the influence 
of taste, flowing down from high sources, and pervading the 
lowest levels of the public mind. If ever Love, as poets sing, 
delights to visit a cottage, it must be the cottage of an Eng- 
lish peasant. 

The fondness for rural life among the higher classes of 
the English has had a great and salutary effect upon the na- 
tional character. I do not know a finer race of men than the 
English gentlemen. Instead of the softness and effeminacy 
which characterize the men of rank in most countries, they 
exhibit a union of elegance and strength, a robustness of 
frame and freshness of complexion, which I am inclined to 
attribute to their living so much in the open air, and pursu- 
ing so eagerly the invigorating recreations of the country. 
These hardy exercises produce also a healthful tone of mind 
and spirits, and a manliness and simplicity of manners, which 
even the follies and dissipations of the town cannot easily 
pervert, and can never entirely destroy. In the country, too, 
the different orders of society seem to approach more freely, 
to be more disposed to blend and operate favorably upon each 
other. The distinctions between them do not appear to be 
so marked and impassable as in the cities. The manner in 
which property has been distributed into small estates and 
farms has established a regular gradation from the noble* 
man, through the classes of gentry, small landed proprietors, 
and substantial farmers, down to the laboring peasantry; 
and while it has thus banded the extremes of society to- 
gether, has infused into each intermediate rank a spirit of 
independence. This, it must be confessed, is not so uni- 
versally the case at present as it was formerly ; the larger 
estates having, in late years of distress, absorbed the smaller, 
and, in some parts of the country, almost annihilated the 



RURAL LIFB IN ENGLAND. 299 

Sturdy race of small farmers. These, however, I believe, 
are but casual breaks in the general system I have men- 
tioned. 

In rural occupation there is nothing mean and debasing. 
It leads a man forth among scenes of natural grandeur and 
beauty ; it leaves him to the workings of his own mind, 
operated upon by the surest and most elevating of external 
influences. Such a man may be simple and rough, but he 
cannot be vulgar. The man of refinement, therefore, finds 
nothing revolting in an intercourse with the lower orders in 
rural life, as he does when he casually mingles with the 
lower orders of cities. He lays aside his distance and re- 
serve, and is glad to waive the distinctions of rank, and to 
enter into the honest, heartfelt enjoyments of common life. 
Indeed the very amusements of the country bring men moire 
and more together ; and the sound of hound and horn blend 
all feelings into harmony. I believe this is one great reason 
why the nobility and gentry are more popular among the 
inferior orders in England than they are in any other coun- 
try ; and why the latter have endured so many excessive 
pressures and extremities, without repining more generally at 
the unequal distribution of fortune and privilege. 

To this mingling of cultivated and rustic society may 
also be attributed the rural feeling that runs through British 
literature ; the frequent use of illustrations from rural life ; 
those incomparable descriptions of nature that abound in the 
British poets, that have continued down from " the Flower 
and the Leaf" of Chaucer, and have brought into our closets 
all the freshness and fragrance of the dewy landscape. The 
pastoral writers of other countries appear as if they had paid 
nature an occasional visit, and become acquainted with her 
general charms ; but the British poets have lived and re- 
sided with her, they have wooed her in her most secret 
haunts, they have watched her minutest caprices. A 
spray could not tremble in the breeze — a leaf could not rus- 
tle to the ground — a diamond drop could not patter in the 
stream — a fragrance could not exhale from the humble vio- 
let — nor a daisy unfold its crimson tints to the morning, but 
it has been noticed by these impassioned and delicate ob- 
servers, and wrought up into some beautiful morality. 

The effect of this devotion of elegant minds to rural 
occupations has been wonderful on the face of the coun- 



30Q RURAL LIFE IN ENGLAND. 

try. A great part of the inland is rather level, and 
would be monotonous, were it not for the charms of culture ; 
but it is studded and gemmed, as it were, with castles and 
palaces, and embroidered with parks and gardens It does 
not abound in grand and sublime prospects, but rather in lit* 
tie home scenes of rural repose and sheltered quiet. Every 
antique farm-house and moss-grown cottage is a picture : and 
as the roads are continually winding, and the view is shut in 
by groves and hedges, the eye is delighted by a continual 
succession of small landscapes of captivating loveliness. 

The great charm, however, of English scenery, is the 
moral feeling that seems to pervade it. It is associated in 
the mind with ideas of order, of quiet, of sober well-estab- 
lished principles, of hoary usage and reverend custom. Every- 
thing seems to be the growth of ages of regular and peaceful 
existence. The old church of remote architecture, with its 
low, massive portal ; its gothic tower ; its windows rich with 
tracery and painted glass, in scrupulous preservation ; its 
stately monuments of warriors and worthies of the olden time, 
ancestors of the present lords of the soil ; its tombstones, re- 
cording successive generations of sturdy yeomanry, whose 
progeny still plough the same fields, and kneel at the same 
altar — the parsonage, a quaint irregular pile, partly anti- 
quated, but repaired and altered in the tastes of various agee 
and occupants — the stile and footpath leading from the 
church-yard, across pleasant fields, and along shady hedge- 
rows, according to an immemorial right of way — the neigh- 
boring village, with its venerable cottages, its public green, 
sheltered by trees, under which the forefathers of the present 
race have sported-— the antique family mansion, standing 
apart in some little rural domain, but looking down with a 
protecting air on the surrounding scene : all these common 
features of English landscape evince a calm and settled se- 
curity, and hereditary transmission of homebred virtues and 
local attachments, that speak deeply and touchingly for the 
moral character of the nation. 

Tt is a pleasing sight of a Sunday morning, when the bell 
is sending its sober melody across the quiet fields, to behold 
the peasantry in their best finery, with ruddy faces and 
modest cheerfulness, thronging tranquilly along the green 
lanes to church ; but it is still more pleasing to see them in 
the evenings, gathering about their cottage doors, and ap- 



THE DEER'S INSTINCT. |$s| 

pearing to exult in the humble comforts and embellishment* 
which their own hands have spread around them. 

It is this sweet home-feeling, this settled repose of affec- 
tion in the domestic scene, that is, after all, the parent of the 
steadiest virtues and purest enjoyments ; and I cannot close 
these desultory remarks better, than by quoting the words of 
a modern English poet, who has depicted it with remarkable 
felicity :— 

Through each gradation, from the castled hall, 
The city dome, the villa crown'd with shade} 
But chief from modest mansions numberless, 
In town or hamlet, shelt'ring middle life, 
Down to the cottaged vale, and straw-roof d shed \ 
This western isle hath long been famed for scenes 
Where bliss domestic finds a dwelling-place ; 
Domestic bliss, that, like a harmless dove, 
(Honor and sweet endearment keeping guard,) 
Can centre in a little quiet nest 
All that desire would fly for through the earth J 
That can, the world eluding, be itself 
A world enjoy' d ; that wants no witnesses 
But its own sharers, and approving heaven J 
That, like a flower deep hid in rocky cleft, 
Smiles, though 'tis looking only at the sky. 

Washington 'Irving. 



THE DEER'S INSTINCT. 

A large deer was running at full speed, closely pursued 
by a panther. The chase had already been a long one, for, 
as they came nearer, I could perceive both their long parched 
tongues hanging out of their mouths, and their bounding! 
though powerful, was no longer so elastic as usual. The 
deer having discovered in the distance a large black bear, 
playing with her cubs, stopped a moment to snuff the air ; 
then coming nearer he made a bound, with his head extend- 
ed, to ascertain if Bruin kept her position. As the panther 
was closing with him, the deer wheeled sharp around, and 
turning back almost upon his own trail, passed within thirty 
yards of his pursuer* who, not being able at once to stop me 



|M H*B DEER'S tNsTlKCT. 

Career, gave an angry growl, and followed trie dear again, 
but at the distance of some hundred yards. Hearing the 
growl, the bear drew her body half out of the bushes, remain- 
ing quietly on the look out. Soon the deer again appeared) 
but his speed was much reduced — and as he approached to- 
wards the spot where the bear lay concealed, it was evident 
that the animal was calculating the distance with admirable 
precision. 

The panther, now expecting easily to seize his prey, fol- 
lowed about thirty yards behind, his eyes so intently fixed on 
the deer, that he did not see Bruin at all. Not so the bear. 
She was aware of the close vicinity of her wicked enemy, and 
she cleared the briars, and squared herself for action, when 
the deer, with a beautiful and powerful spring, passed clean 
over the bear's head and disappeared. At the moment he 
took the leap, the panther was just balancing himself for a 
spring, when he perceived) to his astonishment, that he was 
faced by a formidable adversary. Not the least disposed to 
fly, he crouched, lashing his flanks with his long tail, while 
the bear about five yards from him, remained like. a statue, 
looking at the panther with her fierce, glaring eyes. 

For a minute they remained thus — the panther's sides 
heaving with exertion, agitated, and apparently undecided— 
the bear perfectly calm and motionless, Gradually the pan- 
ther crawled ^backwards till at the right distance for a spring, 
when, throwing all his weight upon his hind parts, to in* 
crease his power, he darted upon the bear like lightning, and 
forced his claws into her bock. The bear, with irresistible 
force, seized the panther with her two fore paws, pressing him 
with the weight of her body, and rolling over it. I heard a 
heavy grunt, a plaintive howl, a crashing of bones, and the 
panther was dead. The cub of the bear came to ascertain 
what was going on, and after a few minutes' examination of 
the victim, it strutted down the slope of the hill, followed by 
its mother, who was apparently unhurt. I did not attempt 
to prevent their retreat, for among real hunters in the wilds 
there is a feeling which restrains them from attacking an ani- 
mal which has just undergone a deadly strife. 

This is a common practice of the deer, when chased by 
the panther — that of leading him to the haunt of the bear ; 
I have often witnessed it, although I never knew the deer to 
return as inthis instance.— From The Reformer. 



tO f HB WiLD fcftoofc. |03 

TO THE WILD BROOK. 

Unheeded emblem of the mind ! 

When weeping twilight's shadows close - , 
I wander where thy mazes wind, 

And watch thy current as it flows : 
Now dimpling, silent, calm, and even ; 
Now brawling, as in anger driven ; 
Now ruffled, foaming, madly wild ; 
Like the vex'd seqse of Sorrow's hopeless child ! 

Beside thy surface now I see, 

Reflected in thy placid breast, 
Hush'd summer's painted progeny 

In smiles and sweets redundant drest ; 
They flaunt their forms of varying dye, 
To greet thee as thou passest by ; 
And bending up thy ample Wave, 
They in its lucid lap their bosoms lave. 

While on thy tranquil breast appears 

No fretting gale, no passing storm, 
The sun-beam's vivid lustre cheers, 

And seems thy silvery bed to warm ! 
The thronging birds with am'rous play, 
Sweep with their wings thy glittering way ; 
And o'ef thy banks fond fcephyr blows, 
To dress with sweets the smallest flower that growl, 

But when destroying blasts arise, 

And clouds o'ershade thy withering bounds, 

When swift the eddying foliage flies, 
And loud the ruthless torrent sounds, 

Thy dimpling charms are seen no more, 

Thy minstrel's caroll'd praise is o'er ; 

While not a flow'ret, sunny dreBt, 

Courts the chill current of thy alter' d breast, 

Such is the human mind ! Serene 

When Fortune's gloomy hour appears ! 
And lovely, as thy margin green, 

Are buds of Hope, which Fancy rears : 



104 ?&£ wmraa walk at noon. 

Then adulation, like the flow'r, 

Bends as it greets us on our way ; 
But, in the dark and stormy hour, 

Leaves us unmark'd, to trace our troubled way.. 

Mrs. Robinson* 



THE WINTER WALK AT NOON. 

Here, unmolested, through whatever sign 
The sun proceeds, I wander. Neither mist) 
Nor freezing sky nor sultry, checking me, 
Nor stranger intermeddling with my joy. 
Ev'n in the spring and play-time of the year, 
That calls th' unwonted villager abroad 
With all her little ones, a sportive train. 
To gather king-cups in the yellow mead, 
And prink their hair with daisies, or to pick 
A cheap and wholesome salad from the brook '. 
These shades are all my own. The tim'rous hare, 
Grown so familiar with her frequent guest, 
Scarce shuns me : and the stock-dove, unalarm'd, 
Bits cooing in the pine-tree, nor suspends 
His long love-ditty for my near approach. 
Drawn from his refuge in some lonely elm 
That age or injury has hollow' d deep, 
Where, on his bed of wool and matted leaves, 
He has outslept the winter, ventures forth 
To frisk awhile, and bask in the warm sun, 
The squirrel, flippant, pert, and full of play i 
He sees me, and at once, swift as a bird, 
Ascends the neighb'ring beech ; there whisks his brush) 
And perks his ears, and stamps and scolds aloud, 
With all the prettiness of feign'd alarm, 
And anger insignificantly fierce. 

The heart is hard in Nature, and unfit 
For human fellowship, as being void 
Of sympathy, and therefore dead alike 
To love and friendship both, that is not pleas'd 
With sight of animals enjoying life, 
Nor feels their happiness augment his own. 
The bounding fawn that darts across the glade 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE. 3^ 

When none pursues, through mere delight of heart, 
And spirits buoyant with excess of glee ; 
The horse as wanton, and almost as fleet, 
That skims the spacious meadow at full speed, 
Then stops and snorts, and throwing high his heels, 
Starts to the voluntary race again — 
These, and a thousand images of bliss, 
With which kind Nature graces every scene, 
Where cruel man defeats not her design, 
Impart to the benevolent, who wish 
All that are capable of pleasure, pleas'd, 
A far superior happiness to theirs, 
The comfort of a reasonable joy. 

COWPEB. 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE. 

On what account is the cow particularly interesting ? 

Because of the importance of her products in domestic 
economy. Her milk is of great commercial value ; and it is 
so necessary as an article of food in every family that we 
could not well do without it. To the poor it may so far be- 
come a substitute for other food, that half the meat and bread 
will suffice that would be requisite without it. The butter 
made from it is both a luxury and an ordinary ingredient in 
the culinary process ; and, with many there would be the 
greatest reluctance in relinquishing the use of cheese. 

By what characteristics is milk scientifically known f 

It is well known that the milk of most animals is nearly 
white and opaque. Its specific gravity is about three per 
cent, heavier than water, having an agreeable sweetish taste, 
but a somewhat peculiar odor, especially when it is warmed. 
The milk of the cow is slightly alkaline, when newly taken 
from the animal, but in a short time, if exposed to the atmo- 
sphere, this property becomes imperceptible. 

Into what substances may milk be converted ? 

When left at rest a few hours, it separates into two por- 
tions, the lighter part rising to the surface and is called 
cream. If the entire milk, or the cream alone, be put into 
a churn and successively agitated, the temperature of the 



306 M1LK % BUTTER, AND CHEESE. 

liquid is moderately increased, the liquid becoming sour, and 
the fatty matter separates from the remainder in the form of 
butter. If a little acid, such as vinegar, diluted muriatic 
acid, or rennet, be diffused in the milk, raised to the tempera- 
ture of one hundred degrees, it immediately coagulates and 
separates into two parts, a solid and a liquid — the curd and 
the whey. 

How is the quality of milk changed by the age of the 
cow? 

Dairymen think that milk of the best quality is yielded 
by cows that have had three or four calves. Such cows will 
continue to give excellent milk till ten or twelve years of age, 
and have had eight or ten calves. Some will remain as 
profitable milkers till fifteen years old, provided their teeth do 
not become impaired. 

What effect does the season of the year have on the 
quality of the milk ? 

In the spring the milk is not only more abundant, but of 
finer quality than in other seasons. Moist and temperate 
climates are favorable to the production of milk in a large 
quantity. In hot countries and in dry seasons, the quantity 
is less, but tbe quality is richer. Cool weather favors the 
production of cheese, and also of sugar, which is a component 
of milk ; while hot weather increases the oily substance of 
which butter is to be made. 

How is the milk clianged by tJte time of milking ? 

If the cow is milked only once a day, the milk will yield 
a seventh part more butter than an equal quantity of that 
which is obtained by two milkings in a day. When the 
milk is drawn three times a day, it is more abundant, but 
less" rich. It is also universally remarked, that the morning's 
milk is of better quality than that obtained in the evening. 

How do different portions of tlie milk drawn at the 
same milking compare in quality ? 

That which is drawn off first is thin and poor, and gives 
little cream. That which is drawn last — sometimes by dairy- 
women called " strippings" — is rich in quality and yields much 
cream. Compared with the first milk, the same measure of 
the last will give at least eight times, and even more, as 
much cream. The quality of the cream also, and of the 
milk when skimmed, is much better in the latter than in the 
earlier drawn portions of the milk. 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE. $07 

How is the milk changed by the hind of food given the 
cow? 

It is familiar to every dairy farmer that the taste and 
color of his milk and cream are materially affected by the 
plants on which his cows feed, and by the food he gives them 
in the stall. The taste of the wild onion and of the turnip, 
when eaten by the cow is often. perceptible, both in the milk 
and in the butter. If madder is given to cows, the milk is 
tinged with red : if they eat saffron, it becomes yellow. Hence, 
if it is an object to increase the quantity of butter, feed cows 
with substances rich in oily matter ; and, if the milk is to be 
made into cheese, let them be fed with substances containing 
the materials for curd — as peas and beans. 

How does the milk of sheep compare with that of the cow ? 

In appearance they are much alike ; but the milk of the 
ewe is generally more dense, and yields a pale yellow butter, 
which is soft, and soon becomes rancid. The curd is sepa- 
rated from this milk with greater difficulty than from the milk 
of the cow. 

How does the milk of the goat compare with that of the 
cow? 

It is richer in butter and sugar ; is considered to be very 
wholesome ; and is often recommended to invalids. The 
butter is white and hard, and keeps long fresh. Yet the 
milk of the goat generally possesses a characteristic unpleasant 
odor and taste, which is said to be less palpable in animals 
of white color, or that are destitute of horns. 

How does the milk of the ass compare with that of the 
cow? 

The milk of the ass has less of butter or cheese in it, than 
that of the cow, goat, or ewe ; but, in sugar is more rich than 
that of either of them, ranking next in this respect to the 
milk of the human species. On account of such peculiarity, 
it is often recommended to invalids, as a light and easily di- 
gested drink. The little butter that can be made from it, is 
white, and soon becomes rancid ; and, from the large amount 
of sugar in it, the process of fermentation soon begins. 

What is there in the form of a cow to show that she 
will be good for milk ? 

Mr. Youatt says the milk cow should have a long and 
thin head, with a brisk but placid eye ; should be thin and 
hollow in the neck, narrow in the breast and point of the 



30$ milk, Puttee, and cheese. 

shoulder, and altogether light in the fore quarter ; but wide 
in the loins, with little dewlap, and neither too full fleshed 
along the chine, nor showing in any part an inclination to 
put on much fat. The udder should especially be large, 
round, and full, with the milk veins protruding, yet thin, 
skinned, but not hanging loose or tending far behind. The 
teats should also Btand square, all pointing out at equal dis- 
tances, and of the same size, though neither very large nor 
thick towards the udder, yet long and tapering towards a 
point. 

How should the size of the cow be regarded in reference 
to her value for milk ? 

The smaller breeds of cattle yield, as is to be expected, a 
smaller daily produce of milk, though from the same weight 
of food, they occasionally give even a greater volume of milk 
than the larger breeds. Simply, therefore, for the profit of 
the milk after deducting the cost of keeping, a large cow is 
not always to be chosen in preference of one of moderate size. 
The profits of a cow depend on other characteristics, rather 
than her size. 

How much milk ought a farmer to expect from his cows ? 

It is impossible to fix on any number of quarts that a 
cow should yield at any specified time, or for the year ; for it 
will cost fifty per cent, more to keep some cows than others. 
No cow, however, deserves to be kept for milk or dairy pur- 
poses, unless she yields milk in the year, double the value, at 
wholesale prices, or upon the premises, that will pay the cost 
of feeding her ; for instance, if it cost twenty-five dollars to 
keep a cow for the year, and milk is worth two cents per 
quart, she ought at least to yield twenty-five hundred quarts, 
which is only ten quarts per day on an average, for two hun- 
dred and fifty days. Prime cows, if well fed, will do far 
more than this. 

What is the early history of butter ? 

Beekman, in his history of inventions, comes to the con- 
clusion that batter is not of Grecian or Roman origin ; but, 
that the Greeks received it from the Scythians, Thracians, 
and Phrygians, and the Romans derived it from the people 
of Germany, and used it as a medicine rather than as a culi- 
nary luxury. The ancients appear to have been wholly de- 
ficient in the art of giving it consistency. The word chameah, 
translated butter, in the English version of the Bible, means 
some liquid preparation of milk or cream. 



MBiK, BUTTER, AND CHBB8JC. 809 

In what places is butter mostly used for culinary pur- 
poses? 

The European countries, in which oil and butter is used, 
says Malte Brun, may be separated by a line extending 
along the Pyrenees, the Ce vermes, the Alps, and Mount 
Hsmus. Accordingly in warm countries, the place of but- 
ter, for the most part, is supplied by oil. In Italy, Spain, 
Portugal, and the south of France, butter is to be purchased 
in the shops of apothecaries. Here the olive-groves super- 
sede the use of butter by that of oil. 

How do the Hindoos prepare butter ? 

They make use of what they call ghee, which means 
butter clarified by boiling. They boil the milk two or three 
hours, which, when cool, is fermented with curdled milk, left 
to sour, churned, and when it is sufficiently rancid, is boiled 
with salt, or bgtel-leaf and neddle, to improve its taste and color. 

How does cream differ from milk ? 

Milk is a kind of "natural emulsion, in which the fatty 
matter exists in the state of very minute globules, suspended 
in a solution of casein and sugar. Cream is a similar emul- 
sion, differing from milk chiefly in containing a greater num- 
ber of oily globules, and a much smaller portion of water. In 
milk and cream these globules appear to be surrounded with 
a thin white shell or covering, probably of casein, by which 
they are prevented from running into one another, and col- 
lected into larger oily drops. 

By what means is the fatty matter in these globules, of 
which butter is made, separated from the other substances 
with which it is united 1 

When the cream is heated for a length of time, these 
globules, by their lightness, rise to the surface, press nearer to 
each other, break through their coverings, and unite in a film 
of melted fat. In like manner, when milk and cream are 
strongly agitated by any mechanical means, the temperature 
is found to rise, the covering of the globules are broken or 
separated, and the fatty matter unites into small grains, and 
finally into lumps, which form our ordinary butter. 

What is said of the butter obtained by heating the 
cream? 

The cream is to be heated nearly to boiling, and kept 
some time at that temperature, the butter will then gradual- 
ly rise to the surface, where it may be collected in the form 



310 MILK, BtJTTBR, AND CHEESE . 

of oil. On its being cooled, this oil becomes solid. In this 
way the fatty substance of the milk is procured in a purer 
state than by churning. It may hence be kept for a long 
period without salt, and without becoming rancid, but it has 
neither the agreeable flavor, nor the consistence of churned 
butter. It is scarcely known in our climate as an article of food. 

How is butter prepared by the Russians ? 

They take common churned butter and melt it, and then 
pour off the transparent liquid which floats upon the surface. 
This is the only form in which sweet butter is known in many 
parts of Russia. In warm weather it has the consistence of 
thick oil, is used instead of oil for many culinary purposes, 
and is denoted by the same Russian word as other oils. 

When butter is to be procured by churning, how is the 
cream prepared ? 

It is usually allowed to become sour ; and it ought to be 
at least one day old, and if the weather is cool it may be kept 
several days. If well freed from milk, it should be frequent- 
ly stirred to keep it from curdling. If new sweet cream be 
put into the churn, more time and labor is required for the 
operation of churning ; for, usually even then, the cream be- 
comes sour from the agitation, before the butter is distinctly 
formed. 

For what length of time should cream be churned ? 

The common idea is, that the quicker the butter is pro- 
duced the better. Accordingly, so many efforts have been 
made in getting up patent churns, giving the cream a rapid 
agitation, and thus constantly keeping every part of it in con- 
tact with the atmosphere, so as to produce butter in ten or 
fifteen minutes. It is, however, pretty well ascertained, that 
the quicker the butter is produced, the paler, softer, and less 
rich it will be. 

What is said of churning the milk and cream together ? 

Butter in many places, particularly in Scotland and Ire- 
land, is thus prepared ; but this is by far a more laborious 
process, from the difficulty of keeping in motion such a quan- 
tity of fluid. It is said, however, to have the advantage of 
giving a larger amount of butter. There can be no objec- 
tion therefore to it, provided the skimmed milk is not wanted, 
and especially provided some other than human power is ap- 
plied to the process of churning. 

How long should the operation of churning continue ? 



MILK, BUTTER AND CHEESE. 3H 

It is said that cream maybe safely churned from an hour 
to an hour and a half, while milk should be churned double 
that time. The agitation of the milk or cream should be 
regular, slower in warm weather, that the butter may not be 
soft and white, and quicker in winter, that the temperature 
may be kept up. It is not desirable that butter be produced 
in less than three quarters of an hour. 

What are the best chums for general use ? 

The old-fashioned upright barrel churns, to be operated 
by hand, for a single cow, or a very small number, will not 
probably be wholly superseded. The horizontal churns, or 
upright ones, operated with a crank by hand, are evidently a 
very considerable improvement on the other ; but for a large 
number of cows, whether the entire milk or the cream only is 
churned, what is called the dog power applied to the churn 
is an important saving of manual labor. 

What other improvement has been made in churning ? 

There has recently been invented by F. G. Simpson of 
New Jersey, a churn to be operated by machinery with a 
weight applied, similar to the running of a clock. Nothing 
is required but to put the milk or cream into the churn, and 
then wind up the machinery, when the moderate and uniform 
agitation of the liquid is begun and continued till butter is 
produced, without the aid of any other power. Thus far this 
invention works well ; and if no difficulty hereafter arises in 
its use, it will be generally adopted wherever the labor here- 
tofore required in churning has been found a great burden. 

What quantity of butter is annually made in the Uni- 
ted States? 

It is impossible to tell. There are no data from which 
anything like an accurate estimate can be formed. It might 
be supposed, that, on an average, each individual will con- 
sume twenty-five pounds in the year. If so, with our pres- 
ent population, the entire consumption will be annually over 
five hundred millions of pounds, the value of which cannot 
be far less than one hundred millions of dollars. And if each 
cow makes one hundred and fifty pounds, more than three mil- 
lions of cows are required to furnish a supply. This shows 
the importance of this branch of rural economy. 

How is butter kept from becoming rancid ? 

It should, in the first place, be well washed and worked 
in cold water, so as to be entirely relieved from the curd 



Ilf BDT7CATU FABNSBfi. 

and witery substances with which it was combined. Then 
it should be sufficiently salted, and packed in a clean vessel, 
from which the action of the atmosphere is wholly excluded. 
A little sugar well worked into the butter, by some, is thought 
to improve its flavor. 

What is the process of making cheese ? 

The common mode of separating the curd from the whey 
in milk is by the application of rennet, which is the stomach 
of young calves having been prepared for the purpose. Any 
acid combined with the milk will cause coagulation ; but 
rennet is preferable. When the curd is collected, the whey 
being sufficiently excluded, it is made as solid as possible by 
the application of a powerful press. 

On what does the quality of cheese depend ? 

It is obvious that whatever gives rise to natural differ- 
ences in the quality of the milk must affect also that of the 
cheese prepared from it. If the milk be poor in butter, so 
must the cheese be. If the pasture be such as to give a 
milk rich in cream, the cheese will partake of the same qual- 
ity. If the herbage or other food affect the taste of the milk 
or cream, it will also modify the flavor of the cheese. Hence 
the great difference in the price of different qualities of 
cheese. 

How may the profits of cheese-making be estimated ? 

It takes from four to six quarts of milk, according to its 
quality, to make a pound of curd. Some cows are known 
to have yielded milk for four hundred weight of cheese in 
the year ; but the average amount falls much below this. If 
cheese-making is to be rendered profitable, a first-rate arti- 
cle should be produced, which will always find a ready market 
and command a high price. Besides a good article improves 
in value for years, whereas a poor one from age becomes 
worthless. 



EDUCATED FARMERS. 

Why is it the fact — and a fact it is — that many of the 
best and most successful farmers in our country are those, 
who, bred to other pursuits, and toiled in them to middle 
age— and many far beyond it — till from inclination, or ne- 



EDUCATED FARMERS. 313 

cessity, they have embraced agriculture as an occupation, 
with a determination to succeed ? It is because investiga- 
tion has been the habit of their lives. They do nothing 
without a good and satisfactory reason for doing it. They 
bend every faculty of the mind to acquire success in this, as 
they did in their previous pursuits ; and the application of 
the same intelligence upon the farm that had there been ex- 
erted, produced the same results, although their early educa- 
tion and subsequent labors had kept them in profound 
ignorance of the simplest rules of practical agriculture. The 
most gratifying success has been thus accomplished, while 
he, who has from childhood tilled his paternal acres in ob- 
stinate and persevering ignorance of the true principles oX 
his art, although scorning in the pride of his own fancied 
superiority, the more timid efforts of his thoughtful neighbor, 
delves on through life, a wretched and unsuccessful farmer, 
and in time leaves the world no better, so far as his own 
labors were concerned, than he found it ; and is finally buried 
beneath a soil over which he plodded for three score years, 
and never knew a single part of its composition ! 

This, though perhaps an extreme, and certainly not a 
flattering picture, is still a type of agricultural life, in its 
way, existing in every one of our United States. In what 
profession throughout the length and breadth of our land is 
there so little progress — nay, such determined opposition to 
progress, as in the ranks of agriculture ? I would not as- 
sert that numerous eminent examples of improvement have 
not existed among those of purely agricultural occupation. 
But they are rare as compared with men of other pursuits 
when applied with all their research and intelligence to ag- 
riculture alone. 

And it may well be inquired, why is this so ? Agriculture 
occupies four-fifths of the laboring population of the land. 
From the agricultural ranks have sprung many of the most 
illustrious names whose services have adorned and honored 
their country. From its ranks, too, have perhaps a majority 
of the most successful among those engaged in the various 
other pursuits and occupations of life arisen. In short, there 
can be no class of our population which affords so sure a 
basis on which to rely for an infusion into all other pursuits 
to the durable prosperity of a state as the agricultural. Such 
is the gratifying truth ; and it is to the health-giving influ- 
14 



314 EDUCATED FARMERS. ■ 

ences of the soil itself; the free wild air of heaven that he 
breathes ; cheerful exercise and occupation ; contentment ; 
and the full, unrestrained enjoyment of man's first estate 
bestowed by God himself, that thus constitutes in him who 
tills the soil, the full development of his faculties in all the 
admirable proportions of body and of mind that his Creator 
intended. 

Notwithstanding all this, the question still recurs, and 
may be variously answered. The very ease and content- 
ment of condition in the farmer, is one probable cause of his 
inactivity in improvement. The quietude of his avocations 
prevents that constant attrition of mind inseparable from the 
bustling activity of most other pursuits ; and the certainty 
with which the soil yields its annual tribute to his labor, 
dispels that spirit of investigation common to classes the re- 
sult of whose labors is contingent or uncertain. Nor yet is 
the farmer an ignorant, or a slothful man. In the great re- 
sponsibilities of life — in domestic duty— in love of country — 
in the orderly support of the institutions of the land — in stern 
watchfulness over the acts of those he has placed in au- 
thority, and in that exalted patriotism which is ever ready 
for the heaviest sacrifice to the benefit of his race, he, as a 
olass, stands without a rival. And yet, possessed of all these 
qualities, and enjoying all these advantages, the absence of 
the spirit of association, leaves him in effect the least bene- 
fited at the hands of those he elects to govern him, of all 
others. 

Who invents, improves, and perfects the plough, and all 
the nameless implements which alleviate his toil and ac- 
celerate his labor ? Who analyzes his soils, instructs him in 
their various qualities, and teaches him how to mix and 
manure them for the most profitable cultivation ? The me- 
chanic — the chemist. Who* ascertaining that his seeds are 
^imperfect and unprofitable, searches foreign lands for new or 
better ones, and introduces them to his notice ? The com- 
mercial adventurer, or the travelled man of inquiry and ob- 
servation. Who, on comparing the inferior domestic animals 
which he propagates, and in whose growth and fattening he 
loses half his toil and the food they consume, sends abroad, 
regardless of expense, and introduces the best breeds of 
horses, cattle, sheep and swine for his benefit ? In nine 
oases out of ten these labors and benefactions — and their 



EDUCATED FARMERS. 31 5 

name is legion — are performed by those whose occupations 
have been chiefly in other channels, and whose agricultural 
tastes have led them into the spirit of improving it. And in 
how many examples have we witnessed the apathy, if not 
determined opposition with which the farmer proper— or at 
least he who claimed to. be one — has set his face like flint 
against their adoption, even after their superiority had been 
demonstrated beyond a question ! 

So, too, with the farmer's education. They have been 
content that the resources and the bounty of the state should 
be lavished upon the higher seats of learning, where the 
more aspiring of our youth should receive their benefits, not 
caring even to inquire whether such youth should again re- 
turn among them to reflect back the knowledge thus acquired. 
They have failed to demand from the common treasure of 
the state those necessary institutions which shall promote 
their own particular calling, and which every other pursuit 
and profession in the land has beerynost active to accomplish. 
In all this the latter have progressed with railway speed ; 
while the farming interest has stood still with folded arms, 
and done comparatively nothing ; and what good has been 
forced upon it by others, even regarded with suspicion. It 
is not because we as farmers, compared with others, are 
either ignorant or stupid. We only neglect to assert our 
rights, and appropriate the share to which we are entitled in 
the common patronage of the state to the benefit of our own 
professions. It is for us to ask — to will — to do it. We hold 
the power of the state by our numbers. We can control the 
halls of legislation. We can so direct the laws that we may 
share equal advantages in our institutions with others. We 
desire nothing exclusively to our own advantage, but we do 
deserve an equal participation in those institutions established 
for the common benefit of all. # 

These remarks are not made in a querulous or fault-find- 
ing temper. It is right that we have colleges and academies 
for the few who aspire to the higher walks of professional or 
scientific life, as well as common schools for the million. No 
state can be well, or wisely constituted without them, and I 
would not abate one jot or tittle from the wholesome sup- 
port which a broad and liberal system of education demands. 
But we should claim, and insist, that departments devoted 
to agricultural teaching, or to the development of agricultural 



316 EDUCATED FAHMERS, 

science, should be established, either as branches of our seats 
of learning, or as independent institutions. Why should not 
the farmer be educated to the top of his faculties, as well as 
those who select what are termed the learned professions as 
their pursuit ? If our sons cannot be taught the education 
they seek in the colleges — and there are well grounded doubts 
of this fact from the moral malaria too often existing within 
and around them— institutions for their sole education should 
be aided, or erected, and endowed by the Btate. 

We are a growing people ; not in population alone, but 
in wealth, and in resources. Our whole country is com- 
paratively new, and wealth is accumulated with us as with 
no other people of which history gives an example. I speak 
of substantial, enduring wealth ; that which adds to the 
enjoyment, the happiness, and the truly elevated condition 
of man. Of all this wealth and prosperity, agriculture is 
the basis — the indispensable support. Yet, in defiance of 
this reiterated truth, as an occupation, agriculture of itself, 
is degraded. Let politicians, or demagogues chant their 
paens to the tillers of the soil as they may, and tell them of 
the honor, and the dignity of their estate ; yet, practically, 
simple farming is considered by those who assume to give 
tone and opinion in social and political life, an inferior oc- 
cupation, fit only for dull, unthinking, and uneducated men. 

Were it not so, why are the agricultural ranks so con- 
tinually deserted by our active and aspiring youth for the 
more worldly popular pursuits, under the belief that they are 
more advantageous ? Look at our great, bustling cities, and 
towns. See on all sides our professions crowded to excess ; 
with, among the masses Which throng' them, but a compara- 
tively few who are successful either in fame or fortune. 
View our merchants, and shopkeepers, overrun and under- 
mined in competition with one another; and clerks, and 
shopboys, plentier and cheaper on their hands than the wares 
they hold on sale ; and all the motley congregations which 
are drawn about them* by the spirit of adventure and of 
novelty ; while the petty political offices of the day are held 
up like lottery tickets, to an unscrupulous and indiscriminate 
scramble ; — all for the possession of a fancied prize in the 
great raffling match of adventure ; while the shop of the 
mechanic, or the artizari, which holds out a safe and durable 
reward to honorable labor, is hard pressed to find appren- 



EDUCATED FARMERS. 3 17 

tices ; and the broad, inviting acres of the farmer, are lying 
sterile or unproductive, for lack of cultivation. 

Among the benefits arising from well directed agricul- 
tural education, aside from spreading the requisite learning 
and intelligence applicable to the chief pursuit of our people, 
deep and broad among them, the retention of that portion of 
active capital, acquired by the industry of our agricultural 
population, among themselves, would be one important con- 
sequence. In place of the prevailing and mistaken notion 
that monied capital invested in agriculture is either unpro- 
ductive, or less so than in other pursuits, our farmers would 
be taught that, coupled with, the knowledge to direct it, no 
branch of our national industry is so steadily remunerating 
as that connected with the soil — a fact now practically dis- 
believed ; or why would such amounts of monied capital be 
continually drawn from the agricultural districts to your 
commercial cities, to be embarked in hazardous enterprises, 
or doubtful investments ? 

The merchant or the speculator may fail — and fail he 
does, very often^-and in his downfall are often buried the 
toils of a long life of patient industry. But who ever knew 
a good farmer, of prudent habits, to fail ? Nay, who did 
not, with an exemption from extraordinary ills in life, ulti- 
mately grow rich, and discharge meantime, all the duties of 
a. good citizen ? I concede to you the many prominent cases 
which exist, of wealth rapidly accumulated by bold and suc- 
cessful speculation ; of fortunate, perhaps accidental adven- 
ture ; of hoards heaped up by a long course of perseverance 
in trade, directed by that intuitive sagacity of which but few 
among us are endowed, and which so dazzlingly invite 
our imitation. Yet these are but a few glaring instances, 
standing out in bold relief among the many who have sunk 
in the same career, perhaps with a ruined peace ; happy 
afterwards to retire, were it in their power, upon the limited 
possession which they had thrown away, to commence their 
wasting strife upon the broad sea of adventure. 

A second advantage would be, that it would invite, an- 
nually, a large class of educated men of capital from our 
cities, to invest a portion of their wealth in our farms, con- 
vinced by the knowledge acquired in a course of agricultural 
education, that husbandry was a good business, and intend- 
ing to pursue it as the occupation of their lives, it would 



318 EDUCATED FARMERS. 

cause a reflux of that capital and population which had been 
drawn away from agriculture. Nor would such associations 
among us detract from the industrious habits of our farmers 
by their example. They, by the possession of larger estates 
than we enjoy, might give more of their time to leisure than 
we are accustomed to spend ; but they must, if good farmers, 
attend to the daily routine of their affairs, as well as we. 
They would diffuse intelligence among us ; introduce im- 
proved implements, seeds, and stock ; and in time, surely 
exalt the character of our husbandry. They might not, 
indeed, work at the muck heap, nor guide the plough 
with their own hands ; but they must be capable, from edu- 
cation, to direct the labor of both ; for we must not forget 
that the merchant who, from his luxurious counting room, 
plans his voyages, and directs the course of his ships ; or the 
engineer who projects the rail-way, or the ocean steamer, 
once performed the duties of a shop boy, or hammered at the 
anvil. And thus with the farmer : he should be capable of 
directing the cultivation of the soil to its greatest possible 
extent of production ; and he will find that, in achieving 
such result, all the powers of his mind, and the knowledge 
with which it is stored, will be required. 

This thought will bear a little examination. The farmer 
is apt to think that the professional man, or the merchant, 
lives an easy and luxurious life. In many instances their 
families may do so ; but with the eminent and successful 
man of law, or science — the artizan, or merchant himself, 
such supposition is a great mistake. There are not, under 
heaven, a more laborious class of men than these. Labor of 
body, and of mind is theirs — and that incessant. See them 
early, late ; in season, and out of season — their whole ener- 
gies devoted to their several callings, without rest, or inter- 
mission — and far too frequently, to the premature wasting of 
life itself. It is no wonder that such industry, directed by 
good education, (and by this term I mean the entire training 
of the boy to manhood in its most extended sense,) and stimu- 
lated by a laudable ambition, should lead to success. Yet 
with all these appliances, the labors of such men are often 
disastrous ; and if not so, after a life of anxiety, their toils 
too frequently end with but the means of a slender support. 
Compared with these, the toils of the farmer are light. 
Physical labor he endures, it is true, and oftentimes severe 



EDUCATED FARMERS. 31 

labor, but his mind is easy. He enjoys sound rest, and high 
health. He has much leisure ; in many cases more than is 
for his good. He has abundant time to discuss politics, law, 
religion — everything, in fact, but what relates to his own 
profession, on which subject, I lament to say, his mind seems 
less. exercised than on almost any other. 

Now, let the same early education be given to the young 
farmer of an equally acute intellect that is given to him who 
chooses professional, mechanical, or mercantile pursuits — 
education each in his own line. Let them start fair. Ap- 
ply the same thought, investigation, energy, and toil, each in 
his particular sphere, and beyond all question agriculture 
will, in the aggregate, have the advantage — and for this 
reason, if no other : there are few contingencies connected 
with agriculture. Its basis is the solid earth, stamped with 
the Divine promise, that while it remains, seed-time and 
harvest shall continue ; while commerce, and trade ; me- 
chanics, and arts are liable to extraordinary and continual 
accident. Look at the devastations by flood, and fire — of 
ship, and cargo, upon ocean, lake, and sea, and river ; con- 
flagrations in your towns and cities ; and the thousand other 
casualties which almost Aaily occur — all which are a dead 
sink upon labor and capital not agricultural, and the risks of 
the husbandman are scarce one to ten, in the comparison. 
Rely upon it, farmers, you are on the safe side. 

But, I hear some one remark, "Why, if agriculture, 
through the improved education proposed, holds out such al- 
luring advantages, all our young men will rush into it, and 
competition will destroy it." Not the slightest danger. Our 
young men are already running into the other trades and 
professions, where competition is ruinous ; and all we ask, is 
the opportunity to get a share of them back again. Besides, 
there is no fear that the other avenues of industry will not 
be filled ; for, in the constitution of our natures, there will 
always be enough unquiet spirits born into the world which 
the farm cannot hold, to keep the bustling part of it in 
motion. 

Another, and a prominent advantage which we should 
receive from good agricultural education, would be, that of 
more stability of character in our farming population. It is 
proverbial among travelled foreigners in this country, and it 
would be a subject of wonder among our staid people at 



320 EDUCATED FARMERS. 

home— if an American could wonder at any thing — that we 
are the most changing people in the world. We, as a popu- 
lation, have few, scarce any, local attachments. This, to an 
extent, is a true, although a severe censure. It arises, no 
doubt — and naturally enough, too— from the wide extent of 
national domain of which we* are the possessors, and from 
the natural sterility of much of the soil in our older com- 
munities, which cause an effort, and a laudable one, too, to 
better their condition in our rural population. But more, I 
imagine, from the low standard of agricultural improvement, 
and a mistaken estimate of the value of the soil, and its ap- 
plication to the products which properly belong to it. 

But, no matter what the cause. The fact is so, and it is 
a defect in our national character. How many among us 
but will, with a slightly tempting offer, sell his homestead 
without remorse — break up the cherished association of 
his life — turn his hack upon the graves of his kindred, 
and his children — his birth-spot — the old hearth-stone of 
his boyhood — his family altar, even the brave old trees, 
which have, life-long, waved their branches over his 
childish sports, and shadowed his innocent slumbers when 
weary of his play, all — all, pass out of his hands, like a play- 
thing of yesterday, unwept and unregretted, for the fancied 
advantage of a fresh spot in a strange and a newer land. 

I must, however, in justice, make some exceptions to this 
general propensity in American character. There are some 
among the descendants of the early New England Puritans, 
and the ancient Dutch settlers of this state, who have, with 
a pious regard to the memories of their ancestors, and a wise 
attachment to the spots of their birth, retained, and through 
the influences of a correct education, and well settled prin- 
ciple, bid fair to retain, the paternal acres which they have 
inherited — homes of plenty, contentment, and genuine hos- 
pitality ; where retired virtues, like those practised by their 
fathers, have long hallowed them with a local habitation 
and a name. Such, stand out as strong landmarks in the 
fitful changes of place and name throughout our country, 
and redeem, to some extent, the caustic remark of the late 
John Randolph, of Roanoke, who once declared, on the floor 
of Congress, that he scarce knew an American but would 
sell his very dog for money ! 

We are not slow in finding out when we are well off, 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OP FARMING. 321 

although ail are not satisfied under such condition ; but with 
these advantages around and among us, of which we feel 
the daily benefit, and of which, by removal, we should for- 
ever be deprived, their tendency would be to fix us more 
firmly to our homes, and lead ue to examine the resources 
within our reach, which otherwise might never have been 
developed. Associations of an elevated character are among 
the most powerful in thus keeping us content ; and institu- 
tions in which the farmer has a direct interest, would, more 
than almost any other, allay this tendency to change. Our 
resources, and our productive power, are thus retained, far 
beyond what can be acquired by the continued restlessness 
common to us. Such influences would certainly be most 
wholesome. — From Address before the New-York State 
Agricultural Society, delivered at Albany, by Lewis F. 
Allen, Esq., of Black Rock. 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF FARMING. 

The bearing of agriculture upon the future prosperity 
and destiny of our free country, must be apparent to every 
reflecting mind. The farmers comprise a very large major- 
ity of the population of this country — its bone and sinew. 
Their suffrages decide the character of our rulers — as a gene- 
ral rule, it may with safety be affirmed, that the higher the im- 
provements in agriculture, the more intelligent and well in- 
formed will be the character of those who direct them — and 
the more likely to maintain unsullied those principles which 
actuated our worthy forefathers, and secured through their 
agency the blessings of that free government and those liberal 
institutions we are permitted to enjoy. 

If then you would perpetuate the blessed institutions 
which are so highly prized and so richly enjoyed, if you 
would transmit them to your posterity unimpaired, do all in 
your power to enlighten and elevate the farmer, to encourage 
his calling — cherish it as the most important — for in it you 
have the palladium of freedom, and while the agriculturist 
continues enlighted, intelligent and virtuous, your liberties 
will be secure. In whatever aspect then we view agriculture 
— whether as necessary to provide for our wants, or as suited 

14* 



322 THEORY AND PRACTICE OF FARMIlfG. 

to the development of our physical and mental resources, or 
in its influence upon our moral, social, and political relations, 
it presents itself, as entitled to our highest regard, and claims 
our most cordial support. How important, then, that we 
should he prepared rightly to improve in every respect this 
most noble employment. 

In all the pursuits of life, practical knowledge is abso- 
lutely essential to perfection. It is quite a different thing to 
understand principles and to work them out ; and he who is 
a good theoretical agriculturist, may be a very bad practical 
farmer. The two kinds of knowledge, theoretical and prac- 
tical, require to a certain extent, somewhat of a different or- 
der of mind ; but the excellent practical farmer can under- 
stand the principles on which his practice is founded, with 
very great advantage to his practical efforts. A knowledge 
of the principles of Agriculture, though not absolutely indis- 
pensable to the cultivation of the land, cannot fail of being in 
the highest degree useful. A purely practical farmer repeats 
certain acts, and necessarily follows the plans handed down 
to him by his forefathers ; he tills his land at a certain sea- 
son ; he sows his seed, fallows his land, rotates his crops, uses 
manures in the same manner as his father or grandfather ; 
and provided he remains on the same farm and soil, he suc- 
ceeds to the same extent. 

If you ask him why he does certain things, he answers 
that he had seen his father do so ; but he can assign no bet- 
ter reason. Transport this excellent practical man to an- 
other locality, let him be plaeed on a different soil, and watch 
the result. Suppose, for example, such a man removes from 
a farm, the soil of which is a strong loam or clay, to one cov- 
ered with a thin layer of sandy light soil, and not being ac- 
quainted with tlie difference of working such a soil, he may 
perchance, instead of looking around him, and observing what 
treatment is used by his neighbors, at once go on in his beaten 
track. Such a practice would inevitably destroy the fertility 
of his new farm. He would experience bitter disappoint- 
ment, and have to recommence his education. 

Here, it will be perceived, the purely practical man 
would be at fault ; he would feel that mere practice, although 
excellent as regards one locality, will entirely fail in another ; 
so that the necessity for some general principles will be forced 
on his mind. Hence the utility of such principles, and the 



THEORY AND PRACTICE OF FARMING. 323 

necessity of such an education as will enable the farmer to 
comprehend and embrace principles, as well as mere prac- 
tice, may be considered as demonstrated. A small portion 
however, of the principles which* illustrate agriculture will 
answer the purpose of the practical farmer, and enable him to 
improve the processes he at present employs for the cultiva- 
tion of the soil. 

We need not cross the Atlantic to find evidence of the ad- 
vantages resulting from a right application of practical skill 
and science to the advancement of agriculture. Some of the 
once fertile portions of our own State have been exhausted by 
bad husbandry, and have been abandoned — while others, ste- 
rile by nature, have been made fruitful and have become 
among our most productive and valuable lands. It is one of 
the beneficial results of agricultural associations, that im- 
provements of this description have through them been fos- 
tered and encouraged. An impulse in many instances has 
been given which will not soon be forgotten. 

The pursuit which most of you have chosen is a noble 
one. The father of our country, the immortal Washington, 
has left behind him an imperishable monument of his views 
on this pursuit, in his agricultural correspondence, — a work 
which should be in every farmer's dwelling, and which will 
be read around the fireside of the American farmer, with his 
farewell address to his countrymen, to the latest period of 
time. Most ^of the eminent men who succeeded him in the 
Presidential chair, have as they retired from the cares of the 
office, entered upon agricultural pursuits — and some of them 
still live to cheer on the farmer, by their precept and example 
in his noble pursuit. 

The late Governor of our state, whose sudden and unex- 
pected death has cast a gloom over our nation, and whose 
talents were respected every where, whatever diversity of 
opinion there was as to his views on political questions, had 
retired from the cares of office, to the cultivation of his farm ; 
and I have the means of knowing, that in the active pur- 
suits of the farmer, he enjoyed more satisfaction, than when 
clothed with the highest honors of the State, or when occu- 
pying a seat in one of the most distinguished bodies the world 
has ever known, the Senate of the United States. 

Another distinguished statesman, still living to bless and 
adorn his country and the world by his superior talents, a 



324 TOE BOY AND TEE RAINBOW. 

few yean since, when occupying a very important station, 
said, that the real luxury of life to him, was, when released 
from the duties and cares of office, and the toils of a most la- 
borious profession, he was permitted to enjoy the sweet re- 
treat at Marshfield, superintending his farm and attending to 
his herds, and enjoying for a season only those delights and 
blessings which may, and should ever cluster around the home 
of every American farmer. — Hon. B. P. Johnson, Albany. 



THE BOY AND THE RAINBOW. 

Declare, ye sages, if ye find 
: Mongst animals of every kind, 
Of each condition, sort and size, 
From whales and elephants to flies, 
A creature that mistakes his plan, 
And errs so constantly as man ? 
Each kind pursues his proper good, 
And seeks for pleasure, rest, and food, 
As Nature points, and never errs 
In what he chooses and prefers ; 
Man only blunders, though possest 
Of talents, far above the rest. 

The happiness of human kind 
Consists in rectitude of mind, 
A will subdued to Reason's sway, 
And passions practis'd to obey ; 
An open and a generous heart 
Refin'd from selfishness and art ; 
Patience, which mocks at Fortune's pow'r, 
And Wisdom, never sad nor sour. 
In these consists our proper bliss 
Else Plato reasons much amiss. 
But foolish mortals still pursue 
False happiness in place of true : 
Ambition serves us for a guide, 
Or lust, or avarice, or pride ; 
While reason no assent can gain, 
And Revelation warns in vain. 
Hence, thro' our lives, in ev'ry stage 
From infancy itself to age, 



THE BOY AND THE RAINBOW. 815 

A happiness we toil to find, 
Which still avoids us like the wind ; 
Ev'n when we think the prize our own, 
At once 'tis vanish' d, lost, and gone. 
You'll ask me why I thus rehearse 
All Epictetus in my verse, 
And if I fondly hope to please 
With dry reflections such as these, 
So trite, so hackney'd, and so stale ? — 
I'll take the hint, and tell a tale. 

One ev'ning, as a simple swain 
His flock attended on the plain, 
The shining how he chanced to spy 
That warns us when a show'r is nigh : 
With brightest rays it seem'd to glow, 
In distance eighty yards or so. 
This bumpkin had, it seems, been told 
The story of the cup of gold, 
Which Fame reports is to be found 
Just when the rainbow meets the ground ; 
He therefore felt a sudden itch 
To seize the goblet and be rich ! 
Hoping (yet hopes are oft but vain) 
No more to toil thro' wind and rain, 
But sit indulgent by the fire, 
'Midst ease and plenty, like a squire. 
He mark'd the very spot of land 
On which the rainbow seem'd to stand, 
And stepping forwards at his leisure, 
Expected to have found the treasure. 
But as he mov'd, the color' d ray 
Still chang'd his place, and slipt away, 
As seeming his approach to shun ; 
From walking he began to run, 
But all in vain, it still withdrew 
As nimbly as he could pursue. 
At last thro' many a bog and lake, 
Rough craggy rock, and thorny brake, 
It led the easy fool, till night 
Approach'd, then vanish' d in his sight, 
And left him to compute his gains, 
With nought but labor for his pains. 

Wilkoe. 



326 THE BENEFITS OP AGRICULTURE. 

THE BENEFITS OF AGRICULTURE . 

Agriculture is the greatest among the arts, for it is first in 
supplying our necessities. It is the mother and nurse of all 
other arts. It favors and strengthens population ; it creates 
and maintains manufactures ; gives employment, to naviga- 
tion, and materials to commerce. It animates every species 
of industry, and opens to nations the surest channels of opu- 
lence. It is also the strongest bond of well-regulated society, 
the surest basis of internal peace, the natural associate of good 
morals. 

We ought to count among the benefits of Agriculture the 
charm which the practice of it communicates to a country 
life. That charm which has made the country, in our own view 
the retreat of the hero, the asylum of the sage, and the temple 
of the historic muse. The Btrong desire, the longing after the 
country with which we find the bulk of mankind to be pene- 
trated, points to it as the chosen abode of sublunary bliss. 
The sweet occupations of culture, with her varied products 
and attendant enjoyments are, at least, a relief from the sti- 
fling atmosphere of the city, the monotony of undivided em- 
ployments, the anxious uncertainty of commerce, the vexa- 
tions of ambition so often disappointed, of self-love so often 
mortified, of factitious pleasures and unsubstantial vanities. 

Health, the first and best of all the blessings of life, is pre- 
served and fortified by the practice of agriculture. That 
state of well-being which we feel and cannot define ; that 
self-satisfied disposition which depends, perhaps, on the per- 
fect equilibrium and easy play of the vital forces, turns the 
slightest acts to pleasure, and makes every exertion of our 
faculties a source of enjoyment ; this inestimable state of our 
bodily functions is most vigorous in the country, and if lost 
elsewhere, it is in the country we expect to recover it. 

The very theatre of agricultural avocations, gives them a 
value that is peculiar : for who can contemplate, without 
emotion, the magnificent spectacle of nature when, arrayed in 
vernal hues, she renews the scenery of the world ! All things 
revive at her powerful voice ; the meadow resumes its fresh- 
ness and verdure ; a living sap circulates through every bud- 
ding tree ; flowers spring to meet the warm caresses of Ze- 
phyr, and from their opening petals pour forth rich perfume. 
The songsters of the forest once more awake, and in tones of 



WINTER AT COPENHAGEN. 327 

melody again salute the coming dawn ; and again they de- 
liver to the evening echo their strains of tenderness and hymns 
of love. Can man — rational, sensitive man— can he remain 
unmoved hy the surrounding presence ! and where else than 
in the country can he hehold, where else can he feel this jubi- 
lee of nature, this universal joy ? 

Ennobled, indeed, must be the profession, whose proper 
abode is amidst the finest scenes' of creation, and under the im- 
mediate influence of the celestial phenomena. The agricul- 
turist stands in connexion with the agencies of the universe. 
The refreshing dews, the enriching rains, the winds, the snows, 
the frosts, all contribute to the results he prosecutes. When 
the sun shines, it is to ripen his harvests ; when the clouds 
collect, it is to water his pastures ; and if, from time to time, 
destructive meteors excite his fears, or disappoint his expecta- 
tion, they also recall him to a sense of his dependence on Heav- 
en, and they give an increased value to what they spare. He 
is reminded every moment that all the occupations, all the 
labors of agriculture tend to the good of society. The hands 
he puts in motion, the poor he preserves from idleness, the 
products of the earth which he multiplies, are all so many 
benefits which he confers on his country and his kind. He 
naturally becomes a better man in a vocation which is com- 
posed of useful actions. And what better guarantee is there 
of happiness, here or hereafter, than the daily practice of good 
works ! — Mac Neven. 



WINTER AT COPENHAGEN. 

From frozen climes and endless tracts of snow, 
From streams which northern winds forbid to flow ; 
What present shall the muse to Dorset bring, 
Or, how, so near the pole, attempt to sing ? 
The hoary winter here conceals from sight 
All pleasing objects which to verse invite. 
The hills and dales, and the delightful woods. 
The flowery plains, and silver- streaming floods, 
By snow disguis'd, in bright confusion lie, 
And with one dazzling waste fatigue the eye. 

No gentle breathing breeze prepares the spring, 
No birds within the desert region sing. 



ttg WINTER AT COPENHAGEN. 

The ships, unmov'd, the boisterous winds defy, 
While rattling chariots o'er the ocean fly, 
The vast Leviathan wants room to play, 
And spouts his waters in the face of day. 
The starving wolves along the main sea prowl, 
And to the moon in icy valleys howL 
O'er many a shining league the level main 
Here spreads itself into a glassy plain : 
There solid billows of enormous size, 
Alps of green ice, in wild disorder rise. 

And yet, but lately have I seen, ev'n here, 
The winter in a lovely dress appear. 
Ere yet the clouds let fall the treasur'd snow, 
Or winds began thro' hazy skies to blow ; 
At evening a keen eastern breeze arose, 
And the descending rain unsullied froze. 
Soon as the silent shades of night withdrew, 
The ruddy morn disclos'd at once to view, 
The face of Nature in a rich disguise, 
And brighten'd every object to my eyes. 
For every shrub, and every blade of grass, 
And every pointed thorn seem'd wrought in glass ; 
In pearls and rubies rich the hawthorns show, 
While through the ice the crimson berries glow. 
The thick sprung reeds, which watery marshes yield, 
Seem'd polished lances in a hostile field, 
The stag, in limpid currents, with surprise, 
Sees crystal branches on his forehead rise : 
The spreading oak, the beech, the towering pine, 
Glaz'd over, in the freezing ether shine. 
The frighted birds the rattling branches shun, 
Which wave and glitter in the distant sun. 

When, if a sudden gust of wind arise, 
The brittle forest into atoms flies ; 
The crackling wood beneath the tempest bends, 
And in a spangled shower the prospect ends : 
Or, if a southern gale the region warm, 
And by degrees unbind the wintry charm, 
The traveller a miry country sees, 
And journeys sad beneath the dropping trees. 
Like some deluded peasant, Merlin leads 
Thro' fragrant bowers and thro' delicious meads, 



THE HEART'S CHARITY. 

While here enchanted gardens to him rise, 
And airy fabrics there attract his eyes, 
His wandering feet the magic paths pursue, 
And, while he thinks the fair illusion true, 
The trackless scenes disperse in fluid air, 
And woods, and wilds, and thorny ways appear, 
A tedious road the weary wretch returns, 
And, as he goes, the transient vision mourns. 

Phillips. 

THE HEART'S CHARITY. 

A rich man walked abroad one day, 

And a poor man walked the selfsame way, 

When a pale and starving face came by, 

With a pallid lip and a hopeless eye. 

And that starving face presumed to stand, 

And ask for bread from the rich man's hand ; 

But the rich man sullenly looked askance, 

With a gathering frown and doubtful glance. 

" I have nothing," said he, "to give to you, 

Nor any such rogue of a canting crew ; 

Get work, Get work ! I know full well 

The whining lies that beggars can tell." 

And he fastened his pocket and on he went, 

With his soul untouched and his conscience content. 

Now this great owner of golden store 

Had built a church not long before, 

As noble a fane as man could raise. 

And the world had given him thanks and praise, 

And all who beheld it lavished fame 

On his Christian gift and godly name. 

The poor man passed, and the white lips dared 
To ask him if a mite could be spared ; 
The poor man gazed on the beggar's oheek, 
And saw what the white lips could not speak. 
He stood for a moment, but not to pause 
On the truth of the tale, or the parish laws. 
He was seeking, to give— though it was small, 
For a penny, a single penny was all ; 
But he gave it with a kindly word, 



330 Tin3 HEART'S CHARITY. 

While the warmest pulse in his breast was stirred ; 
'Twas a tiny seed his Charity shed, 
But the white lips got a taste of bread, 
The beggar's blessing hallowed the crust 
That came like a spring in the desert dust. 

The rich man and the poor man died, 

As all of us must, and they were tried 

At the sacred Judgment seat above, 

For their thoughts of evil and deeds of love. 

The balance of Justice there was true, 

And fairly bestowed what fairly was due, 

And the two fresh comers through Heaven's gate, 

Stood there to learn their eternal fate. 

The recording angel told of things 

That fitted them both with kindred wings ; 

But as they stood in the crystal light, 

The plumes of the rich man grew less bright, 

The angels knew by the shadowy sign, 

That the poor man's work had been most divine ; 

And they brought the unerring scales to see 

What the rich man's falling off could be. 

Full many deeds did the angels weigh, 

But the balance kept an even sway ; 

And at last the church endowment laid 

With its thousands promised and thousands paid, 

With the thanks of prelates by its side, 

In the stately words of pious pride, 

And it weighed so much that the angels stood 

To see how the poor man could balance such good. 

A cherub came and took his place 

By the empty scale with radiant grace, 

And he dropped the penny that had fed 

White starving lips with a crust of bread. 

The church endowment went up with the beam, 

And the whisper of the Great Supreme, 

As he beckoned the poor man to his throne, 

Was heard in this immortal tone — 

" Blessed are they who from great gain 

Give thousands with a reasoning brain, 

But better still shall be their part 

Who give one coin with a pitying heart." 

Eliza Cook. 



HISTORY OF THE HORSE. 331 

HISTORY OF THE HORSE. 

What is the early history of the horse? 

In his original state he was undoubtedly wild, but of the 
time of his domestication we have no knowledge. Arabia 
is generally considered his native country, but we know that 
he did not flourish there until after the birth of Mahomet, in 
571 A. D. 

What are some of the earliest records of the horse in the 
Bible? 

The first time he is there mentioned is in the forty-seventh 
chapter of Genesis, where Joseph, during the seven years of 
famine, received horses in payment for corn. Before the 
time of Solomon, horses were not as common among the 
Hebrews as afterwards. Before his time, they were not 
mentioned in the armies of Israel; and the kings were 
cautioned against multiplying them. The judges and princes 
of that country generally rode on mules or asses. Solomon 
is the first king who had many, and he was accustomed to 
obtain them from Egypt. 

In what estimation was the horse held among eastern 
nations in those early times ? 

It is well known that the sun was worshipped all over 
the East, and the horse was consecrated to this deity, who 
was represented as riding in a chariot drawn by the most 
beautiful and swiftest horses in the world, and performing 
every day his journey from the east to west, to enlighten 
mankind. Zenophon describes a solemn sacrifice of horses 
to the sun ; all being of the finest breed, and were led with 
a white chariot, crowned, and consecrated to the same god. 
King Josiah is said to have removed from the temple the 
horses which his predecessors had consecrated — probably 
with a view thus to sacrifice them. The Jewish Rabbins 
tell us, that these horses were every morning harnessed to 
the chariots dedicated to the sun, and that the king, or some 
of his officers, got up and rode to meet the sun at his rising, 
as far as from the eastern gate of the temple to the suburbs 
of Jerusalem. 

What is said of wild horses ? 

They are found in various countries, and it is impossible 
to ascertain whether those on the eastern hemisphere belong 
to the original stock, or are descended from such animals a? 



33) HI8T0EY OF THE HORSE. 

have escaped from servitude. Those on the western plains 
of our own continent are derived from the animals brought 
over by the Spaniards. Wild horses associate in large droves, 
as well with a regard for their mutual protection, as from an 
attachment to each other. They are not naturally ferocious, 
and are, indeed, timid, although gay and high spirited. They 
are seldom known to make an attack, but when attacked by 
other animals, they either disdain their enemies, or trample 
them to death. Sentinels are stationed on the elevated 
grounds, while the remainder of the herd are feeding on the 
plains below, and as soon as any impending danger is 
discovered, they all seek safety in flight. Indians capture 
many of these wild horses by means of the lasso. 

What is said of the value of the horse ? 

The horse is known to most nations as the most useful 
and manageable of those animals that live under the sway 
of man. In gracefulness of form, and dignity of carriage, 
he is superior to almost every other quadruped ; he is lively 
and high spirited, yet gentle and tractable ; keen and ardent 
in his exertions, yet njm and persevering. The horse is 
qualified for all the various purposes in which man has 
employed him ; he works steadily and patiently in the loaded 
wagon, or at the plough ; becomes as much excited as his 
master on the race course, and appears to rejoice in the chase. 

For what other purposes is the horse valuable? 

From the milk of the mare the Calmucs and other 
Tartars prepare a spirituous drink of considerable strength. 
And besides the valuable services of the horse when alive, 
after death his skin is used for a variety of purposes, and the 
hair of the mane and tail is used for chair bottoms and 
mattresses. His flesh, although rejected by civilised nations, 
is eaten by several rude tribes. 

Have climate and soil any influence upon horses ? 

Nearly every country possesses a breed of horses peculiar 
to itself, occasioned by the difference in soil and climate. In 
wild regions, the animal is small, compactly built, and having 
a very hardy constitution ; where the forage is scant, he has 
a light frame, with a rapid gait, so that he can travel easily 
in search of food ; while in a more favorable situation, he 
combines speed and power of endurance, with beauty of form 
and elegance of action. The diminutive Shetland pony, 
when transported to England, in the course of a few genera- 



flttTOBY OF TBS BOftftS. ftgj 

tion*, loses this peculiarity of form, and approaches the native 
horse in bulk and general characteristics. The noble Arabian 
degenerates in England, and the English dray horse, noted 
for its heavy limbs, if carried to Arabia, acquires, in time, 
the symmetry, grace, and speed of the native. 

In what country was the breeding of horses first prac- 
ticed? 

In Egypt, which became distinguished for their number 
and excellence. Joseph, when he carried his father's corpse 
into Canaan, was accompanied by horses and chariots, and 
we are told that the hand of the Lord was upon all the cattle 
of the Egyptians, and that the horses and chariots of Pharaoh 
were overwhelmed in the Bed Sea. 

How many horses is Solomon said to have had? 

On marrying a daughter of Pharaoh, he procured horses 
from Egypt, and they multiplied so exceedingly that he 
afterwards had four hundred stables, forty thousand horses, 
and twelve thousand horsemen. 

What is the character of the Arabian horse ? 

For the combined excellencies of symmetry of form, 
beauty of action, speed, power of endurance, intelligence, 
docility, and attachment to its master, this horse has long 
maintained an unrivalled superiority. It is bred with the 
greatest care, and the Arabs believe that the breed originated 
with the steed of King Solomon, and exhibit the pedigrees 
of some mares reaching back near two thousand years. The 
poor Arab regards his horse with the greatest affection, feeds 
it from his own hand, and makes it an inmate of his own 
single tent. Arabian stallions have been brought from Arabia 
at different periods, and have given rise to all the improved 
breeds of Turkey, Persia, Barbary, Europe and America. 

How is the Barb> or the Barbary horse, esteemed? 

He is inferior to the pure-blooded Arabian alone, from 
which he has derived his good qualities. The Barbary horse 
was introduced into Spain by the Moors, and it appears he 
has given character to the horses of that country and Italy. 
He is highly esteemed, and has been frequently taken to 
England and America. 

Where has ilie breeding of the horse been most successful? 

In England. At the time of the invasion of Julius 
Caesar, he was much pleased with the appearance of the 
horses used by the Britons in their war chariots. He carried 



934 HISTORY 0* THB HORBB. 

some of them to Rome, where they were at once received 
into favor. The spirit of improvement upon this excellent 
native breed commenced at an early date. The first foreign 
stock introduced were German race horses and Spanish 
stallions. In 1121, the Arabian was introduced. By the 
judicious intermixture of the best foreign blood, the horse 
has apparently been brought to perfection in England. Some 
of the animals bred there, have surpassed in speed and en- 
durance even the Arabian on his own soil. Flying Childers, 
a celebrated racer in the last century, could clear the space 
of eighty-two and a half feet in a second. 

What are tlve kinds of horses bred in England? 

The English do not seem to have what the Americans 
designate as " a horse of all work ;" but on the contrary, breed 
the animal with especial reference to the kind of labor he will 
be called upon to perform. They have the racer, the hun- 
ter, the roadster, the carriage-horse, the pony, the dray-hone, 
and the farm-horse, intended for sporting, travel, and useful 
labor. Of the kinds most esteemed in agriculture, are the 
Suffolk Punch, which is large and serviceable — the Cleave- 
land Bay, of good frame and possessing great strength — and 
the Clydesdale, which is a favorite in the northern counties, 
and throughout the whole of Scotland. 

When was the Iwrse introduced into America ? 

At the time of its discovery by the Spaniards. The horse 
was regarded with great terror by the simple minded natives, 
and they even thought the rider a part of the animal. Their 
fear of the Spanish cavalry contributed in no slight degree to 
the ease of the early conquests. Some of these horses escaped, 
and laid the foundation of the immense droves which range 
through the wild region of both North and South America. 

What is said of the Narraganset Pacers ? 

They were spirited animals, noted for speed and endur- 
ance, being common many years ago in Rhode Island. Tra- 
dition has ascribed their origin to an Arabian stallion, that 
escaped from a wreck, and associated with some mares that 
were allowed to roam in the woods. These Pacers were 
highly esteemed in the West Indies, whither they were shipped 
in large numbers. At the present day, they appear to be 
almost, if not quite extinct. 

W/iat is the history of the Barb Ranger ? 

Barb Hanger exercised so important an influence upon 



HISTORY OF THE HORSE. 335 

the stock of this country, that his history ia well worthy of 
remembrance. Not long before the Revolutionary War 
broke out, a beautiful white Barb was presented by the Em- 
peror of Morocco to the commander of an English frigate. 
On the way home, the frigate stopped at a port, where the 
horse was taken ashore, and turned into a lumber-yard for 
exercise. In his gambols, he climbed a pile of boards, fell 
and got three legs broken. He was thought to be useless, 
and was presented to the captain of a New England vessel, 
then lying at anchor in the same harbor. This captain 
carried the horse to the ship, and placed him in slings, by 
which treatment he eventually recovered. He was taken to 
Pomfret, Conn., where he remained several years. During 
the war, the attention of Captain Lee, who commanded a 
famous troop of cavalry, was drawn to some eastern horses in 
his troop, and he sent a Captain Lindsey to make inquiry as to 
their origin. Lindsey purchased Ranger at a high price, and 
carried him to Virginia. In his new quarters he gained a 
high reputation, and was generally known as Lindsey 's 
Arabian. 

Have other Arabians been brought to the country ? 

Several have been, and although they were considered 
very superior animals, yet their introduction has not been 
followed by such decided benefit as in the case of Ranger. 
Breeders appear to think that further improvement in our 
stock will be due to England, to which country we are 
already indebted for much of our success. 

Have many English horses been brought to this country ? 

They are almost without number, and many were of a 
high character. It would be difficult to mention even their 
names. Messenger, who was imported in the latter part of 
the last century, seems however, to merit a short notice. He 
stood for several years in the northern states, and obtained a 
distinguished reputation. His progeny are very widely spread, 
and are every where esteemed as roadsters. 

What was the origin of the Morgan horse ? 

The Morgan horses are highly valued, particularly in 
Vermont. They originated from a two-year old colt which 
Mr. Justin Morgan, of Randolph, in that State, procured 
from Massachusetts in the year 1795. This colt is said to 
have obtained some of his good qualities from an English 
stallion, that was afterwards carried back to his native coun- 



£4* HHTOAY Of THE H0RM5. 

try. The Morgan hones are of medium size, strong, vary 
h&rdy, spirited, easily kept, docile, and excellent for the road. 

What is said of the Norman horse ? 

It is a cross of the Spanish and Flemish hones. It is re- 
markable for vigor of constitution, spirit, strength, and ex- 
cellence in harness. Several of this breed have been intro- 
duced into this country, and they appear to be well adapted 
to the use of farmers. 

Is the horse superior to all other animals in individual, 
physical, and moral attributes ? 

He is not. In sagacity he falls far short of the ponderous 
and drowsy elephant ; in muscular development and grace 
of limb, he does not surpass the stag ; in ardor and constancy 
of devotion, he can scarcely be said to equal his friendly com- 
panion and rival of his master's affections, the faithful dog ; 
and his courage fails him at sight of a " lion in the way ;" 
while, in the humbler qualities of patience and availability 
to the very last, even to the hair and the hoof, that unambi- 
tious drudge, the ox, may well assert his pretensions to com- 
parison, if not to superiority. 

Why then is the horse such an universal favorite with 
man? 

It is the admirable combination of the several qualities, 
which, taken simply, serve to confer distinction on other 
quadrupeds, that united in the horse, fit him for employments 
so various ; giving him pre-eminence alike in the wagon or 
the plough— the coach or the battle-field. 

What beautiful description does Job give of the horse ? 

Hast thou given the horse strength ? 

Hast thou clothed his neck with thunder ? 

Hast thou taught him to bound like the locust ? 

How terrible is the sound of his nostrils ! 

He paweth in the valley ; he exulteth in his strength, 

And rusheth into the midst of arms. 

He laugheth at fear ; he trembleth not, 

And turneth not his back from the sword. 

Against him rattleth the quiver, 

The glittering spear, and the lance. 

With rage and fury he devoureth the ground ; 

He standeth not still, when the trumpet soundeth. 

How is it known that the horse existed before th^ flood ? 

The researches of geologists prove it. There is not a por- 



surro&Y of the horse. 937 

tkra of Europe, nor scarcely any part of the globe, from the 
tropical plains of India, to the frozen regions of Siberia — 
from the extreme northern^) the extreme southern limits of 
America, in which the fossil remains of the horse have not 
been found mingled with the bones of the hippopotamus, the 
elephant, the rhinoceros, the bear, the tiger, the deer, and 
various other animals, some of which, like the mastodon, 
have passed away. 

What pecuniary profit have some of the most noted 
horses of England and this country brought to their owners ? 

The stud horse, King Herod, in nineteen years, earned 
more than a million of dollars. Marsk, won in matches up- 
wards of eighty thousand dollars. Shark, beside a cup of 
the value of one hundred and twenty guineas, and eleven 
hogsheads of claret, won the vast amount of seventy-seven 
thousand dollars. Highflyer, won and received about fifty 
thousand dollars, in matches. 

At what high prices have horses occasionally been sold ? 

Eclipse, at an advanced age, sold for the sum of ten 
thousand dollars ; and at the age of twenty-seven years,' he 
was in vigorous health, receiving in Kentucky, where he was 
kept, one hundred dollars for each of his colts. And one of 
the progeny of Eclipse, by Lady Lightfbot, was sold to a 
gentleman of Pennsylvania for ten thousand dollars. Others 
have sold at prices incredibly great to persons not skilled in 
the points that render the animal peculiarly valuable. 

At what speed will the best American horses trot ? 

The cases are not unfrequent where they will trot from 
fifteen to seventeen miles an bour. A roan mare at Provi- 
dence, R. I., called Yankee Sal, was reported to have trotted 
fifteen miles and a half in 48 minutes and 43 seconds. Lady 
Kate, a bay mare, trotted on the Canton Course, near Balti- 
more, sixteen miles in 56 minutes and 13 seconds. Mount 
Holly, on the Hunting Park Course, Penn., in 1636, trot- 
ted seventeen miles in 53 minutes and 18 seconds. In 1839, 
Tom Thumb, an American horse, was driven in England 
sixteen and a half miles in 56 minutes and 45 seconds. In 
1833, Paul Pry, on the Union Course, L. I., won the match, 
performing eighteen miles in 58 minutes and 52 seconds. 
Numerous cases might be named of about the same speed. 

What cases are on record of horses trotting long distan- 
ces with extraordinary rapidity ? 

In 1831, Chancellor, on the Hunting Park Course, 
15 



339 HISTORY OP THE HOR8B. 

Pa., ridden by a boy, performed thirty-two miles in one hour, 
fifty-eight minutes, and thirty-one seconds, and to save the 
bet, trotted the last mile in three ounutes and seven seconds. 
In the same year, Whalebone, went the same distance in 
one hour, fifty-eight minutes, and five seconds. He com- 
menced the match with a light sulky, which broke down on 
the fourteenth mile, and was replaced by one much heavier. 
In 1835, Black Joke was driven in match, on the Course at 
Providence, It. I., fifty miles in three hours and fifty-Be ven 
seconds. In 1837, Mischief, a grey mare, in harness, per- 
formed about eighty-four miles and a half in eight hours and 
thirty minutes. And in 1829, Tom Thumb, on Sunbury 
Common, England, performed one hundred miles in eight 
hours and a half. 

What account is given of the horse, Tom Thumb ? 

Tom Thumb was an American' horse, brought from be- 
yond Missouri, and is reported to have been an Indian pony, 
caught wild and tamed. Others allowing him to have been 
thus domesticated, think him not to have been the full blood 
wild horse of the western prairies, but to have some cross of 
higher and purer blood. He was fourteen and a half hands 
high, of remarkable hardihood, and at the time of the above 
feat, was eleven years old. The whole time allowed for re- 
freshments, during his great performance, amounted to but 
thirty-seven minutes. He did his work with great ease ; and, 
at eleven miles the hour, seemed to be' only playing, while 
other horses accompanying him labored hard. 

What is said of the rearing of horses as a source of pe~ 
cuniary advantage ? 

That it is an important department in rural economy, no 
one will deny. This is apparent from the great number of 
horses in our country, from the amount of capital invested in 
the animal, and from the fact that a family in the country 
cannot do without him, unless it be with the greatest incon- 
venience. The profit depends much on the goodness of the 
breeds, and the cheapness of feed where it is done. Near 
markets, where feed of every kind is at a high price, and es- 
pecially if the animals be of inferior grade, the business would 
evidently be attended with loss. Fanners will always find 
that raising a poor horse will cost more than he is worth. 
But, remote from such markets, with superior animals, it is 
otherwise. There is not a more interesting spectacle, than 



*fHE GREAT iNTEkESTS O* THE COtJNTSY. gft 

to see on a farm, from fifty to an hundred, of all ages, from 
sucking colts upwards, of the best breeds of the animal ; and 
it cannot be doubted, that where seen, the proprietor annu- 
ally receives a handsome income, in addition to the pleasure 
experienced. 

What are the evils of running and trotting horses on 
public courses ? 

It leads to the congregating of large numbers of persons— 
not a few of them idle and perhaps dissolute, and' most of 
them neglecting needful labor and occupation ; and in such 
a concourse, it is almost a matter of course there will be dis- 
sipation and gambling. The worst feature in the practice 
is, that many young men of doubtful tendency in morals and 
attention to useful occupation, will here receive an unfavora- 
ble bias, that in the end will fix their ruin. No other con- 
clusion can be drawn. Nothing) seemingly, but a miracle 
can prevent such a result. 

How is it supposed tftat these evils are overbalanced, or 
that the practice in question can be justified ? 

Moralists would say that the evils cannot be overbalanced ; 
but it must be admitted, that the practice in question is con- 
nected with the improvements made in the breeding and 
rearing of horses. Had the practice never existed, no one 
can doubt that we should now be unable to find, in our coun- 
try, those points of decided excellence prevalent in almost 
every section of it. Moreover, there may be persons engaged 
in the business of rearing horses for the race and trotting 
course, governed by motives as honorable and pure, as per- 
tain to other departments of rural enterprise and advancement. 



THE GREAT INTERESTS OF THE COUNTRY. 

It is readily granted that an increase of domestic manu- 
factures, to keep pace with the growth of the country, is good 
policy. Where there are many persons employed in manu- 
factures, the fruits of the husbandman's labors will find a 
ready market and a higher price. But here may be an ex- 
cess. If, instead of cultivating the earth, still greater num- 
bers devote their labors to manufactures, the products of agri- 
culture will not be sufficient for the wants and comforts of the 
people, and the advanced price of necessary articles of living 



f40 *** 6IBAT IHTSRBflTS OF THE OCHSHTBt. 

will prore oppressive to thoie who are obliged to purchase 
them. The manufacturer may be well able to give the 
higher price, because hi* profits are greater. But those in 
other classes of society, and mechanics of other professions are 
burdened, without means to support or remedy the evil. 

While, then, due protection is afforded by government to 
commerce and navigation, and also to domestic manufactures, 
the interests of agriculture should not be depressed nor neg- 
lected ; -and why should not the latter be favored by the gen- 
eral government, as well as the two former ? That our coun- 
try is susceptible of immense advances in agriculture, of very 
great progress, both in the quantity and kind of products from 
the soil, no one can doubt. And it is believed that Congress 
is constitutionally competent to aid and encourage agricultural 
pursuits as well as manufactures ; " having power to promote 
the general welfare and the progress of the useful arts." Agri- 
culture is truly an art or science as much as manufactures, 
and discoveries and improvements may be made in the for- 
mer equally with inventions in mechanics. Agriculture has 
generally been admitted to be the most necessary of all occu- 
pations or pursuits. It is, indeed, essential to the comfort and 
welfare of mankind. The three great departments or branches 
of human labor are agriculture, manufactures, and com- 
merce ; but agriculture has the priority. As men become 
civilised, the two last are important, and will be encouraged 
as society becomes improved. What is ornamental and ^con- 
venient, will be added to what is necessary. 

A great and chief employment should be agriculture. It 
is favorable to health, and morals, and to republican liberty. 
And where one man or woman is now thus employed, there 
had better be ten. Where one bushel of wheat is now raised, 
there might and ought to be ten. We had better raise grain 
for exporting than cloths. The increase of agriculture will 
not prove detrimental to commerce ; nor, indeed, necessarily, 
to manufactures. But is it not worthy of inquiry, whether 
less investment in manufacturing establishments, and fewer 
hands employed in them, and more in agriculture, would not 
be for the permanent prosperity of the nation, and much more 
favorable to morals, and therefore, to the peace and stability 
of our republic ? Let manufactures be supported, and even 
extended, as the country increases in population ; but let them 
not be considered the highest object, or worthy of the greatest 
anxiety to 09 enlarged. 



THB GREAT INTERESTS OF THE COUNTRY, $4g 

The soil of a great part of the United States is favorable 
to agricultural pursuits, and great improvements may yet be 
made in the manner of cultivation, and the product to be raised. 
Most parts, even of the New England states, might be made 
to produce double and treble their present amount and value. 
Some states might easily increase their products sevenfold. 
And we need not fear a surplusage. Europe will afford a 
market. England and France, some years, may stand in 
need often times the amount which we now usually* export. 

Great Britain is as much indebted for her prosperity and 
wealth to agriculture, as to her commerce and manufactures, 
and the government there has long given protection to the 
interests of agriculture. We do not wish to have the agricul- 
tural interests predominate, certainly not to be cherished to 
the injury or diminution of manufactures and navigation. 
But the farming interests seem not to have the high estima- 
tion and comparative value which they deserve in such a 
country as this. These interests have been too much neg- 
lected by the government ; and the attention of public spir- 
ited men is therefore invoked to the subject. If the federal 
government cannot agree to afford aid, or in what particular 
way to give it, let it furnish funds to each state for the pur- 
pose, and leave it with the legislatures of the several states 
to appropriate it in such a manner as shall be considered 
most useful to the whole people. We advocate not the pol- 
icy of cramping commerce or manufactures ; we plead only 
for a share of attention to agriculture, corresponding to its 
vast importance and essential value. 

Has proper encouragement been given to the interests of 
agriculture by either the general or state governments ? Is 
agriculture cherished as the support, and the permanent sup- 
port, of commerce ? And is it not essential to the prosperity 
of commerce, that agriculture be extended and improved in 
the United States, if our immense population, and it is con- 
stantly and rapidly increasing, cannot subsist, or cannot have 
all their wants supplied, but by a proportionably large com- 
merce. The products of other climes, to a vast amount, are 
annually consumed or sought for among us. And how are 
these to be procured, except by means of commerce and navi- 
gation ; and by the transportation of the surplus products of 
our country in exchange ? 

The exports of cotton from some of the southern states 



J4t THE GREAT CVTBSB8T9 OF THE COUNTRY. 

are to a great amount, and some other states expert tobacco 
and rice ; but the middle and western states can only raise 
grain for exportation,— or, that is their principal dependence 
for it. And where they now raise one hundred bushels, they 
might raise two or five hundred. There should be encour- 
agement for such a purpose, as well for the benefit of the mer- 
chant who exports, as of the farmer himself who grows it. 
Before the revolution, fish, and naval stores, and tobacco, 
were the great surplus staples of which our exports consisted. 
Now it is cotton and grain ; and the latter will probably be 
of superior amount, unless there is some unexpected change 
in the state of Europe, or a mistaken indifference of the im- 
portance of agriculture should prevail in the country. 

It would certainly be a most mistaken and unfortunate 
policy, to compel the citizens of the United States to with- 
draw from the ocean, and become exclusively an agricultural 
people. Commerce is indispensable to our growth and power 
as a nation. In this age of the world, a people situated as 
those of the United States are, would be little accounted of or 
respected, who were without commerce. And it is, there- 
fore, worthy of deep consideration, even with the friends of 
commerce, whether, if agriculture is not encouraged and car- 
ried to a more prosperous state, the interests of foreign trade 
and navigation will not speedily and extensively suffer. 

It cannot be said that manufactures are as favorable to the 
interests of navigation as agriculture. Their extension is un- 
doubtedly for the general interest of the country ; but they 
are not to be cherished for the sake of any direct or peculiar 
advantage to the mercantile portion of the nation. For 
many generations, we shall have little of manufactures to send 
to distant countries. Our population is increasing as already 
remarked, and will need all the goods and articles we can 
manufacture, unless agricultural pursuits are unusually neg- 
lected. It is true, that we export cotton goods and shoes, 
but they are all wanted in the country, and there is still a 
great importation, especially of the former. All trade with 
foreign nations will not, indeed, be at an end, for we cannot 
manufacture many articles so cheap as they can be imported 
from old countries, where they are made with ease and per- 
fection. 

But generally speaking, as manufactures increase among 
us, our navigation will be curtailed, except when the labors 



i 



i 



THB GREAT INTERESTS OF THE COUNTRY. 343 

of out mechanics shall so far exceed those of other nations, 
that the articles here made shall be far superior to those of a 
similar kind in other countries. But the tendency of agricul- 
ture is different, and its surplus products will never be an 
evil, for they may always be conveyed with some profit to 
other regions of the globe. Unless the government' should be 
unfriendly to commerce, and should adopt the narrow policy 
of preventing all intercourse with other nations, the enterpris- 
ing spirit of the people will lead them to engage in trade to 
other countries, as their ancestors have done, and the abund- 
ance of our agricultural products will constitute their chief 
motive for it, as well as their profits from it. 

If the subject is correctly considered, and with liberal and 
patriotic views, there will be no jealousy in the merchants 
towards the husbandman, but his success and prosperity will 
he just cause of satisfaction. For not only will the prosperous 
farmer furnish articles for transportation to other countries, 
hut will consume a much greater amount of the articles im- 
ported in exchange from foreign parts, where they are more 
naturally or more easily produced. Thus, it will be per- 
ceived, that each helps the other ; and, in no aspect is either 
one adverse to the other. They are both essential to the 
growth and permanent well-being of the country. 

There is another consideration, which should lead us to 
appreciate more highly than we do, at present, the advantages 
of agriculture, and that is, to induce a greater portion of the 
rising generation to give their attention and labors to that im- 
portant department of national wealth and prosperity. It is 
believed there is less fondness for cultivating the soil than 
there should be in such a country as ours ; far less than wpuld 
conduce necessarily to a general supply and competence. As 
sincere patriots, we must desire to witness an increase of far- 
mers, either great or small, with five hundred acres or fifty ; 
for these are the citizens who are truly attached to the wel- 
fare of the country, and who are too independent to be bribed 
or influenced by the hollow-hearted demagogue. 

And as friends to commerce as well as to agriculture, we 
should like to see a less number crowding into shops, and 
engaging in mere traffic for a subsistence. To be either 
respectable or successful, there must be a due proportion of 
people concerned in merchandise and navigation. Espe- 
cially is it necessary, to be an honorable and prosperous mer- 



|44 ™ PRODUCER AND THE OOlfStTMSR. 

chant, to hare experience and knowledge of the course of 
trade in other countries. And yet many seek to become 
merchants, that they may suddenly acquire wealth, whoso 
only claim to the honorable distinction is, that they are extrav- 
agant and injudicious speculators. A good merchant must 
have enterprise, but he must also have prudence and expe- 
rience, or his enterprise will only be another name for reck* 
lessness and folly. 

It is precisely because we desire to see our merchants 
honorable and respectable, as they have usually been, and 
the concerns of foreign commerce in the hands of upright 
and intelligent men, that we intimate a wish that the pro- 
fession may not be crowded by persons eager only for wealth, 
and destitute of the education and probity proper for so ele- 
vated a rank in society. And all the present generation 
need to be admonished, of the pernicious results of that reck- 
less spirit for speculation which now prevails in this country, 
beyond that of all others ; and which aims to secure wealth 
or competence without steady labor and habits of industry. 
It- would greatly promote the general prosperity, if a far 
larger portion of young men would become practical fanners ; 
and in most cases, their worldly lot would, thus be far more 
free from calamitous reverses, than by engaging in specula- 
tion, where the chance is three to one against success ; or in 
trade, with an expectation of becoming rich or independent, 
without diligent application to business. — Alden Brad- 
ford, LL. D. 



THE PRODUCER AND THE CONSUMER. 

Let me say how greatly I am gratified at such an oppor- 
tunity of meeting with the farmers of Norfolk, and their 
wives and daughters, and how sincerely I thank you, Mr. 
President, for presenting me to them. I am deeply sensible 
how poor a title I bring to their consideration or attention at 
such a festival as this. I can give them the results of but 
little agricultural observation abroad, and of still less agri- 
cultural experience at home. I am not sure, indeed, that it 
might not be said of me in regard to agriculture— I hope 
that it cannot truly be said of me in regard to any thing else 
— that I once put my hand to the plough, and looked back. 



THE PEOOTCBE AM> THE CONBOTOBR. 34$ 

Certainly, sir, I was once the owner of a farm ; bat now the 
only claim, the only pretence. I can set up to the favor of the 
farming interest, is that I believe I consume my share, or, as 
the common saying is, eat my allowance of the products of 
the soil. 

Let me not seem, however, to disparage or depreciate 
this title ; though I confess that it is not quite peculiar enough 
to myself to be the subject of any great individual pretension. 
Seriously, sir, I am at a loss to know what better friend a 
farmer can find, the world over, than a good consumer. I 
know not what may be the influence of the prizes which you 
are presently about to distribute, but I am inclined to doubt 
whether, in the long run, there be any more effective pre- 
mium for the promotion of agriculture, than a sure, steady, 
remunerative price for the crops which it produces. You 
may talk as you will about the strong bond of fellowship, the 
close tie of sympathy which exists between those who till 
the same soil, or wield the same scythe, or " feed the same 
flock, by fountain, shade, or rill," or together drive their 
teams a-iield, " 'ere the high lawns appear, under the opening 
eyelids of the morn ; " but I am inclined to think that not a 
few of the practical producers of Norfolk would rather fall in 
occasionally, and more especially about harvest time and on 
a market day, with those who have been accustomed to ad- 
mire the operations of agriculture a little more at a distance. 
It is a very pleasant thing for any one of us to be able to say 
— I wish I could say it as well as my illustrious friend at my 
side, (Mr. Webster ;) " I raise my own potatoes and kill my 
own pork ; " but I think there are those around me who 
would rather hear us both say, that we are ready to buy 
theirs. 

T must not be betrayed, however, Mr. President, into an 
essay on political economy, or into any further discussion of 
the relations between producers and consumers. Perhaps I 
may change my views if I am ever permitted to join the pro- 
ducing class myself ; for to that complexion we all hope to 
"come at last." There is no more striking evidence of the 
estimation in which agriculture is held among the arts of 
life, than that all men, of all sorts and conditions, seem with 
one consent to look forward to it as the occupation of their 
later and better years. We rarely hear of a farmer coming 
down from the country to exchange his pure air, and clear 
16* 



J46 MUSIC OF NATURE IN NORWAY. 

ikies, and ample elbow-room for the smoke, and dust, and din 
of a crowded city. The footsteps are all in the other direc- 
tion. The mechanic at his bench, the merchant in his 
counting-room, the physician and the clergyman in their 
studies, the lawyer in his office, the statesman in the Senate 
chamber, all seem to indulge a common hope. At tbe end 
of the cherished vista of each one of them alike, may be seen 
a snug farm, a few trees, a strawberry bed, a flower-garden, 
a potato patch, and, above all, a quiet, independent, rural 
home. I need not say that it is among my own hopes that 
one day or other I may realize such an enjoyment, and then 
I shall at least have something more practical to speak of at 
a cattle show dinner. — Extract from a Dinner-Table 
Speech at the Fair of the Norfolk Agricultural Society, 
1849, in Massachusetts, by the Hon. Robert C. Winthrof. 



MUSIC OF NATURE IN NORWAY. 

Still as everything is to the eye, sometimes for a hundred 
miles together along these deep sea valleys, there is rarely 
silence. The ear is kept awake by a thousand voices. In 
the summer, there are cataracts leaping from ledge to ledge 
of the rocks, and there is the bleating of the kids that browse 
there, and the flap of the great eagle's wings, as it dashes 
abroad from its eyrie, and the cries of whole clouds of sea 
birds which inhabit the isles ; and all these sounds are min- 
gled and multiplied by the strong echoes, till they become a 
din as loud as that of a city. 

Even at night, when the flocks are in the fold, and the 
birds at roost, and the echoes themselves seem to be asleep, 
there is occasionally a sweet music heard, too soft for even 
the listening ear to catch by day. lEvery breath of sum- 
mer wind that steals through the pine forests, wakes this 
music as it goes. The stiff, spiny leaves of the fir and pine 
vibrate with the breeze, like the strings of a musical instru- 
ment, so that every breath of the night wind in a Norwegian 
forest wakens a myriad of tiny harps, and this gentle and 
mournful music may be heard in gushes the whole night 
through. This music, of course, ceases when each tree be- 
comes laden with snow ; but yet there is sound in the midst 
of the longest winter night. There is the rumble of some 



SMALL FAHMS. W 

avalanche, as after a drifting storm a mass of snow, too 
heavy to keep its place, slides and tumbles from the moun- 
tain peak. There is also now and then a loud crack of the 
ice in the nearest glacier ; and, as many declare, there is a 
crackling to be heard by those who listen when the northern 
lights are shooting and blazing across the sky.. 

Nor is this all. Wherever there is a nook between the 
rocks on the shore, where a man may build a house, and 
clear a field or two ; wherever there is a platform beside the 
cataract, where the sawyer may plant his mill, and make a 
path for it to join some road, — there is a human habitation, 
and the sounds that belong to it Thence, in winter nights, 
come music and laughter, and the tread of dancers, and the 
hum of many voices. The Norwegians are a social and 
hospitable people; and they hold their gay meetings in defi- 
ance of their arctic climate, through every season of the year. 

Harriet Martineau. 



SMALL FARMS. 



The greatest obstacle to the improvement of agriculture 
in New England, is the propensity of the farmer, — the mania 
I might well call it, — to own more land than he can till to 
advantage. And it is thus that we see scattered over the 
country, large tracts of sterile, unproductive land, which 
under good cultivation would yield bountiful and valuable 
crops. 

Not only the dictates of sound philosophy, but numerous 
facts, drawn from experience, are constantly and loudly call- 
ing upon the farmer, from every quarter, to occupy a small 
farm and cultivate it well. I wish that this admonition could 
be thundered into the ears of the agricultural population of 
New England, until a complete revolution should be pro- 
duced in the farming system. 

This great truth is already beginning to be understood in 
other countries, and is attended with corresponding advan- 
tages. The densest population in Europe may be found in 
Flanders and Lombardy, where the land is divided into 
small holdings, and, being thoroughly tilled, produces abund- 
ant food for the inhabitants And the experience of a quarter 
of a century in France, under small-holding farmers, the 



348 



SMALL FAAM9. 



land is producing one third more food, and supporting a 
population one third greater, than when it was possessed in 
large masses. The law is universal, — applying to every 
country, — that success in agriculture consists in the thorough 
cultivation of a small piece of ground, which, well-manured 
and well-worked, yields up its treasures in prodigal pro- 
fusion. 

In almost every part of New England, one capital error 
runs through the whole system of farming. A great deal of 
money is invested in land, and a very little employed, in its 
cultivation. And it is sad to. see the owner of a large farm 
pride himself on the number of acres which he possesses, 
and undertake to cultivate the soil without sufficient means. 
Such a man has been happily compared to a merchant, who 
expends all his capital in building for his own use a large, 
roomy store, and is afterwards seen gazing with complacency 
on his bare walls and empty shelves. 

He has chalked out to himself a hard lot, and involun- 
tarily enters into a state of servitude worse than Egyptian 
bondage. His work is never accomplished. He toils at all 
hours, and yet is never ahead of his work, and his work is 
never well done. He has not time to accomplish anything 
thoroughly. His house is out of repair, — his cattle poor, — 
his barn dilapidated, — his fences in ruins, — his pastures over- 
run with bushes,— and acres of land, which, under proper 
cultivation, might be made to yield a rich harvest, are but 
little removed from barrenness, or perhaps covered with 
noxious plants. 

What a harrassed, unhappy being must be the owner of 
such a farm ! He has no time for recreation or mental im- 
provement. He is doomed to the tread-mill for life, with 
his spirits depressed, despondency stamped on his haggard 
lineaments, and the worm of discontent gnawing at his heart. 
For him there are no pleasant associations with the past, 
the present is full of anxiety, care and hard labor, and a 
cloud rests upon the future. 

Such a man has little reason to pride himself on his ex- 
tensive possessions ; and, paradoxical as it would appear, he 
would, in nine cases out often, add to his riches as well as 
his enjoyment, by giving away at least one half. He is, in 
the true sense of the words, miserably poor, — in fact, a slave ; 
and when his eyes are opened to his real condition, it is no 



OUR NATIVE LAND. 349 

wonder that he is glad to emancipate himself, by selling his 
farm for what he can get, and escape, post haste, to Texas 
or Iowa.— Farmers' Monthly Visitor. 



OUR NATIVE LAND. 

Our eastern borders behold the sun in all its splendor 
rising from the Atlantic, while the western shores are em- 
braced in darkness by the billows of the Pacific. Our country 
has indeed a vast extent of territory, with the diversified 
climates of the globe. On the one hand, is the ever-smiling 
verdure of the beautiful and balmy south, and, on the other, 
the sterile hills and sombre pine forests of the dreary north ; 
and, intermediate, the outstretched region where the chilling 
blasts of winter are succeeded by the zephyrs and the flowers 
of summer. 

The snow-clad summits of the mountains look down upon 
the elemental war of the storm-clouds floating above the 
shrubless prairie, that realizes the obsolete notion of the 
earth being an immense plain, and toward the ocean on the 
east and the west, upon the broad, rich valleys where the 
father of waters, the "endless river/ 7 and the majestic Col- 
umbia, with its hundred branches, gently wind along, or 
rapidly rush on to mingle their waters with the waves of 
the Pacific, the gulf of Mexico, or the magnificent expanse 
of our northwestern Caspian seas. 

Could the power of vision at once extend over our whole 
wide domain, what a grand, ennobling scene would be pre- 
sented to a spectator standing upon one of the lofty peaks of 
the Rocky Mountains, or, as Washington Irving aptly de- 
nominates it, "the crest of the world." And then to take, 
upon a summer day, a bird's-eye view of all our roads, canals, 
railroads, lakes and rivers ; the innumerable post-coaches 
whirling along over our one hundred and thirty thousand miles 
of post-road ; or steamers gliding magically along our waters ; 
our locomotives shooting off like the comet upon its track ; 
our rapid intercourse between the seaboard and the 'inland 
maritime cities ; and our ships approaching and departing, 
with the commerce of the world ; with all the various, com- 
plicated movements of the country, town and city ; and then, 



350 0UR NATIV2 LAND. 

like Prior on Granger Hill, to hear all the different musical 
and discordant sounds coining up to this " crest of the world/' 
if they could comprehend the entire scene, from the bellow- 
ing of the buffalo, leading his shaggy hundreds over the 
prairie, to the roar of the cataract as it shakes the earth with 
its stupendous plunge ; — with all this beneath the eye and 
upon the ear, well might the enraptured spectator exclaim, 
" What a sublime panorama ! " 

For variety, beauty, grandeur, and sublimity of scenery, 
what country can surpass our own; what country can 
equal the life-sustaining power that slumbers in her soil ! 
With all her wealth, improvements and intelligence, still 
we have but just commenced the settlements of our country, 
and are only on the borders of the mighty wilderness. Her 
undeveloped resources are capable of sustaining a free popu- 
lation of more than one hundred millions. A century hence, 
if permitted to enjoy the blessings of peace, the United States 
of America, with filly stars upon her banner, may number 
no less than one hundred and twenty millions of happy free- 
men. How exalted may then be the intelligence and virtue 
of the people. The success of our efforts in the improvement 
of our schools, and the general diffusion of knowledge, enable 
us to make an estimate of what our posterity of the third 
generation are likely to become. 

Active must be the ardent imagination that can picture 
the scene at a glance. The ideal landscape cannot equal 
the reality, however lively mrty be the fancy. The idea of 
such a view as we have fancied may be taken from the 
mountain top, a hundred years hence, can never be conveyed 
by words ; the picture must be painted by the wonder-work- 
ing power of the pencil of ideality. 

Our country ! Such is thy physical greatness, and such 
the intellectual and moral power that now gives promise of 
a glorious destiny, far beyond all parallel in the annals of 
the world. For such a destiny may thy institutions be well 
sustained ; and may a halo of glory play around the name of 
every man who honestly labors in behalf of his fellows and 
posterity, to uphold, purify, perpetuate and extend them. 

Selected. 



THE AMERICAN FOREST GIRL. Z51 

THE AMERICAN FOREST GIRL. 

Wildly and mournfully the Indian drum 

On the deep hush of moonlight forests broke ; — 
" Sing us a death-song, ibr thine hour is come/' — 

So the red warriors to their captive spoke. 
Still, and amidst those dusky forms alone, 

A youth, a fair-haired youth of England stood, 
Like a king's son ; though from his cheek had flown, 

The mantling crimson of the island blood, 
And his -pressed lips looked marble. Fiercely bright, 
And high around him, blazed the fires of night, 
Rocking beneath the cedars to and fro, 
As the wind passed, and with a fitful glow 
Lighting the victim's face. But who could tell 
Of what within his secret heart befell, 
Known but to Heaven that hour ? — Perchance a thought 
Of his far home, then so intensely wrought 
That its full image pictured to his eye 
On the dark ground of mortal agony 
Rose clear as day ! — and he might see the band 
Of his young sisters wandering hand in hand, 
Where the laburnum drooped ; or happily binding 
The jasmine, up the door's low pillars winding ; 
Or, as day closed upon their gentle mirth, 
Gathering with braided hair around the hearth 
Where sat their mother ; — and that mother's face 
Its grave, sweet smile yet wearing in the place 
Where so it ever smiled ! Perchance the prayer 
Learned at her knee came back en his despair ; 
The blessings from her voice, the very tone 
Of her " Good-night," might breathe from boyhood gone ! 
v He started and looked up : thick cypress boughs 

Full of strange sound, waved o'er him, darkly red 
In the broad, stormy firelight ; savage brows, 

With tall plumes crested and wild hues o'erspread 
Girt him like feverish phantoms ; and pale stars 
Looked through the branches as through dungeon bars, 
Shedding no hope. He knew, he felt his doom — 
Oh ! what a tale to shadow with his gloom 
That happy hall in England ! Idle fear ! 
Would the winds tell it ? Who might dream or hear 



36f TOR AMERICAN FOREST <HKL. 

The secret of the forest ? To the stake 

They hound him ; and that proud young soldier strove 
His father's spirit in his breast to wake, 

Trusting to die in silence. He, the love 
Of many hearts ! — the fondly reared— the fair, 
Gladdening all eyes to see ! And fettered there 
He stood beside his death-pyre, and the brand 
Flamed up to light it in the chieftain's hand. 
He thought upon his God. Hush ! hark !— a cry 
Breaks on the stern and dread solemnity— 
A step hath pierced the ring ! Who dares intrude 
On the dark hunters in their vengeful mood ? 
A girl— a young, slight girl— a fawn-like child , 
Of green savannas and the leafy wild, 
Springing unmarked till then, as some lone flower, 
Happy because the sunshine is its dower ; 
Yet one that knew how early tears are shed,— 
For hers had mourned a playmate brother dead. 
She had sat gazing on the victim long, 
Until the pity of her soul grew strong ; 
And, by its passion's deepening fervor swayed, 
Even to the stake she rushed, and gently laid 
His bright head on her bosom, and around 
His form her slender arms to shield it wound 
Like close Liannes ; then raised her glittering eye 
And clear-toned voice that said, " He shall not die! " 
"He shall not die ! "—the gloomy forest thrilled 

To that sweet sound. A sudden wonder fell 
On the fierce throng ; and heart and hand were stilled, 

Struck down, as by the whisper of a spell. 
They gazed : their dark souls bowed before the maid, 
She of the dancing step in wood and glade ! 
And, as her cheek flushed through its olive hue, 
As her black tresses to the night-wind flew, 
Something o'ermastered them from that young mien ; 
Something of heaven, in silence felt and seen ; 
And seeming, to their child-like faith, to token 
That the great spirit by her voice had spoken, 
They loosed the bonds that held their captive's breath ; 
From his pale lips they took the cup of death : 
They quenched the brand beneath the cypress tree ; 
"Away," they cried, "young stranger, thou art free ! " 

HEMANi 



THE AMERICAN PIONEER. 



THE AMERICAN PIONEER. 

Far away from the hillside, the lake, and the hamlet, 
The rock and the brook, and yon meadow so gay ; 
From the footpath, that winds by the side of the streamlet, 

From his hut and the grave of his friend far away ; 
He is gone where the footsteps of men never ventured, 
Where the glooms of the wild tangled forest are centered, 
Where no beam of the sun or the sweet moon has entered, 
No bloodhound has roused up the deer with his bay. 

He has left the green valley for paths where the bison 
Roams through the prairies, or leaps o'er the flood ; 

Where the snake in the swamp sucks the deadliest poison, 
And the cat of the mountains keeps watch for his food. 

But the leaf shall be greener, the sky shall be purer, 

The eye shall be clearer, the rifle be surer, 

And stronger the arm of the fearless endurer, 

That trusts naught but Heaven, in his way through the 
wood. 

Light be the heart of the poor lonely wanderer, 

Firm be his step through each wearisome mile, 
Far from the cruel man, far from the plunderer, 
Far from the track of the mean and the vile ; 
And when death, with the last of its terrors, assails him, 
And all but the last throb of memory fails him, 
He'll think of the friend, far away, that bewails him, 
And light up the cold touch of death with a smile. 

And there shall the dew shed its sweetness and lustre, 

There for his pall shall the oak leaves be spread ; 
The sweetbriar shall bloom, and the wild grape shall cluster, 

And o'er him the leaves of the ivy be shed. 
There shall they mix with the fern and the heather, 
There shall the young eagle shed its first feather, 
The wolf with his wild cubs shall lie there together, 
And moan o'er the spot where the hunter is laid. 

Brain ard. 



$54 HISTORY OP SHBEP. 

HISTORY OF SHEEP. 

Do toe know the origin of the domesticated sheep? 

Not with any degree of certainty. There appear to be 
four distinct kinds of wild sheep now known to naturalists, 
viz.: the Argali, found in the elevated ranges of northern 
and central Asia; the Musmon, belonging to the country 
which borders upon the Mediterranean ; the Bearded Sheep 
of Barbary and Egypt ; and the Rocky Mountain Sheep of 
our own continent. Many persons incline to the opinion 
that the Argali is the original stock, and that the variety 
found in North America came from Asia by crossing the ice 
at Behring's Straits. At first, it may seem strange that the 
domesticated animal could have sprung from either of these 
wild varieties, on account of the great dissimilarity in their 
appearance and habits ; but, on examination, it will be found 
that the difference is not more stiking than that between the 
several distinct breeds now in our possession. 

When teas the sheep domesticated ? 

It was probably the first animal brought under the con- 
trol of man, for Abel, we are told, was a " keeper of sheep." 
The wealth of the ancient patriarchs consisted in flocks and 
herds, while many of the most celebrated characters on the 
page of sacred history occupied the position of shepherds. 
The sheep of Job were fourteen thousand, and Mesha, king 
of Moab, was a sheep-master, and rendered unto the king of 
Israel one hundred thousand lambs and one hundred thousand 
rams with the wool. Solomon offered one hundred and 
twenty sheep at the dedication of the temple. Moses, the 
lawgiver of the Israelites, was a shepherd, while king David 
was brought from feeding ewes to "feed Jacob his people, 
and Israel his inheritance." 

What is said of fat-rumped and broad-tailed sheep ? 

They are extended over the north and south of Asia, 
Palestine, and Russia, and almost entirely compose the flocks 
of the Calmucs and Tartars. They are thought to be the 
descendants from the flocks of the patriarchs. The sub- 
varieties are numerous, and from the wool of that in Thibet 
are the costly Cashmere shawls manufactured. 

When was the keeping of slveep commenced in Europe ? 

It is generally understood that the animal, in its domestic 
state, was spread over western Asia at a very remote period, 



HISTORY OF SHEEP. 35$ 

but the date of its' introduction into Europe is not known. 
The early Greeks had very choice breeds, which they probably 
obtained in the course of their commercial dealings with 
Egypt and Asia Minor. The business became one of import- 
ance in the hands of the Romans, who procured their stock 
from the Greeks. They endeavored to procure the best 
animals, and, according to Strabo, the price of rams in the 
time of Tiberius sometimes rose as high as a talent — worth 
about a thousand dollars of our money. Great care was 
taken with the flocks ; the houses were daily washed and 
fumigated ; the sheep were covered with skins and cloths ; 
the wool was washed three or four times a year, frequently 
moistened with the finest oil, and when it became matted, 
drawn out and combed. Nevertheless, under their manage- 
ment, while the wool became remarkable for its fineness and 
beauty, the sheep gradually lost their ancient health and 
vigorous constitution. 

What was the origin of the Spanish Merinoes ? 

It appears to be clearly established, that this valuable 
race originated from a mixture of the delicate and fine wooled 
sheep of Italy with the more robust animal of Spain. Colu- 
mella, a Roman writer on agriculture, tells us that his uncle 
who lived in Boetica, the present provinoe of Estremaduia, 
effected the cross, and that the progeny united the strength 
and color of the sire with the dam's softness of fleece. When 
Italy was overrun by the barbarians, the flocks there became 
extinct, while the new breed continued to flourish in their 
mountainous districts. 

Was the eoccdlent character of the Merinoes recognised? 

It was at an early day, and the shepherds took especial 
care that the breed should not degenerate by intermixture 
with the coarser natives. The Saracens, with their luxurious 
habits, were attracted by the excellence of the wool, for 
articles of dress, and in the thirteenth century became 
renowned for their woolen manufactures, and Seville alone 
contained no less than sixteen thousand looms. After the 
expulsion of the Saracens, the weavers were driven from the 
kingdom, and the business of manufacturing became almost 
extinct. The government, in the course of time, saw its error, 
and came to look upon the business of breeding the Merino 
with favor, and placed all matters connected therewith under 
the exclusive jurisdiction of courts established for the purpose. 



3ff ETBTOEY OF BHSBP. 

With a jealous watchfulness of their own interests, they 
Strictly prohibited the exportation of the improved animals, 
and in a very few instances only were any allowed to be 
taken ont of the country. Bat the manufactures could not 
be revived, and the wool was sent abroad. 

When was the first importation of Merinoes into the 
United States? 

Towards the close of the last century, some two or three 
animals were brought into New England, but it was not 
until the year 1801 that there was made any importation 
which resulted in the propagation of the pure breed. Large 
numbers were imported within the succeeding ten years, and 
much credit is due to the exertions of the Hon. William 
Jarvis, of Vermont, then United States Consul in Spain, who 
himself shipped thirty-six hundred from the most celebrated 
flocks in the kingdom, which were sold in consequence of the 
French invasion. 

How were the Merinoes then valued in this country? 

Their value for the production of wool soon became 
known, and the Bheep commanded extraordinary prices, some 
rams having sold in 1811 for over one thousand dollars 
a-piece. Owing to a variety of circumstances, the excitement 
soon died away, and the Merinoes fell into undeserved neglect. 
But, by the sagacity of some breeders, a few flocks have been 
kept in the original purity, and, as within the past few years 
new and valuable importations have been made, it would 
seem that in a short period the breed can be extensively 
disseminated throughout the country. 

What was the origin of the Saxon sheep ? 

It is known to be a descendant of the Spanish Merinoes 
carried into Saxony, in the years 1765 and 1768. These 
animals were selected with great care, and after their removal 
were regarded with an unusual degree of interest. They 
were placed under faithful and competent shepherds, and 
received the attention of the most distinguished farmers, as 
well as the nobility of the country. 

How did this enterprise succeed? 

Under this judicious management, prosecuted for a num- 
ber of years, these flocks have attained a world-wide notoriety 
for the superior quality of their wool, being remarkable for 
the softness and fineness of its texture. Great pains are 
taken to perpetuate this character ; and the Saxon shepherd 



tttSTORY Of flHBEf . |£p 

has earned a high reputation for his skill. The sheep axe 
the objects of his constant care, it being his duty to supply 
every want, and guard them against sudden changes of 
temperature. This has resulted in producing a beautiful 
fleece, but has somewhat weakened the natural vigor and 
strength of the Spanish Merino. 

When were the first importations of Saxons to this 
country? 

Four rams were brought over in the year 1823, and 
about eighty sheep were brought in the year following. These 
were received with so much favor, and sold so well, that 
speculators were induced to embark in the business. For 
three or four years after the first importation, the fever of 
speculation raged, and at public auction, some of the best 
sheep brought from four hundred to four hundred and fifty 
dollars a-piece. But the reaction was sudden, and the sale of 
several of the last lots was attended by serious loss. As may 
be supposed, the majority of these animals, selected with a 
view to commercial profit, were of very inferior character, 
and by being mixed with our native and pure Merino flocks, 
occasioned a serious injury. Hence the present dislike of 
the Saxon sheep in this country. But the importations of 
the late Henry D. Grove, of New-York State, Mr. Taintor, 
of Connecticut, and others, show that the pure blooded ani- 
mal possesses a good constitution, and, for the quality of its 
wool, is well worthy of the attention of our sheep-masters* 

What is said of the Rambouillet flock ? 

This was established as early as 1786, by the King of 
France, on his royal farm at Rambouillet. The stock was 
composed of the choicest Spanish Merinoes, and in their new 
situation they were bred with the greatest care. This has re- 
sulted in a marked improvement, and the sheep have ac- 
quired a larger carcase, with a much heavier and finer fleece. 
The very first Merinoes brought to the United States were 
taken from the flock at Rambouillet. Other importations 
have since been made, and the accounts of their value seem 
to be no ways exaggerated. 

Have the Spanish breeds ever been introduced into 
Great Britain ? 

Henry VIII. is said to have imported three thousand 
Spanish sheep into England, but what became of them is un- 
knqwn. Another lot of quite inferior quality was obtained 



$56 HISTORY OF 6&BEP. 

in 1788, by George III., and a third of very valuable ani- 
mals was sent to him in 1791. Although much interest was 
felt among the breeders at the time of these importations, yet 
it cannot be said that the Merino is held in very high favor 
on the English soil. The farmers evidently prefer those 
breeds which have there been brought into notoriety, alleging 
that the Spanish and Saxon varieties have not size enough to 
meet the demands of the market for mutton. 

What are the favorite breeds of sheep in Great Britain ? 

The Leicester, the Cotswold, the South Down, and the 
Cheviot, rank the highest. Bach one has its peculiar quali- 
ties, on account of which its friends claim for it a decided 
superiority to all the other breeds. It will be recollected 
that opinions upon such a subject are generally dictated by 
prejudice and self-interest. Nevertheless, these English 
breeds in general, have a deservedly high reputation for their 
beauty of form, fineness of bone, good quality of the fleece, 
disposition to fatten easily, and the excellent character 
of their mutton. This last is a very important recommenda- 
tion, as it is well known that lamb and mutton compose a 
large portion of the food of the inhabitants. 

Do the English breeds owe much to the skill of their 
breeders ? 

Very much ; and it is gratifying to notice among the 
farmers of the present day a determination to secure still 
further improvement. It is not certain that the highest point 
of excellence has yet been attained. The Leicesters are 
chiefly indebted for their pre-eminence to the late Robert 
Bakewell. It is surprising to see how much he accomplished, 
and a high authority haB said that he " seemed to have the 
power of modeling a sheep just as he liked, and then giving 
it life." One of his sheep attained the weight of 368 pounds 
when alive. In 1787 he let three rams for a single season 
for over six thousand dollars ; in 1789, he let one for over 
five thousand dollars ; and from others in the same year, he 
cleared more than thirty thousand dollars. What Bakewell 
did for the Leicesters, was done by the late John Ellman for 
the South Downs. Our agricultural papers give frequent il- 
lustrations of the success of modern breeders — among whom 
are numbered even the nobility of the land. 

Have the English breeds been brought to this country ? 

They have by the enterprise of a few individuals, and 



HISTORY OF SHEEP. 339 

have already become known extensively throughout the 
Union. While some of their owners manifest a disposition 
to preserve their peculiar characteristics as near as possible, 
after a change of climate and soil, yet a desire to produce 
new varieties by crossing seems prevalent, and where con- 
ducted without skill or judgment, has undoubtedly been of 
little or no benefit. 

What is understood by the term " Native Sheep ?" 

Neither North nor South America can boast of any variety 
of sheep that has been domesticated. The stock which we 
call native are derived from the animals brought over by the 
colonists, and are thus designated only to distinguish them 
from the Merino, the Cotswold, and other improved breeds. 
Being permitted to breed almost at will, and without any re- 
gard to improvement, they are of a very inferior character. 
Since public attention has been drawn to the capabilities of 
our country for the production of wool, more interest has been 
felt, and farmers in many sections have crossed their natives 
with the better varieties. The time will soon come when 
these old-fashioned natives will be extinct. 

For what is the sheep valuable ? 

In eastern countries it is still employed by some of the 
tribes for carrying burdens, and by some nations its milk is 
used as a beverage, and for being made into butter and 
cheese. The value of its fleece for the manufacture of cloth- 
ing has been well understood from the earliest ages. The 
skin when partially tanned is used for parchment and the 
covers of books. The flesh is generally a favorite article of 
food, while the tallow, and even the horns and intestines, are 
converted into obj ects of utility. Add to this the fact of its being 
an inhabitant of every latitude, and that it can be reared in 
situations where other animals would starve, and we can 
readily see how justly it has been ranked in usefulness next 
to the cow. 

What is said of the character of the sheep in its do- 
mestic state ? 

It is weak and defenceless, timid and inoffensive, so that 
it is altogether dependant upon the kindness of man. Its well 
known mildness of temper strongly recommend it to human 
affection, and have indicated it as a pattern of innocence, 
meekness, and submission. Hence the frequent allusions 
made to it by sacred writers. The destitute condition of the 



jjfr ftlSTOAT 07 EfflKP, 

Jews has been described ms that of a flock " scattered upon 
the hills, as sheep that have not a shepherd." Our blessed 
Saviour was figuratively called " The Lamb of God/ 1 to sig- 
nify his purity and quality as a sacrifice for the sins of the 
world ; and in other places he is termed " The Good Shep- 
herd, who gave his life for the sheep. 1 ' And the sheep has 
been as much eulogised by profane writers, as by the Hebrew 
nation and ourselves. 

What effect has climate upon the sheep ? 

It produces striking changes in the size and frame, and 
likewise affects the color and quality of the fleece. In cold 
regions we find the sheep protected by a heavy covering of 
wool, which is rather coarse upon the outside, but fine and 
soft near the skin. In the tropics, the wool gives place to 
hair, and it is in the temperate zones that the fleece is of 
that medium quality which is best adapted to manufacturing 
purposes. Under this wonderful ordinance of nature, when 
a soft-wooled sheep is carried to the equator, he speedily 
loses his unsuited coat, and it is replaced by a growth of 
coarse reddish hair. 

Is the quality of the fleece influenced by the manner in 
which the sheep may be kept ? 

To a great degree — greater than would be generally sup- 
posed. Common sense indicates that the value of the wool, 
not only, as regards its bulk but the price .it will command 
in market — must be materially depreciated by the animal 
being exposed to inclement weather, when it should have the 
protection of warm, yet well ventilated buildings. No animal, 
and much less the tender sheep, thrives when exposed to the 
fury of the wind and storm. But, it is not so soon thought 
of, that there is a vast difference among articles of food in 
their wool-producing properties. This is a subject that has 
been as yet little investigated, and presents a wide field for 
experiment. Several trials have already been made, attended 
with astonishing results, but the matter is open to further 
research. 

What is said of the Rocky Mountain sheep ? 

They dwell upon and about the mountains from which 
they receive their name. Although not found eastward of 
the declivity of these mountains, they frequent the elevated 
and craggy ridges with which the country is intersected be- 
tween the great range and the Pacific. They collect in 



HISTOHY OF SHEEF. ggj 

flocks, consisting of from three to thirty, the young rams and 
females herding together during the winter and spring, while 
the old rams form separate flocks. They are accustomed to 
pay daily visits to certain caves in the mountains, that are 
encrusted with a saline efflorescence, of which they are fond. 
It is said that the horns of the old rams attain a size so 
enormous, and curve so* much forwards and downwards, that 
they effectually prevent the animal from feeding on level 
ground. Its flesh is represented by those who have fed on 
it, to be quite delicious when it is in season — far superior to 
that of any of the deer species which frequent the same quar- 
ter, and even exceeding in flavor the finest English mutton. 

How is the Argali, or Wild Sheep, described t 

It is an inhabitant of rocky and mountainous regions, and 
is principally found in the Alpine parts of Asia. These ani- 
mals have large horns, arched semicircularly backward, and 
divergent at their tips, wrinkled on the upper surface, and 
flattened beneath ; on the neck are two pendant hairy dew- 
laps. This creature is about the size of the fallow deer. It 
is of a grey ferruginous brown color above, and whitish be- 
neath. The horns in the adult, or full grown animal, have 
much the appearance of those of the common ram. This 
animal has hair instead of wool, thus greatly differing from 
the general aspect of sheep ; and the hair, which is close in 
summer, like the deer, becomes somewhat wavy, «a little 
curled, and rough, consisting of a kind of wool intermixed 
with hair, and its roots concealed by a fine woolly down; 

What description is given of the African sheep ? 

In temper it is extremely mild ; but it is an uncouth 
looking creature. It is high on the legs, narrow in the loins, 
and its coat is rough and shaggy. Its horns are remarkably 
small, and within their curve the ears are enclosed. When- 
ever the ears escape from this seeming confinement, the ani- 
mal exhibits much uneasiness ; and difficult as it is for him 
to replace them, he never rests till it is accomplished. On 
his back and sides he is nearly black ; the shoulders are red- 
dish brown ; the posterior parts of the body, the haunches, 
the hind legs, the tail, the nose, and also the ears, which are 
large, are white. 
16 



tff PHILOSOPHY OF PLOUGHING. 

PHILOSOPHY OF PLOUGHING. 

The chemist has ascertained, by analysis, what doubt- 
less you all knew before but did not seriously consider, that 
every particle of the bodies of domestic animals — the bones, 
the muscles, the skin, the horns, the hoofs and the hair — are 
formed from the food they consume. He finds all the same 
elements in hay that he finds in any part of domestic ani- 
mals, and in butter and cheese. It is impossible to calcu- 
late how much of the salts of the earth has been driven and 
carried from the country in cattle, and sheep, and horses, 
and hogs, and poultry, and not returned to the earth to pre- 
serve its fertility. But it is safe to say that if all that has 
gone from the county of Cheshire could be brought back into 
it and restored to our fields, every acre of our arable land 
would be made far more fertile than the richest fields of the 
West. And how much more of the salts of the earth, ab- 
stracted from its surface and never restored, has, in process 
of time, been buried deep in the grave ? 

Liebig, the German chemist, in his " Familiar Letters on 
Agricultural Chemistry," emphatically asks, " Can it be 
imagined that any country, however rich and fertile, with a 
flourishing commerce, which for centuries exports its produce 
in the shape of grain and cattle, will maintain its fertility, if 
the same commerce does not restore, in some form of manure, 
those elements which have been removed from the soil, and 
which cannot be replaced by the atmosphere ?" Must not 
the same fate await every such country, which has actually 
befallen the once prolific soil of Virginia, now in many parts 
no longer able to raise its former stable productions — wheat 
and tobacco. 

Elsewhere, Professor Liebig demonstrates the importance, 
if not necessity, of the use of manures containing phosphoric 
acid in combination with alkaline bases, such as potash and 
soda, and thence called phosphates. It has been well estab- 
lished that, without them, there can be neither blood, nor 
bones, nor brains. From the battle-field of Waterloo, bones 
enough have been transported to England to restore this 
essential element to the soil of many thousands of acres. 
Even twenty years ago, the estimated value of all the bones 
imported, in a single year, from the continent into England, 
was between half a million and a million of dollars. 



i 
i 
i 

i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 



PHILOSOPHY <W PLOTTOHDfa. gfg 

May not the necessity that the phosphates, as well as, 
other salts of the earth, should enter into the composition of 
the food of man, which chemistry demonstrates, account for 
many important revolutions or changes recorded in the his- 
tory of the race ? Existing in the smallest quantity, long 
and unskilful cultivation must inevitably exhaust them, so 
far at least as to render the supply at first deficient, and 
then more and more -so, until the earth becomes unable to 
give perfection to its products. To what other cause can 
we attribute the decay of empires, and the depreciation in 
energy of the people of long inhabited countries ? Why did 
Egypt, long ago, become less populous and less powerful 
than she had been ? Why Assyria, Palestine, Greece and 
Rome ? Why has eastern Virginia not only lost in popula- 
tion, but from the highest fell to the lowest rank among pro- 
ductive countries, and why has the rural population of New 
England become stationary ? And why is it, on the other 
hand, that China, which has, according to her own annals, 
existed, as an industrious nation, many thousands of years, 
continues to be as populous and productive as ever, but be- 
cause she exports nothing and wastes nothing that is derived 
from the earth ? 

Of all the principal articles of food, Indian corn contains 
the greatest proportion of the phosphates ; next to corn, rye, 
and next to rye, wheat— rice and potatoes containing less 
than any others. Does not this remark lead you at once to 
contrast the tall and vigorous population of our own country, 
just opened to the occupation of civilized man, and of course 
yet abounding in all the fertilizing salts— -a population vigor* 
ous in mind as well as in body— with the thoughtless, unam* 
bitious, imbecile people, who feed on rice and potatoes ? 

The art of agriculture consists in prolonging as well as in 
restoring the fertility of the soil. Ploughing, besides its 
utility for other purposes, is a mode of prolonging its fertility. 
The chemist tells us why it is beneficial ; and to know the 
why* and wherefore is an advantage even to him who knows 
what the actual result will be. Premising that all soil is 
disintegrated rock, which perhaps he learnt from the geolo- 
gist, he informs us that all rocks, or nearly all rocks, contain, 
in greater or less proportions, the salts which are essential to 
the growth of plants ; that, being contained in rocks, they 
exist also in their finely divided part*— sand, earth and soil ; 



9(4 FHILO0OFHY OF FLOUOHmG. 

that the roots of living plants, by the power which the prin- 
ciple of life gives them, can extract and imbibe whatever of 
these salts is near or adheres to the surfaces of these parti- 
cles ; that the plough, by its own operation, and by opening 
the earth to the operation of the weather and the atmosphere, 
carries the disintegration still farther, and exposes new sur- 
faces to the roots. 

But it is not only by this farther disintegration of the earth 
that ploughing is of service. By the experiments of the 
chemists it has been ascertained that at least nine-tenths in 
bulk of a plant consists of the constituents of the atmosphere, 
which enter by the roots as well as the leaves. Ploughing 
not only permits the gases to enter the earth more freely, but 
the roots to spread far and wide in pursuit of the appropriate 
nourishment of the plant ; and it also promotes, by the free 
admission of the oxygen of the atmosphere, the decomposition 
of such vegetable matter, containing all the gases and fer- 
tilizing salts, as by chance may lie, or by design be placed, 
as manure, beneath the surface ; and this remark is especially 
applicable to the most common of all manures, that taken 
from the barn-yard. 

The salts which the chemist considers so important to ag- 
riculture exist, as he says, and as his analyses prove, in all 
earth as well as in all rock, even in the earth which lies far 
below the surface ; they exist, it is true, in some localities in 
greater quantities and in more fit proportions than in others ; 
and this is what constitutes the difference between good land 
and poor land ; and when a primeval forest is first cut down 
and the land brought into use, they exist in greater quantity 
on the surface than below ; for the trees have, by their roots, 
drawn these salts from a considerable depth ; and when they 
die and decay the salts are left on the surface. But when 
the surface soil has been long in use, and the salts in it partly 
exhausted, the subsoil, as highly charged as ever, and perhaps 
more so, with similar salts, should be resorted to, and 
brought up by the plough. At first, it may seem to the eye 
unfavorable to vegetation ; but if it be so, one year's expo- 
sure to the atmosphere will, in almost every instance, so 
change it as to render it fertile. The atmosphere and every 
thing with which it is charged, and all their influences, are 
favorable to the growth of plants. If to supply a sufficient 
quantity of manure has become, in this country, the first re- 



SCIENCE AND PRACTICE. 355 

quisite of good fanning, \o plough frequently and to plough 
deep, where the subsoil is not coarse sand, is the second, so 
far as good farming depends on the management of the soil. — 
From an Address before the Cheshire County Agricultural 
Society, N. H., 1848, by the Hon. Salma Hale. 



SCIENCE AND PRACTICE. 

An agricultural life, as it tends to locate men in fixed 
abodes, and give them permanent interests and associations, 
tends likewise to elevate them in the scale of being — awakens 
the higher and more ennobling sentiments of the soul, and 
thus conduces to the better development of our social and 
moral nature. The shepherd, who has a permanent posses- 
sion in his flocks and herds, who makes it his care to provide 
for them food and drink, (they furnishing him in return with 
food and clothing,) is far removed, in respect to civilization, 
from the savage. Indeed we often speak of the patriarchal 
simplicity of the pastoral life, as if it were something more 
beautiful and desirable even, than our present state of soci- 
ety. But this is only the enchantment which distance lends 
to the view. If we really study this pastoral state of society 
in reference to its principles, or if we go and look upon it as 
it is still to be seen in the East, we may soon learn at what 
an immeasurable remove we are above such a state of ex- 
istence. 

Among these wandering shepherd tribes, there can be no 
settled institutions, except such as are of a very general na- 
ture. Men do not gather, and remain about any one point 
long enough to develop these institutions. The whole face 
of society is perpetually shifting so that you have no basis on 
which to build any thing great and lasting. Not only does 
such a state of things preclude the development of great pub- 
lic institutions, but how disastrous too is its influence in 
respect to individual character. There is an immense moral 
power in the fact that, in an agricultural state of society, a 
man is so fixed, that he must confront day by day and year 
by year, those who are in like manner fixed about him, as 
neighbors and fellow-citizens. He is so placed that his con- 
duct must be thoroughly known, and his character well un- 



900 SCIENCE AND PRACTICE. 

derstood. He stands as in the presence of a permanent 
tribunal, before which he has the strongest motives to acquit 
himself well. 

A wandering Arab lies, steals and murders, at one place, 
and then shoots off into another part of the country ; and 
though as an old Roman poet has said, " They who pass over 
the sea have a change of skies but not of character " — that 
is they carry their characters with 'them wherever they go, 
yet in such a mixed and moving state of society, a man seems 
almost to escape from himself, because he perpetually slips 
away, before he is really confronted by a tribunal, which 
would search him out and reveal him to himself. Perma- 
nence of abode, permanence of associations, permanence of 
interests, are requisite, in order to the highest and best insti- 
tutions, in order to the purest and noblest society. Yet even 
in reference to these things, there may be many degrees of 
perfection. The tillers of the soil, in England, for instance, 
are perhaps more fixed to one spot, than in this country. 
Many of them hardly ever go out of sight of their own cot- 
tages, and such a thing as a removal from one part of the 
land to another, would in vast multitudes of cases, be 
deemed utterly impracticable, and almost impossible. Eng- 
land yet retains the traces of that great feudal system, which 
so long prevailed throughout central and northern Europe, 
and which gathered men in clusters around a central baron 
or lord, as his vassals or retainers. The great difficulty 
under this arrangement is, that only a few persons compara- 
tively are the real owners of the land, while the great multi- 
tude of those who till the soil lack that stimulus — that 
principle of elevation, which comes from actual possession. 
They have not that sense of personal independence and re- 
sponsibility, which is one of the grandest elements of progress 
and growth. 

In childhood and youth, we often have a burning desire 
to live in the oity. Many of you, doubtless, have passed 
through this state of feeling and know its power. Many a 
boy at the age of twelve or fifteen, thinks there could be no 
higher bliss for him than to go and live in the oity. The 
mind warms with the thought of being permitted to behold 
all its sights, and to catch all its sounds — to look upon its 
shows and processions — and mingle in its bustle and uproar. 
But as we grow older we are very apt to get over that feel- 



SCIENCE AND PRACTICE. 357 

ing. Our tastes become more natural. The city, grows old 
and uninteresting. We weary of its artificial monotony — 
and are sick of its noise. But nature is ever fresh and young. 
We drink in health, amid the scenes which are open around 
us. The works and the operations of her hand never grow 
old. With every return of spring, many a dweller in the 
city pines for the old haunts, which he once frequented — 
dwells with longing upon the woods, fields and streams about 
which he once wandered. There distant scenes visit him 
amid the noise and uproar of the metropolis, amid the con- 
fusions of his business, and he would give much if he could 
return again to them. But no such pining for the city is 
found among the full grown men in the country. Nature 
asserts her supremacy in this, and maintains a dominion 
over the mind, which no artifice can supplant. 

And the effect of this familiar and long continued 
converse with nature, amid the beauty and order of her 
works, is not lost upon the character. In whatever posi- 
tion of life we may be placed, we become indeed, after a 
a time, almost unconscious of the influence which is exerted 
upon us by surrounding scenes and objects. The dweller 
amid the Alps is not usually conscious of the effect which is 
wrought upon his mind by the presence of this grand and 
inspiring scenery. Nevertheless an influence is exerted, and 
if you take a people which have dwelt for generations amid 
such scenes, and compare them with another people, that have 
been living upon the open plains, and you perceive marked 
shades of difference which have been caused by the pressure 
of different outward objects. Precisely so with the husband- 
man who lives amid his fields, as compared with the man 
dwelling amid the associations of a city. The former is 
surrounded by influences far more genial and healthy — 
morally and physically healthy, and the result, looking at 
things on a wide scale, is visible in the characters of the two. 

Still, we all have a timely sense of the trials, difficulties 
and hardships of our own particular lot, and we are often 
apt to fancy that there are fewer evils in some other condi- 
tions in life than our own. The sailor, when he has been a 
little while upon the land, tires of its monotony, and longs 
again to feel the motion of the sea, and share again in its 
excitements. But when he has been a little while at sea, 
tossed about with storms, and facing danger, he sighs for the 




36$ 8CIKKCK AND PRACTICE. 

quiet of home, and the comfort of rest, and thinks if he can 
ever reach the Bhore of his own land again, he shall he con- 
tent to remain there. The fanner weary with his toil, some- 
times thinks, that to do the work of a merchant or a profes- 
sional man, would he no labor at all — mere play. The 
professional man, sitting down to -a piece of writing which 
must be done, perhaps with aching head and thoughts con- 
fused, feels that if he had nothing to do but to go out in his 
garden or field, and use his hoe or spade — nothing to do but 
to work with his hands, it would be a very easy matter ; but 
to work with his head is quite another thing. Allowing, 
however, for all these varieties of feeling — for this is a mat- 
ter of feeling rather than of judgment — allowing for all 
these, we think it may safely be concluded, that no class of 
men occupy a more comfortable, desirable, and we may add, 
important place in society than the farmers. 

Still, much may yet be done, to make their employment 
more inviting, and their lot in life more desirable. Not to 
dwell upon the various points that might here be touched, 
let me call your attention to one which you will certainly 
appreciate, as it is in keeping with the very object of this 
association. I allude to a knowledge of agricultural science. 
I well remember that there was an early prejudice among 
farmers against what is called scientific farming. There 
was a feeling that all such farming was necessarily of a slip- 
shod and unprofitable character — and that what the farmer 
wanted was practical knowledge simply — information such 
as had come down to him in the natural course of things, 
from generation to generation. Now this practical knowl- 
edge is doubtless of the utmost importance, and one thing 
which has tended to keep alive this prejudice against science 
is, that many men who have set out upon a course of scien- 
tific farmiug, have been destitute of this kind of knowledge, 
and have accordingly failed. 

I well remember that there came to my native place, 
when I was a boy, a retired merchant, who bought a farm, 
with the purpose of having everything done in true scientific 
style. He designed to show the ignorant natives about there 
the wonders of science, and deeply impress upon their minds 
their exceeding ignorance. Well, the farmers round about 
used to make themselves merry at watching his operations. 
Things went queerly. There was a magnificent outlay, but 



SCIENCE AND PRACTICE. 359 

small results— great expenditures but small profits. They 
came to the conclusion that they managed quite as well, and 
a little better than he did. And so they did. The truth is, 
science and practical knowledge in this business, as in all 
others, must go hand in hand. Farming is, in a most im- 
portant sense, a trade, in' which a man must learn the use 
of his tools simply and only by practice. It is no more 
natural to a man to make a handsome hill of corn, than it is 
to make a nail for a horse-shoe — and ever so much instruc- 
tion upon the point by mere words will not enable him to do 
it. He must come to the trial. He must arrive at the re- 
sult step by step, and by slow degrees. And so on through 
all the details of agriculture. This practical knowledge of 
farming as a trade, which has been learned by years of ex- 
perience, is something which cannot be dispensed with. 

But in order to the highest pleasure, profit, and dignity 
of the farmer's life, he wants still another thing — and that 
is an accurate knowledge scientifically of the nature of 
plants and of soils — the uses of manure — the methods of 
vegetable growth — such information, in short, as will give 
him power to control the operations of his farm, and bring 
them into harmony with the laws of nature. Now here is 
a wide field, which has not yet, except in a few instances, 
comparatively, been entered upon, even by the intelligent 
farmers of New England. Indeed, it is but a little while 
since this field of study has really been rendered accessible to 
the common mind. But now the way is rapidly preparing, 
so that one can take up this branch of study without diffi- 
culty, and make himself, to a considerable extent, master of 
it. Liebig's work on agricultural chemistry, has been for 
some years before the people. 

In the first place, science is always safe. It does not 
lie. It deals with fixed principles. It touches bottom at 
every point, so far as it goes. It does not send men off upon 
a wild goose chase after something that is not there. It 
does not simply leave them to arrive at results only after a 
long and expensive course of experimenting. It starts with 
fixed facts. It has analyzed things to their elements. Again, 
every branch of business becomes interesting and attractive 
to the mind, in proportion as we master its details and 
thoroughly understand it. That which is dry and barren on 
a mere superficial view, is full of life and meaning to him 



370 BCEBlfCB AND PRACTICE. 

who has penetrated and comprehended it. When a. farmer 
can penetrate the mere surface of agriculture, to the more 
hidden processes which are going on all about him, he dwells 
in a little world of his own, a moat interesting world too, one 
which has within it abundant sources of thought and delight. 

If farmers would thoroughly study the science of agri- 
culture, and master it, they would by that very process, bring 
their minds in contact with many other sorts of knowledge, 
and the field of their intelligence would be greatly enlarged. 
All knowledge is connected, and it matters little what branch 
of study you pursue. If you take up any one, and follow it 
out thoroughly, you inevitably come in contact, in a merely 
incidental way, with all sorts of knowledge. The whole in- 
tellectual nature is quickened and expanded. It can be 
made profitable. It can be turned to great account in re- 
ference to the actual income of a farm. There is no manure 
so cheap as a wholesome application of science. It* prevents 
useless outgoes and secures an income. In reference to this 
matter, a recent writer says : 

" On the general subject of book-farming, we suppose 
that all the world knows there is a schism among farmers. 
The old conservative fanners don't believe in it. The young 
progressive fanners do. Here we have it, under shady or- 
chards, along the forest furrows, among chattering birds, and 
in spring airs, the same controversies that are waged in poli- 
tics and religion. Now we are on both sides ; we are for 
book-farming, and we are against book-farming. If the 
farmer applies the book to the soil instead of to his own 
head, we are sure that his farming will be poor enough. 
But if books and papers are used on the farmer's mind — to 
give it habits of reflection and observation ; to possess it with 
the elements of Nature, with which he deals, and if then he 
directs that mind, thus stored and trained to his work, we 
are sure that he will benefit as much by education as any 
other man." There is of course at the present time much 
scientific information diffused abroad through agricultural 
papers, to be picked up here and there by piece meal. But 
this is not enough. Before the mind can be prepared to ap- 
propriate this so as to make it of much account, there must 
be the masters of the system, as a system, and then all these 
items will fall into their natural place, and help on the 
work. — From an Address at Framingham, Mass, J.850, 
by Rev. Mk. Taebox. 



THB RISING OF THE WATERS. 371 

THE RISING OF THE WATERS. 

About daybreak it began to rain, and continued to pour 
with increasing violence all the morning ; no one thought of 
Btirring abroad who could keep within shelter. My boys 
and I had for a task only to keep the fire at the door of the 
shanty brisk and blazing, and to notice that the pools which 
began to form around us did not become too large ; for some- 
times, besides the accumulation of the rain, little streams 
would suddenly break out, and, rushing towards us, would 
have extinguished our fire, had we not been vigilant. The 
site I had chosen for the shanty was near to a little brook, on 
the top of the main river's bank. In fine weather, no situa- 
tion could be more beautiful ; the brook was as clear as 
crystal, and fell with a small cascade into the river, which, 
broad and deep, ran beneath the bank with a swift and 
smooth current. 

The forest up the river had not been explored above a 
mile or two ; all beyond was the unknown wilderness. Some 
vague rumors of small lakes and beaver dams were circulated 
in the village, but no importance was attached to the infor- 
mation : save but for the occasional little torrents with 
which the rain sometimes hastily threatened to extinguish 
our fires, we had no cause to dread inundation. 

The rain still continued to fall incessantly : the pools it 
formed in the hollows of the ground began, towards noon, to 
overflow their banks and to become united. By and by 
something like a slight current was observed passing from 
one to another ; but, thinking only of preserving our fire, we 
no sooner noticed this than by occasionally running out of the 
shanty into the shower, and scraping a channel to let the 
water run off into the brook or the river. 

It was hoped that about noon the rain would slacken ; 
but in this we were disappointed. It continued to increase, 
and the ground began to be so flooded while the brook swelled 
to a river, that we thought it might become necessary to 
shift our tent to a higher part of the bank. To do this, how- 
ever, we were reluctant, for it was impossible to encounter 
the deluge without being almost instantly soaked to the 
skin ; and we had put the shanty up with more care and 
pains than usual, intending it should serve us for a home 
until our house was comfortably furnished. 



273 RISING OF TAB WATKRfl. 

About three o'clock the skies were dreadfully darkened 
and overcast. I had never seen such darkness while the sun 
was above the horizon, and still the rain continued to de- 
scend in cataracts, but at fits and intervals. No man, who 
had not seen the like, would credit the description. Suddenly 
a sharp flash of lightning, followed by an instantaneous 
thunder peal, lightened up all the forest ; and almost in the 
same moment the rain came lavishing along as if the win- 
dows of heaven were opened ; anon another flash, and a 
louder peal burst upon us, as if the whole forest was rending 
over and around us. 

I drew my helpless and poor trembling little boys 
under the skirts of my great coat. Then there was another 
frantic flash, and the roar of the thunder was augmented by 
the riven trees that fell, cloven on all sides, in a whirlwind of 
splinters. But though the lightning was more terrible than 
scimitars, and the thunder roared as if the vaults of heaven 
were shaken to pieces and tumbling in, the irresistible rain 
was still more appalling than either. I have said it was as 
if the windows of heaven were opened. About sunset, the 
ground floods were as if the fountains of the great deep were 
breaking up. 

I pressed my shivering children to my bosom, but I could 
not speak. At the common shanty, where there had been 
for some time an affectation of mirth and ribaldry, there was 
now silence ; at last, as if with one accord, all the inhabit- 
ants rushed from beneath their miserable shed, tore it into 
pieces, and ran with the fragments to a higher ground, cry- 
ing wildly, " The river is rising ! " 

I had seen it swelling for some time, but our shanty stood 
so far above the stream, that I had no fear it would reach us. 
Scarcely, however, had the axemen escaped from theirs, and 
planted themselves on the crown of a rising ground nearer 
to us, where they were hastily constructing another shed, 
when a tremendous crash and roar were heard at some dis- 
tance in the woods, higher up the stream. It was so awful, 
I had almost said so omnipotent, in the sound, that I started 
on my feet, and shook my treasures from me. For a moment 
the Niagara of the river seemed almost to pause — it was but 
for a moment — for, instantly after, the noise of the rending 
of weighty trees, the crashing and the tearing of the rooted 
forest, rose around. The waters of the river, troubled and 



THE ftlSUft? OP THE WATERS. 373 

raging, came hurling with the wreck of the woods, sweeping 
with inconceivable fury every thing that stood within its 
scope ; a lake had burst its banks. 

The sudden rise of the waters soon, however, subsided ; 
I saw it ebbing fast, and comforted my terrified boyB. The 
rain also began to abate. Instead of those dreaded sheets of 
waves which fell upon us as if some vast ocean behind the 
forest was heaving over its spray, a thick continued small 
rain came on ; and, about an hour after sunset, streaks and 
breaks in the clouds gave some token that the worst was 
over ; — -it was not, however, so, for about the same time a 
stream appeared in the hollow, between the rising ground to 
which the axemen had retired, and the little knoll on which 
our shanty stood ; at the same time the waters in the river 
began to swell again. There was on this occasion no abrupt 
and bursting noise ; but the night was fast closing upon us, 
and a hoarse muttering and angry sound of many waters 
grew louder and louder on every side. 

The darkness and increasing rage of the river, which 
there was just twilight enough to show was rising above the 
brim of the bank, smote me with inexpressible terror. I 
snatched my children by the hand, and rushed forward to 
join the axemen ; but the torrent between us rolled so vio- 
lently that to pass was impossible, and the waters still con- 
tinued to rise. 

I called aloud to the axemen for assistance ; and, when 
they heard my desperate cries, they came out of the shed, 
some with burning brands and others with their axes glitter- 
ing in the flames ; but they could render no help ; at last, 
one man, a fearless back- woodsman, happened to observe, 
by the firelight, a tree on the bank of the torrent, which it 
in some degree overhung, and he called for others to join 
him in making a bridge. In the course of a few minutes 
the tree was laid across the stream, and we scrambled over, 
just as the river extinguished our fire and swept away our 
shanty. 

This rescue was in itself so wonderful, and the scene 
had been so terrible, that it was some time after we were 
safe before I could rouse myself to believe I was not in the 
fangs of the nightmare. My poor boys clung to me as if 
still not assured of their security, and I wept upon their 
necks in the ecstasy of an unspeakable passion of anguish 
and joy* 



374 ANTIQUITY OF FREEDOM. 

About this time the mizzling rain began to fall softer ; 
the dawn of the morning appearing through the upper 
branches of the forest, and here and ' there the stars looked 
out from their windows in the clouds. The storm was gone, 
and the deluge assuaged ; the floods all around us gradually 
ebbed away, and the insolent and unknown waters which 
had so Bwelled the river shrunk within their banks, and long 
before the morning, had retired from the scene. 

Need I say that anthems of deliverance were heard in 
our camp that night ? Oh, surely no ! The woods an- 
swered to our psalms, and waved their mighty arms ; the 
green leaves clapped their hands ; and the blessed moon, 
lifting the veil from her forehead, and looking down upon us 
through the boughs, gladdened our solemn rejoicing.— John 
Galt, in Canada. 



ANTICtUITY OF FREEDOM. 

Here are old trees, tall oaks and gnarled pines, 

That stream with gray-green mosses ; here the ground 

Was never touched by spades, and flowers spring up 

Unsown, and die ungathered. It is sweet 

To linger here, among the flitting birds 

And leaping squirrels, wandering brooks, and winds 

That shake the leaves, and scatter as they pass 

A fragrance from the cedars thickly set 

With pale blue berries. In these peaceful shades — 

Peaceful, unpruned, immeasurably old — 

My thoughts go up the long dim path of years, 

Back to the earliest days of Liberty. 

Freedom ! thou art not, as poets dream, 

A fair young girl, with light and delicate limbs, 

And wavy tresses gushing from the cap 

With which the Roman master crowned his slave, 

When he took oft' the gyves. A bearded man, 

Armed to the teeth, art thou : one mailed hand 

Grasps the broad shield, and one the sword ; thy brow, 

Glorious in beauty though it be, is scarred 

With tokens of old wars ; thy massive limbs 

Are strong and struggling. Power at thee has launched 



AOTl^tflTY OF FREEDOM. 375 

His bolts, and with his lightnings smitten thee ; 

They could not quench the life thou hast from Heaven. 

Merciless Power has dug thy dungeon deep, 

And his swart armorers, by a thousand fires, 

Have forged thy chain ; yet, while he deems thee bound, 

The links are shivered, and the prison walls 

Fall outward ; terribly thou springest forth, 

As springs the flame above a burning pile, 

And shoutest to the nations, who return 

Thy shoutings, while the pale oppressor flies. 

Thy birthright was not given by human hands. 

Thou wert twin-born with man. In pleasant fields, 

While yet our race was few, thou sat'st with him, 

To tend the quiet flock and watch the stars, 

And teach the reed to utter simple airs. 

Thou by his side, amid the tangled wood, 

Didst war upon the panther and the wolf, 

Thine only foes : and thou with him didst draw 

The earliest furrows on the mountain side, 

Soft with the Deluge. Tyranny himself, 

Thy enemy, although of reverend look, 

Hoary with many years, and far obeyed, 

Is later born than thou ; and as he meets 

The grave defiance of thine elder eye, 

The usurper trembles in his fastnesses. 

Thou shalt wax stronger with the lapse of years, 

But he shall fade into a feebler age ; 

Feebler, yet subtler. He shall weave his snares, 

And spring them on thy careless steps, and clap 

His withered hands, and from their ambush call 

His hordes to fall upon thee. He shall send 

ftuaint maskers, forms of fair and gallant mien, 

To catch thy gaze, and, uttering graceful words, 

To charm thy ear ; while his sly imps, by stealth, 

Twine round thee threads of steel, light thread on thread, 

That grow to fetters ; or bind down thy arms 

With chains concealed in chaplets. Oh ! not yet 

May'st thou unbrace thy corslet, or lay by 

Thy sword ! nor yet, 0, Freedom ! close thy lids 

In slumber ; for thine enemy never sleeps ; 



1 

J 



87t HATCH* KOBUBMAM. 

And thou most watch and combat, till the day 

Of the new Earth and Heaven. But wouldst thou rest 

A while from tumult and the frauds of men, 

These old and friendly solitudes invite 

Thy visit. They, while yet the forest trees 

Were. young upon the inviolated Earth, 

And yet (he moss-stains on the rock were new, 

Beheld thy glorious childhood and rejoiced. 

Bryant. 



NATURE'S NOBLEMAN. 

Away with false fashion, so calm and so chill, 

Where pleasure itself cannot please ; 
Away with cold breeding, that faithlessly still 

Affects to be quite at its ease ; 
For the deepest in feeling is highest in rank, 

The freest is first in the band, 
And Nature's own Nobleman, friendly and frank, 

Is a man with hiB heart in his hand ! 

Fearless in honesty, gentle yet just, 

He warmly can love — and can hate, 
Nor will he bow down with his face in the dust 

To Fashion's intolerant state : 
For best in good breeding and highest in rank, 

Though lowly or poor in the land, 
Is Nature's own Nobleman, friendly and frank, 

The man with his heart in his hand ! 

His fashion is passion, sincere and intense, 

His impulses, simple and true, 
Yet tempered by judgment, and taught by good sense, 

And cordial with me, and with you : 
For the finest in manners, as highest in rank, 

It is you, man ! or you, man ! who stand 
Nature's own nobleman, friendly and frank, 

A man with his heart in his hand ! 

Tupper. 



HISTOHY OF THE HO0. 577 

HISTORY OF THE HOG. 

What is the early history of the hog ? 

This animal appears to have been known in the remotest 
ages, and yet its history, until within a few centuries, is clothed 
in obscurity. The circumstance of the Israelites being so 
Btrictly forbidden to eat its flesh, has been urged by some 
writers to show that they were familiar with its use. 

How teas the hog esteemed by the Israelites and Egypt- 
ians T 

They both abstained from the flesh, regarding the animal 
as unclean. The Israelites held it in such detestation, that 
they would not even pronounce its name, alluding to it by 
some such title as " that beast," or " that thing." It is said 
that if an Egyptian touched a hog at any time, except on the 
feast-day of the moon, when he was allowed to eat of it, he 
was obliged to purify his person and clothing by plunging 
into the Nile. The swineherds formed an isolated race, 
considered as outcasts from society, being forbidden to enter 
a temple or marry into other families. 

Hoio was the Jwg esteemed by the Greeks and Romans ? 

Very highly by both nations, and with the latter the art 
of raising it became a study. It was their design to render 
the flesh as delicate as possible, and, to effect this, the poor 
beast was actually tormented to death, in various ways too 
horrible to be described. A celebrated dish, consisting of an 
entire carcase, stuffed with delicacies of every description, 
and bathed in wines and rich gravies, became so expensive 
that a sumptuary law was passed respecting it. Another 
great dish was a pig served whole, one side having been 
roasted while the other was boiled. 

Whence originated our domestic hog ? 

It is supposed to have been derived from the wild boar, 
which is a native of Asia, Africa, and Europe. The wild 
boar is not found in America, and the large herds of wild 
swine that roam over certain districts, are only descendants 
of the stock brought to the continent at the time of its settle- 
ment. The general appearance of the wild boar and the 
domesticated animal are much alike. And it has been as- 
certained that the first named, when brought under the in- 
fluence of man, gradually loses its peculiarities of form, and 
changes its habits of life. 



$78 HISTO&Y OF THE HOG. 

How is the wild boar described ? 

He is generally of a dusky brown color, of large size, and 
possessing a remarkable degree of strength. He is active 
and very fierce. He is partial to thick woods, in the vicinity 
of a swamp, or of water, and makes his living principally of 
herbs, fruits, and roots. The females and their young are 
accustomed to herd together, but he wanders through the 
forest alone, conscious of his power, and neither seeking nor 
avoiding an enemy. He is supposed to live about thirty 
years. Hunting the wild boar, it is well known, has "in all 
ages been a favorite sport. 

In what manner is he hunted ? 

It is done by dogs, or else he is taken on surprise in the 
night by the light of the moon. As he runs slowly and 
leaves a strong scent behind him, he is easily pursued and 
overtaken. This is particularly the case with those which 
are old, the younger ones run swift and a great distance 
without stopping, so that they are taken with difficulty. 
During the day the wild boar usually hides himself in the 
thickest and most unfrequented part of the wood ; and in the 
evening, and at night, he goes out to seek for food. 

How long has the keeping of swine prevailed in France 
and Spain ? 

From time immemorial By the accounts of ancient 
writers, it appears, that the people of those countries kept 
immense droves of swine, which supplied at one time nearly 
the whole of Italy with meat. 

How long has it been practiced in England ? 

Our earliest accounts of the country speak of the large 
herds of swine, that constituted the wealth of the inhabitants, 
and chiefly supplied their tables. According to legendary 
history, the business was conducted on an extensive scale as 
far back as the year 863 b. o. The hot springs of Bath, so 
celebrated for their medicinal qualities, are said to have been 
discovered in that year, in consequence of the following cir- 
cumstance. A young prinoe who was afflicted with the 
leprosy, disguised himself, and, at a distance from his father's 
court, performed the humble duties of swineherd. He no- 
ticed that the animals in his care were cured of a disease of 
the skin, by wallowing in a bed of warm mud ; and, by adopt- 
ing the same course of treatment, he was in a short time 
permanently restored to health. 



HISTORY OF THE HOG. 379 

Has the art of breeding been successfully conducted in 
England ? 

Under the care and skilful management of the English 
farmer, a very important change has taken place in the char- 
acter of the swine of that country. The wild boar and the 
old English hog have both given way to the improved breeds, 
each of which has a character and a name. Nearly all of 
these improvements have been introduced to the American 
breeder. 

What is said of the Chinese hog ? 

It appears to have produced all our modern improved 
breeds, by having been crossed either with the wild boar, or 
the old English hog. It was brought from China by ship- 
masters on their return voyages, although it has been af- 
firmed that the choicest animals can be procured by the favor 
of some official only. In several instances it has been 
brought to this country, and here, as in England, its inter- 
mixture with the old established breeds has been of great 
benefit. It is itself not so well adapted to the farmer's 
wants, as the crosses thus produoed. 

Which have been distinguished in England as the best 
breeds ? 

A few only of them can be named ; for, to detail the 
origin and good qualities of the whole number, would re- 
quire a volume of no mean size. The most conspicuous 
within the last few years, are the Leicestershire, the Kenil- 
worth, the Woburn, the Essex, the Improved Suffolk, and 
the Berkshire. The last named is generally considered the 
best on account of their smallness of bone, hardihood, fecund- 
ity, aptitude to fatten upon a little food, together with their 
early maturity. Some animals have attained the weight of 
over eight hundred and fifty pounds. 

When was the hog introduced into America ? 

Probably in one of the voyages of Columbus, but the first 
reliable account of its introduction upon the continent, is of 
its having been brought from Cuba to Florida, in the year 
1538, by Ferdinand de Soto. In 1553, the Portuguese took 
it to Nova Scotia and Newfoundland. The French carried 
it with them to Acadia, or New France, in 1604 ; and, five 
years afterward, six hundred swine were brought to James- 
town in Virginia. From its domestic habits and wonderful 
fecundity, it is an animal that was every way suited to the 



390 HBTO&Y OF TRB HOG. 

wants of the colonists, in their first years of toil and 
The hogs were turned into the woods to procure their own 
subsistence, and they multiplied with such rapidity, that in 
1617, it became necessary to erect a palisade around James- 
town, in order to prevent their troublesome incnnaona. 

What was the cliaracter of the swine thus introduced? 

Of that nothing certain is known. The animal brought 
by the French and Spaniards was, probably, of the black 
Spanish breed, which possessed many good points, and which, 
it is thought, has had a perceptible influence upon the whole 
stock in the southern part of the United States. The old 
English breed was, without a doubt, the one introduced into 
the English settlements, and shows traces of its blood in the 
awkward, long-legged, long-nosed, small-bodied, unprofitable 
brutes that were more common a few years since, than at 
the present time. 

What teas the first improved breed brought to the 
United States ? 

In the latter part of the eighteenth century, a pair of 
Woburn pigs was sent to General Washington by the Duke 
of Bedford, under whose care they had originated. This 
breed is supposed to have sprung from a cross of the Chinese 
upon the best native stock of England. The messenger dis- 
honestly sold the pigs in Maryland, where they laid the 
foundation of an extensive family, that has exercised a bene- 
ficial influence upon the old breeds throughout the northern 
states. The character of the Woburn breed stands high, but 
it is thought to have lost its original purity, in this country 
as well as in England. 

Where did the By field, or Grass, breed originate ? 

In the town of Byfield, Massachusetts. About thirty 
years ago, a farmer one day picked up in market a fine look- 
ing pig, the progeny of which were distinguished for their 
handsome shape, and other good qualities. The breed became 
very popular, and were widely disseminated; but, in the 
course of time they were superseded in the public favor by 
other varieties of greater pretensions. 

To whom does the Mackay breed owe its name ? 

To Capt. John Mackay of Boston, Massachusetts. It 

originated somewhere about the year 1825, and was brought 

to its present perfection by successive crosses with some fine 

animals that, in his different voyages, he obtained in several 



HISTORY OF THE HO*. gftj 

parti of the world. It is now highly esteemed, and is bred 
by numbers of our best farmers— the Hon. Daniel Webster 
among others. „ 

When was the Berkshire breed introduced into the 
United States? 

As early as 1823, by the late John Brentnall, an Eng- 
lishman settled in Canterbury, N. Y. Other importations 
have been made from time to time, and no reason exists 
why the blood should not be as pure as in England. The 
Berkshires were favorably received, and at one time sold at 
very high prices. Without doubt, it is one of the best — if 
not the very best, — breeds in the country, but its merits now 
appear to be greatly undervalued. 

Are these all the breeds that have attracted attention in 
the United States? 

By no means, and to enumerate them, as well as describe 
their respective characteristics, is altogether different from 
our plan in the present condensed summary. They have 
been produced by frequent, and, in many cases, injudicious 
crossings of the old varieties ; hence a large proportion of 
the whole number find little to recommend them, excepting 
in the eyes of their original breeders. Among the foreign 
breeds, the Improved Suffolk, imported and bred by William 
Stickney, Esq., of Boston, stands conspicuous ; while the 
Medley breed of C. N. Bement, of Albany, N. Y., deserves a 
' favorable consideration among those that have originated on 
our own soil. 

How is the hog esteemed in the United States ? 

It is raised extensively in every section — few persons 
being so poor that each one cannot maintain his pig — but the 
annual number produced in the western states is almost in- 
credible. According to the census of 1850, the whole num- 
ber in the country at the first of June wae^ 1 ^ <?*»} * ^*thus 
showing that they form an important item of our riational 
wealth. 

What is the general character of the hog? 

It is generally considered stupid, intractable, rapacious, 
and filthy. But, with some persons it has been ' a question 
whether this character be not mainly owing to the misman- 
agement of the keeper, instead of being the animal's natural 
disposition. In its native state, it is not destitute of affection 
for others of its kind, herding with them for mutual safety. 



ggf H1ST0ST OV TKB BM. 

Instances are not wanting of its tractability, for it has been 
taught the tricks of a hunting dog, and in Italy to discover 
truffles that are buried a few inches below the surface of the 
ground. Who has not seen or heard of various learned 
pigs, that show a degree of sagacity quite unusual in the 
brute creation ? Its voracity may be attributable to the ex- 
cellence of its digestive organs furnished by nature ; and may 
not its fierceness and bad temper be frequently the result of 
rough treatment? Surely it is not so filthy as has been 
averred, for it loves a clean bed, and its habit of rolling in 
the mud is merely to cool its skin, as weti»as to protect 'itself 
against the attacks of insects. 

What are the good qualities of the hog ? 

Although naturally the inhabitant of a warm climate, 
yet it adapts itself to almost every country. It comes soon 
to maturity, and increases rapidly, being more prolific than 
any other domestic animal, except the rabbit. It is easily 
susceptible of improvement, for no kind of live stock can be 
so quickly moulded to the fancy of the breeder. It thrives 
with comparatively little attention, and will live— nay, grow 
—upon the refuse of the field and kitchen, consuming what 
would otherwise be wasted, or prove a nuisance upon the 
premises. We add, the value of its dung as a fertilizer. 

For what purpose is the hog valuable ? 

The skin is used by the saddler, and the bristles are em* 
ployed by the shoemaker and the manufacturer of brushes. 
The bones, when reduced to charcoal, are used by the sugar 
refiner. The excellence of the flesh is well known, and will 
be attested by every nation excepting the Jews, Egyptians, 
and Mahommedans. It takes salt more kindly than any 
other meat, and is, therefore, better capable of preservation 
for household use, naval and military stores, or exportation. 
The lard is highly esteemed by the cook in culinary prepa- 
rations ; it moreover yields, when subjected to pressure, a 
pure limpid oil, called oleine, which is used for illumination, 
wool-dressing, and upon machinery, leaving a substance 
called stearine that resembles spermaceti, and is valuable for 
making candles. At the west, when pork is cheap, it has 
become the practice to extract the lard from the whole car- 
case, after the hams have been taken out, by means of a 
steam bath. In fact, every part of the animal — even the 
head, feet, and intestines — is found useful, and contributing 
as well to social comfort as to public wealth. 



m&toRY OP THE HOG. ' 339. 

?P%a£ es said 0/**^* animal senses in the hog ? 

The sense of touch is very imperfect, owing probably 
to the thickness of the skin ; but their other senses are good, 
and the huntsmen know that wild boars both see, hear, and 
smell, at a great distance ; since, in-order to surprise them, 
they wait in silence during the night, and place themselves 
under the wind, to prevent the boars perceiving their smell, 
of which they are sensible at a great distance, and which 
always immediately makes them change their road. 

What is said of the taste of the hog ? 

In their taste hags discover a strange degree of caprice ; 
for whilst they are singularly delicate in their choice of herbs, 
they will devour with voracity various kinds of animal sub- 
stances, even the most nauseous and putrid carrion. 

How is the hog affected by metereological influences ? 

He seems to be peculiarly affected by the approach of 
stormy weather. On such occasions, he runs about in a 
restless and excited manner, sometimes uttering loud cries 
or taking up sticks and carrying them in its mouth ? 

What anecdote does Mr. Craven relate of an American 
sow? 

This animal, says he, passed her days in the woods, with 
a numerous litter of pigs, but returned regularly to the house 
in the evening, to share with the family a substantial sup- 
per. One of her pigs was, however, slipped away to be 
roasted ; in a day or two afterwards another ; and then a 
third. It would appear that this careful mother knew the 
number of her offspring, and missed those that were taken 
from her, for after this she came alone to her evening meal. 
This occurring repeatedly, she was watched out of the wood, 
and observed to drive back her pigs from its extremity, 
grunting, with much earnestness, in a manner so intelligible, 
that they retired at her command, and waited patiently for 
her return. 

What anecdote is related of a pig in the Naturalist's 
IAbrary ? 

Early in the month, it is said, a pig that had been 
kept several days a close prisoner to his sty, was let out 
for the purpose of its being cleaned and his bed replenished . 
On opening the sty-door he anticipated the purpose of his 
liberation by running to the stable, from which he carried 
several sheaves of straw to his sty, holding them in his 



Sf4 mfLUSHOB OF 8CBVOB ON ABUCULTVMJL. 

moath by the band. The straw being intended for another 
purpose, it was carried back to the stable ; but oar porter, 
seizing a more favorable opportunity, regained it to the 
amazement of several persons, who were pleased to observe 
the extraordinary instinct of this wonderful pig. 

What anecdote is related of a pig belonging to Mr. 
m? 

He says the pig became so attached to a bull-dog that it 
would follow and sport with him, and follow her master, 
when he was accompanied by this dog, for five or six miles. 
The dog was fond of swimming, and the pig imitated this 
propensity ; and if any thing was thrown into the water for 
the dog to fetch out, the pig would follow and dispute the 
prize with him very cleverly and energetically. These two 
animals invariably slept together. 

What anecdote is related by Mr. Henderson of a sow ? 

I have a sow, sayB he, of a good breed, so docile that she 
will suffer my youngest son, three years of age, to climb 
upon her back and ride her about for an half hour at a time, 
and more ; when she is tired of the fun, she lays herself 
down, carefully avoiding hurting her young jockey. He often 
■hares his bread and meat with her. 



INFLUENCE OF SCIENCE ON AGRICULTURE. 

Famines have depopulated whole districts, and millions 
of the human race have died of starvation, and yet we have 
no evidence that all this suffering and all the evils necessa- 
rily connected with them, have ever operated to the improve- 
ment of agriculture, or have been instrumental in causing two 
blades of grass to grow where only one grew before. The ag- 
ricultural world has jogged along as if nothing had happened, 
and as if nothing could be done to save men from these 
wide spreading calamities. When, however, the mind has 
been awakened by the light of science, when discoveries are 
announced which, if they illuminate only a small part of his 
field of labor, it usually happens that an impulse is given to 
his dormant powers which propels him forward in a career 
of improvement. What calamity, therefore, fails to pro- 
duce, what the strongest incentives fail to do, is in truth 



EfFLUENCE Or SCIENCE ON AGRICULTURE. 395 

effected by an agency the least expected, the gentle light of 
discovery beaming from a kindred department of knowledge. 
The same things happen in morals ; earthquakes swallow 
up their thousands, and their continual shocks day by day 
startle the living, but they have never created or even im- 
proved the religious sentiment ; their frequent alarms and 
the exposure to such imminent dangers and continual suf- 
ferings, have produced rather a recklessness of conduct than 
a life of religion and charity. 

It is not my purpose to stop here and inquire into the 
cause of such seeming anomalies in the human constitution ; 
it is sufficient to allude to the tacts. I pass on to say that 
agriculture had made only a feeble effort to improve its me- 
chanical modes of tillage until the period when chemistry 
had so far advanced that it was an established truth that its 
principles stood in very intimate relationship to it. So botany 
and geology which had been cultivated as independent 
systems, about the same time with chemistry began also to 
be studied in their relations to other sciences, and hence 
these, together with physiology and other collateral branches, 
implanted clearer views of the wants of agriculture, as well 
as to furnish striking illustrations of the true nature and im- 
port of the principles which lie at the foundation of its system. 

It is true that practical agriculture is not deeply interested 
in questions relating to life in the abstract or .essence ; but 
certainly much more so to those powers which modify or 
control its developments. These powers belong to the deep 
and profound inquiries which in later times are destined to 
achieve triumphs for her, of a still more decided character 
than the world has yet witnessed. It is the peculiar province 
of the sciences to improve the outward condition of men. 
Literature had attained its highest state of excellence, and 
yet men were not discontented in hovels, nor with straw beds 
nor coarse food spread upon rough boards. Literature was 
brilliant as well as solid in Queen Elizabeth's day, and yet 
laboring men were more poorly fed and cared for, than the 
cattle in the period in which we are permitted to live. 

Times have therefore changed ; the necessities of men 
have increased — the value of time is felt — the supremacy of 
mind is acknowledged — the schemes of life are of a more ex- 
alted character— the destiny of the race begins to assume 
its importance; and now awakened from slumber, man 
17 



386 INFLUENCE OF SCIENCE ON AGRXCULTUKB. 

tames the wildest elements and compels them to speed bis 
progress towards an universal dominion oven the powers of 
matter. Light paints for him pictures true to life. Light- 
ning bears his commands. He imprisons the steam and 
compels it to roll his car over mountains and through Tallies, 
and transport his products to the most distant parts, over 
water and over land. The mind once aroused, turns itself 
to find where it may still have something more to do. Ag- 
riculture could not be overlooked, the art which makes all 
other arts possible, and which perfected is civilization itself. 

Agriculture is civilization, and hence its progress is 
linked with the highest destiny of the race. But regarded 
in a subordinate light and in following out the practical re- 
quirements of the age, that of drawing from the earth greater 
supplies of bread, it was soon found that it might be over- 
taxed. Such a result could not fail to open the whole field 
of inquiry relating to production and exhaustion, and the 
relation in which they stood to each other. From exhaustion 
originated the analysis of soils and the more modern analysis 
of productions in which are locked up the elements they 
have drawn from this store-house ; the first leads to a knowl- 
edge of what and how much the soil contains ; the latter, of 
what and how much has been taken from it. So also the 
fact is brought out by inference what must be returned to 
maintain it at least in its present state of fertility, or in- 
crease it to an indefinite extent. 

The state of agricultural knowledge at the present time, 
is characterized by an accumulation of facts which are un- 
classified and unarranged. They are like the brick and 
stone piled before and around the site of a great edifice about 
to be founded, and which are ready to be arranged in the 
walls of a spacious building. Many of these facts it is true, 
have a definite signification, or in other words their relations 
are well known, but a great majority of them have no known 
collocation, although they clearly belong to the edifice. So 
too, to keep up the simile, I may with truth remark that the 
master builder is yet to be found, whose sagacity and skill is 
equal to the task of putting together the discordant parts, 
and to construct from them a symmetrical whole. 

Notwithstanding the illustration I have employed to 
■how the view which I entertain of the state of agricultural 
science, it is still true, that it requires only a moderate 



ttttLttENCE 0? 8CTENCE ON AGRICULTURE. 337 

amount of information of chemistry and the collateral sci- 
ences to understand many of the applications of the princi- 
ples upon which the practices of husbandry are based. 
When I speak, therefore, of the accumulation of facts, I mean 
to be understood, that it is their relation to a system and not 
to the meaning which they may have as individual facts. 
For example, the good effects of draining may be explained 
on philosophical principles, though the theory of agriculture 
is yet to be put into form and shape. Draining operates bene- 
ficially in many ways ; it may merely remove superfluous 
water by the construction of artificial underground channels, 
or it may, in addition to this, carry off water charged with 
astringent salts which are poisonous to the more valuable 
plants. In either case, the principal result upon which the 
good effects depend is, the permanent elevation of the tem- 
perature of the soil. Surfaces constantly bathed in water, 
and which are supplied with this element from living 
springs, cannot attain the temperature required for the 
better grasses, cereals, or esculents, so long as it is in this 
condition. The principles of draining then are perfectly 
understood, and this is the case with many other agricultural 
practices. The practice of hoeing or stirring the soil is far 
more general than draining, but the principles upon which 
the practice is founded are not so well understood. Generally 
farmers suppose that the object is to kill the weeds ; bo far 
it is good ; but the effect of hoeing is not confined to this 
single result ; for hoeing, when all the weeds are already 
extirpated is followed by the most decided advantage to the 
crop ; hence something more than the destruction of weeds 
comes to pass. One result undoubtedly arises from the ab- 
sorbent powers of a fresh surface. Nutritive matters, such as 
carbonic acid and ammonia dissolved in atmospheric air, are 
readily taken up in this state of the surface, but an old and 
indurated surface becomes inert and inactive. The power 
of surface alone is effectual in promoting absorption and de- 
composition of the most active bodies. The perfect com- 
bustion of vegetable and animal matter takes place first 
upon the surface, upon which they rest. 

There is probably no substance in use as a manure 
which as frequently disappoints the farmer as plaster. In 
the first place it may operate far more effectually than is 
expected, and again it may have no effect whatever ; and, 



388 EfFLUBNCE OF SCIENCE OH AORICULTUK. 

finally! when it has operated very beneficially for a time, it 
eeaaes to do so. This is what is called plaster sickness. 
Now these facts ought to be explained. On what principle 
does plaster ever promote vegetation ? Liebig says that it 
is by the absorption of ammonia ; sulphate of ammonia being 
the product of change. Were this always true, I can see in 
it reasons why it should always benefit crops. Sulphate of 
ammonia always does, but plaster does not. But there is 
another reason why plaster is useful. Its sulphur is wanted 
in the nitrogenous bodies — the protein compounds. It may, 
too, operate well in virtue of its lime, which is an element of 
the highest importance to vegetables. There may be, there- 
fore, three reasons why plaster promotes vegetation — the 
supply of ammonia for the nitrogenous bodies, the supply of 
sulphur for the same, and finally, the supply of lime. But 
why it should cease to do good, is a question which has been 
answered only hypothetically. 

We may suppose that in the first place the soil requires, 
at the time, no additional matter which plaster itself can 
furnish ; it is in this case a negative. When it ceases to do 
good at the end of a few years, it may be from exhaustion ; 
that is, the soil originally light, may be deprived of phos- 
phoric acid, of chlorine, of magnesia or soluble silica and the 
alkalies particularly, at a much earlier period than if plaster 
had not been used. It has aided in the removal of a larger 
quantity of inorganic matter, different from itself, in a less 
time than if it had not been employed. If a crop is increased 
one-third, it has taken up one-third more of the potash of 
the soil than would have been obtained without it. If this 
is true, we may see that the further use of plaster will be 
worse than useless. 

There is nothing plainer than this, that every element 
which is found in a plant in analysis, is necessary to its con- 
stitution, and is liable to be removed in a series of croppings. 
This leads to the necessity of supplying it directly ; but what 
element or elements may be wanting, can be known for a 
certainty only by analysis. In plaster sickness, therefore, 
our remedies need not be hypothetical, if we pursue the 
method proposed ; analysis will reveal the cause of plaster 
sickness, and probably any other sickness which follows from 
constant cultivation. 

The application of science to agriculture, appears of the 



DISTRICT SCHOOLS IN THE COUNTRY. 399 

highest importance when viewed in this light ; as pointing 
out first, the composition of productive and barren soils, and 
afterward, the true method of maintaining and restoring 
them to fertility at the least possible expense in labor or 
cash. In the same line of investigation lies the business of 
determining the composition of the inorganic matter which 
vegetables remove from the soil ; indeed, in one sense, this 
work should precede the other, for it is by the composition of 
the inorganic matter of plants tljat all that " is essential to 
a fertile soil is determined." But chemists went to work 
the other way, and determined first, the composition of the 
soil ; and inferred from their results what they supposed on 
the one hand constituted its fertility, or what on the other 
its barrenness. This method was unquestionably defective, 
and probably for that cause alone gave a doubtful importance 
to the value of the analysis of soils. 

The analysis of soils, and of the inorganic matter of 
plants, stood in very singular relations to each other ; the 
elements of the former, which are in the smallest quantities, 
formed by far the largest in the latter ; thus the alkalies and 
phosphates of soils are always inconsiderable in amount, and 
hence were not sought for, while in the parts of plants they 
formed by far the largest proportion. Fertility depends upon 
those elements of which only traces appear, where only one 
hundred grains of the soil are employed in analysis. When, 
therefore, an analysis of two soils, one a fertile one and the 
other known to be barren from experience, were left un- 
finished, that is, those elements which were small in amount, 
were not sought for, it was impossible to see an essential 
difference in their composition ; the barren soil looked as well 
on paper as the fertile one, and so it was said that no benefit 
could arise from the analysis of soils. This I believe is a 
fair statement of the case. I have now I believe said enough 
upon the points to enable you to form correct views of the 
subjects in question. — From an Address before the Nev>~ 
York State Agricultural Society, at Albany, 1849, by 
Prof. £. Emmons, M. D. 



DISTRICT SCHOOLS IN THE COUNTRY. 

Education is one of those indefinite terms which admit of 
.almost any latitude. In its real and true signification, it is 



390 DISiUUl 80ROOL8 IN THB COUNTRY. 

a progressive, and never ending work. The whole life time 
of men is but a movement onward, and it is perhaps safest 
to believe the elevated and beautiful idea that, throughout 
all eternity, man will continue in knowledge and advance in 
wisdom. But it is not in this broad view that I now pro- 
pose to regard the term education. I define it for present 
purposes as a disciplinary process, fitting the mind for the 
business of life ; not only the accumulation of knowledge and 
intelligence, but the acquisition of habits of order, industry 
and economy in proportion iot the active duties and responsi- 
bilities of life. This work belongs to the school room ; there 
the boy is to be prepared for manhood. 

In the process of time nature will develop the full capa- 
city of the physical system, but the mind is not made of the 
same material, and cannot alone come to its full strength 
and capacity. Its food and nourishment are made of differ- 
ent matter than that which feeds and invigorates the body ; 
it must have the aid of other minds — must have facta and 
figures, arbitrary rules and distinct principles, and obtain 
them, not by instinct, but by hard study, severe thinking, and 
the rigid application of the mental faculties. 

The school-room, the school-book, and the school-master 
are these important requisites in training the mind and 
bringing out its powers and energy. Mind, like the body, ia 
the work of the great Architect, it is the gift of God, and 
may and does exist in all its glory and majesty in the poor 
man as in the rich ; it knows no distinction, only in its means 
of development and in its educational polish. Then how 
glorious to educate all the people — how high and solemn 
the duty to give all the advantages of mental culture. The 
district school belongs emphatically to the masses ; they are 
the peoples' school ; they know no caste, nor recognize any 
distinction, but broadly unfold their beautiful panoply and 
cover all alike, and say, without respect to person or condi- 
tion, "come and partake of my benefits." God has given 
the mind ; ours is the duty to unfold the power and prepare 
for systematic and useful action, this richest and mightiest of 
God's gifts. 

It is the highest and proudest boast of the Empire State 
that she has thus provided a system for the education of her 
children. Rightly does she judge, and wisely act, when she 
thus provides for the safety of herself and the elevation of 



DISTRICT SCHOOLS IN THE COUNTRY. 391 

her people. And have the farmers no interest in this mat- 
ter ? Yes, they have most of all ; for they are more numer- 
ous than all other classes. The district school is truly almost 
exclusively their own ; it is to most of them their only school, 
and it behoves them to look well to these seminaries, so pe- 
culiarly their own. Their children, nine out of ten, if not 
ninety-nine but of every hundred, will be educated in them, 
for they have nowhere else to go. Then let the district 
school be elevated, improved and^made what it should and 
may be. As one improvement almost indispensably neces- 
sary to the farmers, there should be, and must be, a depart- 
ment devoted to agriculture. I can discover no reason why 
it should not form a regular branch of common school educa- 
tion ; nor why every college and academy in the state should 
not have their professorship department devoted to agri- 
culture as a distinct branch of study and education. 

Is there any thing in the subject which precludes this ? 
Is there any difficulty in reducing to a regular science, and 
of so managing and classifying its different branches, as to 
permit it being made a part of the educational process of the 
young ? I think not ; but on the contrary, agriculture is a 
science, possessing, in all its ramifications, distinctive fea- 
tures; is governed by fixed facts and unerring principles, 
which the young farmer should learn by study and close ap- 
plication of his mental faculties. They should be engraven 
on his mind when it is young and plastic, and capable of re- 
ceiving and retaining impressions, and this- subject may, I 
imagine, be introduced into every district school in the state, 
without any detriment to the branches now taught in those 
schools, and without interfering with the regular course of 
common school education. 

Much reflection has satisfied my own mind of the great 
importance of the subject. I regard it as an essential step 
towards the elevation of the farming interests — a necessary 
ingredient in lifting up to their real position the farmer of 
this country. The state has been beneficent in her school 
funds ; but the farmer has not yet had his full share of the 
benefits accruing from them. He has been content to look 
on listlessly, and let other classes reap the harvest which his 
own industry has provided. Let him now arise from his 
lethargy, and begin to cast about and see if there be no place 
where his sons can go and learn to become farmers, as well 



3fS DOMESTIC EDUCATION OF FEMALES. 

as doctors, lawyers, and divines. It seems to me that* the 
farmers have a right to use a portion of the money which 
belongs to them to advance their own calling — not, indeed, 
to tear down, or prejudice others, but to elevate their own 
business to the dignity of a science, to be taught and learned 
in the schools of the state. — D. A. Ogden, in tfae Genesee 
Farmer. 



DOMESTIC EDUCATION OF FEMALES. 

The greatest danger to females, at the present time, is 
the neglect of domestic education. Not only to themselves, 
but to husbands, families and the community at large, does 
this danger impend. By far the greatest amount of happi- 
ness in civilized life is found in the domestic relations, and most 
of this depends on the domestic culture and habits of the 
wife and mother. Let her be intellectually educated as 
highly as possible ; let her moral and social nature receive 
the highest graces of vigor and refinement ; but along with 
these let the domestic virtues find ample place. 

We cannot say much to our daughters about their being 
hereafter wives and mothers, but we ought to think much of 
it, and to give the thought prominence in our plans for their 
education. Good wives they cannot be, at least for men of 
intelligence, without mental culture ; good mothers they 
certainly cannot be without it ; and more than this, they 
cannot be such wives as men need, unless they are good 
housekeepers ; they cannot be good housekeepers without a 
thorough and practical teaching to that end. Our daughters 
should be practically taught to bake, wash, sweep, cook, set 
table, make up beds, sew, knit, darn stockings, take care of 
children, nurse, and do every thing pertaining to the order, 
neatness, economy and happiness of the household. 

All this they can learn as well as not, and better than 
not. It need not interfere in the least with their intellectual 
education, nor with the highest style of refinement. On the 
contrary, it shall greatly contribute thereto. Only let that 
time, or even a portion of it, which is worse than wasted in 
idleness, sauntering, gossip, frivolous reading, and the various 
modern female dissipations which kill time and health, be 



THE BEAUTY 07 TREES. 393 

devoted to domestic duties and domestic education, and our 
daughters would soon be all that can be desired. A benign, 
regenerating influence would go forth through all the fami- 
lies of the land. Health and joy would sparkle in many a 
now lustreless eye ; the bloom would return to grace many 
a faded cheek ; and doctor's bills would fast give way to bilk* 
of wholesome fare. — Rev. E. H. Winslow. 



THE BEAUTY OF TREES. 

What can be more beautiful than the trees ? — their lofty 
trunks, august in their simplicity, asserting to the most in- 
experienced eye their infinite superiority over the imitative 
pillars of man's pride — their graceful play of wide-spreading 
branches, and all the delicate and glorious machinery of buds, 
leaves, flowers, and fruit, that with more than magical ef- 
forts burst from the naked and rigid twigs with all the rich 
and heaven-breathing, delectable odors, pure and animating 
essences, pouring out spices and medicinals, under brilliant 
and unimaginably varied colors, and making music from the 
softest and most melancholy under-tones to the full organ- 
peal of the tempest ! 

We wonder not that trees have been the admiration of 
men in all periods and nations of the world. What is the 
richest country without trees ? What barren and monoto- 
nous spot can they not convert into paradise ? Xerxes, in 
the midst of his most ambitious enterprise, stopped his vast 
army to contemplate the beauty of a tree. Cicero, from the 
throng, and exertion, and anxiety of the forum, was accus- 
tomed, Pliny tells us, to steal forth to a grove of plane-trees 
to refresh and invigorate his spirits. In the Scaptan Grove, 
the same author adds, Thucydides was supposed to have 
composed his noble histories. The Greek and Roman clas- 
sics, indeed, abound with expressions of admiration; but 
above all, as the Bible surpasses, in the splendor and majesty 
of its poetry, all books in the world, so is its sylvan arbor- 
escent imagery the most bold and beautiful. 

Beneath some spreading tree is the ancient patriarch 
revealed to us, sitting in contemplation, or receiving the visit 
of angels ; and what a calm and dignified picture of primeval 
17* 



J94 OT& WJNDR9U8 ATM08PHBBS. 

life is presented to our imagination at the mention of Debo- 
rah, the wife of Lapidoth, judging the twelve tribes of Israel, 
between Ramah and Bethel, in Mount Ephraim, beneath 
the palm-tree of Deborah ! The oak of Bashan and the cedar 
of Lebanon are but other and better names for glory and 
power. The Tine, the olive, and the fig-tree are imperish- 
able emblems of pence, plenty, and festivity. David, in his 
Psalms ; Solomon, in his Songs and Proverbs ; the prophets, 
in the sublime outpourings of their awful inspiration ; and 
Christ, in his parables — those most beautiful and perfect of 
all allegories — luxuriate in signs and similies drawn from 
the fair trees of the East. — Wm. Howitt. 



OUR WONDROUS ATMOSPHERE. 

The atmosphere rises above us with his cathedral dome, 
arching towards the heavens, of which it is the most familiar 
synonym and symbol. It floats about us like that grand 
object which the apostle John saw in his vision — " a sea of 
glass like unto crystal." So massive is it, that when it be- 
gins to Btir, it tosses about great ships like playthings, and 
sweeps cities and forests, like snow-flakes, to destruction be- 
fore it. And yet it is so mobile, that we have lived years in 
it before we can be persuaded that it exists at all, and the 
great bulk of mankind never realised the truth that they are 
bathed in an ocean of air. Its weight is so enormous that 
iron shivers before it like glass ; yet a soap bubble sails 
through it with impunity, and the tiniest insect waves it 
aside with its wing. 

The atmosphere ministers lavishly to all the senses. We 
touch it not, but it touches us. Its warm south winds bring 
back color to the pale face of the invalid — its cool west winds 
refresh the fevered brow, and make the blood mantle in our 
cheeks ; even its north blasts brace into new vigor the har- 
dened children of our rugged climate. The eye is indebted 
to it for all the magnificence of sun-rise, the full brightness 
of mid-day, the chastened radiance of the gloaming, and 
the clouds that cradle near the setting sun. But for it the 
rainbow would want its " triumphal arch," and the winds 
would not send their fleecy messengers on errands round the 



THE RETURN OF SPRING. 395 

heavens. The cold would not either shed snow feathers on 
the earth, nor would drops of dew gather on the flowers. 
The kindly rain would never fall, nor hail storm, nor fog 
diversify the face of the sky. Our naked globe would turn 
its tanned and unshadowed forehead to the sun, and one 
dreary, monotonous blaze of light and heat dazzle and burn 
up all things. 

Were there no atmosphere, the evening sun would in a 
moment set, and, without warning, plunge the earth in dark- 
ness. But the air keeps in her hand a sheaf of his rays, and 
lets them slip but slowly through her fingers ; so that the 
shadows of evening are gathered by degrees, and the flowers 
have time to bow their heads, and each creature space to 
find a place of rest, and to nestle to repose. In the morning, 
the garish sun would at one bound burst from the bosom of 
night, and blaze above the horizon ; but the air watches for 
his coming, and sends at first but one little ray to announce 
his approach, and then another, and by and by a handful, 
and so gently draws aside the curtain of night, and slowly 
lets the light fall on the face of the sleeping earth, till her 
eyelids open, and like man, she goeth forth again to her la- 
bor till the evening. — Quarterly Review. 



THE RETURN OF SPRING. 

Dear as the dove, whose waiting wing 

The green leaf ransomed from the main, 
Thy genial glow, returning Spring, 

Comes to our shore again ; 
For thou hast been a wanderer long, 

On many a fair and foreign strand, 
In balm and beauty, sun and song, 

Passing from land to land. 

Thou bring' st the blossoms to the bee, 

To earth a robe of emerald dye, 
The leaflet to the naked tree, 

And rainbow in the sky : 
I feel thy blest benign control 

The pulses of my youth restore ; 
Opening the spring of sense and soul, 

To love and joy once more. 



396 TflE KINGS OF TUB SOIL. 

I will not people thy green bowers, 

With sorrow's pale and spectre band ; 
Or blend with thine the faded flowers 

Of memory's distant land ; 
For thou wert surely never given 

To wake regret from pleasures gone ; 
But like an angel sent from Heaven, 

To soothe creation's groan. 

Then, while the groves thy garlands twine 

Thy spirit breathes in flower and tree, 
My heart shall kindle at thy shrine, 

And worship God in thee : 
And in some calm, sequestered spot, 

While listening to thy choral strain, 
Past griefs shall be a while forgot, 

And pleasures bloom again. 

Selected. 



THE KINGS OF THE SOIL. 

Black sin may nestle below a crest. 

And crimes below a crown ; 
As good hearts beat 'neath a fustian vest, 

As under a silken gown. 
Shall tales be told of the chiefs who sold 

Their sinews to crush and kill, 
And never a word be sung or heard 

Of the men who reap and till ? 
I bow in thanks to the sturdy throng 

Who greet the young morn with toil ; 
And the burden I give my earnest song 

Shall be this—The Kings of the Soil ! 
Then sing for the Kings who have no crown 

But the blue sky o'er their head — 
Never Sultan nor Dey had such power as they, 

To withhold or offer bread. 

Proud ships may hold both silver and gold, 
The wealth of a distant strand ; 



A MOTHER'S GRAVE. 337 

But ships would rot, and be valued not, 

Were there none to till the land. 
The wildest heath, and the wildest brake, 

Are rich as the richest fleet ; 
For they gladden the wild birds, when they wake, 

And give them food to eat. 
And with willing hand, and spade and plough, 

The gladdening hour shall come, 
When that which is called the " waste land " now, 

Shall ring with the " Harvest Home ! " 
Then sing for the Kings who have no crown 

But the blue sky o'er their head — 
Never Sultan nor Dey had such power as they 

To withhold or to offer bread. 

Selected. 



A MOTHER'S GRAVE. 

The trembling dew-drops fall 
Upon the shutting flowers — like souls at rest— 
The stars shine gloriously— and all, 
Save me, is blest. 

Mother ! — I love thy grave ! 
The violet, with its blossom blue and mild, 
Waves o'er thy head — when shall it wave 
Above thy child ? 

'Tis a sweet flower — yet must 
Its bright leaves to the coming tempest bow, 
Dear mother — 'tis thine emblem— dust 
Is on thy brow ! 

And I could love to die — 
To leave untasted life's dark, bitter streams, 
By thee, as erst in childhood, lie, 
And share thy dreams. 

And must I linger here 
To stain the plumage of my sinless years, 



THBOEY OF FKBDINO AMHUL8. 

And mourn the hopes of childhood dear 
With bitter tears. 

Aye — must I linger here, 
A lonely branch upon a blasted tree, 
Whose last frairleaf, untimely sere, 
Went down with thee ? 

Oft from life's withered bower, 
In still communion with the past I turn, 
And muse on thee the only flower 
In memory's urn. 

And, when the evening pale, 
Bows like a mourner on the dim, blue wave, 
I stray to hear the night-winds wail, 
Around thy grave. 

Where is thy spirit flown ? 
I gaze above — thy look is imaged there— 
I listen, and thy gentle tone 
Is on the air. 

Oh come — whilst here I press 
My brow upon the grave — and, in those mild 
And thrilling tones of tenderness, 
Bless, bless thy child ! 

Yes, bless thy weeping child, 
And o'er thy urn — religion's holiest shrine- 
On give his spirit undefiled 
To blend with thine. 

By George D. Prentice. 



THEORY OF FEEDING ANIMALS. 

In the feeding of animals, is a knowledge of animal 
and vegetable physiology of importance ? 

It is ; for without this knowledge, the food may not be 
adapted to the wants of the animal ; it may consist more of 



THEOB.Y OF FEEDING ANIMALS. 399 

some particular elements and legs of others than is required 
for animal growth and development. It may indeed con- 
tain little or nothing of the elements most needed by the 
animal, and consist almost wholly of elements which are 
needed only in a very small measure. The constituents of 
animal organizations can no more be produced without the 
materials entering into their construction, than any piece of 
human mechanism can be formed without the wood and the 
metallic substances used in making the several parts of it. 

How is this made manifest ? 

The idea would be absurd to make a steam engine out 
of wood ; or to make the sails of a ship out of iron ; or to 
make a clock out of the materials that form cloth. But this 
is no more absurd than it would be when desiring to pro- 
mote the growth and hardness of bones in young animals, to 
furnish food to them which contain none of the elements that 
enter into the formation of bones ; or if we desired to fatten 
animals, to furnish them with food containing none of the 
elements entering into the formation of fat. It is evident, 
therefore, that economy in providing food for animals, and 
the best results from it, are intimately connected with, or are 
dependent on a knowledge of animal and vegetable physi- 
ology. 

But, can no one feed animals properly unless he has 
made animal and vegetable physiology a study ? 

This is by no means to be affirmed. Nor is it the fact. 
A person may, from seeing what others have done,. or from 
his own experience, in a course of time, produce the best re- 
sults in rearing and fattening farm animals. He may pro- 
duce the largest hogs and the fattest oxen found in the 
country, and at the cheapest rates possible, from having 
seen how his neighbors have done it, although he never saw a 
book or heard a lecture on the subject— or although he does 
not even know how to read. This he does in the way of 
imitation, as another person may learn to shoe a horse or 
make a watch without the slightest knowledge of mechani- 
cal philosophy— or as a person may learn to sing by rote 
without a knowledge of musical science — or as a parrot may 
learn in sundry cases to imitate the human voice without a 
knowledge of philology. 

Why is not this as good as any other way ? 

In the first place, if a man is to learn every thing on, the 



40ft THEORY OP FEEDING ANIMALS.' 

■abject by bis own experience, or by making- successive ex- 
periments, a long period is required in perfecting himself, he 
may lose much in making experiments, and the probability 
is ho may not at the last arrive at the best mode of practice. 
In the second place, if he is to learn from observing what 
others do, he may not have those around him who practice 
the best mode of feeding animals— it is only the few whose 
example may safely be followed. And, in the third place, if 
no difficulty arises from either of the above means of inform- 
ing himself, he becomes a mere automaton, without that 
mental satisfaction and pleasure experienced by the person 
who knows the reason for every thing he does ; it is reducing 
a man of rational reasoning powers to the level of a machine. 

Does the man of these scientific attainments derive any 
other advantage in feeding animals, besides knowing what 
articles of feed to give them ? 

He does. The growth and fattening of animals depends 
comparatively as much on the manner in which the food is 
prepared as on the food itself. The food, to answer its le- 
gitimate and destined purposes, on going into the stomach, 
is to be decomposed — that is, to be reduced to its original 
elements, as well as to be reduced to minute particles — and, 
then assimilated to the different parts of the animal frame. 
Without such decomposition, it cannot be assimilated, and 
hence will impart no nourishment. For instance, the ker- 
nels of Indian corn, frequently seen to pass through an 
animal whole, as when taken into the mouth, can have done 
no good. This may be an extreme case. But between this 
and a due decomposition of the food, there may be numerous 
degrees or stages of decomposition and animal assimilation. 
In some cases from a defect of decomposition, a fourth of the 
food may be lost — in others half —in others three fourths — 
and, again, the whole, as in the case of the kernels of Indian 
corn, may be lost. 

What may be affirmed generally in regard to a due 
preparation of food for animals on a farm ? 

There are persons who have in a most commendable 
manner made various experiments with different kinds of 
animals, and the results have been highly satisfactory. 
They testify that from one fourth to one half of the food may 
be saved, by adopting the most approved modes of preparing 
feed. Some of these modes are the cutting, or steaming, or 



THEORY OP FEED1NJ ANIMALS. 401 

both, of grass, straw, and corn-stalks for horses, cattle and 
sheep — the grinding and cooking of grain — and the cooking 
of tubers, when used for feeding the stock of a farm. 

What is said of cutting hay, straw, and corn-stalks 
for cattle ? 

It has been estimated that this will in some instances 
save one half of the feed, particularly with straw and corn- 
stalks. Corn-stalks thrown out without being cut will be 
as much trodden under foot and wasted as eaten. The same 
is true with straw and inferior hay; whereas,. if well cut, 
the most of it will be eaten. Besides, if thus cut, what re- 
mains will readily be converted into manure, so that there 
will be no real loss. Nor is this all ; stock will fill them- 
selves with cut food in less than half the time they will do 
it when the feed is not cut. Then they may lie down and 
rest, so that the same feed will do them more good than 
though they were kept constantly on their feet. The labor 
of being continually employed in masticating food produces 
weariness, and exhausts a portion of the nutriment in what 
is eaten, the same as any other labor. With working oxen 
and horses this is an important circumstance. 

How else may this description of feed be improved ? 

Let the cut hay and straw be thoroughly moistened by 
scattering water upon it, and then scattering upon, and mix- 
ing ground feed with it, more or less, as the condition of the 
animals may require, and they will be kept economically 
and in good condition. The steaming cut hay and straw is 
a further improvement. Cut cosn-stalks well cooked, for 
which large kettles may be had, and a few quarts of ground 
feed for each animal, well mixed and cooked with the cereals, 
will sustain laboring animals in the very best condition, and 
will fatten others. This is perhaps the cheapest mode of 
doing it. 

What is said of the difference between giving cattle 
and horses ground feed, or the grain without being 
ground ? 

If ground and well prepared in meshes, the whole of it 
will be well digested and assimilated to animal products. 
If not so prepared, and especially Indian corn, a portion of it 
will not be digested and assimilated, and will pass off in the 
form of excrements, without doing the animal any benefit. 
What is thus saved will far overbalance the cost and labor 



402 THEORY OF FEEDING AlOJULS. 

of thus preparing feed. This is true in all cases ; but, with 
^nimftlfl whose teeth are much impaired, the gain is greatest. 

What does Stephens say of boiling or steaming dry food 
for farm animals? 

He recommends it ; also the same practice with potatoes 
and turnips. He says the practice is extensive in England, 
and is generally considered economical, although some have 
had less confidence in its utility, when given to horses for 
heavy draught and fast work. Notwithstanding this excep- 
tion, steamed food is getting into considerable use for coach 
horses in that country. 

How is the value of tubers affected by age ? 

It is said that the potato, by being kept, loses much of 
its nutritive value, even before it begins to sprout; and 
afterwards it deteriorates much more rapidly. Turnips, that 
have shot into (lower, are found to add much less to the 
weight of fattening animals, than they did before. This is a 
fact well known to all who have made observation on the 
subject. 

How does tlie absence of light operate on the thrift of 
animals and the quantity of food required by them ? 

It is found that a diminished quantity of feed will answer 
for animals confined in the dark ; for, whatever excites their 
attention and causes them to be restless, lessens the effect of 
food in enlarging the body. It is said that fowls in the dark 
will fatten with astonishing rapidity. It is so with calves. 
In India, the eyelids of some animals are sewed up when 
being fattened. It was found that some sheep shut up in 
the dark from the 16th of November till the 9th of March 
following eat 886 pounds of turnips, while an equal number 
unsheltered eat 1912 pounds ; and, that in the former case, 
100 pounds of turnips added but a pound to the weight of 
the animals, while in the latter case, the 100 pounds added 
to the weight of the animals three pounds. This experiment 
was made by Mr. Morton in England. 

What is said of cleanliness and ventilation when ani- 
mals are shut up for feed or being fattened ? 

Both are highly important, being helps to economy in 
the feeding of all animals. Shelter and warmth may be 
detrimental to the thrift and health of them, unless kept 
clean and are amply supplied with fresh air. The cleaner 
their houses and skins are kept, the more they thrive under 
any given form of treatment and allowance of food. 



THEORY OF FEEDING ANIMALS. 493 

How should calves designed for the butcher be fed ? 

While the calf is very young, during the first two weeks, 
or so, its growth is mostly in the bones and muscles. Of 
course during this period of its existence materials for bones and 
muscles are mostly required, and less for fat, and hence, half 
of the milk given it may be skimmed, and a little bean meal 
may be mixed with it, which is favorable to the growth of 
the muscles. Afterwards the creation of fat being the object 
of desire, the food should be rich in substances which yield 
fat. The cream of the milk is its most natural element ; 
but if the calf requires more of this than what is furnished 
by its dam, as cream is expensive, it is usual to provide it 
daily with linseed meal in such quantities as required. This 
is the most economical food a calf can have. A few eggs 
each day will contribute much to its thrift. Calves designed 
for the butcher should not be allowed to run at large ; if 
they do, it will be difficult to fatten them ; by running, 
much of the fat from the food will be wasted. If shut up in 
clean, well ventilated, dark pens, they will thrive best. 

How should young animals be fed, which are to be 
raised ? 

With animals generally it is desirable to increase their 
size ; to enlarge the frame, increasing the dimensions of the 
bones, and covering them amply with muscles. The food 
should have constant reference, to this design. ' This food, 
therefore, should contain a large supply of the phosphates, 
from which bone is formed, and of gluten or fibrin, by which 
the muscles are enlarged. Some kinds of fodder contain a 
larger proportion of these phosphates. Such are corn seeds 
in general, and the red clover among the grasses. Some 
again contain more of the materials of the muscles. Such 
are beans and peas. When young animals receive an insuf- 
ficient allowance of food they become stinted, and never 
can be made to attain their full natural size and weight. 

What quantity of food does an ox daily require ? 

It has been ascertained that an ox or a cow kept in the 
stall will daily eat about one fifth of its own weight in tur- 
nips, or one fiftieth of its weight in dry food, such as hay 
and straw. With this allowance of food the animal would 
probably, in some measure, add to its weight; but from 
actual experiment it is known, that one sixtieth of the weight 
of the animal in dry hay is necessary to sustain itself. Cows 



404 THBORY OF FBBSIK AOTHALB. 

with calf need more, because it is apparent, that they have 
not only to sustain their own frame, but to nourish the foetus. 
Cows also that give milk must receive additional food and of 
appropriate quality for the production of milk, or they will 
become lean, and the supply of milk will fail. 

How should the food of cattle be regulated in reference 
to the production of the several parts of which the animal 
frame consists ? 

It is advisable that they should not always be fed on the 
same kind of food, but that it be mixed, or they may not 
retain a healthy condition. Food containing starch or sugar, 
alone, or pure fibrin or gelatine alone, will not sustain the 
animal body, because these substances do not contain all that 
is requisite to build up all its parts, or supply what is daily 
giveu off during respiration and in the secretions. Hence, it 
is evident that there should be such a variety of food as will 
furnish all the materials which the body requires. Occa- 
sionally, therefore, there should be a change from one kind 
of food to another, or the proportions of the different kinds 
should from time to time be varied. 

On what food will cattle fatten best ? 

On Indian corn, or oil cake, or oil mixed with cut straw 
and hay, or upon oily seeds and nuts. Poultry will fatten 
quickest on a mixture of meal and suet, or on the scraps 
from which lard or tallow has been pressed. The reason of 
this is very obvious ; for these articles of food contain a large 
proportion of fatty matter ready formed, which the animal 
ean easily extract, and after a slight chemical change can 
convert into a portion of its own substance. 

For what purposes in the living animal does fat sub- 
serve? 

It lubricates the joints, answering the same end that 
grease does on machinery generally and the axles of wheels 
in particular, by preventing friction and causing a free action. 
It covers and protects the internal viscera, keeps the muscles 
separate, and enables them to play freely among each other, 
makes the hair and skin soft and flexible, and, by filling up 
the hollows, contributes to the roundness and plumpness of 
the parts, and defends the extremity of the bones from ex- 
ternal injury. When exercise is taken, a portion of the fat 
of the body passes away in perspiration, and even in the solid 
excrements. On the latter account, the dung of a fat animal 



THEORY OF FEEDING ANIMALS. 405 

is better for manure than that of a lean one. To supply 
this waste of fat, additional feed is necessary to prevent 
leanness. 

What is said of the time when cattle should be fed ? 

Thaer says, what every person should know, that the 
utmost regularity must be observed in the hours of feeding, 
and the quantity of food given at each meal. Animals ac- 
quire a most exact knowledge of time. This is remarkably 
conspicuous in old beasts of draught, which, when the proper 
hour of rest arrives, refuse to work and want to go to stall, 
or the field in which they graze. Stalled cattle become rest- 
less when their feeding time is not punctually observed, 
though very quiet before the time arrives. If the provender 
is not given to a horse at the customary season, he com- 
mences pawing and ceases not till his keeper is reminded of 
his neglect. Cattle also know pretty well the quantity 
usually given them — when they have received and eaten it, 
they go to rest ; but if they have not had their full allow- 
ance they continue restless. 

At what age will cattle fatten best ? 

It is supposed that horned cattle will fatten most readily 
at the age of seven and eight years. Younger animals not 
arrived at their full growth may indeed grow very fat, and 
furnish delicate and savory meat ; but they always require 
more fodder and longer time. Old beasts do not fatten so 
easily ; if, however, their organs of mastication are strong 
enough to chew the fodder well, they will ultimately attain 
to a good condition. 

What is said of the expediency of keeping swine ? 

If all things be taken into the account, it will be found 
that in rearing swine where they must be fed wholly on 
grain, they will cost more than they are worth. But in all 
rural establishments, both great and small, the keeping of 
pigs is almost indispensable, because the various kinds of 
refuse of the dairy, or kitchen, and garden can scarcely be 
used in any other manner. In addition to this, should 
proper pains be taken, hogs will convert different kinds of 
dying vegetables and loam into manure, being mixed by 
them, with their excrements, nearly if not quite sufficient to 
pay for the grain they eat. 

What experiments in fattening hogs have been made ? 

Different experiments have been made, but the one most 



406 TSE0&7 OP PBKDIX& AfflXALS. 

deserving notice wu in the state of Maryland. The Agri- 
cultural Society of that state instituted an inquiry into the 
relative merits of two modes of feeding, and the following is 
one of the results. On the first day of December, four shoats 
of the same breed, nearly of a size, and as much alike in 
every respect as could be selected from a herd, were made 
choice of, each being carefully weighed, and placed in a 
single stye where their food could be exactly regulated. Two 
of them weighed together one hundred and eighty-five pounds. 
These were fed on one gallon each of shelled Indian corn, 
the gallon weighing seven pounds. This was the allowance 
for twenty-four hours, and as much water as they needed. 
The other two were fed on half the amount, by weight, of 
Indian meal, made into hasty pudding with a little salt. 
The seven pounds of meal when cooked weighed thirty 
pounds and measured three gallons. Before the experiment 
had progressed a fortnight, it was perceived that the two fed 
on hasty pudding were outstripping the two fed on whole 
corn ; and on the thirty-fourth day they were again weighed ; 
the corn-fed ones together weighing twenty-five pounds more 
than they did on the first of December, while the two fed on 
mush— half the quantity— had gained forty-four pounds ! 



AGE OF ANIMALS. 

A bear rarely exceeds twenty years ; a dog lives twenty 
years; a wolf, twenty; a fox, fourteen or sixteen. The 
average age of cats is fifteen years ; of a squirrel or hare, 
seven or eight years. Elephants have been known to have 
lived to the great age of 400 years. When Alexander had 
conquered Poms, king of India, he took a great elephant, 
which had fought valiantly for the king, and named him 
Ajax, dedicated him to the sun, and let him go with this 
inscription — " Alexander, the son of Jupiter, hath dedicated 
Ajax to the sun." This elephant was found with this in- 
scription 350 years after. Pigs have been known to live 
to the age of thirty years ; the rhinoceros to fifty. A horse 
has been known to live to the age of seventy-two, but ava- 
rages twenty-five to thirty. Camels sometimes live to the 
age of 100. Stags are long-lived. Sheep seldom exceed 



POETRY 0* LABOR. 4Qf 

the age of ten. Cows live about fifteen years. An eagle 
died at Vienna of the age of 104 years ; ravens frequently 
reach the age of 100. Swans have been known to live 300 
years ; pelicans are long-lived. A tortoise has been known 
to live much above 190 years. 



ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE POOD. 

Joseph Bentley, in his " Health and Wealth/ 1 adduces 
the following singular facts in relation to animal and vege- 
table food : 

It is a fact woithy of remark, and one that seems never 
to have been noticed, that throughout the whole animal 
creation, in every country, and clime of the earth, the most 
useful animals cost nature the least waste to sustain them 
with fooU For instance, all animals that work, live on 
vegetable food ; and no animal that eats flesh works. The 
all-powerful elephant and the patient, untiring camel, in the 
torrid zone ; the horse, the ox, the donkey, in the temperate ; 
and the reindeer, in the frigid zone, obtain all their muscular 
power for enduring labor from nature's simplest productions, 
the vegetable kingdom. But all the flesh eating animals 
keep the rest of the animated creation in constant dread of 
them. They seldom eat vegetable food until some other 
animal has eaten it first, and made it into flesh. Their only 
use seems to be to destroy life — their own flesh is unfit for 
other animals to eat, having been itself made out of flesh, 
and is most foul and offensive. Great strength, fleetness of 
foot, usefulness, cleanliness, and docility, are then always 
characteristic of vegetable eating animals; while all the 
world dreads flesh eaters. 



POETRY OF LABOR. 

Pause not to dream of the future before us, 
Pause not to weep of the wild cares that come o'er us ; 
Hark, how creation's deep, musical chorus 
tyuntermitting, goes up into Heaven ! 



408 POBT&T OF LABOIL 

Never the ocean-wave falters in flowing ; 
Never the little seed stops in its growing ; 
More and more richly the rose heart keeps glowing, 
Till from its nourishing stem it is riven. 



« 

<« 



Lahor is worship ! " — the robin is singing ; 
Labor is worship ! " — the wild bee is ringing ; 
Listen ! that elegant whisper upspringing, 

Speaks to thy soul from out Nature's great heart. 
From the dark cloud flows the life-giving shower ; 
From the rough sod blows the soft breathing flower ; 
From the small insect the rich coral bower ; 

Only man, in the plan, shrinks from his part. 

» 

Labor is life ! — *Tis the still water faileth ; 

Idleness ever despaireth, bewaileth ; 

Keep the watch wound, for the dark rust assaileth ; 

Flowers droop and die in the stillness of noon. * 
Labor is glory ! — the flying cloud lightens ; 
Only the waving wing changes and brightens ; 
Idle hearts only the dark future frightens ; 

Flay the sweet keys, would'st thou have them in tune ! 

Labor is rest from the, sorrows that greet us ; 
Rest from all petty vexations that meet us. 
Rest from sin-promptings that ever entreat us, 

Rest from the world-syrens that lure us to ill. 
Work — and pure slumbers wait on thy pillow ; 
Work — thou shalt ride over Care's coming billow ; 
Lie not down wearied 'neath Wo's weeping willow ! 

Work with a stout heart and resolute will ! 



Droop not, tho' shame, sin, and anguish are round thee ! 
Bravely fling off the cold chain that hath bound thee ! 
Look to yon pure Heavens smiling beyond thee ! 

Rest not content in thy darkness — a clod ! 
"Work ! — for some good — be it ever so slowly : 
Cherish some flower — be it ever so lowly ! 
Labor ! All is noble and holy ; 

Let thy great deeds be thy prayer to thy Gdd ! 

Mas. Frances S. Osgood. 



THE MIND AND THE SOIL. 4)9 

THE MIND AND THE SOIL. 

The practical farmer may and should be continually im- 
^ proving his mind by study and reflection ; reading and study 

in his leisure hours, reflection and observation in his daily 
toil. The field of his labor is unbounded, and his mind 
should be continually employed in searching out the nature 
of his soils, and what they require to make them productive. 
If a piece of land is wet, how shall it be drained and made 
t . productive, at a reasonable expense? If it is cold, with 
i, what shall it be mingled, to give it genial warmth ? If the 

b soil is light and thin, how shall it be deepened and made 

more stringent ? If dry and porous, what retentive mixture 
will give it the power of retaining moisture and manures ? 
These are questions to be solved by every farmer, in regard 
to his own fields, and they must be, to make him a success- 
ful agriculturist. 

First, he must learn the general character of his soils ; 
1 the genera] classes to which they belong, the proper treat- 

ment of these classes of soils ; and then he must patiently as- 
certain, by trial and experiment, the peculiar modifications 
of that treatment which his particular soil may require. By 
so doing, by this practical application of his knowledge, he 
: can enliven dead and unproductive lands, and make them 

teem with the choicest productions of the earth. He can, in 
short, give to soils just such a combination as he pleases, and 
can make a good soil where nature has denied it both me- 
chanically and chemically, by adding earths, and by adding 
manures. Different soils require different treatment, to dis- 
pose them to production. 

The intelligent, practical farmer knows the character of 
lands when he sees them ; he knows what treatment they 
want. His common sense and observation will teach him 
how they may be made productive. He is many times sur- 
prised, when he sees sterile and unproductive fields near 
very flourishing villages, where unemployed lie most of the 
materials necessary to enrich them. A few shillings and 
dollars, with some labor and energy, will apply the fossil 
manures, and apply them to produce fertility. The lime- 
stone beds are reposing all around, waiting for the attention 
of the owner, or the capital of some one who deals in stocks, 
to bring them to the furnace, and prepare them to correct 

i6 



410 THE MIND AND THE SOIL. 

and fertilize the soil, making those sterile fields not only pro- 
ductive, but ornamental. 

There may be, and there are, portions of our land, where 
the soil is itself so rich and inexhaustible in fertility, that a 
knowledge of making an application of manures is- of no 
consequence. But we all know that our soils generally are 
not of that character. Here the science of preparing manure 
lies at the very foundation of agricultural success. The 
variety of manures is much greater, and their application to 
the variety of soils and crops, is much better understood than 
heretofore. The farmer has learned much by his own experi- 
ence, by his own experiments, patiently and perseveringly car- 
ried out, modified by his own good sense and careful observation. 
He is no longer content with the small amount of manures 
which his farm naturally supplies. Nature, at home and 
abroad, furnishes manures, and the materials from which ma- 
nures can be made, in almost endless variety ; and if the farmer 
is diligent in inquiry and experiment, he can create in his barn- 
yard and compost-heap, a bank, from which he can draw at 
pleasure, and without an endorser ; for the manure-yard, the 
compost-heap, is the farmer's bank, — it is his mine of wealth, 
and, without it, he is poor indeed. 

But, besides all that the farmer can learn upon this sub- 
ject from his practical experience, he can undoubtedly derive 
great assistance from chemical science, and to this he should 
by no means shut his eyes. If he would elevate his profes- 
sion, if he would ensure to his labor the reward of wealth 
and competence, he must make the discoveries of science 
tributary to it. The true course of the farmer is, not to 
spend his time in complaining of the advantages which 
knowledge and science give to other pursuits, but rather to 
make knowledge and science subservient to his profession. 
Instead of decrying the importance of these, let us use them 
for our own purposes. Let us use them with good sense, 
care and economy. We see the vapor fall in rain, and vege- 
tation receiving it and rejoicing. The winds of heaven are 
continually passing over our fields, and the air is purified, 
and made the proper food for vegetable life. The sun is 
continually warming and urging the plant to grow ; it also 
gives its light, that it may mature. The air carries with it 
oxygen to the seed, that causes it to germinate ; and fur- 
nishes to the leaves, the lungs of the plant, carbon,, without 
which the plant must cease to be. 



THE MIND AND THE SOIL. 4il 

These are facts well understood by the farmer. But 
should he stop here ? Should he rest content with hut this 
amount of knowledge, which nature has vouchsafed to him 
almost unasked for? Surely not, if he would be master of 
his profession, and maintain that professional dignity which 
becomes him. He should call to his aid the knowledge of 
scientific men, and by this, learn to mix and manage the 
elements of earth and air with more than magic skill. He 
should take care that the mechanical and manufacturing 
arts do not enjoy all the benefits of the discoveries of chemi- 
cal science. He should claim for agriculture its just pro- 
portion. In his experiments, especially upon the subject of 
manures, he can thus make much greater progress, and at- 
tain much more important results. 

The discoveries of scientific men are of no use, until 
practically applied, and tested by practical farmers. And 
"who are to test and apply them, if we are not ? How shall 
all these mixtures be applied ? "What does each particular 
soil require ? Shall they be applied in a fermented, or in an 
unfermented, state ? On the surface, or turned under ? Put 
on, as a top-dressing, in spring, or in autumn ? What par- 
ticular dressing does each particular crop require ? These 
are questions involving the laws of nature, the principles of 
art, and careful experimental labor and observation at the 
compost-heap, and in the field. Our vocation is to render 
the earth productive* One great and important agent in 
production, is manure. Its abundant production, and its 
economical application, require the combination of scientific 
knowledge and practical industry. Science is doing her 
part : let agriculture be ever ready to do hers* The farmer 
is never too old to learn, until he is too old to labor. 

Those who succeed well in any business or profession are 
usually found to conduct their business with system, order 
and neatness. System, order and neatness, should ever be 
the study of the farmer. When the fields of the farm are 
found to be badly laid out, bordered with hedge-rows ; his 
fences crooked and half down ; the stable used for every- 
thing, and not fit for anything ; the outbuildings awkwardly 
situated, with few or no conveniences ; his stock one third 
more than can be made comfortable, and be kept in a thrifty 
and growing state upon his farm ; his topis and implements 
of husbandry left some in one place and some in another* 



412 T1AKSFOB3IATION8 IN NATURE. 

scattered over his farm, and many of them unfit for me ;— 
sorely the want of success of such a fanner needs no expla- 
nation. These appearances fully explain it. They show 
why he has been kept poor when he should have been made 
rich. Let our young farmers, then, when they begin life lor 
themselves, study system, order, and a continual regard for 
practical convenience, and their industry will be sure to 
meet its just reward. 

The effects of system, order and care, appear to striking 
advantage in the rearing and management of domestic ani- 
mals. The ox, the cow, the horse, sheep and swine, are 
animals of practical use, and some of them are parties with 
us in the labors of the field. It is but a part of civilization 
and Christianity to treat them with kindness and humanity. 
But more than this can be done, as the experience of many 
will attest. What a wonderful triumph of human reason and 
power, that the animals, given and subjected to man by the 
Author of Agriculture, can be moulded and fashioned to his 
liking, as the clay is fashioned by the potter. Form and 
figure, size and power of bone and muscle, adaptedness to the 
peculiar service required, kindness and docility of disposition, 
and even agreeable countenance and expression, by patient 
and skillful breeding, can be successfully attained. What 
can be asked more ? Modern discoveries are said to enable 
the farmer to decide, with unerring certainty, which of his 
heifer calves should be raised for the dairy, and which should 
be prepared for the shambles ; and this by marks and indi- 
cations readily perceived by the common observer. — Address 
before the Berkshire Agricultural Society, by Joshua R. 
Lawton, Esq. 



TRANSFORMATIONS IN NATURE. 

Numerous transformations take place in nature ; indeed 
it may be said, that everything in the physical world at one 
period or another is metamorphosed. The figure of objects 
continually varies ; certain bodies pass successively through 
the three kingdoms of nature ; and there are compound sub- 
stances which gradually become minerals, plants, insects, 
reptiles, fish, birds, quadrupeds, and man. Every year mil- 



TRANSFORMATIONS IN NATURE. 413 

lions of bodies blend together, and are reduced to dust. 
Where are the flowers which, during the spring and the sum- 
mer, ornamented our fields and our gardens ? One species has 
appeared, withered, and given place to others. The flowers 
of March, and the modest violet, after announcing by their 
presence the arrival of spring, have yielded their place to the 
tulip and the rose. In the room of these we have seen others, 
till all the flowers have fulfilled their design. 

The same holds good with regard to man. One genera- 
tion shows itself, and another disappears. Every year thou- 
sands of human bodies return to the dust from whence they 
were taken; and of these evanescent bodies, others more 
beautiful are formed. The salts and the oils of which they 
were composed, dissolve in the earth ; the more subtile par- 
ticles are raised into the atmosphere by the sun's heat, and 
mixing there with other matters, are dispersed in different 
directions by the winds, and fall down in rain and dew, 
sometimes in one place, and sometimes in another ; whilst 
the grosser particles mix with the earth. The grass which 
is nourished by them grows up into long blades ; and it is 
ihus that the flesh of men, transformed into grass, serves as 
aliment to the flocks, whose wholesome milk is again con- 
verted to our own subsistence. 

These continual transformations, thus operating in nature, 
are so many certain proofs that the Creator has designed that 
nothing should perish or be useless. The dust of flowers, 
used in the fecundation of plants, is only a very small part 
of what each flower contains ; and that the superabundant 
portion may not be lost, bees are created, which make use of 
it to form their honey. The earth daily presents us with new 
presents, and it would in the end be exhausted, if what it 
gives was not in some way or other returned again. 

All organized bodies suffer decomposition, and are at laBt 
converted into earth. During this dissolution, their volatile 
parts rise into the air, and are dispersed in every direction. 
Thus the remains of animals are diffused through the air, as 
well as through the earth and the water. All these particles 
so dispersed, unite together again in new organic bodies, 
which in their turn will undergo similar revolutions. And 
this circulation, and these continual metamorphoses, which 
commenced with the world, will only terminate with its dis- 
solution. 



414 AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 

The most remarkable transformation, or at least thai 
which interests us the most, is that in which we are imme- 
diately concerned. We know that our body was not once 
composed, and will not be so in the end. of the same number 
of parts as it is when in its greatest perfection. Our body 
was at first extremely small ; it became much larger when 
we were brought into the world, and since then has increased 
to fifteen or twenty times the bulk it then had ; consequently 
blood, flesh, and other matters, supplied by the vegetable or 
animal kingdom, and which formerly did not belong to our 
body, have been since assimilated to it, and are become parts 
of ourselves. 

The daily necessity of eating, proves that there is a con- 
tinual waste of the parts of which we are composed, and that 
this loss must be repaired by alimentary matter. Many parts 
insensibly evaporate ; for since the experiments which a cer- 
tain great physician made upon himself, it is ascertained, 
that of eight pounds of nourishment necessary to support a 
healthy man in one day, only the fiftieth part is converted 
into his own substance ; all the rest passing off by perspira- 
tion and other excretions. Hence also it may be inferred, 
that in ten years there will not remain many of the same 
particles that now constitute our bodies. And at length, 
when they shall have passed through all their different 
changes, they will be converted into dust, till the blessed day 
of the resurrection, when they will undergo that happy and 
final revolution that will place them in a state of eternal 
rest. — Sturm. 



AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 

The wholesome habits of society have been so broken up 
by the civil and political convulsions of the age, and the in- 
ordinate thirst for acquiring wealth and fashionable conse- 
quence, through mercantile and other speculations, that honest 
productive labor has been thrown entirely into the back- 
ground, and considered not only ungenteel, but menial and 
servile. Yet I venture to lay down this proposition, that he 
who provides for the wants and comforts of himself and fami- 
ly, and renders some service to society at large, by his mental 



AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 415 

and physical industry, performs one of the highest duties of 
life ; and will ultimately be rewarded in the conscious recti- 
tude of his life, by a greater measure of substantial happiness, 
than he who makes millions by fraud and speculation, to be 
squandered in extravagance, or wasted in folly, by his chil- 
dren or grandchildren. The revolutions which are constantly 
taking place in families, sufficiently admonish us that it is 
not the wealth we leave to our children, but the industrious 
and moral habits in which we educate them, that secures to 
them worldly prosperity, and the treasure of an approving 
conscience. 

What class in society have within their reach so many of 
the elements of human enjoyments — so many facilities for 
dispensing benefits to others, — one of the first duties and 
richest pleasures of life — as the independent tillers of the 
soil? " The farmer/' says Franklin, " has no need of popu- 
lar favor ; the success of his crops depends only on the bles- 
sing of God upon his honest industry." If discreetly con- 
ducted on the improved principles of husbandry, agriculture 
offers the certain means of acquiring wealth, and as rapidly 
as is consistent with the pure enjoyments of life, or with the 
good order and prosperous condition of society. Agriculture 
is the golden mean, secure alike from the mushroom of opu- 
lence, and the craven sycophancy and dependence of poverty. 
"Give me neither poverty nor riches," was the prayer of the 
wise man of Scripture ; " lest," he added, " I be full and de- 
ny thee, and say, who is the Lord ? or lest I be poor, and 
steal, and take the name of my God in vain." 

When we consider that agriculture is the great business 
of the nation— of mankind ; that its successful prosecution 
depends upon a knowledge, in the cultivators of the soil, of 
the principles of natural science, — and that our agriculture 
stands in special need of this auxiliary aid, — we cannot with- 
hold our surprise and regret, that we have not long since es- 
tablished professional schools, in which our youth, or such of 
them as are designed to manage this branch of national 
labor, may be taught, simultaneously, the principles and 
practice of their future business of life, — on which, more than 
any other branch of business, the fortunes of our country, 
moral, political, and national, essentially depend. We re- 
quire an initiatory study of years in the principles of law and 
medicine, before we permit the pupil to practice in these 



410 AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION. 

professions. We require a like preliminary study in our 
military and naval schools, in the sciences of war and navi- 
gation, ere the student is deemed qualified to command. 

And yet, in agriculture, by which, under the blessing of 
Providence, we virtually " live, and move, and have our being," 
and which truly embraces a wider range of useful science than 
either law, medicine, war, or navigation, we have no schools, 
we give no instruction, we bestow no govermental patronage. 
Scientific knowledge is deemed indispensable in many minor 
employments of life ; but in this great business, in which its 
influence would be most potent and useful, we consider it, 
judging from our practice, of less consequence than the fic- 
tions of the novelist. We regard mind as the efficient power 
in most other pursuits ; while we forget, that in agriculture, 
it is the Archimedean lever, which, though it does not move, 
tends to Jill a world with plenty, with moral health, and hu- 
man happiness. Can it excite surprise, that under these 
circumstances of gross neglect, agriculture should have be- 
come among us, in popular estimation, a clownish and igno- 
ble employment ? 

In the absence of agricultural professional schools, could 
we not do much to enlighten and raise the character of 
American husbandry, by making its principles a branch of 
study in our district schools ? This knowledge would seldom 
come amiss, and it would often prove a ready help under 
misfortune, to those who had failed in other business. What 
man is there, who may not expect, at some time of life, to 
profit directly by a knowledge of these principles ? Who does 
not hope to become the owner, or cultivator, of a garden, or 
a farm ? And what man, enjoying the blessing of health, 
would be at a loss for the means of an honest livelihood, 
whose mind had been early imbued with the philosophy of 
rural culture — and who would not rather work than beg ? 

An early acquaintance with natural science is calculated 
to beget a taste for rural life and rural labors, as a source of 
pleasure, profit, and honor. It will stimulate to the improve- 
ment of the mind — to elevate and to purify it — to self-respect, 
to moral deportment. And it will tend to deter from the 
formation of bad habits, which steal upon the ignorant and 
the idle unawares, and which consign thousands of young 
men to poverty and disgrace, if not to premature graves. 
A knowledge of these principles, to a very useful extent, can 



AGRICULTtJRAL EDUCATION. 417 

be acquired with as much facility in the school, or upon the 
farm, as other branches of learning. Why, then, shall they 
not be taught ? Why shall we withhold from our agricultural 
population that knowledge which is so indispensable to their 
profit, to their independence, and to their correct bearing as 
farmers ? Why, while we boast of our superior privileges, 
keep in comparative ignorance of their business, that class of 
our citizens who are truly the conservators of our freedom ? 
I know of but one objection, — the want of teachers. A few 
years ago, civil engineers were not to be found among us. 
The demand for them created a supply. We have demon- 
strated that we have the materials for civil engineers, and 
that we can work them up. We have materials for teachers 
of agricultural science, which we can also work up. Demand 
will always insure a supply. 

We have professional schools in almost every business of 
life, except in the cultivation of the soil, one of the most import- 
ant and essential of them all, and one embracing a larger 
scope of useful study in natural science, and in usefulness to 
the temporal wants of the human family, than any other. 
The policy of monarchs. and of privileged orders, has been to 
repress intelligence in the agricultural masses, in order to 
keep them in a subordinate station. But, neither the policy 
nor the practice should be countenanced by us. Our agricul- 
turists are our privileged class, if we have such- They are 
our sovereigns, because, from their superior numbers, they 
must ever control our political destinies, for good or for evil. 
And the more intelligent and independent we can render 
them, the more safe we make our country from the convul- 
sions of internal feuds, and the danger of foreign war. 

I put the question to fathers, — Would you esteem that 
son less, or think him less likely to fulfill the great duties of 
life, who had been educated in a professional school of agri- 
culture, with all the high qualifications which it would con- 
fer for public and domestic influences, than him who had 
been educated for the counter, the bar, or other high profes- 
sional callings ? On which could you best rely for support 
and comfort in the decline of life? Nay, I will venture to 
carry the appeal further — to the discriminating judgment 
of the unmarried lady ; — would you reject, as a partner for 
life, the student of such a college, coming forth with a sound 
mind, deeply imbued with useful knowledge, and a hale con-* 
18* 



41$ MY OWN PLACE. 

stitution, inrigorated by manly exercise, -whose cares and 
affections were likely to be concentrated upon borne and 
country, and whose precepts and examples would tend to 
diffuse industry, prosperity and rural happiness around him ? 
The father's response would be, I think, an unhesitating 
" No" to the first question ; and the lady's, after due de- 
liberation, I verily suspect, would be a half-articulate 
" Amen ! " — Hon. Jesse Buel's Address before the Agri- 
cultural and Horticultural Societies of Neto Haven coun- 
ty, Conn., 1639. 



MY OWN PLACE. 

Whoever I am, wherever my lot, 

Whatever I happen to be, 
Contentment and duty shall hallow the spot, 

That Providence ordains for me ; 
Not covetous striving and straining to gain 

One feverish step in advance, — 
I know my own place, and you tempt me in vain, 

To hazard a change and a chance. 

I care for no riches that are not my right, 

No honor that is not my due ; 
But stand in my station by day or by night, 

The will of my Master to do ; 
He lent me my lot, be it humble or high, 

And set me my business here, 
And whether I live in his service, or die, 

My heart shall be found in my sphere. 

If wealthy, I stand as the steward of my King, 

If poor, as the friend of my Lord, 
If feeble, my prayers and my praises I bring ; 

If stalwart, my pen or my sword ; 
If wisdom be mine, I will cherish his gift, 

If simpleness, bask in his love, 
If sorrow, his hope shall my spirit uplift, 

If joy, I will throne it above ! 

The good that it pleases my G-od to bestow, 
I gratefully gather and prize ; 



MY OWN PLACE. 410 

The evil— it can be no evil, I know, 

But only a good in disguise ; 
And whether my station be lowly or great, 

No duty can ever be mean, 
The factory cripple is fixed in his fate, 

As well as a king or a queen ! 

For Duty's bright livery glorifies all 

With brotherhood, equal and free, 
Obeying, as children, the heavenly call, 

That places us where we should be ; 
A servant — the badge of my servitude shines 

As a jewel invested by heaven ; 
A monarch — remember that justice assigns 

Much service where so much is given ! 

Away then with " helpings " that humble and harm, 

Though "bettering" trips from your tongue; 
Away ! for your folly would scatter the charm 

That round my proud poverty hung ; 
I felt that I stood like a man at my post, 

Though peril and hardship were there, — 
And all that your wisdom would counsel me most, 

Is — " Leave it — do better elsewhere." 

If "better" were better indeed, and not "worse," 

I might go ahead with the rest, 
But many a gain and a joy is a curse, 

And many a grief for the best ; 
No !— duties are ail the " advantage " I use ; 

I pine not for praise or for pelf, 
As to ambition, I care not to choose 

My better or worse for myself! 

I will not, I dare not, I cannot ! — I stand 
Where God has ordained me to be, 

An honest mechanic — or lord in the land- 
He fitted my calling for me : 

Whatever my state, be it weak, be it strong, 
With honor, or sweat on my face, 

This, this is my glory, my strength, and my song, 
I stand, like a star, in my place. 

Martin F. Tuppdu 



4)0 FREE SCHOOL EDUCATION. 

ENDURING MONUMENTS. 

The tomb of Moses is unknown ; but the traveller slakes 
his thirst at the well of Jacob. The gorgeous palace of the 
wisest and wealthiest of monarchs, with the cedar, and gold, 
and ivory, and even the great temple of Jerusalem, hallowed 
by the visible glory of the Deity himself — are gone ; but 
Solomon's reservoirs are as perfect as ever. Of the ancient 
architecture of the Holy City, not one stone is left upon 
another ; but the pool of Bethesda commands the pilgrim's 
reverence at the present day. . The columns of Persepolis 
are mouldering into dust ; but its cisterns and aqueducts re- 
main to challenge our admiration. The golden house of 
Nero is a mass of ruins ; but the Aqua Claudia still pours 
into Rome its limpid stream. The temple of the sun at 
Tadmor, in the wilderness, has fallen; but its fountain 
sparkles as freshly in liis rays, as when thousands of worship- 
pers thronged its lofty colonnades. 

It may be that London will share the fate of Babylon, 
and nothing be left to mark its site, save mounds of crumb- 
ling brick work. The Thames will continue to flow as it 
does now. And if any work of art should still rise over the 
deep ocean of time, we may well believe that it will be 
neither a palace nor a temple, but some vast aqueduct or 
reservoir ; and if any name should still flash through the 
mist of antiquity, it will probably be that of a man who in 
his day sought the happiness of his fellow-men, rather than 
their glory, and linked his memory to some great work of 
national utility and benevolence. This is the true glory 
which outlives all others, and Bhines with undying lustre 
from generation to generation — imparting to works something 
of its own immortality, and in some degree rescuing them 
from the ruin which overtakes the ordinary monuments of 
historical tradition or mere magnificence. — Edinburgh 
Review. 



FREE SCHOOL EDUCATION. 

I now allude to an enlarged system of popular educa- 
tion. By education I do not mean merely instruction in the 
arts of reading and writing, but that whole system of moral, 
intellectual, and religious training and cultivation which is 



FHSfi SCHOOL EDUCATION. 431 

necessary to develop the nobler faculties of oar nature, and 
give to the character of man the impress and likeness of Him 
in whose image he was created. In Europe popular educa- 
tion is, in a political point of view, of comparatively little 
importance. The great mass of the people have few political 
privileges. They exert no influence on public opinion. 
They give no impress to national character. Indeed, it may 
well be doubted whether an ignorant people do not make 
the most loyal and obedient subjects. 

But in America the case is reversed. Our institutions - 
rest upon the virtue and intelligence of the people. The 
wise administration of our government requires the constant 
exercise of both these qualities, not only by the magistracy, 
but by the constituent body. The only hope of preserving 
our freedom is by diffusing knowledge and sound principles 
amongst the people, and by keeping them up to the level of 
our institutions, and of their duties under them. If this 
cannot be done, the government must sink to their level. 
Let the people become ignorant and debased, and the laws 
must be adapted to their capacity, and the constitution 
brought down to their standard of morality and intelligence. 
Public sentiment will become vitiated, and a spirit of licen- 
tiousness and disorganization pervade the whole body of 
society. It requires no spirit of prophecy to foretell the 
consequences of such a state of things. 

If the foundation of our political edifice becomes rotten, 
the superstructure must inevitably fall. Disguise the fact 
as we may, under declarations of rights, constitutional guar- 
anties, legislative sanctions, and parchment muniments of 
title, it is nevertheless true, that in all popular governments, 
the only security for life, liberty and property, is an enlight- 
ened public opinion. Our lives, our fortunes, and our freedom 
are all held by that tenure. The law is but an embodiment 
of public sentiment. If our rights are infringed, the mode 
and measure of redress must be ascertained by the opinions 
of judicial tribunals, which consist of the agents of the 
people, or the people themselves. If the title to our property 
be questioned, or our characters defamed, or our lives or 
liberty put in jeopardy by a criminal accusation, the shield 
of our defence is in the concurrent opinion and verdict of 
twelve honest and enlightened workingmen. Let the char- 
acter of those whose voice is the law, whose agents are its 



4ft2 FREE SCHOOL EDUCATION. 

judicial expounders, and who are themselves, in. the jury 
box, its administrator*, be debased by ignorance or vice, and 
what becomes of this bulwark of our defence in the hoar of 
danger ? 

If my time permitted, it would be easy to show that the 
danger to liberty from the encroachments of executive power 
upon popular privilege, is always in proportion to the decline 
in the standard of virtue and intelligence. The pages of 
history abound with admonitions on this subject, which axe 
no less frequent than impressive. An ignorant populace has 
always been the instrument by which ambition and treason 
have accomplished their unhallowed purposes. And if, in 
the progress of events, the day shall ever arrive in which 
some artful demagogue, or bold military chieftain, shall erect 
a throne upon the ruins of the constitution of his country, 
his pathway to power will be strewed with the fragments of 
the school-houses, the pulpits and the printing-presses, which 
now sow the seeds of virtue and knowledge broad-cast 
through the land ! I say, then, to the people and the gov- 
ernment of the United States, let the work of education go 
on ; let the schoolmaster be sent abroad ; let primary schools, 
and academies, and colleges, spring up in all parts of our 
confederacy, until the whole continent shall be dotted over 
with them, as the heavens are bespangled with stars. 

Let this system of policy be adopted, and these primary 
duties of the government be faithfully performed, and who 
shall assign a limit to the onward march of this giant nation ! 
She is already the wonder of the world — towns, cities, states, 
spring up within her borders as if by magic ! The circles of 
her prosperity and greatness are continually becoming wider 
and wider, and in less than half a century she has added five- 
fold to her population, and doubled the number of republics 
which repose in security beneath her flag. 

But it is not in these respects only that we witness her 
advance in the fulfilment of her destiny. Her institutions 
have made the pathway to honorable distinction as broad 
and as straight from the door of the humblest cottage, as 
from the proudest mansion in the land. Genius, and in- 
dustry, and energy, find no barriers to arrest their career. 
The abolition of arbitrary distinctions and classes of society, 
has given all men an equal start in the race of preferment, 
and brought thousands of eager competitors into the field, 



FREE SCHOOL EDUCATION. 423 

whose nobler faculties would otherwise have remained for- 
ever undeveloped. 

The whole talent of the country is thus forced into action, 
and the^ results are visible in every vocations of life. They 
are to be seen alike in the fairs of the American Institute, 
and in the council chambers of the nation. How often do 
we see men who in early youth guided the plough, or wield- 
ed the hammer or the axe, in maturer age giving direction 
to the policy of tbeir country ! Consult the pages of our his- 
tory, or go into the capitol of the Union, and inquire how 
many of those who sit in the high places of the land, and 
shed lustre on the republic, at one time made the anvil or 
the lapstone ring with their vigorous blows, or plied the busy 
needle, or with their own brawny arms brought into action 
that most potent of all human agents, the printing press ! 

But there is an illustration of my proposition, which ad- 
dresses itself to you in a still more striking manner. Visit 
the exhibition rooms of the Institute, and examine the speci- 
mens of American ingenuity and skill which are there dis- 
played. There we have visible and significant monuments 
of the genius and industry of our people. Each annual ex- 
hibition is the index to the industrial history of the preceding 
year. It marks its progress in all its departments, and like 
a table of contents, appended to the volume, points to each 
specific improvement that has been made. Consult this in- 
dex ; inquire who have been most successful in gaining dis- 
tinction for themselves, and conferring benefits on mankind, 
and you will soon find that they are not those who had the 
greatest advantages of wealth, or station, or opportunity for 
doing good, but the self-made, industrious, practical working- 
men. 

What a glorious reflection it is to every citizen of America, 
that in our happy land the tablets of fame are unfolded to 
every man ! The genius of our country places the pen in 
his hands ! and it is not the fault of our institutions if he 
fails to inscribe his name high on the roll of those destined to 
a glorious immortality! Such are the institutions which 
are committed in trust to the working-men of America, to 
be carefully preserved, and handed down unimpaired to their 
posterity. — Anniversary Address, before the American Insti- 
tute, during the Seventeenth Annual Fair, October, 1844, 
by Hon. Alexander H. H. Stuakt, of Virginia. 



424 tTTILlTY AND profit of From. 

UTILITY AND PROFIT OF FRUITS. 

In the whole routine of cultivation— -and it is all delight- 
ful—there is no department more pleasing or useful than 
fruit growing; and our advantages in this country for its 
production, are varied and extensive. With due attention, 
we can have a great variety of the most delicious fruits ; and 
the trees, with their beautiful bloom, luxuriant foliage, and 
rich and gorgeous crops, are among the most ornamental 
scenery. 

Good fruit is a great luxury, in which we may freely in- 
dulge, not only with impunity, but with advantage as to 
health, as well as pleasure. It forms a wholesome sustenance, 
and lessens the excessive use of various articles of diet, the 
too free use of which tends to inflammations, fevers, dyspep- 
sia, constipation, apolexy, gout, jaundice, and a host of other 
ills. In numerous instances, violent diseases, and almost 
hopeless cases of chronic complaints, have yielded to the con- 
stant use of fruits. 

The vast amount of unhealthy meats, from the sudden 
change of filthy matters to slaughtered animals, and by far a 
too liberal consumption of those that are good ; also of fine 
flower, and fine hot bread, of butter, cheese, fat, oils, strong 
tea and coffee, (all injurious in excess,) the high state of 
cookery ; the free use of condiments and seasoning, and va- 
rious rich dishes, and compounds, commingled and confused ; 
all call aloud for more fruit to lessen their use, or palliate 
their effects, and save thoughtless beings from untimely 
graves, or from lingering out a wretched state of existence. 
Fruits have a cooling and greatly laxative effect, regulating 
the stomach and bowels, correcting bilious affections, and at- 
tenuating and purifying the blood, which is the very life of 
the whole system. 

We have very excellent fruits. How delightful, refresh- 
ing, and salutary are strawberries and cream ; or delicious 
cherries, ready to burst with their rich juices ; the golden 
apricot, with its fine flavor ; the plum, with its honied juice ; 
the splendid peach, with its luscious sweetness ; the melting 
pear, with its rich, sugary, or vinous flavor ; the apple, in all 
its variety and excellence, and multifarious preparations, ex- 
tending from one end of the year to the other ; the rich, lus- 
cious grape ; and others equally delicious— the currant, the 



UTILITY AND PROFIT OF FRUITS. 425 

raspberry, gooseberry, blackberry, whortleberry, mulberry, and 
cranberry, and the high scented quince in its conserved state ; 
all excellent, and conducing largely to health, pleasure, sus- 
tenance, and happiness. They add a charm to social life, 
affording a delightful treat to friends, and to children a con- 
stant, harmless feast. 

As a social entertainment, these fruits serve as a grateful 
substitute for the once ruinous cup, thus having a powerful 
moral influence. Every fruit tree is a silent preacher in the 
cause of temperance, a formidable ally in morality, religion, 
and philanthropy ; for the lusciousness of fruits, and the 
beauty of their attendant scenery, furnish an Eden, where 
one may sit under his own vine and fruit trees, with none to 
molest, and no serpent to beguile ; but with an Eve, as God's 
last, best gift, and perhaps cherubs gamboling in his Elysian 
grounds, as so many multiplied existences, in which he lives 
and revels amidst the charms of nature and munificence of 
heaven, in the happy results of his own skill and industry, 
and faith in Him who gives seed time and harvest. Children 
taught the science of horticulture and pomology, will be 
greatly improved in their moral and social attributes ; inas- 
much as they will acquire an attachment to their early home 
that will probably last as long as life. 

Every one who has a spot of land should raise fruits, that 
he may have them fresh from his trees ; for in no way will it 
yield more profit for one's own use ; and where there is a 
good market, they are profitable for that also. Numerous 
instances might be named in proof of it. Mr. Moses Jones, 
of Brookline, in the vicinity of Boston, set out one hundred 
and twelve apple trees, two rods apart, and peach trees be- 
tween both ways. The eighth year, he had two hundred 
and twenty-eight barrels of apples, and in a few years from 
setting the trees, four hundred dollars worth of peaches in 
one year ; and the best part of the story is, that large crops 
of vegetables were raised on the same land, nearly paying 
for the manure and labor. The tenth year from setting, 
many of the trees produced four or five barrels each, the land 
still yielding good crops of vegetables, the peach trees having 
mostly gone by old age. He grafted a tolerably large pear 
tree to the Bartlett, and the third year it produced thirty dol- 
lars worth. 

Mr. S. Dudley, of Roxbury, adjoining Boston, sold the 



4ftf A NEW YEAR'S SERMON FOR FARMBR8. 

crop of currants from one-eighth of an acre, for one hundred 
and eight dollars, the next year for one hundred and twenty- 
five dollars, and had good crops for several years. He picked 
five hundred quart boxes from one-eighth of an acre the next 
season, after setting the hushes in the fall. He had twenty- 
five dollars worth of cherries from one Mazzard tree. Mr. 
Job Sumner, of the same place, raised of early Virginia straw- 
berries, at the rate of sixteen hundred dollars to the acre, at 
twenty-five cents per quart. Strawberries on an average 
yield what may be sold to from three to four hundred dollars 
per acre. The quantity sold in Cincinnati in 1847, was six 
thousand bushels; and, in the previous year, one grower 
' picked one hundred and twenty-eight bushels daily, during 
the height of the season. 

N. Wyeth, Esq., of Cambridge, Mass., had from a Har- 
vard pear tree, nine barrels of fruit, which sold for forty-five 
dollars. Hovey stales that a Dix pear tree, in the same 
town, produced forty-six dollars worth of fruit at one crop. 
We saw in Orange, N. J., one hundred bushels of apples on 
a Harrison tree, which would make ten barrels of cider, then 
selling at ten dollars a barrel in New- York. Downing men- 
tions that the original Dubois Early Golden Apricot, produced 
forty-five dollars worth in 1844, fifty dollars worth in 1845, 
ninety dollars worth in 184 C. A correspondent of the Hor- 
ticulturist, says that Mr. Hill Pennell, of Darby, Pa., has a 
grape vine that has produced seventy-five bushels yearly, 
which sell at one dollar per bushel. James Laws, of Phila- 
delphia, has a Washington plum tree that yields six bushels 
a year, that would sell for sixty dollars. And Judge Linn, 
of Carlisle, Pa., has two apricot trees that yield five bushels 
each, worth one hundred and twenty dollars. These may he 
extreme oases ; but, they show what may be done, and should 
stimulate to greater and more general efforts in the culture 
of fruit. — S. W. Cole, Editor of the New England Farmer. 



A NEW YEAR'S SERMON FOR FARMERS. 

And now, farmers, have you done justice to your profes- 
sion, to your families, and to your country, for the last year ? 
To your profession — have you cultivated your grounds with 
all the assiduity and zeal of which you are susceptible? 



A KBW YEAR'S SERMON FOR FARMERS. . 437 

Have you called to your aid all the agricultural reading 
within your reach, and taken advice from those of your neigh- 
bors who are competent to give it ? Are your farms generally 
in better condition than they w^re one year ago ? Are your 
fields better laid out and enclosed — your waste grounds less— 
your ditches opened — useless stones removed — and the gene- 
ral surface of the ground better adapted for the raising of 
crops ? Has your land been made richer, to enable it to yield 
more, and have you collected a large amount of materials to 
increase your annual stock of manure ? Are your houses more 
comfortable, besides being of a neater appearance, from the 
labors of the year ? Have you added to the conveniences and 
safety of your barns, to make them better adapted to the pur- 
poses for which they were built ? 

Again, has your stock of cattle and horses improved, not 
only in numbers, but more in quality and appearance, and 
consequently in value ? Have you selected, and do you raise 
the best kinds of sheep — we mean those kinds that are the 
most profitable to the owner ? Have you the most profitable 
breed of hogs, and do you carry just so many through the 
winter as best conduces to your interest ? In short, have you 
so farmed it in all things, that you have no cause of regret, 
because you have given to all a proper degree of attention 
and care ? 

If so, we congratulate you ; but if not so, — if you have 
not done one, a part, or all, of these things, the year has been 
in a measure lost to you, and you have not done justice to 
your farm or your profession. Take another year of proba- 
tion, turn it to better account, and let your diligence give 
evidence of a thorough reformation. But if you will not,— 
if experience cannot teach-^-and the prospect of harassing 
debts hereafter oannot incite you to a noble industry, — you 
will soon become an evil in a neighborhood, your example 
will be injurious to others, and your slothfulness and unthrif- 
tiness will assuredly lay your farm under a cumbersome 
mortgage, — and this once imposed, the next step is a dispo- 
sal of it by a creditor, at auction. 

We turn from such with disgust, and ask next, have you 
for the last year done your duty to your family ? That is, 
have you made the labors of the farm as cheerful to all your 
dependants as circumstances would allow ? Have you been 
so far kind and indulgent as was consistent with the proper 



4fg A KBW TBAX*8 8ERM05 FOR FARMBRfl. 

management of a well-regulated household ? Have you at- 
tended to the education of your children and apprentices, and, 
as far as one short year would allow, given them all the op- 
portunities to acquire information that may he useful to them 
hereafter in their several pursuits, and that with intelligence 
they may support the free institutions of our country ? If you 
have done this, you have done your duty ; but let us at the 
same time remark, that education is on the advance ; what 
was necessary for our generation, is not enough for them. 
The march of intellect is onward, and our present attain- 
ments are comparatively small, and will be still more under- 
valued, in the advance of the generation to come. 

Have you done your duty to your country? Have you 
given the necessary aid that the good of society demands at 
your hands— to the bridges, roads, publio improvements in 
your respective neighborhoods, to schools, seminaries of learn- 
ing, public morals, and religious institutions ? These are all 
great and important duties, and in a well-regulated commu- 
nity ought not to be slighted or forgotten. Society cannot 
flourish without them— they are the stamina that give sta- 
bility and health to our country and its government, and 
that man is unfit lor associated life, he is wanting in princi- 
ple and reckless of consequences, who will not lend his aid 
to the attainment of these great and important objects. — Al- 
bany Cultivator. 



4S9 



INDEX. 

i 

The articles in capital! an prepared particularly In reference to reeitatiet in school. Those 

in lower case Roman letters were ■elected, modified, and arranged for readme; exercises. Those 

of the Reading: Lessons with IT prefixed, contain very interestinr scientific facts aud illustrations, 

i and hence are ala<« adapted to study and recitation. Those in Italics are not heads of chapters* 

but incidental topics happily illustrated in connection with the main subjects. 

VASSJ. 

Advantages of Rural Life, . « , .317 

Age of Animals, selected, . 406 

Agricultural Chemistry, . . . 24 

IT Agricultural Education. Judge Buel, . . 414 

Agricultural Implements, . . . . .191 
Agriculture and the Homestead. Edward Everett, . 117 
IT Agriculture Favorable to Knowledge. James Tufts, 272 
Agriculture Favorable to Morals. Henry Colman, . 143 
Agriculture in Europe. Edward Everett, . .120 

Agriculture in France 264 

Agriculture in Maryland. Willoughby Newton, . 125 

Agriculture is Civilisation, . . , . 386 

American Farmer. Josiah Q,uincy, Jr., . .179 

American Forest Girl. Mrs. Hemans, . . 351 

American Labor, Moral Dignity of. Rev. Dr. Tyng, . 7 
American Pioneer. Brainard, .... 353 

American Ploughman. Dr. Holmes, ... 29 

American Schoolmaster. Verplanck, . . . 108 
1T Animal and Vegetable Food, selected, . . 407 

Animal Manures, . 131 

Animal Physiology 253 

Antiquity of Freedom. Bryant, .... 374 
Approved Modes of Tillage, . . . .174 

Beauty of Trees; William Howitt, ... 393 

Benefits of Agriculture. MacNeven, .... 326 
Benefits of Loosening the Soil, . . . 387 

Boblmk, his Merry Notes and Perils. Washington Irving, 12 
Boy and the Rainbow. Wilkie, .... 324 
"Change of Material Substances. Alex. H. Stevens, . 287 
Chemical Analysis, its Advantage, . . . 138 
Cocoa-Nut Tree, its Value, ..... 67 
Country Burial Ground. Longfellow, . . .54 
Crop of Acorns. Mrs. Sigourney, .... 28 
Country Clergyman. Goldsmith, .... 276 
Decomposition, how Promoted, .... 291 
Deer's Instinct. The Reformer, .... 302 



430 



INttT 



T Defence of Agriculture. E. H. Derby, . 

Delights of Autumn. Longfellow, 

District Schools in the Country. D. A. Ogden, 

DISTRIBUTION OP PLANT8, 

Domestic Education of Females. Rev. E. H. Winslow, 
Educated Farmers. Lewis F. Allen, 
Elementary Constituents of Plants, . 
Enduring Monuments, selected, .... 
Evening Sketch. Blackwood's Magazine, 

Evening Wind. Bryant, 

T Exhaustion of the Soil. Professor Mapes, ' 
Family Meeting. Charles Sprague, 

Feeding Animals, 

First Fall of Snow. Julia H. Scott, 

* 

Food for Vegetables, .... 

IT Formation of Soils. Professor Norton, 

Free School Education. Alex. H. H. Stuart, 

Galway Women. Rev. Henry Colman, 

Geological Researches, .... 

Gladness of Nature. Bryant, . 

Glow Worm. Wolcot, ..... 

God's First Temples. Bryant, .... 

Good in All Seasons. William Howitt, 

IT Great Interests of the Country. Alden Bradford, 

Harbinger of Spring. Washington Irving, 

Heart's Charity. Eliza Cook, 

History of Agriculture, ..... 

Hog, History of the 

Home Market, how made. Professor Sanborn, . 

Horse, History of the 

IF How to Obtain Good Crops. Isaac Hill, 

Implements for Agriculture, 

Importance of Agriculture to Commerce. A. Bradford, 

IF Influence of Science on Agriculture. Professor Emmons.. 

Itinerant Lecturers on Agriculture, 

Kings of the Soil, selected, ..... 

Leafless Tree. Miss Brewer, . . . . 

Leisure of Farmers, ...... 

Lightning Rods. Albany Cultivator, 

Lights and Shadows of Rural Life. M. P. Wilder, . 

Man Chemically Considered, .... 

Manures, . 84, 112, 131, 151, 224", 

Migratory and Stationary Life, 



80 

78 
389 
234 
392 
312 

56 
420 
213 
157 
224 

68 
398 
171 

70 
268 
420 
247 
268 
149 
278 
187 

52 
339 

12 
329 
118 
377 
166 
331 
102 
191 
340 
384 
227. 
396. 
229 
272 

89 
137 

35 
268 
366 



ftfDEX. 4^1 



9. 



Milk, Butter, and Cheese, .... 305 

IF Mind and the Soil. I. R. Lawton, . 409 

Mineral Manures, 15] 

Moral Dignity of American Labor. Rev. Dr. Tyng, . 7 

Morals in Vermont. Henry Colman, . . . 145 

Morning Hymn. Milton, ..... 250 

Mountain Scenery. William Howitt, . . 91 

Mother's Jewel, selected, ..... 252 

Music of Nature in Norway. H. Martineau, . 346 

My Mother's Grave. G. D. Prentice, . . • . 397 

My Own Place. Tupper, 418 

Nature and Variety of Soils, .... 97 

Nature's Nobleman. Tupper, . . ... 376 

New Year's Sermon for Farmers. Albany Cultivator, . 426 

Night Musings. G. G. Foster, .... 172 

Old Arm-Chair. Eliza Cook, 1 . 69 

Old Farm House. Mary A. Lawson, . . 156 

Old Gristmill. Stoddard, 15 

Organs and Structure of Plants, ... 40 

Our Native Land, selected, ..... 349 

Our Wondrous Atmosphere. Quarterly Review, . 394 

Ox, History of the 279 

Patriot Farmers of New- York. George Bancroft, . 48 

Persevering Labor and Wealth. Tristam Burgess. . 184 

Philosophy of Ploughing. Salma Hall, . . . 362 

Physical Benefits of Winter. N. York Independent, . 209 

IT Physiological Reflections on Water. London Review, 31 
Plea for our Physical Life. Charles Mackey, . .39 

Plants, How Distributed, . . ... 234 

Plants, their Organs and Structure, ... 40 

Plants, their Elementary Constituents, 55 

Plaster of Paris, the Uncertainty of its Results, . 387 

Poetry of Labor. Mrs. Frances Osgood, . . 407 

Position of the American Farmer. Senator Pearce, . 105 

1T Practical Use of Leaves. Rev. H. W. Beecher, . 76 

Producer and Consumer. R. C. Winthrop, . . 344 

Progress of Agriculture. Ebenezer Mack, . . 262 
Progress of Agriculture in Massachusetts, E. H. Derby, 82 

Rainbow. Amelia B.-Welby, .... 55 
Rainy Day. Longfellow, . . . . .79 

Religious Influences in the Country. Buckminster, . 95 

Remarkable Trees, 240 

Return of Spring, selected, 396 



us 



mntx. 



niches of a Poor Man. Randolph, 

Bill From the Town Pump. N. Hawthorne 

Biting of the Waters. John Gait, 

Romance in Real Life. Lewia Cass, 

Rotation of Crops, 

Rural Life in England. Washington Irving, 

Sagacity of the Spider. Goldsmith, . 

Science and Practice. Rev. Mr. Tarbox, 

T Scientific Terms in Agriculture, 

Seasons of the Year. Thompson, . 

Seed Time and Harvest. Whittier, . 

Sheep, History of ... . 

Siberian Winter, Travels in the North, 

IT Small Farms. Farmers' Monthly Visitor 

Soils, Nature and Variety of 

Soliloquy of the Clouds. Shelley, . 

Source of National Wealth. Rev. Mr. Burnap 

South Western Prairie. Albert Pike, 

T Successful Rural Enterprise. Prof. Sanborn 

Sunrise on the Hills. Longfellow, 

Superiority of Educated Labor. Horace Mann 

Thanksgiving Day. Eugene Batchelder, 

Theory and Practice. Secretary Johnson, 

Theory of Feeding Animals, 

Theory of Manures, .... 

Tillage, Approved Modes of 

IF Transformations in Nature. Sturm, 

Tribute to Genius and Labor. Epes Sargent, 

Twilight of the Heart. Halleck, 

Utility and Profit of Fruits. S. W. Cole, 

Vegetable Manures, .... 

Vernal Showers. Rev. Ralph Hoyt, 

Vine and the Oak. Judge Lewis, 

Visit to an English Dairy. Charles Dickens, 

Vital Chemistry, what is said of it, 

Vegetable Food, .... 

IT Water, its Properties and Uses. London &r 

Wealth and Labor. H G. 0. Colby, 

Wild Brook. Mrs Robinson, 

Winter in Copenhaghen. Phillips, 

Winter Night. Peabody, 

Winter Walk at Noon. Cowper, . 

If Wonders of Vegetation. Lewis Cass, 



Review, 



275 

158 
371 

199 
214 
295 
205 
365 

17 
231 
111 
354 
228 
347 

97 
127 

63 
169 
163 

94 

37 

16 
321 
398 

84 
174 
412 

38 
212 
424 
112 
150 
129 
243 
289 

70 

31 
220 
303 
327 
190 
304 
240 



MASK H. NEWMAN fc CO.'s PUBLICATIONS. 



SANDE1S' SERIES OF READING BOOKS. 

UPWARDS OF 9,««0,OOO SOLD. 



60 pages. 


60 


u 


166 


u 


190 


u 


180 


tt 


250 


a 


304 


u 


456 


w 



1. BANDERS' PRIMARY PRIMER, 
S. SANDERS' PICTORIAL PRIMER, 

3. SANDERS' SPELLING-BOOK, 

4. SANDERS' FIRST READER, 

5. SANDERS' SECOND READER, 

6. SANDERS' THIRD READER, 

7. SANDERS' FOURTH READER, 
& SANDERS' FIFTH READER, 

These booka constitute the most valuable series ever published— a (act fully evinced 
by the generous patronage which they have received from the Friends of Education 
throughout the country; their leading advantages are as follows : 

1st. The child is taught to read by the use of intelligible words only— beginning 
with the least, as those of two letters, and gradually advancing to those of greater length. 

8d. All the words in the first book, or Primer, are learned by the scholar in the spell- 
ing lessons, before he meets with them in the reading lessons. Also, the iUfft*nK words 
of each reading lesson, in all the Readers, are previously formed into spelling lessons. 

3d. In the 3d and 4th Readers, the difficult words are defined in a general and literal 



4th. The Primary booka contain more lessons of easy reading than other works— 
there being about ninety pages made up of monosyllables. 

5th. The pro«resbion from one book to another, is more regular, gradual, and pfcU* 
oeophical than usually found. - 

6th. The lessons are adapted to interest as well as instruct. 

7th. The practical and judicious use of pictures is cakmlatad to assist, and not to 
retard the efbrts of the teacher. 

8th. The practical instructions in the Rhetorical principles of reading and speak- 
ing, contained in the 4th Reader, constitute a distinguishing characteristic of the work. 

9th. At the end of each lesson for reading, questions are asked, with reference to the 
proper inflections, emphasis, etc., which should be adopted in reading the lesson with 
propriety. 

10th. In connection with the questions, are references to the instructions in ether 
parts of the work. 

11th. The print is large and distinct, gradually diminishing from the large print of 
the Primer to that of the ordinary size, contained in the 4th Reader. 

12th. A greater variety, both in style and subject, is found in this series than Is usual 
In books of the kind. 

13th. The Spelling and Pronunciation throughout the series are uniformly in ae> 
cordance with those of Dr. Webster. 

14th. The instruction* in the sounds and power of letters, as well as the " Gen* 
seal Rules for flpELMNa," are more dearly presented in " Sanders' Spelling-Book,* 
then in any other work. 

The Convention of State and County Superintendents of Schools in Vermont, held 
pursuant to adjournment in the State House, MontpeUer, Oct. 14, 1646, uiuimmously re- 
commended SAjtiBts' Scries or School Books, consisting of Sanders' .flnellinf 
BoolL, Kcteriri and Primary School Primer, end Sanders' Readers, Nee. 1, 3, 3, and 4 
for unjfoxs^^fdojnttfm in the Qonmon Schools of the State. «thie«eu^e«fhn» 
U * Munr wW Piestdenl 
A 



■ARK H. NEWMAN AND fc OO.'s PUBLICATIONS. 



SANDERS 1 SERIES OF READERS. 



tiu a mm to ttmttoSmfrctif Education , appo i n t e d bp tka SouaU of tka »mta 



Wo have compared Bavobbs' Sauna op RaAimre Books with the Eclectic Series 
of Plot MeGunwy,snd we have a Tory deckled preference tor fhosa of Mr. Senders, and 
recommend thai they be adopted uniformly by the schools of the State of Dttnois. 
Farther, we hare examined Day and Thomeotrt Arithmetical aeries, WIDeon'S His- 
tories, and Gray's Chemistry, and tad them superior to any other works of the kind, 
with which we are acquainted, and think that the interests of education would be ad- 
" by their Introduction generally into the Common and High Schools of the State* 

NEWTON CLOUD, 1 
JOSEPH GILLESPIE, Committee of Beasts 
Oto •/ Springfield, WILLIAM TICHNOR, V on the 

ltlsBT^ W. B. PLATS, [ Subject of Education. 

P. a HARDY, J 



An extract from a communication to the Board of Trustees and risitsrs of the 
School*, OfactaaaU, Ohio, signed kg the SEVENTY TEACHERS of that dtf 



After eiramhring such reading books as we have had access to, we are of opinion that 
the Series of Readers, known as Sanders* Series, hare merits which highly recommend 
them to your uTorable notice— some of which are peculiar. We betters that the im- 
portant object of gradually progressrre lessons, both in subjects and Magum, is more 
nearly «**-»~-« in that series than in any other wit h which w e are acqua inted. 

Signed by SEVENTY TEACHERS, fiinrinnatf. 

Mmurnctfrom a Petition, presented to the Board of Education, bp the Principal* of sat 

Public School* for thecitgof Rochester. 

* We, the undersigned, teachers in the Public Schools In the city, believing as we do, 
that some changes in our textbooks, upon certain conditions, would give a healthful 
stimulus, facilitating our onward progress, therefore unite, earnestly ■eliciting the Hon. 
Board of Education to substitute bahdbbs* Stblubo Book ajto Beauts or Rbadeb* 
for use in our schools, for those now In use. 



C. MB8ERYB, Principal No. 1. - 0. W. OOLYBR, in No. 14. 

M. DOUGLASS, « No. 9. W. OGDEN, u No. ft. 

J . R. V OBBURQH, « No. 13. E. S. TREAT, " No. 5. 

LEWIS BEXBY, « No. 14. A. W. FISHER. « No. 10. 

DONALD 6. FRASRR, No. 19. WM. DALLI8, u No. 3. 

WM. WATSON, « No. 11. A. N. MERRDfAN, " No. 11. 



Prom Principal* of Public School* in the dtp of Buffalo. 

We hare examined Saxobbs' Firm Reads*, edited by C W. Sanders of New York, 
and And the selections appropriate, and their moral tone of a highly elevated ensraoter. 
The work seems adndramy fVnlsfad to make easy, natural, ana intellectual readers. 

A. L. BIN GHAM, Prin. of Public School, No. 1L 
SAMTJEL BLADE, Prin. of Public School, No. 3. 
D. P. LEE, Principal of Public School, No. 7. 
June 14, 1846. R. F. COOK. 3d I>epsrtinent,Pubiio School, No. IB. 

From A. 8. LovoU, Principal of dtp High School, Middletown, Conn. 

Baring caremuy examined Sabbbbs' Snares or School Books, I neat cheerfully re* 
Oflsnsnend their general adoption, as I bettere than to excel in several respects say series 
* unseat before the public 

,1845. r A. a LOVBXL. 



MARX H. NEWMAN fc OO.'s PUBLICATIONS, 



DAT ABB THOMSON'S SERIES OF MATHEMATICS. 

FOR SCHOOLS AND ACADEMIES. 



HOT IB©MJOT©IBTr (DdDHJIBSIBo 

NO. 1*~PRIMARY TABLE BOOK. 

NO. *«-MENTAL ARITHMETIC. 

Or First Lessons in Numbers for Children, by Jambs 8. Thomson, A.M. New 
edition, revised and enlarged. 18mo, 120 pages, half bound. 

NO. 3.-SLATE AND BLACK-BOARD EXERCISES. 

NO. ^.-PRACTICAL ARITHMETIC 

Uniting the Inductive with the Synthetic modes of Instruction, also illustrating the 
principles of Cancellation, for Schools and Academies. By Jambs B. Thomson, 
AM. New edition, revised and enlarged. 12mo, 366 pages, half bound. 

Na B.-H1GHER ARITHMETIC. 

Or the Theory and Application of Numbers, combining the Analytic and Synthetic 
modes of Instruction, adapted to Scientific and Commercial purpeees. By James 
B. Thomson, A.M. Large 12mo, full bound in leather. Just published. 

These books are introductory to President Day and James B. Thomson's Mathematical 
Series ; which, when finished, will be the most complete ever published in a series. 

HftBIIIBIft ©©TOSE* 

Na 1— ELEMENTS OF ALGEBRA. 

Being a School Edition of Day's Large Algebra. 

NO. ^—ELEMENTS OF GEOMETRY. 

Being an Abridgment of Legendre's Geometry, with Practical Notes and Illustra- 
tions. Bound in leather. 

NO. 3.-ELEMENT8 OF TRIGONOMETRY, MENSURATION AND 
LOGARITHMS. 

NO-4.-DAY AND THOM80N'8 SURVEYING. On Press.) 
Adapted both to the wants of (he Learner and the Practical Surveyor. 

NO. 5.-DAY AND THOMSON'S LEGENDRE. (In Press.) 

NO. 6.-DAY AND THOMSON'S BOURDON'S ALGEBRA, (In Press.) 

The Publishers respectfully ask the attention of School Committees awl Teachers to 
the foregoing Series of Arithmetical and Mathematical Works. To any Teacher, or 
Committee on Text-Books for schools, who have never given these works an examina- 
tion, the publishers would be glad to present copies for that purpose, without charge. 

The following is taken from an editorial in the Brooklyn Eagle, June 6, 1849 :— 

Thomson's Arithm btic.— A few weeks since we brought to the notice of our read- 
ers the two Arithmetics of Mr. Thomson, with such commendations as a brief examina- 
tion seemed to point out as well deserved. Since that time the question of introducing 
them into the public schools of this city has been agitated, and the book committee had 
Mr. Thomson and Professor Davies, [the authors of two rival arithmetical systems,] be- 
fore them in a meeting to which the principals of all the public schools were invited, 
that the explanations of the authors might be heard by those who were chiefly interested 
in the work of instruction. After the fullest examination by the committee, and the ap- 
proval of nearly all the teachers, the book committee agreed to recommend the ArhD> 
■tetios of Mr. Thomson to the Board of Education 9 and at the last me*tiag,*beyi 
BBBnhnoasly adopted by the board. 

Q 



MARK H. WEWMAW fc CO.'s PUBUfJATIOKft, 



DAT AND THOMSON'S ARITHMETICS. 



Ob the subject of the Merits of these works, the publishers will say nothing, baft 
merely submit the following reasons in favor of their adoptions—condensed from the 
expressed opinions of teachers, superintendents, and committees, who hare examined 
them. 

I.-MENTAL ARITHMETIC. 

Among the numerous reasons given for the adoption of this work are the foflowing:— 

1. " That it begins and ends in just the right places and in just the right way." 

2. u That it equally avoids the childishness and puerility of some works on the emb- 
ject, and the complication and difficulty of others." 

3. u That the lessons gradually increase in difficulty, and in a manner happily adapted 
to the expanding minds of children, from six to ten years of age." 

4. u That these lessons are rendered interesting to the young, by the great variety of 

Strsons, incidents and circumstances embodied in them — strikingly contrasting with 
at repulsive monotony, where the same name and tbe same object occur throughout a 
whole lesson." 

5. "That pictures and marks are excluded from the book, and their places sup- 
plied by the Numerical Frame, for the use of which ample instructions are given." 

0. M That the lessons are so arranged that the regular increase ef numbers is con- 
tinually broken up, and thus the solution of each question requires thought and fur- 
nishes direct mental exercise for the pupil." 

7. "That in tbe progress of the book, the first example inroiring a new principle 
is carefully analyzed, and affords a model of reasoning for the solution of ail similar 
questions." 

8. "That after the pupil has become practically acquainted with the principles of a 
rale, and is able to solve examples under it with facility, the operation is then defknsa\ 
and its more prominent terras briefly explained." 

II.-PRACTIOAL ARITHMETIC. 

Among the reasons given for preferring this work we select the following :— 

1. " That the arrangement of the subjects is consecutive, systematic, and natural." 

2. u That the language employed in the definitions and rules is peculiarly appropriate, 
concise, and clear." 

3. " That great core is taken never to anticipate a principle, and that no principle is 
used in the explanation of another, until it has itself been explained or demonstrated." 

4. «* That each principle is explained separately, and carefully analyzed— the way and 
the wherefore of each step in the process are clearly and explicitly given." 

5. " That the examples are numerous and diversified ; their arrangement is gradual 
and progressive ; and the work is calculated to impress upon the pupil's mind an abid- 
ing knowledge of the subject" 

o. "That the note*, observational and suggestions, contained in the work, form an 
admirable system of instruction for the student, and afford important aid to the teacher." 

7. «* That Mental Arithmetic, instead of being punned to a tedious and unprofitable 
length independent of written Arithmetic, is here immediately connected with it, and is 
made introductory to every department of the subject Thus mental operations are 
connected with the use of the slate throughout the course." 

8. "That it is strictly an American Book*— -arranged in exact accordance with the 
ejEistingstate and national laws, and the practice of business men." 

9. u That the old, obsolete and useless forms of arithmetical operations are rejected, 
and their places supplied by valuable improvements." 

10. u That instead of giving the pupil a rule and requiring him to understand it bo- 
fore he is furnished with an example, this work first gives an example, then tells the 
pupil how to do it, and way ks did tt, and then gives a short, clear and comprehensive 
rule for it" 

11. " That in nearly every article, something is gained in the mode of presenting the 
subject, perspicuity and precision being remarkable throughout" 

12. « That in studying this book, the pupil's mind is thoroughly and actively exer- 
cised ; not in seeking for hours to comprehend the meaning of obscure and knotty pro- 
positions— the unraveling of which has no more practical bearing than the solution of 
a riddle or conundrum, but is exercised upon practical and useful principles, which ha 
can understand and apply as occasions for their use arise in after life." 

* Thomson's Practical Arithmetic has the honor of being the first school book wirtth 
fnettshed the standard units of Weights and Measures adopted dj (he Oavemment of 
Uw United fltatea. 



bu*k a* vmwuAv a» oo/b tobucaotovb. 

JV*m t*« Principals •/ ta« PuWte School* in the City of New York. 
After a careful examination of "Thomson's Practical Arithmetic,'' we cheerfully ex- 

Eees our hearty approbation of it Having used the work in our Schools, we are free 
say that we deem it better adapted to the purposes of instruction than any other text- 
book of the kind with which we are acquainted. 

WILLIAM BELDEN, Prin. No. 3. GEORGE MOORE, Prin. No. 11. 

LEONARD HAZELTDfE, « No. 14. CHARLES 8. PELL, u No. & 

A. K. VAN VLECK, « No. 16. WILLIAM H. WOOD, ** No. 15. 

DAVID PATTERSON, " No. 3. ASA SMITH, " No. 18. 

WILLIAM H. REUCK, « No. 7. THOMAS P. OKIE, ** No. 6. 

NATHANIEL W. STARR, « No. 10. MARVIN W. FOX, « No. 17. 

JOHN PATTERSON, * No. 4. J. A. FERGUSON, « No. 18. 

JOHN H. FANNING, « No. 13. B. G. BRUCE, « No. 9. 

M. J. O'DONNELL, « No. 5. WILLIAM W. SMITH, « No. 1. 

Mew York, Oct 5th, 1848. 

From the Commissioners and Inspectors •/ ths Thirteenth Ward School, New York. 

The undersigned, Commissioners and Inspectors of Common Schools of the Thir- 
teenth Ward, take great pleasure in stating that, after a careful and prolonged ex- 
amination into the relative merits of a great number of Arithmetics presented for their 
consideration, which number embraced all the most popular ones in present use, they 
have unanimously adopted Day and Thomson's Mental and Practical Arithmetics ft?r 
the use of Ward School No. 19, recently organized and opened under their supervision 
— these books being considered, for perspicuity of arrangement and adiptation to the 
comprehension of the pupil, with or in the absence of a teacher, preferable to any books 
on the same subject which huve come under their consideration. 

WILLIAM A. WALTERS, 
WM. TYLER ANDERSON, 
CHARLES D. FIELD. 

From William Belden, Jr. A. M., Principal of Ward School No. 3, JV. F. 

A careful examination of Prof. Thomson's " Practical Arithmetic" has satisfied me 
that it is a work of uncommon merit 

The plan of presenting examples, in order to introduce the rule by previously analys- 
ing its principles, will commend itself to every experienced teacher as the natural pro- 
cess, both for Imparting knowledge of this subject, and giving correct habits of mental 
discipline. The language of ths explanations and rules Is peculiarly clear and intel- 
ligible, and the amount and value of this part of the work much superior to that of any 
other arithmetic with' which I am acquainted. WM. BELDEN, Jr. 

From Thomas Foulke, Esq., Principal of Ward School No. 14, New York. 

Having examined with care Thomson's Mental, Practical, and Higher Arithmetics, I 
am pleased to have it in my power to state, as my unqualified opinion, that I consider 
each work excellent in its kind ; and, as a whole, the series is decidedly the most philo- 
sophical in its arrangement, lucid in its illustrations, and superior in its adaptation to the 
wants and purposes of the school-room, to any other with which I am acquainted. 

I shall recommend the introduction of the series into the school with which I am con- 
nected, at an early day. THOMAS FOULKE. 
We heartily concur in the above recommendation. 

WM. KENNEDY, Prin. Ward S. No. 2. 
A. B. CLARK, Prin. Ward S. No. 16. 
J. J. ANDERSON, Prin. Ward S. No. 1. 

From W. C. Kib be, Esq., Principal of Ward School No. 19, New York. 

Having used "Thomson's Practical Arithmetic" during ths past year, it affords me 
Much pleasure to commucicate my unqualified approval of it. 

It is comprehensive without unnecessary details, its rides are simple and practical, its 
elucidations clear and explicit and its examples combine information of great practical 
utility, approaching near the actual business transactions of life. It is indeed a treatise 
well adapted as a text-book for our schools. W. C KIBBE. 

From L G. Haass, A. M., Principal of Mount Washington Institute, New York City. 

Gentlemen : — I have carefully examined Mr. Thomson's "Practical Arithmetic." and 
sV> moat heartily add my testimonial to those already given in its favor. It is indeed a 
work of very great merit comprising many excellencies in a small compass. Its value 
as a practical school-book will be more apparent o:i a second and thorough examination. 
While as an elomentary work it deserves a place in our best schools, I know of no. 
other so well adapted to general use. ISA AC G. HUBBS. 

E 



MASK H. VSWatair 4b CO.* FPBUC AIUJUB. 



DAY AND THOMSON'S ARITHMETICS. 



III.-HIQHER ARITHMETIC. 



Among the various re asons given for the adoption of this work, ire p i os out the follow* 

I. tt The work ta complbtb In Itself, embracing the fundamental principles of Arith- 
metic, together with the highest combinations of numbers." 

8. "The mode of anal f sis and reasonings so successfully pursued in the Mental and 
Practical Arithmetics, is admirably carried out in the Higher, and applied to the mors 
Intricate departments of the science." 

3. * It la formed upon the plan that there Is an intelligible naiM for erery operation, 
and that that reason can and ought to be explained to pupils." 

4. u Nothing has been taken for granted which requires proof." 

5. tt It happily unites the Philosophy of Arithmetic with Its various applications to the 
practical purposes of life.** 

0. tt The rules are arranged in strict accordance with reason and the natural order of 
the science." 

7. "No subject Is anticipated, and no principle is used in the explanation of an- 
other, until it has itself been explained or demonstrated." 

8. M The principles embraced under each rule are arranged consecutively and sys- 
tematically ; tho dependence of each on those that precede it, is pointed out by refer- 
ences—thus presenting a regivar nnd harmonious series of principles and propositions, 
the study of which must necessarily exert the hnppiest influence in developing and 
strengthening the reasoning powers of the luarnor." 

9. u The definitions and rules are remarkably cloar, comprehensive, and exact." 

10. u Instead of presenting the rules as mere arbitrary propositions, or inferring them 
from principles unexplained to the pupil, they are deduced from a careful analysis of 
examples, and a logical course of reasoning upon principles already established, the 
■tops of which are plain and Intelligible to every youth of common understanding." 

II. u It contains muck valuable information respecting business transactions, and 
matters of sctonce, not found in other works of the kind." 

12. tt It contains the fullest and most satisfactory account of the origin and present 
standard value of American and Foreign Weights and Measures and Moneys of Account, 
of any Arithmetic extant." 

The following are some of the Recommendations which the Publishers have received 
of Day and Thomson's Series. Many others have been received from distinguished practi- 
cal Teachers and friends of education ; but our present limits will not admit of their inser- 
tion. Its circulation during the brief period since its publication, is believed to be without 
a parallel, and affords the best practical evidence of its merits : — 

»•*• Hon. Ira Mayhkw, Sup't of Public Instruction, State of Michigan. 

Gentlemen:— "Thomson's Higher Arithmetic," (which you obligingly forwarded me 
a short time since,) was duly received, and has been critically examined. Having pre- 
viously examined "Thomson's Mental and Practical Arithmetics," with much care, and 
with an unusual degree of satisfaction, I looked for a superior work in the " Higher 
Arithmetic ;" and I am happy (in being able) to say to you, my expectations have been 
more than realized. 

For the last thirteen years I have (riven special attention to the subject of Arithmetic 
—in the school-room and in the study— with reference to supplying (or seeing supplied) 
deficiencies In existing works, and obtaining a series adapted to the wants of students 
of all grades — a series scientific in theory, and practical in its applications. 

In the prosecution of this investigation, I have accumulated a large number of Arith- 
metics. After the most careful examination, I am fully satisfied that each volume in the 
series under consideration is unrivaled. Taken together, as a whole — leading the 
learner on step by step, from the simplest combinations of numbers through the higher 
departments of the science— I regard Day and Thomson's Series or Arithmetic! 
the best I bave ever seen. I shall recommend their introduction into the Schools. 

of this State. I trust they will go into general use. 

Respectfully yours, IRA MAYHEW. 

P 



MASK H. NKWMAV * OO.'fl PUHIOAROIIB, 



DAT AND THOMSOFS ARITHMETICS. 



From the Principal* of t*« Albany Public Schools, 

Within the last few yean no less than ten different systems of Arithmetic hare been 
■lore or less used in our Schools. About two years since, in view of this evil, we ex* 
•mined several of the more prominent Arithmetics, and agreed with perfect unanimity 
upon Thomson's Series as the best adapted to the wants of the pupil, and the general 
purposes of instruction. 

We are happy to say that, after a trial of more than two years, we are confirmed as 
to the excellency of the books, that they hare grown hi favor by daily use, and that wo. 
have succeeded in making better arithmeticians than by the use of any other books. 

SAMUEL STEELE, A. T. BALDWIN, 

J. W. BULKLEY, WM. H. HUGHES, 

WM. JANES, WM. L. MARTIN, 

ROBERT TRUMBULL, THOS. W. VALENTINE, 

E. S. ADAMS, JOEL MARBLE. 
Albany, April 90th, 1850. 

From. Hon* Judge Blackmail, A.M^ Chairman of the Board of School Visitor* of the 

City of JWto Haven, Ct, 

Jam Kg B. THOM80N,«Eaq.— Dear Sir :— I have examined with attention your " Practical 
Arithmetic," and consider it decidedly the best work for inculcating and illustrating the 
principles and practice of Arithmetic which I have ever seen. Your illustrations, in the 
form of problems to be solved, are drawn, in a great measure, from the familiar scenes 
of early life ; and while the young learner is interested in the solution of problems which 
he feels are practicable, he is encouraged to persevere in a study which would other- 
wise be dull and forbidding, and is thus imperceptibly led to acquire and understand the 
rules of Arithmetic, which he now knows to be true. 

I remain, dear sir, very respectfully yours, 

ALFRED BLACKMAN. 

At a meeting of the Board of School Visitors of the First School Society of the city 
of New Haven, Ct, duly warned and convened — 

Voted, That the " Practical Arithmetic," by James B. Thomson, A.M., be prescribed 
for use in each school of this society. ALFRED BLACKMAN, Chairman. 

Certified by H. 6. Lewis, Secretary. 

From S. S. Green, A.M~> Principal of Philips 1 Grammar School, Boston, Mass, 

Mr. Thomson.— Dear Sir:— I hereby acknowledge the receipt of a copy of fho 
u Practical Arithmetic," to which I have given sufficient attention to be convinced that 
it possesses superior merit as a text-book. I am particularly pleased with the practical 
character of it, the systematic and natural arrangement of its parts, the exactness of the 
definitions, the clearness with which the principles are explained and illustrated, and 
the concise, yet explicit language, with which the rules are stated. You havo done a 
good service by removing from the tables of weights and measures all denominations 
out of use, and by introducing those adopted by the General Government. The work, 
in fine, is well adapted to the purposes of instruction. SAMUEL S. GREEN, 

From Rev. C. Pierce, A.M., Principal of West JVewtow State Normal School, Mas*. 

To Mark H. Newman, Esq.— Dear Sir :— The copy of « Thomson's Higher Arithmetic," 
which you put into my hands, I have examined with considerable care. Mr. T. his 
given us, if not the best, one of the best, school-books which have appeared in this de- 

KrtmenU Besides happily setting forth and explaining the common principles of num- 
rs and their applications, illustrating the same by appropriate examples both abstract 
and practical, his book contains many suggestions, in regard to the nature of numbers 
and modes of operation, which are ingenious and useful, C. PIERCE. 

From Rev. J. D. Wickham, Principal of Burr Seminary, Manchester, VI. 

Having examined, with some care, the Practical Arithmetic and the Higher Arithmetic 
of Day and Thomson's Mathematical Series, we know of no Arithmetical treatises thai 
appear so well adapted to meat the wants of our Common Schools and Academies, 
With this belief, we purpose to adopt them for use hereafter in the Burr Seminary. 

J. D. WICKHAM. 

G 



WOODBURY'S 



NEW METHOD WITH THE GERMAN LANGUAGE. 



The publishers invite the attention of Teachers and Students 
to the few following extracts from the mass of notices al- 
ready received in commendation of this work: 



R 



From ike Nem York Tribune 

14 Whoever wishes to obtain a sufficient mastery of the German Ian- 
iage to make him at home with the best authors, and to prepare him 
>r its familiar colloquial use, will hardly find a more valuable manual 
than the present work of Mr. Woodbury. The author, writing as an 
American, and not as a foreigner, is enabled to place himself in the posi- 
tion of the learner, to appreciate the peculiar difficulties, at the com- 
mencement of the study, and to lead him on by gradual and easy steps, 
to a thorough acquaintance with the construction of the language, and a 
command of the idioms which are usually most formidable to the begin- 
ner. His work is distinguished for the extent and comprehensiveness of 
Its plan. Without being confined to an exclusive consideration of either 
the practical or the theoretical, it aims to harmonise both those essential 
elements, giving a clear elucidation of the philosophy of the language, 
and at the same time dwelling at length on the details, which must be 
thoroughly mastered, before it can be used as an organ of communicatioa 
The forms of the language, which are of the simplest and most familiar 
character, are first presented to the attention of tne student, without any 
frightful array of grammatical combinations, for which he is not yet pre- 
pared. JBe is then initiated, by an easy process, into the first principles 
of German composition, every sentence given him for translation into 
English being regarded as a model on which he is to construct one of 
his own in German. In this way, he aims at a distinct perception of the 
differences between the English and German idioms, and lays the foun- 
dation for a correct use of the latter in conversation. A faithful study 
of the exercises, of which there is a great variety in the first portion of 
the work, places the student in possession of a practical knowledge of 
the language ; while the synthetic summary which occupies the latter 
part of the volume, presents the subject in new relations, giving a view 
of the elements of the language as a comprehensive whole. 

" In addition to this ample grammatical furnishing of the pupil, the 
work contains a tasteful selection of lessons for reading, embracing a 
great diversity of style and matter, and a copious vocabulary, adapted 
to the wants of the beginner. With this complete apparatus, and the 
ifrldent proofs of care and accuracy in the preparation of the volume, it 

I 



RXoowcnrDATioira. 



may be recommended to the student a* a reliable and instructive guidi 
in the mazes of German philology ; and we trust its seasonable publi- 
cation may tend to increase the number of those who are intent on gain* 
ing this valuable and beautiful accomplishment 9 



From 8. Harper, A. M, Principal of the Monroe Academy. 

" I do not hesitate to recommend ' Woodbury's New Method' as the 
best work with which I am acquainted, for an introduction to the study 
of the German language. Not only so, but it is one which the ripe Ger- 
man scholar will find abundantly useful as a book of reference." 



From the Neva York Evangelist, Aug. 29, 1850. 

" We know of no elementary German book which combines so many 
excellencies, and exhibits so much practical adaptation to the wants of 
the American pupil as ' Woodbury's New Method with the German.' It 
is a thorough, comprehensive, and careful work, evidently the result of 
much study and thought, and compiled with a complete knowledge of 
both the American and the German language. It commences with the 
true method, and carries the pupil through an elaborate and thorough 
analytic course. It then presents the formal principles of the language 
in a synthetic form, bringing into constant application, and reducing to 
system and shape, the particular facts before learned. Great use is also 
made of writing — the best method of fixing the language. These exer- 
cises are ingenious and abundant. A good Vocabulary and some well 
selected Reading Lessons, make the work a complete Chrestoinathy, and 
supply all the pupil needs for a fair introduction to this richest and no- 
blest of tongues, except our own. We think the work, by its fulness 
and practical character, and its wise adaptation to existing wants, cannot 
fail to become popular." 



From Fro/. P. Willner, Teacher of German and French in Sandusky 

City High School. 

" The -«»ply to the question, * What should one learn while young ?' is 
pecu 1 .*riy applicable to the learning of a language. To become pro- 
ficient in speaking, the pupil must acquire the art of thinking in the lan- 
guage he would learn, and not, according to certain methods of the pres- 
ent day, depend on merely turning specified sentences given him in his 
own tongue, into a foreign one. For by such a process he has continu- 
ally a two-fold task — a complication of efforts, that will never permit 
him to acquire facility either in writing or conversation. 

"' Woodbury's New Method,' we are happy to find, obviates this 
error. By means of his system, the pupil learns not merely ' what he 
should practise,' but learns it as he should practise, viz., by thinking, 
primarily and independently in the language which he is learning, and 
while he is learning it. Besides, this work is the best auxiliary for a 
thorough acquaintance with the facts of the German language, while by 
the simplicity and lucidness of all its rules and illustrations, it is admira- 
bly adapted to the uninitiated, it most, at the same time, by the system- 

3 



•tie and philosophic treatment of the idiomatic, and con se q uently more 
difficult peri of the language, meet the wishes of the student of philolo- 
gy, and be most cordially welcomed by every teacher and lover of 
German literature. Thus, this work may be used, not only as the sole 
instrument to explore all the deeper regions of that tongue, but to those 
who have previously made use of Ollendorff's or Manesca's method, it 
will, on account of its thoroughness and fulness, constitute a long desired 
sequeL The excellencies of this work have induced me to introduce it 
into my classes." 



From A. S. Hulcftens, A. M. Principal of Norvoalk (Ohio) Institute. 

u It is with feelings of real pleasure that we greet Mr. ' Woodbury's 
New Method with the German Language,' as a valuable addition to our 
means of acquiring this noble language. He has struck out a new and 
independent course, and has hit upon a happy method of treating the 
lnmruaire. 

" His idea is to lead the student, by the shortest and surest road, to 
think, to talk, and to write in German. To accomplish this, he has in 
the first 250 pages of his work, treated the language analytically; ad 
vancing from tue simplest elements to the more difficult constructions. 
Its idioms are explained in a clear and concise manner, followed by 
abundant examples from the language of common life. With these ex* 
amples as models the student is enabled to construct sentences for him- 
self, thus imprinting thoroughly upon his mind the various usages of the 
language. The author, fully aware that a language is learned only by 
committing to memory its words, has bountifully supplied the student, 
and that, too, as is best, from what may be called the primitive or fun- 
damental part of the language. These lists of words are prepared with 
much care, and constitute a fane feature of the work. At the close of the 
analytical part we have, grouped together under the heads, Professions 
and Trades, Man, the Human Body, Articles of Dress, Birds, Trees, Flow- 
ers, dtc, copious selections of words, so that the student, after having 
become familiar with the paradigms and model sentences, may by con- 
versation and writing, soon feel quite at home in German, in these vari- 
ous departments of life. 

"The second part of the book is a Compendious Grammar of the Ger- 
man Language. This is done in an admirable manner. The . ~ange- 
ment is clear ; the style is perspicuous and lively ; and the various rules, 
observations, <fec., are abundantly illustrated by examples. To this part 
the student is continually referred ; thus making a very happy union 
of the analytical and synthetical methods. The book closes with a 
choice selection of easy pieces for beginners, just enough to sharpen the 
appetite. 

" We hope Mr. Woodbury's book will receive a liberal patronage ; not 
simply because, while perusing it and teaching from it, we feel conscious 
that he has labored long and faithfully, but because he has done an excel- 
lent work. Even the man of business, who will devote a few minutes 
daily to this study, with Mr. W. for his guide, will find himself in a short 
time acquiring a good knowledge of this rich and beautiful language. 9 

3 



RECOMMENDATIONS. 

From the Detroit Advertiser. 

We cheerfully give place to the following notice of the above work 
from the pen of L. Fasquelle, LL.D., Professor of Modern Languages 
in the University of Michigan, who is thoroughly acquainted with the 
merits of the work. Its design and execution seem to justify the com- 
mendatory notice. 

" The merit of this book consists, not merely in the originality and 
excellence of its plan, but in the felicitous manner of its execution. In 
no previous work have we found the two great rival systems of instruc- 
tion, the Analytic and Synthetic, in such happy combination. These, 
though arranged in such a manner that either may be pursued separately, 
are nevertheless so connected that the pupil may, at the same time, 
derive the advantages peculiar to both. In the outset, the diversified, 
and, according to former methods, difficult and discouraging features of 
the language are so presented that the eye becomes an important auxili- 
ary, as well to the memory as to the understanding, enabling the pupil 
thereby to confine the attention, at this early stage of his progress, more 
exclusively to the Mundart, or method of pronouncing the language. 
Besides, having become sufficiently familiar with the various termina- 
tions and forms peculiar to the different declensions, genders and num- 
bers, he is alreaay in possession of a variety of sentences, by means of 
which, as models, he is prepared to construct, from such words as by 
taste or circumstance may be desirable, phrases of his own. 

" This constitutes an admirable and philosophic feature of the work, 
bringing the pupils into 'nature's path,' and reducing the process of 
learning a foreign language to that of acquiring one's mother tongue. 
Thus, while the more difficult and delicate task of arranging and execut- 
ing the analytical part of the grammar has been most happily achieved, 
the synthetic portion ip alike excellent. We can but congratulate the 
author and the public on the production of a text-book so admirably 
adapted to the wants of persons wishing to acquaint themselves witn 
the German language and literature. Nor can we, in viewing the distin- 
guishing excellencies that characterize Woodbury's Method with the Ger- 
man language, suppress our regret that we are as yet destitute of % 
similar work adapted to the French." 



NEW FRENCH GRAMMAB. 

We shall publish immediately 
* A New Method of Learning to read, write, and speak the French 

Language," according to the plan of Woodbury's New Method toith the 

German. By Louis Fasquelle, LL.D., Professor of Modern Languages 

in the University of Michigan. 

This work, it is believed, will be far in advance of anything which ha* 
appeared as yet in the form of a French book of instruction. 



MARK H. NEWMAN to 00.*8 FUKJOATIOHft. 



MeXLLIOOTTS YOUWG AVALYZEB 



Being an easy outline of the course of instruction in the English language) 
presented in McElhgotf s Analytical Manual, designed to serve the 
double pui pose of Spelling-Book and Dictionary, in the younger rlaww 
in Schools. By J. N. McEllioott, A.M. 



Tws Yoevn Axaltzbb p r e se nts an easy outline of the eoone of mttrurtion 

, in the settlor's larger work. It It, therefore, spsetoBy adapted to me 
agar otossm fit schools ; though In esses where a more extended courts 
to dented, to may, perhsps, serve wall enough lor pupae of more advanced 



The ale* of both works to of comae tee seme. That phut to ajsipm, yet thorough ; 
omwing, In the opinion of the moat competent judge*, the surest and ahorteot way to e 
due and true knowledge of English orthography and dofs ii tfasi For, making spelling 
e systematic exarctoe in warnso, instead of; or rather in addition to the ordinary prac- 
tice of oral spelling, it that takes the moat natmrml, though, strange to say, the moat 
navel method of fastening the forma of words upon the memory ; whites to ax in the 
mind their true signification*,— following still the course of natures—it compare! 
analyses them, and so unfolds their real force in all their various applications. 



In respect to the mode of using the book, nothing need be said beyond the few sug- 
gestions made in the course of the work. Every teacher has, and must have, hto own 
particular way of imparting knowledge, whatever book he may adopt, and, In thto 
liberty be may not be disturbed. 

With the full assurance, however, that the coarse of study here proposed will better 
serve the purpose of imparting a more deep and critical knowledge of our language, 
than can be acquired by the dry and repulsive methods now generally employed, thto 
Utile introductory volume to respectfully sn hm tttBd. 

It to used in nearly every school which has adopted the Analytical Manual, as an in- 
troduction to that work, and to highly approved by all tn a rtwra who have had 
to give it an examination. 



We have room for the names only of the following gentlemen all mstruetom of high 
standing— who, with many others, have wvsmined and recommended thto work. 

REV. JOHN J. OWEN, Principal of Cornelius Institute. 



BEY. J. F. MESSENGER, 
MILTON C. TRACY, 
M. J. CPDONNELL, 
THOMAS POULKE, 
WM. A. TAYLOR, (formerly) 
R. LOCK WOOD , 
G. 8. BROWNE, 
CHARLES WM. NICHOLS, 
E.H. JENNY, 
AARON RAND, 
JAMES O. RUSSELL, 
HENRY SWORDS, 
BEsTJ. FOWLER, 



u 

14 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
« 
tt 
« 
« 



Classical School (Brooklyn). 

Mech. Inst School. 

Public School No. 11. 

Ward School No. L 

AB Saints' School. 

Classical School, Broadway. 

New England Institute. 

City Institute, 

Classical School, East Broadway. 

Cbarical School, Peart Street 

CoL and Com. School (Brooklyn). 

Engttah Academy, 6th Avenue. 

Ttotocl Jlrnonl, Bedford fJUseL 



IbUUC H. VKWUAX m 00.*S PUBUOATIOBS. 



THE ANALYTICAL MANUAL, 

By Juan N. MoEluqott, AM, formerly Classical Principal of the Col- 
legiate School, New York city. 



Recommendation 0. 

•Wst tht Hon. Tkeo. Frtiingkuyren. formerly Chancellor of the JVto York 
and now President of Rutg&r's College*, JVto Jersey. 

I hare examined with care the " Manual of Orthography and Definition," prepared by 
Mr. J. N. McElligott, of this city, and take pleasure in commending it to the favorable 
•onsideration of the friends of education. 

There is a fund of good sense, practical wisdom and useful arrangement in this work, 
lot often combined within the same limits. It will, I am persuaded, greatly facilitate 
foe study of our language; and teachers, as well as learners, will find cause for thankful' 
to the meritorious author. 
JVto York, March 10, 1845. THEO. FRELINGHUYSEN. 



From the Superintendent of Common Schools for the dtp and County of Jfew York, 

Nbw York, 84th February, 1845. 
h N. McElmqott, Esq. : 

Dear Sir— I have examined with much attention and high satisfaction, your u Manna! 
sf Orthography and Definition," and cordially comply with your request in expressing 
my estimate of the work. Its plan has the merit of novelty, and by its simplicity and 
natural adaptation to the purpose of both teacher and learner, would seem to be such a 
one as would develop itself to the experience of a practical man, intent on discovering 
the best means of imparting knowledge, on this intricate and most difficult subject; 
and yet I have never seen a work, the clasoification of which appeared to me at once so 
intelligible and complete. 

Within the compass of 900 pages you have condensed an amount of critical ihforma* 
tion upon the philosophy of the English language, which I apprehend is not to be found 
in any other single volume ; and your extended analysis of compound words with their 
prefixes, suffixes, and radicals, accurately discriminated ; and the synthetical reeompo- 
sltion of this multitudinous variety of words out of their elements with all their syno- 
nymes, contrarieties, ambiguities, and arbitrary variations, must have imposed an amount 
of labor, which none but an amateur in the profession of teaching could have patiently 
endured. I cannot doubt that your reputation as a philologist will be enhanced by the 
publication of this work, and I sincerely desire that the just appreciation of your utilita- 
rian labors among the teachers of our common schools may obtain for this excellent 
manual a share of patronage, which shall adequately remunerate your toils, and at the 
same time contribute to the more thorough instruction of the pupils upon subjects which 
C regard as lying at the foundation of all other scholastic acquirements. 

With high respect, I am yours, fee, 

D. MEREDITH REESE, 
Bupt of Common Schools for the OS/ aadOOtmtyof Vsw Ystfc 

H 



HABX B. WKWUAV * OO/fl TUBUOATIOVt. 



WILLSON'S HISTORIES. 



1. WILLSON'S JUVENILE AMERICAN HISTORY. 
S. WILLSON'S HI8TORY OP THE UNITED STATES* 

3. WILLSON'S AMERICAN HISTORY. Ifeno. for schools. 

4. WILLSON'S AMERICAN HISTORY. 8vo. Library Edition. 



• The publishers invite the critical attention of teachers and the public to the merits 
of this History. Although It has been published but a short time, its sale is already 
neater than any other School History ; it has been introduced into the Public Schools 
of New York City, the Normal School in Albany, the Public Schools In Newark. 
Brooklyn, Rochester, Buffalo, Cincinnati, and St Louts—as well as in the best Male and 
Female Academies and Seminaries In all parts of the country. The publishers ask its 
further introduction on its merit* a/one ; firmly persuaded that it has merits possessed 
by a* other School History. Its peculiarities are— superior accuracy, both as to facts 
and dates ; a complete Marginal Analysis ; Geographical Notes at the bottom of each 
page, with maps Ulustratire ; nearly one hundred Maps, Plans of Battles, and Charts 
fflustrating the History ; a Chronological Chart of American History, with dates from 
1509 to 1947. The history of each State la lint given separately, then the whole col- 
lectively. The history embraces a period of 353 years— beginning with the discovery 
of America by Columbus. The best historians have been consulted, public documents 
searched, errors in other histories corrected, and the whole adapted with admirable 
skill to practical use in the school-room. The publishers invite a comparison with any 
other History for Schools extant. The book is printed on good paper and substan- 
tially bound, and is furnished to schools at as low a price as any of the inferior His- 
tories, containing the same amount of reading matter. 

The following from the Pougkkeepsie Journal and Eagle of May 5, 1847, is a just trib- 
ute to the merits of " WllkWs Historical Works:**— 

u These valuable productions, consisting of a Juvenile History, a History of the 
United States, an American History, and a Chart of American History, will readily com- 
mend themselves to the intelligence of the public. In rendering more reliable and per- 
manent the great monuments of American Freedom, and in erasing those false Inscrip- 
tions which have long misled the young tourist in his laudable attempts to familiarize 
himself with the story of our fame— these works will confer a lasting benefit upon our 
country. 

w The Author, unwilling to take anything on trust, has pushed his inquiries into 
every explored and unexplored region ; has drawn his facta from original sources ; and 
they may be relied on as correct in the numerous instances in which he differs from his 
cotemporarles. 

44 It Is stated in some of our text-books that the first land discovered by the Cabots wss 
Newfoundland ; that the Cabots sailed in 1494 or *05 ; that they discovered land on the 
11th, or, as others say, the 14th of June ; that De Soto's survivors sailed down the Mis- 
sissippi, and directly to Cuba; that the Cherokees belong to the Mobilian family; that 
Port Royal was the oldest Christian settlement, &c. 

u It Is a surprising fact that these Histories correct more than two hundred and fifty 
errors found in text-books, now in daily use in our schools, and it is a matter of gravo 
inquiry whether teachers are not bound immediately to arrest the farther pro g r ess of 
error. 

"The introduction of maps on the same page to denote the localities of places not 
found on ordinary maps, is a valuable improvement The learner will lose all interest 
in a place or an event connected with a place, of which he knows not even the locality.'* 

On the 89d February, 1847, the Board of Trustees and Visitors of the Common 
Schools of Cincinnati unanimously adopted the following resolutions : 

u Rtiolved, That the United States History, by Marcius Wlllson, be, and the same 
is hereby adopted by the Board of Trustees and visitors, as the texb-book to be used in 
the Common Schools of Cincinnati, In place of the Abridgment, by Mrs. WHlsTd." 

Burlington, N. J., 11th mo. 6th, 1845. 

WUIson's M History of the United States for the Use of Schools'* I have read 
through with peculiar satisfaction. If any other book, compiled for the same purpose 
—equals it in combining brevity with clearness of detail, impartiality with a manly re* 
gara for national interests, elevation of style with the simplicity due to youth, and 
especially geography with history, I am not acquainted with it. 

The writer seems to be imbued with a just perception of the wants of the scholar 
sad- the faclHtiea due to the teacher. JNO. GRISOOM. 

J 



MARK H. miUl) * OO.'s PUBLICATIOH*. 



GRAY'S CHEMISTRY: 

Or the Elements of Chemistry : containing the Principles of the Science, 
both Experimental and Theoretical. Illustrated with numerous en- 
gravings. By Alonzo Gray, A.M., Professor of Chemistry and Natu- 
ral Philosophy in the Brooklyn Female Institute, Andover, Mass. Re- 
vised edition. 1 vol., 12mo., 400 pages. 

" In compiling the first edition of this work, the author attempted to prepare a text* 
book which should be well fitted for elementary instruction. Most of the works oa 
chemistry appeared to him to be either too profound, on the one hand, for those who 
were just commencing the study, or too superficial, on the other, for those who wish to 
obtain a scientific knowledge of the subject. The design was to avoid these two ex- 
tremes, and combine the scientific with the popular and useful parts of the subject. 
The rapid sale of the first edition, and its introduction into several colleges, have led to 
the inference, that the attempt has not been wholly unsuccessful. The author has there 
fore been induced to revise and enlarge the work, and put it into a permanent form. A 
large amount of matter, and numerous engravings, have been added, for the purpose 
of rendering the work better adapted to academies and other schools. It is believed that 
greater success would attend the efforts of teachers in this branch of science if more at- 
tention were given to the principles of chemistry, and less to its details. The fundamen- 
tal principles being thoroughly understood by the student, h3 is prepared to attend to 
the details with greater pleasure and success, as he will be able to connect the effects 
with their appropriate causes. Under the influence of this belief the author has given 
a greater prominence to the imponderable agents and the thirteen non-metallic sub- 
stances than to other parts of the work. Most of the illustrations and experiments are 
introduced in this part, so as to present and illustrate the philosophy of chemical com- 
binations and the general nature of the compounds thus formed ; in other words, the 
causes of chemical changes and the mode of studying them." 

- This book is in general use as a text-book in the high-schools of the Northern and 
Eastern States. The present revised edition contains all new improvements in the 
science. 

From John Griscow, LL.D., Burlington, JV. J, 

Gray's Chemistry.— An examination of this book convinces me that it is an exceed- 
ingly judicious arrangement of the facts of Chemistry. Its consecutive order is lucid 
and logical It indicates a mind accustomed to teach, as well as to study. It seems to 
me to hold a happy medium between the brevity, which only obscures the subject, and 
the copious details, of works too elaborate and minute for the general student. 

In the present stato of chemical science, to produce a treatise, neither dark nor re- 
pulsive, — which is inviting, without being tedious,— is no small merit. 

I have seen no work which has so complete an adaptation to schools and Academies, 
and even to the wants of Colleges, as this new edition of " Gray's Chemistry." 

Burlington, N. J., 9 m. 9 <L, 1850. 

[Signed,] JKO. GRISCOM. 

From Prof. James JV. McElligott, Jt.Jlf^ Principal of the Mechanics 1 Institute School, 

JVSno York. 

After a somewhat careful examination of the claims of Gray's Chemistry upon the 
educational community, I have reached the conclusion, that it stands foremost among 
text-books on this subject. « 

Undor this conviction, I have just recommended the work to the Committee presid- 
ing over ine school with which I am connected, and they have accordingly ordered it to 
be used m the institution. JAMES N. McELLIGOIT. 

Q 



nUBK H. ItnUI fc CO.'* mUfWBMfc 

ELEMENTS OF GEOLOGY. 

BY 

EDWARD HITCHCOCK, D J>, LLD, 
rmxsiDiHT or aviiist oolligi. 

A HEW AND ENLA&GED EDDIOM. 



The Publishers tag leave to cell the attention of the public to ttaMIowiiiguasulkateel 
notices of the Elementary Geology, from gentleman eminently qpaHned to judge of Hi 



Jrwm Gtdsm .*. JfajtteO, LL.D. F.R.S. F.Q.8* 4«* trc+ Lomiom , JhUkor of las Wow 

dero of G oo l ogy, ire. 

«*I hare obtained a copy of your Treaties on Geology. It If en admirable work. It 
hae been my carriage companion lor some time." 

From Prof. G Dewey, of Rochester, Jtins York. 

u I introduced your Geology into our Academy. Part of it la hard reasoning for minde 
not pretty well matured. Still it la bo vastly better than anything in the English lan- 
guage with which I am acquainted, that I boast oyer it It is admirable for the Collage 
course." 

from Prof. W, W. Mother, Geologist to ono of t\$ DieorieU of Mow York, end to fit* 

State of Ohio. 

** I hare examined your little work on Geology with much interest and satisfaction. 
It presents a large mass of matter in a small compass ; is lucid, concise, and its mate- 
rial are arrajigodm the moat cony^ntent fonn for the student. It seems to form a happy 
medium between the more elementary books for schools, and those for the more ad- 
vanced students of Geology. Its copious references to various works on Geology, will 
be a great advantage to those who choose to go to the original sources, and dive deeper 
Into the var|ons subjects discussed." 

From Prof. J. W. Bailey, of the Military Academy, Wool Point, Ato York. 

u I have recently perused with much pleasure your Elementary Geology, and con- 
sider it a most valuable contribution to science, and highly creditable to yourself and 
our country. I am glad we have such a work to which to refer students. If I had 
known of your publication sooner, I should have adopted it as our textbook." 

From the American Biblical Repository for October, 1840. 

a The appearance of this volume from the pen of Prof. Hitchcock, will be peculiarly 
gratifying to many in the community. It is designed to be used as a text-book for classes in 
geology, In colleges and other seminaries of learning. The plan of it, we think, is admirs- 
Mjr adapted to the first of these uses, and nearly, or quite as well suited to the second.* 

ft 



ftlABK H, mWHAX fc OO.'fl PtnBLWAWOir*, 



W«Mi 



KUHNER'8 ELEMENTARY GR1MMAR 

OF THE 

3RSBE LA1TOTJAOB. 

By Br. Raphael Efthrier, Corrector of the Lyeeam, HarJover. TVans- 
lated from the German by Samuel H. Taylor, Principal of Philips' 
Academy, Andorer, Mass. Sixth edition, l2mo., 365 pages. 

The following are some of the recommendation* which we hare receive* of fhJs 
Grammar, and it will at once be seen that they come from the most respectable s ei uto s, 
and from those well qualified to give an opinion of the merits of such a work. 

* From Rev. Moses Stuart, Professor in the Jindover Theological Seminary. 

Andover, Mass., 21st Nov., 1849. 
To those who are familiar with the gmnmatioal works of Kuhner no recommendation 
is needed. They speak for themselves. But to those who are in a state of inquiry I 
think I may safely say, that they cannot do better than to make use of them. The School- 
Grammar of this writer, as translated and edited by Mr. S. H. Taylor, Principal of 
Philips' Academy, of this place, I regard as one of the most orderly, scientific, and 
thorough books that belong to this class. It requires, indeed, more patient and con- 
tinued labor than it is usual in our country to bestow upon the elements of the Greek 
language. But in the sequel it will amply repay the student, and greatly facilitate a rad- 
ical knowledge of the Greek idiom. I can heartily commend it to all who are begin- 
ning the study of the Greek language. MOSES STUABT. 

From Rev. B. B. Edtoardt, Professor in Andover Theological Seminary. 

The Grammatical works of Dr. Kuhner are well known and extensively used in Great 
Britain and the United States, as well as in Germany. His Greek grammars especially 
are characterized by a clear and methodical arrangement, by a natural unfolding of the 
principles of the language, by exact definitions, and by full and pertinent illustranons and 
examples. The u Elementary Grammar" of the Greek language has been received with 
much favor, and has passed through several editions. It is constructed on the same 
general principles, and possesses the same excellencies with the larger works. In addi- 
tion to the development of the principles of the language, there are copious and well- 
selected exercises for translation, both from Greek into English, and from English into* 
Greek, with the necessary vocabularies. InHhis way the pupil learns to combine theory 
and practice, and to associate the rule with the living forms of speech. It may be added) 
that the book is well fitted, by its simple arrangement and style, for the younger mem- 
bers of our academies, ana no practical difficulty is experienced in teaching them its 
principles. B. B. EDWARDS. 

Thbolooical Skuuulry, Andover, Nov. 31, 1849. 

From O. W. Lane, Professor in Emory College, Oxford, Go. 

"Ktthner's Elementary Greek Grammar is exactly the work I have long wished for, 
and I have no hesitation in placing it far above all other Greek grammars in the Eng- 
lish language* Wo shall use it in the Preparatory School and College." 

From M. Sturgess, Professor of Languages in Hanover College, Indiana. 

M I have used KQhner's Elementary Greek Grammar during the past session in this 
College, and am very much pleased with it. The etymology is fuu and exact, and in 
some respects an improvement on any other grammar I have seen. The syntax is very 
thorough and complete. The accompanying exercises for translating Greek into Eng- 
lish, and English into Greek, are very copious and satisfactory, and furnished with ex- 
cellent vocabularies. Altogether, I decidedly prefer it to any Greek First Book I hate 
examined." 



HABX B. NEWMAN * OC8 PTJBLICaTIONB. 



MAC-GREGOR'S BOOK-KEEPING. 



A PRACTICAL THEATI8E ON BOOK-KEEPING, 

BT SINGLE AMD DOUBLE ENTRY,— ON A NEW PLAN. 

Containing,—- 1. General Book-keeping, for the use of Farmers, Mechanics, 
• p rn fw innal Men, and other non-Mercantile Persona. 2. Retailers' 
Book-keeping. 8. Merchant's Book-keeping. With an Appendix of 
Definitions, Directions, and Practical forma. For the use of Seminaries 
and Self-Instructors. 

BY P. MAC-GREGOR* 

ACCOUNTANT AND ATTORNEY AT LAW. 



"This work owes its origin to the author's discovering, white giving instructions on 
0ie subject, that there was no other before the public suitable for giving learners a prac- 
tical knowledge of Book-keeping. The plans here unfolded hare been proved by ex- 
perience to be well adapted to the purposes for which they are designed. Many works 
give a variety of rules and tables which belong to Arithmetic. The author has con- 
fined himself to such subjects as are strictly connected with Book-keeping, and refers 
those who wish to obtain information on such topics, to works which discuss the va- 
rious subjects with fulness and accuracy, instead of the meagre, and frequently 
rate statements given in treatises on Book-keeping."— Author** Prof ate. 



FrcmMontgomery Paterson> Etq^ Accountanty JVe» York. 

M I have examined the work with great care. It is written on a plan very different 
from that of other treatises, and conforms to the method actually followed by good 
practical Book-keepers. The explanations are also much more fuH and satisfactory. 
I consider it well adapted to give youth a correct and efficient knowledge of the prin- 
ciples of Modern Book-keeping,— a thing which cannot be said of any other treaties 
which I ha/e ever seen." 



From David Patersen, A.X^ Teacher in the Male Normal School, AVwFori. 

" When I consider the numerous merits of this work, I have no hesitation in pro* 
nounclng it the best treatise on the subject whioh has come under my notice ; and I be- 
lieve it requires only to be known, in order to be duly appreciated, and to meet with 
general adoption." 

From the American Journal of Education. 

<* We think the author has ably acquitted himself of the task which he has under* 
taken, and that the publication will greatly simplify the art, and render it easier of so- 



lEAKX H. NEWMAN * OO.'s PTTBLICATI01W. 



A NEW AND VALUABLE TEXTBOOK, FOR MALE AND 
FEMALE ACADEMIES AND SCHOOLS. A TREATISE 
ON PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY, COMPRISING 
HYDROLOGY, GEOGNOSY, GEOLOGY, 
METEOROLOGY, BOTANY, ZOOL- 
OGY, AND ANTHROPOLOGY. 

BY A. BARRINGTON. 



EDITED BY CHARLES BTTRDETT, ESQ. 



This Work tats been received with great favor by many eminent Teachers, and 
highly commended by the Press, in all parts of the country. It differs in plan from any 
Treatise hitherto published or announced. While it carefully excludes the details 
given In ordinary School Geographies, it embraces those parts of the various sciences 
mentioned in the above title, which are not foreign to the subject, and of general inter- 
est to the numerous classes for whom the work is designed. 

The Seven Subjects mentioned in the Title-Page are discussed in so many separate 
divisions, subdivided into parts and sections. 

DIVISION FIRST discusses every property of the Waters, of general interest— such 
as Waves, Tides, Marine Currents, Springs, Rivers, Lakes, Glaciers, Color, Depth, 
Phosphorescence and Temperature of the Ocean, composition and properties of Fresh 
and Sea Water, fee. 

DIVISION SECOND gives a description of the General Structure, Configuration and 
Natural Divisions of the Land, including the Subjects of Coasts, Mountains, Valleys, 
Plains, Deserts, Steppes, and Islands. 

DIVISION THIRD gives a view of the structure of the Earth's Crust, including the 
Structure and Classification of Rocks, the earliest and subsequent conditions of the 
Earth, influence of Geological Structure on Soil and Scenery, a description of all the 
Important Minerals found in Rocks, and of their Fossil Organic remains. 

DIVISION FOURTH treats of the Atmosphere, and the Phenomena dependent on 
Heat, Light, and Electricity. Under this head are discussed the composition of Air- 
how it is affected by Respiration and Combustion, its Color, Weight, Height and Tem- 
Earature, Clouds, Parhelia, Rainbows, the Mirage and Zodiacal Light, Thunder and 
Igbtning, the Aurora Borealis, Shooting Stars, Magnetic Phenomena, the Winds, with 
an account of the Laws of Storms, a full account of the Laws and Phenomena of Cli- 
mate, and the Temperature of the Globe, with a particular description of Volcanoes 
and Earthquakes. 

DIVISION FIFTH treats of the various agencies which influence the Growth of 
Plants, the Transmigration and Classes of Plants, Botanical Regions, and the Flora of tho 
various Zones. 

DIVISION SIXTH gives a view of the various Classes and Subdivisions of the Animal 
Kingdom, and the peculiarities of each, with a particular account of the Geographical 
Distribution of the more interesting and important Animals. 

DIVISION SEVENTH treats of the various Races and Classes of Men. It investi- 
gates the Origin of the varieties of Mankind, and discusses the question of the Unity 
of the Human Species, and the Longevity of Man : it treats of the affinities and pecu- 
liarities of the principal Languages of the Globe, and the various Religions. It gives 
a view of the principal Forms of Government, and their peculiarities ; and discusses 
the subjects of the Classes and Orders of Society, National Debts, Standing Armies and 
Militias, the Balance of Power, Balance of Trade, Commerce, Taxation, Banks, Coins 
and Currency, Colonies, and Colonial Policy. 

Suitable Tables are given throughout the Work ; and the whole forms a well-printed 
duodecimo of 490 pages, with a large and accurate Index. It win be sold at the low 
prtoe of $U»y with a liberal allowance to the Trade, 



TsUBX B. WKWUAM fc CO.** PUBLI0AHOM. 



«•■ 



TESTIMONIALS. 



Aims Jae. Griffce*, LLJ). 

fo Pkvekmt QW ray ar, sifted »y CUrtss J N r rf s rl .--Tht8 book ansrodncan 
Clastic to the notice of leaches* and managers of the higher order of schools. 

A duodecimo of 4M pey n> * w hteh has as unusually strong etakn to a place in the 
catalogue of the higher and most useful School-Booka. I hare carefully tamed over 
all the leaves, and read no inconsiderable portion of their contents. From this survey, 
I may honestly state the opinion, that this book, if thoroughly perused and understood, 
will enable the pupils of a Grammar School or Academy, to emerge from their pupil- 
age with a mind on usually stored with useful and varied knowledge. Any one who will 
examine the table of Contents at the beginning, and the copious ladex at the end of the 
book, most at once admit that the attentive student of this volume must leave it with 
an amount rarely attained, of highly useful and practical information. For this, no 
complete substitute can be found, I believe, in any other work now used in our schools. 
Should the pupils' home and school hours be tee much engrossed tor the study of a 
work of this size, much advantage might accrue from adopting it as a class Reading 
Book, and an examination by the teacher at the end of each lesson. 
« Burl»qtok, N. J., Oct 9, 1850." 

From tie Rev. W. B. Sprfu*, D.D* Aieem^f. 

"I have looked through a Treatise on Physical Geography, by A. Harrington, edited 
by Charles Bnrdett, and hare been struck with its luminous arrangement, its remark- 
able condensation, the richness and variety of its detail% and Its excellent moral ten- 



wro wuunmHH;u.|ug IIUIinH WIU TRnnj VI IUB U WW) BIN ItO DAVWICI1I UWnU MHT- 

dency. I cannot doubt that it is destined to render good service to both the intel- 
lect and the heart of more than one generation." 

From the Rev. J. O. Cheulee, DJD* Newport, Jl. /. 

u This work ts the very one that is needed for academic use. It has an extensive 
range of subjects, sad yet li is sufficiently minute In detail to suit the pupil and student. 
The •hapten In Part v., Division 3, ' Organic Remains,; and • Climatology,' Part HI-, 
Division 4, are admirable ; and the article on ( Ethnology' is the most satisfactory I have 
sean upon the Races, within such limits." 

Fren the Rev. Jonathan. M. TTainrifht, D.D^ Ate For*. 

** It appears to me to contain a vast deal of useful information, exceedingly well ar- 
ranged, and with Its copious index, forming a very convenient book of reference. I am 
not competent, and could not of course therefore pretend to express an opinion of its 
setentino accuracy ia very many of its departments : but Judging from those with which 
I have some little acquaintance, I should regard this work as being executed skilfully 
sad Judiciously, and as exhibiting its various facts and theories ra conformity with the 
pr ese n t advanced state of human knowledge, and In a succinct and lucid style,** 

From the JV. Y. Preeeptertmn, 

" We have been gratified, in the examination of this volume, at the evidence every- 
where exhibited of a mind well stored with various knowledge, and at the compreben- 
siveoess with which the many thousands of terrestrial phenomena are presented, both 
separately and in groups. The writer manifests the greatest reverence for the volume 
of Inspiration, while discoursing of the works of God, as seen upon the earth ; and 
strives to lead the reader * from Nature up to Nature's God.' The technical terms on 
the title-page exhibit the various departments of science of which the writer tresis— a 
description of the Waters of the Globe ; of the General Structure of the Land ; of the 
Solid Masses of the earth ; of the Atmosphere; of the Vegetable World ; of the An- 
imal Kingdom, in general, and of Man, in particular. A great amount of information 
la given under each of these beads, of much practical use, and highly entertaining. 
We know of no * Book of Nature* so well adapted to serve an a text-book m our high- 
esheois and academies. Bven Professor Agassis might perhaps learn something from 
than volume on the unity of our race. A very full and complete Index at the asoa 
sards every facility for reference, and family adds to the vales) «f lb* Wen** 
T 



MARS H. VBWMAN fc OO.'s PUBLICATIONS. 



From the A*. F. Journal of Commerce. 

c We feel justified in pronouncing it to be a valuable addition to the library of science, 
and especially well adapted to the educational purposes for which it was prepared. 
Physical Geography presents a comprehensive field of investigation ; and the elucida- 
tion and development of its various parts, in fair proportion to the whole, requires, in 
addition to a well-stored mind, a nicely balanced judgment, and a rare faculty for clas- 
sification and arrangement The work before us exhibits these excellences, and attests 
the requisite qualifications in both author and editor. It comprises an important por- 
tion of that general information which qualifies one equally to impart and receive en- 
joyment from the social intercourse of refined and intelligent circles. It presents in an 
attractive form what every well-educated person should know." 

From ike Boston Post. 

« Who Mr. Barrington is, we are not informed ; but to bis fitness for the duties of a 
scientific compiler, his present volume bears the clearest testimony. The principal 
chapters are, * General Description of the Ocean and Seas,' 4 Description of the Waters 
and their Properties,* * Description of the General Structure of the Earth, of the various 
Classes of Rocks,' ( Mineralogy/ ' Organic Remains,' * Atmosphere,' ' Winds,' ( Climate,' 
* Volcanoes and Earthquakes,' * Botany,' ' Animal Kingdom,' * Human Relations and 
Institutions.' These principal beads, however, include a thousand minor ones of great 
interest and importance ; and the volume, to the general reader, is a fitting companion 
for the * Cosmos' of Humboldt. It is an assemblage of facts which ought to be known 
by every intelligent person, but which, for the most part, have hitherto been beyond the 
reach of those unable or unwilling to go through a long course of scientific reading.'' 

From the Chicago Daily Journal. 

"We have turned over its pages with much interest, and have seldom encountered 
a book that, in so small a compass, contains so great an amount, or so rich a variety of 
valuable information, upon natural phenomena. It is designed not only as a work for 
the general reader, but for classes and schools, and may well be classed with the few 
books entitled to the appellation of the pupil's vade-mecums. Is he studying Geography T 
Here are a thousand facts of interest, which he will not meet with in his text-book. 
Natural Philosophy ? Here he finds properly classified and clearly enunciated, the phe- 
nomena of rivers, lakes, earthquakes, clouds, storms, and winds. As the student of 
Botany, Mineralogy, Geology, History, he finds here something to interest and instruct ; 
his views, insteadof flowing on in the narrow channels, marked out in the ordinary 
school manuals, rise, — take a more extended range $ and the young mind is led to in- 
vestigate, to compare, to think— each new acquisition lending renewed stimulus and 
strength to the intellect. We should rejoice to see such volumes as this introduced into 
our schools, in connection with the text-books more particularly elementary ; for the 
benefits of such a course of training would be incalculable." 

From the Prairie Herald, (Chicago.) 

"The work before us is Intended for students in our higher schools, and for general 
readers : and for the purposes above suggested it is by far the best work of the kind 
that we have had the pleasure to examine. It embraces a great variety of subjects. The 
general principles of the sciences embraced in Physical Geography, are stated with great 
simplicity ana clearness, so that even the unlearned can readily understand tbera ; and 
the facts selected to illustrate them are of the most interesting and elevating character. 
We are especially pleased with the high moral tone of the work, frequently alluding to 
the wonders of nature as the handiwork of Him who so adorns * the lilies of the field 
that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.' We cordially 
commend the book to parents and teachers as a work well worthy of their attention." 

From 8. P. Lathrop, Professor of Chemistry and Natural Science, Beloit College, (III.) 

" I am happy in being able to say, that I find it an interesting, able, and valuable 
work, and one well calculated, from its condensed, concise, and clear style, to impart a 
great amount of knowledge of the various and most interesting subjects of which It 
treats. Physical Geography, In its branches of Hydrology, Geognosy, Geology, Meteor- 
ology, Botany, Zoology, and Anthropology, is of vast importance to all classes— to the 
farmer and physician especially, and to every one who at all interests himself in 
the progress of knowledge, and who seeks an acquaintance with the great and all-power- 
ful influences which are molding the features of the earth's surface, and changing the 
condition of man. This book imparts a knowledge very essential to the physical good 
of the people of a new country. I shall be pleased to find that it is widely circulated, 
and made a text-book in oar schools." 
V 



r 



