ALBEUT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924085805129 



IRVING'S 1000 RECEIPTS, 



OR 



MODERI & DOMESTIC COOKEEY. 

A 

A COMPLETE DIRECTION 

FOR 

CAEYII&, PASTEY, COOKING, 

PRESERVING, PICKLING, 
MAKING WINES, JELLIES, &c., &c, 

DISHES. 



SOUPS, 


PUDDINGS, 


FISH, 


PIES, 


MEAT, 


TARTS, 


VEGETABLES, 


CUSTARDS, 


POULTRY, 


CAKES, 


OYSTERS, 


PUFFS, 


GAME, 


FRITTERS, 


&c. 


&c. 


WITH 



A COMPLETE TABLE OF COOKERY, 

FOR INVALIDS. 

ALSO 
OBSF.RVATIONS FOB THE USE OF THE MISTRESS OF THE FAMILY 

By LUCRETIA IRVING. 



NEW YORK; 

CORNISH, LAMPORT & CO. 
ST. LOUIS, (MO:) McOARTNET & LAMPORT. 

1852. 




Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1851, 

3>Y CORNISH, LAMPOKT & Co. 

In the Cleik's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the 

Southern District of New York. 



OBSERVATIONS 

FOK TBB USB JV 

THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. 



In every rank those deserye the greatest praise, 
who best acquit then>selves of the duties which their 
station requires. Indeed, this line of conduct is not 
a matter of choice but of necessity, if we would 
maintain the dignity of oar character as rational 
beings. 

In the variety of female acquirements, though do- 
mestic occupations stand not so hi^ in esteem as they 
formerly did, yet when neglected they produce 
much human misery. There was a time when ladies 
knew nothing beyond their own family concerns ; 
but in the present day there are many who know 
nothing about them. Each of these extremes should 
be avoided : but is there no way to unite in the fe- 
male character, cultivation pf talents and habits of 
tisefuiness 1 Happily there are still great num- 
bers in every situation, whose example proves that 
this is possible. Instances maybe found of ladies 
in the higher walks of life, who condescend to ex- 
amine the accounts of their house-steward ; and, 
by overlooking and wisely directing the expenditure 
of that part of their husbands' income which falls 
under their own inspection, avoid the inconveniences 
of embarrassed circumstances. 

The direction of a table is no inconsiderable branch 
of a lady's concern, as it involves judgment in ex- 



4 

penditui-e, respectaoility of appearance, and the 
comfort of her husband and those who partake their 
hospitality. 

If a lady has never been accustomed, while single, 
to think of family management, let her not upon 
that account fear that she cannot attain it ; she may 
consult others who are more experienced, and ac- 
quaint herself with the necessary quantities of the 
several articles of family expenditure, in proportion 
to the number it consists of, the proper prices to 
pay, &;c. &c. 

A minute account of the annual income, and the 
times of payment, should be taken in writing ; like- 
wise an estimate of the supposed amount of each ar- 
ticle of expense ; and those who are early accus- 
tomed to calculations on domestic articles, will ac- 
quire so accurate a knowledge of what their estab- 
lishment requires, as will give them the happy me- 
dium between prodigality and parsimony, without 
acquiring the character of meanness. 

Many families have owed their prosperity full as 
much to the propriety of female management, as to 
the knowledge and activity of the father. 

The following hints may be useful as well as eco- 
nomical : — 

Every article should be kept in the place best suit- 
ed to it, as much waste may be thereby avoided ._ 

Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor, if the 
air be excluded. — Meat in a cold dry place. — Sugar 
and sweetmeats require a dry place ; so does salt. — 
Candles, cold, but not damp. — Dried meats, hams, 
&c. the same. All sorts of seeds for puddings, 
saloop, rice, &c. should be close covered, to 
preserve from insects ; but that will not prevent 
it. if long kept. 



Bread is now so heavy an article of expense, that 
all waste should be guarded against ; and having 
it cut in the room will tend much to prevent it. — 
Since the scarcity in 1795 and 1800, that custom has 
been much adopted. It should not be cut until a 
day old. Earthen pans and covers keep it best. 

Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to 
prevent a musty taste. 

Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. 

Basil, savoury, or knotted marjoram, or thyme, 
to be used when herbs are ordered ; biit with dis- 
cretion, as they are very pungent. 

The best means to preserve blankets from moths 
is to fold them and lay them under the feather-beds 
that are in use ; and they should be shaken occa- 
sionally. When soiled, they should be washed, not 
scoured. 

Soda, by soflening the water, saves a great deal 
of soap. It should be melted in a large jug of wa- 
ter, some of which pour into the tubs and boiler •- 
and when the lather becomes weak, add more. The 
new improvement in soft soap is, if properly used, a 
saving of near half in quantity. 

Many good laundresses advise soaping Imen in 
warm water the night previous to washing, as facili- 
tating the operatiou with less friction. 

Soap should be cut with a wire or twine, in pie- 
ces that will make a long square when first brought 
in, and kept out of the air two or three weeks ; for 
if it dry quick it will crack, and when wet, break. 
Put it on a shelf, leaving a space between, and let 
it grow hard gradually. Thus, it will save a full 
third in the consumption. 

Some of the lemons and oranges used for juice 
should be pared first to preserve the peel dry : 
1* 



6 

some should be halved, and when squeezed, the 
pulp cut out, and the outside dried for grating. If 
for boiling in any liquid, the first way is best. 
When these fruits are cheap, a proper quantity 
should be bought and prepared as above directed, 
especially by thoSe who live in the country, where 
Ihey cannot always be had ; and they are perpetu- 
ally wanted in cookery. 

When whites of eggs are used forjelly, or other 
purposes, contrive to have pudding, custard, &c. to 
employ the yolks also. Should you not want them 
for several hours, beat them up with a little water, 
and put them in a cool place, or they will be hard- 
ened and useless. It is a mistake of old, to think 
that the whites made cakes and puddings heavy ; on 
the contrary, if beaten long and separately, they 
contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advan- 
tage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with 
fruit, to set in cream. &c. 

If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook 
should be charged to be very careful not to let the 
tin be rubbed off, and t j have them fresh done when 
the least defect appears, and never to put by any 
soup, gravy, &c. in them, or any metal utensil ; stone 
and earthen vessels should be provided for those 
purposes, as likewise plenty of common dishes, that 
the table-set may not be used to put by cold meat. 

Tin vessels, if kept damp, soon rust, which causes 
holes. Fenders, and tin linings of flower-pots, &c. 
should be painted every year or two. 

Vegetables soon sour, and corrode metals and 
glazed red ware, by which a strong poison is pro- 
duced. Some years ago the death of several gen- 
tlemen was occasioned at Salt-hill, by the cook send- 



ing a ragout to the table, which she had kept from 
the preceding day'in a copper vessel badly tinned. 

Vinegar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing 
being of lead or arsenic. 

The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, 
is in a stone jar on a hot iron hearth : or by putting 
the vessel into a saucepan of water, called a water- 
bath. 

If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark,&c. be suf 
fered to boil over, the strength is lost. 

In the following' and indeed all other receipts, 
though the quantities may be as accurately directed 
as possible, yet much must be left to the discretion 
of the person who uses them. The different tastes 
of people requires more or less of the flavour of 
spices, salt, garlic, butter &.c. which can never be 
ordered by general rules ; and if the cook has not 
a good taste, and attention to that of her employers, 
not all the ingredients which nature and art can fur- 
nish, will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. The 
proper articles should be at hand, and she must pro- 
portion them until the true zest be obtained, and a 
variety of flavour be given to the different dishes 
served at the same time. 

Those who require maigre dishes will find abun 
dance in this little work ; and where they are not 
strictly so, by suet or bacon being directed into the 
stuflfings, the cook must use butter instead ; and where' 
meat gravies (or stock, as they are called) are or- 
dered, those made offish must be adopted. 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 
The carving-knife for a lady should be light, and 
of a middling size and a fine edge. Strength is less 



required than address, in the manner of using it : 
and to facilitate this the cook should give orders to 
the butcher to divide the joints of the bones of all 
carcass-joints of mutton, lamb, and veal, (such as 
neck, breast, and loin ;) which may then be easily 
cut into thin sclices attached to the adjoining bones- 
If the whole of the meat belonging to each bone 
should be too thick, a small slice may be taken off 
between every two bones. 

The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, leg or 
saddle of mutton, and beef,) are to be helped in thin 
slices, neatly cut and smooth ; observing to let the 
knife pass down to the bone in the mutton and beef 
joints. 

The dish should not be too far off the carver ; 
as it gives an awkward appearance, and makes the 
task more difficult. Attention is to be paid to help 
every one to a part of such articles as are consi- 
dered the best. 

In helping fish, take care not to break the flakes ; 
which in cod and very fresh salmon are large and 
contribute much to the beauty of its appearance. A 
fish knife, not being sharp, divides it best on this 
account. Help a part of the roe, milt, or liver, to 
each person. The heads of carp, part of those of 
cod and salmon, sounds of cod, and fins of turbot, 
are likewise esteemed niceties, and are to be attend- 
ed to accordingly. 

In cutting up any wild-fowl, duck, goose, or tur- 
key, for a large party, if you cut the slices down 
from pinion to pinion, without making wings, thera 
will be more prime pieces. 



THE 
EXPERIENCED 

AMERICAN HOUSEKEEPER. 

FISH. 

To choose Fish. 

Rock Fish. — A remarkably fine, firm and well fla- 
voured fish, should be chosen by the redness of the 
gills and a full bright eye ; if the eye is sunken and 
the gills pale, they have been too long out of the 
water ; their fineness depends on their being cook- 
ed immediately after they are killed ; the same fish 
in New-York, and to the eastward of it, is known 
by the name of Streaked-Bass. ,. 

Sheep's Head. — This fish is generally esteemed 
one of the finest brought to our markets. It should 
be firm and thick, and the eyes bright. They are 
in season during the whole summer. 

Sea Bass and Black Fish are fine solid fish, and 
generally to be had alive in the Philadelphia market 
and to the eastward, it is seldom seen in the southern 
market. 

Salmon. — If new, the flesh is of a fine red, (the 
gills particularly,) the scales bright, and the 
whole fish stiff. When just killed, there is a white- 
ness between the flakes which gives a great firm- 



10 

ness ; by keeping, this tnelts down, and the fish is 
more rich. 

Cod. — The gills should be very red, the fish 
should be very thick at the neck, the flesh white 
and firm, and the eyes fresh. When flabby they 
are not good. They are in season from the be- 
ginnmg of December till the end of April. 

Shad. — If good, they are very white and thick, 
their gills red and the eyes bright ; the whole 
fish must be stiff and firm. Season, April and May. 

Herrings. — If good, their gills are ofa fine red 
and the eyes bright ; as is likewise the whole fish, 
which must be stiff and firm. 

Soles. — If good, they are thick, and the belly is of 
a oream-colour ; if this is of a bluish cast and flabby, 
they are not fresh. They are in the market almost 
the whole year, but are in the highest perfection 
about mid-summer. 

Mliitings. — The firmness of the body and fins, is 
to be looked to, as in herrings ; their high season is 
during the first three months of the year, but they 
may be had a great part of it. 

MackereU—C\ioos,& as whitings. Their season is 
May, June, and July. They are so tender a fish 
that they carry and keep worse than any other. 

Pike. — For freshness observe the above marks. 
The best are taken in rivers ; they are very dry 
fish, and are much indebted to stufiing and sauce. 

Carp hve some time out o/ water, and may there- 
fore get wasted ; it is best to kill them as soon as 
caught, to prevent this. The same signs of freshness 
attend them as other fish. 

Trout. — They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water 
fish, and should be killed and dressed as soou as 
caught. — When they are to be bought, examine 



It 

whether the gills are red and hard to open, the 
eyes bright, sind the body stiff. The season is July, 
August and September. 

Perch. — Take the general rules given to distin- 
guish the freshness of other fish. 

Mullets. — The sea are preferred to the river mul- 
lets, and the red to the gray. They thould be very 
firm — Their season is August. 

Gudgeons. — They are chosen by the same rules 
as other fish. They are taken in running streams ; 
come in about midsummer, and are to be had for fife 
or six months. 

Eels. — There is a greater difference in the good- 
ness of eels thaii of any other fish. The true silver- 
eel (so Ci^lled from the bright colour of the belly,) 
is caught in all our rivers ; those taken in great 
floods are generally good, but in ponds they have 
usually a strong rank flavour. Except the middle 
of summer, they are always in season. 

Flounders. — They should be thick, firm, and have 
their eyes bright. They very soon become flabby 
and bad. They are in season from January to 
March, and from July to September. 

Lobsters. — If they have not been long taken, the 
claws will have a strong motion when you put your 
finger on the eyes and press them. The heaviest 
are the best, and it is preferable to boil them af, 
home. When you buy them ready-boiled, try 
whether their tails are stiff, and pull them up with a 
spring, otherwise that part will be flabby. The 
cock -lobster is known by the narrow back part of 
his tail ; and the uppermost fins within it are stiff and 
hard ; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broad- 
er. The male, though generally smaller, has the 



12 

highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the colom 
when boiled is a deeper red. 

Crabs. — The heaviest are best, and those of a 
middling size are sweetest. If light they are watery, 
when in perfection thejoints of the legs are stiff, and 
the body has a very agreeable smell. The eyes 
look dead and loose when stale. 

Prawns and Shrimps. — When fresh they have a 
sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is 
bright. — Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be 
judged by the same rules. 

Oysters. — They are taken m every section of the 
Union, on the seaboard; those most esteemed are 
taken in the Chesapeake Bay, on York Bank, in the 
Bay of New York, and when alive and strong, the 
shell is close. — They should be eaten as soon as 
as opened, otherwise they lose their flavour. 
In choosing, care should be taken to get them with 
a thin sharp shell, as this is a mark of their being 
young ; and when open, the oysters should have a 
plump solid appearance ; the largest are by no 
means the best. 

Besides the nbove enumerated fish, our waters 
afibrd an immense quantity, may of which are ex- 
tremely delicate, particularly as pan fish ; but as 
{he directions already given may be applied to them 
it is deemed unnecessary to go more into detail. 

Terrapins. — There are several species ; those 
most preferred are taken in the Chesapeake Bay, 
at the mouths of the Potomac, Chester, and other 
rivers. — Those that are full and heavy for the size 
are the best ; those with a smooth shell are old. 

Turtle. — There are several species, but the green 
IS in the highest estimation for the table, and is gen- 
erally brought to U8 from the West India islands. 



13 

They weigh from eighty to two hundred pounds ; 
when an opportunity of choice offers, those which 
are heaviest in proportion to their bulk, are to be 
preferred ; and the general livehness of the animal 
IS also to be attended to. • 

To boil Salmon. 

Clean it carefully, boil it gently, and take it out 
of the water as soon as done. Let the water be 
warm if the fish be split. If underdone, it is very 
unwholesome. — Shrimp or anchovy sauce. 
To hroil Salmon. 

Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper 
and salt ; lay each slice in half a sheet of white pa- 
per, well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and 
broil the slices over a slow fire six or eight minutes. 
Serve in the paper with anchovy sauce. 

An excellent dish of dried Salmon. 

Pull some into flakes ; have ready some eggs 
boiled hard and chopped large ; put both into half a 
pint of thin cream, and two or three ounces of but- 
ter rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour ; skim il and 
stir till boiling hot : make a wall of mashed potatoes 
round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above 
into it. 

Salmon collared. 

Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient 
to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and, 
having mixed sa\t, white pepper, pounded mace, 
and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very 
high, rub it inside and out, well. Then roll it tight, 
and bandage it, put as much water and one third 
vinegar as will cover it, with bay-leaves, salt, and 
both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till 
2 



14 

done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor, and 
put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It is an 
elegant dish, and extremely good. 
To dress Halibut. 

Having cut the Halibut in thin slices, fry them 
with butter, afterwards boil the bones of the fish 
with four onions, some celery and thyme, for half an 
hour, in a little water. Then strain it, and stew 
the .fish for half an hour in a little water, with the 
addition of some butter browned. . Season with 
white pepper, a spoonful of catsup, salt, and mace, 
a spoonful of lemon juice, and a little shred lemon 
neel. Add flour and fresh butter for thicking it. 
Cod. 

Some people boil the cod whole ; but a large 
head and shoulders contain all the fish that is pro- 
per to help the thinner parts being overdone and 
tasteless before the thick are ready. But the whole 
fish may be purchased at times more reasonably ; 
and the lower half, if sprinkled ant! hung ujS, will be 
in high perfection one or two days. Or it may be 
made Salter, and served with egg-sauce, potatoes, 
and parsnips. 

Cod's Head and Shoulders. 

Tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water 
which will completely cover it ; throw a handiful of 
salt into it. Great care should be taken to serve it 
without the smallest speck of black or scum. Gar- 
nish with a large quantity of double parsley, lemon, 
horse-radish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried 
smelts if approved. Serv:e with plenty of Oyster 
or Shrimp sauce, and anchovy and butter. 
Crimp Cod 

Boil, broil, or fry. 



15 

Cod sounds boiUd. 

Soak them in warm water naif an hour, then 
scrape and clean ; and if to be dressed white, boil 
them in milk and water ; when tender, serye ^m 
in a napkin, with egg sauce. The salt must notbe 
much soaked out, unless for fricassee. 

Cod sounds to look like small chickens. 

A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large 
sounds nicely, and boil them in milk and water, but 
not too tend^ ; when cold, put a forcemeat of 
chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, 
nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs ; 
spread it thin over the sounds, and roll up each in 
the form of a chicken, skewering it ; then lard them 
ns you would chickens, dust a little flour over, and 
roast them in a tin oven slowly. When done 
pr )ugh, pour over them a fine oyster sauce. Serve 
foi side or corner dish. 

To broil Cod sounds. 

Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pull off the 
dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender ; take 
them out, flour, and broil. While this is doing, 
season a little brown gravy with pepper, salt, a tea- 
spoonful of soy, and a little mustard ; give it a boil 
with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the 
sounds. 

Cod sounds ragout. 

Prepare as above ; then stew them in white gravy 
seasoned, cream, butter, and a little bit of flour ad- 
ded before you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of 
lemon pepl, nutmeg, and the least pounded mace, 
should give the flavour. 

To dress salt Cod. 

Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then 



16 

lay it all night in water, with a glass of Tinegar. Bo«l 
it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish ; pour 
over it parsneps boiled, beaten in a mortar, and then 
boil up with cream and a large piece of butter rub- 
beS with a bit of flour. It may be served as above 
with egg-sauce instead of the parsnep, and the root 
Bent up whole ; or the fish may be boiled and sent 
up without flaking, and sauced as above. 
To dresa fresh Sturgeon. 
Cut slices, rub egg over them, then sprinkle wi h 
crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt ; fold the^n 
m paper, and broil gently. Sauce — butter, ancho 
yy, soy. 

To roast Sturgeon. 
Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spw ; 
baste it constantly with butter, and, serve with a 
good gravy, an anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange 
or lemon', and a glass of sherry. 

Perch. 

Put them into cold water, boil them carefully, 
and serve with melted butter and soy. Perch are 
a most dehcate fish. They may be either fried or 
steweJ, but in stewing they do not preserve so good 
a flavour. 

To fry Trout 

Scale, gut, and well wash ; then dry tltem, and 
lay them separately on a board before the fire, after 
dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a fine 
colour with fresh dripping ; serve with crimp pars- 
ley, anrl plain butter. — Perch may be done the same 
way. 

Trout a-la-Genevoise. 

Clean the fish very well ; put it into your stew- 
pan, addinghalfCbampagae, and half Mosselle, or 



17 

Rhenish, or sherry wine. Season it with pepper, 
salt, and onion, a few cloves stuck in it, and a small 
bunch of parsley and thyme ; put it in a crust of 
French bread ; set it on a quick fire. When the 
fish is done, take the bread out, bruise it, and then 
thicken the sauce ; add flour and a little butter, and 
let it boil up. See that your sauce is of a proper 
thickness. Lay your fish on the dish, and pour the 
sauce over it. — Serve it with sliced lemon and fried 
bread. 

Mackerel. 

Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. 

To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, 
pepper, and salt ; or stuff with the same, crumbs 
and chopped fennel. 

To bake Pike. 
Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, 
then stuff it with the following : — grated bread, 
herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, 
half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs ; mix all 
over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, 
and sew it up, butter should be put over it in little 
bits, bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and 
anchovy. Note — If, in helping a pike, the back and 
belly are slit up, and each slice gently drawn down- 
wards, there will be fewer bones given. 

To dry Haddock. 
Choose them of two or three pounds weight, take 
out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the 
blood from the back-bone. Wipe them dry, and 
put some salt into the bodies and eyes. Lay them 
on a board for a night, then hang them up in a dry 
place, and after three or four days they will be fit 
to eat ; skin and rub them with egg, and strew 
2* 



18 

crumbs over them. Lay them before the fire, ana 
baste with butter until brown enough. Serve with 
egg sauce. Whitings, if large, are excellent this 
way ; and it will prove an accommodation in the 
country, where there is no regular supply of fish 
Stuffing for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod. 

Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet and fresh 
butter, some parsley, thyme, and savoury ; a little 
onion, and a few leaves of scented tnarjorum shred 
fine ; an anchovy or two ; a little salt and nutmeg, 
and some pepper. 

To fry Smelts. 

They should not be washed more than is necessa- 
ry to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, then lightly 
fleur them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty 
of egg, then into bread crumbs grated fine, and 
plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard ; let them 
continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make 
them a bright yeflow brown. Take care not to take 
off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beau- 
ty will be lost. 

Spitchcock Eels. 

Take one or two large eels, leave the skm on, 
cut them into pieces of three inches long, open them 
on the belly-side, and clean them nicely ; wipe 
them dry, and then wet them with beaten egg, and 
strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper, 
salt, a very little sage, and a bit of mace pounded 
fine and mixed with the seasoning. Rub the grid- 
iron with a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine 
colour. Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce 
Fried Eels. 

If small, they should be curled round and fried, 
being first dipped into egg and crumbs of bread 



19 

Boiled Eels. 
The small ones are best — do them in a small 
quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, 
vhich should be served up with them and the li- 
quor. Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce. 
Eel broth, very nourishing for the sick. 
Do as above ; but stew two hours, and add ao 
onion and peppercorns — salt to taste. 

Collared Eel. 

Bone a large eel, but do not skin it ; mix pepper, 
salt, mace, alspice, and a clove or two, in the finest 
powder, and rub over the whole inside ; roll it tight, 
and bind with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and water 
till enough, then add vinegar, and when cold keep 
the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in 
slices. Chopped sage, parsley, and a little thyme, 
knotted marjoram, and savoury, ' mixed with the 
spices, greatly improve the taste. 
Flounders. 

Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and 
lie two hours to give them some firmness. Dip 
them into egg, cover with crumbs, and fry them. 
To dress Red Herrings. 

Choose 'lose that are large and moist, cut them 
open and j 'ir some boiling small beer over them 
to soak hai n hour ; drain them dry, and make 
(hem just hot through before the fire, then rub 
some cold butter over them and serve. Egg-sauce, 
or buttered eggs, and mashed potatoes, should be 
sent up with them. 

Baked Herrings. 

Wash and drain without wiping them ; season 
with alspice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole 
cloves ; lay them in a pan with plenty of black pep- 



20 

per, an onion, and a few bay leaves. Add half vine- 
gar and half small beer, enough to cover them. 
Put paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven. 
If you like, throw saltpetre over them the night be- 
fore, to make them look red. Gut, but do not 
open them. 

Fried Herrings. 

Serve them of a light brown, with onions sliced 
and fried. 

Broiled Herrings. 

Flour them first, and do of a good colour ; plain 
butter for sauce. 

To pot Lobsters. 

Half-boll them, pick out the meat, cut it into 
small bits, season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, 
and salt, press close into a pot, and cover with but- 
ter ; bakehalf an hour ; put the spawn in. When 
cold take the lobster out, and put it into the pots 
with a little of the butter. Beat the other butter in 
a mortar with some of the spawn ; then mix that 
coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to 
cover the pots, and strain it. Cayenne may be 
added, if approved. 

Stewed Lobster, a very high relish. 

Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that 
has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, 
two spoonfuls of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or 
walnut-catsup, a little salt and Cayenne, and a 
spoonful of port ; stew the lobster cut into bits with 
the gravy as above. 

Buttered Lobsters. 

Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little 
weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, 
with a little flour. If done white, a little white 
gravy and cream. 



21 

To roast Lobsters. 

When you have half-boiled the lobster take it out 
of the water, and while hot, rub it with butter and 
lay it before the fire. Continue basting it with but- 
ter till it has a fine froth. 

Curriefor Lobsters or Prawns. 

Take them from tlie shells, and lay into a pan, 
with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls 
of veal gravy, and four of cream ; rub smooth one 
or two tea-spoonfuls of currie-powder, a tea-spoon- 
ful of flour, and an ounce of butter ; simmer an 
hour ; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. 

Prawns and Cray-fish in jelly, a beautiful dish. 

Make a savoury fish-jelly, and put some into the 
bottom of a deep small dish ; when cold lay the 
cray-fish with their back downwards, and pour more 
jelly over them. Turn out when cold. 

To butter Prawns or Shrimps. 
Take them out of the shells ; and warm them 
with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a 
scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; simmer a min- 
ute or two, and serve with sippets ; or with a cream 
sauce, instead of brown. 

Hot Crab. 
Pick the meat out of a crab, clean the shell from 
the head, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, 
salt, pepper a bit of butter, crumbs of bread, and 
three spoonfuls of vinegar, into the shell again, and 
set it before fire. You may brown it with a sala- 
mander. — Dry toast should be served to eat it upon. 

Dressed Crab, cold. 
Empty the shell, and mix the flesh with oil, vine- 
^ir, salt., and a little white pepper and Cayenn<= 



then put the mixture into the large shell, and serve. 
Very little oil is necessary. 

To feed Oysters. 

Put them into water, and wash them with a birch 
besom till quite clean ; then lay them bottom down- 
wards into a pan, sprinkle with flbur or oatmeal and 
salt, and cover with water.' Do the same every 
flay, and they will fatten. The water should be 
pretty salt. 

To stew Oysters. 

Open and separate the liquor from them, then 
wash them from the grit ; btrain the liquor, and put 
with the oysters a bit of mace and the lemom-peel, 
and a few white peppers. Simmer them very 
gently, and put some cream, and a little flour and 
butter. Serve with sippets. 

Boiled Oysters 
Eat well. Let the shell be nicely cleaned first ; 
and serve in them, to eat with cold butter. 
To scallop Oysters. 

Put them with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, 
nutmeg and a bit of butter, into scallop-shells or 
saucers, and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. 

Fried Oysters, to garnish boiled fish. 

Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a 
Very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a 
fine yellow brown. A little nutmeg should be put 
into the seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into 
the flour. 

Oyster Loaves. 

Open them, and save the liquor ; wash them m 
it ; then strain it through a sieve, and put a little of 
it into a tosser, with a bit of butter and flour, white 
pepper, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little cream 



23 

Stc^ them, and cut in dice ; put into rolls sold for 
the purpose. 

* — 

MEATS. 
To choose Meats. 

Venison. — If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, 
and the cleft part smooth and close, it is young ; but 
if the cleft is wide and tough, it is old. 

Beef. — If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will 
have a fine smooth open grain, be of good red, and 
feel tender. The fat nhould look white rather than 
yellow ; for when that is of a deep colour, the meat 
is seldom good : beef fed by oil cake? is in general 
so, and the flesh is flabby. 

Veal. — The flesh of a bull calf is firmest, but not 
so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally 
preferred for the udder. The whitest is the most 
juicy, having been made so by frequent bleeding 
and having had whiting to lick. 

Mutton.' — Choose this by the fineness of its grain, 
good colour, and firm white fat. 

Lamb. — Observe the^eck of a fore quarter ; if 
the vein is bluish, it is fresh ; if it has a green or 
yellow cast, it is stale. 

Pork.- — Pinch the lean, and if young it will break. 
If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be im- 
pressed by the finger it is old. A thin rind is a 
merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh will be 
smooth and cool ; if clammy it is tainted. 

Bacon. — If the rind is thin, the fat firm, and of a 
red tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour and ad- 
hering to the bone, yon may conclude it good, and 
not old. 

Hams. — Stick a sharp knife under the bone : if 



24 

it comes out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good ; 
but if the knife is daubed and has a bad scent, do 
not buy it. 

Put the meat into cold water, and flour it well 
first. Meat boiled quick will be hard ; but care 
must be taken that in boiling slow it does not stop, 
or the meat will be underdone. 

If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen 
much ; therefore when you wish it to boil away, 
take off the cover of the soup-pot. 

Vegetables should not be dressed with the meat, 
except carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. 

Weigh the meat ; and allow for all solid joints a 
quarter of an hour for every pound, and some min- 
utes (from ten to twenty) over, according as the 
family like it done. 

A ham of twenty pounds will take four hours and 
a half, and others in proportion. 

A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boiliag, 
after soaking ; a tongue out of pickle, from two 
hours and a half to three hours, or more if very 
large ; it must be judged by feeling whether it is 
very tender. * 

A leg of pork, or lamb, takes the allowance of 
twenty minutes, above a quarter of an hour to a 
pound. 

In roasting beef of ten pounds will take alt»o>t; 
two hours and a half; twenty pounds will take 
three hours and three quarters. 

A neck of mutton will take an hour and a inalr, 
if kept a proper distance. A chine of pork, two 
hours. 

The meat should be put at a good distance hitta 
the fire, and brought gradually nearer when the 
inner part becomes hot which will prevent its being 



25 

scorched while yet raw. Meat should be much 
basted ; and whea nearly done, floured to make it 
look frothed. 

Veal and mutton sbould have a little paper put 
oyer the fat to preserve it. If not fat enough to 
allow for basting, a little good dripping answers as 
well as butter. 

In roasting meat it is a very good way to put a 
little salt and water into the dripping-pan, and baste 
for a little while with this, before using its own fat 
or dripping. When dry, dust it with flour, and 
baste as usual. 

Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out 
the gravy ; it should only be sprinkled when almost 
done. 

Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of 
a proper size for what is required, are the first 
articles of a good cook's attention in roasting. 
To dress Venison. 

A haunfeh of buck will take three hours and a 
half, or three quarters, roasting : doe, only three 
hours and a quarter. Venison should be rattier 
under than over done. 

Spread a sheet of white paper with butter, and 
put it over the fat, first sprinkle it with a little salt ; 
then lay a coarse paste on strong paper, and cover 
the haunch ; tie it with fine packthread, and set it 
at a distance from the fire, which must be a good 
one. Baste it often : ten minutes before serving 
take off the paste, draw the meat nearer the fire, 
and baste it with butter and a good deal of flour, to 
make it froth up well. 

Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not 
into the dish (unless there is none in the Venison,) 
aiM» »tA« thus ; Cut off the fat from two or three 
a 



26 
pounds of loin of old mutton, and set in steaks on a 
gridiron for a few minutes just to brown one side ; 
put them into a saucepan with a quart of water, 
cover quite close for an hour, and simmer it gently ; 
then uncover it, and stew till the gravy is reduced to 
a pint. Season with salt only. Currant-jelly sauce 
must be served in a boat. 

Formerly pap-sauce was eaten with venison : 
which as some still like it, it may be necessary to 
direct.. Grate white bread, and boil it with port 
wine, water and a large stick of cinnamon, when 
quite smooth take out the cinnamon, and add 
sugar. Claret may be used for it. 

Make the jelly-sauce thus. Beat some currant- 
jelly and a spoonful or two of port wine, and set it 
over the fire till melted. Where jelly runs short 
put more wine and a few lumps of sugar, to the jelly, 
and melt as above. Serve with French beans. 

Haunch, Neck, and Shoulder of Venison. 
Roast with paste as above, and the same sauce. 

To stew a Shoulder of Mutton. 
Let the meat hang till you judge proper to dress 
it, then take out the bone, beat the meat with a rol- 
ling-pin, lay some slices of mutton fat, that have 
lain a few hours in a little port wine, among it, sprin- 
kle a little pepper and alspice over it in fine pow- 
der, roll it up tight, and tie it. Set in a stew-pan 
that will only just hold it, with some mutton or beef 
gravy not strong, half a pint of port wine, and some 
pepper and alspice. Simmer it close covered, and 
as slow as you can, for three or four hours. When 
quite tender, take off the tape, set the meat on a 
dish, and strain the giavy over it. Serve with cur- 
rant-jelly sauce. 



27 

This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it 
IS very fat, and then it should be roasted. The 
bone should be stewed with it. 

Breast of Vejiison. 

Do it as the shoulder, or make it into a small 
pastry. 

Hashed Venison 

Should be warmed with its own gravy, or some 
without seasoning, as before ; and only warmed 
through, not boiled. If there is no fat left, cut 
some slices of mutton fat, set it on the fire with a 
little port wine and sugar, simmer till dry ; then 
put to the hash, and it will eat as well as the fat of 
the venison. 

For Venison Pastry, look under the head Pastry ; 
as likewise an excellent imitation. 
Beef tt'la-mode. 

Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or 
ox — cut into long slices some fat bacon, but quite 
free from yellow ; let each bit be near an inch thick ; 
dip them into vinegar, and then into a seasoning 
ready prepared, of salt, black pepper, alspice, and 
a clove, all in a fine powder, with parsley, chives, 
thyme, savoury, and knotted marjorum, shred as 
small as possible, and well mixed. With a sharp 
knife make holes deep enough to let in the larding, 
then rub the beef over with the seasoning, and bind 
it up tight with tape. Set it in a well tinned pot 
over a fire 'or rather stove ; three or four onions 
must be fried brown and put to the beef, with two 
or three carrots, one turnip, a head or two of celery, 
and a small quantity of water, let it simmer gently 
ten or twelve hours, or till extremely lender, turn- 
ing the meat twice 



28 

Put the gravy into a pan, remove the tat, keep 
the beef covered, then put thetn together, and add 
a glass of port wine. Take off the tape, and serve 
wiih the vegetable : or you may strain them off, and 
send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions 
roastedj and then stewed with the gravy, areagreat 
improvement. A tea-cupful of vinegar should be 
stewed with the beef. 

Ji fricandean of Beef . 

Take a nice bit of lean beef; lard it with bacon 
seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and alspice. 
Put it into a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass 
oi white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet 
herbs, a clove of garlic, a shallot or two, four 
cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is become 
tender, cover it close, skim the sauce well, and 
strain it ; set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is 
reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, 
and serve the meat on sorrel-sauce. 

To stew a rump of Beef. 
Wash it well, and season it high with pepper, 
Cayenne, salt, alspice, three cloves, and a blade oi 
mace, all in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay 
it into a pot that will just hold it. Fry three large 
onions sliced, and put them to it, with three carrots, 
two turnips, a shallot, four cloves, a blade of mace, 
and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef- 
broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as pos- 
sible for several hours, till quite tender. Clear ofl 
the fat ; and add to the gravy half a pint of port 
wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoon of catsup. 
Simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish.— 
Haifa pint of table-beer may be added. The herba 
to be used should be burnet, tarragon, parsley. 



29 

thyme, basil, sayour}', marjorum, pennyroyal, 
knotted marjorum, and some chives, if you can get 
them, but observe to proportion the quaniities to 
the, pungency of the several sorts — let there be a 
good handful altogether. 

Garnish with carrot's, turnips, or truffles and 
morels, or pickles of different colours, cut small, 
and laid in little heaps separate : chopped parsley, 
chives, beet-root, &c. If, when done, the gravy is 
too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season 
for serving, but ti.e less water the better : and to 
increase the richness, add a few beef bones and 
shanks of mutton in stewing. A spoonful or two of 
made mustard is a great improvement to the gravy. 

To stew a Brisket of Beef. 
Put the part that has the hard fiit into a stew-pot 
with a small quantity of water ; let it boil up, and 
skim it thoroughly; then add carrots, turnips, 
onions, celery, and a few pepper-corns. Stew it 
extremely tender ; then take out the flat bones, and 
remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve 
that and the meat in a tureen, or the soup alone, and 
the meat on a dish, garnished with some vegetables. 
The following sauce is much admired served with 
the beef : — Take half a pint of the soup, and mix 
it with a spoonful of catsup, a glass of port wine, 
a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit 
of butter and salt; boil altoeether a few minutes, 
then pour it round the meat. Chop capers, wal- 
nuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, and chivea 
or parsley, small, but in several heaps over it. 

To press Beef. ' 

Salt a bit of brisket, thin part of the flank, or the 
tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre five days 



30 

men boil it gently till extremely tender ; put it un 
der a great weight, or in a cheese-press, till perfect- 
ly cold. It eats excellently cold, and for sand- 
wiches. 

To make hunter's Beef. 

To a round of beef that weighs twenty-five 
pounds, take three ounces of saltpetre, three 
ounces, of the coarsest sugar, an ounce of cloves, a 
nutmeg, half an ounce of alspice, add three hand- 
fuls of common salt, all in the finest powder. 

The beef should hang two or three days ; then 
rub the above well intoit, and turn and rub it every 
day for two or three weeks. The bone must be 
taken out al first. When to be dressed, dip it into 
cold water, to take off the loose spice, bind it up 
tight with tape, and put it into a pan with a tea-cup- 
ful of water at the bottom, cover the top of the 
meat with shred suet, and the pan with a brown 
crust and paper, and bake it five or six hours.^ 
When cold take oifthe paste and tape. 

The gravy is very fine ; and a little of it adds 
greatly to the flavour of any hash, soup, &c. — Both 
the gravy and the beef will keep some time. 
An excellent mode of dressing Beef. 

Hang three ribs three or four days ; take out the 
bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, 
roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothing can look 
nicer. The above done with spices, &c. and baked 
as hunters' beef, is excellent. 

To collar Beef. 

Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow 
beef, but not too fat ; lay it into a dish with salt and 
saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week, and 
keep it cool. Then take out evory bone and gristle, 



31 

remove the skin ot the inside part, and cover it 
thick with the following seasoning cut small • — a 
large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some 
thyme, marjorun, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, 
and auspice. Roll the meat up as tight as possible, 
and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight 
hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. 
Put the beef under a good weight while hot, without 
undoing it: the shape will then be oval. Part of a 
breast of veal rolled in with the beef, looks and eats 
very well. 

Beef steaks 

Should be cut from a rump that has hung a few 
days. Broil them over a very clear or charcoal fire : 
put into the dish a little minced shallot, and a table- 
spoonful of catsup : and rub a bit of butter on the 
steak the moment of serving. It should be turned 
often, that the gravy may not be drawn out on 
either side. 

This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh 
done, that it is not in perfection if served with any 
thing else. Pepper and salt should be added when 
taking it off the fire. 

Beef steaks and Oyster sauce. 

Strain off the liquor from the oysters, and throw 
them into cold water, to take off the grit, while you 
simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lemon- 
peel ; then put the oysters in, stew them a few 
minutes, and a little cream, if you have it, and some 
butter rubbed in a bit of flower ; let them boil up 
once, and have rump-steaks well seasoned and 
broiled, ready for throwing the oyster-sauce over, 
the moment you are to serve. 

Stewed Beef-steaks. 

Beat them with a little rolling pin, flour and 



32 

season, then fry with sliced onion of a fine Yigh\ 
brown, lay the steaks into a stew-pan, and pour as 
much boiling water over them as will serve for 
sauce : stew them very gently half an hour, and add 
a spoonful of catsup, or walnut liquor, before you 
serve. 

Italian Beef-steaks. 
Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been 
well hung, or it will do from any tender part : beal 
it, and season with pepper, salt, and an onion : lay 
it into an iron stew pan that has a cover to fit quite 
close, and set it by the side of the fire without wa- 
ter. Take care it does not burn, but it must havf 
a strong heat : in two or three hours it will be quit* 
tender, and then serve with its own gravy. 

Beef Collops.. 
Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any 
other tender part, and divide them into pieces three 
inches long ; beat them with a blade of a knife, and 
flour them. Fry the collops quick in butter two 
minut«=a, then lay them into a small stew-pan, and 
cover them with a pint of gravy ; add a bit of butter 
rubbed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shallot, 
shred as fine as possible, half a walnut, four small 
pickled cucumbers, a tea-spoonful of capers cut 
small. Take care that it does not boil, and serve 
the stew in a very hot covered dish. 

Beef Palates. 
Simmer them in water several hours, till they will 
peel ; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them 
whole, as you choose ; and stew them in a rich gra 
vy till as tender as possible. Before you serve, 
season them with Cayenne, *alt, and catsup. If the 



33 

gravy was drawn clear, add also some butter and 
flour. 

If to be served white, boil them in milk, and stew 
them in fripassee-sauce, adding cream, butter, flour 
and mushroom-powder, and a little pounded mace. 
Beef cakes for a side dish of dressed meat. 

Pound some beef that is underdone with a little 
fat bacon, or ham ; season with pepper, salt, and a 
little shallot, or garlic; mix them well, and make it 
into small cakes, three inches long, and half as wide 
and thick ; fry them in a light brown, and serve 
them in a good thick gravy. 

To pot Beef. 

Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it with salt- 
petre, and let it lie one night ; then salt with com- 
mon salt, and cover it with water four days in a 
small pan. Dry it with a clotM, and season with 
black-pepper ; lay it into as small a pan as will hold 
it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours 
in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. 

When cold, pick out the strings, and fat : beat 
the meat very fine with a quarter of a pound of fine 
butter, just warm; but not oiled, and as much of the 
gravy as will make it into a paste ; put it into very 
small pots, and cover them with melted butter. 
To dress the inside of a cold Sirloin of Beef. 

Cut out all the meat, and a little fat, into pieces as 
thick as your finger, and two inches long : dredge 
it with flour; and fry in buttfer, of a nice brown, 
drain the butter from the meat and toss it up in a 
rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt anchovy, and 
shallot. Do not let it boil on any account. Before 
you serve add two spoonfuls of vinegar. Garnish 
w'tb crimped parsley. 



34 

Fricassee of cold roast Beef. 

Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a hand- 
hi of parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, 
and put all together into a stew-pan, with a piece ol 
butter and some strong- broth ; season with salt and 
pepper, and simmer very gently a quarter of an 
hour ; then mix into it the yolks of two eggs, a 
iglass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar ; stir 
it quick, rub the dish with shallot, and turn the fri- 
cassee into it. 

To dress cold Beef that has not been done enough, call- 
ed Beef-Olives, 

Cut sclices half an inch thick, and four inches 
square ; lay them on forcemeat of crumbs of bread, 
shallot, a little suet, or fat, pepper and salt. Roll 
them and, fasten with a small skewer ; put them 
mto a stew-pan with some gravy made ofbeef bones, 
or the gravy of the meat, and a spoonful of water, 
and stew them till tender. Fresh meat will do. 

To mince Beef, 

Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the 
fat, put into a small stew-pan, withsome onion orshal- 
lot, (a very Utile will do,) a little water, pepper, and 
salt ; boil it till the onion is quite soft ; then put 
some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. 
Do not let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sip- 
pets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but 
first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it ; if shal- 
lot-vinegar is used, there will be no need of the 
onion nor the raw shallot. 

To hash Beef. 

Do it the same as in the last receipt ; only the meat 
IS to be ■«» slices, and you may add a spoonful of 
walnut liquor or catsup. 



35 

Observe, that it is owing to loiling hash or minces, 
that they get bard. AH sorts ot' stews, or meats 
dressed a second time, should be only simmered ; 
and this last only hot through. 

Beef a-la vingrette. 
Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches 
thick, and a little fat ; stew it in half a pint-of water, 
a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an 
onion, and a bay leaf; season it with three cloves 
pounded, and pepper, till the liquor is nearly wasfid 
away, turning it once. When cold, serve it. Strain 
off the gravy, and mix it with a little vinegar for 
sauce. 

Round of Beef. 
Should be carefully salted, and wet with the 
pickle for eight or ten days. The bone should be 
cut out first, and the beef skewered and tied up, to 
make it quite round. It may be stuffed with parsley 
if approved ; in which case the holes to admit the 
parsley must be made with a sharp pointed knife, 

and the parsley coarsely cut, and stuffed in tight. 

As soon as it boils it should be skimmed, and after- 
wards kept boiling very gently. 

Rolled Beef that equals Hare. 
Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a 
glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, for 
forty-eight hours ; have ready a very fine stuffing, 
and bind it up tight. Roast it on a hanging spit, and 
baste it with a glass of port wine, the same quantity 

of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of pounded alspice. 

Larding improves the look and flavour : serve with 
rich gravy in the dish ; currant-jelly and melted 
butter in tureens. 



36 

To roast Tongue and Udder. 

After cleaning the tongue well, salt it with com- 
mon salt and saltpetre three days ; then boil it, and 
likewise a fine young udder with some fat to it, till 
tolerably tender ; then tie the thick part of one to 
the thin part of the other, and roast the tongue and 
udder. 

Serve them with good gravy, and currant-jelly 
sauce. A few cloves should be stucjs in the udder. 

To stew Tongue. 

Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for 
a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough 
to peel ; when done stew it in a moderately strong 
gravy ; season with soy, mushroom catsup, Cay- 
enne, pounded cloves, and salt if necessary. 

Serve with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. In 
both this, receipt 'and the next, the roots must be 
taken off the tongues before salting, but some fat 
left. 

An excellent way of doing Tongues to eat, cold. 

Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown 
sugar, a little bay-salt, pepper, cloves, mace and 
alspice, in fine powder for a fortnight ; then take 
away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, 
and lay some butter on it ; cover it with brown 
crust, and bake slowly till so tender that a straw 
would go through it. 

The thin part of tongues, when hungup to dry, 
grates like hung beef, and also makes a fine addition 
to the flavour of omlets. 

Beef-heart. 

Wash it carefully ; stuff as a hare ; and serve 
with rich gravy, and carrant-jelly sauce. Hash 
with the same, and port wine. 



37 

Stewed Ox-cheek, plain. 

Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is 
to be eaten ; put it into a stew-pot that will cover 
close, with three quarts of water ; simmer it after 
it has first boiled up and been well skimmed. In 
two hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three 
Inrnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pep- 
per, and four ounces of alspice. Skim it often ; 
when the meat is tender take it out ; let the soup 
get cold, take off the cake of fat, and serve the soup 
separate or with meat. 

It should be a fine brown ; which might be done 
by burnt sugar ; or by frying some onions quite 
brown with flour, and simmering them with it. This 
last way improves the flavour of all soups and gra 
vies of the brown kind. 

If vegetables are not approved of in the soup, 
they may be taken out, and a small roll toasted, or 
bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, 
and should always be served. Where it is not to be 
got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, 
boiled in, and strained off. 

To dress Ox-cheek another way. 
Soak half a head three hours, and clean it with 
plenty of water. Take the meat off the bones; and 
put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, some bruised alspice, pepper and salt. 

Lay the bones on the top : pour on two or three 
quarts of water, and cover the pan close with brows, 
paper, or a dish that will fit close. Let it stand 
eight or ten hours in a slow oven ; or simmer it by 
the side of the fire, or on a hot hearth. When 
done tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let 
tt get cold. Take the cake of fat off, and warm the 



38 

head ia pieces in the soup- Put what vegetables 
yon choose. 

Marrow-bones. 

Cover the top with fl )ured cloth ; boil them, and 
serve with dry toast. 

Tripe 

May be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and 
onion till tender. Melted butter for sauce. 

Or fry it in small bits dipped in batter. 

Or stew the thin part, cut into bits, in gravy ; 
thicken with flour and butter, and add a little cat- 
sup. 

Or fruassee it with white sauce. 
Soused Tripe. 

Boil the tripe, but not quite tender ; then put il 
into salt and water, which must be changed every 
day till it is all used. When you dress the tripe, 
dip it into batter of flour and ej^gs, and fry it of a 
good brown. 

Ox-feet or Cow-heels, 

May be dressed in various ways, and are very nu- 
tritious in all. 

Coil them, and serve them in a napkin ; with 
melted butter, mustard, and a large spoonful of vine- 
gar. 

Or boil them very tender, and serve them as a 
brown fricassee : the liquor will do to make jelly 
sweet or relishing, and likewise to give richness to 
soups or gravy. 

Or cut them Into four parts, dip them into an egg ; 
and then flour and fry them ; and fry onions, (if you 
like them) to serve round. Sauce as above 

Or bake them as for laock-turtle. 



39 

VEAL. 

To keep Veal. 
The first part that turns bad of a leg of veal, ia 
where the udder is skewered back.' The skewer 
should be taken out, and both that and the meat un- 
der it wiped every day, by which means it will keep 
good three pr four days in hot weather. 

Leg of Veal. 
■ Let the fillet be cut largie or small, as best suits 
the number of your company. Take out the boEe, 
fill the space with fine stufiing, and let it be skew- 
ered quite round ; and send the large side upper- 
most. When half roasted, if not before, put a pa- 
per over the fat ; and take care to allow a sufficient 
time, and put it a good distance from the fire, as the 
meat is very solid ; serve with melted butter pour- 
ed over it. — You may pot some of it. 

Knuckle of Veal. 
As fe^v people are fond of boiled veal, it may be 
well to leave the knuckle small, and take off some 
utlets or coUops before it be dressed ; and as the 
knuckle will keep longer than the fillet, it is best 
not to cut off the slices tilf wanted. Break the 
bone to make it take less room ; wash it well ; and 
put it in a saucepan with three onions, a blade or 
two of mace, and a ie.yf peeper corns ; cover it 
with water, and simmer it till quite ready. In the 
mean time some macaroni should be boiled with it if 
approved, or rice, or a little rice flour, to give it a 
small degree of thickness ; but do not put too much. 
Before it is served, add half a pint of milk and 
cream, and let it come up either with or without the 
meat. 
Or fry the knuckle with sliced onions and butter 



40 

to a good brown ; and have ready peas, lettuce, 
oobn, and a cucumber or two, stewed in small 
quantity of water, an hour ; then add these to the 
- veal ; and stew it till the meat is tender enough to 
eat, but not overdone. Throw in pepper, salt, and 
a bit of shred mint, and serve altogether. 
Shoulder of Veal. ^ 

Cut off the knuckle, for a stew or gravy. Roast 
the other part for stuffing ; you may lard it. Serve 
with melted butter. 

The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, 
eats extremely well with mushroom or oyster-sauce) 
or mushroom-catsup in butter. 
MckofFeal. 

Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion 
sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water. 
Parsley and butter may be served with it, instead of 
onion-sauce. 

Or it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, 
and pepper-corns, with a very little water. 

Or boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. 

The best end may be either roasted, broiled as 
steaks, or made into^pies. 

JSTeck of Veal a-la-braise. 
Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley 
chopped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg : put it in- 
to a tosser, and cover it with water. Put to it the 
scrag-end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two 
carrots, two heads of celery, and about a glass of 
Madeira wine. Stew it quick two hours, or till it i» 
tender, but not too much. Strain off the liquor: 
mix a little flour and butter in a stew-pan till brown, 
and lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom 
f the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets co- 



41 

coloured ; then lay it into the dish, stir some of th« 
liquor in and boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze 
orange or lemon-juice into it. 

Breast of Veal. 

Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be ta- 
ken off and fried to stew, or the whole may be roast- 
ed. — ^Butter should be poured over it. 

If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, 
put them into a stew-pan, and pour some broth over 
it ; or if you have no broth, a little water will do ; 
add a bunch of herbs, a blade or two of mace, some 
pepper and an anchovy ; stew till the meat is ten- 
der, thicken with butter and flour, add a little catsup ; 
or the whole breast may be stewed, after cutting ott' 
the two ends. 

Serve the sweetbread whole upon it, which may 
either be stewed, or parboiled, and then covered 
with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned 
in a Dutch oven. 

To roll a Breast of Veal. 

Bone it, take o£f the thick skin and gristle, and 
beat the meat with a roUing-pin. Season it with 
herbs chopped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper, 
and mace. Lay some thick slices of fine ham ; or 
roll it into two or three calves' tongues of a fine red, 
boiled first an hour or two, and skinned. Bind it 
up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over the fire 
to simmer, in a small quantity of water, till it is 
quite tender ; this, will take some hours. Lay it on 
the dresser, with a board and weight on it till quite 
cold. 

Pigs' or calves' feet boiled and taken from the 
bones, may be put in or round it. The different 
colours laid in layers look well when cut j and you 
4* 



42 

may put in yolks of eggs boiled, beet-root, grated 
ham, and chopped parsley in different parts. 

Chump of Veal a-la-daube. 
Cut off the chump end of the loin ; take out the 
edgebdne : stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie 
it up tight, and lay in a stew-pan with the bone you 
take out, a little faggot of herbs, an anchovy, two 
blades of mace, a few white peppers, and a pint of 
good veal-broth. — Cover the veal with slices of fat 
bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Co- 
ver the pan close, simmer it for two hours, then 
take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. — Serve it on 
mushrooms, or with sorrel-sauce, or what else you 
please. 

Feal-rolls of either cold Meat or fresh. 
Cut thin slices ; and spread on them a fine season- 
mg of a very few crumbs, a little chopped bacon or 
scraped ham, and a little suet, parsley, and shallot 
(oi instead of the parsley and shallot, seme fresh 
mushrooms stewed and minced,) pepper, salt, and a 
small piece of pounded mace. 

This stuffing may either fill up the roll like a sau- 
sage, or be rolled with the meat. In either case tie 
it up very tight, and stew very slowly in a gravy 
and a glass of sherry. — Serve it when tender, after 
skimming it nicely. v 

A Dunelm of cold Veal or Fowl. 
Stew a few small mushrooms in their own liquor 
and a bit of butter, a quarter of an hour ; mince 
them very small, and add them (with their liquor) 
to minced veal, with also a little pepper and salt, 
some cream, and a bit of butter rubbed in less than 
half a tea-spoonful of flour. Simmer three or four 
minutes, and serve on thin sippets of bread. 



43 

Minced Veal 
Cut cold real as fine as possible, but do Dot chop 
it. Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two 
grates of nutmeg, some salt, and four ■ .r five spoon- 
fuls of either a little wreak broth, milk, or water • 
simmer these gently with the meat, but take care 
ijot to let it boil ; and add a bit of butter rubbed 
in fiour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into 
a three-cornered shape, round the dish. 

To pot Veal. 

Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal ; or you 
may do it as follows : 

Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dress- 
ed, with some mace, pepper corns, and two or three 
cloves, lay it close into a potting-pan that will but 
just hold it; fill it up with water, and bake it three 
hours ; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and 
add salt to taste ; put a little gravy that was baked 
to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon, otherwise, 
only a little butter just melted. When done, cover 
it over wijh butter. 

To pot Veal or Chicken with Ham. 

Pound some cold veal or white of chicken, sea- 
soned as directed in the last article, and put layers 
of it with layers of ham pounded or rather shred ; 
press each down, and cover with butter. 
Cutlets Maintenon. 

Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, 
beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both 
sides with egg ; dip them into a seasoning of bread- 
crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, 
salt, and a little nutmeg grated ; then put them into 
papers folded over, and broil them, and have in a 
boat melted butter, with a little mushroom catsup. 



4\ 

Cutlets another leay 

Prepare as above, and fry themf lav them into a 
dish, and keep them hot, dredge a little dour, and 
put a bit of hutter into the pan ; brown It. then pour 
a little boiling water into it, and boil quick : season 
with pepper, salt, and catsup, and pour over them 
Veal Collops. 

Cut long thin collops ; beat them we"!, and lay od 
them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and 
spread forcemeat on that, seasoned high, and also a 
little garlic and Cayanne. Roll them up tight, about 
the size of two fingers^ but no more than Cwo or 
three inches long ; put a very small skewer to fasten 
each firmly ; rub egg over : fry them of a fine brown, 
and pour a rich brown gravy over. 

To dress Collops quick. 

Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, 
and in small bits. Throw the skin and any odd bits 
of the veal, into a little water, with a dust of pep- 
per and salt ; set them on the fire while you beat the 
collops : and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, 
bread, pepper, salt, and scrape of nutmeg, but first 
wet them in egg. Then put a bit of butter into a 
frying-pan, and give the collops, every quick fry ; 
for as they are so thin, two minutes will do them on 
both sides ; put them into a hot dish before the fire ; 
then strain and thicken the gravy, give it a boil in 
the frying-pan, and pour it over the collops. A lit- 
tle catsup is an improvement. 

Scallops of ccld Veal or Chicken. 

Mince the meat extremely small ; and set it over 
the fire with a scrap of nutmeg, a little pepper and 
salt, and a Httle cream, for a few minutes ; then put 
it into the scallop shell, and fill them with crumbs 



45 

of bread, over which put some bits of bvtter, and 
brown them before the fire. 

Fricandeau of Veal. 
Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, 
about nine inches long and half as thick and broad ; 
beat it with the rolling-pin ; take off the skin, and 
trim off the rough edges. Lard the top and sides*, 
and cover it with fat bacon, and then with white pa- 
per. Lay it into the stew-pan with any pieces of 
undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sli- 
ced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, 
four bay-leaves, a pint ofgood veal or mutton broth, 
and four or five ounces of lean ham or gammon. — 
Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly three 
hours ; then take up the meat, remove all the fat 
from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Keep 
the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it ; and serve 
with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and 
sorrel-sauce in a sauce tureen. 

Fricandeau another way. 

Take two large round sweetbreads and prepare 
them as you would veal ; make a rich gravy with 
truffles, morels, mushrooms, and artichoke-bottoms, 
and serve it round. 

Veal Olives. 

Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them thin 
slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of force- 
meat seasoned high, with some shred shallot and 
Cayenne. Roll them tight,j about the size of two 
fingers, but not more than two or three inches long, 
fasten them round with a small skewer, rub egg 
over them, and fry them of a light brown. 

Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some 
mushrooms pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls fried. 



46 

Veal Cake. 
Boil six or eight eggs hard ; cut the yolks in two, 
and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pet: 
shake in a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal 
and ham, add then eggs again ; shaking in after each 
some chopped parsley, with pepper and salt, till the 
pot is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, 
and lay on it about an ounce of butter ; tie it over 
with a double paper, and bake it about an hour. 
Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it 
stand till cold. 

It may be put into a small mould ; and then it will 
turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. 
Veal Sausages. 
Chop equal quantities of lean and fat bacon, a 
handful of sage, a little salt and pepper, and a few 
anchovies. Beat all in a mortar ; and when used 
roll and fry it, and serve it with fried sippets, or on 
stewed vegetables, or on white collops. 
Scotch Collops. 
Cut veal into thin bits about three inches over, 
and rather round ; beat with a rolling-pin, and 
grate a little nutmeg over them ; dip into the yolk 
of an egg, and fry them in a little butter of a fine 
brown : pour the butter off: and ready warm to 
pour upon them half a pint cf gravy, a little bit of 
butter rubbed into a little flour, a yolk of egg, two 
large spoonfuls of rream, and a bft of salt. Do not 
boil the sauce, bi't stir it till of a fine thickness to 
serve with the coKops. 

TnhMl Calf h Head. 
Clean it very nv'ely and soak it in water, till it 
may look very whit*; : *ake out the tongue to salt, 
and the brniiis to wiali? a little dish. Boil the head 



47 

extremely tender ; then strew It over with crumbs 
and chopped parsley, and brown them ; or if liked 
better, leare one side plain. Bacon and greens are 
to be served to eat with it. 

The brains must be boiled ^ and then mixed with 
melted butter, scalded sage chopped ; pepper, and 
salt. 

If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next 
Jay, and a few slices of bacon just warmed and put 
round. Cold calfs head eats well if grilled. 

To hAsh Calfs Head, 

When half boiled cut off the meat in slices, half 
an inch thick, and two or three inches long : brown 
some butter, flour, and sliced onion, and throw in 
the slices with some good gravy, truffles, and mo- 
rels ; give it one boil, and skim it well, and set it in 
a moderate heat to simmer till very tender. 

Season with pepper, salt and Cayenne, at first-, 
and ten minutes before serving, throw in some shred 
parsley, and a very small bit of taragon and knotted- 
marjoram cut as fine as possible ; just before you 
serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Forcemeat- 
balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. 

Calfs Head Fricasseed. 
Clean and half boil a head ; cut the meat into 
small bits, and put it into a tosser,with a little gravy 
made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled 
in, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion and a blade of 
mace. If you have any young cockrels in the house, 
Bse the coxcombs ; but first boil them tender, and 
blanch them ; or a sweet-bread will do as good. 
Season the gravy with a little pepper, nutmeg, and 
salt, rub down some flour and butter, and give all a 
boil together ; then take out the herbs and onion. 



48 

and add a little cup of crcRin, but do not boil it in.— 

Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls. 

To collar Calf's Head. 

Scald the skin off a fine head, clean it nicely, and 
take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to re- 
move the bones : then have ready a good quantity of 
chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white 
pepper, mixed well ; season it high with these ; 
lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of 
thick slice's of fine ham, or a beautiful-coloured 
tongue skinned, and then the yolks of six nice yel- 
low eggs stuck here and there about. Roll the head 
quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil 
it, and then lay a weight on it. 

A cloth must be put under the tape, as for the 
other collars. 

Mock Turtle. 
' Bespeak a calf's head with the skin on, cut it in 
half, and clean it well ; then half-boil it, take all tne 
meat off in square bits, break the bones of the head, 
and boil them in some veal and beef broth to add to 
the richness. Fry some shallot in butter, and 
dredge in flour enough to thicken the gravy; stir 
this into the browning, and give it one or two boils : 
skim it carefully, and then put in the head ; put in 
also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meal 
is quite tender. About ten minutes before you 
serve, put in some basil, taragon, chives, parsley, 
Cayenne pepper, and salt, to your taste ; also twa 
spoonfuls or mushroom-catsup, and one of soy. 

Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and 
pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls and small 
eggs. 

A cheaper way. — Prepare half a calf's head -with- 
out the skin as above : when the meat is cut off, 



49 

break the boces, and put them into a sauce-jian with 
some grayy made of beef and veal bones, and sea- 
soned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. 
Have ready two or three ox-palates boiled so ten- 
der as to blanch, and cut into small pieces ; to which 
a cow-heel, likewise cut into pieces, is a great im- 
provement. Brown some butter, flour, and onion, 
and pour the gravy to it ; then add the meats as 
above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an ancho- 
vy , two spoonfuls of walnut catsup, the same of mush- 
room catsup, and some chopped herbs as before. — 
Balls, &c. 

Another. — Put into a can a knuckle of veal, two 
fine cow-heels, two onions, a f^w cloves, pep- 
pers, berries of alspice, mace, and sweet herbs : 
cover them with water, then tie a thick paper over 
the pan, and set it in an oven for three hours. — 
When cold take off the fat very nicely ; cut the meat 
and feet into bits an inch and a half square ; remove 
the bones and coarse parts ; and then put the rest 
on to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and one 
of mushroom catsup, half a pint of sherry or Madei- 
ra wine, a little mushroom powder, and the jelly of 
the meat. When hot, if it wants any more season- 
ing, add some ; and serve with hard eggs, force- 
meat-balls, squeeze of lemon, and a spoonful of soy. 
An excellent and very cheap mock tuij'tle may be 
made of two or three cow-heels baked with two 
pounds and ahalf of gravy-beef, herbs, &c. as above 
with cow-heels and veal. 

Calf's Ldver. 
Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and broil 
nicely ; rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot 
and hot. 

5 



50 

Calf's Liver roasted. 

Wash and wipe it j then cut a long hole in it, and 
staff it with crumbs of breads chopped anchovy, 
herbs, a good deal of fatbaoon, onion, salt, pepper, 
a bit of butter, and an egg ; sew the liver up ; then 
lard it, or wrap it in a veal-cawl, and roast it. — 
Serve with good brown gravy, and currant-jelly. 
To dress the Liver and Lights. 

Half-boil an equal quantity of each, then cut them 
in a middling-sized mince, put to it a spoonful or two 
of the water that boiled it, a bit of butter, flour, salt, 
and pepper, simmer ten minutes and serve hot. 
, Sweetbreads. 

Half-boil them, and stew them in a white gravy, 
add cream, flour, batter, nutmeg, salt, and white 
pepper. 

Or do them in white sauce seasoned. 

Or parboil them, and then cover them with 
crumbs, herbs, and seasoning ; and brown them in 
a Dutch oven. Serve with butter, and mushroom 
catsup, or gravy. 

Sweetbreads roasted. 

Parboil two large ones : when cold lard them witb 
bacon, and roast them in a Dutch oven. For sauce, 
plain butter and mushroom catsup. 
Smeetiread Ragout. 

Cut them, about the size of a walnut, wash and 
dry them, then fry them of a fine brown ; pour to 
them a good gravy, seasoned with salt, pepper, 
alspice, and either mushrooms or mushroom catsup ; 
strain, and thicken with butter and a little flour. 
Kidney. 

Chop ve«l-kidney, and some of the fat ; hkewise 
a little leek er onion, pepper and salt; roll it up 
with an n '-.to balls, and fry them. 



51 

Calfs heart stuff and roast as beef's heart : or 
sliced, make it into a pudding, as directed for steak 
or kidney pudding. 

PORK, ETC. 

Bacon hogs and porkers are differently cut up. 

Hogs are kept to a lajge size ; the chine, (or 
back-bone,) is cut down on each side, the whole 
length, and is a prime part either boiled or roasted. 

The sides of a hog are made into bacon, and the 
inside is cut out with very little meat to the bone. 
On each side there is a large spare-rib ; which is 
usually divided into two, one sweet-bone, and a 
blade-bone. The bacon is the whole outside : and 
contains a fore-leg and a ham ; which last is the 
bind-leg, but if left with the bacon it is called a 
gammfon. 

To roast a leg of Pork. 

Choose a small leg of fine young pork : cut a slit 
in the knuckle with a sharp knife ; and fill the space 
with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper 
and salt. When half-done, score the skin in slices, 
but do not cut deeper than the outer rind. 

Apple-sauce and potatoes should be served to eat 
with it. 

To boil a leg of Pork. 

Salt it eight or ten days : when it is to be dressed 
weigh it ; let it lie half an hour in cold water, to 
make it white : allow a quarter of an hour for every 
pound, and half an hour over from the time it boils 
up ; skim it as soon as it boils, and frequently after. 
Allow iifeter enough. — Save some of it to make 
peas-sQi^ Some boil it in a very nice cloth, flour- 
ed • which gives a very delicate look. It should 
be small and of a fine gram. Serve peas-pudding 
ii,.iJ turnips with it. 



52 

Loin atifi J^eck of Pork 
Roast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at 
distances of half an inch, with a sharp pen-knife. 
Shoulders and Breasts of Pork. 
Put them into pickle, or salt the shoulder as a 
a leg : when very nice, they may be roasted. 
Rolled Neck of Pork. 
Bone it ; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very 
few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three 
berries of alspice, over the inside; then roll the 
meat as tight as you can, and roast it slowly, and at 
a good distance at first. 

Spring or Forehand of Pork. 
Cut out the bone : sprinkle salt, pepper, and sage, 
dried, over the inside ; but first warm a little but- 
ter to baste it, and then flour it ; roll the pork tight, 
and tie it ; then roast by a hanging jack. About 
two hours will do it. 

Spare-Rib 
Should be basted wifh a very little butter and a 
little flour, and then sprinkled with a little dried 
sage crumbled. — Apple-sauce and potatoes for 
roasted pork. 

Pork Griskin 
Is usually very hard ; the best way to prevent 
this is, to put it into as much cold water as will cover 
it, and let it boil'up ; then instantly take it ofi", and 
put it into a Dutch oven ; a very few minutes will 
doit. Remember to rub butter over it, and then 
flour it, before you put it to the fire. 
Blade-bone of Pork. 
Is taken from the bacon-hog ; the less meat left en 
it, in moderation, the better. It is to be broiled ; 
and when just done, pepper aid salt it. Put to it a 



53 

piece of butter, and a tea-spoonful of mustard ; and 
serve it covered, quickly. 

Pork-steaks. 

Cut them from a loin or neck, and of middling 
thickness : pepper and broil them, turning them 
often ; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of 
butter over, and serve the moment they are taken 
off the fire, a few at a time. 

Sausages. 

Chop fat and lean pork together ; season it with 
sage, pepper and salt, and you may add two or three 
berries of alspice ; half Jill hog's guts that have 
been soaked and made extremely clean : or the meat 
may be kept in a very small pan closely covered : 
and so rolled and dusted with a very little flour be 
fore it is fried Serve on stewed red cabbage ; or 
mash potatoes put in a form, brown with salamander, 
and garnish with the above ; they must be pricked 
vrith a fork before they are dressed, or they will burst. 
An excellent Sausage to eat cold. 

Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, 
black pepper, and alspice, all in fine powder, and 
rub into the meat ; the sixth day cut it small, and 
mix with it some shred shallot or garlic, as fine as 
possible. — Have ready an ox-gut that has been 
scoured, salted, and soaked well, and fill it with the 
above stufiing ; tie up the ends, and hang it to smoke 
as you would hams but first wrap it in a fold or two 
of old muslin. It must be high-dried. Some eat it 
without boiling, but others like it boiled first. The 
tkin should be tied in different places, so as to make 
each link about eight or nine inches long. 
Sausages. 

Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of 
6* 



54 

veal, cleared of skin and sinews ; add three quarters 
of a pound of beef-suet ; mince and mix them : steep 
the crumb ofa penny-loaf in water, and mix it with 
the meai, with also a little dried sage, pepper and 
salt. 

To roast a sucking Pig. 

If you can get it when just killed, this is of g" a 
advantage. Let it be scalded, which the dea-jrs 
usually do ; then put some sage, crumbs of bread, 
salt, and pepper, into the belly, and sew it up. Ob- 
serve to skewer the legs back or the under part 
will not crisp. 

Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry ; then 
have ready some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the 
pig with it in every part. Dredge as much flour 
over as will possibly lie, and do not touch it again 
till ready to serve ; then scrape off the flour very 
carefully with a blunt knife, rub it well with the 
buttered cloth, and take ofi" the head while at the 
fire ; take out the brains, and mix them with the 
gravy that comes from the pig. Then take it up ; 
and without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the 
back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop the sage 
and bread quickly, as fine as you can, and mix them 
with a large quantity of fine melted butter that has 
very little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after 
the pig has been split down the back, and garnished 
with the ears and the two jaws ; take ofif the upper 
part of the head down to the snout. 
Pettitoes. 

Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small 
quantity of water, very gently ; then cut the meat 
fine, and simmer it with a little of the water and the 
feet split, till the feet arc quite tender ; thicken 
with a bit ©""butter, a little flour, a spoonful of cream. 



55 

and a little salt and pepper : give it a boil- up, pour 
it over a few s'ppets of bread, and put the feet on 
the mince. 

To make excellent meat of a Hog's Head. 

Split the head, take out the brains, cut off the 
ears, and sprinkle it with common salt for a day ; 
then drain it : salt it well with common salt and 
saltpetre three days, then lay the salt and head into 
a small quantity of water for two days. Wash it, 
and boil it till all the bones will come out ; remove 
them, and chop the head as quick as possible : but 
first skin the tongue, and take the skin carefully off 
the head, to put under and over. Season with pep- 
per, salt, and a littte mace or alspice berries. Put 
the skin into a small pan, press the cut head in, and 
put the other skin over ; press it down. When 
cold, it will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. If 
too fat, you may put a few bits of lean pork to be 
prepared the same way. Add salt and vinegar, and 
boil these with some of the liquor for a pickle to 
keep it. 

To roast a Porker's Head. 

Choose a fine young head, clean it well, and put 
bread and sage as for pig ; sew it up tight, and on a 
string or hanging jack roast it as a pig, and serve 
with the same sauce. 

To collar Pig's Head. 

Scour the head and ears, nicely; take off the hair 
and snout, and take out the eyes and the brain ; lay 
it into water one night, then drain, salt it extremely 
well with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie 
five days. Boil it enough to take out the bones ; 
then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of 
one side of the head towards the thin end of the 



56 

other, to make the roll of equal size ; sprinkle it 
well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with tLe 
ears ; and if you approve put the pig's feet round 
the outside when boned, or the thin parts of two 
cow-heels. Put it into a cloth, bind with a broad 
tape, and boil it till quite tender ; then put a good 
weight upon it, and do not take off the covering till 
cold. 

If you choose it to be more like brawn, salt it 
longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be great- 
er, and put in also some pieces of lean pork ; and 
then cover it with cow heel to look like the born. 
- This may be kept either in or out of pickle of 
salt and water boiled, with vinegar ; and is a conve 
nient thing to have in the house. 

If likely to spoil, slice and fry it either witjj or 
without batter. 

To force Hog's Ears. 

Parboil two pair of ears, or take some t^t have 
been souced : make a forcemeat of an anchovy, some 
sage, parsley, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, 
bread-crumbs, pepper, and only a little salt. Mix 
all these with the yolks of two eggs ; raise the skin 
of the upper side of the ears, and stuff them with 
the above. Fry the ears in fresh butter, of a fine 
colour ; then pour away the fat, and drain them : 
make ready half a pint of rich gravy, with a glt.ss 
of fine sherry, three tea-spoonfuls of made mustard, 
a little bit of flour and butter, a small onion whole, 
and a little pepper or Cayenne. Put this with the 
ears, into a stew-pan, and cover it close ; stew it 
gently for half an hour, shaking the pan often. — 
When done enough, take out the onion, place the 
ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce over 



57 

ihem. If a larger dish is wanted, the meat from two 
feet may be added to the above. 

Different ways of dressing Pig's feet and Ears. 
. Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and boil 
them tender ; then take them out ; boil some vine- 
gar and a little salt with some of the water, and when 
cold put it over them. When they are to be dres- 
sed, dry them, cut the feet in two, and slice the ears ; 
fry, and serve with butter, mustard, and vinegar. 
They m ly be either done in batter, or only floured. 
Pig's Feet and Ears Fricasseed. 

Put no vinegar into the pickle, if to be dressed 
with cream. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, 
and boil them in a little milk ; then pour that from 
them, and simmer in a little veal-broth, witha bit of 
opion, mace, and lemon- peel. Before you serve, 
add a little cream, flour, butter, and salt. 
Jelly of Pig's Feet and Ears. 

CJean and prepare as in the last article, then boil 
them in a very small quantity of water, till every 
bone can be taken out ; throw in half an handful of 
chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning 
of pepper, salt, and mace in fine powder ; simmer 
till the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole in a 
melon form. 

Pig's Harslet. 

Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and fat 
and lean bits of pork, beating the latter with a roll- 
ing-pin to make it tender : season with pepper, salt, 
sage, and a little onion shred find ; when mixed, put 
all into a cawl, and fasten it up tight with a needle and 
thread. Roast it on a hanging jack, or by a string. 

Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry. 

Serve with a sauce of port-wine and water, and 
mustard, just boiled up, and put into a dish. 



58 

Mock Brawn 

Boil a pair of neat's feet very tender : take the 
meat off, and have ready the belly-piece of pork, 
salted with common salt and saltpetre for a week. — 
Boil this almost enough : take out the bones, and roll 
the feet and the pork together. Then roll it very 
tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till 
very tender, then hang it up in the cloth till cold, af- 
ter which keep it in a sousing liquor, as is directed 
in the next article. 

Souse for Brawn, and for Pig's Feet and Ears. 

Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat-bran, a sprig of 
bay, and a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of wa- 
ter, with four ounces of salt in it, for half an hour. 
Strain it, -and let it get cold. 

To make Black Puddings. 

The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Put 
a quart of it, or rather more, to a quart of whole 
grits, to soak one night, and soak the crumb of a 
quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of new 
milk made hot. In the mean time prepare the guts 
by washing, turning and scraping with salt and water, 
and changing the water several times. Chop fine a 
little winter-savoury and thyme, a good quantity of 
penny-royal, pepper and salt, a few cloves, some 
alspice, ginger, and nutmeg, mix these with three 
pounds of beef-suet, and six eggs well beaten and 
strained : and then beat bread, grits, &.C. all up with 
the seasoning ; when well mixed, have ready some 
hog's fat cut into large bits, and as you fill the skins, 
put it in at proper distances. Tie in links only half 
filled ; and boil in a large kettle, pricking them ag 
they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, lay 
them between clean cloths till cold, and hang them 
up in the kitchen. When to be used, scald them a 



59 

few minutes in water, wipe, and put them into a 
Dutch oven. 

If there are uot skins enough, put the stuffing in- 
to basins, and boil it covered with flour cloths ; and 
slice and fry it when used. 

Another way. — Boil a quart of half-grits in as much 
milk as will swell them to the utmost : then drain 
them and add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, 
a pound of suet, some mace, nutmeg, alspice, and 
four cloves, all in one powder ; two pounds of the 
hog's leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of pars- 
ley, ten leaves of sage, a large handful of penny- 
royal, a sprig of thyme and knotted marjoram, all 
minced fine; eight eggs well beaten, half a pound 
of bread crumbs that have been scalded, with a pint 
of milk, pepper, and salt. Half fill the skins ; which 
must be cleaned with the greatest care, turned se- 
veral times, and soaked in several waters, and last in 
rose water. Tie the skins in links, boil and prick them 
with a clean fork, to prevent their bursting. Cover 
them with a clean cloth till cold. 

White Hog's Puddings. 

When the skins have been soaked and cleaned as 
before directed, rinse and soak them all night in rose- 
water, and put into them the following fillings ; mix 
half a pound of blanched almonds cut into seven or 
eight bits, with a pound of grated bread, two pounds 
of marrow or suet, a pound of currants, some beaten 
cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, a quart of 
cream, the yolks of six and while of two eggs, a lit- 
tle orange-flower water, alittle fine Lisbon sugar, and 
lemon-peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skins. 
To know whether sweet enough, warm a little in a 
panikin. In boiling, much care must be taken to 
prevent the puddings from bursting. Prick them 



60 

with a'small fork as they rise, and boil them in milk 
and water. Lay them in a table-cloth till cold. 

Hog's Lard 
Should be carefully melted in ajar, put into a kettle 
of water and boiled ; run it into bladders that have 
been extremely well cleaned. The smaller they arc 
the better the lard keeps, as, after the air reaches 
it, it becomes rank. Put in a sprig of rcsemar/ 
when melting. 

MUTTON 

Observations on cutting and dressing Mutton. 

Take away the pipe that runs along the bone of 
the inside of a chine of mutton ; and it to be kept a 
great time, rub the part close round the tail with 
salt, after first cutting out the kernel. 

Every kernel should be taken out of all sorts ol 
meat as soon as brought in : then wipe dry. 

For roasting, it should hang as lougas it will keep, 
the hind quarter especially, but not so long as to taint ; 
for whatever fashion may authorize, putrid juices 
ought not to-be taken into the stomach. 
Leg of Mutton. 

If roasted, serve with onion or currant-jelly sauce, 
if boiled, with caper-sauce and vegetables. 
JVeck of Mutton'' 

Is particularly useful, as so many dishes may be 
made of it ; but it is not advantageous for the family. 
The bones should be cut short, which the butchers 
will not do unless particularly desired. 

The best end of the neck may be boiled, and serv- 
ed with turnips, or roasted, or dressed in steaks, in 
pies, or harrico. 

The scrags may be stewed in broth ; or with a 
small quantity of water, some small onions, a few 



6! 

peppercorns, ami a little rice, and served together 
When a neck is to be boiled to look particularly 
nice, saw down the chine-bone, strip the ribs half- 
way down, and chop off the ends of the bones about 
four inches. The skin should not be taken off till boil- 
ed, and then the fat will look the whiter. 
To dress Haunch of Mutton. 

Keep it as long *s it can be preserved sweet by 
the different modes ; let it be washed with warm 
milk and water, or vinegar, if necessary ; but when 
to be dressed, observe to wash it well lest the out- 
side should have a bad flavour from keeping. Put 
a paste of coarse flour or strong paper, and fold the 
haunch in ; set it a great distance from the fire, and 
allow a proportionable time for the paste ; do not 
take it ofi" till about thirty-five or forty minutes be- 
fore serving, and then baste it continually. Bring 
the haunch nearer to the fire before you take off 
the paste, and froth it up as you would venison. 

A gravy must be made of a pound and a half of 
loin of old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to 
half, and no seasoning but salt ; brown it with a lit- 
tle burnt sugar, and send it up in the dish ; but there 
should be a good deal of gravy in the meat, for 
though long at the fire, the distance and covering 
will prevent its roasting out.— Serve with currant- 
jelly sauce. 

To roast a saddle of Mutton. 

Let it be well kept first. Raise the skin, and 
then skewer it on again; take itofl" a quarter of an 
hour before serving, sprinkle it with some salt, 
baste it, and dredge it well with flour. The rump 
should be split, and skewered back on each side. 
The joint may be large or small according to the 
6 



63 

company ; it is the most elegant if the latter. Be- 
ing broad, it requires a high and strong fire. 
Fillet of Mutton braised. 

Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some 
paper and put over it, and then paste as for venison ; 
roast it two hours. Do not let it be the least brovpn. 
Have ready some French beans boiled, and drained 
on a sieve, and while the mutton is glazing, give 
them one heat-up in gravy, and lay them on the 
dish with the meat over them. 
Harrico. 

Takeoff some of the fat, and cut the middle or 
best end of the neck into rather thin steaks, flour 
and fry them in their own fat of a fine light brown, 
but not enough for eating. Then put them into a 
dish while you fry the carrots,^ turnips, and onions, 
the carrots and turnips in dice,'the onions sliced, but 
they must only be warmed, not browned, or you 
need not fry them. Then lay the steaks at the 
bottom of a stew-pan, the vegetables over them, 
and pour as much boiling water as will cover them, 
give one boil, skim well, and then set the pan on 
the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender. In 
three or four hours skim them, and add pepper, 
salt, and a spoonful of catsup. 

To hash Mutton. 

Cut thin slices of dressed mutton, fat and lean; 
flour them, have ready a little onion boiled in two or 
three spoonfuls of water, add to it a little gravy, and 
the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. 
Serve in a covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, 
a spoonful of currant jelly, and half a glass of port 
wine, will give an agreeable flavour of venison, if 
the meat be fine. Pickled cucumber, or walnut, 
'ut small, warm in it for change. 



63 

To boil a Shoulder of Mutton with Jysters. 
Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days, 
bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper, and a bit of 
mace pounded ; lay some oysters over it, and roll 
the meat up tight and tie it. Stew it in a small quan- 
tity^of water, with an onion and a few pepper-corns, 
till quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, 
and some oysters stewed in it, thicken this with flour 
and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape 
is taken off. The stew-paa should be keot close 
covered. 

Breast of Mutton. 
Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast and serve the 
meat with stewed cucumbers ; or to eat cold, cover- 
ed with chopped parsley. Or half broil, and then 
grill it before the fire ; in which case covei it with 
crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper-sauce. — 
Or if boned, take ofi" a good deal of the fat, and co- 
,ver it with bread, herbs, and seasoning, then roll and 
boil, and serve with chopped walnuts, or capers and 
butter. 

Loin of Mutton 
Roasted ; if cut lengthways as a saddle, some think 
it cuts better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth 
To roll Loin of Mutton. 
Hang the mutton till tender ; bone it ; and lay a 
seasoning of pepper, alspice, mace, nutmeg, and a 
few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. Next day 
prepare a stuffing as for hare ; beat the meat, and 
cover It with the stuffing ; roll it up tight, and tie it. 
Half-bake it in a slow oven ; let it grow cold ; take 
off the fal, and put the gravy into a stew-pan ; flour 
the meat, and put it in likewise, stew it till almost 
ready ; and add a glass of port wine, some catsup, 
an anchovy, and a little lemon pickle, half an hour 



64 

before serving ; serve it in the gravy, and with jelly 
sauce. A few fresh mushrooms are a great improve- 
ment ; but if to eat like hare, do not use these, nor 
the lemon pickle. 

MwttotirHam, 
-Choose a fine-grained leg of wether mutton, of 
twelve or fourteen pounds weight ; let it be cut ham- 
shape, and hang two days. Then put into a stew- 
pan half a pound of bay-salt,_ the same of common 
salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and half a pound of 
coarse sugar, all in powder ; mix, and make it quite 
hot ; then rub it well into the ham. Let it be turn- 
ed m the liquor everyday ; at the end of four days 
put two ounces more of common salt ; in twelve 
days take it out, dry it and hang it up in wood smoke 
a week. It is to be used in slices, with stewed cab- 
bage, mashed potatoes, or eggs. 

Mutton Collops. 

Take -^ loin of mutton that has been well hung ; 
iind cut from the part next the leg, some collops very 
thin. Take out the sinews. Season the collops 
with salt, pepper, and mace ; and strew over them 
shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shallots ; fry 
them in butter till half done ; add half a pint of gra- 
vy, a httle juice of lemon, and a piece of butter rub- 
bed in flour ; and simmer the whole very gently five 
minutes. They should be served immediately, or 
they will be hard. 

Mutton Cutlets in the Portuguese way. 

Cut the chops ; and half fry them with sliced 
shallot or onion, chopped parsley, and two bay 
leaves ; season with pepper and salt ; then lay a 
forcemeat on a piece of white paper, put the, chop 
on it, and twist the paper up,, leaving a hole for the 
end of the bones to go through. Broil on a gentle 



65 

fire. Serve vt <h sauce Robart ; or, as the season 
ing makes the cutlets high, a little gravy. 
Mutton Steaks 

Should be cut from a loin or neck that has hung ; 
if a neck, the bones should not be long. They 
should be broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half 
done, and often turned ; take them up into a very hot 
dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and serve hot and 
hot the moment they are done. 

Steaks of Mutt"n, or Lamb , and Cucumbers. 

Quarter cucumbers, and lay them into a deep dish, 
sprinkle them with salt, and pour vinegar over them. 
Fry the chops of a fine brown, and put them into a 
stew-pan ; drain the cucumbers, and put over the 
.steaks; add some sliced onions, pepper, and salt ; 
pour hot water or weak broth on them ; stew and 
skim well. 

Mutton Sausages. 

Take a pound of the rawest part of the leg of 
mutton that has been either roasted or boiled ; chop 
it extremely small, and season it with pepper, salt, 
mace, and nutmeg ; add to it six ounces of beef 
suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint 
of oysters ; all chopped very small ; a quarter of a 
pound of grated bread, some of the anchovy liquor, 
and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. 
Put it all, when well mixed, into a little pot, and 
use it by rolling it into balls of a sausage-shape and 
frying. If approved, a little shallot may be added, 
or garlic, which is a great improvement. 

To dress Mutton Rumps and Kidnies. 
Stew six rumps in some good mutton-gravy half 
an hour ; then take them up, and let them stand to 
cool. Clear the gravy from the fat ; and put into it 
6* 



66 

four ounces of boiled rice, an onion stuck with 
cloves, and a blade of mace ; boil them till the rice 
is thick. Wash the rumps with yolks of eggs well 
beaten ; and strew over them crumbs of bread, a 
little pepper and salt, chopped parsley and thyme, 
and grated lemon-peel. Fry in butter of a fine 
brown. While the rumps are stewing, lard the 
kidnies, and put them to roast in a Dutch oven. 
When the rumps are fried, the grease must be 
drained before they are put on the dish, and the 
pan being cleared likewise from the fat, warm the 
rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish ; the rumps 
put round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the 
middle, and the kidnies between. Garnish with 
hard eggs cut in half, the white being left on ; or 
with diiferent coloured pickles. 

Jin excellent Hoich-Potch. 

Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little 
water with a beef or ham bone. While these are 
doing, fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of 
a nice brown ; three quarters of an hour before din- 
ner, put the steaks into £ stew-pan, and the vegeta- 
bles over them ; stew them, and serve altogether in 
a tureen. 

Mutton Kebobbed. 

Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that 
on the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. 
Joint it at every bone ; mix a small nutmeg grated 
with a little salt and pepper, crumbs, and herbs ; 
dip the steaks into the yolks of three eggs, and 
sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then 
place the steaks together as they were before they 
were cut asunder, tie them and fasten them on a 
small suit. Roast them at a quick fire ; set a dish 



67 

nader, and baste ttiem with a good piece of buttei 
and the liquor that comes from the meat ; but throw 
some more of the above seasoning over. When 
done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish ; and 
put into it two spoonfuls of catsup, and rub down a 
tea-spoonful of flour with it ; give this a boil, and 
pour it over the mutton, but rirst skim off the fat 
well. Mind to keep the meat hot till the gravy is 
quite ready. 

China Chilo. 
Mince a pint-basin of undressed neck of mutton, 
or leg, and some of the fat : put two onions, a let- 
tuce, a pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a 
tea-spoonful of pepper, four spoonfuls of water, 
and two or three ounces of clarified butter, into a 
stew-pan closely covered : simmer two hours, and 
serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If 
Cayenne is approved, add a little. 

LAMB. 

Leg of Lamb 
Should be boiled in a cloth, to look as white as pos 
sible. The loin fried in steaks and served round, 
garnished with dried or fried parsley ; spinach to 
eat with it ; or dressed separately, or roasted. 
Fore-quarter of Lamb. 
Roast it either whole or in separate parts. If left 
to be cold, chopped parslej' should be sprinkled 
over it. The neck and breast together are called a 
scoven. 

Breast of Lamb and Cucumbers. 
Cut off the chine-bone from the breast and set it 
on to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones 
would draw out, put it on the giidiron to grill ; and 
then lay it in a dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. 



Lamb Steaks. 

Fry them ofa beautiful brown ; -vhep served throw 
over them ? good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, 
and crimped parsley ; the receipt for doing which 
ofa fine colour will be given under the head of Ve- 
getables. 

Mutton or lamb-steaks, seasoned and broiled in 
buttered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or 
without, are a genteel dish and eat well. 

Sauce for them, called sauce Robart, will be found 
in the list of Sauces. 

House-lamb Steaks prolan. 

Season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated 
lemon-peel, and chopped parsley ; but dip them first 
into egg ; fry them quick. Thicken some good gra- 
vy with a bit of flour and butter ; and add to it a 
spoonful of port wine, and some oysters : boil it up, 
and then put in the steaks warm ; let them beat up 
and serve. You may add palates, balls, or eggs, if 
you like. 

Lamb Cutlets with Spinach. 

Cut the steaks from the loin, and fry them ; the 
spinach is to be stewed and put into the dish first, 
and then the cutlets round it. 

Lamb's Head and Hinge. 
This part is best from a house-lamb : but any, if 
soaked in cold water, will be white. Boil the head 
separately till very tender. Have ready the liver 
and lights three parts boiled and cut small : stew 
them in a little of the water in which they were 
boiled, season and thicken with flour and butter, and 
serve the mince round the head. 

Lamb's Fry. 
Serve it fried of a beautiful colour, and with a 
good deal of uried or fried parsley over. 



g?) 

Lamb's Sweetbreads. 
Blanch them, and put them a Uttle while into cold 
water. Then put them into a stew-pan, with a la- 
dlcful of broth, some pepper and salt, a, small bunch 
of small onions, and a blade of mace : stir in il a bit 
of butler and flour, and stew half an hour. Have 
ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with 
a httle minced parsley and a few grates of nutmeg. 
Put in some boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. 
Do not let it boil after the cream is in ; but make it 
hot, and stir it well all the while. Take great 
care it does not crfrdle. Young French beans or 
peas may be added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. 

Fricasseed Lamb -Stones. 
. Skin and wash, then dry and flour them ; fry of a 
beautiful brown in hog's lard. Lay them on a sieve 
before the fire till you have made the following 
sauce : Thicken almost half a pint of veal-gravy 
with a bit of flour and butter, and then add to it a 
slice of lemon, a large spoonful of mushroom catsup, 
a tea-spoonful of lemon-pickle, a grate of nutmeg, 
and the yolk of an egg beaten well in two large spoon- 
fuls of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and 
stir it well till it is hot, and looks white ; but do not 
let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put in the fry, 
and shake it about near the fire for a minute or two. 
Serve in a very hot dish and cover. 
Fricassee of Lamb-stones and Sweetbreads, another 
way. 
Have ready some lamb-stones blanched, parboil- 
ed, and sliced. Flour two or three sweetbreads ; 
if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all together, 
with a few large oysters, of a fine yellow brown. 
Pour the butter off; and add a pmt of good gravy ; 
some asparagus tops about an inch long, a little nut 



70 

meg, pepper, and salt, two shallots shred fine, and 
a glass of white wine. Simmer ten minutes, then 
put a little of th^ gravy to the yolks of three eggs 
well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn 
gravy back into the pan, and stirit till of a fine thick- 
ness without boiling. Garnish with lemon. 
A very nice dish. 

Take the best end of the neck of lamb, cut it into 
steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the 
steaks almost round. Egg, and strew with crumbs, 
herbs, and seasoning : fry them of the finest brown, 
mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, 
and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. 
Then place the edge of one steak on another witli 
the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. 
— ♦ — 
Directions for dressing Poultry and Game. 

All poultry should be very carefully picked^ eve- 
ry plug removed, and the hair nicely singed. 

The cook must be careful in drawing poultry of 
all sorts, not to break the gall bag, for no washing 
will take oflfthe bitter where it has touched. 

In dressing wild fowl, be careful to keep a clear 
brisk fire. Let them be done of a fine yellow- 
brown, but leave the gravy in : the fine flavour is 
lost if done too much. 

Tame fowls require more roasting, and are long- 
er in heating through than others. All sorts should 
be continually basted, that they may be served with 
a froth and appear of a fine colour. 

A large fowl will take three quarters of an hour ; 
a middling one half an hour, and a very small one or 
a chicken, twenty minutes. The fire must be very 
quick and clear before any fowls are put down. A 
capon will take from haif an hour to thirty -five mi- 



71 

nutes, a goose an hour, wild ducks a quarter of an 
hour, pheasants twenty minutes, a small turkey 
stuffed, an hour and a quarter, turjcey-poults, twen- 
ty minutes, grouse a quarter of an hour, quails, ten 
minutes, and partridges from twenty to twenty-five 
ninutes. 

Pigs and geese require a hrisk fire, and quick 
turning. Rahbits must be well attended to, and the 
extremities brought to the quick part ol the fire, to 
be done equally with the backs. 

POULTR" 

Tfe boil Turkey. 

Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nut- 
meg, lemon-peel, a few oysters or an anchovy, a bit 
of butter, some suet and^ egg : put this into the 
crop, fasten u}. the skin, and boil the turkey in a 
floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready a 
fine oyster sauce made rich with butter, a littlt 
cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved, and pour 
it over the bird; or liver and lemon sauce. Hen- 
birds are best for broiling, and should be young. 
To roast Turkey. 

The sinews of the leg should be drawn, which- 
ever way it is dressed. The head should be twist- 
ed under the wing : and in drawing it, take care not 
to tear the liver, nor let the gall touch it. 

Put a stuffing of sausage-meat ; or if sausages are 
to be served in the dish, a brea<l stuffing. As this 
makes a large addition to the size of the bird, ob- 
serve that the heat of the fire is constantly to that 
part ; for the breast is often not done enough. A 
little strip of paper should . be put on the bone, to 
hinder it from scorching while the other parts roast. 
Baste well and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the 



72 

dish, and plenty of bread-sauce in a sauce-tureen. 
Add a few crumbs and a beaten egg, to the stuffing 
of sausage-meat. 

Pulled Turkey-, 

Divide the meat of the breast by pulUng instead 
of cutting ; then warm it in a spoonful or two oi 
white gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, 
and a little flour and butter ; do not boil it. The 
leg should be seasoned, scored!? and broiled, and put 
into the dish with the above round it. Cold chicken 
does as well. 

To boil Fowl. 

For boiling, choose those that are not black-leg- 
ged. Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. 
Flour them and put them mto boiling water. Serve 
with parsley and butt|>, oyster, lemon, liver, or 
celery sauce. If for dinner, ham, tongue or bacon, 
is usually served to eat with them ; as likewise 
greens. 

To boil Fowl with Rice. 

Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton 
broth well skimmed ; and seasoned with onion, 
mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before 
it is ready, put in a quarter of a jfmt of rice well 
washed and soaked. Simmer till tender ; then strain 
it from the brotli, and put the rice on a seive before 
the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of 
the dish, and the rice around it without the broth. 
The broth will be very nice to eat as such ; buttht! 
less liquor the fowl is done with the better. Gravy, 
or parsley and butter, for sauce. 
Fowls roasted. 

Serve with egg-sauce, bread-sauce, or garnished 
with sausages or scalded parsley. 

A large barn-door fowl, well hung, shonld be stnf 



73 

fed in the crop with sausage-meat ; and served with 
gravy in the dish, and with bread-sauce. The head 
should be turned under the wing as a turkey. 
Fowl broiled. 

Split tho.m down the back ; pepper, salt, and 
broil. Serve with mushroom-sauce. 
Davenport Fowls. 

Hang young fowls a night ; take the livers, hearts, 
and tenderest parts of the gizzards, shred very small, 
with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to 
each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boil- 
ed hard, with pepper, salt, and mace to your taste. 
Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and 
necks quite close, that the water may not get in. 
Boil them in salt and water till almost done : then 
drain them and put them into a stew-pan with but- 
ter enough to brown them. "Serve them with 6ne 
melted butter, and a spoonful of catsup, of either 
sort, m the dish. 

A nice way to dress Fowl for a small Dish. 

Bone-singe, and wash a young fowl ; make a 
forcemeat of four ounces ot veal, two ounces of scra- 
ped lean of ham, two ounces of fat bacon, two hard 
yolks of eggs, a few sweet herbs chopped, two oun- 
ces ofbeef-suet, a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel minced 
quite fine, an anchovy, salt, pepper, and a very lit- 
tle Cayenne. Beat all in a mortar, with a tea-cupful 
ijf crumbs, and the yolks and whites of thrse egg". 
Stuff the inside of the fowl, and draw the leg-i Hnd 
wings inwards ; tie the neck and rump close. Stew 
the fowl in a white gravy ; wlien it is done through" 
and tender, add a large cupful, of cream, and a bit 
of butter and flour : and give it one boil, and serve ■- 
the last thing add the squeeze of lemon. 



74 

Fricassee of Chickens. 

Boil rathei- more than half, in a small quantity of 
water : let thera cool, then cut up, and put to sim- 
mer in 11 little gravy made of the liq-ior they are 
boiled in, and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, 
and lemon-peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs. When quite tender, keep them hot 
while you thicken the sauce in the following man- 
ner : strain It off, and put it back into the sauce- pan 
with a little salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of 
flour and butter ; give it one boil ; and when you 
are going to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, and 
add half a pint of cream, and stir them over the fire, 
but do not let it boil. It will be quite as good with 
out the egg. 

The gravy may be made (without any other meat) 
of the necks, feet, small wmg-bones, gizzards, and 
livers ; which are called the trimmings of the fowl. 
, T'o pull Chickens. 

Take off the skin, and pull the flesh off the bone 
of a cold fowl in as large jiieces as you can : dredge 
it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. 
Drain the butter from it ; and them simmer the flesh 
in a good- gravy wf.ll seasoned, and thickened with a 
little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a 
lemon. 

Chicken Currie. 

Cut up the chickens raw, slice onions, and/ry 
both in butter with great care, of a fine light brown, 
or if you use chickens that have been dressed, fry 
only the onions. Lay the joints, cut into two or 
three pieces each, into a stew-pan, with a veal or 
mutton gravy, and a clove or two of garlic. Simmer 
till the chicken is quite tender. Half an hour be- 
fore yon serve it, rub smooth a spoonful or two of 



75 

currie powder, a spoonful of flour, anJ an ounce of 
butter ; and add this, with four large spoonfuls of 
cream, to the stew. Salt to your taste. fVhenserv- 
tng, squeeze in a little lemon. 

Slices of under-doue veal, or rabbit, turkey, &c. 
make excellent currie. 

Ducks roasted. 

Serve with a fine gravy : and stuff one with sage_ 
and onion, a dessert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of 
butter, and pepper and salt, let the other be unsea- 
soned 

To boil Ducks. 

Choose a fine fat duck ; salt it two days, then 
boil it slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion-sauce, 
but melt the butter with milk instead of water. 
To stew Duck. 

Half roast a duck ; put it into a stew-pan with 
a pint of beef-gravy, a few leaves of fiage and mint 
cut small, pepper and salt, and a small bit of onion 
shred as fine as possible. Simmer a quarter of an 
hour, and skim clean ; then add near a qu,irt ol 
green peas. Cover close, and simmer near half an 
hour longer. Put in a piece of butter and a little 
flour, and give it one boil ; then serve in one dish. 
To roast Goose. 

After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled 
cut and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well 
washed and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, 
s ige, and pepper and salt. Fasten it tight at the 
neck and the rump, and then roast. Put it first at 
a distance from the fire and by degrees draw it 
nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on 
the breast-bone. Baste it very well. Whsn the 
breast is rising, take off vhe paper ; and be careful 



76 

to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoil 
ed by coming flatted to table. Let a good gravy 
be sent in the dish. 

Gravy and apple-sawce : goosberry-*auce for a 
green goose. 

To stew Giblets. 

Do them as will be directed for giblet-pie, (under 
the head Pies ,-) season them with salt and pepper, 
and. a very small piece of mace. Before serving, 
give them one boil with a cup of cream, and a piece 
of butter rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. 
Pigeons 

May be dressed in so many ways, that they are 
very useful. The good flavour of them depends 
very much on their being cropped and drawn as 
soon as killed. — No other bird requires so much 
washing. 

To stew pigeons. 

Take care that they are quite fresh, and carefully 
chopped, drawn, and washed ; then soak thera half 
an hour. In the mean time cut a hard white cab- 
bage in slices (as if for pickling) into water ; drain 
it, and then boil it in milk and water : dram it 
again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a stew- 
pan. Put the pigeons upon it, but first season them 
well with jiepper and salt ; and cover them with 
the remainder of the cabbage. Add a little broth, 
and stew gently till the pigepns are. tender: theu 
put among them two or three spoonfuls of cream, 
and a piece of butter and flour, for thickening. 
After a boil or two, serve the birds in the middle, 
and the cabbage placed round them. 
To broil Pigeons. 

After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and salt 
them, and broil them very nicely ; po'ir ovei them 



77 

either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted bat- 
ter, and serve as hot as possible. 
Roast Pigeons 

Should be slufFed with parsley, either cut or 
whole, and seasoned within. Serve with parsley 
and butter. Peas or asparagus should be dressed 
to eat with them. 

Pigeons in Jelly. 

Save some of the liquor in which a knuckle of 
veal has been boiled, or boil a calf's orneat's foot, 
put the broth into a pan with a bl«ade of mace, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, some white pepper, lemon 
peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the pigeons. Bake 
them and let them stand to be cold. Season them 
as you like, before baking. When done, take 
them out of the liquor, cover them close to pre- 
serve the colour, and clear the jelly by boiling with 
the whites of two eggs ; then strain it through a 
thick cloth dipped in boiling water, and put into a 
sieve. The fat must be perfectly removed, before 
it be cleared. Put the jelly over and round them 
rough. 

Larks and other small birds. 

Draw and spit them on a bird-spit ; tie this on 

another spit, and roast them. Baste gently with 

butter, and strew bread-crumbs upon them till half 

done : brown and serve with fried crumbs round. 

GAME, &c. 

To keep Game, i^c. 

Game ought not to be thrown away even when it 
has been kept a very long time ; for when it seems 
to be spoiled, it may often be made fit for eating, by 
nicely cleaning it, and washing with vinegar and wa- 
ter. If there is danger of birds not keeping, draw, 
crop, and pick them ; then wash in two or three 



73 

waters, apil rub them with sa-it. Have ready a large 
saucepan of boiling water, and plunge them into it 
one by one, drawing them up and down bj the legs, 
that the water may pass through them. Let them 
stay five or six minutes in ; then hang them up in a 
cold place. When drained pepper and salt the in- 
sides well. Before roasting, wash them well. 

The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be 
preserved thus. T'jose that live by suction cannot 
be done this way, as they are never drawn ; and 
perhaps the boat might make them worse, as the 
water could not pass through them, but they bear 
being high. Lumps of charcoal put about birds and 
meat will preserve them from taint, . and restore 
what is spoiling. i ^ 

Pheasants and Partridges. 

Roast them as turkey, and serve with a fine gravy 
(into which put a very small bit of garlic,) and 
bread-sauce. When cold, they may be made into 
excellent patties, but their flavour should not be 
overpowered by lemon. 

A very cheap way of potting Birds. 

When baked and grown cold, cut them into pro- 
per pieces for helping, pack them close into a large 
potting pan, and (if possible,) leave no spaces to re- 
ceive the butter. Cover them with butter, and 
one third part less will be wanted than when the 
birds are done whole. The butter that has covered 
potted things will serve for basting, or for paste or 
meat pies. 

To clarify Butter for potted things. 

Put it into a sauce boat, and set that over the fire 
in a stew- pan that has a little water in. When melt- 
ed, take care not to pour the milky parts over tht 
the potted things ; they will sink to the bottom. 



79 

To pot Moor Game. 

Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely : then dry 
them . and season, inside and out, pretty high, with 
pepper, mace, nutmeg, alspice, and salt. Pack 
them in as small a pot as will hold them, cover them 
with butter, and bake in a very slow oven. When 
cold take off the butter, dry them from the gravy, 
and put one bird into each pot, which should just 
fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, 
but take care that it does npt oil. The best way to 
melt it is, by warm.iig it in a basin set in a bowl of 
hot watei*. 

Grouse. 

Roast them like fowls, but the head is to be 
twisted under the wing. They must not be over- 
done. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish, and 
bread-sauce. The sauce for wild fowl, as will be 
described hereafter under the head of Sauces, may 
be used instead of common gravy. 

To Roast Wild Fowl. 

The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. 
Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into each. 

Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame : 
they should be served of a fine colour, and well 
frothed up. A rich brown gravy should be sent in 
the dish : and when the breast is cut into slices, be- 
fore taking off the bone, a squeeze of lemon, with 
pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the fla- 
vour. 

To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl some- 
times have, put an onion, salt, and hot water into the 
dripping pan, and baste them for the first ten mi- 
nutes with this ; then take away the pan, and baste 
constantly with butter. 



80 

fVild Ducks, Teal. Widgeon, Dun-birds ^ifc. 
Should be taken ujt with the gravy in. Baste 
them with butter, and sprinkle a little salt before 
they are taken up, put a good gravy upon them, and 
serve with shallot sauce, in a boat. 

Woodcocks, Snipes, and Quails, 
Keep good several days. Roast them without 
drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only should 
be eaten with them, as gravy takes off the fine fla- 
vour. The thigh and back are esteemed the most. 
R^iff's and Reeves 
Are skewered as quails ; put bars of bacon over 
them, and roast them about ten minutes. Serve 
with a good gravy in the dish. 

To dress Plovers. 
Roast the green ones in the same way as wood- 
cocks and quails, (see above,) without drawing ; 
and serve on a toast. Gray plovers naay be either 
roasted, or stewed with gravy, herbs, and spice. 
Plover^ s Eggs 
Are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them ten 
minutes, and serve eiiher hot or cold on a napkin. 
To roast Ortolans. 
Pick and singe, but do not draw them. Tie on a 
bird-spit, and roast them. Some persons like bacon 
in slices tied between them, but the taste of it spoils 
the flavour of the ortolan. Cover them with crumbs 
of bread. 

Guinea and Pea Fowl 
Eat much like pheasants. Dress then in the 
same way. 

Rabbits 
May be eaten various ways, as follow : 
Roasted with stuffing and gravy, or without stuf- 



81 

fing ; with sauce of the liver and parsley chopped 
in melted butter, pepper, and salt ; or larded. 

Boiled and smothered with onion-sauce : the but- 
ter to be melted with milk instead of water. 

Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The 
same liver-sauce, this way also. * 

Fricasseed, as before directed, for chickens. 

In a pie, as chickens, with forcemeat, &c. In 
this way they are excellent when young. 

Potted. 

To pot Rabbits. 

Cut up two or three young but full-grown ones, 
and take the leg bones o£f at the thigh ; pack them 
as closely as possibly in a small pan, after seasoning 
them with pepper, mace, Cayenne, salt, and alspice, 
all in very fine powder. Make the top as smooth 
as you can. Keep out the heads and the carcasses, 
but take off the meat about the neck. Put a good 
deal of butter and bake the whole gently. Keep it 
two days in the pan ; then shift it into small pots, 
adding butter. The livers also should be added, as 
they eat well. 

SOUPS AND GRAVIES. 

General directions respecting Soups and Gravies, 
When there is any fear of gravy-meat being spoil- 
ed before it be wanted, season well, and fry it light- 
ly, which will preserve it two days longer ; but the 
gravy is best when the juices are fresh. 

When soups or gravies are to be put by, let them 
be changed every day into iresh scalded pans. 
Whatever has vegetables boiled in it, is apt to turn 
sour sooner than the juices of meat. Never keep 
any gravy, &c. in metal. 



82 

When fat remains on any soup, a tea-cupful of 
flour and water mixed ifuite smooth, and boiled in, 
will take it ofiF. 

If richness or greater consistency, be wanted, a 
good lump of butter mixed with flour, and boiled in 
the'feoup, will give either of these qualities. 

Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour 
of the ingredients, therefore time should be allowed 
for soups and gravies : --md they are best if made the 
day before they are v -ted. 

Soups and gravies ai e far better when the meat is 
put at the bottom of the pan, and stewed, and the 
herbs, roots, &.c. with butter, than when water is 
put to the meat at first ; and the gravy that is drawn 
from the meat should be almost dried up before the 
water is put to it. Do not use the sediment of gra- 
vies, &c. that have stood to be cold. AVhen onions 
are strong, boil a turnip with them, if for sauce : 
this will make them mild. 

If soups or gravies are too weak, do not cover 
them in boiling, that the watery particles may eva- 
porate. 

A clear jelly of Cow-heels is very useful to keep 
in the house, being a great improvement to soups 
and gravies. 

SOUPS, ETC. 

Scotch Mutton Broth. 
Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut 
off the scrag, and put it into a stew-pan with two 
quarts of water. As soon as it boils, skim it well, 
and then simmer it an hour and a half ; then take 
the best end of the Jiutton, cut it into pieces, two 
Ijones in each, take some of the fat ofif, and put 
. s many as you think proper : skim the moment 



83 

ment the fresh nieai. boils up, iimJ every quaiter of 
an heur allernards. Have rendy four or five car- 
rots, the same number of turnips, and three onions, 
al| cut, but not small ; and put them in soon enough 
to get quite tender ; add four large spoonfuls of 
Scotch barley, first wetted with cold water. The 
meat should stew three hours. Salt to taste, and 
serve all together. Twenty minutes before serving, 
put in soiiie chopped parsley. 
Feal Broth. 

Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of 
water, two ounces of rice, a Utile salt, and a blade 
of mace, till the liquor is half wasted away. 
Colouring for Soups or Gravies. 

Put four ounces of lump-sugur, a gill of water, 
and half an ounce of the finest I 'itter, into a small 
tosser, and set it over a gentle fii e. Stir it with a 
wooden spoon, till of a bright brown. Then add 
half a pint of water ; boil, skim, and when cold, bot- 
tle and cork it close. Add to soup or gravy as much 
of this as will give a ])roper colour. 

j3 clear brown. Stock for Gravy Soup, or Gravy. 

Put a knuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, and a 
pound of the lean of a gammon of bacon, all sliced, 
into a stew-pan with two or three scraped carrots, 
two onions, two turnips, two heads of celery sliced, 
and two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite ten- 
der, but do not let it brown. When thus prepared, 
it will serve either for soup, or brown or white 
gravy ; if for brown gravy, put some of the above 
colouring, and boil a few minutes. 

An excellent white Soap. 

Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal, after 
cutting off as much meat as will make co!!up=, two 



84 

or three shank bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and 
a quarter of a pound of very fine undressed lean 
gammon of bacon : with a bunch of sweet herbs, a 
piece of fresh lemon-peel, two or three onions, 
three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white 
pepper ; boil all in three quarts of water, till the 
meat fall quite to pieces. Next day take off the fat, 
clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it into a 
saucepan ofthe nicest tin. If macaroni is used, it 
should be added soon enough to get perfectly tender, 
after soaking in cold water. Vermicelli may be ad- 
ded after the thickening, as it requires less time to 
do. Have ready the thickening which is to be made 
as follows : 

Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and 
beat them to a paste in a marble mortar, with a 
spoonful of water to prevent their oiling ; mince a 
large slice of dressed veal or chicken, and beat it 
with a piece of stale white bread ; to all this add a 
pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and 
blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a few 
minutes ; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and 
pulp it through a coarse sieve : this thickening is 
then fit for putting to the rest, which should boil for 
half an hour afterwards. 

A plainer white Soup. 

Two or three pints of soup may be made of a 
small knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in 
the last article ; and both served together, with the 
addition of a quarter of a pint of good milk. Twj 
spoonfuls of cream, and a little' grOund rice, will 
give it a proper thickness. 

Giblet Soup 

Scald and clean three or four sets of goose or 
duck giblets j set them to stew, with a pound of 



85 

grary-beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuc 
kle of veal ; an ox-tail, or some shanks of mutton , 
with three onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, a 
tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful 
of salt. Put five pints ofwater, and simmer till the 
gizzards, (which must be each in four pieces,) are 
quite tender : skim nicely, and add a quarter of a 
pint of cream, two tea-spoonfuls of mushroom pow- 
der, and an ounce of butter mixed with a dessert- 
spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few minutes, and 
serve with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead 
of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a 
large spoonful of catsup, and some Cayenne. When 
in the tureen, add salt. 

Macaroni Soup. 
Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of 
good stock till quite tender ; then "take out half, and 
put it into another stew-pot. To the remainder 
add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp 
all the macaroni through a fine sieve. Then add 
together that, the two liquors, a pint or more of 
cream, boiling hot, the macaroni that was firsttaken 
out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; 
make it hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it with the 
crust of a French roll cut into the size of a shilling. 

Old Peas Soup. 
Save the water of boiling pork or beef; and if 
too salt, put as much fresh water to it ; or use fresh 
water entirely, with roast beef bones, a ham orgaro- 
Eaon-bone, or an anchovy or two Simmer these 
with some good whole or split peas ; the smaller 
the quantity of water at first, the better. Simmer 
till the peas will pulp through a culander : then 
set the pulp, and more of the liquor that boiled 
8 



86 

the peas, with two carrots ; a turnip, a leek, anil a 

stick of celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite 

tender. The last requires less time ; an hour will 

do for it. 

When ready, put fried bread cut into dice, dried 

mint rubbed fine, pepper, and (if wanted) salt, into 

the tureen. 

Green Peas Soup. 
In shelling the peas divide the old from the 

young ; put the old ones with an ounce of butter, a 
pint of water, the outside leaves of a lettuce or two, 
two onions, pepper and salt, to stew till you can 
pulp the peas and when you have done so. put to 
the liquor that stewed them some more water, 
hearts and tender stalks of the the lettuces, the 
young peas, a handful of spinach cut small, and salt, 
and pepper to relish properly, and stew till quite 
soft. If the soup IS too thin, or not rich enough, 
either of these faults may be removed by adding an 
ounce or two of butter, mixed with a spoonful of 
rice or wheat-flour, and boil with it half an hour. 
Before serving, boil some green mint shred fine iu 
the soup. 

When there is plenty of vegetables, no meat is 
necessary ; but if meat be preferred, a pig's foot 
or ham-bone may be boiled with the old peas, which 
is called the stock. More buiter than is mention- 
ed above may be used with advantage, if the soup 
is required to be very rich. 

When peas first come in, or are very young, 

the stock may be made of the shells washed, and 

boiled till they will pulp with the above ; ihore 

thickening will then be wanted. 

Gravy Soups. 

Wash and soak a leg of beef : break the bone and 



87 

set it on fire with a gallon of water, a large, bunch 
of sweet herbs, two large on'ons sliced and fried a 
fine brown, (but not burnt,) two blades of mace, 
three cloves, twenty berries of alspice, and forty 
black peppers. Stew till the soup is as rich as you 
choose ; then take out the meat, which will be nt 
for the servants' table with a little of the gravy. 
Next day take oflfthe cake of fat ; which will serve 
for basting, or for common pie-crust. Have ready 
such vegetables as you choose to serve. Cut car- 
rots, turnips, and celery, small ; and simmer till 
tender : some people do not like them to be sent to 
table, only the flavour of them. — -Boil vermicelli a 
quarter of an hour : and add to it a large spoonful 
of soy and one of mushroom catsup. A French 
roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist 
through, and served in the tureen. 
Carrot Soup. 
Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the li- 
quor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boil- 
ed, two large onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt, into 
a sauce-pan, and stew for three hours. Have ready 
six large carrots scraped and cut thin : strain the 
soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to 
pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth : then boil 
the pulp with the soup, which is to be as thick as 
peas-soup. Use two wood&n spoons to rub the car- 
rots through. Make the soup the day before il is to 
be used. Add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of 
the carrot, and not the yellow. 

0-nion Soup. 

into*!' the water that has boiled a leg or neck ot 

mutton, put carrots, turnips, and (if you have one) 

a shank-bone and simmer two hours. Strain it on 

six onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown ; 



88 

simmer three hours, skim it carefully, and serve. 
Put into it a little roll, or fried bread. 
Spinach Soup. 

Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, two 
onions, a bead of celery, two carrots, and a little 
thyme and parsley. Put all into a stew-pot, with a 
bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, 
or the water in which meat has been boiled ; stew 
till the vegetables are quite tender ; work them 
through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon ; then 
to the pulp of the vegetables, and liquor, put a quart 
of fresh water, pepper, and salt, and boil all together. 
Have- ready some suet dumpltngs the size of a wal- 
nut ; and before you put the soup into the tureeu, 
put them into it. The suet must not be shred too 
fine ; and take care that it is quite fresh. 
Scotch Leek Soup. 

Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into 
a stew-pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and 
pepper and salt : simmer them an hour ; then mix 
some oat-meal, with a little cold water quite smooth, 
pour it into the soup, set it on a slow part of the fire, 
and let it simmer gently ; but take care that it does 
not burn to the bottom. 

Ox-Rump Sonp. 

Two or three rumps of beef will make it stronger 
than a much larger quantity of meat without these, 
and form a very nourishing soup. Make it like 
gravy soup, and give it what ilavour or thickening 

you like. 

Hesdan Soup and Ragout. 

Clean the root of a neat's tongue very nicely, and 

half an ox's head, with salt and water, and soak 

them afterwards in wilter only. Then stew them 

in five or six quarts of water, till tolerably tender. 



69 

Let the soup stand to be cold ; ■ take off the fat, 
which will make good paste for hot meat-pies, or 
will do to baste. Put to the soup a pint of split 
peas, or a quart of white ones, twelve carrots, six 
turnips, six potatoes, six large onions, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and two heads of celery. Simmer 
them without the meat, till the vegetables are done 
enough to p>ilp with the peas through a sieve : and 
the soup will then be about the thickness of cream. 
Season it with pepper, salt, mace, alspice, a clove 
or two, and a little Cayenne, all in fine powder. If 
the peas are bad, the soup may not be thick enough ; 
then boil in it a slice of roll, and put it through the 
colander ; or add a little rice-flour, mixing it by de- 
grees. 

For the Ragout, cut the nicest part of the head, 
the kernels, and part of the fat of the root of th« 
tongue, into small thick pieces Rub these with 
some of the above seasoning, as you put them into 
a quart of the Uquor, kept out for- that purpose be- 
fore the vegetables were added ; flour well, and 
simmer them till nicely tender. Then put a little 
mushroom and walnut catsup, a little soy, a glass of 
port wine, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard ; and 
boil all up together before served. If for company, 
small eggs and forcemeat-balls. 

This way furnishes an excellent soup and a ra- 
gout at a small expense, and they are not common 
The other part will warm for the family. 
Soup a la sap. 

Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a pound of 
beef sliced thin, a pint of gray peas, an onion, and 
three ounces of rice, in six pints of water, to five ; 
strain it throug'i a colander : then pulp the peas to 
it, and turn it into a sauce-pan rgain, with two heads 
8* 



90 

of celery sliced. St'^w it temler, and add pepper 
and salt ; and when you serve add also fried bread. 
PortMe Soup. 
Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shins 
of beef, and three pounds of beef, in as much water . 
only as will cover them. Take the marrow out of 
the bones : put any sort of spice you like, and three 
large onions. When the meat is done to rags, strain 
it off, and put it into a very cold place. When cold 
take off the cake of fat, (which will make crusts for 
servants' pies,) put the soup in a double-bottomed 
tin sauce-pan, and set it on a pretty quick fire, but 
do not let it burn. It must boil fast and uncovered, 
and be stirred constantly, for eight hours. Put it 
into a pari, and let it stand in a cold place a day ; 
then pour it into a round soup china-dish, and set 
the dish into a stew-pan of boiling water on a stove, 
and let it boil, and be now and then stirred, till the 
soup is thick and ropy, then it is done enough. 
Pour it into the little round part at the bottom of 
cups or basins turned upside down, to form cakes ; 
and when cold turn them out on flannel to dry. 
Keep them in tin canisters. When they are to be 
used, melt them in boiling water ; and if you wish 
the flavour of herbs, or any thing else, boil it first, 
strain off the water, and melt the soup in it. 

This is very convenient in the country, or at sea, 
where fresh meat is not always at hand ; as by this 
means a basin of soup may be made in fifteen minutes. 
Soup Maigre. 
Melt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, shake 
it round, and throw in six middling onions sliced.— 
Shake the pan well for two or three minutes ; then 
put to it five heads of celery, tivo handfuls of spi- 
nach, two cabbagj -lettuces cut small, and some pars- 



91 

ley. Shake the pan well for ten minutes ; then put 
in two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea- 
spoonful of beaten pepper, three or four blades of 
mace ; and if you have any white beet leaves, add a 
a large handful of them cut small. 

Boil gently -^^ hour. Just before serving beat in 
two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. 
Stock for brown or white Fish Soups. 

Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and 
two pounds of eels. Clean them well and cut them 
into pieces : cover them with water ; and season 
them with raace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with 
;loves, a head of celery, two parsley-roots sliced, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hour and 
a half closely covered, and then strain it off for 
use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in 
butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more 
ihan two or three days. 

Eel Soup. 

Take three pounds of small eels ; put to them 
wo quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades 
of mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch 
of sweet herbs : cover them close, and stew till the 
fish is quite broken : then strain it off. Toast some 
bread, cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it boil- 
ing. A piece of carrot may be put in at first. The 
soup will be as rich as if made of meat. A quarter 
of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth in it, is a great improvement. 
Skate Soup. 

Make it of the stock fish for soup (as directed 
above) with an ounce of vermicelli boikd in it, a lit- 
tle before it is served. Then add half a pint of 
cream, beaten ivitlv the ynlks of two eggs. Stir it 
near, but not on the fire. Serve it with a small 



92 

French roll made hot in a Dutch oven and then 
soaked in the soup an hour. 

Excellent Lobster Soup 

Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails, 
of six small lobsters : take away th^' brown fur, and 
the bag in the head : beat the fins, chine, and small 
claws in a morter. Boil it very gently in two quarts 
of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some 
white pepper, salt, two anchovies, a large onion, 
sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel, till you have 
extracted the goodness of them all. Strain it off. — 
Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a 
quarter of a nutmeg and a tea-spoonful of flour : mix 
it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, 
and give them a boil up with the cream and soup. — 
Serve with forcemeat balls made of the remainder 
of the lobster, mace, pepper, salt ; a few crumbs, 
and an egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a 
bit-of flour, and heated in the soup. 

Craw fish or Prawn Soup. 

Boil six whitings, and a large eel (or the eel and 
half a thornback, well cleaned,) with as much wa- 
ter as will cover them ; skim them clean, and put 
in whole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, 
a little thyme, and three cloves. Boil to a mash. 
Pick fifty craw-fish, or a hundred prawns ; pound 
the shells and a little roll ; but first boil them with 
a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs : put this li- 
quor over the shells in a sieve ; then pour the other 
soup clear from the sediment. Chop a lobster, 
and add this to it, with a quart of good beef-gravy ; 
add also the tails of the craw-fish or the prawns, and 
some flour and butter ; and season as may be liked, 
if not high enough. 



93 

Oyster Soup. 

Take two quarts offish stock, beat the yolks of 
ten hard eggs, and the hard part of two quarts of 
oysters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. 
Simmer it all for half an hour ; then strain it off and 
put it and the oysters (cleared of the beards, and 
nicely washed,) into the soup. Simmer five mi- 
nutes ; have ready the yolks of six raw e^s well 
beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it all well 
one way, on the side of the fire, till it is thick and 
smooth, but do not let it boil. Serve all together. 
Oyster Mouth Soup. 

Make a rich mutton broth with two large onions, 
three blades of mace, and black pepper. Whe« 
strained, pour it on a hundred and fifty oysters, 
without the beards, and a bit of butter rolled in 
flour. Simmer gently a quarter of an hour, and 
serve. 

GRAVIES. 

General Directions respecting Gravies. 

Gravy may be made quite as good of the skirts of 
beef and the kidney, as of any other meat prepared 
in the same way. 

An ox-kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all 
to pieces, and prepared as other meats ; and so will 
the shank-end of mutton that has been dressed, if 
much be not wanted. 

The shank -bones of mutton are a great improve- 
ment to the richness of gravy, but first soak them 
well, and scour them clean. 

Taragon gives the flavour of French cookery, and 
in high gravies is a great improvement ; but it should 
be added only a short time before serving. 
To dress Gravy that will keep a week 

Ci' lean beef thin, put it into a frying- p:in n il'i- 



94 

out any butter, and set it on the fire covered, but 
take care it does not burn ; let it stay till all the gra- 
vy that comes out of the meat is dried up into it 
again; put as much water as will cover the meat, 
and let that stew away. Then put to the meat a 
small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, and a 
bit of lean ham : simmer till it is rich, and keep it 
m a cool place. Do not take off the fat till going to 
be used. 

Clear Gravy. 

Slice beef thin ; broil a part of it over a very 
clear quick fire, just enough to give colour to the 
gravy, but not to dress it ; put that and the raw into 
a very nicely tinned stew-pan, with two onions, a 
clove or two, whole, black peppers, berries of al- 
spice, a bunch of sweet herbs; cover it with hot wa- 
ter, give it one boil, and skim it well two or three 
times ; then cover it ; and simmer till quite strong. 
Cullis, or brown Gravy. 

Lay over the bottom of a stew-pan as much lean 
veal as will cover it an inch thick ; then cover the 
veal with thin slices of undressed gammon, two or 
three onions, two or three bay-leaves, some sweet 
herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Cover 
the stew-pan. and set it over a slow fire ; but when 
the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. 
When the meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with 
good beef broth, boil and skim it, then simmer an 
hour ; add a little water, mixed with as much flour 
as will make it properly thick -. boil it half an hour, 
and strain it. This will keep a week. 
Bechamel, or white Sauce. 

Cut lean veal into small slices, and the same 
quantity of lean bacon or ham : put them into a 
stew-pan with a good piece of butter, an onion, a 



95 

blade of mace, a few mushroom-buttons, a bit of 
thyme, and a bay-leaf; fry the whole over a very 
slow fire, but not to brown it, thicken it with flour ; 
then put an equal quantity of good broth, and rich 
cream ; let it boil half an hour, and stir it all the 
time : strain it through a soup-strainer. 
j3 rich Gravy. 

Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quantity 
wanted ; slice onions thin, and flour both ; fry them 
of a light pale brown, but do not on any account 
suffer them to get black ^ put them into a stew pan, 
pour boiling water on the browning in the frying- 
pan, boil it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it a 
bunch of parsley, thyme, and savoury, a small bit of 
knotted majoram, the same of taragon, some mace, 
berries of alspice, whole black peppers, a clove or 
two, and a bit of ham, or gammon of bacon. Sim- 
mer till you have extracted all the juices ol the meat ; 
and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often 
after. If for a hare or stewed fish anchovy should 
be added. 
Gravy for a Fowl when there is no meat to make it of. 

Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck 
small ; siimner them with a little bread browned, a 
slice of onion, a bit of parsley and thyme, some pep- 
per and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quarter 
of pint of water till half wasted. Take out the liver, 
bruise it and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken 
it with flour and better, and add a tea-spoonful of 
mushi oom-catsup, and it will be very good. 
F^eal Gravy. 

Make it as directed for Culliis or brown Gravy, 
but leave out the spice, herbs, and flour. It should 
be drawn very slowly ; and if for white dishes, do 
not let the meat brown. 



96 

Gravy to make Mutton eat like Venison. 

Pick a very stale wood-cock or snipe, ciil it into 
pieces (but first take out the bag from the entrails ; 
and simmer ivith as much unseasoned meat-gravj 
as you will want. Strain it and serve in the dish. 
Strong Fish Gravy. 

Skin two or three eels, or some flounders ; gut 
and wash them very clean ; cut them into small 
pieces, and put into a saucepan. Cover them with 
water, and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, 
two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet 
herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, 
and a tea-spoonful of horse radish. Cover close and 
simmer, add a bit of butter and flour, and boil with 
the above. 

Savoury Jelly to put over cold Pies. 

Make it of a small bare knuckle ofleg or shoulder 
of veal, or a piece of scrag- of that or mutton ; or if 
the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcasses, necks, and 
heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, 
observing to give consistence by cow-heel or shanks 
mutton. Put the -meat, or a slice of lean ham or 
bacon, a faggot of different herbs, twe blades ot 
mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon-pee), 
and a tea-spoontul of Jamaica pepper bruised, and 
the same of whole pepper, and three pints of water, 
in a stew-pot that shuts very close. As soon as it 
boils, skim it well, and let it simmer very slowly lii) 
quite strong ; strain it, and when cold, take off tlie 
fat with a spoon first, and then, to remove evci y 
particle of grease, lay a clsan piece of cap or blot- 
ting paper on it. When cold, if not clear, boil it a 
few minutes with the whites of two eggs (but do not 
add the sediment,) and pour it through a nice sieve, 



97 

with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boil- 
ing water, to prevent waste. 

Jelly to cover cold Fish. 
Clean a maid, and put it in three quarts of water, 
with a calf^s foot or cow-heel, a stick of horse-radish, 
an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, 
a piece of lemon-peel, and a good slice of lean gam- 
mon. Stew until it will jelly ; then strain off ; when 
cold remove every bit of fet ; take it up from the 
sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites 
of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil with- 
out stirring ; and after a few minutes set it by to stand 
half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve, 
with a cloth in it. Cover the fish with it when cold. 



SAUCES, &C. 

A very good Sauce, especially to hide the bad colour oj 
Fowls. 

Cut the livers, slices of lemou in dice, scalded 
parsley, and hard eggs ; add salt and mix them with 
butter; boil them up, and pour over the fowls. 

This will do for roast rabbit. 
White Sauce for fricassee of Fowls, Rabbits, Whitt 
Meat Fish, of Vegetables. 

It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this favour- 
ite sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but 
smdl. The water that has boiled fowls, veal, or 
rabbit ; or a little broth, that may be in the house ; 
or the feet and necks of chickens, or raw or dressed 
veal, will suffice. Stew with a little water any of 
these, with a bit of lemon-peel, some shced onions, 
some white pepper-corns, a little pounded mace oi 
nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the fla- 
vour be good, then strain it and add a little good 



98 

cream, a piece of butter and a little flour ; salt t« 
your taste. A squeeze of lemon maybe added aftei 
the sauce is taken off tlie fire, shaking it well. Yolk 
of egg is often used in fricassee,but if you have any 
cream it is better, and the former is apt to curdle. 
Sauce for Wild Fowls. 

Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quan- 
tity of good meat gravy , a little shallot, a little pepper, 
salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for ten 
minutes : put in a bit of butter, and flour, give it all 
one boil, and pour it through the birds. In general 
they are not stufied as tame, but may be done so il 
liked. 

Sauce for Fowl of any sort. 

Boil some veal-gravy, pepper, salt, the juice of a 
Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter as muclf 
of port wine as of gravy ; and pour it into the dish, or 
a boat. 

Sauce for cold Fowl, or Partridge. 

Rub down in a mortar the yolks of two eggs boil- 
ed bard, an anchovy, two dessert-spoonfuls of oil, 
three of vinegar, a shallot, Cayenne, if approved , and 
a te»-spoonful of mustard. All should be pounded 
before the oil is added. Then strain it. Shallot 
vinegar instead of shallots, eats well. 
A very fine Mushroom Sauce for Fowls or Rabbits. 

Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms and 
rub them with sialt, to take off the tender skin. Put 
them into a sauce-pan with a little salt, some nutmeg, 
a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece 
of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up, and stir 
them till done ; then pour it round the chickens, &c 
Garnish with lemon. 

[f you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled 



99 

vn^f done white, with r little mushroom powder witb 
w .^t:: cr«am, &c. 

Lemon white Sauce for boding Fowls. 

Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into 
a |)int of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon- 
tb^^me, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer gen- 
tlj till it taste well of the lemon ; then strain it, and 
thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a 
dessert-gpoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up ; 
then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stir- 
ring it weJl. Dish the chickens, aud then mix a lit- 
tle white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do 
not boil them together : add salt to your taste. 
Eggs Sauce. 

Boil the eggs hard, and cut them into small pieces ; 
then put theifi to melted butter. 
Onion Sauce. 

Peel the onions, and boil them tender : squeeze 
the water from them, then :hop them, and add to 
them butter that has been melted rich and smooth, 
as will be hereafter directed, but with a little good 
milk instead of water ; boil it up once, and serve it 
for boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of 
veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the on- 
ions makes them milder. 

Clear Shallot Sauce. 

Put a few chopped shallots into a little gravy boil- 
ed clear, and near halfas much vinegar ; season with 
pepper and salt ; boil half an hour. 

Green Sauce for Green Geese and Ducklings. 

Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of 
white wine, and some scalded gooseberries. Add 
sugar, and a bit of butter. Boil them up. 



100 

Bread Sauce. 

Boil a large onion, cut in four, with some black 
peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour 
the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and 
cover it. In an hour put it into a sauce-pan, with a 
good piece of butter mixed with a little flour; boil 
the whole up together, and serve. 

Dutch Sauce for Meat or Fish. 

Put six spoonfuls of water, and four of vinegar, in- 
to a sauce-pan warm, and thicken it with the yolks 
of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not bofl it , 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it 
thiflugh a sieve. 

Sauce Rohart,for Rumps or Steaks. 

Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a 
sauce-pan, set it over the fire, and when browning, 
throw in a handful of sliced onions cut small ; frj 
them brown, but do not let them burn ; add half a 
spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, and give it 
another fry : then put lour spoonfuls of gravy, and 
some pepper and salt, aad boil it gently ten minutes ; 
gfeioa off the fat ; add a tea-spoonful of made mus- 
tard, a spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of half a 
lemon ; boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. — 
They should be of a fine yellow brown, and garnish- 
ed with fried parsley and lemon. 

Benton Sauce, for hot or cold Roast Beef. 

Grate, or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, a 
little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and 
four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. 

Sauce for Fish Pies, tvhere cream is not ordered. 
Take equal quantities of white wine (not sweet,) 
vinegar, oyster-liquors, mushroom-catsup; boil 
them up with an anchovy ; strain ; and pour it 
through a funnel into the pie after it i= bakefl. 



iOl 

Another. — Chop an anchovy small, and boil it up 
with three spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a pint of 
cream, add a bit of butter and flour. 

Tomato Sauce, for hot or cold Meats. 
Put tomateos, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen 
jar ; and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, 
till they are quite soft ; then separate the skin from 
the pulp ; and mix this with capsicum-vinegar, and 
a few cloves of garlic pounded, which must both be 
proportioned to the quantity of fruit. Add powder- 
ed ginger and salt to your taste. Some white-wine 
vinegar and Cayenne may be used instead of capsi- 
cum vinegar. Keep the mixture in small wide 
mouthed bottles, well corked, and in a dry cool 
place. 

Apple Sauce, for Goose or roast Pork., 
Pare, core, and slice, some apples ; and put them 
in a stone jar, into a saucepan of water, or on a hot 
hearth. 

The old Currant-Sauce for Venison, 
Boil an ounce of dried currants in half a pint of 
water a few minutes ; then add a small tea-cupful of 
bread-crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and 
a bit of butter Stir it till the whole is smooth. 
Lemon Sauce. 
Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and 
put them into melted butter, give it one boil, and 
pour it over boiled fowls. 

Carrier Sauce for Mutton. 
Chop six shallots fine ; and boil them up with a 
gill of gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some peppei 
and salt. Serve it in a boat. 
Tomatoes. 
Tomatoes are used in soups, sauces, and to serve 
as little d'shes at table, at any part of a dinner. 
9* 



102 

A very fine fish Sauce. 
Put into a very nice tin sauce-pan a pint of fine 
port wine, a gill of mountain, halfa pint of fine wal- 
nut-catsup, twelve anchovies and the liquor that be- 
longs to them, a gill of walnut-pickle, the rind and 
juice of a large lemon, four or five shallots, some 
Cayenne to taste, three ounces of scraped horse- 
radish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonfuls 
of made mustard ; boil it all gently, till the rawness 
goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. 
Cork them very close, and seal the top. 

An excellent substitute Jor Caper Sauce. 

Boil slowly some parsley, to let it become a bad 
colour cut, but do not chop it fine ; put it to melted 
butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a desert- 
spoonful of vinegar. Boil up and serve. 
Oyster Sauce. 

Save the liquor in opening the oysters ; and boil 
it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. 
In the mean time throw the oysters into cold water, 
and drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it into a 
saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed 
with a little milk, as will make sauce enough ; but 
first rub a little flour wiih it. 

Set them over the fire, and stir all the time ; and 
when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them 
off, and keep the saucepan near the fire, but not on 
it ; for, if done too much, the oysters will be hard. 
Squeeze a little lemon-juice, and serve. 

A little cream is a great improvement. Observe. 
the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accor- 
dingly. 

Lobster Sauce 

Pound the spawn, and two aucoovies ; pour on 



103 

them two spoonfuls of gravy ; strain all ict^ some 
butter aielted as will be hereafter directed ; then 
put in the meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, 
and add a squeeze of lemon. 

Shrimp Savce. 

If the shrimps are not picked at home, pour a 
little water over them to wash them, put them to 
butter melted thick and smooth, give them one boil, 
and add the juice of a lemon. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Chop one or two anchovies without washing, put 
them to some flour and butter, and a little drop of 
water : stir it over the fire till it boils once or twice. 
When the anchovies are good, they will be dissolv- 
ed ; and the colour will be better than by the usual 
way. 

To melt butter : which is rarely well done, though a 
very essential article. 

Mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to 
four ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. Put 
it into a small sauce-pan, and two or three table- 
spoonfuls of hot water ; boil quick, a minute, shak- 
ing it all the time. Milk used instead of water, re- 
quires rather less butter, and looks whiter. 
To make Mustard. 

Mix the best Durham flour of mustard by degrees, 
with boiling water, to a proper thickness, rubbing it 
perfectly smooth ; add a little salt, and keep it in a 
small jar close covered, and put only as much into 
the glass as will be used soon : which should be wiped 
daily round the edges. 

Kitchen Pepper. 

Mix in the finest powder, one ounce of ginger j 
of cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg.and Jamaica pep- 



104 

per, half an ounce each ; ten cloves and six ounces 
of salt. Keep it in a bottle — it is an agreeable addi- 
tion to any brown sauces or soups. 

Forcemeat, to force Fowls or Meat. 

Shred a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal, or 
fowl, some beef-suet, a small quantity of onion, some 
parsley, very little lemon-peel, salt nutmeg, or 
pounded mace, and either white pepper, or Cayenne, 
and bread-crumbs. 

Pound it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two 
eggs beaten and strained. For forcemeat patties, the 
mixture as above. 

For cold Savoury Pies. 

The same ; only substituting fat, or bacon, for suet. • 
The livers (if the pie be of rabbit or fowl,) mixed 
. with fat and lean of pork, instead of bacon, and sea- 
soned as above, are excellent. 

Forcemeat as for Turtle. 

A pound of fine fresh suet, one ounce of ready 
dressed veal or chicken, chopped fine, crumbs of 
bread, a little shallot or onion, salt, white pepper, 
nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, parsley, and lemon- 
thyme, finely shred ; beat as many fresh eggs, yolks 
and whites separately, as will make the above in- 
gredients into a moist paste ; roll into small balls, 
and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it 
boils up. When of a light brown, take them out, 
and drain them before the fire. If the suet be moist 
or stale, a great many more eggs will be necessary. 

PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY 

On Savoury Pies. 
There are few articles of cookery more generally 
liked than relishing-pies, if properly made ; and 
they may be made so of a great variety of things. 



105 

lome are best eaten when cold, and in that case, 
there should be no suet put into the forcemeat that is 
used with them. If the pie is either made of meat 
that will take more dressing, to make it extremely 
tender, than the baking of the crust will allow, or 
if it is to be served in an earthen pie-form, observe 
the following preparation : 

Takethree pounds of the very nicest of beef (for 
instance) that has fat and lean ; wash it ; and season 
it with salt, pepper, mace, and alspice, in fine pow- 
der, rubbing them well in. Set it by the side of a 
siow fire, in a stew-pot that will ju§t hold it ; put to 
itapiece of butter of about the weighloftwo ounces, 
and cover it quite close ; let it just simmer in its 
own steam till it begins to shrink. When it is cold, 
add more seasoning, forcemeat, and eggs ; and if it js 
in a dish, put some gravy to it before baking ; but if 
it is only in crust, do not put the gravy till after it is 
cold and in jelly. Forcemeat may be put both un- 
der and over the meat, if preferred to balls. 
Eel Pie. 

Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, 
season with pepper and salt, and place in the dish, 
with some bits of butter, and a little water, and cover 
it with paste. 

Cod Pie. 

Take a piece of the middle if a small cod, and salt 
it well one night ; next day wash it : season with 
pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg, mixed ; place 
m a dish, and put some butter on it, and a little good 
hroth of any kind into the dish. 

Cover it with a crust ; and when done, add a 
sauce of a spoonful of broth, a quarter of a pint oi 
cream, a little flour and butter, a grate of lemon and 
(intmeg, and give it one boil. Oysters maybe added. 



106 

Mackerel will do well, but do not salt them till 
used. 

Parsley picked and put in, may be used instead of 
oysters. 

Shrimp Pie, Excellent 

Pick a quart of shrimps : if they are very salt, 
season them with only mace and a clove or two. 
Mince two or three anchovies ; mix these with the 
spice, and then season the shrimps. Put some but- 
ter at the bottom of the dish, and over the shrimps, 
with a glass of sharp white wine. The paste must 
be light and thin. They do not take long baking. 
Lobster Pie. 

Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the 
tails, cut them in two, take out the gut, cut each in 
four pieces and lay in a small dish, then put in the 
meat of the claws, and that you have picked out of 
the body ; pick oflf the furry parts from the latter, 
and take out the lady ; the spawn beat in a mortar ; 
likewise all the shells ; set them on to stew with 
some water, two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, pep- 
per, salt, and some pounded mace : a large piece of 
butter, rolled in flour, must be added when the 
goodness of the shells is obtained : give a boil or 
two, and pour into the dish strained ; stew some 
crumbs, and put a paste over all ; bake slowly, but 
only till the paste be done. 

A remarkable fine Fish Pie. 

Boil two pounds of small eels ; having cut the 
fins quite close, pick the flesh ofi", and throw the 
bones into the liquor with a little mace, pepper, 
salt, and a slice of onion ; boil till quite rich, and 
strain it. Make forceraeiitof the flesh, an anchovy, 
parslej', lemon- peel, salt, pepper, and crumbs, and 
four ounces of butter warmed, and lay it at the bot- 



107 

torn of the dish. Take the flesh of a small cod, or 
dressed turbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, bar- 
ing rubbed it with salt and pepper : pour the gravy 
over and bake. 

Beefsteak Pie. 

Prepare the steaks as in page 32, and when sea- 
soned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish 
with pufFpaste round the edges ; put a little water 
in the dish, and cover it with good crust. 
Feal Pie. 

Take some of the middle, or scrag of a small 
neck ; season it ; and either put to it, or not, a few 
slices of lean bacon or ham. Ifitis wanted of ahigh 
relish, add mace, Cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt 
a jd pepper : and also forcemeat and eggs ; and if 
you choose, add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweet- 
breads cut into small bits, and cocks'-combs blanch- 
ed, if liked. Have a rich gravy ready, and pour in 
after baking. — It will be very good without any of 
the latter additions. 

A rich Veal Pie. 

Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal ; season 
them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little 
clove in powder; Slice two sweetbreads, and sea- 
son them in the same manner. Lay a puff paste 
on the edge of the dish ; then put the meat, yolks of 
hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters, up to 
the top of the dish. Lay over the wholesome very 
thin slices of ham, and fill up the dish with water ; 
cover ; and when it is taken out of the oven, pour 
in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoonfuls of 
good veal gravy, and some cream to fill up : but 
first boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. 
Calfs-head Pie 

Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two 



108 

onions, a few isinglass-shavings, a bunch of herbs, a 
blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns, in three 
pints of water. Keep the broth for the pie. Take 
off a bit of the meat for the balls, and let the other 
be eaten, but simmer the boneS in the broth till it is 
very good. Half-boil the head, and cut it into 
square bits ; put a layer of ham at the bottom ; then 
some head, first fat, then lean, with balls and hard 
eggs cut in half, and so on till the dish be full ; but 
be particularly careful not to place the pieces close, 
or the pie will be too solid, and there will be no 
space for the jelly. Meat must be first pretty 
well seasoned with pepper and salt, and a scrape or 
two of nutmeg. Put a little water and a little gravy 
into the dish, and cover it with a tolerably thick 
crast ; bake it in a slow oven, and when done, pour 
into it as much gravy as it will possibly hold, and do 
not cut it till perfectly cold ; in doing which, observe 
to use a very sharp knife, and first cut out a large bit, 
going down to the bottom of the dish ; and when 
done thus, thinner slices can be cut ; the different 
colours and the clear jelly have a beautiful marbled 
appearance. 

A small pie may be made to eat hot, which, with 
high seasoning, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, morels, 
&c. has a very good appearance. 

The cold pie will keep many days. Slices make 
a pretty side dish. 

Instead of isinglass, use a calf's foot, or a cow- 
heel, if the jelly is not likely to be stiff enough. 

The pickled tongues offormer calves-heads may be 
cut in, to vary the colour, instead of, orbesides ham. 
Excellent pork Pies to eat cold. ' 

Haise common boiled crust into either a round or 
oval form, as you choose ; have ready the trimming 



109 

and small bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed ; 
and if these are not enough , take the meal of a sweet 
bone. Beat it well with a rolling-pin ; season with 
pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separate. 
Put it in layers, quite dose up to the top ; lay on 
the lid ,- cut the edge smooth round, and pinch it ; 
bake in a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very 
solid. Directions for raising the crust will be given 
hereafter. The pork may be put into a common 
dish, witb a very plain crust, and be quite as good. 
Observe to put no bone or water into pork pie ; the 
outside of the pieces will be hard, unless they are 
cut small and pressed close. 

Mutton Pie. 

Cut steaks from a neck or loin of mutton that has 
hunar ; heat them and remove some of the fat. 
Season with salt, pepper, and a little onion : put a 
little water at the bottom of the dish, and a little 
paste on the edge ; then cover with i ^uoderately 
thick paste. Or raise small pies, and breaking each 
bone in two to shorten it ; season, and cover it 
over, pinching the edge. When they come out, 
pour into each a spoonful of gravy made of a bit of 
mutton. 

SguaA Pie. 

Cut apples C.S for other pies, and lay them in rows 
with mutton chops ; shred onion, and sprinkle it 
among them, and also some sugar 

Lamb Pie. 
Make it of the loin, neck, or breast ; the breast of 
house-lamb is one of the most delicate things that 
can be eaten. It should be very lightly seasoned 
with pepper and salt ; the bone taken out, but not 
the gristles ; and a small quantity of jelly gravy be 
10 



no 

put in hot ; but the pie should not be cut till cold. 
Put two spoonfuls of water before baking. 

Grass lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either 
be boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps the 
best. Season with pepper and salt only ; put two 
spoonfuls of water before baking, and as much gra- 
vy when it comes from the oven. 

J^ote. — Meat pies being fat, it is best to let out the 
gravy on one side, and put it in again by a funnel, at 
the centre, and a little may be added. 
Chicken Pie. 

Cut up two young fowls ; season with white pep- 
per, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest 
powder ; likewise a little Cayenne. Put the chick- 
en, slices of ham, or fresh gammon of bacon, force- 
meat-balls, and hard eggs, by turns, in layers. If it 
is to be baked in a dish, put in a little water ; but 
none if in a raised crust. By the time it returns 
from tlic '>ven, have ready a gravy off a knuckle of 
veal, or a bit of the scrag, with some shank-bones of 
mutton, seasoned with herbs, onions, mace, and white 
pepper. If it is to be eaten hot you may add truffles, 
morels, mushrooms, &,c. but not if to be eaten cold. 
If it is made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill 
it ; but in a raised crust, the gravy must be nicely 
strained, and then put in cold as jelly. To make the 
jelly clear, you may give it a boil with the whites of 
two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then i un 
it through a fine lawn sieve. 

Rabbits, if young and in flesh, do as well : their 
legs should be cut short, and the breast-bones must 
not go in, but will help to maue the gravy. 
Green-Goose Pie. 

Bone two young green geese, of a good size ; but 
fift take away every plug, and singe them nicely. 



ill 

Wash them clean ; and season them high with salt, 
pepper, mace, and alspice Put one inside the 
other, and press them as close as you can, drawmg 
the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over 
them, and bake them either with or without crust ; 
if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to 
keep in the steam. It will keep long. 
Duck Pie. 

Bone a full grown young duck and a fowl ; wash 
them and season with pepper and salt, and a small 
proportion of mace and alspice; in the finest pow- 
der. Put the fowl within the duck, and in the for- 
mer a calfs tongue pickled red, boiled very tender, 
and peeled. Press the whole close ; the skins of 
the legs should be drawn inwards, that the body of 
the fowls may be quite smooth. If approved, the 
space between the sides of the crust may be filled 
with a fine forcemeat, made according to the receipt 
as for turtle. Bake it in a slow oven, either in 
a raised crust, or pie-dish, with a thick crust orna- 
mented. 

The large pies in Staffordshire are made as above, 
but with a goce outwards, then a turkey, a duck 
next, then a fowl, and either tongue, small birds, or 
forcemeat, in the middle. 

Giblet Pie. 

After nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew 
them with a small quantity of water, onion, black 
pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. 
Let them grow cold ; and if not enough to fill the 
dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three mutton steaks, 
at bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with 
th*! above ; and when the pie is baked, pour into it 
a large tea-cupful of cream. 

Sliced potatoes added to it eat extremely well. 



112 

Pigeon Pie. 

Kub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and 
out ; in the latter but a bit of butter, and if approved, 
some parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of 
the same seasoning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom 
of the dish, and the birds on it ; between every two, 
a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the dish ; and if 
you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each 
pigeon ; it is a great improvement to the flavour. 

Observe when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to 
take the under part rather than the prime. 

Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wings, 
and put them in the centre of the pie ; and over 
them, in a hole made in the crust, three feet nicely 
cleaned, to show what pie it is. 

Partridge Pie in a Disk. 

Pick and singe four partridges : cut off the legs at 
the knee, season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, 
thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal-steak, and a 
»lice of ham, at the bottom of the dish ; put the 
partridges in, and half a pint of good broth. Put 
puff paste on the ledge of the dish, and cover with 
the same ; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. 
Jl French Pi^. 

Lay a puff paste round on the ledge of the dish, 
and put in either veal in slices, rabbits, or chickens 
jointed ; with forcemeat-balls, sweebreads cut in 
nioces, artichoke bottoms, and a few trufBes. 
Vegetable Pie. 

Scald and blanch some broad beans ; cut young 
carrots, turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooais, 
peas, onions, lettuce, parsley, celery, or any of 
them you have ; make the whole into a nice stew, 
with some good veal-gravy. Bake a crust over a 
dish with a little hniiw round the edge, and a cup 



in 

turned up to keep it from siaking. When baked, 
open the lid, and pour in the stew. 
Parsley Pie. 

Lav a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, 
seasoned, into a dish, scald a colander full of picked 
parsley in milk ; season it ; and add to it the fowl 
or meat, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, 
or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour into it a 
quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of 
a walnut of butter, and a bit of flour. Shake it 
round, to mix with the gravy already in. 

Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may 
be added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. 
Turnip Pie. 

Season ^iiutton chops with salt and pepper, re- 
serving the ends of the neck-bones to lay over the 
turnips, which must be cut into small dice, and put 
on the steaks. Put two or three good spoonfuls of 
milk in. You may add sliced onion. Cover with a 
crust. 

Potato Pie. 

Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices : sea- 
son them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or 
veal. Put layers of them and of the meat. 
An Herb Pie. 

Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stems, 
half the quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some mus- 
tard and cress, a few leaves of borage, and white- 
beet leaves ; wash, and boil them a little ; then 
drain, and press out the water ; cut tihem small ; 
mix and lay them in a dish ; sprinkle with some salt ; 
mix a batter of flour, two eggs well beaten, a pint of 
cream, and half a pint of milk, and pour it on ihe 
herbs ; cover with a good crusf, and bs ke 
10* 



il4 

iMtsed Crust, for ."leat Pies, or Fowls, <5"C. 

fJoil water with a little fine lard, and an equal 
quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much 
of either. While hot, mix this with as much flour 
as you will want, making the paste as stiff as jju can 
to be smooth, which you will make it by good knead- 
ing and beating it with the roUing-pin. When quite 
Eiciooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to 
soak till near cold. 

Those who have not a good hand at raising crust 
may do thus : Roll the paste of a proper thickness, 
and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a 
long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the 
sides with egg, bringing the former rather farther 
out, and pinching both togethei : niit egg between 
the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at the 
sides. Fill your pie, and put on the cover, and 
pinch it and the side crust together. The same 
mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the 
sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste 
must be baked, aftei it shall be filled and covered; 
but in the latter case, the tin should be buttered, 
and carefully taken off when done enough ; and as 
the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour 
than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven 
agnin for a quarter of an hour. With a feather, 
|iut egg over at first. 

PUDDINGS, ETC. 

Observations on making Puddings and Pancakes. 

The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes disa- 
greeably ; which arises by the cloth not being nice 
ly washed, and ke ^t in a dry place. It should be 
liipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured 
when to be used 



115 

If bread, it should be tied loose ; if batter, tight 
over. 

The water should boil quick when the pudding is 
put in ; and it should be moved about for a minute, 
lest the ingredients should not mix. 

Batter pudding should be strained through a 
coarse sieve, when all is mixed. In others, the eggs 
separately. 

The pans and basins must be always buttered. 

A pan of cold . water should be ready, ar)d the 
pudding dipped in as soon as it comes out of the 
pot, and then it will not adhere to the cloth. 

Very good puddings may be made without eggs, 
but they must have as little milk as will mix, and 
must boil three or four hours. A few spoonfuls of 
fresh small beer, or one of yeast will answer in- 
stead of eggs. 

Or Snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, either 
in puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will 
supply the place of one egg, and the article it is 
used in will be equally good. 

J^ote. — The yolks and whiles beaten long and se- 
parately, make the article they are put into much 
lighter. 

Almond Pudding. 

Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter al- 
monds with a spoonful of water ; then mix tour 
ounces of butter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream 
tvarm with butter one of brandy, a little nutmeg, 
and sugar to taste. Butter some cups, half fill, and 
bake the puddings. Serve with butter, wine, and 
Bugar. 

Baked Almond Pudding. 

Beat fine four ounces of almonds, four or five bit- 
ter ditto, with a little wine, yolks of six eggs, peel of 
two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, near a quart 



116 

of cream, and juice of one lemon. When well mix- 
ed, hake it ha'lf an hour, with paste round the dish. 
Sago Pudding. 
Boil a pint and a half of new milk, with four 
spoonfuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon- 
peel, cinnamon, and nutmeg ; sweeten to taste ; then 
mix four eggs, put a paste roum? the dish, and bake 
slowly. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 
Sliue bread spread with butter, and lay it in a dish 
with currants between each layer ; and sliced citron, 
orange, or lemon; if to be very nice. Pour over 
an unboiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a 
few pimentos, and a very little ratafia, two hours at 
least, before it is to be baked ; and lard it over to 
soak thebriead. 

A paste round the edge makes all puddings Jook 
better, but is not necessary. 

Orange Pudding. 
Grate the rmd of a Seville orange : put to it six 
ounces of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump- 
sugar pounded : beat them all in a marble mortar, 
and add as you do it, the whole of eight eggs well 
beaten and strained ; scrape a raw apple, and mix 
with the rest ; put a paste at the bottom and sides 
of the dish, and over the orange mixture put cross 
bars of paste. Half an hour will bake it. 

Another.— Rather more than two table-spoonfuls 
of the orange paste, mixed with six eggs, four onnceg 
of sugar, and four ounce? of butter, melted, will 
make a good sized pudding, with a paste at the hot 
lomof the dish. Bake tweny minutes. 
An excellent Lemon Pudding. 
Beat the yolk of four eggs ; add four ounces of 



white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with 
some himps of it to taice the essence : then peel, 
and beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large 
lemon and mix all with four or five ounces of butter 
warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the 
edges, and put the above into it. When«erved, 
turn the pudding out of the dish. 

A very fine Amber Pudding. 

Put a pound of butter into a sauce-pan with three 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar finely powdered ; 
melt the butter, and mix well with it ; then add the 
yolks of fifteen eggs well beaten, and as muchifpesh 
candied orange as will add colour and flavour to 
it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the di.'li 
with paste for turning out ; and when filled with the 
above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, -tnd 
bake it in a slow oven — It is as good cold as hot. 
Baked apple pudding. 

Pare and quarter four large apples ; boil them 
tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water 
that, when done, none may remain ; beat them 
quite fine in a mortar ; add the crumb of a small 
roll, four ounces of butter, melted ; the yolks of 
five and whites of three eggs, juice o£ half a lemon, 
and sugar to taste ; beat all together, and lay it in a 
dish with paste to turn out. 

Oatmeal pudding 

Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the 
best^ne oatmeal : let it soak all night : next day 
beat two eggs and mix a little salt, butter a basin 
that will just hold it ; cover it tight with a floured 
cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with 
cold butter and salt. 

When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oat- 
cake., buttered. 



118 

Dutch pudding, or a Souster. 

Melt (line pound of butter in half a pint of milk ; 
mix it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs, four 
spoonfuls of yeast ; add one pound of currants, and 
a quarter of a pound of sugar beaten and sifted. An 
hour will bake it in a quick oven. 

A Dutch rice pudding. 

Soak foar ounces of rice in warm water half an 
hour ; drain the latter from it, and throw it into a 
stew-pan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cin- 
namon, and simmer till tender. When cold, add four 
eggs well beaten, two ounces of butter melted in a 
tea-cupful of cream ; and put three ounces of sugar, a 
quarter of a nutmeg, and a good piece of lemon-peel. 

Put a light puff paste into a mould or dish, or 
grated tops and bottoms, and bake in a quick oven. 
Ldght or German puddings or puffs. 

Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of cream ; 
let it stand till nearly cold : then mix two ounces oi 
fine flour, and two ounces of sugar, four yolks and 
two whites of eggs, and a little rose or orange-flower 
water. Bake in little cups buttered, half an hour. 
They should be served the moment they are done, 
and onlv wh^ going to be eaten, or they will not be 
light. Turn out the cups, and serve with white wine 
and sugar. 

Little Bread Puddings. 

Steep the crumb of a penny loaf, grated, in about 
a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat six eggs, 
whites and yolks, and mix with the bread, and two 
ounces of butter warmed, sugar, orange-flower wa- 
ter, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a tea- 
cupfwl of cream. Beat all well, and bake in tea- 
£::ps buttered. If currants are chosen, a quarter o) 



119 

a pound is suftif a if not they are good without • 
or you may put orange or lemon-candy. Serve with 
pudding-sauce. 

Puddings in haste. 

Shred suet, and put, with grated bread, a few cur- 
rants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, 
some grated lemon-peel and ginger. Mix, and make 
into little balls about the size and shape of an egg, 
with a little flour. 

Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw 
them in. Twenty minutes will boil them ; but they 
will rise to the top when done. Pudding-sauce. 
Kew College Pudding. n 

Grate the crumb of a two penny-loaf, shred suet 
eight ounces, and mix with eight ounces of currants, 
one of citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of 
sugar, half a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and 
white separately. Mix, and make into the size and 
shape of a goose-egg. Put half a pound of butter 
into a frying-pan ; and when melted and quite hot, 
stew them gently in it over a stove ; turn them two 
or three tiroes till of a fine light brown. Mix a glass 
of brand3' with the batter. 

Serve with pudding-sauce. 

Boiled Bread Pudding. 

Grate white bread ; pour boiling milk over it, and 
cover close. When soaked an hour or two, beat 
it fine and mix with it two or three eggs well beaten. 

Put it into a basin that will just hold it ; tie a flour- 
ed cloth over it, and put it into boiling water. Send 
it up with melted butter poured over. 

It may be eaten with salt or sugar. 

Prunes, or French plums, make a fine pudding 
instead of raisins, eittjf with suet or bread pudding. 



120 

Another and richer.-- -On half a pint of crumbs.;; of 
bread pour half a pint of scalding milk ; cover for'>im 
hour. Beat up four eggs, and when strained, ad^ to 
the bread, with a tea-spoonful of flour, an ounce - of 
butter, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of currants^ 
an ounce of almouds beaten, with oraflge-flDwer' 
water, half an ounce of orange, ditto lemon, diHc 
citron. Butter a basin that will exactly hold it, flour 
the cloth, and tie tight over, and boil one hour. 
Brown Bread Pudding. 
Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, ditto ol 
currants, ditto of shred suet, sugar and nutmeg, mix 
with four eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and two spoon- 
fuls of cream ; boil in a cloth or basin that exactly 
holds 'A, three or four hours. 

Eve''s Pudding. 
Grate three quarters of a pound of bread ; mix it 
with the same quantity of shred suet, the same oi 
apples, and also of currants ; mix with these the 
whole of four egi^s, and the rind of half a lemon shred 
fine. Put it into a shape ; boil three hours, and serve 
with pudding-sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and a 
little nutmeg. 

Quaking Pudding. 
Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold, put 
to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of 
flour, some nutmegs and sugar ; tie it close in a but- 
tered cloth, boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, 
lest it should crack. Melted butter, a little wine, 
and sugar. 

Transparent Pudding. 
Beat eight eggs very well : put them Into a stew- 
pan, with half a pound of sugar pounded very fine, 
the same quantity of butter, and some nutmeg grated, 
Set it on the fire, and keep stirring it till it thickens 



12 

Then set it into a basin to cooi ; put a rich puff 
^ste round the edge of the dish ; pour in your 
fmdding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will 
cut hght and clear. — You may add candied orange 
and citrcfh if you like. 

Batter Pudding. 

Rub three spoonfuls of fine flour extremely 
imooth by degrees into a pint of milk : simmer till 
it thickens, stir in two ounces of butter, set it to 
cool ; then add the yolks of three eggs ; flour a 
cloth that has been wet, or butter a basin, and put 
the batter into it ; tie it tight, and plunge it into boil- 
ing watT, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour 
and a half, and serve with plain butter. If approv- 
ed, a httle ginger, nutmeg, and lemon-peel, maybe 
add^. Serve with sweet sauce. 

Batter Pudding with meat. 

Make a batter with .flour, milk, and eggs ; pour a 
little into the bottom of a pudding-dish ; then put 
seasoned meat of any kind into it, and a little shred 
onion; pour the remainder of the batter over, and 
bake in a slow oven. 

Some likt a loin of mutton baked in batter, being 
first cleared of most of the fat. 

Plain Rice Pudding. 

Wash and pick some rice ; throw among it some 
pimento finely pounded, but not much ; tie the rice 
ia a cloth, and leave plenty cf room to swell. Boil 
it in a quantity of water for an hour or two. When 
done, eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Put 
lemon-peel if you please. It is very good without 
spice, and eaten with salt and butter. 
A rich Rice pudding. 

Boil half a pound of rice in water, with a little bit 
ifsrilt, till quite tender, drain it dry; mix it with 
II 



122 

the yolks and whites of four e^s, a quarter of a pint 
of cream, with two ounces of fresh butter melted in 
the latter, four ounces of beef-suet or marrow, or 
veal-suet taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred, 
three quarters of a pound of currants, two SJ)oonful3 
of brandy, one of peach- water, or ratafia, nutmeg, 
and grated lemon-peel. When well mixed, put a 
paste round the edge, and fill the dish. Slices of 
candied orange, lemon, and citron if approved. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Rice Pudding with fruit. 

Swell the rice with a very little milk over the 
fire ; then mix fruit of any kind with it, (currants, 
gooseberries scalded, pared and quartered apples, 
raisins, or black currants ;) with one egg into the 
rice, to bind it ; boil it well and serve with sugar. 
Baked Rice Pudding. 

Swell rice as above ; then add some more milk, 
an egg, sugar, alspice, lemon-peel. Bake in a deep 
dish, 

An excellent plain Potato Pudding. 

Take eight ounces of boiled potatoes,»two ounces 
of butter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter 
of a pint of cream, one spoonful of white wine, a 
morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon : beat 
all to froth ; sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you 
like. Bake it If wanted richer, put three ounces 
more butter, sweetmeats and almonds, and another 

egg. 

Potato Pudding tmih meat. 
Boil them till fit to mash ; rub through a colander, 
and make into a thick batter with milk and two eggs. 
Lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some 
batter, and over the last layer pour the remainder 
of the butter. Bake a fine brown. 



123 

Steak or Kindey Pudding. 

If kidney, spilt ai.d soak it, and season that or the 
meat. Make a paste of suet, flour and milk ; roll 
it, and line a basin with some ; put the kindey or 
steaks in, coyer with paste, anu pinch round the 
edge. Cover with a cloth, and boil a considerable 
time. 

Beefsteak pudding. 

Prepare some fine steaks as in page 31 roll them 
with fat between : and if you approve shred onion, 
add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, 
a put in the rollers of steaks : cover the basm with 
a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. 
Cover with a cloth tied close : and let the pudding 
boil slowly, but for a length of time. 

Baked Beefsteak pxidding. 

Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour, or, 
which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed 
through a colander : lay a little of it at the bottom of 
*Jie dish ; then put in the steaks prepared as above, 
gnd very well seasoned ; pour the remainder of the 
batter over them and bake it. 

Mutton pudding. 

Season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion : lay 
one layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish ; and 
pour a batter of potatoes boiled and pressed through 
a colander, and mixed with milk and an egg, over 
tjiem ; then putting the rest of the steaks and batter, 
bake it. 

Batter with flour, instead of potatoes, eats well, 
but requires more egg, and is not so good. 
Suet pudding. 

Shred a pound of suet ; mix with a pound and a 
quarter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little 



124 

salt, and as little milk as wiM make it. Boil four 
hours. It eats well next d^ ', cut in slices and 
broiled. 

The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton finely 
shred, makes a more delicate pudding than suet 
Veal suet Pudding. 

Cu* the crumb of a three penny loaf into slices, boil 
and sweeten two quarts of new m-ilk, and pour over 
it. When soaked, pour, out a little of the milk ; 
and mix with six eggs well beaten, and half a nut- 
meg. Lay the slices of bread into a dish ; with lay- 
ers of currants and veal-suet shred, a pound of each. 
Butter the dish well, and bake; or you may boil it 
in a basin, if you prefer it. 

Hunter'' s Pudding. 

Mix a pound of suet, ditto flour, ditto currants, dit- 
to rasins stoned and a little cut, the rind of half a le- 
mon shred as fine as possible, six JaiSaica peppers 
in fine powder, four eggs, a glass of brandy, a little 
salt, and as little milk as will make it of a proper 
consistence ; boil it m a floured cloth, or melon- 
mould, eight or nine hours. Serve with sweet sauce. 
Add sometimes a spoonful of peach-water, for change 
of flavour. 

This pudding will keep after it is boiled, six 
months, if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung 
up . folded in a sheet of cap paper to preserve it from 
dust, being first cold. When to be used, it mast 
boil a full hour. 

Plum Pudding. 

The same proportions of flour and suet, and half 
the quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass 
of wine or not, and one egg, and milk, will make an 
excellent pudding, if long boiled. 



125 

Custard Pudding. 

Mix by degrees a pint of good milk with a large 
_^8poonful of flour, the yolks of five eggs, some 
orange-flower water, and a little pounded cinnamon. 
Butter a b;isin that will exactly hold it, pour the bat- 
ter in, and tie a floured cloth over. Put in boiling 
water over the fire, and turn it about a few minutes 
to prevent the egg going to one side. Half an hour 
will boil it.- ■' 

Put currant jelly on it, and serve with sweet-sauce. 
Macaroni Pudding. 

Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe-sort, in a pint 
of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender ; 
put it into a dish, with milli, two or three eggs, but 
only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach- 
water, and half a glass of raisin wine. Bake with a 
paste round the edges. 

A layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberry -jam, 
in a macaroni pudding for change, is a great im- 
provement, in which case omit the almond-water, or 
ratafia, which you would otherwise flavour it with. 
J}n excellent .Apricot Pudding. 

Halve twelve large apricots, give them a scald till 
they are sofl ; mean time pour on the grated crumbs 
of a penny loaf, a pint of boiling cream ; when half- 
cold, four ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten 
eggs, and a glass of white-wine. Pound the apri- 
cots in a mortar, with some or all of the kernels ; 
mix then the fruit and other ingredients together ; 
put a paste round a dish, and bake the pudding half 
an hour. 

Baked Gooseberry Pudding. 

Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearth, or in 
a sauce-pan of water, till they will pulp. Take a 
11* 



126 

pint of the juice pressed through a coarse sieve, and 
beat it with three yolks and whites of eggs beaten and 
strained, one ounce and a half of butter ; sweeten it 
well, and put a crust round the dish. A few crumbs 
of roll should be mixed with the above to give a lit- 
tle consistence, or four ounces of Naples biscuit. 
Brandy Pudding. 

Line a mould with jar-raisins, stoned or dried cher- 
ries, then with thin slices of French roll, next i,o 
which put ratafias, or macaroons ; then the fruit, 
rolls, and cakes, in succession until the mould be 
full ; sprinkling in at times two glasses of brandy. 
Beat four eggs, yolks and whites ; put to a pint of 
milk or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, and 
the rind of half a lemon finely grateJ. Let the li- 
quid sink into the solid part ; then flour a cloth, tie 
it tight over, and boil one hour ; keep the mould 
the right side up. Serve with pudding-sauce. 
Boiled Curd Pudding. 
Rub the curd of two gallons of milk well drained 
through a sieve. Mix it with six eggs, a little cream, 
two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, half a nut- 
meg, flour and crumbs of bread each three spoon- 
fuls, currants and raisins half a pound each. Boil 
an hour in a thick well-floured cloth. 
Pippin pudding. 

. Coddle six pippins in vine-leaves covered with 
water, very gently, that the inside be done without 
rebaking the skins. When soft, skin, and with a tea- 
spoon take the pulp from the core. Press it through 
a colandfer ; add two spoonfuls of orange-flower 
water, three eggs beaten, a glass of raisin-wine, a 
pint of scalded r.ream, sugar and nutmeg to taste. 
Lay a thin puff paste at the bottom and sides of the 
dish : shred very thin lemon-peel as fine as possi- 



12'5 

ble, and put it into the dish ; likewise Ienwy<i, orange, 
and Citron, in .small slices,, but not so thin as to dis- 
colve in baking. 

A quick made pudding. 

Flour and suet half,a pound each, four eggs, a 
quarter of a pint of new milk, a little mace and nut- 
meg, a quarter of a pound of raisins, ditto of cur- 
rants ; mix well, and boil three quarters of an hour 
with the cover of the pot on, or it will require 
longer. 

Russian seed, or ground Rice pudding. 

Boil a large spoonful heaped, of either, in a pint 
of new milk, with lemon-peel and cinaamon. When 
cold add sugar, n'jtmeg and two eggs well beaten. 
Bake with a crust around the dish. 
A Welsh pudding. 

Let half a pound of fine butter melt gently, beat 
with it the yolks of eight and whites of four eggs, 
mix in six ounces of loaf sugar, and the rind of a 
lemon grated. Put a paste into a dish for turning 
out, and pour the above in, and nicely bake it. 
Suet Dumplings. 

Make as suet pudding, and. drop into boiling 
water, or into the boiling of beef; or you may 
boil them in a cloth. 
Apple, Currant, or Damson dvmplings ; or puddings. 

Make as above, and line a basin with a paste 
tolerably thin ; fill with the fruit, and cover it ; tie 
a cloth over tight, and boil till the fruit shall be done 
enough. 

Yeast or Stiff'olk Dumplingi. 

Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread, 
but with milk instead of water, and put salt. Let it 
rise an hour before the fire. 

Twenty minutes before you are to serve, have 



38 

■ttady a Jarge stew-pan of boiling water ; make Ihe 
dough into balls, tha size of a middling apple ; 
tnrow them in, and boil twenty minutes. If you 
doubt when done enough, stick a clean fork into 
on«, and if it come out clear, it is done. 

The way tp eat them is, to tear them apart on the 
top with two forks, for they become heavy by theii 
own steam. Eat immediately with meat, sugar and 
butter, or salt. 

Common Pancakes, 
Make a light batter of eggs, flour and milk. Fry 
in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Salt or nut- 
meg and ginger, may be added. Sugar and lemon 
should be served to eat with them. Or, when eggs 
are scarce, make the batter with flour, and small 
beer, ginger, &c. or ilean snow, with flour, and a 
very little milk, will serve as well as egg. 

Fine Pancakes, without butter or lard. 
Beat six fresh eggs, extremely well ; mix, when 
strained, with a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, 
a glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, and as much 
flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pan- 
cake-batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan 
tolerably hot, wi^e it with a clean cloth ; then pou? 
in the batter to make thin pancakes. 
Pancakes of Rice. 
Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly, in a small 
uantify of water : when cold, mix it with a pint of 
'.ream, eight eggs, a bit of salt, and nutmeg ; stir in 
sight ounces of butter just warmed, and add as much 
.lour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in 
•w little lard or dripping as possible. 

J^ew-England Pancakes. 
Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine flour 



129 

seT en yolks, and four whites of eggs, and a very lit- 
tle salt ; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and be- 
tween each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up 
six or eight at once. 

Fritters. 

Make them of any of the uatters directed for pan- 
cakes, by dropping a small quantity into the paa ; 
or make the plainer sort, and put pared apple sliced 
and cored into the batter, and fry some of it with each 
slice. Currants or sliced lemons as thin as paper, 
make an agreeable change. Fritters for company 
should be served on a folded napkin in the dish. 
Any sort of sweatmeats, or ripe fruit, may be made 
into fritters. 

Spanish Fritters. 

Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, as 
thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak 
in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, 
and an egg. When well soaked, fry of a nice brown ; 
and serve with butter, wine, and sugar-sauce. 
Potato Fritters. 

Boil two large potatoes, scrape tbem fine ; beat 
four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the 
above one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet 
wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. 
Beat this batter half an hour at least. It will be ex- 
tremely light. 

Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stew-pan, 
and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. 
Fry them ; and serve as a sauce, a glass of white 
wine, the juice of a lemon, one dessert-spoonful of 
peach-leaf or almond-water, and isome white sugai; 
warmed together ; not to be served in the dish. 



130 

PASTRY. 

Rick puff paste 

PuflFs may be made of any sort of fruit, but it 
should be prepared first with sugar. 

Weigh an equal quantity of butter with as much 
fine flour as you judge necessary ; mix a little of the 
former with the latter, and wet it with as little water 
as will make it into a stiff paste. Roll it out, and 
put all the butter over it in slices, turn in the ends, 
and roll it thin : do this twice, and touch it no more 
than can be avoided. The butter may be added at 
twice, and to those who are not accustomed to make 
paste, it may be better to do so. 

A quicker oven than for short crust. 
A less Trich paste. 

Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound 
of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste 
w4th a little water, and an egg well beaten— of the 
former as little as will suflice, or the priste will be 
tough. Roll, and fold it three or four tirnes. 

Rub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour, 
bix ounces of butter, and a spoonful of white sugar ; 
work up the whole into a stiff paste with as little hot 
water as possible. 

Crust for Venison pastry. 

To a quarter of a peck of fine flour use two pounds 
and a half of butter, and four eggs ; mix into paste 
with warm water, and work it smooth and to a good 
consistence. Put a paste round the inside, but not 
to the bottom of the dish, and let the cover be pret- 
ty thick, to bear the long continuance in the oven. 
Rice paste for sweets. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of ground rice in che 
smallest quantity' of water • strain from it all the 



131 

moisture as well as ycm can ; beat it in a mortar with 
half an ounce of butter, and one egg well beaten, 
and it will make an excellent paste for tarts, &c. 
Rice paste for relishing things. 

Clean and put some rice, with an onion, and a lit- 
tle water and milk, or milk only, into a sauce-pan, 
and simmer till it swell. Put seasoned chops into a 
dish, and cover it with the rice ; by the addition of 
an egg, the rice will adhere the better. 

i?rt66*<s_/"ncasseed and covered thus, are very good. 
Potato paste. 

Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add, while 
warm, a sufficiency of butter to make the mash hold 
together, or you may mix with it an egg j then before 
it gets cold, flour the board pretty well to prevent it 
from sticking, and roll it to the thickness wanted. 

If it is become quite cold before it be put on the 
dish, it will be apt to crack. 

Raised crust for Custards or Frutt. 

Pat four ounces of butter into a sauce-pan, with 
water, and when it boils, pour it into as much flour 
as you choose ; knead and beat it. Cover it. Raise 
it ; and if for custard, put a paper within to keep 
out the sides till half-done, then fill with a cold mix- 
ture of milk, egg, sugar, and a little peach-water, 
lemon-peel or nutmeg. By colu is meant that the 
egg is not to be warmed, but the milk should be 
warmed by itself — not to spoil the crust. 

The above butter will make a great deal of raised 
crust, which must not be rich, or it will be difficult 
to prevent the sides from falling. 

Excellent short Crust. 

Make two ounces of white sugsr pounded and 
lifted quite dry ; then mix it with a jionnd of flour 



132 

well dried, rub into it three ounces of "butter, so 
fine as not to be seen — into some cream put the yolks 
of two e^s, beaten, and mix the above into a smooth 
paste ; roll it tiiin, and bake it in a moderate oven 
Another. — Mix with a pound of fine flour dried, 
an ounce of sugar pounded and sifted, then crumble 
three ounces of butter in it, till it looks all like flour, 
and with a gill of boiling cream, work it up to a fine 
paste. 

A veryfine Crust for Orange Cheesecakes, or Sweet' 
meat^fWhen to be particularly nice. 

Dry a pound of the finest flour, mix with it three 
ounces of refined sugar ; then work half a pound of 
butter with your hand till it come to froth ; put the 
flour into it by degrees^ and work into it, well beaten 
and strained, the yolks of three and whites of two 
eggs. If too limber, put some flour and sugar to 
make it fit to roll. Line your pattypans, and fill 
A little above fifteen minutes will bake them. 
Against they come out, have ready some refined su- 
gar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you 
can ; ice them all over, set them in the oven to 
harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. 

Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust ; but 
if for mince-pies, or any sweet things, should be 
washed. 

Obserimtions on Pastry 

An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it ad- 
hering to the board, or dish, used in making. It is 
best when rolled on marble, or a very large slate. 
In very hot weather, the butter should be put into 
cold water to make it as" firm as possible; and if 
made early in the morning, and preserved from the 
air until it is to be baked, the cook will find it much 
better A gc^^ nand at pastry will use much les9 



133 

butter, and produce %hter crust, than others. Sah 
butter, if very good and well washed, makes a fine 
flaky crust. 

Apple Pie. 

Pare and core the fruit, having wiped the outside ; 
which, with the cores, boil with a little water till it 
taste well : strain and put a little sugar, and a bit of 
bruised cinnamon, and dimmer again. In the mean 
time place the apples in a dish, a paste being put 
round the edge ; when one layer is in, sprinkle half 
the sugar, and shred lemon-peel, and squeeze some 
juice, or a glass of cider. If the apples have lost 
their spirit, put in the rest of the apples, sugar, and 
the liquor tliat you have boiled. Cover with paste. 
You may add some butter when cut, if eaten hot ; 
or put quince-marmalade ; orange-paste, or cloves, 
to flavour. 

Hot Apple Pie. — Make with the fruit ; sugar, and 
ajilove, and put a bit of butter in when cut open. 
Cherry Pie, 

Should have a mixture of other fruit ; currants 
or raspberries, or both. 

Currant Pie. 

With or without raspberries. 
Mince Pie. 

Of scraped beef free from the skin and strings, 
weigh 21b, 41b of suet picked and chopped, then 
add 61b of currants niceLy cleaned and perfectly dry, 
31b of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two le- 
mons, a pint of sweet wine, a nutmeg, a quarter of 
an ounce of cloves, ditto mace, di+lo pimento, in 
finest powder : press the whole into a deep pan 
when well mixed ; and keep it covered in a cool 
dry place. Half the quantity is enough, unless for 
a very large family, 

19 



134 

Haye citron, orange, and lemon-peel ready, and 
imt some of each in the pies when made. 
Mince pies withsyi meat. 

Of the best apples six pounds, pared, cored, and 
minced : of fresh suet, and raisins stone ', each 
three pounds, likewise minced : to these add of 
mace and cnnamon, a quarter of an ounce each, 
and eight cloves, in finest powder, three pounds of 
the finest powder sugar, three quarters of an ounce 
of salt, the rinds of four and juice of two lemons, 
half a pint of port, the same of brandy. Mix well, 
and put into a deep pan. 

Have ready washed and dried four pounds of cur- 
rants, and add as you make the pies, with candied 
fruit. 

Lemon Mince pies. 

Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till ten- 
der enough to beat to a mash, add to it three large 
apples chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a 
pound of currants, four ounces of sugar ; put the 
juice ofthe lemon, and candied fruit, as for other 
pies. Make a short crust, and fill the pattypans as 
usual. 

Egg Mince pies. 

Boil six eggs hard, shred them small ; shred 
oouble the quantity of suet ; then put currants 
washed and pickled, one pound, or more if the eggs 
were large ; the peel of one lemon shred very fine, 
and the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, mace, 
nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt ; orange, lemon 
and citron, candied. Make a light paste for them. 
Currant and Raspbewy. 

For a tart, line the dish, put sugar and fruit, lai 
bars across, and bake 



135 

Light Paste for Tarts and Cheesecakes. 

Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth, then 
mix it with as much water as will make three quar- 
ters of a pound of fine flour into a very stiff paste ; 
roll it very thin, then lay the third part of half a 
pound of butter upon it in little bits ; dredge it with 
some flour left out at first, and roll it up tight. Roll 
it out again, and put the same proportion of butter ; 
and so proceed till all be worked up. 
Iceing for Tarts. 

Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted butter 

well together, wash the tarts with a feather, and sift 

sugar over as you put them into the oven. Or beat 

white of an egg, wash the paste, and sift white sugar. 

Pippin Tarts. 

Pare thin two Seville or China oranges, boil the 
peel tender and shred it fine : pare and core twenty 
apples, put them in a stew-pan, and as little water as 
possible ; when half-done, add half a pound of su- 
gar, the orange-peel and juice ; boil tUl pretty thick. 
When cold, put it in a shallow dish, or pattypans 
lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. 
Prnne Tart. 

Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break 
them ; put the kernels into a little cranberry-juice, 
with the prunes and sugar, simmer : and when cold 
make a tart of the sweetmeat. 

Orange Tart. 

Squeeze, pulp, and boil two Seville oranges ten- 
der, weigh them, and double of sugar ; beat both to- 
gether to a paete, and then add the juice and pulp 
of the fruit, and the size of a walnut of fresh butter, 
and beat all together. Choose a very shallow dish, 
line it with a light puff crust, and lay the paste of 
orange in it. You may ice it. 



136 

Codlin Tart. 

Scald the fruit as will be directed under that arti- 
cle ; when ready, take off the thin skin, and lay them 
whole in a dish, put a little of the water that the ap- 
ples were boiled in at bottom, strew them over with 
lump sugar or fine Lisbon : when cold, put a paste 
round the edges and over. 

You may wet it with white of egg, and strew su- 
gar over, which looks well : or cut the lid in quar- 
ters, without touching the paste on the edge of the 
dish; and either put the broad end downwards, and 
make the point stand up, or remove the lid alto- 
gevher. Pour a good custard over it when cold ; 
sift sugar over. 

Or line the bottom of a shallow dish with paste, 
lay the apples in it, sweeten, and lay little twists of 
paste over in bars. 

Raspberry Tart with Cretm,. 

Roll out some thin puff-paste, and lay it in a patty- 
pan of what size you choose ; put in raspberries ; 
strew over them fine sugar ; cover with a thin lid, 
and then bake. Cut it open ; afld have leady the 
following mixture, warm ; half a pint of cream, the 
yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and a little 
sugar , and when this is added to the tart, return it 
to the oven for five or six miniites. . 
Fried Patties. 

Mince a bit of cold veal, and six oysters ; mix with 
a few crumbs of bread ; salt, pepper, nutmeg, wA 
a very small bit of lemon-peel — add the liquor of the 
oysters ; warm all in a tosser, but do not boil ; let it 
go cold : have ready a good puff paste, roll thin, 
and cut it in round or square bits ; put some of the 
■above between two of ihem, tivist the edges to keep 



137 

in the gravy, and fry them of a fine brown. Wash 
all patties ovter with egg before baking. 
Oyster Patties. 

Put a fine puff-crust into small patty-pans, and 
cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each ; and 
against they are baked have read}' the following to 
fill with, taking out the bread. Take off the beards 
of the oysters, cut the other parts in small bits ; put 
them in a small tosser with a grate of nutmeg, the 
least white pepper and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel ; 
cut so small that you can scarcely see it, a little 
cream, and a little of the oyster liquor. Simmer a 
few minutes before you fill. Observe to put a bit 
of crust into all patties, to keep them hollow while 
baking. 

Lobster Patties. 

Make with the same seasoning, a little cream, and 
the smallest bit of butter. 

PiMovies, or Beef Patties. 

Shred under-done dressed beef with a little fat, 
season with pepper, salt, and a little shallot or onion. 
Make a plain paste, roll it thin, and cut in shape 
like an apple puff, fiTl it with mince, pinch the edges, 
and fry them of a nice brown. The paste should be 
made with a small quantity of butter, egg, and milk. 
Veal Patties. 

Mince some veal that is not quite done, with a lit- 
tle parsley, lemon-peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a 
bit of salt ; add a little cream and gravy just to mois- 
ten the meat ; and if you have any ham, scrape a 
little, and add to it. Do not warm it till the patties 
are baked. 

Turkey Patties. 

Mince some of the white part, and with grated 
lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, 
1^* 



138 

cream, and a very little bit of butter warmed, fill the 
patties. 

Sweet Patties. 

Chop the meat of a boiled calf's foot, of vvhici. 
you use the liquor for jelly, two apples, one ounce 
of orange and lemon-peel candied, and some fresh 
peel and judce ; mix with them half a nutmeg grated, 
the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of brandy, and four 
ounces of currants washed and dried. Bake in small 
pattypans. 

Patties resembling Mince Pies. 

Chop tne kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, 
orange and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, 
a little wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, 
and a bit of sugar. Bake as before 
Apple Piiff's. 

Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a stone 
jar on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix 
the pulp of the apple with sugar and lemon-peel, 
shred fine, taking as little of the apple juice as you 
can. Bake them in a thin paste, in a quick oven ; a 
quarter of an hour will do them, if small. Orange 
or quince marmalade is a great improvement. Cin- 
namon pounded, or orange-flower water, in change. 
Lemon Piiff's. 

Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of double-re- 
fined sugar ; grate the rind of two large lemons, and 
mix it well with sugar : then beat the whites of 
three new-laid eggs a great while, add them to the 
sugar and peel, and beat it for an hour ; make it up 
in any shape you please, and bake it on paper put on 
tin plates, in a moderate oven. Do not remove the 
paper till coh' Oiling the paper will make it come 
off with ease. 



139 

Cheese Puff's. 

Strain cheese-curd from the vvhey, and beat half a 
pint basin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and 
a half of flour, three eggs, but only one white, a spoon- 
ful of orange-flower water, a q-uarterofa nutmeg, and 
sugar to make it pretty sweet. Lay a little of this 
paste in very small round cakes, oh a tin plate. If 
the oven is hot, a quarter of an hour will bake them 
Serve with pudding-sauce. 

Excellent light Pitff's. 

Mix two.«poonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon- 
peel, some nutmeg, half a spoonful of brandy, a lit- 
tle loaf sugar, and one egg ; then fry it enough, but 
not brown ; beat it in a mortal with five eggs, whites 
and yolks ; put a quantity of lard in a frying-pan, and 
when quite hot, drop a dessert-spoonful of butter at a 
time : turn as they brown. Serve them immediate 
ly with sweet sauce. 

To preserve Venison for Pasty. 

Take the bones out, then season and beat the meat, 
lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it 
some plain drawn beef gravy, but not a strong one, 
lay the bones on the top, then set the jar in a water- 
bath, that is, a sauce-pan of water over the fire, sim- 
mer three or four hours — then leave it in a cold 
place till next day. Remove the cake of fat, lay the 
meat in handsome pieces on the dish ; if not sufli- 
ciently seasoned, add more pepper, salt, or pimento, 
as necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the 
remainder for the time of serving. If the venison 
be thus prepared, it will not require so much time 
to bake, or such a very thick crust as is usual, and 
by which the under part is seldom done through. 
Venison Pasty. 

A shoulder boned makes a good pnsty, but it must 



140 

be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied 
by that of a fine well-hung loin of mutton, steeped 
twenty-four hours in equal parts of raoe, vinegar, 
and port. 

The shoulder being sinewy, it will be of advan- 
tage to rub it well with sugar for two or three days ; 
and when to be used, wipe it perfectly clean from it, 
and the wine. 

A mistake used to prevail, that venison could not 
be baked too much ; but, as above directed, three 
or four hours in a slow oven will be sufficient to make 
it tender, and the flavour will be preserved. Either 
in shoulder or side, the meat must be cut in pieces, 
and laid with fat between, that it m?y be propoTtion- 
ed to each person, without breaking np the pasty to 
find it. Lay some pepper and salt at the bottom of 
the dish, and some butter ; then the meat nicely 
packed, that it may be sufficiently done, but not lie 
hollow to harden at the edges. 

The venison bones should be boiled with some 
fine old mutton ; of this gravy put half a pint cold 
into the dish ; then lay butter on the venison, and 
cover, as well as line the sides with a thick crust, 
but do not put one unrlei the meat. Keep the re- 
mainder of the gravy till the pastry comes from the 
oven ; put it into the middle by a funnel quite hot, ] 

and shake the dish to mix well. It should be sea- [ 

soned with pepper and salt. 
To make a Pasty of Beef or Mv-tton, to eat as well 

as Venison. ! 

Bone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of beef, or [ 

a fat loin of mutton, after hanging several days. — j 

Beat it very well with a rolling-pin, then rub ten | 

pounds of ment with four ounces of sugar, &nd pour ■ j 

over it a ^1 iss of port, .iri.l the same of vinegar. Let 



J41 

it lie five days and nights ; wash and wipe the meat 
very dry, and season it very high with pepper, Ja- 
maica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it in yourdish, 
and to ten pounds put one pound or near of butter, 
spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round the 
edges and cover with a thick one, or it will be over- 
done before the meat be soaked : it must be done in 
a slow oven. 

Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more 
water than will cover them, and one glass of port, a 
little pepper and salt, that you may have a little rich 
gravy to add to the pasty when drawn. 

Note, — Sugar gives a greater shortness, and better 
flavour to meats than salt, too great a quantity of 
which hardens — and it is quite as great a preserva- 
tive. 

Potato Pasty. 

Boil, peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible ; 
mix them with salt, pepper, and a good bit of butter. 
Make a paste : roll it out thin like a large puflF, and 
put in the potato ; fold over one half, pinching the 
edges. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Clieap and excellent Custards. 

Boil three pints of new milk, with a bit of lemon 
peel, a bit of cinnamon, two or three bay-leaves, and 
sweeten it. Meanwhile rub down smooth, a large 
spoonful, of rice-flour into a cup of cold milk, and 
mix with it two yolks of eggs well beaten. Take a 
basin of the boiling milk and mix With the cold, and 
then pour that to the boiling ; stirring it one way 
(ill it begins to thicken, and is just going to boil up ; 
and then pour it into a pan, stir it some time, add a 
large spoonful of peach-water, two spoonfuls of bran- 
dy, or a little ratafia. 

Marbles boiled in custard, or any thing likely to 



142 

burn, will, by snasiug them ir &e sauce-pan, pre- 
vent it from catching. 

Rich Custard. 

Bail a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cmnamon, 
mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs well 
beaten ; when the milk tastes ofthe seasoning, sweet- 
en it enough for the whole ; pour it into the cream, 
stirring it well ; then give the custard a simmer till 
of a proper thickness. Do not let it boil ; stir the 
whole time one way ; season as above. If to be ex- 
tremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to 
the egg. 

Baked Custard. 

Boil one pint of cream, half a pint of milk, with 
mace, cinnamon, and lemon-peel, a little of each. — 
When cold, miy the yolks of three eggs ; sweeten, 
and make your cups or paste nearly full. Bake them 
ten minutes. 

Lemon Custard. 

Beat the yo ks of eight eggs till they are as white 
as milk ; then put to them a pint of boiling water, the 
rinds of two lemons grated, and the juice sweetened 
to your taste. Stir it on the fire till thick enough ; 
then add a large glass of rich wine, and half a glass 
of brandy ; give the whole one scald, and put in 
cups to be eaten cold. 

Almond Custard. 
Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine, with 
a spoonful of water ; beat a pint of cream with two 
spoonfuls of rose-water, and put them to the yolks 
of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pret- 
ty sweet ; then add the almonds : stir it all over a 
slow fire till it is of a proper thickness, but do not 
boil. Pour It into cups. 



143 

CheesecaKei. 

Strain the whey fiom the curd of two quarts of 
milk ; when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse 
sieve, and mix wi'h six ounces of fresh butter, one 
ounce of pounded blanched almonds, a little orange- 
flower water, half a glass of raisin-wine, a grated 
biscuit, four ounces, of currants, some nutmeg and 
cinnamon in fine powder, and beat all the above with 
three eggs, and half a pint of cream, tillouite light : 
then fill the pattypans three parts full. 
A plainer sort. 

Turn three quarts of milk to curd, break it, and 
drain the whey ; when dry, break it in a pan, with 
two ounces of butter, till perfectly smooth; put to 
it a pint and a^half of thin cream, or good milk, and 
add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and three ounces of 
currants. 

hemon Cheesecakes. 

Mix four ounces of sifted lump-sugar and four 
ounces of butter, and gently melt it ; then add the 
yolks of two and the white of one egg, and the rind 
of three lemons shred fine, and the juice of one and 
a half, one Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds 
pounded, three spoonfuls of brandy ; mix well, and 
put in paste made as follows : eight ounces of flour, 
six ounces of butter : two thirds of which mix with 
the flour first ; then wet it with six spoonfuls of wa- 
ter, and roll the remainder in. 

Orange Cheesecakes. 

When you have blanched half a pound of almonds, 
beat them very fine, with orange-flower water, and 
half a pound of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound 
of butter that has been melted carefully without oil- 
ing, and which must be nearly cold before you use 
it ; then beat the yolks of ten and whites of four 



144 

eggs ; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one 
with the bitterne.ss boiled out, in a mortar, till as 
tender as marmalade, without any lumps ; and beat 
the whole together, and put into pattypans 
Potato Cheesecakes. 

Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four ounces of 
lemon-peel; beat the latter in a mortar, with four 
ounces of sugar ; then add the potatoes, beaten, and 
four ounces of butter melted in a little cream. 
When well mixed, let it stand to grow cold. Put 
crust in pattypans, and rather more than half fill 
them. Bake in a quick oven half an hour ; sifting 
some double refined sugar on them when going to 
the oven. This quantity will make a dozen. 
Almond Cheeiecakes. 

Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, and a 
few bitter, with a spoouful of water ; then add four 
ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and 
the whites of two eggs well beaten ; mix all as 
quick as possible ; put into very small pattypans, 
and bake in a pretty warm oven under twenty mi- 
nutes. 

Another way. — Blanch and pound four ounces of 
almonds, with a little orange flower or rose water, 
then stir in the yolks of six and whites of three eggs, 
well beaten, five ounces of butter warmed, the peel 
of a lemon grated, and a little of the juice ; sweet- 
en with fine Lisbon sugar. When well mixed, bake 
in a delicate paste, in small pans. 



VEGETABLES 
Observations on dressing Vegetalles. 
Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from in 
sects and nicely washed. Boil them in plenty oi 



I4d 

water, and drain them the moment they are done 
enongh. If overboiled, they lose their beauty and 
crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with 
meat ; which is wrong, except carrots with boiling 
beef. 

To boil Vegetables green. 

Be sure the water boils when you put them in. 
Make them boil very fast. Do not cover, but wash 
them ; and if the water has not slackened, you may 
be sure they are done when they begin to sink. 
Then take:them out immediately, or the colour will 
change. Hard water, especially if chalybeat, spoils 
the colour of subh vegetables as should be green. 

To boil them green in hard water, put a tea-spooh- 
,l\il ofsalt of wormwood into the water when it boils, 
'blefore the vegetables are put in. 
Boiled Peas 

Should not be overdone, nor in much water. Chop 
eome scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piete 
of butter in with them. 

To stew green Peas. 

Put a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion both 
sliced, a bit of butter, pepper, and no more water 
than hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew 
them two hours very gently. When to be served, 
beat up an egg, and stir it into them : or a bit of 
flour and butter. 

Some think a tea-sr>oonful of white pownerea su- 
gar is an improvement. Gravy may be added ; but 
then there will be less of the flavour of the peas. — 
Chop a,bit of mint, and stew in them. 
To stew old Peas. 

- Steep them in water all nij^ht, if not fine boilers ; 
etherwise only half an hour ; put them into water 
13 



146 

enougn jtist to cover them, with a good bit of butter, 
or a piece of beef or pork. Stew them very gently 
till the peas are soft, and the meat is tender, if it is 
not salt meat, add salt and a little pepper. Serve 
them round the meat 

To dress Artichoices. 
Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the 
stalk even. If young, half an hour will boil them. 
They are better for being gathered two or three days 
first. Serve them with melted butter in as many small 
tups as there are artichokes, to help with each. 

Artichoke Bottoms. 
If dried, they must be soaked, then stewed in 
weak gravy, and served with or without forcemeat 
in each. Or they maj- be boiled in milk, and served 
with cream sauce ; or added to ragouts, French pies, 
&c. 

To stew Cucumbers. 
Slice them thick : or halve and divide them into 
two lengths ; stew some salt and pepper, and shced 
onions : add a little broth, or a bit of butter. Sim- 
mer very slowly ; and before serving, if no butter 
was in before, put some, and a little flour ; or ifthere 
was butter in, only a little flour ; unless it wants rich- 
ness. 

To stew onions. 
Peel six large onions ; fry gently of a fine brown, 
but do not blacken them ; then put them into a small 
stew-pan, with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt ; 
cover and stew two hours genl.y. They should be 
lightly floured at first. 

To stew t klery. 
Wash six heads, and strip off their outer leaves , 
either halve, or leave them whole, according to 
their size ; cut into lengths of four inches. Put in- 



147 

to a stew-pan with a cup ot Droth, or weiik white 
gravy, stew till tender ; then add two spoonfuls of 
cream, and a little flour and butter seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer all together. 
To boil Cauliflowers. 

Choose those that are close and white. Cut off 
the green leaves, and look carefully that there are 
no caterpillars about the stalk. Soak an hour in 
cold water : then boil them in milk and water ; and 
take care to skim the sauce-pan, that not the icast 
foulness may fall on the flower. It must be served 
very white, and rather crimp. 

Cauliflower in white Sauce. 

Half boil it; then cut it into handsome pieces, 
and lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a bit 
of mace, a little salt, and a dust of white pepper ; 
simmer half an hour : then put a little cream, but- 
ter and flour ; shake, and simmer a few minutes, and 
serve. 

To dreis Cauliflowers and Parmesan. 

Boil a cauliflower ; drain it on a sieve, and cut 
the stalk so that the flower will stand upright about 
two inches above the dish. Put it into the stew- 
pan, with a little white sauce ; let it stew till done 
enough, which will be but a few minutes, then dish 
it with the sauce round, and put Parmesan grated 
over it. Brown it with a salamander. 
To dress Brocoli. 

Cut the head with short stalks, and pare the 
tr:ugh skin off them. Tie the small shoots into 
bunches, and boil them a shorter time than the heads 
Some salt must be put into the water. Serve with 
or without toast. 



148 

Spinach. 

Requires great care in washing and picking it, 
VVhen that is done, throw it into a saucepan thai 
will just hold it. sprinkle it with a little salt, and 
cover close. The pan must be set on the fire, and 
well shaken. When done, beat the spinach well 
with a small bit of butter ; it must come to tab'le 
pretty dry ; and looks well if pressed into a tin 
mould in the form of a large leaf, which is sold at 
the tin-shops. A spoonful of cream is an improve- 
men.'. 

To dress Beans. 

Boil tender, with a bunch of parsley, which must 
be chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled 
pork must be served to eat with, but not boiled with 
them. 

Fricasseed Windsor Beans. 

When growing large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, 
and lay them in a white sauce ready hot : just heat 
them through ih it, and serve. If any are not of 
fine green do not use them for this dish. 
French Beans. 

String, and cut them into four or eight ; the last 
looks best. Lay them in salt and water ; and when 
the sauce-pan boils, put them in with some salt. As 
soon as they are done, serve them immediately, to 
preserve the green colour. 

Or when half-done, drain the water off, and put 
them into two spoonfuls of broth strained : and add a 
little cream, butter, and flour, to finish doing them. 
To stew red Cabbage. 

Slice a small, or half a large, red cabbage ; wash 
and put it into a sauce-pan with pepper, salt, no 
water but what hengs about it, aad h piece of butter 



Jievy [lu quite ..enuei , oiBl. viiku ^oui^ .ij icrve, 
add two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and give one 
boil over the tire. Serve it for cold meat, or with 
sausages on it. 

Another way, — Shred the cabbage, wash it ; and 
put it over a sl&w fire, with slices of onion, pepper, 
and salt, and a little plain gravy When quite ten- 
der and a few minutes before serving, add a bit of 
butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonfuls 
of vinegar, and boil up. 

Mushrooms 

The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the 
different sorts of things called by this name by ig- 
norant people, as the death of many persons has 
been occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous 
kinds. 

The eatable miishrooms first appear very small, 
and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow 
very .fast, and the upper part and stalk is white. 
As the size increases, the under part gradually 
opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine sal- 
mon-colour, which continues more or less till the 
mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to 
a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, 
and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted 
from the edges and middle. Those that have a 
white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, 
though many of them have the same smell, (but not 
bo strong,) as the right sort. 

To stew Mushrooms. 

The large buttons are best, and the small flaps 
while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons 
with salt and a bit of flannel ; cut out the fur, and 
take off the skin from the others. Sprinkle them 
with salt, and put into a stew-pan with some pepper- 
13* 



bit 0. butter ana Hour, and two spoonfuls of cream ; 

give them one boil, and serve with sippets of bread. 

To stew Sorrel for Fricandeau and roast Meat. 

Wash the sorrel ; and put it into a silver vessel, 
or stone jar, with no more water than hangs to the 
(eaves. Simmer it as slow as you can ; and when 
done enough, put a bit of butter, and beat it well. 
Frencn Salad. 

Chop three anchovies, a shallot, and some parsley, 
small ; put them into a bowl with two table-spoon- 
fuls of vinegar, one 6f oil, a little mustard and salt. 
When well mixed, add by degrees some cold roasl 
or boiled meat in very thin slices ; put in a few at a 
time, not exceeding two or three inches long. 
Shake them in the seasoning, and then put more ; 
cover the bowl close, and let the salad be prepared 
three hours before if is to be eaten. Garnish with 
parsley, and a few slices of the fat. 
Lobster Salad. 

Make a salad ; and put some of the red part of 
the lobster to it, cut. This forms a pretty contrast 
to the white and green of the vegetables. Do not 
put much oil, as shell-fish absorb the sharpness of 
vinegar. Serve in a dish, not a bowl. 
To boil Potatoes. 

Set them on a fire, without paring them, in cold 
water, let them half-boil ; then throw some salt in, 
and a pint of cold water, and let them boil again till 
almost done. Pour off the water ; anc'. put a clean 
cloth over them, and then the saucepan-cover, and 
set them by the fire to steam till ready. Many per- 
sons prefer steamers. Potatoes look best M'hen the 
skin is peeled, not cut. 



) >o new potatoes the same ; but be carefui Ihey 
9.6 taken off in time, or they will be watery. Be- 
fore dressing, rub off tb - skin with a cloth and salt, 
and then wash. 

To broil Potatoes. 

Parboil, then slice and broil them Or parboil, 
and then set them whole on the gridiron over a very 
slow fire ; and when thoroughly done, send them 
up with their skins on. This last way is practised 
in many Irish families. 

'i o roast Potatoes. 

Half-boil, take off the thin peel, and roast them 
of a beautiful brown. 

Tofrij Potatoes. 

Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice, and fry 
them, either in butter or thin batter. 
To mash Potatoes. 

Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to 
paste ; then to two pounds of them, add a quarter 
of a pint of milk, a little salt, and two ounces of 
butter, and stir it all well over the fire. Either 
serve them in this manner ; or place them on the 
dish iu a form, and then brown the top with a sala- 
mander ; or in scallops. 

Carrots 

Require a good deal of boiling ; when young, 
wipe off the skin after they are boiled ; when old, 
boil them with the salt meat, and scrape them first. 
To stew Cariots. 

Half-boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into 
a stew-pan ; put to them half a tea-cupful of any 
weak broth, some pepper and salt, and half a cupful of 
cream : simmer them till they are very tender, but 
not broken. Before serving, rub a very little flour ; 



with a bit of butter, and warm up vvith them. II ap- 
proved, chopped parsley may be added ten minutes 
before served. 

To mash Parsnips. 

Boil them tender ; scrape, then mash them into 
a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of but- 
ter, and pepper and salt. 

Fricassee of parsnips. 

Boil in milk till they are soft. I'hen cut them 
lengthways into bits two or three inches long ; and 
simmer in a white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of 
broth, a bit of mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of 
butter and some flower, pepper, and salt. 
Beet-roots 

Make a very pleasant addition to wmter salad ; of 
which they may agreeably, form a full half, instead 
of being only used to ornament it. This root is cool- 
ing, and very wholesome. 

It is extremely good, boiled and sliced with a small 
quantity of onion ; or stewed with whole onions, 
large or small as follows. 

Boil the beet tender with the skin on ; slice it in- 
to a stew-pan with a little broth, and a spoonful of 
vinegar ; simmer till the gravy is tinged with the 
colour; then put it into a small dish, and make a 
round of the button-onions, first boiled till tender ; 
take oflf the skin just before serving, and mind they 
be quite hot, and clear. 

Or roast three large onions, and peel off the outer 
skins till they look clear ; and serve the beet-root 
stewed round them. 

If beet-root is in the kast broken before dressed, 
it parts with its cirfour, and looks ill. 



153 

SWEET DISHES, PRESERVES, SWEETMEATS, &C. 

Buttered Rice. 

Wash and pick some rice, drain, and put it with 
gome new milk, enough just to swell it, over the 
fire ; when tender, pour off the milk, and add a 
bit of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon. 
Shake it, that it does not burn, and serve. 
Souffle nf Rice and Jpj^les. 

Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and set it to boil in 
milk, wiih lemon-peel und a bit of cinnamon. Let 
it boil till the rice is dry ; then cool it, and raise a 
rim three inches high round the dish ; having egged 
the dish where it is put, to make it stick. Then€gg 
the rice all over. Fill the dish half-way up with a 
marmalade of apples ; have ready the whites of four 
eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them over the 
marmalade : then sift fine sugar over it, and set it in 
the oven, which should be warm enough to give it a 
beautiful colour. 

Snow Balls. 

Swell rice in milk, strain it off ; and having pared 
and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying 
each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, 
or cinnamon, in each, and boil them well. 
Lent Potatoes, 

Beat three or f^ur ounces of almonds, and three 
or four bitter, when blanched, putting a little orange- 
fiower water Vo prevent oiling ; add eight ounces of 
butter, four eggs well beateJ and strained, half a 
glass of raisin wine, and sugar to your taste. Beat 
all well till quite smooth, and grate in three Savoy 
biscuits. Make balls of the above with a little flour, 
the size o.f a chestnut ; throw them into a stew-pan of 
boiling lard, and boil them of a beautiful yellow 
brown. Drain them. Serve sweet sauce in a boat. 



1 54 

Jl Taruey 
Beat seven eggs, yolks and'whites separately ; add 
a pint of cream, near tiw. same of spinach-juice, and 
a little tansey-juice gained by pounding in a stone 
mortar, a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuit, su- 
gar to taste, a glass of white wine, and some nutmeg. 
Set all in a sauce-pan, just to thicken, over the fire ; 
then put it into a dish, lined with paste, to turn out, 
and bake it. 

Puits d' Amour. 
Cut a fine rich puff-pr.ste rolled thin, with tin 
shapes made on purpose, one size less than another, 
in a pyramidical form, and lay them so : then bake 
in a moderate oven, that the paste may be clone suf- 
ficiently, but very pale. Lay different coloured 
sweetmeats on the edges. 

A very nice dish of Macaroni dressed sweet. 

Boil two ounces in a pint of milk, with s bit of 
lemon-peel, and agood bit of cinnamon, till the pipes 
are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. — 
Lay them on a cu-stard-dish, and pour a custard over 
them hot. Serve cold. 

Floating Island. 

Scald a codlin befo^re it be ripe, or any sharp ap- 
ple ; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of 
two eggs with sugar, and a spooni'ul of orange flow- 
er-water ; mix in by degrees the pulp, and beat all 
together until you have a large quantity of froth , 
serve it on a raspberry-cream ; or you may colour 
the froth with beet-root, raspberry, currant-jelly, 
and set it on a white cream, having given it the fla- 
vour of lemon, sugar, and wine ; or put the froth on 
a custare 



155 

Flummery. 

Put thiee large handfuls of very small white oat- 
meal Ic steep a Aay and night in cold water ; then 
pour it off clear, and add as much more water, and 
let it stand the same time. Strain it through a fine 
hair sieve, and boil it till it be as thick as hasty pud- 
ding ; stirring it well all the time. When first 
strained, put to it one large spoonful of white sugar 
and two of orange-flower water. Pour it into shal- 
low dishes, and serve to eat with wine, cider, milk 
or cream, or sugar. It is very good. 
Rice Flummery. 

Boil with a pintof new milk, a bit of lemon-peel, 
and cinnamon ; mix with a little cold milk as much 
rice flour as will make the whole of a good consis- 
tence, sweeten, and add a spoon of peach- water, or 
a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, observing it do not 
burn ; pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking out 
the spice. When cold, turn the flummery into a 
dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard round : 
or put a tea-cupful of cream into half a pint of new 
milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon squeezed : 
and sugar. 

Finnity, 

To a quart of ready boiled wheat, but by degrees 
two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and then 
four ounces of currants picked clean, and washed • 
stir them and boil till they are done. Beat the yolks 
of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, with two or three 
spoonfuls of milk ; add this to the wheat ; stir them 
together while over the fire ; then sweeten, and 
serve cold in a deep dish. Some persons like it 
best warm. 

Curds and Cream. 

Put three or four pints of milk into a pan a little 



15<> 

warm, and then aid rennet or gallino. When the 
curd is come lade it with a saucer into an earthern 
ghape, perforated, of any form you please. Fill it 
up as the whey drains off, without breaking or press 
ing the curd. If turned only two hours before 
wanted, it is very light ; but those who like it har- 
der, may hare it so, by making it earlier, and squeez- 
ing it. Cream, milk or a whip of cream, sugar, 
wine, and lemon, to be put in the dish, or into a glass 
bowl, to serve with the curd. 

A Curd Star. 

Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with two or 
three blades of mace ; and when ready to boil, put 
to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, 
and as much salt as will lie upon a small knife's 
point. Let it boil till the whey is clear ; then drain 
it in a thin cloth, or hair sieve ; season it with su- 
gar, and a little cinnamon, rose-water, orange-flower 
water, or white wine, to your taste : and put into a 
star form, or any other. Let it stand some hours 
before you turn it into a dish : then put round it 
thick cream or custard. 

Blanc-mange or Blamange. 

Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half-pints of 
water half an hour ; strain it into a pint and a half 
of cream, sweeten it, and add some peach water, or 
a few bitter almonds, let it boil once up, and put in- 
to what forms you please. If not to be very stiff, a 
little less isinglass will do. Observe to let thp 
blamange settle before you turn it into the forms, Oi 
the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and be 
on the top of the blamange when taken out of the 
moulds. 

Gooseberry, or Apple Trifle. 

Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits, as, 



157 

when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick lay- 
er at the hottom of your dish ; if of apples mix the 
rind of half a lemon grated fine ; and to both as much 
sugar as will be pleasant. 

Mixhalfapintof milk, halfa pint of cream, the 
yolk of one egg ; give it a scald over the fire, and 
stir it all the time ; do not let it boil : , add a little su- 
gar only, and let it grow cold. Lay it over the ap- 
ples with a spoon ; and then put on it a. whip made 
the day before, as for other trifle. 

Chantilly Cake, or Cake Trifle. 

Bake a rice cake in a mould. When cold, cut it 
round about two inches from the edge with a sharp 
knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put 
in thick custard, and some tea-spoonfuls of raspber- 
ry jam, and then put on a high whip 
Gooseberry Fool. 

Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good Lis- 
bon sugar : set the jar on a stove, or in a sauce-pan 
of water over the fire ; if the former, a large spoon- 
ful of water should be added to the fruit. When it 
is done enough to pulp, press it through a colander ; 
have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk, and a 
tea-cup of raw cream, boiled together, or an e^ in- 
stead of the latter, and left to be cold: then sweeten 
it pretty well with fine Lisbon sugar, and mix the 
pulp by degrees with it. 

Orange Fool. 

Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three eggs 
well beaten, a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cin- 
namon, and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole 
over a slow fire, and stir it till it becomes as thick 
as gord melted buttei . but it must not be bfiiled ; 
then Dourit into a dish foi eating cold 
14 



158 

j9 Cream. 
Doil half a pint of cream, andhalfapnt of milk, 
with two hay-leaves, a bit of lemon-pee!, a tew al- 
monds, heaten to paste, with a diop of water, a little 
sugar, orange-flower water, and a tea-spoonful of 
flour, having been rubbed down with a little cold 
milk, and mixed with the above. When cold, put 
a little lemon-juice to the cream, and serve it in cups 
or lemonade-glasses. 

An excellent Cream. 

Whip up three quarters of a pint of very rich 
cream to a strong froth, with some finely scraped 
lemon-peel, a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of 
sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant, but not too 
sweet ; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and next day 
put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff 
paste biscuits, made in tin shapes the length of a fin- 
ger, and about two thick, ove-r which sugar may be 
strewed, or a little glaze with isinglass. Or you 
may use macaroons, to line the edges of the dish. 
Burnt Cream. 

Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, and 
some lemon-peel ; take it off the fire, and pour it 
very slowly into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till 
half cold ; sweeten, and take out the spice, &c. ; 
pour it iuto the dish ; when cold, strew white pound 
ed sugar over and brown it with a salamander. 
Sack Cream. 

Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well 
beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, 
and lemon-peel ; stir it over a gentle fire till it is as 
thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold ; then 
serve it in glasses, with long pieces of dry toast. 



1 9 

Brandy Cream. 

Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and pounded 
bitter almonds, in a little milk. When cold, add to 
it the yolks of five eggs beaten well in a little cream, 
sweeten, and put to it two glasses of the best brandy ; 
and when well mixed, pour to it a quart of thin 
cream ; set it over the fire, but do not let it boil : 
stir it one way till it thickens, then pour into cups or 
low glasses. 

When cold it will be ready. A ratafia-drop may 
be put in each if you choose it. If you wish it to 
keep, scald the cream previously. 
Ratafia Cream. 

Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarme 
leaves, in a full pint of cream ; strain it, and when 
cold, add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strain- 
ed, sugar, and a large spoonful of brandy stirred 
quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring it all the time. 

Lemon Cream. 

Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the 
yolks of two eggs well beaten, four ounces of fine 
sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon ; boil it up, then 
stir it till almost cold ; put the juice of a lemon in a 
dish, or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring 
it till quite cold. 

White Lemon Cream. 

Is made the same as the above ; only put the 
whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks , whisking it 
extremely well to froth. 

Almond Cream 

Beat four ounces of sweet almonds, and a few 

bitter, in a mortar, with a tea-spoonful of water t3 

prevent oiling, both having been blanched. Put the 

paste to a quart of ""■•wn, and add the juice of three 



150 

.emons sweetened ; beat it up with a whisk to a 
froth, which take off on the shallow part of a sieve ; 
fill glasses with some of the liquor and the froth. 
Snow Cream. 

Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs 
well beaten, four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to 
your taste, and a bit of lemon-peel ; whip it to a 
froth, remove the peel, and serve in a dish. 
Cqffee-crcam, much admired. 

Boil a calf's fool in water till.it wastes to a pint of 
jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of 
very strong coffee ; clear it with a bit of isinglass to 
be perfectly bright ; pour it to the jelly, and add a 
pint of very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon 
sugar as is pleasant ; give one boil up, and pour 
into the dish. 

It should jelly, put not be stiff. Observe that 
your coffee be fresh. 

Excellent Orange Cream. 

Boil the rind of a Seville orange very tender ; 
beat it fine in a mortar, put it to a spoonful of the 
best brandy, the juice of a Seville oi"ange, four oun- 
ces of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; beat all 
together for ten minutes, then, by gentle degrees, 
pour in a pint of boiling cream, beat till cold, put 
into custard-cups set into a deep dish of boiling 
water, and let them stand till cold again. Put at the 
top small strips of orange-paring, cut thin, or pre- 
served chips. 

Raspberry Cream. 

Mash the fruit gently, and let them drain, Ihen 
sprinkle a little **igar over, and that will produce 
more juice, then put the juice to some cream, and 
sweeten it, after which, if you choose to lower it 



I6I 

with some milk, it will not curdle, which it would, 
if put to the milk before the cream, but it is the best 
made of raspberry-jelly instead of jam, when the 
fresh fruit cannot be obtained. 

Pistachio Cream. 

Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts ; beat them 
fine with a little rose-water, and add the paste to a 
pint of cream; sweeten, let it just boil, and put it 
into glasses. 

Clovted Cream. 

String four blades of mace on a thread ; put 
them on a gill of new milk, and six spoonfuls of rose- 
water, simmer a few minutes, then by degrees stir 
this liquor strained into the yolks of two new eggs 
well beaten. Stir the whole into a quart of very 
good cream, and set it over the fire ; stir it till hot, 
but not boiling hot ; pour it into a deep dish, and 
let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream 
dish, to eat with fruits. Many people prefer it 
without any flavour but that of cream, in which case 
use a quart of new milk and the cream, or do it as 
the Devonshire scalded cream. 

When done enough, a round mark will appear oa 
the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of 
the pan it is done in, which in the country they call 
the ring ; and when that is seen, remove the pan 
from the fire. 

A Froth to set on Cream, Custard, or Trifle, which 
Af looks and eats well. 

Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of damsons, or 
any other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whites of 
four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them until 
it will stand as high as you choose ; and being put on 
the cream, &c. with a spoon, it will tak" aay form 
it should be rough, fo imitate a rock 
14* 



162 

Calf's Feet Jelly. 

Boil two feet ^n two quarts and a pint of water till 
the feet are broken and the water half wasted ; strain 
it, and when cold, take ofif the fat, and remove the 
Ully from the sediment ; Uien put it in-t" a sauce- 
pan, with sugar, raisin nine, lemon juice to your 
taste, and some lemon-peel. When the flavour is 
rich, put to it the white of five eggs well beaten, and 
their shells broken. Set the sauce-pan on the fire, 
but do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let 
it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head ; then 
pour it through a flannel jelly-bag. first dipping the 
bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it 
quite dry. Run the jelly through and (hrough un- 
til clear ; then put it into glasses or forms. 

The following mode w'll greatly facilitate the 
clearing of jelly. , When the mixture h&s boiled 
twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water, 
let it boil five minutes longer : then take t'he sauce- 
pan off the fire covered close, and keep it half an 
hour ; after which it will be so clear as to&eed only 
once running through the bag, and much waste will 
be saved. 

Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by 
the people who sell them, that thay are less nutri- 
cious : they should only be scalded to take off the hair. 
The liquor will require greater care in removing the 
fat, but the jelly will be far stronger, and of course 
allow more water. J^ote : jeliy is equally good made 
of cow-heels nicely cleaned ; and as they bear a 
less price than those of calves, and make a stronger 
jelly, this observation may be useful. 
Orange Jelly. 

Grate the rind of two Seville and two China Oran- 
ges, and two lemons, squeeze the juice of three of 



163 

each, and strain, and add the juice of a quarter of a 
pound of lump sugar, and a quarter ef a pint of wa- 
ter, and boil till it almost .candies. Have ready a 
quart of isinglass-jelly made with two ounces; put 
to it the syrup, and boil it once up; strain off the 
jelly, and let it ^and to settle as above, before it ia 
put into the mould. 

Hartshorn Jelly. 

Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn shavings with 
two quarts of water to one ; strain it, and boil it 
with the rinds of four China oranges and two lemons 
pared thin ; when cool, add the juice of both, half a 
pound of sugar, and the whites of sis eggs beaten to 
froth ; let the jelly have three or four boils without 
stirring, and strain it through a jelly bag. 
Cranberry Jelly. 

Make a very strong isinglass-jelly. When cold, 
mix it with a double quantity of cranberry-juice, 
pressed as directed for dressing cranberries, (see 
preserves;) sweeten and boil it up ; then strain it in- 
to a shape. 

The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not 
be clear. 

Cranberry and Rice Jelly. 

Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice and by 
degrees mix it into as much ground rice as will, whea 
boiled, thicken to a jelly j boil it gently, stirring it, 
and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, 
and serve to eat as the afore-directed jelly, with milk 
or cream. 

Apple Jelly to serve at table. 

Prepare twentj' golden pippins ,• boil them in a 
pint and a half of water from the spring, till quite 
tender; then strain the liquor through a colander 



1(34 

To every pint put a pound of fine sugar, add grated 
orange or lemon, then boil to a jelly. 
To scald Codlins. 

Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them close in 
a nice saoce-pan, and when full, pour as much water 
as will cover them. Set it over a gentle fire, and 
let them sjmmer slowly till done enough to take the 
thin skin off when cold. Place them in a dish, with or 
without milk, cream, or custard ; if tne latter, there 
should be no ratafia. Dust fine sugar over the ap- 
ples. 

Stewed Golden Pippins. 

Scoop out the core, pare them very thin, and as 
you do it, throw them in water. For every pound 
of fruit, make half a pound of single-refined sugar 
into syrup, with a pint of water, whenskimmod, put 
the pippins in, and stew till clear ; then grate the le- 
mon over, and serve in the syrup. Be careful not 
to let them break. 

They are an elegant and good dish for a corner or 
dessert. 

Black Caps. 

Halve and core some fine large apples, put them 
in a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake 
them. Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and 
sweeten it for sauce. 

Stewed Pears. 

Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, accord- 
ing to their size ; throw them into water, as the skin 
is taken off, before they are divided, to prevent their 
turning black. Pack them round a block -tin stew- 
pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make 
them pretty sweet, and add lemon-peel, a clove or 
two, and some alspice cracked ; just cover them with 
water, and put some of the red liquor, as directed in 



165 

another article. Cover them close, and stew three 
or four hours ; when tender, take them out, an'l 
pour the liquor from them. 

Baked Pears. 

These need not be of a fine sort ; but some taste 
better than others, and often those that are least 
fit to eat raw. Wipe but do not pare, and lay them 
on tm plates, and bake them in a slow oven. When 
eiiough to bear ii flatten them with a silver spooD. 
When done through, put them on the dish. They 
should be baked three or four times and ver^ 
gently. 

Orange Butter. 

Boil six hard eggs, beat them in a mortar with two 
ounces of fine sngar, three ounces of butter, ana 
two ounces of blanched almonds beaten to a pMle. 
Moisten with orange-flower water, and when all is 
mixed, rub it through a colander on a dish, and 
serve sweet biscuits between. 
To prepare Fruit for Children, afar more » holenome 
way than in Pies and Puddings. 

Pot apples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseber- 
ries, &c. into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lis 
bon sugar as necessary among them, set the jar on a 
hot hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water, and let it re- 
main till the fruit is perfectly done. 

jlices of b<read, or rice may be either stewed with 
the fruit or added when eaten ; the nee being plain- 
boiled. 

To prepaie Ice for Iceing 

Get a few pounds of ice, bieak it almost to pow- 
der, throw a large handful and a half of salt among 
it. You must prepare in a part of the house where 
as little of the warm air comes as you can possibly 



166 

contrive. The ice and salt being in a backet, put 
your cream into an ice-pot, and cover it ; immerse 
it in the ice, and draw tliat round the pot, so as to 
touch every possible part. In a few minutes put a 
spatula or spoon in. and stir it well, i-emoving the 
parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If the 
ice cream, or water, be in a form, shut the bot- 
toom close, and move the whole in the ice, as 
you rannot use a spoon to that without danger of 
waste. There ^ould be holes in the bucket, to let 
oif the ice as it thaws. . 

Note. — When any fluid tends towards cold, the 
nioving it quickly- accelerates the cold; and like 
wise, when any fluid is tending to heat, stirrisg i' 
will facilitate its boiling. 

he Waters. 

Rub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give 
the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice o< 
either on its respective peel : add water and sugai 
to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it be put 
into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater proportion 
should be of the China juice, and only a little ol 
Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by th<- 
gugar 

Currant or Raspberry-Water Ice. 

The juice of these, or any other sort of fruit, be- 
ing gained by squeezing, sweetened, and mixed with 
water will be ready for idng. 

Ice-Creams. 

Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugar as 
will be wanted, before you add cream, which should 
be of a middle richness. 

Brown Bread Ice. 



167 

a^mall proportion in cream two or thiee hours, 
sweeten and ice it. 

Ratafia Cream. 

Blanch a quarter Oi an ounce of bitter almonds, 
and beat th^m in a tea-spoonful of water in a mar- 
ble mortar ; then rub with the paste two ounces (,l 
lump-sugar, and simmer ten minutes with a tea-cup 
of cream, which add to a quart more of cream, anJ 
having strained, ice it. 

Colourings to stain Jellies, I- or Cakes. 

For a beautiful red, boilfiftefi grains of cochineal 
in the finest powder, with a drachm and a half of cream 
of tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an 
hour. Add in boiling a bit of allum the size of a pea, 
Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured 
over. For white use almonds finely powdered, with 
s little water : or use cream. 

For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of safiron, steep- 
ed in liquor and squeezed. 

For green, pound spinach-leaves or beet-leaves, 
express the juice, and boil in a sauce-pan in a tea- 
cupful of water to take off the rawness. 
London Syllabub. 

Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a 
bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar ; then 
milk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If 
the wine be not rather sharp, it will require moi-e 
for this quantity of milk. 

Syllabub. 

Put a pint of cider and a glass of brandy, sugar and 
nutmeg into a bowl, and milk into it ; or pour warm 
milk from a large tea-pot some height into it. 
A very fine Syllabub. 

In a large China bow' put a pint oCport, and a pint 



f68' 

of sherry, or other white wine ; sugar to taste -» 
Milk the bowl full. In twenty minuses' time, cover 
it pretty high with clouted cream ; grate over <* 
nutmeg, put pounded cinnamon, and nonpariel coo 
fits. 

Junket. 

Put warm milk int" a bowl : turn it with rennet ; 
then put some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon, 
on the top, without breaking the curd. 

Everlasting, or solid Syllabubs. 

Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of re- 
fined sugar, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine, in a 
deep pan ; put to it the grated peel and the juice oi 
•hree lemons. Beat, or whisk it one way half an 
hour ; then put it on a sieve with a bit of thin mus- 
lin laid smooth in the shallow end till next day. Put 
it in glasses. It will keep good in a cool place, ten 
days. 

Lemon Honeycomb. 

Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and 
put in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white 
of an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and 
a little sugar ; whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it 
on the lenaon-juice. Do it the day before it is to be 
used. 

Rice and Sago Milki 

Are made by washing the seeds nicely, and sim- 
mering with milk over a slow fire till sufficiently 
done. The former sort requires lemon, spice, and 
sugar ; the latter is good without any thing to fla- 
vour rt. 

A pretty Supper Dish. 

Boil a tea-cupful of rice, having first washed it in 
milk till tender : strain off the milk, lay the rice in 
little heaps on a dish!, strew "■ver them some finely 



169 

p; ^ lered sugar and cinnamoD, and put warm tvme 
tz d a little butter into the disL. > 

Savoury Rice. 
vV ash and pick some rice, stew it very gently ir 
d small quantity of veal or rich mutton broth, with 
an onion, a blade of mace, pepper, and salt. When 
swelled, but not boiled to mash, dry it on the shallow 
ead of a sieve before the fire, and either serve it dry, 
c r put it in the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy 
I 3und, having heated it. 

Salmagundy 
Is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if 
he colours of the in^edients are varied. For this 
urpose chop separately the white part of cold chick- 
m or veal, yolks of eggs boiled hard, the whites of 
eggs, parsley, half a dozen anchovies, beet-root, red 
pickled cabbage, ham and grated tongue, or any 
thing well flavoured, and of a good colour. Some 
people like a small proportion of onion, but it may 
be better omitted. A saucer, large tea-cup, or any 
other base, must be put into a small dish ; then make 
rows round it wide at bottom, and growing smaller 
towards the top ; choosing such of the ingredients 
for each row as will most vary the colours. At the 
top a little sprig of curie'' parsley may be stuck in, 
or, without any thing on the dish, the salmagundy 
may be laid in rows, or put into the half whites of 
eggs, which may be made to stand upright by cutting 
ofl' a little bit at the round end. In the latter case, 
ach half egg has but one ingredient. Curled but- 
ter and parsley may be put as garnish between. 
Macaroni as usually served. 
Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, pretty well 
flavoured with salt When tender, put it into a dish 
fi 



no 

without the liquor, ana among it put some bits Oi 
butter and grated cheese, and over the top grate 
more, and a little more butter. Set the dish into a 
Dutch oven a quarter of an hour, but do not let the 
top become hard. 

Another way. — Wash it well, and simmer in half 
~ Uk and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is ten- 
ner. To a spoonful of this liquor put the yolk of an 
egg beaten in a spoonful of cream, just make it hot 
to thicken, but not boil: put it over the macaroni, 
!ind then grate fine old cheese all over, and bits oi 
butter. Brown with the salamander. 
Owlet. ' 

Make a battftr of eggs and milk, and a very little 
flour ; put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or 
chives or a very small quantity of shallot (the latter 
IS best) a little pepper, salt, tmd a scrape or two oi 
ai.itmeg. Make some butter boil in a small trying- 
pan, and pour the above batter into it ; when one 
side is of a fine yellow brown, turn it, and do the 
other. Double it when served. Some scraped lean 
ham, or grated tongue, put in at first, js a very plea- 
sant addition. Four eggs will make a pretty sized 
omlet ; but many cooks will use eight or ten. A 
small proportion of flour should be used. 

Ifthe taste be approved, a HrtZe taragon gives a 
fine flavour. A good deal of parsley should be used. 

Ramakins and omlet, though usually served in the 
course, would be much better if they were sent up 
after, that they might be eaten as hot as possible. 
Ramakins. 

Sorape a quarter of a pound of Cheshire, and ditto 
of' Gloucester cheese, ditto of good fresh butter ; 
then beat all in a mortar with the yolks eff^'Jr ejrgs, 
aud the inside of a small French roll boiled in cream 



171 

till soft ; mix tbe paste then with the whites of the 
eggs previously beaten, and put into small papet 
pans made rather long than square, and bake in a 
Dutch oven till of a fine brown. They should be 
eaten quite hot. Some like the addition of a glass 
of white wine. 

The batter for ramakins is equally good over ma- 
caroni when boiled tender ; or on stewed broccoli, 
celery, or cauliflower ; a little of the gravy they 
have been stewed in being put in the dish with them, 
but not enough to make the vegetable swim. 
Roast Cheese, to come up after Dinr^r. 

Grate three ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it 
with the yolks of two eggs, lour ounces of grated 
bread, and three ouncps of butter,- bea he whole 
well in a mortar, with a JesarVt-Sfooofu Df mustard, 
and a little salt and pcopei least sorae bread, 
cut it into proper pieiJ-s, 'a> tl* ^jaste as above 
thick upon them, put thim iri.o a ii'utch oren cover 
ed with a dish, till hot throufjn, remove the dish, 
and let the cheese brown a ai'de. Serve as hot as 
possible. 

WeUh Rauil. 

Toast a slice of bread on both sides, imd butter it ; 
toast a slice of Gloucest, y: :heese on one side, and 
lay that next the bread, and toast he other with a 
salamander ; rub mustard oyer, Fao. serve rery hot, 
and covered. 

Cheer. Toasf. 

Mix some fine butler, made roustart? M.d salt, into 
a mass ; spread it on I .esh-made thm ioasts, and 
grated or scrape Glouce-iter cheese upot them. 
Ancho 'ly Toast. 

Bone and skin six or eght "'•-'►>ov.fis : pound them 



173 

o a mess with an ounce of fine butter till the colouf 
is equal, and then spread it on toasts or rusks. 
To poach Eggs. 
Set a stew-pan with water on the tire ; when 
boiUng, slip an egg previously broken into a cup, 
into the water ; when the white looks done enougn 
slide an egg-slice under the egg, and lay it on toast 
and batter, of spinach. As soon as enough are 
done, serve hot. If not fresh laid they will not 
poach well, and without breaking. Trim the rag- 
ged part of the whites, and mate them look round 
To boil Eggs. 
Put them in when the water boils ; three minutes 
and a half will boil them soft, and five or six hard 
Buttered Eggs. 
Beat four or five eggs, yolks and whites together, 
put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and 
then put that in boiling water ; stir it till melted, 
then pour that butter and eggs into a saucepan ; 
keep a basin in your hand, just hold the sauce-pan 
in the other o; er a slow part of the fire, shaking i' 
one way, as it begins to warm ; pour it into a basin 
and back, then hold it again over the fire, stirring it 
constantly in the sauce-pan, and pouring it into a Ik>- 
sin, more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until 
they shall be hot without boiling. 

Serve on toasted bread : or in a basin, to eat 
with salt fish, or red herrings. 
Scotch Eggs. 
Boil hard five pullet's eggs, and without remov- 
ing the white, cover completely with a fine relishing 
forcemeat, in which let scraped ham, or chopped 
anchovy, bear a due projportion Fry of a beaudf-! 



173 

yellow brown, and serve with a good gravy in the 
<lish. 

A Pepper-pot. 

To three quarts of water, put such vegetables a« 
you choose ; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, and 
two or three onions ; in winter, carrots, turnips, 
onions, and celery. Cut them very small, and stew 
them with twopoundsof neck of mutton, and a pound 
of pickled pork, till quite tender. Half an hour be- 
fore serving, clear a lobster or crab from the shell, 
and put it into the stew. Some people choose very 
small suet dumplings boiled in the above. Season 
with salt and Cayenne. 

Instead of mutton you may put a fowl. Pepper- 
pot may be made of various things, and is under- 
stood to be a proper mixture'of fish, flesh, fowl, ve- 
getables, and pulse. A small quantity of rice should 
be boiled with the whole. 

SWEETMEATS. 

To green Fruits Jar preserving or pickling. 

Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches, 
vchile green, for the first, or radish-pods, French 
beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both pro 
cesses ; and put them with vine-leaves under anu 
over, into a block-tin preserving pan, with spring- 
water to cover them, and then the tin cover to ex- 
clude all air. Set it on the side of a fire, and when 
they begin to simmer, take them off, pour off the 
water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, 
and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with 
a slice : they are to be peeled, and then done accor- 
ding to the receipts for the several modes 
To clarify Sugar for Swetmeats. 

Break as much as required in large lumps, and 
15* 



174 

put a pound to a naif a pint of water in a bowl, and 
it will dissolve better than when broken small. Set 
it over the fire, and the well whipt white of an egg ; 
let it boil up, and, when ready to run over, pour a 
little cold water in to give it a check ; but when it 
rises a second time, take it off the fire, and set it by 
in the pan a quarter of an hour, during which the 
foulness will sink to the bottom, and leave a black 
scum on the top, which take off gently With a skim- 
mer and pour. the syrup into a vessel very quickly 
from the sediment. 

To candy any sort of Fruit. 

When finished in the syrup, put a layer into a 
new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot wafer, to 
take off the syrup that hangs aboui it ; put it on a 
napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some 
more in the sieve. Have ready sifted doubled re- 
fined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides till 
quite white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves in 
a lightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. 
It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and 
it will be beautiful. 

To preserve Apricots with Jelly. 

Pare the fruit Tier^ thin, and stone it ; weigh an 
equal quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew 
over it. Next day boil very gently till they are , 
clear, move them into a bowl, and pour the liquor 
over. The following day pour the liquor into a 
quart of codlin-liquor, made by boiling and straining, 
and a pound of fine sugar ; let it boil quickly till it 
will jelly: put the fruit into it, and give one boil, 
skim well, and put into small pots. 

2'o preserve green Apricots. 

Lay vine or apricot leaves at the bottom of yon; 



175 

pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper 
layer being thick with leaves : then fill with spring 
water, and cover down that no steam may come out. 
Set the pan at a distance from the fire, that in four 
or five hours they may be only soft, but not crack- 
ed. Make a thin syrup of some of the water, drain 
the fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit into 
the pan, and the syrup to it ; put the pan at a pro- 
per distance from the fire till the apricots green, but 
on no account boil or crack ; remove them very 
carefully into a pan with the syrup for two or three 
days ; then pour off as much of it as will be neces- 
sary, and boil with mcfre,<sugar to make a rich syrup, 
and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, 
and the thin syrup has all been drained from the 
fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will serve 
to sweeten pies. 

Apricots or Peaches in Brandy. 

Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready ■,< 
quarter of the weight of fine sugar in fine powder 
Put the fruit into an ice-pot that shuts very close j 
throw the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with 
brandy. Between the top and the cover of the pot, 
put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into 3 
saucepan of water till the brandy be as hot as you 
can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it must 
not boil. Put the fruit into ajar, and pour th bran- 
dy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, and tie it 
down tight. 

■Apricot Cheese. 

Weigh an equal quantity of pared fruit and sugar, 
wet the latter a very little, and let it boil quickly, or 
the colour will be spoiled ; blanch the kerBcls, and 
add to 't. Twenty or thirty minutes will boil it. — 
Put it in small pots or cups half filled- 



176 

Orange Marmalade. 

Rasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil the 
rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. 
Boil three pounds of loaf sugar in a pint ot water, 
skim it, and a pound of the rind : boil it fast till the 
syrup is very thick, but stir it carefully ; then put 
a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeiis having been 
removed, and a pint of apple liquor ; boil all gen- 
tly until well jellied, which it will be in about half 
an hour. Put it into small pots. 

Lemon marmalade do in the same way ; they are 
very good and elegant sweetmeats. 

Transparent Marmalade. 

Cut the palest Seville oranges in quarters, take 
the pulp out, and put it in a basin, pick out the seeds 
und skins. Let the outsides soak m water with a 
little salt all night, then boil them in a good quantity 
of spring water till tender ; drain, and cut them in 
very thin slices, and put them to the pulp ; and to 
?very pound, a pound and a half of double refi- 
ned sugar beaten fine ; boil them together twenty 
minutes, but be careful not to break the slices. If 
not quite clear, simmer five or six minutes longer, 
ft must be stirred all the time very gently. When 
-■.old, put it into glasses. 

Orange Chips. 

Cut iranges in halves, squeeze the juice through 
a sieve ; soak the peel in water ; next day boil in 
the same till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, 
put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put 
all together into a broad earthen dish, and put ovei 
the fire at a moderate distance, often stirring till the 
■jhips candy ; then set them in a cool room to dry. 
They will not be so under three weeks. 



'^^ ';^= ^ '.-.. .^.r ■'rsm 



177 



Orange-flower Cakes. 

Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into 
cold water for an hour ; drain, and put between nap- 
kins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised ; 
then have ready boiled a pound of sugar to add to it 
in a thick syrup, give them a simmer until the syrup 
adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little cakes 
^n a plate, and dry as before directed. 

To preserve Strawberries whole. 

Take equal weights of the fruit and double-refi 
aed sugar : lay the former in a large dish, and sprin 
kle half the sugar in fine powder over ; give a gen- 
tle shake to the dish, that the sugar may touch the 
under sides of the fruit. Next day make a thin sy- 
rup with the remainder of the sugar, and, instead of 
water, allow one pint of red currant juice to every 
pound of strawberries ; in this, simmer them until 
sufiiciently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or 
others, when not dead ripe. In either of the above 
ways, they eat well served in thin cream, in glasses. 

They are for desserts : and are also useful as a 
stomachic, to carry in the pocket or on long journeys, 
or for gentlemen when shooting, and for gouty sto 
machs. 

To preserve Strawberries in Wine. 

Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into 
a large gooseberry bottle, and strew in three large 
spoonful? of fine sugar- fill up with Madeira wine, or 
Sne sheriy. 

To dry Cherries the best way. 

To every five pounds of cherries stoned, weigh 
one oi sugar double refined. Put the fruit into the 
preservingpan with Tierj/littlo water, makeboth "cald- 
ma; hot ; take the fruit out and immediately dry them ; 
out them into the pan again, strewing the sugar be- 



178 

tween each layer of cherries ; let it stand to melt , 
then set the pan on the tire, and make it scalding hot 
as before ; take it off, and repeat this thrice with 
the sugar. Drain them from the syrup ; and lay 
them singly to dry on dishes, in the sun or on a stove. 
When dry, put them into a sieve, dip it into a pan of 
cold water, and draw it mstantly out. again, and pour 
them on a fine soft cloth ; dry them, and set them 
once more in the hot sun, or on a stove. Keep 
them in a box, with layers of white paper, in a dry 
place. This way is the best to give plumpness to 
the fruit, as well as colour and flavour. 
Cherries in Brandy. 

Weigh the finest morellas, having cut off half the 
stalk ; prick them with a new needle, and drop them 
into a jar or wide mouthed bottle. Pound three quar- 
ters tlie weight of sugar or white candy ; strew over ; 
fill up with brandy, and tie a bladder over. 
Clierry Jam. 

To twelve pounds of Kentish or duke cherries, 
when ripe, weigh one pound of sugar ; break the 
stones of part, and blanch them ; then put them to 
the fruit and sugar, and boil all gently till the jam 
comes clear from the pan. Pour it into China plates 
to come up dry to table. Keep in boxes with white 
paper between. 

Currant Jam, black, red, or white. 

Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean from the 
stalks, bruise it, and to every pound put three quar- 
ters of a pound of loaf-sugar ; stir it well and boil 
half an hour. 

Currant Jelly, red or black. 

Sti ip the fruit and in a stone jar strew them in a 
pauce-pan of water, or by boihng it on the hot hearth , 



170 

strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh u 
pound of loaf-sugar ; put the latter in large lumps 
into it, in a stone or China vessel, till nearly dis- 
solved ; then put it in a preserving-pan ; simmer 
and skim as necessary. When it Will jelly on a 
plate, put it in small jars or glasses. 
Apple Marmalade. 

Scald apples till they will pulp from the core 
then take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps 
iust dip them in water, and hoiling it till it can be 
well skimined, and is a thick syrup, put to it the 
pulp, and simmer it on a quick fire a ' quarter of an 
hour. Grate a little lemon-peel before boiled, but 
if too much it will be bitter. 

Apple Jelly for preserving Apncots, or any sort oj 
Sweetmeats. 

Let apples be pared, quartered, and cored ; put 
them into a stew-pan with as much water as will co- 
ver them, boil as fast as possible ; when the fruit is 
all in a mash, add a quai't of water ; boil half an 
hour more, and run through a jelly-bag. 

If in summer, codlins are best : in Septembei 
golden rennets, or winter pippins. 

Red Apples in Jelly. 

Pare and core some well shaped apples, pippins, 
or golden rennets if you have them, but others will 
do : throw them into water as you do them, put 
them in a preserving-pan and with as little water as 
will only half cover them , let them coddle, and 
when the lower side is done turn them. Observe 
that they do not lie too close when first put in. Mix 
some pounded cochineal with the water, and boil 
with the fruit. When sufficiently done, take them 
out on the dish they are to be served in, the stalks 



180 

downwards;, Takeihe water and make a-rich jelly 
of it with loaf-sugar, boilingtjie thin rind and iuice 
of a lemon. When come ..to a jelly let it gfow eold, 
and pu* it on and among the apples ; cnt the peel o. 
the lemon m narrow strips, and put across the eyi' 
of the apple. V -'■ ' 

Observe that the .colour be fine from the first, or 
the fruit will not sdf^ei-wards gain it, and use- as little 
of the cochinMi as will serve, lest the syrup taste 
bitter. %- , '^• 

'Dried Apples. 

Put them in a epol oven six or seven times,,and 
flatten them by degrees, and gently, when soft 
enough to bear it. .If the oven be too hot they will 
waste, and at first itshould be very cool, rf 

The biffin, the (ninshul crab, or any tart apples, 
are the sort for drying. . .., . 

To preserve Jargane Pears most beautifully. 
are them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup ; 
let them lie, a day or two. Make the syrup richer, 
and simmer again, and repeat this till they are clear ; 
then drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven 
a very little time. They may be kept in syrup, 
and dried as wanted, which makes them more moist 
and rich. 

Goosherry Jam for Tarts. 

Put twelve pounds of the red hairy gooseberries, 
when ripe and gathered in dry weather, into a pre- 
serving-pan, with a pint of currant-juice, drawn as 
for jelly : let them boil pretty quick, and beat them 
with the spoon, when they begin to break, put to 
them six pounds of pure white Lisbon sugar, and 
simmer slowly to'a jam. It requires long boiling or 
will not keep : but is an excellent and reasonable 
thing for tarts or puffs. Look at it in two or three 



181 

days, and if the syrup and fruit separate, the whole 
must be boiled longer. Be careful it does not burn 
to the bottom 

White Gooseberry Jam. 

Gather the finest white gposeberrips, or green if 
you choose, when .just ripe, top and tail them. To 
each pound put three quarters of a pound of fine 
sugar, and half a pint of water. Boil and clarify the 
sugar in?the water as before directed, then add 
the fruit, simmer gently till clear, ♦■hen break it, and 
in a few minutes put Ihe'jam into small pots. 
Raspberry Jam^ 

Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar, put the 
former into a preserving-pan, boil and break it, stir 
constantly, and let it boil very quickly. When 
most of the juice is wasted,- add sugar, ?ind simmer 
half an hour. This way the jam is greatly superior 
in colour and flavour to that which is made by put- 
ting the sugar in at first. ■" 
To preservi Greengages. 

Choose the largest, wlienthey begin to soften , 
split them without pating, ^nd strew a part of this 
sugar which you have previopsly weighed an equal 
quantity of. . Blanch the kernels with a small sharp 
knife. Next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and 
)oil itwith, the other sugar, six or eight minutes, ve- 
ry gently ; skim and add "the plums and kernels. — 
Simmer till clear, takmg off any scum that rises : 
put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the sy- 
rup and kernels to it. If you would candy it, do 
not add the syrup, but observe the directions that 
wil! be given for candying fruit , some may be «oue 
each way. 

Damson Cheese. 

Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar in a sauce-pan 
16 



192 

pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few 
caraways, and as much milk and water as to make a 
paste ; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a cannis- 
ter or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin plates. 
Little short Cakes. 

Rub into a pound of dried flour four ounces of 
butter, four ounces of white powdered sugar, one e^, 
and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into 
a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, 
and caraways into the rest. Cut them as'before, and 
iiake on tins. 

Plum Cakes. 

Mix thoroughly a quarter of a peck of fine flour, 
well dried, with a pound of dry and sifted loaf su- 
gar, three pounds of currants washed and very dry, 
half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, a quar- 
ter of an ounce of mace and cloves, twenty Jamaica 
peppers, a grated nutmeg, the peei.of a lemon cut 
as fine as possible, and half a pound of almonds 
blanched and beaten with orange-flower water. — 
Melt two pounds of butter in a pmt and a quarter of 
cream, but not hot ; put to it a pint of sweet wine, 
a glass of brandy, the whites and yolks of twelve 
eggs beaten apart, and half a pint of good yeast. — 
Strain this liquid by degrees into the dry ingredients, 
beating them together a full hour, then butter the 
hoop, or pan, and bake it. As you put the bat- 
ter into the hoop, or pan, throw in plenty of cit- 
ron, lemon, and orange-candy. 

If you ice the cake, take half a pound of double 
refined sugar sifted, and put a little with the white 
of an egg, beat it well and by degrees pour in the 
remainder. Ii must be whisked near an hour, 
with tue addition of a little orange-flower water ; but 



1 3 

mind not to put much. When the cake is done, pour 
the iceing over, and return it to the oven for fifteen 
minutes ; but if the oven be warm, keep it near the 
mouth, ana the door open, lest the colour be spoiled. 
Very good common Plum Cakes. 

Mix five ounces of butter in three pounds of dry 
flour, and five ounces of fine Lisbon sugar : add six 
ounces of currants, washed and dried, and some pi- 
mento finely powdered. Put three spoonfuls of yeast 
into a Winchester pint of new milk warmed, and mix 
in, to a light dough with the above. Make it into 
twelve cakes, and bake on a floured tin half an hour. 
Little Plum Cakes to keep long. 

Dry one pound of flour, and mix with six ounces 
of finely pounded sugar ; beat six ounces of butter 
to a cream, and add to three eggs, well beaten, half 
a pound of currants washed, and nicely dried, and 
the flour and sugar ; beat all for some time, then 
dredge flour on tin plates, and drop the batter on 
them the size of a walnut. If properly mixed, it 
will be a stifi" paste. Bake in a brisk oven. 
A good Pound Cake. 

Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and mix with it 
the whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart. — 
Have ready warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and 
the same of sifted sugar, mix them and a few cloves, 
a little nutmeg and cinnamon, in fine powder toge- 
ther : then by degrees work the dry ingredients into 
the Dutter and eggs. When well beaten, add a glass 
of wine and some caraways. It must be beaten a full 
hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a 
quick oven. 

The'ftbove proportions, leaving out four ounces 
17 



194 

of the butter, and the same of augar, mtike a less 

luscious cake, aad to most tastes a more pleasant one 

A cheap Seed Cake. 

Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with half a pound 
ot sugar, a quarter of an ounce ofalspice, and a little 
ginger ; melt three quarters of a pound of butter, 
with half a pint of milk : when just warm, put to it 
a quarter of a pint of yeast, and work up to a good 
dough. Let it stand before the fire a few minutes 
before it goes to the oven ; add seeds, or currants, 
and bake an hour and a half. 

Queen Cakes. 

Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted su 
gar, and of washed clean currants. Wash a pound 
of butter in rose water, beat it well, then mix with 
it eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and 
put in the dry ingredients by degrees; beat the 
whole an hour ; butter little tins, tea-cups, or sau- 
cers, and bake the batter in, filling only half Sift 
a little fine sugar over just as you put into the oven. 

Shrerijsberry Cakes, 

Sift one pound of sugar, some pounded cinnamon, 
and a nutmeg grated, into three pounds of flour, the 
finest sort ; add a little rose-water to three eggs, 
well beaten, and mix these with the flour, &.c. then 
pour into it as much butter melted as will make it a 
good thickness to roll out. 

Mould it well, and roll thin, and cut it mto sucn 
shapes as you like. 

Tunbridge Cakes. 

Kub six ounces of butter quite fine, into a pound 
of flour, then mix six ounces of sugar, beat and 
strain two eggs, and make with the above- iiit6% paste. 
lioU it very thin, and cut with the top of a glass 



195 

prick them with a fork, and cover with caraways, or 
wash with the white of an egg, and dust a littie white 
sugar over. 

Rice Cake. 

Mix ten ounces of ground rice, three ouiices ol 
flour, eight ounces of pounded sugar ; then sift by 
degrees into eight yolks and six whites of eggs, and 
the peel of a lemon shred so fine thai it is quite 
mashed ; mix the whole well in a tin stew-pan over 
a very slow fire with a whisk, then put it immedi- 
ately into the oven in the same, and bake forty mi 
nutes, 

Water Cakes 

Dry three pounds of fine flour, and rub into it one 
pound of sugar sifted, one pound of butter, and one 
ounce of caraway-seed. Make it into a paste with 
three quarters of a pint of boiling new milk, roll very 
thin, and cut into the size you choose ; punch full of 
holes, and bake on tin plates in a cool oven. 
Sponge Cake. 

Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in very fine su- 
fjar, and that of six in flour ; beat the yolks with the 
dour, and the. whites alone, to a very stiff froth ; 
then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with 
the other ingredients, and beat them well half an 
hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour 
Tea Cakes. 

Rub fine foui; ounces of butter into eight ounces ol 
flour, mix eight ounces of currants, and six of fine 
Lisbon sugar, two yolks and one white of eggs, and a 
spoonful of brandy. Roll the paste the thickness 
of an Oliver biscuit, and cut with a wine-glass. — 
You may beat the other white, and wash over them , 
and either dust sugar, or not, as you like. 



196 

Benton Tea Cakes. . 

Mix a paste of flour, a little bit of butter, and milk , 
roll as thin as possible, and bake on a back-stone over 
the fire, or on a hot hearth. 

Jl Biscuit Cake. 
One pound of flour, five eggs, well beaten and 
strained, eight ounces of sugar, a Utile rose or 
orange-flower water; beat the whole thoroughly, and 
bake one hour. 

Macaroons. 
Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound with 
four spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; whisk the 
whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it in a pound 
of sugar, sifted with the almonus, to a paste ; and 
hiying a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in 
diflferent little cakes, the shape of macaroons. 
Wafers. 
Dry the flour well ivhich you intend to use, mix « 
little pounded sugar, and finely pounded mace with 
it : then make it into a thick batter with cream : 
butter the wafer-irons, let them be hot, put a tea- 
spoonful of the butter into them, so bake them care- 
fully, and roll them off the iron with a stick. 
Crack-nuts. 
Mix eight ounces of flour and eight ounces of sugar, 
melt four ounces of butter in two spoonful; of raisiri 
wine : then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make, 
into a paste , add caraways, roll out as thin as paper, 
cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white ol 
an egg, and dust sugar over. 

Cracknels. 
Mix with a quart of flour half a nutmeg grated, the 
yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonfuls of 
rose-water into a stiff paste, with cold water : then 



197 

roll in a pound of butter, and make them into a crack- 
nel-shape ; put them into a kettle of boiling water, 
and boil them till they swim, then take out, and put 
them into cool water ; when hardened, lay them out 
lo dry, and bake them on tin plates. 

A good plain Bun, that may be eaten with or 
without toasting and butter. 

Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, 
four ounces of sugar, a nutmeg or not, as you tike ; 
a few Jamaica-peppers : a dessert spoonful of cara- 
ways ; put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of 
yeast, and as much good milk as will make the above 
into a light paste. Set it to rise by a fire till the 
oven be ready. They will quickly bake on tins. 
Gingerbread. 

Mix with two pounds of flour, half a pound of 
treacle, three quarters of an ounce of caraways, one 
ounce of ginger finely sifted, and eight ounces of but- 
ter. 

Roll the paste into what form you please, and bake 
ou tins, after having worked it very much, and kept 
it to rise. 

[f you like sweetmeats, add orange candied; it 
may be added in small bits. 

A good plain sort. — Mix three pounds of flour with 

naif a pound of butter, four ounces of brown sugar, 

half an ounce of pounded ginger ; then make into a 

paste with one pound and a quarter of treacle warm. 

Rusks. 

Beat seven eggs well and mix with half a pint of 
new milk^ in which have been melted four ounces 
of butter ; add to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and 
three ounces of sugar, and put them, by degrees, 
into as much flour as will make a very light paste, 
17* 



i98 

ratlicr like a batter, and let it rise before the fire 
half an hour ; then add some more flour, to make it 
8 little stiiTer, but not stiff. Work it well, and di- 
vide it into small loaves, or cakes, about five or six 
inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and 
cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them 
in the oven to brown a little. 

JVoie. — The cakes, when first baked, eat delicious- 
ly,,bnttered, for tea ; or, with caraways, to ealcold. 

BREAD. 

The method of making leaven. 

When leaven is to be first produced, a lump of 
yeast dough must be put into a pan and set it in a 
cold damp place. In about ten or fourteen days it 
will be in a proper state to use as a ferment for bread. 
At every making of bread, a sufficient quantity ofthfe 
leavened dough should be laid by for the leaven 
against the next baking. The makers of bread with 
leaven, have learnt from experience, that it is best 
to use the same pan for keeping the leaven and the 
same tub for making the bread, without ever wash- 
ing them. Thej are kept clean by scraping. It is 
always best to borrow a piece of leaven, to begin 
with, if this can be done, rather than to make it for 
immediate use. 

To make Perpetual Yeast. 

Take a pound of fine flour, and mix it up with 
boiling water to about the thickness of a moderately 
thick water gruel ; add half a pound of coarsemoist 
sugar, and when it is milk warm pour it upon three 
large spoonfuls of well purified yeast in a pan large 
enough to give room for the fermentation. As it 
ferments take off the yeast and put it into a stone 
bottle with a small neck, cork it, and keep it in a dry 
warm place. When half used replenish it with 



199 

flour and water prepared as at first, but no addition 
of yeast will be required. This is to be the regu- 
lar process to keep up the stock. 
Artificial Yeast. 

Boil some mealj potatoes till they are soft, then 
peel them, and when bruised add as much boiling 
water as will make them of the consistence of com- 
mon yeast. To every pound of potatoes put in two 
ounces of coarse moist sugar or treacle, and two ta- 
ble spoonfuls of good yeast, stirred in while the po- 
tatoes are warm. Make this in a vessel large enough 
to admit of the fermentation, and keep it warm till it 
has done fermenting. It will then be fit for use. — 
Let it be kept in a cellar. 

To make Bread ■with Leaven. 

The proportion of leaven to flour, is a piece of 
the size of a goose's egg to half a peck of flour. — 
Take such quantities of each as the occasion may de- 
mand, make a hole in the middle of the flour, break 
the leaven into it, and put as much water, made blood 
warm, as will wet half the flour. Mix the leaven 
and flour well together, then cover it over close 
with the remainder of the flour, and let it stand all 
night. The next morning the whole lump will be 
well fermented or leavened. Add as much warm 
water, taking care it is not warmer than blood, as 
will mix it, and knead it up very stifl" and firm till it 
be smooth and pliable. The more pains that are 
taken in kneading the dough, the better and smooth- 
er the bread will cut ; as well as tasting softer and 
pleasanter in the mouth, and being easier of diges- 
tion. vVhen the dough is well kneaded, let it stand 
by the tire about two hours, then make it up into 
!&avas and bake them. The time of baking must 



200 

depend on the size of the loaves. A quarten 'oat 
will require two hours and a half. Some salt must be 
added in the morning with the fresh quantity of wa- 
ter. 

To make bread with Yeast. 

Put half ahushel of flour into a trough, mix half a 
pint of good thick yeast with two quarts of water, 
milk warm ; make a hole in the middle of the flour, 
pour this into it, and mix it lightly with a part of the 
flour into a kind of batter. Strew a handful of flour 
over it, and let the remainder lie round it. This is 
called setting the sponge, and should be done'^in the 
evening. By the next morning it will be much' ,en. 
Add then two more quarts of water, milk warnr vith 
two ounces of salt in it. Work it up into a etty 
stiff dough, knead it thoroughly, and let it ' e for 
two 01' three hours. Then mould it up into aves, 
and bake them according to tlie size. A quarten loaf 
requires two hours and a half in a well heated oven, 
and smaller loaves in proportion. 

If the yeast is not very thick and good, some ad- 
dition must be made in the quantity to make up for 
it. 

The above receipt is for fine flour ; for flour with 
only the coarse bran taken out, a rather larger pro- 
portion of water must be used. 

If the flour is dry it will require more water than 
when fresh. The above receipt is intended for 
fresh flour. 

In cold weather the dough should be ietby the fire 
to rise after it is kneaded : and the water may be 
used rather warmer, but tr ust never be hot. 
To make Bread with a mixture of Rice. 

Stew a pound of whole rice in water till it is quite 
tender, pour ofl' the water, and put the rice belore 



201 

it IS cold to four pounds and a half of wheaten flour. 
Add the us'ial quantity of yeast, (about a quarter of 
a pint,) rather more than the usual quantity of salt, 
and as much luke-warm v/atei as will make it into 
'lough. It will require the same time to rise as com- 
mon bread, and is to be baked in the same manner. 

The produce of the above quanti-ies, viz. five 
pounds and a half, is ten pounds of bread. The rice 
IS not perceptible in it, so that it is in appearance 
the same as is of wheaten flour alone. It eats well, 
and is not as soon stale as the common bread. If the 
dough is mixed up with the water the rice was boiled 
in, it gives the bread more substance. 
Potato and Flour Bread. 

Weigh half a pound of mealy potatoes after they 
are boiled or steamed, and rub them, while warm, in- 
to a pound and a half of fine flour dried for a little 
while before the fire. When thoroughly mixed, 
put in a spoonful and a half of yeast, a little salt, and 
warm milk and water enough to work it into dough. 
Let this stand by the fire to rise for an hour and a 
half, then make it into a loaf and bake it in a mode- 
rately brisk oven. 

If baked in a tin the crust will be more delicate, 
hut the bread dries sooner. 

Another Potato and Flour Bread. 

To two pounds of well boiled mealy potatoes rub- 
bed between the hands till they are as fine as flour, 
mix in thoroughly two large double handfuls of whea- 
ten flour, ihree good spoonfuls of yeast, a little salt, 
and wa'-m milk enough to make it the usual stiffness 
of dough. Let it stand three or four hours to rise, 
iVien mould it, make it up, and bake it like common 
bread. 



202 

Rolls with a mixture of Potatoes. 

Dry a pound antl a half of flour. Bruise a pound 
of well boile I, me.ly potatoes, and work them with 
half an ounce of butter, and half a pint of milk, till 
they will pa«s through a colin<ler. Put a quarter 
of a pint of warm water to a quarter of a pint of 
yeast, add th^se and some salt to the potatoes, and 
mix the u hole up with the flour. If it works up too 
stiff a litlle more milk must be added. When it is 
well kneaded, set it before the fire to rise, for half 
an hour, then work it up into common sized rolls, 
and bakf hem half an hour in a pretty quick oven. 
French RcHs. 

Ruh .m ounce of butter into a pound of flour ; add 
to it one egg, two spoonfuls of yeast, and a little 
salt, mixed with as much milk just warmed, as will 
make it into a light paste. Let this rise half an hour, 
then make it into moderate sized rolls, and set them 
before the tire for an hour longer. Half an hour 
will b dee them, in a quick oven. 
Long Rolls. 

Take two pounds of flour, rub into it two ounces 
of butter, and two ounces of loaf sugar finely pow- 
dered. Put to these four large spoonfuls of pretty 
thick yeast, and milk enough, made just warm, to 
mix it into a light paste. Set this before the fire to 
rise forhalf an hour, then roll out the dough thin, 
into moderate lengths, let them stand before the fire 
an hour, and then bake them in a slac oven for half 
an hour. 

Yorkshire Cakes. 

Dry a pound and a half of flour before the fire. 
Beat up the yolks of two eggs, with two spoonfuls 
of good new yeast, and add to these three-quarters 
of a pint of new milk just warmed. Strain Ae whole 



203 

through a sieve into the flour. Mix it lightly into a 
dough., and let it rise by the fire for an hour. Make 
it up into cakes about the size of a large saucer, put 
them on a tin, and let them stand before the fire for 
a little while, before they are set into the oven. — 
Half an hour will bake them. The oven should be 
taioderately hot. 

Three ounces of fresh butter rubbed into the flour 
will make these cakes eat shorter, but they are light- 
est without it. 

Yorkshire Knead Cakes. 

Rub SIX ounces of butter into a pound of flour till 
it is very tine, mix it into a stiff paste with milk. — 
Knead it .veil, and roll it out several times. On 
rolling if out the last time, let it be about an inch 
thick, and cut it out into cakes, in shapes according 
to the fancy. Bake Ihem on an iron gridle. When 
done on one side turn them on the other. Cut them 
open and butler them hot. They also eat well cold 
or toasted. Half a pound of currants well washed 
and dried may be added at pleasure. 
Muffins. 

Lay a quarter of a pint of ale yeast of as light a 
colour as can be got, into cold water, and let it stand 
all night. The next morning pour the water off 
clear from it. Warm a quart of water, milk-warm, 
and stir the yeast, and a quarter of an ounce of salt, 
well into it for five or six minutes. Strain it into 
half a peck of fine white flour, mix it into a dough 
as lightly as possible, and let it lie in the trough for 
an hour to rise, covered with flannel. Pull the 
dough into small pieces with the hand, rolling them 
as done in a good deal of flour, and roll thorn thin 
with a rolling-pin, lay them directly under a flannel, 
and they will rise to a proper thickness. Bake them 



204 

upon a hot hearth or an iron stove. When done 
on one side turn them on the other, but they must 
not be browned. 

Crumpets. 

The dough may be made as above for the mufBns. 
When it has stood to rise, give it a roll with the 
hand, pull it into little pieces about the size of a 
small pullet's egg, roll them with the hand like a 
ball, and lay them directly under a flannel. Bake 
them as above, only these must be lightly browned 
Tops and Bottoms. 
Beat the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four, 
with a quarter of a pint of yeast. Melt a quarter of 
a pound of butter in a half pint of new lailk, and 
when about the warmth of milk fronithe cow, strain 
it into a pound and a half of flour, with two ounces 
of powdered sugar mixed into it. Beat this up like 
a batter rather than work it up into a dough, and 
set it to rise before the fire for half an hour. Then 
work it up well with a little more flour, but not to 
make stifi". Bake it in tins of two inches square in 
breadth, and three inches high, flattened on all sides. 
When baked let them stand to cool, then part them 
m two, and brown them a little in the oven. 

This preparation will also make rusks, if made up 
into flat cakes about sis inches wide, and twelve or 
fourteen long. When baked, slice them after they 
are cold the thickness of rusks, and set them into the 
oven to brown. 

If made up about the size of a common saucer, 
and eaten after the first baking, they are very nice 
battered for tea. 

French Busks. 

Weigh a pound of yolks of eggs, and a pound and 
a half of powdered sugar ; put these in a pan to- 



205 

gether, and stir them about thoroughly with a large 
wooden spoon for ten minutes. Add an ounce of 
carraway-seeds, and two pounds of flour. Mix all 
together into a paste, and mould it upon a clean pye- 
board, into rolls of about fourteen or fifteen inches 
long, and between two or three inches thick. Lay 
these upon a paper, and press them down with the 
hand till about an inch thick in the middle, and flat- 
tened down almost to a point at the edges. Put them 
upon a vvire plate with two or three sheets of paper 
under them, besides the paper they are made upon. 
Bake them with great care, not to overdo them, as 
they would then break in the cutting. When they 
come out of the oren, wet the paper underneath, 
that they may come off while warm. Cut them with 
a sharp knife into rusks about a quarter of an inch 
thick, lay them flat on the wire, and put them into 
the oven till crisp and dry. 

Potato Rolls. 

Boil three pounds of potatoes, bruise and work 
them with two ounces of butter, and as much milk 
as will make them pass through a colander. Take 
half or three quarters of a pint of yeast and a half 
pint of warm water, mix with the potatoes, then 
pour the whole upon five pounds of flour, and add 
some salt. Knead it well : if not of a proper con- 
sistence, put a little more milk and water warm; 
let it stand before the fire au hour to rise : work it 
well, and make into rolls. Bake about half an hour 
in an oven not quite so hot as for bread. 

They eat well, toasted and butter.ed. 
< Hard Biscuit. 

Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimimed 
milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stifl 
18 



206 

paste, beat it with a rolling-pin, and work it very 
smooth. Roll it thin, and cut it into round biscuits ; 
prick them full of holes with a fork About six mi- 
nutes will bake them. 



SICK COOKERY. 

Calves' Feet Broth. 

Boil two feet in three quarts of water, to half; 
strain and set it by ; when to be used, take off the 
fat, put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a sauce- 
pan, with half a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar and 
nutmeg, and heat it up till it be ready to bojl, then 
take a little of it, and beat by degrees to the yolk of 
an egg, and adding a bit of butter, the size of a nut- 
meg, stir all together, but do not let it boil. Grate 
a bit of fresh lemon-peel into it. 
Beef Tea. 

Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices ; simmer 
with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has 
once boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approv- 
ed ; but it has generally only salt. 

Dr. Radcliff^'s Restorative Pork Jelly. 

Take a leg of well-fed pork, just as cut up, beau 
it, and break the bone. Set it over a gentle fire, 
with three gallons of water, and simmer to one. — 
Lethalf an ounce of mace, and the same of nutmegs, 
stew in it. Strain through a fine sieve. When cold, 
take off the fat. Give a chocolate-cup the first and 
last thing, and at noon, putting salt to taste. 
Skank Jelly. 

Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then 
brush and scour them very clean. Lay them in a 
sauce-pan with three blades of mace, an onion, twen 
ty Jamaica and and thirty or forty black peppers, a 



207 

bunch of sweet herbs ; and a crust of bread made 
very brown by toasting. Pour three quarts of wa- 
ter to them, and set them on a hot hearth close co- 
vered : let them simmer as gently as possible for 
five hours, then strain it ofi", and put it in a cold 
place. 

This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if 
approved, for flavour. It is a remarkable good 
thing for'people who ate weak. 

Arrow-root Jelly. 

Of this beware of having the wrong sort, for it has 
been counterfeited with bad effect. If genuine, it is 
very nourishing, especially for weak bowels. Put 
into a sauce-pan half a pint of water, a glass of sher- 
ry or a spoonful of brandy, grated nuimeg, and fine 
sugar : boil once up, then mix it by degrees mto a 
dessert-spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed 
smooth'with two spoonfuls of cold water , then re- 
turn the whole into tho sauce-pan ; stir and boil it 
three minutes. 

Panada inade injive minutes. 

Set a little water on the fire with a glass of white 
wme some sugar, and a scrape of nutn:)egnnd lemon- 
peel ; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The 
moment the mixture boils up, keeping it still on the 
fire put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it 
can. When of a proper thickness just to drinK, take 
it off. 

Another. — Put to the water a bit of lemon-peel, 
mix the crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, 
put some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to 
boil all the ingredients ; for if any he added after, 
the panada will break, and not jelly. 
Chicken Panada. 

Boil it. till about three parts ready; in a quart ol 



208 

water, take it off the skin, cut the white meat oft 
when cold, and put into a marble mortar : pound it 
to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled in, 
season with a little salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the 
least bit of lemon-peel. Boil gently for a few mi- 
nutes to the consistency you like : it should be such 
as you can drink, though tolerably thick. 

This conveys great nourishment in small compass 
Sippets when the stomach rioill noi receive meat. 
On an extremely hot plate put two or three sip- 
pets of bread, and pour over them some gravy from 
beo.f, mutton, or veal if there is no butter in the dish 
Sprinkle a little salt over. 

A very supporting Broth aginst any kind of 



Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a verj' 
large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water (o 
one. Take off part of the fat. Any other herb or 
roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four 
times a day. 

Ji very nourishing Veal Broth. 

Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with 
very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank 
bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, 
three blades of mace, ten pepper-corns, an onion, 
and a large bit of bread, and three quarts of water, 
into a stew-pot that covers close, and simmer in the 
slowest manner after it has boiled up, and been 
skimmed; or bake it; strain, and take off the fat. 
Salt as wanted. It will require four hours. 
Broth of Beef Mutton, and Veal. 

Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag 
of veal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, 
iind ten pepper-corus, into a nice tin sauce-pan, with 
five quarts of water, simmer to three quarts, and 



201) 

clear t'rom the fat when cold. Add one onion if 
approved. 

Soup and broth made of different meats, are more 
supporting, as well as better flavoured. 

T|» remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean 
•as possible ; and if there be still any remaining, lay 
a bit of clean blotting or cap paper on the broth 
when in the basin, and it will take up every particle. 
Eggs. 
An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mix- 
ed w /th a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more sup- 
porting than a tea solely. 

An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten se- 
parately, then miked with a glass of wine, will afford 
two very wholesome draughts, and prore lighter 
than when taken together. 

Eggs very little boiled, or poached, taken in small 
quantity, convey much nourishment ; the yolk only, 
when dressed, should be eaten by invalids. 
Caudle. 

Make a fine sriooth gruel of half-grits ; strain it 
when boiled well, stir it at times till cold. When to 
be used, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nut- 
meg. Some like a spoonful of brandy besides the 
wine; others like lemon juice. 

Another. — Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, with a 
bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large 
spoonful of brandy, the same of whi'e wine, one of 
capillaire, a bit cf lemon-peel and n-utmeg. 
Cold Caudle. 

Boil a quart of spring water ; when cold, add the 
yolk of an egg, thejuice of a small lemon, six spoo-n- 
fuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syn.p 
of lemons one ounce 

18* 



210 

A Flour Caudle. 

Into five large spoonfuls of the purest water, rui» 
smooth one dessert-spoonful of fine flour. - Set over 
the fire five spoonfuls of new milk, and put two bils 
of sugar into it : the moment it boils, pour into it the 
flour and water, and stir it over a slow fire twenty 
minutes. It is a nourishing and gently astringent 
food. This is an excellent food for ba&ies who have 
weak bowels. 

Rice Caudle. 

When the water boils, pour into it some grated 
rice mixed with a little cold water ; when of a pro- 
per consistence, add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinna- 
mon, and a glass of brandy to a qaart. Boil all 
smooth. 

To mull Wine. 

Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is 
gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some su- 
gar and nutmeg ; boil together, and serve with 
toast. 

Another -may. — Boil a bit of cinnamon and some 
grated nutmeg a few minutes, in a large tea-cupful of 
water ; then pour to it a pint of port wine, and add 
sugar to your taste ; beat it up and it will be ready 

Or it may be made of good British wine. 
Milk Porridge. 

Make a fine gruel of half grits, long boiled ; strain 
off ; either add coM milk, or warm with milk, as may 
be approved. Serve with toast. 

French Milk Porridge. 

Stir some oat meal and water together, I'et it stand 
to be clear, and pour oif the latter ; pour fresh upon 
it, stir it well, let it stand till next day ; strain 
thiouj^h a fine sieve, and boil th^ water, adding milk 



211 

»?hile doing. The proportion of water must be 
small. 

This is much ordered, with toast, for the breakfast 
of weak persons, abroad. 

Ground Ri<:e Milk. 

Boil one spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down 
smooth, with three half pintt if milk, a bit of cinna- 
mon, iemon-peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten wheu 
nearly done. 

Sago. 

To prevent the earthy taste, soak it in cold water 
an hour ; pour that off, and wash it well ; then add 
more, and simmer gently till the berries are^lear, 
with lemon-peel and spice, if approved. Add wine 
and sugar, and boil all up together. 
Sago Milk. 

Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly, and wholly 
with new milk. It swells so much, that a small 
quantity will be sufficient for a quart, and when done 
it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no 
sugar or flavouring. 

.Ssses' Milk 

Far surpasses any imitation of it that can be made. 
It should be milked into a glass that is kept warm by 
Deing in a basin of hot water. 

The fixed air that it contains gives some people a 
pain in the stomach. At first a tea spoonful of runa 
may be taken with it, but shoilld only be put in the 
moment it is to be swallowed. 

.Artificial Asses' Milk 

Boil togethera quart of water, aquartofnewmilk, 
an ounce of white sugar candy, half an ounce oferin- 
go root, and half an ounce of conserve of roses, tiU 
half be wisted. 



212 

This IS astringent ; therefore proportion the dosea 
to the efTect, and the quantity to what will be used 
while sweet. 

Water Gruel. 

Put a large spoonful of outnieiil by degrees into a 
pint of water, and when smooth, boil it. 

Jlnother way. — Rub smooth a large spoonful ot 
oatmeal, with *wo of water, and pour it into a pint 
of water boiling on the fire ; stir it well, and boil it 
quick ; but take care it does not boil over. In a 
quarter of an hour strain it off; and add salt and a 
bit of butter when eaten. Stir until the butter be 
incorporated. 

Barley Gruel. 

Wash four ounces of pearl barley, boil it in tw." 
quarts of water and a stick of cinnamon, till reducea 
to a quart ; strain, and return it into tiie sauce-pan 
with sugar, and three quarters of a pint of port wine 
Heat up, and use as wanted. 

A refreshing drink in a Fever. 

Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a little 
wood-sorrel, into a stone jug, having first v?ashed 
and dried them ; peel thin a small lemon, and clear 
from the white ; slice it, andput abit of the peel in ; 
then pour in three pints of boiling water, sweeten, 
and cover it close. 

Another drink. — Wash extremely wel'l an ounce 
of pearl barley ; shift it twice, then put to it three 
pints of water, an ounce of sWeet almonds beaten 
fine, and a bit of lemon-peel ; boil till you have a 
smooth liquor, then put in a little syrup of lemons 
and r:apillaire. 

A most pleasant Drink. 

Put a tea-cupful of cranberries into a cvp of wa 



213 

ter, and mash them. In the meantime boil two 
quarts of water with one liirge spoonful of oatmeal, 
and a bit of lemon-peel ; theu add the cranberries, 
and as much fine Lisbon sugar as shall leave a smart 
Qavour of the fruit ; and a quarter of a pint of sher- 
ey, or less, as may be proper : boil all half an hour, 
and strain off. 

Soft and fine Draiightjor those who are weak and 
have a Cough. 

Beat a fresh laid egg, and mix it with a quarter of 
a pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of ca- 
pillaire, the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg 
scraped. Do not warm it after the egg is put in. — 
Take it the first and last thing. 

Toast and Water. 

Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely 
brown and hard, but not the least black ; then plunge 
H into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour 
before used. This is of particular use in weak bow- 
els. It should be of a fine brown colour before 
drinking it. 

White-wine Whey. 

Put half a pint of new milk on the fire : the mo- 
ment it boils up, pour in as much sound raisin wine 
as will completely turn it, and it looks clear ; let it 
boil up, then set the sauce-pan aside till the curd 
.«n.bsides, and do not stir it. Pour the whey off, and 
add to it half a pint of boiling water, and a bit of 
white sugar. Thus you will have a whey perfectly 
cleared of milky particles and as weak as you choose 
'" niake it 

FINIS 



CONTENTS. 




BKKR t-kmnle 


27 


FOWL, to boil ; do. with nice ; roastM^K 


Mcftndeaiior; rump, to Btew 28 


broiled ; nice way to dress. 




brlBkut, to Btew ; to preaa 


29 


Davenport 


71 


hitotar*B, to make ;|exceiient 




FORCEMEAT, to force fowls or 




mode of dreBsio^ 


30 


meat, for cold savoury pies ; for 




BteakB, do. and oyflterea-ice, 




turtle 


104 


•(tewad 


31 


FRITTERS, 


129 


Bteaks, Italian ; CoUopa ; 




GAME, directions for dresaing 


70 


palatal 


32 


to keep 


77 


cakeB, Bide dish ; to pot ; 




GIBLETS, to atew 


76 


sirloin, to dreea 


33 


GROUSE, to roaat 


71) 


fricBBBee of; olireB ; to 




GUINEA and Pea-Fowl 


81 


mince ; to haah 


34 


GRAVY, to keep a week, to dreaa 


93 


a-la-vingrette ; roupd of ; 




clear, brown, or CuUis 


94 


rolled 


35 


for fowl ; veal 


95 


heart 


36 


to make mutton eat like 




BLACK PUDDINGS, 


53 


venison ; for fish 


96 


BIRDS, cheap way of potting 


78 


HALIBUT, to dreaa 


14 


BUTTER, to clarify for potted things ib 


HADDOCK, to dry 


17 


to melt 


103 


HERRINGS, to dreaa ; baked 


19 


BECHAMEL, or while sanoe 


94 


fried; broiled 


20 


BREAD, CAKES, 8lc. 189 to 213 


HOG'S HEAD, to make eicellent 




COD, head and Bhoulders ; crimp 


14 


* meat of 


S5 


EourtdB, Lboiled; do. to look 




ears, to force 


56 


like ohickenB ; do. broiled ; do. ra- 




puddings, white 


59 


gout) ^It, to dress 


15 


lard 


60 


CRAB hot; drea.ed, cold 


21 


HOUSE-LAMB STEAKS, browi 


68 


CALF'S HEAD, to boil 


46 


JELLY, ofrig'a feat and eara 


69 


to hash ; fricaaseed 


47 


savoury, for cold pies 


96 


to collar; mock turtle 


48 


to cover cold Gah 


97 


CALF'S LIVER, 


49 


KITCHEN PEPPE-a, 


.103 


sweetbread ; kiduey 


50 


LOBSTERS, to pot ; atewed ; but- 




CHINA CHILD, 


67 


tered 


20 


CHICKENS, friaaaaeeof; to pull; 




to roast ; currie of. 


21 


curvil 


74 


LAMB, leg ; fore-quarter ; orcaat 




CRUST, raiaed, for meat pies. 




with cucumbera 


67 


fowls. Sic, 


114 


ateaka ; cutlets, with spi- 




CUSTARDS, lemon, almond, &c. 


141 


nach ; head and hicge 


68 


CHEESECAKES, 


143 


aweetbneads 


69 


COOKERY, for the aick 207 to 211 


LAMB-STO,NES, fricaaseed 


ib. 


DUCKS, to roast , to boil ; to atew 


75 


nice dish of 


»0 


DUMPLINGS, auet 


127 


LARKS, and other small birds 


77 


yeat, or Suffolk 


ib. 


MACKABEL, boiled. 


17 


EELS, apitchcork, fried 


18 


MEATS, to chuoae 


23 


boiled ; broth ; collared 


19 


MUTTON, shoulder, to Btew 


20 


FISH, to chooae 


9 


MARROW BONES, 


38 


FLOWDERS, to fry 




MUCK BRAWN, 


98 



1 

CONTENTS. 515 


KUTTC-N ieffof; neck 


60 


PUDDINGS, oranss 


II) 


haunch, to dress; saddle. 




lemon 


lb. 


to ronst 


61 


amber 


IIT 


fillet, bruised ; harrico ; to 




baked apple 


ib. 


bash 


62 


oj-.tmeal 


ib. 


shoulder, to fcoil with oja- 




Dutcbi or aouater 


Hi 


fer* breast , loin ; to roll 


63 


^ Dutch rice 


ib. 


ham ; coUops ; outlets, Por- 




j^^FS, orlielbt Geimaii paddiogi 
J&DDINGS, little bread, 


ib. 


tu^utae way 


64 


ib. 


steaks ; Hausa^a ; rumps 




in haste 


119 


and kidnjes 


65 


new college 


ib. 


hotch-potch ; hebobbed 


66 


boiled bread 


ib. 


^500R-OAME, to pot 


V9 


brown bread 


120 


MUTTON-BROTH, Scotch 


82 


Eie'a 


ib. 


IMEUSTARD, :to make 


103 


quaking 


ib. 


OYSTERS, to feed ; to stew ; boil- 




transparent 


ib 


ed ; to scallop ; fried ; loaveg 


22 


butter 


•il 


OX- CHEEK, plain; another way 


37 


butter with meat 


il>. 


OX-FEET, or cow-heels, to dress 


38 


plain rice 


ib 


ORTOLANS, to dress 


80 


a rich rice 


lb. 


PERCH, to boil 


16 


rice with fruit 


133 


PIKE, to bake 


!• 


PUDDING, an elcelleot potato 


ib. 


PRAWNS and Craw-fish in jelly 


21 


potato with meat 


ib 


or shrimps, to butter 


ib. 


Bteak or kridoe; 


123 


PORK, leg- of, to roast ; to boil 


il 


beer steak 


ib. 


loin and neck ; shoulder 




■net 


ib. 


anJ breast; neok rolled ; flpringor 




real nuet 


124 


forehand J spare-rib ; griskin 


52 


bunter'a 


ib. 


steaks ; sausages 


53 


plum 


ib. 


PORKER'S HEAD, to roast 


55 


cuatard 


125 


PIG'S HEAD, to coUar 


ib. 


miiatard 


ib. 


diiTercnt ways 


57 


an excellent apricot 


ib. 


h-irelet 


ib. 


baked g:ooieberry 


ib 


feet and ears fnc-i-.^r ,) 


58 


brandy 
boiled curd 


126 


POUI-TRYand GamP, .,5 ^ ■ .s 




ib 


for dresaitig 


73 


pippin 


ib 


PIGEONS, to stew; to broil 


76 


Russian seed, or ground rice 


.27 


to roast ; in ielly 


77 


PANCAKES, common 


128 


PHEASANTS. an-I Partridges, 


78 


fine with butter or lard 


ib 


PLOVERS, to drees ; egg. 


80 


made of rice 


ib. 


PIES, savoury 


104 


New-Eog:land 


ib 


eel ; cold 


105 


PASTE, 


139 


shjimpa, lobster, fish 


106 


crust for renisuo 


lb 


PIE, beef-steak, reaJ, cairs-head 


t07 


potato 


131 


pork, to eat co)d 


108 


for custards or fruit 


ib. 


mutton, siiual), lamb 


IJ9 


PASTRY, of beef or mutton 


Itl 


chicken, green goose 


110 


potato 


141 


duck, giblet 


Ml 


venison 


'33 


pigeon, partridge, French, 




PIES, apple, cherry, currant, raincti 




vegetable 


112 


tc. 


133 


parsley, turnip, potato, herl 


113 


•egg, raspljrry 
PATTIES, fried 


134 


PUDDINGS sod Panr^es, cbaer- 




136 


Tations on 


114 


oyster, lobster, beef, tio-key 


137 


almond, do. baked 


115 


PUFFS, apple, lemon. 


138 


•ago 


116 


cheeee. 


139 


bread and butter 


il> 


• rrall.-* I---' 


ih 


[, 











£16 CONTENTS. 




PRESERVES, 


153 


SAUCE, toniata ; apple ; o-jrrani . 




fruit for winter 183 to 189 


lemon : carrier, for mutton 


10. 


RUFFS ind Reeves, 


80 


fish ; eubstititte for capei ; 




RABBITS, to pot 


81 


oyster : lobster : 


103 


SALMON, to Doil, to broil ; driej, 




shrimps : anchovy 


•103 


an excellent dish ; collared 


13 


SWEET DISHES, 15S ti 


173 


STURGEON, frejh, to dress ; to 




SWEET MEATS, 173 to 18S 


roast 


16 


SICK COOKERy, 207 to 211 


STUFFING, for pike, haddock. 




TROUT, to fry a-la-Genevoise 


IS 


and .mall cod 


13 


TONGUE, and Udder, to roast : to 




SMELTS, to fry 


ib. 


stew : to eat cold 


33 


SUCKING PIG, to roaati petti- 




TRIPE, 


38 


toes • 


64 


TURKEY, to boil ; to roast 


71 


SOUSE, for brawn, and fcr pig's 




pulled 


73 


feet and eaig 


58 


TARTS, pippin, prune, orange, 


135 


SOUPS and Gravies 


SI 


codlinand rasplerry 


136 


colonrin^ for 


33 


VENISON, to dress 


25 


SOUP, e.oellent white 


ib. 


haunch, neck, and shoulder 


2e 


plain white ; giblet 


84 


breast of: hashed 


27 


njaccaroni; peas 


85 


VEAL, to keep : leg of: knuckle of 


■n 


green peas ; gravy 


86 


shoulder of . neck of : do. 




carrot ; onion 


87 


a-la-bra:se 


40 


spinach ; Scotch leek ; ox- 




breast of: do. to roll 


41 


/ nanp ; Hessian ap.j ragout 


88 


chump of, a-la-double . 




a-la-sap 


89 


roils : duDelm of 


42 


brown or white fish, slock 




minced : to pot : cutlets 




for ; eel ; skate 


91 


maiutejion 


43 


loljster; crawfish 


92 


cntlets : collt/ps : scallops 


44 


oyster 


93 


fricandeau of ; olives 


45 


SAUCE, to hide the bad colour of 




cake : siuisages . collops. 




fowls ; white for fricassees 


97 


Scotch 


4] 


for wild fowl , for fowl of 




broth 


8; 


any „ort j for partridge ; fnr rabbiu 93 


VEGETABLES, ooservations nn 




lemon, or white, for boil- 




dressing M4 to VSJ | 


intr fowls egg onion : shallot ; 




WILD FOWL, to roast 


75 


lor green g-eese or ducklings 


99 


WILD DUCKS, Teal, Wiijail, 




bread ■ Robart ■ Benton ; 




Dunbirds, &o. 


80 


(».»' r;v 


!0» 


WOODCOCK, " ■flp., and Qutib 


». 



