Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 




6000706050 






COOKERY, 



RATIONAL, PRACTICAL, AND ECONOMICAL 



TREATED IN CONNEXION 



WITH 

THE CHEMISTBY OF FOOD. 

/ , \y > ^ y 
BY HAHTELAW K8I0. '■-^'' 




** I could write a better book of Cookery than has ever yet been writ- 
ten ; it ahonld be a book on philosophical principle8.''—DE, JoHirsoN. 

** Those [cooks] who wish to excel in their art, mnst only consider how 
(htprocatu 0/ it can be most perfectly performecT-^DR. EiToaiNSB. 



EDINBURGH: 

JOHN MENZIES, 61 PRINCE'S STREET. 
LONDON: W. S. ORR & CO. 

1863. 



^^f, ^, ^C^dj . 



ROBERT HARDIB A17D OO. PRINTBRS, EDINBURGH. 



%. 



PREFACE. 



The aim of ibis work is fbllj expressed in the two 
quotations which appear in its title-page. A rational 
understanding of eyery process, so as to be able to dis- 
tinguish its essential peculiarities from those which 
merelj mark its relation to a particular article of food, 
is, we are convinced, far more important to the mo- 
dem housewife than an empirical knowledge of specific 
receipts. This latter, indeed, is but the pedantry of 
cookery, which many modem cookery-books seem spe- 
cially designed to encourage. On consulting some of 
them, one might almost suppose that the precise pro- 
portioning of ingredients and seasonings was everything, 
and the process nothing ; — that there existed some 
mysterious virtue in certain relative quantities, without 
which every effort of cookery must be an utter failure. 
Now the real fact is the very reverse of this. Great 
latitude may be allowed in proportioning the various 
ingredients of almost every culinary compound, provided 
its treatment otherwise be correct. Indeed, to insist 
upon exactness in this respect would in nine cases out 
often ensure an unsatisfactory result. It is very possible 
that this is the secret cause of the general dissatisfaction 
regarding most cookery-receipts. The reason of it will 
be evident when it is considered that the tastes of in- 



U PREFACE. 

dividuals differ so much, that what pleases one offends 
another, and also that the flavour of almost every kind 
of vegetahle-seasoning varies in strength with the spe- 
cimen employed. But it is otherwise with the opera- 
tions of cookery. These bear relation to the chemical 
and mechanical properties of food, which never vary ; 
and to the requirements of healthy nutrition, which are 
equally immutable. We do not mean to deny the pos- 
sibility of an artistic combination of flavours : all we 
assert is, that upon this art no exact science can be 
founded, in consequence of the indeterminate nature of 
its subject as already explained. Its rules must there- 
fore be of the most general kind ; and may be briefly 
stated as follows : — 1«^, The natural flavour of that 
which gives name to the dish ought always to pre- 
dominate, — such adjuncts only being selected as will 
serve to heighten this ; 2c?, If the principal ingredient 
be in itself insipid, the communicated flavour should be 
simple and distinct j and 3c^, A mixture of decidedly 
different flavours ought never to be attempted unless 
the result be a close imitation of some other well-known 
flavour. In this way the cook will avoid equivocal 
mixtures, regarding which two persons with a slight 
difference in the constitution or habit of their organs 
of taste, might pronounce contradictory opinions. 

The present work, being conceived in accordance with 
the foregoing remarks, naturally came to be classified ac- 
cording to the various processes, — Roasting, Boiling, 
iic. To each of these, therefore, a separate space has 
been devoted, containing not only receipts for the most 
generally popular dishes, but also an introductory para- 
graph of " General Directions." To these paragraphs, 
as being the most important part of the book, and in- 



PREFACE. lU 

deed the proper complement to the receipts, the author 
hegs particular attention ; and likewise to Chapter IV. 
which treats of '^ The General Principles to be kept in 
view in every process of Cookery." Where definite 
proportions are stated in the receipts, it is merely to 
show what is admissible — ^not to prescribe what is in- 
dispensable. To render the book as nearly perfect as 
its limits wiU allow, its first three chapters contain re- 
marks on household economy, as well as a description 
of the various culinary processes, and the utensils and 
appliances required for each; and the concluding chap- 
ter embraces a number of miscellaneous receipts which 
could not well be included in its system of classifica- 
tion. To this there are also appended some remarks 
on dinners and suppers, with directions for carving; and 
likewise an index of the times at which the various 
provisions are in season. 

A table of Contents, arranged partly by way of Index, 
is prefixed, showing the page on which the receipt for 
each dish is to be found, and also that containing the 
General Directions for the class to which it belongs, 
which ought to be studied in connection with each parti- 
cular receipt. The contents of Chapters Y. to IX. are 
arranged together in a tabular form as being more con- 
cise. It is hoped that the book will thus not only be 
rendered useful to those who already possess some ex- 
perience in domestic management, but also serve as an 
elementary guide-book to young housekeepers ; to 
whom it is most respectfully dedicated by their obedient 
servant, THE AUTHOR. 

Erratum. — In the receipt for Sttet Dumpling, on page 110, 
/or " an hour and a half," rtad " half an hour." 



CONTENTS, 



Introdnotion, page l 

CHAPTEB I. 

BbIm for ProTidin^, ■ * 

Sigiui of Oood Butcher ilett, 

» Fi>h, . . 9 

„ „ Ghune, . 9 

„ „ Ponitry, . 8 

. „ „ Tegetablea, 10 

CHAPTEE U. 

Keeping Frovuunu, ■ n 

CHAPTEB III. 

Oooldiig Appotfttns. 

For Baking, ... 15 
[Tor (Oispten T. t 
CHAPTEB X. 

Dressing Cooked Heat' 

GmSAI. DlBECTTOHg, 

Babble ftnd Sqae^, 
Cold Beef Olivea, 
Cold Meat Broiled, 
DevUg, . . 
Eugliati Stew, 
Pritodells, 
HMhed Beef, . 

„ Teal, 

„ Mntton, 

„ Pork, 

„ Pod1(I7, 

» Ituck, 

r Hare, 

„ Babbit, 

„ Meat with Oun^, 



Cooking AppaiatoB— <» 

For Boiling, 

M Braaing, 

„ BToiliDg;; . 

„ Vijiag, 

„ Boasting, 

„ Stewing, . 
Kitchen Bauge, 
Other [Jteu^ls, 

CHAPTEB IV. 
Q«neral Fiinoiples o 
Cookery, 
IX. wa next page.} 

CHAPTEB XI. 
Soaps and Saooe 

' QnniKUi DnutoTioiis, pp 
Do. for Clsib b TmOK Si 
Do. Btiw Soups, 
Do. FwB, Socre, 

Brown Soap, . 
Calfs-head Soup, . 
Cauliflower do. 
Cock a-leekie Soup, 
Ctappit-heada, 
Crecy, and Crecy & 1ft 

B^e Soapi, 
Eel Soap, 
Giblet do. 
Hare da 
Hoteh Potch, . 
Iiiib Soup, 

[Continued on 



0ONTBMT8. YU 

CHAPTERS V. VI. YH. VIIL IX. 



'^ I 







Page 


Page 


Page 


Page 


rage 


General Direotions, 


• 


. 22 


86 


56 


64 


70 


Butcher Meat— 














BWEW, 




25 


89 


58 


66 


72 


Heart, . 


• 


. 26 


,._ 








Kidneys, 






— . 


,._ 


67 


78 


Tongue, Feet> . 


• 


— 


42 


..— 






Olives, 




— 


— . 


,._ 


.i. 


78 


Tripe, . 


• 


, — . 


42 


— _ 


67 




Mottoh, 




27 


48 


59 


66 


74 


Lamb, 


• 


. 28 


44 


59 


66 


74 


Vbal, 




27 


44 


59 


66 


74 


Kidneys and Sweetbreads, 


, — 


— 


60 


67 




Pork, 




29 


44 


60 


77 


^^^ 


Ham and Bacon, 




— 


45 


60 


67 


_ 


Poultry— PowL, 




88 


46 


61 


68 


75 


TURKBT, 




. 84 


46 


,__ 


_ 


,„_ 


PiGBOR, . 




84 




61 


.^^ 


75 


OOOSB, 




. 85 


47 




..^ 




DUOK, 




86 


47 


_ 


.... 


75 


Game — Vsinsoir, 




. 80 


__ 


..^ 


^^^ 


74 


Fawb and Kn>, 




82 


... 


... 


.... 




Hakb, 




81 


_i_ 


__ 


__ 


74 


AA.BBIT, 




82 


45 


61 


.^^ 


74 


PABTBn>01^ 




84 


47 


.... 


... 




Phbisabt, Orousb, &C. . 


85 


47 


— 


._ 


.i^ 


IFiah, 


• • 


^^^ 


47 


61 
60 


68 


76 


Bones, 




Giblets, 




_ 


__ 




^^ 


76 


Sausages, . 


• • 


-~ 


^^ 


61 


68 




5«»% • 




_ 


55 


_ 


67 


^^ 


Curry, 


• • 


_ 




..M 




76 


Vegetables, 




__ 


50 


_^_ 


^^ 




Potatoes, . 


« • 


__ 


51 


..^ 


68 


^„_ 


Bread Garnishing, 




— 




_ 


69 


.1.. 



Chapter ZI. Sonpi — contintud. 

Italian Paite Stjop, page S7 

Kidney do. 

LenUl do. 

Lobster do. 

Macaroni do. 

Uonk Turtle do. 

Unlllgatawnj do, 

OnloQ do. . 

Oz-(ail do. 

Oi-che«k do. 

Ojater do. 

PalMtine 



Hathroom (biowa) Sance, 

Do. (white) 
MiMHl (aee OjBler), 

Do. (brown), '. 
Oyster, .... 

fiobert (aee BrowD Onion) 



do. . 
Do. <green) do. . 
Rgeon do. . 

Potato do. . 

Rice do. . 

Sago do. . 

Semolina do. . 
Sbeep'a-hsad Broth, 
Tapioca Soap, 
Tnrnip do. 
Tegetable do. (clear), 

Do. do. (thick), m 

YenniceU], do. . . 87 

QnnkAL DiKBOrioiB for Sadob, 101 
AuchoTj Ssoce, 
Apple, . 
BeofQraTy, 
Braad, 

Caper, 
Candle, 
Celery, . 
Cncnmber, 
Currant Jellj, 



Gherkin, 
Qreen Ooosebeny, 
QriU, . 
HoTK-iadi 
Lemon, . 
Lobeter, . 
Heited Batter, 
Hint Sauce, 



CHAPTER XIL 
Faddii^ Pastry, && 

J OKmuL DraicTiOBS for Boiled 

Paddings, . . . 1( 
Do. for Baked Paddings, 1 1 
Do. for Fancy sveet do. IS 



Currant Paddin|f, 

Caatard Padding, 

Fmit, Apple, 4c. do. 
Do. Baked do. 

French Do., or Charlotte, 

Haggia, 
Do. Lamb'B 

Macaroni Pudding, 

Meat do. 

Nottingham do. 

Oatmeal, do. 

Peaae do. 

PlumpnddiDg 
Da. baked, 

Potato PudJiag, 

Prince Albert's do. 

Rice Pudding, 
Do. do. baked. 
Do. (ground) Pudding, 
Da do. baked, 

Roll or Boletcr {bidding. 

Sago, do. 

Seotob White, &c do. 

8net Dninpling, 



CONTENTS. 



IX 



CSiapter Xn. Fuddingt— eoneinued. 

Tapioca Pudding, . page 119 
Toad in a Hole do. . 120 

Yermicelli do. 119 

Torkflhire or Batter do. 119 



Apple Fritters, 


. 126 


Omeletfl) 


. 124 


Pancakes, 


. 125 



GbhbkalDibeotioks for Pastry, 126 
Do. for Mbat Pies, . 129 
Do. for Fruit Piss &; Tabts, 183 



Paste for Baisbd Pubs, 
Do. Mbat Pibs, 
PuTO Pastb, . 
Half Puff Paste, 
Apple Pie, 
Beef-Steak Pie, 
Chicken do. 
Eel Pie, . 
Fish do. 
Fowl Pie (raised) 
Giblet Pie, . 
Gooseberry Pie, 
Lamb do. 
Mince do. 
Mutton do. 
Open Tarts, . 
Oyster Patties, 
Partridge Pie, 
Pigeon do. 
Pork . do. 
Puffs, . 
Babbit Pie, . 
Bed-Currant and other 

Pies, . 
Bhubarb Pie, . 
Small Covered Tarts, 
Veal Pie, 
Yenison Pasty, 



Fruit 



126 
127 
128 
129 
185 
130 
181 
132 
182 
181 
182 
135 
180 
133 
180 
186 
182 
181 
131 
180 
186 
130 

135 
135 
186 
130 
130 



General Dibectiohs for Cakes, 
Biscuits, &c. . . 136 
Almond Biscuits, . . 141 
Barley-meal Scones, . 142 
Bread, .... 143 
Cakes or Scones for Breakfast, 141 



page 142 
141 



I 



Chapter xn. OakMi ko^^eontinued. 

Cheese-cakes, 
French Biscuits, 
Gingerbread, 
Macaroons, 
Oatmeal Cakes, 
Plum Cake, 
Pound Cake, 
Bice Cake, 
Scotch Bun, 
Seed Cake, 
Shortbread, 
Soda Cake, 
Sponge Cake, 
Sweet Cake, 
Tea-Cakes, 



148 
141 
142 
138 
138 
138 
139 
138 
140 
138 
189 
189 
140 



CHAPTEB XIII. 

Jellies, Preserves, FickleSi &c. 

Gbkeral Dibeotiohs for Jellies 144 



Clear Calf s-Foot Jelly, . 

Cow-heel Jelly, 

Orange and Lemon Jelly, 

Ornamental Jelly, . 

Blancmange, 

Do. made with Arrow-root, 

Ground Bice, Irish Moss, 

or Pithina, 



Geeebal Dibsotions for Pbe- 

d£B VES, « • 

vAM, ... 

Bhubarb Jam, 
Fbuit Jellies, . 

Apple Jelly, 

Gooseberry Jelly, 

Bed Currant Jelly, 
Mabmalade, 

Apricot Marmalade, 

Lemon do. 

Melon do 

Orange do* 

Quince do. 
Fbuits Presebved Whole, 

Apricots, &c do. 

Cucumbers do. 

Gooseberries do. 

Jargonelle Pears do. 



145 
146 
146 
146 
146 



147 



147 
147 
149 
148 
149 
149 
148 
150 
151 
150 
151 
160 
151 
151 
152 
152 
158 
16^ 



OONTINT8. 



Chip. Xm PmeorVM— conhnued 

Melons preserved Whole, p. 162 
Oranges do. . . 152 
Pippins do. . . 152 

Plums do. . . 152 

Strawberries do. . 153 



OlHHRALDlBlOIIOVSfor PlOKLBS, 153 



Beetroot, 


• 


155 


Canliflower or Brocoli, 


. 155 


Oucumbers, . 


• 


155 


Do. with Onions, 


156 


French Beans, 




156 


Gherkins, 




156 


Moshrooms, . 




155 


Nastnrtinms, . 




155 


Onions, 




154 


Bed Cabbage, 




154 


Walnuts, 




156 



Chapter XIV. HQgoellanea. 

SALToraMBAT, . .157 

OoUaiedBeef, . 158 

Sausages, . . . 158 

Pott^ Head, and Potted Meat, 159 
Salads, .... 160 



BiTERAOBS, 

Tea, .... 
Coffee, 
Chocolate, 

Cocoa, - - . - 
CooLDra Drinks— Lemonade, 
Ginger Beer, - 
Baspberry Vinegar, 
Spruce Beer, - 
Treacle Beer, 



Home-Made Wines. 

Gbheral DiBEonovs, • 
Bed-Currant Wine, 
Birch - do. • 
Elderberry do. - 
Ginger - do. - 
Parsnip do. - 



161 
161 
162 
163 
163 
164 
164 
164 
165 
165 



166 
167 
168 
168 
168 
168 



Chap. XIV. 'mmXlKmr-^eofUinued, 

Mulled Wine, - pttge 168 
Posset, - - - . 158 
HetPint, • - - 169 

Drinks, &c. for Invalids. 



Acid Drink from Bipe 
Apple Water, - 
Arrowroot, 
Barley Water, - 
Beef-Tea, - 
Caudle, - 
Chicken Broth, 
Gruel, 

Macaroni and Milk, - 
Mutton Broth, 
Panada or Breadbeny, 
Bice Milk, 
Sago do. • 
Semolina do. - 
Tapioca do. • 
Stewed Prunes, 
Toast and Water, 
Treacle Whey, - 
Veal Broth, 
Vermicelli Milk, 
Wine Whey, - 

Diet for the Nxtbsbbt, 
Barley-meal Porridge, 
Bread and Milk, 
Gooseberry-Fool, - 
Meat, &c. 

Oatmeal Porridge, - 
Pap, - - - 
Pease-meal Brose, - 



Fruit, 



Remarks on DnrmBRS, 
Do. Suppers, 



Directions for Caryino, 



169 
169 
170 
169 
171 
170 
171 
170 
170 
171 
171 
170 
170 
170 
170 
171 
169 
170 
171 
170 
169 

171 

172 
172 
174 
178 
172 
178 
172 

174 
176 

177 



Articles in Season, . . 180 

TABLE showing the Provisions 
which may be haid in each month, 
and the Months during which each 
article is in Season, page 182. 



INTRODUCTION 



Thb art of GooKEBT is one of the natural developments 
of Civilization. Viewed in this light it ought not to 
be despised as being a mere pander to luxury, for ex- 
perience proves that it is absolutely necessary to the 
healthful existence of the man of sedentary and in-door 
habits. The savage who has daily to fish for his break- 
fast and hunt for his dinner, or the ploughman who 
labours in the fields from dawn till dusk, can, and does, 
easily consume and digest food prepared in a way that 
would soon prove fatal to the equally laborious artizan 
of the workshop, or to the merchant, student, or lawyer, 
whose duties confine them to the counter, the library, 
or the desk. Now, although the cookery of the citizen 
is certainly superior to that found sufficient for the 
peasant or the savage, still it is, in this country at 
least, very* far from being what it ought to be; and 
hence dyspepsia and other derangements of the digestive 
organs are so prevalent. May it not be that the vast 
excess of the infant mortality in towns over that of the 
country is occasioned as much by this dyspeptic habit 
of body inherited by town children from their parents, 
as by the want of the purer air and more healthful 
occupations to which the country parents are accus- 
tomed : should it prove so, we may say, literally — " The 



I INTRODUCTION. 

fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children*s teeth 
are set on edge." 

That this evil of defective cookery has long been felt 
and appreciated, is strikingly evidenced by the great 
demand which has so long existed for good cookery- 
books, and the consequent success of many even of 
doubtful utility. Notwithstanding the vast number 
of such works which have been published, it is a uni- 
versally admitted fact that a book of truly economical 
cookery — of cookery for the million — is still a desidera- 
tum. Hitherto cookery-books have been generally 
little else than long and often ill-arranged lists of re- 
ceipts for expensive dishes, requiring for their prepar 
ration numerous curious and costly utensils, such as 
are to be found only in the kitchens of the wealthy. 
In the family of the working man such books are of 
course entirely useless, while to many of the middle 
class they are worse, as the attempt to keep a genteel 
table by following their directions often entails a ruin- 
ous expense. But it is not solely on the score of cost- 
liness that many of these works are objectionable. 
Their authors' knowledge is frequently very curious as 
to the modes of pleasing the eye and stimulating the 
palate, but is as often lamentably deficient as to the fit 
preparation of aliment for the stomach. Hence to the 
evil of indigestible food is added that of an artificial 
appetite produced by highly stimulating seasonings, 
combining with the allurements addressed to the sight, 
to tempt the incautious eater to become a victim to 
excess. To these imputations it is hoped that the pre- 
sent work will not be found liable. 

It has been said that a Frenchman can cook a pair 



INTRODUCTION. 3 

of old boots into a first-rate dinner. Though we do 
not profess to enable our readers to accomplish this 
particular feat, still we hope to show them what care- 
ful cooking can accomplish with materials which many 
would consider nearly worthless. The fact is, that the 
old boots proverb is merely another way of stating that 
the French are in the habit of living well upon food 
which, cooked after our rude British fashion, would 
be absolutely uneatable. They can convert what we 
should consider bad meat and vegetables into nutritious 
and palatable food. Why should we not endeavour to 
make our good materials at least as eatable as the 
Frenchman's bad ones, instead of, as is too frequently 
the case, rendering them both tasteless and indigestible 
by our ignorance of the first principles of cookery? 

The main object of the present work is to show the 
economically disposed housewife how she may at a 
small expense provide her husband and family with a 
good dinner, which shall be at once wholesome and 
palatable because properly cooked, and, for the same 
reason, cheap. It is proposed to do this not merely 
by giving approved receipts for plain dishes, but by 
calling particular attention to those general principles 
upon which all good cookery depends. These have 
been long known practically to the French, and having 
been of late years scientifically confirmed, they now 
rank as facts of organic chemistry. 



PROVIDING. 



CHAPTER I. 
RULES FOR PROVIDING. 

A CERTAIN practical lady, giving a receipt for making 
hare soup, began with — " First catch your hare." Upon 
the same principle we shall premise our instructions in 
cooking by a few hints on the procuring and manage- 
ment of provisions. 

1. In the first place, the housewife ought always, 
where it is possible, to do her marketing herself, and 
pay ready-money for everything she purchases. This 
is the only way in which she can be sure of getting the 
best goods at the lowest price. We repeat that this is 
the only way compatible with strict economy, because 
if a servant be entrusted with the buying, she will, if 
she is not a good judge of the quality of articles, bring 
home those she can get for the least money (and these 
are seldom the cheapest), and even if she is a good judge, 
it is ten to one against her taking the trouble to make 
a careful selection. When the ready-money system is 
found inconvenient, and an account is run with a trades- 
man, the mistress of the house ought to have a pass- 
book, in which she should write down all the orders 
herself, leaving the tradesman to fill in only the prices. 
Where this is not done, and the mistress neglects to 
compare the pass-book with the goods ordered every 
time they are brought in, it sometimes happens, either 
by mistake, or the dishonesty of the tradesman or his 
shopman, or the servant, that goods are entered which 
were never ordered, and that those which were ordered 
are overcharged; and if these errors are not detected 
at the time, they are sure to be difficult of adjustment 
afterwards. Let the housewife, therefore, by all means 
avoid running accounts, and pay ready-money. By so 
doing she will escape a great deal of trouble and anxiety. 



PROVIDING. 5 

besides saving the extra price which the tradesman 
charges upon all goods sold on credit, and to which he 
is justly entitled, both as interest for his money and to 
cover the losses to which the system sometimes subjects 
him. 

2. In purchasing perishable goods, care should be 
taken to get everything as freSi and new as possible. 
This is absolutely necessary in the case of vegetables, 
ripe fruit, eggs, butter, and fish generally, as these can- 
not be used in too fresh a condition ; but as butcher 
meat requires to be kept some time, it may, where the 
butcher's word can be trusted as to the day on which it 
was killed, be purchased ready for cooking. Indeed 
this must often be done when a small supply of cut 
meat, such as steaks or chops, is required. As, how- 
ever, it is the butcher's interest to sell off his meat 
while it is fresh, in order to avoid the loss arising from 
its spoiling on his hands, he will seldom have any prime 
pieces which have been kept long enough for immediate 
use, so that it is much safer, as a general rule, to ask for 
it fresh, and keep it at home. Perhaps the best plan 
is to ascertain which day of the week is the butcher's 
regular " killing day," and to buy upon that day only, 
a quantity sufficient to last some time, — which quantity 
must be determined by the season of the year; for since 
meat keeps longer in winter than in summer, a larger 
stock may be laid in then. Many a good dinner has 
been spoiled, and many a fine peice of meat wasted, and 
this not from ignorance of the time it ought to be kept, 
but from inattention to the above rule. 

3. When it is ascertained where the best and cheap- 
est articles are sold, it is as well to lay in as large a 
stock as can be afforded at one time, of those provisions 
which do not spoil by keeping. By so doing, the house- 
wife will not only have a good supply of the best always 
at hand, but will also be allowed certain discounts from' 
the price, which she would not otherwise obtain, besides 
«aving much time and trouble in shopping. Not only 
will she have to go oftener to the shop for small sup- 



6 HOW TO CHOOSE 

plies, but it may frequently happen that when she ap- 
plies for a second smsdl quantity of an article that has 
been approved of, she may find the dealer's stock of 
that particular commodity renewed, and the new supply 
not so good; and then she will either have to purchase 
an inferior article, or to wander from shop to shop in 
search of a better. Of course this rule must be disre- 
garded when, at the time of purchase, there is reason 
to expect an immediate fall in the price. For instance, 
it would be absurd to buy a three months' supply of 
tea at 4s., with the knowledge that within a month there 
might be such a reduction of duty upon it as would 
lower its price to 2s. Such cases, however, occur very 
rarely. 

SIGNS OF GOOD QUALITIES IN PE0VI3I0NS. 

To facilitate the choice of the best provisions the 
following indications of quality should be attended to. 



As a general rule, the best meat is that which is mo- 
derately fat. Lean meat must have been ill fed, and 
will be tough and tasteless. Very fat meat may be good, 
is not economical. When it cannot be got otherwise, 
the butcher ought to be directed to cut off the super- 
fluous suet before weighing it. 

1. Beef. The flesh should feel tender, have a fine 
grain, and a clear red colour. The fat should be mode- 
rate in quantity, and lie in streaks through the lean. 
Its colour should be white or very light yellow. Ox beef 
is the best, — heifer very good if well fed,— cow and 
bull, decidedly inferior. 

2. Mutton. The flesh, like that of beef, should be 
of a good red colour, perhaps a shade darker. It should 
be fine-grained, and well mixed with fat, which ought 

'to be pure white and firm. The mutton of the black- 
faced breed of sheep is the best, and may be known by 
the shortness of the shank; the best age is about five 
years, though it is seldom to be had so old. Wether 



BUTCHER MEAT, BACON, &C. 7 

mutton is superior to either ram or ewe, and may be 
distinguished by having a prominent lump of fat on the 
broadest part of the inside of the leg. The flesh of the 
ram has a very dark colour and is of a coarse texture ; 
that of the ewe is pale, and the fat yellow and spongy. 

3. Veal. Its colour should be white, with a tinge 
of pink j it ought to be rather fat, and feel Arm to the 
touch. The flesh should have a fine delicate texture. 
The leg-bone should be small; the kidney small and 
well covered with fat. The proper age is about two or 
three months; when killed too young it is soft, flabby, 
and dark coloured. The bull-calf makes the best veal, 
though the cow-calf is preferred for many dishes on ac- 
count of the udder. 

4. Lamb. This should be light-coloured and fat, and 
have a delicate appearance. The kidneys should be 
small and imbedded in fat, the quarters short and thick, 
and the knuckle stiff. When fresh, the vein in the fore 
quarter will have a bluish tint. If the vein look green 
or yellow, it is a certain sign of staleness, which may 
also be detected by smelling the kidneys. 

5. Pork. Both the flesh and the fat must be white, 
firm, smooth, and dry. When young and fresh, the lean 
ought to break when pinched with the fingers, and the 
skin, which should be thin, yield to the nails. The 
breed having short legs, thick neck, and small head, is 
the best. Six months is the right age for killing, when 
the leg should not weigh more than 6 or 7ft). Measley 
pork is known by the fat being mottled with little 
lumps and kernels. 

Generally, all meat, when not fresh, has a tainted 
smell about the kidneys, and the eyes are sunk and 
shrivelled instead of being plump and full 

Bacon and Hah may be considered good when the 
rind is thin, the fat white and firm, and when the flesh 
adheres to thc^ bone and has a clear, darkish red colour, 
not streaked vnith yellow. To test the perfect fresh- 
ness of ham, run a knife into it close to the bone, and 



8 HOW TO CHOOSE EGOS, 

if when drawn out it has a pleasant smell, and is not 
smeared, the ham is fresh. If either bacon or ham have 
the slightest tinge of jellow in the fat, it will soon be- 
come rancid. 

BuTTEB and Cheese should be judged of by tasting 
them. 

Eggs. It is difficult to discover if eggs be fresh. 
The best plan is to hold them between the eye and a 
lighted candle, close to the light, when, if they appear 
equally transparent throughout, they may be pro- 
nounced good, but if there are any cloudy spots ap- 
parent, they should be rejected as stale. 



Birds of all kinds are best when young. The thin 
bone projecting over the belly will then feel soft and 
gristly; if it is stiff and hard, the bird is old. All 
poultry should be firm and fleshy. 

1. Fowls are best when short and plump, with broad 
breast and thick rump, the legs smooth and the spurs 
short and blunt. The black-legged kind are the most 
juicy. In capons, the comb should be short and pale — 
in cocks, short and bright red. If fresh, the vent will 
be close and dark ; when stale, it will be tainted, and 
the eyes sunk. 

2. TuBKEYS. The same remarks apply to these as 
to fowls. The cock turkey is preferable to the hen. 

^ When young, the toes and bill are soft. 

3. Geese. The flesh should be of a fine light pink 
tint, the liver pale, the fat white and soft, and the breast 
full and plump. A young goose has yellow feet and 
bill; in an old one these are reddish. It ought to have 
very few or no hairs on the body. 

4. Ducks. Young ducks are distinguished in the 
same manner as young geese. The belly should \>e hard 
and thick. The drake is the best eating. 

4. Pigeons. The breast should be Ml and plump, 
and the feet elastic. When not fresh, they are flabby, 
and the vent discoloured. 



POULTRY, GAME, AND FISH. 



1. Wild Fowl, when young, have soft quills, and 
should be plump, and hard in the vent. Old birds are 
distinguished by rigid bills, tough leg-sinews, and long 
and sharp spurs'; they require to be kept longer than 
young ones. Small field-birds should always be used 
fresh. 

2. Venison. The flesh of good Venison is dark, fine- 
grained, and firm, and the fat clear and bright, lying 
thickly on the back. When young, the cleft of the 
hoof is smooth and close. 

3. Hares and Rabbits are fresh when the body is 
rigid. Young ones have the claws smooth, sharp and 
close, and the ears tender and easily torn. 



Stale fish furnishes such unmistakable evidence of 
its condition, both to sight and smell, that the merest 
novice who should purchase it would be inexcusable. 
When perfectly fresh, the body is stiff and elastic; the 
gills close, difficult to open, and red ; the fins lying flat 
to the sides; the eyes bright and full; the scales glis- 
tening and firmly attached to the body. When stale, 
it is the reverse of all this, and has besides a strong of- 
fensive smell. The best fish of all kinds have small 
heads and tails, thick bodies, and broad shoulders. 

TuRBOT. A good one has the belly cream-coloured; 
and if that and the fins be streaked with red, it may 
be considered perfectly fresh. 

Skate. When good, the belly is white, tinged with 
lilac. The female is preferred. Those with large 
thorns are very inferior. 

Lobsters and Crabs should feel heavy; — ^when light, 
they are filled with water ; which may also be known 
in lobsters by the berries being large and brownish. 
In crabs, aftel* being boiled, the water, if there be any, 
may be heard rattling on shaking them. The male is 
better than the female, and is distinguished in the lob- 



10 TO CHOOSE VEGETABLES, ^C. 

ster by a narrow tail, in the crab by a narrow breast. 
The lobster when in perfection has a hard firm shell, 
and may be considered very superior if encrusted with 
marine animals. 

Prawns and Shrimps are good when their tails turn 
strongly inwards, and when they have no unpleasant 
smell. They are best when very red, and free from 
spawn under the tail. 

Oysters, if alive and healthy, will close upon the 
knife when being opened. Pandore oysters from the 
Firth of Forth, and those from the Kent coast in Eng- 
land, are considered the best. 

Mussels are very good and wholesome when gathered 
from banks on the open coast, but those from the mouths 
of rivers and harbours where there is much shipping 
are often highly dangerous, being impregnated with 
poisonous matter from the copper sheathing of the 
ships' bottoms. Those from wet docks ought never to 
be used. 

Besides the above there are several other species of 
shell-fish, viz. — the Escalop, Razor-fish, Clams, and 
Cockles, which, though very good, are scarce, and not 
much used. Whelks are more plentiful, and are con- 
sidered very wholesome. All bivalve shell-fish should 
be procured alive, when the shells are firmly closed. 
If purchased ready cooked, as mussels and whelks often 
are, their freshness must be judged of by the smell. 

VBOBTABX.BB. 

All Green Vegetables of the cabbage kind should be 
chosen with large, close, firm hearts. When fresh, the 
leaves are crisp and brittle; when stale, they are lank 
and drooping. These ought to be used as soon after 
being gathered as possible, as they are apt to spoil by 
long keeping. Such perfect freshness is not so abso- 
lutely necessary in roots such as potatoes, turnips, &c. 



KEEPING PROVISIONS. 11 

CHAPTER II. 
KEEPING PROVISIONS. 

Fbesh Meat of every description should be hung up in 
a cool, dry, airy place, and carefully wiped every day. 
It should never lie long in a dish. The length of time 
it should be kept varies "with the weather, — cold dry 
weather being the best, and warm moist weather the 
worst. Game generally, will keep longer than butcher 
meat, — two or three weeks, birds being kept with the 
feathers on, and hares paunched, but not skinned. Beef 
will require from four to ten days' keeping, or even longer 
in cold weather; and mutton, if well managed, will 
sometimes hang a fortnight or even three weeks with- 
out spoiling, — the longer the better. Young meat, 
such as veal, lamb, and pork, will not keep fresh nearly 
so long, — one, two, or three days at the utmost, suf- 
ficing. Fowls will keep for a week, and turkeys a fort- 
night, but a goose not above nine or ten days. In plucking 
birds which have been kept some time, care should be 
taken not to break the skin, which will have become 
rather tender. 

As all animal food, however good in quality, and how- 
ever well it may be cooked, is uneatable when stale, 
and, except fish, will certainly prove tough if cooked 
too fresh, it becomes a matter of considerable difficulty, 
particularly during summer, to fix upon the right 
day for cooking a piece of meat which has been kept. 
It is only by daily examination, and narrowly watch- 
ing the changes which the meat undergoes, that the 
house'vifife will be able to arrest its decomposition at 
that stage, just short of being tainted, which is the 
proper one at which to cook it. This is an art which 
can be acquired only by experience, and its successful 
practice requires considerable skill in household man- 
agement. Thus, should the weather have been such 



12 KEEPING PROVISIONS. 

that the meat has not reached the proper cooking state 
upon the day intended, the prudent and active house- 
wife will have to provide some other dinner for that 
day, and keep the meat till the next, or the next again. 
It cannot be too strongly impressed upon housekeepers 
that even the best butcher meat, when cooked too soon, 
will not be nearly so tender and palatable as meat much 
inferior, which has been kept the proper time. 

There are various ways of keeping meat sweet, and 
of removing the bad smeU after it has become sHghtly 
tainted. One mode is to rub it over with coarsely 
pounded charcoal, which has the property of absorbing 
all the putrescent gases, and thus prevents the bad 
smell. The charcoal must of course be washed off be- 
fore cooking. Another way is to paint the meat all 
over with pyroHgneous acid or wood vinegar, which is 
an antiseptic, and considerably retards the progress of 
decay. Should the decomposition have already gone 
rather too far, the meat may be partly restored by 
steeping it, for a short time before using, in a solution 
of chloride of lime. This latter plan is very useful, 
especially in warm weather, for game, which is gene- 
rally preferred with that high flavour produced by long 
keeping, as it entirely removes any accompanying smell. 
Dusting meat well with black pepper is a preservative 
against flies, which however will not get at it if it is 
kept in a properly constructed meat safe. This is a 
lock-fast box or closet, the sides of which consist of 
canvas, hair-cloth, or perforated zinc, stretched upon a 
frame. It should be placed in an airy yet sheltered 
situation, not exposed to the sun. A few shelves and 
several tinned hooks attached to the top or roof, are its 
interior fittings. 

Cooked Meat ought to be kept as cool and dry as 
possible. When sent from table to be set aside for fu- 
ture use, it ought to be removed into a clean dry dish, 
keeping back the gravy, which is apt soon to become 
sour, and therefore ought to be kept in a separate ves- 
sel. A cold joint is always richer and more juicy if it 



OOOKINO APPARATUS. 13 

has not been cut while warm, because when cut warm 
the juices run out at the incision. 

Green Vegetables cannot be kept longer than a day 
or two, and then it must be in a cool drj cellar, free 
from draughts of air, otherwise they are sure to lose 
their flavour and perhaps to ferment, in which case they 
become unwholesome. Each kind should be kept by 
itself, to prevent contamination of flavour. They should 
never be placed in water till immediately before being 
used. Roots, such as carrots, turnips, &c., will remain 
good a considerable time if kept cool and dry; but they 
must not be washed, but be stored in dry sand just as 
they are taken from the ground. In winter they must 
be protected from frost. Onions are best preserved, 
— the large ones strung, the small ones in nets, — hung 
up in a cool but dry place. Parsley and other herbs 
may be preserved by drying them either in bunches tied 
to a rope in a warm kitchen, or spread out in an oven 
nearly cold. 



CHAPTER III. 
COOKING APPARATUS. 

A MOST important point in the economy of the kitchen 
is to cook with as Httle fuel as possible. To do this it 
is requisite that the apparatus should be complete, and 
no larger than is necessary for the requirements of the 
household. 

The Kitchen Range. It is a very common error 
to have this much too large, whereby a considerable loss 
is occasioned by an unnecessary consumption of fuel. 
The most economical form of range is that which has a 
comparatively small open fireplace in the centre, with a 
boiler on one side and extending round the back, and a 
small oven having a furnace underneath it on the other, 
— the whole being flat on the top. By means of such a 



14 COOKINQ APPARATUS FOR 

range, which may be had for Si or £i : 10s., the opera- 
tions of roasting, boiling, stewing, and baking, may all 
be carried on simultaneously. Although the furnace 
under the oven need only be used when baking is re- 
quired, yet the oyen wiU always be sufficiently warm to 
heat dinner plates, whilst the boiler, which may be made 
self-filling, will furnish a constant and plentiful supply 
of hot water — an article which ought always to be obtain- 
able at a moment's notice in every house. M. Soyer has 
invented a range (considerably more expensive however 
than the above), which with one fire can roast, boil, 
broil, bake, fry, braise, and saut6, all at the same time. 
It is so contrived as to stand in the middle of the kitchen, 
and occupies very little space. 

The various kitchen utensils, constituting the rest of 
the cooking apparatus, will be more properly described 
when treating of the different processes for which they 
are required. 

1. Boasting is performed by the direct action of the 
fire. The meat is suspended and kept in constant ro- 
tation in front of the fire by means of a twirling hook 
and bottle-jack which is hung from a projecting arm 
or crane fixed in or above the mantel-piece. This arm 
has a number of notches on its upper side, by means of 
which the distance of the meat from the fire can be re- 
gulated at pleasure, and it moves upon a swivel, so that 
when not in use it may be turned back close to the walL 
Beneath the meat is placed a stand containing a remov- 
able tin dish to catch the dripping, and from the back 
part of which a tin screen of a semicircular form, stands 
up behind the meat and reflects the heat upon it, there- 
by aiding the roasting. 

2. Bboiling is the cooking of small articles, such as 
herrings, slices of meat, &c., over the fire, and by its 
direct action. It is perhaps the most ancient and pri- 
mitive mode of cooking. The savage hunter broils his 
steak cut from the still bleeding animal, upon the live 
embers of his wood fire. The civilized man, more 
cleanly, broils his upon a gridiron, over a clear smoke- 



ROASTING, BROILING, &0. 15 

less fire of coals, haying taken care to have it cut from 
an animal killed at least a week previonslj. In point 
of tenderness the two steaks are said to be upon a par. 
Those who have tried it, declare that meat cooked while 
ttiU warm from the newly-killed animal is very tender. 
Perhaps the steak cut from the live animal, said to be 
so much relished in Abyssinia, owes its popidarity there 
to the same cause. 

The gridiron should have small round bars, and must 
be kept thoroughly clean, not only on the tops of the 
bars, but between them. For turning the meat, a 
pair of small tongs is preferable to a fork, which makes 
holes in it, through which the juice runs out. When 
the meat is in proper condition, broiling is by far the 
best mode of cooking, and it is certainly the most ex- 
peditious. 

3. Baking is best accomplished in a properly con- 
structed oyen; but small csikes, puddings, &c., can be 
very well baked in front of the fire in a '^ Dispatch," 
which is a tin box with an open side, so made as to 
reflect the heat equally over whatever is placed in it. 
Baking on a small scale may also be done over the fire 
in a large dry goblet, with a close fitting lid. As this 
however is apt to melt the tyi lining, an old goblet, 
which has already lost its lining ought to be used, and 
care should be taken to warm it gradually lest it be 
cracked by the heat. Whatever is baked in a goblet 
must be placed upon a tin trevet to keep it from the 
hot bottom. A large number of cakes or scones might 
be baked in this way by placing each upon a separate 
trevet, and making a pile of them inside the pot. 

4. Boiling is done in an iron pot (called a goblet in 
Scotland, in England a saucepan) tinned on the inside. 
It should be sufficiently large to contain water enough 
to cover the meat. Besides one or two large goblets, 
it is convenient to have several of the very smallest size, 
of block tin, for making sauces, &c. For boiling fish 
an oval tin fish-kettle is required, with a flat drainer to 
place beneath the fish while boiling, in order to lift it 
out whole when done. 



16 COOKING APPARATUS FOR 

5. Stewino differs from boiling in that a much smaller 
quantity of water is employed; and this being enriched 
by the juices of the meat, is served as a gravy along with 
it. Meat cooked in this way has been recommended 
as more wholesome than when boiled, because, the liquor 
in which it was cooked being taken along with it, it 
perfectly supplies the requirements of the theory that 
as the human body is made up of precisely the same 
elements as raw butcher meat, and these in precisely 
the same proportions, therefore, in order to supply thi 
waste of the body the meat ought to be eaten entire, 
with none of its constituents abstracted in the cooking. 
Although, however, experience appears to confirm the 
truth of this theory in the case of boiled and stewed 
meat, it is to be feared that its strict application would 
necessitate our eating hones, and many other matters 
even not quite so palatable or digestible. It may even 
be doubted whether the theory will apply at all, seeing 
that its propounders have analysed merely the dead. 
human body, and consequently cannot say what the 
living body is composed of; or even granting it to be 
identical with the dead one, it never can be known that 
the changes food undergoes during nutrition, which are 
admittedly not chemicaj, do not amount in some cases 
to actual transmutation of elements. 

The Stew-pan is a much shallower vessel than the 
sauce-pan for boiling. It is also of iron, tinned inside. 
All boiling and stewing vessels ought to have close- 
fitting lids. 

6. Braising is a French improvement upon stewing. 
The method is nearly the same, the difference being 
that braising is done in an air-tight vessel, so that none 
of the volatile matters escape, and that the heat is ap- 
plied above as well as below. For this latter purpose 
live embers are placed upon the lid of the braising-pan, 
which is made hollow on the top to receive them. 
Braising is a very slow process, and perhaps its su- 
periority over good stewing is not worth the extra 
trouble required. 



STEWING, FRYING, &C. 17 

7. Feyino. There are two modes of frying. The 
first is called by the French cooks sautiing, and is that 
which is most generally adopted by the middle and 
poorer classes in this country, being considered the 
most economical. Its use is confined to the cooking of 
small articles having the form of a flat cake or slice. 
It requires merely a flat uncovered shallow pan with a 
straight handle (the usual frying-pan), in which there 
has been heated just enough of dripping or florence oil 
to prevent the article from sticking to the bottom. 
When browned on one side the article is turned, — if it 
is a slice of meat, with a pair of tongs as in broiling ; 
if fish, a perforated tin slice is used. When a single 
article is cooked at a time, an expert cook will turn it 
by tossing it into the air and catching it on the other 
side. The pan should be thick on the bottom, and be 
made of malleable iron. 

The other method of frying is performed by com- 
pletely immersing the article to be fried in hot oil or 
fat. In this case the frying-pan must be six or eight 
inches deep (a small fish kettle answers very well), and 
be filled to the depth of three or four inches with melt- 
ed dripping, or, for some purposes, florence oil; and 
when this is heated sufiiciently, the fish, or whatever it 
may be, is let gently down into it, — if large, in a wire 
basket by which it can be easily Itfted out. Vi 

This method is best adapted for the larger sized fish, 
which may thus be cooked in good sized pieces, or even 
whole. As soon as a large piece of fish has become 
browned, the fire ought to be moderated, and the rest 
of the frying done at a lower temperature. This will 
prevent the outside being over-done before the inside 
is properly cooked. It may seem singular, but it is the 
case, that in both these modes of frying, more particu- 
larly in the latter, very little, if any, of the oil or fat is 
imbibed by the food. The reason is, that the boiling 
liquid, which ought to be considerably hotter than 
boiling water, contracts and hardens and partly car- 
bonizes the surface of whatever is placed in it, and so 

c 



18 GENERAL PRINCIPLES 

forms a skin or crust which is impervious to the oiL 
The articles thus treated heing generally small, the heat 
penetrates them with sufficient rapidity to cook them 
thoroughly before this crust acquires any great thick- 
ness. In order more effectually to prevent their ab- 
sorbing the oil, they are usually coated with batter, or 
egg and bread crumbs, which very quickly set, and 
besides excluding the oil, serve in a great measure to 
protect the meat from the hardening influence of the 

extreme heat. 

Besides the necessary utensils above mentioned, the 
kitchen ought to be furnished with a good sized brasa- 
pan for making fruit preserves, a meat saw, chopper, 
and block ; a pastry slab of hard wood, or, what is better, 
of marble, a rolling-pin and a paste-brush ; a stout pair 
of scissors, and several kitchen knives and spoons ; also 
a number of bowls and baking dishes, tin or earthen- 
ware jelly moulds; a coUander, a dredging box, and 
several sieves (both of hair and wire), a jelly-bag and 
several tammies, pudding-cloths, towels and scrubbing- 
brushes; a number of skewers, and some small boxes 
for holding spices, &c. None of these articles are very 
expensive, and, although a contriving housevdfe may 
manage to dispense with several of them, they all greatly 
conduce to the comfort and convenience of the cook. 
Of course, the extent to which a house is provided with 
them must depend on the size of the establishment and 
and the master's means. 



CHAPTER IV. 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES TO BE KEPT IN VIEW IN 
EVERY PROCESS OF COOKERY. 

In order to impart a rational comprehension of these, 
it is necessary to say somewhat regarding the constitu- 
tion and nature of food. 



OF ALL COOKERY. 19 

All animal flesh consists chiefly of five diflerent sub- 
stances. There is flrst the mttsctdar Jihre, which when 
separated from the other ^constituents is white, and per- 
fectly tasteless. It is insoluble in cold water, and when 
exposed to the heat of boiling water becomes hard and 
homy. Then there are numerous membranous tismes 
which are also insoluUe in cold water, but which boil- 
ing water slowly dissolyee, changing them into glue or 
gelatine, which forms a jelly on cooling. Thirdly, there 
is the aZ&2£0M!?i, a substimce which in raw meat remains 
dissolved in the juice, but which becomes completely 
coagulated at a temperature (about 140^.), considerably 
below that of boiling water, which is 212^ Ltastly, 
there exist, dissolved in the juice of raw meat, the red 
colouring matter, which coagulates and becomes brown 
at 1509^ wad the sapid and odorous parts of the meat, 
called ^e osmazom^e, whidi can only be separated from 
the water of the juice by evaporation. It is this last 
constituent in which alone the taste of the meat is to 
be found. Apart from it, tdie others are nearly insipid. 
Some kinds of meat become eatable when their albumen 
has been coagulated by a heat of 140^ At this stage 
flesh still retains its raw red colour, and is very juicy and 
tender. The red intdde part of roast meat, so much 
liked by many people, is an instance of it. Flesh 
may be said to be thoroughly cooked when the colour- 
ing matter also is coagulated, the temperature re- 
quired being a little above 150^ At this stage the 
meat will have entirely lost its raw appearance, and be 
perfectly tender. If however the meat in cooking be 
heated to the boiling point, 212<^, it will become much 
firmer, from the hardening of the fibrine, and if kept 
long at that heat, tender meat will become hard if 
roasted, and tough if boiled. Should the boiling be 
continued a considerable time, the fibres of the meat 
will separate, let out a great part of the juices, and be- 
come almost tasteless ; in fact the meat will be " boiled 
to rags." By such a process an ignorant cook will pro- 
fess to boU meat teiider, when she has merely rendered 



20 GENERAL PRINCIPLES 

the hardened fibres easily separable from one another 
by the teeth, and condemned the unfortunate eater 
perhaps to a fit of indigestion, and most certainly ta 
half an hour's hard labour with the toothpick. 

For cooking vegetable substances a boiling heat is 
always necessary. Their cellular tissues are softened and 
opened up by it, their starch converted from an in- 
soluble into a soluble substance, and the whole rendered 
more digestible. 

It is upon the foregoing facts that the following 
general principles or rules for cooking are founded : — 

Ist. In making soups, sauces, &o., in which only a 
strong highly-flavoured fluid extract of meat is required, 
the meat ought to be cut into very small pieces or thin 
slices, and then very slowly digested in lukewarm water, 
hut not allowed to boil until the end of the process, 
when the scum which is thrown up should be carefully 
removed, and the liquor strained. 

In this way the water first penetrates the meat and 
displaces the juices which alone possess flavour. When 
this is thoroughly accomplished, the heat may be in- 
creased, when the albumen and most of the colouring 
matter, now dissolved in the water, become coagulated ; 
this forms the scum, which, being tasteless and dirty- 
looking, is removed. Lastly the boiling water dissolves 
the gelatinous tissues of the meat, which although im- 
parting no taste, serve to enrich and thicken the soup, 
and, if the liquor be sufficiently concentrated, will cause 
it to congeal when cooled. Of course the meat will have 
become tough and tasteless, in which state it is unfit to 
eat. If the opposite course be followed, — if the meat 
be thrown at once into boiling water, — the extreme 
heat will at once harden the surface, both by contracting 
the fibrine and coagulating the albumen, which, instead 
of being extracted in a dissolved state to be afterwards 
thrown up as scum by boiling, will mostly remain in the 
meat, and there becoming solid, will so choke up all the 
minute vessels containing the savoury juice, as efiectual- 
ly to prevent the water entering them to extract it; and 



OF ALL COOKERY. 21 

it will only be by long-continued boiling that even the 
gelatine will be dissolved. Thus the soup will be poor 
in taste, though rich in glue ; showing that the strength 
of soup ought not to be estimated, as is often done, by 
the firmness of the jelly it makes on cooling. 

2d, Meat which is to be eaten, ought never to be 
heated to the boiling point of water. 

From what has been already said, the necessity of 
this must be evident. As a heat of 150 or 155 degrees 
is the highest required to cook meat thoroughly, every 
degree above that involves a waste of fuel; and a boil- 
ing heat (212<>), which is the greatest that can possibly 
be applied to meat boiled in an open vessel, is that at 
which it is certain to become hard and tough. 

This rule may perhaps at first sight appear to be con- 
tradicted by some of the directions given in the receipts 
which follow, but it is really not so. Thus in the di- 
rections for boiling, it is said that the meat must be 
put into boiling water. This is merely preparatory to 
cooking it, — it is done in order to seal up, by the boil- 
ing heat, the orifices of the juice vessels so as to prevent 
the water entering, and confine the gravy. For the 
same purpose, meat which is to be stewed is first hrovm- 
ed or saut^ed in the stew-pan; the main part of the 
cooking being in both cases done by slowly simmering. 
Neither is this rule infringed in frying or broiling, 
because these processes are applied only to slices of 
meat so thin that they are thoroughly cooked before 
the eostreme heat applied to them has time to penetrate 
farther than a very little depth from the surface. The 
fiesh of fish is naturally so very soft and fiaccid that it 
requires the hardening influence of a high temperature 
to make it palatable. It is therefore plunged at once 
into boiling water, and the ebullition kept up as briskly 
as possible, until the fish is cooked. 

3d, The third rule, which is but a deduction from the 
second, is, that large pieces of meat require cooking for 
a longer time and at a lower temperature than small 
pieces. 



22 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

The reason of this must be obrious ; for if a leg of 
mutton^ for instance, were to be exposed to the heat 
required to broil or fry a beef steak, and for the same 
time, it would merely be cooked on the outside to the 
depth of half the thickness of a beef steak; and if it 
were broiled till the part next the bone was cooked 
(which would take nearly as long as when property 
roasted), by far the greater portion of it would be burnt 
almost to a cinder. And if, on the other hand, a beef 
steak were to be roasted precisely as a leg of mutton is^ 
it would soon become as hard and dry as a tile, — not 
from being overheated, but from its moisture being all 
evaporated. 

By proper attention to rule 1st in making soups and 
meat sauces, or preparing stock for either, these will 
always contain the maximum of flavour and strength 
derivable from the quantity of meat employed in their 
preparation, which is the only result consistent with 
strict economy. Rules 2d and 3d, but more especially 
the former, will, if strictly followed, always ensure 
tender and juicy meat, in whatever way it be cooked. 

As nothing should be thrown aside which can in any 
way be made useful, the economical housewife will save 
both the exhausted meat from which soup has been 
made, and the liquor in which boiled meat has been 
cooked, for both of which a use may be found, as will 
afterwards be shown in its proper place. 



CHAPTER V. 
boasth^g. 



t 



GENERAL DIBEGTIONS. 

Although practice and attention alone will make a 
proficient in roasting, still it is necessary that the fol- 
lowing hints be attended to. 



FOR ROASTING. 23 

An hour previous to puttings the meat to the fire, 
have the grate well cleared of ashes, and a fire made up 
suited to the size of the joint, so that when required it 
will be clear and glowing. Let all the cooking utensils 
be thoroughly clean and bright. Let the meat be pro- 
perly jointed, which facilitates the carving and prevents 
haggling the roast. Wash the meat well in salt and 
water, and dry it thoroughly, after which it should be 
handled as little as possible. Draw the live coal to the 
front of the grate, and put on a backing of wet cinders 
and small coal ; this will sustain and throw forward the 
heat. If the meat is very fat, which it ought not to be, 
cut off the superfluous suet, leaving only sufficient for 
basting, and cover it with a piece of buttered white 
paper tied on with twine. When skewering is neces- 
sary, use as few skewers as possible, so as to avoid 
making too many holes in the meat by which the gravy 
escapes. Fix the joint upon the hook of the jack in 
such a way that every part may be equally acted on by 
the fire. Then hang it before the fire at such a distance 
that it will not be scorched on the outside before being 
warmed through, and adjust the screen and dripping 
pan. ^ As soon as the fat begins to melt, the joint can- 
not be too frequently basted with the dripping thus 
formed. In cases where the dripping is scanty, butter 
must be used for basting. If more dipping falls into the 
pan than is necessary for the purpose, it should be re- 
moved before it gets at all scorched by the heat, or by 
cinders falling into it. The time required for roasting 
depends on the size and shape of the joint as well as on 
the kind of meat. Although a quarter of an hour to each 
pound of meat is usually the time allowed, yet it must 
be noted that generally fat meat requires more time 
than lean, that fillets and legs take longer than loins 
or breasts, and that veal and pork take longer than any 
other kind of meat. If the roast is large, and requires 
long cooking, the fire may be mended once, or perhaps 
twice, before it is done. To do this, the roast and 
dripping-pan must be removed from the fire while the 



24 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

ashes are raked out of the front of the grate and fnak 
coals put on at the back. When the roast i» nearlj 
ready the paper should be remoyed and the joint brought 
nearer the fire, where it should remain, being all the 
while diligently basted, until it has acquired a fine rich 
brown colour. About a quarter of an hour before re- 
moving the meat from the fire, sprinkle it lightly from a 
dredging box, with a mixture of well-dried flour and 
salt. When dishing the roast, remove the dripping 
from the gravy in the dripping pan, and put the gravy 
into the dish along with the meat. This is the best 
sauce that can be taken with any kind of roast meat, 
and if the meat be good, especially beef or mutton, 
there will be plenty of it. Should the gravy however 
prove scanty, the dripping pan, if it has been kept free 
from ashes, may be rinsed out with a very little boiling 
water and salt, and this poured over the meat. If ele- 
gance be desiderated, the end of the knuckle or shank* 
bone, where there is one, may be ornamented with a cut 
paper frilL All dishes and plates sent to table should 
be hot. 

The flavour of the more insipid kinds of meat, such 
as veal, poultry, <fec., is frequently heightened by stuff- 
ing them with forcemeat before roasting. This is a highly 
seasoned mixture of a number of savoury substances, 
for the compounding of which, from its very nature as 
a matter of taste, no definite rules can be given. In 
some of the receipts which follow, a few examples of 
stuflBng are given, which merely show the substances 
usually employed, and the proportions which will be 
found very good. But it must be distinctly understood 
that the cook is by no means restricted to these, and 
ought to exercise her invention and discretion as to the 
materials and their proportions^ according to circum- 
stances and the taste of those for whom she provides. 

The dripping removed from the pan during the pro- 
cess of roasting should be preserved thus : — Before it 
cools, pour it into boiling water, when all impurities^ 
such as gravy, ashes, and small cinders, will fall to the 



FOR ROASTING. 25 

bottom, the pure fat floating at the top. This when 
cold becomes a firm white cake. When a sufficient 
number of such cakes are procured, melt them all 
together in an earthenware jar placed in boiling water, 
and on cooling there will be a solid mass of pure white 
dripping, which will keep fresh for a considerable time. 
Beef and lamb dripping thus prepared is useful for fry- 
ing, and making pie-crust. That from mutton being 
tallowy is not so good, while most other kinds of drip- 
ping are never used in cookery. They should however 
be collected and preserved as above, along with fat 
skimmings from boiled meat, broth, &c., and the ac- 
cumulation sold to the candlemakers or soap-boilers. 
Economical housewives in the country, or those who 
have a liking for such operations, make their own candles 
and soap for common purposes from it. Either plan is 
more thrifty than throwing away refuse fat. 

Joints of meat may be very well roasted in a baker's 
oven. For this purpose the meat must be prepared as for 
roasting in the usual way, and then placed upon a stout 
wire trevet in a large brown earthen pan about two 
inches deep, which will withstand the heat of the oven. 
Instead of a trevet, two or three sticks laid across the 
edges of the pan, will do to support the meat. The 
heat of the oven must be moderate, considerably less 
than is required for bread. When a small joint is cooked 
in this way, it is a very good plan to bake a Yorkshire 
pudding or some potatoes in the pan under it. These 
will absorb and be enriched by the gravy of the meat, 
and are a very nice accompaniment to the roast. 

The foregoing general directions apply to roasts of 
every kind. It now remains to point out the peculiar 
methods required for the different sorts of meat. 



The best piece for roasting is the Sirloin. It should 
consist of at least three of the short ribs. One weigh- 
ing about twelve pounds may require two and a half 



26 DIRECTIONS 

hours' roasting, though this depends greatly upon the 
fire. When dished, it ma> he garnished with finely 
scraped horse-radish, or this may he served separately 
as a condiment (see Sauces, <kc.) Salt and mustard are 
almost universally taken with roast beef. A Yorkshire 
or a potatoe pudding (see Puddings), may be cooked be- 
fore the fire, under the roast. Besides these, plain boiled 
or mashed potatoes, mashed turnips, plain boiled rice 
or rice-pudding, greens, French beans, green pease, 
pease-pudding, oat-meal pudding and suet dumplings, 
are all very good accompaniments for roast beef 

The Bibs ofBeefm&j be roasted in the same way and 
served with the same accompaniments as the sirloin. 
Before cooking, the bones are generally sawn through, 
about three inches from the top, and removed, leaving 
a flap, which should be folded under, and secured with 
wooden skewers. 

The Thin fiank (called in Scotland the Nine-hole8\ 
boned and trimmed as for collaring (see collared beef), 
seasoned rather highly with pepper and salt, rolled up 
tightly and fixed with tape and small skewers, may be 
roasted as above. 

N. B. — The bones and trimmings removed from this 
and the preceding roast make excellent soup, as do also 
the remainder bones of cooked meat; but the former 
are preferable, because being uncooked, their juices are 
more easily extracted. 

Ox Heart must be prepared for roasting thus: — Soak 
it one hour in lukewarm water to remove all the blood; 
wash it well, and if large, place it for ten or fifteen mi- 
nutes in boiling water. Wipe it dry and fill the inside 
with a stuffing made of 4 ounces of bread crumbs, 
4 ounces of minced suet or butter, 2 ounces of parsley, 
and a teaspoonful each of powdered marjoram, thyme, 
and grated lemon peel ; season to taste with pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg, and make it into a stiff paste with a 
beaten egg. Ox-heart should be thoroughly cooked. 
Currant jelly or apple sauce is sometimes served with 
it in a sauce-tureen. 



FOR ROASTING. 27 

An imitation of roast hare maj be made from the 
lean inside of a large sirloin, cut up, stuffed like hare 
with a highly seasoned forcemeat, fastened with skewers 
and tape, and then roasted. 



The Leg or Gigoty the Shoulder, and the Loin, are 
the best parts for roasting. Before roasting the loin, 
the fat' surrounding the kidneys ought to be removed, 
otherwise the dish, when the meat is cut up, will be 
flooded with melted dripping. It should be likewise 
be well jointed, for convenience in carving. The gravy 
may be eked out if necessary, as in beef, with a little 
boiling water and salt, or, if desired, a beef gravy may 
be used. 

The Ifeck of mutton (best end) makes a very good 
roast. It should be jointed- like the loin. The Saddle, 
the Chine, and the Haunch of mutton, are respectively 
the two necks, the two loins, and the leg and loin, not 
separated. They are, however rather large for a small 
family. 

Onion, celery, and cucumber sauces are those generally 
taken with roast mutton ; — sometimes currant jelly is 
preferred. The vegetables to accompany roast mutton 
are generally the same as those used with roast beef. 
Potatoes browned under the roast are much liked. 



The Fillet is prepared for roasting as follows : — Cut 
out the bone neatly, without disfiguring the meat, and 
fill its place with a stuffing composed of bread crumbs, 
butter or finely minced suet, thyme, parsley, and minced 
or grated lemon-peel, in the same proportions as for 
ox-heart, — the whole bound together with an egg, and 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Fold over the 
fiap so as to secure the stuffing, and fix it with skewers 
or tape; tie over the ends, with twine, pieces of but- 
tered white paper. Place it rather near the fire for the 
first ten minutes, after which remove it to such a dis- 
tance that it will roast very slowly. As Veal ought to 



28 DIRECTIONS 

be well and thoroughly cooked, it will require a longer 
time to roast than beef or mutton. If it does not yield 
enough dripping for basting, use butter. When nearly 
done, take off the paper, and allow the joint to remain 
at the fire till browned. Remove the fastenings when 
dished j garnish with thin slices of lemon. The usual 
hot water and salt will do for a gravy, but thin melted 
butter (see receipt), to which, while boiling, a little 
mushroom ketchup or other savoury sauce has been 
added, — poured over the joint, is an improvement. 
Boiled Ham is a very nice accompaniment to roast veaL 
The Breast, the ShovXder, the Loin, and the Neck^ 
make also very good roasts. The breast and shoulder 
may be stuffed like the fillet. In the former, the stuff- 
ing must be inserted under the skin through a slit cut 
for the purpose; in the latter, it must be placed in a 
cavity formed by carefully cutting out the shoulder 
blade bone, — which is rather a difficult operation. 

TiA imi« 

Good young Lamb, being much smaller than mutton, 
is generally roasted in quarters. 

The Fore-quarter consists of the shoulder, neck, and 
breast together. The ribs of the breast should be broken 
across the middle. At table, the first operation of the 
carver is to separate the shoulder, which if not im- 
mediately required, may be set aside to be used cold, 
the cut surface being first sprinkled with salt or lemon 
juice. 

The Hind^quarter contains the leg and loin. The 
flap of the loin may be stuffed like veal, using perhaips 
less lemon-peel and more parsley. If a rich gravy be 
desired, make it of beef; if not, the usual hot water 
and salt will do. It is customary to serve mint sauce 
with roast lamb. 

The Leg, the Neck, and the Shoulder, make very 
good small roasts alone, if carefully attended to, and 
the remaining parts may be cooked in various other 
ways. Lamb, like veal requires to be " well done." 



FOR ROASTING. 29 



Being very disagreeable when not thoroughly cooked, 
Pork should be slowly and cautiously roasted, not too 
near the fire ; hence it takes a longer time than most 
other meats. 

The Leg is generally stuffed with a mixture of finely- 
chopped sage and onions, a few bread crumbs, and a 
little butter, — seasoned with pepper and salt and a 
small quantity of made mustard, and moistened with an 
egg. This stuffing is placed in a pouch made by cut- 
ting a slit in the knuckle, near the thigh, and raising 
the skin; the opening is then sewed up with pack- 
thread. If the leg is stuffed the day previous to roast- 
ing, its flavour is improved. Before putting it to the 
fire, the skin may be rubbed with salad oil, which will 
prevent its blistering, and it should then be neatly 
scored across in regular stripes about half an inch apart, 
to assist the carver in separating the slices. When the 
dripping is deficient, the basting may be done by rub- 
bing it with a piece of butter tied ug in a muslin bag. 
Should the rind or " crackling" be preferred well raised 
or blistered, the joint must be drawn rather near the 
fire a short time before being lifted, and then it must 
be carefully watched, and diligently basted to prevent 
its being burnt. Apple sauce, not too sweet, is the 
best for roast pork. 

The Chine, the Spare-rih, the Loin, the I^eck, and 
the Grishin, are all roasted in the same way as the leg. 
The Shoulder may also be roasted, but is generall}' 
rather too fat for this purpose. The stuffing for the 
chine may be the same as that for the leg, or it may be 
varied by substituting parsley and thyme for the onions. 
A short time before being removed from the fire, the 
spare-rib and the griskin may be sprinkled with dry 
pulverized sage-leaves. French beans and pease-pudding 
are favourite acompaniments for roast pork. 

Sucking Pig. — This much-esteemed delicacy ought 
to be cooked as fresh as possible. The pig, having 



30 DIRECTIONS 

been properly prepared by the butcher, must be well 
washed in cold water, and thoroughly dried. Then cut 
off the feet, and place in the inside a stuffing made of 
the crumb of a penny roll, and a few sage leaves, butter, 
pepper, and salt. Sew up the belly, and fasten back 
the legs with small skewers so that the under part may 
have the full benefit of the fire. Being rubbed per- 
fectly dry, it may be either dusted with flour, or smeared 
all over with white of egg applied with a feather, and 
immediately put to the fire. While it is roasting, baste 
it well with butter or salad oil. The skin ought to be 
nicely browned and crisp. It will require about two 
hours, more or less, to roast. The usual mode of serving 
it is, to cut off the head and divide it and the body into 
halves lengthwise ; to remove the brains and stuffing 
for the sauce, and to place the two halves of the body 
in the middle of the dish, and the jaws standing up on 
each side. The brains are then finely minced, and, aJong 
with the stuffing, mixed with hot beef gravy; and this 
may be either added to the gravy in the dish, or served 
separately in a sauce boat. Roast pig may also be stuffed 
like the leg of pork, and served with apple sauce. 



Unless Venison be fat, roasting is by no means the 
best way to cook it. As the fat is considered a great 
delicacy, the main object of the cook must be to keep 
it from melting away, which venison fat is peculiarly 
apt to do. For this purpose the joint is generally en- 
veloped in a layer of flour-and-water paste, an inch thick, 
and this is covered with well-buttered or oiled paper. 
Thus prepared, it is placed rather near a good strong 
fire, until the paste becomes set, the paper being fre- 
quently basted with dripping to prevent its catching fire. 
It is then removed to such a distance from the fire that 
it will roast slowly. A Haunch weighing from twenty 
to twenty-five pounds will require at least three or four 
hours' roasting. It should not be overdone, as the fiesh 
is naturally rather dry. About half an hour before 



FOR ROASTING. 31 

being " done/ the coverings may be removed, and the 
roast placed rather nearer the fire to brown it; — it must 
then be diligently basted with fresh butter, and dredged 
with flour and salt, like other roasts. A gravy may be 
made for it from beef or mutton, if its own is deficient. 
Sweet and acid sauces, such as currant jelly, white vine- 
gar and loaf sugar, are those usually served with venison. 
The roasting-pieces of venison are the same as those 
of mutton; they are aU treated as above. 



UARB, TJkVm, SZD, AlTD RABBIT. 

A young ffai'e which has been kept as long as the 
weather will permit, is the best for roasting. When 
old, it is much too tough and dry, and consequently 
does not make a good roast, though it will do for 
soup. When ready for roasting, cut off the feet, and 
skin it, commencing at the hind legs and drawing off 
the skin upwards to the head. Avoid tearing the ears 
in skinning them, as they are considered a dainty by 
some people. Soak and wash it well in several waters, 
and wipe it perfectly dry. Make a stufiing of the liver 
finely minced, and mixed with beef suet also minced 
very small, bread crumbs, parsley, thyme, and grated 
lemon peel, in about the same proportions as for ox- 
heart; season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and 
moisten it with an egg and a little mushroom ketchup. 
Fill the inside of the hare with this, and sew up the 
belly. Gut the sinews of the hind legs, and fasten 
them and the fore-legs fiat to the body with small 
skewers; likewise fix the head firmly between the 
shoulders by running a skewer through it into the 
body. Hang it, head downwards, before a strong fire. 
Baste it first with hot salt and water till the blood 
ceases to drop from it ; then empty the dripping-pan 
and pour some milk into it, with which baste the hare. 
When nearly done, flour it lightly and baste it with 
batter. The milk basting, if not desired, may be 
omitted, and butter used instead. An hour and a half 
to two hours' roasting will be required, but this de- 



32 DIRECTIONS 

pends of course upon the strength of the fire and th^ 
size of the hare. It is dished back upwards, with the 
head erect, and served with rich beef gravy and currant 
jelly separate. 

It is a country fashion to stuff roast hare with mashed 
potatoes, grated ham, suet, and onions, highly seasoned 
with pepper and allspice. 

A young Fawn or a Kid may be roasted in the same 
way as a hare. When somewhat grown, a fawn may 
be roasted in quarters, — covered, while roasting, with 
veal or lamb caul, or slices of fat bacon, and well 
basted. 

A large Babbit may be stuffed and roasted in the 
same way as hare. Young rabbits and leverets need 
not be stuffed. Being smaller than hares, of course 
they take less time to roast. 

POUXiTBT. 

All birds are prepared for cooking nearly in the 
same manner, as follows ; — 

To pluck them, — Lay the bird upon a board with its 
head towards you, and holding it firmly with one hand, 
with the other pull out the feathers, away from you, 
in the direction in which they lie. When they are 
pulled in the contrary direction, the skin is very apt 
to be torn. 

To draw poultry,— Cut off the head ; then make a 
slit at the back of the neck, and, detaching the skin 
and the crop, draw out the neck and cut it off close to 
the body, leaving the loose skin long. Make another 
incision under the tail or in the side below the leg, 
just large enough to allow the gizzard to pass through, 
and no larger. With the finger inserted through this, 
carefully detach all the intestines, and then squeezing 
the bird, draw the whole gently out at the opening. In 
doing this, great care must be taken to avoid breaking 
the gall bladder and the gut which joins the gizzard, 
because otherwise it will be impossible to remove the 
bitter taste imparted by the contents of the one, or 



FOR ROASTING. 33 

the grittiness derived from the other. Break the legs 
by the middle of the first joint, and* draw out the 
sinews (this ought to be particularly attended to if the 
bird is not young), cutting off the parts at the joint. 
Press down the breast bone ; — if the bird is large, this 
must be done by laying it breast upwards upon the 
dresser, and having covered it with a thickly-folded 
cloth, beating it vrith the rolling-pin. It must then 
be singed all over with a piece of lighted paper held 
under it, to remove the small hairs left after plucking 
it. The bird being now washed and thoroughly dried, is 
ready for trussing. This varies with the kind of bird, 
and mode of cooking. In every case the skewers and 
strings used must be removed before serving, and the 
bird dished vrith its breast upwards. 

A Fowl prepared as above is trussed thus : — Press 
down the legs close to the sides and back, and fix them 
by means of a skewer thrust through the thighs and the 
body. Place the liver and the gizzard, — the latter split 
open, and both clean washed and dried, — one under 
each wing, and twist the pinion ends round upon the 
back. Fasten the vdngs close to the sides, by a skewer 
run through the joints and the body. The legs and 
wings may be farther secured by pieces of twine tied 
over them round the bird. 

When ready to put to the fire, place inside the fowl 
a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, well rolled 
in a mixture of pepper and salt, and tie up the neck 
skin. Hang it before the fire neck downwards, and 
baste it frequently with fresh butter. It will be roasted 
in from half an hour to an hour, according to the size 
of the fowl, and the strength of the fire. VVhen large, 
fowls may be stuffed like turkeys. (See next page.) 

The sauce for roast fowl may be either plain melted 
butter or gravy sauce, or, what is still better, a sauce 
made as follows : — Cut the neck in pieces, and stew it 
gently till its juice is extracted; — then take out the 
pieces, strain the liquor, stir into it a piece of butter 



34 DIRECTIONS 

foiled in tlour, add some mushroom ketchup, and boil 
it for half a minute. 

Turkeys are trussed in the same manner as fowls, 
only using one or two more skewers if required. The 
stuffing for roast turkey is generally the same as for 
fillet of veal (see p. 27) ; to which may be added, if de- 
sired, parboiled sausage meat, grated ham, or chopped 
oysters. This is placed under the skin at the neck, 
which must be well secured, leaving room, however, for 
the stuffing to swell. The breast ought to be covered 
with writing paper, well buttered, and the roasting done 
before a good large fire, — not too near. Shortly before 
taking it away from the tire, remove the paper, shift 
the turkey closer to the fire to become browned ; dust 
it with flour and baste it with butter, to prevent its 
getting scorched. A sauce may be made from the neck, 
as for fowls — (see p. 33). Bread sauce, gravy sauce, 
oyster sauce, and eofg sauce, are also occasionally used. 

Pigeons are roasted with the feet on, one leg being 
thrust through a slit made in the other. They are 
stuffed with the liver minced, and mixed with bread 
crumbs, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and a little 
butter. Half an hour's roasting is sufficient, during 
which they must be well basted with butter, The sauce 
for roast pigeons may be either plain melted butter 
with a little chopped parsley in it, or one made as above 
iVom the giblets — (the neck, liver, and gizzard). They 
are sometimes served with toasted bread beneath them 
hi the dish, and with bread sauce. They may also be 
garnished with fried bread crumbs. 

Partridges are roasted with both the head and the 
feet left on. The neck is twisted round the wing so as 
to bring the head to the side of the breast. Otherwise 
they are prepared and trussed in the same manner as 
fowls, only their feet are made to cross on the lower 
part of the breast. While roasting, baste them with 
butter. Shortly before they are done, dredge them 
lightly with flour, and continue the basting till they 
are browned. They arc served on toasted bread, soaked 



Foil ROASTING. 8') 

ill the contents of the dripping pan. Tlic sauce may 
be either plain melted butter or beef gravy. 

Pheasants, Grouse, and Blackcocks, are roasted and 
served in the same manner. So also are Woodcocks 
and Snipes, but these latter are not generally drawn : 
the trail, as the drippings from the entrails are called, 
being received upon toasted bread placed in the drip- 
ping pan, is considered a delicacy, and the toast is 
served in the dish under the bird. 

Goose, This is best drawn at an incision made be- 
tween the vent and the tail. The legs and wings are 
lopped at the first joint, and the remaining parts 
skewered flat to the sides. The liver and gizzard are 
not usually roasted along with it, but are reserved, along 
with the head, neck, feet, and pinions, for a stew or a 
giblct pie. A mixture of chopped onions and sage 
loaves (six of each will do), and a little butter, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and a little sugar, is 
placed inside the bird, at the opening by wliich it was 
drawn. A button-hole is then made in the skin of the 
belly, or api^on as it is called, by cutting out the vent, 
and into this, the apron being pulled downwards, the 
rump or croup is inserted as a button. The neck-skin 
being then securely tied, the breast is papered, and the 
goose hung before the fire. In a short time remove 
the paper, and baste the goose with its own dripping, 
which will generally be sufficient. Being naturally 
greasy, it does not need so much basting as turkey or 
fowl. It requires thorough cooking, which will be ac- 
complished in about two hours, more or less. Serve it 
with beef gravy if required. Apple sauce is the pre- 
scriptive accompaniment of roast goose. 

The above stuffing is thought by some to be improved 
by being stewed in butter till tender, and placing it 
inside the goose whilst hot. It is sometimes varied by 
the addition of the liver chopped, and bread crumbs, or 
boiled rice, or mashed potatoes, or a mixture of potatoes 
and apples (previously cooked and reduced to a pulp), 
or sometimes even roasted chestnuts cut small. 



36 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Ducks. The feet, which are left on, are scalded in 
boiling water, and then skinned. They are turned 
flat upon the back like the wings. Otherwise, ducks 
are prepared and stuffed with sage and onion, and bread 
crumbs, in the same way as geese, the liver being used 
in the stuffing. Being smaller, they require less time 
to roast. A gravy may be made for them, as for fowls, 
from the giblet^ Apple sauce is served with them. 
Somp prefer them plain roasted like fowls, without 
stuffing; in which case the apple sauce may be omitted. 
Green pease are usually served with roast ducks. 



CHAPTER VI. 

Boiiiii^a. 



OENEBAL DIRECTIONS. 

The practice of this most important branch of the 
culinary art seems at first sight so simple and easy, 
that any general directions for it may perhaps appear 
unnecessary. Yet it is doubtless this apparent sim- 
plicity which has led to its being so generally ill done, 
that, excepting for the larger prime joints, it is com- 
paratively neglected by all who can afford to purchase 
roa^iting pieces. 

The two grand errors which prevail on the subject 
of boiling fresh meat are — Ist, Putting it into cold 
water, and gradually heating it to the boiling point; 
and 2c?, Maintaining it in a state of brisk ebullition 
until cooked. The former of these is almost universal, 
being actually recommended in most cookery books. 
The latter is an error generally acknowledged, although 
it is too frequently committed through inattention or 
ignorance. When these errors are considered in con- 
nection with what has been said in Chapter IV. on the 
chemical nature of animal flesh, their necessary results 
will be evident; and these are fully confirmed by ex- 



FOR BOILING. 37 

perience. The evil arising from the first error, is the 
loss of the juice and the flavour of the meat. The juice 
being entirely soluble in water below 140o, as soon as 
the meat is immersed in it, there begins a gradual pro- 
cess of transposition between the juice of the meat and 
the water, and this goes on until checked by the co- 
agulation of the albumen within the meat, which takes 
place when it has attained the above-mentioned tem- 
perature. But by this time, especially if the Are has 
been slow, the meat will have lost a great part of its 
savoury juice, of which the scum which now rises is 
the albumen, and what remains has been rendered thin 
and watery. Now commences error the second. The 
heat increases, — the water simmers, — it boils fast. The 
muscular fibre of the meat soon begins to contract, — 
it forcibly presses upon the imprisoned fluid ; the co- 
agulated albumen confining it, having been rendered 
less tenacious by previous dilution with water, gives 
way, and the remaining juice gushes out at every pore. 
The meat is now considered to be well cooked. It will 
perhaps be found tolerably tender, but it will be both dry 
and tasteless. A few minutes more boiling would have 
made it tough as well. These results are not so observ- 
able in large pieces of meat, more especially those which, 
like a leg of mutton, have the greater portion of their 
sur&ce covered by the natural skin, because from their 
size it is possible to make the water boil before it has 
time to penetrate very deeply, while the skin greatly 
helps to keep in the juice. Smaller pieces, on the con- 
trary, which have a proportionally larger raw or cut 
surface, are sure to lose almost all their juice when thus 
treated. Of course the liquor in which meat has been 
thus boiled will make excellent broth or soup, as perhaps 
every housewife knows; but since weU-flaroured, tender 
and juicy meat, and not broth or soup, is the main 
object in boiling meat, a very different course ought to 
be followed. 

The meat should be plunged at once into water boil- 
Hng briskly over a strong fire. The water should be 



38 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

slightly salted, and be in sufficient quantity to coyer the 
meat. The boiling heat will at once coagulate the al- 
bumen, and harden the fibrine at the surface of the meat, 
and so from the first the escape and dilution of the juice 
is checked. After the lapse of from five to ten minutes, 
according to the size and compactness of the piece of 
meat, the heat must be reduced considerably below the 
boiling point, by the addition of cold water. The fire 
may then be moderated, and the pot so placed that the 
meat will never afterwards be subjected to a greater 
heat than that of gevftle simmering. Should any scum 
be formed, it must be removed. Keep the pot covered 
to prevent dust and smoke entering it. If the quantity 
of water becomes much reduced by evaporation, the pot 
must be replenished with hot water. When vegetables, 
such as carrots or turnips, are bo^Jed along with meat^ 
they are sliced and put in when the meat is nearly 
cooked, after which the water may be allowed to boil,, 
but no longer than is just necessary to cook the vege- 
tables. As this cannot be done, however, without some 
risk of impairing the goodness of the meat, it is safer 
to boil the vegetables separately. Some cooks recom- 
mend wrapping the meat up tightly in a floured cloth. 
But although this practice may perhaps assist in pre- 
serving the juice when the meat is put on in cold water, 
still it gives it a disagreeable blanched appearance, and 
it will not be found necessary when the meat is put 
into boiling water at first. The liquor in which meat 
has been boiled properly y although not so rich in juice 
as that in which it has been boiled improperly , will still 
make very good soup, with the addition of meat trim- 
mings, scraps, raw or cooked meat bones, &c. As all 
varieties of fresh meat are boiled as directed above, lit- 
tle more will be requisite than to ennumerate the best 
joints and pieces for the purpose; although it must be 
understood that any piece of meat of moderate size and 
compact shape will be very good boiled, if the above 
directions are carefully attended to. 

Salted meat which has lain long in the salt (more 



FOR BOILING. 39 

particularly tongue and bam) is an exception to the 
foregoing rule. It is best put into cold water. Not 
only so, but it frequently requires to be soaked for hours 
in cold water previous to being boiled, both to extract 
the superabundance of salt, and to impart moisture suf- 
ficient to replace what was extracted in the process of 
salting, as well as what has dried up afterwards. No 
doubt much of the savoury juice of the meat is thus 
extracted, but this cannot be helped, and is not of so 
muc}i consequence, since its absence is disguised by the 
saltness. Beef which has been but a short time in salt, 
especially if it be a small piece, may very safely be put 
on in boiling water, and is much better so cooked. 

The time required to cook boiled meat depends, of 
course, on its weight and compactness of shape. Gene- 
rally, from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes for 
each pound is sufficient. In lifting meat out of the 
pot, care should be taken to avoid thrusting the fork 
into any fleshy part, as, in some joints, this would make 
unseemly holes, by which much of the gravy would es- 
cape before it could be brought to table. Perhaps it 
may hardly be necessary to remark that all vessels used 
for boiling ought to be perfectly clean. 

BBBF. 

Boiled Fresh Beef or Bouilli is not so generally liked 
as it ought to be. This is probably owing to the dry, 
tasteless condition in which, through ignorant cold- 
water cooking, it is generally presented at table. The 
want of the juice in the meat is but ill supplied by its 
being served in a flood of the watery liquor in which' it 
was boiled, — by way of gravy. When the broth is re- 
quired on the same day as the meat, which is the ge- 
neral custom, the following is the best plan to adopt. 

Procure from four to six pounds of the rump or bris- 
ket of beef, — almost any part will do if it is good and 
tender, — and cut about one quarter of this into thin 
slices, chosing for this purpose any sinewy or loose out- 
side parts, so as to leave the remainder of a solid com- 



40 DIRECTIONS 

pact shape. Haying well hacked and scored these slices 
across, put them on in as much cold water as is intended 
be employed, (rather less than a quart to each pound 
of the whole meat will do), and let them heat very slowlj 
to extract the juice. When this is thoroughly accom- 
plished, add salt to taste, skim the liquor and then make 
it boil. While boiling fast, put in the rest of the meat, 
together with some sliced carrot, turnip, onions, and 
leeks, and proceed as directed above. When the meat 
IB nearly cooked, take it out for a short time while the 
vegetables are boiled. Allow it to go off the boil again, 
replace the meat, and let it simmer for a few minutes. 
Dish half the carrots and turnips round the meat, along 
with some of the liquor, and put the rest of the vege- 
tables, cut smaller, into the tureen, along with the broth, 
to which toasted bread cut into small dice may be added 
if desired. Before sending to table, skim the superflu- 
ous fat from the broth. Of course, the exhausted slices 
of meat must not be sent to table in their present state. 
The quantity of vegetables used must depend on the 
taste of the cook; — three large carrots, four turnips, 
two large leeks, and three onions, to six pounds of meat^ 
is a very good proportion. When the broth is not re- 
quired on the same day, the meat may be cooked entire, 
proceeding exactly according to the foregoing General 
Directions, but not omitting the vegetables. The French 
pot aufeu, in which they make their bouilli, is of stone- 
ware, which has the advantage of maintaining a more 
equable temperature, losing less heat by radiation than 
an iron vessel does, and consequently requiring a smaller 
consumption of fueL 

Salted Beef, with its appropriate vegetables, is a 
much more general favourite than the bouilli; and of 
all the pieces which may be used, the Mound is the moat 
approved. A whole round, being generally too large 
to boil at one time for a small household, may be <S- 
vided, so as to give each piece its due proportion of fat, 
into two, or even three pieces, and these boiled at sepa- 
rate times. When the whole is boiled at once, the bone 



FOR BOILING, 41 

may be cut out. Wash the meat well, and if it is too 
salt, it may require steeping in several waters till fresh- 
ened. Fasten the folds of it firmly together with skewers 
and strong broad tape or strips of linen, and then put 
it on the fire in water sufficient to cover it. If the meat 
is but newly salted, the water should be boiling; if it 
is rather salt, cold water is better. In the former case, 
proceed exactly as with fresh meat; in the latter, heat 
the meat gradually till it begins to boil, after which, keep 
it slowly simmering till cooked. The time required is 
about a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat. 

The vegetables taken along with salt beef (carrot, tur- 
nip, and greens) are always best boiled in some of the 
same liquor, which must be removed for this purpose 
after the meat has simmered about two hours — of course 
leaving enough to keep the meat covered. The vege- 
tables may be farther enriched by adding the fat skim- 
mings of the meat to their liquor. When the vegetables 
are cooked in the same po*) with the meat, there is al- 
ways a risk either of having the former under-done or 
the latter over-done, unless the meat is removed while 
the vegetables are boiled. 

The beef, freed from its fastenings, is dished along 
with some of the liquor, and garnished with the carrot 
and turnip. (Some omit the turnip). The greens are 
served separately. The liquor is excellent for making 
pease-soup. 

A round of beef is very good cold, and will keep 
good for a fortnight in cold weather. It should be kept 
covered with a soft clean cloth thickly folded, and a 
dish-cover over that. When not intended to be used 
warm, it is a good plan to cool it as rapidly as possible 
by plunging it into iced or cold spring water before re- 
moving the fastenings— changing the water frequently. 
This congeals the* gelatine and fat on the surface, and 
80 preserves the juice, which is very apt to drain out 
when it cools slowly. 

The salted Rihsj Brisket, and Edge-hone, are also 
cooked and served as above ; only, being less solid, they 



42 DIRECTIONS 

are done in about five-sixths of the time for the same 
weight. 

Collared heef and Pressed heef, prepared according to 
receipts, are cooked in the same way ; only, being bound 
up in a compact shape, they require a rather longer time 
to cook. Though collared beef is served hot, like other 
salt beef, yet these arc generally preferred cold, a weight 
being placed upon them while cooling, in order to keep 
them firm and compact for slicing. 

A Pickled Ox-tongue is put on in plenty of cold water, 
*' brought to the boil," and then simmered till tender, 
which is ascertained by probing it in the thickest part 
with a fork. A dried tongue requires twenty-four hours 
previous soaking, more or less, according to dryness and 
saltness. These are generally served to be eaten along 
with the more insipid meats, such as veal, poultry, <fec. 
They should be skinned before serving. 

Tripe should be chosen fat, thick, and white. It 
requires very careful washing and scraping, scalding it 
frequently, and changing the water often. It will take 
from six to nine hours', or even longer, slow simmering, 
according to the age of the animal from which it was 
taken. When perfectly tender, remove it from the 
liquor, cut it into pieces of a convenient size for helping 
at table, and then simmer it in milk and water, along 
with some young onions previously parboiled. When 
the milk and water begins to thicken, add some arrow- 
root mixed with a little cold water, or a piece of butter 
rolled in flour, season with pepper and salt, and, if liked, 
a little made mustard, — and serve in a hash dish or small 
tureen. 

This makes an excellent supper dish, along with boiled 
potatoes. Some people use a little of its own liquor 
instead of the milk and water, but the latter will be 
found much preferable. Tripe may^ be bought ready 
cooked at the cook-shops, but the last preparation with 
milk and water is best done at home. 

Cow-heels or Ox feet should be procured ready cleaned. 
They are considered very nutritious when thoroughly 



FOR BOILING. 43 

cooked. They should be simmered till the bones be- 
come loosened, and served hot with plain parsley sauce 
poured over them, or plain melted butter with a tea- 
spoonful of made mustard and a very little vinegar or 
lemon juice in it. 

Cow-heel, while cooking, yields a very rich oil, which 
must be skimmed off. This is sometimes used for fry- 
ing and basting. It bums well in a lamp, and is said to 
be used by the perfumers in some of their preparations 
for the hair. The liquor may be turned to account in 
making calves-foot jelly; — for which ox feet are much 
better adapted than calves' feet. 

MUTTonr. 

The Leg or Gigot is the prime joint for boiling. Cut 
the end off the knuckle, and cook the leg, according to 
the General Directions, in an oval vessel or fish kettle. 
Turnips and carrots in slices are usually served in the 
same dish with boiled mutton ; or the turnips may be 
mashed, and served separately. These, when boiled in 
the same pan, are put in to boil half an hour before 
the mutton is ready, the meat being meanwhile removed 
and then replaced. The liquor should be reserved for 
broth next day. 

The Neck of mutton, and the Back Eibs, are boiled the 
same way as the leg. It is a very good family practice 
to make broth at the same time, as the ingredients do 
not at all spoil the meat. For this purpose the barley 
or rice is put into the boiling water along with the meat. 
After an hour and a half's simmering, the meat is re- 
moved and covered up to be kept warm, while the ve- 
getables in small slices (carrots, turnips, and onions, 
with chopped parsley, and celery or celery seed) are put 
in and the liquor boiled till considerably reduced in 
quantity. The meat is then replaced, and the cooking 
finished in the usual way. Some of the carrots and tur- 
nips may be kept in large slices with which to garnish 
the meat when dished. Cauliflower may be served with 
boiled mutton. Caper or gherkin sauce may either be 



44 DIRECTIONS 

poured over it in the dish, or served separately in a sauce- 
boat Parsley sauce poured over the meat is by some 
preferred to caper sauce. 

VBAL. 

The parts most usually boiled are the Chump of the 
Loin, the Best End of the Neck, and the Knuckle, These 
require to be thoroughly cooked. Thick parsley sauce 
may be poured over them or served separately ; onion 
sauce is also used. These insipid gelatinous meats are 
much the better of an accompaniment of boiled tongue, 
ham, or bacon. The liquor of boiled veal makes a very 
delicate broth, rich in gelatine. 

LAMB. 

The Leg is treated in the same way as a leg of mutton, 
but being smaller, it does not require so long a time to 
t;ook. It may be dished with spinach under it; or the 
loin (being the remainder of the hind quarter) may be 
cut into chops, and these fried and served in the dish 
round the leg. Plain melted butter or parsley sauce 
are the sauces generally used. 

FOBX. 

Pork should be well cooked, and ought to have pre- 
viously lain in salt from two days to a week at the least, 
according to the size of the piece. The Leg of pork 
should be placed in the pot with the skin-side upper- 
most, and with a plate underneath it to prevent its 
sticking to the bottom. While simmering, it throws up 
a great deal of fat, which should be constantly skimmed 
off. It is served with pease-pudding boiled in some of 
the liquor, greens, mashed turnips, or parsnips. 

PiMed Pork is cooked and served in the same man- 
ner. The following is a pleasant variation in the mode 
of serving a Pig's Cheek (pickled). While the cheek is 
being cooked, boil for half an hour half a pint of split 
pease loosely tied in a cloth ; remove them from the 
cloth, mash, and pass them through a hair sieve ; sear 



FOR BOILING. 45 

son them with pepper and salt^ and add an ounce of 
butter and four beaten eggs; place them in a stew-pan 
over the fire, and keep stirring till the eggs begin to 
set; then, when the pig's cheek, cooked till perfectly 
tender, is dished, spread the pease over it, sprinkle the 
top with bread crumbs, and brown it before the fire. It 
should be served immediately. The liquor of boiled 
pork, if not too salt, will do very well to make pease- 
soup, but does not answer for anything else. 

Ham, A ham may be boiled either whole or in parts. 
The best English hams are fromYork and Westmoreland. 
A most important point in cooking ham is the soaking, 
the length of time required for which (from ten hours 
to three or four days) must be properly proportioned to 
the saltness and dryness of the ham. Before cooking 
it, the ham should be well scraped and washed in warm 
water, and any yellow or rusty parts pared off. It should 
be put on in cold water, allowed slowly to reach the boil- 
ing point, and then simmered from two to four hours 
according to size, frequently skimming off the fat which 
continually rises. When done, skin it neatly, and strew 
over it a few bread raspings mixed with a little brown 
sugar ; then place it before the fire to dry and become 
browned. Serve it garnished with parsley, and with a 
paper frill fastened round the knuckle. It is generally 
eaten hot as a relish with other meats. When cold, it 
will keep even longer than a round of beef, and is a most 
serviceable article to have in the house. It should be 
kept covered with the skin, which must be preserved 
whole for this purpose when taken off. 

Bacon, A good piece, well streaked, and not too fat, 
should be put on in cold water and simmered for an 
hour and a half, more or less, {according to its size. It is 
served with broad beans round it, or young pease when 
in season. 

Babbits, These may be boiled whole as follows. Wash 
them well in warm water, and dry them. Fill the belly 
with a stuffing made of bread crumbs, suet, parsley, and 
onions, all chopped small, seasoned with pepper and salt. 



46 DIRECTION'S 

and bound together with an egg and a little milk. Sew 
up the belly, truss in the same way as roast hare, and 
simmer gently for an hour. When dished, pour over 
them a sauce made of plenty of onions boiled till ten- 
der, then boiled up in milk, — and this thickened, before 
removing from the fire, with butter and flour, and sea- 
soned with pepper and salt. This dish is called rabbits 
smotJiered in onions. The stuffing, if not desired, may 
be omitted. When two are prepared in this way, they 
are dished with the head of one rabbit laid to the tail 
of the other. Instead of the onion sauce, a sauce made 
of some of the liquor in which the rabbits were boiled, 
enriched with some veal gravy, and thickened with the 
livers boiled and mashed, and some flour and butter, 
seasoned with pepper, salt, allspice, and finely chopped 
parsley, may be poured over the rabbits. 

Fowls and Turkeys^ being plucked, drawn, and cleaned 
in the same way as for roasting, are trussed for boiling 
as follows. The legs are secured by being drawn inside 
under the skin. The pinions are turned round upon 
the back, the liver being placed under one, and the 
gizzard under the other. The legs and wings may be 
farther held down by strings tied over them round the 
body. Boiled turkey is always, and boiled fowl fre- 
quently, stuffed. The following ingredients are those 
usually employed : bread crumbs, suet, and parsley, each 
finely minced, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, moistened 
with an egg and a little milk. This is pkced in the 
breast, and, leaving sufficient room for it to swell, the 
skin is sewed over upon the back. The bird is put on 
in water nearly boiling, and in sufficient quantity to 
keep it always covered. Fowls require to be simmered 
from half an hour to an hour and a half, and turkeys 
about double that time, according to the size and age 
of the bird : in all cases it should be thoroughly cooked, 
as nothing is more disagreeable than raw poultry. When 
it is desired that the bird should look very white, it 
may be wrapped in a floured cloth before boiling; 
or rubbing it with lemon juice will answer the same 



FOR BOILING. 47 

purpose. The liquor will make excellent broth. This 
may be prepared for use the same day, the vegetables 
and some scraps of veal or mutton being put in along 
with the fowl, which will not be any the worse for them. 
The sauces which may be used are various : — egg sauce, 
parsley sauce, to which the liver boiled and bruised 
may be added if liked, celery sauce, lemon sauce, and 
sometimes for turkey, oyster sauce. When this last is 
to be used, a few chopped oysters may be added to the 
stuffing. For turkey some people like a sweet stuffing 
made by substituting currants and a little sugar for 
the parsley. Boiled poultry, either hot or cold, is always 
more palatable if ham or salt tongue is eaten along with 
it. Several excellent made-dishes can be prepared from 
the cold remains of roast or boiled poultry. 

Geese, Ducks y and Game Birds, are much better roasted 
than boiled. For boiling they are trussed in the same 
way as fowls. The sauce generally preferred for Geese 
and Ducks is onion sauce. Partridges, Pheasants, &c., 
are served with the same sauces as when roasted. 

FISH. 

The flesh of fish is naturally so soft that it requires 
to be cooked at a boiling heat in order to make it firm. 
Being generally small in size as compared with jojnts of 
meat, it is proportionally more quickly cooked ; and the 
texture of the muscular tissues is so loose, and the gela- 
tinous parts are so easily dissolved, that every minute it 
remains in the liquor after being thoroughly done dete- 
riorates its quality. On the other hand, few things are 
so nauseous as underdone fish. ' Hence it is a matter of 
some nicety, to be learnt only by experience, to pro- 
portion the time of cooking to the size of the fish. As 
there is some danger, when the fish or piece of fish is 
large and thick, of its being over-cooked on the outside 
before the interior is done, the safer plan in such cases 
is to proceed as directed for boiling butcher meat, viz , 
to plunge it at once into boiling water, and then to cool 
it down so far by the addition of cold water as to allow 



48 DIRECTIONS 

the interior time to become heated before the outside 
is too much cooked. Smaller fish however are best kept 
at the boiling heat from the moment they enter the fish- 
kettle till they are done, — the object being in all cases 
to perform the operation as rapidly as is consistent with 
its being done thoroughly. 

Hard water is the best for boiling fish in. It should 
have plenty of salt in it, and a little vinegar is sometimes 
an improvement. This assists the rapid coagulation of 
the albumen, which, in the case of fish, forms the curd 
which is deposited between the fiakes, and is esteemed 
a delicacy. The cruel practice of crimping cod and 
salmon — that is, gashing their sides while yet alive — oc- 
casions a more copious formation of this curd upon the 
cut surfaces ; as the juice of the fish oozes out over them 
and thickens by evaporation, so that it is coagulated 
there and not within the substance of the fish when it is 
plunged into the boiling water. The crimping also fa- 
cilitates the rapidity of the cooking by admitting the 
boiling water to act upon the interior parts of the fish. 
This however may, if desired, be equally well efi'ected by 
cutting the fish in slices before putting it on. All fish 
require careful and thorough cleaning. 

Every kind of fish becomes so fragile when cooked, 
that great care in dishing it is required to prevent its 
being broken or disfigured ; on this account the use of 
the drainer should never be omitted. If the fish hap- 
pen to be ready before the time for servin^^ it, it must 
on no account be allowed to remain in the water, but 
must be dished, covered with a cloth and dish-cover, and 
kept hot over the fish-kettle. 

Salmon is best when perfectly fresh. It will however 
keep good for two or three days if kept very cool, or 
packed in ice. It should be well cleaned out, scaled and 
washed, and boiled in plenty of salt water. For a large 
full-grown fish when boiled whole, the time required 
may be about six minutes to each pound weight. It 
is best however boiled in slices, the larger and thicker 
pieces being put in first and boiled longest. When done 



FOR BOILING. 49 

let it remain for a minute or two upon the drainer 
placed across the top of the fish-kettle, in order to let the 
water drip from it, and dish the pieces together in their 
natural position, with a napkin under them. Garnish 
with parslejand slices of lemon. Serve with either lohster 
sauce, shrimp sauce, parsley sauce, or plain melted but- 
ter, not omitting also a sauce-tureen with some of the 
fish-liquor for those who prefer it. Trouts are dressed 
whole, and served in the same manner. 

Cod, This fish, especially the tail part, is the better 
of lying a day or two in salt before cooking. It is boiled 
as directed above for salmon, garnished with its roe, and 
served with oyster sauce or melted butter. The head- 
and-shoulders part is frequently, before being served, 
brushed over with e^g, sprinkled with bread crumbs, 
pepper and salt, stuck over with bits of butter, and 
browned before the fire. 

Haddocks and Whitings, after being well scraped and 
cleaned, the enjbrails and eyes being taken out, are put 
into boiling water well salted, and kept briskly boiling 
till done ; which will be in about twenty-five minutes, 
more or less, according to size. If they are of different 
sizes, the large should be put in first. The heads are by 
some people esteemed a delicacy. Serve with melted 
butter and some of the liquor. 

Herrings and Mackarel are boiled in the same way, 
but not so long. Sauce, — plain melted butter; or, if 
liked, for mackarel, fennel sauce or green gooseberry 
sauce. 

Turbot, Hallibut, Brill, and Soles. These fish requiie 
careful cleaning and rubbing with salt, to remove the 
slime which exudes from them. Cut an incision in the 
back, to give room for the fish to swell without bursting 
the breast skin. Lay it breast upwards on the fish- 
drainer, and put it on in plenty of water into which has 
been thrown a handful of salt and a cupful of vinegar. 
As the skin of turbot is very apt to break and become 
unsightly under a brisk ebullition, this fish is merely sim- 
mered. When done, dish it breast upwards garnished 

E 



50 DIRECTIONS 

either with any small fish fried, or parsley. Sance, — 
melted butter, or any fish sauce that may be preferred. 

Skate, This is the better of being kept for a day or 
two hung up in the open air. It should be previously 
cleaned thoroughly, rubbed with salt, and have the tail 
and fins cut off. When to be boiled, skin it on both 
sides, and cut it lengthways in strips an inch and a half 
broad ; roll each piece up and tie it with a thread. Then 
steep them for three hours in a pickle of salt, vinegar, 
and water; after which boil them for about a quarter 
of an hour in salt and water. Before serving, remoye 
the threads, and serve with melted butter or caper sauce, 
to which may be added, if liked, some of the liver boiled 
and bruised. 

Salted Cod and Ling. The black-skinned sort are 
said to be the best. Like salt meat, salt fish requires 
steeping till freshened. It should be put on the fire in 
cold fresh water and simmered till tender, — not boiled, 
as that would make it hard and thready. Dish it dry 
with a napkin underneath, garnished with plain boiled 
parsnips and parsley. Egg sauce is the appropriate 
sauce. Mustard is generally taken with salt cod. 

Salt and Bed Herrings generally require steeping be- 
fore being boiled. Serve with mashed potatoes. 



Soft water is the best for boiling vegetables, and there 
should be plenty of it used for all vegetables except 
green peas and young spinach, the flavour of which 
would be too much weakened by a large quantity. With 
few exceptions they ought to be put on in boiling water 
and boiled till thoroughly tender. The colour of every 
kind of cabbage and greens will be better preserved by 
the addition of a very small quantity of carbonate of 
soda to the water. The time required for boiling vege- 
tables depends so entirely upon their age and size, that 
no definite directions can be given about it. The best 
way to ascertain when they are done is to feel if they 
are tender by running a fork into them. All vegetables 



FOR BOIUNO. y 51 

should be thoroughly washed and freed from dift and 
insects before boiling. 

Potatoes are best boiled in their skins. Being first 
well washed and cleaned, they are put on the fire in 
cold water enough to cover them, seasoned with salt. 
They must not be allowed to boil too soon or too fast, 
else they will be done on the outside, and their skins 
will be burst, before the inside is cooked. This is a 
frequent error, and ought to be carefully avoided, for 
few things are so tantalizing as fine-looking mealy po- 
tatoes with raw hearts. They should be as nearly as 
possible aU of one size (which may be contrived by sort- 
ing the stock laid in into two or three lots, according to 
size, and boiling those of each Iqt separately), so that 
that they may be all equally cooked ; otherwise, by the 
time the large ones are done, the smallest will perhaps 
be broken and dissolved. When sufficiently cooked, 
pour the water off them, and place them at the side of 
the fire with the lid half off to let the steam escape, so 
that they may dry. Before serving, peel them, remov- 
ing the eyes with the point of a small knife so as not 
to disfigure them. When sent to table, cover them 
with a large white napkin folded, in preference to a 
dish-cover, because it will keep them as hot, and not 
confine the steam, which spoils the potatoes. Old po- 
tatoes are sometimes the better of. being pared and 
soaked some time in cold water before boiling. When 
to be mashedy they may be pared either before or after 
being boiled, — carefully removing the eyes and ppecks. 
After being thoroughly boiled, they are mashed so as to 
leave no lumps, adding some butter, a very little milk, 
salt and white pepper. Dish neatly in a vegetable dish, 
score in diamonds on the top, and, if desired, brown be- 
fore the fire. 

Turnips. Young ones are peeled, not pared, put on 
in plenty of boiling water with some salt in it, and 
boiled till tender. Older Turnips must be pared, taking 
off all the woody outside, sliced as required, and boiled 
as above. When cooked, drain the water thoroughly 



52 DIRECTIONS 

from them, dish them, and pour some melted butter 
over them. Turnips may be mashed after being drained. 
Press them through a colander with a wooden spoon, 
to keep back all lumps, and re- warm them in the sauce- 
pan, stirring in some fresh butter; season with salt, 
pepper, and a little powdered ginger. Dish them neatlj, 
ornamenting the top with a diamond pattern. — Young 
turnips are never mashed. 

Carrots and Parsnips should be well washed and 
scraped, and boiled like turnips till soft. Young ones 
may be served whole, but large ones must be cut in 
quarters lengthwise. They are served with boiled meat 
either as a separate dish or ai^ a garnishing. Parsnips 
are sometimes mashed like turnips. 

Beetroot may also be used for the same purposes, but 
it must merely be washed, and not cut iip till after 
being boiled, else it will lose its fine colour. 

Greens, Cabbages, and Savoys must be well washed, 
the coarse outside blades removed, the stalk cut off 
close to the bottom, and all dirt and insects carefully 
removed from between the leaves. The larger ones 
may be cut into quarters, and the smaller ones into 
halves. Have boiling enough of water to cover them ; 
throw into it a little salt and a very small quantity of 
carbonate of soda. When these are dissolved, put in 
the greens and boil them till tender. When done, 
place them between two plates and squeeze the water 
out of them. Dish them compactly in a vegetable dish, 
cut the whole mass as it lies in the dish, through and 
through, into dice of a convenient size for helping at 
table, and serve hot. When greens are boiled along with 
a round of beef, they are better not drained, but served 
saturated with the beef liquor. 

Cauliflower and Brocoli require very careful cleaning. 
Remove the outside leaves, and trim the tops of those 
that remain, to a level with the heart. Lay them for 
an hour in salt and water, rinse them well in ^ stream 
of water allowed to run from the stop-cock, to clean 
out the interior thoroughly, and boil them as directed 



FOR BOILINO. 53 

for cabbages. When tender, drain tbem ; and, taking 
care not to break tbem, dish them neatly, and serve 
either plain or with melted butter or brown sailce poured 
over them. 

Green Peas should not be shelled till immediately 
before being boiled. Use no more water than will just 
cover them. When it is boiling, throw into it some 
salt, and, if the peas are not very young, a little sugar; 
then put in the peas and boil tiU quite tender, but not 
too long, or they will burst and dissolve. Drain them 
in a colander, and when dished stir gently among them 
a small piece of butter and a little pepper. Serve them 
quite hot. Sometimes a few sprigs of mint are boiled 
with the peas, for those who like the flavour of it. 

French Beans f Scarlet Runners, and Young Kidney 
Beans, Cut off the tops and tails, drawing off the tough 
back-string, and cut the pods in pieces slantingly, or 
if large split them lengthwise, and then divide them 
across. Lay them for half an hour in salt and water. 
Put them into boiling water with a little salt and car- 
bonate of soda to preserve their colour, and boil till 
tender. Then drain, and dish them, sprinkling them 
with salt and pepper, and lightly stirring a little butter 
among them. 

Brussels Sprouts are boiled and served in the same 
way ; — about forty small ones make a good-sized dish. 

Spinach, This requires careful picking and washing 
in several waters. It should be boiled very fast in 
salt and water. Ten minutes' boiling will make it 
tender. It is then drained in a sieve, pressing it light- 
ly to remove the water. It is next beat up in a stew- 
pan placed over the fire, with butter, pepper, and salt, 
to which a little broth may be added. It should be 
dished quite }iot, the top being smoothed and neatly 
scored in diamonds. A more tasteful method is to 
press it into a leaf-shaped mould, and turn it out into 
the dish. Very young spinage should be boiled with no 
more water than what adheres to it after washing. 
Windsor or Broad Beans, Shell and wash them, and 



54 DIRECTIONS 

if old, skin them. Put them on in boiling water, with 
a little salt, and boil till tender. When not used as 
an accompaniment to pickled pork or bacon, they are 
served with parsley-sauce poured over them. 

White Harricot Beans, Egyptian or Gahanza Beans, 
and Lentils, These being hard and dry, must be al- 
lowed time in cooking to absorb moisture and become 
softened. The larger kind of harricots even require 
some hours soaking in cold water. Put them on a slow 
fire in plenty of cold water with a little salt, a very 
little carbonate of soda if the water is hard, and a bit 
of butter. They should be heated gradually, and sim- 
mered till tender, which may take about three hours 
in the case of the beans, and rather less for the lentils. 
When done, drain them, when they may be either 
served plain with a little butter, pepper and salt, and 
sugar, stirred among them, or treated as follows: — 
Fry a sliced onion till brown, in a stew-pan with a little 
butter, to which add the boiled seeds, a little more 
butter, some flour, and gravy or strong soup; season 
with pepper and salt, stir them up, boil for ten minutes, 
and serve hot. 

Rice, after being well washed in two waters, must 
be thrown into salted water boiling quickly. When 
considerably softened, but not quite tender, drain it, 
and put it into a stew-pan which has been heated, and 
buttered on the inside. Close the lid tightly, and 
place the stew-pan by the fire or in the oven till the 
cooking is finished, — taking care not to let the rice 
burn. If properly attended to, rice cooked in this way 
will be perfectly white, the grains being swelled to their 
full size, tolerably dry, not sticking together, and per- 
fectly tender. Prepared thus to be eaten along with 
hash or curry, it may either be served separately in a 
covered dish, or surrounding the curry in the same 
dish. A very nice mode of preparing it as an accom- 
paniment to roast or stewed meat is, — to press it com- 
pactly into a buttered mould after draining it, and 
then to finish the cooking in the oven, or in a pot of boil- 



FOR BOILING. 55 

ing water, taking care that no water enters the mould. 
When turned out, this pudding will cut in firm solid 
slices. 

N,B. — The liquor in which any vegetables, except 
potatoes, have been boiled, may be used in making 
soup. Indeed the water of beans and lentils makes a 
very good soup maigre, with the addition of some onion 
fried in butter thickened with flour and parsley, or any 
other flavouring herbs, vegetables, or seasonings that 
may be desired, 

ilggs are placed gently in a pan of boiling water 
with a spoon, taking care not to let them knock against 
the bottom, which would crack them. A net or wire 
basket is preferable to a spoon, especially if a number 
are boiled at once. From three to four minutes boil- 
ing, counting from the time they are put in, will be 
sufficient for full-sized eggs, and a little less for small 
ones, — always remembering that perfectly fresh eggs 
take a little longer than others. They should always 
be covered with water. 

An improved method is, to remove the pan from the 
fire immediately after the eggs are put in, and let them 
remain in the water about ten minutes. Or the boiling 
water may be poured gently over the eggs in a basin. 
Either way, if the quantity of boiling water is properly 
proportioned to the number of eggs, ten minutes im- 
mersion will cook them. Done in this manner, the 
yolk will always be thickened, while the white is just 
set and no more, being converted into a delicate white 
curd much more digestible than the firm solid sub- 
stance produced by the usual method. If too much 
water has been used, or the eggs are allowed to remain 
too long in it, the yolk will be found set firm, although 
the white will never be hardened ; and if the quantity 
of water has been too small, the yolk will sometimes be 
set, while the white remains half raw. This shows that 
the yolk is set at a lower temperature than the white, 
the heat required for each being considerably lower 
than boiling. The quantity of water should be about 



56 DIRECTIONS FOR BOILINO. 

half-a-pint to each egg, the pan being of such a size 
as to cause the water to cover the eggs. When done 
in a basin, a little more water will be required. This 
proportion of water must of course be considerably 
reduced where a large number of eggs are done at once, 
because the cooling of a large quantity of water is pro- 
portionally slower than that of a smaller quantity. 

Poached Eggs are prepared by breaking the shell and 
dropping the contents into boiling waier with a little 
yinegar and salt in it. This should be done as close 
as possible to the surface of the water for fear of break- 
ing the yolk, and giving the white a ragged appear- 
ance when set, from its mixing too much with the 
water. For the same reason, the ebullition should not 
be too brisk. Perhaps a safer plan is to break each 
egg into a separate tea-cup, and immersing the cup in 
the boiling water, lower its lip so as to allow the water 
to enter and the egg to float out. By this plan also it 
is possible to examine whether the eggs are fresh or 
not, before they are put into the water. Care must be 
taken to allow one to set before another is put in, that 
they may not stick together, and to take them out in 
the order of their immersion. When the white is com- 
pletely set, the egg is lifted out with a small drainer, 
and the water allowed to drain from it for a minute. 
It is then ready for serving on hot buttered toast, or 
broiled or fried bacon or ham. 



CHAPTER VII. 

BB.01L1NQ. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 



Broiling is the most expeditious mode of cooking. 
It is also one of the best for meat that is in proper 
cooking cbndition; but when the meat is too fresh, 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR BROILING. 57 

broiling is, of all processes, the most likely to fail of a 
good result. The reason is, that being performed upon 
slices and not masses of meat, it requires to be done 
quickly to prevent the meat being too much dried, and 
consequently a high temperature is necessary, which 
being of itself unfavourable to the production of tender 
meat, makes it the more needful that all the other 
favourable conditions should be fulfilled. Broiling re- 
quires a strong glowing fire without flame or smoke. 
If the fire is not quite in this state, and there is not 
time to wait till it " burns through," the flame may be 
reduced and kept under by sprinkling salt upon the 
coals. The Gridiron, which must always be kept clean 
and bright, should be first heated and then rubbed 
with a piece of suet before placing the meat on it j — 
this prevents the meat sticking to.it. The slices to be 
broiled should be cut of an even thickness of not much 
less than three quarters of an inch, lest they be dried 
and hardened, — nor more than an inch, else they will be 
still raw in the interior, while the outside is half burnt. 
The practice (recommended by some cooks) of beating 
them with the rolling pin, is decidedly a bad one ; it 
ruptures the juice vessels, and so occasions a loss of 
gravy, while it is very doubtful if any amount of beat- 
ing will make tough meat tender. The article broiled, 
especially if it be juicy, such as a beef-steak, should 
be turned very frequently ; this process not only ensures 
its being cooked equally through on both sides, but 
prevents the escape of the juice which is apt to be 
expelled on the upper side, if the meat remains long 
without being. turned. For turning the meat, a small 
pair of tongs made for that purpose is the best, a fork 
being sure to make holes by which the gravy is lost. 
Sometimes the gridiron is made double, so that the 
meat being held between its two flaps, which are 
£Etstened together by a hinge, the whole is turned to- 
gether without removing the meat. This form of 
gridiron, however, although it certainly saves the 
labour of the cook, has the disadvantage of frequently 



58 DIRECTIONS 

making unseemly marks on the meat by the pressure 
of the bars, which also tends to squeeze out the gravy, 
and to render the meat hard. Another modification of 
the gridiron is one in which every bar is hollowed into 
a gutter to catch the gravy and fat, and prevent them 
dropping into the fire and there making a smoky 
blaze. This, however, necessitates the bars' being 
so broad as in a great measure to shelter the meat 
from that direct action of the fire which is essential 
to broiling. If the cook pays proper attention to the 
turning^ and places her gridiron aslant so that the fat 
runs down the bars to the back of the grate, very little 
gravy will be lost, and she will not be much annoyed 
by a blazing fire. The best gridiron, as elsewhere re- 
marked, is that having small round bars. 

Broiled meat should be served and eaten the instant 
it is cooked, for every minute it stands deteriorates its 
quality ; so that those who wish to dine upon meat 
broiled in perfection, must be content to wait a few 
minutes for their dinner rather than allow their dinner 
to wait for them. 

Beef Steaks, — Although those cut from the rump are 
considered the best, yet the sirloin or the spare-rib 
supply very palatable steaks if the meat is good and 
has been kept long enough. Having cut the steaks as 
above directed, trim off any superfluous suet, and 
divide them into pieces of a convenient size for serving 
at table. Sprinkle both sijles with a mixture of pepper 
and salt, and broil according to the preceding general 
directions. The time required must vary according to 
the strength of the fire, the thickness of the steaks, 
and the taste of those who are to eat them, many per- 
8on6 preferring them rather underdone, while others 
like them to be thoroughly cooked. When finished, 
place them in a very hot dish, rub them with a little 
fresh butter, add a table-spoonful of mushroom ket- 
chup, and send them to table under a hot cover imme- 
diately. When steaks are broiled for a party of more 
than two persons, they should be sent to table in two 



FOR BKOILINGv 69 

t 

or three separate supplies, so that thej may be eaten as 
soon as done, because if they are all served at once, those 
that are first cooked will have lost much of their good- 
ness while waiting till the last is finished. Thej may 
be garnished with a little scraped horse-radish. Mus- 
tard is the condiment almost uniyersally taken with 
beef steaks. Pickles are sometimes used, but many 
prefer oyster or mushroom sauce. Plain boiled pota- 
toes and bread should not omitted. 

Mutton and Lamb Ohops are best cut from the middle 
of the loin. They are also sometimes taken from the 
neck. They are cooked and served in the same way 
as beef steaks. The buttering may be omitted in dish- 
ing, as the mutton is generally fat enough of itself. 
]V}utton steaks from the back ribs, and cutlets from the 
gigot, may also be broiled as above. Before broiling 
these chops, it is a good plan^ not always practised, to 
trim away unnecessary fat, and as much of the bone, 
especially the thick end of it, as can be neatly taken 
away; — there will thus be less troublesome dripping 
of grease into the fire, and the raw bone, as before ob- 
served, yields more juice for soup or gravy than a cooked 
one. Soyer's Mutton or Lamb chop is sawn from the 
saddle ; — the "jagging" of the meat by the saw, " caus- 
ing the chops to eat more tender," says its inventor. 
Be this as it may, however, the idea is certainly good, 
as the chop so produced exhibits a more equal distribu- 
tion of fat and lean than the ordinary one, and the bone 
being undivided in the centre, assists in preserving the 
gravy. 

Veal Cutlets should be well seasoned, and basted occa- 
sionally while broiling by dipping them in fresh butter 
melted in a plate. A more savoury though more trouble- 
some method is :— having fried till brown some very 
finely chopped onion and parsley in a little butter, to dip 
the cutlets first in this, then into bread crumbs seasoned ' 
with pepper and salt, and then to broil them. Im- 
mediately before serving, pour over them a rich Brown 
Gravy thickened with butter and fiour, flavoured with 



60 DIRECTIONS 

finelj-minced orange-peel and some grated ginger, and 
made quite hot. 

Kidneys and Sweetbreads are sometimes broiled. The 
kidneys must first be split through the middle and laid 
open but not separated;^ and then strung upon skewers 
so as to keep them open and fiat. Sweetbreads must 
be previously par-boiled. Both should be highly sea- 
soned with pepper and salt before placing them on the 
gridiron, and the sweetbreads are the better of being 
basted as above described for veal cutlets. Both may 
be rendered more savoury by first "egging" them, and 
then dipping them in a highly-seasoned mixture of 
bread-crumbs and finely- minced herbs, — sprinkling 
them also with the mixture while they are broiling. 

Pork Chops are perhaps the most indigestible of all 
forms of animal food. Those who have sufficient con- 
fidence in their gastric powers may try them. They 
• are cut from the neck or loin, peppered, and must be 
thoroughly cooked. When done, serve them very hot, 
sprinkled with salt, or, if liked, a gravy flavoured with 
mustard and dry pulverized sage-leaves may be poured 
over them. Their appropriate condiment is mustard. 

Bones, The remainder bones of roasted or stewed 
joints, having a little of the underdone meat left upon 
them, make a very good broil. They should be divided 
into pieces of a convenient size, and highly seasoned 
'with salt, pepper, and mustard. The bones of several 
kinds of fish, treated in the same way, form a tasty 
supper-dish. 

Mam and Bacon, These, for broiling, ought not to 
be too old or dry. Though every part of bacon is very 
good, the streaky part of the thick flank is the best. 
The slices need not be above a quarter of an inch thick. 
If rather dry, they should be dipped for a minute or so 
in vinegar and water. The rind should be taken off, 
and each slice broiled for about five minutes, more or 
less, according to the strength of the fire ; during which 
time it should be turned three or four times. Serve 
them very hot. When poached eggs are served upon 



FOR BROILING. 61 

them, care should be taken to hare both ready at the 
same time, as neither is improved bj waiting for the 
other. 

SausagjBSy before broiling, should be pricked all over 
with a pin, to allow the steam to escape without burst- 
ing them. They should be done over a slow fire, turn- 
ing them three or four times till of a nice yellow colour. 
Serve them very hot. 



F<mU and Pigeons, Being drawn, plucked, cleaned 
and trussed as for boiling, they are split down the back 
with a sharp knife, laid open, and pressed or beaten as 
flat as possible. If the fowl be large or old, the breast 
bone may be taken out, and also the rough part of the 
back. When properly flattened, season them plenti- 
fully all over with a mixture of pepper and salt, and 
broil them gently over a slow fire, giving the inside 
surface the first of the fire, turning them every five 
minutes till thoroughly cooked, and basting them oc- 
casionally with butter melted, applied with a feather. 
When the flesh feels firm at the thickest part they are 
broiled enough. They then should have a fine golden 
yellow colour. Being thicker than chops or steaks, and 
requiring to be more thoroughly cooked, they require 
a longer time to broil, and must be done over a slower 
fire, or at a greater distance from it. Serve very hot, 
with parsley sauce, melted butter, beef gravy thickened, 
or mushroom sauce. Pigeons are sometimes broiled 
whole, in which case they are stuffed as for roasting, 
the stufling however being rather more highly seasoned. 

Rabbits, cut in quarters, may be broiled exactly as 
the preceding. 

Salmon, Slices cut from the thick part of the fish 
are cleaned, scaled, dried, dipped in flour, and broiled 
over a clear fire. When done, rub them with a little 
fresh butter, and serve them very hot, with caper sauce 
if desired, or any fish sauce that may be preferred. 
Kippered Salmon is broiled in slices the same way. 



62 DIRECTIONS 

Rizzared Haddocks and Whitings are general favou- 
rites for breakfast or sup{)er. They are prepared by 
letting the fish lie in salt for twelve hours, more or less 
according to their size, after being well cleaned as for 
boiling, and then hanging them to dry in a cool airy 
situation, upon a rod run through the eye-sockets. 
They are broiled without seasoning, merely taking the 
heads off, but not skinning them as is sometimes re- 
commended, for the skin, though uneatable, keeps in 
the juice. If the fish are large, it is as well to split and 
lay them open before broiling. These fish may also be 
broiled while fresh, but they are better cured as above. 
Serve hot, with some slices of fresh butter separate, to 
be used with them by those who like it. 

Finnan Haddocks, These should be chosen of a 
middling size, and not too stale. Before broiling, they 
must be skinned ; and it is as well, since they do 
not require very much cooking, to cut them in halves 
lengthwise, and broil the thick and thin halves se- 
parately, otherwise the latter will be overdone before 
the former are cooked. Serve with fresh butter, as in 
the preceding receipt. (Finnan haddocks, if small, 
may also be cooked by toasting them in front of the 
fire, or even by pouring boiling water upon them in a 
dish and letting them lie in it for a minute or two. 
This last plan is a very good one for small dry fish, 
which would be too much hardened by broiling.) 

Fresh Herrings and Sprats, after being well cleaned, 
are wiped dry with a cloth, then dipped in flour, and 
broiled oyer a moderate fire. For convenience, the sprats, 
being small, are strung in rows upon thin skewers run 
through their heads, and thus laid upon the gridiron. 
For sauce, melted butter with a little mushroom ketchup 
and vinegar or lemon juice in it, may be used. 

Bed Herrings are plain broiled, rubbed with butter, 
sprinkled with pepper, and served hot. If rather dry 
and salt, they may require steeping for a short time. 

Kippered Herrings are broiled and served hot, with- 
out sauce or any other seasoning than a little salt if 
they require it. 



FOR BROILING. 63 

Salt Herrings require soaking *and cleansing. Wipe 
them dry, broU, and serve them like red herrings. 

Mackarely after being cleaned, should be split open 
and laid flat^ rubbed with butter, sprinkled with pepper 
and salt, and then broiled. 

Trout are prepared in the same manner.^ Both trout 
and fresh herrings may be rizzared like haddocks, but 
should not lie in salt nor hang so long afterwards. 

Skate, if small, are yerj good broiled. Thej should 
be prepared as for boiling, wiped dry, sprinkled with 
flour and pepper and salt, and served with melted 
butter if a sauce is required. 

An excellent method of broiling, well adapted for 
steaks, chops, fish, — in fact, anything that requires to 
be quickly cooked, is performed by placing the article 
to be broiled upon a flat tin dish placed perpendicu- 
larly in front of the fire. This dish should have a 
couple of moveable hold-fasts, or a spring clip, like a 
letter-clip, to secure the meat or fish from dropping ofl^, 
and its lower edge should be provided with a gutter to 
catch the dripping and gravy. It may also be made to 
slide towards and from the fire, upon a stout wire frame 
constructed to hook on to the front of the grate. The 
advantages of this method are : — 1st, That it can be 
employed when the fire may not be clear enough on 
the top, or sufficiently free from smoke and flame, to 
permit the use of the gridiron ; 2d, That the annoy- 
ance of the fat dropping into the fire and making a 
blaze is avoided ; 3d, Any gravy that may exude from 
the meat while broiling is saved ; and 4th, That less 
heat as well as moisture is lost from the side of the 
meat not exposed to the fire, this being covered by the 
back or bottom of the broiling dish. 



64 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

CHAPTER VIII. 

PRYING. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

This is as expeditious a process as broiling, and is ap- 
plicable not only to the same class of articles, but like- 
wise to many odd pieces of cooked and uncooked meat, 
as well as vegetables, which could hardly be prepared 
in any other way! Hence it is considered, upon the 
whole, the more economical of the two. It is also, at 
least that mode of it distinguished by the French term 
Sauter, the way in which a large class of preparations, 
of which the common pancake may be called the type, 
are cooked. 

In one respect frying is similar to broiling : it is appli- 
cable only to small articles. And the reason of this is 
the same in both cases, — viz. that the heat employed 
is so great that it would infallibly char the greater part 
of a large article before the centre of it was half cooked. 
But in the case of frying there is a peculiar necessity 
for this high temperature ; for the medium by which 
it is applied (melted fat or oil), which is not by any 
means either palatable or digestible, would otherwise 
penetrate the article fried, and destroy its good quali- 
ties. But this is prevented both by the crust or skin 
into which the heat hardens the surface of the article, 
and also by the repulsive force of the steam into which 
the moisture of the meat is converted the instant it 
comes in contact with the hot fat. 

The fat used in frying must be perfectly fresh, as 
the slightest rancidity will communicate its flavour to 
whatever is placed in it. Although butter or dripping 
are the best for butcher meat, and lard or oil for fish, 
yet good dripping will be found to answer very well 
for all sorts of animal food, and is generally the most 



FOR FRYING. 65 

economical ; — for pancakes <kc., butter only should be 
used. The butter will be found much less apt to bum 
if previously clarified from the traces of milk it con- 
tains, by melting it in a jar placed in hot water, and 
pouring o£f the clear oil from the sediment which falls 
to the bottom. In either of the two modes of frying, 
the fat used should not be stinted, and care should be 
taken to have it of a proper heat before putting the 
meat <&;c. into it, which may be ascertained by dipping 
into it the end of a small piece of bread : if the bi'ead 
becomes slightly coloured and crisp immediately, the fat 
is hot enough j if it is dark coloured and looks charred, 
the fat has been made too hot. The evil arising from 
the fat not being hot enough is, that the meat will 
absorb some of it j if it is too hot, the outside will be 
burnt before the interior is cooked. The same fat will 
senre many times if it be carefully preyented from 
burning, and separated from all traces of gravy or other 
impurities every time it is set aside fdr future use. 
Fat which has been once used for fish should not be 
employed for anything else, as it retains the smell and 
flavour of the fish. 

The use of eggs and bread-crumbs for all kinds of 
steaks and chops, though generally considered unneces- 
sary and expensive, will be found a decided improve- 
ment, for two reasons : first, because the gravy is thus 
better preserved in the meat by the artificial skin or 
crust of coagulated egg ; and secondly, because this egg 
crust may be formed at a much lower temperature than 
is required to produce an equally efficient skin by hard- 
ening the surface of the meat itself, and hence less heat 
may be employed, by which there is a smaller chance of 
the meat being hardened, and also of the dripping or 
butter being burnt. For fish, more especially where it 
has a large cut surface, eggs and bread-crumbs are ab- 
solutely necessary to prevent that unpleasant absorption 
of the oil which the naturally loose texture of all fish 
is otherwise sure to occasion. To apply this covering, 
the article is first dipped into or smeared with weU- 

F 



66 DIRECTIONS 

beaten egg, and then rolled among the crambs of stale 
bread rubbed very small. The coating should be thick 
and complete. Oatmeal is by some people thought a 
yery good substitute for bread-crumbs, especially for 
fish. All solid articles may be either fried by com- 
plete immersion in the hot dripping, or sauted (see 
page 17). Pancakes, Omelettes, &c., of which eggs are 
the basis, are always saut^ed. Fish are best fried in 
the former method, being so apt to break when being 
turned while saut^ing. 

Beef-Steaks, Mutton and Larrib Chops, Veal OuUetSy 
and Pork Chops, are all fried till of a fine light brown 
colour, following the above General Directions. When 
saut^ed, the best grayy for them is made by pouring a 
little hot water into the frying-pan after they are re- 
moved, and, after pouring ofi the superfluous fat, adding 
a little pepper, salt, ketchup, and flour. A few sliced 
onions may be added to this sauce if liked ; they are 
put in and fried for a few minutes before pouring off 
the fat. When fried by complete immersion, which 
however is not the usual mode, a bro?m gravy thicken- 
ed with flour may be required. In this case, however, 
a coating of egg and bread-crumbs is advisable. Such 
a covering may also be used in saut6ing, and it may 
be flavoured by the addition to the bread-crumbs of 
appropriate seasonings and herbs finely minced. Thus 
chopped parsley and lemon peel, with pepper and salt, 
may be used for veal cutlets ; and sage and onion for 
pork chops. The gravy for veal cutlets may be slightly 
acidulated with lemon juice. Apple sauce is sometimes 
taken with pork chops. 

Minced Collops, seasoned with pepper and salt, and 
chopped onion, made into flattened balls or thick cakes, 
and then well dusted with flour, may be saut^ed in 
butter or dripping. A sauce made by dredging a 
little flour into the pan after they are cooked, adding a 
little hot water or broth, nnd some mushroom ketchup, 
and simmering for a minute, may be poured over them. 



FOR FRYING. 67 

sfht open and laid flat, and highly season- 
ed with pepper and salt, are 8aat6ed in batter oTer a 
brisk fire. They should be thoroughly but not oyer- 
done. While cookings chopped onion may be sprinkled 
oyer themu They are senred upon dry toast^ in a flat 
dish, with the eontents of the pan poured oyer them. 

SweMreadt, preyiously parboiled, and cut into ^oes, 
should be ^ged and rolled in bread-crumbs, which 
may be seasoned with lemon peel, pepper, salt, and 
paisley. They are saaii(§ed in butter, and senred with 
a sauce of melted butter seasoned with mushroom ket- 
chiqx This dish may be garmshed with bacon fried in 
thin slices. 

Lamb*$ and Calf*$ Liver should be sliced, soaked in 
water, wiped dry, and fried as aboye. 

Tripe^ preyiously boiled till tender, is wiped dry with 
a doth,— ndipped in a thickish batter made of eggs, 
flour, and nulk, seasoned with salt, and, if liked, minced 
onion, — and fried in plenty of lard or dripping. When 
coloured light brown it is seryed hot, garnished with 
fried parsley. (Before frying this garnishing, the pars- 
ley bcang washed dean, should be thoroughly dried ; and 
when cooked, the &t should be well drained from it be- 
fore placing it in the dish.) This is a yery good method 
of cooking the remains of a dish of boiled tripe. 

Bacon^ or Hamj and Eggs. This dish is a geaeral 
&yourite. It is prepared thus : — The ham or bacon 
should be eyenly cut, not aboye a quarter of an inch 
thick, and the eggs carefully broken, so as not to rup- 
ture the yolks, each into a separate tea-cup. The ham 
is then saut6ed in a very little butter or dripping, care 
being taken not to harden it by over-cooking. When 
done, place it in a hot dish before the fire, and then 
cook die eggs in the fat that remains, slipping them 
gently out of the cups without breaking or spreading 
them too much in the pan. When the whites are just 
set, lift the ^gs gently with a perforated slice and place 
th^ upon the ham in the diish, each upon a separate 
slice, and serve hot immediately. When bacon is 



68 DIBBCnONS 

saut^ed, its own hi will be sufficient to cook it in if it 
is goocL The condiments to be placed on the table 
with this dish are mustard, pepper, and yinegar. 

Satuages, before being fiied, should be pricked in se- 
yeral places to permit the escape of the steam, which 
would otherwise burst them. It is an improvement to 
throw them into boiling water for a minute or two be- 
fore frying them. Thej may be served upon mashed 
potatoes, or upon toasted bread, with a garnishing of 
of poached eggs, (see page 56), Fried sausages are 
sometimes employed to garnish roast turkey. 

A young Fowl or Chicken, prepared as for boiling 
(see page 46), may be saut^ed in butter, either with or 
without egg and bread-crumbs. When perfectly tender 
and of a rich golden tint, a sauce is prepared by pour- 
ing off the superfluous oil, dredging a little flour into 
the pan, adding a little boiling water, and a seasoning 
of ketchup, pepper, salt, and a bouquet of parsley. 
Let the fowl simmer a few minutes in this, then dish 
it, and keep it hot while the sauce is being reduced to 
a proper consistency ; when the parsley should be re- 
moved, a little lemon juice added if liked, and the 
sauce poured over the fowL In this sauce vegetables, 
such as green pease, carrot and turnip, or cucumbers 
cut smaU, or a few mushrooms or sliced onions, may be 
stewed till tender, and the whole poured over the fowl. 

^.B. — If the fowl is large, it will be the better of 
being previously stewed or boiled, and cut up into 
smaUer pieces. The bread-crumbs used in covering it 
may be seasoned to taste with nutmeg, pepper, salt, 
and minced parsley. 

FotcUoes, cut in thin slices, are fried in plenty of 
dripping made rather hot. When dished, sprinkle 
them with salt. 

FISH. For all kinds of fish, more particularly flat 
fish and the smaller sorts, frying is perhaps the most 
savoury mode of cooking. In every case, whether 
saut6ing or complete frying be the mode employed, 
(the latter, if properly done, will be found the best), a 



FOR FRYING. 69 

good thick coating of egg and bread crumbs should be 
used. With the exception that before applying this 
covering, haddocks, whitings, skate, and soles may be 
skinned, and eels must be so, the modus operandi is 
the same for every kind of fish. Hence it will hardly 
be needful to give more than the following general di- 
rections : — Istf If the fish, or piece of fish, is large, such 
as a sole, the fat ought to be slightly cooled as soon as 
the outside coating has become sufficiently firm to ex- 
clude it, in order that the interior of the fish may be 
cooked without burning the surface. This may be 
done either by adding a little cold dripping to the hot 
fat, or by raising the pan farther from the fire. How- 
ever, it will be found a better plan to cut the larger 
fish into fillets or slices, which is the form best suited 
to this mode of cooking. 2d, If, in consequence of the 
fish being too wet, the egg and bread-crumbs will not 
adhere properly, the fish may first be rolled in flour. 
3d, The fish should be placed in a stout iron-wire bas- 
ket having a handle, so that it can be immersed in the 
hot fat, held there till cooked, and then lifted out with- 
out the slightest risk of its breaking, which is the chief 
objection against saut6ing fish. Ath, When fish are 
flaut^ed, they must be turned very carefully by means 
of a flat tin slice, and occasionally raised from the bot- 
tom of the pan with the same instrument, to prevent 
their sticking to it and being burnt. Unless the greatest 
care is taken in the use of the slice, fish saut6ed will 
infallibly be broken, in which case the exposed broken 
parts, losing juice and absorbing grease, are greatly 
deteriorated. The same sauces are used with fried fish 
as Mrith boiled. 

Thin slices of Bread, cut into any fanciful form, and 
fried till crisp and brown in the fat which remains 
after frying any of the above, form a very useful gar- 
nishing for them. 

Directions for the frying of already cooked provi- 
sions, and of pancakes, omelettes, fritters, &c., will be 
found in the chapters treating of ** Dressing cold Meat," 
and " Puddings, Pastry, &c.," respectively. 



70 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



CHAPTER IX. 

STEWiia'a. 



OENEBAL DIBEOTIONS. 

Theee are few branches of cookeiy, the thorough 
knowledge of which is so important to the housewife as 
that of stewing, both because of the large variety of 
dishes which may be produced by it, and also on 
account of its great economy. To the poorer classes 
this latter is of course its chief recommendation. Not 
only does this process play the chief part in the pre- 
paration of all those expensive ragovU &nd fricassees in 
which the rich luxuriate, but, from its save-all and 
use-all capabilities, it is eminently suited to the less 
pretending meal of the artizan. Besides the advantage 
it possesses (in common with roasting) over boiling, 
namely that of not abstracting any of the nutriment 
from the food prepared by it, it has others peculiar to 
itself. Thus by its means many of those inferior pieces 
of meat whose irregular shape and coarse texture make 
it impossible either to roast or boil them satisfactorily, 
may be rendered not only tender and digestible, but, 
with the addition of a few inexpensive vegetables and 
seasonings, highly palatable. It also affords those 
whose means enable them to indulge in a small roast or 
boiled joint, an economical way of procuring a hot 
dinner out of the cold remains of these. 

Although the method of stewing of course varies 
with the kind of food to which it is applied, yet these 
variations are perfectly consistent with and indeed 
rendered necessary by those General Principles detailed 
in Chapter IV. For example, in stewing raw meat it 
is first saut6ed in the bottom of the stewpan (some cooks 
recommend half-roasting, but this must be attended 
with a greater loss of moisture), in order to produce 



FOR STEWING. 71 

tkat sealing tip of the surface, necessary to prevent the 
too large escape of juice, and then a small quantity of 
hot water, broth, or gravy, as the case may be, is added, 
in which the cooking is completed by very slow simmer^ 
ing — not boiling — the lid of the stewpan being kept 
close shut down. The preliminary aautding being in- 
tended merely to harden the surface of the meat, and by 
no means to cock it, must of course be carried no farther 
than is necessary to accomplish that purpose ; it should 
therefore be rapidly done over a strong fire. Meat, on 
the other hand, which has been already cooked, ought 
not to be saut^ed, because this would be useless, since 
all its albumen has been already coagulated ; it should 
be placed at once in a warm gravy previously pre- 
pared, and merely heated in this without even sim- 
mering ; because, having been already acted upon by 
heat, there is some risk of its becoming hardened by 
too high a temperature. The length of time required 
to cook meat by stewing, varies, of course, with the size 
of the pieces, and also with their texture, a coarse gristly 
piece requiring a longer time than a good fleshy piece, 
in order that its tendinous parts may become softened 
and partially dissolved. As regards time, however, 
this process has a peculiar advantage in the fact that, 
provided the heat be not made too great, there is little 
danger of the meat being spoiled by being kept hot in 
the stewpan for some time after the cooking is com- 
pleted. The reason of this is, that the meat being con- 
tained with water in a close vessel, cannot be dried up 
as a roast would be ; neither can its juice be so thinned 
and rendered insipid as that of boiled meat would be, 
because the quantity of water employed is very consi- 
derably less. Hence stewing is the best mode of cook- 
ing for those whose hour of dining is uncertain. 

Ragouts and Fricassees differ from plain stews in this, 
that the gravy is enriched by the addition of various 
flavouring substances and seasonings. The meat in 
these cases is cut into pieces, so that it may more tho- 
roughly imbibe these additional flavours. The ragout 



72 DIRECTIONS 

is the more highly seasoned preparation of the two, and 
is best adapted for the high-flavoured and dark-colour- 
ed meats. The fricassee, on the contrary, is more mild 
and bland in its flavour, and being generally composed 
of the white and delicate meats, its colour ought to cor- 
respond,— to ensure which the preliminary saut^ing of 
the meat must be very carefully and delicately done, 
and the yolk of eggs and cream are added to the gr&ry. 

Bump, Brisket, or Shin of Beef, Each of these may 
be stewed in a single piece if not too large, simply as 
above described, being seasoned with pepper and salt, 
and in the first place sauted with a Uttle butter or 
dripping in the bottom of the stewpan, turning them 
over and over so as to brown them on all sides, and 
then adding a little water slightly salted, and letting 
them stew slowly under a close cover, shaking the stew- 
pan occasionaly to prevent their burning on the bottom, 
which may be farther guarded against if a few skewers 
are laid under the meat. (N. B. The bone of the shin 
of beef should be sawn in three or four pieces.) Thus 
prepared, especially if the quantity of water used be 
very small, the stew will be not very unlike a roast, both 
in appearance and flavour, the latter being however de- 
cidedly stronger than that of roast meat. The water 
will be found converted into a rich gr2i,yj, which is of 
course served along with the stew. A Ragout is pre- 
pared by substituting broth, or a gravy made from the 
bones cut out of the meat for that purpose, instead of 
water, and using rather more of the broth, and after the 
meat has stewed till nearly ready, adding sliced carrot 
and turnip cut in small slices, and shortly thereafter 
some onion and a seasoning of spices and sweet herbs 
according to taste. When the vegetables are tender, a 
little mushroom ketchup may be added to the gTB,Tj, 
which is likewise thickened by the addition of a piece of 
butter rolled in flour. A .rump of beef, dressed as 
above, may be stufled with a forcemeat placed in the 
cavity formed by cutting out the bone. The ragout is 



FOR 8TBWING. 73 

serred with the gravy poured over it. — Another mode 
is to cut the meat in neat slices before cooking it. In 
this case the preliminary saut^ing is of great import- 
ance. Sometimes balls of forcemeat (see receipt) are 
added to this dish about ten minutes after the meat is 
ready, and celery is also used to flavour it, though this 
may as effectusJly be done by a little celery seed. 
Gurry powder may also be introduced with advantage. 
This mode of stewing meat in slices will be found avail- 
able for many of the coarser pieces, all that is necessary 
to render them tender being careful and long-continued 
stewing. To such ragouts (sometimes called Haricots), 
many persons add maccaroni or vermicelli, which re- 
quire from ten to twenty minutes cooking along with 
^e stew. 

Minced Collops, Any piece of tender lean beef, free 
from skin and gristle, is finely minced along with two 
or three onions, and seasoned with pepper and salt. 
This is saut6ed in a little butter in the stew-pan till 
slightly browned, being continually beaten and stirred 
about with a spoon during the process, to keep it from 
sticking to the bottom or forming lumps. A slight 
dredging of flour is then added, and immediately after- 
wards a little hot water, broth, or gravy extracted from 
the skin and gristle which have been cut away from 
the meat. A few minutes stewing will now finish the 
process, when the mince may be dished with strips of 
toasted bread round it. 

i^. JB, Any odd scraps of already cooked meat, minced 
finely, may be mixed with this dish, and even the ex- 
hausted meat which has been used to make gravy or 
beef tea. These however must not be added until im- 
mediately before serving, as they do not require cooking 
but merely re-warming. 

Beef Olives consist of thin steaks upon which a highly 
seasoned forcemeat is spread, rolled up tightly and tied 
with pack-thread. These are stewed and served in the 
usual way. 

Beef Kidneys. These are sliced, soaked in water, 



74 DIRECTIONS 

wiped dry and floured, and then stewed, after being 
slightly saut^ed in a little fresh butter. The seasoning 
us^ is generally minced onion and parsley, with pepper 
and salt, to which a little vinegar or onion-pickle liquor 
may be added if liked. The dish may be garnished 
with fried parsley. 

A ShotUder of Mutton may be stewed or ragoued 
precisely as directed above for Rump of Beef, cutting 
out the blade-bone, and stuffing the cavity thus formed^ 
with forcemeat. 

A Haricot of MvtUm or Lambmsij be made of chops 
cut from the loin or back ribs, or in fact of any part 
which can more conveniently be cooked in slices than 
whole. Irish Stew is simply a haricot of mutton in 
which sliced potatoes and onions are the vegetable in- 
gredients. 

Veal, The best parts for stewing are the Fillet, 
the Breast, and the Shoulder, These, especially the 
last, are the better of being stuffed as for roasting. 
For the preliminary saut6ing, butter should be used. 
The thickened sauce is improved by a slight seasoning 
of cayenne, salt, and lemon juice. 

Venison. On account of its dryness, this is better 
stewed than roasted. The Shoulder is stewed precisely 
as directed for the same part of mutton, only it should 
be rather more highly seasoned, and a rich gravy made 
from mutton or beef may advantageously be iised in- 
stead of water. 

Hare or Eabbit, being well washed, should be cut in 
pieces, and after saut^ing in fresh butter, stewed gently 
in a little water, or what is better, some gravy prepared 
from the neck, head, liver, <fec. The sauce should be 
thickened with flour, and the stew seasoned to taste 
with sliced onion, pepper and salt, and ketchup. Jugged 
hare is prepared by simply stewing the pieces of hare 
along with the sauce, seasonings, &c. in a closely covered 
earthen jar, placed in a kettle of boiling water ; of course 
the saut6ing is here omitted. Rabbits may be fricasseed 
as directed for chickens on next page. 



FOR STEWING. 75 

FwiaiU and Pigeons may be stewed whole, trussed aa 
if for boiling, and with either a stuffing, or simply some 
butter and pepper inside. After being saut6ed, dust a 
litUe flour over them, then add some hot water or 
grayy, season them highly, and stew till tender. A 
yery good dish may be made by using clear mutton 
or real broth, seasoned with sliced onion, white pepper, 
and salt, and when the fowl has stewed in this for about 
half an hour, adding a tea-cupful of clean well-soaked 
rice. When this is tender, it must be drained from 
the gravy, and placed upon an inverted sieve before the 
fire to dry, the fowl being meanwhile kept hot. The 
fowl is then served with the rice piled in light heaps 
round it, and parsley-sauce poured over it. In this 
dish green peas and lettuce may be substituted for the 
rice. White cabbage also, cut as for pickling, is some- 
times used in the same way along with pigeons. To 
fricdssee Chickens^ they must be cut in pieces as when 
carved at table, and then these pieces are seasoned with 
white pepper and salt, and dipped in egg before being 
saut^ed. They are stewed very slowly in mutton or 
veal broth, seasoned with lemon peel, onions, and a few 
sweet herbs. When the chicken is tender, the sauce is 
strained into a small clean saucepan, in which it is 
thickened with butter rolled in flour, and seasoned to 
taste with nutmeg. The yolks of one or two eggs, well 
beaten, and some cream, are then added to it, care being 
taken to mix these well with the sauce, which must not 
be made too hot, or it will curdle. The chicken, which 
has meanwhile be^ kept hot, is then served with this 
sauce poured over it. A slight flavouring of lemon- 
juice may be added if liked. 

Duchsy stewed as above along with peas, are a favou- 
rite dish. The peas should be put in, twenty minutes 
after the ducks. When peas are not in season, the 
gravy may be flavoured with sage and thyme finely 
shred. Ducks may be ragoued in a gravy drawn from 
the giblets. It should be highly seasoned and thickened 
with butter rolled in flour before serving. 



76 DIRECTIONS FOR STEWING. 

Giblets. The Giblets of any kind of fowl make an 
excellent stew or ragout. They should be highly sea- 
soned, and the gravy thickened as above before serving. 

Gurry, Fowls, Rabbits, Veal, or any white meat, 
may be curried. The meat is cut up into rather small 
pieces, and then saut^ed in butter in the stewpan over 
a smart fire along with some sliced onions. When it is 
lightly browned, some broth is added, in which it must 
stew till about half done. The required quantity of 
curry powder, along with a little flour, and a sufficiency 
of salt, is then mixed smooth with a little cold water 
in a basin, and added to the stew, which must now be 
simmered till the meat is tender. It is then dished, 
the sauce being poured over it, and served with boiled 
rice prepared as directed on p. 54, either in a separate 
dish, or surrounding the curry in the same dish. 

Salmon, God, Haddock, or almost any kind of fish, 
may be curried by cutting thAn in slices, and again 
dividing these into smaller pieces about the size of a 
walnut, and then stewing them in a sauce made as fol- 
lows : — To some sliced onion saut6ed in about an ounce 
of Jbutter till slightly yellow, add two table-spoonfiils 
of curry powder and a little flour, and the;i mix well 
with this about a pint of strong broth made hot. When 
the fish has stewed till cooked in this sauce, the super- 
fluous oil must be poured off", and the curry served with 
rice, as above directed ; a seasoning of lemon juice 
may, if liked, be added to the sauce immediately be- 
fore serving. Skate is the better of being plain boiled 
separately from the sauce, which, in this case, may be 
flavoured with an apple sliced and boiled to a pulp in it. 
When the skate is thoroughly drained from its liquor, 
andv dished, the sauce, after being strained, is poured 
over it. 

The best mode of re-warming all kinds of stews is to 
heat them in an earthen jar, immersed in a pot of boil- 
ing water. 



OBNBRAL DIRB0TIOK8. 77 

CHAPTER X. 

DBSBBHra COOKED MEAT. 

In whatever way this is done, it must never be forgotten, 
as it is too often the case, that the meat, being already 
cooked, requires merely to be warmed, and that if in 
doing this a heat sufficient to cook raw meat be applied 
to it, it will inevitably be spoiled by being overdone. 
The most usual method is that called HaMngy and if 
properly done it will be found to produce a dish re- 
sembling a ragout, which is at once savoury, nourishing, 
and economical 

Hacked Beef^ Veal, or Mutton, These are prepared 
from cold roast beef, roast veal, and cold roast or boiled 
mutton : if the meat is rather underdone, so much the 
better. Cut it from tlb bones in small thin slices, and 
trim away from them all the gristly and skinny parts. 
Break the bones, and gently simmer these and the 
trimmings along with some sliced onion in a little 
water, so as to extract as much of their gravy as pos- 
sible. Remove the bones and trimmings ; strain the 
sauce, add any of the roast-meat gravy that may be left, 
season with pepper and salt, and thicken it with a small 
piece of butter rolled in flour. Then place the pieces 
of cold meat in it, and let the stewpan stand by the side 
of the fire till these are warmed through, when the hash 
is ready. The dish in which it is served should be 
lined with small strips of toasted bread. This plain 
hash may be more highly flavoured by the addition of 
sliced carrot, which should be put in along with the 
bones to allow it time to cook, and a few sweet herbs ; 
a little mushroom ketchup may also be added to the 
gravy before dishing. Hashed Veal may be flavoured 
with finely -minced lemon peel. The forpa of this hash 
may be varied by cutting the meat into very small dice. 
This mode is applicable to cold meat that has been so 
ill carved or so well used up that neat small slicea cannot 



78 DIRBOTIONS FOB 

be got from it. The mode of dressing it is precisely the 
same, only the meat will not take so long to warm 
through. When cold veal is dressed this way, some 
boiled ham or lean bacon cut small along with it makes 
a savoury addition. Cold roast lamb and venison may 
also be hashed as above, a little mutton broth being 
added to the sauce for the latter, which may also Im 
flavoured with a little red currant jelly. 

Hashed Fork. The remains of roast pork, cut in 
thin small slices, dusted with flour, and seasoned with 
pepper and salt, may be heated in a sauce made as fol- 
lows : — Put into a stewpan two tablenspoonfuls of 
chopped onion, a wine-glassful of vinegar, two doves, a 
blade of mace, and a bay leaf. Simmer this till the 
vinegar is about half evaporated, then take out the 
seasonings, put in half a pint of hot broth or water, and 
add the pork. When this has simmered for about ten 
minutes it is ready for servingf A small quantity of 
mustard may be added to the sauce if desired. 

Hashed Hare, The cold roast hare is cut into pieces, 
the joints of the legs and shoulders being divided. A 
gravy is then prepared from the head, trimmings, ^., 
* seasoned with pepper and salt, an onion, and a bouquet 
of sweet herbs, to which a little red currant jelly may be 
added. In this gravy the pieces of hare are warmed. 
The stuffing may be cut in slices and warmed in the 
gravy also, and when the hash is dished these are placed 
as a garnishing round the edge. The sweet herbs 
should be removed from the sauce before dishing. 

Hashed Poultry, Garrve, or Rabbits. These, whether 
roast or boiled, are all treated in the same way as hashed 
hare. If boiled, some of the liquor they were boiled in 
may be used to make the sauce, being enriched by the 
necks, heads, &c. being stewed in it. It may also be 
thickened with butter rolled in flour. 

Hashed Duck or Goose. These birds make excellent 
hashes. Being cut in pieces as usual, they are warmed 
in a gravy prepared as follows : — Cut an onion into 
small dice and brown it slightly in a little butter in the 



DRBISINO COOKBD MEAT. 79 

stewpaa ; mix a table-spoonful of flour with it, and then 
add by degrees a gnrj prepared bj stewing the neck, 
head, and trimmings, in about a pint of water. The 
sauce should be highlj seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
ketchup, to which a little finelj-shred sage maj be 
added, or a little of the stuffing may be used to thicken 
the sauce. 

Curry powder may be used as an ingredient in any 
of the aboTe hashes, in which case proportionally less 
pepper should be empbyed in the seasoning. Thus pre- 
pared, they may be serred with rice like other curries. 

Cold JBeef Olvoei may be made in the same way as 
directed on p. 73, with slices of yery tender underdone 
roast beef. They are very slightly stewed, so as not to 
OTeroook them, in a gravy prepared as for a hash. 

Hashes, like stews, may be re-warmed in a Teasel 
placed in a saucepan of boiling water. 

JBngliih Stew is madi with any kind of cold butcher 
meat, as follows : — Cut the meat as for hash, sprinkle 
it with pepper, salt, and flour, and lay it in a dish. 
Strew among the meat some pickled cabbage or onions, 
or any kind of pickles. Then make a sauce of half a 
teanrnpftil of water, a little of the pickle vinegar, a 
small quantity of mushroom ketchup, and any of the 
gravy belonging to the meat which may be preserved. 
Stir these ingr^Uents well together, and pour the sauce 
over the meat. The dish is then set before the Are in 
a dispatch, or in the oven, and when the meat is heated 
through it is ready. 

BtMlesxid Squeak is made of cold salt beef and 
boiled cabbage. Thinnish slices of the beef, well 
peppered, are slightly saut6ed in fresh butter, Th&«e 
are then kept warm before the fire, while the cabbage, 
which must be chopped small and seasoned with pepper 
and salt, is saut6ed in the butter which remains in the 
jfrying-pan after doing the beef. The cabbage is then 
spread in a hot dish, and the beef laid on the top of it, 
and served hot. In this dish veal is a very good sub- 
stitute for salt beef A good sauce for this is made by 



80 DIRECTIONS FOR 

mixing some pickled cucumber and onion chopped 
small with melted butter, and slightlj flavouring it 
with mustard. 

Cold Beef or Mutton Broiled, The inside of a roast 
sirloin of beef or leg of mutton, being the most tender 
and juicy parts, are the best for this. The more under- 
done they may be, the better. Cut the slices even and 
rather thick, and broil them quickly over or before 
(see p. 63) a strong clear fire, taking oare that though 
slightly browned on the surface, they are merely warmed 
in the interior. They may be served in the same 
manner as beef steaks, or with poached eggs laid upon 
them. 

Poultry and Game, The cold remains of any kind 
of roast or boiled poultry or game may be re-warmed 
by cutting them into neat small pieces, seasoning them 
well with pepper and salt, and saut^ing them in oil or 
butter made rather hot. They may also be fried by dip- 
ping the pieces in a pancake batter, (see Pancakes), and 
then immersing them separately in very hot dripping 
quite sufficient to cover them. When they are lightly 
browned, drain the fat from the pieces and dish them, 
piling them into a pyramid in the centre of the disL 
A well-flavoured brown sauce may be poured over 
them. The pieces, before being dipped in the batter, 
may be seasoned by soaking them for half an hour in a 
mixture of two parts of vinegar, one of oil, with some 
minced onion, and pepper and salt. 

Devils. These must be considered rather as provo- 
catives of appetite than as articles of food. They may 
be made of the remains of roast poultry or game, — 
legs, rumps, backs, gizzards, &c., very highly seasoned 
with spices, and broiled. Eemainder bones of butcher- 
meat and venison, having of course a little meat upon 
them, kidneys, and even sometimes flsh bones, are also 
used for the same purpose. The seasonings used con- 
sist of salt, pepper or cayenne, curry powder, mushroom 
or anchovy powder — in fact, anything which the in- 
genuity of the cook can devise to impart strong flavour 



DRB881NO COOKED MBAT. 81 

and pungencj. The proportions employed must be re- 
gulated bj the taste of the eater, always remembering 
that the true characteristic of a devil is extreme heat 
and pungency. The meat is generally well scored and 
gashed, so as to present a larger surface for the re- 
ception of the seasonings, which must be well rubbed in. 
Devils are served hot and dry as a relish with wine. 
When taken otherwise, grill sauce, anchovy sauce, or 
any piquante sauce may be served with them. Dry 
toast and rusks are a usual accompaniment. 

Fritadella. This is an economical mode of making 
a very palatable dish out of the cold remains of any 
kind of cooked meat, poultry, or fish. Soak in cold 
water a quantity of the crumb of bread, equal in weight 
to the meat. Mince the meat along with a little fat. 
Put the bread into a clean cloth and press it as dry as 
possible. Fry (muter) in butter a table-spoonful of 
chopped onion in a stewpan for about two minutes, 
then add the bread and stir it about with a wooden 
spoon. When becoming rather dry, put in the minced 
meat, with a seasoning of salt, pepper, nutmeg, and 
lemon peel, and keep stirring the whole till very hot. 
Then throw in, one at a time, two well beaten eggs j 
incorporate them thoroughly with the mixture, and 
then pour it into a dish to cool. When cold, it is 
moulded into flattened balls about the size of small eggs ; 
these ate then egged and bread-crumbed, and either 
saut^ed or fried, and served hot, with a napkin under 
them, or with a border of mashed potatoes. 

i\r. B, Even the remains of a dish of vegetables which 
has been used with the meat may be mixed with the 
above ; being chopped up where necessary, and intro- 
duced along with the bread crumb, proportionally less of 
which may in that case be employed. 



82 OBNBRAL DIRECTIONS 



CHAPTER XI. 

BOUFS AlTD SAUCES. 



OBNSBAL DISBOnONS. 

As most soups and many sauces consist mainly of the 
juice of meat dissolved in water, attention must be 
paid in making them, to the proper method of extract- 
ing that juice. Of course, as has been shown in a pre- 
yious chapter, this method is essentially different ^m 
that practised in cooking meat which is intended to be 
eaten. In order completely to extract its juice, the 
meat must be cut into very small pieces, put into cold 
water, and gradually heated till boiling. Indeed the 
more slowly the heat is applied the better, because cold 
tmter is really a more perfect solyent of the juice than 
hot water; the heat being only necessary to cook the 
juice after it has been extracted, to coagulate the al- 
bumen, which is separated as scum, and to dissolyq the 
gelatine. The juice may also be perfectly extracted by 
finely mincing the lean of raw meat, mixing it with 
cold water, and after allowing it to stand some time, 
straining it, and then subjecting the residuum of meat 
to strong pressure in a stout canvas bag so as to squeeze 
out the last drop of moisture. The fluid thus obtained 
contains almost every particle of the savoury juice and 
soluble albumen of the meat, but it is deficient in the 
gelatine, which is necessary to give consistency to the 
soup. A very strong and stimulating beef-tea may 
however be made by this latter method, — ^the liquor be- 
ing of course seasoned with pepper and salt, boiled, 
and skimmed, and shred onion added if required. 

A broth prepared as above, having its due proportion 
of gelatine, forms the basis of most soups and sauces. 
For the former, especially for white soups, it is best 
made from veal, which furnishes a larger amount of ge- 
latine than most other meats, and to supply flavour, in 



POR socnra and sauobs. 83 

which the Teal is rather deficient, some lean ham or hacon 
is added ; the proportions used being about six pounds 
of veal and half a pound of bacon to two gallons of water. 
For sauces, more particularly for brown sauces, beef 
is the best, as haying a richer flavour. Anj kind of 
meat (bones, trimmings, <bc.) may however be used 
for either ; and the liquor in which any kind of meat, 
except pork, has been boUed, may be used instead of 
water, in which case less meat will be required. Du- 
ring the process of making it, the scum ought to be 
removed as soon as it rises, and all fat ought also to be 
skimmed oS, In from three to four hours the juice 
will be thoroughly exracted, after which it is worse 
than useless to continue the boiling, because if the 
fibres of the meat begin to separate, they will destroy 
the transparency of the soup. The liquor is then 
strained, and becomes what in the language of the 
kitchen is called Stocky which by the addition of the 
proper seasonings, vegetables, and colouring and thick- 
ening substances, may be converted into almost any kind 
of soup. This stock, boiled down till reduced to a 
rather thick fluid of a yellowish brown colour, becomes 
what is called Glaze, which forms a strong jelly when 
cold, and will keep good in that state for a considerable 
time. It is useful for making soups and sauces upon * 
Aort notice, and for various other purposes. In making 
this glaze, a second stock, made by boUing the meat over 
again in a smaller quantity of water, after the first 
stock has been extracted, is sometimes used. This 
second stock wiU contain perhaps a larger proportion 
of gelatine than the first one ; but if that has been 
properly made, the second will be very poor, except 
perhaps in the loose meat fibre. Portable Soup con- 
sists simply of a very strong gelatinous glaze, dried in 
the form of tablets similar to common glue. 

BOUFS. — Before proceeding to give specific receipts 
for these, we desire to call attention to the following 
general remarks : — lit. All soups made with the flesh of 



84 DIRECTIONS FOB SOUPS. 

full-grown animals, and not containing many green 
vegetables, are the better of being kept for a day after 
being made, as their ingredients thus blend better to- 
gether. They should be kept in earthen vessels, and 
not covered up till quite cold. 2d, Soups made with 
young meat, and with a considerable proportion of green 
vegetables, are best when fresh made, because when 
kept they have a tendency to ferment. When it be- 
comes necessary to keep such soups for a day or two, 
this tendency may be checked by boiling them up oc- 
casionally, and setting them aside in clean vessels. 3d, 
Great care should be taken that soup is not smoked, 
either during the making or in re-warming, but more 
particularly during the latter process, when it is pe- 
culiarly liable to that mishap. For this purpose the 
fire should be clear, and the pot-lid close-fitting. 4th, 
The more volatile flavouring ingredients, such as ket- 
chup, aromatic spices, &q. ought not to be added until 
the soup is nearly ready, otherwise much of their effect 
will be lost, and a larger quantity of them will be re- 
quired. Ail the other ingredients should have ample 
time to incorporate. 6th, When roots, such as carrot, 
turnip, &c., are intended to appear in slices in the soups, 
an hour's boiling will be sufficient to cook them; but 
when they are intended merely to flavour and thicken 
the soup, in which case they are the better of being 
grated, they should be added at a very early stage of 
the making. Qth, In making brown soups, the best 
plan to give colour is to fry {satUer) till well browned, 
a small portion of the meat used, along vnth some 
onions, before adding the water. This, though some- 
times apt to impair the transparency of clear soups, 
imparts the best flavour. Other methods of brown- 
ing are also frequently employed — such as the ad- 
dition of toasted bread, dark-coloured ketchup, and 
burnt meat or bones ; but these latter are decidedly bad, 
because they impart a bitter burnt flavour. A very 
good browning substance, if carefully made, consists of 
sugar heated in a stewpan until blackened, but not 



DIBB0TION8 FOR CLBAR SOUPS. 85 

burnt, and then melted in water. The sugar ought to 
hare lost its sweetness, but if too much heated it Mrill 
become bitter, which must be avoided. A few drops of 
this browning will suffice. Flour browned in the oven 
is a very good colouring substance for soups that re- 
quire to be thickened as well. 7thy If by accident any 
clear soup turns out not so transparent as is desired, it 
may be clarified as follows : — Whisk the white of eggs 
with a little cold water in a basin, to which add gra- 
dually some of the boiling soup, still whisking the mix- 
ture. Pour this slowly into the pot of boiling soup, 
which must he rapidly stirred at the same time. Con- 
tinue stirring the soup till it again nearly boils, when 
it may be removed from the fire, and allowed to stand 
till the white of egg separates. If the soup is now 
strained through a clean cloth, it will be found perfectly 
clear. The number of eggs required is about one to 
each quart of soup, 

CUiir Vegetable Soup. Peel some carrot and turnip 
and some small onions ; cut the turnip and carrot into 
small dice of equal size, wash the whole in cold water, 
and drain them upon a sieve. When dry, place them 
in a saucepan with some butter and a tea-spoonful of 
powdered sugar over a quick fire. Let them fry (mur 
ter) for about ten minutes, shaking them occasionally. 
When they become covered with a thin transparent 
glaze, neither milky-looking nor brown, pour over them 
two quarts of stock. When this begins to boil, set it 
by the side of the fire till the vegetables are quite 
tender, skimming off the butter as it rises to the sur- 
face. Season it according to taste, and serve it hot. 

A soup similar to the above may also be made with- 
out a previously prepared stock, by proceeding as direct- 
ed for making beef bouilli (p. 39). If prepared in this 
way, of course, a larger proportion of beef, veal, or 
mutton, as the case may be, will be required for the 
soup than is used for the same quantity of stock, be- 
cause it is treated so as to retain enough of juice to 
make it eatable as boiled meat. For the ordinary re- 



86 DIRECTIONS FOR CLEAR SOUPS. 

quirements of a small household, this latter plan is per- 
haps the more economical, as the greater part of the meat 
employed is fit for immediate use, and there results a 
smaller quantity of exhausted meat requiring some 
economical contriyance to use it up ; it is without 
doubt the least troublesome. If veal be the meat em- 
ployed in this way, shred parsley, and a little rioe, may 
be added to the broth about half an hour before it is 
required ; and a piece of bacon boiled along with it not 
only improTes the flavour of the soup, but makes a 
savoury accompaniment to the veal. The bacon should 
be served separately in a dish along with some greens. 
In Mutton Broth, some pearl barley is a very good 
addition to the other vegetables. This must be put in 
along with the meat. 

Vegetable soups may be almost infinitely varied, by 
employing more or less of each kind of vegetable, or 
omitting some or most of them altogether, so as to have 
the flavour of one kind predominant. In this way there 
is hardly an edible vegetable or herb which may not 
be introduced ; and even some which cannot be used in 
any other way, such as nettles, flowers of marigold, &c., 
are frequently employed to impart their peculiar flavours 
and nutritious juices. As might be supposed, it would 
be utterly impossible to give names to each of these 
various compounds. Those in which any particular 
flavour predominates, either through the exclusive or 
large use of one kind of vegetable, of course are called 
by the name of that vegetable : — ^thus we have turnip 
soup, cabbage soup, &c. All other sorts have been very 
well classified by the French cooks under the designa- 
tions of the seasons or months of the year during which 
their vegetable ingredients are in full perfection : — thus 
they have Printaniere Soup, Jidienne Soup, viz. Spring 
Soup, July Soup, &c. 

Properly, there are two distinct kinds of vegetable 
soups, — the clear soups, and the thick, oxpurie^ow^; 
and it is a characteristic of a cook who knows the pro- 
prieties and elegancies of her art, strictly to preserve 



DIRB0TION8 FOR CLEAR 80UP8. 87 

the distinction between the two. In the clear soups, 
as the name implies, the liquor should be as transparent 
as possible, and the vegetables floating in it in small 
pieces as cut, distinct and undissolved. Thick soups, 
on the contrary, which are most frequently made with 
one vegetable predominant, have the whole ingredients 
reduced to a homogeneous thin pulp. This condition is 
easily attained by thorough cooking, and by rubbing 
the vegetables through a sieve or tammy. The chief 
difficulty lies with the clear soups. To secure success 
in these, attention must be paid to the various length 
of time which the different vegetables require in order 
to become thoroughly cooked without becoming dis- 
solved ; and as this not only depends upon their kind, 
but also varies with their age, they must be added to 
the soup at different stages of its preparation accor- 
dingly. Besides this, the small pieces into which the 
larger kinds require to be cut must be all as nearly 
as possible of the same size, otherwise the smaller pieces 
being sooner cooked will become dissolved, while the 
larger ones are yet hard, and thus the transparency of 
the soup will be destroyed. Thus it will be seen that 
the making of clear vegetable soup in perfection, re- 
quires an amount of knowledga and judgment which 
can only be acquired by experience. It must here be 
observed, however, that this nice distinction between 
dear and thick soups is entirely a matter of elegance 
and fashion, and consequently is not of so much impor- 
tance in plain family cooking, as the wholesomeness 
and thorough cooking of the vegetable ingredients. 

Brovm Soup is nothing else than a good clear stock 
made from beef, and coloured to the required shade by 
dther of the methods already described. It is seasoned 
with pepper, salt, and cayenne, and a little mushroom 
ketchup if desired. Toasted bread cut into small dice 
may be put into it before serving. 

Vermicelli, Italian Paste, Macaroni, Rice, Sago, Se- 
molina, and Tapioca Soups consist simply of well sea- 
soned dear stock with these substances boiled in it 



88 DIRECTIONS FOR THICK SOUPS. 

without any vegetables. About two ounces of either 
of the first four is enough for a quart of stock ; rather 
less of the others will be sufficient, because they swell 
very much. They should be boiled till tender, but no 
more, as their dissolving would thicken the soup. The 
Rice being first well washed and drained is put into 
cold stock, and this made to simmer about half an hour^ 
or till the rice is sufficiently cooked. The others should 
all be put into the stock while boiling. Macaroni, which 
is the better of being previously boiled for ten minutes 
in water and then drained, will be ready in about half 
an hour ; Semolina, Tapioca, Sago, and Italian Paste, in 
twenty minutes ; while Vermicelli will not require above 
ten minutes' boiling. Instead of stock, Brown Soup 
(see previous receipt) may be used for these soups. 

THICK SOUPS.— Pwr^c of Vegetable S(mp is made 
of the same materials as clear Vegetable Soup (see p. 85), 
with the addition of one or two potatoes and a bunch 
of parsley. These being cut very small, are sauted as 
before, along with some lean ham or bacon. A spoon- 
ful of flour is then mixed with them, and the required 
quantity of stock poured over them. When this boils 
it is seasoned to taste with salt and sugar, and then 
rubbed through a tammy ; the ham and parsley being 
removed. It now only requires to be made to boil, and 
when skimmed, it is ready. Serve hot, with fried or 
toasted bread in it. Some milk may be added, which 
should be put in boiling hot, along with the stock. 

Palestine Soup is a pur^e soup in which artichokes are 
the principal ingredient. It is prepared and served 
exactly as above, omitting the carrot and patatoes alto- 
gether, and also the larger part of the other vegetables, 
and substituting an equivalent quantity of Artichokes. 
Celery, or celery seed may be employed to flavour it ; 
and as its colour ought to be pale, milk may be used in 
it, and some cream stirred in immediately before serving 
is considered an improvement. 

FurSe of GavUfUmer and Furie of Turnip Soup9 



OIRB0TIOK8 FOR THICK SOUPS. 89 

are made preoiselj as the last, substituting Cauliflower 
and Turnip for artichokes. A very little more flour 
maj be put into the latter. 

Grecy and Crecy ii la Reine Soups are purees made 
with red Carrots, and white Belgian Carrots respectively, 
instead of artichokes ; otherwise their ingredients are 
the same as those of Palestine Soup. For the former, 
the red part only of the carrots may be used, and this 
need not be saut6ed along with the other vegetables, 
but added afterwards, if it is desired to have it of a 
fine red colour. 

Onion Soup, A high flavoured Onion Soup may be 
made by saut6ing in butter till browned, a dozen or 
more largish onions sliced, and then adding about two 
quarts of brown soup, in which the onions are to be 
simmered till reduced to a pulp. Season rather highly 
with pepper, salt, and cayenne, — ginger may also be 
used, and curry powder is a very good spicing. The 
soup should be well skimmed, and may be thickened 
vrith a few split peas boiled till dissolved, or a piece 
of butter kneaded in flour. Onion Soup maigre is 
made by adding a little flour after the shred onions are 
saut^ed, and then using water instead of brown soup. 
In this case the onions may simmer till tender but not 
dissolved. Season with a little salt and sugar, and im- 
mediately before serving, stir in the yolks of four eggs 
mized with a little milk or cream. After this it must 
not boil, or the eggs will curdle. Pour it over strips 
of the crust of a French roll placed in the tureen, and 
serve hot. Another maigre soup is made by using 
fewer onions, and putting to them, after they are sau- 
t6ed, a few handfuls of sorrel, well washed and cut into 
strips, along with some flour, and then adding a mix- 
ture of milk and water. It is finished in the same 
manner as the other. 

Potato Soup is best made with a stock extracted 
from mutton or beef. A weak stock made with scraps 
or bones of meat will do very well Ten or twelve good 
sound potatoes, after being cleaned, pared, or scraped, 



90 DIRECTIONS FOR THICK SOUP8. 

and all specks and eyes removed, are sliced ; and, along 
with three or four onions also sliced, are simmered in 
about a gallon of the stock till completely dissolved. 
The soup is now seasoned with pepper and salt, a piece 
of butter added to it, and after simmering a few mi- 
nutes longer, it is ready for serving. This soup, if pro- 
perly made, should be rather thick, the dissolved pota- 
toes being completely diffused through the liquid. A 
little milk added to it improves its colour. ' It is very 
good made simply with water and a little dripping or 
butter, instead of stock. Sometimes potatoes have a 
rank flavour and smell, which may be removed by first 
slowly simmering them in water, and pouring off this 
water before they begin to dissolve. The soup is then 
made in the usual way. It may be passed through a 
sieve, but this will hardly be necessary if the potatoes 
are good, and the soup simmered long enough. 

Qreen Pease Soup, There are various modes of making 
this, one of which is as follows : — Put two quarts of 
shelled green peas into a deep stewpan, along with a 
few sprigs of parsley, two onions sUced, four ounces of 
lean ham cut small, and four ounces of butter. Add 
some cold water, stir the whole well together, and after 
pouring off most of the water, set the stewpan, closely 
covered, over a sharp fire until the peas are quite ten- 
der,— stirring them occasionally. When perfectly soft, 
mash them with a spoon against the side of the pan, 
adding a little flour while doing so. Then stir among 
them two quarts of stock, season with pepper, salt, and 
sugar, boil it for a few minutes, and rub it through a 
tammy or hair sieve. Return to the pan what passes 
through, boil it five minutes longer, and serve it hot 
with small neat pieces of toasted bread in it. Another 
mode is to separate the young from the older peas while 
shelling them, and, reserving a pint of the young ones, 
to proceed as above with the rest, using instead of stock 
some water in which the younger pea-pods have been 
boiled. The reserved pint of young peas are added after 
the soup has been passsd through the sieve or tanimy, 



DtRBCTIONB FOR THICK 80UP8. 91 

and then boiled in it till tender, but not broken. A few 
leayes of mint may be added for those who like the fla- 
▼our, and spinach is sometimes used to improve the 
colour. These should be boiled in it for a few minutes 
before rubbing it through the tammj. 

Winter Fease Soup. This is perhaps the cheapest of 
all soups, as it can be made very good without stock ; 
using instead, merely the liquor in which any kind of 
meat has been boiled, or even water with a little butter 
or dripping, and any odd scraps of cooked or uncooked 
meat, bones, &o, boiled in it ; and even these latter may 
be dispensed with, and the soup still be excellent, though 
made simply with water, and butter or dripping. Wash 
two or three pounds of split peas, rejecting those which 
float, and put them into a saucepan with cold soft water, 
(if the water is hard, a very small quantity of carbonate 
of soda will soften it) along with the meat, scraps, and 
bones well broken, and some turnip, carrot, and onion 
sliced, a bunch of thyme, and two or three heads of 
celery, or what does as well, a little celery seed. Let 
these boil slowly till the peas dissolve, stirring them 
frequently to prevent them from burning on the bottom 
of the saucepan, which they are very apt to do. The 
soup is then rubbed through a sieve and returned to 
the saucepan, seasoned with pepper and salt, boiled 
again for a few minutes, and then poured into the 
tureen, into which some toasted bread cut into dice 
has been thrown, and served hot. When pease soup is 
made with stock, or with boiled meat liquor, the peas 
should be first boiled till dissolved as above in soft water 
and these added afterwards. If some beef, or veal and 
bacon be boiled in it, to be eaten, no stock or meat 
liquor will be required. In whatever way made, it is 
always improved by a day's keeping, the vegetables not 
being in that case added to it till it is rewarmed on 
the day on which it is to be used. The longer the 
peas are boiled, the smoother and mellower the soup. 

Lentil Soup. Place in a stewpan three onions, a 
turnip and a small carrot cut into thin slices, a few 



92 DI&BCnOMB FOR 8TBW 80UF8. 

sprigs of p&rslej and ihjme, and a baj leaf, along 
with anj scraps cf meat, (beef is tbe best for the pur- 
pose) cut in small pieces, and some butter. Frj (sauter) 
these till quite brown, stirring them continually. Then 
add a quart of lentib and three quarts of water, and 
let them simmer till the lentils are tender. Wlien thej 
are quite sofi, pour off the broth, add some flour to 
the lentils, and mash them in the stewpan, then return 
the broth, boil it up, and continue stirring it while 
boiling. Lastly, rub the soup through a sieye, rewarm, 
and season it with pepper, salt, and sugar ; then skim 
it, and serve it hot, with toast cut as for pease soup. 
The lentils maj be kept whole if desired, in which case 
the meat maj be omitted, and boiled meat liquor, stock, 
or brown soup, used instead of water, or a piece of 
meat maj be boiled in it, to be eaten the same daj. 
A yerj good Licntil Soup maigre may be made without 
meat, or eyen without lentils, using merely the water 
in which a dish of lentils has been boiled (see p. 55), 
bj saut^ing some sliced onions in a stewpan, mixing 
some flour with them, and then adding the lentils and 
some water, — or without lentils, pouring oyer them the 
lentil liquor ; — season to taste as aboye. 



STEW SOUPS, or Soups 4 la FaurcheUe.—i:he9e 
are a class of soups in which the meat with which thej 
are made is served in them in the form of small pieces 
or mouthfuls, not requiring the use of a knife and fork. 
In their ingredients and mode of preparation, most of 
them resemble ragouts. The best portions of the meat 
being intended to be eaten, are treated accordingly ; 
while the inferior parts and the bones are, where stock is 
not used, made to yield their juices to enrich the soup. 
The chief points of difference between them and ragouts 
are, that in the soups there is a larger quantity liquid, 
a greater proportion of vegetables, and generally, though 
not in every case, less spice ; the meat also is served 
in smaller pieces, as it is to be eaten with a spoon. 

0x4aU Soup. This may be made of two or three 



DIRBOTIONS FOR 8TBW SOUPS. 93 

oz-tails, divided into joints, slightly sauti^ed in butter, 
and then stewed in about three quarts of good beef 
stock, or brown soup, till the meat becomes quite ten- 
der, and is beginning to leave the bones. If no stock is 
used, but simplj water, another tail may be taken, and 
part of the smaller pieces left unsaut6ed to yield their 
juice. It should be seasoned with whole black pepper 
and salt, which must be put in at the beginning of the 
preparation. Vegetables — as carrot, turnips, onions or 
leeks, and celery — sliced, and parsley and thyme, may be 
boiled in it, especially if it is made without stock ; the 
onions being saut6ed along with the meat ; and it may 
be thickened with browned flour if desired. 

Kidney Soup is made with kidneys cut into slices, 
and cooked precisely as above. 

Ox-cheek Soup may be made similarly to the preced- 
ing ; two ox-cheeks being sufficient to make four quarts 
of soup. These should be well washed, blanched in 
boiling water, the meat cut from the bones, and di- 
vided into smallish pieces. The best, or cheek parts, 
are then slightly saut6ed as above, along with some 
onion ; and a properly seasoned stock drawn from the 
bones (which should be broken for the purpose) and in- 
ferior pieces, is strained and poured over them ; vege- 
tables being added if desired. Another way is to keep 
the cheek pieces whole, omit the sautCnng, and cook 
them in the stock, as boiled meat (see pp. 37 and 38). 
When cooked, they are cut into pieces of the requisite 
size, and served in the soup as usual. If this latter 
mode is adopted, the soup may be coloured with hroum- 
ing (see pp. 84-85). Calfa-Uead Soup may be made 
in the same way. Being a white soup, the seasoning 
should be white pepper, and rice may be added. Sheeps* 
and Lambs' heads also, treated as above, will produce a 
very good soup, with the addition of any kind of stock. 

Real Scotch Sheep' s-Head Broth is very different. It 
is not a stew-soup. The head and " trotters," which 
ought always to accompany it, not being skinned, have 
the hair singed off with a red-hot iron by a blacksmith. 



94 DIRBOTIONS FOR STBW 800P8. 

an operation which not only gives the soup its peculiar 
flavour, but constitutes the first step of the cooking, 
being equivalent to the preliminary saut^ing of stewed 
meat, or the first plunging into boiling water of boiled 
meat. After this they have to be thoroughly cleaned, 
by soaking in water, scraping, and scrubbing. The 
head is then split down the middle, the brains and eyes 
removed, and the nose and root of the tongue cleaned 
out. It is again well washed, and is then ready for the 
pot. The broth is then made with the head and trot- 
ters, and two or three pounds of the neck, in the way 
described for bouilli (p. 39). Barley is always an in 
gredient in this broth, and old green or white peas are 
generally added ; young green peas, when in season, 
being of course preferable. The barley and old peas 
are put in along with the meat, as they require longer 
boiling than the other vegetables. When the head is 
tender, it is served separately from the broth, with the 
trotters round it, and garnished with some of the carrot 
and turnip, which should be kept in large slices for that 
purpose. 

Irish Sowp is made with the scrag end of a neck of 
mutton, and potatoes. The meat ib treated as directed 
on p. 39, and the potatoes and some onion, but no other 
vegetables, are sliced thin and boiled in the byoth till 
reduced to a pur^e. Season with pepper and salt ; and 
before serving, cut the meat which is to be eaten, into 
pieces of a convenient size, and return it to the soup, 
which should not be quite so thick as potato soup. 

MuLUgcUavmy Soup, Cut the meat of three pounds 
of a breast of veal into smaU pieces, and simmer the 
trimmings, gristles, and bones, along with a knuckle of 
veal broken in pieces, in about three quarts of water, 
until these are converted into a good strong stock. 
Fry (sauter) the pieces of meat in butter, in a deep 
stewpan, along with some sliced onion, and a slice of 
lean ham. When slightly browned^ add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, mix well, and pour over them the 
stock previously strained Allow this to simmer gently 



DIRBOTIONS FOR 8TBW SOUPS. 95 

for nearly an hour, skimming off the fat as it rises. 
Then add tyro or three dessert-spoonfuls of curry pow- 
der, season with salt and cayenne to taste, and continue 
the simmering till the veal is thoroughly cooked. Be- 
fore serving, remove the ham. Carrot and turnip may 
be used in this soup if desired, being sliced and saut6ed 
along with the meat and onion ; apples also are some- 
times employed in the same way. The remains of 
cooked fowls or rabbits, cut into pieces of the proper 
size, may be warmed up in this soup and served along 
with, or instead of, the veal. 

Mock Turtle Soup is also made with veal. Procure 
the half of a calf *s head, not skinned, but well scalded 
and cleaned. Cut the meat from the bone, and then 
divide it into neat small pieces. Make a strong gela- 
tinous stock from the bone and a knuckle of veal, both 
well broken, along with a quarter of a pound of lean ham 
some carrot, turnip, and onion sliced, a little parsley, 
and a bay leaf. Fry {sauter) the meat of the head in 
butter in a deep stewpan, along with some sliced onion 
and some lemon thyme and marjoram tied together. 
When the meat is slightly browned, remove the herbs 
and add some flour, stirring it well with the butter ; 
then pour over it the stock, previously strained. Throw 
in the softer gristles and glutinous tendons of the 
knuckle cut in small pieces, and then stir the whole 
over the fire till it simmers. Skim off all the fat, sea- 
son the soup with salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, 
and when the pieces of meat are quite tender, it is 
ready to serve. Some cream may be stirred into it if 
liked, immediately before pouring it into the tureen. • 

Hatch Potch is made with mutton, or ribs of lamb 
and a stock of mutton. Proceed as directed for Beef 
Bouilli (p. 39.) If Lamb is used, treat it so that it 
may be eaten ; that is to say, keep it whole and cook it 
so as to preserve its juices, in a stock made from mut- 
ton. If Lamb is not procurable, its place may be sup- 
plied by a tender piece of mutton. The vegetables used 
are young turnips, onions, lettuce, carrots, parsley and 



96 DIRECTIONS FOR STEW S0UP8. 

green peas. As the flayour of the sonp ought to he 
sweetish, the carrots and peas should predominate oyer 
the rest, and the turnips are hest of the sweet white 
kind. Half of the carrots used should be grated^ and 
the rest, along with the other yegetables requiring it^ 
cut in small pieces. Half of the peas should be put in- 
to the soup early in order to be dissolyed in it^ and the 
other half reseryed till near the end of the process that 
they may be kept whole. The older peas are the best 
for the former purpose, and the younger ones for the 
latter ; the two being separated in the process of shell- 
ing. When the lamb or mutton that is to be eaten 
is cooked, the meat must be taken out of the pot, the 
exhausted portion set aside for other purposes, and that 
which is eatable cut into pieces of the proper size and 
returned to the soup, which is then seasoned with white 
pepper and salt, rewarmed, and served. 

Hare Soup. Having well cleaned and cut up the 
hare into neat small pieces, select the best and most 
fleshy of these to be served in t^ie soup ; and with the 
rest, including the blood of the hare, which should be 
preserved for this purpose in cleaning it, make about 
five quarts of stock, which may be farther enriched if 
desired by the addition of a piece of beef, and another 
of lean bacon. Then melt half a pound of butter in a 
large stewpan over a brisk fire, and stir into it three 
quarters of a pound of flour. When this has become 
slightly browned, throw in the reserved pieces of the 
hare, and continue stirring until these are firmed on the 
surface. Then pour the stock over them, add two 
onions, some parsley and thyme, a bay leaf, and a little 
celery seed ; and simmer it till the pieces of hare are 
thoroughly cooked, — skimming off" the butter which 
rises to the surface. When done, remove the bones, 
rub the soup through a fine sieve, season it with pepper 
and salt, rewarm, and serve it hot. It may be thickened 
by the addition of some of the pieces of hare which 
which have been used in making the stock, pounded to 
a paste in a mortar. Rabbits, pheasants, partridges, or 
other game, may be made into soup in the same way. 



maBOTIONS FOR 8TBW SOUPS. 97 

Coch^t-Leekie. This is made, as its name implies, 
with a fowl and leeks, and some clear stock. Although 
a stock made from the shin of beef is generally recom- 
mended, yet any kind of stock, or even the liquor in 
which meat has been boiled, will make excellent soup, 
if the fowl be a good-sized one. If a large old fowl be 
used, as is frequently the case, it is the better of being 
stewed for a short time before making the soup. Two 
or three dozen of fine winter leeks are about the quan- 
tity employed ; but this of course must depend on the 
size of the leeks and the taste of those who are to par- 
take of the soup. Being well washed, and trimmed of 
their roots and the coarser part of the green leaves, they 
are cut into pieces an inch long, and half of these added 
to the boiling stock along with the fowl, which is trussed 
and treated as if for boiling. When the fowl is cooked, 
it is lifted out, and the rest of the leeks put in. The 
fowl is then cut into pieces of the required size, the 
bones removed if thought necessary, and when the 
second half of the leeks is tender, the pieces of fowl are 
returned to the soup, which is then seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, rewarmed, and served ; — the first half of 
the leeks being now of course reduced to a pulp, the 
soup does not require any other thickening. If the 
flavour of the leeks is thought too strong, the half of 
the above quantity may be omitted, and an equal pro- 
portion of shred greens substituted in their stead. 

O^let Soup, Two sets of goose giblets, well cleaned, 
cut in small pieces, and slightly sautled in butter, are 
simmered till tender in some good beef stock, or brown 
soup, along with some carrot, turnip, onions, parsley, 
thyme, and bay leaves. The soup is seasoned rather 
highly with mushroom ketchup, salt, and cayenne, and 
thickened with butter kneaded in flour. When the 
giblets are quite tender, but not over-cooked, the soup 
may be strained ; and when rewarmed, it is served with 
the giblets, and, if desired, some of the vegetables in 
small pieces in the tureen along with it. 

Pigeon Soup, The livers and gizzards of the pigeons 

H 



98 DIRECTIONS FOR FISH SOUPS. 

are first boiled for half an hour in some good stock of 
any kind. The pigeons are then trussed, seasoned, 
saut6ed; and cooked in this stock precisely as directed 
for stewed pigeons on page 75. The soup may be 
thickened with butter rolled in flour, and seasoned with 
white pepper and salt. When thoroughly tender, the 
pigeons should be cut up, the bones removed, the meat 
divided into small pieces and returned to the soup, 
which after being rewarmed, is then served. 

FISH SOUPS.— Where a stock is required for these, 
it may be made either from meat or iish. The latter 
is to be preferred as being more in accordance with the 
nature of the soup. It may be made from any kind of 
white fish, or more economically by boiling down some 
of the liquor of boiled fish until considerably reduced 
in quantity, enriching it at the same time by the ad- 
dition of the trimmings, — heads, fiins, &c, of the fish 
which are to be served in it. This must be strained 
before using ; and as fish stock soon becomes sour when 
kept, it ought not to be made until required. An ex- 
cellent fish soup may be made by flavouring some stock 
made as above, with onions, grated lemon-peel, thyme, 
and parsley, seasoning it with pepper, salt, and ket- 
chup, thickening it with butter kneaded in flour or 
oatmeal, and finally straining it. If desired, small 
square pieces of any kind of fish, fried, may be served in 
it. It then goes by the name of the fiish used ; — Had- 
dock Soup, Skate Soup, ikc. 

Crappit Heads, This excellent Scotch dish is made 
as follows : — Having well cleaned and prepared as for 
boiling three or four middUng-sized haddocks or whi- 
tings, cut ofl* the heads and divide the bodies into three 
parts of equal length. Then stuff the heads and the 
shoulder-pieces with a forcemeat made thus : — Mince 
finely a few small onions, and mix these with the melts 
of the fish and as much well-dried oatmeal as will make 
the whole into a stifl* paste ; season this with pepper 
and salt, and, when stuffed into the heads &c., secure it 



DIRECTIONS FOR FISH SOUPS. 99 

bj tjdng a piece of coarse thread round them. Put the 
stuffed pieces into boiling water, a little more than will 
just coyier them, and after about ten minutes boiling, 
add the tail pieces. When these are sufficiently cooked, 
take out the fish, and after removing the threads from 
the staffed pieces, place it in a tureen ; then season the 
liquor with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and if not suffi- 
ciently thickened with the stuffing it may hayo dis- 
solyed, put a piece of butter kneaded in flour into it, 
and when this is thoroughly mixed, rewarm the soup, 
pour it over the pieces in the tureen, and serve it. 

Ed Soup. For this, the eels being well cleaned, 
must be cut in pieces, but need not be skinned. They 
are first sauted in butter till slightly coloured, along 
with some sliced onion. Boiling water is poured over 
them in the proportion of about a quart to every pound 
of eek, and when this boils it must be carefully skim- 
med. Parsley and thyme are next added, after which 
it must simmer under a close cover for about two hours ; 
when it may be strained, seasoned with black pepper 
and salt, thickened with a mixture of butter and flour, 
rewarmed, and served. Small pieces of any kind of 
white fish or eels, saut^ed, may be served in it. 

Lchsier Soup, Boil two good hen lobsters, and when 
cold, split the tails and crack the large claws, and re- 
moving the meat, cut it into pieces to be served in the 
soup. Pick the meat from the chines, bruise the re- 
maining husks and the small claws, and simmer them 
for twenty minutes in about two quarts of veal or cow- 
heel stock, which having by that time extracted their 
flavour, may then be strained. To thicken it, pound 
in a mortar the meat picked from the chines, the spawn, 
the soft part of the bodies, and part of the coral, along 
with a Httle butter and flour, and when these are 
thoroughly incorporated and reduced to a pulp, add 
the stock to it gradually. When well mixed, pass the 
soup through a sieve, season it with pepper, cayenne, 
and salt if necessary, and rewarm it. Then put the 
pieces of meat from the tails and large claws, and the 



100 DIRBCTIOKS FOR FISH SOUPS. 

remainder of the coral cut into similar pieces, into the 
soup tureen, pour the soup oyer them, and serve it im- 
mediately. In order to secure the fine red tint which 
lohster soup ought to have, and which is produced by 
the spawn, it is as well to remove this from the lobsters 
before boiling them, and use it raw in thickening the 
soup, because when much cooked it is very apt to 
have its colour impaired. 

Sometimes forcemeat balls are served in this soup. 
These are composed of part of the corals and of the meat 
from the chines, pounded along with the yolks of two 
eggs, a little flour, and a seasoning of grated lemon- 
peel, nutmeg, mace, and cayenne, to which an anchovy 
may be added. This forcemeat, made into little balls, 
may be slightly fried before putting it into the soup. 
Onions also may be added, but these should be boiled 
in the stock along with the chine, husks, &c., so that 
they may be thoroughly cooked. 

Oystefi^ Soup. Put half a hundred oysters along with 
their liquor into a stewpan, and heat them gently until 
beginning to simmer, taking care not to over-heat or 
boil them, which would make them tough. Then drain 
them upon a sieve, catching the liquor in a basin be- 
neath. Take ofl* the beards, return these to the liquor, 
and put the oysters into the soup tureen, as they will 
require no more cooking. Melt in a stewpan a quarter 
of a pound of butter, and mix with it about six ounces 
of flour. Stir this over the fire for a few minutes (but 
do not let it become browned), and then allow it to cooL 
Add to this the liquor and beards of the oysters, two 
quarts of good veal stock, and one of milk. Stir the 
whole over the fire till it boils ; season it with pepper, 
cayenne, and salt, to which may be added a little essence 
of anchovies ; after it has boiled for about ten minutes, 
skim it, add a gill of good cream, strain it through a 
hair sieve into the tureen containing the oysters, and 
serve it hot. Similar soups may be made of mussels, 
cockles, and other shell-fish ; but it must be borne in 
mind that in this as in all other modes of cooking them, 



DIRECTIONS FOR SAUOBS. 101 

fheae fish will most certainly become tough and indi- 
gestible by being hoiUd. They should merely be made 
hot. 

SAUOES. — ^These are liquid preparations used to 
give relish to dishes. They are of various kinds. Some 
are sweety others are salt, and a few are a mixture of 
sweet and acid. Of the salt kind, many are strong fla- 
voured, and of a dark colour, being composed chiefly of 
concentrated meat-gravy, or the juice of the more pun- 
gent vegetables and herbs, such as onions ; while there 
are others which are more bland, and whose purpose is 
merely to impart a cream-like richness to the viands 
they accompany. The sweet-and-acid kind are used 
rather sparingly when applied to meat, for their object 
is merely to modify slightly the natural flavour; pro- 
ducing an effect similar to the haiU gout which results 
from long keeping. They are mostly used with game. 
Sweet sauces are employed principally with sweet 
puddings. 

The composition and proper application of Sauces is 
a branch of cookery to which, stimulated no doubt by 
the demands made upon them by the jaded epicurism 
of those for whom they cater, professional cooks, am- 
bitious of artistic fame, most assiduously apply them- 
selves. To invent a sauce and thereby perpetuate their 
name, is the great object of their aspirations. The re- 
sult has been, as before observed, that while remarkable 
progress has been made in the art of merely pleasing the 
palate, that of producing wholesome food has been com- 
paratively neglected. Now although these are by no 
means incompatible, yet as this work professes to be 
devoted more particularly to the latter, its receipts for 
sauces will not be found very numerous. It will how- 
ever contain directions for making those which are in 
most general use, including all that are specially re- 
ferred to in the previous chapters. 

MeUed BiUter. Put into a small saucepan two ounces 
of soft fresh butter, and a large table-spoonful of flour. 
Mix these well together while cold, with a wooden 



102 DIRECTIONS FOR SAUCBS. 

Spoon, and then add about half a pint of cold water, 
nearly a tea-spoonful of salt, and a little pepper. Set 
it over the fire, and stir it continually till nearly boil- 
ing, when it is ready for use. The ingredients ought 
to be perfectly blended, and in this the chief difficulty 
occurs in the case of the butter, which, from bad quality 
or other causes, will frequently float as oil on^the sur- 
face. This imperfection may be partially remedied by 
adding a very little cold water, and then pouring the 
sauce quickly backwards and forwards from the sauce- 
pan into a basin. Prepared as abore, melted butter is 
the basis of a large number of sauces, the distinctiye 
flavouring or other ingredients being added as required. 
Thus a little ketchup and vinegar will convert it into 
a very good plain fish sauce. It must be observed that 
where the additions made are fluid, the melted butter 
ought to be made rather thick by using less water; 
and the reverse, where the addition, as in egg sauce, 
tends of itself to thicken the sauce. Acids when mixed 
with melted butter are apt to make it " oil ;" to pre- 
vent this they must be well stirred in. When it is de- 
sired that the colour of the sauce should be very ddi- 
cate, milk may be used instead of water in preparing 
the melted butter. The following sauces are all made 
with melted butter. 

Onion Sauce, Peel and boil the onions till soft, and 
then mince them very fine, and stir them into hot m^ted 
butter. This sauce may be used to " smother" rabbit« 
instead of that described on page 46. The sauce recom- 
mended for roast mutton will be found on page 105. 

Parsley Sazice, Boil till tender a bunch of well- 
washed and picked parsley ; then removing the larger 
stalks, mince the leaves finely, and stir them into 
melted butter made hot. 

Fennel Sauce consists of melted butter with some 
chopped fennel mixed with it. 

Gaper Sattce is made by mixing with melted butter 
some capers, together with a little of their pickle-vine- 
gar. If half the quantity used be minced, the flavour 



DIRBOTIONS FOR 8AUCB6. 103 

will be better developed. Lemon-juice may be added 
to thia if a stronger acid is liked. 

Gherkin Sauce consists of melted butter with a few- 
pickled gherkins minced and stirred into it. This is 
abo called mock caper sauce. 

Lemon Sauce. Pare a lemon, removing as much of 
the white part of the rind as possible ; cut it quickly 
into thick slices with a sharp knife, divide these into 
small dice, and stir them into melted butter. 



FISH SAUCES.— Zo6«^ Sauce, Pound into a 
smooth paste in a mortar, the spawn and coral of a 
boiled lobster, along with a piece of fresh butter. Rub 
this through a sieve into melted butter, and when 
these are perfectly mixed, add some of the meat from 
the tail cut into small dice, and then stir the sauce 
over the fire till quite hot, but not boiling. This sauce 
may be seasoned with cayenne and ketchup, pickle- 
vinegar, &c. These additions however are best made 
at table by those who like them. 

Shrimp Sauce. Procure some boiled shrimps, remove 
the heads and shells, and make a broth from these by 
boiling them for twenty minutes in a sufficient quan- 
tity of water. Strain this broth, and with it make 
some melted butter, to which the bodies of the shrimps 
are then added. Season with a little cayenne and salt 
if required, and when rewarmed as in the last, it is 
ready for use. 

Oyster Sauce, Heat the oysters in their liquor till 
just beginning to simmer, and then after draining them, 
take off the beards and return these to the liquor. 
With this make some melted butter as directed on 
page 101, adding a little milk if desired ; season it with 
pepper, salt, and a very little cayenne, and then strain 
it. After this the oysters are added, and when re- 
warmed, the sauce is ready.— Mussel sauce is made in 
the same way. 

Egg Sauce, Cut the whites and yolks of a couple of 
hard-boiled eggs into small dice separately, and then 



104 DIRECTIONS FOR 8AUCS8. 

add first the whites^ and then the yolks to some thin- 
nish melted butter, placed oyer the fire, allowing the 
former time to become heated before putting in the 
latter, else these will be too much dissolved. 

Arichovy Sauce. Kemoye the bones, and pound the 
anchovies with a little butter into a smooth paste, and 
stir this into some thin melted butter. This sauce maj 
be highly seasoned vrith hot spices and condiments, 
such as cayenne, mustard, horse-radish, &c. If liked, 
an acid fiayour may also be introduced by means of 
lemon-juice or pickle-vinegar. Anchovy sauce may 
also be made by fiavouring melted butter to the requi- 
site intensity with essence of anchovies. 

Besides the fish sauces above described, an economi- 
cal cook may contrive others equally good for ordinary 
family use from the trimmings of the fish she is dressing. 
Thus, when frying or sautling fish, she may boil the 
heads, fins, bones, and livers, and so produce a well fla- 
voured liquor, which when strained, thickened with 
butter kneaded in flour, and properly seasoned with 
ketchup and curry powder or other spices, constitutes 
an excellent plain fish sauce. It may be farther en- 
riched by some of the liver chopped, and the roe 
pounded, and stirred into it while being made hot pre- 
vious to serving. 

White Sauce is made of clear stock prepared from 
veal or fowls. This is boiled with lemon peel, onion, 
pepper, nutmeg, salt, parsley, thyme, and a little lean 
bacon ; and when properly seasoned, it is strained, and 
thickened with butter kneaded in flour. A little lemon 
juice may be stirred into it just before serving. 

Beef Gravy, Cut a pound or a pound and a half of 
lean beef into thin slices, and hack or score these to 
facilitate the escape of the juice. Butter the bottom 
of a stewpan, in which place the meat along with some 
sliced onion and a small piece of bacon. Brown the 
meat gently over the fire, shaking the pan occasionally 
to prevent the meat from sticking to the bottom. Then 
cover the pan closely, and keep it hot by the side of the 



} 



OIRSIOTONS FOR SAUCBS. 106 

fire for about half an hour ; after which put in about a 
pint of hot water^ and some whole pepper, and make 
this simmer* slowly for a couple of hours longer. The 
grayj thus made, when seasoned to taste with salt, 
and strained, is ready for use. If prepared for brown 
sauce, beef gravj may be more highly flavoured by 
means of sliced carrot, celery, and a bay leaf sauted 
along with the beef, and a little mushroom ketchup 
added when nearly finished. 

Brown Sauce may be made of beef gravy prepared 
as above, and thickened with butter and flour. This 
thickening may be applied in various ways. The sim- 
plest is merely to knead the butter and flour together 
into a paste, and mix it with the boiling gravy. In 
large establishments where sauces are constantly being 
made requiring this thickening, large quantities of the 
mixture are made at once, by melting the butter and 
stirring in the flour over a brisk fire till it forms a paste 
of a deep yellow colour. Thus prepared, it is called, in 
the language of the French kitchen, Rotzx, and may be 
kept good for a considerable time in covered earthen 
jars. The gravy for brown sauce may be made more 
gelatinous, and consequently of a richer consistency, 
though less highly flavoured, by substituting some veal 
for part of the beef used in preparing it. 

Brown Onion Sauce. Peel and slice some large 
Spanish onions; and along with a little butter, salt, and 
flour, put them into a closely covered stewpan over a 
slow fire to slew and become browned, shaking the pan 
occasionally to turn them about and prevent their burn- 
ing. In about an hour and a half, add a little water 
or stock, and a seasoning of pepper and cayenne, and 
stew them a little longer. The onions yield a rich 
gravy ; and when reduced to a pulp, the whole may be 
passed through a sieve, re warmed, and served. The 
addition of some French mustard to this, converts it 
into SaiLce Robert ; English mustard gives a different 
flavour. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce, Slice a few well-cleaned 



106 DIRECTIONS FOR SAUOBS. 

small mushrooms, and place them along with a little 
batter, salt, pepper, and lemon-juioe, in a stewpan oyer 
a slow fire. When thej hare saut^ed for a few 
minutes, add some beef gravj, and boil this till the 
mushrooms are tender, when the sauce is finished. A 
little mushroom ketchup may be added. For white 
meats, a White Mushroom Sauce may be made in the 
same way, using only the white parts of the mushrooms, 
and substituting a white stock and a little milk for the 
beef gravy ; — of course ketchup, because of its dark 
colour, should not be introduced into this. 

Cucumber Sauce, Pare and slice the cucumbers, and 
after removing the seeds, stew them till reduced to a 
pulp in a little good stock, seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and cayenne A little butter and flour may then be 
added, the sauce passed through a fine sieve, rewarmed, 
and served. 

Celery Sauce. Wash well, and cut into slices about 
two inches long, a fresh young head of celery, and boil 
it till tender in weak broth or water. Season this with 
white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, and thicken it with a 
mixture of butter and flour. Another simple celery 
sauce consists of melted butter made with a decoction 
of celery seed, and seasoned as above. 

Bread Sau^ce, Soak grated bread-crumbs in some 
white stock, and then simmer them along with a sliced 
onion, some white peppercorns, cloves, and a little salt. 
When the sauce is sufficiently seasoned, remove the 
onion and spices, and serve it hot. • 

Grill Sauce, Make rather thick with a paste of 
butter and flour, some good beef gravy, and season it 
highly with lemon juice, ketchup, a little cayenne, and 
a tea-spoonful each of made mustard, essence of ancho- 
vies, minced onion, and grated lemon peel This is 
appropriate to devilled fowl &c., and may be used with 
fish by those who require a stimulating sauce. 

fforse-radish Sauce, Mix finely scraped or grated 
horse-radish with vinegar, and add a little salt. Some 
cream may be introduced if desired, and mustard is 



NRBOTIONS FOR SAUCES. 107 

sometimes added ; but if the horse-radish is good, the 
sauce will be pungent enough without this last addition. 

Apple SatLce, Pare, core, and slice four or five 
juicy baking apples, and cook them till tender, along 
with a piece of lemon-peel, in an earthen jar placed in 
a pot of boiling water. The pot should be closelj 
coyered, and care be taken that none of the water en- 
ters the jar containing the apples. When the apples 
are sufficiently cooked, remove the lemon-peel, and beat 
them to a pulp along with a little butter, at the same 
time sweetening them to taste with sugar. 

Green Gooseberry Sauce is made in the same manner 
as the above, with small green gooseberries, their tops 
and stalks being of course clipped off. A little ground 
ginger and vinegar may be added. 

Mint Sauce, This consists of fresh young leaves of 
mint finely minced and mixed with vinegar and sugar. 

Currant-jelly for Venison &c., may be served either 
melted or not in a small sweet-meat glass. 

Sharp Sauce for Venison, is made by dissolving loaf 
sugar in white vinegar. This is also a very good sauce 
for cold salt beef ; and when made very sweet, with ground 
cinnamon added, it is a delicious sauce for pancakes. 

Custard Sauce for Sweet Puddings and Fruit Pies or 
Tarts. — Heat in a very clean saucepan, till just about 
to boil, a pint of new milk. Beat together in a basin 
the yolks of two eggs, a little cream, and some pounded 
loaf sugar. Pour over this the hot milk, and imme- 
diately return the whole to the saucepan, and continue 
pouring it from the saucepan into the basin and back 
again until thoroughly mixed. Lastly, return it to the 
saucepan, set it over the fire, and stir it continually till 
nearly boiling. Serve it cold in a glass dish or jug, 
with nutmeg grated over the top. 

Caudle Sauce for Plum Pudding, &c. — With some 
thick melted butter made with very little salt, mix a 
glass of sherry wine, half a glass of brandy or rum, 
some loaf sugar, part of which has been rubbed upon 



108 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

lemon peel till saturated with its juice, and a little 
ground cinnamon. Make the sauce hot, and serve it 
with some cinnamon sprinkled on the top. 



CHAPTER XII. 

PUDDINGS, PASTRY, &c 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS f OR PUDDINGS. 

Of these there are two kinds, — viz. Boiled Puddings, 
and Baked Puddings. The former are generally boiled 
in a cloth, but sometimes in an ornamental mould, from 
which they are turned out upon the dish in which they 
are served. The latter are either baked in the dish in 
which they are to be presented at table, or, like the 
former, in a mould from which they may be turned 
out. 

BOILED PUDDINGS.— The cloth used for these 
should be of stout and tolerably fine linen. Before 
putting the pudding into it, the cloth should be dipped 
in boiling water, and after wringing it out — not too 
dry, — it must be spread out smoothly inside a basin 
that Ynill just hold the pudding, the e(^es of the cloth 
of course hanging over the sides of the basin. It is then 
pretty thickly dredged with flour over the part that 
will come in contact with the pudding. This dredging 
prevents the pudding adhering to the cloth, and so caus- 
ing a difficulty in turning it out. When the pudding 
is placed in it, the edges of the cloth must be gathered 
together equally tight all round, and securely fastened 
with a piece of strong twine passed three or four times 
round them and tied. The neat round shape of the pud- 
ding depends upon the cloth being gathered up equally 
tight all round; if this is not attended to, and one 
part happens to be slacker than the rest, the pudding, 
when it swells to fill the cloth, will have an unsightly 
protuberance moulded upon it by this looser portion. 



FOR BOILED PUDDINGS. 109 

Where the pudding consists of such materials as 
dried fruits and farinaceous substances, which absorb 
water and swell considerably in the cooking, the cloth 
must not be tied close upon it, but so as to leave room 
for this increase of size without the risk of bursting. 
The extra room required yaries with the kind of pud- 
ding ; but in no case ought it to be greater than what 
the pudding, when cooked, will tightly fill; otherwise it 
will not turn out solid, but by absorbing too much 
water, become converted into an incoherent mess. This 
sort of pudding requires also a very long time to boil : 
— three hours at least for a small one of three pounds 
weight, and upwards according to size. It is a maxim 
with cooks generally, that they cannot be boiled too 
long, and indeed there is always less risk of spoiling by 
over-cooking than by under-cooking. 

Meat and Fruit puddings must be tied as closely as 
possible, .and the former should not be boiled longer 
than is sufficient to cook the meat. 

To take the boiled pudding out of the cloth without 
breaking it : — Dip it into cold water for a minute or 
two, and then place it in a basin that will just contain 
it, and after untying the cloth and laying bare the pud- 
ding down to the edge of the basin, place the dish on 
which it is to be served, bottom upwards, on the top of 
it, invert the whole so that the pudding may rest in 
the dish ; lift off the basin and remove the cloth care- 
fully. The use of the cold water is to chill and solidify 
the BurfBkce so that it may part from the cloth smoothly 
and without being broken. 

When puddings are boiled in a mould, this is either 
placed in a well-covered pot containing water to half 
the depth of the mould ; or, the mould being filled to 
the brim with the pudding, a cloth is stretched over 
its mouth and tied under the bottom, and it is then 
boiled in a full pot. For some of the lighter kinds of 
mould-puddings the former mode is best adapted. 

Every pudding in a cloth should be boiled in plenty 
of water in a pot large enough to allow it to move 



110 BOILED PUDDIN08. 

about freely. The ebullition should be brisk and con- 
stant until finished. 

After use, the pudding-cloth must be washed per- 
fectly clean, rinsed in pure water and thoroughly cbied 
before laying it aside for a fature occasion. 

Stiet Dumpling, This is the simplest of all boiled 
puddings. Its ingredients form the basis of nearly the 
whole class. It consists of one part by weight of fiaely- 
minced suet to four of wheaten flour. These being well 
mixed together, are seasoned with a little salt, kneaded 
into a stiff dough with water, and the mass then divi- 
ded into solid dumplings or balls of about three inches 
diameter. These do not require a cloth, but are simply 
put into a pot of boiling water, and boiled for at least 
an hour and a half. The pot should be large enough 
to allow the dumplings to move about in it, and they 
should be kept so moving by the brisk ebullition of 
the water, else they will stick together or adhere to the 
bottom of the pot, and become burnt. These dump- 
lings make a substantial accompaniment to either roast 
or boiled meat. With the former, slices of cold dump- 
ling rewarmed in the dripping pan while the meat is 
roasting are excellent. 

Ourrant Dumplings are made in the same manner 
as the above, with the addition of scalded, washed, and 
picked currants {ad libitum), a little sugar or treacle, 
and a slight seasoning of grated nutmeg and ground 
cinnamon. They may be eaten either plain, or with 
caudle sauce ; or sliced, and with sugar, treacle, or jam 
spread over the slices. They may be made richer by 
using a larger proportion of suet, introducing an egg 
for every pound of the other ingredients, and making 
the dough with milk instead of water. The eggs should 
be well beaten and mixed with some milk ; which being 
worked up first, more milk may be added if necedsary. 

Currant Pudding is composed as above, but with 
more eggs and milk; and bread crumbs may be substi- 
tuted fbr the fiour. The ingredients should be well 
mixed, and form a thick batter, which is then boiled 



PLUM PUDDING. Ill 

in a floured cloth securely tied, but so as to give the 
pudding room to swelL 

Flum Pudding is similar to the last, but richer. 
Stone (that is to say, cut out the seeds of) a pound of 
raisins, and wash and pick free from stones the same 
quantity of currants. Mince very small a pound of 
beef suet (some marrow substituted for part of the suet 
is considered an improvement), and mix with this, in a 
large basin, a pound of stale bread-crumbs and half a 
pound of wheaten flour. Beat together in another 
basin six eggs (seven if small), and mix with them 
about half a pint of new milk. Pour this mixture 
among the suet and flour, and stir and beat the whole 
well together. Then add the currants and raisins, and 
a seasoning of one ounce of ground cinnamon, half that 
quantity of powdered ginger, a grated nutmeg, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a pound of sugar. This 
makes an excellent pudding, but it may be made richer 
by using a larger proportion of fruit and eggs ; and a 
quarter of a pound of candied citron and lemon-peel 
cut in small thin stripes may also be added, and like- 
wise a glass of rum or brandy. — Another much cheaper, 
yet still very excellent Plum Pudding, may be made 
without eggs, by mixing equal quantities of grated 
carrot, boiled potatoes, wheat-flour, currants, and raisins, 
and seasoning them as above. Oatmeal may also be 
introduced into this instead of part of the flour. If 
Stdtana raisins are used, the trouble of stoning them is 
avoided. 

Plum Pudding may be boiled either simply in a cloth 
(see pp. 108-9), or in an ornamental mould tied up in 
a cloth. In either way it requires very long and con- 
stant boiling ; — six hours at least for one as large as 
the above. It is also sometimes baked in a mould. In 
this case the mould should be buttered inside before 
pouring in the pudding ; and two hours baking will 
suflice. The pudding is improved if the mixture stands 
for a day previous to being cooked. 

It is a custom in England at Christmas time, to or- 



112 BOILSD PtnODOfOS. 

luunent the plum (rndding with a 9png at IMj stuck 
into the top, and after pouring a qoanistj of spirite 
orer i t, to aet fire to this in the dish, and serre it blazing. 
Although this fiery sauce maj amuse a Christmas jure- 
nile party, jet the pudding is iherehj spoiled for those 
who dislike the spirit fiarour. It is therefore better 
omitted, so that each person may help himself or not 
as he pleases to a small quantity of bnady or other 
liqueur with which to fiarour his pudding. Caudle sauce 
is also sometimes taken with pltnn pudding, though it 
is oftener preferred plain. 

A good plum pudding will keep (if not ecUen) a Tery 
long time. Slices of it broiled, or merely rewarmed 
before the fire, are excellent. 

Roll or BoUUr Pudding. Make about two pounds 
of suet and fionr paste as directed for suet dumpling 
(p. 110). Roll it out on a well floured paste board or 
slab, into a sheet about half an inch thick, and about a 
foot broad. Spread oyer it any kind of jam or mar- 
malade, keeping this about an inch and a half within 
the edges. Then after wetting the edges, roll up the 
paste from the end, press the ends of the roll riightly 
so as to make the wetted parts adhere, roll it up in a 
floured cloth about three inches wider than the length 
of the pudding, and tie pieces of string tightly round 
the projecting ends of this. Boil it nearly two hours, 
and when done remove the cloth, cut the pudding into 
slices, and serre it either plain or with a sweet sauce 
poured over it. Raisins and currants prepared as for 
plum pudding may be used instead of jam. A mixture 
of sugar and ground cinnamon also, or even simply 
treacle, employed in the same way, makes a very good 
Roll Pudding. 

Bice PwJdvng. Boil eight table-spoonfuls of wen- 
washed rice in sufficient water to cover it, stirring it 
frequently to prevent its burning, until considerably 
swelled and becoming rather dry. Then mix with it 
two ounces of butter or finely-minced suet, the same of 
bread-crumbs, two beaten eggs, and enough of milk to 



BOILBD PUDDINGS. 113 

morease tlie bulk of the whole to a quart. Season this 
mixture with sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little ground 
ganger, and boil it for an hour in a buttered basin or 
mould, covered on the top by a sheet of buttered paper, 
and tied up in a cloth. Currants maj be added to 
this if likecL Serve with anj sweet sauce. This pud- 
ding may also be baked in the dish in which it is to be 
served, in which case the top should be covered with 
thin sUces of bread well buttered. It will not require 
so long baking as boiling. See p. 117. 

Ground Bice Pvdding is made of nearly the same 
materials as the above. The ground rice should be 
boiled in the milk, along with some lemon-peel, which 
having imparted its flavour bj the time the milk has 
become thickened, is then relieved, and the other in- 
gredients except the bread-crumbs are added. A larger 
proportion of eggs may be used, and the flavour varied 
by a few pounded bitter almonds. The basin or mould 
should be quite filled with it, as it does not swell much 
in boiling. Serve with a sweet sauce or marmalade. 
This may also be baked like the preceding, but without 
a covering of bread and butter. 

Potato Ftidding, Mash a pound of boiled potatoes, 
along ^ with half a pound of fresh butter melted, and 
two ounces of sweet almonds scalded to remove the 
skins, and pounded. Moisten the mixture with five or 
six beaten eggs mixed with a little milk, and season it 
with sugar and nutmeg. This may be boiled in a cloth, 
either with or without a buttered mould. Serve with 
sweet sauce. 

An excellent plain potato pudding, to be eaten along 
with roast meat, may be made with equal quantities of 
mashed potatoes and flour, mixed with a smaller pro- 
portion of minced suet, and seasoned with a little salt. 
This is boiled in a cloth. If intended to be browned 
below the roast, it consists merely of boiled potatoes 
mashed with a little milk and butter, and seasoned 
with white pepper and salt, and if liked, a small quan- 
tity of finely minced onion. 



114 BOILED PUDDINGS. 

Petise Pudding to accompanj boiled bacon, (fee. Tie 
up some dry split peas in a cloth, leaving them room 
to swell, and boil them till softened, which may be in 
about half an hour, when they ought to fill the cloth 
tightly. Then, after removing them from the cloth, 
mash, and rub them through a sieve ; add some butter, 
and a seasoning of pepper and salt ; mix these well 
with the pudding, and tie it up again in the cloth, 
which should this time be lightly floured and tied as 
closely as possible upon the peas, because they will 
swell no more. Boil the pudding for an hour. One or 
two eggs may be mixed with it, especially if the peas 
are at all watery after their first boiling ; it will thus 
be made firmer. Mashed potatoes make an economical 
ingredient in pease pudding. 

Oatmeal Pudding consists of a mixture of minced 
suet and onion with oatmeal, seasoned with pepper and 
salt, bound together with beat egg, and boiled in a cloth 
tied loosely. It affords an excellent opportunity for 
using up meat which has been used in making gravy, 
soups, &c. j all that is required being simply to mince 
this finely and mix it with the other ingredients. It is 
a very good accompaniment to roast meat. 

Scotch White Puddings are merely the above mixture 
minus the eggs, stuffed into well cleaned skins like 
sausages. Liver Puddings are the same, with the 
addition of boiled and grated ox-liver in the proportion 
of a fourth. Plack Puddings contain, besides the oat- 
meal, &c., some freshly-drawn bullock's blood, salted, 
strained, and mixed with a little milk or broth. These 
puddings in skins are first boiled (being pricked during 
that process to let out the air, which expanding with 
the heat might burst them), after which they will keep 
good for a considerable time. When to be used, they 
are rewarmed by broiling. 

Scotch Haggis, This dish is a great favourite with 
unsophisticated Scotchmen, and is thus lovingly lauded 
by their own poet Burns : — 



BOILED PUDDINGS. 115 

Fair &' your honest soziBy tsMe, 
Great caieftain o' the puddin* race i 
Ahoon them a* ye tak* your place — 

Painch, tripe, or thairm : 
Ye are weel worthy o* a grace 

Aa lang 'a my airm. 

It is made thus : — Procure the stomach-bag and pluck 
of a sheep; this latter consisting of the heart, lights, 
and liver. Wash the bag well in cold water, and then 
plunge it into boiling water, after which it must be 
Scraped very clean, taking care not to cut it. It is then 
laid in salt and water for a night. Wash also the pluck, 
and parboil it. Grate half the liyer and mince the rest 
of the pluck (rejecting any gristly or tough parts), and 
mix these with half their weight of finely-chopped beef- 
suet, about a dozen small onions also minced, and two 
teaeupfuls of oatmeal which has been weU dried and 
toasted before the fire. Season the mixture rather 
highly with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, moisten 
it with some of the liquor in which the pluck was boiled 
and a little lemon-juice, and put it into the bag. This 
should not be much aboye half filled, else it may be 
burst bj the expansion of its contents. Press out the 
air, and sew up the orifice with a needle and thread, 
and put the haggis on the fire in a large pot of boiling 
water, with a plate in the bottom to prevent it from 
burning. Let it boil, but not violently, for three hours, 
pricking the bag with a large needle to let out the air 
if it appears very tightly distended. — An emasculated 
variety of this dish, which may be characterized per- 
haps as English Haggis, is in Scotland called 

Lamh^s Haggis, In this, besides the pluck, the lamb's 
fry is also used. This is composed of the small bowels, 
sweetbreads, and kernels. The small bowels must be 
slit up with scissors, and the whole pluck and fry 
thoroughly washed and cleaned, and then parboiled. 
They are now minced along with the kidney-fat in place 
of suet, and some young onions ; and seasoned with 
salt, pepper,^ and nutmeg. Instead of oatmeal, a thin 
batter, made with a couple of eggs beat up with half a 



116 FRUIT PUDDINGS. « 

pint of milk and sufficient flour, maj be mixed with 
the minced meat. It is boiled in the laimh^s stomach- 
bag, prepared in the same way as described in the last 

receipt. 

Fruit Pvddings. — ^These are made with any kind of 
fresh or unripe fruit ; such as apples, pared, cored, and 
sliced ; or young green gooseberries, red currants, rasps, 
cherries, &c., picked free from stalks and leaves. Make 
a paste as in the receipt for suet dumpling, p. 110, 
(adding a very small quantity of carbonate of soda^ 
which should be dissolved in the water), but roll it into 
a circular shape, and keep it considerably thicker in 
the middle. One or two beaten eggs mixed with this 
paste makes it much lighter. Lay a floured cloth in a 
deep basin as directed on p. 108, and inside this lay the 
paate, pressing it lightlv so as to make it lie close to 
interior of the basin, wnich should be of such dimen- 
sions as to allow the edges of the paste to project a 
little over the lip. Place the fruit inside the paste, 
along with a sufficient quantity of sugar to sweeten it, 
heaping it up in the middle. Then wet the edges of 
the paste, gather them together over the top, mould 
and press them a little tOl they adhere, and farther 
secure the joining by laying over it a small circle pf 
paste rolled thin. The cloth is then tied over the 
pudding in the usual way, but allowing no room for 
swelling, as the fruit shrinks rather than otherwise. 
A BhuWb pudding may be made in the same way ; — 
the rhubarb being peeled, and cut into half-inch lengths. 
When apples are cooked thus, a seasoning of cinnamon 
or cloves is an improvement. These puddings may also 
be boiled in a mould or basin ; — this being buttered 
inside, the pudding constructed in it as above directed, 
a piece of buttered paper laid on the top, and the cloth 
tied tightly over the whole. Thus prepared, such 
puddings are less apt to break when being dished, be- 
cause, instead of being round, they take the form of 
the basin or mould, and consequently have a laiger 
basis to rest upon when turned out. 



FRUIT PUDDINGS. 117 

Apple DuTnplings consist of one apple each, inclosed 
in a paste sach as the above. The apple is pared, but 
not sliced ; the core is removed bj means of a tubular 
cutter made for the purpose, and the interior stuffed 
with a mixture of sugar and ground cinnamon. It is 
then surrounded with paste moulded on to it with the 
hands, and each dumpling is boiled in a separate cloth. 
These being smaller than puddings, need not be boiled 
quite so long. Apple dumplings made with boiled rice 
instead of paste, are called American SnovhhaUs, 

Meat Puddings, These are mostly made and boiled 
in the same waj as fruit puddings, substituting small 
slices of meat, with appropriate seasonings for the fruit 
and sugar. Two pounds of meat will be enough, for 
which two hours and a quarter's cooking will be suffi- 
cient if the meat be full grown ; young meats will re- 
quire longer, and pork longest of all. Beef-steak Pudr- 
ding is seasoned by rolling the slices of meat about in 
a mixture of pepper, salt, and flour ; and before closing 
the paste, a little water is poured in. The addition of 
a few oysters is considered an improvement. 

Mutton, Lamb, Veal, Pork, RahhUs, Kidneys, Salm/m, 
Cod, dse*, may all be made into very nice puddings 
much in the same way ; — the condiments, seasonings, 
time required in cookitig, &c., being varied to suit the 
different viands used in their concoction, a competent 
knowledge of all which it is presumed the attentive 
student may have gathered from the previous chstpters 
on 'roasting and broiling. 

BAKED PUDDINGS.— These are baked either in 
the dish in which they are to appear at table, or in a 
buttered mould from which they are turned out when 
done. Of the former kind are the Rice Puddings, de- 
scribed on pages 112-113; and the Plum Pudding de- 
scribed on page 111 is one of the latter. As a general 
rule, such puddings may be baked in half the time re- 
quired to boil them ; — this, however, of course depends 
greatly on the heat of the oven. Besides the above- 



118 BAKED PUDDINGS. 

specified puddings, there is an immense number of 
others, in nearly all of which eggs constitute the ingre- 
dient on which their firmness and lightness depends. 
The coagulation of the eggs takes place at nearly the 
same temperature as is required to solidify the albumen 
of meat (140<*), and a greater heat, especially if long 
continued, impairs the lightness of the pudding. To 
cook most of the other ingredients, however, especially 
dry farinaceous substances, such as rice, sago, <fec., they 
must be subjected for a considerable time to a much 
higher temperature ; hence it is generally necessary to 
boil these till softened, before adding the eggs. All 
baked puddings should be delicately browned on the 
top. The most simple is perhaps the 

Custard Pudding, It consists merely of new milk 
and eggs. The milk, seasoned with sugar, cinnamon, and 
lemon-peel, is heated in a small saucepan over the fire 
until it begins to boil, when it is poured over the eggs 
well beaten in a basin, and rapidly stirred till mixed. 
This mixture, which is called a custard, is then baked 
in the dish in which it is to be served, with a little nut- 
meg grated over the top. The number of eggs required 
is from four to six, according to size, to each pint of 
milk. One or two of the eggs may be omitted, and 
its place supplied by a little fiour, which should be 
thoroughly mixed with the milk before boiling it. 
This delicate pudding requires very little baking : — 
browning it in a dispatch before the fire will be suffi- 
cient. It is eaten either alone or with jelly or marma- 
lade. Any kind of preserved fruit may be placed in it 
before baking. 

Bread Pudding, Boil milk, seasoned as above, and 
pour it over the crumb of stale bread broken in small 
pieces in a basin. Cover the basin for ten or fifteen 
minutes, and then mash the bread into a fine pulp, 
stirring in a small piece of butter. Three or four well- 
beaten eggs are then added, and if desired, a little 
brandy and a few currants ; and when the whole is well 
mixed, bake it in the pudding dish in the oven for half 



BAKED PUDDINGS. 119 

an hour. Another bread pudding, or Bread-and-Buttev 
Puddingy is made by filling the baking dish with layers 
of thin slices of bread and butter without crust, and 
then pouring in a seasoned mixture of beat eggs and 
cold milk, till it reaches the level of the top layer. This 
should stand for three or four hours before going to the 
oven, in order that the bread may soak and swell. Cur- 
rants, stoned raisins, sliced apples with sugar, or any 
kind of preserved fruit, may be strewed between the 
layers of bread and butter. 

Tapioca, Sago, and Vermicelli Puddings, Simmer 
till quite soft, six tablespoonfuls of either of these ar- 
ticles in a quart of milk, stirring it almost constantly 
to prevent its burning. Then pour it into a basin, and 
stir in a little butter and three well-beaten eggs. Bake 
in a buttered pudding-dish for half an hour ; or boil it 
for an hour and a half, in a mould or basin immersed 
to half its depth in a pot of boiling water ; — but the 
browned surface produced by baking looks much nicer. 
If boiled, an additional ^^g may be put in. 

Macaroni Pudding is made precisely like the pre- 
ceding. The following mode of dressing macaroni is, 
however, by many preferred to this. It is first sim- 
mered in milk or veal-stock and butter till quite tender, 
aod then placed in the dish in which it is to be servep, 
in layers alternately with grated Dutch cheese. The 
top is covered with cheese, a layer of bread-crumbs is 
sprinkled over this, and a number of small pieces of 
butter placed here and there over the whole. It is 
then baked in a dispatch till delicately browned. Beat 
eggs, and minced fowl and ham, with a seasoning of 
pepper and salt, may be added to the above, when it 
may be cooked in a mould partly immersed in boiling 
water, turned out upon a dish, and served with a rich 
meat gravy poured over it. 

Yorkshire or Batter Pudding, (to accompany roast 
meat). Mix together, very smoothly, a quart of new 
milk and as much flour as will make a thickish batter. 
Add a little salt and four well-beaten eggs, and mix 



120 BAKED PUDDINGS. 

these perfectly with the batter. Pour it into the 
bottom of a broad earthen pan or tin dish well buttered, 
and bake it under a roast of meat, either in the oven 
(see p. 25) or before the fire. The pudding is enriched 
by the gravy and dripping from the meat, and when 
cooked, ought to be about an inch thick. If done be- 
fore the fire, the under side requires to be browned 
either by turning it uppermost in the dish after the 
upper side is done, or by placing the dish oyer the fire 
for a short time. It is served either whole or cut in 
slices in a hot dish. A boiled batter pudding is made 
by stirring the mixture of milk and fiour along with a 
little butter in a saucepan over the fire till it becomes 
thickened, and then allowing it to cool before adding 
the beaten eggs. It is boiled in a buttered basin and 
cloth, and may be served either plain as an accompani- 
ment to roast meat, or with sweet sauce. Ground rice, 
arrow-root, or potatoe flour, may be substituted for 
wheaten flour in this boiled pudding ; and if it is to 
be eaten with sweet sauce, apples cut in small pieces, 
or orange marmalade, is a great improvement. 

Nottingham Pvdding consists of a batter like the 
above, with a number of apples prepared as for apple 
dumplings (see p. 117) imbedded in it. 

Toad in a HoU, — This oddly-named pudding con- 
sists of a Yorkshire pudding made with the addition 
of a little more flour than the above, and some finely- 
chopped beef-suet. In the centre of this is placed a 
solid piece of juicy lean beef, which may be supposed 
to stand for the " Toad." The remains of any kind of 
cooked meat or poultry, properly seasoned, may be re- 
warmed in such a pudding in place of the beef, as it 
does not require much baking. 

Apple Pudding consists of a mixture of stewed i^ 
pies pulped thrbugh a sieve, beat eggs, and butter, — 
seasoned with grated lemon-peel, cinnamon, cloves, and 
sugar to taste, and a little lemon-juice if the apples are 
not tart enough. Some bread-crumbs or pounded bis- 
cuit may be added if the apples are very juicy. It 



BAKBD PUDDINGS. 121 

maj be baked in a dish lined with puff paste — (see p. 
128.) Similar Puddings may be made with Ehubarb, 
Oreen Oooedferries, or any other fruit either fresh or 
preaerred. 

A Charlotte or French Fruit Pudding is made by 
lining a mould with thin slices of bread buttered on 
both sides, filling the interior compactly with sliced 
apples or other fruit (not too juicy) properly sweetened 
and spiced, and coTering the top with a single buttered 
slice cut to fit the mouth of the mould. It is then 
baked in a slow oven till the bread becomes browned ; 
— a plate or flat cover, rather smaller than the interior 
of Uie mould, but corresponding in shape, may be 
placed on the top with a weight resting upon it while 
baking. When done, it is turned out upon a dish and 
served hot. Melted red-currant or other jelly may be 
poured round it in the dish as a sauce. A Malvern 
Pudding is made as above, but with the bread not but- 
tered, and the apples or other fruit viewed and put in 
hot. It is not baked, but merely allowed to stand with 
the weight on the top till cold and congealed, when it 
is ready for use. -^_ 

Besides those above described, there is an almost in- 
finite variety of sweet fancy puddings, which, partaking 
in general more of the character of merely ornamen* 
tal than of useful dishes, lie rather beyond the scope 
of this work. For this reason, therefore, as well as be- 
cause our necessarily limited space could not contain 
the numerous receipts for them, we shall restrict our- 
selves to a few hints regarding the essentials in the 
mode of preparing them — sufficient, we hope, to enable 
the intelligent housewife to make many an excellent 
pudding of her own invention, and at least to avoid 
such blunders as that committed by a certain English 
ambassador's French cook, who dismayed his master 
by setting before his Parisian guests (who had been 
promised a great treat) a Plum Pudding in the form of 
an immense tureenful of pasty plum-porridge, apolo- 
gizing at the same time for his inability 'to procure a 



122 BAKED PUDDINGS. 

Teasel large enougli to contain tbe whole. It turned 
out that, in giving his receipt, the ambassador, in his 
over-anxietj about the exact quantity of water in which 
the pudding was to be boiled, had forgotten to mention 
the pudding-cloth. 

1st, The firmness and lightness of all puddings, as 
already mentioned, depends upon the eggs they con- 
tain. This arises from the property of eggs, more 
particularly of the whites, of becoming congulated at 
a temperature of about 140o, and of attracting and fix- 
ing to themselves at the same time all solid particles 
with which they are in contact; — a property which 
they impart to any fluid in which they may be dis- 
solved, unless the proportion of fluid be very large, 
and a greater heat be applied for a considerable time, 
in which case the white of eggs separates as a floculent 
sediment. This is well exhibited in the clarifying of 
stock — (see p. 85.) In puddings, however, this separa- 
tion of the eggs from the fluid with which they are 
mixed ought to be prevented by employing them in 
a much larger proportion, and taking care not to ex- 
pose the mixture to too high a temperature. Hence 
cooking in a mould placed in boiling water is better 
adapted than baking for many of the lighter puddings, 
because the heat may thus be applied more gently, 
The top may be browned afterwards before a brisk fire 
if desired. 

2d. The lightness of all fancy puddings may be 
greatly increased by whisking the whites of the eggs 
into a stiff" froth before mixing them with the other 
ingredients. This is done by rapidly beating them in 
a round bowl with a couple of forks tied together, or 
what is better, with a bundle of small twigs called a 
whisk. The innumerable little bells of air inclosed in 
this froth, and thus introduced into the pudding, cause 
it to swell or " ris6" by their expansion when baked, 
thus producing a lightness similar to that of bread. 
But, unlike the lightness of bread, which is mainly 
caused by the generation of a gas within the substance 



BAKED PUDDINGS. 123 

of the dough, that of puddings, so far as it arises from 
this cause, lasts no longer than while the pudding re- 
mains hot, because, as it cools, the inclosed air shrinks 
again to its former bulk, and the pudding of course 
''falls" to such extent as its firmness will permit. 
Hence such puddings^ are much impaired if allowed to 
stand long after being ready. Even if kept hot, there 
is a danger of the solid parts of the pudding separating 
from the fluid, like curds from whey. 

3d, The btUter also should be beaten with a knife or 
spatula until it forms a sort of cream. This seems to 
contribute to their lightness partly in the same way as 
whisking the white of eggs, — namely, by inclosing in 
the butter a considerable quantity of air, and partly by 
rendering it more capable of mixing with the other in- 
gredients. 

4^. If baked, it should be in a moderate oven; for 
if this is too hot, the surface of the pudding will be 
bound and hardened before it begins to rise ; if too 
slow, the inclosed air will expand and escape before the 
pudding is sufficiently firmed to prevent it. 

We give the following receipt as an example of the 
mode of treatment and order of mixing of the different 
ingredients : — 

Prince Albert^ 8 Pvdding, — With half a pound of 
fresh butter beaten to a cream, mix by degrees an equal 
weight of loaf-sugar, pounded, dried, and sifted. After 
these have been well mixed, and beaten together, add 
first the yolks, and then the whites of five eggs, the 
latter whisked separately into a strong froth. Then 
strew in lightly half a pound of the finest welMried 
flour, adding it gradually, so that the mixture may be 
complete and no hnots formed. Last of all, put in half 
a pound of stoned raisins and a little grated lemon-peel. 
When perfectly mixed, the pudding is poured into a 
well-buttered mould, which is immediately placed in a 
saucepan half full of boiling water, and boiled under a 
close cover for three hours. Such puddings may be 
ornamented by lining the mould, previous to pouring 



124 OMELETS. 

them into it, with strips of candied orange-peel or 
citron arranged so as to form some fanciful pattern. 

A verj light kind of pudding, called on that account 
a Souffii, owes its excellence almost entirely to the 
proper whisking of the eggs used in it. It is made by 
preparing a quart of melted bufter (see p. 101) with 
milk which has been previously flavoured by boiling in 
it candied orange-flowers, vanilla^ lemon^peel, or any si- 
milar flavouring substance, adding the yolks of ten eggs 
and sugar to this while boiling j and when cold, lightly 
stirring in the whites of the eggs whisked to a perfect 
froth. The Souffl6 is then immediately poured into an 
appropriate dish or a prepared paste-mould or shell, 
carefully baked, and served hot A Fondue is a pud- 
ding similar to the above, except that the flavouring 
ingredient is grated cheese, and the seasoning salt, 
pepper, and a little cayenne, which are added along 
with the yolks of the eggs. The addition of boiled 
macaroni to this converts it into a Neapolitan Fondue, 

Omelets, The essential ingredient of these is eggs, 
— ^yolks and whites beaten together, but not to a froth. 
With this may be mixed almost any flavouring sub- 
stance, either animal or vegetable, which the taste of 
the cook may dictate; such as boiled and minced ham 
or tongue, kidneys, shrimps, oysters, cheese, onions, 
parsley, thyme, sage, mushrooms, lemon-peel, ifec. A 
judicious selection of such materials, minced or grated, 
mixed with a little butter and flour and appropriate 
seasonings, is stirred among the beaten eggs, but not 
in such quantity as to deprive the compound of its 
fluidity. The omelet is then saut^ed in a small pan 
containing a sufficient quantity of butter to prevent it 
from sticking to the bottom. When first placed over 
the fire, it should be rapidly stirred until the eggs 
begin to set. It should then be drawn together to the 
centre of the pan, so as to form a rather thick cake, 
and when this is browned on the under side, and com- 
pletely firmed, the process is finished. If the upper 



OMELETS. 125 

side is required to be browned, this may be done either 
in front of the fire, or by means of a salamander or a 
hot shoYol held over it; or by turning the omelet, 
which may be accomplished by laying a plate aboye it, 
reyersing it into the plate, and then carefully slipping 
it back into the pan. The chief considerations to be 
attended to in cooking an omelet are, to make it of 
a good thickness, and to ayoid oyer-cooking it; other- 
wise it will be tough, leathery, and indigestible. It 
must be noted also, that as the eggs composing it re- 
quire yery little cooking, the other ingredients ought 
to haye been preyiously cooked, in those cases where 
otherwise they might be prejudicial. The omelet is 
seryed upon a hot dish, with a rich meat gravy or 
sayoury sauce poured over it. Sweet Omelets are made 
by flayouring the eggs simply with sugar, — ^a few drops 
of essence of lemon, cinnamon, cloves, or carraway, 
being added if desired. Upon such an omelet any pre- 
served fruits, — gooseberry, raspberry, or strawberry 
jam, &c., may be spread before sending to table. 

A Pancake is generally a more simple preparation 
than an omelet. In this case the eggs, beaten up with 
a little nutmeg and salt, are merely mixed with flour 
and milk till of the consistence of thick cream ; the 
flour being added first, with some of the milk, in the 
proportion of about four ounces of flour to every three 
eggs, and the rest of the milk afterwards. This batter 
is then saut6ed in the same manner as described above 
for omelets, except that it must not be stirred, — a suf- 
ficient quantity being poured into the pan at one time 
to make the pancake about one-eighth of an inch thick. 
It should be frequently shaken to preyent its adhering 
to the pan. When browned on one side, it is turned, 
either by lifting it with a broad slice similar to that 
used for fish, or by skilfully tossing it up so as to make 
it turn in the air and catching it in the pan as it falls. 
When browned on the other side, it is sprinkled with 
sugar, folded, laid in a hot dish, and kept warm while 
the same process is repeated till all the batter is used. 



126 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

As very little butter is required, a fresh piece should 
be put into the pan for each pancake. They should be 
served hot and eaten immediately, as they cannot be 
kept any length of time after they are cooked without 
becoming heavy and indigestible. The above is the 
usual mode of serving pancakes, but they may also 
have any sort of fruit-preserve spread between the folds 
instead of sugar. They are also very good plain , with 
the sauce described on p. 107, under Sharp Sauce. 

A very economical batter for pancakes may be made 
without eggs or milk, by substituting for these some 
brisk small beer. This batter should not be allowed to 
stand long before using it, else the pancakes made of 
it will be heavy. If saut^ed and eaten immediately, 
however, they will be found scarcely inferior to those 
made with eggs. 

Apple Fritters consist of thin slices of apple, peeled 
and cored, dipped in a pancake batter having a little 
more flour in it than the above, and fried separately in 
enough of hot lard to cover them. When lightly 
browned, they are drained, and served hot with pow- 
dered loaf-sugar strewed over them. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR PASTRY. 

Under this head are included all Pies and Tarts, to- 
gether with every variety of Bread, Cakes, Biscuits, 
&c. 

Of Pies and Tarts there are two kinds, namely those 
called liaised Pies, which consist of meat or fruit com- 
pletely incased in a crust of paste, and those in which 
the contents are placed in a pie-dish, and merely covered 
with paste. In both kinds the effect upon meat is very 
much the same, being somewhat similar to that pro- 
duced by braising. As the heat of the oven, however, 
is generally greater than that employed in braising, it 
is all the more necessary that the meat for pies should 
be kept till in proper cooking condition. 

The Paste for Raised Pies is necessarily firmer and 



FOR PASTRY. 127 

more oompaci than that used for merelj ooyered ones. 
It consists of wheaten flour made into a stiff dough with 
lard or dripping and water made boiling hot This 
moat be well kneaded and rolled upon a floured paste 
board into a sheet of a thickness proportioned to the 
aiie of the pie to be made from it. The under case of 
the pie is formed either by lining an opening pie-mould 
with this sheet, or by cutting from h properlj shaped 
side and bottom pieces, and cementing these together 
with beat egg ; the lid or top is cut out and cemented 
on in the same way after the pie is filled. In large 
pies this is generally coyered by a layer of ornamented 
puff paste. If a mould has been used, it is remoyed 
when the pie is cooked. Large raised pies are now 
much less in yogue than they used to be, being much 
more difficult to make well, and less conyenient than 
coyered pies. The aboye paste, howeyer, answers for 
the cases of small mutton pies and fruit tarts. 

Paste for covering Meat Pies, Rub three ounces of 
butter into one pound of flour, adding a little salt if 
the butter is fresh. When these are thoroughly incor- 
porated, add as much cold water as will make them 
into a thick dough. Knead this quickly (but not too 
much) upon the paste board, which should be strewed 
with dry flour to preyent the paste from sticking to it. 
Roll it out to about three quarters of an inch in thick- 
ness, inyert the pie-dish upon it, and cut away the pro- 
jecting margin of paste, which will thus leaye a piece 
of the exact size required. When the dish is filled with 
the meat, which should be so arranged as to be highest 
in the centre, its edges are wetted, and coyered with 
thin strips of paste rolled out of the trimmings of the 
coyer ; these again are wetted, and the coyer laid on 
and pressed close down at the edges. The edges of 
the coyer are now neatly pared and ornamentally scol- 
loped or notched ; — a few leayes or other fancy orna- 
ments are moulded from the superfluous scraps of paste, 
and laid tastefully on the top ; a small hole is made in 
the centre of the coyer to permit the escape of the 



128 PUFF PASTE. 

steam, and the pie is ready for the OTen, — the heat of 
which, for all such pies, should be moderate. 

Fuff Paste is lighter than either of the above. It is 
used chieflj for fhiit pies and tarts. When baked, it 
ought to consist of a mass of thin, crisp, and slightlj 
coherent laminsd or scales. This structure is produced 
bj introducing butter into a flour-and-water paste bj 
the following process : — Weigh equal quantities of flour 
and fresh butter ; knead the butter under water till 
freed from all traces of butter-milk ; mix the flour with 
the yolk of an egg, the juice of a lemon, a pinch of salty 
and as much cold water as will make it into a smooth 
paste of the same consistence as the butter. This paste 
must not be too much kneaded, else it will become 
tough by the coherence of the vegetable albumen of the 
flour. Strew the paste board with flour, and roll out 
the paste upon it to about half an inch in thickness, 
and after moulding the butter with the hands into the 
form of a flat cake, place this in the centre of the sheet 
of paste and fold the sides over it. Again roll out the 
paste with the inclosed butter into an oblong thin sheet ; 
fold this into three, roll it out again so that what were 
before the sides of the sheet may now become the ends, 
and repeat this folding and rolling seven or eight times. 
The butter will thus become equally diffused through 
the mass in alternate thin layers with the paste. Great 
care must be taken, during this operation, to keep the 
paste board, the rolling-pin, and the hands, well dusted 
with dry flour, in order to prevent the surface of the paste 
from adhering to any of these and tearing ofi*, which it 
is very apt to do towards the end of the process, when 
the layers become very thin. Particular attention 
should likewise be paid to have the water-paste and 
the butter as nearly as possible of the same consistence, 
else by yielding unequally to the action of the rolling- 
pin, the layers wiU neither be of a umform thickness, 
nor so regularly alternated as they ought to be. The 
lightness of this kind of paste arises from the steam 
generated while baking, raising up or blistering the 



MBAT PIBS. 129 

lajers of paste, which at the same time absorb the in- 
tenrening lajers of butter as these melt. Hence puff- 
Mste requires a rather hot oven^ in order that this 
blistering, which of course takes place, progressivelj 
from the surface inwards, may commence Wore the 
thin sur&ce layers become sufficiently dried and har- 
dened to preyent it. The mode of coyering a fruit pie 
with this paste is the same as already described for 
meat pies ; the decoraticm of the cover being of course 
made appropriate to the contents. An intermediate, 
or sort of Half Puff-Paste, may be made by rubbing 
about a quarter of the butter among the dry flour as 
in the previous receipt, and proceeding with the rest 
as already directed. This is better adapted for those 
kinds of fruit which require a longer time in a slower 
oven. Puff-paste, while being made, should be kept as 
cold as possible, and it is even advisable in warm 
weather to use iced water, and also, about the middle 
of the process, to lay it for half an hour upon a tray or 
baking sheet set upon ice. 

When taken from the oven, meat pies may be glazed 
on the top by brushing them over, while quite hot, 
with white of egg thinned with a little water; and 
fruit pies with sugar and water applied in the same 
way. The latter are " iced," by brushing them with 
white of eggs whisked to a froth, sprinkling over this 
a layer of fiioiely-pounded loafnsugar, and then returning 
them to the oven for ten minutes. 



MEAT PIES.— The most general fault of these is 
that of being over-cooked. This must be avoided by 
attention to the heat of the oven. If it is of iron, it 
is a good plan to place a brick or two in it upon which 
to set pies, which being thus defended from the extreme 
heat of the metal bottom, are more equally and gently 
cooked. For pies intended to be eaten cold, veal and 
such young meat is best adapted whose gravy forms a 
strong jelly when cold. Forcemeat, or sausage-meat, 
frequently forms an ingredient in such pies, either in 

K 



130 MEAT AND OTHER PIES. 

the form of balls, or as a lining to the dish and a coyer 
to the meat, under the paste. 

Beef-steak Pie, Tender rump steaks are dipped in 
a seasoning of pepper and salt mixed with flour, and 
either laid flat in the dish, or rolled up as olives. When 
the dish is properly filled, pour in a little water or 
gravy, cover with paste as previously directed (p. 127), 
and bake it for about an hour. 

Veal Pie may be made of chops from the back-ribs 
or loin. The bones should be removed, and a little 
gravy prepared from them. Lay the chops flat in the 
dish in layers, strewing over each a seasoning of pepper, 
salt, flour, and finely-minced parsley. When filled, 
pour into the dish the gravy made from the bones, put 
on the cover, and bake the pie rather longer than an 
hour. A layer or two of ham is a great improvement 
in this pie. Cakes of well-seasoned sausage-meat may 
also be introduced. If intended to be eaten cold during 
warm weather, a little isinglass may be dissolved in the 
gravy to ensure its congealing. 

Mviton or Lainh Pie is made precisely in the same 
way, but omitting the ham. Sliced onions and pota- 
toes may be interspersed with the meat, and curry 
powder may be used in the seasoning. Lamb, however, 
should not be so highly seasoned as mutton. For small 
round raised mutton-pies, the meat is cut into small 
dice. Such pies may be rewarmed in the Dutch oven. 

Pork Pie, For this small slices from the loin are best 
They are seasoned with pepper and salt. A little mus- 
tard may be mixed with the gravy before pouring it in. 

Venison PaMy, Cut a breast of venison into small 
pieces, trimming away all bone, skin, &c. Season these 
with pepper, salt, mace, and allspice. Lay them in the 
dish ; and if very lean, a few thin slices from the firm 
fat of a neck of mutton may be placed among thenL 
Pour over them a gravy drawn from the trimmings ; 
cover with a rather thick crust neatly ornamented, and 
bake in a very moderate oven for an hour and a half 

Habbit Pie, Cut a nicely-cleaned rabbit into joints, 



MEAT AND OTHER PIES. 131 

and pile these in the pie-dish intermixed with half a 
pound of streaky bacon in inch-square pieces, and a 
seasoning of chopped onion and parsley, with pepper 
and salt. Pour in a little water, cover, and bake for 
an hour. 

Pigeon Pie, Having well picked and cleaned the 
pigeons, cut off the heads and feet, turn the wings 
upon the back, and draw the legs inside under the 
skin. Put a piece of butter rolled in pepper and salt 
inside each bird. Place a layer of beef-steaks or veal 
in the bottom of the dish, and upon this lay the pigeons, 
breast upwards, and fill up the spaces between them 
with the livers and gizzards well seasoned. Pour in a 
little gravy or water, cover with paste, and bake for an 
hour. Some yolks of hard-boiled eggs may be added 
to this pie, and the feet of the pigeons are sometimes 
stuck into the crust as an ornament. A thin slice of 
ham laid on the breast of each bird improves the fla- 
vour. A Partridge Pie is made in the same way. 

Chicken Pie. For this a good plump chicken should 
be carved into joints, dusted with flour, and seasoned 
with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. These joints 
are laid in a small pie-dish, somewhat in their natural 
order, but with a layer of sliced ham or bacon placed 
below the back, another between the back and breast, 
and several layers over the breast, which should be cut 
in half. Pour in a little water or white broth, and 
bake fully longer than an hour. An excellent Raised 
Pie of Fowl, to be eaten cold, may be made by care- 
fully cutting out the bones of the fowl, beginning with 
an incision down the back, and after detaching the 
sides, wings, and thigh bones, and cutting off the legs 
and pinions below the first joint and ending with the 
breast, then filling up the inside (from which the bones 
have been removed) with alternate layers of ham, veal, 
and forcemeat, and placing the fowl thus stuffed within 
a raised crust lined with forcemeat in a mould. A 
layer of forcemeat is then laid above the ^ fowl under 
the paste. When baked, allowed to become quite cold. 



132 MEAT AND OTHER PIES. 

and then remoTed from the mould, this pie maj be 
carved in tolerably firm slices cut across the whole way 
through. 

Gihlet Pie, For this, the goose giblets, after being 
properly cleaned, are stewed (see p. 70) in broth, along 
with peppercorns, onions, and parsley. When the 
stew is cold, it is placed in the pie-dish with a beef- 
steak underneath, the grayy strained oyer it, and a few 
sliced boiled potatoes laid on the top. The crust may 
be made of half puff-paste. Bake it rather less than 
an hour. 

Eel Pie, After being skinned and cleaned, the eels 
are cut into two-inch lengths, and then simmered for 
a short time in broth, along with a bouquet of parsley 
and thyme, and some onion and cloyes. Drain the sauce 
from them, and mix with it about half as much brown 
sauce. Boil this mixture till reduced a half, and strain 
it over the eels in the pie-dish. When cold, coyer it, 
and bake for about an hour. 

Fish Pies may be made of salmon or almost any other 
good-sized fish. The fish should first be boiled in the 
usual way (see p. 47), then skinned and boned, and 
placed in layers in the pie-dish, each layer being 
sprinkled with a seasoning of pepper, allspice, mace, 
and salt if necessary. A little of the fish-liquor, en- 
riched by boiling in it the bones and skins, is strained 
oyer it when the dish is full. The pie is then coyered 
with a light paste, and baked rather more than an hour. 
The addition of a few shrimps, prawns, or oysters, im- 
proves the flavour of such pies. 

Oyiter Patties, The cases for these are made by lin- 
ing little moulds, called pattypans, with thin sheets of 
puff-paste, placing in the inside a piece of paper crum- 
pled into a little ball to support the cover, which is 
then cut out of a similar sheet of puff-paste and fastened 
on in the usual way. When baked about a quarter of 
an hour, the covers are taken off, and the paper ball 
removed, and replaced by some oyster sauce — (see p. 
103.) This should be made rather thick, the oysters 




FRIHT PUS AND TART8. 133 

being eat into imall pieces; and when made quite hot, 
the pattiea are filled with it, and the covers heing re- 
placed, served immediately. Similar patties may be 
made with almost any kmd of cold cooked meat or 
fowk, minced and re-warmed in a thick highly-seasoned 
sance. .^— - 

Minee Fie, — ^The material of this is a sort of sweet 
foroemeaty or seasoned mixture of fruit and meat. It 
eoDsistB of the following ingredients in equal propor- 
tions bj weight : — Beef-suet, lean of roast-beef, apples 
pared and cored, stoned raisins, and well-cleaned cur- 
rants. Each of these, except the currants, requires to 
be finely minced separately, and then the whole are 
intimately mixed, along with half a proportion of raw 
sugar, a sixteenth part each of orange and lemon-peel 
mmoed, and of ground cinnamon, half that quantity 
of groimd ginger, a little salt, grated nutmeg, brandy 
and sherry. Thk mixture will keep good for a long 
time if tightly packed in a closely-covered jar. The 
pie is made by lining the bottom of a shallow dish with 
a thin sheet of puff-paste, filling it (but not too full) 
with the above mixture, and then covering it with 
another sheet of puff-paste. Bake in a smart oven for 
half an hour, or till the paste is properly risen and 
browned, lliey may be made of any size, from that of 
the smallest patty to that of a large dish. The smaller 
ones of course require less baking. 

FRUIT PIES and TARTS.— i^rwie Pies are covered 
in the same way as meat pies, puff-paste (see p. 128) 
being used for perfectly ripe juicy fruit such as rasps 
and currants, and half puff-paste (p. 129) for unripe 
fruity which requires longer cooking. As all fruit 
shrinks very much when baked, plenty of it should be 
nsed, piling it high in the centre of the dish; and in 
order to prevent the cover from sinking too much 
through this shrinking, it is a good plan to support it 
by a teacup placed inverted in the centre of tbe dish 
before putting in the fruit The teacup will be found. 



134 FRUIT PIES AND TARTS. 

when the pie is opened, to contain most of the juicey 
this having replaced the air expelled hj the heat of the 
oven; hut on slightly raising one side of it, the juice 
will flow down ready for use. Hard unripe fruits may 
be stewed in a jar placed in boiling water before put- 
ting them into the pie. There will thus be no uncer- 
tainty as to the quantity necessary to flU the dish when 
baked, as it will not shrink any more. The inverted 
teacup, however, should not be dispensed with, because 
the stewed fruit will be much too soft to sustain the 
middle of the cover, which in this case may be made 
of puff-paste as the stewed fruit will not require so 
long baking. Sugar of course is an indispensable ingre- 
dient in these pies, the proportion varying according ta 
the acidity of the fruit employed. When a pie is sent 
to a baker's to be covered and baked, it has often been 
found that less sugar wiU suffice if added in the form 
of a syrup when the pie returns. The syrup is poured 
in at the hole in the cover. 

Under the denomination of Tarts are included all 
small round raised pies of fruit, as well as all uncovered 
tarts, both large and small, consisting of previously- 
stewed and pulped fruit, or jam or marmalade, baked in 
a dish lined with paste, and having an ornamental puff- 
paste border, or in a puff-paste casing like patties — 
(see p. 132.) In making the raised crust for the former, 
a little sugar may be introduced. The latter are fre- 
quently decorated on the top with paste ornaments of 
any fanciful design, such as stars, flowers, &o. The 
paste for these ornaments consists of two parts of flour 
and one of pounded loaf-sugar moistened with eggs and 
well kneaded. They are baked separately from the tart 
in a slow oven, taking care not to let them get brown. 

Both pies and tarts are very good cold, in which case 
the stewed or preserved fruit for the latter need not be 
put into the paste until that has been baked. Cream 
or custard are usual accompaniments to pies and tarts 
whether hot or cold, and a basin of pounded loaf-sugar 



FRUIT PIES. 135 

should also be placed on the table for those for whom 
the fruit has not been sufficiently sweetened. 

Apple Pie, For this, tart juicy apples are the best. 
They must be pared, sliced, and cored, and put into 
the pie-dish in layers, each layer sprinkled with sugar 
and appropriate spices, such as ground cinnamon, 
cloTes, ginger, <bc. A quince sliced among the apples, 
or a little quince marmalade, greatly improves the fla- 
vour of apple pie. If the sliced apples have to be kept 
any length of time before being used, they ought to be 
thrown into cold water, or covered up closely, else they 
will become discoloured. Cover with the same paste as 
for meat pies (see p. 127), or with half puff-paste (see 
p. 129), and bake for an hour or less according to size. 

Oooaeberry Fie, Clip off the heads and stalks of 
unripe gooseberries. Rub the fruit clean in a cloth ; 
pile it high in the dish, along with a considerable 
quantity of brown sugar; add a very little water, cover 
with half puff-paste (p. 129), and bake for upwards of 
an hour. The gooseberries may be previously stewed, 
in which case they may be covered with a rich light 
puff-paste, and baked for a shorter time. The riper 
they are, the more sugar and longer baking will goose- 
berries require, because then the skins become both very 
acid and tough. This remark applies also to most other 
fruit of the same class. 

Rhubarb Pie, Use fresh-pulled rhubarb. Cut off 
all the leaf; strip the skin from the stalks, and cut 
them into half-inch lengths. With these the pie is 
made precisely as the preceding. It is of considerable 
advantage to stew the rhubarb before putting it into 
the pie-dish, because it shrinks so much in cooking, 
that it is hardly possible otherwise to get a full pie. 

Red Currants^ Raspberries, Cranberries, Cherries, 
Damsons, Plums, <tc, all make excellent pies. They 
muBt be picked f^e from stalks and leaves, gently wiped 
dean if necessary, and piled high in the dish, with 
plenty of sugar, especially the more juicy sorts of fruit. 
The stone-fruits are best cut open and the stones re- 



136 FRUIT TARTS AMD PUTFS. 

moyed, and they maj be used rather unripe. The 
others are best when perfectly ripe. Rasps and red 
currants make an excellent mixture. 

SmaU Covered TarU, in a raised crust. For these 
the fruit is treated precisely as above directed for pies. 
The crust is shaped in small moulds with sloping or 
perpendicular sides. The best decoration for them is 
a simple notching of the edge and a sugar icing, whidi' 
may be applied before putting them into the oyen, as 
these small tarts' do not require long baking. 

Open Tarts. For these, the fruit if fr^ must be 
previously stewed and sweetened. Apples and green 
gooseberries may also be mashed to a pulp. Large 
tarts are made by lining a shallow dish with a rich 
puff-paste, placing an additional layer on the edges, 
which shonld be notched and otherwise ornamented, 
filling the centre with stewed fruit, jam or marmalade, 
and baking for half an hour. If to be eaten cold, the 
fruit is better not put in until after the cover is baked. 
The top may be ornamented with small bars or straws 
cut from a thin sheet of puff-paste and d^cately 
baked, or with the ornaments described on p. 134. 
Small open tarts are made by baking the cases in but- 
tered pattypans and filling them afterwards. If de- 
sired hot, they may be warmed beforp the fire or in a 
slow oven. * 

Fufs are made simply by placing a spoonful of pre- 
served or stewed fruit in the centre of a circular piece of 
puff^paste, wetting the edges, folding it half over, and 
slightly pressing the wetted parts to make them ad- 
here. The top may be ornamentally marked, and iced. 
Bake, with a sheet of buttered paper beneath, for half 
an hour or less, according to size. The form of the 
above is of course semicircular, but this may be varied 
by using differently shaped pieces of paste. 

CAKES, BISCUITS, <feo.— In this department of 
cookery, also, there is considerable scope for the exercise 
of invention ; and the ingenious housewife who baa ac- 



0AKB8 AND BISCUITS. 137 

quired a knowledge of the TariooB materiak commonly 
employed^ together with some idea of the proportions in 
which they may be mixed, will hardly go wrong if she 
follows the suggestions regarding the proper treatment 
of the eggs and butter already given with reference to 
fancy puddings (see pp. 122-123), to which we now 
add the following : — Whisking the eggs in a tin basin 
set in warm water or near the fire, greatly facilitates 
the formation of the froth. The flour and pounded 
sugar ought to be well dried and sifted. Almonds are 
l>lanched by scalding them, and then rubbing off the 
skins. Candied citron and other peel should be cut in 
long thin strips. 

With regard to the cooking of the cakes, Ac, the 
following may be attended to : — As a general rule, small 
&ncy biscuits and cakes require a rather quick oyen 
until they have properly risen and become firmly set ; 
afterwards the heat may be reduced by allowing the 
oren door to stand a little open, or otherwise. Most 
large cakes, however, require a moderate oven, and to 
prevent their surface being too much dried and browned, 
a sheet of paper may be laid over them. To ascertain 
if a large cake be sufficiently baked, run into the centre 
of it a clean knife ; — ^if the blade, when withdrawn, 
continues dry and clean, the cake may be removed 
from the oven ; if it is smeared, the baking must be 
continued a little longer. 

Any necessary departure from the foregoing direc- 
tions is specially mentioned in the following receipts. 
A knowledge of the mere names of the materials, their 
mechanical properties, and practicable proportions, is of 
course all that can be gathered from any list of receipts; 
but an intimate acquaintance with their various flavours 
is also essential for one who would invent a cake. 

Besides those which are baked, there is a large class 
of cakes and scones which are cooked on the Girdle. 
This should be kept very clean and free from rust, and 
should be thoroughly heated before using. 

All cakes and biscuits should be kept well covered 



138 CAKES. 

up, — ^large cakes, topreyent their becoming dry; small 
criap cakes and biscuits, to present their becoming 
softened by absorbing moisture from the air. If this 
softening does happen, howeyer, the original crispness 
may be partially restored by rewarming in the oyen or 
before the fire. Such cakes &c, are howeyer best when 
fresh made. 

Pound Cake. Beat together with nine whisked 
eggs, a pound each of pounded loaf-sugar, beaten fresh 
butter, and flour. Add these gradually in the order 
here giyen, beating up the mixture well with a horn 
spoon after each addition. Mix in a few chopped al- 
monds and a flayouring of essence of lemon. Bake in 
a buttered tin pan for an hour. A yery good cake 
may also be made with only half the aboye proportions 
of sugar, butter, and eggs. The whites of the eggs, 
whisked separately, should be added last in order. 

FUim Cake may be made by adding to the aboye 
half a pound each of cleaned and dried currants, stoned 
raisins, and candied lemon and orange-peel, together 
with a seasoning of nutmeg and cinnamon. 

Seed Cake consists of the ingredients of pound cake, 
with the addition of an ounce of carraway seeds. Some 
candied orange-peel may also be used in it,. and the 
top may be strewed with carraway comfits. 

Eice Cake. With six whisked eggs mix half a pound 
each of finely-ground rice and sifted loaf-sugar, and 
then add a quarter of a pound of butter. Flayour with 
a little essence of lemon, beat the whole together for a 
quarter of an hour, and bake immediately in a buttered 
pan. 

Soda Cake. Mix together dry, one pound of flour, 
half a pound of sugar, and a teaspoonful of carbonate 
of soda, and then rub into this six ounces of fresh but- 
ter. Add half a pound of cleaned currants, and, if de- 
sired, a few blanched and chopped almonds, and some 
strips of candied lemon-peel. Make this dry mixture 
into a stiff batter with about half a pint of warm milk 
whisked up with three eggs. Beat the whole well to- 



CAKES AND BUN. 139 

gether, and bake it immediately. Instead of milk and 
eggs, buttermilk may be used, with which the other in- 
gredients should be made into a soft dough. 

Sweet Cake, Procure two pounds of fermented dough 
ready for the oven, and with this mix quickly three 
quarters of a pound of beaten butter, half a pound of 
sugar, and the same quantity of currants. This may 
be seasoned with a little ground cinnamon and grated 
nutmeg, or allspice and carraway seeds. Work the 
whole well together with the hand, and bake it imme- 
diately in a buttered pan. Dripping, warmed with a 
little new milk, may be used instead of the butter. 

Sponge Cake, Whisk well together, in a basin set 
in warm water, a pound of iinely-pounded sugar and 
twelve eggs. When these have become warm and ra- 
ther thick, remove the basin from the hot water, and 
continue whisking its contents until quite cold. Then 
stir in lightly one pound of sifted flour and the rind of 
a lemon chopped very finely, or grated upon one or two 
lumps of sugar, which are then pounded. When tho- 
roughly mixed, pour it into a pan or mould prepared 
by snuearing the inside with butter, and then dusting 
it witn as much dry flour as will adhere to it. Bake it 
in. a moderate oven for an hour, or less if the form of 
the cake be not compact. Small Sponge-Cakes or Sor 
wy Biscuits may have a larger proportion of sugar, and 
have powdered sugar sifted over them. They are baked 
in small moulds prepared as above with butter and 
finely-sifted sugar. The sponge-cake moulds should not 
be above half filled, as the mixture rises considerably 
while baking. Potato-flour may be partly or wholly 
substituted for wheat-flour in the above. 

Scotch Bun, With two pounds of baker's dough 
mix three quarters of a pound of butter, and reserve 
about a quarter of this mixture to cover the bun with. 
To the rest add two pounds of stoned raisins, a pound 
and a half of cleaned cifrrants, a quarter of a pound of 
blanched almonds, two ounces each of candied orange and 
lemon-peel in small dice, and a quarter of an ounce each 



140 BUN AND SHORTBREAD. 

of pounded cloyes, Jamaica pepper, and ginger. Knead 
these thoroughly together with the hand, and mould 
the mixture into the form of a thick round cheese. For 
the cover or casing, add a little flour to the reserved 
piece of dough if not sti£f enough, and then roll it out 
into two thin circular pieces,-— one a little smaller than 
the bottom of the bun, and the other considerably 
larger, to cover the top and sides. Lay the bun, bottom 
upwards, in the centre of this larger piece, place the 
smaller piece on the bottom, and gather up the margin 
of the former all round, fold it over the edges of the 
bottom so as to join that of the pther, wetting both 
margins to make them adhere. Place the covered bun 
upon a doubled sheet of grey paper floured, and bind 
a band of the same round the sides to preserve the 
shape. Prick it all over the top rather deeply with a 
long needle, and bake it in a moderate oven. 

Shortbread, Melt a pound of butter, either fresh or 
salt, and pour it, free from sediment, into a mixture of 
a pound and half of flour, with a quarter of a pound 
of powdered sugar, — stirring together quickly. Knead 
this (but not too much) with a quarter of a poun(L more 
flour upon the paste-board, and when mixed fmn it 
with the hands into a cake of any desired shape, three 
quarters of an inch thick. Notch or scollop the edge, 
and ornament the top with carraway comflts and strips 
of candied orange-peel, arranged in any fanciful design. 
Bake on a floured sheet of white paper placed upon a 
tin baking sheet in a moderate oven. Scotch Pettieoat 
Tails consist of a large round cake of shortbread rather 
thinner than the above, cut, before baking, in a peculiar 
manner; a small circle is stamped out of the centre 
with the mouth of a cup or tumbler, and the remaining 
piece is cut into eight segments from the middle. Each 
of these may be decorated as above. They are served 
at the tea-table in their original arrangement. A 
little warm milk may be used in this, along with the 
oiled butter. 

Tea Cakes. Make a paste with half a pound of flour. 



0AKB8 AND BISCUITS. 141 

a quarter of a pound of beaten butter, ratber more of 
loafHSUgar, one egg, and some grated lemon-peeL Roll 
it out tbin, and cut small round cakes from it. Brush 
tbem over witb wbite of egg, sift pounded loaf-sugar 
oyer tbem, and bake upon a floured baking sheet in a 
quick oTen. These ci^es maj be flavoured with car- 
rawaj seeds, cinnamon, allspice, <&c., instead of lemon- 
peel. Thej maj also be baked upon a girdle with 
paper under and a tin cover over them. Yerj good 
simple cakes may be made bj seasoning as above with 
sugar, carraway seeds, and spice, a common pie-crust 
or puff-paste, to which a few currants may be added. 
Scraps of such paste left over when ajpie or tart is 
covered, may thus be profitably used up. Bake in 
either of the above methods. 

French BiscuU, Take equal weights of eggs, sugar, 
and flour. Whisk the whites and yolks of the eggs 
separately. With the froth of the whites beat up the 
BUgar, the flour, and then the yolks. Drop the batter 
in round shapes upon buttered sheets of paper. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

Almond Biscuits are made by pounding about two 
ounces of blanched and dried sweet almonds and half 
an ounce of bitter almonds along with half a pound of 
loaf-sugar in a mortar; and when these are intimately 
blended, beating them up with the whites of two eggs 
whisked to a froth, and two ounces of finely-ground 
rice. This light batter is dropped in table-spoonfuls 
upon a baking-sheet, and baked in a slow oven. 

Mdcaroons are made similarly to the above, but omit- 
ting the rice and bitter almonds, and adding the whites 
(not previously whisked) gradually, while pounding the 
other ingredients in the mortar. 
, Cakes or Scones for Breakfast, With one pound of 
flour mix up two beaten eggs and one ounce of butter 
and a little salt melted in as much warm milk as will 
make the whole into a stifl* dough. This must be well 
kneaded and then placed covered up before the fire for 
half-an-hour, after which it is rolled out thin, stamped 



142 SCONES AND CAKES. 

into round cakes, and cooked over the iire on a girdle 
dusted with flour. These are served hot, and buttered. 
Similar scones may be made without eggs, using an 
ounce more butter (which should be rubbed cold into 
the dry flour), and making the dough with cold butter- 
milk. A little carbonate of soda preyiously well mixed 
with the dry flour will convert this into dough for Soda 
Scones. These must be made rather thicker. Their 
lightness is occasioned by the acid of the buttermilk 
slowly effervescing with the carbonate of soda within 
the dough, which thus becomes puffed up with innu- 
merable small bubbles of carbonic acid gas. 

Barley-Meal Scones, Into a quart of boiling milk 
seasoned with a tea-spoonful of salt, stir gradually as 
much barley-meal as will make a soft dough ; mix this 
with a little more barley-meal on the paste-board, roll it 
out rather thin, cut the scones about the size of a saucer, 
bake them on both sides upon a girdle, and as they 
are done, pile them one upon the other in a plate before 
the fire to keep soft and hot. Serve them hot upon a 
napkin. These are excellent breakfast scones. ' 

Oatmeal Cakes may be made simply by kneading 
oatmeal, with water very slightly salted, into a stiff 
dough, rolling this out on the paste-board into a thin 
cake, and then baking it on the girdle. If preferred 
dry and crisp, the cake should be made as thin as 
possible^ browned slightly on one side on the girdle, 
and then toasted on the other side before the fire in a 
toaster which hooks on to the front of the grate, and 
has a back to support the cake. If wanted soft, it 
should be made rather thicker and be quickly browned 
on both sides on the girdle. Butter or good dripping 
is an improving addition in oatmeal cakes. It should 
be melted in boiling water, and the meal-dough made 
with this while hot. 

Cheese Cakes. Drain the whey from two quarts of 
milk curdled with rennet. Rub the curd through a 
sieve; mix with it four ounces of beaten fresh butter, 
three ounces of pounded loaf-sugar, the same of cleaned 



OAKBS AND BREAD. 143 

currant49, half-an-ounce of sweet, and three or four bit- 
ter almonds blanched and pounded, three whisked eggs, 
a little minced citron and grated lemon-peel, with a 
glass of brandy. This mixture is baked in patty-pans 
lined in puff-paste. Jiice Cheese-Cakes are made with 
out curd, and consist of equal quantities of ground rice, 
pounded loaf-sugar, and beaten butter, with the beaten 
yolk of one egg for every two ounces of the mixture, 
and half that quantity of beaten whites. This is fla- 
voured with a little brandy and grated lemon-peel, and 
baked as above. 

Gingerbread, With six ounces of beaten butter mix 
the same quantity of brown sugar, one pound of flour, 
one pound of treacle, two beaten eggs, and a quarter 
of an ounce of carbonate of soda. For spicing, mix in 
two ounces of carraway seeds and an ounce and a half 
of ground ginger. A little candied orange-peel may 
be added. The mixture should stand for a night, and 
next day be well worked together, and baked in a 
shallow buttered tin in a slow oven for two hours. 

Bread, This is so generally procured ready-made 
from the baker's, that a receipt for it here will hardly 
be thought necessary. It may however be interesting 
to know the nature of the process upon which its 
lightness depends. In fermented bread this is identi- 
cal in kind with that by which wine, beer, ale, <kc. are 
made, and wort prepared for the distillation of spirits. 
It consists of a chemical transmutation, by means of 
yeast, of the' sugar and part of the fibrine or gluten 
of the wheat flour, into carbonic acid gas and alchohol, 
which being diffused through the dough and expand- 
ed by the heat of the oven, puff up the bread and 
render it light and porous. Sourness in bread is occa- 
sioned by delaying to bake the fermented dough until 
a second process has commenced, by which vinegar is 
generated from the alcohol; hence it is necessary to 
attend particularly to the time required to ferment the 
dough. Unfermented bread is made light by means of 
carbonate of soda and a dilute acid. The soda is inti- 



144 JELUES. 

matelj mixed with the dry flour^ and with this the 
dough is made with the acid and water. The carbonate 
of soda meeting with the acid within the dough, gives 
off its carbonic acid with a slow efferrescence; this gas 
raises the*dough in the same waj as in fermented 
bread, while the soda forms a new compound with the 
acid. If muriatic add be employed in the proper 
chemical proportion^ this new compound is common 
salt, which is thus useful in seasoning the breads and 
no other need be used. Unfermented bread is said to 
be more economical than the other, as in it there is no 
destruction of nutritious substances to produce the car- 
bonic acid gas. It is also recommended to persons liable 
to heartburn, which the use of fermented bread is apt 
to occasion, as it is sometimes not sufficiently baked to 
check its tendency to become sour. 

Plain biscuits are not fermented, but are made 
simply with a stiff well-kneaded dough of flour and 
water, with a due seasoning of salt. They are baked 
in a quick oven, being pricked to prevent their being 
blistered by the steam formed within them. The va- 
rious kinds of French fancy bread are made by the 
introduction of milk, butter, and eggs, into the dough 
before fermenting it. Their appearance is varied by 
the moulds or pans in which they are baked. 



CHAPTEE XIII. 

JELLIES, FBESERVES, PICKLES, &c. 

Of Jellies there are various kinds. The basis or ge- 
latinizing principle of some is animal gelatine, either 
in the form of Isinglass, or prepared Gelatine, or as 
extracted from Calve*s feet, &c. In others it is a 
vegetable substance, such as Arrowroot, or some other 
variety of starch. In Fruit Jellies, which however may 
rather be classed with preserves, it is a substance 



JELLIES. 145 

called Pectine, wbich abounds more or less in nearlj 
all fruits. 

The jelly-bag used for straining jellies should be of 
flannel^ conical, about sixteen inches deep, closely sewed, 
bound round the mouth with broad tape, to which four 
tape loops are attached, by which, when in use, it is 
suspended from a wooden stand or frame. This con- 
sists of four upright bars three feet high, connected at 
the top and near the bottom by cross bars about ten 
inches long. A couple of heavy chairs placed back to 
back about a foot apart make a very good substitute 
for this frame. Before using it, the bag should be 
dipped in warm water and wrung out; after use, it 
should be turned inside out, steeped in cold water, 
washed with soap, well rinsed, and dried. 

Cflear Oalf'i-Foot Jelly. The stock for this should 
be prepared the day previous to being used. Set on 
the fire, in nearly three quarts of water, two calf's feet, 
well cleaned and cut in pieces. Keep them simmering 
for five hours, or until the water is reduced about 
one half, skimming occasionally. Then pass the liquor 
through a hair-sieve into a basin, and aUow it to cool 
and become firm. Next day remove the oil and fat, 
and wipe the jelly quite clean. Place in a stew-pan 
half a pound of loaf-sugar, the juice of four lemons and 
the rinds of two, a gUl of sherry, the same of water, 
and the whites and shells of five eggs. Whisk these 
together until the sugar is melted, then add the jelly- 
stock cut in pieces, and continue whisking the whole 
over the fire until boiling. Then after it Las stood off 
the fire closely covered for half an hour to settle, strain 
it through a clean flannel jelly-bag hung before the 
fire. If not quite clear, which the first that comes 
through may not be, return it to the bag. When it 
is perfectly transparent, it is ready to be poured into 
moulds or glasses, which should be quite filled. To 
remove it when set, from the mould, place this for a 
minute or so in lukewarm water, strike the sides of it 
gentiy, and when the jelly seems loosened, place the 



146 JELLIES. 

dish on which it is to he served, on the top, turn the 
whole over, and carefully remoye the mould so as not 
to lift or hreak the jelly. All jellies in moulds are 
dished in the same way. 

A plainer kind of Calf s-Foot Jelly may be made 
with ale and vinegar instead of wine and lemon-juice. 
The stock may also be prepared from Coiv-heeU, They 
produce a jelly, which though firm and clear, is perhaps 
not quite so free from meat flavour. The flavour may 
be varied by substituting for the wine some maraschino^ 
noyeau, cura9oa, &c. Spices, such as coriander seeds^ 
allspice, cinnamon, and cloves, may likewise be used. 
Orange and Lemon Jellies are made by flavouring the 
clarified stock with a syrup of the juice of these fruits 
with some of their rind boiled in it. A little cochineal 
is sometimes used to impart a richer tint to the jelly. 

Similar Clear Jellies may be made with isinglass, 
gelatine, or hartshorn shavings; four and a half ounces 
of either of the first, or half a pound of the last, being 
equivalent to the above number of calf's feet. They 
are treated precisely in the same way. 

More ornamental jellies may be made by introducing 
ripe or preserved fruits cut in slices and arranged in 
layers alternately with the jelly, or otherwise imbedded 
in it. In doing this, however, each layer of jelly must 
be allowed to set before the next one of fruit is added, 
else the two will become mingled, thus spoiling the 
appearance of the whole. 

Blancmange, This is an opaque white jelly made 
with isinglass and milk. Simmer an ounce and a 
half of isinglass in a quart of new milk, along with 
some cinnamon, nutmeg, and lemon-peel. Stir the 
whole over the fire till the isinglass dissolves, sweeten 
it to taste with loaf-sugar, and then strain it through 
a muslin sieve. After allowing it to stand to settle for 
a few minutes, pour it into a mould, keeping back the 
sediment. When cold and firm, it is turned out as 
above directed. A paste of pounded sweet almonds, 
with four or five bitter ones, may be added to this be- 
fore straining it. 



PRESERVES. 147 

Very similar Blancmanges may be made with arrow- 
root, ground rice, or Irish moss. Three tablespoonfuls 
of arrowroot will be sufficient for a quart of milk. It 
should be smoothly mixed cold vrith a small quantity 
of the milk, and when the rest, already sweetened, is 
boiling, this is added to it. The whole immediately 
becomes thickened, and after being briskly stirred 
over the fire for about three minutes, it is ready for 
pouring into the mould. This jelly may be flavoured 
with essence of lemon, pounded almonds, &c. There is 
an excellent and cheap substitute for arrowroot called 
FUhina, which may be used exactly in the same way. 
Mice Blancmange requires very much longer boiling to 
make it smooth, during which it must be constantly 
stirred to prevent its burning. Irish or Iceland Moss 
is a kind of sea-weed. It is sold by the druggists in a 
dried state. Before using, it should be picked clean, 
and then steeped in cold water for twelve hours at 
least. It swells up by absorbing a great deal of water, 
and becomes very soft. If then drained and boiled for 
twenty minutes or so in milk, it dissolves almost en- 
tirely, and converts the milk, when cold, into a firm 
jelly. An ounce of the moss will suffice for a pint and 
a half of milk. It should be constantly stirred while 
boiling, sweetened, and seasoned to taste with stick- 
cinnamon or other spice. Before pouring it into the 
mould, it should be strained through muslin to remove 
any fibres that may remain undissolved. Red currant 
jelly forms an agreeable garnish and accompaniment to 
a dish of blancmange. 

PRESERVES.— Under this head are included Fruit 
Jellies^ Jam, Marmalade, and Fruits preserved whole. 
The preserving ingredient in them all is sugar. The 
fruit should always be gathered on a dry day, and, par- 
ticularly for preserving whole, ought to be perfectly ripe 
and in good condition. For all kinds of Jam, equal 
weights of sugar and fruit are about the average pro- 
portion required, — sweet luscious fruits, such as straw- 



148 PRESERVES. 

berries, of course requiring rather less sugar, and very 
tart fruit, like red currants, a little more. The fruit 
must be picked free from all stalks, leaves, dbo. Plums, 
damsons, and cherries should be stoned, the larger kinds 
of plums cut in quarters, and those with tough or acid 
skins maj be scalded and peeled. The fruit maj be boiled 
with the sugar in the preserving-pan, for a time vary- 
ing from fifteen minutes to half an hour, according to 
the kind of fruit ; thus tough-skinned gooseberries will 
require the full time, while strawberries, rasps, &c. will 
take less. During this process, all scum that rises 
should be quicklj skimmed off. If the weather pre- 
vious to gathering has been unusually dry, a little water 
may be added. The addition of some red-currant juice 
to strawberry jam imparts a tartness in which that pre- 
serve is otherwise deficient. An admixture of rasp- 
berries greatly improves the flavour of red currant jam. 
A few cloves make an excellent addition to gooseberry 
jam. The preserving-pan is of brass, and must be kept 
scupulously clean and free from verdigris, and be washed 
out with vinegar immediately before using. A per- 
forated skimmer is the best instrument for removing 
the scum. When potted, all kinds of jam should stand 
till quite cold before being covered. 

Pbuit Jellies. — Those from ripe juicy fruits are 
best made as follows : — 

Bed Currant Jelly, Having freed the fruit from 
stalks, leaves, &c., mash it so as to break every currant. 
Then suspend it in a clean flannel jelly-bag, and set a 
basin beneath to catch the clear juice as it trickles 
through ; the bag must not be squeezed, else the juice 
will be turbid. When the juice ceases to flow, boil it 
for a quarter of an hour in the preserving-pan, with 
loaf-sugar in the proportion of a pound to each pint, — 
all scum being carefully removed as it rises. The best 
test of its being sufficiently boiled is to cool rapidly a 
tablespoonful in a saucer placed in cold water : if it 
forms a weak jelly it is boiled enough, but if it remains 
quite fluid, the boiling should be continued. Jelly 



PRESBRyES. 149 

should be potted in small gallipots, and allowed to be- 
iM>me perfectly cold before being covered. Rasps in the 
proportion of a third, mashed along with the currants, 
greatly improye the flavour of red currant jelly. 

For Apple JeUy, juicy apples, pared, cored, and 
sliced, must be stewed before mashing. A mixture of 
apples and damsons produces an excellent jelly of a rich 
ruby tint, and an agreeable tartness which simple apple 
jelly wants. 

Gooseberry Jelly is made from unripe green fruit, 
which also requires to be stewed before straining. 

The fruit pulp from which the juice has been drained 
to make jellies as above described, will in most cases 
make a very good, though coarse, kind of Jam well 
adapted for Roll Puddings, &c., by being boiled up with 
sugar as preyiously directed for jam. 

Rhubarhy being deficient in pectine, will not produce 
a jelly ; but a very palatable sort of jam, which keeps 
well, may be made from it, some whole ginger, pre- 
viously boiled till tender, being stewed along with it. 

The covering or " papering up" of jelly and jam is 
best performed on the day after they are made. By 
that time the jelly ought to give distinct indications of 
congealing. If it does not, the safest plan is to give it 
another " boil up." Two different covers of paper are 
requisite. The inner one is of thin clean writing paper, 
a quarter of an inch larger than the mouth of the pot, 
and snipped to that depth all round the edge. This is 
steeped in a saucer of spirits of any kind, and laid close 
upon the surface of the jelly or jam, so that there is no 
air underneath it ; the nicked edges being turned up 
against the sides of the pot. A teaspoonful of spirits 
is then poured on the top of this, and an outer cover of 
stout paper stretched over the mouth, and firmly secured 
over the lip of the pot with a piece of twine passed two 
or three times round and tied. Each pot should have 
the name of its contents written on the outside cover. 
Thus prepared, jelly and jam will, if they have been 
sufficiently boiled, keep for a long time in a dry cool 



150 PRESERVES. 

place. During the first montb, the pots should be 
opened once or tvrice, and if the inner papers have be- 
come mouldy, they should be removed and fresh ones 
substituted, with a little more spirits. If the mouldiness 
appears a second time and seems inveterate, the con- 
tents of the pot can only be saved from spoiling by being 
boiled over again. 

Marmalade is a preserve similar to jam, made from 
the larger kinds of ripe fruit. The most general fa- 
vourite is the 

Scotch Orange Marmalade, There are several ways 
of making this, of which the following is one : — Procure 
equal weights of ripe bitter or Seville oranges, and 
loaf-sugar. With a few of the pieces of sugar, grate 
off some of the outside of the rinds. Cut the oranges 
in quarters, and squeeze out the juice into a basin,^ 
through a sieve to keep back the seeds. With a teaspoon 
scrape out the soft pulp from the interior cavities of the 
oranges, rejecting the seeds. Detach from the rinds the 
remaining parts of the inside of the oranges, wash these 
well in a little water, and put this water and the soft 
pulp into the juice in the basin : what has been washed 
is now refuse. The rinds are then boiled under a close 
cover until so tender as to be easily pierced by a straw 
or pin's-head, the water being once changed to remove 
some of the bitterness. The spongy white part is now 
scraped from the inside of the rind, and the remaining 
portion clipped with scissors into very thin chips or 
parings about half an inch long. Boil these along with 
the sugar, pulp, and juice, for fifteen or twenty minutes 
over a quick fire, skimming it when any scum rises. A 
little lemon-juice and grated peel is an improvement. 
This marmalade is sometimes varied by pounding to a 
pulp part of the rinds, and having the rest in chips. 
This however very much impairs the transparency of 
the fluid portion. If the quantity of rinds seems too 
large, some of them may be withheld, or the fluid part 
may be eked out with apple jelly. Lemon Marmalade 
is made in the same way, but with a half more sugar. 



PRESERVES. 151 

Apricot and Melon Marmalades are made by re- 
moying the skins, stones, seeds, &c., mincing the eat- 
able part, and boUing it with its weight of sugar. For 
Quince Marmalade the fruit should be first stewed and 
then mashed to a pulp. After being potted, marma- 
lade should stand for a daj, and then be papered up as 
already directed for jelly and jam. 

Fbxjits Pekseeved Whole. — The fruits thus treated 
should be fresh, plump and ripe, and as perfect and free 
from injury as can be procured. They are preserved 
by simmering them for a short time in a clear syrup 
in the preserving pan, allowing them to steep, covered 
with this syrup, in an earthenware basin or tureen for 
a day or two, simmering them again, and so on alter- 
nately until the fruit has become thoroughly impreg- 
nated with sugar, which will require a time proportioned 
to the size of the fruit. The syrup should at first be thin, 
and afterwards gradually increased in strength by the 
addition of more sugar at each boiling. If this is not 
attended t.o, the fruit, instead of being plump and trans- 
parent when done, will become shrivelled and unsightly. 
The entire quantity of sugar required is generally about 
a fourth more than the weight of fruit. — When the fruit 
has received its final simmering, and become clear and 
transparent, it should be placed in earthenware or glass 
jars, the syrup poured boiling hot over it, and when 
cold, covered with wet bladder tied over the jar. In 
transferring the fruit from one vessel to the other, it 
should be lifted out of the syrup as gently as possible 
with a silver spoon so as not to injure it. If towards 
the end of the above process the syrup becomes tur- 
bid, it may be separated from the fruit, and clari- 
fied like soup by means of white of egg. This is 
mixed gradually with it while cold, and when coagu- 
lated by boiling, seizes upon the other impurities, and 
with them rises to the surface as a thick scum, which 
must then be skimmed off. A little cold water added 
after the first minute's boiling facilitates the ascent of 



152 PRBSBRVBS. 

the scum. A red colour may be imparted where desired, 
or the colour of red fruits heightened, and the c^rup 
tinged, by the addition of a little cochineal Port wine 
is also used for the same purpose with apples, pears, and 
quinces. Green fruits may have their colour improved 
by being previously laid in a vessel with green cabbage- 
leaves under and over them, and thus scalded with boil- 
ing water, closely covered, and allowed to cooL This pro- 
cess is repeated, using fresh leaves each time, till the 
desired effect is produced. A very little pounded alum 
added to the water assists the operation. Tartness may 
be imparted to the more luscious fruits by means of 
lemon-juice. Spices also, such as ginger and cloves, may 
be used where considered appropriate. Many kinds of 
of fruit thus preserved may be dried in the sun or a 
slow oven, and served at dessert in a candied state. 

Jargonelle Pears and Pippins must be pared, and if 
the seeds are picked out at the flower-end with a bodkin 
or toothpick, the preserved fruit vniU keep better. 

Plums, Apricots, and other stone-fruit should have 
the stones removed by a small slit in the side, keeping 
the fruit as whole as possible. The tough-skinned fruits 
may also be peeled, which a previous scalding will facili- 
tate. The kernels may be blanched and simmered in 
the syrup to impart their flavour. A simple method of 
preserving such fruits is to prick them with a needle, 
drop them into a wide-mouthed bottle with some 
pounded loaf-sugar, fill up the bottle with brandy, cork 
it, and then bake in a cool oven for some hours. The 
cork may then be sealed. 

Cucumbers and Melons, are first of all steeped in 
brine for a couple of days, and then in fresh water for 
the same time. They are then " greene^^ by the pro- 
cess above described, after which the seeds and soil 
parts are scooped out by an incision in the side, and 
some ginger, cloves, and whole white pepper inserted. 
They are then treated with syrup in the usual manner. 
Large thin skinned Bitter Oranges, are preserved some- 
what in the same manner. After the steeping, the pulp 



PICKLES. 153 

being extracted at a liole made in the top, the juice is 
expressed from it, strained, and added to the syrup. 
This preserve maj be ornamented bj making a sort of 
cameo carving of leaves <kc. upon the rinds before re- 
moving the pulp. When served, the hollow skins may 
be filled with custard, or various jellies ko, 

Qooseberries, both red and green, should be chosen 
rather unripe. They should be " topped and tailed," 
and each one pricked with a needle. Their appearance 
is improved by picking out the seeds. 

Strawberries should first lie covered with dry sugar 
for a night. Their weight of sugar is then made into 
a thin syrup with red-currant juice, in which they are 
simmered till the syrup will congeal when cold. The 
berries must be very tenderly handled to avoid breaking 
them. 

PICKLES. — These are used as relishes and garnish- 
ings for various dishes, and also as ingredients in many 
sauces. They consist of various kinds of esculent vege- 
tables preserved in spiced vinegar, this being wholly or 
partially substituted for their natural juices, which are 
first usually extracted by means of salt. The vege- 
tables should be fresh and sound, and not too ripe. 
They should be gathered on a dry day, carefully trim- 
med and wiped, and only those washed which require 
steeping or salting. The vinegar and spices used should 
not be stinted, the only limit to the quantity of the 
latter being that they ought not to overpower the 
flavour of the vegetables. 

The general mode of making pickles is as follows ; — 
The vegetables having been previously prepared in the 
way suited to their kind, are placed in a stone-ware 
jar, and the vinegar with the spice in ^t (whole black 
and white pepper, and ginger) is made boiling hot and 
poured over them. The jar is then covered with a 
thickly-folded cloth in order to keep in the steam. 
If the vegetables are large and solid, such as cucumbers, 
this process is repeated several times with the same 
vinegar till they become saturated with it. In such 



154 PICKLES. 

cases the spices need not be added till the last boiling, 
else some of their strength will be lost. With green 
vegetables, whose colour is impaired by their preliminary 
preparation, a number of cabbage or vine leaves may 
be mixed. These having partiafiy restored the colour 
during the above process, are of course removed. When 
cold, the jar is fitted with a cork, which may be made 
air-tight by dipping it in melted bottle-wax or tying 
a piece of wetted bladder over it. If after the first 
two days the vegetables soak up much of the vinegar, 
more should be added, so as to keep them covered. A 
stoneware pipkin is the most suitable vessel for heating 
the vinegar in, because metal is corroded and dissolved 
by the acid. On this account, brass and copper ves- 
sels ought never to be used, their solutions in vinegar 
being highly poisionous ; notwithstanding which, how- 
ever, pickle-manufacturers are said to be sometimes 
rash enough to use such to heighten the colour of their 
green pickles. As boiling evaporates the strength of 
the vinegar, it ought merely to be heated to the boiling 
point and used immediately. If the pickle vinegar is 
wanted very hotly spiced, a little cayenne may be used 
in it. 

Bed Cabbage, The outer blades being removed, cut 
the cabbage in half lengthways, wash it free from dirt, 
and then cut it down in slices as thin as possible, be- 
ginning at the top. Sprinkle the sliced cabbage thickly 
with salt, and let it remain thus for a day. The salt 
extracts the juice, which is then drained off through a 
collander. The cabbage, drained as dry as possible, is 
then treated with vinegar and spice as already directed, 
until it resumes its original plumpness, which may be 
after the first or second scalding. A few onions pre- 
pared as below, and sliced among the cabbage, make a 
very good mixture. 

Onions, Choose small silver onions as equal in size 
as possible. Cut off the tops and tails, but not too 
close, and cover them with boiling brine in a basin. 
Next day repeat this scalding, peel them when cool, 



PICKLES. 155 

and throw each as it is done, into vinegar. They are 
then ready for the boiling vinegar and spice. As 
unpeeled onions are blackened by exposure to the air, 
this must be avoided as much as possible, by keeping 
them always covered with brine or vinegar as above 
directed. 

Beetroot The tops being removed, it must be washed, 
but nowhere cut or injured, else the juice, which in 
this case is to be preserved for the sake of its colour, 
will be lost. It is then boiled in plenty of salted water 
till tender, which may be in about half an hour. The 
skin is now rubbed ofif with a coarse cloth, the beet- 
root sliced across, put into a jar, and the vinegar and 
spice poured over it. This pickle makes a pleasing 
garnish. A little salt added improves the taste, but 
slightly impairs its brilliant colour. 

Cauliflower or Brocoli. The centre or flower part 
only is used. Being well cleaned, it is immersed for 
about four minutes in boiling brine, and then drained. 
When tolerably dry, it is divided into conveniently- 
sized pieces, the stalks being cut smoothly, — packed in 
the jars in which it is to be kept, and covered with 
the boiling vinegar and spice. This vegetable may be 
very well mixed with any other white or green pickles. 
In making such mixtures, the various vegetables, if 
they are not all procurable in perfection at the same 
time, may each be prepared and added in their proper 
seaepns. Nasturtiums are pickled in the same way. 

Muskrocyms, Put small white button-mushrooms, 
wiped clean, into a stone jar along with the spices and 
a Httle salt. Set the jar over a slow fire, or in a pot 
of boiling water, and let the mushrooms stew in their 
own liquor till that is nearly all evaporated. Then add 
as much hot vinegar as will cover them, and let this 
just come to the boil. When cold, bottle them up, 
add a little more vinegar at the end of the first week 
if they require it, and then cork them. 
f Cucumbers, The preparation of these is the same 
as for preserving, (see p. 152), except that they are not 



156 PICKLES. 

steeped in fresh water^ and that hot vinegar is used in 
the " greening" process instead of water. When the 
desired tint is attained^ the green leaves are removed, 
the vinegar heated for the last time, (adding the spice, 
which in this case may include cloves and crushed nut- 
meg) and poured over the cucumbers. 

Gherkins, French Beans, and other green pickles, 
are prepared in the same manner. 

GiLcumbers and Onions, as a mixed pickle, are pre- 
pared by skinning large onions, paring the cucumbers 
and removing their seeds, slicing both in thick slices, 
strewing them thickly with salt in a coUander, allowing 
them to drain for a night, and then alternately heating 
and cooling them with vinegar in a stone jar until well 
saturated. Lastly, the same vinegar is heated till boil- 
ing, along with spices, and poured over them. 

WalmUs, Procure them unripe, and with tender 
sheUs. If they are wanted green, the greatest care 
must be taken during their preparation not to expose 
them for any length of time to the air, which blackens 
them. Steep them for nine days in strong brine, chang- 
ing this twice during the time, and keeping them im- 
mersed in it by means of a board floating over them. 
Drain them, prick each in seversd places with a large 
needle, and then " green" them by the process described 
on p. 152, until the husks become tender. These are 
then quickly scraped off with a knife, and each walnut 
rubbed smooth with flannel and immediately thrown 
into hot water. The vinegar and spices, including 
cloves and cayenne, to which some salt is added, are 
then prepared; and when these are boiling hot, the 
walnuts must be quickly removed from the water, dried 
with a cloth, placed in the jars in which they are to be 
kept, and covered with the boiling vinegar. — Walnuts 
are pickled black more easily. They are first pricked 
with a needle, then steeped for twelve days in the 
brine (which should be poured on them boiling hot 
and changed every three days), and lastly, after beinj| 
drained and rubbed smooth and dry, they are coverm 



SALTING MEAT. 157 

as aboTe with tlie boiling yinegar seasoned with horse- 
radish, garlic, mustard seed, and pepper. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

MISCELLANEA. 

SALTING MEAT.— The preceding chapter treats of 
Pickles, properly so called. Pickled Meat^ howeyer, is 
prepared by a very different process, in which brine is 
the antiseptic employed. This brine may be made as 
follows :— -Six pounds of salt, one of brown sugar, and 
four ounces of saltpetre, boiled in four gallons of water, 
skimmed, and allowed to cool The meat is kept en- 
tirely covered with this in a tub or wooden trough. 
When the brine becomes turbid and covered with scum 
it must either be renewed, or re-boiled and skimmed. 
This is the mode adopted for salting large quantities 
of meat, to be kept in store for a long time. A single 
piece of meat for immediate use is generally salted by 
rubbing it in every part with a dry mixture of common 
salt, sugar, and saltpetre, in the proportion of half an 
ounce of each of the last to a pound of the first. It 
is then placed in a deep earthenware pan or dish, and 
strewed with the mixture, which in a day's time ex- 
tracts a considerable quantity of the juice of the meat, 
forming with this a strong brine, with which the meat 
must be daily basted and rubbed till required, turning 
it over in the pan each time, so that every part may be 
equally salted. A Bound of Beef thus treated may be 
ready for use in four or five days, its saltness depend- 
ing upon the time. The salt in this case preserves the 
meat partly by extracting its moisture, which is an 
active agent in the decomposition of animal substances. 
The loss of juice which meat sustains while being salted 
is even greater than in boiling, and hence arises the 



158 SALTING MEAT. 

unwholesomeness of salted meat as a constant article of 
diet. The use of an impure salt containing chlorides 
of calcium and magnesium, although less palatable, is 
said partially to prevent this, bj transforming an im- 
portant soluble constituent of the juice, called phosphate 
of soda, into the phosphates of lime and magnesium, 
which being insoluble remain in the meat. When such 
meat is eaten along with vegetables, the soda which 
these contain is supposed during digestion to decom- 
pose the insoluble phosphates and reproduce the origi- 
nal phosphate of soda. The saltpetre gives the meat a 
bright red colour. Pepper and other spices are some- 
times mixed with the »alt. 

The antiseptic property of smoke as used in curing 
ham <fec., depends upon the vapour of creosote it con- 
tains. The addition of this liquid, in the proportion of 
one part in a hundred^ to the brine in which hams or 
tongues are pickled, produces all the effects of smoking. 

Previous to salting, meat should have been kept tUl 
ready for cooking, and unless the kernels are cut out 
it will not keep even with salting. The principal of 
these lie in the udder, and centre fat of a round of beef, 
and in the thick end of the flank. 

Fork requires rather longer salting than beef. 

Collared Beef consists of the end of the brisket, or 
the flank, salted as above. When it has lain in salt for 
a week or ten days, take out the bones, remove the in- 
side skin, strew the meat thickly with a mixture of 
grated nutmeg, black pepper, allspice, chopped lemon- 
thyme and parsley, roll it up tighty, and sew it up in a 
strong cloth bandage. It is now ready for boiling (see 
p. 42.) It may also be baked in a large jar of water. 
The cloth should not be removed till it is quite cold. 

Sausages, Of these there are many kinds. They 
consist of a highly seasoned mixture of finely-minced 
lean and fat of meat, to which bread-crumbs, yolk of 
eggy and shred sweet herbs are sometimes added. Both 
fresh and salted meat are used, and variety is obtained 



POTTBD MEAT. 169 

by mixing different kinds of meat together. The mix- 
ture is either stuffed into clean gut-skins by means of 
an instrument for the purpose, and twisted in links, or 
moulded into rolls or flat cakes, in which form it is only 
adapted for frjring or baking in a pie. For this last 
purpose, exhausted meat from soup &c,, or the cold re- 
mains of roast or boiled meat, may be very well intro- 
duced. Some kinds of sausages are smoked, by which 
means they are made capable of being kept for a con- 
siderable time. 

Potted Head, Although called potted head, this may 
be made from almost any gelatinous part of veal, or 
from cow heels or head. The meat is first simmered till 
tender, cut into yery small pieces (not minced), rejecting 
the hard gristles, and then highly seasoned, and boiled 
for some time with the same Uquor strained. It is then 
poured into earthenware moulds, from which when cold 
and very firm it is turned out and served garnished 
with parsley or pickled beetroot. Minced lemon-peel 
and juice may be added to the seasonings of potted real. 
Mustard and vinegar are favourite condiments for this 
dish ; to which also a simple vegetable salad makes an 
excellent accompaniment. 

Potted Meat consists of the flesh of beef (either fresh 
or slightly salted), game, or poultry, cut in pieces, highly 
seasoned, packed closely in an earthen jar, in which it is 
then slowly stewed with very little water, either in a 
moderate oven or a pot of boiling water. When very ten- 
der, a smaller jar is placed upon it with a heavy weight 
resting upon this, and it is thus pressed till cold, and 
converted into a solid compact mass. It is then covered 
with a layer of clarified butter, and a piece of soaked 
bladder tied over the jar. The meat being thus pro- 
tected from the air, will keep good for several months. 
It is eaten cold for breakfast, or made into sandwiches 
for lunch or supper. Meat already cooked, or which 
has been used in making soup or gravy, may be potted 
by pounding it in a mortar to a smooth paste along 



160 SALADS. 

with a little bntter and seasonings, which may in- 
clude dried and powdered sweet herbs, &c. It should 
be covered in small jars as above, with butter and 
bladder. Sprats, herrings, and shrimps, may also be 
potted in the same way,— of course rejecting the bones 
and shells. 

SALADS. — Salad consists of uncooked fresh young 
yegetables and herbs of various kinds, with a creamy, 
pungent, acid sauce. Lettuce is generally the chief 
ingredient employed, — radishes, onions, cucumber, mus- 
tard-cress, &c., being frequently added in due propor- 
tions as flavourers. All the vegetables should be pro- 
cured as fresh and crisp as possible, and are generally, 
but especially the lettuce, the better of lying for an 
hour or two in cold spring water before using. They 
must then be carefully washed from grit and insects, 
freed from all decayed or worm-eaten leaves, sliced 
rather small, and after being gently dried by shaking 
them lightly in a clean towel, placed in a deepish salad- 
basin. There are many ways of making the sauce, 
vinegar and Florence oil being generally the chief con- 
stituents, with hard-boiled yolks of eggs and cream to 
impart richness, and a seasoning of pepper and salt and 
freshly-made mustard. The yolks of eggs, which should 
be perfectly cold, are first bruised down along with the 
cream ; the other ingredients are then added, and the 
whole well mixed, poured over the salad, and stirred up 
with it immediately before serving. The hard whit^ 
of the eggs may be cut across so as to form rings, and 
laid on the top as a garnish. Haw eggs (whites and 
yolks beaten together) may be substituted for the hard 
yolks, cream, and oil. Another very simple salad- 
sauce, adapted for lettuce alone, is composed merely 
of sugar and vinegar. Salads are excellent accompani- 
ments to cold meat in summer, being wholesome and 
cooling. 

French Salads are made by slicing down cold meat 
with the vegetables. The cold remains of any kind of 
meat or poultry may thus be economically employed. 



SALADS. 161 

In the sauce for such salads, more salt is required tlian 
for vegetables alone, and the other seasonings may be 
yaried to suit the kind of meat ; — the boiled egg-yolks 
and cream may be omitted. 

Lobster Salad is made by mixing the meat of a cold 
boiled lobster cut in pieces, with the salad yegetables ; 
pieces of the coral being used as garnish, and the spawn 
pounded with a little butter or oil to enrich the sauce. 

A refreshing yariety of salad to be eaten along with 
cold meat, is made with cucumber and onions. A 
middling-sized cucumber, not fully ripe, is pared and 
then sliced across as thin as possible. This may be done 
rapidly by holding a thin table-knife firmly on a large 
plate, so that the blade lies fiat upon the bottom with- 
out quite touching it except at the point, and then 
rapidly rubbing the cucumber across the knife, so that 
at each stroke a shaying is cut as thick as the space 
between the blade and the bottom of the plate. One 
or two large onions are sliced among the cucumber, 
the whole thickly strewn with salt, which in a short 
short time will extract a great part of the juice, which 
must be poured off. The slices are then well peppered 
and about half covered with vinegar. A little oil may 
be added. This preparation, from its pungency and 
acidity, is perhaps more allied to pickles than salads, 
and consequently cannot be partaken of so largely. 

BEVERAGES.— The most important of those which 
come within the province of the cook are certainly Tea 
and Oqfee, and for the making of these a greater variety 
of methods has been suggested than for perhaps any 
other similar process. The chief object in making either 
is perfectly to extract the whole of their soluble matter 
without the loss of the more volatile portion, upon which 
their fine flavour and also part of their stimulating pro- 
perties depend. To effect this it is essential that the 
process should be performed as quickly as is consistent 
with its being done completely. 

In the case of Tea, this end may be best attained if 

M 



162 BEVERAGES. 

the following conditions are attended to : Igt, To have 
the water boiling ; 2d, To haye the teapot hot and diy 
when the tea is put in ; Zd, To allow the tea to stand 
for a few minutes in the pot in front of the fire or in 
the oven in order that it also may he thoroughly warmed 
and dried before pouring the boiling water oyer it ; 
Atk, To keep the teapot hot in front of the fire, or by 
covering it with a thick flannel cover during the process 
of infusion. It has been recommended for the same 
purpose to infuse the tea in a tin " infuser" which 
hooks on to the front of the grate^ but there is some 
danger that in this way the tea would be boiled, in which 
case the volatile "aroma** would be instantly dissipated. 
By observing the above conditions, the heat of the water 
poured upon the tea is not wasted in heating the cold 
teapot, and from the tea being first perfecty dried, the 
hot water instantly rushes by capillary attraction into 
its minutest cells, and the process of extraction com- 
mences at the first instant of contact. When tea is 
made for a number of people, it is best to use ttoo tea- 
pots; fresh tea being prepared in one while the other 
is in use. If only one teapot is used, it is better not 
to infuse the whole quantity of tea at once, filling up 
the pot with hot water as the first infusion is poured 
out, but rather to reserve some of it to be added from 
time to time along with the water. By this means the 
first and last cups may be served out equally good, in- 
stead of all the finer flavour being confined to the former, 
and the coarse, dark-coloured, bitter vegetable extract 
dispensed in the latter. The usual quantity of tea em- 
ployed is a little more than one heaped tea-spoonful for 
every two cups required. 

In making Coffee the same precautions should be 
observed as to heating both the utensil and the dry 
material before adding the boiling water. This may 
be accomplished, as recommended by M. Soyer, by 
stirring the dry coffee in a stewpan over the fire til| 
both are quite hot. Boiling water being now added in 
the proportion of a quart to every two ounces of coffee, 



BBVBRAQUS. 163 

it is kept closely covered beside the fire for five minutes, 
strained through a cloth, re-warmed, and served in the 
coffee-pot. The French add an equal quantity of boil- 
ing mUk before re-warming. There are many other 
modes of knaking coffee, and various contrivances for 
filtering it, but whichever is adopted, the utensils em- 
ployed and the coffee itself ought to be heated. Where 
coffee is made every day, it is an economical plan to 
pour upon the used coffee-grounds some fresh boiling 
water, which being strained and boiled next day is then 
used instead of water, so that less coffee wUl serve. 
Coffee may be cleared in the coffee-pot without straining 
or filtering, simply by pouring out a cupful and return- 
ing it two or three times, and then setting the pot in 
front of the fire till the grounds fall to the bottom. 
This process, however, takes more time. A very little 
cold water poured in is said to assist it. The coffee 
used ought to be newly roasted and ground. To ensure 
this, many people buy the roasted beans and grind a 
sufficient quantity for immediate use in the morning 
in a small hand-mill. This practice also protects them 
from that dishonest adulteration with chicory which is 
said to have hitherto so generally prevailed among re- 
tailers in this country, as actually to have vitiated the 
public taste to such an extent that most people now 
prefer the mixture to the pure coffee. 

Chocolate, Mix two ounces of the scraped cake with 
a gill of water in a saucepan, and stir it rapidly over 
the fire until rather thick; then mix with it gradually 
half a pint of boiling milk, and serve it hot, with sugar 
separate. The Italian method requires a chocolate-pot 
furnished with a muller, the handle of which passes 
through a hole in the lid. In this the scraped cho- 
colate is milled or churned with the milk over the fire 
until very hot and frothy. 

Gocoa, Over a tea-spoonful and a-half of cocoa in a 
cup, pour gradually some boiling milk, stirring the 
cocoa till dissolved. Or it may be first mixed with a 



164 COOLING DRINKS. 

little water, and then heated with milk in a saucepan 
till it begins to boiL Serve hot with sugar separate. 

Cooling Summeb Drinks. — Raspberry Vinegar, Over 
a quart of freshly-gathered raspberries bruised in an 
earthenware basin, pour a pint of vinegar. Cover it 
closely for three days, stirring it once daily, and then 
strain it through a jelly-bag. To each pint of the 
clear liquor add a pound of loaf-sugar, and boil it for 
ten minutes, removing the scum as it rises. When 
cold, bottle, and cork it tightly. A wine-glassful in a 
tumbler of cold water makes a refreshing drink. It 
may also be used with hot water, in which case a little 
sugar may be added. 

Lemonade. With a piece of loaf-sugar rub off the 
yellow rind of one lemon, and place this along with the 
juice and pulp of three in a deep jug. Pour over it a 
quart of boiling water, and add loaf-sugar to taste. 
When cold, strain it, and it is fit for use. A similar 
drink may be made by substituting two ounces of cream 
of tartar for the lemon juice. This may also be fla- 
voured with lemon-peel as above. 

Ginger-Beer, Boil in two gallons of water for half 
an hour, two ounces of bruised ginger and two pounds 
of loaf-sugar, removing the scum as it rises. Slice one 
or two lemons into a tub, along with half an ounce of 
cream of tartar, and pour the hot liquor over these. 
When nearly cold, add a quarter of a pint of yeast, with 
which let it ferment for four days, or less if the weather 
is warm, closely covered up with a board and blankets. 
Then draw it off from the lees or sediment with a 
syphon or otherwise, and bottle it in a few days after. 
A little brandy may be added if it is to be kept long. 
The corks should be secured by wires. A commoner 
kind may be made with brown sugar, using rather less 
of it, and omitting the lemons. A kind of extempore 
ginger beer may be made as follows : — ^Eub together in 
a mortar half a pound of pounded loaf-sugar, two ounces 
of carbonate of soda, and half an ounce of ground 



OOOUNQ DRINKS. 165 

ginger. Dissolve a teaspoonful of this mixture in a 
tumbler of water, stir in quickly half a teaspoonful of 
powdered tartaric or citric acid, and drink it yi;hile 
effervescing. The acid may be mixed with the other 
ingredients in the proportion of an ounce and a quarter 
to the above quantity. They must however be pre- 
viously thoroughly dried, and the mixture kept in a 
stoppered bottle, as the least moisture will in a short 
time deprive it of its property of effervescing. 

Spruce Beer is made like the above, substituting six 
ounces of essence of spruce for the ginger, and omitting 
the lemons and cream of tartar. Brown Sprtuie Beer 
is made with treacle instead of sugar. 

Treacle Beer is made by boiling for twenty minutes 
in three gallons of water a pound and a half of treacle, 
and half an ounce of hops tied in a piece of rag, to which 
a little ginger may be added. This decoction is then 
fermented as above directed for ginger beer. 

HOME-MADE WINES.— These are mostly made 
from the ripe native fruits of this country. The gene- 
ral plan for all is the same as that indicated in the re- 
ceipt given p. 167. The time required for their fermen- 
tation varies according to the heat of the weather, or of 
the apartment in which it is conducted ; being much 
shortened by warmth, while extreme cold or frost will 
check the process altogether, or lengthen it indefinitely. 
From 40" to 86° Fahrenheit is the range of temperature 
under which fermentation goes on. It consists of the 
transformation of the sugar in the liquid when exposed 
to the air, into alcohol and carbonic acid gas. It is 
this latter which occasions the rapid formation of the 
frothy scum. 

The different varieties of wine are produced by modi- 
fying the circumstances in which the fermentation is 
carried on. Thus for a strong drp wine, the change 
should be rendered as complete as possible, by continu- 
ing the process in an open vat or tub for at least three 
or four days, and then putting it into a cask sufficiently 



166 HOME-MADE WINES. 

large to preyent the scum overflowing at the bunghde, 
as this scum favours the continuance of the process 
which produces it. It may also be frequently stirred, 
or the cask shaken, which also promotes the fermenta- 
tion. Nearly the whole of the sugar will in this way 
be changed, and a strong but not very sweet wine be 
the resiUt. 

To produce a rich sweet wine, besides adding a larger 
proportion of sugar to the fruit juice, the fermentation 
is stopped before it has gone so far as in the preceding 
case, by allowing it to remain a much shorter time in 
the open tub, and when removed into the cask, keeping 
this sdways filled and stopped so as to exclude the air. 
For the same purpose, brimstone matches are some- 
times previously burnt inside the cask, the sulphurous 
acid thereby produced having the effect of checking 
the fermentation. It is also once or twice " racked,** 
that is, drawn off clear from the lees or sediment which 
stimulates fermentation, and put into a clean cask. 
This " racking" is done through a small hole bored for 
the purpose near the lower side of the cask. 

Effei^vescing wines are allowed a still shorter time to 
ferment exposed to the air ; but less sugar is employed. 
It is afterwards, when in the cask, carefully excluded 
from the air as above, kept in a cool place, and the bung 
closely fastened up as soon as the fermentation becomes 
80 languid that this can be done without danger of 
bursting the cask. Unripe fruits are best adapted for 
this kind of wine. 

Wine may remain in the cask from six weeks to two 
months, or longer, according to the weather, by which 
time it will become clear and may be bottled, which 
should be done in dry cold weather. After the fermen- 
tation has subsided and the wine become clear, the air 
should be excluded from it as much as possible, else it 
will undergo another change, and become converted in- 
to vinegar. The fermentation of wines, especially the 
thick sweet sorts, is more easily effected if a large quan- 
tity be made. It is hardly possible to succeed perfectly 



HOME-MADE WINES. 167 

with less than two gallons at one time. All the uten- 
sils employed, especially the casks and tuhs, should he 
scrupulously clean, else they will communicate a had 
flavour to the wine. The following receipt may he 
taken as an example of wine-making — subject, of course, 
to the preceding remarks : — 

Red-Currant Wine, Bruise the fruit in a tuh with 
the hand, mix it with an equal measure of water, and 
allow it to stand thus for a night. It is then strained 
through a sieye or canvas hag, squeezing the husks as 
dry as possible. To each gallon of liquid add about 
three pounds of sugar, stir it occasionally till dissolved, 
and let it stand in a tub or vat covered with a board 
and blankets in a temperate room for two or three days, 
when it will be covered with a frothy scum. This is 
then removed with a perforated skimmer, and the wine, 
now tolerably clear, drawn off from the sediment by a 
hole bored in the side of the vat near the bottom, into 
a clean cask, which should be quite filled with it. If 
the wine is drawn off by means of a syphon instead of 
tapping the vat, it need not be skimmed, as the short 
end of the syphon being immersed beneath the scum 
nearly to the top of the sediment, will draw off the li- 
quid free from both these impurities. The cask must 
now be kept in a cool place, with the bung-hole open, 
or closed merely with a tile laid over it, till the fer- 
mentation ceases, keeping it always filled to the bung 
by adding occasionally as its contents diminish, some of 
the liquor reserved for that purpose. In a month or 
six weeks the fermentation will have subsided, when, 
the wine being now clear, will be ready for use, and 
may be bottled. It is generally safer, however, to " rack" 
it into a fresh " sulphured" cask, which must be kept 
tightly bunged till the ensuing spring, when it may be 
bottled without fear of the fermentation recommencing. 
If it is then not perfectly clear, it may be " fined" with 
isinglass or white of egg^ — ^these being dissolved in a 
smsdl quantity of the wine, and this thoroughly mixed 
with the whole, which after standing undisturbed for 



168 HOME-MADE WINES. 

ten dajs^ may be racked off or bottled quite clear. One 
egg or an equal quantity of a solution of isinglass of 
the same consistence is enough for fiye gallons. Spirits 
(brandy or whisky) are generally added, in a propor- 
tion varying from a pint upwards, for every nine 
gallons. It is put into the cask shortly before the 
fermentation ceases. It assists in stopping the fermen- 
tation, but will not, as is erroneously believed, prevent 
the wine becoming sour if exposed to the air, as it is 
from the spirit that the acetic acid of sour wine is 
formed. Spirits are therefore by no means indispens- 
able ; the wine if properly made will become quite strong 
enough with the alcohol generated during its fermen- 
tation. Wine is frequently flavoured with spices, such 
as cloves, cinnamon, &c,, which are for this purpose 
wrapped in a piece of rag and suspended in the wine 
from the bung-hole during the last stage of fermen- 
tation, and withdrawn as soon as the desired degree of 
flavour has been imparted. In wines made from stone- 
fruit, the kernels may be used in the same way. Cream 
of tartar, or crude tartar, is sometimes employed to 
promote the fermentation. Red-coloured wines generally 
require a longer time to ferment than white wines. 

For Elderberry, Parsnip, Ginger, Birch (made from 
the sap of the birch-tree with raisins), and some other 
wines, the liquor is extracted by boiling; and as this 
stops for a long time its natural tendency to ferment, 
a little yeast may be employed to begin the process. 
The usual method is to spread the yeast on a piece of 
toasted bread, and put it into the liquor. 

Mulled Wine consists of wine heated with spices, as 
cinnamon, grated nutmeg, cloves, &c. When it reaches 
the boiling point, the spices are removed, and the wine 
served hot along with toast or rusks. Elderberry wine 
treated thus is a favourite winter-evening drink. 

Posset consists of hot wine added to custard, the 
whole being well mixed by pouring it alternately from 
one vessel to another. It is generally made with ca- 
nary or sack wine, and called Sack Posset, 



DIET FOR INVAUDS. 169 

Het (hot) Pint, This Scotch " Hogmanaj" beyerage 
consists of hot ale, beaten eggs, and whisky, seasoned 
with sugar and grated nutmeg. The sugar and eggs 
are mixed with a little cold ale, the hot ale is then 
poured over this, and the whole mixed as in making 
custard. It is again heated till nearly boiling, when 
the whisky and nutmeg are added. 



Drinks and Diet for Invalids. — Toast and Water, 
Toast a crusty slice of bread slowly till quite hard and 
dry, and of a deep chocolate colour, but by no means 
burnt. Place it in a deep jug, pour over it two pints of 
boiling water, and cover it up till cold. Then strain 
it clear from the toast, which if left in it would in a 
short time induce fermentation. 

Barley Water, In half a gallon of water, boil till 
tender two ounces of pearl-barley, along with a season- 
ing of lemon-peel and cinnamon, and a little sugar. 
Skim, and strain it through a hair-sieve, and when cold 
it is ready for use. A little lemon or orange-juice may 
be added. Rice Water is made in the same way. 

Apple Water is made by pouring boiling water over 
sliced apples in a jug, which must be covered up till 
cold. It is then strained and sweetened to taste with 
honey or sugar. Or, the sliced apples may be boiled, 
taking care that they do not dissolve. When pre- 
pared in this way, a few figs cut in half may be added : 
they not only sweeten the drink, but impart a fruity 
richness to it. A similar beverage may be made by 
boiling Prunes, The boiled fruit sweetened with sugar 
is very good to eat. 

Acid drink from Ripe Fruit is made simply by drain- 
ing the juice from any kind of juicy fruit, such as 
strawberries, rasps, currants, &c., and mixing it to 
taste with water and sugar, adding lemon-juice where 
additional tartness is required. 

Wine Whey is made by adding to some milk made 
boiling hot, as much sherry or other wine as will 
curdle it, and pouring off the whey when the curd 



170 DIET FOR INVALIDS. 

sinks, which it does after a few minutes standing. 
Sweeten it to taste, and reduce it with hot water to the 
strength required. Treacle whey (excellent for pro- 
moting perspiration) is made in the same manner, hut 
requires no sweetening or hot water. 

Gruel, Mix a teacupful of fine oatmeal with a small 
quantity of cold water in a basin. Pour this water off 
into another basin, and repeat the process until about 
a quart has been used, and all the finer part of the 
meal has been extracted. Strain this into a saucepan, 
and boil it for twenty minutes, continually stirring it. 
It may now be seasoned according to taste, either with 
salt or sugar, a little lemon-juice or other acid being 
added with the sugar if desired. 

Caudle consists of sweet gruely with a little wine, 
lemon-juice and nutmeg, or other spice, in it. It may 
also be made with small beer or milk instead of water, 
and ground rice or wheat flour may be used instead of 
the oatmeal. 

Rice Milk. In a pint of milk simmer till tender, or 
reduced to a pulp if desired, a tablespoonful of well- 
washed rice ; season with sugar and a very little salt. A 
Uttle butter, and some mild spice, may also be stirred 
into it if approved. 

Sago Milk, After the sago has been soaked in water 
for an hour, proceed exactly as for rice milk. Sago Qruel 
is made in the same way, but with water instead of 
milk. A little wine may be added. 

Vermicelli, Semolina, and Tapioca Milks, are pre- 
pared by throwing a tablespoonful or less of either into 
a pint of boiling milk, and simmering till sufficiently 
tender. The seasonings are the same as for rice milk. 

Macaroni and Milk. Throw the macaroni into plenty 
of boiling water salted, and boil till it is sufficiently 
tender. Then pour off the water and add some milk; 
bring this to the boil, and season with sugar and a 
pinch of salt. 

Arrovrroot Mix about two teaspoonfuls of arrow- 
root with a little cold water^ and pour over this a pint 



DIET FOR INVAUD8. 171 

of boiling mUk. Boil it oyer the fire for a few minutes, 
stirring constantly ; season with sugar and a pinch of 
salt. It maj be made with water, in which case a little 
wine and lemon-juice and butter may be added if de- 
sired. This may also be made into jelly by allowing it 
to cool in a mould and turning it out. 

Panada or Breadherry. Crumble a stale penny roll 
into a small saucepan, just cover it with water, and 
stir it oyer the fire while it boils for fiye minutes. 
Season with sugar, and a yery little salt, and nutmeg if 
desired. Thin it as required with a little milk or water. 
The beaten yolk of an Qgg and a small piece of butter 
may also be used in it, and a little spirits or wine is 
sometimes employed. Panada may be made with weak 
broth instead of water, in which case the sugar is of 
course omitted. Small beer is also used by those who 
prefer it. 

Stewed Prunes, The yery small or damaged ones 
being rejected, the prunes are stewed for half an hour 
with a little water in a jar placed in boiling water. 
They may be sweetened with a little sugar ; cinnamon 
and lemon-peel may also be added, and a little wine is 
also sometimes used. 

Beef Tea, See page 82, — or instead of mincing the 
meat it may be cut into yery thin small slices, and 
gently heated in water till boiling. All &t should be 
skimmed off, and rice may be boiled in it. 

Muttony Vealy and Chicken Broths should be made 
strictly according to the General Directions for Soups 
on page 82. The fat should be carefully skimmed off, 
and the seasoning not too strong. Rice may be used 
in them, and if permitted, a little onion and parsley, 
but all these ought to be thoroughly cooked. The 
chicken broth may be made as a stew-soup (see page 
92), if the patient's state will allow of it. 

Diet for the Nubsebt. In this may be included the 
broths and farinaceous preparations with milk already 
described as diet for inyalids; to which we may add 
the following more substantial articles : 



172 DIET FOR THE NURSERY. 

Bread and Milk, Cut two or three ounces of stale 
white bread into small dice, and pour over these in a 
basin a sufficient quantity of milk made boiling hot ; 
cover the basin till sufficiently cool, and sweeten with 
sugar. 

Oatmeal Porridge, Into some water boiling in a 
saucepan, throw a little salt, and then drop gradually 
into it from the hand a sufficient quantity of coarse 
oatmeal to make it of the desired thickness, rapidly 
stirring it all the time with a porridge-stick or thevil, 
to prevent its burning or forming knots. When boiled 
enough, it is poured into a plate or saucer and allowed 
to cool a little. It is eaten with either new milk or 
buttermilk, which are the best for children. Treacle, 
sugar, cream or butter, are also sometimes taken with 
it instead of milk. With porter or beer and sugar, it 
is a favourite supper with some adults. Porridge may 
be made with milk or a mixture of milk and water, in 
which case less oatmeal may be required. If boiled till 
very smooth, it is said to be more wholesome than when 
less boiled. The roughness of this latter, which is pre- 
ferred by some people, may be partially communicated 
to the former by stirring in a handful of raw meal im- 
mediately on removing it from the fire. 

Barley-meal Porridge, The requisite quantity of 
meal should be mixed smoothly with cold water first, 
and then boiled, throwing in the requisite quantity of 
salt. It is eaten with the same accompaniment as oat- 
meal porridge. It may also be made with milk instead 
of water. A similar preparation of wheat flour and 
milk is called Hasty Pudding, 

Pease-meal Brose is made by pouring boiling water 
sufficiently salted upon '* Glasgow Brose-meaV^ in a basin, 
and stirring it rapidly so as to form a thick smooth 
paste. It is eaten with milk or buttermilk. This, from 
its cheapness, is a good deal used by many of the poor 
in Scotland. Oatmeal Brose is made in the same way, 
but allowed to stand a little, and then cut across seve- 
ral times with a spoon rather then stirred, so as to form 



DIET FOR THE NUB8ERT. 173 

knots. In Kail Brase the liquor in which salt-beef and 
greens have been boiled is used instead of water, — the 
fatter the better. These, however, from the rawness of 
the oatmeal, are hardly proper for children. 

Fap for Infants may be made with thin slices of stale 
bread toasted till quite dry and pale brown, but rusks 
are better. Break these in small pieces into a small 
saucepan, just cover them with water, and make them 
hot without boiling. Four off a little of the water, add 
a little brown sugar, and then mash the whole to a pulp. 
French Fap is a kind of very thin hasty pudding (see 
Barleymeal Porridge), sweetened with sugar. The flour 
for this, however, is the better of being prepared as fol- 
lows : — Press it closely into a gallipot, cover the mouth 
of this with a stiff flour-and- water paste, over which tie 
flrmly a piece of linen rag, and thus boil it for three or 
four hours. The flour being in this way already cooked 
dry, only requires to be heated with milk and water. 
This forms a much better food for young infants than 
that in which the milk has been boiled and thus ren- 
dered less digestible. 

Meat, &c. It is of the greatest importance to child- 
ren that their meat should be wholesomely cooked. For 
this purpose the " General Directions" given in the 
chapters treating of the different processes, ought to 
be faithfully followed. With the exception of salt, 
much less seasoning is required than for the food of 
adults, — mustard, pepper, and such-like stimulants 
being not only unnecessary, but generally distasteful. 
With the meat they ought to have the usual vegetable 
accompaniments, but with a larger proportion of the fa- 
rinaceous kinds, such as rice, macaroni, ka. Children 
ought not to commence a solid meat diet under three 
years of age, and then the meat ought to bear a very 
small proportion to the rest of their food, gradually in- 
creasing as they grow older. Simple broth with rice in it 
they may get much earlier. As variety of food is good 
for them as well as for grown people, they should have 
occasionally light farinaceous puddings, and a small 



174 REMARKS ON DINNERS. 

proportion of ripe fruit in its season. If cooked^ fruit is 
much better for them stewed, and eaten with rice, than 
in the form of pastry, which often, as many know to 
their cost, disagrees with them from its comparatiye in- 
digestibility. A favourite and wholesome dish of fruit 
for children is called — 

Oooseherry-fooL This consists of unripe green goose- 
berries, stewed with very little water till quite soft but 
not burst, in an earthen jar placed in a pot of boiling 
water, — then drained and mashed to a pulp. This when 
cold is sweetened with brown sugar, and served with a 
little milk mixed with it in a hash-dish. 

Khvharh ox Apples may be prepared in the same way. 



REMARKS ON DINNERS, <fea 

Dinners. — ^The provision for each day's dinner, so as 
to combine economy with variety, is not the least im- 
portant part of a housewife's duties. In a small &mily 
where no very extensive cooking is required, it is often 
a matter of some little difficulty to practise this com- 
bination. For roasting and boiling it is most economi- 
cal to purchase the best pieces of meat : though perhaps 
a little dearer when bought, they will go further, and 
otherwise give more satisfaction. Such pieces are of 
course much too large to be consumed in one day by 
three or four persons, and therefore variety upon suc- 
ceeding days must be sought in a different mode of 
cooking the remainder. Thus part of the remains of 
one day's roasi may be prepared as English stew for the 
second day; more of it as a hash or ragout for the 
third ; and for the fourth a French salad may be made 
if sufficient be left ; or if not, the bones may be grilled 
as a devil for supper ; after which these bones w3l still 
be useful for soup. In the same way a piece of boiled 
meat may also be all used up without waste, the liquor 
being on the second day made into a clear soup, which 



REMARKS ON DINNERS. 175 

may aflerwards be rewarmed with additional vegetables 
as a pur6e soup. Pease soup will keep for a week, and 
be improved bj it. In summer, cold meat occasionally, 
either plain with pickles, or dressed as a salad, will be 
found more agreeable than hot meat every day. The 
cheaper parts of meat, though inferior for roasting or 
boiling, furnish excellent stews. A maigre dinner once 
or twice a-week, consisting either of fish, or soup and 
some kind of pudding, is both economical and healthful 
The frequency of such, however, must be regulated by 
the habits of the consumers, — those engaged in seden- 
tary in-door occupations being generally understood to 
require a larger proportion of animal food than others. 

The arrangement of dishes upon the table is a matter 
of taste and convenience. The principal ones should be 
placed at the head and foot, to be dispensed by the 
master and mistress of the house ; and the others, con- 
sisting of vegetables &c., arranged on the table sym- 
metrically. The heavy work of carving ought certainly 
to be allotted to the master, although this is not always 
the custom. Before serving the dinner, the housewife 
should see that the table is properly furnished with its 
proper complement of knives and forks, napkins, glasses, 
bread, water, condiments, <&c., as calling for these things 
afterwards, unpleasantly interrupts the order of dinner. 

The number of courses will depend in some measure 
upon the number dining, and the *^ style*' maintained 
in the house. The usual order of serving is — 1st, Fish 
and Soup, which are " removed" by the larger roasts 
and boiled meats (hence called '^ Removes") and their 
appropriate vegetables ; filling up the table if the com- 
pany be large, with side dishes of smaller roasts of 
poultry <&c., and a few made dishes ; — 2d, Puddings and 
sweet fancy dishes of various kinds, jellies, tarts, and 
pies. At this stage also small game birds are intro- 
duced. Lastly comes the dessert, consisting of ripe, 
preserved, and dried fruits, cake, <&c. Before removing 
the cloth for dessert, cheese, with bread and biscuit, 
may be served along with port or strong ale. This is 



176 REMARKS ON DINNERS, 450. 

an old Scotch custom now generally going out of 
fiiahion. All this is of course adapted for a large party. 
For three or four persons a selection from the above 
will be all that is requisite. The order of service above 
described is not altogether a mere regulation of fashion. 
There is a reason for it. The fish and soup being 
slightly stimulating, prepare the stomach for the more 
substantial and cloying roasts &c,, after which the fruits 
and sweets come as a grateful relief to the palate. — 
I^,£, Hot plates should be provided for all hot meats. 

Suppers. — As this meal should be light as compared 
with dinner, large hot roasts, &c., are of course inap- 
propriate. The best hot dishes, where such are required, 
are tripe, or poultry, with potatoes, — broiled fish, devils, 
well-seasoned ragouts, hashes, fricassees, &c. Cold 
meats are however most generally preferred; — roasts 
left at dinner (if not too much cut up) meat pies, salads, 
cold fowls with ham or tongue, potted head, oysters, 
&c. These may be followed as at dinner by sweets, 
such as jellies, tarts, custards, fruit pies, &c., after which 
may come a dessert similar to that served at dinner. 

Of course with regard to both dinners and suppers, 
good taste will dictate that the extent of the service 
should be so proportioned to the number of the company 
that there maybe enough, without unnecessary profusion 
Decorations consisting of either real or imitation fruits* 
or other eatables, not to he eaten, are symptoms of vul- 
garity not to be tolerated. Where elegance is aimed 
at, a vase of flowers in the centre of the table is an ad- 
missible and pleasing ornament. 



Here, having concluded all we have to say on the 
choice and preparation of food, we are much disposed 
to pause, and say to our readers with at least as 
much sincerity as the Thane of old did to his guests, 
" May good digestion wait on appetite, and health on 
both;'' but the custom of cookery-books compels us to 



DIRB0T10N8 FOR CARVING. 177 

say a few words on the art of carving, and on the periods 
of the jear in which the Tarious yiands will be found 
in greatest perfection. 

DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 

Pbactioe and observation only can confer fiokcility in 
carving, written directions being inadequate to couvey 
more than a general idea of the most artistic mode. 
As a general rule, butcher-meat should not be cut across 
the grain (especially if it is to reappear at table cold), 
as this at once lets out the gravy which is better in the 
meat. Slices of Beef, Veal, Ham, Tongue, and Fowls, 
should be cut thin, and if a slanting direction be taken 
they will in general be larger. Mutton, Lamb, and 
Pork may be carved in thicker slices. A sharp knife 
is essential to comfort and smooth slices in carving. 
Where stuj£ng is used, a small piece should be helped 
with each slice, along with some fat and gravy. 

Sirloin of Beef. The under-side should be cut in slices 
across ; — it is best when hot. The " upper side" is cut 
longitudinally from the back-bone towards the ends of 
the ribs. If likely to be all eaten hot, a deep cut across 
the thick end close to the back-bone will facilitate the 
separation of the slices ; if not, the fewer incisions made 
in it the better. A little of the under-side fat may be 
helped with each slice. The Bibs of Beef should be 
carved in the same manner. 

A Bound of Beef is carved in thin horizontal slices, 
with a little of the fat to each, after removing an out- 
side slice half an inch thick. The Aitchrbone may be 
carved in the same way. 

A Heart should be cut from the open end to the point. 

The Loin or Breast, and Fillet of Veal, are carved 
similarly to the sirloin and round of beef. 

Leg of Mutton, Cut it across, on the inside of the 
thigh near the small end. When this part is finished, 
slices may be out from the larger end in a direction 
perpendicular to the first cut. In a roast, the shank 

N 



178 DIRECTIONS FOB CARVING. 

end ought to have a fringed paper covering to keep 
the carver's hand clean when laying hold of it to steady 
the joint or turn it. 

Shoulder of Mutton, Slices are first cut from the 
hollow part near the knuckle end^ in a direction across 
the bone. Another set of thin slices may afterwards 
be cut from above the blade-bone^ parallel to its ridge. 
. The saddle of mutton is best carved by dividing the 
meat from the back-bone by passing the knife between 
them, and then cutting the slices in the same direction 
as in cutting chops. 

Venison, Generally in the same way as mutton. 

Fore Quarter of Lamb, First detach the shoulder 
by cutting in a circular direction beneath it, beginning 
at the joint and keeping the point of the knife towarc^ 
the centre ; the brisket (i. e, the gristly ends of the 
ribs) is then cut off by a cut along the whole. It is 
then ready for helping among the company, giving each 
person a rib or two at a time cut like a chop, with a 
piece of the brisket cut in the same direction. The 
shovMer is carved like a shoulder of mutton. 

The Hind Quarter of Lamb is cjirved like the leg of 
mutton, only a chop from the loin-part may be helped 
along with each slice from the leg. 

[The back-bone in necks and loins of mutton and 
lamb, or indeed in any part except the saddle^ ought 
to be divided at the joints before cooking, which will 
greatly facilitate the operations of the carver.] 

Pork is generally carved like mutton. The skin be- 
fore roasting should be scored in the right direction for 
the slices. In Roast Pig, the shoulders and hind-legs 
are first removed, and then the intermediate parts cut 
across into conveniently sized pieces. 

Ham, Begin with an incision down to the bone, 
about the middle, and from either side of this cut slices 
as thin as possible. 

Tongue, Cut it through obliquely about the middle, 
and then cut thin slices parallel to the first cut. 

Fowl, Hold it firmly with the fork thrust into the 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 1 79 

breast, from which, if large, cut a few slices ; then take 
off the left wing, downwards, along with a small portion 
of the flesh of the breast attached. Then sever the leg 
on the same side, cutting in the same direction. The 
limbs of the other side are next separated in the same 
manner. After this, remove the merrythought and the 
neck-bones ; divide the breast from the back, either by 
tearing them asunder or by cutting through the ribs 
downwards to the tail. Now turn the back, outside 
upwards, and break it in two by fixing the knife firmly 
in the middle, and bending the rump upwards with the 
fork. The side-bones are then cut from the rump-half, 
and the operation is completed To facilitate the se- 
paration of the joints of poultry when large or tough, 
there are peculiar modes of twisting the limbs with the 
fork, which can hardly be described, but must be seen 
and practised to be understood and learned. The skill 
required for this, however, may now be said to be almost 
superseded by an invention of M. Soyer's, which con- 
sists in a mode of cutting the sinews before cooking, 
by means of an instrument called a " Tendon Sepa- 
rator ;" which not only saves trouble to the carver, but 
makes the bird look plumper when cooked, by obviating 
the effect of the contraction of the sinews by the heat. 

Turkey, Cut off the apron or skin of the belly so 
as to get at the stuffing, and then proceed generally in 
the same manner as with fowl, except that a number 
of thin slices should first be cut lengthways from the 
breast. Less meat from the body is required with the 
wing, as this is larger. 

Goose or DilcL After removing the apron and carv- 
ing the breast in thin longitudinal slices, remove the 
leg as follows : — Turn the bird over on its side, insert 
the fork into the small end of the leg-bone, and press 
it close to the side, at the same time entering the knife 
above the thigh-joint, which will then rise up, and the 
leg may be separated by a cut in the direction of the 
tail. The wing is now removed by a similar process, 
the joint being started by pressing down the small end 



180 ARTICLES IN SEASON. 

of the pinion. The dissection is then completed as di- 
rected forfowL 

Pigeons are simplj cut in two from head to taiL 

WUd Fowl and Game should furnish slices from the 
breast, which is generallj esteemed the most delicate 
part. Small birds may be divided the same as pigeons. 

Hare or RahhU, After cutting open the apron to 
disclose the stuffing, remove the shoulders by a cir- 
cular cut, and then the hind legs. Gut a slice off each 
side the whole length, at a little distance from the back- 
bone. Divide the back across into three or four parts. 
The head is divided by first removing the lower jaw, 
and then cutting the upper part in two lengthways. 

Fish needs no carving, but should be neatly divided 
with a fish slice at the natural separations between the 
fiakes, so as not to mangle these. The roes and other 
'* fancied*' parts should be fairly distributed along with 
the slices from the body. Fried fish is generally sent 
to table in pieces small enough for helping. 

In " helping" what he carves, the carver ought to 
give each person a moderate supply at once, — not heap 
his plate with a dis-appeti2dng profusion. The strictest 
impartiality ought to regulate his distribution of the 
prime parts : to '' deal small and serve all" should be 
his maxim. Among these fEkvourite delicacies are : — 

The fat of venison, — the " pope's eye" in a leg of 
mutton, — the kidneys of veal and lamb, — ^the neck and 
ribs of roast pig, — the breast and wings of poultry and 
wild fowl, the thighs of goose and duck, the legs of 
duck, — the legs of hare and rabbit, — the jelly and 
tongue of cod's head, turbot's fins, the thin part of sal- 
mon, the thick of flat fish generally, &c. 

ARTICLES IN SEASON. 

'' thou Nature ! thou divine goddess ! how thyself 
thou blazon'st in these two princely boys." Had 
Shakespeare been writing a cookery book instead of a 
play, he would equally have eulogized Nature for the 



ARTICLES IN SEASON. 181 

admirable distribution she has made of her treasures 
throughout the different periods of the year, so as to 
suit not only the real wants but the tastes of man, 
varying as both these do with the ever changeful sea- 
sons. Thus during the cold of Winter, when that in- 
ternal furnace of which Liebig speaks as the source of 
warmth to the animal economy, requires the most abun- 
dant and substantial supplies of fuel, she has placed at 
man's disposal in their highest perfection, her fat beef, 
mutton, and pork, her substantial geese and turkeys, 
her best and most nutritious fish, and her hardiest and 
most solid vegetables. In Spring she invites him to 
purify his blood with her more esculent vegetable pro- 
ductions, and to vary his supplies of animal food by 
the use of lamb, young fowls, and fresh-water fish. To 
alleviate the parching heat of Summer, and to induce 
him to moderate his demands on more solid viands, she 
now offers her copious supplies of small fruit, of young 
potatoes, of tender peas, and of sweet turnips, — of fish 
now renovated from the exhaustion attendant on the 
spawning season, — of a variety of small birds, and of 
the young of the larger fowls. Her " bounty shines 
in Autumn unconfined, and spreads a common feast for 
all that lives." Then are gathered those stores of fa- 
rinaceous food on which the mass of mankind chiefly 
depend for sustenance throughout the year — the larger 
sorts of fruit, as well for present use as to serve during 
the winter— together with contributions from the pro- 
duce of warmer climates than our own ; — many varieties 
of game and shell-fish are also in perfection, and to- 
wards its close the larger animals are ready to provide 
us again with our winter fare. 

The subjoined table shows concisely the distribution 
of the animal supply. T\iq fruits and vegetables will in 
general be found in best condition when they are most 
abundant in the markets, but as these periods vary 
with the backwardness or forwardness of the season, 
any accurate classification of them is next to impossible. 



TA BLE showing the Protnsiona which may he had in each Month, 

and the Months during which eoc/i artide is in Season. 

Uhe marks opposite each article show the months in which it is in season, 
the longer ones indicating when it is in perfection.] 

ABTICIES in SEASON. S •§ | t ^ f # f f ^ | g 

Beef, - - - 

Mutton, _ _ - 

Veal, 

Lamb, 

Pork, -__ 

Fowls, — _ _ 

Turkeys, ___ _ 

Turkey Poults, _ _ _ _ 

Geese, ___ _ . 

Ducks, — _- __ 

Ducklings, _ _ _ 

Pigeons, _ _ _ _ - 

Hares, 

Leverets, _ 

Babbits, _ 

Partridges, — 

Pheasants, 

Grouse and Blackcock, ... 

Woodcock and Snipes,.... — 

Wild Ducks and Geese,... 

Cod, 

Grabs, — 

Eels, 

Flounders and Plaice, 

Haddocks, — _ ________ 

Herring, — _ — 

Lobsters, — 

Mackarel, 

Oysters, Mussels, Cockles, '. 

Salmon and Trout, 

Skate and Hallibut,..,.... 

Soles, 

Turbot, 

Whitings, __--_ 



THE EIO). 



Printed by Bobbbt Habdie A Ca Edinburgh. 



J 



