'^■'^"^naavpRMjiMP 





m 



ELEMENTS 



SCIENTIFIC AGRICULTURE, 



OK TH> 



CONNECTION BETWEEN SCIENCE 



ART OF PRACTICAL FARMINa 

rmzc ESSAT or thf. new tork state aoricultcrai. socutt. 

BY JOHN P. NORTON, M A , 
raorBMom or ■cixmno aoricvltcrs la talb cullboe. 



VOOBTB BOITIO*. 



JiLBJINY: 

IRASTUS H. PEASI li CO 

T. U. Pbam, Nkw Uatsb. 

'im.' 




Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year isoo, 

BY JOHN p. NORTON, 

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of 

Connecticut, 






i. UnnSELL, PRINTER AND STEREOTTPER. 



PREFACE. 



This little treatise is an attempt to supply a great 
and growing want in our country; a want of some 
elementary work, that shall clearly and distinctly ex- 
plain the great principles that are involved in the 
applications of science to agriculture. The necessity 
for such a work has become apparent to all who have 
engaged in the dissemination of knowledge upon this 
subject; to all who have endeavored to arouse the 
farming community, by bringing forward incitements 
to the study of this new science. 

The agpricultural interest is now awaking to a fuU 
sense of its deficiences, and demands imperatively, 
that knowledge, in clear and comprehensive forms, 
be placed within its reach. 

We have large works of great merit, in Johnston's 
Lectures, and Stephens's Farmers' Guide; but {turn 
are too bulky for the man who has just begun to en- 
tertain the idea that there may, after all, be something 
IcarniHl from books. A small work of this kind is far 
more likflv to attract his att(>nfioi), and iTaduallv to 



IV PREFACE. 

lead him on, till he ends by an eager study of the 
larger treatises. 

In the general arrangement of the chapters, I have 
followed that marked out in Prof. Johnston's admirable 
Catechism of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. 
The expressed opinion of many teachers, " that the 
catechetical form was not adapted to the schools of 
this country, and that they needed a work of more 
fullness and detail," induced me to think of an effort 
to supply their wants. 

The approbation bestowed by the New- York State 
Society upon the essay, which, with some additions 
and alterations, has assumed its present shape, led to 
a more speedy completion of my half-formed plans, 
than I had anticipated. 

The teacher will perceive that the experiments, and 
the illustrations, occasionally recommended, are of the 
most simple character. No expensive materials are 
heeded, and, excepting a few cheap chemicals, almost 
any house could furnish every requisite article. 

No questions are appended to the chapters, for the 
reason that they would be a disagreeable interruption 
to the general reader, and would perhaps confine the 
teacher to a routine in his examinations. The chap- 
ters are, however, divided into sections and para- 
graphs, in a way calculated to fix the attention of the 
reader upon leading points. 

Questions should be asked with the distinct inten- 
tion of impressing at least the chief conclusions and 



PBEFACE. T 

facts of each chapter, in such a manner that they can 
not soon be forgotten. 

My aim has been, to furnish a complete sketch of 
scientific agriculture, in plain and intelligible lan- 
guage; accompanied by as many detaib and expla- 
nations as seemed desirable in a purely elementary 
work. 

As such, I beg leave to present it to the American 
farmer, and to the American teacher, with the hop« 
that it may be found adapted to their use. 

JOHN P. NORTON. 

Nsw-Hatsn, April 16, 1850. 



CONTENTS. 



Trne meaning of the word Askicvltvrb, page 1 

DiTuioa of bodiM into organic and inorganic subctancea, ... 4 

Organic tUmerda of planU. 

Carbon, 9 

H jdrag«n, 7 

Oxfgm^ • 

RibogaBf 11 

Inorganie part of planU, or aA. 

PMa^ 16 

Soda, 17 

Lime, . 17 

Magnaaia, 17 

Iron, .18 

Manganeae, ... 19 

Stitea, 19 

CUoriM, 90 

Salpkarie add... 91 

Fkoaphark aeid, . 99 

Yariatfaw in the compoaition of a«h, 98 

&Mrcw ^Ae t rgamie /ood ^ ptamtg. 

Carbonic acid gaa, •••*• tS 

Quantity of, in the atmoapher*, .» SO 

▲baorbad bj the laarea of plaitts, SI 

WvraUbm carbon to the plant, S8 

Caiboaalaodarivad fraaorfwaiaaabataaeaa bi^aett,.... SS 

8ew«aa of oxygaa and kvArafta of pteBta, S9 

Sowoaaof aiUogw of piMti, SS 

Amnosia. M 

Hitrkadd. . 37 



Till CONTENTS. 

The. organic substances of plants. 

Structure and functions of the roots, p, 39 

Of the stem and bark, 40 

Of the leaves, 41 

Properties and composition of water, 42 

Woody fibre, 44 

Starch, .' 44 

Sugar and gum, 45 

Dextrine, 46 

Gluten, legumin, casein, albumen, 47 

Sources of the supply of carbon to plants, 48 

Of hydrogen and oxygen, 50 

Of nitrogen, 51 



The soil. 

Composition, general, 53 

Of its organic part, 53 

Necessity of this part, and how it is to be kept up, 54 

Derivation and classification of soils, 56 

Number and names of inorganic substances in, 59 

Reason for fertility or barrenness in, . , 61 

Mechanical improvement of, 65 

Evil effects of too much moisture in, 66 

Draining, 68 

Proper depth, 69 

Materials to be used: stones, 70 

Tiles, 71 

Subsoil and trench ploughing, 73 

Relations between the soil and plant, 74 

Composition of ash from crops, 78 

Classification of plants according to the composition of their 

ash, 79 

Effect of these classes upon the soil, 81 

Of special manures, 81 

Of plaster of paris, or gypsum, 83 

Of rotations in cropping, 85 



Manures. 

Necessity for, 89 

Irrigation, 90 

Vegetable manures; green crops, 91 

Straw, 93 

Seaweed , rape dust, 94 

Animal manures; blood, flesh, hair, wool, 95 

Bones, 96 

Dissolved in sulphuric acid, 97 



Manures from domestic animals p. 101 

Liquid manures, and tanks, 102 

Why nitrogen in manares is valuatk*, 104 

Horse manures, 104 

M -'■ 'rom binb-, goano, 105 

i ires, Vtl 

> , 108 

Saline antl mineral manures ; lime, 109 

Various states in which lime is applied, llO 

Mari, .112 

Gypsunn, or plaster of paris, ... 114 

Common salt, nitrates, and sulphur .^, 116 

Their efleets, 118 

Modes of application of {wwerful manures, 1 20 

Wood ashes, 120 

Coal ashes, 122 

Potashes, 123 

Soot, 124 

CotnpOsttion of difrrmt <rop». 

Wheat and wfaeaten bread, 127 

Barley 129 

Oatmeal, buckwheat, rice, . 130 

Indian corn, sweet com, 131 

Pma and beans, 132 

PMatoea, ISS 

Tbrmipa, earroU, beeU, 4^- l94 

ComparattYs yield of various crops, . . 134 

OrasMS, 133 

Jfyplieation qf the cnpe in/eeding. 

Protein or nitrofenoos bodies simitar is plaats sad in ani- 

mals, 140 

Respiration, theory of, 141 

Uses of starch in, 142 

Of fatty and oily food, 143 

Of feeding young animal*. 144 

Of feeding full grown aniinu.:., 144 

Of feeding fattening animals, 147 

Of<i.tr,HKl, 149 

< . or fsadiuK n cut food, . 191 

uf shelter >1 r 152 

inqueoce of azarciae, Udrki K'l 

or aoakad iBod, 

Ofaowedfbod, iitS 

InAoenca of foo- .... IM 

Eiect of feadinK Itl 



X CONTENTS. 

Milk and dairy produce genercdly. 

Composition of milk, p. 163 

Galactometer, 165 

Of butter, 166 

Proper temperature for churning, 167 

Reasons for its frequent bad quality, 168 

Purification of salt, 169 

Casein or curd of milk, 169 

Varieties and composition of cheese, 170 

Reasons why soils in dairy districts become exhausted of 

phosphates, 172 

Feeding of milch cows, 173 

Recapittdatton 

Of leading points, 176 

JVature of chemiccd analysis. 

Requisites for a good analysis, 187 

Care and skill necessary, 189 

Simple chemical examination of a soil, methods for, 192 

Examination of marls, 195 

Examination of guanos, 196 

applications of geology to agriculture. 

Unstratified and stratified rocks, 199 

Granites, 200 

Trap or basaltic rocks, 202 

Difierent strata form difierent soils, 202 

Of drift, and its influence on soils, 204 

Alluvial deposits, 206 

Value of geological knowledge, 206 



ELEMENTS 

or 

SCIENTIFIC AGRICULTURE. 



CHAPTER L 

INTRODUCTION. ORGANIC ELEMENTS OF PLANTS. 

Tru« meanini; of the word agruulturt : how much more it meuM 
than U conimooly undfr^tood. Plant* divided into an organic 
and inorganic part t these words. Names of organic 

element! : Carbon a •Ttiea; hydrogen and its proper- 

ties-, oxygen and its )iro]><-riies-, nitrogen and its properties, 
with modes for obtaining all. Importance of these bodies. 

8ECTKM I. DEFINITION OP AGRICULTURE 

Agriculture, according to the usually accepted 

nMWi^'"g of the word, signifies the art of cultivating 

the wuL It is unnecessary to sav that this is its 

true meaning, and yet how few ol those who would 

promptly give the above definition seem to have any 

idea of all that is involved in the words " cui- 

the soil." 

\ i I that i.s cxdtivated, is thoroughly and more or 

icvs d' iply ploughed according to the situation, is 

mellow, is free from stumps and large stones, is dry 

and clear of hurtful weeds. How many fields in this 

condition are to be seen in most American villageil 

Are they in the majority, or do they constitute a very 

small minority? It is to l)e feared that there are few 

hoodsy even of liraitetl extent, fitt«il to chal- 

1 ■ liispection. 

1 



2 DEFINITION OF AGRICULTURE. 

How frequently and how largely do weeds, bushes, 
brambles, uneven surfaces, unsightly stumps, and ston*« 
scarred with many a mark of plough and harrow teeth, 
enter into the composition of our rural scenery; and 
this not in new settlements alone, but in older and 
long inhabited districts! 

Even if we suppose that we have our farm thorough- 
ly cultivated in the manner first described, is it suffi- 
cient? No, the art of cultivating the soil involves 
something beyond this. The thoroughly accomplished 
farmer must study the nature of various crops, until 
he finds those which are best suited to his land; if 
these are not such as pay him best, he must seek to 
bring about some change by means of which he can 
profitably grow those that will. This done, he must 
set himself to increase the quantity grown per acre, 
for on this increase depends his profit. It costs little 
more to cultivate the ground for a crop of 30 bushels, 
than for one of 10 bushels. 

The main end seems to be, in numerous cases, to 
obtain indeed a great yield of valuable produce, but 
with the least possible investment of money. Many, 
too many farmers go entirely upon this principle; they 
ought, however, to think farther, and then they would 
see that there is another point worthy of considera- 
tion. That point is, the keeping of the land in good 
condition. Cheapness in obtaining a present crop is 
not every thing : the prudent man will have an eye to 
the future; he will see that if he always takes away 
without adding, the richest land must ultimately be- 
come poor, or at least greatly reduced in value. 

The man who does this is like that one in the old 
fable who killed the goose that laid him daily a golden 
egg. He thought that there must be many eggs within 
the goose, but there was of course only one; and he 
found, when it was too late, that he had destroyed the 
source of his riches in a most foolish and shortsighted 



ABT OF CULTIVATIKQ THE SOIL. || 

nwnper So will it always be with the fanner who 
pursues & like system. Tempted by the idea of ob- 
taining 'A few crops with little expense now, he ruins 
his land for the future. 

The good farmer, then, desires to grow large crops 
with the least necessary cost, but at the same time never 
forgets that it is the best economy to keep his land in 
good condition, and even improving. In order to ac- 
complish this, he must do something more than merely 
plough and harrow, sow, plant and reap : he must 
think and study also. a. He must learn the nature of 
the various crops he raises or wishes to raise : these 
crops ditfer; he should seek to understand the differ- 
en» ' how they are causetl. b. One field he will 

fill' much in its nature from another; a certain 

Cf ^ here, and fails there : are these things 

at I or can he discover the rrasoos? c. In 

adding certain substances called manures to the soil, 
he fini diverse effects, not only in their application to 
different fields, but also to different crops : here is 
•nr*^ - • ♦ for study, d. His animals thrive on 
•01 k1. and (Ifrivc little benefit from others. 

Astua ^ '!!• V '!'<tfs sustains and increases 

tWirsi/ MiiL:iii, ^MiM upon great quantities of 

otlier varieties they grow poor. What are the pro* 
perties upon which these effects deperui 1 

Thus we perceive that the fanner who really wishes 
to understand the " art o/" cultivating the soiiy^* must 
go a long way beyond ploughing. He must, it is 
tri) ' how to get his soil into a 'c; but 

h« so know something as to tl' - of hb 

croptf, of tl which they irrow, of the 

manures wh , , lo increase ttat growth, 

and of the food which he supplies to his aiiim«>«. 

This, it may be said, involves t H study for a. 

practical working man. I reply, not nofO' 

sary for him to learn the Bumite Octails of sricnlifta 



ELEMENTS OF PLANTS. 



researches and discoveries. It is enough to begin with 
the leading principles that have been established; with 
these he will be able to work more intelligently than 
ever before, and to go on continually adding to his 
knowledsre. 



SECTION n. PLANTS DIVIDED INTO AN ORGANIC AND AN 
INORGANIC PART. 

In endeavoring to explain, in a simple manner, 
something of this desirable branch of knowledge, we 
will commence with the plant, and give in a clear 
connected shape the information that has been collected 
by the most approved writers and experimenters con- 
cerning it. Hard words and obscure phrases will be 
avoided whenever it is possible. 

We commence our examination with some inquiry 
into the nature of the materials which compose all of 
our crops. The first result arrived at is the existence 
of two grand classes of bodies, to one of which, or to 
a mixture of both, belongs every part of the plant. 

In connection with this fact, there is one peculiarity 
in all vegetable substances, that early attracts our 
attention. Whether we take the hard wood, the soft 
flexible straw, the leaf, or the root, we find that all are 
more or less combustible. When dry they generally 
burn readily, and with a flame, but we see at the same 
time that all does not disappear : the stalk of straw, 
or the piece of wood, for the most part burns away; 
but after the flame has gone out, there is always an ash 
left. Thus we establish a grand division : one part 
burns and disappears; another part is incombustible, 
and remains. Chemists have named the part that burns 
away, organic^naiter ,- and the part that remains, or 
the ash, inorganic matter. 

Fire, then, is one test, by means of which we dis- 



OBOANIC XLKMBm. 5 

tinguish organic from inorganic substances. To the 
first of these two classes we will now attend. 

The name organic is given, because organic bodies, 
being products of life, have an organized structure that 
can not be produced by artificial means. What is 
meant by an organized structure, may be seen by 
examining a cross section from the stem of a tree : 
this will be found to consist of little tubes and cells, all 
arrangefl in a regular manner. Under the microscope, 
a potato will appear made up of cells having grains 
of starch contained. So with other plants or parts of 
plants, they all have an organization that is a product 
of life, and which we therefore can not imitate. In- 
organic l)odies have no such structure, and can in 
many cases be produced by rhfrni< al processes. 

SECTION HI. OBOAXIC ELEMENTS OF PLANTS. 

The organic part in plants is by far the lartitst. as 
is plainly to be seen on burning any form of v«i:» fahlc 
matter. It ordinarily constitutes from 90 to 97 lbs. in 
every hundred. 

During the burning, this solid or tter dis- 

appears : it is driven off into the a:.. , Lre, until 
nothing but a little ash remains; that which has gone, 
then, has evidently become air. It is easy to see that 
this part of the plant can only have been formed from 
air at first. Such a conclusion n \ strange 

at first, but a little retlection \\ : we can 

arrive at no other. When \v( I, i.. -. .ui- up our minds 
to this, it becomes important to know what kind of air 
it is that forms so large a part of our plants, or if there 
is more than one kind. 

These points have been determined through the 
assistance of certain ('!:> ' \ ' \y means 

of which it has hwn \ .■.■ part of 

plants consists of four s. ;. :. > 
1* 



6 CARBON. 

Their names are Carbon, Oxygen, Nitrogen and 
Hydrogen. 

The whole of the organic part of vegetables and 
plants, the whole of the atmosphere, all water, and a 
very large part of the solid rocks which make up this 
globe, consist of one, two, three, or all of these four 
substances united in different proportions. These 
names then stand for bodies of immense importance; 
and it is very necessary that every farmer should at 
least know something about them. The three last, 
oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen, we find in their pure 
state as gases : gas is the chemical term for the dif- 
erent kinds of air. The other substance, carbon, is 
found in nature as a solid, and to this we will first 
direct our attention. 

Carbon is a solid, usually of a black color, and 
having no taste or smell. All the varieties of carbon 
burn more or less freely in the air, and, while burning, 
are converted into a gas called carbonic acid gas: this 
will by-and-by be described. 

One very abundant form of carbon is common 
charcoal; another is lampblack; others are coke and 
blacklead: the most beautiful form is the diamond. 
This, strange to say, though it looks so pure, clear and 
beautiful, and bears so high a price, does not diffier at 
all in its composition from common charcoal! A 
diamond can easily be burned by a high heat, and the 
product of the burning will be carbonic acid gas, just 
as when charcoal is burned. Charcoal seems to be 
soft; but if the fine powder in small quantity be rub- 
bed between plates of glass, it is found that the little 
particles are very hard, and able to scratch the glass 
almost as easily as the diamond itself. 

Charcoal has strong disinfecting properties : liquids 
that are quite offensive in smell, when filtered through 
it, become pure and sweet. The color is also extracted 
from many liquids by it. Some of these effects are 



>5 
HYDROGEN. 7 

owing to its power of absorbing gaseous and other 
substances, itself being full of pores. 

Both the flarae that we see in wood, and the bright 
glow of coal fires, are owing to the burning of carbon ; 
the flames of candles, of oil lamps, of ordinary coal 

f;as, are all colored by the combustion of this substance- 
t will soon be seen that it constitutes a very large 
proportion in the organic part of all vegetables and 
trees. 



Hydrogen, as I have said, is a gas, or kind of air. 
It is transparent, tasteless, colorless and inodorow. 
As we can not smell, taste or see it, we can only judWB 
of its properties by its action with other bodies. For 
this purpose it is obtained by putting pieces of zinc 
or iron tilings into water, and then adding sulphuric 
acid, that is, the common oil of vitriol. About a third 
as much acid as water should be use<i. The mixture 
will soon grow warm, and hydrogen gas will at once 
commence ri^ng to the surface in little bubbles. 

a. V ' -s be laid upon the top of the tumbler 
C-ontai mixture, so as to prevent the too rapid 

escape of tlu; gas, the tumbler will in a few moments 
become so filleii that the gas will burn when a flame 
is brought into contact with it 

ft. By far the most ^^ , 

■atisfactorv method is 
!.. ' ■' '• ■ .Ta- 
t, 1 in 

fig. 1. In tl)«- lK)ttIc 
are placctl the sul- 
phuric acid, zinc, and 

\V:iti'r X^i.. iTimifli of 

f' .-.! 

ti;.;niiv iiv :i (oik, i ' vhich pa«sses onc end of the 

tube a (this may ' •>« or tin); the other end 

passes under water m tin-, • "■ its roiintc being 




8 METHOD OF COLLECTING GAS. 

marked by the dotted lines c (this may be a common 
pail, or shallow water tub). A tumbler or other con- 
venient vessel is now filled with water, and inverted 
under the surface, so that it may contain no air, being 
filled entirely with water : it is then brought carefully 
over the orifice of the tube, and the ascending bubbles 
of gas displace the water until it is entirely driven out, 
the gas remaining confined. If a little shelf, hollowed 
somewhat underneath, and with a hole through it at 
the highest point of the hollow, be placed in the cis- 
tern, three or four vessels in succession may be filled 
over this hole and set aside for use, keeping the mouths 
always under water. A common tub of a shallow 
form will answer the purpose of a cistern. 

I have been thus particular in describing this little 
apparatus of the cistern, because all of the other gases 
concerning which we are to study may be received in 
the same way. It is perfectly eflfective, yet at the 
same time simple and cheap. 

The hydrogen being thus collected, w^e are next to 
ascertain what are its properties. 

1. It is inflammable : if a lighted taper be plunged 

into a jar of it, the gas will instantly take fire, and 

burn with a pale flame. This may also be shown by 

Pi ^ removing the cork from the bottle a 

in fig. 1, and substituting another cork 

with a short tube coming to a point 

as fig. 2. A match will kindle the 

jet of gas issuing from the orifice a, 

and it will continue to burn so long 

as the generation of gas within the 

bottle is active. 

2. Although inflammable itself, it 
is not a supporter of combustion. The 
[^ taper which kindles a jar of it, is it- 
self extinguished. 
3. It is much lighter than common air, being the 




OXYGEN. 9 

lightest of known bodies. This can be shown by 
turning the mouth of a jar filled with it suddenly up- 
ward, and at the same moment applying a taper. 
There will be a slight explosion, and a body of flame 
risino; from the jar. On the other hand, if the jar be 
gently liftetl and the flame applied beneath, the burning 
will be inside of the jai;, and quite gradual. This 
property may also be shown by filling a bladder with 
the gas, and allowing it to rise. It is often used for 
filling balloons, its lightness giving them very great 
buoyancy. 

4. Mixed with common air, this gas is dangerously 
explosive. The first portions which pass over from 
t^ ■' are therefore to be rejected; and a match 

er to ke applied to a iar or bottle containing 
it, or in which it is l)eing made, tcithottt having first 
tested the purity of a small quantity collecte<l in a little 
tube. If this bums quietly when a taper is placed 
beneath its mouth, the gas is sufficiently pure to use 
with safety. 

5. This gas can be breathed without very injuriooB 
effects, but it will not sustain life. In an atmasphere 
of pure hydrogen, every animal would soon die. 

The next of these three RMO u one of exceeding 
importance : its name is Oxyft^n. It is colorless, 
tav!. less and ino<loroas, like hydrogen, that is, when 
pure: as ordinarily made, it has some •••"■"ities. 
The easit'st way of preparing it is to i me 

« ' ' tash with a small portion lack 

in*"!*". Both of tho«e suhst w be 

V MS. 



' inary experiment:i 

t:.. .. !i should be powd-ri-. .:...: ...... i- 

fore \ ith the manganese. When all is ready, 

the itiiMui IS to be put into a flask with a thin bot- 



10 OXYGEN. 

torn, like those often used for holding sweet oil, and 
called Florence flasks. These will bear the heat of a 
lamp gradually applied, without breaking. Flasks of 
this kind, made expressly for such purposes, are now 
to be obtained in many places. When the mixture is 
introduced, a cork with a bent tube should be fitted in, 
and the gas collected over -yater in a cistern as before. 
The heat requires to be continued for some time, before 
the oxygen will begin to come off with much rapidity. 
Having collected a sufficient quantity, the qualities 
mentioned above will first become obvious. It will 
then be seen, 

2. That on applying a lighted taper, the gas does 
not inflame as did the hydrogen, nor is the taper 
extinguished; on the contrary, it burns with greatly 
increased and extreme brilliancy: it may be blown out 
and relighted by immersion in this gas, so long as the 
least particle of coal remains upon it. So intense is 
its action as a supporter of combustion, that many 
substances ordinarily incombustible take fire in it, and 
burn with great splendor. A spiral roll of small iron 
wire being tipped with sulphur, the latter lighted, and 
then the whole plunged into this gas, the wire is 
ignited, and burns with the utmost brilliancy. This, 
then, is a most powerful supporter of combustion. 

3. It is no less important to the support of life, 
whether animal or vegetable. Both plants and ani- 
mals speedily die when introduced into any atmosphere 
which does not contain it. In five gallons of common 
air, there is about one gallon of oxygen : when this is 
greatly diminished, animals die. 

If animals are brought into an atmosphere of pure 
oxygen, the efi'ect is found to be too powerful; the 
vital functions are so stimulated as in a very short time 
to wear themselves out by a kind of fever, all of their 
powers being made to act with too much energy. A 
mouse or other small animal, placed in a jar of oxygen, 



NITROGEN. 11 

will breathe verj- quick, become liighly excited, and 
spring about with the greatest activity. Its powers, 
however, are greatly over-stimulated : exhaustion and 
death consequently soon ensue. 

4. It is much heavier than hydrogen, and somewhat 
lighter than common air. 

5. This sub>* not only the grand supporter of 
combustion an . but is also the most powerful 
a, i; lor it has a property called by 
cl , that is, of uniting with nearly all 
other bodies and forming new combinations, leading 
either to a changed state or to decay. Thus it is not 
only the promoter of life, but of death and decomposi- 
tion. 

It mi&:ht be expected that a body of such immense 
iinptir " ould l>e abundant. ", we 

find ti. • n gas is in larger (jii lier 

element that is known. It forms, as has been said, 
a fifth of the atmosphere; in nine lbs. of water, there 
are eight of this gas; it exists largely in all plants, 
and, in combination with various inorganic bodies, it 
constitutes a large projxtrtion of the solid crust of our 
earth. We meet it in all places, and see its elTects on 
almost every known \hm\\. As the reader proceeds, 
he wi' 'saction, and will 

becoii. properties. In the 

ver^' next paragraph below is an instance of its ozi* 
dizing phosphorus. 

The last of these four most important organic sub- 
stances, is Nitrogen. This gas is easily prepared in 
sufficient purity for pur{>oses of ex|>erimtnt, by a very 
simple proci'ss. Common air, or our atmosphere, hM 
been 8tat< -fifth of oxirgen; the re- 

maining 1 .;en. In order to separate 

this nitrocen, we mvert an empty glass jar, and place 
the op«-ii iMiiiilli in vviitir t1iii>; •itiit'iiiiwr \vit)iiri the 



- 12 NITROGEN. 

jar a portion of air. Into this air is to be brought a 
piece of ignited phosphorus, contained in a little cup 
so as to float on the surface of the water. Phosphorus, 
as is well known, is very inflammable. While burn- 
ing, it unites with the oxygen of the air, and forms 
an important white acid compound called phosphoric 
acid : to this we shall have occasion to refer again. 
When the burning phosphorus is brought under the 
jar, the above described process at once commences, 
and continues till all of the oxygen in the air within 
the jar has combined with phosphorus. The nitrogen 
is now left nearly pure. A portion of the confined air 
expanded by heat, of course escapes at first, and the 
jar is filled with white fumes of phosphoric acid. 
These are gradually absorbed by the water, until at 
last the interior of the jar is quite clear. 

1. It is then to be perceived that this gas, like the 
two preceding ones, is colorless, inodorous, and taste- 
less. It has so few marked qualities that it is much 
more easily distinguished from the others by saying 
what it is not, than what it is. Among its negatives, 
then, we find, 

2. That it does not support combustion : a lighted 
taper, plunged into it, is extinguished instantly 

3. It does not burn itself, but remains unaltered 
after contact with flame. 

4. It is a little lighter than atmospheric air. It will 
for this reason remain some time in a jar held with 
the mouth downward, but at once escapes if the jar be 
inverted. Both of these facts may be shown by a 
lighted taper. 

5. It will not support vegetation alone, and animals 
soon die when placed in it. They do not seem to suffer 
from any active poisonous influence, but from a species 
of suffocation as in water. 

This gas is admirably adapted to the purpose which 
it serves in the atmosphere, of tempering the too great 



IMPORTANCE OP THE TOVR ORGAXIC ELEMENTS 13 

energy of the oxj'gen. Being incapable of burning 
or supporting combustion, it prevents the general con- 
flagration wiiich would occur in pure oxygen, and also 
reduces its strength to the proper proportion for sus- 
taining animal and \ ' ' ' ' 'in 
any poisonoas or dt aer 
gases would do. We see then that iu negative pro- 
perties just fit it for its office. 

I have been thus particular in describing simple 
processes for obtaining these gases, because every mind 
is better satisfied by direct and practical proofs. The 
experiments here criven are so easy that the most in- 
(.\ ' ' ' rform them 

\\ of any size 

where the ii«i - terialh and apparatus can not 

be found, and i with little expense. Every 

teacher should illustrate his explanations by these 
proofs; thereby impressing an idea of each substance 
upon the mind more indelibly than could be done in 
any other way. Many farmers could make them for 
their own satisfaction in leisure hours. 

The reader will now underst ^ it is that I 

have urgtnl the ne<:essity of Ih-coi; uainted with 

these organic Ixxlies; for he has seen that they not 
only compose by far the largft proportion of th« 
vegetable world, but that mixtures of two or three of 
them constitute the air we breathe, the water we drink, 
»nd, in one shape or another, a large part of the earth 
upon which we live. Are not these eminently bodies 
with which all of every profi'ssion ought to be well 
acquninte<I; and most of all the farmer, who depends 
on them under rarious forms for all success, who can 
not engage in the most simple operation without being 
inflijenced by them in different and most important 
ways? The man who knows the principal properties 
ami the peculiar energies of the materials with which 



14 CHEMISTRY AN ADDITIONAL SENSE. 

he has to do, provided he also has practical skill, is 
obviously in a much better position than the one who 
knows nothing of them, and scorns the very idea of 
learning anything from books. The former shapes his 
course from certainties, from actual reasoning based 
on his own knowledge; the latter does any particular 
thing only because he has seen it done before, or per- 
haps because some other person recommends it. 

Carbon is the only one of these four substances that 
is visible or tangible to our unaided senses, but we see 
that there are means of recognizing the others; that 
we are able to perceive their properties, and even to 
reason upon their various uses, with no less certainty 
than if we were able to grasp them in our hands and 
hold them up for inspection. Chemistry may thus be 
considered an additional sense. 



1& 



CHAPTER n. 

INORGANIC PART OF PLANTS. 

Tlw ash, <a inor^uiie part of pUnts. Names of rabstanees which 
CfNMlitBtc this part : Potash, Soda, Lime, Magoesia, Oxide of 
IxML, Oxide of Manganese, Silica, Chlorioe, Sulphuric acid, 
Pheaphoric acid. Description of their several properties. 

SBCnOif L 8UBSTAI«CES WHICH C0N8TITDTB THB INOSeANiO 
PART OF PLAWTS. 

It will be remembered, that although by far the 
larger portion of the plant disappears when fire is 
applied, there is always something remaining called 
the ash, or, as has been before explained, the inorganic 
part This name inorganic was given to denote a 
^riking difference between these two great classes of 
bodies, the or)]c^nic and the inorganic : the one being 
products of life and living organs; the other only 
taken bv the organs to ans^^ n purposes, not 

having been formed by them, iike them liable 

to quick destruction. 

This ash constitutes so small a part of all living 
plants, that it was for a long time thought to be a 

qiecies of ;-'-•-' ■- *- hut after a time, it 

Wi4 ibund were almost alwars 

present in tiic iii>h oi < The 

mkof the «tamf plant, • Ss, wv 

faand ' uattire; 

thasKl Mnately 

ever) ' t with its roots, 

but ha.. .V .<..;,..)-..■, w; .'^.t.v;.'^'... 



16 POTASH. 

The organic part of plants, although so much the 
larger, consists at most of four substances; but in the 
ash, we occasionally find as many as ten. These are 
named as follows : Potash, Soda, Lime, Magnesia, 
Oxide oj^ Iron, Oxide oy Manganese, Silica, Chlorine, 
Sulphuric Acid (oil of vitriol), and Phosphoric Acid. 

Here is a list of what may seem very hard names, 
but neither the farmer nor the scholar must be fright- 
ened at them : when he has once seen the substances 
to which they belong, and has learned by experience 
their more important properties, he will perceive that 
he is really able to comprehend something about them, 
and will at once recover from the feeling of dread and 
aversion which they at first excited. There may be 
some consolation, too, in the knowledge that the above 
list comprises the greater portion of the new words 
which will be employed in the succeeding chapters of 
this little work. We will then now commence with 
good courage, and notice each of these inorganic 
substances separately. 

Potash is well known as the extract by water from 
wood ashes, boiled down to dryness, a. It attracts 
moisture from the air when strong, and, if touched to 
the tongue, causes an acrid burning sensation called 
by chemists an alkaline taste: it is often strong enough 
to destroy the skin, and may be purified to such a 
strength as to corrode almost every perishable sub- 
stance. 6. When purified in the ordinary way, potash 
forms pearlash, which is simply potash deprived of the 
foreign bodies with which it was contaminated, and 
carbonated or combined with carbonic acid : in this 
state it is nearly white, c. Potash is quite abundant 
in plants : more so in some classes than others. It is 
injurious to some kinds of weeds, or at least is used 
to extirpate them by bringing in better kinds. 



SODA, LIMB AND MAGNESIA. 17 

Soda, We do not often see this substance by itself, 
but almost always in combination with other bodies. 
a. Some of the more common of these are carbonate of 
soda, that is, the common washing soda of the shops; 
and i' that is, common salt. Both 

of thi ain a large proportion of soda. 

6. It is white, atui wlien pure has the same attraction 
for water, the same caustic and burning taste, as pot- 
ash; in fact the two are much alike in many of their 
properties, and also in the purposes which they seem 
to serve in plants. 

Lime is a very common substance, and is well 
known in all its usual forms, a. As quick or caustic 
lime, it is of a white color, havine^ a strong burning 
ta ' ' 1 austic pr It absorbs large 

q . and at tl. 'no becomes hot, 

faiii! lie powder. ! , when 

expnv, air, does not r> : caustic 

state, but drinks in moisture and crumbles gradually 
away. b. In nature it is always found combined with 
some other body, as, for instance, the common lime* 
stone (car! * ' *' \ ♦■ ' 'ate of lime 
(gypAiim, t»"th most 

a' • ^;en 

I . _ .mg 

(j wn and t'xplaineti. Every ton 

(1 , , . I- i"', t^sorKs one-fourth of a 

ton of water, which : the stone itself. 

Mat^esia is not so well k . although it 

is abundant on the earth's su::... many rocks. 

a. The most common and easily obtained form is the 
calcined magnesia of the shops. This is a light, 
whitr. tasteless substance, familiar to all who use much 
I " T' salts, so vogue as a rae- 

. is anotht ind of magnesia. 

h. WltenburiH'ti, magnesia has something of the I 



18 IRON. 

properties of lime, but not by any means to the same 
extent. It is a constituent of many rocks, and par- 
ticularly of one class of limestones, hence called mag- 
nesian limestones, or sometimes dolomites. Although 
magnesia is necessary to plants, it is found that too 
great a quantity of lime made from these dolomites is 
decidedly injurious to crops. 

IroTiy in its metallic state, presents an appearance 
that must be familiar to all. This metallic state, 
however, that of a hard bluish gray substance, is not 
found in nature. The metal, as extracted from the 
ore beds and mines, is always in combination or union 
with some other body. a. Most commonly it is united 
with oxygen, forming what are called oxides. Metallic 
iron has a strong tendency to form these oxides. Every 
one knows that if bright iron be exposed to the air 
for any length of time without protection, it speedily 
becomes covered with rust, particularly if the place 
where it lies be damp. The farmer finds that his bright 
plough, exposed to a shower or to a night's dew, be- 
comes streaked with rust. This rust is an oxide of 
iron; that is, a portion of the metal has united with 
a portion of oxygen from the air, and has thus formed 
this new compound. 

b. There is more than one oxide of iron, but that 
which is usually found in plants, and which is common- 
ly known under the name of iron rust, is called by 
chemists the peroxide of iron; this is to distinguish it 
from another oxide, to which we shall have occasion 
to allude in a subsequent chapter. From such a dis- 
tinction being made, the inference will naturally and 
correctly be drawn, that the oxygen and the iron unite 
in definite proportions: a certain quantity of iron unites 
with a certain quantity of oxygen, to form the per- 
oxide; if the proportions are altered, we have some 
<»ther oxide. Where, however, there is an abundance 



OXIDE OF MANGANESE, AKD SILICA. 19 

of oxygen, it is always the peroxide that is formed : 
hence we invariably find thi^ v- ' on exposed iron 
surfaces, and in plants. 

The substances hitherto described have all been 
those that are found quite abundantly; but that which 
is now to be mentioned, the Oxide of Manganesty is 
more rare. M t our cultivated plants are 

finrnd to be wi: ir ash far more of^en than 

with it; and whtii ii i t in the soil, we eaa 

not, from any experirn therto made, see tliat 

their growth is more luxuriant- In some trees it is said 
to exist abundantly; but for the ash of our cultivated 
crops generally, I am inclined to think that it can 
■careely be considered an indispensablt- '*' lent 

li « n g ^n«><i c is a metal so m e w i ia t reaembli: but 

■ueii leas abundant. It also is always found iu some 
teflB|x>und form, never as a pure metal. It forms 
oxides with oxyG:en; and one of these, the black 
oxide, is of much value in certain manufacturing pro- 
cesMa. For tht-st- purposi's, it is mined whenever it is 
found in large quantity. This black oxide may easily 
be obtained and shown to a class. .\s it is now large- 
ly used in some manufactures, it is a cheap article. 

Silica is a substance that exists abundantly in almost 
all plants, oflen forming more than half of the whole 
ash. a. We see a nearly pure form of it in the com- 
mon quartz crystals, or agate, or cornelian, or flint : 
thes«> all consist almost entirely of silica. SpecioMOt 
of silit .1. in some foTO, may be found in alnKtst every 
:. as it is one of the most common minerals. 
Wl.ii. jr, ;! tly pure, it is a very hard, white sub- 
stance, tasti I< ss, and quite difficult to melt The fine 
riins in ordinary sandstones are particles of silica. 
It is not dissolved in wat«>r, and evoi strong acids 
nro«)> rfrtH:;t: how si ' hen that it should 

be f<' . . liiundantly in tt; n>rof plants! 



20 CHLORINE. 

Chlorine is a kind of gas. It is easily prepared by 
mixing a little muriatic acid with some of the com- 
mercial black oxide of manganese; a gentle heat being 
then applied, chlorine is given off, and is conducted 
into receivers in the manner before described under 
oxygen and hydrogen, a. Water, when cold, absorbs it 
largely, and therefore the water in the receptacle where 
the gas is collected should be hot. b. It is, however, 
so much heavier than common air, that it may be col- 
lected in sufficient quantity by carrying the conducting 
tube to the bottom of a jar or bottle. The top being 
partially covered, so as to prevent too free access of 
air and consequent agitation, the vessel can be filled 
with chlorine as readily as with water, c. If the glass 
is white, it will be perceived that the chlorine now 
filling it is of a decided green color. 

d. The sense of smell should be tested cautiously in 
this case, as the gas has a most suffocating and dis- 
tressing effect when inhaled even in small quantity. 
The consequences of a single breath of it taken by 
mistake, are often felt for days in its irritating effect 
upon the lungs and throat. The method of collection 
last mentioned will show that it is heavier than 
common air, but this may be farther illustrated by 
pouring it from one glass into another. 

e. Phosphorus takes fire spontaneously in this gas, 
and so do several of the metals when powdered, anti- 
mony for instance. A taper plunged into it burns at 
first with an enlarged red smoky flame, but soon goes 
out. 

y*. Chlorine has a peculiar power of bleaching, and 
is used very largely in the arts for such purposes. Al- 
most any of the ordinary calicoes may be bleached by 
placing them in water saturated with it. The color 
of red cabbage liquor is very easily destroyed by a 
very small quantity. 

g. It unites, with soda, one of the bodies already 



SULPHURIC ACID. 21 

mentioned, and forms common salt, a substance having 
harmless properties in itself, and differing most widely 
from either of those out of which it is formed. 

Sulphuric add is the common oil of vitrioL a. It 
has commonly been called an oil, because of its thick 
oily appearance, but has few other properties of oils. 
It is, like them, rather soft and agreeable in its first 
feeling upon the skin, but this sensation is instantly 
iucceeded by an intense burning pain; for the acid is 
to powerful in its corrosive effects, as to destroy both 
skin and flesh wherever it touches. Cloth is at once 
ruined by it, eaten out in holes. A ver)- small quan- 
tity taken into the mmith and swallowed is fatal, as 
all of the in' ' ed or seriously 

injured by i en many cases 

of death from accidentally swallowing even so small 
a portion as part of a spoonful. 

b. The name acid would naturally cause us to sup- 
pose that this liquid would be sour; and a taste of it 
even when larg^ely diluted with water, shows it to be 
ao i' '' thus diluted, so that the skin 

ma .it is not poisonous, and has 

a r sti-. 

/' ^ J ' t\ with blue litmus, a sulstance to 

be found in many apothecaries' shops, be dipped into 
this or other acids, »♦ will become red : if the paper 
thus turned red be dipped into a solution of nota>li <>r 
8oda or ammonia, it will become blue agam. This 
furnishes a t«^t by means of which we can tell whether 
flui id or alkaline. 

< ^ irio acid is occasionally found in springs, 
uncombintnl with any thing. There arc some in 
western New York, near Lockport, where the water as 
it comes from the spring is sour as vinegar, owing to 
the pn'sence of free s»»lp)r M. 

d. This is a much hi. , lid than water. A 



W SULPHURIC AND PHOSPHORIC ACIDS. 

stream of it poured gently into a cup of water from a 
small distance above the surface, can be seen to sink 
directly to the bottom. When agitated so as to mingle 
it with the water, the mixture becomes quite hot, be- 
cause a chemical union takes place between the two 
liquids. 

e. This acid, except in such cases as the above, is 
always found in a state of combination with some other 
substance, and then can not be recognized by any of 
the properties which I have mentioned. In some of 
these forms of combination, it is very abundant. One 
of them, and an important one to the farmer, is gyp- 
sum, or plaster of Paris. This, as is well known, is a 
solid, and has no acid taste : it, however, consists of 
sulphuric acid united with lime, forming what is termed 
by chemists sulphate of lime. In every 100 lbs. of 
plaster of Paris are about 33 lbs. of sulphuric acid, 
46 lbs. of lime, and 21 lbs. of water. 

Epsom salts consist of sulphuric acid and magnesia; 
alum, of sulphuric acid, alumina and potash. From 
all of these the acid can be separated by chemical 
means. It is used largely for various manufacturing 
purposes, and is made by burning sulphur (brimstone), 
with certain precautions, in large leaden chambers. 
This acid will be subsequently seen to be a substance 
of great importance for various purposes in agriculture. 

Not less important is the next body on our list, 
phosphoric acid. It is also very sour, and is usually 
seen as a white powder. If a stick of phosphorus is 
burned, white fumes are seen to rise in large quantity. 
The phosphorus unites while burning with the oxygen 
of the air, and forms phosphoric acid. If these white 
fumes are passed through water, it will become sour, 
as it dissolves the acid : they may also be condensed 
on a cold glass plate. 

a. This body can be show^n in a yet sipipler manner 



Of TH£ ASU Of PLANTS. 23 

by burning a common locofoco match : the white 
smoke which goes off at first before the sulphur ig- 
nites, is phosphoric acid. Phosphorus is used in the 
making of these matches, because it is a substance that 
inflames easily by a little friction. All who have rub- 
bed them on a wall or board in the dark, have oljserved 
that they leave a qui' istinctlv 

visible. If the mat. i it will 

also appear bright, and the peculiar smell of phos- 
phorus may be perceived. • 

Phosphoric acid does not seem to exist in so large 
quantity as sulphuric acid, as it does not constitute a 
principal portion of any of our rocks. It forms a very 
important part of the bones of animals. 



n. DVnEKHCBB m THB A8B or CULTITATKD 
PLAMTS. 

We have now noticed each of the substances that 
were named as occurring in the inorganic part of 
\y of their more remarkable 

jii >n forms of appearance as 

•eetaed uccessary to their recognition by the practical 
man. 

It has been already stated, that with one or two 
o'' '-"'""al exceptions, they are all fouinl in the ash of 

< I plants. Sometimes one and sometimes an- 
( it, but gtii. " • find small quantities 

< It does : .V frotn thU. however, 
V plant contains tlu- sainr n of ash. 

i k of a tree, for instiuioe, i: _ td of its 

bark, does not yield more than from one to two {loimds 
of ash in one hundrwi of wood, while the stalk of grass 
or straw of i^rain Inijuently contains from 6 to 14 lbs. 

in 100. There are some plants which ^< '" ' on- 

tain any a.sh whatever, and others in whi us a 

large proportion. This difference exists nut only be- 



24 DIFFERENCES IN THE ASH OF PLANTS. 

tween various plants, but between the parts of the 
same plant. 

If we examine the straw of wheat, we find usually 
6 or 7 per cent of ash; the leaf contains 7 or 8 per cent, 
and the grain not more than 1 or 2 per cent. So in 
turnips or beets, the dried roots have no more than 
from 1 to 2 per cent of ash, while the dried leaves 
often leave from 20 to 30. These facts are to be 
remembered. 

When we pursue t)ur researches a step further, and 
separate the substances which make up the ash of dif- 
ferent plants, we find that here also is a great variation. 
The ash of potatoes is more than half potash, while the 
ash in the grain of wheat contains much less potash, 
but is about half phosphoric acid. The ash of clover 
and lucerne often contains twice as much lime as that 
of herdsgrass or timothy hay. 

We may thus divide plants into classes according 
to the composition of their ash. In the ash from the 
seed of wheat and all of our cultivated grains, phos- 
phoric acid is the leading ingredient; in that from 
turnips, beets and other roots, it is much less, while the 
alkalies potash and soda increase; in the tubers of the 
potato they constitute more than half; in the grasses, 
lime and silica are more abundant, and in some, as 
the clovers, lime becomes a leading substance; in the 
stems of most trees lime abounds yet more, and in many 
cases exceeds in quantity any thing else. These facts 
have a marked bearing on many practical points which 
we have yet to consider. 

It was stated that the quantity of ash varied in 
different parts of the same plant, as, for example, in 
the straw and the grain of wheat. This variation in 
quantity is not more marked than that in the com- 
position of these two ashes. In the ash of the straw 
we find that there is a great proportion of silica, and 
very little phosphoric acid; while in that of the grain, 



KECAPITULATION OF PACTS. S5 

more than half is phosphoric acid, and there is scarcely 
any silica. When we come to consider the purposes 
for which these paits are intended, the cause of such 
variations will be plainly perceived. We even find io 
many plants a distinction between the composition of 
the ash at the bottom of the stalk, and that at the top. 
In all cases the ash from the husk which covers the 
seed, as in oats, barley or buckwheat, difiers exceetl- 
incly in its constitution from that of the seed itself. 
^^' ' " !!t chapters see what is the cha- 

, and understand at least a part 
of the reasons for it. 

We have now called attention to several valuable 
facts respecting the inorganic part or ash of plants : 

1. All of the inorganic substances described are 
r""*""'"v present in our cultivated crops, but not in- 
^ : sometimes one or two are absent 

z. 1 ne quantity of ash yielded by different plants 
varies. 

3. The composition of this ash also varies, and in 
as great a degree as the quantity. 

4. This applies not only to different kinds of plants, 
but to ditferent parts of the same plant 

Upon these four points depend many of the most 
important '■ - — ; lture,and we s! " " ! 

them coii with all of thi 

•abjects which urc yet tu engage our attention. Let 
tbe reader, then, before proceeding farther, understand 
them thoroughly and impress them upon his memory. 



36 



CHAPTER m. 

SOURCES OF THE FOOD OF PLANTS. 

Organic food; derived from the soil in forms of combination 
chiefly. Carbonic acid gas: proportion present in the atmo- 
sphere : absorbed through pores in the leaves: decomposed in 
the leaf, and oxygen given off during da3'light. Organic acids 
in soils. Sources of hydrogen and oxygen ; of nitrogen. 
Ammonia. Nitric acid. 

SECTION I. ORGANIC FOOD OF PLANTS. 

Having named and described the various substances 
from which the ash of plants is made up, and which 
may therefore be considered their inorganic food, we 
must now see what are the sources of their inorganic 
as well as of their organic food. 

An organic and an inorganic part being absolutely 
essential to the existence of every perfect plant, it 
becomes necessary that the farmer should know where 
the different bodies come from, that are to make up 
these parts. This knowledge is of advantage, as en- 
abling him to increase natural sources of supply, or to 
devise artificial means of furnishing what is deficient. 

It is quite clear that a plant which is to grow 
rapidly, must have a constant supply of the two classes 
of food, and, moreover, that this supply must be pre- 
sented in a shape immediately available. It is of no 
use to the crops of the present season, to say to them 
that there is an abundant supply of manure in the 
barnyard : they want it near their roots, and will not 
flourish without it there. So of all other things re- 
•quired in the soil, they must not only be present, but 



FOOD FROM THE SOIL AND FIOM THE AIR. S7 

must be in a soluble state, capable of immediate 
employment in building up the plant. The farmer, 
then, who knows best what is needed, knows how to 
furnish it so as to have the best crops, and at the least 
ea^iense. 

At -, ination of the leavra and of the roots of 
a li' ', shows that it obtains a portion of its 

food air, and i from the earth. 

n. \c food. _r as it does of solid 

in the air, and must 
U : -. j,h tlie roots. 

h. The organic food comes partly from the soil, and 
partly from the air through the leaves. It may be 
asked. How we know that plants get food through 
t" ves? This is easilN '. If we place the 

leaves of a grow ' in a portion of 

air, the oomp' and 

I tie reexttiiineii -^ts a 

day or two aAerward, it will be found that its com- 
position has changed: a portion of it has <'■- '■^•>' ;ired, 
havini; been absorbed by the plant tlirou ives. 

c. If the confined ;i ' ' 

bonicacid, a portion h.i 1 

by oxvi?eiu 

d. it therr 15 no rnrhonir acid presen' . ater 
or a. I. The i »• of 
the:>c .,.- ._ . • tl. 

We have las in which 

plant" ■-•••- •' * ■* ■ - t 

oaoi' 

pot:- 



the ; ich we I 

diiui;..v iuw.^^.t. la their > 
of plants, bat, as do tha iiK* 
ma. of oomlniiatioii. 



28 CARBONIC ACID GAS. 



SECTION il. CARBONIC ACID, ITS SOURCES AND PRINCIPAL 
PROPERTIES. 

One of the most important of these combinations is 
known to chemists as carbonic acid gas. This gas is 
very abundant in nature, and combines with many 
solid substances, forming what are called carbonates. 

a. Common limestone is a carbonate of lime; and 
if muriatic acid be poured upon it, a violent efferves- 
cence takes place, caused by the escape of this gas. 

b. So in the common soda powers, the soda is a 
carbonate of soda; and when tartaric acid is added, a 
violent effervescence ensues, as all have often seen. 
This too results from the escape of carbonic acid gas. 

c. It causes the froth on beer, and on the surface of 
all fermenting liquids. 

It is easily collected in glass receivers over water, 
in the same way as heretofore described. Pouring 
muriatic acid upon common limestone powdered, or 
upon carbonate of soda, is a convenient and cheap 
method of obtaining this gas. If it be done in a tall 
glass or wide-mouthed bottle, the gas will rise and 
fill the bottle, so that its properties may be examined. 

1. The first thing apparent will be, that a lighted 
taper plunged into the bottle is instantly extinguished; 
thus showing that the gas neither inflames itself, nor 
supports combustion. 

2. It will be perceived that carbonic acid gas is 
heavier than common air. It does not rise and mingle 
with the air, but fills the vessel like water. The taper 
will burn freely until it reaches its surface, and for a 
moment even after the lower part of the flame is im- 
mersed. When the vessel is full, the gas, in place of 
rising, flows over the edge and downward as water 
would do. It may be poured from a vessel upon a 
candle or tai)er so as to extinguish it, provided that 



COMPOSITION OF CARBONIC ACID. 29 

there be no strong draft to sweep it away. It may in 
til is manner be transferred I rem one vessel to another. 

3. A third important property of this eas is, that 
all animals compelled to breathe it instantly fall, and 
in a very few moments die. This may be shown by 
placing a mouse or other small animal in an atmo- 
sphere of it. Owing to its weight, it sometimes ac- 
< ' ' > in sheltered hollows, and is the cause of 
i ulents. In brewers' vats when fermentation 

takt* place, and in some wells, it is apt to collect, and 
persons lowereil incautiously to clean them suddenly 
tail insensible. All danger may be avoided by simply 
lowering a lighted candle before any one goes down: 
if the camlle burns freely at the bottom, there is no 
risk in descending. 

This gas consists of carbon and oxygen; 6 lbs. of 
<M;'>(>n and 16 lbs. of oxygen forming 22 lbs. of car- 
Ixiiiu; acid. Chemists call it carbon 1 and oxygen 2. 
It is easy to prove this fact by burning charcoal, which 
it will be remembered is one form of carbon, in a jar 
of pure oxygen gas. When the charcoal has ceased 
to burn, the air remaining in the jar will be carbonic 
acid; a.s carbon ami nxvir«'n wpre the only two sul^ 
statu. s pn-srnt, !!>■ "' ■ " ' ". liave 

i»« I n !(i:iiif<l by tl. 

This is another ical 

changes in th»* pi , , i all 

who study this subject soon become familiar. Carbon, 
a hard inflammable solid, unites with oxygen, a light 
gas, supporting combastion and animal life in a roost 
remarkable degree; to form ' ' <. havior 

a much greater weight, ti. If. MM, 

when unmixed with air, destructive to . ■ 

form of life. 

Carbonic acid exists naturally in very large quantity. 
It is invariably prwent in the .f»".^^>^borc. For a 
long time this was thought to I tal, but later 



30 CARBONIC ACID PRESENT IN THE ATMOSPHERE. 

experiments have shown that it is always there in very 
nearly the same proportion. This proportion is quite 
small, being only jjg'gTjth of the whole bulk, or about 
j^i,j jth of the whole weight. It seems insignificant, 
too much so to be noticed; but when we come to cal- 
culate from the known weight of the atmosphere on 
each foot of the earth's surface, we find that there is in 
the air over each acre of ground about seven tons of 
this gas. This is a considerable quantity, and, when 
calculated over the whole surface of the earth, amounts 
to billions of tons. It is foimd to be just graduated 
to the wants of both plants and animals. All living 
things, as has been said, die in an atmosphere which 
contains a large proportion of this gas. Plants, 
however, require a certain portion of it to be spread 
through the air, that they may draw it in through their 
leaves. This is necessary to their life, as they will 
not live for any length of time in an atmosphere where 
there is no carbonic acid gas, and will not flourish if 
the proportion of j^'o^jth be greatly reduced. On the 
other hand, if this proportion be much increased, if 
more carbonic acid be introduced into the air, the effect 
is also injurious. The proportion of carbonic acid 
may with benefit be increased, according to some 
experiments, so long as the sun shines and daylight 
continues. When the sun goes down, however, and 
darkness comes over the earth, more of this gas than 
is usually present does harm. We see then that the 
Creator has regulated the quantity of carbonic acid, so 
that there is just enough for the necessities of the plant, 
and not so much as to injure either plants or animals, 
while at the same time regard has been had to the 
alternations of day and night. 



rOBES IN Tin • -vrs OF PI.1NT5?. 31 

* 

aeCTlON III. CARBONIC ACID GAS OP THE ATMOSPHERE AB- 
80RBEU AND DECOMPOSED BY THE LEAVES OF PLANTS. 

It has been said that this gas is necessary to the 
life ol' the plant, and that the leaves draw it in from 
the air. Those who have never studied the structure 
of the leaf, will be surprised to hnd how admirably 
it is adapted to this purpose. When examined by a 
microscope, its whole surface is seen to be covered 
with md beneath : each of 

thest , ii, intended to receive 

i(X)d, or to jjive olf something that the plant no longer 
requires. These pores have an immense variety of 
shapes and sizes in different leaves, as shown by the 

microt-cope. A ' • ' ■*•": power discovers more 

than 170,000 • inch upon the surface 

oi some leaves : uUit-rs txavc not ' .in 6 or 700. 

It is tasy for any person tosa;. -tlf that such 

pores do actually < : that the ditlerent sides of 

the same leaf hav< it properties. A common 

cabbage leaf, for instance, when applied with the under 

sidp to a wound or cut, will draw quite powerfully, 

I : i'..- a dLs«;harge, while the upper or smooth side 

Mce no such etftHt; thus sbowioff that on tlie 

are pon-s whii h have a power <M absorption. 

li iil)er and very small, it 

won llect enough carbonic 

hut we hnd that all plants which 

• ither quite large leaves, or a great 

Thus they are able to expose 

• 'o the passing wind, and to 

li i in the abape of earbonic 

it has been found that reiy 

. such as grape vines, melona, 

a, t'U., whin in full <: H as 

I > nearly all of the carlxM , ite a 

sMit current of air, so that only very slight traces of 



32 LEAVES ABSORB CARBONIC ACID DURING DAYLIGHT. 

it can afterwards be found. How active must every 
little mouth on the leaf be at such a time ! 

a. The effect of the carbonic acid thus absorbed, is 
to hasten the growth of the plant by furnishing part 
of the material from which its stalks, stems, leaves, 
etc., are composed. But it may be asked, is the whole 
of the carbonic acid used, or only a part? We re- 
member that it is composed of two substances, oxygen 
and carbon; are both of these, or only one, retained? 

b. It is not dithcult for the reader to satisfy himself 
on this point. If the leaves of a flourishing growing 
plant be immersed in an inverted vessel full of water, 
and exposed to the rays of the sun, little bubbles of 
air will gradually begin to form, and to increase in 
size imtil they rise and collect in the upper part of the 
vessel. If fresh branches be occasionally placed in 
the water, and the operation thus continued for a time, 
enough air will be collected for purposes of experi- 
ment. It will then be found that this air, which has 
thus escaped from the surface of the leaves, shows all 
of the properties which were described under oxygen. 
It is in fact pure oxygen, thus showing that the carbon 
of the carbonic acid is retained in the plant to con- 
stitute a portion of its bulk, while the oxygen goes off 
through the pores of the leaf. The pores in the under 
side of the leaf usually effect the absorption, the de- 
composition goes on in the interior, and the oxygen is 
given off through the pores on the upper part. These 
pores have for their office to give off, while that of the 
others is to receive. Some plants will live for a long 
time if the under surface of the leaves is kept con- 
stantly wet; if the upper only be wet, the plant soon 
dies. If either surface be varnished, so as to stop the 
pores, great injury results. 

During daylight the leaves are constantly absorbing 
carbonic acid, and giving off oxygen; but as soon as 



CAB BON OBTALNED FROM THE SOIL. 33 

on goes down, a change takes place : an exami- 
«.>v.v.a will now show that it is carbonic acid which 
passes off from the leaves, and oxygen that is being 
absorbed. It is just the reverse of what goes on during 
the day. 

a. This curious fact shows why it is that plants 
grow so rapidly in the long days of sununer. The 
nights are then comparatively a small portion of the 
day, so that for by far the greater part of the twenty- 
four hours the plant continues to absorb carbonic acid, 
and to build itself up with the carbon thus obtained 

b. In Greenland and Karaschatka the summer is not 
more than two or three montlis, but during that time 
it is always daylight, the sun scarcely going below 
the horizon at all. Certain plants are thus enabled 
to grow so fast as to mature and ripen their seed, even 
in that short summer. We see now this beautiful 
provision of nature tends to equalize different climates. 
If the nights of the short Greenland summers were 
even so long as our shortest, their crops would never 
ripen; butasth<\ ' ' n 
get enough f<xxl ; • .^ 
a large part of their lung winter. 

tlCnON IT. CAKBON ALSO OBTAINBD BT PLANTS PBQM 
TRB 80IU 

We see that plants are able to obi.tin mm h » .irl>on 
from the air, but it is found that a rnnsid. rabK- quan- 
tit\ 'he soil also. This is all, in one lorin 

or An in through the roots. The rain 

water whuh falls upon the surface, and all of the 
spring water found tnere alrea«i\ . < mitains Mirin- i :ir- 
bonic acid dissolved. This v 
carries with it a variety of muo><iii<<:^ m 
which the plant seems to use or not as it um 
among tboie is carbonic arid. This is proi>ar>iy tne 



34 HUMUS AND HUiMlC Ai^iU. 

chief form in which carbon is obtained from the soilj 
but there exist in contact with the roots, other som-ces 
of this important article of food. Every soil contains 
more or less of organic matter, derived from the decay 
after death of plants and animals. Where abundant, 
this gives a black color to the soil, and one containing 
a large proportion of it is frequently described by 
farmers as a vegetable mould. While plants, etc. are 
decaying to form this mould, various compounds con- 
taining carbon are the result. Quite a number of 
these have been examined by chemists, but it is not 
necessary to say much of them here. 

a. Humus is a name often given to the black mould 
of a rich vegetable soil, and this probably because a 
great part of the mould consists of a substance called 
humic acid. This acid may be obtained by boiling 
some rich mould or peat in a solution of common soda, 
continuing for an hour or two; filtering through a 
piece of blotting paper, and then making the liquid 
quite sour with muriatic acid. Little brown flocks 
will soon begin to appear, and will fall to the bottom: 
these are humic acid. 

h. This substance may serve as a specimen of a 
large class that are contained in the organic part of 
the soil. They all consist of carbon, oxygen and 
hydrogen, and in many situations are extremely 
abundant. They do not decay or dissolve very easily, 
and it is not supposed that plants get a large pjart of 
their carbon in this way. It seems certain, however, 
that they do get some; and it is found that in most 
cases where soils contain much of this organic matter, 
they are quite fertile. In all ordinary situations, it is 
supposed that at least two-thirds of the carbon in plants 
comes from the air, the remaining third in various 
forms from the soil. This is shown by the fact that 
plants cultivated year after year, cause the organic 
matter of a soil to diminish quite rapidly. 



rLANTS DECOMPOSE WATEl. 36 



SECTION V. SOURCE OF THE OXYGEN AM) HYDROGEN OF 
PLANTS. 

Beside carbonic acid, the leaves of plants absorb 
through their pores a large quantity of water. During 
the day when the hot sun is upon them, the evapora- 
tion is of course far more than the absorption, and in 
wne the leaves may be seen to droop in the 
(i; but let the sun be obscured and the atmo- 
spiiere become misty and damp, and they soon absorb 
enough moisture to strengthen their failing stems. 
Every farmer knows that a light shower, which only 
moistens the leaves without wetting the ground at all, 
will revive his crops for many hours. Nothing in this 
case can have be* : ' ' ' »• roote. 

Water, as ha«: I -f oxygen and 

' ! by the plant, 

rvice in mois- 
tening its various parts and furnishing a circulating 
fluid, but gives its oxygen or its hydrogen or both, na 
the plant may happen to require. Water has a pe- 
culiar adaptation to this purpose, and to others equally 
useful in the interior of the plant, in the facilitv with 
which it is .' ( ■ ;,• acid .n? " " r 

(dtemical su! .• with l 

ficulty; but tlif fUmrnt.s ol' water, a substance so 
universally diffusH and so indispensable, separate 
easily, affording hydrogen here, oxygen there, to the 
necessiti*"- "f »'•*• plant. 

SECTION VI. THE NITROGBN OF PLANTS. 

hyd 

one tmnv ot \hv orgnnir b« 

to them: this is nitrogen; r. ;.:...:. 

the mo«t prohahle source of this gas. a. As it fits 



36 PLANTS DO NOT OBTAIN NITROGEN FROM THE AIK. 

been said that the atmosphere consists of oxygen and 
nitrogen, we might naturally conceive that the leaves 
absorb this gas, as well as carbonic acid. Experiments 
have shown that this is not the case to any extent. 
After many careful trials, it has not yet been certainly 
proved that any nitrogen at all is obtained by the 
greater number of plants in this way. If there is, the 
quantity must be in most cases very trifling indeed. 

b. This is one of the most remarkable points con- 
nected with the nutrition of plants. Here we have, 
in the air which surrounds the plant, and presses 
against every part of it, an immense quantity of the 
gas nitrogen. It constitutes four-fifths of the whole 
atmosphere, and yet we cannot find that plants absorb 
it in any quantity whatever. On the contrary, as we 
have seen, they select out another kind of gas, car- 
bonic acid, although it is present in so small a pro- 
portion as j-'^^th. This shows conclusively that the 
leaves do not draw in through their pores every thing 
that is presented to them indiscriminately, but that 
they have a power of choosing those kinds of food 
best adapted to their wants. 

c. Thus |he smallest plant has the power of doing 
what man Tjy his unaided senses never has been able 
to accomplish, and which he has only learned to do 
by artificial means within a few years. Every little 
worthless weed by the wayside has its leaves spread, 
its thousands of mouths open, selecting and drawing 
in from the passing air food best adapted to its wants. 

As plants obtain, according to the above statements, 
little if any of their nitrogen from the air directly 
through their leaves, they must obviously get it in 
some way through their roots. There are two bodies 
M-hich are now considered the chief sources of supply: 
these are called ammonia and nitric acid. 

Ammonia is a gas, composed of nitrogen and hy- 
drogen. We do not find it largely in this shape, 



AMMONIA AND NITRIC ACID. 37 

however, on account of the strong tendency which it 
has to unite with othtr bodies, such as carbonic acid, 
sulphuric acid, etc. When it can not find any thing 
else, it is at once absorbed by water, which will take 
up an immense quantity of it before becoming satu- 
rated. A pint of cold water will absorb between 6 
and 700 pints of ammonia. The aqua ammonia of 
the shops, is water through which ammonia has been 
passed until it is very strong. By smelling of it, the 
< it and peculiar odor of ammonia is 

'rong aqua ammonia is so powerful 
away the breath, and cause a 
' ;i. A more agreeable form of 

ammoniacal odor is in the ordinary' smelling salts. 
These are usually nothing more than carbonate of am- 
monia, scented in various ways with other perfumes. 

The properties of anamonia ought to be understood 
by evenii' farmer, because it is a substance of much 
! i< e : it does not exist so abundantly in the 

s '" many or most other necessary ingredients, 

and consequently he ought to know how best to in- 
crease its amount, and how to keep it on bis farm 
when he has got it there. 

Ammonia is very easily lost, because oriven from 
its combinations with great facility. If, for instance, 
you mix with muriate of ammonia, a compoui; ' ' i 
has litile or no smell of the gas, som*' (]>!irkl. 
rub the two together, there will imn ,i .strong 

smell of ammonia be perctMvetl,pasM; ,U) the air 

and disappearing. This is a reason why quicklime 
should not be mixed with manures containing am- 
monia, as that gas is driven off by it, and the value 
of the manure greatly diminished. 

Nitric acid (common aquafortis) is another impor- 
tant source of nitrogen. This acid is compoeed o£ 
nitrogen and oxygen. It is to be found in druggists* 
shops, and is a nearly colorless liquid, having a pe- 
4 



38 NITRATES OF POTASH AND SODA. 

culiar smell, and being extremely sour and corrosive. 
a. When strong, it destroys the skin, and in all cases 
turns it of a deep yellow color which can not be re- 
moved by washing, b. It eats holes through cloth, 
turning it to a bright red color, c. Like ammonia 
and the acids before mentioned, we do not find it 
naturally as a pure substance; it is always combined 
with something else. One of the most common forms 
is nitrate of potash, or saltpetre. Nitrate of soda is 
also often found in nature, d. In South America, this 
latter is so abundant as to be brought away by the 
shipload. It is in the form of such compounds as these 
that nitric acid is present in the soil. They are easily 
dissolved in water, can be received into the circulation 
of plants through their roots, and can furnish nitrogen 
as readily as ammonia. 

In some situations more nitrogen is received into 
the plant as ammonia, than from any other source; in 
others, more as nitric acid. I consider that this is 
owing simply to the quantity of either that may be 
present in different localities. Both kinds of manure 
produce remarkable results when applied to the soil of 
most farms; and these effects are nearly or quite 
identical in appearance, showing that in both cases 
nitrogen caused the improvement, and that between 
these two forms of applying it there is little choice. 



39 



CHAPTER IV. 

OF THE ORGANIC SUBSTANCE OF PLANTS. 

Stmctore of tbe Roots, Stem and Leaves. Course of the sap. 
Coroposilion aiul properties of water. Great number of organic 
bodies. Wi«h!v ("Ire. Starch, Sugar, Gums. Composition of 
tkcae bodi' r mutual relations. Organic substances 

•Mrtainin^ Sources of organic eleiuents: Caibua, 

Carbonic acid. Hydrogen, Oxygen, Nitrogen. 

SICnON L 8TKUCTUBE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE PLANT CI 
ITS SEVERAL PARTS. 

The ditTerent external parts of plants are well 
known, they consist of roots, stems, bark or epider- 
mis, and leaves. 

The internal t'uactioBS of the roots 

are not so jh i as that of the other 

parts, owinfir to the dithculty ol knowing exactly what 
or<iirs nni!.iirr.iiiti<I \t ;i »;lirir! <li>.tance beneath the 
s ut little rootlets 

Hi i-wi> (iiii'< iion. ■mil fii iiii- i-Xiiriiit* COd of each IS 

a small b«jn<lle of soft, minute, white fibres. These 
are all so mai ^ ' s for the nourishment of tbe 

ntem. If von - rw^t.s of a growing tree ia 

V wUl soon beoMM 

tins, to a coBskkraUt 

' T at s(>lection, as it is found 

'. i. .ire admitted to the exclusion, 

either partial or total, of others. Some coloring solu- 
tions for instanoe, n- ' t , enter wi*' ' !ity and 

tm-r the ^irtiole Stti 'ft time, . rs are 

scarcely absorbed at an. 1 he same must, m a degree, 



40 STEM AND BAKK OF PLANTS. 

be true of various kinds of food, as we find that far 
more of one kind is taken than of another, even when 
both are present in equal quantities. 

In the stem are numerous little tubes, running up 
and down, which serve to convey the sap absorbed by 
the roots up to the leaves. It passes up in the interior 
vessels or tubes, and passes down in the exterior, or 
just under the bark. This can be shown by the ex- 
ample of the tree and the colored fluid, just referred 
to; the inner part of the tree will be colored first, and 
finally the outer, in the descent of the sap, after it has 
passed out to the extremities of the branches. 

There is then a regular circulation between the soil 
and the plant; sap flows up, having been formed in 
the roots and stem, out of the various substances 
drawn in from the soil, and ultimately flows down 
again next the bark and out into the soil. 

During its circuit the sap undergoes many changes, 
and deposits such of its constituents as are necessary 
to the plant. If taken from the lower part of the 
stem, it will be found thin; as it goes up, it appears 
thicker and thicker, and at last on its w^ay down be- 
comes a dense substance, to which the name of cam- 
bium has sometimes been given. At this period of 
its round, it deposites, between the inner bark and 
the wood, material for forming the annual layer of 
new wood. The cause of this ascent and descent of 
sap is not fully known, and I do not consider it neces- 
sary to mention here the numerous plausible theories 
that have been advanced regarding it. If the flow is 
entirely stopped, either upward or downward, the 
plant soon dies. This is shown by the ordinary opera- 
tion of girdling a tree, the downward flow is stopped 
and no new wood can form. 

The hark is quite different in its structure from the 
stem. In the latter part, as will be remembered, the 
little tubes run perpendicularly, or straight up and 



OKOAMC BODIES IN PLANTS. 4 1 

down; in the bark they run vertically, that is, toward 
the centre of the tree. It is supposetl that air obtains 
access to the body of t • tubes. 

Leaves are usually i a of the 

bark. They have a net work ol veins running through 
them in every direction, conveying fluids to all parts; 
an<l also have on their outrt" surfaces, innumerable 
little pores or mouths, through some of which they 
breathe out, and through others draw in, water and 
various gases These functions of the leaf will be 
noticed again in a subsequent chapter. 

ei, Ti, ,v ![. THE GREAT NL....,r.u .-i.NU DIVERSITY OF OROAMC 
BODIES IN PLANTS. 

The organic portion in these several parts of the 
plant, consist of a great variety of substances, with 
tlie more common of which at least, the fanner ought 
to be acquainted. 

The oreanic bodies of plants are exceedingly 

I >t every plant has some one or more 

Thus we see indian rubber the 

i 't ouc tree, gutta percha of another, sago of 

various perfumes from one plant, and dis- 

<iors from another, as in the rose or the 

1....^ I uc of one class, the &kunk cab'""" "- the 

tomato of the other; some also have a t or 

aromatic taste, such as the sassafras anu u 

In short the variety of bodies that thus comt; 

diflferent qualities to plants, or often to ' 

parts of the same plant, are more nu 

would b< ! by one who had not at; 

what to t. ^ ' t. 

The diiierent oib and sugars, for instance, which 

exist in \'<r.t:,u].^^ may be counted lv • - I «......, 

ties ain.: :U- new kinds ar»- 

discoviTtii; s) w ith the various cxtr. I «: 

A* 



42 WATEK. 

obtained from the flowers or bark. There are few 
plants in which a careful examination of their various 
parts will not discover from fifteen to twenty different 
organic substances, and in some twice that numbei 
may be distinguished. The perfect separation and 
determination of such bodies, is among the most diffi- 
cult of problems of modern chemistry. But after all, the 
substances which make up the great bulk of plants 
are few in number. Those which give the color, 
taste, smell, or peculiar properties of that kind, to 
particular plants, generally form but a small part of 
their whole mass, and have but little influence on 
their practical value. 

SECTION III. OF WATER. 

In order to explain some remarkable properties in 
the substances to which attention will soon be called, it 
is necessary here to mention the composition of water. 

This liquid, so universally diffused and of such in- 
estimable value, is composed of but two gases, oxygen 
and hydrogen. In nine pounds of water, are about 
one of hydrogen and eight of oxygen. Although the 
weight of oxygen is thus greatest, hydrogen is so 
light that it constitutes the greatest bulk, so that by 
measure there is only one gallon of oxygen to tM^o of 
hydrogen. 

a. That water does consist of these two gases alone, 
may be shown by burning hydrogen in an atmosphere 
of oxygen. Water will immediately begin to con- 
dense on the sides of the vessel used by the experi- 
menter, and will soon accumulate so as to run down 
in drops. Some of the French chemists once tried 
this experiment on a large scale, continuing it for a 
number of days, and obtained several pints of water. 
On burning a jet of hydrogen in common air, under 
a large glass vessel open at bottom, water will imme- 



WOODY FIBRE. 43 

diately be Amned by an union with the oxygen of the 
air, and will condense on the cool surface of the glass. 

b. Water exists in several states: 1. As the simple 
liquid; 2. As steam or vapor; 3. As ice or snow. 
Each of these ! ve their peculiar i ^ 

and benefits. A . it renders the b©<; 1 

animals plump, moist, and elastic, while it also ^ives 
life to all plants and veti:»t;iM. s. inriiiiii«r tlu-ir circu- 
lating fluids. 

As a vapor, it prevents Uit ..uu. awnavto wi plants 
and animals from drying away too much, intercepts 
the rays of f' Ahicli would otherwise si ' it! 

burn us, and . - many other important . i 

which there is not space to spi-ak here. As ice, its 
action in alternate freezing and thawing, thus ex- 
panding and contracting, is to loosen and mellow the 
soil. This is the etfect produced by ridging stiff clays 
in autumn, that the frost may have free access. 

SECTION IV. OF OEOAXIC BODIES CONTAINIKO CARBON, 
HYDROGEN AND OXYOEN. 

! undant body in the organic part 

of ^ i;mts, is called woody fihre^ some- 

tiiiH re. This is the string), woody part 

of 5ii.i.. , . r»it. wtxxl, &.C If any of them are 

bruised arxl until every thing that can be 

washed awa) in u<>iie, a mass of white fibres remains, 
which is tolerably pure woody fibre. Cotton or pith 
ar. ■ 'St natural >f this substance, a. It 

is . >tel€S8, in.>^ ^ water, and will not in 

its natural condition supuort life. b. It constitutes 
the largest portion of nearly all plants, that is in their 
dry state; this tl is necessar), betause many 

p|,ii>t^ 1,,v. .„,,>. .....tOf their v-i. »■♦ Mf" water by 

dr} ' rm in most of 1 1 >n grasses. 



44 STARCH. 

oxygen. Now it is a curious point, that in this 
woody fibre, hydrogen and oxygen are present in just 
the proportions to form water. To this important 
fact we shall refer again. 

In the stems, leaves, husks, bark, and in most cases 
the roots, woody fibre is by far the largest constituent; 
but in the seeds and fruits, it is usually much smaller 
in quantity. 

In a great number of seeds, starch is the leading 
ingredient; so also in many roots that are used for 
food. a. Starch is in its usual appearance well known, 
as a white, tasteless, or nearly tasteless substance. It 
does pot dissolve even in warm water, but forms a 
species of jelly with it. One peculiar property is that 
of turning blue when iodine comes in contact with it. 
The common tincture of iodine will answer for this 
experiment: the smallest possible quantity will produce 
an immediate effect. 

6. Starch may be easily obtained by making some 
wheaten flour into dough, and then washing on a very 
fine sieve or linen cloth placed above a convenient 
vessel. As the dough is kneaded under successive 
portions of water, the water becomes milkj*, and the 
mass of dough constantly diminishes in bulk until at 
last nothing but a sticky substance called gltden re- 
mains ; to this we shall refer again. If the milky 
liquid which has run through the cloth be allowed to 
stand quiet for some hours, a deposit of fine white 
grains will be formed on the bottom of the containing 
vessel : this is the starch. 

c. It may also be easily extracted from the potato, 
by grating fine and washing. The starch will settle 
next the bottom; the skin, woody fibre, etc. will float 
above, so that they maj be poured off. In this way 
potato starch is made. 

The composition of starch is carbon, hydrogen and 
oxygen; the same, it will be remembered, as that of 



SUGAK. 45 

woody fibre. These substances exist in the same 
proportion as in woody fibre. 

Another important orj^anic substance is sugar. Its 
properties of easy solubility and sweetness need scarce- 
ly be mentioned here, neither will they require illus- 
tration by the teacher. 

There are several kinds of suffar present in plants, 
but the kind called cane sugar is most abundant and 
important. It is that which exists in the stalk of the 
sugar cane, the root of the sugar beet, the trunk of the 
sugar maple, etc. etc. Sugar blackens and becomes 
a species of charcoal when burned : it consists of 
carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. These same three 
substances also form the gums, resins, and oily matters 
which exist so abundantly in certain trees, as the 
pines, and in certain seeds, as linseed. 

Thus by far the larger portion of plants is made up 
of sub«!tanrps containinfj only these three gases. We 
no" ict, hinted at with relation 

to I Ml the early part of this sec- 

tion : the hydrogen and oxygen in woody fibre, starch, 
sugar and many gums, are m the proper proportions 
to form water. The plant then can make these bo- 
dies without difficulty, for we have seen that it absorbs 
both carbonic acid and water through its leaves : if 
now the oxygen of the carbonic acid be i T 

through the leaves during the day, as we ha\ • v 

mentioned that it is, there remains only carbon and 
water, or carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, iust the sub- 
stances to form those bodies which we have named 
aboTc. 

In the case of woody fibre, sugar, starch and gum, 
the quantity of carbon and of f! ' ' Is 

the same, so that they are in 
position. How V 
in properties ! \'> 
yet the chemist i^ able to make sugar from either 



46 CHEMICAL CHANGES. 

woody fibre, gum or starch. It is not more strange 
than a thousand other things in nature. We have 
seen, for instance, that carbonic acid puts out all fire 
and destroys life; yet carbon, one of the substances of 
which it is composed, burns most violently in oxygen, 
the other; and this other body, oxygen, is, when alone, 
the great supporter of vitality : mingled in the air, it 
is what sustains all animal and vegetable life, and all 
combustion also. 

It has been incidentally noticed, that certain of the 
bodies above named may be changed by chemical 
means. Some of these changes are important, and de- 
serve a rather more extended notice, a. Woody fibre, 
if ground fine and subjected to a certain degree of heat 
for a long time, becomes hard and yellow in color, and 
finally can be ground like flour. In this state it is 
partly soluble, and can with yeast be made into a light 
wholesome bread : it has also been partially changed 
into a substance resembling starch or gum. h. Starch, 
if heated at a temperature just below scorching for a 
day or two, gradually becomes yellow and finally quite 
soluble, with a sweetish taste. It has become dextrine^ 
or what is called by calico printers British gum. This 
change takes place to a considerable extent in the 
ordinary baking of bread, c. By the action of dilute 
sulphuric acid in certain proportions and at certain 
temperatures, starch may be changed first into gum, 
and then into sugar. 

We thus see that this class of bodies are not only 
similar in composition, but that a change from one to 
the other may be effected with much ease. If we can 
do this, how much the more readily can it be effected 
in the interior of the plant ! That such changes do 
take place there, and that they are of much practical 
importance, we shall have occasion to point out in 
subsequent chapters. 



NITBOeBJKMm 80DIb.>, ..iJ TEN, ETC. 



WKCnOH V. OF OBOAMC BODIES CONTAINWO CARBON, 
HVDROUEN, OXYGEN ASU NITROGEN. 

Although • -^ containing the three first 

namcil gasc.> '!> more than nine-tenths of 

most plants, yet liiere is a class which in addition to 
them contains nitrogen. This class, though so anall 
in proportion, is, as will be seen ultimately, one of 
remarkable importance. 

The most easily obtained of these nitroc^enous bo- 

" ' ' ' Mtione<l a-^ ' i 

. is wash* ' 

1. a. It is sticky, ti ! 

'le in its character : its ^ ' n 

has Ml. . 1 : perties. 6. When heate<l, it 

iwc... ..,. . . .1 ^iLut hulk, becoming quite full of holes. 

For this reason flour which has much gluten in it is 

called by the bakers str ' ause lii,'ht porous bread 

can be easily made fn i Iwause it absorbs and 

i. water, c. 1 rtion of gluten in 

I ten to tweni; nt. The wheat of 

)* «i "^id to contain more than that grown 

in t III. vs. 

'"^ iti gluten, but none so 

muc;. „ ., — » 'Hiesofthe 

same class, not n in ap- 



LTlt 



ren. 



*«' ..itro- 

iits there 
ai. „/^. 

rni ■ , I . . .... , .. . ,r ill 

their properties and com|Hxsition. Tli 

s.iilnlmr -ml.? i ,»,-.. ..U...., ... ;.. .,1... 1 

lu« Hi luiicd. 



48 SUPPLIES OF ORGAMIC FOOD. 

It will now be seen what an important part these 
four elements act, in the economy of nature. From 
them all the forms of vegetable life are built up; they 
are constantly passing from one state of combination 
into another, and yet always come out at last them- 
selves unchanged. This is for the reason that they 
are truly, and not in the common sense, elementary 
bodies. If we take a piece of wood for examination, 
we can divide it by various means into oxygen, carbon 
and hydrogen; but w^e fail in any attempt to subdivide 
again either of these three bodies. Those bodies then 
are elementary, chemically speaking, which we can 
not by any means decompose or separate, which we 
can not show to be compound. There are in all be- 
tween fifty and sixty of these elements known, and 
among them are the four gases the functions of which 
we have been considering. Sulphur and phosphorus 
are also elements. 

SECTION VI. OF THE SUPPLIES OF ORGANIC FOOD TO 
PLANTS. 

The sources from whence plants derive their various 
kinds of organic food, are different in different locali- 
ties. 

Carbon is mostly drawn in from the air in the form 
of carbonic acid : some also comes from the soil, but 
by far the greater part from the air. The quantity 
required for the support of all the vegetation upon the 
earth's surface must be immense, especially when we 
know the fact that carbon in general constitutes fully 
half, and sometimes much more than half of its weight. 
When we remember that the proportion of carbonic 
acid in the air is but about jsVijth of all, there may 
seem to be some danger of its exhaustion. 

It has been said that the weight of this gas in the 
air over every acre of the earth's surface, is about 
seven tons. This quantity, if the land were all under 



CONSUMPTION AND BBSTOBATION OF CARBONIC ACID. 49 

cultivation, wodd be exhausted in from seven to ten 
years. There would thus be some cause for apprehen- 
sion on this point, could we not indicate several sources 
which constantly tend to keep up the necessary supply. 

1. One of the most important of these is the 
breathing of animals: the pure air that is drawn into 
the lunes at each breath, returns charged with carbonic 
•cid. It is for this reason that the air in a close room 
where there are many people becomes so unwholesome, 
and after a time intolerable. The carbonic acid 
breathed out into the air, has rendered it deleterious 
to animal life- A direct proof of the quantity of car- 
bonic acid breathed in this way from the lungs, may 
be given by blowing through a tube into lime water, 
made by pouring water upon common quicklime and 
allowing it to settle and become clear. The carbonic 
tcid unites with the lime, and the clear lime water 
becomes in a few moments quite milky, owing to the 
formation of carbonate oi lime. 

2. Another source from whence carbonic acid is 
derived in irumenseqij i^ ordinary combustion. 
All combustible botlif-s ; tires, produce this gas 
while burning. Carbon, in one form or another, is 
the leading combustible substance in all kinds of fuel» 
in wood, coal, charcx)al, oil, resin, pitchy turpentine, 
etc. While 1 ' ' * *' \v»xen, 
iind become^ ibus- 
tion is going on, lht!» : a. An 
instance is to be setn acide by 
means of burning charcoal. In trance, particularly, 
the misguided and wicked persons who thus rashly 
desire to take away their own lives, li^^ht a pan of 
charcoal and shut themselves up with it in a cloM 
room. The carlx>nic acid produced soon Alls the room, 
and in a short time (!•- ' ii>. 6. It is easy to iM 
that combustion mu.st ... send vast quantitieaof 
this gas into the atiaosf»h«re. Particularly h tkis 

5 



50 SOURCE OF HYDROGEN AXD OXYGEN. 

true in cold climates, where during winter fires are so 
numerous and constant. 

3. In some districts large quantities of carbonic acid 
pass off into the air from fissures in the earth's surface : 
this is no doubt produced by volcanic action at a great 
depth. 

4. Another source is natural decay and decomposi- 
tion. It is a curious fact, that if you leave a piece of 
wood to decay, the ultimate results will be the same 
as if it had been burned in the commencement. The 
action is slower, requiring often years to complete it; 
but the products are the same, that is, carbonic acid 
and water. Decay has, for this reason, been called a 
slow combustion. 

We see therefore that the constant tendency in every 
species of destruction, decomposition, or decay in 
animal and vegetable bodies, is to the production and 
liberation of carbonic acid. The sources already 
indicated are quite sufficient to supply the quantities 
annually withdrawn from the atmosphere by vegeta- 
tion. 

The hydrogen required by plants is readily obtained. 
Water consists of hydrogen and oxygen : in the form 
of a liquid, it is drawn up by the roots; as a vapor, it 
is absorbed by the leaves from the atmosphere. This 
may be seen in the great effect of a trifling shower 
during dry weather. Even if there is only enough 
rain to barely moisten the surface of the parched earth, 
the leaves before drooping are revived, and the whole 
plant assumes a flourishing appearance : no water has 
reached its roots, but it has absorbed a portion of the 
shower through its leaves. This one source of supply 
affords ample store of hydrogen. 

Oxygen is also to be obtained by the plant from 
water. Carbonic acid too, it will be remembered, is 
partly composed of this gas. There can thus be no 
fiifficulty as to the plants obtaining oxygen, and no 
fear of exhausting it from the atnjospherc. 



SOURCES OF THE NITKOOC* OF PLAIITS. 51 

The source of the nitrogen in plants is not so clear. 
We know that four-fifths of the air surrounding all 
plants is nitrogen, and yet it is proved that but little 
if any of this nitrogen is absorbed through their leaves; 
neither can it be shown to enter in any quantity 
through their roots. We find, however, that the soil 
is the place from which it comes, but that it is always 
in some form chemically united with other bodies. 
The two substances, ammonia and nitric acid, describeil 
under a previous chapter as containing nitrogen, are 
the chief sources of supply to plants : this fact partly 
explains their great efficacy as manures. They are 
both present in fertile soils, sometimes the one and 
sometimes the other in largest quantity. Both are 

soluble in water, nml f}i<rirnri> <:iii \vif}i(int ilifTiiiilfv 

enter the roots. 

It will now be ifi>ii> ])incntU In.u iiM>»' «)i'4atnc 

bodies to which attention has been so frequently called, 
are indeed of very gre I ' mce. They constitute 

the great bulk of vtL le in all of its forms. 

In thf air and the soil, ihty are imlispensable to life. 
We cannot see them, yet depentl on them for existence 
itself. If half of the sb'oa^^ of carbonic acid present 
in the atmasphere were n* ithdrawn, nearly all valuable 
plants would cease to flourish, and as a consequence 
animal life too would gradually become extinct. 



62 



CHAPTER V. 

THE SOIL. 

Composition of the soil: divided into an organic and an inorganic 
part. Quantity, origin, necessity and constitution of organic 
matter ; how to increase it in the soil. Forination of mineral 
part of soils; chiefly from limestones, sandstones and clays. 
Classification of soils. Other substances present beside three 
above named; their number and names. Cause of difference 
between fertile and barren soils. 

SECTION I. THE PROPORTION AND ORIGIN OF THE ORGANIC 
MATTER IN THE SOIL. 

Having now become familiar with the substances 
which are found in both the organic and the inorganic 
parts of plants, we must next inquire what is the 
connection between the plant and the soil. We find 
that one soil produces better crops than another; that 
plants will grow in some places, that will not flourish 
at all in others; that manure is not needed on some 
soils, while it is quite indispensable on others. The 
reasons for these and many other differences that might 
be mentioned, are only to be discovered by chemical 
analyses of the soil itself. 

The first point which we are able to establish, is the 
fact that here as in the plant, are to be found the two 
great classes of organic and inorganic substances. If 
a portion of soil is heated on a knife-blade or a thin 
iron or tin plate, it will smoke and blacken; if the 
heat be continued, the smoke will after a time cease, 
the blackness disappear, and the remaining earth will 
be usually of a whitish or reddish color. It is like the 




ORG.VMC MATTER IN SOILS. 53 

as}', imi on burning wood or straw, excepting 

th;i > far more of it. 

The ash trora plants, it will be remembered, is but 
a small proportion of their weight, from one to four- 
teen lbs. in a hundretl: in soils the incombustible part 
is usually more than ninety lbs. in a hundred, freauent- 
ly ninety-five. In some peaty or rich forest lands, 
indeeii, t" lic part is lan^^est; but, as all know, 

these cui, -ut a small proportion of our ordinary 

•oils. This organic matter was not originally present 
in the soil: it has all accumulated there by the death 
and decay of plants and animals. The first soil, 
formeil by the crumbling and decom(K)sition of the 
bare rock, must have been entirely destitute of this 
part Some species of living things, however, existed 
even there, some forms of vftjetation and of animal 
life; as these died, th< ; I with the broken down 

rocks, and became fo w plants of higher or- 

ders; thus their remains gradually gathered, until the 
result was our present surface soils. 

Fertile soils always contain a cxinsiderable propor- 
tion of this organic matter. There is no rule as to 
the Quantity that shotdd bo present: we find them very 
fertile, containing all the way from two to r 

rent, Hnd even upward; though it may be t 

titly rich strong soils seldom contain !• - iiini 
I to ten per cent 

\\ t ' u there is more than fifty per cent, and the soil 
16 luoist, an injurious elFecl is prtnluced, the soil be- 
coming what is called sour : nothing but poor wiry 
grass will grow. Tli. ^ of and the r. '. r 

this result, will Ik* couv . a subsequent - 

• I h»vi» Mid that th*T« in no rulr aa to thfl pri>cia« quantity of 
organic matter tha! i>ai?ht to )>.■ loi-.Mit iK.it ■> u.ii.m. ■. <.. 40 or 
M p*r cent O „f 49 
per cant teem* y baa 
4 to 3 per ernl. 1: .,Uly m u> MV 
laary proportion 

ft* 



64 NECESSITY FOR OUGANIC MATTER. 

Having explamed the origin of this organic matter, 
it is only necessary to mention briefly, that it is com- 
posed of the same four organic substances previously 
named. Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, Oxygen. 



SECTION II. NECESSITY FOR ORGANIC MATTER IN THE SOIL, 
AND ITS LIABILITY TO EXHAUSTION. 

This part is necessary in the soil for several reasons. 

1. It enables the land, if light and sandy^ to retain 
moisture, and also to retain manures much longer than 
It otherwise would; to stiff and clayey soils it gives, 
mellowness and lightness. 

2. Another important effect in cold climates, is the 
darker color which it imparts to the surface. A dark 
colored soil absorbs more heat than a light one, being 
consequently warmer and earlier. This is seen in the 
fact that snow melts sooner from the ploughed field 
than from the meadow in similar situations; from the 
dark garden bed, than from the gravelled walk. 

3. Beside these useful purposes, there is no doubt 
that the organic part of the soil, in a greater or less 
degree, ministers food directly to the plant through its 
roots. The supply obtained in this way varies with 
the situation, but is of much importance to plants, as 
shown by their increased luxuriance when it is fur- 
nished them in a soil previously deficient. 

This consumption of organic matter by plants to 
form their own bulk, shows how it is that land long 
cultivated and scantily manured, at last becomes very 
poor in this part. Each crop has carried aw^ay a 
portion of it, more than has been returned in the small 
quantity of manure applied. Another way in which 
it is exhausted, is by frequent ploughing and stirring, 
whereby it is exposed to the air, and consequently 
decomposes rapidly. If you bury straw or other or- 
ganic matter deep under the surface, so as to be ex- 



UETUOIK Oiv biri'IA..,. v.i.oA.XU: MATTEK. iJO 

eluded from the air, it will remain almost unchanged 
for years; but as s(X)n as you bring it toward the 
surface where the air can obtain access, decay com- 
mences. 

There are then two ways in which this disappear- 
ance of organic substances goes on in the soil: first, 
as it is used for the food of plants; second, as tt is 
decomposed by being brought in contact with air. 

From what has now been stated, it is obviously for 
the interest of the farmer to keep up the supply of 
organic matter in his soil : an equivalent at least for 
every thing taken otf should, as far hs \y> e 

returned in the shape of manure; peat anti >is 

are good forms of adding large quantities. 

But the best way of all when the land is run down, 
is to cultivate green crops for ploughing under; such 
as clover, buckwheat, vetches, etc. etc. a. Though 
plants draw much of their organic part from the soil, 
yet the greater proportion comes from the air through 
the leaves ; consequently when a crop of clover is 
ploughed in, there is, in addition to what it has taken 
from the soil, much more than half its weight which 
came from the air, aixl is therefore a clear gain to tht- 
•oil In this way the organic matter may hv increased, 
and even the p<K)rest land Ih> gradually brought up to 
a state of fertility, b. Every good' farmer should 
Mratch his firlds carefully, and see that they do not 
become deficient in this very important part. When- 
ever or wherever we Me land losing it from year io 
y( rrtain that there is bad management some- 

wIj' 

The farmer uiust not suppose that by this or any 
other system he can bring up his worn out land in one 
or two years : the progress of improv«inent will be 
gradual. He must pers(>v<>re in th< ''root, 

bringinu them in fretjuently, and t. , same 

time in the shape of manure a\ ni! \ U* of the 



56 DEKIVATION OF SOILS. 

other crops taken off'. Above all he must not, as soon 
as his land is so far recovered that his clover or other 
green crop begins to be heavy, yield to any temptation 
to cut it off"; for this is returning to the old system of 
exhaustion. The object should be to keep the land 
steadily improving; and to that, for the few first years, 
all other considerations should give way. When it 
is fully established as a fertile and well stocked soil, 
constant watchfulness will keep it in that condition 
without much expense; and the farmer will soon find 
that it is far cheaper to cultivate good land and keep 
it good, than to live on a farm where every thing is 
taken out and nothing put in. 

SECTION III. OF THE DERFVATION OF SOILS, AND THEIK 
CLASSIFICATION. 

I have already said that the mineral part of soils is 
derived from the decomposition or crumbling down of 
the solid rocks. In every neighborhood may be seen 
instances of this crumbling down : with some rocks, 
as granite, it is very slow, scarcely perceptible from 
one year to another; with others it is more rapid, as 
some sandstones and limestones; with others still al- 
most immediate, as some slates which fall to pieces 
whenever they are brought to the surface. However 
quickly or slowly this crumbling takes place, a soil is 
at last made, and of course resembles in its composition 
that of the rock from which it was formed. 

The greater part of the rocks which appear on the 
surface of our earth, are varieties of sandstones, lime- 
stones or clays, or mixtures of the three*. 

1. Sandstone is often known as freestone, and is 
common in many parts of this country, being a va- 
luable building material. Our light sandy soils were 

* This is a popular ami not strictly scientific classification, and 
is to be considered only as a general description. 



I 



CLAflSnPICATION OF SOILS. St 

nearly all originally formed from this rock. Many of 
these are very poor; but there are some sandstones 
which make most excellent soils, as rich as any that 
are cultivated. In particular cases they contain so 
much lime as to be nearly marls, and then form very 
fertile soils. Verj- many sandstones crumble away 
quite readily, some showing the action of the atmo- 
sphere almost immediately upon exposure. For this 
reason the soils are ordinarily of good depth. 

2. Limestone is also common, and there are few 
places where a teacher can not find some to exhibit to 
his scholars. It is found of all colors from white to 
black, and makes a ?reat variety of soils. As a ge- 
tter:- ood, and < t' bearuMT 
Vers I n'ismmli im among 
the limestones as to ease ot decomposition. Many oi 
them form a deep soil v. rv <....n, Init there are some of 
the blue mountain lii which decompose witk 
exceeding slowness. </ii iiu-.sf the soil is thin, bat 
usually of rather good quality, espcciallv for partures. 

3. Clay is the principal ingr- i roofiog sllilif^ 
in school slates, and in what .< .i shalu. Be- 
side this, as is well known, it exist.s in large beds, 
from which are made pii>es, bricks, tiles, etc. etc 
Whenever it occurs largely in soils, tber arc flltf^ 
tenacious, and nearly inii)er\'ious to oioisttire. ii 
cmiBequence water remaias on the suHaee, and aoakes 
them wet, difllicuh to plough, and h;r ! . [n 
any way. They are, however, usual , , 
and by proper skill may be made nitwt valuaWe. 

Soine writers haveclawifjed soils, according as they 
contained more or less of one of these. First would 
be a sand, then a sandy loam, then a clay loam, a stiff 
clay, and fmully a brick or pipe day, the last bein« 
too stiff for cultivation. Soils in which lime existed 
largely, would l>e called calcareous. Where there 
was more than 2() to 25 per cent, it would be a marl. 



58 



CLASSIFICATION OF SOILS. 



Some definite rules of this kind might prove quite 
useful to farmers in describing soils. 

Prof. Johnston has proposed the following : 

1. Pure clay, such as pipe clay or porcelain clayj from 

this no sand can be removed by washing. 

2. Strong clay, brick clay, contains from 5 to 20 per 

cent of siliceous sand. 

3. Clay loam has from 20 to 40 per cent of fine sand. 

4. A loam, has from 40 to 70 per cent of sand. 

5. A sandy loam, has from 70 to 90 per cent. 

6. A light sand has less than 10 per cent of clay. 

This classification may easily be made by means of 
simple washing. The soil should first be dried, and 
then after boiling in water should be thoroughly stirred 
in some convenient vessel. The sand will settle first, 
and when it is at the bottom, the liquid above, hold- 
ing the fine clay, etc. in suspension, may be poured 
off; when this has been done a few times, nothing 
will remain at the bottom of the vessel, beside nearly 
pure sand; this may be dried and weighed, and the 
quantity will indicate to which class of the above the 
soil belongs. 

It is always possible to ascertain if there be much 
lime in a soil, by adding a little muriatic acid, such 
as may be obtained at any apothecaries. This acid, as 
soon as it comes in contact with the lime, if there be any, 
causes a brisk effervescence, owing to the bubblings up 
and escape of carbonic acid gas, which is expelled 
from its combination with lime by a stronger acid. It 
is easy in this way to ascertain if any specimen of earth 
is a marl or not. Such a simple test would often save 
the farmer much trouble and expense, by preventing 
him from applying useless material to his soil for the 

f)urpose of fertilizing it. The distinctions between 
ight and heavy soils, so common among farmers, all 



nfOBOAifie flraanuKn m tons. o J 

arise from the di/fereiit proportions of samit and clay 
which the various soils contain. 

The light soils are most easily and cheaply culti- 
vated, and are found to be particularly well adapted 
to the growing of some crops, such as barley, rje, 
buckwheat, etc. They are porous, and for that reason 
generally drj. 

The heavier soils require more skill and caution in 
their cultivation, but are not so easily exhausted a.s 
the others; they are particularly adapted to growini; 
wheat, oats, indian corn, etc. Very heavy soils aiv 
exceedingly liable to wetness, and can only be made 
dry by draining. 

•■CTKMtl IV. NUMBER OF INORGANIC SUBST4NCB8 IN SOOU 
KKABCmS rOR FERTILrrV OK BAKREBOfSSS. 

It has been said that soils are chiefly made up of 
three substances, lime, sand (silica), and clay (alu- 
mina). But besides these, chemical analysis finds 
smaller quantities of some seven or eight other bodies. 
In the first column of the following table, representing 
the composition of three different soils, is to be SAeu 
the names of these. 



eo 



INORGANIC SUBSTANCES IN SOILS. 



TABLE FIRST. 



In one hunted pounds. 



Organic matter, 

Silica, 

Alumina, 

Lime, 

Magnesia, 

Oxide of Iron, 

Oxide of Manganese, . . 

Potash, 

Soda, 

Chlorine, 

Sulphuric acid, 

Phosphoric acid, 

Carbonic acid, 

Loss during the analysis, 



Soil fertile 
without 
manure, 



9-7 

64-8 

5-7 

5-9 

•9 

6-1 

•1 

•2 

•4 

•2 

•2 

•4 

4-0 

1.4 



100 



Fertile 

with 

manure. 



5-0 

83-3 

6-1 

1-8 

•8 
3-0 

•3 



Very 
barren. 



4-0 
77-8 

9-1 
•4 
•1 

8-1 
•1 



100-0 I 100-0 



It will at once be noticed, that these are the very 
substances which were named and described when we 
were upon the inorganic part, or ash, of plants. To 
this coincidence I shall return in the next chapter. 

At the head of the first column is named organic 
matter; this has already been disposed of. The other 
substances making up the inorganic part, follow in 
different proportions, the silica being largest. It will 
be seen that these three soils are different in their 
qualities, one being fertile without manure, another 
fertile with the addition of manure, and last quite 
barren. Every one at all conversant with agriculture, 
knows that these differences in soils actually exist. 
We find occasionally, though not often, tracts of large 
extent, where the most exhausting crops may be 
grown for many years in succession without the aid 
of manure, their power of production not seeming to 
decrease even under such severe cultivation. Now 



Htmam or FEKTILITT. 61 

wherever we discover such soils, whether in our own 
western states, whether on the banks of the Nile or 
Ganges, in whatever part of the world they may be 
located, a chemical examination will invariably show 
the presence of all the s - above named. It 

is not necessary that tht > be in precisely the 

quantities nametl here, but they must all be present. 
The proportions of some of these may seem so small 
as to be unimportant; that they are not, will ap- 
pear when we consider how many hundred pounds 
there are in an acre of soil twelve inches deep. The 
smallest of the above proportions would, for an acre, 
amount to several tons. It would require an im- 
mensely heavy manuring to add one half of a per 
cent of any particular ingre<lient to the soil. 

Unfortunately soils of the first class are not so 
plenty as those of the second, which bear good crops 
if an abundance of manure is added. Such are our 
ordinary soils in all parts of the country. It will be 
seen that in the column representing the composition 
of this soil, there are blanks opposite to the potash, 
soda, and chlorine, denoting that these are abcettt 
Several others, sulphuric and phos])horic acids, and 
lime, are in v\urh vtrnillir quantities tlian in tlw first 
column. 

In the tliiMt rwimiiii, we find juat bdii im iin- inor- 
ganic bodies present in th« first tfittfehr wanting, and 
two others, lime and m "in 

their proportion. Anyoi ,re 

would not sup; It to toMke up all of theae 

deficiencies; arm , in places where nnx luce was 

high and manures cheap, as in the n< -od of 

large cities, such land could scarcely .-. .. .tp^j 

wiUj profit. We can tell just what is \' 'T 

inspection of the above t ' ' • - could 

afford to do everything r. ement 

Of such a Roil at once. The b«8t way would be to 
€ 



%9 REASONS OF BARRE>fNESS. 

bring it up by ploughing in green crops, and thus 
gradually with a moderate use of manure in addition, 
form a surface soil. This would, however, be a work 
calling for the exercise of much patience, perseverance, 
and good judgment. 

The foregoing table shows clearly enough, the 
differences in soils which cause what we call fertility 
or barrenness. The explanation is perfectly simple, 
and perfectly satisfactory, showing as it does that all 
depends upon the presence or absence of certain sub- 
stances. This is the general solution, but there are 
occasionally cases which form exceptions. There are 
soils which remain barren, even although they contain 
all of the substances named above, and though much 
manure is added. This is because their physical 
structure and condition is wrong, or because some 
substances are present in hurtful excess, a. If the 
quantities of magnesia, iron, or manganese, be very 
great, the soil containing them is found to be un- 
propitious to vegetation, often positively injurious. 
b. There are two oxides of iron occasionally found 
in the earth. One is the peroxide, or common iron 
rust; this does not seem to be hurtful, but always 
beneficial to vegetation. The other is called the 
protoxide of iron; it contains less oxygen than the 
peroxide, it is also more soluble, and is where it 
exists in considerable quantity, fatal to most plants 
and trees. 

A barren soil, then, is barren because some sub- 
stances are too largely present, or because certain sub- 
stances are w^anting. Chemistry is quite competent 
to point out the difficulty in either case, and also to 
say what would be the remedy. We can tell what is 
necessary to fertilize the most hopeless desert, but at 
the same time may not be able to conduct the opera- 
tion so as to make it profitable. It becomes no longer 
a question of knowledge, it is one of expense. We 



REASONS OP B. 

know what to do, but may not in all cases be able to 
do it with a profit, and this with a practical man is 
always an important distinction. 

It will be noticed in table first, that alumina, a 
substance rarely, if ever, present in the ash of plants, 
is quite an abundant constituent of soils. This is one 
distinction between the inorganic part of plant:s and 
that of the soil, alumina being a characteristic of the 
one and absent from the other, in nearly all soils, silica 
is the leading substance, usually constituting fully 
two-thirds of their whole weight, and often eighty or 
ninety pounds in every hundred. The only cases in 
which it is not largely present are those of the f>eat 
bogs, made up almost entirely of vegetable matter. 
Silica forms compounds with certain of the other 
bodies in the soil, making what are called soluble 
silicates. The gradual formation of these compounds 
affords a supply for the plant. 

We have now mentioned the substances which are 
present in the soil, and have in a previous chapter 
dwelt u|>on those which constitute the plant. Sundry 
points of connection between the two, will alre:»dy 
have suggi'stefl themst'lvt's to the reader or st 
To these we must next turn our attention, in tri 
of the various melluxls proper to be employed in 
bringing soils to a state of fertility, and to a ••' "!'!'« ion 
the most easy and profitable for cultivation. 

From examining table first, and from thf « xpiana- 
tions already given, it will be perceivinl that there 
are various points to be consideretl in he 

improvement of a soil. a. If there A 

dencioicy, that is an absence of certain constituents 
necessary to fertility, as mcntioneil above, tin n hut 
one course can be adopted with any hope s: 

this course is obviously to supply what i i^. 

The ways of doing this in the most advant. td 

economical manner, will be coQsid<-r< ' what 



€$ IMPROVEMENT OF SOILS. 

may be called chemical improvements, or the use of 
manures. 6. If there be a physical defect, if the 
land is too wet, too light, too stiff, or if from either 
of these causes it abounds in noxious compounds, the 
remedies come more properly under what may be 
called mechanical improvements. This branch of the 
subject will first attract our attention, and will be 
considered in the following chapter. 



66 



CllAi'lUt \i. 

THE SOIL (CONTINUED), AND SOME OF IaS CON- 
NECTIONS WITH THE PLANT. 

Notore of mechanical improTement : mixini; of sandt and clajt. 
EriU of wetness in the aoil. Beneficial effects of drains ; what 
kind of drains V)e«t : proper (Vpth; materials of which they 
should I ricR of tiles-, subsoil plough- 

ing; tr. II between inorganic part of 

the soil .wi a <>> ;ii>- |ii.>ijI u i u-. i > .lit'il. Plsnts seem to require 
all of the inorganic substances in the soil, but not in tht sanM 
proportions. 

SECTION 1. AVHAI IHL CONDITION OP THE SOIL SHOULD BE, 
AND THE NATURE OF MECHANICAL IMPEOYEMENT. 

We are now able to say that a fertile soil should 
have all of the substances uhich were mentioned in 
Table I., and were also namtnl when giving the oom- 
pocition of the planL These substances should l>e pre- 
sent in abundance, an<l yet none of them in ttx) lari^e 
quantity; tli' ' i Ik- in f^ • »• 

nourishmt'iii .andthti ,..* 

soil should bf Mil li tliut thr plunts could • 'trate 

in every direction with thrir roots to obi. a. Air 
and warmth should also pervade every part, because 
under tiieir influence the plant flourishes better, and 
the necessary changes in the composition of Uie soil 
take place more readily. To brin these con- 

ditions is a stu«ly lor the farmer, ai er of tbcni 

com*' :i' 

By lii. 1 niean the 

improvement ot its texture, and ot its otiier qualities. 




66 I'ECHANICAL IMPROVEMKMENT OF THE SOH-. 

by means not connectetl immediately "with alteration 
of its chemical composition. They bring on chemical 
changes, it is true, but still the operations themselves 
are purely mechanical. Some soils, for instance, are 
too light, and others too stiff and heavy. There are 
various ways of removing these defects. 

a. In situations where clay can be obtained, it is 
found to be the most valuable possible application for 
light soils; it consolidates them, causes them to retain 
water and manure, and for the objects of permanent 
improvement is worth more, load for load, than manure. 

h. Upon very heavy clay lands, on the contrary, 
sand is laid in large quantities with equal success. 
Here the effect is the reverse of that desired on light 
sands. The clay is mellowed, made less retentive, 
dries sooner in spring, and does not bake so hard in 
summer. Such operations as these, in favorable si- 
tuations, are very profitable; and although expensive 
at first, are in the end far cheaper than manuring in 
the ordinary way. 

SECTION II. THE EFFECTS OF TOO MUCH MOISTURE IN THE 
SOIL. 

I come now to mention a defect in soils which is of 
Tcry great importance, and which has not as yet been 
fully appreciated in this country. This is the presence 
of too much moisture. Wherever water is so abun- 
dant in the soil as to completely saturate it, various 
evil effects take place. 

a. The necessary decomposition of organic sub- 
stances is arrested, and certain vegetable acids are 
formed, called by chemists humic, nlmic, geic acids, 
etc. In swamps and low grounds generally, these 
accumulate to a large extent, and form the deep black 
soil or muck of such situations. 

h. So long as these acids are present in such ex- 
oejBKive quantity, valuable plants refuse to grow; but, 



COLD AND SOLR SOILS. 67 

as is well known, when the muck is taken out and 
dried, it becomes a valuable manure : this is because 
air and warmth obtain access, and the process of 
decomposition goes on again. In order to avoid mis- 
apprehension, it ought here to be mentioned that these 
acids in small proportions are really useful in the soil, 
as furnishing a portion of their food to plants. It is 
the excess of them that does so much injurj'. 

It is not only in swamps that this injurious formation 
occurs : there is much land which is too wet in the 
early part of the season, or in which are springs that 
saturate the surface; this land may be hard, and may 
even bear ploughing, yet still it is what farmers call 
cold and sour. These are exactly the proper words, 
for they truly express its qualities. Considerable and 
injurious quantitic>s of these vegetable acids are 
formed; and the water, by coastant evaporation from 
the surface, prcxluces cold; the grass is scanty and 
poor, while rushes show themselves in the wettest 
spots. There are large tracts of such land as this in 
almost every part of the country. Farmers tliink such 
land too dry for draining, and yet that is the only way 
to make any permanent improvement upon it. It is 
cold and late in sprim;, apt to bake hard in summer, 
and to suffiT from early IrasLs in autumn. It is not 
in a fit condition to supj)ort g<HxJ crojxs, and the only 
way to bring it into a g<KHl state is to dry it. 

Some land is dr)- on the surface, but has a wet sub- 
soil : when the roots of the plants get down to this, 
they find at ont-e injurioiLs f()o<i, not only the acidi 
already mentioned, but inorganic substances; the pro- 
toxide of inm, describtfl in Chapter V., is ver>' apt to 
ill such places, an<l is at once fatal if the plant 
ud no nutriment in othe.r directions. In this case 
ItKi ihe only reme<ly is to drain. The ijood elfects of 
this o{H>ration on all soils suffer i ml' Inun anv of the 
causes above mentioned, are v< !e, and 

must briefly be specifietl before l; i, ....wrt.*. 



68 BENEFICIAL EFFECTS OF DRAINING. 



SECTION III. ON THE CHANGES WHICH RESULT FROM 
DRAINING. 

When the drain is made and covered (for I always 
mean here covered drains), the water which falls upon 
the ground does not remain to stagnate, and does not 
run away over the surface washing off the best of the 
soil, but sinks gradually down, yielding to the roots of 
plants any fertilizing matter which it may contain, 
and often washing out some hurtful substances; as it 
descends, air and consequently warmth follow it. 
Under these new influences the proper decompositions 
and preparation of compounds fit for the sustenance of 
plants go on, the soil is warm and sufficiently dry, and 
plants flourish which formerly never would grow on it 
in perfection if at all. It is a curious fact, too, that 
such soils resist drought better than ever before. The 
reason is, that the plants are able to send their roots 
much farther down in search of food, without ever 
finding anything hurtful. Every part being penetrated 
with air, and consequently drier and lighter, these 
soils do not bake in summer, but remain mellow and 
porous. Such effects can not, in their full extent, be 
looked for in a stiff clay during the first season; the 
change must be gradual, but it is sure. 



SECTION IV. ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF DRAINS, AND THE 
MATERIALS USED. 

These being the benefits that are to be expected from 
the introduction of drains into swampy and wet land 
of every description, it is obviously important to know 
how they should be made. With the exception perhaps 
of large main channels, to which all others converge, 
or for carrying off small rivulets, the drains should be 
covered. Open drains occupy much of the land by their 



PBOrCt DEPTH OF MtAINS. 69 

bulk, and can not be approached very closely by teams 
on either side; they thus cause a farther loss of land, 
beside great inconvenience in working. Their banks 
and sides are nurseries of weeds, so that unless re- 
gularly cleared out they are extremely liable to become 
choked, and thus fail to do their work properly. An- 
other great evil is, that when water falls upon the land, 
instead of sinking through to the subsoil, it runs away 
over the surface; washing olF fertilizing substances 
from the richest part of the soil, and carrying them 
away. 

For these reasons, covered drains are always to be 
preferred in situations where it is practicable to make 
them. There are several points of much importance 
in the construction of such drains. 

First, as to their depth; where a fall can be ob- 
tained, this should be from 30 to 36 inches- The 
plants could then send their roots down, and find to 
this depth a soil free from hurtful substances. The 
roots of ordinary crops often go down three feet, when 
there is nothing unwholesome to prevent their descent. 
The farmer who has a soil available for his crops to 
such a depth, can not exhaust it so soon as one where 
•' ' ■ ' 11 a few in ' ' i.t of 

M), can ni be- 

' h «>t plants. On sui h a mmI, ' ^ 

■ ■ mid be practised, without fear (>i 

iag the top of the drain.s. The farmer should not, by 
making his drains shallow, deprive himself of the 
power to use the subsoil plougn, or other improved 
imp! * that may l)e invented for the purpose of 
de« i •• .soil. There are districts in England, 

wh< \e had to be taken up and relaid 

det j ly reason. It would have been an 

actual sttvutg to have laid them deep enough at the 
first. 



70 



COXSTRUCTION OF DRAINS. 



Second, as to the way in which they should be 
made, and the materials to be used. 

a. The ditch should of course be wedge-shaped for 
convenience of digging, and should be smooth on the 

bottom. 

6. Where stones are used, the proper width is about 
six inches at the bottom. Small stones should be 
selected, or large ones broken to about the size of a 
hen's egg, and the ditch filled in with these to a depth 
of nine or ten inches. The earth is apt to fall into 
the cavities among larger stones, and mice or rats 
make their burrows there : in either case, water finds 
its way from above, and washes in dirt and mud, soon 
causing the drain to choke. With small stones, 
choking from either of these causes can not take place 
if a good turf be laid grass side down above the stones, 
and the earth then trampled in hard. Cypress or cedar 
shavings are sometimes used, but are not quite so safe 
as a good sound turf The water should find its way 
into the drain from the sides, and not from the top. 
The accompanying figure represents the 
arrangement of the stones : a is the turf 
on top; if the water enters at the sides 
h, b, it comes in clear, having filtered 
through the soil, and depositedevery thing 
in the way of mud which might tend to 
choke the drain. Some farmers prefer to 
make stone drains like fig. 4, having two 
flat stones laid against each other at the 
bottom so as to form a sort of pipe, and 
filling above them with small stones as 
before. In very swampy soft ground, it 
is sometimes necessary to lay a plank or 
slab in the bottom of the drain, before 
putting in the stones. This is to prevent 
them from sinking, and making an un- 
even bottom, before the soil becomes dry 
enough to be firm. 



Fig. 3. 




TILE DKAI.X* PRfchtKRKD. 71 

Stones broken to the size above mentioned are 
expensive in this country, and in many places they 
( •!; in England it is now tound that 

ti and burned, are cheapest. These 

have been made oi various shapes. 

p 5 a. The first used was the horse- 

shoe tile, fig. 5. This was so 
named from its shape: it had a 
sole a, made as a separate piece 
to place under it, and form a smooth surface for the 
water to run over. 

f>' ^' I few years this tile has been almost en- 

tirely ;. d by the pipe tiles; these are made of 

several shapes, as seen in the accompanying figures 6 



r^- «• Fig. 7 




aod 7: the oval shape (fig. 7) is advantageous, because 
a small stream in the bottom will wash out every ob- 
struction tliHt can be rarritil away by water. These 
y«<^ ' ovtr the horseshoe shape, 

»•» ^b. : are all in one piece; this 

makes them cheaper in the first cost, and also more 
economical in the traasjmrlation. 

All these varieties are laid in the bottom of the 
ditch, it having been previ ' ' : , smooth 

and straight. They arc sin eni\, a.« 

at a, a, in figures b and 7; ilun wtd^iti ^ ith 

small stones if miessiiry, nnd the earth j i.ard 

1. Water will aKva\s find its way in through 
I Surli i.iius laid at a depth of 2| to 3 feet, 

and at prop.! s between the drains, will in 

lime dry the ilj.w .. , ...>s. Man> farmers have t! ' • 
that water would not*fin<l its way in, but exi 
>\ill MXMi show them that ihey can $iot keep it uul 



72 



PIPE TILES. 



Fi?. e. 




The portion of earth next the drain first dries; as it 
shrinks on drying, little cracks begin to radiate in 
every direction, and to spread until at last they have 
penetrated through the whole mass of soil that is 
within the influence of the drain, making it all, after 
a season or two, light, mellow, and wholesome for 
plants. 

The appearance of tile drains in the earth is shown 
by fig. 8, representing a cross 
section. They form a connected 
tube through which water runs 
with great freedom, even if the 
fall is very slight. When care- 
fully laid, they will discharge 
water where the fall is not more 
than two or three inches per 
mile. If buried at a good depth, 
they can scarcely be broken ; 
and if well baked, are not liable to moulder away. 
There seems no reason why well made drains of this 
kind should not last for a century. The pipe tiles are 
used of from 1 to 1^ inches diameter of bore for the 
smaller drains, and for the larger up as high as 4 or 5 
inches. They are all made in pieces of from 12 to 14 
inches in length. An inch pipe will discharge an 
immense quantity of water, and is quite sufl^cient for 
most situations. These small drains should not or- 
dinarily be carried more than 4 or 500 feet before they 
F"g- 9- pass into a larger one, running across their 
ends. Where a very great quantity of water 
is to be discharged, two large-sized horse- 
shoe tiles are often employed, one inverted 
against the other as in fig. 9. 
Third, as to the direction in which the drains should 
run. The old fashion was to carry them around the 
slopes, so as to citt off the springs; but it is now found 
most efficacious to run them straight doum, at regular 




DIBECTION IN WHILH liKAl.NS SHOULD KUN. 73 

distances apart, according to the abundance of ^\ ater 
and the nature of the soil. F'rom 20 to 50 feet be- 
tween them, would probably be the limits for most 
cases. It is sometimes necessary to make a little cross 
drain, to carry away the -water from some strong ^ring. 
In all ordinar)' rases, the drains running straight clown, 
and dischargring into a main cross drain at the foot, 
are ri; ' " ' nt. 

Ti re now introduced into this country, 

.vill MXJii •'> extensive use. Their easy 

[ y, their jM > y when laid down, an<l the 

I - rit'ction of their work, will recommend thetn for 

.:■ ntral adoption. It is also to be notice<l that it takes 

li s< time to lay them than stones, and that the ditch 

i-fr! for their reception is smaller and narrower. 

I >rn of it need only be wide enough to receive 

the tiles. The up of the earth is taken out 

with a common sj 1 the lower part witli one 

r. 1 N i; :ite narrow for the purpose, being on 

t ur in( Ik's wide at the point. The bottom is 

clean and smooth, with a peculiar hoe or scoop(fig. 10). 

P^ „ This is necctisar)-, 

because the tiles 

must be laid on 
wm even 8mo<> h 
foundation. 



racTiow T. ow sTBdon, ako tkench rtoroRiNu. 

In connection with draining, roust be nntire>.] -. ,, 
'^ ' 'ieof mechanical improvement; t 
1 i;. The subsoil plough is ar; 

'-••■''■ 1 ' 'i to stir up and loosen the lower 
' it to the nurfnce. It follow* s ;„, 

pbugh, and goes down as .. ■ hr> 

forced, m some cases from 20 to S3 titehes. 1 
7 




74 SUBSOIL AND TRENCH PLOUGHING. 

soil is thus broken and mellowed, air finds entrance, 
injurious substances are washed down lower, or, if 
there are drains, carried away, and the whole soil to 
a greatly increased depth is fitted for the sustenance of 
plants. It should be repeated once in five or six years. 
It is difficult to go down more than a few inches below 
the old furrow at the first subsoiling; at the second, 
one or two more can be gained, and so on till the 
greatest possible depth is attained. In some parts of 
England they dig over the whole soil as deep as two 
feet, but that is too expensive an operation for most 
parts of this country. 

Trench ploughing is also practised in certain situa- 
tions. A very heavy plough is used, of the same 
shape as the ordinary plough, but much heavier; this 
brings the lower soil to the surface. Such an opera- 
tion is only to be advised when the subsoil is of good 
quality, as otherwise the poor earth would be left on 
the top, and the richer surface soil buried deep beneath 
it 

SECTION VI. ON THE RELATIONS BETWEEN THE SOIL AND 
THE PLANT. 

We now come to a new department of our subject, 
in considering the connection which exists between the 
soil and the plant. The attentive reader will already 
have perceived that the inorganic substances in both, 
show a certain marked coincidence. The source of 
the organic part in plants has been shown in a pre- 
ceding chapter to be partly the soil and partly the air. 
The inorganic substances can of course only come from 
the soil, and thus it is at once easy to perceive why 
the differences indicated by Table I. constitute fertility 
or barrenness. It is because the jUant needs these 
substances, that their absence is so destructive to the 
value of a soil. 



RELATIONS BETWEEN TUE SOIL AND THE PLANT. W 

They all enter through the roots, having always 
been previously dissolved in water, if they were 
received in fine solid particles, the ash of any particu- 
lar plant would be different according to the differences 
in various soils; but this is not found to be the case, 
as each plant has a peculiar ash of its own. 

a. Experiments have been made by preparing six 
different plots of ground in the same manner, and then 
mixing with one alumina, with another lime, with 
another soda, with another magnesia, aiu\ so on; all 
of these substances being reduced to a verj- fine jww- 
der. The residt was that the ash in the same plants 
grown on all of tliese plots, was nearly identical in 
composition; thus showing that they did not take in 
rrery thing in the shape of fine particles that came in 
contact with their roots, but receive*! their food in 
nlntion, and even then only such as suited their 
partieular wants. 

It may be best here to explain that a sul^tance 
q>oken of as in solution isdissolve<l, acconiing to the 
eoflunon acceptance of the word, just as sugar or salt 
is dissolved in water. 

The fertile soil then must contain all of these in- 
organic subtftances, because plants will not flourish 
without them. a. Alumina does not enter into plants 
to any it ' ^decactent, but is necess 'r 

rtaaoBs iiare been mentioned \\ -^ 

to the stiffatas and >u-ture oi I 

6. Manraaeae can n>' t-d indispr o 

the ordmary crops, but there are some classes of trees 
which appear to require it in considerable quantities. 
Tlw others on the list are foumi in alt cultivateti crops. 
The foil *;tble gives instant < ' i- common 

t ; MS were made in ( > 



76 



ANALYSIS OF THE ASH OF PLANTS. 



TABLE n. 



In 100 lbs of ash. 

Silica, 

Iron, 

Lime, 

Magnesia, 

Phosphoric acid, . . , , 

Sulphuric acid, 

Potash, 

Soda, 

Chloride of sodium, 



Peas, 



0-56 

0-68 

2-96 

7-75 

38-34 

2-63 

27-12 

17-43 

1-88 



Field 
Beaiis. 



1-48 

0-34 

5-38 

7-35 

35-33 

2-28 

21-71 

21-07 

3-32 



99-35 98-26 99-11 



Wheat 



1-92 

0-53 

3-02 

13-58 

45-44 

24-18 
10-34 



There is a little loss in each analysis, as is almost 
invariably the case in practice. 

a. It will be seen from this table, that with the 
exception of the two substances above mentioned, 
alumina and manganese, all of the others named in 
Table I. are also present here. In subsequent tables, 
I shall have occasion to present the composition of ash 
from other crops, and it will be found that in these also 
they are, as a general rule, all mentioned. 

6. Other facts are indicated by this table, which are 
of much importance : it will be noticed that the ash 
of these seeds varies considerably in composition. In 
beans and peas, for instance, the quantity of potash 
and soda is much greater than in wheat, while on the 
other hand wheat contains most phosphoric acid: these 
points will be alluded to again. 

Some of the substances named in the table, as lime 
and magnesia, are in small quantity. Suppose 60 
bushels of beans to the acre, a very large crop, 
weighing 60 lbs. per bushel, and making a total weight 
of 3600 lbs. Each 100 lbs. would yield about 2 lbs. 
of ash; at that rate, the amount of ash taken from an 
acre would be 72 lbs. Of this only about 9 lbs., ac- 



COmXVSKHa DEOr^'ED FKOM TABLK II. 77 

cording to the above table, would be lime and mag- 
nesia; about 35 lbs. would be potash and soda. The 
whole quantity 72 lbs. seems small when taken from 
an acre, and either of the above portions of it appear 
almost unworthy of notice; yet it is found by expe- 
rience, that if the crops are unable to obtain these 
small and comparatively seeming unimportant parts 
oi their whole bulk from the soil, they absolutely re- 
fuse to flourish. The farmer may furnish other manures 
as ly as he pleases, but if they do not in some 

fori it-r contain these missing ingredients, the 

plant can not be forced to grow thriltily or yield 
abundantly. The appearance of his field will say as 
plainly as words could express it, that something is 
needed which he has not given. How many crops 
thus demanding food from tneir owners, do we see in 
almost every neighborhood ! Should not the farmer of 
whom such a demand is made, exert himself to supply 
what is wanted; and if he does not already know, to 
gain the necessary knowledge? 

Several points are established by such a table as the 
foregoing, and these may with advantage be briefly 
recapitulated 

1. Our cultivated plants retjuire that all of the in- 
organic substances present in Table I. shall exist in the 
soil. 

2. They do not require them in the same proportion, 
the different plants difll^ring in the composition of 
their a.sh. 

3. This composition of the ash is not accidental, bat 
Cftch plant has a distinct character of its own. 

4. It is thus rrndrriNi nh\ inii<< that land which would 
P"' '• able to grow an- 
^y u. A crop r»-<iuirin|[f 
li' 1. lor instun<-(>, iniirht flourish i 'v 

wIp '-^^uirititj much (if this substance u ..ul. 

To the principle thus indicated, we propose to retiim 
in the next chapter. 7« 



78 



CHAPTER VII. 

EFFECT OF CROPPING UPON THE SOIL. ROTATION 
OF CROPS. 

Effects of cultivation. Composition of ash from the common 
crops. Differences in the ash from various parts of the same 
plant. Differences in ash of different crops. How particular 
classes of substances may be exhausted, and special manures be 
useful illustration in the use of lime. Bearing of these facta 
upon theories of rotation in cropping. Necessity of rotations, 
and care to be exercised in their management. 

SECTION I. ON THE COMPOSITION OF THE ASH FROM OUR 
COMMON CROPS. 

We are now able to understand the effect of constant 
cultivation upon the soil. This might indeed, to a 
certain extent, be gathered from what has already been 
said in the two preceding chapters; it is necessary, 
however, that the sketch of such an important part of 
the subject should be made perfectly clear and precise. 
The student will by this time know, that as the in- 
organic part in the seed of the plant consists mostly 
of those constituents which were shown by Table I. to 
be least abundant in the soil, the constant selling off 
of grain must in time very materially decrease the 
stock of such substances, unless the supply is kept up 
by the addition of manures. If the soil was very rich 
at the commencement, exhaustion might be quite slow; 
but if the stock of fertility was small, it would soon 
reach the utterly exhausted and worn out condition in 
which we see so many of our farms. This and other 
points will be made more clear by a table giving the 
composition of our most common cultivated crops. 



coinH-»<iiTinN OF cin.TrvATFn crops. 



n 



TABLK lU. 



Cvbonie ■eid, • 
8«|ptaneMid, • 
PhoifjtMrie aud, 

Man 

OOQMy 

Iron, 

Chweoal ia Mb, ] 



Cwa. 


WkaL 


am-. 


«l» 


(JUl. 


fiiim. 


T««^ 


Hm- 


trace 
OS 
40 8 
3 
1 
17-5 
S3 t 

3 8 
OS 
1 

4 5 


10 

47 

liace. 

S » 

IS 9 

» 5 

trace. 

1-3 

trace. 

t 4 


10 
3 1 
« 

sol 

7 » 

3 
67 • 

1 

S 7 


.... 
IS 

47 3 

9 

10 1 

31-8 

4 4 

OS 

Ob 


iOS 

43 8 

3 

4 


I- 

5 7 
4 

3 


to 4 

7 1 
It 3 

S 7 

1-e 

S 4 
SI s 

8 « 
OS 

7 


13 • 

7 « 
3 S 

13 • 
5 3 

49 
5 9 
7 
13 


S 7 

S < 

ss-s 

5 7 
18 S 

s-» 

S7S 
1-7 


100 


100 


lOt-0 


100 • 


100 J 


100-0 


1000 


100 ol 



These do not represent the ex€id composition of the 
ash from the above crops, in all cases, but should be 
considered only approximations. In diHerent situa- 
tions, there is frequently a considerable variation in 
composition; this does not, however, affect the general 
character, where the soil contains a full supply of 
necessary substances. The wh from healthy potatoes, 
C ' ■ never rt-^' 'iiat from a flourishiog 

ii. The ; < a may be regarded as 

I lug suffuiently near the truth for all practical 
i . ^• 



nonoN n. on thb sbpakatiom or plants crro classks, 

ACOOSMNO TO THE COMPOSmON OP THXIl ASH. 

I have inserted in comparison with the grain of 
wheat, an analysis of ash from the straw ano, as an 
illustration of the iliiT* r.ti.t> in the substances which 
they respect iv(.'l> n the soil. 

a. It will be iioiii ( w (ii.tt in the aali from tike grain, 
phasnhoric arid i.<t thf c)>i<>t' inGcredaciU, f tfng up 
nearly hulf : )K>tash also is in large (juantity, being 



80 CLASSniCATloN OF PLANTS, 

about one-third. In the straw ash there is but 3 per 
cent of phosphoric acid, and only 10 per cent of pot- 
ash; magnesia is also much less. 

6. In the grain there is not quite 1| per cent of 
silica, but in the straw there is nearly 70 per cent. 
Silica, then, is the leading ingredient in the ash of the 
straw, phosphoric acid in that of the grain. It is 
silica which gives the straw its stiffness, strength, and 
elasticity; when there is not a sufficient supply of it, 
the straw can not uphold the weight of the grain, and 
falls down or lodges, as the farmers say. 

c. The reason why nearly all of the phosphoric 
acid is found in the grain, will be apparent as we 
proceed to another part of this treatise. This acid is 
shown by the table to be more abundant than anything 
else in the ash of rye and oats: the same thing is true 
of barley and buckwheat. In the straw of all these, 
there is also a preponderance of silica. In the grain 
of Indian corn, phosphoric acid is very abundant, but 
there is not so much silica in the stalk as in the straw 
of grain. 

The ash from all of these grains differs from the 
ash of potatoes and turnips in one essential particular: 
in the two last, phosphoric acid is comparatively a 
small quantity, being only about one-tenth; here, on 
the contrary, we find that potash is the most abundant 
substance of all, particularly in potatoes, where it is a 
little more than half of the whole. In the ash of both 
potato and turnip tops, lime also abounds, and often 
phosphoric acid. Potash and soda too are here among 
the most prominent ingredients. 

If now we look at the ash of meadow hay, we 
perceive that there is still another difference : potash 
a nil soda together are about 20 per cent, phosphoric 
acid is but 6 per cent, while lime is more abundant 
than anything else with the exception of silica, which 
last is required to give strength to the stalk as in the 
straw. 



ACCORDING TO THE COMPOSirKW OF THEIR ASH. 



di 



We thus find that there are three great leading 
claflMS of ash established : 1. The grains, where 
phosphoric acid predominates; 2. The roots, where 
potash and soda abound; 3. The grasses, where lime 
becomes quite important, 4. The various kinds of 
straw may perhaps be said to constitute a fourth class, 
where silica is from one-half to two-thirds of the whole 
weight 6. It may be well also to mention a fifth 
class in trees, the asii from the wood of which contains, 
in very numerous cases, more of lime than of any other 
substance. There are particularly large quantities in 
the apple and other fruit trees. 

aBCTION ni. ON THE EFFECTS OF CROPPING ITPON THE SOIL, 
IN CONNECTION WITH SPECIAL MANURING. 

In view of these facts, we are now better prepared 
to consider the elfect that cropping has upon the soil. 
Suppose in the first place that, as is too often the case, 
wheat or any other grain has been grown upon a new 
soil crop after crop, and nothing returned in the shape 
of manure; the yield may be good for a number of 
y« 'hen it begins to grow less and less : what 

IS a of this? It is, probiibly, that the phot- 

fKalea are nearly exhausted ; these were not so abun- 
dant as many other substances at the comimncement 
(see Table L), but more of them than of anything else 
has been taken away. Second, suppose that the fanner 
has sold all of his grain, but has been very careful to 
return the straw as manure : he iIch-s not see why the 
land should run down, and in fart it dcH^s not so quick- 
ly now as in the firs' itter a time, it also 
begins to show mat k ion. Table III. ex- 
plains this at once : in the straw, he has returned 
chicHy silica to the soil ; it is, however, chiefly pbo*- 

E boric acid that the grain has taken away« and that 
e has been selling oiT. 



ifSS EFFECTS OF CROPPING, 

The same thin^ would result from exclusive cul- 
tivation of any of the other grains. Some soils bear 
this severe treatment longer than others, but there are 
very few that would not eventually become exhausted. 
If turnips or potatoes alone were grown, the loss would 
be of another description, but equally injurious. In 
this case, instead of phosphoric acid, it is potash and 
soda that are exhausted, and no amount of phosphoric 
acid would make good the deficiency. In the case of 
trees, the demand would more probably be for lime. 

The general rule may from all of these facts be 
considered as established, that cropping tends directly 
to impoverish the soil. We see by Table I. that silica, 
alumina, iron, and organic matter, in the soils there 
given, amount to at least 90 lbs. of every 100. In 
many soils they come up to at least 95 lbs. There is 
no fear, then, of exhausting the silica; alumina, as has 
been said, does not enter into the composition of plants, 
and iron is not usually a prominent constituent. The 
leading parts of the ash from the grain, the roots, and 
all of those portions of plants most valuable for food, 
are found not in the 90 to 95 lbs. made up by these 
abundant substances, but in the 5 or 10 lbs. necessary 
to make out the hundred. The quantities of these 
important substances contained in most soils are there- 
fore small; and hence as they are the very ones most 
largely carried away, some one of them is usually first 
exhausted, according to the class of crops that have 
been chiefly cultivated, as indicated in the preceding 
chapter. 

When one is gone, or reduced to a very small quan- 
tity, the crops which particularly require that substance 
will refuse to grow luxuriantly and to yield well : 
suppose it to be wheat, and the wanting substance 
phosphoric acid; there may be the greatest abundance 
of every other necessary constituent, and yet all of 
their good effects are more than neutralized by this 



12* CONNECTION WITH PARTICULAB MANUKES, 83 

one defect. By attending to such points as these, the 
former may often save himself much disappointment 
a/ ise. He may put on load after load of or- 

di. iiure, and still not produce the desired im- 

provement; when at the same time a bushel or two of 
some particular ingredient, at one-twentieth of the 
cost, may have been all tliat the land wanted. 

a. In this way we can explain the wonderful efiect 
often produced l)y a few bushels of lime, or of plaster. 
These were just the substances which \ ' "lent in 
those soils .where they proved so eli : being 

supplied, the soils at once became fertile. Where they 
produce no change, as is the case in many situations, 
It is l)ecause there is already a sufficient supply present; 
because some other substances beside these are also 
wanting; because the land is too wet, or is otherwise 
faulty in its physical character; or because injurious 
compounds are so largely present, as to be fatal to the 
healthy growth of plants. 

It is not uncommon for land to be brought up at 
pnce by adding a small quantity of plaster, and the 
application repeated yearly afterwanl seems to be all 
that is necessary. Tliis seeming facility of fertilizing 
his soil, is apt to lead the farmer into a great mistake. 
lit' linds that he can obtain heavy crops each year by 
u^ w biLshels of phtster or lime, and is tempted 

to almost entirely iipon so easy ami so cheap 

a manurf , to the neglect of all others. After a time, 
however, his crofxs begin to diminish again : he tries 
increasing the plaster or the lime, but with no renewal 
of the fonuer effect; he finally resorts to commoo 
manure atrain, but with not even so much succcM as 
he formerly had; the land is imporerished beyond 
anything he has ever known. Thits in some parts of 
lilngland it has passed into a proverb. 



B4 INSTANCE OF FALSE PRACTICE. 

the idea jeing that the improvement at first is re- 
markabU, but that in the end the land is ruined. Is 
the blame in such cases to be laid upon either the lime 
or the plaster? Let us reason a moment upon the facts 
of the case. 

Here was a soil well supplied with all of the sub- 
stances mentioned in Table I., excepting, by way of 
example, sulphuric acid and lime (plaster of paris). 
The farmer adds plaster, which at once supplies the 
deficiency, and the land produces heavy crops; he adds 
it the second year with perhaps even increased effect, 
and so on year after year, until there is as much as is 
necessary in the soil. Now what is the reason that 
after a time the crops begin to decrease? There is an 
abundance of plaster, but may there m)t be a deficiency 
of something else? He has been constantly taking off 
large crops, and carrying them away from the land, 
with a variety of inorganic substances contained in 
them. As the crops have been larger than ever before, 
so the quantities of phosphoric acid, chlorine, mag- 
nesia, potash, soda, etc. taken off, hare been cor- 
respondingly great. How has this constant drain upon 
the stock of these substances in the soil been met ? 
Why by a constant supply of plaster, that is, of sul- 
phuric acid and lime. At last owe or more of them 
are exhausted ; and how is the loss made up ? Still 
by an increased supply of plaster; and because this 
plaster no longer does any good, it is said that the 
land has been ruined by its injurious influence. 

From the foregoing explanation, we may easily 
perceive that it is no longer plaster which the iaml 
requires, but perhaps phosphoric acid, potash, mag- 
nesia, or some of the other constituents of a fertile 
soil. They have been taken away, and nothing 
brought back but plaster; and now that they are ex- 
hausted, hundreds of tons of plaster would not make 
p^^od their loss. It is then the false practice of the 



ROTATION OF CROPS. 



86 



farmer, and not the plaster, that has so greatly injured 
his land. The rule becomes clear and imperative, that 
every one who uses such special manures to make 
good a special deficiency, should at the same time 
keep up the general stock by a liberal use of ordinary 
manure. 

bKClIuN IV. U.N I HE PRINCIPLES OF ROTATION IN CROPPING. 

Nearly all of the foregoing statements in this chap- 
ter, and in the preceding one, have borne more or less 
distinctly upon the theories or facts connected with 
the rotation of crops. It may be well to make a few 
direct applications of the knowledge we have now 
gained, with this particular subject in view. 

All gowl farmers know that the most exhausting 
system that can be devised, is to cultivate the same 
crop on the same soil, year after year. When a longer 
or shorter period has elapsed, as the land may have 
been at the commencement richer or poorer, the yield 
begins to decrease; an increase may be obtained again 
by the free use of manures, but the quantity necessary 
is so large, and requires to be so often renewed, that 
it is in most situations more profitable to change the 
crops, or alternate them. 

From such practical observations, have arisen the 
various systems of rotation that are in vogue in dif- 
ferent districts. Table III. shows how practical ex- 
perience has, in this case, hit u[)on the ver)* course 
which science would have recommended. It has been 
shown by that table, and attention has been called to 
the fact, that there are sr -'. inct classes of crept, 

when we consider them u ud to the composition 

of their ash. The classes are those which are found 
to bear a part in every good rotation, that is, grain 
crops, root crops, and grass crojw, or the same three 

c!- ' • • ' ' Tuished from each other in the 

r. -r. 

8 



fQ SYSTEM OF ROTATION 

Suppose the farmer to have a soil which requires, 
as almost all soils do, the application of manure to 
render it fertile. He adds a. good coating of manure, 
and then takes a crop of Indian corn or wheat : this 
crop will carry away the largest part of the phosphates 
that were added in the manure; in most cases a second 
crop of the same kind would not therefore be so good, 
and a third still less. There yet remains, however, 
from the manure, considerable quantities of other sub- 
stances, which the grain crops did not so particularly 
require, such as potash and soda; with these a good 
root crop may be obtained, potatoes or turnips or beets; 
after this there is probably still enough lime, etc. left 
to produce an excellent crop of hay, if seeded down 
with another grain crop of a lighter character than 
indian corn or wheat. 

We perceive then that any good system of rotation 
must be founded upon the principle, that different 
classes of crops require different proportions of the 
various substances that are present in soils, and in the 
numerous fertilizers that are applied for the purpose 
of enriching them. Thus the crops may be made to 
succeed each other with the least possible injury to the 
soil, and with the greatest economy in the use of the 
manures. It would be useless to recommend here any 
particular system of rotation as the best; for that is a 
matter to be decided by experience in each section of 
country, under the various circumstances of climate, 
location, and value of certain crops. I wish only to 
enforce the general principle that rotations are ne- 
cessaiy, and that they afford the only means as yet 
discovered, through which the majority of farmers can 
regularly obtain heavy crops with profit to themselves; 
and at the same time can keep up, or even improve 
the value of their land. 

It is to be notic«^d, that even a good rotation should 
not be continued V>o long unchanged upon the same 



TO BE AacnmRED by EXPKBIENCE. OT 

land. After cultivating one grain crop for a very 
lengthened period in a rotation, it will be found of 
advantage to make an occasional change to some 
other. The land appears to grow tired of a crop after 
a time, and to do better with another even of the same 
class. There are some districts in Scotland, where 
clover was for more than a century ' n five 

years, their rotations in those distn ^, over 

that ii^>ace of time ; now they can only get it once in 
ten years, or every other rotation, and that not so good 
ai formerly : they call such land clover-sick. Instances 
of this character show very strongly the value of rota- 
tion in cropping, and establish by facts the theoretical 
view that bas Deea taken of the advantages likely to 
result from such a system of cultivation. As we come 
to know more of the composition of our various crops, 
of the soils, and of manures, we may expect to attain 
greater exactness in our calculations of the amount 
taken off during any single year, or during an entire 
rotation. 

In each district, the farmer, by careful obiervaliOB 
aad study, can after a time mark out the ifilcai of 
oropping end of manuring best adapted to his particu- 
lar soil and localitv. 

1. If he knows the character of the rock from wback 
his soil was originally fonncd, his task is comparative- 
ly easy ; for from the known composition of the rock, 
he can come very near that of the soil. 

2. If he has no knowledc^eof this kind, he can still 
hope to arrive at goo<l results, by d»Hluc«i<>rts from the 
known character of the crops that have Ufn chiefly 
cultivated upon his farm. He can tell what are the 
substances that have been most probably exhausted by 
these crops, and experiment accordingly with manures 
in which those are the chief conrtituenta. 

3. A still more satisfactory wav>wouki betoproonrf 
good analyses of sotb hy reelry rompetcnt 



88 GOOD ANALYSES REQUIRED. 

By these, the defect or defects would at once be pointed 
out, and the most economical remedy indicated. Un- 
fortunately few are able to procure such analyses 
readily, and the majority must therefore have recourse 
to one of the two first methods of examination, or a 
union of them both. 

I say " good analyses by really competent persons," 
with the design of hinting that some care is necessary 
in this matter. A poor analysis is worse than nothing, 
as it not only involves the farmer in unsuccessful ex- 
periments, but in their failure throws discredit on the 
whole cause of scientific improvement. 

Many persons make analyses of soils hastily and 
carelessly, grudging the time and caution necessary to 
the obtaining of a good result; and others are really 
deficient in their knowledge of chemical investiga- 
tions. In both cases, mistakes without end are usually 
the only result. 

It is not an easy thing to derive positive or valuable 
information from imperfect analyses; for they are 
usually most defective as regards the substances that 
are present in the smallest quantities, such as phos- 
phoric acid, potash, soda, etc., the true proportion of 
which, as has already been explained, it is of great 
importance to know. 



89 '^ 



CHAPTER Vril. 

OF MANURES. 

NeceMity of manures. Irrigation, its management and eflects. 
Classification of manures : vegetable, animal, and mineral. 
Vegetable manures -. ploughing in of green crops, of straw, of 
seaweed, etc.; advantage of these forms of manure. Animal 
manures : reasons for their remarkable efficiency. Animal 
flesh, blood, wool, bones. 

SBCnON I. OF THE NECESSITY FOB MANURES I.\ MOST SOILS. 

Having now considered the character of the soil, 
and that of the crops in connection with each other, 
we see that there is no hope of keeping up an<l in- 
creasing the pro<luce of any land, unless there is from 
some source a supply of fertilizing substances to re- 
store those that are carried away by the crops. Some 
soils containing constantly decomposing rooks, or 
peculiar springs, or subject to annual overflows where- 
by cnriihin'^ sulistances are depo8ite<l, ne«l no other 
foreiirn .sii|)ply; but these are rare when compared 
with thoM" that riNpiire a constant and regular system 
of atldition, tt) rentier them properly productive. 

To the various manures employed for this purpose, 
we shall now turn our attention. Before taking them 
up in any r(>gular classifieation, I may properly devote 
a few wortls to one particular method of enriching the 
soil, which cannot easily be brought into either (hUm 
classes. 1 refer to irrigation. 



90 IRRIGATION. 



SECTION II. OF IRRIGATION. 



This method of improvement is of course only ap- 
plicable in particular situations, such as where a head 
and flow of water can be obtained, and where also the 
ground to be flowed is in grass or growing grain. All 
water, except rain water, even that from the purest 
springs, has mineral substances and organic substances 
in solution. As it flows over the surface among living 
plants, and in sinking through the soil comes in con- 
tact there with their roots, it yields up these substances 
for food. Beside such solid bodies, it contains in 
solution carbonic acid and oxygen, both of which the 
plant also receives with avidity. 

The surface of a field to be irrigated must of course 
be somewhat sloping, and the water is brought on by a 
main ditch at the head of the slope. In this main ditch, 
at proper distances, are gates to regulate the flow of 
water into smaller ditches, from the sides and ends of 
which again run small cuts; these are so arranged that 
every part of the field shall be flowed oyer by a thin 
but regular sheet of water. At the foot of the slope 
is another ditch, for the purpose of conveying away 
such of the water as may not sink into the earth. 
Where water is scarce, and the slope long, it is oc- 
casionally used several times in succession. When 
the flow has been continued for ten days or a fortnight 
at a time, the supply gates are shut down, and the field 
allowed to dry. The operation is often repeated once 
or twice in a season. 

The effect of water in this case, is not like that 
alluded to before in treating of swamps and wet land. 
Here there is no stagnation; the water is always run- 
ning and fresh. Land that is intended to be irrigated 
should have a porous subsoil, or, if not, should be 
underdrained; in either case the water sinks away as 
soon as the flow is stopped, the soil dries, and the 



CLASMnCATION OP MANURES. 91 

plants get at once the fuJl benefit r J" all the fertilizing 
matter that has been depositetl. 

In many parts of this countr\, irrigated meadows 
and pastures might be formed, which would produce 
hea\-y grass for hay early in the season, and then by 
occasional flowing furnish rich and abundant pasture 
during the hot and dry weather of summer, in the 
neighborhood of cities and large towns, it is sometimes 
practicable to irrigate with water from the sewers and 
drains; this is one of the richest of manures. In the 
vicinity of Edinburgh, Scotland, a poor sandy tract 
has by such means been converted into a perfect 
garden, which rents at an enormous sum, and furnishes 
■noocflBive crops of grass from early spring to late 
■utuiniL 



iXCTION III. CLASS1F1CATIO.N OF MAMUKSS. OF TEOETABLX 
MANTTRKS. 

We will now return to the classification of manures. 
They may be divided into three great classes, T«ge- 
tablu, animal and inineral. These we will coBsider in 
the order al> all that has bses said 

■s to its elh ; necessary aow to give 

any elaborate dt i > to the praokn tmiim of 

the word nutn»ir> img is a manure that gives 

food to plants, either directly or indirectly. 

Vegetable manures are numerous and important; 
■one of them have been already mentioned, when 
treating of tV rhing in of jjreen on>p». They 

are not so t-' m th«Mr a<ti«>ij as olhrr nianur«i 

yet ' ' ■ ,s 

of !■ :. . i. 

Clover IS one ot ' > 

purpose, more lai., 

buckwheat, ry»'. rapr, ui 

turnipd sown thick, iiidian 141111 x. .wn < ^ 



92 VEGETABLE MANURES. 

peas, are some of those more commonly used in this 
and other countries. They add organic matter largely 
to the soil, which organic matter they have drawn in 
great part from the air, and their roots bring inorganic 
substances from the subsoil to the surface, so that it is 
within the reach of succeeding crops. There are dif- 
ferences of opinion in various districts as to the proper 
period for ploughing these crops under: it is a matter 
to be settled by experience and convenience. They 
not only add fertilizing substances to the soil; they 
also improve its physical character. A light soil is 
somewhat consolidated, and rendered more retentive 
of moisture, while a stiff one is mellowed and loosened. 
Some of these green crops, such as spurry and buck- 
wheat, will grow well on extremely light, sandy soils. 
After they have grown up and been ploughed in a few 
times, the land is so improved that it will bear crops 
of a more valuable nature; and thus by a continuance 
of them at proper intervals, it may not only be kept 
up, but steadily improving. 

The same effects follow the ploughing of grass land, 
and turning under of the turf. The thicker and hea- 
vier the sward the better, because then a larger amount 
of fresh, decomposable organic matter, in the form of 
roots, is added to the soil. Where land has been in 
grass for some years, say four or five, the weight of 
roots under the surface is in some cases twice as much 
as the weight of the grass above; these roots all de- 
compose, and of course enrich the soil very materially. 

There are few cases in which a judicious course of 
green cropping will not improve land. In the worst 
instances, it is sometimes necessary to make numerous 
trials before even the hardiest green crop will succeed; 
when this difficulty is overcome, and a good growth 
once obtained, experienced farmers say that the land 
may by proper after management be brought to any 
desirable state of fertility. It must always be re- 



PLOUGHING tS GBEEN Ci^OPS. 93 

membered in bringing up land by green crops, that 
they really add no inorganic matter to the soil; they 
only bring it up from the subsoil, and render insoluble 
combinations near the surface soluble. The inorganic 
part of the soil, therefore, is actually diminishing by 
the occasional crops which are taken; and while im- 
proving by these means, care should for this reason be 
taken to add occasionally some form of mineral manure. 

The practice of turning the turf upon one edge when 
ploi: ' seems to be gaining ground: it is said by 

its . that the turf rots more surely and speedi- 

ly. 1 host; who contend for laying it flat, say that the 
-weeds are thereby more effectually killed, and that the 
fields may be made smoother. Potato tops, turnip and 
beet tops, green weeds, leaves, and ever) form of green 
Tegetable matter, may be advantageously ploughed in 
at once, or carted to the compost heap. Nothing of 
the kind should be neglected. 

Straw is not usually applied to the land until it has 
been worked over by animals, and mixed with their 
manure: in this form we shall refer to it again. When 
applie<l alone, it is usually l)est and most convenient 
to rot it down in a comjKxst heap, as the long straw is 
only ploughed under with difficulty. On stiff" clay 
soiu it is, however, very beneficial to bur)' long straw, 
as then it 8er\es to loosen and mellow the clay, both 
by lying amoncr and separating the lumps, and by its 
gradual fern i and decay. It has been found 

good practi. ay parts of the ronntry, to draw 

out straw iu the autiunn, and lay a ' it 

over winter grain. This serves as ;i , ^ 

winter, and retains moisture when necessary during a 
-irv ^.>r;.,.r ,>r * -jfly summer. By the time that the 
;it>d, it has decayed so as to turn under 
«aMiy, anti lonns quite a rich coating in the way of 
manure. 

In the neighborhood of the sea, where beaweed eui 



94 ANALYSIS OF SEAWEEDS. 

be obtained, the farmer should embrace every oppor- 
tunity for getting it. In England and Scotland, the 
right of way to a beach where seaweed can be had, 
increases the rent of a farm several shillings per acre. 
On many parts of our own coast, too, the farmers are 
very eager to obtain it. The ash of some seaweeds 
analyzed by Prof. Johnston gave the following results: 

TABLE nr. 

Potash and soda, from 15 to 40 per cent. 

Lime, — 3 — 21 " 

Magnesia, — 7 — 15 " 

Common salt, — 3 — 35 " 

Phosphate of lime, ... — 3 — 10 " 

Sulphuric acid, — 14 — 31 " 

Silica, — 1 — 11 " 

This table shows that these ashes are rich in the 
substances most needed by our crops, particularly in 
potash, soda, sulphuric acid, and phosphoric acid. The 
quantity of ash that they leave when dry, is larger than 
that in straw or in hay. When freshly taken from 
the sea, they contain a very large proportion of water. 

Seaweed is ploughed in green, or applied as com- 
post. In either case it decays very rapidly, unless 
extremely dry, and produces most of its effects upon 
the first crop. Many of the seaweeds contain much 
nitrogen ; and this, while it adds greatly to their value 
as manures, increases the rapidity with which they 
decompose. 

In England rape dust is largely used as a manure, 
and with much advantage. The rape seed is pressed 
to obtain its oil, just as linseed is, and the hard cake 
formed by pressure sold for manure. Four or five 
hundred weight per acre are applied as a top dressing, 
or from 1500 to 2000 lbs. when it is ploughed in. 
This is therefore a powerful manure, and is so portable 
that it would be valuable in this country, could it be 



AiNIMAL MANURES. 96 

procured at a reasonable rate. Where green vegetable 
manures of any description can be easily obtained 
away from the farm, the farmer will do well to re- 
that there is an especial advantage in their 
,^ lion; they add to his land not only organic, but 
inorganic substances which have never been there 
before, and are consequently a '•]•"- "nin to the soil 
in every respect. 

SECTION IV. OF ANIMAL MANURES. 

We will now take up the second class, the animal 
manures. These comprise the bloo<l, flesh, hair, horns, 
bones and excrements of animals. Manures of this 
class are more powerful by far than the vegetable 
manures, because they contain so much more nitrogen. 
I now simply state this fact; the reason why nitrogen 
is so efficacious, will be given in a subsequent chapter 
Bloml and tlesh are among the most valuable of allj 
wherever they can be obtained, thty should be secured 
at once, and either buried or made into comjx)st. All 
of the ollal from slaughter-houses is of much value, 
though in this country it is often entirely wasted. 

It IS not uncommon, in many districts, to see horses 
or cattle that die from disease, drawn out to some 
secluded spot, and there \ei\ to decay on the surface. 
These are known to be some of the most jwwerful 
manures that the fanner could obtain : equal to ifiiano, 
'«•, or any of the other mor- izers. 

r utimal that dies should be m.' >|x>st, 

or burie«l in pieces at once. The best phin is to 
•eparate the flesh, which decomposes readily and pro- 
duces an immediate eiTect, and make use of the bones 
lOOOrding to some of the inrthfwls to be hereafter 
dtscribed. 

The hairof uniiriiiis is ;ui(Vir«(li ' !i m.imirr; 
for this reason wooKn ragN, ami I lu :u woolen 



96 



ANIMAL MANURES. 



mills, are both considered valuable in England; they 
are sold there at from $20 to $40 per ton, and are 
eagerly sought after at these prices, as not only very 
fertilizing, but also very lasting in the soil. All of 
the hair obtained from the furs of animals is there 
scrupulously saved, and sold at a high price. Twenty 
or thirty bushels per acre produce an excellent eifect. 
All these parts of the animal leave an ash corre- 
sponding with that of plants in the substances w-hich 
it contains, with the single exception of silica; this 
does not seem to enter into the composition of the 
animal. We are then now able to point out distinc- 
tions between the inorganic matter in the soil, in the 
plant, and in the animal. They all contain the same 
substances, if we omit silica and alumina. 

TABLE V. 

The soil contains silica and alumina. 
The plant contains silica, but no alumina. 
The animal contains neither silica nor alumina. 



SECTION V. OF BONES. 

There is one important part of the animal yet un- 
noticed, that is the bones. Their composition is, when 
dry, earthy matter about 66 lbs, in 100; organic mat- 
ter that burns away, about 34 lbs. 

a. This earthy matter consists for the most part of 
phosphate of lime, that is, lime in combination with 
phosphoric acid ; these, as already shown, are two 
most valuable substances for application to any soil. 

b. The organic part is called gelatin, or glue; this 
is boiled out by the glue-makers : it is extremely rich 
in nitrogen, and is therefore an excellent manure. We 
thus see, at once, how important a source of nourish- 
ment for our land is to be found in bones. They unite, 
from the above statement, some of the most efficacious 



mfTEREirr methods aritmm bones 97 

and desirable organic and inorganic manures. Both 
of these parts are fitted to miniiiter powerfully to the 
growth oi the plant. 

When the bones are applied whole, the eflfect is not 
very marked at first, because they decay slowly in the 
soil : it is also necessary to put on a larcrp quantity 
per acre. The best '.I'd to 

powder, or to fine li > ushels 

of dust will produce a more immediate and abundant 
result than 80 or 100 bushels of whole bones, althou j;h 
of course the effect will be sooner over. An advanta- 
geous way of using them, is to put on 8 to 10 bushels 
of dust per acre, and half the usual quantity of fann- 
yar.' ■•♦•. 

1' ones, that have been tised by the glue- 

makers, are still quite valuable : they have lost the 
greater part of their gelatine, but the phosphates re- 
main; and the bones are so softened by the long 

boiling that they have tir ' ;n, as to decompose 

quickly, and afford an ii supply of food to 

plants. 

Another most important form of applying bones, is 
in a St:' ition bysulphiuric acid(oil of vitriol). 

Thi.s is substance, costing by the carboy not 

more than 2J to 3 cents per lb. To every 100 lbs. of 
bones, about 50 to 60 of acid are taken; if bone du-xt 
b used, from 25 to 45 lbs. of acid is suificienU Tlie 
acid must be mixe<] with two or t! s bulk 

of water, Ix-causc if applie*! stroni' > burn 

and blacken the bones u I item. 

a. The (tones are placi <: portioB of 

the previously diluted acid jv i thein. Aftei 

■tandini^ a il.i\ . another portion . „. ..; may be poured 
on; aiK the last on the thinl day, if they arc 

not ali>.iw> luv^olved. The maaa should be often 
stirred. 

6. Another good way is to place the bonce in a 
9 



98 



USE OF BONE MANURE. 



heap upon any convenient floor, and pour a portion of 
the acid upon them. After standing half a day, the 
heap should be thoroughly mixed, and a little more 
acid added; this to be continued so long as necessary. 
It is a method which I have known to prove very 
successful. 

In either case the bones will ultimately soften and 
dissolve to a kind of paste; this may be mixed with 
twenty or thirty times its bulk of water, and applied 
to the land by means of an ordinary water cart. Used 
in this way, it produces a wonderful eflect upon nearly 
all crops. 

A more convenient method in most cases is to 
thoroughly mix the pasty mass of dissolved bones with 
a large quantity of ashes, peat earth, sawdust or char- 
coal dust. It can then be sown by hand, or dropped 
from a drill machine. Two or three bushels of these 
dissolved bones, with half the usual quantity of yard 
manure, are sufficient for an acre. This is therefore 
an exceedingly powerful fertilizer. One reason for its 
remarkable effect is, that the bones are by dissolving 
brought into a state of such minute division that they 
are easily and at once available for the plant. A 
peculiar phosphate of lime is formed, called by che- 
mists a superphosphate, which is very soluble; and in 
addition to this we have the sulphuric acid, of itself 
an excellent application to most soils. 

Bones are useful in nearly every district, and are 
peculiarly adapted to all, or at least to most of those 
situations, where the land, without heavy manuring, 
no longer bears good wheat, or Indian corn, or other 
grains. In a great majority of cases, where land is 
run down by grain cropping, the use of bones in some 
of the forms above mentioned, is of all things the 
most likely to meet the deficiency. It will be remem- 
bered that the ash of grain is peculiarly rich in phos- 
phates; consequently, as grain is generally sold off, 



USE OF BONE MA>'UBF. 99 

the phosphates are most readily exhausted; in bonet 
therefore we find just the manure for restoring them, 
and with little expense. This has been already 
tried in some parts of the country, and with most en* 
couraging success. I would particularly recommend 
farmers to experiment with bones dissolved in sul» 
phuric acid. The dissolving of them is a simple busi- 
nesB) and can be easily shown on a small scale, by tht 
teacher to his class. He can do it, for instance, in a 
teacup or tumbler, or on a plate or a f" The 

cheapness of this manure is a great rt lation. 

Two bushels of bones would not certaini\ re 

tiuin $1*00; then say 60 lbs. of acid to di> >m 

would cost by the carboy, $1*50, making only $2*50 
for a quantity auite sufficient for an acre, with half 
the usual dressmg farm-yard manure. It would be 
worth almost as much as this, to cart the common ma- 
nure from the yard, to say nothing of its value. There 
are few farms on which bones enough might not be 
collected in the course of a year, to help out in thia 
way the manuring of several acres. 

Bones may not only be applied successfully to the 
ordinary cultivated crops, but also to meadows and 
pastures. In some of the older daiir districts, a few 
Dushels of bone du.st per acre will at once restore 
wxmi-out pastures. The reason is, that tl nd 

cheese, which are in one form or another s' ir- 

ried away, contain considerable quantities of pboe- 
nhates in their ash. These are rt-storetl to the land 
oy bones. It is calculated by Prof. Johnston, that i 
cow giving 20 quarts of milk per day, takes from the 
soil aoout 2 lbs. of phosphate of lime or bone earth 
in each week. There would thus be reauired three or 
four lbs. of bones, to make goo<l this losB. If it ii 
not made good in some way. 'i grmsMS after t 

timorpaseto flourish; being - <lby those which 

r> xs phosphate of lime, and therefore do not 



100 USE OF BONE MANUKE. 

furnish, M'lien eaten by the cow, so rich or so abun- 
dant milk 

All of these uses of bones which have been de- 
scribed, are understood and appreciated in England; 
so much SO; that the bones are all collected with most 
scrupulous care, and are even imported from every other 
country where they can be advantageously obtained. 
It is to be hoped that the great waste of them in this 
country may soon cease, and that they will be eagerly 
sought after by American farmers. 

Thus much as to the fertilizing value of the various 
parts of animals: we enter, in the next chapter, an- 
other mosi important department of animal manures. 




101 

ij 1;. 



CHAPTER IX. 



MANURES (CONTINUED). 

Compamtive Y«lue of mannm from our domestic animals-, rtiwm 
of liquid and solid portions: means of preservation. Why 
■itrofen renders manures so powerful and \-aluable. Manor* 
from birds; reasons for its great efficacy. Guano; its compo* 
ntion and value. Fish manure; nature of its action. Shell- 
fish. Saline ami mineral manures. Lime; forms in which it 
Uosed; quicklime; hydrate of lime; carbooate of lime. Mac* 
■wiap Umestoae. MatU. GracoMuid of K. Jersey. 8h«l 



SBCnOlf I. OP THE MANUKES PROM DOMESTIC AND! ALt, 
A.VD THEIR PRESERVATION. 

The manure of various domestic animals is, in this 
country, most commonly employed as a fertilizer, all 
t' small quao- 

ti ..served and 

a: tuliy as ihey might, or out^ht to be. 

I , ,al varieties are those of the ox, the cow, 
the ho^, the horse, and the sheep. Of thoe, that of 
the horse is most valuable in it^t fresh state: it con- 
tlini much nitrogen, but is very liable to lose by fer- 
mentation. That of the hog comes next That of 
the cow is pl.Mvii at the bottom of the list. This is 
because th' ibstances of herfood go prw- 

cipaily to a of milk, the manure Detag 

thereby rendered jx>orer. 

The manure of all thuse u;.t....i., .> ..«. ..v..<.. ;han 
the food given them, because it contains much more 
Bitrogen. This is for the reaaoo that a Urge part of 



102 INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE PRESERVATION 

the carbon and oxygen of the food are consumed in 
the lungs and blood generally, for the purpose of keep- 
ing up the heat of the body. They are given off from 
the lungs, and also by perspiration and evaporation 
through the pores of the skin, in the forms of CEirbonic 
acid and water. 

From animals fed upon rich food, the manure is much 
more powerful than when it is poor. In England, for 
instance, where they fatten cattle largely on oil-cake, 
it is calculated that the increased value of the manure 
repays all of the outlay. This is the reason why hu- 
man ordure is better than manure from any of the 
animals mentioned above, the food of man being rich 
and various. 

All these kinds of manure should be carefully col- 
lected and preserved, both as to their liquid and solid 
parts. The liquid part or urine is particularly rich in 
the phosphates and in nitrogen. This part is by very 
many farmers permitted in a great degree to run away 
or evaporate. Some farmyards are contrived so as to 
throw the water off entirely, others convey it through 
a small ditch upon the nearest field. The liquid ma- 
nure which might have fertilized several acres in the 
course of the season, is thus concentrated upon one 
small spot, and the consequence is a vegetation so 
rank as to be of very little use. Spots of this kind 
may be seen in the neighborhood of many farm-yards, 
where the grass grows up so heavy that it falls down 
and rots at the bottom, and has to be cut some weeks 
before haying time, producing strong coarse hay that 
cattle will scarcely touch. 

The proper way to save this liquid is to have a tank 
or hole, into which all the drainings of the yard may 
be conducted. If left here long, this liquid begins to 
ferment, and to lose nitrogen in the form of ammo- 
nia, which it will be remembered is a compound of 
nitrogen and hydrogen. To remedy this, a little sul- 



OF PAHMYABD MANURE. 103 

phuric acid, or a few poumis of plaster, may be occa' 

sionally thrown in. The sulphuric acid will unite 

with the ammonia, ami tonn sulphate of ammonia, 

which will remain unchanged, not being liable to 

ate. Others prefer to mix sufficient peat, ashes, 

, or fine charcoal, with the liquid in the tank, 

'f-m still pump it out and pour it 

One point is to be noticed in 

the miti ot a tank. Only the water which 

natural!} ._ Irom the stables and yards should be 

allowed to enter it: all that falls from the eaves of 
the building should be discharged elsewhere. Regu* 
lated in titis way, the tank will seldom overflow, and 
the roaii "• <-ted in it will be of the moet valua* 

ble and , . description. The tank may be made 

of stone, brick, or wood, as is most convenient, and 
B^ed cost but very little. 

\ While the liquid manure is actually in many cases 
•imost entirely lost, the solid part is often allowed to 
drain and bleach, until nearly every thing soluble has 
washed away; or is exposed in iieaps to ferment, with- 
out anT cnverin?. In such a case amaooia b always 
dmsfl F: it may often be per' y 

|hssBt-> . in horse manure. Th< ty 

ako be shown, i i<; a feather in muriatic acid 

and waving it « . ... heap. If ammonia in any 
quantity is escapint;, white fumes will be visible about 
tile feather, causeil by the fonaation of muriate of 
aaunonia. A teacher can onmpHfy this by holding 
a feather, dip{>ed in the same way, over an ammonia 
bottle. This escape of so valuable a substance may be 
in a (^rcat nu-asura prevealed by shovelling earth over 
tlu! surface of the Bcap, to a depth of two or three 
inches. If thi.s docs not arrest it entirely, sprinkle a 
few handfuls of plaster upon the top: the sulphuric 
acid of the plaster will as before unite with the am- 
OMMiia, and form !«ulphate of 



104 PRESERVATION OF HORSE MANURE. 

Manures containing nitrogen in large quantity are 
so exceedingly valuable, because this gas is required 
to form gluten, and bodies of that class, in the plant; 
this is particularly in the seed, and sometimes also in 
the fruit. Plants can easily obtain an abundance of car- 
boii, oxygen, and hydrogen, from the air, the soil, and 
manures. Not so with nitrogen. They can not get 
it from the air: there is little of it in most soils; and 
hence manures which contain much of it, produce 
such a marked effect. Not that it is more necessary 
than the other organic bodies, but more scarce j at 
least in a form available for plants. The same rea- 
soning applies to phosphoric acid. It is not more 
necessary than the other inorganic ingredients; but 
still is more valuable, because more uncommon in the 
soil and in manures. 

In all places where manure is protected from the 
sun, and from much washing by rain, its value is 
greatly increased. 

a. Horse manure particularly should not be left ex- 
posed at all: it begins to heat and to lose nitrogen 
almost immediately, as may be perceived by the smell. 
It should be mixed with other manures, or covered by 
some absorbent earth, as soon as possible. Almost 
every one who enters a stable in the morning, where 
there there are many horses, must perceive the strong 
smell of ammonia that fills the place. I have seen in 
some stables, little pans containing plaster of paris or 
sulphuric acid, for the purpose of absorbing these 
fumes, and forming sulphate of ammonia, h. The 
liquid which runs from barnyards and from manure 
heaps, is shown by analysis to consist of the most fer- 
tilizing substances; and it is calculated that where 
this is all allowed to wash away, as is the case in 
many instances, the manure is often reduced nearly 
one-half in its value. I have seen yards where it was 
al.nost worthless, owing to long exposure. 



MANURE FROM BIRDe. 105 

lifte farmers of this country need awakening upon 
the subject ot" carefully preserving their common ma- 
nures. In Flanders, where everj' thing of the kind if 
saved with the greatest care, the liquid manure of a 
single cow for a year is valued at $10; here it is too 
often allowed to escape entirely. Either they are very 
foolish, or we are very wasteful. 

SECTION II. OF MANVKB FROM BIRDS. GUANO. 

The manure of birds is richer than that of any ani- 
mals, for the reason that here we have the liquid and 
solid excrements mixed together. On this account it 
is found to be particularly rich in nitrogen, and also 
in phosphati>s. The manure of pigeons, hens, ducks, 
geese, and turkeys, is very valuable, and should be 
carefully collected. The amount to be obtained from 
' irces may be thought so insignificant as to be 

' V of notice; but it must be remembered that 

three or Jour hundred Ujs. of such manure, that has 
not been exposed to rain or sun, is worth at least 14 
to 18 loads of ordinary manure. 

Guano, a substance that has been so much used 
within the past few years, is a manure of this claas. 
It is found in those tropical latitu<les where there is 
seldom or rn-vcr any continuetl rain. Immens** num- 
bers of > Imild their nests, rear their young, 
and pass : ic, when not u|)on the wing, on the 
rocky shores and small islets. Here their excrements 
have accumulated, layer upon layer, for centuries, 
remaining uniniuretl in those dry climates: betis of it 
have occasionally been found, from 15 to 25 feet in 
thickness. The food of these birds consists almost 
entirely of fish, and hence their manure is remaift||i 
bly rich in its quality. The guano, in its best stMp 
is this manure concentrate*! by the evaporation of Iti'^ 
watiT. ' 



106 



VABIETifiS Of GUANO. 



The general composition of a few of the leading 
varieties is shown in the following table: 



TABLE VI. 



Variety. 


Water; 
per cent. 


Organic matter 4 
ammoniacal salts 


Phosphates. 




5 to 7 
7 to 10 
10 to 13 
18 to 26 


56-64 
56-66 
50-56 
36-44 


25-29 
16-23 
22-30 
21-29 


Peruvian 


Chilian, . 

Ichaboe, 









This, it is evident at a glance, is an extremely rich 
manure: the quantities of ammoniacal matter, and of 
phosphates, are remarkably large. The Ichaboe guano 
contains much more water than the others, because 
the climate in that region is not so dry as on the west 
coast of S. America. It is also more decomposed, 
giving usually a strong smell of ammonia. 

a. The Peruvian, I3olivian and Chilian varieties, 
have very little smell of ammonia; but if they are 
mixed with a little quicklime, and gently heated, the 
odor becomes extremely powerful. 

h. This little experiment also shows that quicklime 
or caustic lime should not be mixed with manures con- 
taining much nitrogen, as through its agency ammonia 
is formed, passes off into the air, and is lost. 

Guano is so energetic in its action, that it should 
not come in contact with the seed, as it might destroy 
its vitality. In dry seasons it frequently produces very 
little effect, owing to its not being dissolved. From 2 
to 5 cwt. per acre are applied; more than 5 cwt. 
makes vegetation too coarse and luxuriant. I knew 
of 8 cwt. being put upon an acre of turnips: they all 
grew to tops, and produced no bulbs. Even the suc- 
ceeding crop of wheat was so rank in its growth that 
the grain was mi.serable. The best way of applying 



EXPERIMENT WITH GUANO. IQf 

it, and indeed all of these powerful fertilizecs, is at 
the rate of from 1 to 2 cvrL y together with 

half the usual quantity of i , manure. The 

supply of organic matter in the soil is thus kept up, 
while large crops are at the same time obtained. 

It is a good plan, in the case of winter grain, tQ 
sow on 1 cwt. \v' ' a is sown, and 1 cwt, io 

the sprint; as a ' In sowing, it is best to 

mix vi ' tc The effect of 

guano I _ ier the second year; 

und if the tirst season be favorable, its most decided 
action is in the first year. 

1 have recommended that experiments be tried in 
dissolving guano, or at least its phosphates, in sulphu- 
ric acid. The san.e superphosphate would be formed 
as by its action upon bones. Ten or " lbs. of 

acid, to KK) n»s. of guano, would b» .,t. A 

liiu in this way be ex- 

pe> , . It is quite liable 

to ion, and should only be bought warranted 

as '"^ , that the farmer may have a remedy in 

a < intment arising from its poor quality. 

This ts a gornl rule to apply to all of theee hi^ 
priced manures. 

SBcnuN m. or fish manukbs. 

Ajiother animal manure is fish, and one which is of 
Tery great value to districts near the sea. In many 
M'atcrs, wliitr fish and other varieties are caught in 

iiiiiiu 11^. !i!j!:,h»rs for this purpose alone; in other 

tut- uuantities of refuse, th« heads and clean- 

;i i'» had. These are al! extremely valuable. 

Ou (■i,.s,>i,..,,kr 1', ,N. K. M.kn' fknnwt ooUaot 

thi> It fuse i!,.iii II,,' iishi Ties w r ,_ -1 esffemcMtiiidl 

cart it many miles inland. In other sectkMB S it ii 
nepl.'iti il ..t>t;t..iv 



108 FISH MANURE, 

The flesh of fish contains large quantities of nitro- 
gen, and acts with much energy in hastening the 
growth of plants. The bones contain more water, 
anil consequently, in their wet state, less phosphates 
than those of animals ; but this very softness occasions 
their rapid decay, and more speedy action. Dry fish 
bones are richer in phosphates than the bones of ani- 
mals. Fish decomposes so quickly, that it should 
either be ploughed under, or made into a well covered 
compost heap at once: probably the last is best. It 
is difficult to cover them in the soil so that some loss 
shall not take place. 

The use of this manure, for the reasons given above, 
has been confined to the immediate vicinity of the 
sea-coast. It would be very desirable to find some 
method of preserving it so that it might bear trans- 
portation, without losing its good qualities, and with- 
out becoming offensive. Experiments are now being 
made, with a view to this result, which bid fair to 
prove entirely successful, and to bring this admirable 
manure within the reach of the interior at a reason- 
able rate. 

On many parts of the Scotch coasts, there are ex- 
tensJA e beds of scollops and muscles, which are got 
up and applied largely to the land with excellent ef- 
fect. Our farmers near the sea would do well to seek 
supplies of this kind also. The shells of all shellfish 
are valuable, on account of the lime which forms their 
chief bulk, and the animal inhabitants are remarkably 
rich in nitrogen. They all decompose rapidly, and 
require immediate attention to prevent loss. 

Thin shells, such as muscles, soft clams, etc., crum- 
ble down quite rapidly: thick shells require cracking 
and crushing, to ensure their speedy decomposition. 



i,niE. 10#f 

OF SALINE AND MINERAL MANURES. 

The last class of manures embracto those of a saline 
and mineral character. These are numerous, but not 
many of them have been as yet largely used in tliis 
country. Beside those which are known here, I shall 
mention a few of those that have been found most 
».fTi. :u lous abroad. 

SECTION IV. OF LIME. 

I will commence with a mineral manure, whose use 
is most widely extended, in every country where agri- 
culture has made much advance. I refer to lime. 

Lime is nrdinariiv found in the form of common 



contains aUnit 44 Um. ol cHrlxuiic aciii U[d8. lliis 
may be driven off by a hi^h heat, as in the lime-kihis. 
The lime then remains in what is called the caustic 
state, or quicklime. It will bum the ton^e, if ap- 
plied to it. When water is poured upon it (this may 
be shown by teachers), it swells, cracks, heats, and 
finally crumbles to a fine pnwdir. If the water is 
only used in sufficient qu » 

will all disap{>ear, beint; • 
fact united with the lime, ami 
solid stone. The heat durin"^ 

chemical union of water .A ton of lim. - 

stone unites with alwut on.-n'min of a ton of Witter. 

If quicklime or slaked lime is exposed to the air. it 



acid, as the limestone did before it leti, thua 

proriog the fart ju!«t stated. 



110 BENEFICIAL EFFECTS OF LIME. 

Lime is applied to the land in the three states above 
mentioned: quicklime, hydrate or slaked lime, and air- 
slaked or mild lime, so called because it has lost its 
caustic properties. It is better for the land in all of 
these states than it was before burning, because the 
burning has reduced it to an extremely fine powder, 
more fitted to be dissolved in the soil, and to be taken up 
by the plant. From the various tables already given, 
it is obvious that lime is an absolutely essential ingre- 
dient in the soil, being constantly needed by plants in 
all of their parts; but beside this, it performs other 
functions there of scarcely less importance, differing 
according to the state in which it is applied. 

a. If the soil be stiff and cold, if it is newly drain- 
ed, containing much of acid organic compounds, or 
if there are tough, obstinate grasses to eradicate, such 
as bent, etc., it is best to apply quicklime, or the caus- 
tic hydrate. In either of these conditions it has a 
most beneficial and energetic action; lightening and 
mellowing stiff clays, neutralizing and decomposing 
injurious acid substances, and extirpating many hurt- 
ful grasses and weeds. 

h. If caustic lime is applied largely to light soils, 
it may do harm by too rapidly decomposing the or- 
ganic matter, usually scarce in soils of this descrip- 
tion. In all such cases, and generally when it is not 
wished to produce such effects as the above, mild or 
air-slaked lime is best. 

The action of all varieties is invariably more mark- 
ed and permanent upon drained or thoroughly dry 
land, than upon that which is wet and swampy. All 
of these various states of lime act not only upon the 
organic matter in the soil, but upon the inorganic also, 
decomposing certain insoluble compounds, and bring- 
ing them into a state favorable to the sustenance of 
plants. Thus we see that this manure performs many 
most important functions. 



DIBBCnONS FOR USfNO LOfS. 1||. 

It has a constant tendency to sink in the soil, and 
in one that has been heavily limed for many years, 
quite a layer of it exists in the subsoil: this may be 
brought up by deep plou^hinfj, or is made available 
by drains, which permit the roots to go down. When 
applied as a top dressing, it should in almost every 
case be mild, and also when used in composts, where 
much animal manure is present The reason why pre- 
caution should be used in the latter instance, is one 
that has becii alluded to before, in speaking of ma- 
nures containing nitrogen. In all such cases, caustic 
Ikxke causes a formation of ammonia from the nitro- 
gen, and a consequent escape of it into the air. Where 
much lime is mixed with the manure, its depreciation 
in value is very rapid, owing to this loss. Where 
there is little or no nitrogen present, and it is desired 
to decompose peat, or to rot heaps of weeds and turf, 
the caustic lime is to be preferred, as its action is so 
much more energetic. 

It is now c()n.sidere<l the best practice to apply lime 
in rather small quantities, and often, as then it is kept 
near the surface, and always active. Where it ia 
bought, lime should always, if possible, be in the state 
of quicklime, as in that case there will be neither 
water nor carbonic acid to transport. In 100 lbs. of 
carbonate of lime or common limestone, are 44 lbs. 
of water; in 100 lbs. of slaked lime, about 26 lbs. of 
water, so that the saving in both iastances by carry- 
ing quicklimr is considrrahh'. 

Numerous kinds of limestone, differing greatly in 
purity, are found in various districts. In some seo- 
tioDS they are all ma^nesian limestones or dolomites, 
at^ese are called by mineralopists. containing, be- 
lidf ifc of lime, ear' ii. Where 

the ; ,! i«! in larjjr ■ tdly inju- 

rious, ami ill to renner the 

limestone itii : i purposes. It 



112 COMPOSITION OF LIME. 

is these from which the hydraulic or water cement is 
made. Although magnesia is necessary to plants, 
caustic magnesia, if introduced in large quantity into 
the soil, seems to produce a very bad effect, and lime 
that contains much of it is therefore to be avoided. 

Beside limestones, there are several other forms in 
which lime is largely used by the farmer. The chief 
of these is marl. This substance consists usually of 
the fragments and dust of sea, fresh-water, or land 
shells, more or less mixed with earth. When pure, 
the greater proportion is carbonate of lime. The fol- 
lowing table gives the composition of a very excel- 
lent one, lately analyzed in my laboratory. It was 
from Peterboro', N. Y.: 



TABLE vn. 

Iba. in 100. 

Carbonic acid, 35*00 

Lime, 45*02 

Magnesia, 0*66 

Iron and alumina, with a little phosphoric acid, . 2"69 

Sand, 9-57 

Organic matter, 7'06 

100-00 

Here the carbonate of lime amounts to about 80 
lbs. in 100, while the small quantities of magnesia, 
iron, alumina, and especially of phosphoric acid, add 
materially to its value. There are many marls which 
do not contain more than from 15 to 25 per cent of 
lime. It is necessary to apply these in much larger 
quantity, to produce an equal effect, and of course 
they will not bear transportation to so great a dis- 
tance. In using marls, it is always best to put on 
heavier doses than of any form of burned lime, as 
there is not, from its mild nature, the same risk of 
add i no- too much. 



MARL. 



113 



There are in this country some substances used 
largely as manure, and called marls, that have very 
little lime in them. These are in certain parts of 
New Jersey. The lime, in shells scattered through 
them, varies from 10 to 20 per cent in some speci- 
mens, in others there is scarcely any at all. The effect 
of th s is, however, great dpon poor soils, and 

in N y they are verj- largely appliwi. The 

secret of their value lies chiefly in from 12 to 20 per 
cent of potash, which the l)est of them contain, ac- 
cording to the analyses of Prof H. D. Rodgers. 

It is always easy to ascertain whether any substance 
supposcfl to he a marl, really is so or not, by trying it 
with a littU'i lid. If there is much carlnmate 

of lime, the . iice will be strong and violent, 

owing to the bubbling up and escape of carbonic acid 
gas. Carlwnate of magnesia and many other car- 
bonates would, it is true, produce a like appearance; 
but these are rnrelv found native, in very larcre quan- 
tities. 

On some sections of the s.;i-ii.;iv,t, a s, shell 

or roral sand is to W ohtnii!' il. maiii i.; 's or 

V the act I 
rr. On • 
ot 1 

»«•'■ ,'■■■■ .' -•- - 

remains, which a<ld ni ■> its value. This, like 

the marls, may be sat« i\ ..un. d to the land in large 
quantitit>s, without fear of injury to crops. 



10* 



114 



CHAPTER X. 

MANURES (CONCLUDED), SALINE AND MINERAL. 

Gypsum or plaster, its composition and properties; reasons for its 
different effects. Common salt, its applications as a manure. 
Nitrate of soda, native. Sulphates, their use and beneficial 
action. Efficacy of these saline manures upon various crops; 
directions for their use ; precautions necessary in their applica- 
tion. Wood ashes, their general composition and value ; spent 
or lixiviated ashes. Anthracite coal ashes; reasons why they 
are worth preserving. Pearl ashes. Soot, its effects, and the 
way in which it should be used. 

SECTION I. OF GYPSUM. 

Another important manure in which lime forms a 
part, is plaster of paris, also called gypsum, and che- 
mically, sulphate of lime. In this country it has been 
more generally used perhaps than in any otfcer, and 
often with very great benefit. In many cases, a few 
bushels per acre bring up land from poverty, to a very 
good bearing condition : complaints are, however, 
made, that after a time it injures the land in place of 
benefitting it. This, in almost all instances, results from 
using it alone, without applying other manures at the 
same time. The explanation is of the same general 
nature as that given under lime in Chapter ix. The 
farmer has taken away a variety of substances, and 
has only added gypsum. If the land is entirely ex- 
hausted at last under such treatment, it is obviously 
not the fault of the gypsum. There are many large 
districts where it produces no effect; but it may al- 
ways be considered certain, that where gypsum or lime 
do no good, there is already, in one form or another, a 
supply of both naturally in the soil; or, as has been 



EFFECTS OP GYPSUM. 115 

previously explained under lime, some physical or 
chemical defect which prevents their action. 

Gypsum, before it is burned, consists of sulphuric 
acid, lime, and water; of the latter, there are about 
21 lbs. in evti V ' ' J. This water can be easily 
driven off by ;. iie ground gypsum. This may 

be done with a small quantity, by way of experiment, 
over a common lamp. During heating, it whitens : 
it is this burned gypsum that is used for the cornices 
of rooms, for making casts, for hard finish, etc When 
water is mixed with it, a considerable degree of heat 
is produced, the 21 per cent of water is again ab- 
sorbed, becoming once more a part of the solid stcme, 
and tlie whole mass hardening or setting, as it is 
termed, in a few moments. It is upon this property 
of hardening when mingled with water, that the ums 
of gypsum in the arts, as above mentioned, depend. 

This manure frequently proiluces a most beneficial 
eflT... t vt},en applied as a top dressing upon pastures 
> i'>ws : it is also a favorite and excellent appli- 

cauuu lu young corn and potatoes. It is of service 
not only Gy tht- valiial)lf nutriment which it furnishes 
to the plant, I from a cirtain power which it 

posscssi-ji of a. moisture and gases. 

a. Liebig ha» supposed that much ^'cct iqpOB 

grassland is owiiitr to this propert). i attraeftl 

ammonia from th< .«re, and retains it for dM 

use of plants. Ti..^ ... without doubt an importaat 
effect, but should not be conaidered the principal on*. 

b. To this same i be ascribed its actioA 
when scattered o. heaps, or mixed 
the liquid in tanks. la both cases it absorbs 
nia, and prevents its escape. \\Tiitc fumes d i 
nia may sometimes be ; v the ejn md 

the sense of smeU, risiu^ ...^ ^......c of icrmcnt- 

ing manure heaps. A little gypsnm sprinkkd ovw 

l^ysiiri'a' '■ •*■" '■ vill arrest this ev a poc ti ai 

and loss v. 



116 COMMON SAT,T AS A MANURE. 

c. During drought, it seems, by its power of attract- 
ing moisture, to aid materially in sustaining the plant. 
It is slightly soluble in water, and hence slowly dis- 
solves, either when buried in the soil or left on the 
surface. It is best applied in damp weather, as then 
it can be sown more easily, and will produce an effect 
more quickly. The quantity applied per acre is usual- 
ly not large. 

SECTION II. OF COMMON SALT, NITRATES AND SULPHATES. 

Common salt is a manure, the use of which is not 
only wide spread, but very ancient. In large quanti- 
ties it is injurious, destroying vegetation rather than 
increasing its growth. In moderate quantities, how- 
ever, it has been found on some soils very valuable. 
Such are most likely to occur in places far distant 
from the sea. The sea breeze carries small quantities 
of salt spray far inland, and deposits it upon the soil. 
All who live in the vicinity of salt water, know that 
its peculiar smell may often be perceived at a distance 
of many miles in the interior. For this reason salt is 
not usually found to be of much value as a manure 
near the sea. 

A small proportion mixed in with a compost heap 
is likely to be useful. Another good way is to dis- 
solve a little in water used for slaking quicklime. 
The compound thus formed is very energetic in its 
action upon vegetable substances, and has been found 
an admirable application to many soils, particularly 
on those where there is much inert vegetable matter 
that can only be decomposed with great difficulty. 
Common salt is, according to the popular definition, 
composed of chlorine and soda. 

There are other combinations of soda, that are be- 
ginning to be used in this country, and have been 
greatly approved of in Europe. The most important 



VITBATE or SODA. 117 

of theie is the Nitrate of Soda. This is composed of 
nitric acid (a substance before described) and soda. 
The nitric acid contains much nitrogen, and is there- 
fore very active as a manure. One or two cwt. nitrate 
of soda have been found, in many instances, to produce 
a very great growth. It gives a bright dark green color 
to the leaves, and increases the yield of grain. It also 
produces a marked improvement in grass crops and 
pastures. Grain that has been grown by aid of this 
manure is said not to give so much fine flour, being 
richer in gluten, and having a thicker skin. 

Nitrate of soda is in some districts of South Ame- 
rica a natural product, being found in a crust on the 
surface of the ground; it is so abundant as to be 
broucrht away by the shipload, and may be obtained at 
s ' s as would warrant the application of it in 

II quantities. Other nitrates are manufactured 

which would be excellent manures, but the price is 
generally so high as to forbid their use with profit 
Whenever refuse nitrate of potash, that is, common 
saltpetre, can be ol' ' >r refuse liquid in which it 
has been dissolved mg meat, «le^ it i^onldbe 

mixed into a compo;»t htap, and carefully - — •(!. 

Thrrr are several compounds rontainii iric 

•1 sulphates, that are also valuable whenever 
li.- , - ..:: be had at reasonjiMe prices. Those that 
have been most coramo; yed, are the sulphates 

of magnesia and of sou.i. I torn their composition, 
both of these must be u.seful ; but it would be necessary 
to exercise a decree of caution with ' ' ' > of 

raa^iie-sia, as it is very snhihle, nnd n .;^ht 

do harm. It will be r hat magnesia in 

any large quantity is (] I, ^ in the soil: small 

quantities an- tul. 

The rpf""v' . ;.,>in salt-works after the salt has 

been cry^' it, contains some soluble coropouiMli 

of lime, magnesa, etc, and might, applied e uM lt f 



118 



COMPARISON OF SALINE MANURES! 



in small quantities, be useful. Pouring a little Occa- 
sionally upon a compost heap, would be the safest 
and best mode of trying it. A large dose of this liquid 
would be fatal to vegetation. 

SECTION III. OF THE EFFECTS OF SALINE MANURES, 
AND THE BEST MODES OF APPLICATION. 

The above are instances of saline manures, the few 
last given merely as examples of a class. In the fol- 
lowing table are mentioned a few cases, recorded by 
Prof. Johnston, of their effect as applied upon vari- 
ous crops in Scotland : 

TABLE VIII. 



Nitrate of soda, ) 
1 cwt. per acre. ) 

Nitrate of soda, ) 
120 lbs. per acre) 

Nitrate of potash, ) 
1 cwt. per acre. ) 



1 cwt. per acre 

Nit. pot. and nit 

soda mixed 

Do. do. 



! 



ON eRASS LAND. 

Product per acre. 
5 tons 4 cwt. 

3 tons I cwt. 

2 tons 3 cwt. 



64 bushels. 



60| bushels. 



ON WHEAT. 

i 27 bushels. 
1 cWt. hit. soda. 54 bushels. 



If cwt. 
Do. do. do. 



Undresied. 
2 t(HM 12 cwt. 

2 tons-i cwt. 

1 ton 1\ cwt. 

48i bushels. 
40 bushels. 

18i busheki. 
42 bushels. 



iTiese, it will be recollected, are most favorable 
results, selected to show bow great an influence such 
small quantities of these manures may have. From 
what has been explained relative to the proportion of 



A MIXTURE SHOULD BE PREFERRED. 119 

ash contained in the crop, and the substances of which 
it is coinposeil, we can now understand why such small 
quantities ot these manures, seemingly thrown away 
when spread over an acre of ground, should still con- 
tain enough to supply all that is required by the plant 
of their particular constituents. The largest crop of 
v' ' ia Table viii, 54 bushels, would not 

< I the grain more than 60 lbs. of ash, 

than 10 lbs. would be potash or soda. 
\ the 1 cwt. of nitrate of soda sup- 

f>iied enough of that material to have furnished at 
east 150 bushels, and a large part of the straw beside. 
The supplying of such minute quantities to the plant, 
we have seen to be quite necessary, as much so as are 
the bolts and nails to a ship: these are but a rery 
its entire bulk or weight, and yet it coakt 
1: her without them. 

When lilt- tanner intends to use any of these ma- 
nures, it is in nearly every case better to make a mix- 
ttire. One hundred weight of nitrates of potash and 

soda. ''*' -rnon salt, sulphate of soda and sulphate 

of m ill mingle<l together, and applied with a 

few b\»neis of gypsum, would be much more likely to 
mr^ the wants of any soil, than a hundred weierht of 
t "^ ^1 mixtures are found t})ly 

r the basis of the a. ma- 

nures no\> : into vogue. These ma* 

nures an .....:. liie price is r e as o na ble, «nd 
the farmfT assiire<l of their nurity. I have known 
instances of most audacious caeatini^ in thcM thiagi^ 
and in a way ton that oooM not readily be disoovertd 
unless by a chemical evr T' fanner dxiuki 

not buy these manur*^ « t confidenot 

in the nv tless, as was reoommeaded 

with ret;:i Mirniriiiii Mtlyiitbf «M»- 

)>etent chemists, and icarrnni the mamire sold to Uli 
fw.,.ni :n .1., ,|itv. If it fails hia, be can tben htm 
1 from them. 



120 EXPERIMENTS WITH COMPOST. 

Where such saline manures as I have mentioned, or 
others having some of the ingredients known to be 
valuable for plants, can be obtained at fair rates, the 
farmer would do well to mix composts for himself; 
adding 25, 60, 100 or more pounds, as he may require, 
of various articles to his manure heap; or making 
small experimental heaps to try the effect of different 
substances, and different mixtures, on his soils. This 
last is the best course of all, as then he feels his way 
with little expense, and only invests largely when sure 
of his return. It must be remembered, that nearly all 
of these manures are so powerful, that if sown imme- 
diately with the seed, or laid on in too large quanti- 
ties, they destroy vegetable life. Applied as top dres- 
sings, it is, as in the case of guano, advisable to mix 
with ashes, or dry vegetable mould, so as to facilitate 
even sowing, and equal distribution over the surface. 
Just before or after a rain is the best time. In a dry 
season, all of them, excepting gypsum, fail to produce 
their usual effect, and in some cases are said to have 
proved injurious. Some farmers, on this account, ad- 
vise the application of a part in the autumn, and the 
remainder at the earliest advisable period in the spring. 
This is an excellent plan for several reasons. If all be 
applied in autumn, a part washes away during winter 
and is lost. The half which is added is enough to 
give the young shoots a vigorous start, and a firm 
hold in the soil before winter comes on; then in spring 
the other half comes with none of its strength or sub- 
stance lost, to push them forward through the changes 
of that season, and to ensure an early harvest. 

SECTION rv. OF WOOD AND COAL ASHES. 

Nearly all varieties of ashes are valuable as manures. 
Those from seaweed are used in some localities, and 
are of very great value; but where the whole weed 



or WOOD ASHES. 



121 



can be obtained, it is better to employ it in the fresh 
state, so as to add its organic matter also. 

Wood ashes are very commonly used, and form a 
manure of preat value. Below is the composition, 
from Jo] ■ T of ash from the oak and the 

beech : y given as illustrating the 

general character oi wood ashes. 



TABLE n. 

Parocu^sof Oik. 

Potuh, 8-43 

Soda, 5 64 

Common tail, 02 

Lime, 74-63 

Sulphat« of lime, 1-98 

Ma|;ne«ia, 4 49 

Oxide of iron, ,',7 

Phosphoric aci ' 
Silica, 

100 00 



13 83 
2-7» 
23 

82-37 
a-31 



29 
79 
07 
32 



100-00 



The substances composing these mhm^ are seen at a 

glanct* to Ik? of a valuable chara«t- •' to 

the soil. Kven without an anal} :i- 

hdciitly have asserted that this would be the case, 1 rum 

the latt that they hat! already been found proper for 

the support of vegetation. It will be notices! that the 

proportion of {wtash and soda is very cohaiderable, 

being in fact more in the above ashes than in roost 

others. H. ■ ' ■ 

proporlif>f) ■ 

tity of I 

pli08ph< 

oesia, were doubtless lor the i 

carbonic arid, forming carbon..; v 



uite an appreciable 

■<i very large quan- 

: nation with the 

iime and mag- 

oombined with 

1 he potash, soda 



and common salt, being soluble in water, of oouiss 

mot fiist and disappear fimt; the lime and othtr con- 

11 



122 USE OF WOOD ASHES. 

stituents come into action more slowly, but still are 
always steadily decomposing, and constantly yielding 
food for the plant. The effect of a heavy dose ot 
ashes, therefore, is quite lasting. 

A favorite application of this manure is as a top 
dressing upon grass crops, also for dusting over young 
corn and potatoes. For this purpose ashes are often 
used with gypsum. They are very useful to absorb 
liquid from composts or in tanks, or, as has been men- 
tioned in various places, to mix with guano and other 
portable manures lor sowing. From the considerable 
proportion of alkali contained in them, they are quite 
caustic, and hence seem to have a very good effect m 
extirpating troublesome weeds, on meadows and pas- 
tures. Their action in running out poor grasses, such 
as bent, etc., when the land is otherwise well treated, 
is familiar to practical men. They do this by adding 
to the soil substances which encourage the natural 
growth of more valuable classes. 

Spent or lixiviated ashes, that is, those that have 
been used by soap or potash-makers, are of course 
much less valuable, inasmuch as they have lost nearly 
every thing that is soluble in water. Two thirds, and 
oftener three fourths of their bulk, however, continue 
unchanged, and in this part there still remains the 
lime, the magnesia, the phosphates, etc., which are ol 
importance; for this reason, these ashes should also 
be always carefully saved and applied. They are good 
for all of the purposes to which ashes are applied; 
good to mix with liquids or solids; and they can 
usually be obtained at very cheap rates. Being ot so 
much less strength, they may profitably be applied in 
greatly increased quantity, and thus by the large pro- 
portion of slowly dissolvng lime and phosphates 
which they contain, form quite a permanent addition 
to the valuable ingredients of the soil. 

Anthracite coal ashes should not be neglected. 



ANTHKACITE LX)AL ... ... .^. 4IH 

There are always cimlers enough to pay for' sffthfg, 
and, when silted, soap-makers are usually willinff to 
pay " ; if them. This shows that they 

coil r enough to he well worth sar- 

IBg. X*^ of anthracite 

■n. '1 ! I , ontain 8 to 12 

per cent ol lime and mau^nesia, and some soda, the 
remainder being chiefly silica and alumina. The ash 
from American bituminous coals probably resembles 
the English in its character. Some partial examina- 
tioas made in my own laboratory at Yale College, 
ind' illquanti'- in anthracite 

asl hespeciiii' ut two per cent 

of ^ s soluble in water. Such facts all show 

thai. :... : .i.Uies should be preservefi. -tkI :iin>Ii..l *ith».r 
as a top dressing upon grass, or pi -t 

afcmnposts. They would have mutn oi in* d 

mkcbmaicBl effect of common ashes, and are d 

for- 

I d amund trees in 

lar is proha- 

h\\ ; ;i taustic 

character, but it is H' 
wood ashes, or a"v 
we have been d<- 

Wotald do thi \ 

■■iiiin whi 

may, in large quunUty, be perlectly destructive to 
Tcgetation. 

SECTION V. op PBAT ASHKS, SOOT, ETC. 

In all situations where peat is homed, the aahes 
will be found worth something as manure. Thej 
iMually contain 5 or t> - * ' t!«oda,0( 

•irienibicqunnlitii-s (' etc, bei 

thtrefor. 



PEAT ASHES. 

wood ashes. In wet land where varieties of peat 
abound, which are only decomposed with great diffi- 
culty, it is sometimes advisable to burn on a large 
scale, for the purpose ot" obtaining the ash as manure. 
Heaps are made at convenient distances directly upon 
the surface of the bog, and the fire started by means 
of a little dry peat in the centre of each heap. As it 
burns through to the outside, fresh peat is dug up and 
thrown on, and so the process may be kept up as long 
as desirable. 

It is to be observed, as to all these varieties of ashes, 
that their value is greatly impaired by exposure to the 
weather. This is in very many cases not attended 
to; the ash heap is exposed to rain, and often to the 
drippings of a roof beside. In either case a large 
portion of the soluble and most valuable ingredients 
are washed away, and the worth of the ashes to the 
same extent diminished. . They should, always, for 
these reasons, be kept carefully covered. 

Soot is a manure that is much neglected in this 
country, but is highly valued abroad. It results from 
a species of distillation of wood, or of bituminous 
coal; the products of this distillation are condensed 
on the sides of the chimney, as the ascending smoke 
cools. The smoke also carries up and deposits large 
quantities of the inorganic bodies from the fuel. Soot 
thus comes to contain a great variety of both inorganic 
and organic bodies. We find, for one very prominent 
constituent, a large quantity of ammonia. Beside 
this, there are phosphates, sulphates, carbonates and 
chlorides of lime, potash, soda, iron, and magnesia. 
These are the chief inorganic substances, and show it 
to be a quite pow^erful manure. It contains so much 
ammonia that when laid in heaps of grass, the plants 
under it are destroyed very speedily. 

No analysis of soot is given here, because from the 
way in which it is deposited, the composition must 



« SOOT A VALUABLE MANT7SB. It5 

Tsry greatly with the fuel, and with the circumstance! 
of its combustion. In very dry seasons, soot, like 
some other of the powerful manures we have meii» 
tioned, sometimes does injury. From 30 to 60 busheb 
per acre are applietl, commonly as a top dressing. It 
gives a beautiful dark green color to grass or grain, 
and on many soils increases tlie yield very largely. 
If a little exertion were made, there are few places 
where considerable quantities of this strong manure 
could not be obtained. 

In Great Britain it has been proposed to crush de- 
ca\' to mix them in heaps with quick- 

liiji allow the whole to stand for some 

numths. Granite contains much potash, and it is sup- 
posed that by the prolonge<I action of the caustic lime^ 
a part of this would become soluble, and fit for the 
Boorishment of plants. In some parts of this country, 
•HUMS of decayed rock exist, which it would be well 
to examine with reference to their economical yalne 
for applying to the land. 



mm^m $ »w tt fm ^ii^^^\sM^-'^^- ^-'g <- tiint^m^m^fptf 



126 



CHAPTER XI. 
COMPOSITION OF THE DIFFERENT CROPS. 

Distribution of substances in various parts of the plant. Wheat; 
wheaten flour; gluten. Time of cutting grain. Rye flour. 
Barley. Oatmeal. Buckwheat. Indian Corn. Peas and Beau. 
Potatoes. Turnips, Carrots, Beets, etc. Comparative amounts 
of nutritive matter per acre. Cabbage. Grass crops. 

SECTION I. OF WHEAT, RYE AND BARLET. 

We have already, to a considerable extent, entered 
upon this subject; but the information given, parti- 
cul^^rly with regard to the organic part of crops, has 
been of a very general character. We have noticed 
the chief substances which compose this part, but have 
said little as to their distribution in the plant, or in its 
several portions. 

Various points relative to the composition of ash 
from the straw, grain, and roots of our ordinary crops, 
have been noticed in Chapter III, and we shall not 
revert to them at any length here. 

In the stalk and leaves of grain, we find that woody 
fibre is the leading substance; constituting in some 
cases, when the plant is ripe, more than three-fourths 
of the whole weight. In the grain, on the other hand, 
woody fibre only amounts to 2 or 3 per cent. The 
largest part here usually consists of starch : there are 
also considerable quantities of gluten, or of some other 
bodies having the same nature, containing nitrogen; 
and beside these, some oily or fatty substances. _ In 
the straw, these last only exist in very small quantities. 



ooMPomrioN OF uaAn« and flovs. 127 

a. All grains, as sold in market, or stored in gra* 
naries, and in the state usually considered dry, contain 
from 10 to 16 per cent of water, which may be driven 
off by a gentle heat. Nearly every variety of flour haa 
a little larger amount than the above. 

We will now notice the composition of some of the 
leading varieties of grain, in their organic part 

Wheat is oiu* of the most important of all crops. 

>m 50 to 70 per cent of starch, 

:ii of gluten, and from 3 to 5 per 

cent ot faiiy matter. The proportion of gluten is said 

to be largest in the grain of quite warm countries. 

a. It is a singular fact, that in all the seeds of 
whf: ' ' f other grains, the principal part of the 
oil or in the skin, as also does a large por- 

tion ol Uic gluten. The I h of 

its nutritive and fattening <, iiting 

our flour to the utuiost possible extent, we dimiuisn 
■omewhat its valut- for focwl. The phosphates of the 
ash also lie to a a ice in the skin. 

6. These substai.. ..-. .^.cui all to be collected here 
for the benefit of the young shooL When it first 
starts, und until ii ^ above tli< and ex- 

pands its first tru. it has to lur nutri- 

' •■ stores already provider! in the seed, 

•een prepared not only, but de{>osited in 
of the seecf most near to the germ, so that 
1 ishment may be easily and readify obtained. 

The best tine /lour contains about 70 flis. of starch 
in eacli hundrctl. The residue of the hundred lbs. 
coixsists of 10 or 12 lbs. gluten, 6 to 8 lbs. of sugar and 
gum, 10 to 14 lbs. of \'. "oil. 

((luten, as has been i )ip to a g^eat 

bulk when heated, and Uxomesi full of holes. Th« 
same thine: takes place in the baking of brrad. It ts 
^^' it gives tenacity to the dough, so that 

wilt ; ^ n\' f':*"; illc lilu-r it.wl .lurliwr if.,. f(.f^f|^p{f. 



IJSS TIME FOR CUTTING GRAIN. 

tation produced by yeast, the gluten stretches as it 
expands, and thus leaves the baked bread light and 
full of little holes. Flour which contains much gluten, 
is that which is ordinarily called strong. 

The time of cutting grain very sensibly affects the 
proportion of fine flour and bran yielded by samples 
of it. Careful experiments have shown, with regard to 
wheat, that when cut from 10 to 14 days before it is 
fully ripe, the grain not only weighs heavier, but 
measures more : it is positively better in quality, pro- 
ducing a larger proportion of fine flour to the bushel. 
When the grain is in the milk, there is but little woody 
fibre; nearly every thing is starch, gluten, sugar, etc., 
with a large percentage of water. If cut 10 or 12 
days before full ripeness, the proportion of woody 
fibre is still small; but as the grain ripens, the thick- 
ness of skin rapidly increases, woody fibre being formed 
at the expense of the starch and sugar; these must 
obviously diminish in a corresponding degree, the 
quality of the grain being of course injured. The 
same thing is true as to all of the other grains. 

It has been stated that what is ordinarily called dry 
flour, contains from 12 to 16 per cent of water. When 
made into bread and baked, it retains this, and absorbs 
in addition a much larger quantity. Prof Johnston 
gives, as the result of some trials made in his labora- 
tory on bread one day old, the large proportion of 45 
lbs. of water in 100 lbs. of bread. Dumas found 45 
per cent in bread at Paris. This is much more than 
is usually supposed possible, yet there is every reason 
to consider the above determination correct. We may 
then conclude that every 100 lbs. of bread, in the or- 
dinary state as we use it, contains from 30 to 45 lbs. 
of water. Strong flour, that which was mentioned as 
containing much gluten, and rising well in bread, will 
absorb and retain a still larger amount of water: it is 
therefore most profitable to the baker. 



RTE LSD BARLEY. 129 

Rye flour more nearly resembles wheaten flour in 
its composition than any other; it has, however, more 
of certain gummy and sugar^r' substances, which make 
it tenacious, and also impart a sweetish taste. In 
baking all grains and roots which have much starch 
in them, a certain change takes place in their chemi- 
cal it ion. 

I i>e taken and exposed to a carefully gra- 

du lor a few days, it will be Ibund to have 

clii! _ t haracter, to have become partially soluble 

in water, and also a little sweet. By the action of 
beat it has been converted into a species of sweetish 
gum, called dextrine. This is the change which 
occurs in baking; a portion of the starch is altered 
into this gumor dextrine, communicating the sweetish 
taste which is observable in g- 1. By baking, 

then, flour becomes more nutii ml more easily 

>e more soluble, i'his alteration hap- 
^ , j 1 baking any grain, but as wheat and 

rye are more used for making bread than other grains, 
we are better acquainted with the transformations 
which occur in them through the agency of heat, 

Bwley contains rather less - ' ' ' '. ahio 

Imb sugar and ^um. There i> i sub- 

Stance s^)inewhat like it, and cuiitainmg about the 
same amount of nitrogen. 

a. The malting of barley depends on a peculiar 
change which takes place duriiH'^ t^i ruination, or the 
sprouting of the sewl. The s! the prin- 
cipal part of it, and of all or im.m.j. .m ^■ains, is, as 
we know, insoluble in water; how then is it to be of 
use in nouri-' ' ' ' * 

b. VVheri wnter, ami wanne<l 
by the ' , 
a peculi !i 
has the property of ( i i 
sugar is of roiirsi- sol . , ..:.^: ^ lue 



J30 OATS, BUCKWHEAT, RICE. 

shoot, communicating that sweetness so observable in 
its first growth. 

c. Barley is moistened and laid in heaps to sprout; 
"when the sprouts have got to the proper length, the 
heaps are opened, dried, and heated, to stop further 
growth, and the sprouts are all rubbed off. The 
barley is then in the state called malt; the sugar from 
this is extracted to make beer, having all been formed 
from its starch by the action of diastase. 

Oatmeal is little used as food in this country, but it 
is equal, if not superior in its nutritious qualities, to 
flour from any of the other grains; superior, I have 
no doubt, to most of the fine wheaten flour of northern 
latitudes. It contains from 10 to 18 per cent of a 
body having about the same amount of nitrogen as 
gluten. Beside this there is a considerable quantity 
of sugar and gum, and from 5 to 6 per cent of oil or 
fatty matter; which may be obtained in the form of 
a clear fragrant liquid. Oatmeal cakes owe their 
peculiar agreeable taste and smell to this oil. Oat- 
meal, then, has not only an abundance of substance 
containing nitrogen, but is also quite fattening. It is, 
in short, an excellent food for working animals, and, 
as has been abundantly proved in Scotland, for work- 
ing men also. 

SECTION II. OF BUCKWHEAT, RICE, INDIAN CORN, PEAS 
AND BEANS. 

Buckwheat is less nutritious than the other grains 
which we have noticed. Its flour has from 6 to 10 
per cent of nitrogenous compounds; about 50 per 
cent of starch, and from 5 to 8 of sugar and gum. In 
speaking of buckwheat or of oats, we of course mean 
without the husks. 

Rice was formerly supposed to contam little nitro- 
gen, but recent examinations have shown that there 



RICE, INDIAN CORN. 131 

is a considerable proportion, some 6 or 8 per cent of 
a substance like gluten. The percentage of fatty 
matter and of sugar is quite small, but that of starch 
much larger than in any grain yet mentioned, being 
between 80 and 90 per cent, usually about 85. The 
dust or siAings separatetl from rice in cleaning for 
market, are stated by Prof. Johnston to contain 4 to 5 
per cent of fatty matter, and are therefore valuable for 
feeding. 

Indian com is the last of the grains that we shall 
notice. This contains about 60 per cent of starch, 
nearly the same as oats. The proportion of oil and 
eum is large, about 10 per cent; this explains the 
fattening properties of indian meal, so well known to 
practical men. There is, beside these, a good propor- 
tion of sucar. The i * iis substances are also 
considerable in quant i 12 to 16 percent. All 
of t' I iVoia the prize « Mr. J. 
H. ^ _ ..-.l by the N. Y. S ; icul- 
it'ty. They show that the results of Kuropean 
• hitherto published, have probably been ob- 
\ the examination of varieties inferior to ours: 
tiK « li.ivc not placed indian corn much above the level 
of buckwheat or rict\ whereas from the above it is 
•een to be in most rev ! ' •, 

Thf same paprr 1 ,. 

It cuiituitiji about 2 
; , itid 1 or 2 per cent of 

sugar, with a little starch. It has therefore some ira- 
yv>rt:Mw .■ "C ti< own as food, when gro"-' ••" with 
iing to a practice reci 1 of 

liiU- i)\ iiiiin> tanners. The oil of indiuri i'Tii, like 
that of oats, has a peculiar odor and taste, communi- 
' ■ • ■ ,1. 

m all nf the other varieties, con- 

f starch. The amount 

' _ : tlu* iiliroi'fnoiw siiK- 



132 V PEAS AND BEANS. 

stances amount to the very large proportion of atout 
20 per cent, of gum to 13 or 14, and of oil to about 11. 
This, from the above results, is one of the most nou- 
rishing crops grown. If it can be made to yield as 
much per acre as the harder varieties, it is well worthy 
of a trial on a large scale. 

We now come to a different class of crops, remark- 
able for their nutritious properties. The best known 
of these are peas and beans. The most complete 
analyses yet made, which are French, give the per- 
centage of starch at about 40. The amount of oily 
matter is small, and of sugar only about 2 per cent. 
The nitrogenous bodies are of a peculiar nature, and 
are usually called legumin or albumen; they contain 
about as much nitrogen as gluten, and, in the dried 
peas or bean meal, amount to from 25 to 30 per cent. 
The meal, in its ordinary condition, contains from 16 
to 20 per cent of water. 

Both peas and beans are, according to the above 
statements, extremely nutritious. Experience in 
Trance, Germany and England, sustains this theoreti- 
cal view. They are in all of those countries highly 
valued for feeding to stock, and are also a chief reli- 
ance as food among the lower classes, with whom they 
take the place of bread. They occasionally come into 
a rotation with great advantage, and their field culture 
will probably be gradually extended in this country. 

There is one class of seeds, such as linseed, rape 
seed, etc., which abound in oil, amounting in some 
cases to from 18 to 25 per cent; this may be, and is, 
separated by simple pressure. Beside the oil, they are 
uncommonly rich in nitrogenous substances, containing 
about as much as peas or beans. These seeds, then, 
are of great value for feeding to fattening animals. A 
few pounds per day increases their growth remarkably. 
The linseed cake, from which the oil has been mostly 
expressed, is a most admirable food, and is nearly all 



BOOT CROPS. 133 

exported from this country to England, for the use of 
British farmers, who know its value and are eager to 
purchase it 

SECTION in. OF THE ROOT CROPS 

In the root crops we find quite different character- 
istics from any yet mentioned. In some of them 
starch almost entirely disappears, other bodies of a 
somewhat similar nature taking its place. The po- 
tato, and a few other less known crops, are exceptions. 
Another distinguishing feature is the quantity of water 
which they all contain. About 16 per cent has been 
the highest amount hith<*rto i; !, but now we 

shall find ;i very greatly inert. t >rtion. 

The potato, as taken from ih- ■< 
about 75 per cent of water, or tii s 
whole weight; of the remainder, from 14 to 20 per 
cent is starch. There is about 1 per cent of a nitro- 
genous compound like albumen, and the rest is made 
up of woody fibre, gum, an<l sugar. The siarch of the 
potato is contained in littb' rrlls, and is in small roundrtl 
masses. Grating d« - will 
separate the starch .< . u the 
tuber is attacked by putatci i; > lir*t apftear- 
ance is in the walls otthe coll , irch remaining 
uninjured for a considerable time; it can even be sepa- 
rated after the disease has progressed till tht "»•'* is 

worthh-ss for any other purpww. 

nis s 

is the I A 

soft in t 
ish taste. When ti i 

being in too wann a , 

sues. This is for the rrsison t! e 

gndiu, beiaf^ turned in a - <1 

I? 



134 ROOT CROPS. 

gum during germination, goes into the young shoot; 
subtracting, of course, much from the nutritive quali- 
ties of the tuber. 

The turnip abounds still more in water than the po- 
tato. The proportion given by Boussingault, is nine- 
tenths of its whole weight : other authors agree in 
making it about the same quantity. The remaining 
tenth contains woody fibre, a little oily substance, 
some gum, and about one per cent of nitrogenous com- 
pound. There is nothing more than a trace of starch, 
but a small percentage of a substance called pedine, 
which seems to answer the same purpose in feeding. 

The mangold-wurtzel, the carrot, the beet, and the 
parsnip, all contain in their fresh state from 85 to 90 
per cent of water. The parsnip and the carrot have 
a little more of nitrogenous compounds than the 
others. The sugar-beet, according to Payen, has about 
10 per cent of sugar; carrots and parsnips, which are 
also quite sweet, have from 5 to 7 per cent. In nearly 
all of these roots, there are small quantities of starch, 
gum, and oily matter. 

Such facts as the above may seem to place thes6 
crops very low in the scale, as to their nutritive pro- 
perties; but before we decide this question, we must 
consider the amount that is produced per acre. 

a. Twenty-five tons of turnips is not an uncommon 
crop on good land: if these contain but 10 lbs. of 
solid matter in every 100, the aggregate amount from 
25 tons would be 5000 lbs. 

b. Thirty bushels of wheat to the acre, at 60 lbs. 
per bushel, would only give 1800 lbs. The dry mat- 
ter of the turnip is nearly as nutritious as wheaten 
flour, and we see from the above that there would be 
nearly three times as much of it. If we take some 
of the other roots, which produce quite as large a 
weight per acre and contain less w^ater, the comparison 
will be still ftore favorable to root crops. 



TALUB jOF ROOT CROPS. 130 

c. Indian corn competes better with them. Land 
that would yield 25 tons of turnips or 30 bushels of 
wjieat to the acre, would produce 60 bushels of corn; 
Rjad this, at 60 lbs. per bushel, would give 3600 lbs. 
per arre, ot food, superior to either of the others 

i- ._ , , .. .a the above facts, that the root crops 

are of great value. The animal, it is true, has to eat 
very large quantities, to produce much increase in its 
.siz«-; but then the yield per acre is so exceedingly 
^ to more than l)alance this ^ 

•;ifje. in the i ii with more ■ 

t:. 'd. The cultivation of these crops, 

^ ' xtent, will doubtless be foimd ad- 

\ districts where the climate and soil are 

uv.. ,... J them. 

The cabbage has about 90 per cent of water, and 
r ^ h. The proportion of ni* ' 

I ibout 3 to 6 per cent; 

liii^tit also be cultivate here, as it is abroad, lor ieed- 
iiii; purposes. 

1 menti : these crops, that the farmer may 

know soiii' ,, I their valuable prop»-[tl«-s. .\ni\ m-.w 

n(<i ' oii>i(lt;r himself tied down to a r. 

• ' ' r three only, such as he ha.s .w«..j.^ .-wu .i. - 

to cultivate, or to see others cultivate. He 

" • *' *■ ' • % 

1-. . .;iay 

be bcucticial not only tu himstJi, but alM> to his land. 

sKCTioif rr. or TIM 'Mposmcm or tm 

- CuMi'ARKD. 

Tbere i^- • ■ ' 

that basil 

T' 



136 THE GRASSES. 

about SO per cent. The dry part consists chiefly of 
woody fibre: beside this, there are small and varia- 
ble quantities of nitrogenous bodies — gum, sugar, oil, 
etc. In some grasses, these amount to as much as 
three, four, and five per cent. 

The time of cutting has much to do with the nutri- 
tive value of hay. While the stems and leaves are 
growing and green, they contain considerable quanti- 
ties of sugar and gum, which, as they ripen, are, for 
a large part, transformed into dry, indigestible, woody 
fibre: the remainder goes into the seeds; but, as every 
farmer knows, a great portion of these are lost from 
the hay, before it is fed out. Thus, after the grass 
has attained its full size and height, it loses by delay 
in cutting, and becomes, as to its stem and leaves, of 
poorer quality as it grows riper. 

The same occurs in the straw of grains, and in corn- 
stalks. If they are cut from ten days to a fortnight 
before the grain ripens, their quality for feeding is 
greatly superior to what it would have been when 
they were ripe. This, with the benefit to the quantity 
and quality of grain before mentioned, constitutes a 
double advantage to be gained by cutting early. 

We have thus briefly adverted to the general com- 
position of the leading crops, and have shown the 
principal points of difference. W^e have seen that 
root crops produce the largest amount of nutritive 
matter per acre; and that next to them comes indian 
corn, then the other grains, and the oil-bearing seeds. 
The next subject is the final disposal of these crops 
in feeding. 

It may be of advantage here, to append a table to 
this chapter, giving a comparative view of the more 
common crops, as to their organic part: such a view 
of the inorganic part has been already given, in 
preceding tables. These analyses are not to be 
considered as representing exactly the invariable 



COMPOSmON OF 55EEDS. 13T 

composition of these crops, but simply their general 
character. The greater portion of them are made up 
from Prof. Johnston's Lectures; a few are from other 
sources. They represent the compoisition of the whole 
see^ls in the grains, not of the ground flour, from 
which most of the woody fibre or bran has been sepa- 
rated, and in which consequently the percentage of 
starch is much larger. 

The composition of oats as given here, is of course 
• hat of the grain deprived of its husk. 

This table shows, at a glance, the distinction be- 
tween the four classes of crops which it represents, as 
to their organic part. The range of did'erence in the 
composition of the four grains as shown, is quite 
trifling, when we consider tlieir dilferent pro|)erlies as 
they are employed for food. 

With regard to meadow ha} , 1 liu not profess my- 
self satisfied, but give the above as a summary of the 
best results hitherto obtainc<l. They are from John- 
ston and Boussint^aull, and indicate an amount of nu- 
tritive matter whicli .>n. 
I have reduced th» i till 
the analysis, as t^ > kLs, luuLi quite high in some 
points. 

Of some most important crops in certain portions 
of this country, we have as yet no organic analysis, 
that are sutHciently precise and reliable for insertion 
here; such are tohi *' ■ the sugar cane. 

An examination ot in those crops, 

«1 out properly, would be of very great benett 
• whole country. 



^ 



138 



ORGANIC SUBSTANCES IN COMMON CROPS. 





» 




b 


X 


S5 




•-f 


f^ 


w 


t-5 


M 


PQ 


>1 


< 


-< 


H 


H 



> 








to •^ W t^ « O 00 


o 


rt r-l O 


o 








S 






■i 


4t: -ic-lf 






cc c W tH cm '^ 


© 


1 


00 


o 


8 


-Id 




s 


>0 O W Ol Tj" ^ 


o 


S 


t- ^ 


o 


o 






Ck. 






i 


-<»• OJ a> ■* OJ 05 CO 


o 


s> 


r-H -* e» 


o 


Bu 








CO O -^ 1> ^ -^ rH 


o 


(5 


,-1 t~ 


o 


s2 J 






■2 S 


CM O «5 t- OJ ■'i' M 


o 




^ ■<r ^ -H 


o 


>^ 


CM O -^ CO CO CO CM 


o 


b:: 


^ TJ- r-H -H r-H 


o 


1 


to QO t" «0 » O CM 


o 


M 


,-H CO r-l »H 


o 


o 






^ 






eo 


O CM 03 O C* O 0) 


o 


j: 


rt -^ ^ .-H 


o 


> 






r* 






























• oj • 












• o • 












• c • 












' ** I 
























»- 22 












«* s • 












he " • ^ 










3 OQ • 4) 










W2 S • b 










o • ^ 








■ -TS c -tci 












«^ " e P ' ^ 





■ IW r iv in 



CHAPTER Xn. 
APPLICATION OF THE CROPS IN FEEDING. 

CoDoection between the composition of vegetables and that of 
animals- in th^ir nrj^anii- part; in their nitrogenous sub«tance«. 
Diffe< '••table food. Starch; itc 

uae>> ' s which serve the same 

purpose, sugar, rai. .a[ijiii> .'.iiuin of this knowledge in 
ne<Bl>( the young animal, and the full grown animal. More 
faod raqnired in cold climates. Food required by the fattening 
•ataud. Benefit of cutting food -, of comstalkaf hay, etc. 

SBCTION L OF THE COXNECTION IN COMPOSITION SSTWHN 
THE PLANT AND THE ANIMAL. 

We have hitherto said little as to the direct con- 
nection between the composition of the food, and that 
of the animal itself. That tht-re i.s such a connection, 
must by this time have become clear to every attentive 
reader. It is, however, even more direct; and the 
conclusions to be drawn from thb directness are more 
)t; ' ' ' ' ' ' ive been supposed before any 

( i were made. Somethin? has 

1- 

1., _ 

and those in the animal : it was explained that they 
only diflTtr in the fact, that the ash from animn' -^"l*- 
■tanccs contains at most but a mere trace ot 
a substance which will be remembered as luumuij 
80 important a part of the ash from plants. 

In the orpanic part of animals, we find in mUff 
points a not le.ss striking coiTiriflrnrr with the ors^tliw 
part of plants. It is to Ix- - 
ing of tiie nutritive proper . i - 



140 NITROGENOUS SUBSTANCES. 

portance was ascribed to the bodies containing nitro- 
gen, such as gluten, albumen, legumin, etc. 

a. These, and a number of others having a similar 
character, have been classed together by some che- 
mists under the name of protein bodies. They are, 
in many cases, widely difTerent in form and proper- 
ties, but all have about the same proportion of nitro- 
gen, and the same general composition. 

6. As we come to examine the flesh, the blood, the 
hair, and the organic part or gelatine of the bones, 
we find that from all of them can be extracted various 
substances that contain nitrogen. When these sub- 
stances are subjected to chemical analysis, they are 
proved to belong to the same class, and to have a 
composition agreeing, with that of the nitrogenous or 
nitrogen-containing bodies of the plant. 

This is a very striking fact, when we come to con- 
sider its various bearings. The gluten of wheat, the 
legumin of peas and beans, all the nitrogenous bodies 
of the other grains and roots, are actually the same 
thing as the nitrogenous bodies contained in the mus- 
cle, the blood, the hair, the skin and the bones of the 
animal. The plant, then, is a species of manufactory, 
where food is prepared in such a form, that the ani- 
mal can build up its own body with the least possible 
trouble. These nitrogenous substances are carried 
by the blood to each extremity of the frame, and are 
deposited to fill up, supply, or enlarge every part, as 
may be needed. The fact has long been established, 
that our muscles, our hair, our skin, and even our 
bones, are constantly undergoing a change. Some of 
their particles are each day carried away, and rejected 
from the body in various forms, their place being sup- 
plied from the constituents of the food eaten. In this 
way, particle by particle, the whole body is in time 
renewed. 

When eating meat, we only eat a more concen- 



OF UK<iPlRAT10N 141 

^trated iorm of protein or nitrogenous substance : all 
that there is containing nitrogen in bread, is tlie same 
body as that whirh we find in meat, the only diifer- 
ence being, that in brtad, there is much less of it in 
proportion to the whole bulk. It may therefore be 
said witli truth, that, in eating bread, we are in one 
sense eating the same thing as beef or mutton. 

a. If the proportion of nitrogenous substance is 
yery small, as in the turnip or potato, the quantity 
eaten must be greatly increased. In order to make as 
much muscle in the body as would be addcnl to it by 
five or six ounces of meat, in its ordinary cooked 
form, it would be necessary to eat at least one hundred 
ounces of turnips or potatoes in their raw state. 
When cooked, the proportion of water in them would 
probably be dt< ' inewhat, and with the season- 

ing employed i uem palatable, a less quantity 

might answer. 

ncnoN n. of kespiration : starch, sugar, ouii, and 

FAT. 

The use of staicii in nutrition, has already been 
briefly alluded to. We have seen that it is one of the 
most abundant of all the ingredients, in most varieties 
of vcintabl*' food; and the question naturally arises, 
^^ v, in the animal economy, for this 

la , mh a .sulistance. 

'/. M.ivh, as was explained in one of the first 
chaptiKs, consists of carbon and water, or carbon 
united with hydrogen and oxygen in the proportions 
to form water. Tnis is brought into the lungs by the 
blood, after digestion, and there, or afterward in the 
bl ' M-s what may be considered a species 

b- flit' t" the starch unites with oxygen, 

and forms acid. This accounts for the in- 



142 RESPIRATION A KIND OF COMBUSTION, 

creased quantity which, as will be remembered, is 
found in the air after it has passed through the lungs. 
The lungs are full of little cavities, so that the blood 
may come in contact with as much of the air as pos- 
sible at once, and absorb large quantities of oxygen. 

c. Another result of this decomposition or burning, 
is water; so that we have here carbonic acid and wa- 
ter for the final product, as in the ordinary burning of 
wood or coal. We do not understand how it happens, 
but the same effect seems to be produced in the lungs 
as when carbon is actually burned by a flame; its 
uniting with oxygen and forming carbonic acid, heats 
the body as an internal flame would do. 

Every person knows how difficult it is for a hungry 
man to keep warm in cold weather, and how soon a 
full meal restores the animal heat. The quicker we 
breathe, the more food or starch is burned; thus strong 
exertions always heat us, because they compel us to 
breathe faster. The larger portion of the starch, then, 
which is received with our food, passes off in the 
shape of carbonic acid and water. 

In warm weather our appetites are less than in 
cold, because the outward temperature is such as re- 
quires less action of the lungs to retain the warmth 
of the body, and consequently involves a smaller con- 
sumption of food. Nothing reduces the flesh and 
strength so rapidly as cold and hunger combined, for 
then all the resources of the body are most speedily 
exhausted. Deprivation of food, w^hile the tempera- 
ture of the air corresponds nearly with that of the 
body, may be borne with comparative impunity, and 
with little emaciation, for a period that would in the 
first case have been fatal. 

There are other substances in our ordinary food, 
which may serve the same purpose as starch, in keep- 
ing up the heat of the body. 

a. One of these is sugar, as indeed might be ex- 



SUPPORTED BY STAB' ; j KTC. 



143 



pected from the identity of its composition with that 
ofstarch; it also consisting of carbon, with hydrogen 
and oxvgen in the proi^rtions to form water. Sugar, 
when not taken in too large quantities, must be con- 
sidered a wholesome food, particularly as supplying 
material for keeping up the heat of the body. Some 
authors have condemned it, because animals would 
not thrive on it alone; but this is no argument at all. 
The same result would follow feeding upon any other 
single article, to the exclusion of all others. The 
animal requires and must have a mixed food, or it 

will V. ■ . 

ft. i i oily substances have the same lunction 

to perlorm; they also consist of carlwn, hydrogen, 
and oxygen, and, in animals that do not eat ve- 
getables, are undoubtedly the chief i<^h 
carbon is supplied to the lungs. VVh- »at 
from various parts of the body is first used to support 
1. II : hence results the remarkable emaciation 
V i)uars after long abstinence, or during star- 

valioa. 

Fat is extremely useful in the body for various pur- 
poses. It lubricates ai! '^»s- 
cles,and the tendons, s(. 1 '75 
it tills up hollows, making the bo. <i, 
instead of angular and full of ' '•^^. 
as it would otherwise be. This v nart ot the 
;, • • ■ V .lerivetl from tin >..., aiul tatty sub- 
!. It seerns clear that, under certain 

I do pro- 
1,1 ' *od con- 

•ists entirely of \ 
apples. Still we ^ 
contain most oil, fatten animals quickest^ 

a. Indian corn is an instance of this : linseed cake 
is a still more striking one. Such fooil not only aHH 
plirv ' ' liiily waste of the b<xly, but caOM 
an .> and increase of fat. The natiml 



144 PHOSPHATE OF LIME INDISPENSABLE. 

supply of ready made oil or fat thus furnished, suits 
the animal better than the conversion of starch or su- 
gar into fat, as being much easier, more natural, and 
more readily accomplished. 

b. The organic food must then, in order to meet all 
the wants of the animal, contain starch, sugar or 
gum, fatty matter or oil, and nitrogenous compounds. 
These are all organic bodies. The first three are 
needed to furnish carbon, to be consumed in respira- 
tion for the purpose of keeping up the animal heat, 
and also for making fat in case of necessity. The oil 
is of value for forming fat directly, and the nitroge- 
nous substance for the production of muscle, carti- 
lage, etc. 

c. Among the inorganic parts of the food, phos- 
phate of lime should be prominent, in order that the 
animal may form its bones strong, and of full size- 
Potash and soda should also be present in considera- 
ble quantity. I mention phosphate of lime particu- 
larly, because no other phosphate will answer the pur- 
pose of making bone. Experiments have been tried 
by feeding birds with food containing little or none 
of this, but an abundance of other phosphates. They 
gradually became thin and died, and it was found that 
their bones were all wasted away and weak, for want 
of the necessary material to build them up. 

SECTION III. OF FEEDING THE YOUNG AND GROWINQ 
ANIMAL. 

We see from the facts already stated, that with the 
knowledge now gained upon this subject, feeding may 
become a science : we may modify our food according 
to the end that we desire to attain. 

Let us consider first the young and growing animal. 
What is the system too often pursued 1 The best hay, 
the best shelter, the best litter, all of the grain and 
roots, are bestowed upon the working or the fattening 



nEEDING OF YOl-NG ANIMALS. 146 

animals. The young ones have poor shelter, coarae 
bo^ hay and straw lor fo<l(ler, and little care of any 
(' >n. In the main, thty are left to shift for 

'■ . »■*, with poor ffKxl and imperfect accommo- 

dations, trequently with no accommodations at ait, 
unless the wann side of an old stack of bog hay, or 
bleached corastalks, can be so called. As they crowd 
together under its shelter from the wind, and eat some 
of the hay or st<*lk«j to keep from star> ing, the owner 
on the saving of food that he 
I I ask him to consider whetbtMr 

tliis is really the best possible practice, ami think it 
will not be difficult to show that everj' hour of tbia 
fancied gain, is in reality a positive loss. It can 
be made evident from the follow ' ^v. The young 
animal is, or should be, growi;; : its musclf^ 

aid incn ; ^ 

.ting; its V 
from tlay to day, in a rapid and almost p« 

manner. This is not to be elfected by such i:, ..l 

as that described above. The real need at this time 
is for remarkably strengthening and nutritious food — 
a food that should contain a large proportion of nitro- 
gen in some form, so as to increase the muscles; and 
of ph<^hates, to strenE^then and enlarge the bones. 

T' is proiK>rtionally much 

lar^'- n in the old; for, with 

a more active circulation, all parts of the body change 
their constituent particles more rapidly. Quite 

Gng animals, it is said, often renew their whole 
ies in the course of a single year. B*^; ' ■ s 
larger waste, there is the daily increase in 
ever)' nart to 1k' atti'ndMi to ; the food, therefore, 
should lye n»itrifin\is enough for \xnh purposes. 

O' In ! young calves often have a small 

portion • 1 meal f«l to them with milk, this 

meal being rich both in nitrogen and in pho6phatc& 

Fat ia not of so much conaequeaoe, uajf ui mdiM 

13 



146 FEEDING GROWN ANIMALS, 

calves for market. It has been suggested that bone 
meal, ground fine, might be found good for young 
animals, as a portion of their allowance; but I am 
not aware if it has ever been tried with success. It 
is said that the Arabs make use of it for food in time 
of scarcity. Bean meal or peas meal, in small quanti- 
ties, makes an excellent mixture with milk. 

The natural milk of the mother combines all of the 
properties which I have mentioned, as will be seen 
in an ensuing chapter; but it is not always practica- 
ble or profitable to feed with milk entirely. 

From the composition of the grains previously 
given, it is obvious that all of them are valuable food 
for young stock. Indian corn being cheapest, and on 
the whole best adapted for the purpose, is most used 
in this country. 

Such directions as these, contrast somewhat strongly 
with the state of things described first; where the ani- 
mal, shivering in the winter's cold, was compelled to 
exist on food entirely unsuited to its wants, and 
scarcely sufficient to supply material for keeping up 
the heat of its body. Let any reasonable man decide 
which system will produce the best results. 

SECTION rV. OF FEEDING THE FULL-GROWN ANIMAL. 

The full-grown animal has its bones, its muscles, 
and all of its parts fully developed and matured. 
That which it needs in its food, is the material to 
make good the daily waste of its body. This waste 
is not inconsiderable, especially when the animal un- 
dergoes much labor and severe exertion. 

a. A man consumes in respiration alone, from six 
to eight ounces of carbon in each twenty-four hours. 
In order to supply this, he must eat about one pound 
of starch, sugar, gum, fat, or other food rich in carbon. 
Then there are the phosphates, the nitrogenous sub- 



ADAPTATION OF FOOD TO CLDIATB. 147 

the saJine bodies, the fat, etc, which will 
reauire ;-. ore. 

0. In I amount of necessary 

food, e^ ui thai wliich furnishes carbon to 

keep lit ii of the body, is vastly aue^ented. 

Th< lUx, and other savage tribes living in the 

arcu. .t.^.. as, eat quantities oi fat, tallow, and oil, 
which would be considered quite incredible, were it 
not for tK • tiraony of numerous travel- 

lers. S» ,(h ffxvi at a time, a dozen 

or t 
of \v 

petites; and this enormous euti :.s not to pro- 
duce the slightest ill cdect, a- .-» no more in 

that climate than keep up the requisite animal heat, 
in addition to supplying the waste of the body. 

Ix» warm weather, the quantity of foo<l needed to 
8Upp' '• same an is,as 

ftU ^ ii«-e<l ; \\ ■ '^ap- 

pea: 

weaK ' 

the air i \ a very ttinali 

portion .: ip the animal 

heat. In the ne\ ider the par* 

ticular bearing ot 



-A or 
li ot the full grown animal ; it now 

.V ^<,r,.. tl.iM.r ,>t fi... > >t«,.nit,^ animal. 

it is not in- 

I 



148 FOOD FOR FATTENING ANIMALS. 

Here is clearly a new class of food needed, con- 
taining not only phosphates, saline substances, starch, 
etc., as before, but also an increased proportion of 
protein bodies, and above all an abundance of oily or 
fatty matters. The vegetable lats or oils, as has been 
said, do not greatly difler in their composition from the 
animal fats, some of them, in tact, being almost iden- 
tical : ol .course, then, the transformations necessary 
to convert them into the various parts of the body are 
easily accomplished. 

It has been argued by sume scientific men, that 
these vegetable oils are really of not so much import- 
ance as is here ascribed to them : they say that the 
chief part of the fat in pur domestic animals, is derived 
from the starch and sugar contained in their food. 
The fact already mentioned, that both of these sub- 
stances may be converted into fat, and doubtless are 
so converted to a large extent, might seem to coun- 
tenance such viev/s, had we not direct practical evi- 
dence that the vegetable food which is most oily in 
its nature, is found to be most valuable in lattening. 
It is only necessary to instance Indian meal, oil cake, 
linseed jelly, etc., as compared, weight for weight, in 
feeding, with rye, oats, barley, potatoes, or turnips. 
All experience shows that the first named varieties of 
food are by far the best. 

Starch, sugar, and gum, especially the two latter, 
unquestionably aid materially in fattening, and will 
fatten where there is little else given, but at the same 
time not so speedily or economically as more oily food 
would have done, A small portion of this latter food, 
mixed w'ith larger quantities of the more watery or 
less concentrated nutriment, is found an extremely 
good way of feeding. Thus, in England, for an ox, 
as many turnips as the animal will eat, are given, with 
four or five pounds of oil cake per day. They also use 
linseed jelly, made by boiling the linseed in water, and 



A CUTTING MACHINE SAVES HAY. 149 

then mixing with cut straw and bay : when it cools, 
a stili", firm jelly is formed, which may be turned out 
in masses. This niivtun- luit'^ht wlII be tried in this 
country. 

(Z. It is U'i\N iifi.uiii I hl; lin: jjitn.in^c in-i C to USC Ul" 

dian meal tor mixing with moistened cut stuff, aod 
there i- advantage in so doing; an advantage 

in the ^^s and relish with which the animal 

takes its tood, and also of course in the elfect upon its 
growth. 

A cutting machine saves much hay, enables the 
farmer to consume a large portion of straw by mixing 
with hay, an<l at the same lime to promote tbc fatten- 
ing of his stock, by the greater ease with which they 
eat an<l digest footl already partially prt;part*d for 
tb> > hs. I shall soon mention why it is that 

e\* which saves labor to the fattening animal, 

promotes the increase of its bulk. Hay for such 
purposes should be mown before quite matured, as, 
for the reasons explained in a previous chapter, it 
contains so much more gum, sugar, etc., than whea 
allowed to stand till fully ripe. The same practice 
is good with straw. We have ali - n that the 

grain is heavier and l)etter in «( ■■ early cut- 

ting; and ex])erienoe shows that the straw is not less 
superior for feeding purposes. Some kinds, cut earlj ' 
and carefully cure<l, are nearly equaJ to certain varie- 
ties of hay, and even superior to most of that which 
has been sutfered to ripen and bleach till it is littJe 
better than a mass of dry sticks. 

Indian comxtalks, when cut as above, and well 
cured, mak. ulmirable f«><lder. They are then 

sweet and n in an emitutit degree; when cut 

fine, and mixed with indian meal, are eaten by cattle 
with much avidity, and eaten d. ••• ' "'ts and all. 
Some farmers thinlt that really g« arc wortli 

about as much as the best ha v. W . ler 

13* 



150 EA.RLY CUTTING OF CORN FODDEK. 

the weight of them to be obtained from an acre of 
heavy corn, they are probably more than equal, taking 
into account the respective quantities per acre. 

In many parts of this county, cornstalks are ne- 
glected, or, if carted at all, are only thrown into the 
barnyard whole. Their butts and stalks come out un- 
decayed in the spring, making the manure difficult to 
handle or spread, and worse still to plough under. We 
see hundreds of fields every autumn, where the stalks 
stand bleached and white till just before snow comes, 
when perhaps they are carted into the yard as just de- 
scribed, or stacked for the benefit of such unfortunate 
young stock as may be starved into the idea that they 
are a tolerable article of food. 

When made into small stacks in the field, with the 
butts well out so as to let air in, and the tops tied to- 
gether, they dry green, and sweet, and tender, so that 
all stock relish them highly. Some farmers leave the 
stalks of one hill uncut, and gather those of eight to 
sixteen others around it. The centre hill gives stabi- 
lity to the stack, and prevents it from blowing over. 



151 



CHAPTER XIII. 

FEEDING (CONTINUED). 

fhBiag cattle, or feedini; with green ibod. Shelter in winter ne- 
CMMry: its inflii.nrp on thr- economy of food. Effecta of ex- 
ercise, of clos- f warmth. Of cut and rooked 
food; reason-^ .■ . Linseed ^elly. Soured (bod; 
probablf ' >Kts place in souring. Differences in 
nuuiure!> lasses of animals : from the young 

•oimal; i.v,,.. ...^ cow ; from full grown, and frona &t- 

ttninc animals. KiYect of feeding varioua cUmm in <totari»> 
ndBf putures. 

SECTION L OH THB SOILING OF STOCK. 

The practice of fee(]in(? various crops to catUe, 
\(rhile they ar. i ling, as it is otherwise 

tf-rmfti, has . ion of late years, and 

j»t-r to tit ^ rds to it here. 

1 1 such an . ■ ; : 1. That the 

food troin an acre goes farther; 2. That the auBMiii 
thrive better; 3. That their manure is more perfeody 
preserv-ed. 

a, Tliis latter ]M)i>ition is unquestionably a true OQe; 
the manure bein^; under cover, is not exposed to eva- 
poration or washing, and is without doubt not only 
more valuable, but is retaine<l in greater bulk. 

k It is probaiily true, al.so, that theg^reon foodlHBi 
an acre goes much farther than the same amount wmU 
do wlitn dried. I sup{K)se that it is impossible to 
make hay or fodder from any green crops, without to 
a considerable degree changing their oompoaitioQy 
tfaui rendering them, to a certain extent, hani <umI fai- 
Agcatible; some parts, which before 
becoming in drying nearly iiLsoluble. 



152 SOILING OF STbCK. 

c. As to the animals thriving better, that is a point 
which I consider as not yet fully decided. It is a 
question if, in our extremely hot climate, animals do 
so well during the warm weather of summer, when con- 
iine^ in close sheds, pining for liberty and green fields. 
I think that we require extended experience, and many 
comparative experiments, before this question can be 
regarded as finally settled. 

A modification of the system would without doubt 
be successful in certain situations, such as where the 
ordinary pasture would admit of being partly culti- 
vated, or had some arable field close at hand, in which 
might be grown Indian corn sown thick, heavy crops 
of clover, or some other form of green fodder. A 
portion of this, cut twice a day, and fed out upon the 
pasture, would have an excellent effect, both on the 
condition of the animals, and in the improvement of 
the pasture. Green food given in this way, keeps 
working cattle in good order, and dairy cows in rich 
milk, through the hot months. All of the crop is 
available, no part of it being lost by the trampling 
of stock. One man with a scythe can cut enough in 
a few minutes, morning and evening, to supply a very 
considerable herd. 



SECTION II. ON THE KEEPING OF STOCK DURING WINTER. 

The place in which stock is kept during winter has 
a much more important effect, not only upon their 
condition, but upon the quantity of food that they eat, 
than is usually imagined. Suppose it to be in an un- 
sheltered yard, or on a hill-side, open to cold winds 
and driving storms; from what has been already said, 
we know that in such a situation, the action of the 
lungs will be increased as the temperature of the body 
tlecreases. This will call for an augmented supply 
of carbon from the food, using up the starch, sugar. 



PKEDINO ANIMALS TH THE DARE. 163 

oil, etc., which would otherwise have gone to cover 
the frame with I'at. Thus a large portion of the food 
is consumed or burned in the lungs and blood, to keep 
the body warm. As the animal grows poorer xmder 
this condition of things, it becomes less and less able 
to resist the cold, so that at last about all of its nutri- 
ment is used up, in the action necessary to keep it 
from freezing. 

The animal that has a sheltered yard with plenty 
of litter, with sheds facing to the south, for the day, and 
good stables or other shelter for the night, is con- 
stantly warm and comfortable; for these reasons re- 
spiration does not need to be so rapid, and the larger 
part of its food goes to the support and increase of its 
body. Under such circumstances, we might expect a 
smaller quantity of nourishment to produce a greater 
increase of weight ;!"•! •'-■^^ ■•^ *'">'}'] »'> ff^ -.vtually the 
case. 

The amount of r\»rtis«' taKcn, nas aiso much influ- 
ence. When animals are fattening, the less exercise 
of a violent n.iture that they take, the bi'tter; ' v 

exertion increases the depth and frtnjuency <■ 
ing, and so of counte makes a draft ujum 
The more tramiuil and quiet the state then, i a 

the animal is kept, the more readily will fat accumu- 
late. 

a. This is shown by the well known fact, that tur* 
kies, pigeons, and other fowU, when shut up in the 
dark, will fatten with verv great rapidity, in such a 

i)eing BO 
item reit- 
lesN, they ha\e nothing to attend to but eating, aleap- 
ing, and digesting. 

Some experiments have also been made, on the ad* 
vantage of fattening animals by feeding in confine- 
raent, as contrasted with others at iil>erty. In ProC 
Johnston's L*Tturcs, are given the results of an experi- 



154 DOMESTIC ANIMALS 

ment made upon sheep, by selecting those of nearly 
equal weight, and feeding lor four months under dif- 
ferent circumstances. One was entirely unsheltered, 
another in an open shed, another still in a close shed 
and in the dark. The food was alike, 1 lb. of oats 
each per day, and as many turnips as they chose to 
eat. 

a. The first sheep consumed 1912 lbs. of turnips, 
the second 1394 lbs., and the third 886 lbs., or less 
than half oi those eaten by the first. 

h. The first one gained 23^ lbs. in weight, the se- 
cond 27^ lbs., and the third 28^ lbs. 

c. For every 100 lbs. of turnips eaten, the first 
gained in weight Ig lb., the second 2 lbs., the third 
3tV lbs. This is a most striking example of the effect 
of warmth and shelter; the one kept in a close shed 
and in the dark, eat less than half as much, and gained 
more than the unsheltered one. 

Another remarkable instance is given by Prof John- 
ston. Twenty sheep were kept in the open field, and 
twenty others of nearly equal weight, kept under a 
comfortable shed. They were fed alike for the three 
winter months, having each per day \ lb. linseed 
cake, I pint barley, with a little hay and salt, and as 
many turnips as they wished to eat. " The sheep in 
the field consumed all the baj-ley and oil cake, and 
about 19 lbs. of turnips each per day, so long as the 
trial lasted, and increased in the whole 512 lbs. Those 
under the shed consumed at first as much food as the 
others, but after the third week they eat 2 lbs. each of 
turnips less per day; and in the ninth week 2 lbs. 
less again, or only 15 lbs. per day. Of the linseed 
cake they also eat about \ less than the other lot, and 
yet increased in weight 790 lbs., or 278 lbs. more 
than the others." 

This too was with nearly 200 lbs. less of oil cake, 
and about 2 tons less of turnips, according to the above 



-^.1 '. I. II UK SHELTERED IN WIMTIS. 156 

gtatetueuL Are not such facts as these worthy of at- 
tention? Here it is shown by practical experience that 
t! < t; that when animals are unsheltered 

a I cat more and gain less, because so large 

a portion of their food is wed up in keeping them 
warm. 

In the course of a very few years, such differences 
as these, to a farmer who kept much stock, would save 
the entire price of good, substantial sheds. The com- 
fort and warmth of animals, should be a primary con- 
sideration in the construction of shetls and stables of 
every >n. It is quite easy, by a little study, 

to unii .- important requisites with convenience, 
and with economy of time in feeding. When build- 
ings are well regulated in these respects, a man can 
(ii> much more work, and do it better, than where be 
has to accomplish every tiling at a disadvantage, as 
M the case in too many establishments. From the re- 
sults I: ^y feeding in the dark, and in 
close I <1 be well to try this system on 
a large scale. Many persons partially adopt it by 
iiviinr folding shutters, which render the light of day 
dim and indistinct. Where many animals are 
'tiilding, care should be taken to eostira 
II. 



ttbLiiuN III or THE FORM IN WHICH roOD It TO 9 
OIVEN. 

The state in which food is given, has an important 
bearing on the eifect which it produces, in sustaining 
or fattening the animal. I have already spoken of 
cutUiig hay, straw, and stalks, and have explained the 
adrantaffes which result from the practice. On snail 
farms, all tlint is ne<^es- iit by hand in an 

hour at night and luoi i \u-rr the stock is 

large, then* in always, «»r oujfl»t • !i<»nip power; 



156 PREPARATION OF THE FOOD OF STOCK. 

by connecting this with a cutter, the work may be 
done with equal ease. 

For milch cows, this cut stuff is as advantageous 
as for fattening animals. If wet a little previous to 
feeding, and indian meal or other ground feed sifted 
over in small quantity, the cows will eat it with great 
relish, and the effect of the meal will be quite appa- 
rent in the richness of their milk. Some such food is 
in fact necessary to supply the nitrogenous substances, 
the butter, and the phosphates which milk contains 
so largely. 

a. A half bushel of sugar beets, parsnips, or car- 
rots, to each cow daily, will be found an excellent ad- 
dition to their food; it gives sweetness and richness 
to the milk, making the butter of a yellow color even 
in winter. If these roots are cut by a root-slicer, they 
will be eaten cleaner and more easily digested, as the 
animal can then without difficulty grind up each 
piece separately. 

It is with milch cows as with fattening animalsj 
quiet and warmth affect the quantity and quality of 
milk, as much as they do the accumulation of fat Ail 
that the cow uses in breathing after exertion, or to 
keep herself warm, is so much withdrawn from the 
milk. Here then, also, good shelter and comfortable 
feeding places are the best economy. In fact, this 
rule applies to every class of stock. From what was 
said in the last chapter, with regard to young and 
growing animals when exposed to cold, it is clear 
that they as well as others need shelter and warmth, 
that their food may be of the greatest benefit in in- 
creasing their growth. 

Cooked food, in various forms, is found to be of 
great value in feeding. The same quantity will, in 
many cases, go farther cooked than raw. This is es- 
pecially true of many roots, as potatoes, carrots, etc.; 
also, of every kind of meal, of pumpkins, squashes. 



BAW am eooEED food cokpabed. 167 

apples, etc. When cooked, the animal eats its food 
more readily, and a smaller quantity fjoes farther. 
This does not apply to all kinds of animals. Accord- 
ing to some exjurinitnts, horses, lor instance, throve 
little, if any, better on cooked food than on raw. In 
some of the trials, the raw loo<l seemed to have the 
advantage. This is not, however, t0 be regarded as a 
general rule. 

It has been said that starch may be changed into 
sugar and gum in various waj-s : the application of 
heat is or)e of these ways; and in r<K)king food, this 
ell fis of heat <!• ikes place to a 

v»i_ I e extent, 1 i, i is not soluble 

in water, while the sugar, dextrine, and gum, thus 
formed during cooking, are eminently so : the cooked 
food is therefore more easily dissolved and digested 
in the stomach of the animal, and is moreover eaten 
without any exertion. This ease an<l quickness of 
digestion, seems to have the san • upon many 

classes of nninials in hastening tin ili, that has 

been i > d in preci^ling chapters, with rc^gard 

to soiii' , lul and quite soluble manures applied 

to plants. It was shown that easy solubility, and 
therefore quickness of action, were more important 
than quantity; for instance, that two or three bushels 
of bones, dissolved in sii! ' (< i«|, would lienefit a 

crop more than sixty i v bushel«« of whole 

bones. So with the aniiikal; a .small ! d, 

which it can nt once eat. iij* st, ami its 

own li' le, an«l I. l» njore than a large 

Suantitv ... . .ae kiml ul... , an only eat with <lif- 
cultv, and dig«*st slowly. Turnips and parsnips are 
usually fe<l raw; btit potato*- ' '. s, and 

meal, are varieties of f(H>d w tlways 

bt'tter to \u 

Every f. » ellnr fitted 

for the pur|M.s. ,,i Lrrpinu rtKitn, where they would 
14 



1^*^*^ 



FEEDING WITH LINSEED JELLY. 



neither freeze, nor be so warm as to sprout It is 
better to have the temperature a little too cold, than 
a little too warm. In the latter case decay will 
speedily commence, and toward spring, when the roots 
begin to sprout, their value will rapidly decrease j all 
their more valuable and soluble parts being abstracted 
by the shoot, leaving little more behind than woody 
fibre and water. 

In England, a system of feeding with a species of 
linseed jelly, has been very highly spoken of during 
the last few years. Linseed is thoroughly boiled 
in water, 1 lb. to 2 gallons; and when the water 
is sufficiently concentrated, the whole is poured into 
little boxes; then as much fine-cut straw as conve- 
nient is added, and the whole thoroughly stirred toge- 
ther. As the mixture cools, the linseed forms the 
contents of each box into a mass of stiff jelly, capa- 
ble of being turned out and of retaining its shape : it 
is fed to cattle in that state. This is an extremely 
nutritious, and also a very fattening food. Sometimes 
a little bean or peas meal is also stirred in; either of 
these make the compound richer in nitrogen, and 
therefore better adapted to the formation of muscle. 
The results of this system of feeding have been en- 
tirely satisfactory, so far as we have any reports of 
its success. 

Cooked food, allowed to sour, has been found in 
many cases remarkably fattening, particularly as fed 
to swine. The souring should, of course, not be al- 
lowed to go on to the extent of strong fermentation. 
It is probable that the efficacy of this soured food, is 
due to a still farther action upon the starch, than the 
one noticed in a preceding paragraph. Not only has 
heat the power of converting it into sugar, gum, etc, 
but certain acids also. 

a. By mixing a certain portion of dilute sulphuric 
acid with starch in weighed quantity, and exposing 



tmC OF SQVft FOOB. 109 

it for some hours to a graduated temperature, we are 
able to produce sugar; the starch has been changed 
by the acid. This is done on a large scaie in France. 

b. In the souring of food certain vegetable acids 
are fonned, which possess the same power as sulphuric 
acid : it is even probable that some portions of the 
otherwise indigestible woody fibre are ako changed 
into a sweet gummy substance, for this is another 
transfonnation that we are able to effect by artihcial 
means. The result of souring, then, is to bring the 
cooked food, already partially altered, into a still more 
soluble and ill ^tate. I'robably no animal but 

the hog wouiu i of such food; but for him, it ia 

tiuy to see that it would prove valuable. 

u the souring is allowed to go too far, still another 
chaage takes place, by means of which all of the sugar 
is converted^ through fermentation, first into alcohol, 
and finally into vinegar; in neither of these states 
would the food be nutritious, even if animals could b« 
induced to eat it. 



nOnOM IT. ON THE DIFrEBENCES IN CEBTAR« CLASSES OF 
MANI7KB. 

We are by this time fully able to understand the 
difference in the manun-s derived from different clnwM 
of animals, the young, the full grown, the fiittCiWBg» 
etc.; I will, therefore, now touch once more upon that 
mibject. 

ive seen that the young animal is not only 
y increasing in its bulk, but that it is renew- 
y part much more rapidly than those of ma- 
t...i ..^< . Foo<l is for both of these reasons required, 
not only to supply the large daily waste, but also to 
build up the growing bones, muscles, ami all other 
parts. Hence it results, that nearly every thing of 
value in the food will be appropriatctl.ami th« manure 



160 MANURE FROM GROWING AND WORKING ANIMALS. 

"will be chiefly composed of indigestible substances; 
little being rejected liiat can be made to aid in increas- 
ing the body or frame. 

a. In the milch cow, we have a still stronger in- 
stance. Here every thing available goes to the secre- 
tion of milk; even the body becomes thin and ema- 
ciated by this constant drain : the consequence is, that 
the manure is poor and watery, containing only the 
refuse of the Ibod, with the small waste of the body. 
These two kinds of manure, from the milch cow, and 
from the rapidly growing animal, may be considered 
poorest of all. 

Manure from full grown working animals, is usually 
of excellent quality. If they work steadily, their food 
must be good in order to keep them in condition: of 
the carbon contained in it, so much as necessary, and 
this of course the largest part, owing to the amount of 
exercise that they take, is used in breathing ; and for 
this reason the manure is as it were concentrated, and 
is rich in nitrogen, in phosphates, and the saline sub- 
stances of the food generally. All that is above the 
daily supply to keep up the body, and the bones, comes 
into the manure. 

In fattening an animal, the aim is simply to increase 
the bulk of its flesh and fat; the bones have attained 
their full size already. By far the greater part of the 
fatty matter in the rich food given, is in this case 
appropriated to the increase of the body, beside a 
large portion of the nitrogenous substances also; but 
a goodly quantity of both still goes into the manure, 
and it is rich in inorganic materials. 

These two last varieties of manure, from full grown, 
and from fattening animals, should be preserved with 
much care. It is proper for the farmer to remember, 
that in feeding his stock well, he is not only increas- 
ing their weight, but is also benefiting his land for 
the future, by the rich and powerful manures which 



PASTURES AFFECTED BY FEEDING. 161 

they produce when well fed. Some of the best En- 
glish farmers are accustomed to consider one load of 
manure from their fattening stock, equal to at least 
two, and sometimes to three loatls, from the sheds and 
yards where their youn^? stock is kept. This supe- 
riority is not a matter of opinion only, but the result 
of experience. 



RCnON V. ON THE EFFECT OF FEEDING UPON PASTUEBS, 

There is one more point to be noticed, in connec- 
tion with the difference in the portioas of foo«l re- 
tained by animals fed at various stages of grovrth, 
and for different purposes. This is relative to the 
different effect produceil by them upon pastures. 

Where milch cows, or young stock generally, are 
fed constantly upon a pasture, or meadow, there is 
a rapid deterioration, particularly as to the inor- 
ganic materials of the soil. The milch cow carries 
away phosphates, and other valuable mineral ingre- 
dients, beside nitrogenous bodies, in her milk; the 
yoyiwr animal does the same, in its augmenttnl body 
and bones. Their manure, even if all lef\ upon the 
•oil, does not rc*store more than a small part of that 
which they take away; and the ri< ' 'are will, 

after a time, begin to show si^rns of < ,..n. 

The case of a pasture n; ii lull grown ani- 

mals are fattenetl, is quit*- < Here all of the 

phosphates, etc. which are not requiretl for the bwly, 
are restored to the soil; and such a pasture may hold 
out, with little decrease of fertility, for a very lonff 
period. If the aniu^als are at the same time, as is 
usual, fed with rich ^mkI from sonrci«s fon'ii;n to the 
farm, tlwn tli' • may tv< '; 

a systiin ol i ; the in i 

the soil may at lually Ik- incrcasfd, rather ihiin dimi- 
nished, if tht* f(M><l rutt'ii alKXinils in thnn. In w)ine 
I I* 



INJURIOUS PRACTICE OF DROVERS. 

parts of England, cattle are fed upon a rich field 
during the day, and driven to a poor one to pass the 
night, as a cheap method of manuring. 

This is a somewhat different plan from one which is 
adopted in many of our states, where it is the practice 
to let droves of cattle on their way to market, upon 
good pastures, for a single night, or for an hour or two 
at noon. They usually get little during the day, and 
of course fill themselves completely from the pasture, 
depositing little compared w'ith that which they take 
away. If they were fed at night with grain, or other 
rich food, then the practice might not be so injudicious. 
As generally conducted, however, it tends directly to 
the impoverishment of the pasture. Every such visit 
unregulated in any way, withdraws a considerable 
portion of its material for producing flesh, fat, and 
bones, and of course deducts to a like extent from its 
actual value. If the farmer can supply the substances 
abstracted, for a less sum than the drovers pay him, 
he may then be justified in continuing the system, but 
not otherwise. 



163 



CHAPTKR XIV. 

MILK, AND DAIRY PRUDUCE GENERALLY. 

Properties of milk •■• - ■'" -^ -'-'. curd, sugar, butter; tk« 

uh, its coiTii>o> .reparation; richness of 

milk; niakiti;' ■..•mpemtnre for churning: 

.<>l«r miik. Tiifie proper to be occupied m 

fat in butter; precautions needeti for it« 

:i. Cheese; various modes of making. 

-, of its ash. Temperature at which milk 

snoiiKi V- riiriMf-ii. Imperfections of cheese. Reasons for the 

•xbaustion of the putores in dairy districts. Perfoction of 

milk as food for tha jouog wuiimI. 

SECTION I. THE COMPOSITICHf OF MILK. 

This is an important branch of agriculture, and 
one upon which- we have hitherto merely given some 
pa.ssing hints; \\v will now ♦ 'V- •♦ up somewhat in 
drtail. 

The appearance and the uswai qualities of milk, 
are too well known to require dest'Tiption here. It 
(! ly in its 'uhI 

li iials, but I uii- 

lar in all cases. From 80 t m every U>0 il>s. 

of cow's milk, are water, i .. , antity may be in- 
creased by special fettling for thi.s puqiose. Some 
sellers of milk in the neighl)orho(Hl of large cities, 
who are too conscientious to aild pump- water to their 
I ■■ • who still defii' t'f- 

purpoee by f « > i«c- 

culeiit ftMxl, containing much water; suih watertd 



164 COMPOSITION OF MILK. 

milk they are able to sell with a safe conscience, 
though it may be doubted if the true morality of the 
case is much better than if the pump had been called 
directly into action. 

From 3 to 5 lbs. in each 100 lbs. of milk, are curd, 
or casein; this is a nitrogenous body like gluten, al- 
bumen, animal muscle, and the others we have 
named in a previous chapter. Casein is a white, 
flaky substance, and can be separated from the milk 
in various ways ; these will be specified when we 
come to write particularly of cheese, and cheese 
making. There are also in every 100 lbs., from 4 to 
5 lbs. of a species of sugar, called milk sugar; this is 
not so sweet as cane sugar, and does not dissolve so 
easily in water. It may be obtained by evaporating 
down the whey, after separation of the casein or curd. 
In Switzerland it is made somewhat largely, and used 
for food. 

The butter or oil amounts to from 3 to 5 lbs. in 
every 100 of milk. Lastly, the ash is from J to 
I lb. in each 100. This ash is rich in phosphates, 
as shown in the following table ; it represents the 
composition of two samples, each of the ash from 
1000 lbs. of milk 

TABLE XI. 

No. 1. No. 2. 

Phosphate of Lime, "23 .... -34 

Phosphate of Magnesia, "05 .... "07 

Chloride of Potassium, '14 .... '18 

Chloride of Sodium (com. salt), . "02 .... '03 

Free Soda, '04 .... -05 

0-50 0-67 

We shall refer to this table again. 

The butter, as stated above, is from 3 to 5 lbs in 
each 100 of milk. It exists in the form of minute 
globules, scattered through the liquid. These glo- 



VSR or THB GALACTOMSmt. 165 

boles of butter or fat are enveloped in casein or 
curd, and are a very little lighter than the milk ; if 
it is left u' " 'Y therefore rise slowly to the 

surface, an It the milk be much agi- 

tated and stirred about, the cream will be much 
longer in rising ; so also if it is in a deep vessel, as 
a pail, in place of shallow pans. Warmth promotes 
its rising. 

a. There is a little instrument called the galado' 
meter, intemled to measure the richness of milk, 
rhis consists of a series of graduated tubes, which, 
by means of small divisions, mark the thickness of 
cream that rises to their surfa<je. It is not a correct 
instrument, for the reason that I have already stated, 
that cream docs not rise so well through a deep 
column of milk as through a shallow one. The 
quantity of cream then, indicated by a galactometer, 
will always fall short of the real proportion which 
the milk cotitaias. It may sometimes be of use, for 
comparing the richness of milk from various cows of 
the same d.tirv. 

When milk is drawn in the usual way from the 
cow, the last of the milking is much the richest : this 
is because the cream has, iti great part, risen to the sur- 
fiice inride <^ the cow's udder; the portion last drawn 
off til • " >uree contains the most of it. Such a fact 
•hows |>oftance of thoroo^ and careful milk- 

ing, lu some large dairien, the last milkings from 
each cow are collected in a separate paiL More 
milk is said to l>e obtained from the same cow when 
she is milked three times a day, than when but once 
or twice ; less when milked once than twice, but in 
this last case it is very rich. 

Some large breeds of cows, are remarkable for 
giving Yery great .^r waterjrmilk: 

other small breedti ^ 1 1« of a milk, that 

contains an uncommon pn>| t' cream. TImm 



166 SMALL COWS PREFERRED. 

large breeds are kept in many parts of the country 
about London, for the purpose of supplying the city. 
By giving them succulent food, the milkmen contrive 
to increase still farther the watery nature of their 
milk, as before noticed. 

The small breeds have one great advantage : it 
requires a much less quantity of food to supply the 
wants of their bodies, so that all over that quantity 
goes to the enriching of the milk. A weight of 
food therefore, with which they.could give good milk, 
would only suffice to keep up the body of the larger 
animal, and the milk would consequently be poor and 
watery. This is probably one chief reason, why the 
milk of the small breeds generally excels so decidedly 
in richness. 



SECTION n. OF BUTTER. 

We are now to consider the various methods of 
making butter, and some of the questions connected 
with its preservation. The object in churning, is to 
break up the coverings of the little globules of 
butter : this is done by continued dashing and agita- 
tion ; when it has been continued for a certain time, 
the butter appears first in small grains, and finally 
works together into lumps. 

a. Where cream is churned, the best practice seems 
to be, to allow of its becoming slightly sour : this 
sourness takes place in the cheesy matter, or casein, 
that is mixed in the cream, and has no effect upon 
the butter beyond causing its more speedy and perfect 
separation. 

b. In many dairies the practice is to churn the whole 
milk. This requires larger churns, and is best done 
by the aid of water or animal power: it is considered 
to produce more butter, and this is said by some to be 
finer and of better quality. I do not think that there 



PROPER TEMPERATURE FOR UUU— I1>i 167 



have been any very decisive experiments upon this 
point 

The excellence of butter is greatly influenced by the 
temperatiu^e of the milk or cream, at the time of 
,'; if this be eithtr too hot or too cold, it is 
to eet butter at all, ami when got, it is usually 
oi poor quality. A large number of experiments have 
been made with regard to this point, and the result 
arrived at is, that cream should be churned at a 
temr '-'* """. when the churning commences, of from 
60 . of Fahrenheit's thermometer. Ifw^hole 

milk i:» ' I be about 65 deg. 

F. at < len, cream would 

nee ' er a 1 ittle warmth. 

It 1- ^ the butter is im- 

proved by attention to tt I have seen 

cfaunn made double, so ii.... i a it^T, or some 

cooling mixture, according as the > i- u va- ai,;,.- 
orsumm' : ' 't be put into t' parL li wiil 

be aeen. hatever way 1 1 . ature is regu- 

Uteil, a ter is a most uupurt«iat accompani- 

ment tn 

T is also a matter oi 

mui ' , . "^ . IIS have Ix^'n ex- 

bibitetl lately, which will make butter in 10 

minutes, and these are spoken of as iiw^n y.i- 

provements. The most carefully conducted ' 
this point,' have shown that as tht- 
was shortened, the butter grew po<K i 

this is consistent with reason. Such \ i' 
as is effected in these churns, $cparate> 
is true, but the globules are not tliorou. 
of the casein which covers them in the u, — 
consequently much cheesy matter mingled 
butter, whii!; ' 'v soft, uimI pale, aii': t 

keep well. I H.:ates t>f very slit ■ i 

churning, can :thuw tluit the butter uiadi 



168 WASHING AND WORKING OF BUTTER. 

chums is equal in quality to that produced in the or- 
dinary time, farmers had better beware how they 
change their method, lest the quality of their butter, 
and consequently the reputation of their dairy, be 
injured. 

Butter contains two kinds of fat. If melted in wa- 
ter at about 180 F., a nearly colorless oil is obtained, 
which becomes solid on cooling. If the solid mass be 
subjected to pressure in a strong press, at about 60 F., 
a pure liquid oil runs out, and there remains a solid 
white fat. The liquid fat is called elaine, and the 
solid fat, margarine. These two bodies are present in 
many other animal and vegetable oils and fats. They 
are both nearly tasteless, and, when quite pure, will 
keep without change for a long time. In presence of 
certain impurities, however, they do change. 

If great care is not taken in washing and working, 
"when making butter, some buttermilk is left enclosed 
in it; the buttermilk, of course, contains casein, the 
nitrogenous body which we have already described; 
there is also some of the milk sugar mentioned in sec- 
tion I. The casein, like all other bodies containing 
much nitrogen, is very liable to decomposition. This 
soon ensues therefore, whenever it is contained in but- 
ter; and certain chemical transformations are by this 
means soon commenced, whereby the margarine and 
elaine are in part changed to other and very disagree- 
able substances; those which give the rancid taste 
and smell, to bad butter. The milk sugar is instru- 
mental in bringing about these changes. It is de- 
composed into an acid by the action of the casein, and 
has a decided effect upon the fatty substances of but- 
ter, causing them to become rancid. This action and 
consequent change comes on more or less rapidly, as 
the temperature is warmer or colder. 

No matter how well the butter is made in othei re- 
spects: if buttermilk be left in it, there is always, from 



8ALTINO OF BDTTEl. 169 

the causes above mentioned, a liability to become 
rancid and otfensive. When packed in tirkins, it will 
be rancid next to their sides and tops; will be injured 
to a greater or less depth, as the air may have obtain- 
ed access. Saltinfj will partially overcome the ten- 
dency to spoil, but not entirely, unless the butter is 
made so salt as to be hardly eatable. Another reason 
for much of the poor butter, which is unfortunately 
too common, is to be found in the impure quality of 
the salt used. This should not contain any magnesia 
or lime, as both injure the butter; they give it a bit- 
ter taste, and prevent its keeping for any length of 
time. Prof. Johnston mentions a simple method of 
freeing common salt from these impurities. It is to 
add to 30 lbs. of salt about 2 qts. of boiling water, 
stirring the whole thoroughly now and then, and al- 
lowing it to stand for two hours or more. It may be 
afterwanl hung up in a bag, and allowed to drain. 
The liauid that runs off is a saturate<l solution of salt, 
with all the magnesia and lime which were present 
These arc much more soluble than the salt, and are 
consequently dissolve*! first. 

Want of caution as to the quality of salt used, and of 
care in separating the buttermilk, cause the spoiling 
of very great stmks of butter every year; a iar^e paflt 
of that sent to Europe is sold for soap grease, and for 
other coimnon purposes, simply because these poiati 
have been n^iected. 



SECTION IIL or CAStnC AND 

Cheese is made from the casein of milk: this casein 
or curd, is separated from the whey by means of ren- 
net; the same thing may be done by small quantities 
of acids, as acetic or hydrochloric acid; and if the 
milk be allowed to stand long, it will be done na- 
turally by the formation of what is called Iodic acid- 
15 



170 ALLUSION TO THE MAKING OF CHEESB. 

from the milk sugar. The appearance which the curd 
of milk, or the casein presents, when curdled either 
by rennet or an acid, is so well known as to render 
any description unnecessary. 

a. In the analyses of the ash from milk. Table xi., 
was mentioned a small quantity of free soda. This 
being dissolved in milk, keeps the casein likewise m 
solution; but when any of the acid substances men- 
tioned above are added, they immediately unite with 
and neutralize the soda; the liquid then of course be- 
comes acid, so that the curd falls down at once. Ren- 
net is not supposed to do this by acting as an acid, 
but by promoting the formation of an acid in the milk 
itself, which does the work. The milk is thus made 
to curdle by the action of its own acid. 

This is not the place to enlarge upon the practical 
methods of cheese-making, nor upon the endless va- 
rieties of cheeses to be found in this and other coun- 
tries. Scarcely any two districts have a similar prac- 
tice in their manufacture, or produce an article at all 
identical in its taste or appearance. Those of some 
districts would be considered the reverse of excellent 
in others. For instance, a variety most highly valued 
in Paris, has undergone an incipient putrefaction, so as 
to evolve ammonia. _ i i ♦ 

The richest cheeses are made by adding the last 
night's cream to the morning's milk. Such are the 
Stilton cheeses of England; from these we have them 
all the way down to skim milk, and, in some counties 
of F.no-land, to those which are made from milk that 
has been skimmed for three or four days in succession. 
Such as these are perfectly hard and horny. fhe 
following table from Prof. Johnston's lectures, gives 
the composition of several English and Scotch va- 
rieties of cheese. 



OQUFOeiTTON OF CHEBSB. 
TABLE in. 



ni 



In 100 lbs. 


No. 1. 


No. a. 


No. 3. 


No. 4. 


Water 

Cuein 

Butter 

Ath 


43.82 

45.04 

5.98 

5.18 


35.81 

37.96 

21.97 

4.25 


38.58 

25.00 

50.11 

6.29 


38.46 

25.87 

31.86 

3.81 



No. 1 represents a skimmed milk cheese: it will be 
•een that the proportion of butter is very much small- 
er than in Nos. 2,3, and 4; it is, however, weight for 
weight, more nutritious than any of the others. It 
will surprise most persons, to know that cheese con- 
tains from J to J its weight of water j and that in eat- 
ing very rich cheeses, fully J of what they eat is 
butter. No. 4 is a rich Ayrshire cheese, of the kind 
with which some of our American dairies come espe- 
cially into competition. This was a particularly nne 
•ample. Cheese, judging from the above analyses, 
if both a very nutritious and a very fattening food. 
The richness of the finer varieties, prevents their beinff 
eaten in large quantities. On skim milk cheese, sucn 
■8 that in the first column, a man might lire very 
well as a principal article of diet. 

It will l)e noticed that all of these cheeees oontaia 
• considerable ; rj of ash: <a 

tfian half phosp! flyphos; le 

remainder a ! • ■ ; i . : i ! • ' 
mon salt, th:i! li;is h.-.-d ad^i.-i '" •: 
In various districts there ;i : . lil. . •,' w (\s t i I'o- 
ducing the salt. In some * .lm.s. it i.s all i»ut in Im U>re 
the cheese is pressed; in others it is all alisorbed from 
the exterior, after the cheese is ma' T* " 't 

dte for very thick rh«»e»»es. In maki n 

of the " ly siiltcil, n 

the cen: ^r to ensu: >U 

absorbed Iruni the exterior shall penetrate till it rnedt 



172 PRECAUTIONS IN MAKING CHEESB. 

the part already salted, so that no part of the cheese 
shall escape. 

^ The temperature of the milk at the time when 
rennet is added, for the purpose of curdling it, is a 
matter of much importance to the quality of the 
cheese. The best authorities prescribe from 90 to 
95 deg. of Fahrenheit. 

a. Great care should be used in expelling the whey 
from the curd, and afterward from the cheese in press- 
ing, as the milk sugar which the whey contains changes 
its composition, as it does in butter, and communicates 
a disagreeable flavor to the cheese; by this means 
cracks are often formed, and it becomes full of little 
holes. 

h. The use of bad salt is another way of effectu- 
ally injuring the quality of the cheese, making it bit- 
ter, and preventing it from keeping well. The im- 
purities of the salt are here the same as those which 
were mentioned under the head of butter, in the pre- 
ceding section; and the method to be adopted for 
purifying, is also the same. Want of care in pressing 
and working out the whey, the use of bad salt, and 
neglect as to the temperature at which the milk is 
curdled, chiefly operate in producing the multitude of 
inferior cheeses which we find in every market; not 
destitute of richness, but miserable in appearance and 
flavor. 



SECTION IV. VARIOUS POINTS RELATIVE TO MILK AND 
CHEESE. 

From the composition of the ash of cheese, as just 
noticed, and that of milk, mentioned before, we can 
easily see how it is that pastures become poor in 
phosphates. All that which is sold off" in cheese, 
never returns to the soil; and that fed to fattening ani- 
mals in milk, is also for the most part lost. Beside 



FEEDING OF DAIBY COWS. 173 

tfie milk which each cow gives for dairy purposes, 
there is also her annual calf, the phosphates in the 
bones of which must also come out of the pasture. It 
is certain that in the bones of the calf, and in the 
milk, each cow would deprive the pasture of at least 
60 or 60 lbs. of bono earth, or phosphate of lime, in 
each year. For th< - is it is, that bones, as has 

been indicateti, are > ly to prove of great ad- 

vantage as a manure on worn out pastures, and also 
on meadows that are used in the autumn for feeding. 
Applied as dust, or still better dissolved in sulphuric 
acid, a few bushels per acre ( in the latter case two is 
enough) have been found to nrotluce a most wonder- 
ful eiiiect; in many cases doubling and even tripling 
the value of pastures, within a year or two after the 
application. 

The diirLTcnt properties of milk which have beai 
noticed, sui^gest one or two hints relative to the feed- 
ing of milch cows. We have seen that the quantity 
of milk may be increased by feeding with watery suc- 
culent food. There is no doubt but the quantity of 
butter would he greatly augmented, by feeding in tlia 
same I : ^ tor fattening, with food rich in oily or 

fatty > >. If cheese-making were the object, 

varieties oi food rich in nitrogen, as beans, peu, 
clover, indian corn, iti.. iniLrhl he expected to produce 
ft goo<l effect 

In feetling with ouj, i.-w.i, t.,.t i.-i lo be taken that 
it is not of a nature to communicate any unpleasant 
flavor to the butter. Liaseed cake is an instance of 
this; a small projjortion of it. ijiven with other food, 
has an excellent intluence, i: of 

butter in a murke<l degree: t »«8 

a very unpleasant taste. This etfect i ly 

natural; as every one knows that all stru..^ ; — uug 
food eaten by cows, as onions, leeks, cabbsgas, tor- 

15» 



174 NOURISHING QUALITIES OF MILK. 

nips, etc., if in considerable quantity, impart a most 
disagreeable flavor to their milk. 

We are now able to understand, how admirably milk 
is fitted to the purpose for which it is designed, the 
nourishment of the young animal. In its casein is 
a substance which furnishes just the material for 
muscles, tendons, and all the solid flesh of the body. 

The butter lubricates the joints, makes the skin soft, 
and furnishes the fat generally, beside being used in 
case of necessity for respiration. The milk sugar is 
equally available with starch, and common sugar, for 
the purpose of respiration, thus keeping up the heat 
of the body. 

Finally, in its ash we have the phosphates for 
building up the bones, the framework of the body, and 
other saline substances for supplying the blood and 
the flesh with their inorganic part. 



176 



CHAPTER XV. 

CONNECTED RECAPITULATION OF THE VARIOtTS 
TOPICS TREATED IN THE PRECEDING CHAP- 
TERS. 

We have now gone over nearly all of the ground 
that I have thought it advisable to traverse, in a trea- 
tise of this character. It may be of advantage, in 
dosing, to give a condensed view of the whole sub- 
ject, recapitulating the main points that have been 
illustrated and explained. 

Tkis will serve as a species of index, and will, at 
the same time, recall sucn arguments and facts rela- 
tive to the various divisions indicated, as may have 
been forgotten. 

CHAPTER L 

The art of cultivating the 9oU; whai thit it, h Us 
proper meanimg. 

Plants. Great division of them into orgaaic and 
iMigaoic aafastaaces. Organic bodies bum away ; 
incHvanic bodies incombustible. 

MOMB of organic bodies : carbon, hydrogaM, flitni* 
gas, oxygen. 

Carl)on, a solid, of which charcoal, plumbago, and 
the diamond are forms. Hard, and combustlUb. 

Hydrogen, a gas, colorless, ttftelaw, inodoioM^ tka 
lightest body known. Intomiwihle, tnloahrt whm 
Mixed wit^ air, extuigvidMt coittU u i to oa, and will 
not sustain life. 



176 RECAPITULATION 

Oxygen, a gas, colorless, tasteless, inodorous, not 
inflammable; supports combustion most energetically; 
supports life, both animal and vegetable; unites with 
nearly all other bodies, and forms oxides; most abun- 
dant of all known substances. 

Nitrogen, colorless, tasteless, inodorous; does not 
support combustion; does not burn itself; does not 
maintain life. 

The great importance, and the vast diffusion of these 
bodies. 

CHAPTER n. 

The inorganic fart of the plant. 

Consists of potash, soda, lime, magnesia, oxide of 
iron, oxide of manganese, silica, chlorine, sulphuric 
acid (oil of vitriol), phosphoric acid. 

1. Potash, common potash, pearlash, caustic potash. 

2. Soda, caustic soda, carbonate of soda, for wash- 

ing. 

3. Lime, quicklime, common limestone, plaster of 

paris, marls generally. 

4. Magnesia, calcined magnesia, epsom salts (sul- 

phate of magnesia). 

5. Oxide of iron, common iron rust. 

6. Oxide of manganese, commercial black oxide of 

manganese. 

7. Silica, common quartz, flint, agate, cornelian, chal- 

cedony. 

8. Chlorine, a gas; of a green color, heavy, suffo- 

cating odor ; does not burn, but some metals 
when finely powdered, inflame in it. 

9. Sulphuric acid, common oil of vitriol. 

10. Phosphoric acid ; burn common phosphorus, a 
white, very sour powder. 
These are all present, in cultivated crops, though 
usually not in large quantity. v«^ ♦ r 



OF THE PBECEl)l>G CHAPTERS. 177 



CHAPTER m. 
Sottrces of the food of flants» 

Their organic food comes chiefly from the air. 

Carbonic acid, a gas, hea^ -s combus- 

tion, fatal to life; no color, s;. le, and pe- 

culiar smell. Furnishes carbon to plants. 

This gas is absorbed from the atmosphere by day, 
through the leaves, and oxygen is at the same time 
given offj iiVfth of carbonic acid exists in th« 
air. 

How the supply of it is kept up; combustion, re- 
spiration, decomposition. 

The hydrogti: ' from water. 

The oxjgen < :>onic acid, and 

almost every form of food. 

Nitrogen is supplied by ammonia and nitric acid. 

Ammonia, a gas, gives the smell to aqua ammonia, 
and to " salts. 

Nitr ommon aqua fortis. 

CHAPTER IV. 

Of the organic nAAtnee of plants ; dmdure of the 
dem, the rootsy and the branches. 

Principal bodies which make up the organic part 
of plants. 

Woody fibre the most abundant of all, in rtema, 
•talks, leaves, etc 

Starch, the leading ■nbstaiice in seeds, and in many 
tubers. 

&igar. Gum. Oils. Their nattue and import- 
ance. 

Thcae all composed of carbon, h y drogen, and oxygca 
only, the two latter being in the proportUiM to ' 



178 EECAPITULATION 

watery the same formula may and does represent them 
aU. 

Water consists of hydrogen and oxygen. 

The atmosphere consists of nitrogen and oxygen. 

CHAPTER V. 

Composition of the soil. 

We find here also an organic, and an inorganic 
part; the inorganic part largest, contrary to what was 
observed in plants. 

The organic part is derived from the decay of ani- 
mals and vegetables; the inorganic part from the 
decomposition of rocks. 

The inorganic part consists of the same sutetances 
as the inorganic part of plants, with the addition of 
alumina. This is a white substance, which gives 
stiffness to clays. 

A very fertile soil contains all of these substances, 
and that in considerable quantity. 

One which is fertile only with the addition of ma- 
nure, has deficiencies of some substances which the 
manures added supply. 

One which is barren, has nearly every thing that is 
valuable wanting. 

The three principal varieties of rocks, are limestones, 
sandstones, and clays. 

Soils may be named, as one or other of these pre- 
dominate. 

CHAPTER VL 

Mechanical improvement of the soil. 
Nature of the connection between the soil and the 
plant. Benefit of mixing clay with sand, and sand 
with clay. 



OF THE PRKCEPTNO CHAPTERS. 



m 



Injuries arising from wetness of the soil. It causes 
the formation of vegetable acids, and other hurtful sub- 
stances. 

These defects to be removed by draining. 

Drains to be 30 to 36 inches deep, and always tO' 
▼ered. If made of stones, these should be broken 
■feall; if of tiles, these may be either of the round, 
oval, or horseshoe shape. The earth to be rammed 
hsfd above them in all cases. They ought to run 
straight down slopes, and be placed 24 to 50 ieet 
^>art. 

Subsoil and trench ploughing; difference in the two 
operations, and nature of their effect 

The inorganic substances of the soil are found in 
plants, with the single exception of alumina. 

The quantity of some of them is quite small in 
pbatSy Imt all are absolutely Deccosuy. 

CHAPTER VIL 

EJfed of cropping upon the toil. 

Biflerent crops take away the i *<• substances 

of the soil in ditferent proportion cish also va* 

ries in composition. 

The grains contain chiefly phosphates. 

Potatoes and tuniips, mostly potash and soda. 

Grasses, for the roost part. '?•"•• Mt«i «;iica; straws, 
nearly all silica. 

This explains the principle oi rotiuiun. One crop 
may find food when the land has been exhausted for 
another, and so a succession may be continued for 
some years. 

' ue of land is kept up by such a course for a 

gi' ^ . reasod hiiirtli of film'. 



180 RECAPITULATION 

CHAPTER Vin. 

Of manures. 

Irrigation, or manuring by running water. 

Vegetable manures, their nature* Not so energetic 
in action as some fertilizers, but very beneficial to the 
soil. 

Green crops for ploughing under These lighten 
and mellow the soil, add organic matter to it drawn 
from the air, and bring up mineral substances from 
the subsoil. 

Straw. Seaweed: valuable composition of its ash; 
should be applied in compost, or ploughed in fresh. 
Rape dust, how used. 

Animal manures. 

Flesh, blood, hair, horns, bones, etc. All quite rich, 
containing much nitrogen, and very valuable. 

The animal contains no silica. 

Bones are best applied in the form of dust, or dis- 
solved by sulphuric acid. 

Phosphates of the bones, are important to replace 
those carried away by the grain crops. 

CHAPTER IX. 

Animal manures {^continued). 

Manures of domestic animals. 

Importance of preserving both the solid and the 
liquid parts of the manure; tanks are necessary, and 
all other precautions, to prevent drainage, exposure, 
and consequent loss of nitrogen. 

Manure of birds richest of all, having the solid and 
the liquid parts together. Guano an instance of this 
class, very rich in nitrogen and in phosphates. 

Fish, an important manure; contains much nitro- 



OF THE PRECEDINO CHAPTERS. W^ 

gen, and decomposes easily. For this reason, it shoaU 
be at once covered, or made into compost. 

Saline and mineral manures. 

Lime. Used as quicklime, slaked lime, and mild, 
or {.ir-slaked lime. 

Quicklime only to be used where there are no rich 
manures, as when in contact with them, it liberates 
nitrogen, and thus deteriorates the manure. 

The effect of lime in the soil, is to decompose or- 
ganic and inorganic compounds, as well as to furnish 
lood for plants. 

Marls, a form of • of lime; id also 

another form : their il effect a.^ s. 



CHAPTER X. 

Saline and mineral manures {continued). 

Gypsum, or plaster of paris, a compon " " -jc 

acid and lime, valuable f(»o«I tor plants. is 

in attracting gases and m i)y adding, 

for a scries of years, witi. 

Common salt, nitrate of soda, nitrate of potash 
(saltpetr*-), rarl— >•■•" "♦' -"'!'. '•♦•• •" ••"wcrful ma- 
nures. 

None of thi'^i iii immediate 

contact with tli( ,'pli<Nl in ««mall 

quantities, with half the u^uul uli trd 

manure. A mixture of them, mu> ue 

alone. 

Wood asht s, coal ashes, peat ashes, are all good 
manures ; ought to be kept from rain till they are 
used, (iood to exti ' Aoeds, and to mix with 
other things for sow < 

Soot, a ri ic, cuutains much ammonia and 

ix>rganic s < < >. 

16 



ld2 EKCIPITULATION 



CHAPTER XI. 

Composition of various crops. 

Wheat contains from 50 to 65 per ct. of starch, 
12 to 20 per ct. of gluten, 3 to 5 per ct. of fatty 
matter. Oats, barley and rye do not differ greatly in 
composition. 

Buckwheat less nutritious. Rice contains 80 per ct 
of starch. 

Indian corn has 60 per ct. of starch, oil about 10 
per ct, protein substances 12 to 16 per ct ; is a very 
fattening food. 

In peas and beans are starch about 40 per ct, pro- 
tein 25 to 30 per ct., and a little oil. 

Potatoes contain 75 per ct of water, 14 to 20 per 
ct. of starch, and 1 to 2 per ct. of protein. 

Turnips, beets, etc., have about 90 per ct. of water, 
and small quantities of protein, gum, sugar, etc. 
They make up for the poor quality, by the quantity 
of nutritive matter that they yield per acre, more 
than any other crops. 

CHAPTER Xn. 

Application of crops in feeding. 

Nitrogenous or protein bodies of the plant, are the 
same as those which form the muscle, and all the 
other parts of the animal that contain nitrogen. 

The oily or fatty matters are also nearly identical 
in composition. 

The inorganic substances are the same as in the 
plant, with the single exception of silica. 

The plant is a species of manufactory, to supply 
food for the animal in the most convenient form. 

Starch is in great part used up for the purposes of 
respiration : it is consumed by a species of combus- 



Of TBI PRBCKDINO CBArrEt& 189 

tMMi IB the lungs and blood, to keep the animal wann. 
Fat, gum, and sugar, may also serve the same pur- 
pose, when necttsary. 

The young animal should hare food containing 
substances to increase its bulk; should not be stinteo. 

All animals exposed to cold, use up a large portion 
of their food in keeping warm. 

The full grown working animal only needs enough 
food to keep all of its parts complete : does not in- 
crease i' ' " hence its manure is richer. 

The ^ animal requires food of such a 

character a fat and flesh on its frame ; its 

manure is a, ible, in all cases it is better as the 

food is richer. 

Various modes of feeding ; advantage of cutting 
straw, stalks, etc 

aiAPTER xm. 

Feeding {continued,) 

The system of feeding green crops; its probable 
advantage. 

Feeding under shelter; sheltered stock increase 
more witli less food. 

Influence of the state in which food is given. Cut, 
cooked, soured fcxxl; theories of their action. 

Any form usually better, so long as the animal will 
cat it, that increases the ease of aigestion. 

CHAPTER XIV. 

MUk and dairy product. 

Composition of milk. 

' s a spei i '. enrloRr ' 

tl 1 the «nii' ilk, atid t 

it)g is ( •{, 

hi^.... ,.........; .<-..m;..I ly 

long time probably best. 



184 CIRCULATION OF THE ELEMENTS. 

Care to be taken in separating buttermilk; conse- 
quences if any remains; salt to be pure. 

Ash from milk is particularly rich in phosphates. 

Cheese, made from casein of milk, a nitrogenous 
body thrown down or curdled by acids. 

Various qualities of cheese, due in a degree to the 
greater or less richness of the milk. 

Care to be taken in expelling whey, and necessity 
of using pure salt. 

Milk should be curdled at a certain temperature. 

Influence which selling off butter and cheese must 
have on pastures, by carrying away phosphates, etc. 

This shows why bones are so beneficial an appli- 
cation to pastures. 



I have but a few words to add in conclusion; these 
relate to the beautiful and distinct connection, which 
exists between each part of the outline now com- 
pleted. We may follow any particular substance in 
its course from the inanimate soil to the living plant, 
from the plant to the living and conscious animal, and 
finally see it return to the soil once more. In all of 
its changes it remains the same in its nature, but is 
constantly presented to us in new forms. 

The earth, the mother of all, from whose bosom 
all forms of life directly or indirectly spring, and 
also draw their nourishment during existence, is sure, 
sooner or later, to attract her children to her breast 
again. The same source from which they drew 
their life, receives them in death and decay. 

We see then from these facts, that there is an end- 
less chain of circulation, from the earth, up through the 
plant, to the animal, and then again back to the parent 
earth. By watching this chain, and the various trans- 
formations of matter during its course, we may hope 
ot grow constantly wiser, in every department of agri- 



MomMo umr m nature. 18ft 

etdture. We discover that nothing is lost : if we burn 
a piece of wood, it disappears, but has merely been 
converted into carlxjnic acid and water, botli ' h 

are at once ready to enter into new rnn is. 

The animal or the p! time 

disappears; but in i _ nishes 

food for a new series ol iivin(^ thineps. The farmer 
can annihilate nothing, he can only change the form 
of his materials: every study which will enable him 
to do this according to his wish, should be pursued 
eagerly and perseveringly. 

The farmer must renumber that all of the - s 

with which he has to do, all of the agents t it 

his command, are connected in their composiiiuu and 
action with the fourteen elementar)' bo<lies, organic 
and inorganic, that have been described in this little 
work, li' he presi>r>'cs them, or if he adds them as 
manures in an improper form, his utmost exertions 
are of little avail; if in a proper form, his land 
becomes fertile, and his returns all that heart 
could wish. If one is absent, the others may all 
be useless; if one is present too largely, the same 
^ect upon the action of the others may ensue. How 
immensely important then, and how directly practical 
is the knowledge of these elements, and of the im- 
mense variety of combinations in which they present 
themselves! 

In tlii ,1 wish to add two 1 1 ■< 

an api'i irflcular suhjorts, for \\ : c 

has serUUtJ '• ; i p i ; .uul 

which I hiiN ^"^ , r;tth.r than 

interrupt the continuity of the preceding chanters. 

The first of these subjects, is that of chemical ana- 
lysis. So many (>rr()Mr(>us views are published, and 
otherwise disseiui n this imptrtant branch of 

study, that it st . vary to present here sooie 

plain statements auU facts, which may in a d^ree 
IG* 



IMPORTANCE OF CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. 

connteract the false impressions that have gone abroad. 
I shall endeavour to explain what a good analysis 
ought to be, and to give some simple methods for 
chemical examinations. 

The second subject will be geology. This science 
has been alluded to in passing, and the nature of its 
connection with agriculture partially explained. I 

Eropose here to give more details, and also some 
lustrations as to the laws which are most important 
to the practical man. 



187 "^'■ 

CHAPTER XVL 

OF CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. 
ilCTION I. THE TRUE NATURE OF CHEMICAL ANALYSIS 

Among all of the subjects that have been presented 
to the consideration of fanners, since the work of agri- 
cultural improvement commenced, none has been leas 
understood, even by many of those who have pre- 
toided to be its expounders, than that of analytical 
ehemistry as applied to agriculture. 

Many authors and speakers hare labored to esta- 
blish it as a fact, that tnere Is no difficulty in chemical 
investigations, beyond what may be overcome by 
a few days of study : thus a large portion of the 
farming community have been led into the belief that 
when proper institutions are established, they them- 
selves, or at least their children, may in a few weeks 
time do all of their own analytical work; iust as they 
do their own ploughing, and as well as the most ac- 
complished chemist could do it. 

That such ideas as these are totally at variance with 
the trutli, none who have ever studied the sul>j<-ct 
thoi ' ' (an for a moment doubt It is a perfectly 
sail ^ion when any man asserts, for instance, 

the entire simplicity and ease of analysing a soil, tluit 
his analyses would not be of a very accurate descrip- 
tion. 

Chemistry is a science that must be studied earnest- 
ly and perseveringly, just like any other branch of 
Knowledge which has a wide range. In order to know 
what is in a soil, and to detcnnine what are the quan- 
tities of its constituents, an intimate acquaijMaaoe is 



188 EVILS RESULTINO 

necessary, not only with the substances themselves in 
their almost endless relations and changes; but with 
great numbers of other substances from which they 
must be distinguished, and with which they are likely 
to be confounded by an inexperienced person. 

We can only determine quantities by means of cer- 
tain chemical processes : most of these depend on the 
addition of other bodies, to a solution in which 
are dissolved those that we wish to separate. Sup- 
pose now these bodies which are thus added to be im- 
pure : obviously the whole result will be erroneous; 
the chemist then, must know how to distinguish with 
certainty between puie and impure substances, and to 
tell what the impurities are. 

When he knows all of these things, there are still 
a great number of minor but very important points, 
that require attention. He must use absolutely pure 
water, must filter his liquids through paper that has 
very little ash, and must weigh everything upon a 
balance that is sensitive to at least the tenth of a 
grain. 

I might go on and mention other requisites to a 
good analysis, but those already noted are sufficient 
to show, that great care, skill, and experience, are 
absolutely essential in this business; that uninstructed 
persons must constantly be making mistakes of the 
most flagrant description. The worst difficulty of all 
is, that in many cases, not having even knowledge 
enough to know when they have gone astray, they 
actually rely upon their own work as trustworthy, and 
lead others to do so too. 

Results produced by such proficients are unhappily 
too common, and are always productive of harm 
wherever they go. The farmer, who knows little or 
nothing of even chemical names, perhaps is not com- 
petent to judge of a good analysis; he can not tell the 
difference between a pretender to scientific know- 



FROM ERRONEOUS ANALT8B8. 



im 



ledge, and one who really knows soraethir is 

true and valuable. He takes these erroneou- .-s 

as his guides, and probably falls at once into some 
serious mistake, by attempting to alter the supposed 
constitution of his soil. After he has been disap{>ointed 
in this way a few times, he is very apt to condemn 
all scientihc agriculture as ridiculous, and of no avail 
for any practical purposes. 

What 1 wish to impress in this connection, is the 
necessity of caution in coming to such a decision. Let 
it first be considertMl, if the experiments to be carrieti 
out have been properly and careiully made, so that 
there could be no mistake in that direction- Let it 
next be ascertained that no physical obstacles are in 
the way of success, and if it is found beyond doubt that 
there has lM>en no error from either of these causes, then 
let the - 

entifir I i 

an i were wrongly interpreted, or that the 

exa < re incorrectly made. 

There is truth in science, but it is not every one 
who can draw it out ; and the proper course in cases 
of an unsatisfactory nature, is to distrust the rtuxn, and 
not the general nrmciples. 

It is «i»y t«> («n«»w f li;»f th« i • v serintw diffi- 

Chl' ■ -1- 

will take soils as an instance. Where mention has 
been made of the inorganic si!l»«'ni' '"v in soils, as in 
Table I. p. 60, it mu.st have l>t I that the pro- 

portions of some of them were <| m. Mnall, ^ ' a 

as to seem of little in»{K>rtatne. It was, he \- 

pl.ii • it the presence of " s 

w.i • ly neoeflsary, so i i- 

Tattnl crops would ti ' lein. 

Half n iKHind of ; ^ \n 100 IHr. of 

earth, is a very uniuually large proportion, even in 



190 GEEAT CARE AND SKILL 

our most fertile soils. Half a pound in 100, makes 
but a small figure when we come to give the compo- 
sition of a single pound; it is only five-thousandths, 
iXi%J5) of ^ pound. Now 1 lb. is a far larger quantity of 
material than can be used with safety for an accurate 
analysis. The instruments employed, and the various 
methods of operation adopted, are such as, in nearly 
all cases, to forbid the use of a large bulk or weight 
of the substance to be examined. Consequently only a 
small fraction of a pound is worked upon, and from 
this all of the bodies present are to be separated, even 
down to small parts of a single grain. 

It becomes at once obvious, that very great care, 
very good apparatus, and no small portion of skill, are 
requisite to an analytical chemist in the determination 
of these minute quantities. If any of the chemicals 
used in the analysis are impure, the impurities of 
course have an influence upon the result: hence the 
chemist must know the properties of many other bo- 
dies beside those upon which he is at work, in order 
to be sure that he is not adding something which 
will prove injurious to the accuracy of his results. 

There is still another, among many points that 
might be noticed in this connection. The processes 
necessary for the determination of potash, soda, and 
phosphoric acid, when all are present and in combi- 
nation with other bodies, are in the last degree com- 
plicated and difficult. Many ways of determining 
them are described in books; some of these are alto- 
gether faulty, and all require much skill and know- 
ledge on the part of the operator, that he may avoid 
serious errors. These bodies, it will be remembered, 
are among the most important that soils contain, be- 
cause they are most likely to be exhausted by crop- 
ping. A comparatively inexperienced or uninstructed 
person, may determine iron, alumina, or silica, those 



UCqUISBD Of CX>in»UCTUIO AlOfLTSKS. Wl 

bodies which make up the bulk of soils; but whea 
ihev come to the most important part, the detection 
an(i ion of these small quantities, they proba- 

bly lil to fin<! them at all, fmd them when they 

are not there, or • r too much. 

In view of the I ^ _ i. irks, how inconsiderate, 
and how unwise, are the statements of those who would 
lead the fanning community to think that each 
man is in a short time to acquire the skill to deter* 
mine all problems of a chemical nati. ' ' may 
TOT c e ctt t themselves in the course of his ( <-. It 

IS true that there is nothing mentioned above, which 
can not be acquireil by any intelli|^ent man, but be 
can only accomplish it af\er a long course of study. 
When he has ^one through with this course, still other 
difficulties present themselves; to make perfect ana- 
lyses, he requires a laboratory, and rather expensire 
apparatus of various kinds. 

A good analysis mast have his undivi' ' ■), 

and even then will occupy him not less i 

days to a fortnight; and what is to i s 

£uta in the mean time? On the oth« i c 

derotes himself actively to his practical pursuits, as 
every goo<l farmer must, for at least a larjrt' ■--• -f 
the year, his chemical knowletige rusts, an; i 

loam his facility and aptitude for m-A *> 

The truth is, that the two pursn' 
the chemist may and should know i .1 

agriculture, but still his main busiDeai must in: che- 
mistry; the farmer may and should know much of 
science, but his daily occupation must be in the field. 
Uis leisure time may be most agreeably and prt^tably 
«nploye<l in gaining scientific knuwUnit^e, but the 
benneas of analysis, and aceurute rlitrniral iit\«-stiga- 
tioMyinust be left with those who uie truiuctl to it: 



192 SOME USEFUL EXAMINATIONS MAT BE JIADE 

all points which practice alone can not explain, must 
go to them. 

But some objectors continue, " It is an immense tax 
on the farmer that he must have every soil analysed, 
every manure thoroughly examined; these investiga- 
tions are expensive, and are unattainable for this 
reason, by the great majority of the community." This 
is quite true, but it is no less true that the great ma- 
jority will never require such minute analyses. If the 
soils in a particular district are all formed from the 
same rock, one or two careful analyses will suffice to 
determine the general character of the whole. So 
with manures; a few analyses of any particular kind 
will settle its value, in whatever part of the country it 
may be used. In cases where there is any thing par- 
ticularly obscure or puzzling, in a soil or field, chemi- 
cal analysis must be called upon to solve the question. 

In most situations, as knowledge of these subjects 
increases, the intelligent farmer will daily become 
more and more qualified to experiment himself, for 
particular purposes, using manures of known compo- 
sition: he may thus frequently arrive, unassisted, at 
just and important conclusions. 

There are, moreover, some points upon which the 
practical man may experiment, without becoming a 
chemist, and without previous instruction. To a no- 
tice of the more important among these, I shall devote 
the remainder of this chapter. 



SECTION II. AN ACCOUNT OF SOME SIMPLE CHEMICAL 
TESTS AND EXAMINATIONS. 

The classifying of soils by means of mechanical 
processes, has already been explained in Chapter V., 
and it is only necessary here to recal attention to it. 
When an analysis of this kind is completed, the farmer 
has no light thrown from it upon the chemical com- 



HY THE PRACTICAL FARMER IflS 

position of his soil, except so far as the silica and 
alumina, that is, the sand and clay, are separated, and 
th. 

I may be adopted, in case more 

inibrmation is desired, regarding the especial consti- 
tuents of a soil. 

1. Take a weighed half pound or pound of the 
soil, and boil it in water for some hours: rain water is 
purest Then pour it upon a filter of coarse porous 
paper, of the kind that druc^gists use f a- 

tions. The mode of managing this op- oe 

acen in any druggist's shop. If the liquid does not 
come through clear at first, it must be refiltered tiJl it 
is quite clear. The solution thus obtained is evapo- 
rated to dryness, and the solid residue burned. It will 
blacken at first, by the burning of its organic matter, 
but aAer>^ards will become white again. 

a. It may now be weighed on a small apothecaries' 
balance, and the weight gives the percentage of in- 
organic matter soluble in water, that exists in the 

■on. 

h. This portion consists in many soils, for the most 
part, of sulphates, or carbonafes, of potash and soda. 
There is also commonly present some chloride of so- 
dium, or cooimoii salt 

These are all valoable comfinwiHi of a soil; and 
hence, wherf« an expe rt ww it of Hrit kiad s ho ws suck 
•olubl. He inferred that tlw 

•oil is V , ortant portion of ili 

ftqmnte safastanceB. 

c The part solut.. ... water is oommoiiljr not 
large : it amooBli to not more than from aae to tkret 
per cent, ia many excellent soils. 

& Take another weiehed portion of soil, or the 

same which has mImI in water, and 

heat it with M)i,. JiydriH hluric acid), 

diluted by two or three times its bulk of water. 

17 



194* DIKECTIONS FOR CONDUCTING 

standing a few hours, put this also upon a filtei^ and 
wash the acid liquid through. 

a. Wash the residue upon the filter with successive 
portions of clear water, until it no longer tastes acid; 
it may then be burned until all of the organic part is 
consumed, and weighed when it is cool. This weight 
gives the percentage oi insoluble siliceous matter in 
the soil. 

b. To the filtered acid solution, is first added am- 
monia (common aqua ammonia), till it is no longer 
acid but alkaline; a flocculent precipitate then imme- 
diately falls, being iron and alumina. If it is of t 
deep red color, then iron predominates, and the con- 
trary if it is nearly white. If the precipitate has a 
whitish green color, and reddens when exposed to the 
air, then the soil contains the protoxide of iron, in 
place of the peroxide. The first, it will be remem- 
bered, was spoken of on p. 62, as injurious to plants. 
It is for this reason important to know which oxide is 
present. 

If it is shown by the above test to be the protoxide, 
the solution must be boiled again with an addition of 
a little nitric acid : this will convert all of the iron 
into peroxide, and it will thus remain upon the filter; 
the protoxide would have been partially washed 
through. Another filtering is now necessary. This 
should be done as soon as the precipitate has settled, 
and while the liquid is warm, so that it may filter 
more rapidly. The whole operation should be done 
in the shortest practicable time, and the liquid covered 
as far as possible from access of air. 

From the apparent quantity of the iron and alu- 
mina, as weighed after burning, may be judgrd with 
tolerable accuracy the proportion present in ths soil. 

c. If the soil contained much lime, an effe Tescence 
would have been seen at first, when the acid was 
added : this is supposing the lime to be coataine*' as 



CERTAIN USEFUL ANALYSES. 195 

carbonate, or in combination with carbonic aciii, that 
being the roost common form. Il" it is not present 
as carbonate, or if this is in so small quantity as not 
to show any action with acid, there are still means for 
iti easy ami certain detection. To the solution pre- 
▼ioiisly rendered alkaline by ammonia, and already fil- 
tered to separate iron and alumina, is to be added a lit- 
tle common oxalic acid. If there be even the smallest 
weitjhable quantity of lime present, a white powdery 
pr. . will begin to fall; from the abundance of 

th, [le estimated roughly the proportion of lime 

in the soil. 

All of the above important points, it will be noticed, 
may be determined without any necessity for expen- 
sive materials or apparatus, by a person of ordinary 
intelligence. Easy as these things seem, however, 
in the description, so many difficulties will be found 
in practice, as will give the operator some conception 
of the care and study involved in a complete ami de- 
tailed analysis; one where it is intended to ensure the 
greatest possible degree of accuracy. 

I have not mentioned any tests for the presence c^ 
phosphoric acid, and other of the less abundant sul>> 
5tan<vs; because their detection and separation is so 
tliili' lilt, that the inexperienced beginner would only 
run into every description of error while looking for 
them. 

It is not a hard matter for th- at 

the probable vahu* of a marl, w i le 

•ii'LMte of accuracy. A weightii portion ii 
takiii, and diluttni muriatic acid adde«l fr<>i<i 
time, until all etrer>'escence has ceaMnl. I ire 

is then Imiled, or at least well heated, uiki luiuwa 
upon a filter. The insoluble rf>si<lu«> which remiM 
ttpon the filter, must be \\ " ' i--*!, 

and wcii;ht'tl : this is < *>• 

tr:i( t(>tl from the original wt-tght taken, will, 



196 DIRECTIONS FOR CONDUCTING 

cases, give nearly the amount of carbonate of lime 
that has been dissolved out by the acid. Small quan- 
tities of other substances have been dissolved at the 
same time, which have been mentioned in a previous 
chapter, as important to the value of the marl; but 
they are only to be separated by an instructed chemist. 
Since expensive manures, such as guano, have come 
into vogue, the temptation to adulterations on the 
part of dealers is great, and farmers should be cau- 
tious in their purchases. By two or three simple tests, 
the comparative value of a substance offered as a 
guano, maybe ascertained. Table VI. p 106, will be 
a useful one for reference in such a case. 

1. A weighed portion may be heated for some 
hours, at a temperature not exceeding that of boiling 
water. The loss of weight will then indicate the 
amount of water which the guano contained, and it 
can be referred with much probability to one of the 
classes mentioned in Table VI. 

2. This dried portion may be burned, till it has 
ceased to lose M^eight: the loss is organic matter, and 
salts of ammonia; if it is greater than the largest 
quantity mentioned in Table VI., then it is probable 
that an adulteration has been practised, by mixing 
some finely-ground organic substance, such as tan- 
bark. 

3. The residue after burning should be nearly 
white, not more than about 36 per cent of the whole 
weight, and should dissolve almost entirely in muriatic 
acid. If a large portion refuses to dissolve, some solid 
substance may have been added as an adulteration. 

4. Some solid may also have been added, which 
would dissolve in acid; and it therefore becomes neces- 
sary to ascertain if that which has dissolved be really 
phosphate of lime. This is simply and easily done by 
adding ammonia, till the acid solution has become 
alkaline : if phosphate of lime be present, it will im- 



CERTAIN USBFITL ANALYSES?. 197 

mediately be precipitated in the form of white floccu- 
lent masses, the abundance of which may indicate 
the proportion present in the guano. 

5. It is safe still farther to test the organic matter, 
by mixing with quicklime, as described, page 106. A 
very strong odor of anmionia should become percep- 
tible iiuiuediately, and continue to be given oa for a 
considerable length of time. 

The foregoing instances are of a nature so simple ^ 
as to be ea.sily understood, and are sufficient to show 
that the farmer, without becoming a chemist, may 
still make some valuable experiments for his own sih 
tisfaction; and this with such means as are to be found 
in any countrj- village. 

I might multiply cases of the same nature to an 
iridt finite extent, but as this is not an extended treatise 
!i analytical chemistry, the above illustrations are 
^ I'M ient for the present purpose. 

One great end will be attained by all who go 
tlirough with such examinations as these, or who ex- 
periment ujKjn the various substances mentioned in the 
\ ioua chapters. They will soon familiarize them- 
rs to sucn an extent with chemical phenomena, 
and terms, that they will be able, far more readily 
niid pcrfettly than ever before, to comprehend the 
\v * ings and discoverits of scientific men, and to draw 
II >iu them truths profitably applicable to their own 
pursuits. 



17» 



198 



CHAPTER XVII. 

THE GENERAL APPLICATIONS OF GEOLOGY TO 
AGRICULTURE, 

Changes that the earth's surface has undergone. Unstratified or 
primary rocks. Stratified or secondary and tertiary rocks. 
Regular succession of the strata. Each stratum known by 
characteristic fossils. Composition of granite, and of traps or 
basalts. Differences in cortiposition among the stratified rocks. 
" Illustration by diagram. Of disturbing causes which have al- 
tered soils. Drift; explanation of its nature, and theories of 
its formation. Alluvial deposits. Practical advantages of 
geological knowledge. 

SECTION I. OF THE STRATIFED AND UNSTRATIFIED ROCKS. 

Geological science explores the structure of this 
earth's surface, to as great a depth as our means of 
observation extend. In the course of geological in- 
vestigations, various important and interesting laws 
have been established. 

It is found that the earth has been, before man 
inhabited it, a scene of constant change and convul- 
sion. Forces from w^ithin and without, have elevated, 
upheaved, and even overturned, some portions of its 
surface; while others have been overwhelmed, or de- 
pressed, in a corresponding degree. Dry land has 
thus appeared where seas had flowed, and seas have 
swept over what had long been elevated above their 
surface. But it may be asked, how do we know all 
of these facts 1 The answer to this is plain : simply 
by investigation of existing rocks, in the phenomena 
connected with their position and structure. 



UNSTKATniED IND STKATIPISD KOCXS. 199 

The labors of geologists have resulted in the es- 
tablishment of certain great divisions, among the 
rocks which present themselves for our inspection. 
The leading, and grand division, is into stratified, and 
unstratihed rocks. 

The unstratified rocks are also often called primary 
rocks, because they occur below the others. Theae 
rocks are the granites, syenites, traps, etc They hare 
no arrangement into regular strata, but are confused 
( ■ /»d masses, evidently the result of fusion; 

t. . all at one time been melted like lavas, and 

are, in fact, ancient lavas, which, in cooling, have 
assumed their present form. Occasionally these old 
lavas have burst up through the stratified rocks, just 
as volcanic eruptions do now, and have cooled in the 
open air : in such places we have the ranges of gra- 
[ji'rs, and traps, or basalts, which cover so much ci 
{:.■ < arth's surface. 

The stratifi. ■ ' Ilvided into secondary, 

and tertiary, i uig to their a^e. The 

primary rocks, as has been stated, bear marks oi fb- 
sion, and of having been formed by heat; not so with 
the secondary, and tertiary rocks. Their materials 
have evidently all been deposited bv water, having in 
many cases undergone adriking changes aftemrard, 
but always retaining marks of their origin. Some- 
times the strata are thick, as in some sandstones, and 
Umeitonet; scmietimes thin, like tlie letTcs of a book, 
as in some dates. 

a. An example of stratification may be seen in 
abnost any sand or clay bank, where the succeasiTe 
dieposits by water are clearly marked; some of tike 
layers being quite thick, others very thin; some quite 
level, and others again very undulating. 

These strata were of course all depoKtted in regnlat 
suc ce s si on, one above anotlicr : if there had been no 
subsequent changes, then we should only be aoquaial- 



200 NO COAL BELOW THE OLD RED SANDSTONE. 

ed with a few of the upper deposits. But the various 
convulsions of which I have spoken, interfered to pre- 
vent this order; we consequently find the strata lying 
in all imaginable positions, sometimes flat, sometimes 
bent, sometimes inclined, and sometimes straight on 
end or vertical. In this way they are all, even to the 
lowest, in one place and another, presented to our 
view. Whatever convulsions they may have under- 
gone, however they have been twisted and contorted, 
their relative position to each other is always the same, 
in whatever 'part of the woHd they may he found. 

This is a most important practical fact; as an in- 
stance, there are many kinds of sandstone : under one 
kind coal is always found, and this is called the new 
red sandstone; but below the coal is another, called 
the old red sandstone. Where this last occurs, it is a 
positive certainty that no coal exists beneath it, and 
consequently explorations are fruitless. A person 
unacquainted with geology, would as soon look under 
one sandstone formation as another, and would there- 
fore be liable to severe losses. Such losses used fre- 
quently to occur, before geology had arrived at its 
present advanced state. 

It is necessary to say in a few words, how these 
various stratifications are distinguished from one ano- 
ther, and how their relative age can be known with 
so much certainty. 

The different geological examinations of which I 
have spoken, show that there were not only vast alter- 
ations on this earth's surface, before man became its 
inhabitant; but that race upon race, millions upon 
millions, of animated creatures, had lived and died 
here. With the successive changes which have depo- 
sited the various rocks, whole classes of animals and 
plants have been swept from existence, and replaced 
by others, differing perhaps entirely in form and struc- 
ture. But these races, though they disappeared, were 



DETKBMINATION 07 SDCCS88ITB tHAXi. SOI 

not annihilated : they were embaUned, as it were, 
where they died; and we can now dig out from the 
bowels of the rock, an impression, or the frame itself, 
of a fish, as clear and distinct as when it first died; 
or a plant, with every little ft-athery leaf preserved, 
as perfect as when it waved on that unknown land, or 
floated in that ancient sea, long centuries before man 
drew the breath of life. 

These are the records which enable us to reed the 
early history of our globe; these mute witnesses, each 
in its own peculiar rock, identify that rock, in what- 
ever part of tbo world it may occur. There is a 
Sadual proijressinn in their appearance. The loweifc 
Biliferoi! is, and thoM 

of specie> .it now exist 

As we come down trom this most remote antiquity, 
the fossils increase in number, and also in their like- 
ness to the forms of living species; until at last, ia 
the very latest fom *' we find both animals and 
plants nearly or q I i>nl with some of our ex- 

isting kinds. A sk, ,. I, . ;.• can always tell, 

from its fossils, at ui it: ; i e series any rock 

belongs. 

The number of strati _\ great, but it 

is not my prewnt p en to name them: I shall 

only show, how a m.^..^ ..^Igc of their compositioo 
beu^ u|>on the practical cultivation of the soiL 

ncnoN n. or thb BtrvsamcBs m ooMrannf aikmm 

THK TARiOim ROCKS. 

All of our rocks, both stratlfiMl and aiislntificd» 
dtfur m eompositioa most ni We may tako 

&8t, two examples of the {.••n.a.^, or wstnittfiedl 
class, grmtUe^ and basait, or brap, 

(" ' roe minerals, caUod quarts, 

f irtx is noCfatng iwt silica; 

ill tlio ftUd«p«ur aiMl mica, there is aka ijliot Willi 



202 COMPOSITION OF DIFFERENT ROCKS. 

much alumina, and very considerable quantities of 
potash or soda. There is scarcely any lime, and no 
phosphates, beyond perhaps mere traces. Some varie- 
ties of granite do contain these substances in fair 
proportions, but for the most part there is very little 
of either. Hence granitic soils are frequently cold 
and poor, particularly on the sides of the hills. In 
the valleys they are apt to be better, as the best part 
of the decomposing minerals naturally washes down 
the slopes. The abundance of alumina, however, 
often makes these soils quite stiff. 

The true trap rocks, or basaltic rocks, also contain 
feldspar, but with it an abundance of another mineral 
called hornblende; or another still, called augite. 
Both of these abound in lime, and consequently in 
this class of rocks, according to theory, we have the 
materials for producing soils superior to those formed 
on the granitic regions. Practice supports the same 
view; the greenstone traps and basalts almost inva- 
riably form strong, good soils, fitted for the successful 
cultivation of almost any crop. Some of the richest 
land in Scotland is on this formation. 

The trap rocks vary in different situations, as to 
their proportion of lime. In nine samples examined by 
Prof. Johnston, the percentage of lime ranged from 
2 to more than 10 percent. These soils are so rich in 
some places, that the surface is carted away to spread 
upon poorer fields. 

The same differences of composition occur among 
the stratified rocks. Some form very excellent soils, 
and others very barren ones. The annexed diagram 
will show how the soils alter, from what is called the 
cropping out of mineral strata. 

Fig. 11. 



RELATION OF BOCKS TO THB aOIL. 9fXi 

At a, the strata are set up vertically, and are quite 
thin; suppose them to (litl'er considerably in composi> 
lion, there would be a ditferent soil in every mile or 
less. I once examined a series of seven slate rocks, 
taken from as many ditferent layers of slate, in the 
same district Four of them were almost destitute 
of lime, two had about 2 per cent each, and one had 
nearly 8 per cent How different must have been tlie 
soils which these slates formed! 

As we descend upon the plain, in the diagram, the 
strata lie nearly horizontal, and each may perhaps 
cover a large district. Thas beginning at b, we per- 
haps come upon a poor sandy soil, formed from some 
inferior sandstone; proceeding along this for fifty 
miles, we come at <i,upon a limestone of good quali- 
ty; here the character of the soil changes at once, 
and we have a rich, fertile district 

At the points where two diHferent strata meet, is 
very likely to be a good soil; because a uaiOD (tf the 
two generally supplies either all that is necaasary to 
the chemical composition, or altera for the better the 
physical character of the soil. 

Suppose e, in the hollow, to be an exceedingly wet 
and tough clay, too tenacious for profitable cmtiva- 
tion: at the point 6, where we meet the poor aantiy 
soil before menli»n«i, the sand mixes with the clay, 
and forms a mellow rich soil. At r, on the hill side, 
whsre the strata lie horizontally, changes are of course 
■Bore frequent, and the character of the soils at Ham 
base is apt to be adected by washing down from thos» 
above. 

These differences in the character of different strata, 
explain also some facts relative to the wetness of soils. 
"We often see the side of a steep hill rety wet If thtt 
stratum of nnk and soil at c Ik' stifT, and imperrious 
to water, all the rain which fulls on the country back 
and higher up will sink till it comes to this stratmi. 



204 GEOLOGICAL DISTURBANCES. 

It cannot penetrate and sink farther, so it follows 
along this layer, till it comes out above c, on the side 
of the hill, and wets all of the country below. On 
the other hill a, if the strata are pervious to water, it 
will all sink away, and the soil will be perfectly dry. 

SECTION HI. OF THE CAUSES WHICH HAVE DISTUBBED THE 
REGULAR FORMATION OF SOILS, FROM THEIR UNDERLY- 
ING ROCKS. 

From the foregoing explanations, it might be sup- 
posed, that if we know the rock lying underneath any 
given field, and can tell of what that rock is composed, 
we may be able to decide positively upon the charac- 
ter of the soil on the surface. This is not, however, 
always the case. 

That it is not so, may be ascribed to the numerous 
convulsions of the earth's surface, which have been 
before mentioned. Geological explorations have 
shown, that immense districts in various parts of the 
world, have no relations in the character of their sur- 
face, to the geological features of the region j the 
rocks which would ordinarily show themselves upon 
the surface, are covered, to a greater or less extent, 
by transported materials from some other source. Such 
observations as these, have led to the study of what 
are called the phenomena of drift. 

The vast quantities of transported materials, which 
thus overlie original rocks, consist, on inspection, 
of the ruins of other formations that have been 
broken and crumbled down, and their fragments borne 
to other regions by some unknown power. It is clear, 
however, that water has been one chief agent in this 
action; for in nearly every case the stones which occur 
in drift, are water-worn and rounded; thus showing 
that they have been rolled along in some mighty cur- 
rent, till all their angles have worn away. We see 



PHENOMENA OP DRIPT. 906 

hard quartz rocks, weighing many tons, that have 
been perfectly roundal and smoothed in this way, 
and can thence conjec-ture how tearful mu eea 

the rush and the war ot" elements, that n -udl 

e£fect8. 

Geologi.-.;.^ » ^.ii.-.iilt'r that tiicit iia.. .^^ii .-. ,eral 
periods of drift, on the northern part of this continent; 
all of them being in a westerly direction, coming from 
the east. Some ascribe it to the action of ice, either 
in the form of glaciers, or icebergs; others to the up- 
heaval of the lx)ttom in some portion of the north sea, 
sending an indescribable torrent of mingled mud, ice, 
and water, sweeping over the face of the country; 
tearing away hills, scooping out valleys, crumbling 
away various strata of rock, and depositing their ma- 
terials in different and often far distant localities. 

The lact that the rocks on the sides of some of our 
highest hills are ground smootli, and marked with 
scratches and even deep grooves, in the ilirection 
which these currents, or masses of ice, took, shows 
how irresistible must have been their force, and how 
great their volume. 

In some cases, the action of this drifl has been, to 
OOfW up good soils, or rocks that are capable of pra« 
tenng such soils, with immense accumulations of 
sand and gravel. In* it has deposited a 

better class of substan<< riginal. On the 

whole, it may be considere<l that it has done gomi, by 
mixing the ruins of various f'oi tuitions; varying the 
soil, and the con-sequent | its, over distriolB 

that would otherwise have (><< n umform, and where 
the want of these various materiabi micfht have been 
severely felt, in all the onii tiowi of life. 

What must have seemLtl . wild dtaoUo 

cnnfasion and ruin, was thitt a wise pit>> 

vision of (lod, to prepare this ut more p»» 

fectly for our habitation. 

1" 



5M)6 FORMATION OF SURFACE SOIL. 

There are other sections, where foreign accumula- 
tions cover the original soil, and alter its capabilities, 
from causes that we can more fully comprehend; 
causes which are operating at the present day. These 
are alluvial plains, formed by substances deposited 
during the annual overflow of rivers. These, during 
high water, become charged in the rapid currents of 
their sources, with materials from all of the formations 
through which their course lies. When the water 
reaches the plains of the low countries, where it has 
room to expand beyond its usual limits, a deposit of 
these suspended substances takes place, as soon as the 
current is checked by spreading out over the surface, 
and its flow becomes tranquil. 

Thus an annual layer is formed, which in time 
makes a soil of great depth, and usually of great fer- 
tility; for the reason that it is a mixture from the 
ruins of many rocks, and therefore likely to contain 
all that plants need. We have many instances of such 
soils in this country; on the banks of the Connecticut, 
of the Mohawk, of the Mississippi, and a hundred other 
streams. 

These causes, then, are sufficient reasons for saying 
that we can not always assert what any particular 
soil will be, if we know the rock of the district in 
which it is situated. Our opinion upon such a sub- 
ject must be given with the reservation — " If there 
have been no disturbing influences." An inspection 
of a district by a practised eye, would immediately 
detect any foreign deposits, and determine their cha- 
racter. 

It is easy to perceive how a knowledge of this sub- 
ject, even of a superficial nature, must be valuable 
to a practical man. If his soil is formed by the de- 
composition of a granitic rock, he can ascertain with 
little trouble, what are the constituents of that rock, 
and what are the special manures most likely to 



UTILITY AND nfTBBEST OP GEOLOGY. 2flf 

prove beneficial in his section. So also if he wishes 
to buy land in a distant region, and has no definite 
knowled;4;e as to its Character; he may determine its 
probable quality at once, from a good geological map. 
If he has cu]tivate<l the soil of some particular forma- 
tion, till he has come to like it, and to know better 
how to cultivate it than any other; he may in the 
same manner learn where to find for himself, or for 
his children, the same kind of land in some other dis- 
trict 

I may observe in conclusion, that while Geology is 
thus practi( ally useful, it also is among the most in- 
teresting of stiences; for it takes us back through 
ages that are past, and lays open the early history of 
our globe, with its silent, yet speaking, records of ex- 
tinct races, and of sudden overwhelming changes. 

Nothing in this world can give such an idea of an- 
tiquity, as one of these fossils that I have mentioned; 
the remaiiLS of a fish, or a shell, from some of the 
lower stratified rocks. We are accustomed to think of 
the pyramids as ancient; but this creature enjoyed 
life, and fulfilled its part in the animated world, at 
a period which brings the pyramids, in comparisoD, 
down to things of yesterday. Since it died, race after 
race, in gradual progression, has occupied the seM 
and tiie land; has in its turn been sooner or latW 
swept away, to make a part of some new formation. 
Wide seas or rapid torrents have rolled over its 
resting place; and then again by a new change, it 
has supported the immense growth of some old foasil 
forest on dry land, which, in its turn overwhelmed, 
gSTe place to other seas, containing still other forms 
of life. 

AAer all these unnumbered centxurtes of rerolutioo, 
it comes forth to the gaze of man upon the earth, which 
in its day and generation it helpeti to prepare for his 



208 CONCLUSION. 

abode; to speak to him of the infinite power of that 
Being who made them both. 

It is thus with everything in this world of ours; on 
every side we are reminded of a superior, and an 
All-wise, Creator. We have been tracing nothing 
but the evidences of his wisdom and power, in the 
simple yet beautiful laws which regulate ihe being 
and growth of all living things; and here we have in 
this bit of stone, an evidence strong as doubt itself ^ 
could demand, that these same laws were in operation 
thousands of years before any of our race existed. 

To study such laws, then, is a noble as well as 
attractive pursuit; for they are not to outlast us, as 
they will everything in the material world around 
us, whose existence and whose periodical changes 
they regulate. 

Our bodies, it' is true, will come under the uni- 
versal power of death; will be resolved once more 
into their various elements; will perform once more 
their part in that great circle of life which we have 
endeavored to follow in its varied round : but our souls 
will be beyond all such influences; will, living, be acting 
out an immortal destiny, in a world where every 
transformation will not be a step toward ultimate 
decay, and where the blossoms of this brief lifetime 
will ripen into the sweet or bitter fruits of eternity. 



RECOMMENDATIONS. 

NsW To*K AsJUOULTVaAL SOOISTT, 

January, 1S50. 
■stnet from the Report of t ■ i -pe on Profe«sor Noxroii'a 

work, entitled " Elements ■ Aericultare " (John Del- 

kflcM, Eaq., Oaklan ! " man, E*q., Kioder- 

iMiok; Hon. George (. nmittee). 

•*A« * work of scieiii • .. . . , rinciple and funda- 

BMntal feature of ji)(nntltur« which has been developed to this 
period, and having the stamp of truth, arrayed ia aimple yet per- 
■picuous lanjpiage. It would seem expedient that no eflbrt ahMli 
b« spared to cmrry this work to the home of every inaa, wfaothM* 
directly or raaototy eoBDMtod with ttio porsait «t f ii — lfi » » 
nntil science shall «rfhU to w otlMr fwU UM todMT dUMlopiMBl» 
of Nature's laws. This work shoold be tho KkoMBtMy T*st> 
book for every person, old and younf , who stadias ths eultiyntion 
o( ths earth ; it should form a prominent ofajoet ia stwt school 
district of the sUte, and be stroag aliko ia ths affsetioas of tsarhsr 
and pupil. * Wo n<liti<i|;e to Prof. Nortoa ths Pnaaiom of Oaa 
Huilrsd Doi: ••soiutioa was uaaaiaMBslji 

•Mlllr, re. . . aad also hjr tha Easratl«<a < 

MMetfnr '^ '^"- thoasaad lapiis of ths Essay, to ha 

awardv "Hidotir.** 

I cert : «f tM Proeasdinfs of ths Socisty 

■id Executive C.> B. P. JOHIfSON, 

(Copy.) Corraspeadiaff Saovtary. 

I. TART'S OFFICE, ) 
i'<-i'«)viiirat of Common S c hools.! 

Absairr, ApHl 90d^ 1880. 
Ifiwsrs. M. B, Pnm 4 Co./ 

Gentlemen. I bavs sxantiasd ths maBMoipt aopy, aad aasatal 
of tho printed •k<>ett nf Prof. Norton's "Elawanto of Sdaatiie 
A?' of opioioD that it is a work of frsat valao 

ai <»«• of ths community, and sspscially to 

thuw: T-Mxaxr-u 111 ■(( r !<. uitaTsl paTSoits. It is a dsar, s aa c iss^ aa4 
fall aspoaitioa of ths slMnsatary ptiactolaa caaasetad wiik tha 
saiaaso and art of practical &minf ; and I know of no mora vala* 



able cotnpend on this subject, that could be placed in the hands of 
the students and pupils of our academies and common schools. I 
cordially and cheerfully recommend it to parents and teachers, 
and trust it will find its way into every school, and every district 
library. Very respectfully, your ob't serv't, 

CHRISTOPHER MORGAN, 

Sup't of Common Schools. 
I fully concur in the preceding recommendation, 

SAMUEL S. RANDALL, 
Editor of District School Journal. 

Elements of Scientific Agriculture, or the Connection between 
Science and the Art of Practical Farming. Prize Essay of the 
New York State Agricultural Society. By John P. Norton, 
Professor of Scientific Agriculture in Yale College. Albany: 
Erastus H. Pease ^ Co. New Haven: T. H. Pease, pp. 208. 
1850. 

We should be glad to see this volume in the possession of every 
family in the State, and taught in every school in the State. We 
know of no knowledge which would act so directly on the pros- 
perity of our citizens, as a knowledge of the scientific principles 
of Agriculture — hardly any, which would tend more to elevate 
the intellectual character of the people. Agriculture as here ex- 
pounded, has that combination of the Practical and the Theoreti- 
cal, wliich, while it elevates the former above mere toil, and re- 
lieves it of much of its laboriousness, gives healthful exercise to 
the intellect, and restrains the latter within the bounds of legiti- 
mate inductions. We have read this book with care, and we do 
not hesitate to give it our unqualified approbation. It has several 
peculiar excellencies. In the first place it is really scientific. The 
scientific principles upon which the jirt of agriculture rests, are 
derived from various sciences, but especially from Chemistry. 
Now there is a very great difference between reading upon these 
subjects so as to compile a book, and writing on these subjects 
from a mastery of them — a difference between that general infor- 
mation which belongs to all well read men, and true scientific 
men. We doubt not the judgment of 

the New York State Agricultural Society, who 'awarded to it its 
prize, will be fully confirmed by the community. — The New Eng- 
lander. 

Elementary PRiNCirLES of Scientific Agricttlttire, By 
John P. Norton, M. A., Professor,»of Scientific Agriculture in 
Yale College. 
This work is published under tne immediate auspices of the 

New York State Agricultural Society, and is a full, complete. 



and comprehensive exposition of the fundamental principles of 
practical and scientific agriculture. We trust it may tind its waj 
into every School District^ Library in the State. — Dutriet Sdtatl 
Journal, 

NoRToif^s Elkkvnts op Soikntipio Aaaicui.TviE. 

This is the work to which was awarded the Premium of $100 
brthc New York Sute Agricultural Society. It is a small book 
Of some 200 pages, but a great one, io its best sense, containing 
the elements of scientific agricnltore. lu language is plain, its 
illustrations simple. It is a work for the £uTner, and the fanner 
should read it, aad teach it to his children. — &<»<•(» F€urmtr, 

Nostom's Elkxk.'vts op Soikntipio A«rioi;i.tt7KK. 

The design of this work, in the language of the author, is to 
"clearly and diitinrtly explain the great principles that are in- 
volved in the applications of science to agriculture." In reference 
to the manner in ^»hirh this design has been carried out, we can 
Bot better express our own view* than by the adoption of the Ian- 
foage of the committee by whom the examination of the esaaj 
wms made, and the prize of $100 awarded: 

The eooimittee closed their report by reeommending tiut tb* 
work be adopted for the District School Libraries. The ILxmOf 
tive Committee of the State Agricultural Society have also pMMd 
A resolution authorising the printing of one thousand copies at tbo 
expense of the Society, to be awarded as premiums. We are con- 
fident the work will meet with a ready demand, and that it will 
bt read and studied with great satisfaction and advantage by all 
who are interested in the principles of agriculture. — jtlhamy Cut- 

ELsmim or Soiairririo AaaicvLTvis, or tho Ceanoetiaa be- 
tween Science and the Art of Practical Pannfaw« 
It is by Pro f— s n r Norton, of Tale College, uidui OBt of tlM few 
plain scictttifie works upon tbt ealtor* of this soil, that trm mmi 
of good eoauDoa aenae ran rotnprdMttd, and may be to tbo mmMT 
wlut B Uctot oM is to the lawjar, • text book. It is as appUe*> 
bk to BowthwB culture as to Noftlwra, for H MnbracM all the 
■dif of tk« oarth's tiUa^a, tha olaaMato «t pUata, tiM cocwti- 
toMrts of aoib, th* eompoaitioa of tho air, tho aesda, nmm, mad 
tha alkalies, and the part that each and every ooo takos ia p«r> 
fcetinjr >?npositioo of manoras, aad is 

dUMt • , ill why a plant wants food, and 

how it Will ias)- 1 wnat kiod of food ia propar for it. 

Manrs. Paaaa 4 jUm* tmatH mt thMiks. Ttan ia 

Bot a priniad book ... — ^ uioa wUdi ca«14 1mv« b« 



ieptable. We are but novices in the great art of Agriculture, 
and any thing that will give us light, we hail with gratitude and 
pleasure. We shall, from time to time, give our readers ex- 
tracts from the work. — Columbus (Ga.) Enquirer, 

Elements of AaRicuLTURE. By John P. Norton, M. A., Pro- 
fessor of Scientific Agriculture in Yale College, 

This is a neat volume by one whose reputation for agricultural 
science stands high, and whose writings on this subject we hare 
read with interest and instruction. Simplicity of language and 
distinctness of illustration are its prominent characteristics. The 
author has, in a good measure, happily avoided the use of techni- 
cal and unusual terms. No treatise of the kind, so well suited 
to form the basis of agricultural instruction in our public schools, 
has come to our knowledge. We trust it will be found highly 
useful as a text-book for popular instruction. 

Many things are here stated as simple elements, the demon- 
stration of which has been the result of much observation and labor. 
It not unfrequently happens, that the most useful truths when 
known and distinctly stated, awaken surprise, that they should 
have so long passed without notice. One of the greatest obsta- 
cles to the acquisition of agricultural science, has been the forbid- 
ding garb in which it has been arrayed. — New England Farmer. 

Elements of Scientific Agricultuee. 

The bare annunciation of such a work, by Prof. Norton, will be 
sufficient to awaken, among all friends of agricultural improve- 
ment, a general desire to possess it. So far as we have been able 
to examine its pages, our high expectations have been fully met. 
Prof. Norton has a common sense way of presenting the various 
topics connected with agricultural science, and it is to the common 
sense of every man, that his conclusions commend themselves. 
Would that every farmer in Michigan were in possession of this 
book. — Michigan Farmer, 

Norton's Elements of Scientific Asriculture. 

No work which has been issued from the press in this country, 
is of so much importance to the agricultural interest as this. 
The author has been completely successful 
in his treatise, and has produced a work, which, while it illus- 
trates fully the principles of science in their application to the 
practical work on the farm, is so plain and familiar in its illus- 
trations, that no one we think can fail to appreciate them, and to 
apply them if need be to the nractical purposes of agriculture. 

we can not doubt it is des- 



L 



tiaed to exert « lalutary influence upon the afrirulture of oar 
state and nation. Tbe State Africultural Society are entitled to 
the thanks of the a|;rirultaral interest, for brin^in^ before tfa« 
public this valuable work. — Albany Ewtning Jvmrmml. 



Klf.me>ts ok .■>c ientik ic A^ricultuke. 

The name of Prof. Norton is becominf widely known to this 
country in connection with scientific arricnltiire. After receiving 
the best education which Europe cooU «Smk1 in the profession to 
which he had devoted himself, he haa bean nace his return most 
usefully employed ia ezteadinf a kaowledga of the snbject amonf 
his own countrymc*. 

The pres«rnt work wat orifiaally written as an Essay for tlM 
Agricultural Society, and received from the ju'iges appointed tof 
that purpose, the highest premium, while the ext^^utire commit- 
tf ordered tha printing of one thousand copies, to be awarded as 
premiuma of th« society. This would of itself be a soflkient en 
dorMmant. — Mban^ Stmte RegitUr, 



KoBToa's Et4iintm o» Sotinrirto AasrorLTxrxs. 

We look upon it as one of the moat TaltaUe contrfbatioas to 
AgrirulTural literature that thi> press has sent forth. Its defini- 
tions of the properties, constituents, uses, an'* "*— -«■ •» • — 
•M Wibstinias which comprise soils and 
WflaMtioiM of tho mvtni kinds of mamir< 
•rtioM. of the cenqpoaitioa of planta, tho fsedisg <.: ^iti- 

mala, tiw remarks •• the pcoatiee of the dairy, o-.. of 

chemical analysis, and the application of O aot o gy to A;.: 
are all so plain that he who runs may read, and reading' 
hend what he reads. It appaars to aavo mm tk« gnat 
tbe enlighteoad aatbor, to aceeoMMdMi kk writfaf to • 
ral min<l. TlM>aghb>has niB— uBykaJ taJwl to tbe r^ 
of science, be has expbiaad «odi, in iu tarn, in so aaaj and fm- 
miliar a way. that all roar Boderstand not only tba maaaiag of 
th« tarm asad, but the oOea aad relation which tba paitkalar 
rabstaaea oaaiad baan to tlM aartb. Aa aa ilsaHatal book, tut 
elaaraats, stinpUcttT, aad ptactiralaaM, it baa ao taparior. It 
■koaM not oaly ba uitrodacad iate ovary Utanvy iaatitatioa ia tba 
country, but Bad a place in the dwaUtag of avarr .\«rii-ultarist 
>^ lire to understand the close affinity «^ <>nea 

(' > bears to the noble art by which he ol>i> - '■>(» 

and how essential iti knowledge is to a aaccoMfoi and profttibai 
prosecution of his labors. 

Wa uabasitatingly c oa wna ad Prof. NoitoaHi work to ow mA> 



ers, and as unhesitatingly say, that its chapters upon the rearing 
of animals, the management 0/ milch cows, the management ef 
the dairy, and the fattening of cattle, appear to us to possess more 
merit, more plain, manly common sense, and more true philoso- 
phy, than any others than have ever ^llen under our observation, 
— American Farmer, Baltimore, Mdj 

Norton's Elements of Scientific AsEicrLTURE. 

The subject is very ably discussed, and elucidated in a clear 
and comprehensive language, such as would not discourage the 
young inquirer, nor dissatisfy the adept in such branches of sci- 
entific research. The task is well done, and we feel indebted to 
Professor Norton for opening another pleasant avenue to Agricul- 
tural knowledge and practice. — Maine Farmer. 

Norton's Elements of Scientific AsRiciTLTrRE. 

We have looked through Prof. Norton's new treatise with some 
degree of care, and find it well adapted to the purpose for which 
it was mainly composed, namely, to supply correct elementary 
instruction in Scientfic Agriculture, for the use of schools and 
inquiring young men engaged in the business of farming. The 
application of scientific principles to the art of cultivating the 
earth, management of the dairy, the breeding and feeding of ani- 
mals, ^c, is treated of in simple language, with scientific accu- 
racy, and in considerable fulness. The publication is alike cre- 
ditable to the talents and industry of the author, and the discrimi- 
nating judgment of the valuable society which has been the means 
of calling it forth. We should be happy to see it introduced into 
all the schools, and the family of every farmer in this country. — 
Canadian .^griculturitt. 



B. H. PEASE & CO'S 

NEW EDUCATIONAL PUBLICATIONS. 



ELEWEMS OF SflEMIFIC AGRIClLTlREi 

Or, the Cozinexlon between Science and the Art of 

Practical Farming. 

(Prize Eway of the New-YorJc State Agricultural Society.) 

By JOHN P. NORTON, M. A. 

Prof, of Scientific Agriculture in Yale Colle|^, Editor flf StepKcM* 
Book of the Farm, ffC. ^. 

I Tol. I2mo. dark f^reen cloth, and appropriate device* in Gold 

embossed on the side and back. 

Naw-YoKt AaaicuLTTTRAi. Sooistt, 
January, 1850. 

Extrarf frnrii t Vic R.'iwirt <it" f Iw ( '■itiiTnitlw iin ('r..l..H«rir NoRTOtf's 

■' (John 
• 1., KJn- 

d«rhoukj iiuit. (jcocgc li< 

" As a work of ^'•\*'n<^ it • t in. Ia- 

nental featm , •■ I to this 

period, and ■ , !•■ yet per- 

spicuous iaiiK<i.w;- 11 ■ -• ' '■ 

\jc spiired to carry thm 

dif< ilv or remotely <c . , , 

ui " shall unfoid to us other iucts ami lurth<*r develop- 

II riiro'i liwi. This work ^houll !»«• th** Kipmentary 
•1 .111- 



1' ive Com- 

11 i tbe £•- 

•ay, to Ixj .1 )." 

I certify ;. linfs of the Society 

and Execuuvf idna iti c. H. l». JOHNSON, 

(Copy.) Corrmpondinf Secretary. 

SEC!. • )•.. 



, ( 



i ><-hooU 

thmn. E. B. Ptat ^ Co. . 

Gentlemen: I have t't.ii in. > t>i<> niiniK.-i 
of the printed sherts > 
Agriculture." an! a-n 
aiul iiit»Mf>.; 

lull exptMiU'Mi <'i UK \\i\n u<«> 



2 E. H. Pease Sf Go's Educational Publications. 

science and art of practical farming ; and I know of no more valu- 
able compend on this subject, that could be placed in the hands 
of the students and pupils ot our academies and common schools. 
I cordially and cheerfully recommend it to parents and teachers, 
and trust it will find its way into every school, and every district 
library. Very respectfully, your ob't serv't, 

CHRISTOPHER MORGAN, 

Superintendent of Com. Schools. 
I fully concur in the preceding recommendation. 

SAxMUEL S. RANDALL, 

Editor of District School Journal. 



Extract from the Circular of the Executive Committee of the 
State Normal School to the Graduates, transmitting to each of 
them a copy of Professor Johnston's Catechism of Agricultural 
Chemistry and Geology. 

The earnestness which our Committee feel in this matter will 
be seen from the following extract, taken from their last annual 
report, made through the Regents of the University, to the Le- 
gislature, February 11, 1850. 

"The committee, appreciating the great and growing import- 
ance of agricultural science, and considering it, in its elementary 
principles, an appropriate subject for common school instruction; 
and considering also, that with the aid of suitable text books now, 
or soon to be attainable, the subject, always appropriate, has at 
length become feasible for such instruction ; have recently assign- 
ed it to a more prominent place than it had before held in the 
Normal School, by making it a separate or independent branch, 
and requiring it to be taught as an essential or constituent part 
of the course of study pursued in the school. The committee, im- 
pressed, as they themselves are, with the great importance of this 
new subject of study, hope to be able, through their normal gra- 
duates, acting under a like impression, to cause it to be introduced 
into all the schools taught by such graduates, and through their 
influence and that of such schools, to cause it to be finally adopted 
as part of the regular course of study in all the common schools, 
at least in the rural or agricultural parts of the state. 

The committee have learned, with much satisfaction, from the 
proceedings of the State Agricultural Society at its last annual 
meeting, that a treatise on the subject above referred to, has been 
recently prepared by Professor Norton and submitted to the socie- 
ty, who, after due examination, have recommended it as a very 
valuable production, specially appropriate for the use of common 
schools, and have directed it to be published with a view, as is 
imderstood, to such a use. Such a treatise at this time, together 
with the text books already published and in practical use, will, 
in the opinion of the committee, furnish all needful facilities for 
common school instruction on the subject above referred to." 

GEO. R. PERKINS, Principal of N. S. 
Normal School Albany, March. 1850. 



i^ 



S Norton, John Pitkin 

5^5 Elements of scientific 

N88 agriculture 

1S53 



BioMed 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



