Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE, 



SURGERY, 



SICK-ROOM MANAGEMENT, 

AKD 








» , "> 7* 



" How best the fickle fabric to support 
Of mortal man : in healthful body, how 
A healthful mind the longest to maintain. 



>» 



LONDON: 
Wm. S. ORR & CO., AMEN CORNER. 

DUBLIN*: J. MCOLABHAK, SAOKTILLE STREET. 



XDCCCUT.. 



/^/. O. J'^(^. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

PAOB 

I'NTEODUCTORY.— "Value of health— desire to preserve it-^^necefln 
sity of knowing the means . . ■ . .9 

CHAPTER II. 

Quackery. — li» evils traced to igaocance and credulity — to be 
opposed by sound knowledge .11 

CHAPTER III. 

The inherent tendency of man to speculate on the phe- 
nomena OF DISEASE. — A knowledge of physiology necessary 
rightly to understand disease 13 

CHAPTER IV. 

The functions op the human body. — All animals constructed 
upon one plan — gradual ascent in the scale of existence 
from plants to man — organic and inorganic nature — organic 
or vegetative functions — animal functions, or functions 
of relation 15 

CHAPTER V. 

Digestion. — Its office to supply waste of tissues — importance of 
its integrity — process of assimilation — circumstances neces- 
sary to its healthy performance — rules for taking food — 
vaciety of food neceasary<r^.aiiode and tiaie of eating-^relft* 
tiona of diet to age, ooeapattoin, and climate— e&ets of sudden 
change from dsflcieiLt to fiill diet 19 



IV 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER VI. 



PAGE 



Heart, and cntcvLATiON of the blood. — Office of the arteries 
and veins — ^their position in the hody — structure and size of 
the heart — ^the pulse — ^force of the heart — ^rest of the heart — 
discovery of the circulation 27 

CHAPTER VII. 
Respiration, the lxtnos, the aib. — ^Relations of man to the 
external world — ^function of the lungs — ^purposes of respira- 
tion — structure of the lungs — ^air-cells — act of respiration — 
inspiration — expiration — the atmosphere — source and power 
of animal heat .29 



CHAPTER VIII. 

The skin. — Function of secretion — ^perspiration— exhalation of 
fluid — action of the water cure — excretion of effete matter — 
structure of the skin — cleanliness 



33 



CHAPTER IX. 
Contagion and infection. — The terms defined 



. 37 



CHAPTER X. 

Specific blood diseases. — ^Typhus fever — ^typhoid fever — ^re- 
lapsing fever — ^yellow fever — remittent fever and infantile 
remittent fever — intermittent fever or ague — scarlatina — 
measles — small-pox — cow-pox — chicken-pox — erysipelas — 
cholera 40 

CHAPTER XI. 

General blood diseases. — Gout— rheumatism — ^plethora or full- 
ness of blood— ansemia— scurvy and purpura . .63 



CHAPTER XII. 

Diseases of the organs of digestion. — ^The teeth — ^inflamma- 
tion of the gums — ^toothache — inflammation of the mouth — 
millet — ^thrush — sore mouth — canker — salivation — quinsey — 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 



goitre — mumps — dyspepsia — ^inflammation of the stomach — 
poisons and poisoning — mineral poisons — ^vegetable poisons 
— irritation of the stomach — water brash — cramp of the 
stomach — ^nausea and vomiting — ^parasites of the stomach — 
sea sickness — sick headache— inflammation of the bowels — 
dysentery — colic — constipation — diarrhoea — worms- — liver 
complaints — biliousness — -jaundice — the gall-bladder — gall- 
stones — the pancreas — the spleen — mesenteric disease — 
flatulence 73 

CHAPTER XIII. 

Diseases of the oeoans of cibcdlation. — Organic diseases 
of the heart — functional diseases of the heart — con- 
gestion — ^palpitation — feeble circulation — diseases of the 
blood-vessels — ^rupture of — spitting of blood — vomiting of 
blood — white or milk leg 109 



CHAPTER XIV. 



Diseases of the RESPmATOEY obgans — ^labynoites, acute 
AND CHRONIC.' — FolUcular disease of larynx — croup — bron- 
chitis — catarrh — coryza — cold — ^influenza— spurious croup 
— ^laryngismus stridulus — asthma — hooping-cough — col- 
lapse of the air-cells — ^inflammation of the lungs — pleurisy 
— the stethoscope — ^tubercular consumption — emphyema — 
hydrothorax — pneumathoraz 



117 



CHAPTER XV. 

Diseases of the urinary organs. — The kidneys — structure 
and function of — ^urinary apparatus — ^healthy urine — dis- 
ordered urine — ^lithates — oxalates — sugar — ^phosphates — ex- 
cessive action of kidney — diabetes — defective action of 
kidney — gravel— stone — inflammation of kidney — pyelitis — 
Bright's disease — ^inflammation of bladder-— vesical catarrh 
— strangury — incontinence of urine — suppression of urine 
— retention of urine 143 



vi 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

p. PAGE 

IJiSBAflBS OF THE UTEiRiNE STSTBiT.— Menstruation— green sick- 
nesa— amenorrhoea— dy smenorrhoea— menorrhagia— whittes 1 56 

CHAPTER XVII. 

Dbopsibb.— General dropsy— water in the chesfc-^liie heart—the 
brain— the eye— the windpipe— the ovary . . . 171 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

DiSEASBs OP THE BRAJN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. — Headache— 
inflammation — delirium tremens — palsy— apoplexy epi- 
lepsy—hysteria . . 181 

CHAPTER XIX. 

Diseases op the skin.— Erythema— roseola— lichen— «traphulus, 
or red gum— eczema— herpes— shingles— rupia— impetigo 
—ecthyma— lupus, or the wolf— lepra-psoriasis— prurigo— 
urticaria, or nettle-rash— acne— ringworm— pityriasis— sca- 
bies, or itch ., , ^ xgg 

CHAPTER XX. 
Diseases OP THE HAiK.— Baldness— graymesa . . .201 

CHAPTER XXI. 
SCBOFUIiA 206 

CHAPTER XXII. 

HEALiNa FBOCBSSES. — ^Suf gery — ^healing by the first intention— 
by the second intenttoa 213 

CHAPTER XXIII. 

"Wounds and ulcees. — Incised wounds — wounds of blood- ves- 
sels — ^bleeding from the nose — contused wounds — ulcers . 219 



CONTENTS. Tli 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

PAOK 

Fractubes. — Union of fractured bones — symptoms and treat- 
ment of fractures — splints — ^fracture of the limbs — ^the skull 
— ^the lower jaw—the ribs— the collar-bone . . 226 

CHAPTER XXV. 

Dislocations. — ^The lower jaw — ^the shoulder — ^the elbow — the 
wrists — ^the fingers— the thigh-^the knee-cap — ^the knee — 
the ankle — the toes 232 

CHAPTER XXVI. 
Sprains 236 

CHAPTER XXVII. 
BuBNS. Aan> ecALD& — Bites of dogs and reptiles-^^tings of insects 239 

CHAPTER XXVIII. 

Abscesses^ &c. — ^Whitlow — boils— ^sarbuncle-^hilblains-^chap- 
ped hands~-corafl — bunions — ^varicose veins — ^pUes-^fistula 
-^prolapsus ani 244 

CHAPTER XXIX. 

Some special diseases. — Rupture-— stone— diseases of the ear- 
cold in the eye — ^inflammation of the eye — small bodies in 
the eye — bleeding — vaccination — tooth drawing — ^treatment 
of drowning — hanging — choking — suffocation . . . 252 

CHAPTER XXX. 

Miscellaneous » otices. — Dressings — lint — boulettes — bour- 
donnet — carded cotton — ^tow — ointments — adhesiv e plaster — 
compresses — ^pads — poultices— cold water dressing — ^fomen- 
tations — bandages — cupping — leeches — scarification — ^blis- 
ters — ^mustard — application of cold — baths — lavements . 263 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

PAGE 

S1CS.-R00M MANAGEMENT. — ^The bed-room — its situation and fur- 
niture — ventilation — cleanliness — sitting up — moving — the 
nurse — administration of medicine — fumigations — means of 
avoiding contagion— dietetic management — watchfulness — 
general management — moral and mental management . 276 



CHAPTER XXXII. 

The diet op invalids. — Effects of abstinence — the stomach 
habituates itself to most kinds of food — ^variety of food neces- 
sary to health — vegetables contain all essential principles — 
objectionable from their bulk — food which repairs the blood 
and solids — respiratory, calorifacient, or heat-evolving food 
— meat, the flesh of mammals — its composition — effects of 
boiling — roasting — stewing — soup — food proper for invalids 
— digestibility of meats — ^birds, digestibility of— eggs, diges- 
tibility of— milk, composition of, digestibility of — reptiles, 
fish, shell-fish, digestibility of — vegetables and fruits — 
the grasses — leguminous and other plants — starch — sugar — 
oil— digestibility of vegetable food — drinks — ^tea and coffee 
— chicory — chocolate and cocoa — ^lemonade — ^imperial — rasp- 
berry vinegar — ^tamarind water — soda water— ginger beer-^- 
animal broths-^beef tea — mutton broth — chicken broth — 
veal broth — emulsive drinks — almond drinks — alcoholic 
drinks — sherry — Madeira — ^port wine — claret — Burgundy — 
Champagne — German wines — ^beer — recapitulation . . 288 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



CHAPTER L 



INTKODUCTORY. 



Widely as men differ from each other, oni almost every subject that 
either observation may give rise to, or speculation may suggest, they 
seem to display a tolerable unanimity on the subject of health, and 
the prolongation of life. To recover impaired health there is no 
worldly sacrifice which the invalid would refuse to make ; and to 
prolong the flickering flame of life, even a few days longer, there are 
few so old who would not willingly barter in exchange their most 
valuable possession. When, however, serious disease has attacked 
the body, or when the sands of life are at their lowest ebb, the issues 
of life and death are then almost beyond the control of man, and the 
merest accident of the moment may turn the scale in favour of one or 
other of these contingencies. So precarious is human existence, 
apparently, at the best, and so uncertain the numbered hour that lays 
us in the dust, that it is the buoyancy of hope alone which supports 
every one in the expectation that he may still prolong his life to 
another day. 

The inestimable gift of health, then, cannot be too highly prized ; 
nor are there any means to secure it which man does not most 
anxiously compass, in order to attain his end. All are not alike wise 
in seeking it by a proper attention to their clothing, exercise, and 
diet ; all are not equally cautious in avoiding exposure to causes 
which tend to disturb its harmony ; and all are not naturally en- 
dowed with that strength of constitution which enables them to resist 
vigorously the atmospheric vicissitudes to which we are subjected, 
daily and hourly, in our variable climate. Moreover, many inherit a sick 



and weakly frame from their parents, requiring constant nurture and 
advice to preserve the fabric of the bodj in its requisite health. 

It is conmionly aflSrmed that the '* Schoohnaster is abroad;'' but 
with far more semblance of truth, we think, it maj be asserted that the 
" Doctor is at home ;" for there is no person who does not fancy he 
knows something of physic, howeyer illiterate he may otherwise be. 
It is a natural trait in the character of the animal man to doctor 
himself; and however strong aU reason be against it,- all nature is 
for it. The anathemas of the college, the denouncements of the legi- 
timate practitioners, and even the penalties enacted by the State, are 
as the idle wind in their efficiency to curb or to restrain the illegiti- 
mate practice of the art of curing diseases. Without, then, opposing 
myself to the colleges and their councils, to the practising physician, 
or to the dispensing apothecary ; or without, on the other han^ in the 
least degree espousing the doctrines or the party of the quacks — the 
irregular practitioners, to whom I shall very fr-eely allude — I confess 
that I see not why physic should claim exemption from being ex- 
plained to the people in a popular manner, as much as any of the 
numerous sciences with which it is the vogue of the day to encumber 
the public mind. But further, I think that there is an imperious 
necessity for this kind of information being unfolded to them, if it 
were for no other reason than to teach that the human body is a most 
delicate and complicated piece of mechanism, and that the utmost care, 
and skill, and caution, are requisite in handling its organization. 

If men will persist in trenching on what the medical faculty deem 
forbidden ground, it is assuredly a bounden duty to do so with the 
least possible injury to themselves — an object which, it is conceived, 
will be readily gained by explaining the circumstances under which 
plain common sense, with a few simple doctrines and appliances may 
be justified in acting for the behoof of the sick, and those circum- 
stances imder which it will be better, if the skill of a practised medical 
man be consulted. I would not convert every man into a doctor; 
but I would desire to see him acquainted with certain facts and general 
principles regarding the economy of his own body, the timely appli- 
cation of which will save him much unnecessary pain and sickness, 
and often constitute the best safeguard against any serious illness. 
With these every one should be acquainted, even though he may 
neither have occasion to require them for himself, nor to prescribe 
them for others. But all are not equally fortunate, and the occa- 
sions are numerous in which, even in the midst of our own dense 
cities, we cannot get medical aid the instant it is required. It fol- 



QUACKERY. 11 



lows naturally, tlierefore, that we must one and all of us feel tnost 
anxious to know what is the most prudent and the best to be done till 
that aasiatance arrives. Under such conditions^ inevitably, every man 
must become his own physician ; and as we are all exposed to such 
casualties, a plain explanation of these various accidents in life, it 
is judged, cannot be without its good effects on the welfare of society, 
as well a« on the interests of individuals. 



CHAPTER XL 

aVACKEBY. 

Pboposino to render this work a complete manual of household 
medicine, adapted to the understanding and capacity of every class of 
the community, I believe that it will greatly tend to clear the way, 
if I now offer to my readers a few remarks on the legitimate and ille* 
gitimate exercise of the art of curing diseases. This I feel the more 
inclined to do, as for the last twenty or thirty years^ through the 
agency of Mechanics' Institutions and other analogous associations, 
much highly-valuable and useful information on Physiology, or the 
laws of Uie physical constitution of the human body, has been zeal- 
ously and very generally diffused. This knowledge is now beginning 
to produce its proper fruits, and these, fortunately, of a good and 
wholesome character. However rampant, and in the ascendant, the 
practices of the quack may be, among the unreflecting and credulous 
portion of mankind, from the too-easy acquiescing pliability of an 
uneducated and uninformed people, I venture to assert that the 
votaries of that craft are not to be numbered among those who 
value knowledge because it is power. 

The evils of quackery are manifold, and they may all be traced to 
ignorance and credulity. And, moreover, notwithstanding our boasted 
intelligence, and the much vaunted highly enlightened state of the 
public mind, it must be recollected that even now, in Great Britain, 
the people are not emancipated from the trammels of witchcraft, while 
ghost-craft, clairvoyance, and table-turning have their believers. It 
were scarcely, then, to be anticipated that we should so easily disen- 
cumber ourselves of the whole mass of our popular superstitions ; and 
of these the grossest and most widely diffused is the baneful pestilence 



12 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUBOEBT. 



which saps the sinevs and strength of our people throitghoixt the 
whole breadth and length of our land, in the preposterous belief, that 
one remedj u able to cure all the varied and endless ills to which 
human flesh is heir. It matters not whether this be the plain, undis- 
guised quack recipe, in the shape of a Morrison's pill, or a Hollo- 
way's ointment, equally suited to all ages, sezes^ and diseases ; or if 
it comes to us in the demi-scientific garb of hydropathy, homoeopathy, 
or any other pseudo-science, which the professed curer of all diseases 
may choose to designate, and inyest with the mysterious talisman 
of a Greek deriyation. 

To enter into anything like a formal refutation of the whole host 
and family of quack medicines, would be to trifle with the common 
sense of my readers ; but I must put one question to those who are 
prone to catch at the uniyersal panacea of the nostrum-monger. I 
ask them, whether all the yaried kinds of diseases are not produced 
by an infinite diversity of causes ; and whether there are not diseases 
peculiar to diflerent periods of life, as there are also those peculiarly 
incident to both sexes ? The only answer to this question is : — ^if it be 
true that there exists such a variety in the range of the causes of 
diseases — such a wide difiference in those peculiar to diflerent epochs 
of life — such a discrepancy in those peculiar to the sexes, it cannot 
but be conceded that, in all probability, where there is a diflerence 
in the eausey a diflerenee in the kind of remedy is no less essentially 
demanded. 

It is from profound ignorance of the wonderfully complex machi- 
nery of the human frame, that the impudent pretender propounds his 
nostrum ; and it is under the influence of the same ignorance that 
the pliant public opens its mouth to swallow pills by the bushel and 
draughts by the gallon. 

But the whole question between the public and its medical ad- 
visers, truly lies in a small compass. If advice, sound and honest, and 
directed by a perfect knowledge of the laws of the animal economy 
in health and in disease, be required, it is very obvious that such 
acquirements can only be found among regularly instructed medical 
men. But, on the other hand, if life is held so cheap, and health 
itself so poorly estimated, that it can be conceived the rude and unin- 
formed may restore the sweet harmony of the untuned or broken 
instrument, then indeed a host of charlatans await on the highways, 
and at the comers of the streets, ready to commence their foul 
employ, and destroy the poor deserted frame they yet pretend to heal. 
When, long years ago, I commenced the study of the human consti. 



ALL MEN SPECULATE ON THE PHENOMENA OF DISEASE. 13 

tution, my wonder was, net how the body fell ill, but how such d^i- 
cate and intricate machinery could last uninjured even for an hour. 
Deeply, then, was I impressed with tibe wonderful adjustments of all 
the organs of the human body ; and every succeeding day has con- 
firmed me in my admiration of the skill «nd perfeetioB with which 
that most exquisite piece of machinery has been oonstmcted. 

I oonceive, then, ignorance to be the basis of the wh<de system of 
quaoioery that perrades our land — ignorance not only in its prac- 
titionerB, but in its patrons ; and it is no li^t tadc that I assume to 
myself in endeavouring to dispel that mist of superstition and want of 
knowledge with which we are encompassed, and whose baneful influ- 
ence is not confined to one class of society. It is needless here to 
expatiate on the importance of a familiar acquaintance with those 
caoses whidi secure tiie enjoyment of good health, and of the means 
which enable us to resist the first beginnings of disease. 

I will not further extend tius bnef notice. I think I have said 
enough to show the unstable basis of the whole system of quackery. 
I know I have done so solely from the love of truth ; and I feel 
assured, that time, the great teacher, will eventually eoiroborate and 
substantiate the justice of the principles I have advocated and 
intend to adopt, as my guide throughout the whole course of this 
work. To secure a sound system of the philosophy of health to 
the people is my leading object — ^the advancement of trath my only 
end. 



CHAPTER III. 

THE IKHERBNT TENDENCY OF MAN TO SPECULATE ON THE PHENOMENA 

OF I»BEASB. 

The science of medicine, like all other human arts, is progressive; 
and much do we owe to our predecessors for the important and valu- 
able truths with which they have successively enridied the sphere of 
its domain. The history of its gradual advanceoient from the rude 
discipline of the savage, contented with the culling of a few simples, 
or the supposed more potent influence of charm and incantations — 
of which i think I can still descry some traces among the moderns — 
is an ample fleld lor the speculative philosopher; since the modes in 
which we have emerged from error must ever be a subject of inter- 



J 



14 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND 8UR0EBY. 



esting consideration. Nor is this important fact less deserving of 
notice, as it is also one which should nerer he lost sight of, that the 
characters of diseases are usually very yaried, and that scarce such 
a condition is ever represented in nature as that of a simple disease. 

This circumstance, which eannot he too particularly insisted 
upon, e^cially to those to whom I now address myself, and whom 
I presume to be little versant with, if not altogether ignorant, of the 
laws of diseased action, arises from two distinct causes. The fact is, 
that the human body is composed of a diyersity of parts, or organs, 
performing yarious and different functions, all conspiring to one end 
— the life and health of the individual — and therefore mutually 
connected with each other ; so that any disturbance in the functions 
or duties of one part, more oc less directly inyolyes the remainder. 
It is in this manner, when the perspiration is checked from the appli- 
cation of cold, that the kidneys act more energetically, or the secre- 
tions of the bowels become unusually excited, or, perhaps, local 
inflammation may follow, or even general fever may subsequently 
supervene. 

The second cause depends on a condition that is only observed to 
occur in living bodies, and which is commonly known by the name 
of SYMPATHY. Though this might, at first sight, be considered akin 
to the previously-mentioned state of the animal system, it neverthe- 
less exhibits features which at once proclaim its distinct and decided 
difference — the principle being that a remote organ of the body, 
without any diseased action subsisting in the intermediate parts, 
participates in the diseased action, through themediiun of the nerves. 
This will be better understood by an example : — For instance, when 
the stomach is out of order, severe head-ache may ensue ; or specks 
may appear to float up and down before the eyes, to the great dis- 
paragement of the organ of vision ; or even a state of actual bUndness 
may succeed. This, then, is said to arise from sympathy, and exam- 
ples of it are of daily occurrence^ affecting almost every organ of the 
human body. 

Seeing, then, the rational interest which naturally attaches itself 
to the active functions of the human body, in disease as well as in 
health, it would be idle to attempt to force upon the minds of the 
people the mere dictation of authorities. Man is ever inquiring after 
reasons ; and if he is not supplied with the proper elements on which 
a sound notion may be constructed, and enjoy a secure basis, he will, 
nevertheless, form one, however far from the mark and inapplicable 
it may be. Of the truth of the theory he has thus formed he will 



THE FUNCTIONS OF THE HUMAN BODY. 



15 



feel the more conyinced, in proportion as it is opposed to the views 
of others ; for, according to die old established rule— 

'* Persuade a man againit his will, 
He's of the same opimon still." 

All men are theorists — all men speculate — all watch events, and inter- 
rogate their causes. Even the *' moping idiot and the madman gay" 
speculate betimes on the drollery of the insanity and hallucinations 
of their fellow-men. We all know, too, that the freshness and lively 
innocence of youthful life fearlessly propound questions which often 
put adult manhood to the blush, and sometimes puzzle the wisest. 

Observing, then, this almost universal desire to know the why and 
the tvhereforey I conceive it will facilitate, in a very great degree, the 
right apprehension, as well as a proper estimate, of the following 
remarks on domestic medicine, if a few preliminary pages are devoted 
to some of the more prominent features of human physiology. These 
it will be my especial object to make as concise and brief as possible, 
making all reasonable allowance for clearness and precision ; and after 
this initiation into some of the mysteries of the human frame, my 
remarks upon the different affections to which from the cradle to the 
grave the body is subject, will be more readily understood, and more 
easily followed. 



CHAPTER IV. 

THE PXJNCTIONB OF TfiB HUMAN BODY. 

It the human body be considered as a mere specimen of happily 
adjusted anatomical arrangements, we shall see much to reflect upon, 
«nd much to admire. This, however, is the peculiar department of 
the anatomist, with which, at present, I have little concern. My 
office is limited to describe the action, duty, or function of different 
parts of the body, and that in a very general manner ; but I trust 
with sufficient precision to render my observations upon the diseases 
of the human frame, which are to follow, clear and intelligible. 

And here it may not be inappropriate to lay down the fundamental 
rule, that all animals are constructed upon one general plan, and that 
the gradation of organized substances is (me of the most beautiful 
manifestations of the order and harmony which subsist in the rela- 
tions of all earthly things. By insensible steps we pass from mineral 



16 HOUS^OZiD MEDICINE AND SUB6EET. 

8ubBta^oeB to the lowest tribe of vegetables and animals, and from 
these again to the highest tribes of both^ till, following the latter ^i 
the ascending scale, we arriye at immortal man! Thus, among 
vegetables, how gradual is the ascent through the humble acotjle- 
donous plants— the algse, fungi, lichens, hepaticse, and musci, — to the 
filices and other monocotyledonous orders, and through these again 
to the dycotyledonous, till we reach the most stately of these : and, 
among animals, how imperceptible is our progress through the inverte- 
brate animals — ^the zoophytes, worms, and injsects, on the one hand, 
and the vertebrate animals — ^the fishes, reptiles, birds, and mammals, 
on the other, till we finish with the most exalted example of animated 

nature ! 

** Each moss, 
Each BheU, each crawling inseet, holds a rank 
Important in the plan of Him who framed 
Th}^ scale of heings— holds a rank, which lost, 
Wou^ break the chain, and leave behind a gap. 
Which Nature's self would rue.'* 
YesI 

** All patore ^s but art unknown to th^e;— 
All chance, iirection which thou canst not see ;" 

and the germs of all animals are perhaps essentially the same. The 
foundation-stone of all, if I may so express it, is of the self same 
number and form ; and upon each of these is reared a superstructure, 
always of the same character, but higher or lower, according to the 
rank which each individual being is to hold in the scale of creation. 
To each has the Creator said, " Thus far shalt thou go^ and no farther.^' 
Of some the progress has been very soon arrested ; to others, a greater 
advancement has been allowed ; while in man, to so towering a height 
has he been permitted to proceed, that he is tempted to deny hip 
affinity with the others, and to lose sight of the humble begini^ngs 
on which all equally rest. And why should man, in \m arrogance, 
claim to himself a nature and essential organization different from 
even the lowest animated being. The same Divine hand which 
has permitted him to build so much higher than they upon the 
same foundation, might have permitted — can we doubt he has not 
permitted ? — other beings to proceed infinitely farther still ; so that 
to them, man is far, far more insignificant an4 contemptible than to 
him is the veriest worm that crawls. 

May this view tend to inspire us at once with humility and grati- 
tude — ^with humility, in reflecting on the grovelling nature to which 
we are so intimately allied — and with gratitude in contemplating as 



ORGANIC AND IVOS^AXIC NATUBE. 17 



wdl the oomparative superiority which we haye been allowed to 
attain, eYcm. in thia state of our existence, as the Divine promise, 
whieh has in merey been extended to u% of a more exalted an^ better 
condition in the world to come ! 

But to return. from this digression, — the substance of which, how- 
eyer, I must beg the reader always to keep in mind, — &fimction may 
be defined to be the proper action of a Hying organ, or set of liying 
organs, conducive to some definite end in the animal economy. Every 
action of every individual organ of the animal body is its function ; 
and the due performance of this is the only end of its existence. But 
the functions, collectively considered, are commonly classified acoord- 
ing to the particular end to which more or fewer of these actions are 
■ubservient ; since they would otherwise be altogether innumerable, 
and the consideration of them would involve a series of useless repe^ 
titions, and present an inextricable chaos, without beginning or end. 
In this view, therefore, we include, under the head of the function of 
digestion, all the actions of the several parts of the intestinal canal 
and its appendages which are instrumental to the assimilation of the 
food ; under that of the function of circulation, aU the actions of the 
heart, blood-vessels, and other parts, which are subservient to the 
propulsion of the blood ; and under that of the function of respiration, 
all the actions of the chest and its contents, which minister to the 
conversion of venous into arterial blood, and many other important 
ends. . It is obvious, therefore, that the number of the functions is 
almost entirely arbitrary, since each of those I have mentioned 
includes, perhaps, twenty different functions of twenty different 
parts; and if their enumeration be so indefinite, their arrangement is 
hardly less so. By the Father of Medicine, indeed, the sum of the 
functions of the living body was aptly compared to a circle, in 
describing which we may begin at any point, and set off in any 
direction we choose. 

The whole material world presents two kinds of matter— living 
objects and dead objects. The former are termed osqanic, because 
they are supplied with certain parts, or organs^ by means of which 
they live and carry on all the functions proper to life. The latter, 
not being provided with any such arrangement, or organs, includes 
the whole of the material world, with the exception of the animal and 
vegetable creation. They are, consequently, denominated inob- 
GANic, or not provided with organs^ 



18 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUEGEET. 

That portion of the material world which is posBessed of life,* is 
•either of an animal or vegetahle nature — ^it is, in short, oboanic. 
But all organic bodies have not the same properties, though all possess 
the same common organs, by which the function of life, or existence, 
is maintained. Hence arise distinctions between the animal and 
Tegetable kingdoms ; and hence, also, the origin of the classification 
of functions. 

The organic functions are those destined to maintain individual 
existence, whether it be animal or yegetable, altogether independent 
of any other power or property possessed by the particular form 
of organization in question. Thus a plant liyes, grows, and dies. 
It takes in matters for its nutrition, or growth ; it circulates these 
through its whole structure by vessels appropriated to that purpose, 
under various changes in its progress, and forming certain secretions, 
lome of which serve important purposes in the economy of the plant, 
while others are thrown off as noxious and detrimental. In this 
mode the plant lives and grows ; and when these various functions 
cease, it is said to die. So, also, does it hold with the animal crea- 
tion : the animal takes in matter for its nutrition and growth ; it cir- 
culates these, which, after imdergoing certain changes from exposure 
to the air, produce the different secretions of the animal system, part 
of which are subservient to secondary purposes in the economy 
of the organization, while others are thrown off as useless and 
injurious. 

But the animal so described is a mere form of existence, differing 
in no respect from the plant ; the functions which it has hitherto 
exercised being purely organic, and common to it and the lowest form 
of vegetable existence! In animals, therefore, we have further the 
animal functions, properly so named in contradistinction to the organic, 
or vegetative functions. These animal characteristics are the 
powers of locomotion, sensation, voice, and the wonderful, I would 
say almost mysterious, group of functions, or faculties, which we 
express by the word mind. AU these are peculiar to animals, and are 
most distinctly developed in the higher forms of animal organization ; 
and all of them — ^however wonderful they may seem — rest primarily 

• The term life has been commonly used with the utmost vagueness, and any 
attempt to explain its nature has been, in general, regarded as hopeless in the 
extreme. Authors on this subject may be divided into two great classes: First, 

those who consider life to be a subtle substance — a real and distinct agent 

attached to certain forms of matter, and the cause of the remarkable pheno- 
mena which these display. Second, those who regard it as merely a certain 
mode of being, consisting in these associated phenomena and the result o/ certain 
combinations of matter placed under peculiar circumstances. 



DIGESTION. 19 



on the organic. They are never seen without the organic ; they are 
formed posterior to their development, and they usually precede them 
in the process of dissolution. 

The animal functions have also heen named functions of relation, 
fix>m each and all of them having a distinct relation to the external 
world. 

The organic functions, to which alone attention will now be 
directed, are thosp of digestion or assimilation, circulation and 
respiration. These are essential to life; health depends upon the 
integrity of their action ; and each I propose briefly to describe. 



CHAPTER V. 

DIGESTION. 

All organic substances possess the power of taking from the ex- 
ternal world certain solid and liquid matters, which assimilate to 
their own nature, and thus repair the waste they are continually 
undergoing. It is to this renewal of their blood from without 
that digestion is instrumental. If we follow the food from the 
mouth to its incorporation with the previously existing tissues of the 
body, the waste of which it is its office to supply, we shall gain a 
sufficient knowledge of the function of digestion, and see how 
important to the preservance of health is the integrity of its ope- 
rations. 

The food reduced to a pulp by the movements of the teeth and 
the admixture of the saliva secreted by the salivary glands, is swal- 
lowed by a somewhat complex muscular action. It is moved about in 
the stomach by the contraction of muscular fibres ; and, being there 
mixed with the gastric juice, a peculiar fluid secreted by the lining 
membrane of the stomach, it is called chyme : this chyme is then, 
in successive portions, transmitted, by muscular contraction, into 
the highest part of the intestinal tube, termed the duodenum, which 
is a kind of second stomach, where the partially assimilated food is 
first mixed with the bile, and then with the secretion derived from 
the sweetbread, or pancreas. From this mass a whitish fluid — the 
chyle — for the immediate nourishment of the blood, is now extracted 
by the absorbent vessels, termed lacteals, the extremities of which 
abut on the lining membrane of the higher parts of the intestinal 




20 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

tube, while the residue, or ezorementitiouB portion, is sent down- 
wards hy what is termed the peristaltic action of the tube, for eracna- 
tion. The chyle, taken up on a very wonderful plan by the lacteal 
tubes, is transmitted through small organs termed mesenteric glands, 
whence, after important changes, it is again collected by what ore 
named the efferent lacteal tubes; these by degrees unite together 
into a trunk, to form the thoracic duet which, commencing in the 
abdomen, passes through the chest, and terminates at the point of 
junction of the internal jugular and subclaTian veins on the left fdde 
of the neck, and into which it pours its contents. The chyle, being 
thus [mixed with the yenous blood, is carried with it to the right 
side of the heart ; and, by the motion of the heart, is thoroughly 
mingled with that blood which now, reinforced by the chyle, is 
transmitted to the lungs, where, by exposure to the air, the venous 
blood is converted into arterial ; the arterial blood, so rendered fit for 
the nutrition of the body, being sent forth from the left side of the 
heart, is conveyed by the great arterial trunk, and its branches, to 
the capillary blood-vessels, which pervade all the sensible parts of 
the body. From these capillary blood-vessels, the several component 
textures of the living frame attract the new matter, of which they 
stand in need ; while that which is already reduced to the state of 
debris, re-enters the blood of the capillary system, and returns with 
the blood, now become venous, to the right side of the heart. The 
blood, having become impure by the admixture of tiie debris of the 
tissues, and from other causes, is purified, partiy by the lungs, by 
which a superfluity of carbon is thrown ofl^ while, by the slow com- 
bustion which it sustains, animal heat is developed ; and partiy by 
the kidney, of which last organ the particular office plainly is to keep 
the blood free from the various chemical products generated during 
the successive decompositions which the textures and their first debris 
undergo. 

Such, then, is a brief sketch of those wonderful processes of 
assimilation by which food is appropriated and transformed into sub- 
stances necessary to existence. It is most complex ; but still upon 
the integrity of its operations health depends. In unity, all must 
act together — all blend in harmonious concord ; and, like the wheels, 
and springs, and pivots of a watch, the imperfect action of any part 
may disarrange the whole. The machinery may be entirely stopped, 
or it may work so imperfectly as to be comparatively useless. Upon 
the fimction of digestion depends almost entirely the maintenance of 
the vegetative life of the individual; and we need not wonder at the 



BULBS FOB TAKING FOOD. 21 

great importflEnce which, in all ages, has heen aaeigned to it, when we 
consider the principal circumstances necessary for the healthy c(m- 
dition of the process : — 1. A healthy state of the month, its teeth, 
and saliraiy glands. 2. A healthy state of the stomach, as regards 
its muscnlar action, and its flnida. 3. A healthy state of the fluids, 
derived from the liver, pancreas, spleen, and mucous memhrane of 
the intestines. 4. A healthy state of the mucous memhrane of the 
stomach and of the intestines ; and 5. A healthy state and consecu- 
tive and harmonious action of the muscular coat of the intestines. 
Can we, then, he surprised that "indigestion is the prevailing malady 
of civilised life, and that physicians are more often consulted ahout 
the disorders that helong to eating and drinking than ahout any 
others ?" 

From the foregoing hrief sketch of the assimilative functions, 
important corollaries arise with regard to taking food, so as to secure 
healthy digestion. To persons in health, it may appear needless to 
insist upon such particulars ; hut even they cannot, for any length of 
time, without suffering, neglect the laws which regulate healthy diges- 
tion. The infringement of the laws which secure health to any part 
of the hody, reacts upon the whole; and an especial reason why the 
organs of digestion should he kept in a state of most perfect integrity 
is, that they have to prepare the materials, as we have seen, out of 
which the whole body is formed. Many persons lay the foundation 
of irretrievable disease, by neglecting the first warning of painful or 
disturbed digestion ; while the tone and vigour which is given to the 
system by digestive organs, kept in health by wise regulations, is 
sure to lead to a hale and vigorous old age. The chief of these ob- 
servances I shall lay before the reader. 

And, first, as to variety in diet. Man is an omnivorous animal, 
and formed to feed not only on animal but on vegetable food. Without 
injurious results, he can confine his diet neither to the one nor to the 
other. We may thwart our propensities, it is true, and we may neither 
eat when we are hungry, or drink when we are thirsty ; or we may 
feed exclusively on herbs and fruits, and on water from the spring, 
or be satisfied with the least possible quantity of the simplest pos- 
possible fare; but there are few who have thus endeavoured to 
supersede their instinctive and wholesome impulses, who have not 
found themselves the worse for their pains. Again, among those 
who are kept for a long time on the same diet — as sailors at sea, or 
persons in a besieged town — a disease called scurvy is very common ; 
not, as is generally supposed, from the use of salted food, but from 



22 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUBQEBY. 

the inadequacy of any kind of food, if long persevered in, to support 
the vital powers. A melancholy proof of this is found in the expe- 
riments made upon himself by Dr. Stark, of Vienna, who, having 
made several unsuccessful attempts to live exclusively upon one food, 
died at last upon Cheshire cheese. It is indifferent how abundant, 
and, abstractedly considered, how nutritious food is; the individual will 
perish, in fact die of starvation, who feeds without variety ; for food, 
. when uniformly of the same character, ceases, after a time, to commu- 
nicate any stimulus. Thus we see the impropriety of giving to con- 
valescents and others, whose digestive powers are impaired, arrow- 
root, sago, tapioca, jellies, eggs, and so forth, consisting, as they do, of 
comparatively simple and highly concentrated matters. Many would 
recover on hung beef, grated on bread and butter, or on the flesh of 
** a tough old cock, boiled to rags "^a favourite prescription of the 
late Dr. Willan — who perish on veal and chicken broth, and other 
slip-slop appurtenances of a sick-room ; and for an obvious reason. 
The remarks of Dr. Latham (On the Diseases of the Penitentiary^ of 
Dr. Paris {On Diet), and Dr. Prout {Bridgewater Treatise), together 
with the experiments of Magendie, Baspail, Edwards, Balzac, and 
others, upon the properties of highly concentrated aliments, tend to 
the same conclusions. 

Having said thus much with regard to variety of food, let us now 
consider the mode and time of eating. 

In the first place, food should be properly cooked. Many sub- 
stances which are very indigestible when in the raw state, are ren- 
dered perfectly digestible by cooking. Although the stomach is 
capable of digesting fruits and some kinds of seeds without any 
exposure to heat, yet as a rule the breaking down of the tissues 
which occurs in cooking greatly facilitates the digestion of both 
animal and vegetable food. But while that cooking is proper which 
enables the stomach more easily to reduce the food to the condition 
of chyle, there are extremes of preparation which, however palatable, 
are to be avoided. Food that is much prepared, so as to reduce it to 
a fluid condition, — as soups, stews, and various made dishes, do not 
present sufficient solid matter for the healthy process of digestion to 
be carried on. When the object is to prevent the stomach from doing 
duty, such food is proper. It may also be taken occasionally with 
advantage as a variety in diet, but food taken long together in this 
form is injurious. 

Much indigestible food at a time should be avoided. Many of 
the articles of our diet are less digestible than others, and when taken 



METHOD IN EATING. 23 



in amall quantities are not iDJurious. It is when such, substances 
are made the principal constituents of a meal that danger is likely to 
arise. To mention only a few of the less digestible kinds of food :— 
Unfermented bread and biscuits, uncooked yegetables eaten as salad, 
unripe fruits, cheese, pie-crust, fat meats smoked as bacon, and 
the fat of meat, some kinds of fishes, prawns, crabs, lobsters, &c. 
Heavy meals of any one of these articles of diet, or mixtures of 
them, may be very injurious, and produce serious attacks of indiges- 
tion, if not other more serious diseases. 

Solid food should be well masticated before it is swallowed. The 
teeth are organs given us on purpose to perform this function, and 
its accompli^ment should be attended with the mixture of saliva 
with the food, which is an important step in the process of 
digestion. Although by hasty mastication persons in business hope 
to save time, they should know that at least this is a loss of food, 
if not immediately a loss of health. Much more food is digested 
when it is well masticated, than when it is swallowed very hastily in 
large masses. Food that is imperfectly masticated is digested with 
difficulty, and remains sometimes so long in the stomach as to produce 
irritation of that organ ; it also putrefies, causes pain, and taints the 
breath. 

Even where mastication is very complete, it is always better to 
swallow slowly, as by this means every part of the food is brought 
more fully under the influence of the gastric juice of the stomach, by 
which it is prepared for absorption into the blood. 

Full and heavy meals should be avoided. It is better to get up 
from, table with an appetite, than to feel that no more food could be 
taken. It is always difficult to say how much should be with pro- 
priety taken. Some .systems will bear twice as much food as others, 
while there are those who require twice as much food as others. 
Scales and weights are dangerous instruments at table, as some 
men will starve upon what others will thrive. There is an instinct 
which cries, " Hold, enough ! " and if men would listen to its warn- 
ings, it would always guide them right. The feeling after eating 
should be one of refreshment and comfort — feelings that are not 
present when too large a meal has been eaten. Habitual stuffilng is 
as great an evil as habitual drinking. Both should be avoided. All 
food taken into the system, and not wanted, is likely to be in the way ; 
and the processes adopted by nature for getting rid of the incubus, 
are not unfrequently attended by disease and death. 

Persons who habitually over-eat, are frequently obliged to have 



24 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUBOEBT. 

recourse to medicines to correct the errors of their indulgence. Such 
an unnatural waj of correcting the evils of an unnatural habit, is 
itself likely to produce disease in the system. The pithy answer of 
a celebrated surgeon to a panting alderman, >'Liye upon sixpence 
a-day, and earn it," is worthy the consideration of those who eat too 
much. 

Actire bodily exertion should not be taken immediately after the 
principal meal. The stomach requires a supply of blood to perform 
its functions. If the current is direrted to other organs, digestion is 
preyented. On this account reading at meals is an objectionable 
practice. The brain in this process receives the blood which the 
stomach requires. Long walks and hard study should both be 
avoided after a full meal. 

Long fasting is bad. It is bod when the body is at rest ; it is 
much worse when the body is actively engaged. The stomach, like 
all other organs, performs its functions by virtue of the stimulus 
afforded it by the blood. If the blood is allowed long to circulate 
without a renewal of its constituents, it no longer supplies the nervous 
system with energy ; the stomach and even other organs flag in the 
performance of their duty, and, as a consequence, digestion is imper- 
fectly performed. How often should man eat in the day ? In the 
morning, at noon, and at night, is the answer given by the instiiicts 
of man. But how many try to reduce these three periods to two ? 
Breakfast in the morning, a biscuit at noon, and dinner at night, is 
the plan adopted to save the necessity of eating in the middle of the 
day. This is the custom of clerks, merchants, professional men, and 
many tradesmen. The working man is spared this trial of strength. 
He Irorks with the arm, and must be fed. He dines in the middle of 
the day. It is not till the clerk, metchant, and others, follow this 
example, ftnd eat a good meal — cisdlit lunch or dinner — in the middle 
of the day, that we shall cease to hear of terrible examples of the 
destructiveness to health by their present system. 

The body can go longer without food while sleeping than when 
awake ; hence persons may with safety fast during a longer number 
of hours between the night and morning meals, than between the 
morning and noon, or the noon and night meals. 

There are no rules without exceptions in certain cases, and there 
are many circumstances which must modify the application of the 
foregoing rules, as well as in other ways regulate the taking of 
food. 

Age is a perpetually modifying influence. The new-bom infant 



EELATI0N8 OF DIET TO OCCUPATION AND CLIMATE. 25 

requires every hour or two the food which nature has provided for its 
use. As it grows older, the intervals at which it takes its food 
become longer; but it should be always recollected that, as a rule, 
children should eat oftener than adults. Grown-up people are too 
apt to assume that what is good for themselves is good for children ; 
hence as great an amount of suffering is entailed on children by 
restricting the quantity and times of taking food among the rich, 
as is in^cted upon them by absolute want of food among the 
poor. The craving appetite of children is caused by the incessant 
demands of an ever wasting, yet ever growing, human body. 
Bread and butter, or common cake, should always be allowed, 
if asked for by rapidly-growing boys and girls, between the 
hours which are found convenient for their meals. An evil, how- 
ever, arising out of the healthy appetite of youth should be guarded 
against; it is, that while growing, a habit is acquired of eating 
larger quantities of food than are required when growth has 
ceased. If the appetite is not checked by reason at this period of 
life, the habit of eating more than is necessary may be productive 
of evil results. 

Old age, as well as infancy, requires a frequent supply of food. 
" A little and often" is a maxim that enables many an aged person 
to live in health ; while an attempt, at sixty, to maintain the habits 
of youth and middle age has cost many their lives. 

The mode of life influences the diet The sedentary and inactive 
do not consume so much muscle and nerve in their existence as the 
active and laborious, and accordingly require less food. The tailor 
cannot eat as much as the day labourer ; and the lady, all day in her 
drawing-room or carriage, cannot expect the appetite or the enjoy- 
ment of food which is bestowed by the laws of nature on her house- 
maid ; while the quantity of food a man may devour, without incon- 
venience, at a dinner taken in company, in the midst of inflated 
speeches, songs, and so forth, is sometimes such as, had he taken it, 
without condiments, in his own solitary apartment, would have almost 
annihilated him. Climate, too, has great influence upon the quantity 
of food a person consumes. Thus savage and semi-savage tribes — 
as the Norwegians and other inhabitants of the north — are charac- 
terised by their ravenous and indiscriminate appetites. A Yakouti 
or Tongousi will eat forty pounds of meat in the day ; and three of 
them will finish a rein-deer at a meal. One Yakouti, attached to the 
suite of Admiral SaritchefP, is said to have been accustomed to con- 
sume daily the hind quarter of an ox, twenty pounds of fat, and a 



26 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



proportionate quantity of melted batter for drink! And among 
civilised nations, also, more food is required in winter than in summer, 
more in cold climates than in hot ones. In both these cases the 
excess arises from the greater consumption of certain parts of the 
food in maintaining the animal heat, in order to keep off the external 
cold. Hence, to bring the appetite of Christmas to the Midsummer 
meal, is to run the hazard of a surfeit ; while the traveller who car- 
ries the eating habits of the North to countries under the line, fre- 
quently perishes of fever brought on by repletion. — {Family Friend.) 
I cannot leave this portion of my subject without a few words of 
caution to many of those who are, I doubt not, among my readers. 
I allude to the charitable, and those whose delight is found " in doing 
good, morning, and noon, and eve ;" and to the scientific medical man 
it is melancholy to see how often, in the eagerness of impulse to apply 
reli.ef to the poor and starving, as such persons often display, the 
proper mode of doing so is totally disregarded. It is a great mistake 
to effect a sudden change from a deficient and unwholesome diet to 
a full supply of nutritious food. Any general and sudden change 
from habitual diet, even to a better, proves unwholesome, and renders 
the human frame more susceptible to disease. There can be no dif- 
ficulty in applying these remarks ; but still I may give examples. 
Thus Dr. Graves relates, that during the epidemic in Cork it was 
necessary to form an encampment for the troops, as the recruits, who 
joined half-famished, suffered much, and fell into bad health from 
change of diet. From a somewhat similar cause, some years ago, 
one of the finest regiments in Sweden, consisting of Dalecarlians, lost 
nearly half its men. Having been ordered to the capital from their 
own district, the sudden change of diet, from their accustomed black 
bread and pease to the better and more nutritious food of Stockholm, 
so completely imdermined their health, that, to save the few who 
escaped disease, their usual food was restored to them. If farther 
proof were necessary, I would appeal to the experience of every mis- 
tress of a household who has received as a servant one belonging to a 
very poor family. "We almost invariably find that sickness, and that 
sometimes of a serious character, follows the sudden change of food, 
and that some time elapses before the system is habituated to the 
new circumstances of the individual. 



OBJECTS OP THE CIRCULATION. 



27 



CHAPTER VI. 

THE HEABT AND THB CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. 

Two hundred years ago, the circulation of the blood was discovered 
by our countryman Habyey. It is the grand function by which the 
blood is distributed throughout the whole body, mixed with the assi- 
milated food for nourishment and growth, and purified by being 
brought into contact with the air. These important operations are 
performed by the action of the heart and the vessels connected with 
it, whether intended to carry the blood from it — as is the office of the 
arteries — or to return to it by the veins. 

It is peculiarly worthy of notice, that the arteries are all deeply 
seated, protected by muscles and soft parts, and frequently under 
cover of bones. But the veins, which are more capacious, are usually 
superficial, and n^t protected in the same manner as the arteries. 
This beautiful but simple provision of nature is to prevent the great 
danger, and often fatal effects, which would ensue from injury 
of the arteries, were they exposed in the same manner as the veins. 
The wound of an artery usually terminates fatally, if not speedily 
attended to ; but wounds of veins are attended with comparatively 
little danger. 

It would be foreign to my purpose to enter into an anatomical 
description of the heart. Suffice it, then, to say that it is double, as well 
in structure as in function — the right compartment being constantly 
and exclusively pulmonary, and the left equally constantly and ex- 
clusively systematic. Though these two compartments are united 
into one heart, and placed on one side of the body, they would have 
performed their distinct offices perhaps equally well, had they been 
quite separate from each other, and placed one on one side of the 
body, and the other on the other. 

The magnitude of the human heart averages that of a closed fist. 
It is a hollow muscle, characterised by the unremitting series of alter- 
nate contractions and relaxations which it exhibits during life ; the 
impulse produced by which gives the phenomena of the arterial pulse. 
The frequency of these contractions has, ever since the discovery of 
the circulation, been regarded by medical men as a criterion of the 
state of the health. In the calm, undisturbed state of the body in the 
adult, they are estimated at about 70 in the minute ; while, when 
disease is present, the frequency of the pulse is sometimes fully double — 
or at least 120. It is not often that it falls balow the healthy standard 



28 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



of 70 ; such cases being rare, indeed, compared with those in which 
it is more frequent than natural, as happens so commonly in inflam- 
matory diseases, feyers, rheumatism, &c. It is generally somewhat 
quicker in the female than in the male, and is always more rapid in 
early life than in adyanced age. In the newly-born infant it is about 
140. In extreme old age it falls to 60 — ^not unoften to 40 ; and I 
have heard of one case where it was so low as 28 ! The indications 
of the pulse are of the highest importance ; and any increase beyond 
the standard of health, except after yiolent exercise, is a never 
failing sign of the presence of disease. 

The force with which the heart acts has been reckoned equivalent 
to 51 pounds on the square inch ; and the amount of blood propelled 
at each pulsation is believed to be between two and three ounces. If, 
then, we assume the whole amotmt of blood in the human body 
at 30 pounds — which is admitted to be pretty near the truth — the 
total quantity of blood will circulate 20 times thrdugh the body in the 
course of an hour, or 480 times in a day and a night ; or thb whole 
blood returns once to the heart every three minutes. 

Of this most wonderful organ, that never sleeps, it may be truly 



said: — 



** By ceaseless action all that is subsists, 
Constant rotation of the nnwearied wheel 
That Natare rides upon, maintains her health, 
Her beauty, her fertility. She dreads 
An instant's pause, and lires but while she moves.*' 



Incessant, however, though the heart appears to be in its action, 
there is a pause after each pulsation ; and by carefully attending to its 
duration we find it continues about the fourth portion of the time 
from the cessation of one impulse to the return of the succeeding ; so 
that, unremitting as the action of the heart seems to be, there is, 
nevertheless, an amoimt of pause or rest, equal to six hours out of the 
twenty-four. 

The discovery of the circulation of the blood formed an important 
era in medicine. Harvey was led to it, not by mere random guessing, 
but simply by examining carefully the heart itself. And that there 
is a circulation of the blood, is easily proved by placing a ribbon on 
the arm, and rolling it somewhat tightly round, immediately above 
the elbow. It will almost instantly be seen that a great tumefaction 
occurs in the blood-vessels of the part, which become highly promi- 
nent and distinct beneath the ribbon, while those above it become 
'flaccid and empty. This is done every day, in the common operation 



PURPOSES OF RESPIRATION. 29 



of bleeding. By the pressure of the ribbon, the return of the blood 
to the heart is impeded, while its accumulation is prevented by liie 
opening made in the yein by which it escapes. In the s&me manner, 
if we inject any matter, which we know can be detected in the blood, 
into a Yein — as into the jugular vein of the neck — ^it can be dis- 
covered, within a few minutes, in a very remote vein; as, for 
instance, in the blood of the vein of the leg, which otherwise could 
not have taken place, unless it had been first conveyed to the heart, 
and thence circulated through the body, from which it would finally 
be returned by the veins of the extremities. 

I may further add, that the circulation of the blood may be 
actually seen, by exposing the hearts of certain animals — the frog, 
for instance. Moreover, there are various dispositions and internal 
arrangements in the animal structure, for preventing undue accumu- 
lations of blood in various parts of the body, which would not have 
been, unless there had aUo been a circulation of the blood. 



CHAPTER VII. 

BESPOLATION — ^TBB LUNQS— THE AI£. 

Man is not the independent being he is apt, in the flush of his 
youth, and in the pride of life, to conceive himself. His is not an 
isolated existence on the brute earth, or the adamantine rock. His 
existence is one series of internal actions, by which his frame is pre- 
served from dissolution, and an unceasing interchange with the 
elements of the atmosphere in which he lives and has his being. 
Though he bestride the earth in " beautiful disdain," his very life 
depends on the inspiration of the common air; and on its withdrawal 
from him but for a few seconds, he passes away fleeter than the 
shadow of a summer cloud. 

The function of the lungs, or respiration, which I now propose 
briefly to describe, is considered, with that of the heart, as a vital 
function ; not that the other functions of the living body are not 
all entitled to the name of vital, but because they are particularly so, 
since if their action be suspended beyond two or three minutes, death 
is the result. This function, carried on by all animals, and even in 
the vegetable creation, induces changes in the surrounding atmo- 



I 30 



HOrSEHOLD MEDICI XE AXD SURGERY. 



I 



sphere sabserrient to a most important function in the great laboratory 
of nature. 

As animals differ reir much from eadi other in character, fonn, 
and the element ther inhabit, or are destined to lire in, so the cha- 
racter or form of that portion of their stmctiire, by which they act <m 
the air, presents great Tarietiea. In some of the lowest fonns of 
animals, respiration is carried on by pores diffused OTer the whole 
body. In those of a higher type of organization, the respiratory 
function is carried on by a particular organ, denominated the lungs, 
which structure in man, and the whole dass of mammalia to which 
he belongs, occupies the upper pert of the body, in common parlance 
named the chest. It constitutes fully one-third of the whole trunk, 
having the heart placed in the middle. The lungs communicate with 
the trachea or windpipe, distinctly to be felt in the lower part of the 
neck, where it opens into the mouth immediately behind the tongue. 
By means of the mouth, then, and also by means of the nostrils, 
which communicate with the mouth, the air has constant access to 
the lungs and their ultimate air-cells, where it meets the blood, con- 
veyed there from all parts of the body, to be purified and fitted for 
its especial purposes. 

These air-cells constitute the ultimate division of the air-tubes — 
themselves a division of the trachea or windpipe. They are very 
small ; their diameter being computed to be about the hundreth part 
of an inch. They are lined by a membrane, which is a continuation 
of that which lines the throat and mouth, and is reflected over the 
lips. This secretes a mucous fluid, and hence the membrane is called 
mucous membrane. The quantity of this mucus is considerably 
increased in colds and coughs, while its quality is much changed in 
inflammatory affections of the various parts to which it is attached. 

As the function, then, of the heart is to transmit incessantly to 
the body a supply of nutritions blood, so that of the lungs is to purge 
the blood of its impurities by an equally incessant exposure of that 
blood to the influence of the atmospheric air. 

Respiration comprises two distinct and separate actions, and those 
chiefly effected by the muscles of the chest : inspiration, or the intro- 
duction of air into the lungs ; and expiration, or the return or expul- 
sion of the air from the lungs. It is essential to life ; and there is a 
great general relation between the frequency of the pulse and the 
frequency of the respiratory movements. When the pulse beats at 
the ordinary standard in the adult, there are usually two respirations 
for every seven pulsations. Any variation from this standard may 



COMPOSITION OF THE ATMOSPHERE. 31 

reasonably, except in Tiolent ezerciae, justify the suspicion of inci- 
pient ill health. A man in perfect health should not feel that he is 
breathing. 

But I must now, in order to make myself perfectly understood, 
make a few remarks upon the chemical nature of the atmosphere ; 
and first I must premise, that the atmospheric air, on which we 
every moment depend for life itself, is not a simple or elementary 
body, as was, until within the last eighty years, the general belief of 
mankind. It consists of different matters ; and these, for the sake of 
conyenience, I shall arrange under three heads : — 

1. — Those matters which constitute the great bulk of the air. 

2. — ^Those substances which are always found in it, but in a defi- 
nite, though comparatiyely small, proportion. 

3. — Those other bodies which are detected in it, but in indefinite 
quantities, and often only under certain peculiarities of locality. 

Mrst, then, the great bulk of the air is composed of nitrogen 
(called also azote, by many) and oxygen. The proportion is four 
Yolumes, or measures, of nitrogen, and one volume, or measure, of 
oxygen. These proportions are found in every quarter of the globe, 
whatever the character of the locality may be, and at whatever 
elevation the air may be examined. The nitrogen seems to have no 
active property. It apparently dilutes the other gas, and renders it 
less stimulant ; but, by itself, it can neither support combustion nor 
respiration. A lighted taper, introduced into a jar containing it, is 
immediately extinguished; and it is equally fatal to animal life. 
The oxygen gas, which constitutes the fifth part of the whole bulk of 
the atmosphere, is the active element. It is the great supporter 
of combustion, and the essential element which affects the blood 
during the process of respiration. Exposed to its action in the cells 
of the lungs, the dark hue of the venous blood is converted into a 
brilliant red. 

Secondly, carbonic-acid gas and watery vapour are matters in- 
variably present in the atmosphere, though comparatively in a 
small quantity ; the former scarcely exceeds one-thousandth part of 
the whole atmosphere, and the range of the latter is greatly deter- 
mined by the temperature. To these the researches of Liebig, a 
celebrated German chemist, have added a third substance, in the form 
of ammonia, evidently arising horn the decomposition of animal 
matter. The quantity of this is altogether infinitesimal, but still of 
sufficient importance to be taken into account in the almost unbounded 
volume of the air. 



32 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND BUSOEBY. 

Thirdfyj the other matters are yarious gases arising from the 
decomposition of animal and vegetable substances, resulting either 
naturally or artificially. An instance of the former is presented 
to us in the vast accumulation of carbonic-acid gas in the Valley 
of Death at Jara ; and of the latter, in the production of the same 
deadly gas by the process of fermentation in a brewer's yat. We 
also find other gases, as sulphuretted and carburetted hydrogen, in 
the air. 

In the function of respiration, about 20 cubic inches of air are 
inspired, and about the same amount of air is expired ; and, if we 
estimate the number of respirations in the minute at 16 (some make 
them 20), nearly 20,000 cubic inches pass through the lungs in an 
hour ; or, 2664- cubic feet are transmitted through that organ in the 
course of twenty-four hours. 

Now, if for the sake of simplicity my readers will assume the 
amount of air taken into the lungs at each inspiration to be fifteen 
cubic inches, they will be more easily enabled to understand what is 
to follow. The air, then, consists of 12 cubic inches of nitrogen, and 
3 cubic inches of oxygen — omitting the fractional portion of the car- 
bonic-acid gas always present in the atmosphere. On its being 
returned, or expired, the quantity of nitrogen remains unchanged ; 
the quantity of oxygen, howeyer, has been altered, for now there are 
only two cubic inches of it, the remaining being entirely composed 
of carbonic-acid gas — a deadly air, when unmixed, and instantly fatal 
to combustion and to animal life. 

It had been obseryed by chemists, that when carbon — ^that is, 
charcoal — ^is consumed in the air, or in pure oxygen gas, carbonic- 
acid gas was produced by the carbon uniting with the oxygen, and 
that there was no increase or decrease of volume during the process ; 
the space occupied by the carbonic-add gas being exactly the same 
as previously occupied by the oxygen. The application was accord- 
ingly made by Crawford to the philosophy of the process of respiration, 
and the lungs were supposed to be the organ where the carbon, which 
predominates in black and venous blood, meets with the oxygen of 
the atmosphere, and, combining with it chemically, is separated from 
the system, while, at the same time, it serves the important secondary 
purpose of maintaining the high temperature of the animal body ; for 
the warmth of the body is always, in temperate regions, some forty 
or fifty degrees above that of the atmosphere. 

This subject is, perhaps, one of the most interesting in the histoiy 
of the economy of the human organization ; and the rather, as we 



POWER OF ANIMAL HEAT. 33 

posaess some tangible and ponderable facts on which to build an 
hypothesifi. Suffice it now to say, that it is beliered by most philoso- 
phers to be the grand source of animal heat, and that the action of the 
air in the lungs is merely a modified process of combustion ; the 
elements between which the action takes place — the oxygen of the 
air and the carbon of the blood — are tiie same ; the generation of 
heat and its products — ^the formation of carbonic-acid gas — are the 
same. 

This, although not the only function of the lungs, is the most 
important, and the most intimately related with the life of the 
body ; for, whatever causes preyent the access of the air to the 
blood, they sooner or later tend to the destruction of life. The 
importance of the application of this knowledge to the principles 
of public health does not require any additional notice. Reflec- 
tion on subjects of this nature cannot but tend to elevate the 
mind, and raise it to a fervent, however feeble, appreciation of the 
greatness of that Power, by which the whole fabric of nature is sus- 
tained, and of which we can 'only express ourselves truly when we 

say — 

** All we behold is mirade, bat 
Daily seen, is miracle in vaia I " 

Before passing to the immediate subject-matter of this work, 
there is another fimction upon which I must add a few remarks. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THB SKIN. 

Thb function of secretion, by virtue of which different kinds of 
matter are being constantly thrown off from the blood, distinct from 
it, and differing from each other, is a process incessantly carried on in 
the living body, for the healthy condition of which it is no less essen- 
tial thai^is the action of the heart or of the limgs. It is effected by 
means of glands and other arrangements, but particularly by the 
former class of (»rgans, as the lachrymal glands, which secrete the 
tears, the liver, by which the bile is produced, and the kidneys, by 
which the urine is generated. From a change in the secretion of bile 
varioiis disorders arise; and a suppression of the secretion of the kid- 
neys, if not speedily relieved, is almost always followed by a fatal 



34 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



result. The general nature of the secretions of these two glandular 
bodies, and the important bearing they hare on the health of the 
animal body, are too well known to demand further notice. It 
may be sufficient to observe, that the various glands in different parts 
of the body perform functions of an analogous character, though they 
are not individually so necessary to the well-being of man as those 
I have just described. 

Next in importance to the secretion of the bile and of the urine, is 
that formed by the skin ; a structure which is almost disregarded by 
the mass of the people in this country, as if it really had no existence, 
and as if the derangement of it could not in any particular mode 
seriously affect the life of the individual. More enlightened views 
are fortunately now diffused among the public; and the institution of 
baths for the working classes, by means of which the skin may be 
rendered more healthy in its general functions, cannot but be attended 
with the highest benefit to the community at large. 

In man, as in the vegetable creation, watery vapour is continually 
passing away from the body, at all those points where the skin is free 
to act. The quantity that is thus discharged varies much, being 
regulated greatly by the atmosphere being dry or moist, hot or cold, or 
calm or agitated with violent winds. 

There is further, however, a distinct stratum of glands, situated 
immediately beneath the skin, abimdantly supplied by blood-vessels, 
and provided with spiral ducts protected by a little valve which the 
fluid forces open as it passes to the skin. These glands are in constant 
action ; and the fluid which is secreted from them is either insensible 
or sensible. It is in the former state when it passes off at once in the 
form of vapour, being dissolved by the air ; in the latter, when it 
assumes the state of sweat or perspiration, as is correctly observed 
in " Carpenter's Animal Physiology." " These perspiratory glands,** 
says the doctor, ''seem to be continually exhaling fluid, which is 
dissolved by the atmosphere, and carried off in the state of vapour, so 
as to pass away insensibly ; but they are stimulated to increased action 
by exposure of the body to heat, which causes them to pour forth 
their secretion in greater abundance than the air can carry off, and 
this constantly accumulates in drops upon the surface of the skin. 
The amount of perspiration may be considerably increased without 
its becoming sensible, if the air be warm and dry, and is thus able to 
carry off^ in the form of vapour, the fluid which is poured out on the 
skin ; but, on the other hand, a very slight increase in the ordinary 
amount becomes immediately sensible on a damp day ; the air being 



USES OF PERSPIRATION. 35 

already too much loaded with moisture to cany off the additional 
quantity. The distinction between insensible and sensible perspira- 
tion is not the same, therefore, with the difference between simple 
eyaporation and exhalation tram the skin ; for a part of the' latter is 
commonly insensible, and the degree in which it is so depends upon the 
amount of fluid exhaled, and the state of the surrounding atmosphere. 
If the fluid thus poured forth be allowed to remain upon the surface 
of the skin, it produces a very oppressive effect. Most persons have 
experienced this, when walking in a Macintosh cloak or coat on a 
damp day. The waterproof garment keeps in the perspiration almost 
as effectually as it keeps out the rain ; and consequently the air within 
it becomes loaded with fluid, and the skin remains in a most uncom- 
fortable as well as prejudicial state of dampness." 

The quantity of fluid which passes off from the skin ranges between 
two and three pounds in the course of twenty-four hours. If we take 
the vapour thrown off from the lungs as well as the skin, the greatest 
amount observed was Ave pounds, and the smallest one pound and 
two-thirds. 

It is not pure water which escapes in this manner ; there are cer- 
tain salts discharged with it, and a distinct proportion, though small, 
of solid animal matter. 

The hydropathic system, or water cure, of which we occasionally 
hear so much, is merely the adaptation of certain means to augment 
greatly the amount of this function of the skin, and make it the out- 
let for various noxious matters, which, accumulating in the blood, 
produce certain diseases, as gout, for example. I am not disposed to 
look so unfavourably on the water-ciire as some of my medical bre- 
thren ; but applied indiscriminately, as is too often the ease, under 
the direction of needy adventurers, and rash, uneducated men, I 
apprehend that it is not unfrequently the certain cause of death. One 
great advantage it certainly possesses —one decidedly good effect it 
does produce, when it secures a most thorough cleansing of the emunc- 
tories of the skin, which are so apt to be neglected, even among the 
middle and higher ranks of society. 

It is believed that, through the influence of this evaporation from 
the surface of the body, man is enabled to resist, without injury, 
the effects of very high temperatures. The temperature of the human 
body is about 97° of Fahrenheit ; but Sir William Blagden and Dr. 
Fordyce went into rooms heated to 260° — that is considerably above 
the boiling point of water — ^without experiencing much inconvenience. 
The notorious Ohabert (so well known as the Fire King) has entered 



36 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND 8UBGERT. 

ovens heated as high as 500°. Similar feats are often witnessed in 
iron foundries, and I am quite satisfied that there is no deception 
practised in such apparently dangerous exploits. The rationale is, that 
the heat heoomes latent as the moisture of the skin passes oif into 
yapour, and thus a cool atmosphere is maintained, isolated even in the 
midst of the huming fiery furnace. 

But another and very important function appertains to the skin. 
Nature is a judicious economist, and has proTided more than one exit 
from the body for the refuse food. We have already seen how the 
separated chyle is mixed with the blood, purified in the lungs, and 
adapted for the repair of the general system ; and we know full well 
how considerable are the inconyenienees and dangers which follow the 
non-eyacuation of the excrementitious matters which collect in the 
resenroirs appointed for their reception. It was not enough that 
nutritiye juices should be assimilated in the digestive organs, and 
animalised in the lungs. It was necessary to provide for throwing 
off from the body sudi introduced matters as are either useless or 
injurious ; and it is in a great degree through the skin, and in the 
iarm of perspiration, that products which may possess or acquire 
noxious properties are thrown off from the blood. 

Although apparently very simple in its structure, the skin is 
nevertheless a very compound organ ; and when we consider the im- 
portant functions it performs, and its relations to the rest of the body, 
we shall not be surprised at this. It is not only the chief seat of 
sensation, but, as we have seen, by means of the vapour constantly 
emitted in the form of perspiration it becomes the great regulator of the 
heat of the body. For these purposes it is largely supplied with 
nerves, blood-vessels, glands, and pores. Now if these pores be 
obstructed, and the transpiration checked, the constituents of the 
transpired fluids will necessarily be thrown upon the system ; and as 
they are injurious, and even poisonous, if retained, they must be 
removed by other organs than the skin. Those organs are the lungs, 
the kidneys, the liver, and the bowels. But it will be apparent to 
every one, that if these organs, equally, or one more than another, 
which is generally the case, be called upon to perform their own office 
as well as that of another, the equilibrium of health must be disturbed 
— the oppressed organ must suffer from exhaustion and fatigue, and 
become diseased. Thus habits of undeanliness become the cause of 
consumption, and other serious affections of vital organs. Again : if 
the pores be obstructed, subsidiary respiration through the skin will 
be at an end ; and, as a consequence, the blood, deprived of this source 



GONTAQION AND INFECTION. 37 

of its oxygen, and one outlet for its carbon, the chemical changes of 
nutrition will be insufficient, and the animal temperature lowered. 
As a consequence of the second position, cutaneous eruptions and 
diseases will be engendered, the effects of cold manifested on the 
system, and the re-absorption of matters once separated from the 
body, will be the exciting cause of other injurious disorders. The third 
position offers results even more serious than those which precede. 
If a pellicle of foreign substance be permitted to form on the skin, 
this will inevitably become the seat of detention of miasmata and 
infectious vapours. They will rest here previously to being absorbed, 
and their absorption will engender the diseases of which they are the 
peculiar ferment. — {Wilson on HttUthy Skin.) But enough has been 
said to enforce upon the reader the necessity of ablution, and strict 
attention to its observance. 



CHAPTER IX. 

CONTAGION AND INFECTION. 

Befobe I commence the immediate subject of this work — for which 
the reader is now prepared — ^it is necessary to explain the terms 
Contagion and Infection. 

If a person who has never had small-pox, and never been 
vaccinated, stands near to one affected with small-pox, about a 
fortnight afterwards he himself may begin to suffer from the 
same disease. Under these circumstances we say the person caught 
the disease. Diseases which spread in this way, from individual 
to individual, are said to be infectious. The person who thus 
catches a disease must receive the germ of it through the air; 
for he does not come into contact with him from whom he catches it ; 
nor does he oomo' into contact with any matter appreciable by our 
senses emanating from the sick man* The chemist may analyse the 
air the small-pox patient has breathed, but he will detect no difference 
between it and that which has been breathed by the most healthy ; and 
the microscopist ean discover, by his highest power lenses, no abnor- 
mal particle in it. That the atmosphere around a small-pox patient 
is poisoned, so to say, is known only because those who enter that 
atmosphere suffer from small-pox, and that direct exposure to the ema- 
nations of the sick is not essential to the spread of infectious diseases. 
If a piece of any porous substance — ^for example, flannel — ^be hung 



38 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

near to a person affected with small-pox, and then be carried to a 
distance, it may conyey to those who have never been near the 
patient the germs of the disease in question. Objects thus impreg- 
nated with the poison of infectious diseases are called fomiles ; the 
best mode of disinfecting these objects is to submit them to a high 
temperature, or to expose them for some time to the open air, that is, 
to freely ventilate them. If clothes which a person suffering from the 
most infectious disease has worn be boiled, they become innocuous. 

If some of the pus, or matter, as it is popularly called, taken 
directly irom a small-pox pustule, be placed under the skin of a 
healthy individual, who has never had small-pox, nor been vacci- 
nated, within a given number of days subsequently to this innocula- 
tion, as it is termed, he suffers from small-pox. 

If a portion of a scab from the head of a child affected with 
ringwonu, be bound on the head of an apparently healthy individual, 
he too may, within a certain time, be found to be suffering from 
ringworm. 

Diseases which are thus able to be propagated by matter appre- 
ciable to the eye, are called contagious. The matter placed on, or 
introduced into, the previously healthy individual in these cases, leads 
to the formation, in or on him, of a large quantity of matter, possess- 
ing the same properties as that which was introduced into, or placed 
upon him. It is as though a seed were sown, which, after a while, 
produced a multitude of seeds identical in kind with itself. The 
matter from a small-pox pustule has not been shown to differ from 
the matter obtained from a boil : that it does differ from it, however, 
is proved by the difference in its effects. 

There are some diseases which are clearly contagious, but not 
infectious. Itch is such a disease. Itch is never communicated 
except by contact. The symptoms of itch are caused by the presence 
of a minute insect under the skin ; and when a person catches itch, 
he does so by transferring one or more of these injects from the sur- 
face of another to his own skin. Ringworm is caused by a minute 
vegetable growth on the skin ; it is contagious, and passes from one 
person to another by means of spores or seeds of the plant. Ringworm 
and itch both spread from diseased to healthy persons by means of 
peculiar matters appreciable to the eye by the aid of the microscope. 
They are both contagious, but neither of them is infectious. 

Medical men often use the word contagion to signify both infec- 
tion and contagion ; but they rarely, if ever, employ the word infection 
to signify contagion. 



CONTAGION AND INFECTION. 39 

It can be easily understood why those diseases, which are the result 
of the presence of animal or vegetable parasites, are contagious, andwhy 
the same animal, or the same plant, always leads to the deyelopment 
of the same train of symptoms ; but it is difficult to comprehend why 
breathing the air which surrounds a small-pox patient should inya- 
riably lead to the deyelopment of small-pox in those who breathe it, 
and to no other aifection — why breathing the air which surrounds a 
scarlet-feyer patient should lead to the deyelopment of scarlet-feyer, 
and to no other disease. Various hypotheses to account for these 
singular facts haye been propounded, but they are all alike without 
substantial foundation — " mere baseless fabrics of ayision" — ^pretty 
bubbles which learned men haye blown to while away their leisure 
moments. The principal infectious diseases are typhus-feyer, typhoid- 
feyer, relapsing-feyer, small-pox, chicken-pox, scarlet-feyer, measles, 
erysipelas, plague, cholera, and hooping-cough. 

About the infectious nature of the whole of these diseases, with 
the exception, perhaps, of cholera, of which there is much differ- 
ence of opinion, no well-informed persons now entertain any doubt. 
From persons suffering from them, there is an inyisible some- 
thing ^emitted which is capable of inducing the same disease in 
a previously healthy individual. But it is not every one who is 
exposed to the emanations of a small-pox patient, who has small- 
pox. Two persons go into the room of a person suffering from that 
disease ; both are equally exposed to the emanations from the patient. 
One of the two has small-pox as a consequence of the exposure; the 
other escapes, so that a peculiar condition of the recipient of the 
poison is necessary for the disease to develop itself. He must be 
in a state of body endemically disposed for disorder. Persons who 
have once had small-pox, although they are ever so much exposed to 
the poisonous emanations of small-pox patients, do not again have the 
disease ; that being wanting in them which is essential to the develop- 
ment of the disease. A person suffers from typhus-fever in an ill- 
ventilated, badly-drained, and over-crowded house, and almost every 
other inmate of that house suffers from the disease. A person suffers 
from typhus-fever in a well-ventilated, well-drained, and thinly- 
inhabited house, and no one catches the disease. In the latter case 
the poison is feeble in power, or it is diluted greatly as soon as it is 
formed ; in the former it is intensified by external hygienic conditions. 
Yellow-fever poison is destroyed by a moderately low temperature. 
■ Certain conditions of the atmosphere, the nature of which is un- 
known, favour the spread of these infectious diseases. Sometimes it 



40 HOUSEHOLD HEDIGUTE AND SURGERY. 

is scarlet'fever which provaiUi extensively, at others small-pox, 
measles, or typhus, without the physician being able to say why the 
one or the other prevails. These infectious diseases, then, have their 
origin in emanations from the sick ; but these emanations are impo* 
tent, unless certain external conditions are present. 
These external conditions are — 

1st. The state of the system of the recipient of the poison. 

2nd. The hygienic conditions in which the patients are placed. 

3rd. The state of the atmosphere. 
On several of these conditions of development, as they are called, 
we can exercise considerable influence, and so do much to stay the 
spread of the infectious fever. Under favourable hygienic conditions 
typhus and typhoid fevers rarely spread, although both, under other 
circumstances, are unquestionably infectious. 



CHAPTER X. 

SPECIFIC BLOOD DISEASES. 

The diseases to be described under the head of Specific Blood 
Diseases have several points in common — ^they are all of short 
duration ; the patient either dies or recovers within a limited time ; 
they are all infectious ; and, in all, the blood is seriously and pro- 
bably primarily diseased. Hence their general name— Specific, from 
their cause ; and Blood, from the part essentially diseased. The 
arrangement I have here adopted is a modification of that proposed 
by Dr. Jenner in a course of lectures, published intheilf(^»Mi/ Times 
and Gazette^ in 1863. 

Ttphits-Fevbb, — Typhus-Fever runs its course in from about 
fourteen to twenty-one days. It is often a disease of considerable 
severity — a large number of persons dying annually from it in all 
large towns. It is more common in Ireland than in any other 
country in the world. Its chief ravages in London are committed 
among those who inhabit the haunts of the lowest class of Irish. It 
is a disease which would speedily disappear from among us, if suffi- 
cient sanitary regulations were duly enforced. The occurrence of 
true typhus-fever among those who are well-fed, well-lodged, and 
well-clothed, is exceedingly infrequent The poor are, in large 
towns, even when well-fed and weU-dothed, rarely well lodged ; their 



SPECIFIC BLOOD DISEASES^ 



41 



rooms are small, drafty, and yet imperfectly ventilated, and over- 
crowded. The drainage of such abodes is defoctire in the highest 
degree, while the supply of water is totally insufficient for the pur- 
poses of cleanliness — to say nothiog of its fitness for an article of 
diet. It seems probable that over- crowding, together with other 
unfavourable hygienic conditions, is sufficient to generate, de novo, 
the poison of typhus-fever ; and that the disease thus generated may 
subsequently increase in quantity in the human frame, and spread by 
infection. 

The first symptom of typhus-fever is headache, soon followed by 
feelings of chilliness, languor, weakness, general illness, and loss of 
appetite. Soon the pulse is quicker than natural, and the tempera- 
ture of the skin is usually increased. The patient rapidly grows 
worse ; he feels too weak even to sit in a chair, and is therefore, from 
an early period of the disease, confined to his bed. The tongue is 
covered with a thick fur, and, wlien protruded, generally trembles 
much. All the patient's movements are performed in a tremulous 
manner. He sleeps but little, or, it may be, is very drowsy, hardly 
takiug any notice of surrounding objects. About the end of the first 
week a more or less strongly-marked dusky-red eruption appears on 
the skin. During the second week the mind generally begins to 
wander. The weakness increases, and at the time the disease reaches 
its height, during the third week, the patient may be so reduced as to 
be unable even to turn in his bed. lie now lies on his back, mutters 
delii'iously,' knowing nothing of what is going on around him. The 
tongue is dark-brown, or black, and dark crusts collect on the teeth. 
The patient has to be aroused to take nourishment, or it may be that 
the attendants have to place it in his mouth, as he lies quite unable to 
be aroused to make the 'slightest voluntary efibrt. The stools are 
often, at this period of the disease, passed into bed unconsciously, and 
the urine retained in. the bladder. It is important for the attendants 
on the sick man to know, that, when the bladder is fully distended by 
urine, a considerable quantity may run into the bed without effort on 
the part of the patient. Under these circumstances the nurse often 
misleads the physician, by stating that the patient ^.' passes plenty of 
water;" the fact being, that all the urine formed, wliichthe bladder 
cannot hold, runs over into the bed — the bladder itself being all the 
while immensely distended. 

At this stage of the disease, the patient, being very weak, lies con- 
stantly on his^back in one position ; the consequence is, that the lower 
part of the back is exposed to a considerable amount of continuous 



i> 



42 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SU&GERT. 

pressure, and not infrequently ulcerates, or even sloughs. In soBke 
cases patients have died from this cause, who might otherwise have 
recovered. In the majority of cases, sores on the hack may be pre- 
vented by care on the part of the nurse. For this purpose the patient 
must be kept extremely clean, the back washed frequently, and wet 
and dirty linen removed inatanter. The patient, moreover, must 
have his position changed pretty often — ^now he may be laid for a 
while on the one side, now on the other, and then again on the 
back. 

From the first, the linen of a person affected with typhua-fcver 
should be changed, at least once daily ; if there is much perspiration, 
as occasionally happens, the change must be made more frequently. 
All flannel garments should be taken ofL The patient should be 
washed in warm water morning and evening, and the crusts that 
collect about the teeth frequently removed. The excretions should 
be removed &om the room the instant they are passed. A small 
quantity of some deodorizing fluid ought to be put in the close-stool 
before it is used : a solution of the nitrate of lead is one of the best of 
these fluids. The room in which a person affected with typhus-fever 
is placed should be large and well* ventilated ; carpets, bed-curtains, 
and all superfluous clothing and furniture ought to be taken out of it. 
A well-made hair mattress is far better fl>r him to lie upoii than a 
fbather-bed. 

The diet at first should be light and unstimulating : a little arrow- 
voot, gruel, and weak broth; subsequently, strong beef-tea, wine, and 
even brandy, may be required in large quautities. • 

Aperients are usually needed to ensure free action of tlio bowels, 
and remove offending matters — those usually selected are mild altera- 
tives and castor-oil. There are no specifics for typhus-fever, and the 
consequence is, the medicines required vary with every case. As a rule, 
persons suffering from typhus require very little medicine of any 
kind — ^the physician being needed rather to determine the amount of 
support, the time when it shall be given, &c., than to write prescrip- 
tions ; and yet there are no cases which require the close attention of 
a skilful physician more than those of typhus-fever. 

TyphoId-Fevsb. — This disease is even still confounded by some 
with t3rphus*'feveE ; it is, however, a totally diffierent disease, although 
certain cases of the two may closely resemble each other. Typhoid- 
fi»ver is very rarely seen in Ifehpid, and is by no means common in 
SeoUaad. It is afanost the only kind of continued fever seea in 
many parts of England, and among the best lodged inhabitants, at 



SPECIFIC BLOOD DISEASES. 



is 



tlie west end of London. The so-called Croydon feyer of 1852 is 
said to have been typhoid-feyer. In Paris typhoid-fever is one 
of the most common diseases, while typhus^ feyer is there entirely 
unknovnt Large numbers of young persons on first going to reside 
in large towns su&r from typhoid-feyer ; persons more than, fifty 
years of age are almost exempt from the disease. 

Typhus-feycr, as we haye said, is now and then generated de novo ; 
but what is the exception in reference to that disease is the rule a$ 
regards typhoid-feyer. Under the ordinary conditions of yentilatioi:^ 
and moderate cleanliness it is scarcely infectious. Persons require 
to be exposed to the emanations of the ^ick for a considerable time 
before they take the disease. There is no danger in yisiting, for A 
short time, t^ sick-room. Many physicians of large' experience 
doubt eyen if the disease is infectious. The effluyia^ arising from 
cesspools and other receptacles of foscal and decaying animal matter 
seems.to be the most frequent causei,of typhoid-feyer. Typhoid'-feyer 
runs its course in &om fourteen to twenty-eight days. . It is a 
disease of considerable, danger ; and a large number of persona die 
anaually from it in most great cities in England. 

The first symptoms of the disease are headache and maiaiae^ a 
sense of great weakness, and diarrhoea,, with or without piain in thid 
abdomen. These derangements are sometimes slight,, uid th^ 
sufEerer fancies himself far less ill than he really is* As the disease 
adyanoes the sense of weakness increases, the patient loses his 
{^petite, his skin is hot, there is thirsty the tongue becomes. dry, the 
abdomen distended, the diarrhoea persists. After ten days, or a 
fortnight the headache ceases, and about the £iame time the patient 
often wanders in his mind. If the skin be now carefully examined^ 
in a yery large number of cases a few bright rose-coloured and 
sUghtly-raised minute spots can be seen on the chest and abdomen. 
When delirium seta in early and is yiolent, the disease is often called 
brain-feyer. When the weakness is considerable, the ddirium mode- 
rate ui degree, the muscular moyements ycry tremulous, and the 
patient sleeps, but little, it is frequently termed neryous feyer. When 
the heat of skin, the headache, and other symptoms are decidedly 
more marked at night than day, it is sometimes named remittent 
fey«r. This latter is a common type in children; As the disea^ 
reaches its height, the prostration may be as great as it is in seyere 
typhus^fey^ ; the patient lies on his back, unconscious of what is 
going on around him, and of his own sensations ; he passes bis- stools 
into the bed, and his urine is retained or flows away inyoluatiray. 



44 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY, 



Recovery from this state is usually very slowly accomplished. Patients 
suffering from typhoid-fever occasionally pass a large quantity of blood 
from the bowels ; and this is a symptom indicating much danger. 

In rare cases sudden severe pain in the abdomen, with cold 
surface, small rapid pulse, and other symptoms of collapse, occur. 
If, as is usually the case, these symptoms depend on perforation of 
the coats of the intestine from ulceration, the death of the patient is 
inevitable. Ulceration of the intestine, more or less extensive, is 
invariably found after death from typhoid-fever. 

Although cleanliness and full exposure to fresh air is as essential 
for the successful treatment of cases of typhoid-fever as of typhus- 
fever, yet more care must be taken not to expose the patient to 
draughts of cold air, because in the course of this disease inflam- 
mation of various internal organs frequently occurs. In a large 
proportion of cases, persons suffering from typhoid-fever are better 
without stimulants of any kind ; yet, where the prostration is marked, 
the free use of wine and brandy may be necessary. When diarrhoea 
is a prominent symptom, it must be checked by astringents ; when 
blood escapes from the bowels, acetate of lead or gallic acid are ordi- 
narily prescribed. There is no remedy which can cut short a case of 
typhoid-fever ; at the same time, treatment does much to diminish its 
mortality. The treatment, however, will vary with every case, and 
call for the exercise, in many cases, of all the skill of the physician. 
Great care in diet is required during the period of convalescence from 
typhoid-fever. Abstinence tcom all indigestible food — as pork in 
all its various forms, cheese, aJ^ pastry — is indispensable for early 
restoration to health. Serid«s results even have ensued in cases 
apparently going on well from errors in this particular. 

RfiLAPSiNQ Fever. — This disease commences suddenly with 
shivering and headache ; these are quickly followed by pain in the 
back and limbs, hot skin, and quick pulse. The tongue is white, the 
appetite is lost, and vomiting of green fluid is very often present. 
The patient sleeps but little, and towards night the mind may wan- 
der ; occasionally he is violently delirious. Jaundice occurs in a 
considerable proportion of cases. 

On about the sixth day of disease a profuse sweat commonly 
breaks forth, and in from twelve to twenty-four hours the patient 
appears, and feels, well. 

From six to fourteen days after this apparent convalescence, the 
patient suffers a sudden relapse, again experiencing all the sypmtoms 
of the primary attack. 



SPECIFIC BLOOD DISEASES. 45 

In exceptional cases, there is a second and eyen a third relapse ; 
but still relapsing fever is very rarely fatal. 

As regards treatment, no specific is known for the cure of relapsing 
fever. The patient should be placed in a large, cool, and well-yentilated 
room, his bed be lightly covered, and all flannel removed from his 
person. The bowels are to be carefully regulated. A mustard poultice 
applied to the pit of the stomach sometimes appears to check the vomit- 
ing. The diet should be low — gruel, arrow-root, and weak broth. 
An unlimited supply of cool drink — toast and water, or plain water 
— ^should be allowed the patient in this, as in all other febrile affec- 
tions. During the period of apparent health which intervenes between 
the primary attack and the relapse, great caution should be exercised 
in regulating the diet ; at this stage of the affection it should be I 
nourishing, but light. It is very rarely that stimulants of any kind 
are admissible at any stage of relapsing fever. 

One attack of relapsing fever does not appear to protect an indi- 
vidual from another attack. 

Yellow Fsveb. — This is a disease unknown in Britain ; it is, in 
fact, an exotic which the temperature of our latitude kills. Persons 
who imbibed the seeds of the disease in hot climates, may have them 
developed here, as in the case. of those who suffered from yellow 
fever in the ships arriving at Southampton from the West Indieer; 
but it never spreads by infection in this country. It is, therefore, un- 
necessary to give any description of the affection. 

Bemittent Feveb and Infantile Bemittent Fevek are now 
considered by the best authorities to be identical with typhoid- 
fever. Some remission or abatement in the severity of the feverish 
symptoms, towards the middle of the day, takes place in many 
cases of typhoid-fever. In those in which the remission is well 
marked, and exacerbation of the disease occurs about the same hour 
daily, it was formerly supposed that the disease was distinct in 
species, and more nearly allied to ague than to continued fever. 
But the examination after death discovers ulceration of the intes- 
tines in all these cases ; and by a close inspection of the skin in the 
majority of patients, the peculiar rose spot already described can be 
detected on the abdomen. 

In typhoid-fever affecting young children, an increase of the 
heat and flushing is particularly liable to reciu: about nightfall; 
indeed, during the whole course of the disease the influx of fever is 
frequently likened, and not inaptly, to the ebbing and flowing of the 
tide. 



4S 



HOUSEHOLD SffiEDIClKX AKD 5U&GEBY. 



The same treatment is roquircd for this as for the otiter forms of 
typhoid-fever ; and however regular the exacerbatioDB may he, no 
good is to be expected from, the use of quiidne in checking 4)heir 
KjOttnreBoe. 

The regularity of the evening £ush docs not increase nor dimi- 
nish the danger. It is the frequency and the severity of the flushings 
or paroxysms that denote the intensity of the diseased action. 

Iktermittbnt Fever, or Ague. — This disease, once so prevalent 
throughout England, is now very much more tarely met vith. TwO 
causes have rendered its occurrence less frequent, and both are 
trophies of science — the introduction of Peruvian bark, and the sub- 
sequent preparation of quinine, have made the disease more amenable 
to medical treatment; while the practice of land and surface draining 
has still more powerfully acted in banishiog this pestilence from our 
shores. 

The disease has two stages, which are called the parox^^sm and 
the intermission. The paroxysm, or the " fit of ague," commences 
by a sense of chilliness, which gradually increases ; the patient 
soon begins to shiver; his face becomes shrivelled, and as though it 
were nipped with cold; his nose is blue ; his face and lips pallid, and 
hia teeth chatter. But the skin is often wai^m to the touch, and the 
pulse small and feeble. This state is the cold stage of the paroxysm 
or At, After a while the patient, who is generally forced by his 
feeling of coldness to take to his bed and to cover himself with 
blankets, gets a little warmer. His warmth increases, and he 
becomes hotter and hotter, till he burns with heat ; his face loses the 
shrunken appearance — he becomes flushed, his skin hot, and at flrst 
dry, his pulse full ; and after an interval he breaks out into a copious 
sweat. The patient often falls to sleep at this stage, and he awakes 
after an hour or two, apparently quite well. 

If the patient has another such fit on the following day, .he is 
said to have a quotidian ; that is, daily ague. If the fit recurs every 
other day, the disease is said to be tertian ague. If two whole days 
intervene between the fits, the patient has what is called a quartan 
ague. The. period between the paroxysms constitutes the other or 
intermediate stage of the disease. 

The quotidian is, of course, the most severe form of ague. The 
fit commences earlier in the day, and its duration is also longer than 
the other kinds. 

M.'.Xhe tei±ian is the most frequent form, and in it the cold stage 
commences most frequently about noon. 



SPJSCTSW B]X>OB DISEASES. tl 

If the disease is neglected, the constitation at last suffers wmsk ; 
tbe patient becomes weak, pallid, and enfeebled; often sallow and 
dropdeal ; and tbe spleen becomes enlarged. 

The treatment consists in the removal of the patient £romihe 
marshy locality. This alone is sufficient, in many instances, to effect 
the cure ; but if not, two or three grains of quinine, administered 
three times a-day, with such nourishing diet as the patient can take, 
will speedily put an end to the disease. In some few. cases those 
remedies hare, however, failed ; and arsenic, in very minute doses, 
has been administered with good result. 

To prevent the recurrence of the disease the neaghbourhood 
must be drained, and no stagnant water allowed to remain on the 
surface of the land. i 

The cure is generally denoted by the gradual lengthening of the 
duration of the intermis!»6n-;-*a quotidian becoming a tertian ague ; 
or two days intervene between the fit — then three ; but at the same 
time the fit becomes shorter and less severe, till at length no recur- 
rence of the paroxysm takes place, and<the cure is complete. 

S0ASZ.ATINA is popularly supposed to be a di^rent disease from 
scarlet fever. This is an error, scarlet fever being merely the technical 
name of scarlatina. The most severe and the. mildest cases are 
termed by medical men, indiffercnUy, scarlatina, or scarlet fever. 

Scarlet feve^ is comparatively unfrequent after childhood; tbe 
cause of this appears to be, not that adults, as such, are insusceptible 
to the disease, but that the majority of persons have been affected by 
it in childhood. 

Like most of the other specific diseases, scarlet fever varies greatly 
in severity, — sometimes it is a disease so malignant as to kill in a few 
hours, at other times its symptoms are so mild that the patient is 
almost unconscious that he is ill. 

The first symptom of scarlatina in an adult is usually considerable 
stiffness and soreness of tbe throat; this is quickly followed by 
shivering or chilliness, heat of skin, headache, thirst, and frequent 
pulse. In children these latter symptoms ordinarily pcecede eom- 
plaints of sore throat. Among the symptoms legs constantly present 
on the first day of disease arc vomiting, and, in children, convulsions. 

The rash from which the disease derives its name appears on the 
second day of illness — i.e., supposing the child to have sickened on 
Monday, the rash may be looked for on Tuesday. The- rash breaks 
out first on the throat and chest, it then affects the face and trunk, 
«nd extends in two or three days to the legs and arms. When firat 



48 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AKD SURGERY. 



visible it consists of minute scarlet points; these soon grow so 
numerous as to unite and tint tlie skin generally of a scarlet hue. 
The colour is sometimes as vivid as that of the shell of the boiled 
lobster ; at others, it is only a faint scarlet blush. When the rash is 
fully out, the face is a good deal swollen, the skin is very hot, the 
pulse is very rapid ; the patient's mind may wander at night ; the 
tongue is intensely red or white, with red points projecting through 
it, and the throat red and swollen ; there is often, too, at this time, 
more or less ST^elling externally, about the angle of the lower jaw on 
either side. On looking down the throat ulceration of the tonsils is 
sometimes visible, but more commonly what at the first moment 
appears to be an ulcer, is only a patch of adherent secretion. The 
rash of scarlet fever attains its maximum extent and intensity on 
about the fifth dav. 

From this date all the symptoms of the disease quickly subside, 
and in three or four days may altogether disappear. On or about the 
fifteenth day — sometimes, however, at a much earlier period — the 
skin begins to desquamate in small bran-like scales from the surface 
generally, but from the hands and feet the separation of the cuticle 
takes place in large flakes. 

In a considerable proportion of cases, a fortnight or three weeks 
after the rash has faded the face is observed to be fuller than natural ; 
and if the feet be examined they are found to be swollen; the 
patient has scarlatinal dropsy ; the urine is at the same time small in 
quantity and of dark colour. Under these circumstances he may- 
be suddenly seized with convulsions. 

There are no remedies which can directly cure a case of scarlet 
fever. The room in which the patient lies should be carefully kept 
cool, and freely ventilated ; his bod should be very lightly covered, 
and all his flannel clothing removed. Cold sponging of the whole 
surface, when the skin is very hot and the patient does not feel chilly 
after, affords considerable relief. The bowels should be kept mode- 
rately lax. No other medicines are needed in mild cases. In severe 
cases the treatment varies according to the intensity of the dis- 
ease. Sometimes danger is occasioned by the occurrence of local 
inflammation, and at others by extreme debility. In the latter 
case brandy and ammonia may be demanded; in the former, 
blood-letting may be required. During the period of desquama- 
tion great care must be taken that there be no exposure to cold, 
as such exposure is generally supposed to favour the occurrence 
of dropsy. Warm baths are, during convalescence, of considerable 



I 



SPECIFIC BLOOD DISEASES. 



49 



advantage ; and, should dropsy supervene, confinement to a warm 
room is essential for recovery. 

Measles, ob Eubeola. — Of all tlie eruptive diseases, such as 
scarlet fever, small-pox, &c., measles is that which is most confined to 
children. It is hut rarely met with in adults. It is estimated, in 
fact, that nine-tenths of all the cases of this disease occur in children 
under ten years of age. 

It is most frequently a very mild complaint, ahout three to six per 
cent, of the cases of the disease terminating fatally. It must, how- 
ever, he confessed that it frequently appears to give origin to other 
diseases, and that scrofula and phthisis often date their commence- 
ment from an attack of measles. 

During the first few days of the illness, the patient appears to he 
labouring under the symptoms of a severe cold. There is some 
running at the nose, a little watering of the eyes, occasional 
sneezing, and perhaps some cough. In a very mild case, these may 
constitute all the phenomena of the onset of the disease. But in a 
case of more severe character there will also he more or less lassi- 
tude, and some shivering and complaint of cold ; possibly also vomit- 
ing ; the eyes may he swollen ; and in some cases tightness and pain 
in the chest. This last symptom is the most important, perhaps, of 9II, 
as the fatality of the disease is almost wholly due to inflammation of 
the lungs. It is ahout the fourth day of the attack, or the fifth, that 
the eruption makes its appearance. It may, however, occur several 
days earlier or later. 

The rash presents the following characters. It is of a light mul- 
berry colour; it consists of dots, or spots, of the size of small split 
pease, closely congregated, and in places running into each other. 
The eruption is elevated. It occupies the face, which distinguishes 
it from most other eruptive fevers, with the, exception of small-pox, 
— ^rash being rarely seen on the face at an early period — the rash 
gradually extends from the head and neck to the rest of the trunk. 
On the decline of the disease, the eruption gradually becomes paler. 

The treatment in the mild cases consists of a gentle aperient, and, 
while the tongue is coated, a diet of slops ; and if much thirst exist, 
copious libations of cooling drinks— as water, toast-water, capillaire 
lemonade, &c. But if there be cough, and any pain in the chest — or 
the respiration quickened — ^it is necessary that the chest should be 
examined ; indeed, no medical man would probably omit to do this 
in any case of measles. • Should inflammation of the lungs (pneu- 
monia) be discovered, the treatment recommended for that disease 






5d 



nOUSESOLD MEDICINE AND SUB£}£RY. 



mufit be at once resorted to. The patient's bed-room should be airj 
and coo], and the patient himself lightly coyered, but not exposed to 
drafts. 

In those cases in which the tongue becomes dry, the pulae aaore 
i^an 1'32, and especially when the eruption assumes a darker or more 
livid hue ; and small dotted points of red colour (petechise) are 
sprinkled about the legs and feet, wine and ammonia are necessary to 
a child of six to eight ; one or two glasses of sherry may be given a- 
day, and two grains of carbonate of ammonia dissolved in water every 
four hours ; and for diet, strong beef -tea, made by infusing one pound 
of beef in a pint of water. When these symptoms are present, the 
occurrence of difficulty of breathing, or cough, will not alter the indi- 
cations of treatment, only a mustard-poultice maybe applied frequently 
to the chest in addition. 

SxALL-Pox, OS Variola. — This disease, now much less common 
than formerly, still occasionally breaks out with fitful but enfeebled 
«ncrgy. It was very prevalent in 1838 and 1851, but it is now again 
lulifid. It is probably the most infectious of all diseases ; instanoes 
have been well authenticated of persons taking small-pox from a n^ere 
momentary exposure to its contagion. The introduction of inocula- 
tion by Lady Mary Wortley Montagu in 1718, and vaccination in 
1796, are important eras in the history of this disease. The great 
facilities at present existing for vaccination, and the compulsory 
powers given by the late enactment for the vaccination of all classes 
of the community, will probably render the disease still more unoom- 
mon. than it has already become. It is to be hoped that few oppor- 
tunities will again occur for recording the following account of the 
visit of an attack of natural or unprotected small-pox. 

It is not until several days after the exposure of a person to the 
contagion that decided symptoms begin to manifest themselves — 
the interval is called the period of incubation, and is of about 
twelve days' duration. It varies, however, from seven to fourteen 
days. In severe cases the period of incubation is shorter; the patienl, 
however, is not perfectly free from anomalous sensations in the in- 
tearyal. On the onset of the decided symptoms, about the twelfth day^ 
the patient is seized with severe shivering, great pain in the back 
of the head, pain in the loins, vomiting, hot and dry skin, and quick* 
encd pulse, sometimes even convulsion and delirium. Counting' 
this the fi.rst day, then about the third day, or after the lapse of forty- 
eight hours, the eruption begins to appear. . It is £rst to be detected 
about the face and neck. It consists of small, round, bright -ced 



jiotnts, sensibly elevatod above the surfaee of the Bkin, -vrhioh aie 
e&tireljreiFaced by pressure, but quickly re-appear when the pi^wiffe 
is remored. These red ^ots (papulae) increase iu number and fiise, 
aad the rash extends to the trunk and extremities, and nev spots 
continue to appear up to about the fifth day* of the disease, «r ike 
spots or papulsD gradually increase in diameter, become a little flat- 
tened on their summits, with a central point, which is depressed. 
The papulsa or pimples are now transparent, and contain a fluid. In 
this stage they are true vesicles, that is, small bladders, though 
they are not round but flattened at the summits. 

Now, according to the amount of eruption, or number of these 
'^Kesicles, the cases of small-pox have been arranged into groups and 
sub-classes. 

When the vesicles or pocks touch and are closely congregated, 
w^hen, in fact, they apparently nm into, wte anoiher, the case is said 
to be one of confluent small-pox. 

When the pocks are single and wide apart, the case is called 
" discreet " or distinct. 

An intermediate condition between the discreet and coixfluent 
eruption is called semi-oonflucnt. 

When the eruption has advanced to this, the perfect vesicular 
stage, which it does on about the sixth to the eighth day of disease, 
there is a considerable lull of all the feverish symptoms, especially in 
Idle discrete and semi-confluent cases. It would appear, in fact, that 
the poison imbibed has done its worst — the seed sown has thrown 
est its crop, and the crop now must ripen and die; 

The danger is over, then, so far as the original dose of the jwison 
is «oncern«d. The patient, indeed, at this period, is so much im- 
proved in his feelings, as often to consider himself safely passed 
through the disease. But the peril is still impending ; the poison 
»ay have expended itself in the production of an abundant crop of 
vesicles — ^but the patient is left with an important and vital organ, 
viz., the skin, seriously involved in disease. It is to ttiis circumstance 
that death is^ owing in the majofrity of cases. It is to the state of skin 
that death by small-pox is to be chiefly accredited. 

The case, as it were, is now passed from a*i internal malady to 
one of external or a surgical disease, and it requires henceforth to be 
viewed in this light. The vesicles pass from their transparent and 
flattened forip into an opaque semi-globular pimple. This process is 

* In all calculations of the date of diseases the first and last day are both 
iaelusive. 



52 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

called the ripening or maturation, and it commences about the sixth 
or eighth day of the disease. The round yellowish opaque pock 
becomes, after the lapse of a day or two, of a brownish colour in the 
centre ; it then bursts, a small quantity of matter oozes out and dries, 
and gives rise to a very peculiar and offensive odour. In favour- 
able cases, this dark crust falls off, and leaves, for a time, a reddish 
mark in its place, and the patient speedily recovers his strength. But 
the maturation, which, indeed, is a suppuration of the vesicle, is 
attended at times with much swelling of the parts, especially where 
the eruption was originally the thickest, as in the face and hands; 
the face becomes tumid; the eyes often closed by swelling of the 
eyelids ; and in this stage the features are so altered that the conn* 
tenance of the patient is no longer recognisable. 

Considerable febrile disturbance again sets in such a case ; and 
its amount of severity is an index to the degree to which the functions 
of the skin have been interfered with, and indicates, also, in an inverse 
ratio, the ultimate hopes of recovery. 

Should the patient become delirious the danger is enhanced, but 
the case is by no means hopeless on this account ; if, however, the 
pulse become very rapid — that is, above 130 ; and if the tongue 
becomes brown or very much swollen ; or if the vesicles flatten with- 
out drying, or become filled with a fluid of clarcty colour; if 
involuntary evacuations occur — the case is more serious : inflamma- 
tion of the internal organs also springs up at this period, and greatly 
adds to the danger. Inflammation about the larynx or windpipe, 
and inflammation of the pleura or lining membrane of the chest 
(pleurisy), are liable to occur at this stage. 

This secondary fever takes place from the seventh or eighth day 
to the thirteenth. The second week is, therefore, the most to be 
feared in small-pox. Out of 168 patients, 32 died during the first 
week, 99 during the second week, 21 during the third week, 16 after 
the twenty-second day, as recorded by Dr. Gregory, from the records 
of the Small Pox Hospital. The average mortality of all cases of 
unprotected small-pox is stated, by the same eminent authority, to 
be one in four. 

The deaths that take place after the second week are often due to 
secondary affections — as to pyogenic fever, or what is called purulent 
infection of the blood ; to erysipelas ; to the weakening by painful 
boils and local swellings; and occur chiefly in those previously in 
a weakly and debilitated condition. 

The above sketch is that of the course of unmodified, or natural 



SPECIFIC BLOOD DISEASES. 



53 



small'pox ; but it occasionally happens that a person who has been 
yaccinated is attacked by the disease. 

It not unfrequently happens that the onset of a case of modified 
small-pox is as severe as in natural small-pox ; the fever runs high, 
the pain in the back as severe, and the eruption as full, or confluent. 
The difference consists in the progress after the first week. At this 
period, just a? one begins to anticipate the accession of the secondary 
fever, and when the danger apparently is approaching, the illness 
abruptly terminates, the vesicles dry up, and the patient is suddenly 
and quickly restored to health. 

The treatment of small-pox differs in the three stages of the 
disease prior to the eruption. If the patient is strong, saline purga- 
tive medicines are useful ; if the febrile disturbance is great, anti- 
monials and cooling drinks. He should sleep in an airy bed-room, 
and be lightly clothed. It is always necessary to have the patient's 
head shaved at this period, and on no consideration should this pro- 
cedure be omitted, more especially in females ; the operation often 
relieves the headache ; and in the second stage of the disease, when 
the eruption is maturating, the offensive state into which the hair 
would inevitably become involved, would greatly add to the patient's 
sufferings. 

In the second stage, or stage of secondary fever, much the same 
means will be required, so long as the pulse is full and strong ; but 
if the pulse fail in its power, and the feet become cold, and the 
eruption at all livid or flaccid, wine must be given. It not unfre- 
quently happens that considerable salivation takes place in small- 
pox ; so that the presence of a brown and dry tongue must not be 
looked for to give the indication of the administration of wine. If 
the face in the second stage is swollen, relief is afforded by cooling 
applications, and of these cold water is the best. 

The surface may be gently wiped with a moist sponge. Should 
pleurisy, or inflammation of the throat, come on, calomel and opium 
must be given ; one grain of the former, mixed with half a grain of 
the latter, being the dose for an adult, and this to be repeated every 
three or four hours, but not carried to salivation. The bowels should, 
of course, bo regulated^ and castor-oil is the best aperient to use in 
these cases. The diet should consist of beef- tea, calf s-foot jelly, 
and arrow-root, in the mildest form ; and in the worst, egg^wine and 
egg-brandy are useful, both as medicine and food. 

In the third stage, the occurrence of erysipelas, inflammation of 
the eyes, or swelling of the joints, must be treated according to the 



54 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND* SUBGERT. 



rules given lor those afS^tions occurring without connexion with 
small-pox. Bearing always in mind that these affectionS). when 
occurring after a lengthened and debilitating illness, require, as a 
rule, as generous and nourishing a diet as the patient can tc&e. 

Cow-Pox, OR Vaccinia. — The effects and history of yaccination 
are now, happily for the human race, so well known that it iis 
hardly necessary to describe yaccinia, or cow-pox, particularly after 
the preceding remadrks. For the sake of method, howeyer, it cannot 
in these pages be omitted^ and a very brief account of it will suffice 
for the purpose. As its name implies, it is a disease of the cow. It 
arises spontaneously in the animal ; and if artificially transmitted to 
man, may preserve him £rom the infection of small-pox. It is not, 
howeyer, confined to the cow. It appears in the horse under the 
form of ^^ grease in the heels;" and farriers, as well as milk-maids^ 
as they have received the contagion from either animal, are alike 
exempt from the susceptibility to variola. Gow-poz is a semi-trans* 
parent, pearl-coloured vesicle with a circular base ; its surface, until 
the eighth day after vaccination, when it attains its perfect form and 
full size, being more elevated at the margin than in the centre, and 
filled with clear lymph. After the eighth or ninth day from the in^ 
sertion of the virus, it is surrounded by a dark-red, circumscribed 
areola, or circle, which varies in its diameter, in different cases, fsom a 
quarter of an inch to two inches, and is usually attended with & coa^ 
siderable tumour and hardness of the adjoining parts. This areola 
declines on the eleventh or twelfth day, when the sur&ce of the 
vesicle becomes brown in the centre, and its contents concrete into; a 
hard rounded scab, or crust, of a reddish-brown colour, which at 
length becomes darker, contracted, and dry ; but is not detached tiU 
three weeks after vaccination. Such is the progress of genuin« cam' 
pox. At times, feVer occurs about the ninth or eleventh day ; but at 
others, not the slightest inconvenience is felt. If the eruption runs 
speedily to a height — has an areola too early — is irregular at the 
edges, and contains matter (pus) instead of a limpid fiuid — ^it cannot 
be depended upon as a true cow-pox and a preventative against the 
ravages of small-pox {Bunglison), There is always more or less 
constitutional disturbance, but, except under very untoward circum^ 
stances, no further treatment than light diet, and, if necessary, a 
little, opening medicine is required — a teaspoonful of castor-oUioi 
saline aperient draught are the most appropriate. 

Unquestionably, cow-pox and small-pox are identical. They differ 
not in> kind, but in degree ; the former being a milder or more m«£^ 



SPECIFIC BLOOD IHSEASES. ^ 



fied form of tlie latter. It is thus that vaccination poasesscs itv pm- 
phy luetic or preservatiye powers, since the human frame is so- oqB)- 
atitutcd tliat, for the most part, if not entirely so, it can be but once 
anaeeptible to the peculiar infection. It is well to practice re>yaccina^ 
tioD, especially during the preralence of smaU-pox. It cannot, how- 
eycr, be denied that fatal cases of secondary small-pox haye occurred; 
and instances are recorded of a patient suffering even a third time 
from the dtsease. 

As. xegaids the protective power of vaccination, the following 
ioslnietive tables, quoted by Dr. Guy, of King's College, have been 
prepared : — 

JSpidemie in Scotland, 1818-1819. 







SmaH-porx second 


Small-pox after 




Unprotected. 


time. 


Yaccinatuuk 


Cases 


205 


71 


310 


Dea^to 


Ov 


8 


1 


Frpm>ition . 


lin4 


li]i23 


1 ia 310 



The following table, reduced to a uniform scale of 15,000, is 
foimded on the facts recorded by M. Favart during an epidemic of 
small-pox which took place at Marseilles in 1828. The estimated 
population under thirty years of age was 40,000, of whom 30,000 had 
been vaccinated, 2,000 had had casual small-pox, or small-pox by 
inoculation, and 8,000 were unprotected. The inference to be drawn 
from these facts is, that vaccination, though a less complete protection 
against attacks of small- pox than inoculation or a previous attack of 
the disease, is the best existing protection against a fatal attack of 
smalt-pox. 

Marseilles. — Epidemic of 1828. — JEstimated Topnhiion, 40^000.. 

Previous SmalUpox, 
Unprotected. or laoculated. Vaccinated. 

Estimated number . . 15,000 . . 15,000 . . 15,000 

Attadfied .... 7,500 . . 150 . , l,a0tt 

Died ..... 1,875 . . 30 . . 10 

^^S^dnum^r'^ *M ^^^ ' ' ^ ^° ^^ * * ^ ^ ^* 
^'Xck^" ""^ ^^^^ *** } 1 in 4 . . 1 in 5 . . 1 in 100 

The deformity which follows small-pox is very distressing:; ami 
many m«ans of preventing it have been suggested. 

Thus, the Arabian' physicians were in the habit of opening the:p«B^ 
tule* after suppuration had commenced, of pressing out their liqioid 
eenleBla, and of then washing the surface with warm milk and wialliij 
deooction of poppy-heads, &c. ; and Bayer speaks favourably oi Ibe 



56 



nOUS£HOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



practice. But a more effectual method is that of cauterizing the 
pustules with nitrate of silver, as recommended hy Bretonneau and 
Serres. The former cauterized each pustule separately, the latter 
made the application to masses of the eruption. The hest plan is 
probahly to open each pock upon the face as soon as it has become 
vesicular, either by a pointed probe or lancet, and then to apply a 
stick of nitrate of silver brought to a fine point, or a very strong 
solution by means of a probe. The progress of the eruption is thus 
frequently completely arrested ; and, at the end of a week, the scales fall 
off without leaving pits. To succeed, however, the operation must be 
performed as early as the second, or, at furthest, the third day. When 
the solution has been applied imiformly over large surfaces, it has 
been found that the work of suppuration and ulceration still goes on 
beneath the blackened cuticle. 

Still another method of causing the pustules to abort is the use of 
the mercurial plaster, as recommended by M. Briquet, who deserves 
the credit of bringing the method into general notice, though known 
and practiced by others before him. If applied at the very com- 
mencement of the eruption, it is asserted to have the effect of pro- 
ducing a resolution of the papillae ; if during the vesicular stage, of 
causing them to dry up into tubercles, or at least preventing sup- 
puration, and ultimate pits or scars. No injury results to the con- 
stitution from this abortion of the pustules ; but, as is asserted, rather 
benefit from the diminished amount of irritation. The effect is 
ascribed to the specific action of the mercury ; as other methods of 
excluding the air were not found so effectual. The application is 
usually confined to the face. The whole face should be covered by 
the plaster, as by a mask, openings being left for the eyes, nostrils, 
and mouth. The plaster may be removed after four or five days. If 
longer continued, it is apt to produce unpleasant irritation. The only 
hazard from this remedy is a mercurial salivation, which, however, 
does not usually occur, and, should it do so, would perhaps bo rather 
useful than injurious. 

A preparation employed in the Children's Hospital in Paris, and 
which succeeds "marvellously well," is made by incorporating together 
twenty-five parts of mercurial ointment, ten parts of yellow wax, and 
six parts of black pit<^h. It is said to be completely efficacious. M. 
Briquet recommends mercmial ointment simply thickened with pow- 
dered starch. As the ointment sometimes salivates, it should he 
diluted with an equal proportion of lard, and then stiffened with 
starch. 






SPBGIFIG BLOOD BISBASES. 57 

It is said that sulphur ointment, applied several times a-day to the 
fade, in the earliest stage of the eruption, has a similar effect; and 
Br. Samuel Jackson, of Philadelphia, employed the tincture of iodine 
for th* same purpose with apparent advantage. He applied the tinc- 
ture freely and continuously over the affected surface by means of a 
camel's-hair pencil. Brs. F. Sargent and Goddard, of the same city, 
afterwards used the application in numerous cases ; the former, with 
a decided effect in diminishing the inflammation and swelling, hut 
with no appreciable influence on the pitting; the latter, with a com- 
plete prevention of pitting, eveu in confluent cases. 

The idea has been advanced, that the influence of the atmospheric 
air is essential to the development of the pustules, and consequently 
that they may be rendered abortive by anything which will exclude 
this influence. M. Serres has foimd that their progress is arrested by 
covering them with little cups of darkened glass, or involving them 
in honey or fatty matter ; and collodion has been employed for the 
same purpose, with asserted success, by several practitioners. — {JFoodTs 
Prctetifie of Medicine.) 

CmcKEN-Pox, OB Varicella, is in like manner supposed, espe- 
cially in the German medical school, to bo a still more modified form 
of small-pox than that last described. But I cannot think this to be 
the case, since the two affections exhibit distinct diagnostic differ- 
ences. Of these it is sufficient here to observe that the vesicles of 
chicken-pox, which generally first appear on the back, are oval and 
not round ; neither is there any indentation or " pitting*' in their 
centre, as in the former, and that the crusts fall off about the Jlfth 
day. Yaricella, too, is not known to be preventative of small-pox. 
The complaint is free from danger; seldom requires the aid 
of medicine ; and leaves no marks behind it. In chicken-pox, the 
fluid is at first pellucid, then whitish, and afterwards straw-coloured. 
When the vesicles are pointed instead of flattened, and contain a 
clear fluid throughout their course, the disease is called swine-pox ; 
and when the vesicles are very large and globular, and filled with a 
yellowish fluid which deepens in colour, it is popularly called hives, 

Ertsipelas.— Erysipelas is often called the " rose " in Scotland. 
Like the various fevers, it is an acute blood disease, and like them it 
is infectious. Erysipelas is characterised by a peculiar inflammation 
of the skin ; the affected part is red, slightly swollen, and hotter than 
ni(^ural ; the line of demarcation between the healthy and diseased part 
is abrupt and well-deflned. Sometimes vesicles of large size form on 
the inflamed part. The part first affected is usually the bridge 



58 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AlTD 8URGEBT. 



• 



oftbe nose^ osc the cheek adjacent : from this point the infiteanuition 
ezAMLcb'izi all directiona ; the eyelids are often closed from thee£Eli<- 
sioBk of watery fluid into the loose tissues of which they are formed. 
Wfaea the feuje is eztensirely affected, the features of the patient 
can ne lo^«er he recognised hy hus most familiar frieztds, so great 
and uttifiNfm is the redness and swelling. The whole of the scalp 
may ultimately hecome affected. At the same time that the erysipe- 
latous redness shows itself on the face, the patient feels some sore- 
ness, of his- throftt, and on examination, the latter is found to he red 
and swollen. 

The inflismimation of the face and throat is secondary to tl^ hlood 
disease ; at the same time the patient may die from the seyerity of 
them loeal affections. 

The first general symptoms of erysipelas are shirering and headr 
aebe> followed hy heat of skin, rapid pulse, and thirst. Vomiting of 
acid green fluid is. frequently ohserred at the commencement of the 
disease^ The disease runs its course in ahout ten days or a fortnight. 
As in all other diseases of its class, cleanliness^ yentilation^ Mid 
pienty.of fireah air are of more importance eyen than medicine. As 
a mley persons suffering from erysipelas hear depressing remedies 
hnc^y-^ simple salines, taken while efferyescing, if there he any 
yomitmg, mild alteratiye aperients, and a lig^t diet, are all that 
^nld he pvescrihed at the commencement of the disease. Suh- 
seqmently it often hecomes necessary to administer hark, wine, and 
ammonia. One- of the hest local applications to the inflamed suxfiEioe 
is common flour ; it should- he used in such quantity as to conceal 
the skin from yiew : a strong solution of nitrate of silyer is said 
in some cases, to check the spread of the skin affection. The hair 
should he remoyed as soon as there is reason to heHeye that the hairy 
soelp will he inyolyed in the inflammation. 

Wh^i the Ihroat is seriously affected, the patient^s life is in con- 
siderahlie danger ; and powerful topical applications haye, in such 
cases^ heen resorted to. A strong solution of nitrate of silyer may, in 
some such cases, he applied hy a sponge to the throat with adyantage. 
After injuries in persons of had hahit of hody, the result of intem- 
perance, &c., the skin adjacent to the wounded skin often hecomes 
the seal of inflammation, similar in character to that which afiects the 
face in the ahoye-deseribed disease. This secondary inflammation of 
the skin is commonly known hy the same name as the speciflc disease. 
. CaoiBBdL.— -Cholera ! dread, ill-omened flend, in whose presence 
the^ stoutest heart will quail, and eyery face he hlanched with ff^ar ! 



SFBCOVIO BLOOD DI8BASB& S9 

I will not stop to consider the causes that hare made cholera a 
demzen of ihe land, and almost as fitmiliar among our people as 
tfaoae diseases from which no man is supposed to escape. Suffice it 
here to say that it is so; and that the mortality £:om t^is very 
plagne, in every part of Europe, and under every variety of medical 
treatment, has heen the same, — in every part of the world nearly the 
half of those attacked having perished I But have no remedies heen 
proposed — ^no means of cure } Their name, indeed, is Legion ; hut 
still none of the so-called remedies have heen proved to exercise the 
least influence upon the progress of the disease they were invaiiahly 
to curs. Let us briefly review some of these remedies. A dozen 
pages would not enumerate all that have been proposed; and so 
heterogeneous, so opposite and contrary are they, that they defy 
clasBification. Learned and unlearned, rich and poor ; men who had 
resided in their own parish from the time they first saw light, and 
men who had journeyed from east to west ; men who had never 
opened a medical work, and men — and women toa~>- whose inspira* 
tions were drawn ftam the pages of Buchan, or whose learning was 
limited to the herbal of Culpepper. In England confidence was 
claimed for a drug because it was extensively used in India, where 
oheiera slays its hundreds of liiousands^ uninfluenced by the infallible 
charm. In India the last mode was imported from England, where 
notoriously some forty to fifty per cent of those attacked with cholera 
hare died. 

The only fact we learn from the list of drugs thus paraded, 
iS) that none were really of use ; while the practice of the honMBopath 
afibrds us a pretty good criterion of what proportion of those attacked 
will die, when Nature is left to her own efforts to effect a cure. 
Omitting the complex methods by which cholera was to be van* 
quished, what were the simple specifics that were to cure — ^infallibly 
cure — the fearful enemy .^ Water, of every temperature ! " Wrap the 
cholera patient in a cold sheet !" say some. ^' Bash cold water repeatedly 
over the sheet in which he is enveloped !" says a second. ^^ Ply him 
with cold water internally !" says a third. ^' Freeze him ; cool his 
blood to thirty degrees below zero !" adds a fourth. '^ Fools !" ex* 
claims a fifth, ^' thus to treat the half-dead man. I say, wrap him 
in sheets- soaked in boiling water; and having thus half cooked the 
shivering wretch^ conclude the process by placing him over the 
boiler of a steam-engine !" " My theory," shouts one man, ** is that 
oxygen reddens the blood, and by its action on that blood generates 
heat ; therefore make the patient inhale oxygen P* ** Nay," rejcins I 



60 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND BU&GERT. 



another, ** the hlood in the lungs is too bright ; oxygen has nothing 
to do with the generation of heat : stifle him with carbonic acid I" 
*^ Not so/' insists another, '' I alone can cure cholera ; I alone 
Teduce mortality; I alone am worthy of credence. Pickle your 
patients, throw brine into their veins, and let salt and water All 
their stomachs and intestines !" " It is evident," avows one sapient 
doctor, *^ that there is no bile in the stools, therefore calomel should 
be administered." " It is plain," says another, ^' that diarrhoea is 
the great evil, therefore let him have opium;" i.e.f the drug which 
effectually prevents a free flow of bile. He is cold and depressed ; 
what so natural as to stimulate ? The wisdom of the proposal is 
proved by the numbers who recommended its adoption ; the folly of 
the many is manifested by the proportion who died under the use of 
stimulants. *^ Give him alkalies," vociferates one man. }^ Nay," says 
another, ^Memon-juice and acids are the true remedies." '^It is 
simply a stage of intermittent fever," maintain some ; ^' therefore," 
they add, "the drug for its prevention and its cure is quinine.'' 
" Not half potent enough," whispers a supporter of the same theory ; 
"give him arsenic !" 

Certain fanatics refuse the use of medicine, but, in the course of 
their religious mummeries, administer to the credulous a cup of olive 
oil. A patient recovered, and " Eureka ! *' shout the populace. ."Vox 
et prsetcrea nihil," say those who wait a while before they decide. 
Opium, in one man's mind, is a specific in small doses ; the twentieth 
of a grain frequently repeated. "Nonsense," says another, "opium 
is a specific; but let it be given in doses of from six to twelve 
grains." The latter has one advantage ; if the power of absorption 
yet remains to the stomach, the patient will assuredly be saved all 
further pain, and, if he be a good man, mercifully provided for in a 
better world. However, as the duty of the doctor is to keep men 
here, and not to hurry them off there, we suppose twelve-grain 
doses of opium will not be very extensively recommended by the 
profession. 

" Calomel is the specific that will stay every symptom of the 
cholera, bring back the absent pulse, restore the genial warmth of 
the icy skin, bid bloom again the leaden cheek ; give it then freely, 
in large doses; give twenty or thirty grains, and see its magical 
effects !" ** Do so," says an equally devoted admirer of calomel, " and 
you will give the last blow to the dying wretch. Calomel is the 
remedy ; but it must be insinuated into the system in small doses, 
frequently repeated." " Bah ! " replies the^first, " if you follow this 



SPECIAL BLOOD DISEASES. 



61 



idBzi*8 whim, the patient will slip through your fingers." Then 
come other infallible specifics — ^pitch, sulphur, phosphorus, and carbon ; 
gold, silver, zinc, and lead ; strichnine, salicine, morphine, and can- 
nabine ; hackish and zhorabia ; abstraction of blood, and injection of 
blood; perfect repose and incessant motion; to the skin, irritation 
the most severe, applications the most soothing; stimulants the 
most violent, sedatives the most powerful ; inhalation, flagellation. 

But if these are the simple, what are the complex methods of treat- 
ment that have been proposed ? A combination of aU the absurdities 
contained in the foregoing. Let us just draw the reader's attention 
to one compound method of treatment. Here are the remedies pro- 
proposed by one gentleman : — ^port wine, calomel, opium, sulphate of 
potash, powdered ipecacuanha, spirits of nitric ether, cardamom-seeds, 
raisins, caraway- seeds, cinnamon, cochineal, camphor, aniseed, ben- 
zoic acid, benzoin, storaz, balsam of tolu, aloes, rhubarb, sal-volatile, 
ipecacuanha wine, biborate of soda, oxide of bismuth, spirits of wine, 
nitrate of silver, tartar emetic, potassa, bismuth, calumba, canelia, 
sulphuric ether, cayenne, brandy. 

What a divine afflatus must have distended the mind of the proposer 
of the above remedies, ere he could have conceived the idea of bring- 
ing such an assemblage of drugs into one prescription ! Think of the 
wisdom that must have guided the choice of each, and apportioned 
the fitting dose ! And then fancy that all are to be administered to 
the same unfortunate stomach during the short space of forty-eight 
hours ! Byron's dish, which even the good-natured Grimaldi could 
not stomach — apple-pie with anchovy sauce — was nothing to it ! 

One learned Parisian doctor, discarding the hitherto sacred num- 
bers — ^the Pythagorean charm — ^proposes four cups of sweetened lime 
flower, mint, balm and camomile tea, each to contain four drops of 
Tolatilo alkali. Four drops in each of the four cups — ^neither more 
nor less — sixteen drops of sal- volatile, and a little mint tea. Surely 
nothing could, in one sense, be more simple than this ! Oh, yes ! 
there is one more simple still — milk and liomceopathy ! If not more 
simple, far more disgusting ; and not more sapient was the proposal 
that cholera patients should quaff goblets of fresh-drawn blood ! 

From 3d to 50 per cent, of the cases of cholera for which nothing 
was done, in which no treatment was employed, proved fatal — that 
is to say, cases in which nothing was done proved as fatal as those in 
which "remedies" were resorted to. 

Although he cannot but be struck with the impotence of the 
efforts made to check the progress of cholera, yet must the historian 



^ 



HOUSEHOI^D MEDICINE AND SUKGEBT. 



of the duease rise from his labours with high admiratioii of ihie 
nobleness of the moral character of our profession. 

In it he sees examples of men who sacrifice their own lives for 
the good of their race, with a noble self-devotion far above aU praise. 
Gurtius, with Borne to gaze and applaud, could offer himself a willing 
sacrifice for his country's good, and win an immortal name. The 
soldier, stimtdated by a sense of honour, will rush to danger, with 
a certainty that if he dies, his country will assume the piDtectorship 
of his wife and children. But no such assurance stimulates the 
medical warrior, and he must encounter danger, and too often deatii> 
with neither glory to be gained with success, nor the hope of gratitude 
of his country, if he feU..-^ Cholera and its Cures^ by Br. Bushnan, 

But is there really no cure for cholera ? Is no hope to be placed in 
any of the many vaunted means that have been proclaimed specifics ? 
Dr. Stevens confidently asserts that, by his saline treatment, he has 
reduced the mortality in cholera to less than that of typhus-fever ; 
and although, in the hands of the many, his method, which consists 
of one scruple of the sesquicarbonate of soda ; one drachm of chloride 
of sodium-*>that is, of common salt ; and seven grains of chlorate of 
potass, dissolved in half a tumbler of water, and administered, accord- 
ing to the severity of the symptoms, every hour or half hour — ^has 
utterly failed ; yet his own evidence, and that of the few in whose 
practice it has proved successful, must not be disregarded. But is 
nothing to be done when cholera is abroad, and by unmistakeable 
symptoms proclaims its awful presence ? Yes ! much. Ovid has well 
expressed what should be done '* — 

" Principiis obsta, sero medicina paratur 
Cum mala per longas convalaere moras.'' 

Meet the disorder in its primal siate : 
Delay is death— a moment is too late. 

Fortunately cholera does announce its approach ; and then is the 
time when an attempt to arrest its progress is to be made with the 
greatest hope of success. Not that this is always the case. Unhap- 
pily it is sometimes otherwise, and then the patient may be at once 
prostrated by collapse. But this is the exception and not the rule ; 
and diarrhoea gives warning of that which may succeed. Its onset 
is generally marked by a furred tongue, irregular appetite, thirst, 
impaired digestion, colicky pains, hiccough, nausea, and frequent 
aloine discharges, sometimes bilious, but more generally of a dirty 
white colour, and turbid, and not unlike thin oatmeal gruel. Now, 



tSENE&AL BLOOD DISEASES. 68 

then, is the time to interfere. To the clialk mixture med in oases «f 
dxarrhosa in doses of two table^spoonfnls eyeij half hour, we imist 
add a tea-spoonful of tincture of catechu, or we must ^rve thirty drops 
of dilute sulphuric acid every half hour, adding to the first and every 
alternate dose twenty drops of laudanum. Determination to the skin 
must be sedulously encouraged by the application of mustard poultices 
to the abdomen, and hot fomentations ; bottles of hot water must be 
placed along the legs ; and the feet placed in hot water, rendered 
more stimulating by the addition of mustard, cayenne pepper, or 
common salt. Moderate friction over the surface, by the hand alone 
or with flannel, must be pursued ; and if the patient be weak and 
^chaosted, small quantities of brandy, or a tea-spoonful of sal-Tohi- 
tile, is to be exhibited. Vomiting and thirst are often allayed by 
small quantities of soda-water, or ice, as recommended in simple 
diarrhoea ; and if the attack ceases, the greatest care And rest msit 
be enjoined, and solid food and exposure to cold cautiously avoided. 
But in all cases of diarrhoea, during the prevalence of cholera, the 
medioal attendant ought immediately to be summoned ; and if ool- 
lapse and cramp should, before his arrival, set in — ^tbat is, if the eyes 
become sunk, and surrounded with a dark circle ; the features con- 
tracted; the surface or the nails purple or blue; the extremities 
afanudc ; the hands clammy and sodden ; the pulse at the wrist small 
or imperceptible ; the voice reduced to a whisper ; the tectgue oold 
and flabby; the temperature- low ; the urine suppressed — then ; aye! 
what then ? 

Ee-aotion is to be promoted by external stimulants; lai!ge 
draughts of salt and water — three table-spoonfuls of salt, and a 
scnq»le of chlorate of potass, to a quart of water — ^repeated evevy 
quarter of an hour, until the desired effect is produced, or deatb 
claims its victim. 



CHAPTER XI. 

GENERAL BLOOD DISEASES. 



We now approach the second class of diseases, namely, those 
general diseases of the blood which are not contagious ; and first of 

Gout. — The ordinary phenomena of a fit of gout are so familiarly 
known in this country that it will be sufficient to enumerate them 



e4 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



very briefly, before passing on to the consideration of some oUier more 
important points in its history. The attack generally commences 
about two or three in the morning ; the patient is suddenly awakened 
by a severe, burning pain in the ball of the great toe, or, less fre- 
quently, in the instep or ankle; this gradually increases until it 
amounts to agony, and continues for about twenty-four hours, when 
it begins to remit : the patient at last succeeds in falling asleep, and 
awakes comparatively free from pain, and with the affected joint 
red, tense, and swollen. The same series of symptoms may be 
repeated several times before the disease, for the time, disappears ; 
and in cases of long standing they undergo considerable modifica- 
tions, as well in severity as in regularity, and in the completeness of 
the intermissions. It is not surprising that the attention of the 
public — and even, in many instances, of physicians — ^should have 
been for long confined chiefiy to this, the paroxysm of the disease, 
and that the intervening symptoms, the various derangements, often 
nearly imperceptible, by which the material for such outbreaks is 
furnished, should have met with comparative neglect. It is to 
such derangements, however, that we are taught by modern patho- 
logy to look for the true source of the disease, and against them 
that our efforts must be directed, if we would endeavour to eradi- 
cate it from the system. It has been clearly shown by Pro- 
fessor Garrod, of University College, that there is a gradual accu- 
mulation in the blood of an actual ^'materies morbi," a poison 
generated by faulty assimilation, and which can be separated by 
chemical processes from the blood of gouty patients ; and what 
is termed a " fit of gout," is the method taken by nature to eliminate 
this material from the system, and to deposit it in the fibrous tissues 
around the joints, where it can no longer exercise its poisonous 
influence. In order to undertake the cui'ative or preventive treat- 
ment of gout, it is therefore necessary to understand the causes 
which influence the production of this poison. Of these, by far the 
most potent is luxurious living, and insufficient exercise ; hence the 
disease is peculiarly prevalent among the rich, and those generally 
whose habits are sedentary, while they indulge freely in animal 
food and alcoholic stimulants. Gout, however, may be the offspring 
of over-exertion, of over- excitement, or of over-strain of mind. It 
is not always the result of hearty feeding and of generous wine— the 
spoilt child of Bacchus and of Ceres ; nevertheless, it is rarely seen 
in hard-working and underfed agricultural labourers ; while among the 
servants of the wealthy — as butlers, footmen, and porters, a race who 



GENERAL BLOOD DISEASES. 



65 



** toil not, neither do they spin/'— it is far from uncommon. Certain arti- 
cles of diet are much more liable than others to produce gout ; animal 
food, and rich and indigestible substances of every description, which 
impair digestion, and induce a plethoric state of the system, are 
especially injurious. The free use of malt liquors, also, has been 
proyed by extended observation to produce gout, even where the 
food is not peculiarly abundant or stimulating, and where the habits 
are laborious. Thus, among the coal-whippers and ballasters of the 
Thames, who consume several gallons of porter in a day, it is of 
frequent occurrence ; while in whisky-drinking Scotland and Ire- 
land, and in wine-drinklag France and Germany, it is almost un> 
known. The strong, sweet wines of Portugal, however, which are 
consumed in this country, differ in this respect from the thinner 
productions of the French and German vineyards, and, like beer, 
not unfrequently vex the feet and knuckles of those who consume 
them in undue quantity. 

The treatment of gout may be considered under two heads : that 
during the paroxysm or fit, and that during the intervals, when we 
have reason to fear the formation of the poisonous material. 

Many of the victims of gout, old Jiabituea, who are scarcely ever 
free from it, are accustomed to adopt the prescription of Dr. Cullen, 
'' patience and flannel '" but such inert remedies are neither advis- 
able nor safe, except in the very mildest cases. Where professional 
advice is not available, the patient should be kept warm in bed, and 
a gentle action should be kept up upon the bowels and skin. For 
the former purpose Ave grains of blue pill may be taken at night, 
and an ordinary black draught, composed of infusion of senna, Epsom 
salts, and tincture of jalap, in the morning. For the latter, two 
table-spoonfuls of the following mixture may be taken every three 
or four hours : spirit of Minder ems,* three ounces ; sweet spirits of 
nitre, half an ounce ; bicarbonate of potash, two drachms ; water, 
or camphor julep, five ounces. The best application to the affected 
joint is a thick layer of carded cotton, or cotton wadding, kept in its 
place by a large silk handkerchief, or a few turns of bandage ; by 
confining the heat and moisture this forms a sort of local vapour- 
bath, and is one of the most effectual means of relieving pain. Cold 
applications, which were at one time very generally used, should be 
carefully avoided, as in many instances they have produced dan- 
gerous, and even fatal results ; neither can the application of leeches 
be recommended, unless expressly enjoined hy medical authority. 
Colchicum, a most valuable remedy when carefully administered, is 



66 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



much too powerfiil and uncertain in its effects to be entrusted, with 
safety, to non -professional hands. 

It occasionally happens, especially when it has been imprudently 
repelled from the extremities by cold applications, that the gout sud- 
denly attacks the stomach, and proves rapidly fatal. The gymptoms 
are violent pain, increased by pressure, sickness, vomiting, and £&int- 
ness ; but, as these may be occasioned by the presence of indigestible 
substances in the stomach, the effects of an emetic should be tried, 
when such a cause is deemed possible. Should this afford no relief, 
a full dose of magnesia (a tea-spoonful), or half a drachm of bicar- 
bonate of soda, in very warm water, should be given ; or, if the 
patient be very faint, and the pulse weak and fluttering, a small glass 
of brandy, or a tea- spoonful of sal- volatile, in a wine-glass of water, 
may be administered. At the same time, a mustard poultice, or a 
piece of flannel wrung out of very hot water, and sprinkled with 
turpentine, should be applied to the pit of the stomach, and Hie 
feet plunged in a mustard foot-bath, as warm as can be borne. 
By these means the disease may sometimes be recalled from the more 
vital organs, and induced to take up its position in a less dangerous 
locality ; but it should never be foxgotten that such an attack is 
4Ufctended with extreme risk, and that the measures above indicated 
can only be comtidered as temporary expedients, pending the arrival 
of competent assistance. 

The treatment of gout during the intervals must be left chiefly to 
the patient himself; medicines are of little avail, except as they may 
be required for incidental disorders; everything depends upon the 
carefid avoidance of such habits and modes of living as are proved to 
generate a tendency to the disease. Animal food should be taken, if 
at all, in small quantities, and not oftener than once a-day, and the 
least stimulating kinds should be selected; wine and fermented 
liquors should be altogether given up ; regular and abundant exercise 
should be taken, and this may be done even by the old and feeble, if 
they adopt the precaution of stopping short of fatigue; the skin 
should be kept in a state of activity by the shower-bath, or by the 
daily use of the horse-hair glove ; and the bowels should be regulated, 
if necessary, by small doses of rhubarb and magnesia, or, better still, 
by regular habits, and by slight variations in the nature of the food. 
The more carefully these rules are attended to, the more successful 
will be the result. He who has the moral courage to carry them out 
to their full extent, will find his reward either in complete immunity 
from pain, or, in more confirmed cases, in a very great prolongation 



G£N£RAL BLOOD DI8BAfl£S. 6? 

• 
of the interrals between the attacks ; he who has less aelf-commancL) 
will find that he will suffer in proportion to the extent of his iniiul- 
genees ; and lastly, as the hereditary nature of the disease is ungues* 
tionable, the most rigid precautions are requsite on the part of thofle 
to whom it has thus descended. 

IlHEtTMATiSM. — Bheumatism and gout, though distinct diseases, 
are closely allied to each other, and present several striking points of 
resemblance ; they are both caused by contamination of the blood 
with a morbid poison ; and in each, it is the tendency of Nature to 
eUminato this material by depositing it in the fibrous tissues around 
the joints : in certaia forms of rheumatism the resemblance to gout 
is so close, that the term '' Bheumatic Gout" has been popularly 
adopted. No such complication, however, exists. The diseases are 
diffiarent, and possess a marked distinction. In gout the uric acid may 
always be detected in the blood by the use of chemical agents and the 
miotoseope, while this particular substance has never been found in 
the blood of rheumatic patients. Again : in gout the urine is de- 
ficient in uric acid, while in rheumatism it is in excess. For this 
important diagnostic sign we are indebted to the researches of Professor 
Garrod. In well marked cases, the principal — readily appreciable — 
distinctions are as follows: — ^Gout rarely occurs before the age of 
puberty; rheumatism is very common in childhood and youth. 
Gout attacks first and chiefly the small joints ; rheumatism the large. 
€rout is generally confined to one joint at a time ; rheumatism often 
attacks many simultaneously. There is not such vivid redness of the 
affected joint in rheumatism as in gout, nor is the subsidence of the 
inflammation followed by itching and scaling of the skin in the former. 

The exciting cause of rheumatism is exposure to cold, and this 
acts much more powerfully when accompanied by moisture, or when 
in the form of a draught of cold air when the body is overheated ; 
certain cold winds also, especially easterly and northerly winds, 
appear to have a peculiar influence, independent of their mere 
temperatoie. 

Rheumatism occurs in two principal forms, the acute and the 
chronic. In the former, popularly known as *' rheumatic fever," the 
febrile symptoms are very high. The pulse is full and bounding ; the 
face flushed ; the tongue white and loaded ; the urine scanty and 
loaded with a sediment resembling brick-dust; and the patient is 
drenched in a profuse perspiration, of a peculiar and sour odour. 
Tho joints are excessively painful, and, at the same time, tender, so 
that even the pressure of the bed-clothes cannot be borne, and the 



68 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUJEIGERY. 



slightest motion causes acute agony. In some cases there is a good 
deal of swelling, and fluid is poured out into the cayity of the 
joint ; in others, the effusion is less, and occupies the textures imme- 
diately under the skin, so that slight pits or depressions are left when 
pressure is made on the part with the points of the Angers. The pain 
is most severe during the night, remits slightly towards the morning, 
and is less intense during the day. AVhen confined to the joints, 
rheumatism seldom occasions death ; hut it is very liable to extend to 
the heart, in which case it either proves rapidly fatal, or is liable to 
cause structural alterations, by which life is shortened. It must, 
therefore, be considered as a dangerous disease, and one which it is 
not safe to combat by domestic remedies. When medical assist- 
ance is absolutely inaccessible, the bowels should be kept freely 
open, but active purgation should be avoided, as it occasions 
much distress to the patient from the frequent necessity of moving 
in bed, and risk of exposure to cold. To a robust adult, Ave grains 
of calomel may be given at night, and some infusion of senna, 
with three or four drachms of Epsom salts in the morning; for 
the young or delicate, the doses must be diminished. During the 
day, bicarbonate of soda, or potash, may be given in half drachm 
doses, dissolved in water, every four hours; and as much lemon juice 
as the patient may desire may bo taken as a beverage, with water 
and a little sugar. The room should be kept warm, but well venti- 
lated, and exposure to cold should be carefully avoided. When the 
attack is not very severe, the patient may possibly be conducted 
through it in safety by some such plan of treatment ; but, in general, 
more active measures are required. It must, however, never be for- 
gotten that the affection of the heart is liable to occur in such an 
insidious manner, that the management of acute rheumatic cases 
should never be undertaken by non-professional persons, except 
under the most urgent circumstances. 

There are two principal varieties of chronic rheumatism : in the 
one, the joints are chiefly affected, and are liable to become red, hot, 
fuid swollen ; in such cases, the pains are generally most severe when 
the patient becomes warm in bed, and are increased by hot appli- 
cations. In the other variety, the muscles are the chief seat of the 
disease, the pain is of a dull aching character, the part feels stiff and 
cold, and warmth is agreeable. Those who are liable to chronic 
rheumatism are particularly susceptible to atmospheric changes, and 
suffer most during cold and damp weather ; during the prevalence of 
northerly or easterly winds ; or, generally, on any sudden change from 



GENERAL BLOOD DISEASES. 69 

hot to cpld, or from dry to moist. During the summer months, the 
pains often altogether cease. 

The immense number of drugs and specifics which has been 
recommended for the cure of chronic rheumatism is of itself sufficient 
evidence of the intractability of the disease ; some of these are too 
powerful in their eifects to be meddled with incautiously; but con- 
siderable relief may sometimes be obtained from some of the more 
simple. One of the most popular of these is sulphur, which forms the 
basis of seyeral nostrums, and which is sometimes of undoubted service, 
especially in muscular rheumatism; a tcaspoonful, with powdered 
ginger, may be taken every night at bed-time, in a little milk ; or 
those who prefer a more complex prescription may adopt the follow- 
ing, recommended by Dr. Graves : — Powdered bark, powdered guiacum, 
powdered ginger, of each one drachm ; cream of tartar, one ounce ; 
flour of sulphur, half an ounce ; to be made with syrup into an elect- 
uary, of which a tea-spoonful may be taken twice or three times a-day, 
according to its effects upon the bowels. Of lemon juice, a remedy 
which, recently introduced by Dr. 0. Eees, of Guy's Hospital, has 
been strongly recommended, half a wine-glassful may be taken several 
times a*day. Cod-liver oil was at one time much employed in chronic 
rheumatism, and has occasionally effected much good, especially in 
shattered constitutions ; a teaspoonful may be taken three times a^day 
to begin with, and this may be gradually increased to a table -spoonful 
for a dose. It is less liable to excite sickness if taken soon after a meal ; 
it may bo taken alone, or floating on milk, coffee, or ginger wine ; or 
it may be poured over half a slice of toast, and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. Local applications must vary in their cature according to 
the symptoms. If there be much heat and swelling, a lotion, com- 
posed of a drachm of sugar of lead and a scruple of powdered opium, 
dissolved in a pint of boiling water, may be applied warm, by means 
of a few folds of linen, or a piece of spongio-piline. In other cases, 
a thick layer of carded cotton, secured by a bandage, will be more 
agreeable. Where coldness and stiffness are the characteristic symp- 
toms, stimulating liniments may be used. One ounce of spirits of 
hartshorn, two of olive oil, and half an ounce of laudanum, or the 
compound camphor, or compound soap liniments with the addition 
of a drachm of laudanum to each ounce, are useful combinations. 
When the skin is thick and insensible, half a drachm of tincture 
of cantharides may bo added to each ounce of the liniments. 
Vapour, hot air, or hot salt-water baths or dotiches, each possess 
peculiar advantages in certain cases ; the salt-water bath may 



70 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND STTRGEKT. 



be prepared by adding a quarter of a pound of common salt to each 
gallon of water. 

It is a point of great importance to rheumatic subjects to defend 
themselves against atmospheric changes. The susceptibility to cold 
may be much diminished by using the cold shower, or sponge bath 
erery morning, but this is adapted only for the robust, and should 
always be commenced in warm weather. The horse-hair glore, vigor- 
ously employed morning and evening, is an admirable means of pro- 
moting the healthy action of the skin, and, conjoined with an occa- 
sional tepid bath, may be used with safety by the most delicate. 
Flannel should be worn next the skin, not only for warmth, but to 
absorb the perspiration, which, even in the coldest weather, is secreted 
from the surface of the body ; this is equally necessary during sum* 
mer as during winter, as the perspiration is then more abundant, and 
renders a linen garment damp and chill ; the thinnest flannel that can 
be procured, or the fine woollen gauze manufactured for India, may 
be used during hot weather by thpse who suffer from the heat The 
diet should be light and nutritious; animal food should be taken 
rather sparingly ; and, as a general rule, malt liquors should be 
avoided. A glass of spirits is sometimes taken by those who are 
necessarily exposed to the cold, to fortify themselves against its 
effects ; this is a mistake, spirits produce merely a temporary stimulus 
which rapidly fades, and leaves the body more susceptible to cold than 
before ; a cup of warmcoffee willbe found much more useful and endur- 
ing in its effects. 

Plethora, or Fullness of Blood: that is, the blood being 
greater in quantity than is required for the waste and repair of the 
general system. This affection may be occasioned by gluttony — 
that is, eating and drinking to excess ; by luxurious habits ; by indo- 
lence ; by inactivity ; by sedentary pursuits immediately following 
those which involve great exercise ; by anything which checks secre- 
tion, as cold ; sudden cessation of habitual discharges, as those which 
accompany old ulcers, hoemorrhage from the nose, &c., &c. It 
sometimes accompanies pregnancy. Its symptoms are, general full- 
ness of body ; redness of the face and skin ; palpitation of the heart 
and difficulty of breathing, particularly after any slight exertion; 
cold extremities ; frequent sighing ; much debility and ; constipation. 
The indication of cure is to remove the cause, and diminish the 
formation of blood ; the latter being best effected by the free exhi- 
bition of saline purgatives, restricting the patient to a strictly yegO'* 
table diet, enforcing exercise, cool rooms, and sleeping upon hard 



QENBRAL BLOOD DISEASES. 



71 



mattreaseSk Friction to the surface, and occasional warm baths, are 
Yetf uaefnl. When {dethora is so great as to threaten apoplexy, 
the medical man will determine the necessity of bleeding ; but this 
is an extreme case,' the patient being generally relieyed by exercise 
and by diet being properly regulated. 

Anjbhu. is the opposite of plethora. Here the nutritive consti* 
taonts of the blood are not in their regular proportion, the red 
particles in particular being deficient — a cut, or pricked finger, 
hardly staining a handkerchief. Anemia may be acute, as after 
ezoessive loss of blood; or it may be chronic, when it is gene- 
rally known as eJUoroaia^ or green sickness. It is generally 
supposed to be confined to young women, but this is not the 
oasAk Neither is it essentially a disease of the fomale se^ ; males, 
particularly those of a delicate oonstitution, being liable to its 
atUoka. The symptoms are well maiked, and the experienced medi- 
cal man may detect its presence without any particular examination. 
He sees, it at once. Shakapere has well described it, from the ap- 
peanuMe of the countenance, aa *^a green and yellow melancholy." 
The gums and membrane of the mouth are unusually pale ; the 
tongue often white; tiie hands and feet are cold ; excessive debility 
and an unwillingness fbir exertion exist; fainting and other hys** 
terioal symptoms present themselves ; the secretions are scanty, the 
pniodie diseharges being altogether suppressed, or slij^t and pale ; 
the appetite is capricious, and the temper often iraacdble. The ner^ 
vons system may be involved, and wandering neuralgic pains fre- 
quentiy harass and distress the patient. 

The object of treatment is to restore the healthy condition of the 
blood. Here medical art is most triumphant ; and a knowledge of 
physiology at once leads to the method of cure. We give iron, and 
its effects upon the constitution of the blood is most astonishing, its 
red particles rapidly increasing under the operation of the drug. 
Three grains of the sulphate of iron, taken three times a-day, 
soon restores colour to the cheeks ; and, under its influence, a copious 
supply of well-conditioned blood is obtained, the constitution in- 
. vigorated, the secretions improved, and health restored : particularly 
when its effects are promoted by careful attention to diet, moderate 
exercise in the open air— on horseback, if practicable — sleeping in a 
well-ventilated room, and wearing flannel next the skin — worsted 
stockings and thick shoes, however unsightly, being indispensable. 

ScunvT and Purpxtra.. — Of these it is hardly necessary here to 
speak. They are, however, both diseases depending upon depravity of 



the blood : the first supposed — with what truth I will not now con- 
sider — ^to owe its origia to a diet consisting entirely of salted food ; 
and the second, to circumstances of a debilitating nature which 
impair the blood, such as scanty and unwholdsome food, deficient 
clothing, and impure air. Not, however, that purpura does not 
sometimes appear in persons of good constitution, exempt from 
poverty and all the evils of privation. I do not think it pro- 
bable that scurvy will occur in the families of those for whom 
I chiefiy write ; for it is now a very rare disease, and only arises 
during long voyages, and on board ships insufiiciently provisioned. 
Scurvy can thus be traced to manifest causes; and it is not 
known to have attacked a man in health, accustomed to whole- 
some food, and subject to no morbid influence. Not so, however, with 
purpura, which sometimes occurs in an inexplicable manner. The two 
diseases, however, are very nearly allied, and have one great feature 
in common — internal bleeding. Scurvy is characterised by extreme 
debility; complexion pale and bloated; spongy gums; livid spots 
on the skin ; offensive breath ; foul ulcers, accompanied with hosmorr- 
hagcs, and extremely offensive stools. — (Hooper.) 

Of purpura, in its intense form, the symptoms are the same ; livid 
spots of various sizes upon the skin, with hoBmorrhage from various 
parts, as the gums, bowels, &c. The spots of purpura consist of effusion 
of btood under the cuticle, and *^ they are essentially different from 
every form of rash, or other cutaneous eruption, and are properly con- 
sidered as the resultof cutaneoushoamorrhage" — {Goldie,) Amildform 
of purpura is not uncommon among the very poor. The eruption is 
slight, and confined generally to the legs ; the patches, after a few 
days, begin to fade, and new ones to appear. The general health is 
but little disturbed, and the disease generally passes off in a few 
days. It is, however, said sometimes to last for years. The treat- 
ment is obvious. Scurvy readily yields to a vegetable diet; and 
purpura to tonics, good food, cleanliness, and healthy ventilation. 
Turpentine in drachm doses has been much lauded in the latter 
affection. 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 



73 



CHAPTER XII. 



DISEASES OF THE OBOANS OF DIGESTION. 

I HAVE now to speak of the affections of "the organs of digestion — 
that is, of the mouth and its appendages, the throat, stomach, intes- 
tines, mesenteric glands, liver, and gall-hladder ; and these form the 
great majority of the *^ ills that flesh is heir to." And first of 

The Teeth, which plague us in the progress of their develop- 
ment, plague us in their prime, and plague us in their decay. Den- 
tition is the most perilous phase of infant life ; for the irritation 
which frequently accompanies it, may give rise to disease of alarming 
and even fatal character. A child begins to ** breed its teeth" about 
the third or fourth month of infancy, and to ** cut its teeth" when 
about six months old ; and then a set of symptoms may be set up which 
require the most watchful care. The flow of saliva is increased, and 
the gums become hot, swollen, and painful. A natural instinct in- 
duces the infant to put its flngers in its mouth, or to press upon its 
gums any hard substance it can grasp. It Is restless, fretful, and 
feverish, refuses food, and starts and moans in its sleep. Diarrhoea 
often occurs ; skin diseases may appear ; cough and inflammation of 
of the air passages may come on ; and spasm of the glottis, convul- 
sions, and water on the brain, may cut off the flower ere bursting into 
bloom. Upon how many an early tomb, from teething, might this 
epitaph be placed : — 

" Attigit hie labris Titee carchesia, amaror 

Torquet et ora, haosttiB abnegat et reliquos 1" 

" The cup of life Just to its lips it pressed, 

Found the taste bitter, and declined the rest I" 

The diarrhoea of teething, however, is often critical ; that is to 
say, it relieves the local irritation, and if slight, need not be arrested. 
The medical attendant, and even an experienced nurse, will check it 
if excessive, by a little magnesia, or prepared chalk ; while, if the 
stools are dark and fetid, or pale, or slimy, a little grey powder will 
generally correct the vitiated secretion. The lancet must not in 
general be used unless the teeth are near the surface ; although in 
some cases where the membranous capsule in which they are con- 
tained is very tough, and gives rise to great irritation, free section of 
the gum is attended with the happiest results. But by all means let 
the prudent mother avoid the use of " soothing syrups," " anodyne 



74 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUKOEKT. 

lotions/' and other abominations. Opium in some form is the basis 
of all these so«called " mother's Mends/' but in truth her bitterest 
enemy. They may save much trouble, and enable a nurse to sleep 
undisturbed by a fretful child; but they sow the seeds of greater 
evils, and often lead to a premature grave. If anodynes are neces- 
sary, and it is not often that they are— they must only be administered 
by the medical man, and never entrusted to the disaretiom of a nurse. 
The warm bath is very beneficial during dentition ; and since, at this 
period, there is considerable determination of blood to the head, caps 
should be discarded, and frequent ablutions with cold water persisted 
in. In no period of Ufe than in infancy, is it more necessary to 
'* keep the feet warm and the head cool ;" nevertheless, eruptions 
which appear behind the ears, although unsighUy, should be very 
cautiously interfered with — indeed, some physicians imitate them, 
as counter-irritants, by keeping blisters open in the same situation. 

In youth, when the first teeth are being shed, and the second, or 
permanent set appear, it is necessary to consult an experienced 
dentist ; for now care and frequent supervision may prevent much 
future deformity. 

Inflammation ofthb Gums is not always the result of dentition, 
or confined to infancy and to youth. It attacks the adult, when it 
is generally the result of cold. It usually passes off with warm local 
ablutions, the exhibition of purgatives and spare diet ; but it sometimes 
terminates in suppuration, matter collecting about the teeth and 
the gum, and involving the bone. The discharge is often of long 
continuance, and only to be stopped by removing the tooth. 

Toothache. — Toothache may arise from lincleanliness, cold, 
indigestion, neuralgia, hysteria, decay, or the growth of bony matter. 
As regards the first, the brush and powder are effectual remedies ; 
although it is sometimes necessary to employ the dentist to remove 
the ** tartar" and mouldiness that has been allowed to be deposited. 
Cold is a frequent cause of toothache, and may be generally traced to 
a small hole, or carious opening, communicating with the cavity of 
the tootJi. There are many means of relieving pain from this ca u s e . 
by the local application of opium, musk, doves, chloroform, &c ; by 
masticating aromatic plants ; by blisters behind the ear, and rubifii- 
cients to the dteek. The more effectual remedy is to ^* stop" the 
tooth; and, as soon as pain has ceased, the dentist is to be re- 
sorted to for tiiat purpose. In toothache, from indigestion, neuralgia, 
and hysteria, the best remedy I believe to be an emetic ; except in 
pregnancy, which it frequentiy accompanies, and when it may be 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 76 



often reliered by a small dose of rbubarb and magnesia. In tooth- 
ache from decay or bony deposits, the ai<i^ of the dentist is to be in- 
Toked. Writers speak of gonty and rheumatic toothache ; but they 
mean nothing more than the complaint occurring in persons of gouty 
and rheumatic habits ; and even then it can generally be traced to 
cold. When teeth become loose, as they often do after inflammation 
of the gums, and in which case abscesses often form at their base, 
and separate them from the socket, they had better be removed, and 
their places supplied. 

Ikflaiocation of the Mot7th Systematic writers recognise six 

spedes of ttomtrtitia : — 1, the erythematous; 2, the membranous, or 
millet ; 3, the follicular, or aphthous (the thrush) ; 4, the ulcerated, or 
''sore mouth;'' 5, the gangrenous, or ''canker;" and 6, the mercu- 
riaL The first is very slight and inconsiderable ; it accompanies den- 
tition, and may be considered as simple inflammation of the gums 
(see page 74). 

Mbmbbanottb Inflamication, or Milist, is common to all ages'; 
it is generally the result of some indiscretion of diet, and shows itself 
as a slight abrasion on the inside of the lips, or upon the tongue, 
very similar in size or shape to a millet or canary seed. It readily 
yields to cooling saline aperients, and the local application of a caustic 
lotion, of two grains to an ounce of distilled water. The third variety 
demands more consideration : it is 

ApHTitA., or Thrttbh, and consists of an eruption of small white 
specks, single or confluent, on the tongue, lips, cheeks, gums, uvula, 
palate, and tonsils. They usually soften in the centre and discharge 
a glutinous mucus, which forms a thick white crust, adhering at first 
most tenaciously, but at length falling off without leaving an eschar 
beneath. There is often difficulty in deglutition and respiration, and 
the disease may extend throughout the whole length of the intestinal 
tube. Thrush is common in early infancy; but is found at all ages. 
The child at the commencement of the disease is fretfiU, disinclined 
to food, and feverish. The motions are depraved, the mouth hot 
and tender, and the nurse's nipples often chapped from contact of the 
infant's mouth. In slight cases there is little or no constitutional 
disturbances, and the aphthee fall off in a few hours. In others, again, 
the disease runs on to gangrene, and may become fatal. 

Professor Jenner, of University College, one of the physicians to 
the Children's Hospital, has abundantly shown aphtha to be of vegeta- 
ble origin, and a fungus growing upon the part affected — the mucous 
membrane of the mouth being in a state of low vitality, offering an 



76 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGEBY. 

appropriate nidus for its development. Dr. Jenner has also shown 
a specific mode of cure by«the application of sulphurous acid gas, 
which immediately destroys aU vegetable existences. The gas itself, 
in solution, is, however, too strong for this purpose ; and here Dr. Jen- 
ner' s scientific acumen and ingenuity overcame a serious difficulty. 
He applies to the growth a solution of the sulphite of potass — 
a drachm to six ounces of water, with equal effect. The rationale 
of this plan is, that the acid of the mouth decomposing the salt, sul- 
phurous acid gas is produced, and the growth destroyed by it ; 
but when I come to speak of certain forms of stomach complaint 
and of ringworm, I shall have occasion to allude more fully to the 
subject. 

When aphtha is slight, the specks upon the mouth soon yield to 
the application of any detergent wash, such as vinegar and water, or 
borax and honey. When, however, symptoms run high, there is much 
fever and constitutional disturbance, or the child of a bad habit of body, 
more energetic means must be used and the medical man consulted; 
since the local affection, if unchecked, is likely to pass into ulcera- 
tion. In thrush we generally find much acidity of the stomach; 
and antacids may be exhibited with great success. A very good 
form is two parts of the compoimd chalk powder, two parts of car- 
bonate of soda, and one part of grey powder, of which three to six 
grains may be given two or three times a-day. When aphtha 
appear during chronic disease of long standing, they must be regarded 
as indicative of an approaching fatal termination. I know no more 
fatal sign of Death being about to claim his victim. 

Ulcebated or ** Sobe Houth " is a very common disease among 
the children of the poor. It often involves the gums, cheeks, and 
tongue, which are of a ** raw red'' colour ; the glands of the face 
and neck are swollen ; the breath fetid ; and the general health 
much disturbed. The ulcers are very indolent, but spread, and often 
lay bare the jaws. ** Sore mouth" is caused by cold, or by dentition, 
in highly debilitated and ill-fed infants. Luckily we possess a cure ; 
and I would almost add that a specific exists in the chlorate of potass. 
A lotion of two scruples of the salt to an ounce of water, frequently 
applied by a brush to the sores, rapidly removes them ; and if atten- 
tion be paid to the general health a speedy cure is effected. 

Gangrene or Cankek is a rare and very dreadful disease, and 
quite beyond domestic management. It is sufficient here to describe 
it as a very severe variety or last stage of the ulcerated or sore mouth. 
The ulcerations are dark and livid ; sloughing makes rapid progress. 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 



77 



and Boon inyolyes the cheeks, lips, gums, and sometimes the nostrils, 
eyelids, neck and throat ; the teeth fall Obt, the jaw-bones, and even 
those of the head may be attacked. And with aU this there is often 
butcomparatiyely little fever and constitutional disturbance ; and the 
child will run about and play till a short period before death, which 
is ushered in by. exhaustion and collapse. It attacks children from a 
year to twelve years of age. Its causes are, as in other varieties of 
stomatitis, improper or insufficient diet, impure air, and the damp 
and dirty dwellings of the poor. Its treatment must be most 
energetic. Host powerful stimulants of caustics, and mineral 
acids, may be necessary. Pure air, cleanliness, and nourishing diet, 
are indispensable, as are also quinine and ammonia. It is in 
this way that the rich may greatly assist the medical man, by 
placing at his disposal the means- of administering to the necessities 
of the poor and needy ; and thus, if not always snatching them from 
death, at least soothing their passage to the grave. 

Mebcubial Inflammation, Pttalism, or Salivation, which is 
at once recognised by the peculiarly offensive smell with which it 
is always accompanied, is best treated, when slight, by frequent 
acidulated gargles of barley-water, or a solution of chlorate of soda, 
80 diluted as not to produce more than a slight smarting of the 
mouth, free ventilation, and exposure to the air. If very severe the 
application of caustic may be necessary — half a drachm of the 
nitrate of silver dissolved in an ounce of distilled water, and fre- 
quentiy applied by a brush to the ulcerated surface. Saline aperients, 
as SeiMtz powders, light diet, a cool atmosphere, and free ventila- 
tion, are indispensable in either case. 

QviNSEY, or inflammation of the tonsils, is not an unfrequent 
sequence to common sore throat. Its presence is first indicated by 
uneasiness and pain, which soon pass into difficulty in swallowing, 
which rapidly increases, until it becomes impracticable, every attempt 
at deglutition being attended with convulsive muscular action, and 
the regurgitation of fluids through the nostrils. The voice is some- 
times lost, and the hearing impaired. If the tonsils are greatly swol- 
len, respiration may be impeded, and suffocation threatened. Fever 
often runs high ; the pulse strong and full ; headache considerable, 
and the patient restless ; the constant flow of viscid saliva from the 
mouth being very annoying. The countenance is simken ; the extre- 
mities cold and clammy ; the breath fetid. At this stage, the suffer- 
ing is very great ; but now the abscess bursts, the patient is at once 
reUeved, and the recovery rapid. This is usually the course of quinsey ; 



78 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

but sometimes it does not proceed to snpptiratioD, and passes 
off as a common sore throat. As regards treatment^ little is to be 
said ; I believe an emetic in the early stage will often stop the disease. 
External remedies, as leeches, poultices, blisters, &c., are of little or 
no avail ; but sometimes urgent symptoms may render it necessary to 
open the abscess internally from the mouth, if thai; be possible, or 
extemldly through the neck. The surgeon must take charge of the 
case. Astringent gargles, or the inhalation of hot yapour, when the 
patient can use them, give relief. 

Quinsey is apt to return, and also leaves the tonsil in a state of 
chronic enlargement. Here scarification, and the daily application 
of caustic, are useful. Sometimes it is necessary to remove the 
tonsil altogether, for which purpose an ingenious instrument has been 
invented. 

Bbonohoncble, or Goitre, may be here conveniently described, 
although the thyroid gland of the neck, an enlargement of which con-> 
stitutes the disease, is not ascertained to be concerned in l^e fVtnotion 
of digestion ; indeed, its use is unknown. It is situated before the 
trachea, or windpipe, under the chin, on the front of the neck. It 
gradually enlarges, until it sometimes attains a very considerable 
size, extending round the neck, upwards to the jaws, and sometimes 
hangs pendulous over the chest. It is said to be confined to females ; 
but in Switzerland, and some parts of Germany, I have seen men and 
boys suffering from the disease. In the Swiss valleys, it is generally 
found combined with idiotisnL It is supposed to be caused by bed 
water and deficient ventilation. In some localities, it is certainly 
endemic ; but its causes are not sufficiently ascertained. As regards 
treatment, it is almost entirely confined to the use of iodine, exter- 
nally in the form of ointment, and internally as the hydriodate of 
potassa, four or five grains of which may be taken two or three 
times a-day. Surgical assistance is sometimes necessary. 

I do not allude to the diseases of the gullet, as stricture, cancer, 
&c., such being quite beyond domestic management ; and at once I 
pass to the consideration of 

Mumps— -a disease propagated by contagion. Writers describe 
it as inflammation of the parotid — one of the salivary glands ; bnt 
f^m the fieict that mumps, whatever may be its nature, sometimes 
suddenly quits the parotid, and flies to another gland, or to the heart, 
there is much doubt if it be essentially an inflammatory affection. 
Mumps, also, is sometimes translated to the brain, in which case it 
is attended with great danger ; but, generally speaking, it gives rise to 



DI81SA8S8 OF THE OBOANS OF DIGESTION. 79 

little anzietjry reaehing its hei^t in two or Hiree days, and diaappear- 
ing about the aeyenth, under the influence of vannth, mild aperienta, 
and spare diet* Dr. John Scott, of Boulogne, a physician of much ex- 
perience, puts great laith in the use of tartrate of antimony in nau- 
seating doaes-^two grains dissolved in a quart of water,and a wine- 
glassful taken erery hour until nausea occurs, which is to be kept up 
by smaller doses. I haye seen Dr. Scott so treat patients, and certainly 
the method seemed yery soon to cut short this annoying complaint 

Dtspbpsia. — ^There is no organ of the human body which meets 
with such systematic ill treatment as the stomach. Let any one, at 
the close of a good Christmas dinner, where knife, fork, and spoon 
haye done their work, and the bottle has commenced its rounds, sus- 
pend for an instant his more agreeable occupations, and endeavour to 
sum up the'^ngredienta of the heterogeneous mixture which, during 
the last hour, haa gradually passed the portal of his Ups — solid and 
fluid, sweet and sour, bland and pungent — all thrust indiscriminately 
upon that much- enduring bag, which is expected to dispose of the 
ehaotio mass, and again to be prepared for ^sh labours, probably 
within the lapse of a few hours. Can it be a matter of surprise that 
the oyertasked drudge occasionally sinks from sheer exhaustion ? Is 
it not rather wonderful that the punishment of such a violation of the 
laws of nature should ever be deferred ? 

The following observations, though intended principally for the 
guidance of those who suffer fixxn habitual indigestion, are not un- 
worthy the attention of those who have hitherto escaped, and if acted 
upon in their general principles, may tend to a continuance of their 
immunity from suffering. 

Many alight cases of dyspepsia may be cured by oareAilly regu- 
lated diet alone, without the assistance of drugs, which, even in severe 
cases, must be considered merely aa subsidiary to the general treat- 
ment Bearing in mind that the stomach is enfeebled by previous 
mismanagement, it will be obvious that error, either in the quantity 
or quality of the food, will overtask its powers. The first error is best 
ayoided by eating ak^wly ; by atopping short of complete cessation of 
the appetite; and, fSsother, by allowing a sufficient interval to elapse 
between the meals. This interval will vary according to the extent 
of digestive power which remains, but will be found to average about 
four hours. The food should be of such a nature as to be capable of 
conversion into the constituents of the body with the least possible 
expenditure of vital energy ; animal food is thus obviously pointed 
out, but as it haa been found that since a certain amount of bulk 



80 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND 8UBGERT. 



facilitates the operations of the stomach, it is necessary to add 
an admixture of vegetable matter; and as this is, in many instances, 
difficult of reduction, its selection demands much care and attention. 
Stale bread, toasted biscuit, tapioca, rice, and similar articles, offer a 
considerable choice, and a well-boiled potato will sometimes be con- 
veniently disposed of by those who in health have been accustomed 
to the free use of vegetables ; but those who allow themselves much 
greater latitude than is here indicated, will generally pay the penalty 
of an attack of flatulence. It is a rule of the utmost importance that 
the food should be thoroughly masticated before being swallowed, so 
that it may be presented to the stomach in a state of minute sub- 
division, and impregnated throughout with the juices which are 
supplied for the purpose by appropriate glands. Neglect of this pre- 
caution is a fruitful source of indigestion, as is illustrated on a large 
scale in the boarding-houses of America, where the meals are dis- 
patched with a celerity which excites the astonishment of the less 
" go-ahead" natives of other countries. It is another very common 
error to distend the stomach, especially at breakfast and dinner, with 
a large quantity of fluid, a practice which interferes materially with 
healthy digestion, by diluting the solvent secretions of the organ. 
As a general rule, one breakfast-cupful of milk and water or weak 
tea, will be sufficient for breakfast, and an equal quantity, or a mode- 
rate-sized tumbler of water, for dinner. Wine, or fermented liquors, are 
admissible only in small quantities, and in cases where there is much 
debility; of the former, sherry is generally to be preferred, and 
should be taken diluted with water ; of the latter, Allsopp's pale ale 
is the best. The meals should never be taken when the body 
is exhausted by exercise ; fatigue should first be allowed to subside 
by rest, and by the refreshing influence of cold ablution; active exer- 
cise should also be avoided immediately after a meal, and this is 
particularly requisite in those cases in which the pain or uneasiness 
do not appear until a considerable time after eating. Every effort 
should be made to regulate the bowels by slight variations in ihe diet, 
by regular habits, and by friction of the abdomen and whole surface 
of the body, morning and evening, with the horsehair glove. The 
habitual use of powerful aperient medicine has done incalculable mis- 
chief ; when, however, an aperient is imperatively required, the com- 
pound rhubarb pill, or equal parts of compound extract of colocynth 
and extract of henbane, made into five-grain pills, will operate easily 
and effectually ; one or two of these may be taken for a dose. Tonic 
medicines require some care and judgment in their administration. 



DISEASES OF THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION. 81 

and, as a general rale, are inadmissible whezf the tongue is foul and 
loaded. One of the most simple and generally useful, is infusion of 
oalumba, which may be prepared by pouring a pint of boiling water 
upon half an ounce of the coarsely-powdered root, and filtering it 
when cold. Half a wine-glassful of this',may be taken two or three 
times a day, about half an hour before meals. The more powerful 
tonics, such as quinine, the preparations of iron, &Q,y should not be 
used without medical advice. 

After these general yiews of indigestion, it will be well to enter 
a little into particulars, and first of 

Inflammation of the Stomach. — The stomach is a most endur- 
ing and forbearing organ, and will suffer a great deal of persecution 
before active inflammation occurs ; indeed the disease, in its acute 
form, is rarely seen, except as the result of an irritant poison having 
been swallowed, and then the only means of treatment is to remove 
the offending matter, or to neutralize it by antidotes. As regards the 
first indication, the exhibition of an emetic, and the use of the stomach- 
pump, readily suggest themselves. The first is of easy application, 
and a dessert-spoonful of mustard in a tumbler of warm water, every 
household will afford,- until the arrival of the medical man, the 
application of whose art will be greatly assisted by a little common 
sense and coolness on the part of the lookers-on. And here, perhaps, 
I can most conveniently classify the poisons which are commonly 
resorted to for the purpose of suicide or taken by accident ; and having 
enumerated the most marked symptoms, briefly state the antidotes 
which are to be employed. 

Concerning the symptoms of poison having been swallowed, these, 
as regards the acids, are sour, acrid taste, and burning in the throat, 
increased by pressure, swallowing, and coughing; excruciating pain 
in the stomach ; corrugation of the lining membrane of the mouth, 
and excoriation of the lips and such parts of the skin as the acid may 
have touched. The vomited matter violently effervesces with car- 
bonate of lime ; the countenance is glazed ; the hands and feet cold ; 
convulsions generally take place, and death follows. 

Where arsenic has been taken, violent burning pain and great 
tenderness of the stomach soon come on ; retching, vomiting, and a 
sense of constriction about the throat ; thirst, hoarseness, and diffi- 
culty of speech ; the matter vomited is greenish or yellowish ; there 
is diarrhoea and suppression of urine ; convulsions ; cramps ; clammy 
sweats ; collapsed countenance^ delirium, and death. 

With copper the symptoms are much the same ; there Is also a 



82 HOirSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUBOBBT. 

coppery taste in the Ihouth ; and palsy and inaenaibility ge&ezally 
terminates the case. 

With corrosiye sublimate (mercmy), there are all the symptoms 
of yiolent ixritaat poisoning ; harsh metallic astringent taste in the 
mouth ; burning pain in the stomach ; yomiting and purging, £re* 
quently, of bloody matters ; suppression of urine ; tightness of the 
throat; countenance not always pale, but sometimes flushed ; tend- 
ency to dose ; convulsions, and deatL 

In lead poisoning, the symptoms are more of a nerrous nature, 
there being spasm and paralysis, either partial or oomplete ; rigidity 
of abdominal muscles, and cramps. If relief be not obtained, these 
symptoms are followed by giddiness, torpor, and death. When lead 
has been taken for some time in small doses, there are yiolent colio and 
obstinate constipation, while paralysis generally affects the upper 
extremities, as in the ** dropped hands'' of painters, or those who 
haUtually use water contaminated with the metal. 

Among yegetable poisons, the more common are monkshood, fEJse 
mushrooms, deadly nightshade, hemlock, meadow safiron, fozgloye^ 
tobacco, poppy, yewbeny, and hellebore; and the symptoms of 
these haying been taken into the stomach, are stupor^ numbness, 
heaviness in the head ; nausea, which soon advances to incessant 
yomiting ; a sort of intoxicated and stupid air ; dilated pupil; delirium; 
and, if unrelieved, death. 

Among animal poisons received into the stomach, certain kinds of 
fish, in some constitutions, occasion very annoying symptoms, which 
have, in some instances, terminated fatally. An hour or two after 
the fish has been eaten, slight vertigo, and headache come on, with 
great heat about the head, thirst, andgenerally nettle-rash of a very irri- 
tating cbaractar. Musselswilloftenoccasionthese symptoms, and they 
have been supposed to be traced to oysters which have been dredged 
from beds containing copper. Some persons, also, cannot eat 
lobsters without suffering from symptoms of poisoning ; but these are 
generally slight, and soon pass off. 

I will now describe what is to be done in all these cases (^poison- 
ing, premising, however, that my remarks are intended only for 
those who cannot obtain medical aid — a circumstance ao rare in this 
country, that those who, trusting to their own knowledge, neglected, 
in aU 0096$ of poisoning, to send for the doctor, would, in all proba- 
bility, in the event of a fatal result, have to answer for their conduct 
to Uie coroner. And first, of the acids-Hmd many instances are 
recorded, where children have swallowed a preparation of oil of 



DISEASES OF THE OBOANS OF DIGESTION. 83 

Titriol, kept hf housemaids for cleaning grates. Here, howeyer, and 
indeed, with the other acids, the result is generally fatal, from the 
chemical and corroding efl^Bcts upon the parts with which the acid 
comes in contact. In cases where the muriatie, sulphuric, nitric, or 
oxalic acids have heen swallowed, the antidotes are the carhonates of 
lime or magnesia, which may he used indiscriminately. When 
pmssic acid, oil of bitter almonds, or laurel water have heen used, 
we must give ammonia or sal volatile, in water, in repeated doses, and 
rouse the nervous system by the sudden application of cold. Thus, 
an animal, from which life has seemingly been dashed out, as it were, 
by these powerful agents, and which, left to itself, would resume no sign 
of life, if sluiced, or douehedj with cold water, will gasp again, and 
exhibit signs of animation, and finally roll back into existence. 

As regards the metals, I need not extend my remarks farther &an 
cases of poisoning by arsenic, copperas, mercury, and sugar of lead, 
in which, and, indeed, as a general rule, in all, emetics must be ad- 
ministered ; for it is often easier to get rid by that means of a poison 
than to neutralize it by antidotes. In arsenical poisonings, more- 
over, we must administer the hydrated peroxide of iron diffused 
through water ; or the precipitated carbonate ; or the nAigoferri every 
five or ten minutes, until relief is obtained ; while the violent pain in 
the stomach, may be mitigated by fomentations and stimulating Hni- 
ments. Corrosive sublimate is the drug with which poisoning is 
sometimes attempted ; and here, as with other forms of mercury, 
introduced into the system in poisonous doses, we must have 
recourse to albumen, in the form of white of egg beaten up with 
milk, or wheaten fiour, as a gruel. In poisoning with copperas or 
blue vitriol, the same treatment is to be followed. In poisoning by 
sugar of lead, sulphate of magnesia and phosphate of soda are our 
antidotes. The theory of all this is, that, by our antidotes, we do 
away with the poisonous nature of the drug swallowed, by altering 
its chemical character, and, by the xmion of the two, produce a third 
substance, which is inert. 

The treatment in cases of poisoning by vegetable and animal sub- 
stances is extremely simple. The stomach is to be effectually 
evacuated by giving four or five grains of tartar emetic, or from ten 
to twenty of the sulphate of zinc, repeated every quarter of an hour 
till the ftill effect is produced. In the absence of these emetics, a 
dessert-spoonful of mustard in a tumbler of warm water may be sub- 
stituted, and the means may be assisted by tickling the throat with 
a feather or the finger. Large and strong glysters of soap dissolved 



84 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUBGEBY. 



in water, or of salt and gruel, should be speedily administered to 
clear the bowels, and assist in getting rid of the poison ; and active 
purgatiyes may be given after vomiting has ceased. When 
the poison has been expelled, the patient may drink alternately 
a teacup of hot and strong coffee, and vinegar diluted with water. 
If the drowsiness, which is sometimes extreme, and the insen- 
sibility borderiog on apoplexy, be not remedied by these means, 
blood must be drawn from a vein, bUsters applied to the neck and 
legs, and the attention aroused by every possible means. The patient 
must not be allowed to sleep ; he must be resolutely walked about, 
and warm frictions to the surface perseveringly used. It may be 
objected that, in treating in this place of poisons, I have somewhat 
departed from the strict method of arrangement to which, in all other 
parts of this treatise, I adhere. It may be so ; but I have never yet 
seen a classification of poisons that was not open to objection, and 
toxicological matters which have not been pressed into places which 
did not properly belong to them. I am contented, then, to treat of 
poisoning among the diseases of the organs of digestion ; and now 
pass to the consideration of 

Iaritation of the Stomach. — This may arise from congestion of 
the liver, from indigestible food, from gout or rheumatism, sympathy 
with other parts of the body that may be diseased, or from pregnancy. 
In the first case, we have a sense of fullness about the organ which 
may even amount to pain. The appetite is impaired, the tongue 
furred, the stools of a pale colour from a deficiency of bile, and the 
countenance sallow from the bile circulating with the blood, instead 
of mixing with the food for the purposes of digestion. This state 
often precedes fevers ; but it may generally be cut short by the exhi- 
bition of a full dose of the compound colocynth pill and calomel — say 
eight grains of the first, and four of the latter at bed-time. In smaller 
doses this should be repeated until darker stools and a more natural 
complexion indicate that the liver has resumed its proper action. 
Gouty and rheumatic affections of the stomach are generally recog- 
nised by the suddenness of their appearance and in reference to the 
primary disorder. They are merely symptoms, and are generally 
relieved by mustard poultices and antispasmodics, such as a tea-spoon- 
ful of sal volatile, or five grains of carbonate of ammonia, as a draught. 
As regards the sympathetic affections which the stomach exhibits with 
many, indeed, with most affections of remote organs, there is little 
further to say than that they are removable with the cause upon 
which they depend. They are not diseases, but symptoms of diseases. 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 85 

and generally of those vhich come more immediately under the 
care of the medical man. They are sometimes called gastralgia and 
gastrodynia ; they may he nervous, and depend upon nervous afiPec- . 
tions and diseases of the brain or spinal chord. Ansemia is a common 
cause ; so is inordinate smoking, and excess in eating and drinking, 
luxury, late hours, and crowded rooms; dissipation of all sorts will occa- 
sion them ; and they may be regarded as warnings to many to have 
regard to their ways before it is too late to repair them. In the latter 
case, the best mode of treatment is a change of scene and habit. 
Travel, and resorting for a few weeks to a chalybeate, will generally 
put matters in a train for cure, which it must depend upon the patient 
himself permanently to effect. The irritable stomach of pregnant 
women is purely sympathetic. It may generally be relieved by a 
mild carminative draught; and the best is composed of a dozen 
grains of magnesia, with a teaspoonful of sal volatile and as much 
compound tincture of cardamons or lavender in a wine glass of water. 

Pyrosis, or Water Brash, is another affection of the stomach gene- 
rally induced by some bad habit, either as regards food or regimen. It 
is comn^on in Scotland and Ireland among the poor and ill-fed, with 
whom oatmeal and potatoes are the general diet, and much whisky 
is used. In cyder counties, too, it abounds. It is found also among 
clerks and men in business, who hastily swallow their dinner and 
again hurry to the desk or counting-house. Literary men, whose 
habits are sedentary, are liable to it ; and according to some autho- 
rities, it may be brought on by cold applied to the lower extremities 
or by aiiy considerable emotion of the mind. It occurs in paroicyisms. 
There is pain at the stomach, increased in the erect posture. This 
is often severe, and gradually increases until eructation occurs, and a 
quantity of tasteless water-like fluid is discharged from the stomach, 
much to the patient's relief. I have generally found that a slight 
course of nitrate of silver, the fourth of a grain, as a pill, three times a- 
day on an empty stomach, with great care in diet, will effect a cure. 
But this mineral must not be used except under medical advice, as 
many cases are upon record where its undue exhibition has perma- 
nently blued the whole skin. Nitrate of bismuth, too, is a useful 
remedy, in doses of five grains two or three times a-day in mucilage ; 
but, without a change of diet and regimen, a cure will rarely be 
effected. 

Spasm, or Cramp op thb Stomach, may depend upon the presence 
of indigestible food. It may also arise from the regurgitation of bile; 
or irom wind ; or from congestion of the liver; gout ; rheumatism ; or 



86 HOUSEHOLD HBDICIKS AND 8UB6EKT. 



cold water or ioe, taken when the hodj is oTeiheated. Hyaterioid 
people are aubjeot to it; and any slight excitement will giTe rise to 
it in those liable to its attacks. It mnst be treated according to its 
cause ; and whateyer this may be, an emetic will, in most eases, 
giye great reliel 

Kausba. AMD YoMrriNG wiU, in a great measure, be understood 
from tiiepreceeding remarks; bnt their phenomena require fuxiher 
elucidation. Vomiting is an act entirely dependent upon sensation, 
and takes place under a variety of circumstances, such as sympathy, 
the introduction of certain substances into the stomach, tickling tlie 
throat with a feather, See, But vomiting does not consist of a mere 
contraction of the stomach ; nay, in perfect vomiting, the stomach 
itself is passive, while a multitude of muscular organs are called into 
activity. And how are these called into action 9 It is an established 
rule in the animal economy, that as often as a certain sensation origi- 
nating in a peculiar stimulus arises, it is succeeded by a definite num- 
ber of muscular organs being called into action, and producing the 
evacuation of the stomach. Perfect vomiting is produced in the fol- 
lowing manner:— The diaphragm, or midriff which is in contact 
with the upper surface of the stomach, by the powerful contraction of 
its muscular fibres, descends, and remains for a moment fixed in this 
position, while the muscles which shut up the aperture of the wind- 
pipe, and tiiose of the abdomen, act with a simultaneous and convul- 
sive effort ; so that the air being retained in the lungs, the ordinary 
effect of the action of the abdominal muscles, namely, the expulsion 
of the air from the lungs, by the diminution of the chest, is pre- 
vented, and the whole force of these powerful instruments is made to 
bear upon the stomach, still pressed upon from above by the dia- 
phragm, and thus the organ is evacuated instead of the lungs. If the 
brain is in a state of lesion, or of deep stupor, vomiting cannot occur ; 
and it has been found that vomiting was immediately put a stop to 
by compressing the upper part of the spinal chord. It is thus seen 
that nervous influence is necessary to vomiting; and it is thus 
easily understood how often nausea and vomiting depend upon affec- 
tions of the brain. We have seen how vomiting accompanies affections 
of the stomach, and now must understand how also it may depend 
upon those of other organs. But the immediate cause of vomiting, 
with which we have now to do, is the sensation caused by irritation 
of the stomach, either from disease of that organ, or from foreign 
bodies held within it. In the former case, it is to be treated upon the 
general principle we have laid down ; the organ must be soothed ; 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 87 

and if the ftffection does not immediately yield to familiar domestic 
remedies, the physician must be consulted. In the latter case, the 
foreign and obnoxious body must be remored ; and here again the 
same rule must be enforced, and the physician consulted, by all those 
who would not trifle with themselyes, and by an unwarrantable delay 
foster, perhaps, a trifling spark into a mighty and consuming flame. 
Now, foreign and obnoxious bodies may be of two kinds : those intro- 
duced into the stomach, as deleterious food, or other inorganic and 
dead matters ; and those organic and liring matters which grow and 
moTe, and have their being within the organ itself. The moralist has 
asserted, and truly said,-<- 

** Man Utss not for liimself alone ;*' 

and the apothegm is clearly, but painfully, proved by the fact, that 
his lungs afford an abiding place to one living being, and his digestive 
organs to six distinct families; his skin; his eye; his hair; his muscles; 
his stomach ; his very veins — ^all are inhabited. He is preyed upon 
from without; and he is preyed upon from within. On aU sides para- 
sites attack him ; one set feeds upon his worldly substance, another 
literally sucks his very blood. But our present purpose is alone with 
those whose local habitation is his stomach. Upon their origin, I 
will not now linger, but content myself by referring the curious 
reader to Mr. Eirby's remarks upon the first creation of parasites in 
his ** Bridgewater Treatise," vol. i. p. 12. The living inhabitants of 
the stomach are of two kinds, animal and vegetable. The first, I am 
inclined to consider as mere foreigners — travellers who have wan- 
dered thither from other regions — cosmopolites, who would have 
remained there if they could ; but, becoming obnoxious to the neigh* 
bourhood, have taken their departure by a very summary process. 
But of these, many marvellous tales are told; and we hear of some 
whose benefactors have been absolutely worried out of house and 
home, and laid down their lives to those 

" Their farmer bounty fed." 

Dr. Picknell tells us of a young woman, whose stomach was a very 
lodging-house, or general repository, for apterous, dipterous, and cole- 
opterous insects. " Not less than seven hundred," says he, " have 
been thrown up from the stomach at di^Gerent times since the 'com- 
mencement of my attendance. A great proportion were destroyed 
from an anxiety to evade publicity ; many, too, escaped immediately 
after having been vomited, by extricating themselves quickly from 
the vessel, and running into holes in the floor.** Of worms in the 



88 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



intestines, I shall have occasion to speak at some length ; but as 
regards those of the stomach, should a case present itself, an effectual 
remedy exists in a table-spoonful of spirits of turpentine, which wiU 
soon destroy intruders, while an after emetic will effectually remove 
the emigrants from their self-selected colony. 

The proper parasites of the stomach are of vegetable origin, at least 
I will presume so ; for in such low organizations, so slight are the 
partitions that divide the animal from the vegetable kingdoms, that 
no one can positively assert to which they really belong. At any 
rate — and that is all with which we have now to do — they are sub- 
ject to the same lethal influences which act upon all orders of plants. 
There is no prospect so dreary and so dark that has not some redeem- 
ing spot; no desert without its oasis ; no moral wrong that may not 
be atoned. ^' Nemo miser est nisi comparatus** — no one is wretched 
but by comparison, said Seneca ; and there is nothing so bad but some- 
thing else by comparison is worse. Even cholera has its bright side, 
for it has taught us to purify the water which we drink ; to ventilate 
the rooms in which we live ; to erect the dwellings of our labouring 
population with some regard to sanitary laws, to build them well, 
and to drain them effectually ; to see they are not over-crowded with 
human beings, and that they do not become unhealthy for want of 
space in which to conduct necessary domestic operations. Science 
may lament the weakness of curative medicine ; but she rejoices in 
the knowledge that preventive measures [do exist, and that the in- 
vestigation of the cholera, so far from having been altogether unat- 
tended with satisfactory results, has led us to the knowledge of many 
things before mysterious or unknown. A singular episode in the his- 
tory of cholera was the observation of Drs. Brittan and Swayne of 
the existence of peculiar microscopic bodies in the discharge ; and 
which bodies were held by Dr. Budd to be some species of fungi. 
And although it was soon ascertained that mushrooms and cholera 
were not cause and effect, the suggestion led to very important results. 
Thus, when cholera was supposed to depend upon the presence of a 
fungus in the intestinal canal. Professor Graham proposed the exhibi- 
tion of sulphurous acid in the disease, as the agent most destructive to 
vegetable life. And we are farther indebted to Dr. Jenner, of Univer- 
sity College, for suggesting that the gas might be evolved in the 
human stomach with impunity, by administering sulphite of potash. 
This brings me to a not uncommon form of vomiting, which hitherto 
has proved most troublesome and intolerant of medical aid. It is 
obstinate, and of long continuance, and distinguished by the discharge 



r 



DISEASES OP THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 89 

firom th e stomach of matter resembling yeast. Under the microscope, 
this matter is found to contain quantities of vegetable parasites ; and 
Dr. Jenner greatly advanced the cause of medical science, when, in a 
clinical lecture, delivered at University College, and afterwards pub- 
lished in the ^^ Medical Times" (Aug. 23, 1851), he showed, that under 
the use of sulphite of soda, in doses of a drachm three times a-day, 
the yeasty appearance of the vomited matter ceased, and the fungi 
were destroyed. I am very far from saying that all cases of obstinate 
vomiting depend upon vegetable growths within the stomach ; but 
when the affection resists all usual appliances, it is well to ascertain 
the fact by the use of the microscope. 

Sea-sicknsss. — ^Three causes have been assigned to this most 
painful affection, and all the result of the motion of the vessel, — the 
stomach and bowels rubbing against each other ; a determination of 
blood to the brain ; and a disturbance of the brain from the unusual 
impressions produced upon vision. The latter is the most probable ; 
since sea-sickness is much alleviated, and generally altogether pre- 
vented, by the traveller laying quietly down and resolutely keeping 
the eyes shut. In long voyages, sea-sickness disappears as soon as 
the brain becomes accustomed to the unusual circumstances, an event 
much accelerated by a moderate diet and the use of acidulated and 
effervescing drinks. 

Sick Headache is generally to be attributed to indigestion ; it is 
sometimes caused by bodily or mental fatigue, or torpid liver. A 
drachm of magnesia, with a little ginger syrup and a teaspoonful of 
tincture of gentian in half a glass of soda water, will often given relief; 
or a tea-spoonfitl of sal volatile, with as much compound tincture of 
lavender, is useful. If the liver is disordered, a mild aperient is the 
remedy ; or, what is better, a gentle emetic. 4 darkened room and 
bathing the forehead with «au-de- Cologne are useful; but when 
habitual, the cause must be referred to dyspepsia, and treated ac- 
cordingly. 

Inflammation of the Bowels requires the urgent care of the 
medical man ; it seldom extends over the whole extent of the tube, 
and the portion affected is indicated by pain upon pressure over the 
part. If not early checked its progress is marked by swelling and 
tension of the abdomen ; intolerance of the slightest pressure, even of 
that of the bed-clothes; nausea, vomiting, and constipation. In 
severe cases all these symptoms increase in intensity ; there are also 
hiccup, irregular pulse, cold extremities, and great exhaustion. Cessa- 
tion of pain indicates that nature is worn out and about to yield to 

Q 



l 



90 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AMD SUBGEBY. 

death. Its general causes are cold and local obstructions; and, in the 
absence of the medical man, it is best treated bj a copious application 
of leeches — ^twenty or twenty-five — ^hot fomentations, and calomel and 
opium, three grains of the former and one of the latter — I speak of 
the adult — ^repeated every three or four hours, till the doctor arrives 
or symptoms abate. When the pain subsides a dose of castor-oil may 
be given. Enemata of warm water are usefuL 

Dtbentebt, which is inflammation of the mucous membrane of 
the large intestines, is generally imported into this country from warm 
climates. It presents all the symptoms of inflammation of the bowels, 
with the exception of constipation, and with-4be addition of dis- 
charges of bloody mucus, or of blood, or purulent matter. Straining 
and griping pains are very prominent symptoms, which is not the 
case in simple diarrhoea, which, however, precedes it. It is a very 
dangerous disease, especially in its chronic form, and is mostly com- 
plicated with serious structural disorganization. The slight and 
sporadic form of dysentery sometimes met with in this country gene- 
rally yields to a dose or two of castor-oil and laudanum — ^half an ounce 
of the aperient to twenty or thirty drops of the opiate — ^and hot 
fomentations to the abdomen ; sometimes, however, leeches are neces- 
sary; but the disease will not permit of trifling, and medical aid 
should always be obtained. 

Colic is constipation accompanied with severe ** twisting" pains 
in the bowels — ^tormina, as they are termed; these occur in paroxysms, 
and are much relieved by pressure. There are generally flatulence, 
nausea, and vomiting. When these symptoms are very intense, the 
disease is known as ileus, or the '* iliac passion." Colic is caused by 
cold ; undigested matter or indurated feces in the intestines ; gout ; 
rheumatism; worms; the poison of lead, &c. The object of treat- 
ment is to allay irritation and to act upon the bowels ; and in simple 
cases these are best effected by doses of castor-oil and laudanum, as 
recommended in dysentery. To these, aromatics may be added, such 
as tinctures of ginger, cloves, peppermint, &c. In severe cases opium 
in large doses must be exhibited, and the patient kept under its in- 
fluence until a free evacuation is obtained. Generally sx>eaking, 
opium produces constipation; but in this case it relieves it by its 
antispasmodic action. External stimulation and fomentations must 
in no case be neglected, and injections of warm water are to be 
employed. Colic may terminate in inflammation. 

In colic arising from lead poisoning (see p. 82) the occupation of 
the patient, the gradual development of the disease, the blue margin 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 91 

of the gums, aad paralysis, at once indicate the-natnre of the disease. 
The treatment consists o/ calomel and opium, as before recommended 
(p. 83), castor-oil, warm water enemata, the hot hath, and, if there 
is much pain in the bowels, the application of leeches to the abdomen. 
When a patient presents himself with what are called "dropped hands," 
a paralytic affection, and who is not in the habit of using paints or 
lead in any commercial or other occupation, our attention ought to be 
directed to the water he usually drinks. We often find this to be of 
a character which decomposes the leaden pipes in which it is con- 
yeyed, and thus to have brought about the disease in question. 

Constipation. — ^When digestion has to a certain extent been 
completed in the stomach, the soft and pulpy mass which remains 
passes into the small intestine, becomes intimately mixed with the ex- 
cretions of the liver and pancreas, and in its farther progress is exposed 
to the action of innumerable absorbent yessels, by which the whole of 
its remaining nutriment Is extracted. The residual mass, composed 
partly of indigestible matter, such as the woody fibre of vegetable 
food, and partly of effete matter separated from the blood and secreted 
by the mucous membrane of the digestive canal, is stored up in that 
part of the large intestines called the colon. Here it seems to 
undergo still further changes, losing part of its moisture, and acquir- 
ing a more solid consistence ; but the principal use of the colon seems 
to be to serve as a receptacle in which the fecal matter, which is 
constantly being formed, may accumulate and be retained until it has 
acquired a certain bulk, when it gives rise to peculiar sensations 
which indicate the necessity for its expulsion. In the large majority 
of instances this evacuation takes place with great regularity as to 
time, once in the twenty-four hours ;. but to this rule there are many 
exceptions ; in some persons it may occur several times in the same 
period, while in others, in perfect health, the intervals may be habi- 
tually prolonged to two, three, or even more days. When, from 
whatever cause, the healthy interval between the evacuations become 
prolonged or irregular, the bowels are said to be constipated ; and, if 
this condition be not soon relieved, various unpleasant consequences 
follow, and the health may be seriously impaired. 

The principal symptoms of habitual constipation, in addition, of 
course, to the torpid state of the bowels, are a white and clammy 
Btate of the tongue, sallow or muddy complexion, a dark ring or 
areola, as it is termed, round the eyes, and indigestion in its various 
forms ; the appetite is irregular and capricious, being at times raven- 
ous, and again deficient ; there is frequent sickness, and dull^ heavy 



92 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



pain in the forehead. The separation of effete and offensive matter 
from the blood being checked, the circulation is contaminated ; the 
yorious organs fail to perform their functions in a healthy manner ; 
and numerous sympathetic affections are thus engendered, which may 
mislead eyen the physician from the true source of the disease. Were 
this waste matter wholly retained, it would accumulate until the 
circulating fluid was so poisoned as to be unfit for the support of life ; 
but this danger is, to a certain extent, averted by the vicarious per- 
formance of the neglected duty by various other organs, especially by 
the kidneys, the skin, and, to a certain extent, the mucous membrane 
of the lungs ; hence we find that the urine is high coloured and loaded 
with a copious sediment, the skin is moist and clammy, the perspira- 
tion offensive, and the breath fetid. In neglected cases the fecal 
matter accumulates in the colon so as to distend it to many times its 
natural diameter, forming large irregular lumps, which may readily 
be felt projecting under the walls of the abdomen; the muscular 
power of the intestine so distended is impaired or lost, and the con- 
stipation is thus aggravated by the inability of the bowel to propel its 
contents. These large masses are farther injurious by pressing upon 
and interrupting the healthy performance of the functions of the 
surrounding viscera; obstinate vomiting, severe dyspepsia, and palpi- 
tation of the heart, are thus commonly produced, and may exist to 
such an extent as to deceive even the physician into the belief that 
they are caused by seiious organic disease. Again, by pressing upon 
the large abdominal veins, by which the blood is returned from the 
lower viscera and legs, they are liable to cause heemorrhoids, and 
swelling of the feet and ankles. 

The treatment of habitual constipation is twofold, and consists, 
first, in clearing the bowels of the morbid accumulation ; and, secondly, 
in adopting such measures as shall ensure the healthy performance of 
their functions, without the necessity of having recourse to medicine. 

In cases, therefore, in which the constipation has been of some 
continuance, and the symptoms above enumerated are present, to a 
greater or less extent, we may begin by the administration of several 
doses of active purgative medicine. The selection of an appropriate 
purgative is a matter of some importance. By over distension, the 
muscular pow^r of the bowels has been impaired, and they are no 
longer able to propel their contents, except under the influence of a 
powerful stimulus ; it is, therefore, necessary to make use of some 
preparation which will at once remove the offending mass and restore 
the muscular power which has been lost For this purpose the union 



DISEASES OF THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION. 93 

of a tonic with a purgatiye is especially useful. For a robust male, 
two ounces of infusion of senna, an equal quantity of infusion of 
gentian, and a drachm of compound tincture of cardamoms may be 
taken for a draught; and should this not be sufficient, the same 
quantity may be taken in two doses, at intervals of four hours, aided 
by an enema of two pints of warm water, in which a table-spoonful 
of common salt has been dissolred. When the bowels have been well 
cleared out, it may be necessary, for some little time, to assist their 
action by the daily use of some mild aperient. For this purpose, pills 
are, in general, to be preferred, as they are more easily taken ; two 
scruples of extract of aloes, one drachm of myrrh, half a drachm of 
extract of gentian, and the same quantity of sulphate of iron, may be 
divided into thirty-six pills, two of which may be taken daily, imme- 
diately after dinner ; or, if it be preferred, three tea-spoonfuls of the 
following electuary may be taken every morning ; confection of senna, 
one ounce ; sulphur, half an ounce ; and syrup of tolu, sufficient to 
make an electuary. 

It is a matter of much greater importance, however, to non-pro- 
fessional people, to adopt a system which shall ensure a healthy con- 
dition of the bowels without the aid of medicine. In this pill-ridden 
country, the use of purgative medicines is abused to an extent that is 
frequently productive of inflammation, ulceration, and other lesions of 
the mucous membrane of the bowels, which, if not fatal, are followed 
by permanent derangement of the health ; and this, in cases where a 
little patience, a little attention to a few simple and natural rules, 
would have been sufficient to obviate all inconvenience. The healthy 
intervals bet'^een the evacuations vary in different individuals, and 
must be ascertained by each one for himself; any attempt to reduce 
them all to one common standard is absurd and unpbilosophical, and 
can only be productive of evil. When the natural interval ib 
exceeded, so long as the health does not suffer, immediate recourse 
should not be had to medicine ; the source of the evil probably lies 
in some error in diet, or in some neglect of those natural laws by 
attention to which alone health can be preserved. It should be borne 
in mind that, unless there be a certain proportion of indigestible 
matter in the food, the bowels will cease to receive their natural 
stimulus, will fail to pour out their healthy secretions, and will cease 
to propel their too scanty contents ; as is commonly the result of a 
diet too purely animal, the great bulk of which is digested and assi- 
milated. Nature has create4 man an omnivorous animal ; she has 
provided him with broad molar teeth to grind, and with long con- 



94 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

Yoluted intestines to digest yegetable food ; and the neglect of such a 
manifest hint, a too close approximation to the habits of the cami- 
yora, will inevitably be followed by disorder of the organs thus 
alighted. The prejudice against the use of yegetable food, too common 
even among medical men, is unfounded and unreasonable ; a healthy 
stomach will find no difficulty in disposing of a due proportion of any 
of the ordinary pot-herbs, if they be properly cooked ; and for one 
which has been enfeebled by excess or injudicious management, there 
are yarious substances by which the residue of digestion may be 
increased, while its powers are not unduly taxed. The substitution 
of brown for white bread has often a most salutary effect in such 
cases, the bran which it contains acting as a gentle stimulus to the 
mucous lining of the bowels ; and the same may be said of certain 
domestic remedies, often sneered at by those who labour under an 
erroneous estimation of their own superior wisdom, such as figs, 
stewed prunes, stewed apples, &c. &c. ; these form mild and agree- 
able laxatiyes, and will seldom disagree eyen with the most uneasy 
stomach. 

Another popular and potent remedy, a large tumbler of cold spring 
water, taken the first thing on rising in the morning, seldom fails to 
produce the desired effect, except in obstinate cases, and should always 
be tried before haying recourse to the stores of the druggist, or to Dr. 
So-and-So's dinner pill. Regular walking exercise, within the limits 
of undue fatigue, is essential to the free circulation of the blood in the 
abdominal organs, and the healthy performance of their duties *, and 
the same objects will be promoted by the free use of cold 
water extemsdly, and the yigorous application of the horse-hair 
gloye morning and eyening, to the surface of the abdomen; and 
this is especially requisite in the case of those whose occupations 
are sedentary, or who, from whateyer cause, neglect out-door 
exercise. 

The records of medical science abound with curious cases of the 
extent to which constipation may exist. We are told of the feces 
being retained, without seiious mischief, for half-a-year, two years, 
and seyen years. Thomassini relates a case where eyacuation oc- 
curred but once in twenty-two days, the periods haying extended from 
eight, ten, and twelye days. Dr. Grampton had a patient who had 
had no eyacuation from her bowels for eight months, and only two or 
three motions in the preceding year. Dr. Heberden knew a person 
who, all his life, had but one motion a-month. And it is no unusual 
occurrence to be consulted in cases where the bowels moye but once 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 



95 



a- week. But, whatever be its duration, constipation is not only a 
severe physical inconvenience, but a great moral evil. It is one well 
worthy the attention of those whose speciality it is to " minister to 
the mind diseased ;" and to such gentlemen I strongly recommend 
the subject for ** psychological consideration." In the great majority 
of cases, a cross and ill-tempered child will be relieved by a dose of 
castor>oil — ^bad humour finding a ready vent under its persuasive 
powers. Nay more, I am very much inclined to think that the 
** family jars" which so disturb the peace of the domestic circle 
would be lessened, both in frequency and intensity, by the judicious 
administration of household medicine. Anger is a brief madness ; so 
is jealousy. They both act with great intensity upon the secretions ; 
and Horace was right when he said of the '* green-eyed monster,** 
that it made the liver swell with bile, and cause jaundice. The 
ancients, too, knew full well the importance of purgatives ; and when 
a man committed a foolish action; was a slave to his passions; 
formed false ideas of things, and could not discern between virtue 
and vice; neglected his affiiirs; wasted his substance in riotous 
living ; ran into debt,— in a word, was what in the present day is 
called a ** fast man" — it was " Naviget Anticyram"— away with him 
to Anticyra ! for there grew the best hellebore, which they used as a 
purgative to cure such disorders of the mind. Crimes I believe to be 
often perpetrated imderthe influence of constipation, which otherwise 
would not have been committed. Kegarding suicide, a story is told of 
Voltaire and an Englishman. They fixed an hour to leave this world 
and all its woes. The time came ; but meanwhile the bowels of the 
philosopher had operated, and his insanity, for that time at least, had 
passed away. My limits, however, will not permit me to enter 
further upon this all-important topic. I have, however, said enough 
to convey some useful hints for family practice. 

DiABBH(£A. — There is a form of diarrhoea which is common at all 
periods of the year, and to which every one is more or less liable. It 
is generally slight and of short duration, and is excited by some error 
either in the quantity or the quality of the food. It is especially 
induced by the mixture of a great variety of articles, even though the 
quantity may not have been excessive, or by a sudden change in the 
manner of living, as on first visiting a foreign country. It generally 
subsides spontaneously, when the source of irritation has been ex- 
pelled by the natural process ; but the termination may be accelerated 
by some mild purgative, such as a table -spoonftil of castor-oil, to which 
six or eight drops of laudanum may be added, if there is much griping 



96 HOUSEHOLD KEDIdNE AMD BUBOBRT. 



and pain. There can be no qneation that the more aeyere form which 
is preralent in antxunn is, in many inatancea, due to the same excit- 
ing cause, and may he attributed to the fiee consumption of iruit and 
indigestible vegetables, such as cucumbers, salads, &c. ; but the epi- 
demic form which it often assumes, even among those who are 
guiltless of any such dietetic indiscretions, indicates that there is some 
fjurther influence, probable atmospheric, concerned in its production. 
The exact nature of this agent it ia impossible to determine, but 
numerous facts haye been ascertained with regard to it, which indicate 
the precautionary measures which should be taken to avert its 
attacks. Bapid alternations of temperature, exposure to cold and wet, 
a sudden chill when over-heated, or those causes generally, which at 
other seasons are liable to be followed by affections of the chest, are, 
in autumn, prone to exert their prejudicial effects upon the bowels. 
Those, also, whose vital energy has been reduced by any depressing 
cause, such as fatigue, insufficient food, or debauchery, are liable to 
be attacked ; but the most fruitful source of severe bowel complaints 
is unquestionably to be traced to exposure to the foul effluvia from open 
drains, sewers, and cesspools, which, in spite of the efforts of Sanitary 
Commissioners, still spread pestilence through many of our towns, 
and which, during the hot and close weather of the autumn months, 
are particularly offensive and dangerous. Every effort, therefore, 
should be exerted to preserve the purity of the atmosphere, by having 
all such receptacles of filth properly covered in and thoroughly 
cleansed by flushes of water ; all indigestible articles of food should 
be avoided, and care should be taken to shift the clothing immediately, 
if accidentally exposed to the rain. These precautions are especially 
necessary when the disease prevails in a severe form, or if there be 
any threatening of Asiatic cholera; under these circumstances a 
broad flannel belt should be worn over the abdomen, regular habits 
should be observed, and all excesses, particularly in drinking, care- 
fully shunned. On the first symptoms of an attack, the patient should 
at once assume the horizontal position, retiring to bed if they be 
severe, or lying down upon a sofa if mild ; perfect rest is of great 
effect in calming the irritability of the bowels. The abdomen 
should be fomented with water as hot as it can be borne ; or a piece 
of flannel wrung out of hot water andsprinkled with lauduium may be 
firmly bound over it with a large toweL Sickness and thirst are best 
relieved by small pieces of ice allowed to dissolve slowly in the mouth 
till they can be swallowed ; or by effervescing draughts in very small 
quantities. If there be any reason to suppose that any irritating 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 97 

matter is contained in the bowels, a dose of castor-oil and laudanum 
may be taken ; but if not, or if it have been expelled by seyeral tree 
motions, the following should at once be commenced : — ^Aromatic 
spirits of anunonia and tincture of catechu, of each four drachms ; 
aromatic confection, one drachm and a half; laudanum, eighty drops; 
chalk mixture, seven ounces. Two table-spoonfuls may be taken by 
an adult every two or three hours, or after every liquid motion. It 
should be distinctly understood, however, that neither laudanum nor 
any other preparation of opium should ever be given to children except 
imder medical supervision, as numerous fatal accidents have occurred 
from its imprudent administration ; even in adults, its effects should 
be watched. The compound chalk powder will often be taken more 
readHy by children, and may be given in doses of from five to twenty 
grains in any suitable vehicle. If in spite of these means the purg- 
ing continues very severe and exhausting, and if medical assistance 
cannot be procured, an opiate enema may be administered, provided 
the patient be an adult. To ensure its beneficial effect, the bowels 
should first be washed out by an ordinary enema of warm water, and 
then thirty drops of laudanum in a wine-glassful of thin starch are to 
be injected, and retained as long as possible ; this plan should only be 
resorted to in urgent cases. It is only in protracted attacks, where 
the patients strength is much reduced, that, he will be disposed to 
take nourishment. During the first burst of the complaint, the less 
that is taken the better ; subsequently, small quantities of boiled rice, 
or sago, or arrow-root, with the addition, if necessary, of a little port- 
wine, may be given from time to time. The return to the usual diet 
should be made slowly and cautiously, great care being taken to avoid 
overloading the stomach; and if much weakness and loss of appetite 
should remain, half a wine-glassful of infusion of cusparia, made by 
macerating five drachms of bark in a pint of boiling water, and strain- 
ing, may be taken three times a-day ; ten or fifteen drops of dilute 
sulphuric acid may be added to each dose with advantage, in some 
cases. 

"WoBMS. — Both man and animals — vertebrate and invertebrate — 
are infested with parasites. The himian being boasts of twelve ^ the 
ox has eleven; the sheep, the horse, the hog, and the fox have nine ; 
the hare has eight ; birds in general have seven ; the salmon has 
eight, and the perch seven. Almost every organ of the body, also, 
seems to be distinguished by its proper inhabitants ; and how they 
got there is still a matter of wonder to the unlearned, and of doubt 
even to the physician. Many hypotheses have been proposed to 



98 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

account for their presence. Leuwenhoek, Linnseus, and others, assert 
that they are receired into the body with the aliment, in the form of 
eggs deposited by animals whose natural abode is without the body ; 
others — as Pallas, Brera, and Rhind — ^that they also arise from eggs, 
but that these eggs are those of the worms which inhabit other bodies; 
Yalisnieri and others that they are bom with the being they inhabit ; 
Heller and others, that they have existed from the beginningof time. 
None of these hypotheses are tenable; but the subject is more curious 
than practical, and must not further detain us. Three yery distinct 
species of worms are found in the intestines of man ; and, strange to 
say, each holds its own station, and rarely intrudes upon the domain 
of its neighbour. I will briefly describe them: — 1. The round- worm, 
Asearis lumbrieoides, is about the size and shape of the common earth- 
worm, although a totally distinct species. Its abode is generally in 
the small intestines, from which, however, it sometimes wanders into 
the stomach, and eyen into the mouth and nostrils, or it often makes 
its way into the bowels and the large intestines. It is not unfrequently 
solitary, but sometimes exists in great numbers ; thus two hundred 
have been expelled from one patient in the course of a week. 2. The 
thread- worm, Ascaris vermicularia, is the smallest of the family — ^three 
to five lines in length; and very like a small piece of white thread. 
It generally inhabits the lower bowels, giving rise to great irritation 
and itching. There is another species of Ascarides ; but it is sufficient, 
for present purposes, to consider the two as one. 3. The tape- worm, 
Tania, varies in length ; it is generally found from live to ten feet 
long, but is recorded as having reached sixty and even one hundred 
feet. It is flat, about five lines broad, and divided into segments. 
They are more common in some countries than in others, and a 
broader variety is said to be peculiar to the inhabitants of Switzer- 
land, Poland, and Russia. As regards the general symptoms which 
indicate the presence of worms, there is generally uneasiness in the 
bowels, not amounting to pain, but still annoying and indescribable. 
The nose itches ; the bowels are disordered ; the appetite is capricious ; 
the beUy more or less hard and swollen ; the breath ofiensive ; the 
temper fretful and irritable ; and sleep disturbed. In children, fits, 
and St. Vitus' dance, Chorea^ and even insanity have been ascribed to 
worms. Cough, palpitation, general oedema, or swelling produced by 
the accumulation of fluid under the skin, and emaciation, are frequent 
results of their baneful presence; and yet, because persons in ap- 
parent health are sometimes a^ected with worms, it has been boldly 
asserted, not only that they are harmless, but that they perform the 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 99 

office of Bcayengers, and clear off the noxious matters contained in 
the bowels I I will not argue the point ; suffice it to say, that where 
they haye indicated their presence by the disordered health of the 
indiyidual, their expulsion has always been attended with the hap- 
piest results ; and that he is a wise man, who, having discovered that 
they prey upon him, gives them notice to quit without the slightest 
delay. And how is that to be effected ? The means that have been 
proposed for the expulsion of worms — ^vermifuges, as they are termed 
— ^are almost as numerous as those for the cure of cholera. They are, 
however, of two kinds : those which act as purgatives, by increasing 
the action of the bowels, and thus favouring expulsion ; and those 
which either poison the animals at once, or wound them till they die, 
or prove so disagreeable to them that they leave the bowels. Among 
the former, those most to be depended upon are calomel and scam- 
mony, gamboge and castor-oil, in doses according to the age of the 
patient ; but it is a bad plan to vex the bowels by active purgation 
until anthelmintic medicines have been tried. Among the latter 
there are the pink-root, the male fern, the bark of the pomegranate, 
walnut rind, salt, camphor, bitters, copaiva balsam, wormseed, tansy, 
rue, wormwood, garlic, assafetida, and many others. Some of the 
volatile oils also are efficacious, as those of turpentine and chenopo- 
dium. Cowhage acts mechanically, by wounding the worms with 
its sharp brisUes; while the powder of tin or zinc bruises or 
scratches them by its angular particles. The fixed oils are supposed 
also to act as anthelmintics, by covering the surface of the worm, 
and closing its respiratory pores against the entrance of air. But the 
most effectual remedy is the kousso, the flowers of Rosaceous tree 
not long since imported into this country. Armed with a decoction 
of this drug, I have most successfully waged wars of extermination 
against round-worms, tape- worms, and thread- worms •— all have 
perished under its influence, and been ignominiously expelled from 
their habitation. The best mode of administering it is to infuse half 
an ounce in a pint of hot water, boiling it down to about two-thirds. 
The patient must hst for twelve hours before taking it ; that is to 
say, he must go to bed supperless, and early in the morning take his 
dose in three poisons, and at intervals of half an hour. Two hours 
after the last dose he is to take a table-spoonful of castor-oil. The 
remedy had better be repeated in the course of a few days. When 
thread-worms infest the rectum, an injection of the infusion of kousso 
will, generally remove them. Turpentine also, in the same form, is 
often successful ; but I think the kousso should always be first 



.-i 



. » 



kA^ -M 




w r 



S -ft' 




DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 101 

ance in the process of digestion has been confirmed by an ingenious, 
though cruel, experiment. The bile-duct has been divided in various 
animals, and, by fixing it in the wound of the abdomen, made to dis- 
charge its contents externally. The animals thus treated, after 
recovering from the immediate effects of the operation, consume even 
more than their usual amount of food, but it does not seem to have 
any nourishing effect ; they become thin and weak, lose their appe- 
tite, and die generally in a few months. If, however, they be per- 
mitted to lick the orifice from which the bile flows, so as to receive 
it into their stomachs, digestion does not seem to be impaired, and 
they remain fat and healthy. 

Attached to the liver is the gall-bladder, where the bile is stored 
up, until it is required for the purposes of digestion ; this appendix is 
rendered necessary by the fact that the secretion is going on con- 
stantly, while in man, and many other animals, especially the cami- 
vora, the food is taken at considerable intervals. In some herbivorous 
animals, in which digestion is going on almost continually, the gall- 
bladder is absent. 

From this brief sketch of the physiology of the liver, it must be 
evident that any derangement of its functions, any suppression or 
imperfect performance of its important secretion, must be attended 
with injurious consequences, not only to the digestive and assimila- 
tive processes, but, through the contamination of the circulation, to 
the system at large. We find, therefore, that those suffering from 
functional disease of this organ, complain of dyspepsia in its various 
forms ; they are much troubled with flatulence, and a dull, aching pain 
in the right side, coming on about an hour after meals, is a common 
symptom. The tongue is broad, clammy, and white, except towards 
its root, where it is often of a yellowish colour, more or less marked 
in different individuals ; there is a bitter taste in the mouth, espe- 
cially on awaking in the morning ; and during digestion there are 
frequent eructations of an intensely bitter fluid into the back of the 
throat, or even into the mouth. When these symptoms are present, 
we will find further evidence of biliary derangement in the state of 
the bowels, which are generally obstinately constipated, the natural 
muscular action by which their contents are propelled being no 
longer excited by the healthy secretion, the absence of which is still 
more clearly indicated by the pale and unnatural appearance of the 
evacuations. This condition occasionally alternates with diarrhcea, 
caused, apparently, by a sudden pouring out of accumulated and 
unhealthy bile, which tinges the evacuations of a dark, pitchy, or 



102 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND 8UBGEBT. 



greenifih colour, and giyes a temporary relief to the general symp- 
toms. 

Detained in the blood, the purely ezorementitious constituents of 
the secretion manifest their presence by the sallow and dingy hue 
which the complexion assumes, and still more clearly in the yellowish 
tinge of the *' white of the eye." Were there no oUier outlet for the 
poisonous ingredient, jauncUce would ensue ; and if it were com- 
pletely suppressed, the result would be fatal ; but, fortunately, in the 
great majority of instances, the kidney undertakes a part of the 
neglected duty. The urine is turbid, high-coloured, deposits a copious 
sediment, and, in seyere cases, will eyen tinge the linen of a yellow 
colour, from the abundance of the bile which it contains. In short, 
eyery function of the body participates in the general disorder; the 
eyes are dazzled by innumerable spots and films floating before them ; 
the ears are confused by the ringing of bells or the sounding of rail- 
way whistles ; the sense of smell is blunted, sometimes penrerted in 
the most singular manner. The brain itself does not escape ; on the 
contrary, it is generally the first to suffer. There is dull frontal 
headache; an inability for any mental exertion; the temper becomes 
peeyish, irritable, and capricious ; and the whole man is so altered as 
scarcely to be recognisable by his friends. There can be no question 
that to the gloomy influence of hypochondria are to be attributed 
some of the most remarkable errors of celebrated men, some of the 
most lamenteble excesses of noted criminals that are recorded in his- 
tory ; the hero has shrunk into the poltroon, the philanthropist into the 
sayage, the philosopher into the fooL Strange that " battle, murder, 
and sudden death/' might frequently be ayerted by the timely adminis- 
tration of a blue pill and a black draught ; that to the derangement of 
Imperial yiscera may be due the calamities which now oyerwhelm the 
East, and which threaten to inyolye the whole of Europe in war. 

An acquaintance with the exciting causes of the functional diseases 
of the liyer, at once suggesto the appropriate means for preyenting 
their occurrence. Whateyer impairs the quality, or interferes with 
the free circulation of the large quantity of blood which is subjected 
to ite influence, must necessarily haye an injurious effect upon its 
secretion; the quality of the blood is most frequently impaired by 
luxurious liying — the freedom of ite circulation by indolence and seden- 
tary habite. There are few who can afford it who do not habitually 
consume more food than is required to supply the wear and tear of 
the system; and as this excess of supply oyer the demand must to a 
certain extent be discharged from the body, the yarious excreting 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 103 

organs are taxed with more than their natural duty, and none more 
80 than the lirer, through which the hlood, loaded with the imper- 
fectly digested food, is immediately passed. Temperance, then, in 
food as well as in drink, is evidently essential to those who have any 
respect for their internal economy; animal food should he taken much 
more sparingly than is common among the middle and upper classes 
of this country; and the good old rule, to rise fix)m table with an appe- 
tite, should be rigidly observed. At the same time, the free current 
of the blood should be promoted by active exercise, which, by calling 
the muscles of the abdomen into play, produces a regular pressure, or 
rather a series of concussions upon its contents, which is eminently 
useful in exciting and regulating the circulation. The ill effects of 
want of exercise are strikingly seen in the sallow complexions and 
disordered digestions of those who are employed in sedentary trades, 
and in none more than in shoemakers, whose abdominal circulation is 
farther obstructed by the bent position in which they work, and by 
the pressure of the last. 

When these precautions have been neglected, and the symptoms 
above described Indicate that the function of the liver is disordered, 
it will probably be necessary to have recourse to medicine. It has 
been too much the fashion to resort immediately to large doses of 
mercurial medicines, which, though they afford present relief, are, 
when imprudently or too frequently employed, liable to produce 
injurious and irritating effects upon the liver. It is a safer plan to 
begin by clearing out the bowels freely by some purgative, such as 
Epsom or Glauber salts, infusion of senna or jalap, which will produce 
copious watery evacuations, and aid in relieving the abdominal con- 
gestion by draining off part of the superabundant fluid. This will 
frequently, in slight cases, be sufficient; but if the symptoms still 
linger, mercury in small quantities may then be usefully employed. 
One grain of blue pill, combined with two of compound colocynth, 
and half a grain of powder of ipecacuan, may be taken on three suc- 
cessive nights and mornings ; and if at the same time the bowels be 
kept regular and the diet moderate, and if the liver be not stimulated 
by wine, spirits, or fermented liquors, it is probable that effectual 
relief will be obtained. In chronic or obstinate cases, it is better, if 
possible, to take a course of some mineral water, such as that of 
Cheltenham, than to persevere in using the more concentrated and 
irritating drugs of the chemist; while in ,this, as in many other 
complaints, the relaxation and amusements of a watering-place pro- 
duce a beneficial change, which medicine alone fails to effect. 



104 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

BiLiouBinsss is the most mysterious of ^* all the ills that flesh is 
heir to ;" thousands declare themselves its victims, yet scarcely two 
attach precisely the same meaning to the term; fortunate sceptics 
doubt its existence, and grave physicians dispute its pathology. Though 
not disposed to be oracular upon such a recondite subject, we may 
endeavour to give it a " local habitation and a name," and to indicate 
its treatment, curative and preventive. The bile is poured into the 
small intestine at a short distance from the outlet of the stomach, and 
becomes intimately mixed with the partially digested food, aiding in 
the completion of the process, and acting, besides, as the natural 
stimulus to the healthy action of the bowels. When redundant in 
quantity, or vitiated in quality, it is apt to excite diarrhcBa ; when 
deficient, digestion is imperfectly performed, and the bowels are torpid 
and irregular. When not duly eliminated from the blood, the effects 
vary according to the extent of the suppression ; when this is com- 
plete, jaundice is the result, which if not relieved, terminates in death, 
from ihe poisoning of the whole system by the retained secretion ; 
when the secretion is imperfectly performed, riather than suppressed, 
a very small quantity merely being retained in the blood, the train of 
symptoms which follows may, properly speaking, be termed bilious. 
These symptoms are, languor ; dullness ; loss of appetite ; nausea ; 
a feeling of general indisposition ; drowsiness ; headache ; giddiness, 
which sometimes comes on suddenly so as to oblige the patient to 
grasp at the nearest object for support ; sudden and transitory dimness 
of vision; the appearance of *^ blacks" floating before the eyes, techni- 
cally called " muscsB volitantes ;" itching of the skin ; dull and muddy 
complexion, and yellow discoloration of the white of the eye. Such 
are the most' ordinary symptoms of *' bile," though they may not all 
be accumulated upon the same hapless individual at one time. If 
neglected, or sometimes without any premonitory indications, an 
acute attack comes on ; this is characterized by very obstinate sick- 
ness and vomiting; dull, but very distressing headache; thirst; 
parched and dry mouth ; furred tongue and hot skin ; which feverish 
■symptoms are sometimes ushered in by a flt of shivering. The vomited 
matter is intensely bitter, and after a short time consists almost en- 
tirely of bile ; this circumstance has given rise to the erroneous opinion 
that the attack is due to what is termed an '* overflow of bile ;" the 
true explanation is simple. The action of the duodemmi, the part 
into which the secretion is poured, is inverted, and its contents regur- 
gitate into the stomach, and the same thing may be observed in 
obstinate vomiting from whatever cause; as, for instance, in sea- 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 105 

sickness. The attack is seldom relieved until the bowels have been 
freely opened, though it sometimes subsides suddenly before this has 
occurred; but the treatment will be sufficiently evident from the 
general remarks I have made upon liver complaints. 

Jaundice. — From the preceding observations, nothing remains to 
be said upon jaundice. Its causes and symptoms must now be fully 
understood, while the treatment is obvious, and requirei^no further 
comment. 

The Gall-bladdeb is sometimes the seat of inflammation ; but 
the affection, which is generally complicated with inflammation of the 
liver, with which organ the gall-bladder is in immediate contact, is very 
obscure and the diagnosis difficult. It is also liable to distention, as 
resulting from its contents being unable to flow into the intestines in 
consequence of the presence of 

Gall-stones, of which I am now to speak. These concretions 
are also called biliary calculi, from being deposited from the bile, as 
urinary calculi^ or stones in the bladder, are deposited from the urine. 
Grall-stones vary considerably in number, in size, and in shape. They 
may be so small as to occasion no inconvenience ; so large as to cause 
excruciating torture in their passage through the duct into the bowels; 
or so enormous as almost, if not entirely, to fill the bladder itself. They 
are sometimes roimd, sometimes angular with many irregular faces, 
and this particularly when numerous ; since, being soft, they are 
pressed against each other and thus moulded into form. In colour, 
they are of a brownish yellow. The bile, secreted by the liver and 
stored up in the gall-bladder, is conveyed from that organ into the 
intestines for admixture with the food for the purposes of assimi- 
lation, by a short tube or duct of about the calibre of a goose-quUl. 
In the passage of gall-stones through this duct, which is often smaller 
than the concretion, great suffering is induced. The paroxysms are 
very severe, the pain extending down the back and side. There is 
often an intermission of pain ; and its entire cessation indicates that 
the offending body has passed through its narrow channel and made 
its way into the capacious intestines. By adding water to the 
evacuations, gall-stones may be detected floating upon the surface. 
If they are round, it is pretty certain that there are no more ; but 
when angular, for the reasons I have stated, others probably exist. 
We must endeavour to allay the pain and relax the gaU-duot. Opium 
may be given in grain doses every hour, or twenty drops of laudanum. 
A hot bath— >not a warm bath, but one at 110° — should be continued 
until faintness comes on, and small nauseating doses of tartrate of 



106 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND BUEGEBT. 

antimony — ^two grainB duaolyed in a pint of water, and a table-spoon- 
fvX taken every half-hour, will be uaefiiL The orthodox after-treat* 
menty which is entirely empirical, oonflista of a course of alkaline 
medicines, which are supposed, though with little truth, to be solvents 
of the mie. Turpentine, too, has been greatly lauded ; nitric acid 
and taraxacum have had their advocates ; but I believe nothing is 
better than regular exercise and a careful diet, avoiding fat meats and 
an excess of animal food. A course of Cheltenham waters is often 
of great service. 

The "pAVCSBABy or Swebtbb&u), has already been spoken of (page 
19) as concerned in the process of digestion, during which period it 
pours out a secretion, called the pancreatic juice, in considerable 
quantities. The exclusive function of the pancreas seems to be, from 
the experiments of M. Bernard, to act upon fatty matters, and to bring 
them into a state suitable for absorption by the lacteals. Hence we 
may infer that in diseases of this organ tiie oleaginous substances 
used as food are not properly assimilated; and it is asserted that 
where undigested fat has been evacuated, examination after death 
has proved the existence of pancreatic disorder. I must here, how- 
ever, state that the pancreas has been removed in dogs without incon- 
venience ; that men may live for years with degeneration of this 
organ ; and yet, according to Frierchs and Lentz, even under these 
circumstances fatty substances have been found digested and absorbed. 
In fact, we know little about the matter ; and, from the deep-seated 
position of the organ, its intimate connection with other parts which 
always suffer with it, and the difficulty of diagnosis, almost as little 
is known about its diseases. Indeed, disorganization of the panci'eas 
is more frequently detected after death than during life ; for the 
deep-seated pain which accompanies it may be readily attributed to 
affections of other organs, as also may nausea, emaciation, jaundice, 
and colourless stools. The causes, too, of disease of the pancreas are 
fully as obscure. They have been attributed to the use of mercury ; 
the abuse of tobacco; mumps, and the translation of affections of other 
glands, as well as of the parotid ; hydrophobia ; and fever. As regards 
treatment, if the affection be detected, we must depend upon iodine or 
bromine ; if undetected, the case must be treated empirically, and 
symptoms relieved as they arise. 

The Spleen has highly important functions to perform. These, 
however, are not perfectly understood, further than the organ plays 
a great part in determining the composition of the blood, and perhaps 
in assisting in the functions of the liver. During digestion the 



DISEASES OF THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION. 107 

spleen, like the liyer and pancreas, is aetive ; its Teasels are full of 
blood ; its size, therefore, is greater, and its peculiar structure more 
prominent Tlie blood passing out of it bj the splenic vein is dif- 
fei*ent in chemical and microscopical characters from the blood going 
into it by the splenic artery. This shows the great efEect produced on 
the blood as it drculatea through the spleen ; but these changes are 
too recondite for popular discussion, and are. in iaudt not yet fully 
understood. Although they are doubtless very important, neyertheless 
the spleen has been, like the pancreas, extirpated in dogs without much 
injury ; and, like it also, its diseases are obscure and little known. 
Whatey^ retards the circulation of the blood, either in the heart or 
portal vein, as insufficiency of the forces which propel it, the cold 
stage of fever, asphyxia, and diseases of feeble action, may cause con- 
gestion and enlargement of the spleen ; and it is yery difficult to 
decide whether the disease be simple congestion, inflammation, or 
specific organic disease. We know the spleen is often enlarged after 
ague, and we also know it is sometimes enlarged idiopathically, that 
is, without any apparent cause ; and further, that its capsule or cover- 
ing is liable to inflammation. And so little further do we know, that 
even after death it is sometimes impossible to detennine the exact 
nature of the lesion we discover. It is an interesting fact, however, 
tiiat in many eases of sudden death the spleen has been found enlarged 
and softened. The spleen lies deeply in the left hypochondrium, that 
is, in the left and upper portion of the abdomen, immediately under 
the false ribs. When diseased there is pain in this situation, parti- 
cularly on pressure, and a movable tumour can generally be felt, of an 
oblong shape ; there are symptoms of dyspepsia, depression of spirits, 
'* a fit of 6ple^" sometimes cough, inability to lie upon the right 
side, and dropsical effusions. If the attack is acute, it must be treated 
upon general principles — general and local bleeding, purgation, warm 
fomentations, blisters, &c. When chronic, tonics combined with 
aperients seem most useful. If after ague, quinine is highly bene- 
ficial, and often effects a cure. Iodine has been strongly recommended, 
the iodide of iron is perhaps the most preferable form. Kitric and 
nitro-muriatic adds have been prescribed with good effect; and local 
mean|, as setons, blisters, &c., must not be neglected. But the dis- 
ease is one entirely for the treatment of the physician, and I need 
not further dwell upon it. 

Mbsenteeic Disease. — ^The organs which are the seat of this affec- 
tion are those through which the chyle passes in its passage from the 
bowels to the thoracic duct ; and thence, as the results of affections of 



108 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

- - - - - '- 

these organs we have a mal-assimilation of food and a consequent wast** 
ing of the hody. The mesenteric glands are not nnfirequenUy the 
seat of inflammation ; but tiie affection, owing to the depth of the 
parts inyolved, is rarely detected, especially in its early stages. 
Scrofula, of which I am hereafter to speak, is a common disease of 
these glands, and the result eit-her of an hereditary taint or of bad 
food, insufficient clothing, defective yentilation, and disobedience 
to those general laws which Nature has declared shall hot be offended 
against without the offence bringing with it its own punishment. 
Tabes meaenUrieOy as this complaint is sometimes termed, is generally 
associated with other affections, such as consumption, spine disease, 
water on the brain, rickets, &c, &c. The disease is most frequent in 
children, and its most marked symptoms are prominent and hardened 
belly, and general emaciation. The child's face is shrunken. It 
looks aged ; is dull, and indisposed to exertion. The secretions are 
deranged ; the stools generally of a clayey or chalky appearance ; the 
breath is offensive ; the perspiration sour ; the urine milky ; cough 
is frequent ; weakness increases; dropsical symptoms occur ; and the 
patient dies exhausted. But these symptoms may extend over a 
course of years ; and death is often due less- to the disease itself than 
to the complications to which I have, alluded. The treatment will be 
laid down with that of scrofula; but it is only in the early stage that 
treatment is of much avail. Then there is much hope, especially if 
the means exist for enforcing fresh air and exercise, with nutritious 
food and warm clothing. When emaciation is great, and night- 
sweats and diarrhoea set in, little can be done but smooth the 
passage to the grave. 

I cannot leave this section of my subject without alluding to 
Flatulence, and that although it be more symptomatic of dis- 
ease than disease itself. To contain a certain amount of gas is natural 
to the stomach and bowels ; when this is in excess, then only does it 
become inconvenient. And really the internal commotions and noises — 
aptly to be compared to the thunder that precedes the storm, and the 
convulsive movements thatusher in the earthquake — ^with which some 
persons are afflicted, are most distressing, often rendering the unhappy 
sufferer an object of dislike, if not of disgust. The rumbling or 
gurgling sound in the bowels with which some persons are annoyed — 
borborygmw — ^is produced by gas passing from one part of the intes- 
tines to another, and mixing with the contained fluids. This at all 
times produces an annoying feeling of distention, and sometimes pain, 
amounting to that of colic. Another form of flatulence, differing, 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 



109 



however, in degree not in kind, is what is popularly termed Drum- 
belly-HBcientifically, Meteorism or Tympanites. Here the quantity 
of gas may he very great, yisihly distending the howels ; and when 
confined to a certain portion of the intestines, even giving rise to the 
suspicion of solid tumours or pregnancy. Cases are related in which 
the distention was so great that neighhouring parts were pressed upon, 
respiration interfered with, and death ensued ; the intestines also have 
been ruptured by expansion of the confined air. Flatulence, what- 
ever may be its extent, is generally caused by dyspepsia, or torpid 
bowels, or by spasmodic or permanent strictures of the intestines ; it 
is also a usual attendant upon fevers, colic, constipation, and hysteria. 
When slight it may be removed by carminative medicines. Gregory's 
mixture of rhubarb, magnesia, and ginger, a tea-spoonful for a dose in 
a wine-glass of peppermint-water, is very useful. Ginger-tea also is 
beneficial. Stimulants also may be had recourse to, such as turpen- 
tine in half-ounce doses; sal -volatile and Hoffinann's anodyne; a 
mixture of assafostida and sulphuric ether, particularly in hysteri- 
cal females. Mild cathartics must be administered, and exercise 
insisted upon. Great care must be bestowed upon the diet, and all 
indigestible food avoided. Salads, cabbage, cucumbers, and unripe 
fruits are peculiarly apt to evolve gases even in a healthy stomach ; 
and these, therefore, and also fermented liquors, should not be taken. 
Plain food, with a little brandy-and- water, regular exercise, and the 
avoidance of luxurious habits, will generally correct the tendency to 
fiatulence. 

In infants and young children fiatulence is very common ; but it 
is generally removed by a little magnesia with any aromatic water, 
as cinnamon, peppermint, or camphor. 



CHAPTER XIII. 



DISEASES OF THE 0BOAN8 OF CIRCULATION. 



Having spoken in a previous chapter of the diseases of the blood 
itself, it is now necessary to enter upon those of the apparatus by 
which it is conveyed. Interfering as they do with the proper distri- 
bution of a fiuid essential to every fimction of life, these diseases 
constitute a most important class. The reader must bear in mind 



110 



HO U BEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



that wfailo in the body the blood is always contained in yesseU going 
from or retoming to the central organ, Hbe heart. From the former 
pass large trunks, the arteries^ which ramify into all parts of the body, 
and Bubdiyide in the smaUest twigs, which, from their hair - like 
minuteness, are called eapillariea. These, again, having supplied freely 
the parts to which they are sent, re-unite into common trunks, which 
increase in size by receiving others as they approach the heart, and 
are called veins. So perfect is the distribution of the capillaries to 
every part of the body, that it wotdd be impossible to thrust a needle 
into any portion of the skin without wounding numbers of them, as 
is proved by the escape of blood. The heart is supplied with a com- 
plex apparatus of valves, which prevent the blood from flowing 
backwards, and oblige it to pass forwai*d in the proper direction. 

The subject thus, then, divides itself naturally into diseases of the 
heart itself and its valves, and the vessels which convey the blood. 

DiBBASEs OF THE Hbart are organic or functional. With the 
former class domestic medicine has little or nothing to do. They 
can be detected only by medical men well educated in the use of the 
stethoscope. Their treatment, too, must never be meddled with by 
the unskilled; but the patient should adhere in all respects most 
strictly to the directions of.his professional adviser. It may be stated, 
however, for his comfort, that the liability to sudden death in such 
affections is fax less than is popularly supposed. Those who suffer 
from them often live to considerable age, and are able, with care, to 
enjoy life. The organic diseases of the heart begin generally in 
thickening of its valves, by which the latter are rendered incompetent 
to their office, and the blood is allowed to flow backwards. Enlarge- 
ment of the heart in consequence of its increased work mostly foUowSi 
the veins are choked with blood, and after a time distress of breathing 
and dropsical affections occur. In a vast majority of instances the 
thickening of the valves, upon which depends a train of evils, is 
itself caused by rheumatic inflammation. A great means, therefore, 
of obviating the miseries attendant on heart disease is to be careful 
in the treatment and prevention of rheumatism. 

Functional Diseases of the Heart, as indicated by palpita- 
tion, liability to faintings, attacks of pain, and distressing sensations 
referred to the chest, are very common. They usually occasion much 
anxiety and alarm, and are constantly mistaken for more serious 
maladies. Physicians of note have frequently remarked that those 
who complain most, and are most fearful that they have got '* disease 
of the heart," almost always prove to be affected only with functional 



DISEASES OF THE OBGANS OF CIBCULATION. Ill 

derangement The causes of these maladies are for the most part 
easily detectible, and, if the patient bo willing, easily removable. 
^* Fast" people, addicted to late hours, excessive indulgence of the 
animal passions, abuse of stimulants, &c., get palpitation of the heart 
Let them go slowly and they will lose it Tobacco smokers often 
induce extreme irritability of the heart, marked by great depression 
of spirits, nervousness, and apprehension of impending calamity, and 
not unfrequentiy attended by irregularity of tiie pulse. Let them 
abjure the weed and they will get welL Tobacco is an active poison, 
and given in full doses is felt especially by the circulatory system, and 
to a person unaccustomed to its use it may very quickly kill ; so also 
long-continued small quantities undermine the health. Dyspepsia is a 
very frequent cause of derangement of the heart's action and trouble- 
some palpitation. To use plain food, eat slowly, and take plenty of 
exercise are the dictates of conunon-sense. Excess in the use of either 
tea or coffee is a fruitful cause of these affections. The well-known 
power possessed by tea of driving away drowsiness is in virtue of its 
influence upon the heart. Sleep is caused by determination of blood 
to the head ; and tea, by much diminishing the propelling force of the 
heart, decreases this determination, and induces wakefulness. If the 
effect be carried too far, distressuig restiessness, proneness to faint, 
&c., may be caused. Dr. Percival reUtes the case of a young gentle- 
man, who when out on a pedestrian tour drank during a day of extra 
exeriion repeated draughts of strong green tea at all his meals. He 
went to bed early, feeling well, and resolved to pursue the same diet 
on the following day. In the night he was attacked by most distress- 
ing palpitation, the respiration became irregular and oppressed, and 
several times the heart's action appeared to cease. These B]rmptoms 
continued throughout the night, and he was only saved, from what 
appeared to be impending death, by the free administration of brandy. 
Many similar instances have been recorded. The influence of coffee 
on the heart is nearly the same in kind, though less severe in degree 
than that of tea. The abuse of either is very much to be depr/ecated. 
Those who may have induced ftmctional disease of the heart by over- 
work, too great abstemiousness, or indulgence in enervating habits, will 
derive much benefit from the use of steel, and a nutritious plain diet, 
with small quantities of bitter beer. 

Congestion of the heart is a frequent source of palpitation ; and 
mental emotion, suppressed evacuations, and violent exercise may give 
rise to it. Joy and anger, surprise and dismay, are followed by in- 
creased action of the heart, and may occasion congestion by causing 



112 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUBGERY. 



the blood to accumulate in the right auricle. A sadden plunge into 
cold water has the same effect ; so has yiolent exercise, such as rowing, 
running, cricket, and other out-door sports ; indeed all long-sustained 
muscular efforts, without previous training, occasion severe paroxysms 
of palpitation, and sudden death may arise from all these causes. 

As regards the general treatment of palpitation, we must endeavour 
to remove the cause, and to shorten the paroxysms by the use of 
antispasmodics, such as a tea-spoonful of sal- volatile or ether in a wine- 
glass of water, or a cup of strong coffee. Persons subject to palpi- 
tation must avoid all circumstances' liable to excite it — istimulants, 
either mental and intellectual or otherwise, over exercise, and over 
sleep. Slight opiates are useful, and so is a belladonna plaster applied 
over the heart. The use of the shower-bath is recommended by Dr. 
Walshe; and, generally speaking, attention to diet, regularity of 
bowels, cheerful occupation, and change of air will, when a tendency 
to palpitation exists, either remove it or greatly mitigate its severity. 

Feeble Cibcuultion. — This defect may be conveniently treated 
of here, although it concerns not only the heart but also the arteries and 
capillaries, more especially the latter. It is very frequently hereditary 
in its origin, but is also often aggravated, or may even be induced, by 
injudicious management during childhood. Its symptoms are a large, 
slow, and very soft pulse, liability to headache, and to cold feet and 
hands, inability for great or continued exertion, and a general torpor 
of both mental and bodily functions. A man's energy depends mainly 
on the vigour and integrity of his circulatory system. If the blood 
be well supplied to all parts of his body his various organs will per- 
form their duties well. The brain will think easily and without dis- 
tress ; the muscles will be competent to great exertions ; and the various 
noxious influences from without, as cold, damp, &c., will be endured 
with comparative impunity. All this is reversed if the heart and 
arteries are below par in vigour. The blood is not easily propelled 
to distant parts, and is liable to stagnate. Hard reading or continued 
thought produces headache and is endured with difficulty. The hands 
and feet are often very cold, and in winter are affected with chilblains. 
In extreme examples the hands are thick, and when warm very red, 
and when cold of a blue or purple tinge; the pressure of a finger leaves 
a pale impression, to which colour is restored only after the lapse of a 
few seconds. Exposure on a clear frosty day at' once marks out those 
who suffer from feeble circulation. While others are only exhilarated, 
they are starved and depressed, have blue noses, pale cheeks, and 
dusky markings beneath the eyes. Credit is often given to men for 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF GIBCULATION. 113 

intellectual activity in whom the sole difference from those around them 
is, that the heart is more yigorous and the hrain better supplied with 
blood. Persons are often accused of want of mental energy, infirmity 
of purpose, or cowardice, who are simply incapacitated by a feeble 
circulation for the performance of the duties expected of them. Such 
being its penalties, the remedies for this condition become of the very 
first importance, and I will first note what may be done in the way of 
prevention. Those expecting to become parents should endeaTOur by 
all possible means to keep themselves in good physical health, in order 
that their ofi&pring may come into the world well endowed: with 
vital power. Infants should always, if possible, be suckled either by 
the mother or by a wet nurse ; if not practicable, asses' milk is the 
best substitute, and next to it cow's milk a little diluted. For the first 
six or nine months a liberal supply of this— nature's diet — should be 
fiiniished, but on no account any other article. During childhood, 
good plain cooked meat should be given once or twice every day ; 
eggs, milk, and even perhaps small quantities of wine or beer may be 
also Used with advantage. If the symptoms of the defective power 
of the circulation, as chilblains, great liability to suffer from cold feet, 
&c., show themselves, a medical man should be consulted, and a long 
course of steel, with perhaps the cod-liver oil, may be administered 
with the best effects — ^remedies which, to have any infiuence in reno- 
vating the constitutional power, should be given not for a few weeks, 
but in small doses over periods of many months ; they should be made, 
in fact, articles of diet. Great care should be exercised in protecting the 
feet, and indeed the surface of the body generally, from the influence 
of cold. As much out-door exercise as can be endured without fatigue 
should be taken, but severe exertion should never be permitted before 
breakfast or after a long fast. Cold bathing or sponging should be 
adopted only when the child shows ability to rally thoroughly, and 
becomes warm afterwards ; and then never for more than the shortest 
period at a time. By attention to such rules as these many a child 
might acquire a degree of vigour who would otherwise be doomed to 
suffer through life the troubles attendant upon a feeble circulation. 

I must say a few words, however, for the benefit of those who have 
passed the period of life in which it is possible to ward off these varied 
evils, and are already feeling their effects. The same generous habits 
of diet and regimen which I have indicated as preventative will also 
serve to some extent as curative means. As much meat should be 
taken as the stomach, assisted by walking exercise, can be induced to 
digest ; and beer and wine in moderate quantities should be allowed. 



114 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



The patient must, as he yali&ea hia life, on no account adopt ahatemious 
notions, or become a disciple of Vegetarianism or Hydropathy ; and 
when in the hoose, as often as conyenient he will do well to pursue, in 
the recumbent posture, all occupations requiring mental effort. In that 
position the blood flows freely to the brain, and thought is conducted 
with comperatiYe ease. Most who are observant of themselyes must 
have noticed how often their most brilliant hours, as to intellectual 
work, are those spent in a wakeful state in bed. Smoking, and tobacco 
in every form, should be abjured, since they tend still further to depress 
the vigour of the heart's action. The use of coffee and tea should be 
restricted within narrow limits. Cocoa is a much better beverage. 
But in all affections of the heart, whether real or imaginary, the 
physician must be consulted, and until he has distinctly stated the 
nature of the complaint, and laid down the method of treatment, it is 
weU to do nothing further than keep the patient quiet and undisturbed 
both in mind and body. 

DiSBASBS OF Blood Vesssls, which properly belong to the do- 
mains of the surgeon, will be mentioned in another part of this work ; 
but there are two affections of this class, which, belonging especially 
to the physician, I may here allude to. The first is 

BuPTURE OF Blood-vessels, which sometimes occun in the 
stomach, when the affection is called Hematemesis, or vomiting of 
blood. Although hsematemesis produces great debility, it seldom proves 
fatal, and rest, cold fluids, or ice, both taken internally and applied 
in bladders over the region of the stomach, generally suffice to arrest 
the bsemorrbage ; at any rate these means are aU that are to be 
adopted until the doctor arrives and takes the charge of th9 patient. 
Vomiting of blood is sometimes symptomatic of other diseases, when 
it is to be treated accordingly. When it appears in very weak and 
debilitated habits tonics and mineral acids may be employed. It not 
unfirequently follows the suppression of any habitual discharge, as 
that of piles, &c. 

It is very necessary to distinguish vomiting of blood from 

Spitting of Blood, or what in scientific nomenclature is known 
as Heemoptysis, or bleeding from the lungs. In bleeding from the 
stomach the blood is thrown up in greater quantities, and is very dark 
and grumous, that is, clotted. It is also generally mixed with other 
contents of the stomach, and is unattended with cough. In hemoptysis, 
on the contrary, the blood is brought up by coughing, and generally in 
mouthfuls at a time ; it is of a red florid colour, and mixed merely 
with a little frothy mucus. Dr. Walshe, one of the latest and best 



DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 115 

autboritiefl {Digeaset of the Lungsy p. 351), very accurately dutinguishefl 
the two affections. He says: — "HsemoptysiB is preceded by eUgbt 
dyspnoea, or shortness of breath, anomalous sensations about the chest, 
tightness, weight behind the sternum, or at some other spot, to which 
the patient will sometimes confidently point as the seat of mischief; 
hesmatemesis, by weight and uneasiness at the epigastrium, or region 
of the stomach, sometimes by nausea. When the lung supplies the 
blood the pulse is oftener excited, full, bounding, sometimes biaferiens 
(rebounding and conveying the sensation of a double sensation), than 
when the stomach is its source. A salt taste in the mouth, with 
tickling and gurgling sensations in the throat, often precedes actual 
hsdmoptysis ; whereas I certainly have nerer known tiiis complained 
of in hesmatemesis. Blood is ejected in severe hemoptysis with 
efforts indistinguishable by patients from those of true yomiting ; but 
previously to such ' vomiting of blood,' mouthfuls have generally been 
coughed up. HsBmatemesis is attended and followed by tenderness 
at the epigastrium ; hemoptysis by none of this. No matter what 
quantity of blood be brought up from the lungs at once, small quan- 
tities continue to be expectorated for a time. When the stomach is at 
fault, on the contrary, fuU discharge occurs suddenly, and there is, 
generally speaking, an end of the matter ; certainly no bloody or 
stained spots follow. In haemoptysis the blood is florid and frothy ; 
in hsematemesis dark and non-aerated ; at least this is the common 
case. But when large masses of blood are discharged from the lungs 
they may be totally frothless ; and when haemorrhage occurs rapidly 
from an artery into the stomach, the blood is vomited at once, and of 
perfectly arterial hue ; no time is allowed for disooloratioa by the 
gastric fluids. Discharge of blood by stool is the rule in heemate- 
mesis ; the exception in haemoptysis. In the latter case, it comes of 
blood accidentally swallowed, and is never, as £ar as I have known, 
abundant." I have been thus particular in insisting upon the diag- 
nosis between vomiting blood from the stomach — ^hsematemesis — and 
spitting blood from the luogs — ^haemoptysis — ^because it is a point of 
great practical importance to ascertain the source of the haemorrhage. 
If it be from the lungs and constitutional, it is indicative of serious 
disease, and always indicates the presence of consumption. But it 
may not be constitutional ; for sometimes it is accidental, and the result 
of loud speaking, playing on wind instruments, breathing acrid 
vapours, or violence. In the great majority of cases haemoptysis is 
unattended with immediate danger ; nevertheless measures should at 
once be adopted to check it. The medical attendant must be sum- 



116 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGEBT. 



moned, and meaQwhile the patient, if in bed, should be removed to 
a chair and made to sit up. The chest should be bathed with vinegar 
and very cold water, iced water, acidulated with sulphuric acid, 
drank, the windows of the room thrown open, and speaking or any 
other exertion, however slight, entirely prohibited. Ice is to be allowed 
to dissolve in the mouth, and it also may be applied with great 
advantage in a closed bladder to the spine. Ligatures, such as garters, 
tied tightly round the limbs, so as to arrest the current of blood in 
the veins, is a popular and appropriate remedy ; and warmth may at 
the same time be applied to the feet. Medicines, such as digitalis, 
which lessen the action of the heart, are to be given t0ider medical 
superintendence. Astringents, too, such as the acetate of lead, in two 
grain doses with vinegar and water, may be taken every half-hour, 
hour, or two hours, according to the urgency of the case. In the 
absence of these remedies, or of the medical man, common salt in iced 
or very cold water, a drachm every half-hour, is highly lauded — Dr. 
Walshe stating that in three cases he has seen it rapidly arrest the 
haBmorrhage. If the lung be congested, constituting what is called 
pulmonary apoplexy, whidi none but the accomplished physician can 
determine, small bleedings, either by leeches or from the arm, may be 
necessary. 

Anotiier affection of blood-vessels, which falls under the care 
of the physician, is the 

White, or Milk-leg, the phlegmasia dolens, or phlebitis, of 
systematic writers. It is inflammation of a large vein of the leg, 
and attacks, for the most part, women after childbirth; it may, 
however, occur in unmarried females, and even in men. It usually 
commences a week or two after delivery. The affected limb swells 
£:om the hip downwards ; the skin has a peculiar shiny white and 
unnatiiral appearance, and is hot, firm, and elastic to the touch ; and 
later in the disease "pitting" or receiving the impression of a finger 
pressed upon it. There is usually some degree of fever and general 
illness ; and the thigh, particularly in the course of the inflamed 
vein, which feels like a hard cord imder the finger, is painful. Pain 
is increased with every movement of the body, while the limb itself 
seems paralyzed. Sometimes red patches are seen here and there, 
and red lines in the course of the veins ; but the general whiteness of 
the limb has given rise to the familiar name of the disease. This is a 
very serious evil; for although, for the most part, it terminates 
favourably, yet suppuration sometimes occurs, and the patient is 
poisoned by the absorption of purulent matter into the current of 



DISEASES OF THE RESPIBATOBY ORGANS. 117 

the circulation. Sometimes erysipelas occurs, and abscesses form, 
greatly increasiug danger. The affection terminates in about ten or 
fourteen days, and if favourable, still leaves behind it — sometimes 
for life — great hardness and sweUing of the limb. The vein itself is 
obliterated, and the blood returns by veins upon the surface, which 
become greatly enlarged to receive it. The treatment must be 
directed to subdue the inflammatory action, and leeches in large 
quantities, hot fomentations, purgatives, the most rigorous confine- 
ment to bed, and fever diet are indicated. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

DISEASES OF THE RE6PIBAT0BT OBOANS. 

The Respiratory Organs, considered as the seat of diseases, are 
thus arranged : — 1. the air-passages ; 2. the substance of the lungs ; 
3. the pleura or membrane covering the lungs, and lining the cavity 
in which these organs are contained ; 4. the walls of the chest ; 
5. the diaphragm or midriff. 

The air-passages extend from the huynx, or organ of voice, 
downwards to every, part of the lungs. Inunediately beneath the 
larynx, which forms the prominence on the fore part of the neck 
called Adam's apple, is the windpipe ; this, near the middle of the 
broast-bone, divides into two branches, termed the great bronchial 
tubes ; and each of these divides successively into branches, con- 
tinually more and more minute, till they reach the almost imper- 
ceptible cavities termed the air-cells — which are, in fact, the blind 
terminations of the air-tubes. The membrane which lines the whole 
extent of the air-passages, from the larynx to the air-cells, is a 
mucous membrane— that is, the same kind of membrane which 
invests the mouth, the internal ear, and the nose. This membrane, 
then, and the tissues, particularly the fibrous and muscular tissues, which 
lie in close proximity to it, are the seats of those diseases which are 
specifically described as the diseases of the air-passages. Some of these 
are inflammatory, others spasmodic, others a compound of the inflam- 
matory and spasmodic, — thus, laryngitis is inflammation of the laryhx 
in its several forms ; croup, or cynanche trachealis, is inflammation 
of the windpipe ; bronchitis, or cold of the lungs, is inflammation 
of the mucous membrane of the bronchial system of tubes in general. 



Among the principal ^wonodic diwfuiJiaB aSotUng the air-p«Mage8 
are spasmodio croup, also tenned baatard or fidae croup, the aathma 
of ohildi6D» and laxyngismua atridulua, diiefly confined to the 
larynx; idiopathic apacmodio aathma, and hysteric dyspnoea ;-^« 
the spasm, howcTer, in some, if not oeeaaionaily in all theae affeo- 
tion% being extended, more or less, to the fibres of tiu» mnacular 
vails of the chest Hooping«cough is another spasmodic or con- 
▼ulsiYe disease, rarely if ever unaccompanied iridi some degree of 
inflammation, particularly the bronchitio. Besides these prominent 
diseases of the air-passages, some others must be added, less distinctly 
marked by their external symptoms, and becoming known chiefly by 
the aid of stethosoopic examination, and pathological scrutiny after 
death. Among these are collapse of the air-cells, and dilation of 
the air-cells, often at present termed emphysema of the lungs. 

Haemorrhage from the lungs, or spitting of blood, popularly called 
the bursting of a blood-vessel, has its seat in the mucous membrane 
of the air-passages. This, which has been alluded to at page 114, in 
systematio works, is commonly spoken of under two forms, namely, 
bronchial luemqptysiB and pulmonary hsmoptysis, or pulmonary 
apoplexy. 

I have first to treat of 

liiLHTNOiTis — ^Under which head are several slight affections of 
so common occurrence as to cause no alarm, as they itsually pass 
away under mild domestic treatment, or even no treatment at all ; 
a common hoarseness — an undeniable form of laryngitis — being 
Sinnetimes present without any sign of other parts of the mem- 
brane besides that of the larynx being affected with cold. But 
this very circumstance of the trivial character of many of the 
affections of tbe larynx, is apt to cause the early stage to be over- 
looked of one of the most dreadfully fatal diseases to which the 
human constitution is liable, namely, acute laryngitis. What adds 
to the liability of neglect in the early stage of Una most formidable 
disease is, that it is not very common, and that it has not been very 
long known to the medical profession. In the last year but one of 
the preceding century, General Washington was cut off by this disease 
within twenty-four hours, and his physicians could not at the time 
give a name to the fatal malady. Hardly more than forty years ago, 
Dr. Fitcaim, an .eminent London physician of that day, died from 
the same disease, within a few hours ; and his friend, Dr. Baillie, 
then at the height of his fame, could not name the cause of his 
death. From the time of Dr. Pitcairn's death, however, this for- 



DISEASES OF THE BESPIBATOBY OBGAIYS. 119 



midable affection haa been carefully obaerved, and ita aymptoma 
accurately detailed. The infUunmatlon sometimea begina at once in 
the larjrnx; and aometimea in the tonails, like a oommon aore« 
throat, and spreads to the larynx. In thia laat caae, the aeiioua 
character of the new diaeaae is at first particularly apt to be over- 
looked. The extreme diatreaa which accompaniea great tumefaction 
in the common aoit-throat might, at the first glance, make ua 
auppoae it impossible eyen to diaooyer that a new diaeaae had arisen. 
But in acute laryngitis, when the throat ia inapected, it seldom hap- 
pens that the visible inflammation and swelling are sufficient to 
explain the extreme distress present as the result merely of inflamed 
tonsila. Even when the primary disease is common sore-throat, it is 
almost universally found that the degree of that affection is wholly 
insufficient to account for the extreme Buffering of patients in the 
acta of swallowing and respiration. Here, then, an important ground 
is afforded for the auapicion that acute laryngitia haa commenced, 
namely, the existence of extreme distress in respiration and degluti- 
tion (swallowing), without any sufficient cause for thia distress being 
discoverable by inapection of the throat. The respiration is apt to 
be affected in paroxysms ; it has a peculiarly harsh sound, as if the 
patient were blowing into a trumpet of brasa. As time proceeds, it 
becomes more and more laborious; and even the total interruption 
of it is continually threatened. The breathing ia attended with a 
gurgling noise, and inspiration is protracted,and wheezing, as if the air 
were drawn through a dry and narrow reed. When the patient ia 
asked where the seat of the disease is, he points to the prominence 
in the neck called Adam's apple, where from an early period a 
dull uneasiness is felt, increased by pressure upon that cartilage. 
Sometimes, when the tongue is pressed carefiilly downwards, the 
epiglottis — or valve-like cartilage, the office of which in health is 
to close, during swallowing, the passage of the larynx — is seen red 
and swollen like a cherry. When the patient coughs, it is with 
a very harsh, striduloua, husky, abortive sound. The voice is hoarse, 
or, what is more common, all vocal sound is lost, and the patient 
apeaks merely in a whisper. ^ In the earlier stage the skin is hot and 
dry, the pulse hard, the feuse flushed. From the first there is an 
extreme and unaccountable degree of restlessness and anxiety about 
the patient. As the disease advances the face becomes livid, the 
eyes protrude, the pulse weak and intermitting; the patient is 
reduced to the extremity of unquietness; he mfiJces signs that he 
wants air; he points to the windows, evidently desiring that these 



120 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



should be opened ; he feels sleepy, but if he falls asleep the sense of 
suffocation soon arouses him : he soon, however, begins to lose the 
distinct sense of what is passing around ; and a low muttering deli- 
rium follows — ^the precursor of the fatal event. 

After this account it is indeed needless to add how little time 
should be lost io summoning a skilful practitioner whenever seem- 
ingly slight sore-throat or hoarseness becomes accompanied with such 
an uneasy restlessness as we have seen commonly attends the begin- 
ning of this most terrible disease. 

It is easy to explain why this disease, even when confined to a 
small part of the larynx — ^namely, the membrane lining the narrow 
passage through which the air rushes in respiration — ^is productive of 
such distressing symptoms, and proves so quickly fatal. Inflanmiation 
thickens mucous membranes ; it also gives a tendency to effusion of 
serous fluid in the sub-mucous tissue, that is, the cellular tissue lying 
beneath the mucous membrane. The glottis, or aperture of the larynx, 
in the full-grown man is nearly triangular in form; its greatest 
dimension from before backwards, in its extreme dilatation, is hardly 
so much as an inch, and its greatest breadth less than half an inch. 
It is easy, then, to understand how prejudicially these small dimensions 
may be encroached upon either by the thickening of the proper mucous 
lining under inflammation ; or by its projection from its ordinary site 
by the accumulation'of fluid in the subjacent tissue ; or by both effects 
simultaneously taking place. Under such circimistances expiration 
is performed more freely than inspiration ; because in inspiration the 
thickened mucous membrane is drawn inwards, acting as a valve 
upon the up^ier part of the windpipe. Thus acute laryngitis kills by 
throttling ; that is, by shutting up the free passage of air into the 
lungs — the patient, in short, dies for want of breath. 

But is there ^o remedy ? It is unquestionably a disease which 
no person untrained to medicine should attempt to treat, if it be pos- 
sible to procure a medical man. It requires all the skill of the most 
experienced to afford even a chance of rescue, and that only when 
timely aid is sought. Of a spontaneous cure there is no ground for 
hope. The remedies which have proved successfril in some instances 
have often failed even when employed under circumstances, to all 
appearance, equally favourable. 

When the disease is seen at a sufficiently early stage of its pro- 
gress, blood-letting is a proper remedy. So long as there is strong 
inflammatory fever, the skin being hot, the pulse firm and frill, the 
cheeks red and the lips florid, no obstacle should be thrown in the way 



DISEASES OF THE KESPIRATORY ORGANS. 121 

of free abstractioii of blood from a vein. If, on the contrary, the sys- 
tem be already beginning to sink under the effects produced on the 
blood by the inteiruption of respiration — ^that is to say^ if the skin be 
hardly warm, the face pale or of a lead colour, the lips liyid, the pulse 
small and feeble, and if the thoughts haye b^^un to waTer-<-the time 
for blood-letting has passed by. Eren the local abstraction of blood 
cannot in this stage be practised with any advantage. Some prefer 
leeches even in the earlier stage to general blood- lettingf>-4hat is, to 
blood-letting from a rein of the arm— <but there is an objection to 
leeches, as being apt to give a tendency to the effusion of serum 
beyond the spot to which they are applied; so that it is not impossible, 
while they contribute to subdue the inflammation, that they may 
nevertheless do more injury than good, by increasing the oedema or 
dropsy of the glottis. The local abstraction of blood is conyeniently 
obtained by cupping at the back part of the neck. When blistering 
seems desirable, it is better, for a like reason, to place the blister on 
the upper part of the breast than on the neck. This, indeed, is a good 
general rule in cases of diseases of the throat ; for a blister on the 
neck is a most severe remedy, creating the greatest suffering in many 
constitutions, and among other inconveniences being more apt to give 
rise to strangury — ^that is^ severe irritation of the urinary organs — ^than 
a blister on most other parts of the body. The use of purgatives 
should not be omitted. But when the disease has already reached its 
advanced stage, the only hope lies in a surgical operation. This 
operation consists in making an artificial opening for the purpose of 
respiration below the seat of the obstruction produced by the inflam- 
mation. When it is certain that the disease is simple acute laryngitis, 
and the first stage is already past, the operation should be resorted 
to without the least hesitation. It is beyond doubt that many lives 
have been thus saved. It is, however, carefully to be remarked, 
that it is not every kind of oppressed breathing that will be bene- 
fited by this operation, and that the conditions requisite for its sucoess 
are in particular afforded by simple acute laryngitis, in which the 
inflammation is very often confined to the parts immediately adja- 
cent to the aperture or chink of the larynx — the windpipe itself and 
the bronchial ramifications being entirely free from disease. When 
there is disease beneath the lowest point at which the air-passages 
can be opened from without, nothing but discredit can result from 
the attempt to operate. The operation is often termed bronohotomy. 
This term at first seems to imply that the bronchi, which commence 
on a level with the middle of the breast -bone, can be opened; 



122 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUKOBBY. 

bnt this is not the case, as the bronchi cannot be opened during 
life. Bronchotomy, then, is used conventionally, and for the sake of 
conveniencei as a general term, including all the surgical operations 
which can be' performed on the air -passages. Bronchotomy thus 
includes laryngotomy and tracheotomy ; the former being the term 
employed when any part of the larynx is opened, the latter when any 
part of the windpipe is opened. The description of these seyeral 
operations belongs to surgery. 

Chbonic LARYifGiTis. — ^Under the head of dnronie laryngitis, 
numerous maladies have be^i confounded ; namely, true ehranic in* 
flammatioa of the mucous membrane, follicular disease of the larynx, 
ulceration of the mucous membrane, polypous growths on the mucous 
membrane, abscess adjacent to the lar3mx, disorganization of the car- 
tilages of the larynx, and caries of the adjacent bones. Of these 
our limits permit us to notice only the three first mentioned. 

True chronic laryngitis, or chronic inflammatioii of the mucous 
membrane, may or may not proceed to ulceration. Thus the symp« 
toms of chronic inflammation of the larynx and ulceratioQ are properly 
different stages of one disease. The symptoms are hoarseness, oough, 
tenderness of the region of the larynx on pressure, some difficulty of 
inspiration, never entirely absent, but coming at times in severer 
fits. When such constitutional symptoms as fever, mailed by cold- 
ness of the surface, followed by heats and sweating, especially night 
sweats,, and emaciation, are added, as seen in the severer forms, the 
disease, whether with or without ulceration, has sometimes been 
called laryngeal phthisis, or laryngeal consumption ; and, in truth, 
this severe form of chronic laryngitis is mort commonly merely a part 
of common pulmonary consumption. 

When chronic laryngitis is not combined with such maladies as 
syphilis and pulmonary consumption, a cure is sometimes efPected by 
local blood-letting, by means of leeches or cupping, meromrial altera- 
tives^ and counter irritation. 

FoxxicuLAu DissASB OF THB La&tnx is a morbid state of the 
minute glandular bodies spread over various parts of the mueous 
membrane of the pharynx, larynx, and windpipe. It has attracted 
especial attention of late years, particolariy owing to the investiga^ 
tions of Br. Horace Green, of New York. This- disease may be either 
simple or complicated with other diseases. In the simple form, soon 
after the minute glands have taken on a morbid action, an increase of 
the ordinary secretion is observed, accompanied with a feeling as if 
something were sticking at the top of the windpipe. This symptom is 



DISEASES OP THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. 123 

aggravated by exertion of tlie voice ; the secretion is adhesive or 
viscid, and alkaline ; while, instead of lubricating, it plainly irritates 
the parts which it covers. The character of the voice is altered ; 
and this change is more marked in the oases in which the parts 
immediately concerned in voice, as the vocal cords and ventricles of 
the larynx, are the seat of the disease. This is what of late has 
been termed ** Clergyman's sore-throat.**^ Mental depression generally 
accompanies the disease, and is one of the marks by which its 
severer forms are distinguished from tubercular consumption, in 
which it is well-known a particular buoyancy of spirits and hope, in 
spite of all appearances, prevail. 

This disease requires, in particular, the attention of a skilful prac- 
titioner. The treatment is general and local. AmoDg the general 
remedies are the iodide of potassium, called also hydriodate of potassa, 
and various preparations of iron — ^narcotics, sedatives, and even altera- 
tive doses of mcTCury. Among the local remedies, the most remark- 
able is the direct application of a strong solution of lunar caustic by 
means of a sponge attached to a piece of whalebone. The solution is 
used of great strength, but cannot be applied by any person unac- 
quainted with the anatomy of the parts. There can be no doubt that 
much benefit has resulted from this direct application to the larynx ; 
but there is reason to fear that mischief may have occasionally arisen 
from the indiscriminate application of a fashionable remedy. 

The same kind of local treatment has been of service in several 
other diseases of the larynx, but the extent to which it should be 
carried is still uncertain. 

Croup, or Exttdative Iwplammation op the "Windpipe, differs 
from acute laryngitis not only in its seat, but also in the nature of 
the inflammation. In acute laryngitis, as we have seen, the danger 
arises from the thickening of the mucous membrane and the infiltra- 
tion of tiiin fluid into the interstices of the subjacent loose tissue. In 
croup an exudation takes place on the surface of the mucous mem- 
brane of the windpipe, hence it is properly termed exudative inflam- 
mation of the windpipe. Croup is a disease of early life — ^it affects 
male children oftener than female — it is much more prevalent in 
some situations than in oliiers. It is most common near the banks 
of lakes and rivers, and near the sea-coast. In high and dry situations 
it is less known, ^is £sease is often preceded by the symptoms of 
a slight cold. As hoarseness is not a very constant symptom in the 
colds of children, it is reckoned suspicious in districts where croup 
prevails. The essential signs of croup are difficulty of breathing and 



124 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUROERT. 

sonorous inspiration. The cough is peculiar, and is described as 
braspy — ^that is, like the sound that may be produced by coughing 
through a brazen trumpet. The voice is not merely hoarse, but gruff; 
sometimes, as in laryngitis, the voice is wholly lost. There is, besides, 
a flushed face, a hot Bkm, a frequent and hard pulse, and thirst. As 
the disease advances, the skin becomes dusky, the pulse feeble and 
irregular, the extremities cold. The cough is no longer loud and 
clanging, but husky and inaudible at a short distance, while the voice 
is heard only in whispers. The head is thrown back, the nostrils are 
strongly dilated at each breath ; the face is pale or livid and swollen, 
the pupils of the eyes expanded. These symptoms indicate the worst 
result. The soles of the feet become black; there is drowsiness; 
often tossing of the arms ; a convulsive grasping of objects within 
reach ; there is gasping — then death usually after an inspiration. 

Croup, like laryngitis, runs its course rapidly. It may prove fatal 
within from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, or be protracted 
for five, six, or even ten days. Death takes place by suffocation, 
chiefly owing to a concrete membranous-like deposit, which occupies 
the cavity of the windpipe. Portions of this substance are sometimes 
coughed up before death ; and when the whole of it is expectorated, 
recovery may take place. This exudation, or deposit, sometimes 
extends far into the bronchi, or air-tubes, and a purulent secretion is 
even sometimes found in their minuter ramifications. Hence in croup 
there is little hope of relieving the distress of breathing by a surgical 
operation. 

True croup is to be distinguished with care from acute laryngitis, 
and also from spasmodic or false croup, and from pulmonary catarrh, 
or cold of the lungs, when accompanied with spasm of the larynx. 
To make this diagnosis, or discrimination, all the skill and experience 
of the medical attendant is often no more than sufficient. And it 
undoubtedly sometimes happens, that diseases of far less severity 
are carelessly taken for croup, and credit given for the cure to 
remedies wholly ineffectual when the real disease is present. This, 
indeed, is a kind of fallacy which especially besets young and amateur 
practitioners. The distinctive character of the only disease entitled 
to be called croup is the tendency to the exudation of the mem- 
branous-like substance above referred to. 

Group cannot be safely intrusted for its treatment to any one but 
an experienced medical man. 

The three great remedies are blood-letting, tartarized antimony, 
and calomel. In the early state, when the system is still vigorous. 



DISEASES OP THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. 125 

the blood being not yet poisoned by the retention of carbonic acid, 
owing to the failure of respiration, the loss of blood is advisable — by 
the lancet in more adyanced children, by leeches in the younger. 
The quantity must be determined by the practitioner. 

An emetic is useful at the commencement; the tartar emetic 
should afterwards be given in repeated smaller doses, to assist the 
effects of blood-letting in subduing the inflammation. 

Calomel has the very best effects. It is pushed to an extent such 
as is not safe except in the hands of a trained practitioner. 

Its effect is not to salivate, as in adults, but to bring away copious 
green stools, like spinach. 

Even in the advanced stage of this disease, when the abstraction 
of blood is wholly inadmissible, it is believed that tartarized anti- 
mony is capable of accomplishing a cure : when the antimony acts 
severely on the bowels, it may be combined with small doses of the 
syrup of poppies. 

Calomel has, undoubtedly, great power over exudative inflamma- 
tion; even in the advanced stages, particularly when, from any 
cause, the tartarized antimony cannot be carried far, it should not 
be neglected. 

Blisters should only be used with the sanction of a medical man. 
Baonchitis — Catabbh — CosTZA — Cold — Imflusnza. — All 
the words placed at the head of this section in some measure answer 
to the common English term cold. Bronchitis is a comparatively 
new word, introduced because it was found that some of the severer 
affections of the chest, formerly referred to pneumonia, or inflamma- 
tion of the substance of the lungs, are in reality inflammations of 
the mucous membrane lining the air-passages. Thus, though in a 
strictly pathological sense both catarrh, the old term, and bronchitis, 
the newer term, signify diffused inflammation of the mucous membrane 
of the air-passages ; yet, by prevalent usage, catarrh, at present, is 
employed to denote the slighter affections of this membrane, and 
particularly those which begin with coryza, or cold of the head, and 
are limited to cough, hoarseness, and other symptoms, indicating a 
diffused slight inflammation, not extending deep into the ramiflcations 
of the bronchi, — while bronchitis, whether acute or chronic, is 
reserved to signify deep-seated or pulmonary catarrh. 

Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the air-passages is of 
such universal occurrence, that probably not one person in ten 
thousand passes over twelve months without suffering more or less ; 
and some are so peculiarly predisposed, that they are seldom alto- 



126 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUBGERY. 

gether free from this troublesome visitor. Unless rery seyere, colds 
are generally permitted to run their course, or are submitted to some 
harmless domestic remedies, which have little effect, either in one 
way or another. In the robust, this is the best thing that can be 
done, as the slighter colds are seldom of long duration; in the 
delicate, however, or under any circumstances when the attack is 
severe, colds in the chest should not be neglected, as they are very 
liable to become chronic, and ever ready to be developed into inflam- 
mation of a serious character. Cold when severe is called bronchitis, 
but the same treatment is applicable to both, with this exception, 
that pure bronchitis requires medical care ; there are two methods 
of cutting short this annoying affection, however, which those who are 
subject to it may feel disposed to try. The first is a full dose of opium 
on going to bed at night. On the first threatening of the symptoms, 
this will generally put a stop to them ; twenty drops of laudanum will 
be sufficient, and the feet should be put in hot water to promote per- 
spiration. This plan should be tried by adults alone, and by those 
who are aware that opium does not produce any unpleasant effects 
upon them ; it should be avoided by those who have a tendency of 
blood to the head, or who have suffered from inflammation of the 
chest ; and it has this disadvantage, that if not successful, it is liable 
to aggravate symptoms. The second plan, which was suggested by 
Dr. Williams, consists in total abstinence from fluid of every de- 
scription until the complaint has disappeared. Those who have tried 
it speak highly of its efficacy, though it requires some little fortitude 
to put it into execution ; to the very impatient, Br. Williams allows 
a table-spoonful of tea or milk, twice a-day, with the meals, and a 
wiue-glassful of water in the evening. A sore throat may sometimes 
be checked by a full dose of Dover's powder at bedtime, upon the 
first suspicion of its appearance ; eight or ten grains may be taken by 
an adult, and perspiration promoted by the warm foot-bath ; as this 
preparation contains a considerable proportion of opium, it should be 
used by adults alone, on their own responsibility, and with -caution. 
An emetic also will often cut short both cold and sore -throat. 
The general management of a severe cold consists in confinement to 
an equable temperature, abstinence from animal food and stimulants, 
and gentle diaphoretic medicines. If the patient will consent to 
remain in bed for a day or two, his recovery will be accelerated ; if 
not, his apartment must be kept moderately warm, and if he leaves 
his bedroom during the day, it must be prepared by a fire for his 
reception at night. A gentle aperient, such as castor-oil, a Seidlitz 



DISSASE8 OF THE RESPIBATOBT OBOAN8. 127 

powder, &c., having been given, two taUe^spoonfula of the following 
mixture may be taken every three or four hours : spirit of Minde- 
rems, three ounces; uitimonial wine, two drachms; nitre, two 
scruples; water or camphor mixture, five ounces. At night, the 
warm foot-bath should be used, and if the skin be not soft and per- 
spiring, five grains of Dover's powder, with two of James's powder, 
may be taken* If there is a feeling of weight and tightness in the 
chest, a mustard plaster should be applied ; and if the cough is dry 
and hard, the dose of antimonial wine may be gradually increased to 
four drachms in the above mixture. When all feverishness is gone, 
if the cough still seems to be disposed to be obstinate, with profuse 
expectoration, a table-sp^nful of the following may be taken thi^ or 
four times a-day : ipecacuan wine, tincture of squills, of each one 
drachm; syrup of poppies, four drachms; water or almond emulsion, 
to make up six ounces ; or, olive oil, oxymel of squills, and syrup of 
poppies, of each one ounce : dose, one tea-spoonful when the cough is 
troublesome. The treatment of sore-throat should be much the same, 
but should be commenced by a brisk dose of Epsom salts. The more 
incessantly the throat can be gargled with very hot water, the sooner 
is the disease likely to yield ; should this be inconvenient, a good 
gargle may be made with two or three drachms of nitre to eight 
ounces of water. Mustard plasters to the throat are often useful ; 
they should be inclosed between two pieces of fine linen or cambric. 
In relaxed sore-throat, the following gargle may be employed : tinc- 
ture of capsicums, six drachms ; syrup of roses, one ounce ; rose- 
water, seven ounces ; or decoction of oak-bark with alum, in the 
proportion of one drachm to about eight ounces. 

The liability to catch cold may be very much diminished by the 
use of the cold shower or sponge bath, by which the system is 
hardened against sudden atmospheric changes ; those who are liable 
to sore-throat should wear a very light and narrow neckcloth, and in 
the house a single turn of ribbon will suffice ; such changes, how- 
ever, must be made gradually, and commenced in warm weather. 

Ikplubnza. — The extraordinary suddenness and rapidity with 
which this disease sometimes overruns large districts and cities, pros- 
trating almost aimultaneously a lai^ge proportion of their inhabitants, 
procured for it, from the Italians, the name by which it is now fami- 
liarly known in this country, of intiuenza, or " the influence," from 
the belief that some agent of an unusual and incomprehensible nature 
must be concerned in its production. And such, in fact, is the case ; 
for in spite of the researches which have been made, from the period 



128 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUROEBT. 



of the sixteentii oentoiy when it was first ohseryed until now, no 
tenable theory has as yet been adyanoed to aoeount for its most 
striking phenomena. Its epidemics have occuimL at all periods of 
tiie year, though most firequently in spring and automn; and haye 
frequently been preceded by considerable atmospheric yicissitades, 
though not of such an imiform or -definite <sharacter as to entitle them 
to be considered as other than coincidences. Its symptoms, as many 
may be aware from experience, are as fc^ow : — the patient foels lan- 
guid and chilly, perhaps has a fit of shivering, succeeded by a flush of 
heat; shortly after this, there is decided feyerishness, nccompanied 
by dull, heavy pain over the forehead; sneesing, watering of the 
eyes and nostrils ; soreness of the threat and windpipe; dry cough and 
oppression of Uie breathing ; but its most marked characteristic is the 
complete prostration of strength; quite out of proportion to the other 
symptoms, which occurs at the very commencement of the disease, 
and often remains long after the others have diaappeared. By this, 
as weU as by its epidemic character, it may in general be leadily dis- 
tinguished j&om ordinary catarrh, with which it is most liaUe to be 
confounded. The pulse during these attacks is weak and rapid ; the 
tohgue white and clammy; there is a total indisposition to food; 
sometimes nausea and vomiting, less frequently diarrhosa. An exag*- 
gerated idea has got abroad as to the mortality of influenza, which 
has even been compared with that of cholera. In the latter disease it 
is probable that nearly one-half of those attacked have Allien its 
victims ; while in influenza a fatal result is Tare, except in the aged, 
whose feeble spark of life is readily extingmshed by any exhausting 
complaint, or in those debilitated by previous disease, especially of the 
heart or lungs. Its absolute mortality, which has undoubtedly been 
great, is easily explained by the immense number of those who suSet 
from it during an epidemic. In the aged or unhealthy, therefore, it 
should always be regarded with suspicion ; even in the robust, from 
its liability to be comj^eated with internal inflammation of a serious 
character, medical advice should always be procured when there is 
much pain in the chest, oppression of breathing, hurried respiration, 
or a dusky colour of the lips or face. In mild oases little treatment 
is necessary ; the patient should be confined to bed, a mild aperient, 
such as a table-spoonful of castor-oil, should be administered, and the 
diet should be confined to slops until the severity of the attack has 
declined, which will probably take place within the first four days. 
If there is much heat and dryness of skin, two grains of James's 
powder, with five of Dover's powder, may be given to an adult three 



DISEASES OF THE RE8PIRAT0BY 0BGAN8. 



129 



times a-day, along with two table-spoonfals of the following mixture ; 
nitre and ipecacuan wine, of each half a drachm ; spirit of Mindererus, 
two ounces; water or camphor- julep, four ounces. Weight and 
oppression of the chest may be relieved by a large mustard poultice ; 
and if the cough is troublesome, and the expectoration difficult, one 
drachm of antimonial wine may be substituted for the ipecacuan 
wine. To children, one grain of James's powder, without the DoTer's 
powder, may be given, and the dose of the mixture should be reduced 
to a dessert, or one table-spoonful, according to the age. This does 
not apply to infimts, who ought always to have medical attendance. 
Should the cough be tedious and troublesome, it may be treated as 
bronchitis or cold (page 125). The debility will often disappear 
when the subsidence of the disease permits a more liberal diet ; but 
if it should prove persistent, it may generally be removed by the use 
of some mild toniC) such as infusion of calumba or cascarilla. The 
latter is prepared by macerating an ounce and a half of the bark in a 
pint of boiUng water for two hours, and straining ; five grains of car- 
bonate of magnesia, or dried carbonate of soda, may be added to each 
dose, which is half a wine-glassful, three times a-day, before meals. 
At the same time the diet should be nourishing and digestible, and a 
glass of port wine may be taken at dinner by those who have been 
accustomed to it in health. 

Spubzoub Cboxtp, L^htkoiskub Stbxdxjltjs, &c. — The grand 
distinction between true croup and those forms of disease which, 
under various names, have often been regarded as closely approaching 
to croup, is, that while there is distinct symptomatic fever in the 
true, there is no such constitutional disturbance in the spurious disease. 
Spurious croup, in all its forms, is free from inflammation; and 
there is no tendency to exudation, by which a more permanent 
obstruction of the air-passages can be effected. 

This disease most commonly seizes the patient all of sudden ; it 
occurs often in the night, sometimes immediately after an ordinary 
or full meal, sometimes in the infant, even during the act of sucking. 
There is a violent struggle to inspire, and when, at length, that act 
takes place, the breath is drawn in with a shrill whistling or crowing 
sound, much resembling the inspirations of true croup, or of hooping* 
cough; in short, the inspirations take place through a narrowed 
aperture of the glottis of a temporary character. . 

These symptoms decline or entirely cease after a short time, and 
again become renewed in the form of paroxysms. Along with the 
symptoms above enumerated, there is, though by no means constantly 



im 



HOUSEHOLD MSDICINE AND SUBOE&T. 



a oontracted state of xniucles of ti» upper or under extremity of one 
sido, as of the thumb, fingers, or wrist, or, eyen more oommonly, of 
the ankle and toes, giTing to the foot an i^pearance not unlike tliat 
of a club foot. This ^asmodic inxersion of the foot^ however, is not 
an uncommon form of spasm in various diseases of childhood ; and 
it may be remarked, along with other spasms, in the boy brought to 
the disciples, in the lower diyision of Eaphael's well-known picture 
of the Transfiguration. 

This disease has been considered rather as a temporary paralytic 
afiSdction than as a spasm; but more recent experience appears to 
confirm the original notion of its being a spasm : it belongs to the 
order of spasms by reflex action. Irritations, such as that attending 
dentition, an over^full meal, or disordered secretions of the stomach 
and bowels, disturb the central organs of the nervous system, and 
hence arise irregular influences transmitted to the larynx, through its 
nerves. It is often connected with enlargement of the glands of the 
neck ; but it does not appear, as Dr. Ley ingeniously taught, to be 
directly dependent on such glandular swellings ; his book, however, 
is curious, and deserves to be perused. Dr. Ley borrowed the name, 
laryngismus stridulus, from Dr. Mason Good ; this name, however, 
has few recommendations in its favour. Child-crowing is a good 
English name ; spasmodic croup is one of the least objectionable. 
The term asthma infantum is objectionable, as having been applied 
to various affections of the chest. Thymic asthma is a name common 
in German works, but it involves a theory of its origin of too limited 
a character. The names spurious or bastard croup are names 
sufficiently expressive of its distinctive character. 

One of the best remedies during the paroxysm is a vomit, such 
as one or two tea-spooniuls of the wine of ipecacuan ; as to the 
remaining part of the treatment, that must depend on the particular 
kind of irritation by which the predisposition or tendency to the 
disease is kept up ; measures, in short, are to be taken to remove 
whatever disorder of health the child may be found labouring under. 

Asthma. — ^Asthma is a particular form of difficulty of breathing. 
The term, in common language, is by no means correctly employed, 
being made use of to denote almost every kind of chronic disease in 
which there is laboured breathing. Dyspnoea is the term which 
signifies difficulty of breathing in general. Dyspnoea may arise from 
a multitude of causes, and is present in a great many diseases. 
Dyspnoea, or common difficulty of breathing, is present, — 1st, in 
diseases of the larynx and windpipe, accompanied with impediments 



DISEASSa OF THE RESPIBATOBT OfiGANS. 



131 



to the free paaaage of the air ; 2iidly, in diseaoes of Hie brondu 
and air-cells; Srdly, in diseases of the substance of the lungs; 
4thly, in diseases of the cavity of the pleura and walls of the 
chest ; Sthly, in diseases of the midrifT; 6thly, in diseases of the 
abdominal caTity ; 7thly» in diseaaes of the heart and great Teasels; 
and Sthly, in diseases of the nerrous system. 

Thus dyspnoda, or difficulty of breathing, corresponding to onr 
English term shortness of breath, is plainly not a disease, but a 
symptom of diseases of the thorax and adjacent parts. It is common, 
at present, to describe asthma also as a symptom, and to refuse it a 
place among diseases ; but the following simple considerations show 
asthma to be a true disease. In the first place, a typical form of 
asthma may be thus described : a person who had gone to bed in his 
ordinary state of health, which is, perhaps, not altogether robust, 
wakes in the night with a sense of oppression and tightness in the 
chest ; he is breathing with a loud wheeze ; he feels it impossible to 
remain reclining; he sits up in bed; he calls up the house, and 
orders the windows of his bed-room to be opened ; he rests on his 
hands, throwing up the shoulders; his whole chest is in yident 
action ; his nostrils are alternately dilated and contracted ; and his 
features are distorted, and exhibit a peculiarly anxious expression* 
When this distressing state has continued for some time, often for 
several hours, the symptoms begin to remit, and this remission is 
not unfrequently attended with some cough and free expectoration of 
mucus. The recovery is often very complete, and no return takes 
place till the following night, about the same time ; the paroxysm 
thus often returns several nights in succession, and then, for the 
time, the disease disappears. 

In some persons, who have been affected in this manner for a 
considerable period of time, the disease entirely ceases, and they 
remain free from any disease of the chest for the rest of their lives, 
or at least for many years ; and while it is very true that persons 
subject to incurable diseases of the chest are much more frequently 
affected by the paroxysm of- asthma than those who are to recover 
their health, yet it often happens that such persons are affected 
with the asthmatic paroxysm only in the early stage of such incurable 
diseases, and afterwards may live for a long period, suffering, indeed, 
from disturbance of the function of the lungs, but not liable to the 
paroxysm of asthma. The manifest conclusion then is, that asthma, 
considered as a paroxysm of laborious breathing, is a disease which 
is sometimes simple, purely functional, or idiopathic, in the 



132 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUBOEEY. 



lang:uage of pathology, while, at other times, it is coibplioated with 
prerious diseases. 

The diseases with which the asthmatic paroxysm is most fre* 
quently complicated are chronic states of bronchitis, in which the 
mucous membrane of the air-tabes has undergone various alterations 
of structure, and dilatation of the air-cells — ^that form of pathological 
alteration to which modem pathologists, without much regard to 
accuracy, apply the term emphysema of the lung. 

The great difficulty in the treatment of asthma lies in the com* 
plications under which it so often appears. 

In the treatment of the paroxysm, if the stomach and bowels be 
manifestly disordered, it will sometimes be proper to administer 
a vomit, or an enema. Opium is commonly resorted to with 
advantage, either in the form of laudanum, or of the solution of the 
muriate of morphia. It was formerly the general practice, and is a 
useful practice, to combine laudanum with sulphuric ether, in a 
draught with some carminative, such as peppermint-water; for 
example, forty drops of laudanum, a drachm of sulphuric ether, and 
a wine-glassful of peppermint- water, more or less diluted. If the 
patient has been previously unaccustomed to swallow sulphuric ether, 
he will find it more easy to swallow such a draught while the nostrils 
are compressed with the fingers ; the addition of a tea-spoonful of 
calcined magnesia will sometimes render this draught much more 
efficacious. Instead of the sulphuric ether, the compound spirit of 
sulphuric ether may be substituted ; a similar compoimd medicine is 
obtained by combining the sweet spirit of nitre with the common 
paregoric, and adding a carminative in the proportion of one drachm 
of the sweet spirit of nitre, and half an ounce of the paregoric, 
with as much of any aromatic water as the stomach can easily 
receive. 

If there be any objection to the ethers on account of inflammatory 
complications, the antimonial wine should be united with the opiate, 
or a pill of one or two grains of opium given with from one-eighth to 
one-fourth of a grain of tartari^ed antimony. 

A hot poultice, covered on its surface with mustard, and applied 
to the chest, often gives sensible relief, while other remedies are 
being provided. 

Chloroform promises to be of use either inhaled or administered 
by the stomach, to the extent of ten or twenty drops ; but as this 
remedy is still little understood, it should not be used without the 
sanction of a medical man. 



DISEASES OF THE BESPIRATOBT ORGANS. 133 

Tobacco IB a popular remedy in asthma ; but it is to be feared it 
is often carried to an injurious excess. Stramonium is safer, and 
often equally beneficial when smoked like tobacco. Sayory and 
Hoore, of Bond Street, prepare it for this purpose in the form of 
cigars. 

The fumes of burning nitre are sometimes yery serriceable ; and are 
easily procured by dipping blotting-paper in a strong solution of nitre, 
and then drying the paper, after which it bums freely on being ignited. 
The lobelia inflata has gained some reputation in asthma. Strong 
coffee is sometimes yery useful; and inhaling the yapour of hot water 
from a deep jug held below the mouth and nostrils is often beneficiaL 

The general health must be attended to. 

HoopiNo-CoxTOH, or Pebttjssts, is a disease so well characterized 
by the peculiar whoop or back-draught which attends the cough, as 
to be equally recognised by the public and the profession. The dis- 
ease commences with the symptoms of a common cold; while the 
cough, which at first has nothing distinctiye, after a period of about 
ten days assumes its peculiar character. The cough of hooping- 
cough occurs in repeated paroxysms, each paroz3rsm consisting of a 
number of successiye expiratory moyements, after which a long 
inspiratory act, attended with the peculiar whoop of the disease, takes 
place ; then recur the expiratory moyements, and the inspiratory act 
with the whoop, — and so on in alternation till a quantity of glairy 
mucus is forced up, with or witliout an accompanying act of yomiting. 

The disease continues from six weeks to three months ; sometimes 
it is terminated in three weeks, and occasionally it is prolonged to six 
months or more. When the child continues free from feyer, and the 
respiration is calm during the intermissions, the appetite and digestion 
being natural, there is no need for apprehension. Hooping-cough, 
under the opposite circumstances, often lays the foundation of other 
diseases, such as hemoptysis, consumption, and the yarious forms of 
asthma and dyspnoea. 

It plainly spreads by contagion, or at least by intercourse with 
those already afieoted. 

The pathology of hooping-cough — that is, the essence of the dis- 
ease — is still unascertained. It probably depends on some peculiar 
mode in which the neryous system sufiers irritation ; but what is yery 
inexplicable is, the circumstance that the neryous system should be 
but once susceptible of that irritation in the course of life. 

To palliate the seyerity of the symptoms, and to preyent other 
affections, particularly inflammatory affections, arising to complicate 



134 HOUSEHOLD MEDIdKE AND 8UR6ERT. 

the diflease, are the great indications for treatmeitt in hooping-cough. 
Our ohjeot, in short, as some physicians express it, ^^ is to keep 
hooping-cough — Whooping-cough." 

The patient must he secured against the effects of cold, and the 
diet must he put under such regulation as are suitable to a state in 
which inflammatory action is threatened. The due regulation of all 
the functions is to be attended to ; and aperients aire to be employed 
to keep ^le bowels in proper order. 

When the disease is moderate and free frtnn oompHeaiions, little 
treatment is required. Some slight countcr-irritatKm to the chest, 
and the internal use of ipecacuan, to the extent <^ (me grain, or one 
grain and a half, three or four times a-day, will often he sufficient to 
keep the bo^wels regular, to promote ezpectoiatioik, and to reHere the 
diest from too great distress. 

When the fit is not succeeded by free expectoration, an emetie 
is necessary. Ipecaemaiy in the form of powder or of the wine, 
aaiAwers well. 

Soosetimes opiates are necessary, owing to the rk^ence of the 
pan^smSk Antimonial wine ccmibined with hmdaTnim is an old and 
w^-^ed remedy of th» sort, a few dxofa of each being given for a 
dose, according to the age of the patient. Carbonate of soda ii some- 
times adyantageously added to the other reinedies — for example, two 
grains in each draught; ^ 

Many remedies haye obtained a reputation in hooping-cough, hut 
all of these are not safe^ and most of them are unneeessaty. Alum in 
five-grain doses three times a-day has been much praised. An oint- 
ment made of one drachm of extract of belladonna, rubbed up with 
an ounce of lard, may be applied to the breast and shoulders, and 
probably not without b^Mfii, in severe cases, (tee of the best counter- 
irritants is erotoa-oil, (mo drachm, mixed with one ounoe of dive-oil, 
to form a linim«it to be applied to the cheet night and monung till 
a papular eruption comes forth; then it is to be rubbed on some 
otiier part of the ehest^ so as to bring out a now eruption while the 
first is fading away. 

The inhalation of a small quantity of ehloro£brm from a sponge, 
the moment the paroxysm begins, is said to be very efficacious ; but tins 
should not be attempted except under the direction of a medical m«n. 

When the disease has already lasted for some weeks, diAnge of 
air and scene is very useful. Preparations of iron and other tonies 
are often requisite, as the severity of the chest symptoms declines, 
-merely for the purpose <^ restoring the oonstitutiott to its original 



DISEASES OF THE BESPIRATORT ORGANS. 



13d 



rigour. The muriated tincture of iron, to the extent of ten to twenty 
drope twice a-day, answers welL 

Hjbmoittsib has been treated of at pi^e 114. 

Collapse and Dilation or the Aib-cbllb, and other pathologiieal 
states of the mucous memlMrane, which are, however, quite beyond 
household management, require for the palliation of the symptoms to 
whidi they give rise various sedative and expectorant remedies, in 
common with chronic diseases of the chest io general. 

I have now to pass to the diseases of the Lungs themselves ; 
their investing membranes ; and of the diaphragm ; — and in a work 
such as this, 

Pkettmoniai and Plbubist, with the inflammatory and rheumatic 
affections of the walls of the chest, and also of the diaphragm or mid- 
riff, are better considered together than apart It is true each 
disease may occur separately, but two or more of them are often con- 
joined ; nor is the discrimination of eadi always practicable, even if 
it were necessary. 

In all these diseases there is pain in some part of the chest, and 
impediment to the breathing. The pain is most acute in pleurisy, or 
the inflammation of the membrane covering the lung and lining the 
cavity of the chest, and in pleurodynia, or the rheumatic affection of 
the muscles of the chest ; also in the rarer affection, rheumatism of the 
fibres of the midriff or diaphragm. 

In inflammation of the substance of the lung^ which is by far the 
most serious disease, unless when confined to a small portion of the 
organ, the pain is of a duHer character, the oppression however being 
greater. When there is sharp pain of the chest, the first step is to dis- 
cover what it indicates. If there be no cough, and hardly any fever, 
there is a strong presumption that it is rheumatic — ^that is, that it is a 
muscular pain. This ^Hresumption will be much increased if it often 
shifU its seat; if it be much increased in the act of turning the body ; 
and i^ there be at the same time other rheumatic pains elsewhere in 
the body. When a rheumatic affection of the muscles of the chest is 
not extensive, the OTdinary breathing is not much impeded ; but when 
a full inspiration is made there is an instant check, occasioned by the 
suddenly increased acuteness of the pain, as the affected fibres are 
brought into stronger action. In what may be called a regular attack 
of pleurisy, there is distinct fever, and the patient cannot take a fall 
breath, however slowly and cautiously, without cough. Thus, were 
all the cases of these two diseases met with of this regpilar character, 
there would be no difficulty in the diagnosis ; the regular attack of i 



136 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGE&T. 

pleurisy being accompanied with cough and fever, that of pleuro- 
dynia, or chest-rheumatiBm, being mere pain without either fever or 
cough. But the rheumatic attack may supervene on some chronic 
malady of the chest, attended by cough and some occasional febrile 
disturbance, so that a difficulty arises ; and it is in such cases that a 
large experience in the sick-room gives so great an advantage over 
the most extensive book-knowledge of diseases. We shall see 
presently, however, how the stethoscope may be made use of to solve 
such difficulties — ^in short, how a knowledge of this instrument may- 
be made to stand in lieu of long experience ; but however long the 
experience and accurate the observer, I do not exaggerate when I 
affirm, that diseases of the lungs cannot be satisfactorily treated by 
one to whom the practical use of this instrument is not habitual. 
But let us first attend to that form of rheumatism which attacks 
the fibres of the diaphragm or midriff. Bheumatism of this party 
like that of the outer wall of the chest, is usually without fever 
and without cough. The pain strikes through the chest; and there 
is an instant catch of the breath in the same region when any 
sudden effort is made. If the ordinary breathing be examined more 
particularly, it will be found to be performed chiefly by the ribs, 
and that the fore part of the trunk over and below the stomach rises 
in inspiration less than usual, or not at all. This is easily 
understood. Ordinary breathing in health, particularly in the male, 
is performed chiefly by the diaphragm ; but when the diaphragm, 
which forms a muscular partition between the lungs and the abdom- 
inal organs, descends in inspiration, it thrusts out the abdominal organs 
so that the anterior wall of that cavity is protruded in ordinary inspir- 
ation. When, however, the fibres of the diaphragm become the seat of 
rheumatjsm, this part takes a much less active share in ordinary 
respiration ; the outer walls of the chest being in such cases called into 
greater activity to supply its place. Respiration by the diaphragm is 
termed abdominal breathing — ^that by the outer walls of the chest, 
thoracic breathing. And the comparative predominance of the one or 
the other of these two kinds of breathing affords a most important 
basis for the discrimination, not merely of chest-rheumatism from 
midriff-rheumatism, but of diseases affecting the chest in ^general 
from diseases affecting the abdominal cavity. If an acute inflamma- 
tory disease be above the diaphragm, abdominal breathing will go on 
as usual ; but if such a disease be below the diaphragm, abdominal 
breathing will be diminished or suspended, while thoracic breathing 
will be proportionably increased. 



Sometiines it is necessary to distinguish acute inflammation of the 
liver from pleurisy. In both there may be acute pain of the right 
side ; in both impediment to the respiration ; in both cough'; and in both 
considerable fever. But in inflammation of the liver the diaphragm 
does not freely descend; vhile in pleuritis thoracic breathing is 
usually sensibly diminished on the affected side. In inflammation of 
the diaphragm itself, which appears sometimes to occur indepen- 
dently of rheumatism, the absence of abdominal breathing must be 
still m6re striking. 

Such, then, is an outline of the common grounds of discrimination 
between the several inflammatory affections in or near the chest, 
attended, under ordinary circumstances, with acute pain,— namely, 
pleurisy, pleurodynia^ rheumatic and general inflammation of the 
diaphragm, and acute inflammation of the liver. 

It remains, however, to mention some of the particulars by which 
pneumonia or inflanmiation of the substance of the lungs is distin- 
guished from pleurisy. It has been already said that the pain in 
pneumonia is of a duller character ; but that is hardly a sufficient 
ground of discriminjition. The symptoms common to both diseases 
are pain in the chest, cough, impeded breathing, and fever. In pleurisy 
the cough is dry, and there is no expectoration till towards the termina- 
tion of the disease ; in pneumonia the cough, though dry at the very 
commencement, in general after a few hours shows a characteristic 
expectoration. This expe ctoration may be described as rust-coloured 
and viscid. In pleurisy the respiration is often not much affected, 
unless by the pain when the breath is more fully drawn. In pneu- 
monia the breathing is oppressed, and in severe cases the patient can- 
not lie down, while the laborious nature of respiration is marked by 
turgescence and lividness of the face. These two diseases are often 
conjoined — and then there are the symptoms of pneumonia combined 
witii the acute pain which attends pleurisy. 

By the introduction of the stethoscope a great improvement has 
been made on our knowledge of chest diseases ; not, however, without 
some attendant confusion. For the stethoscope discloses the presence 
of some such slight forms of pneumonia and pleuritis as are insuffi- 
cient to produce the ordinary symptoms by which these two diseases 
were originally characterized. Hence it happens that general precepts^ 
for example, as to the treatment of these two diseases, originally founded 
on the exclusive consideration of those severer forms which make them- 
selves known by prominent general symptoms, are not always equally 
applicable to those slighter forms disclosed only by the stethoscope. 



138 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND 6USGEBT. 

This explains to us why pleuritds and pneumonia are not so uni- 
Tersally regarded at present as yery dangerous diseases, requiring the 
most prompt and active treatment, as was the case in former times. 
It should put us on our guard also against belieying that the same slight 
treatment which is often sufficient in a pneumonia or pleuntis dis- 
covered only by the stethoscope, will be adequate to cure such severe 
diseases as come exclusively under the old terms pneumonia and 
pleuritis. 

The peculiar stethoscopic sign of the first stage of pneumonia is a 
sound heard during inspiration over the affected part resembling the 
bursting of very minute bubbles. In the corresponding stage of 
pleurisy the sound of the patient's voice as heard through the stethos- 
cope, placed over the affected part, is like the goat-bleat, or like the 
peculiar squeak in which the dialogue is carried on in the exhibitions 
of Punch. In the rheumatic affections of the muscular fibres no such 
signs are discoverable. 

In the second stage of pneumonia the respiration altogether ceases 
to be heard over the affected part^ while as the disease subsides 
the peculiar crepitating sound returns, and finally gives place to the 
respiratory murmur of health. 

As pleiuisy advances the goat- voice can no longer be heard, the 
sounds of respiration being at the same time undiscoverable, while 
that part of the chest gives a dull soimd on percussicm. 

These few hints will suffice to show the importance of the indi- 
cations supplied by the stethoscope, though much practice is requisite 
in connection with opportunities of seeing the post-mortem appear- 
ances in cases examined during life, to make a trustworthy aus- 
cultator. 

In the slighter forms of these inflammatory affections of the chest 
counter-irritation is the appropriate treatment. The hot mustard 
cataplasm, applied for several evenings in succession, will sometimes 
remove troublesome pains of the chest. If more obstinate, a fly- 
blister should be had recourse to. If by this means the pain be not 
wholly removed, the croton-oil liniment formerly referred to should 
be employed to keep up an eruption. In the meantime the general 
health should be attended to. Alkaline remedies are generally useful 
in the rheumatic tendency. Fifteen grains of the.bicarbonate of potassa 
dissolved in a sufficiency of water should be taken three times a day ; 
, or the liquor potass® to the extent of one or two tea-spoonfuls carefuUy 
diluted with a large quantity of water should be taken in the course 
of twenty-four hours. The other remedies required for internal use 



DISEASES OF THE BESPIBATOBY OBGANS. 139 

in the rheumatic affections of the chest are enumerated imder the 
general head of rhematism (page 69). 

When pains of the chest are more severe, and a suspicion of a 
pleuritic tendency is present, local bleeding by leeches or cupping 
should be premised. When pleuritic or pneumonic inflamma- 
tion is unequiyocally present with constitutional disturbance, free 
Tenesection from the arm should be submitted to without the least 
repugnance. No harm la the commencement of almost any case 
can result from one Tenesection, and the relief it affords is great be- 
yond description. The greatest enemies of blood-letting confess its 
efficacy as to present relief, while they deny its first effect in pro- 
ducing a cure. But eyen on their own showing, such a mode of 
treatment must be beneficial by the relief it affords and the time 
gained for the beneficial results of other treatment. It is the excess 
of blood-letting which is to be resisted. We must take care not to 
be deceived into the belief that successive blood-lettings are required 
by the mere reaction which follows a first venesection. But this 
is a matter to be decided rather by the medical profession than 
by the public. In former times blood-letting was often carried too 
far ; at present the patient is apt to suffer from the reluctance to 
employ this remedy in opposition to the speculations of mere 
theorists. 

The remedies which best second the effects of blood-letting, or 
supply its place when it has been deemed unadvisable, are tartarized 
antimony, and calomel and opium. 

Tartarized antimony is most efficacious in inflammatory affections 
of the chest Its effect to cause nausea and vomiting is not necessary 
for its beneficial infiuence ; and it is very often found that half a grain 
may be administered every half-hour in inflammatory affections of 
the chest during a whole day without the least nausea. Calomel and 
opium are very efficacious after blood-letting; but such treatment 
requires the superintendence of an experienced practitioner. Blisters, 
that is, fly-blisters, should never be omitted in severe inflammations 
of the chest. The strictest abstinence as to food and wine is essential. 

TxTBEBCTJLAB CONSUMPTION. — ^The most important disease, after 
pneumonia, having its seat, according to received views, in the sub- 
stance of the lung, is tubercular consumption. Tubercle is a diseased 
deposit from the blood ; and this deposit may take place not only in the 
lungs, but in almost any texture of the living frame. When tubercle 
is deposited in many different parts of the body at the same time, the 
term Genebal Tubbbculosis is employed to signify the morbid state 



140 HOUSSHOLD HEDICINB AND 8UM£E¥. 

into which the body ha4 pAased. The clepoait of tubercle uf ooqunoa 
in the lungs between the ages of fifteen vid thiri7*fiYe or forty. 
Much has been 4one tx> trace oi^t i/tie origin ^ad pvogr^w of t\^berQiilar 
deposit, whether in the lungs or elfwwhere. But th^ subject is too 
intricate V> b^ y^t i^ipe for being ei^r^soe4 in a populw for^. 'Sk^ 
original seat of the morhi4 dispositioi^ is unquestionably t}ie l^lood. 
It is 1^ disease no^ d^»endent o^ ipwe inflaipmatory action, bxit on % 
bad habit of body. ][n tec^ical l^Qg^age, it is ^, ci^he^a— r(i cachectic 
disease. In this reject aa important change has becm wroi^hit on 
medical opinion within the last thirty years, i^any circumatiywcaetfi 
tended, in fo^er iiflxe^ ijo force on medici^ inquirerai the idea of 
tubercle beiAg inflammatory in its origin. But among the obp^tiona 
medicine if u^ider to Laenneo, the distinguished author of the method 
of auscultation by the stethoscope^ is the decided le94 w\A(ih he tool^ 
in upb^o^ding the cachectic natijre of tubj^rcle, 

Tyb^rple is at fij^st deppe^ted in a liquid state. In thif state it 
insinifiAl^s itself intp the inter^tipes of the pulmonary wbstfmce,. 
and, passing through the lining membrane of th? 9ir-c^lls, filU t^ei^ 
interior. Tl^e. flw4 n^tt^ becomjj^ gof^gulfvted* pt^i^es ijgtto the s^t^ 
pf a foreign bpdy, though doubtless still endowed with a^ low vitality, 
^fter a time disintegra^tiQu or Silo^ death of the ti^bercle^ marked by^ 
softening, takes place ; and, along with this, ulceration of the adjacent^ 
ps^e^chyma, or sc^bstimee qf tl^. lupg. Hence origi^ftte (^vities 
sometimes of considerable size; a^nd wheri ^^ch cavities afiTept the 
lung to any great extent, death is ineyiti^b^. If but a. smali portion 
of the luAg is affectQ^f while the other organs of the body iceif^&in 
sound^ such c^apges v^j a^ise i^ the alEected part as. lead to a. eesM- 
tion of the disease. I^ sh.or^ there is the best reason to belieye,^ 
contrary to the persu^on of former times, th^t uoder favourable, yet 
rare, circ^n^tances, tuberei^ar consumption., wheu it hftf not pro- 
ceeded far, may have % fiE^vourable termination. 

The indications of pulmonary consumption are dull 90und^ on 
percussion of the upper part of the chest, parsing a,t last into peeuliar 
kinds of resonance of the voice, as heard through the stethoscope^ 
termed bronchophony ^d pectoriloquy ; cough ; p\in;le|it expectora- 
tion ; emaciation ; fmd hectic fever. Hectic fever attends mwoj kinds 
of internal irrite^tionf hence, popularly, the term, consumption is apt 
to be applied much more extensively than in exact medicine. Hectic 
fever is a remittent form of feyer— that is to say, it comes in paroxysms, 
each of which consist of a succession of chills, restleiBS heat, «md 
copious perspiri^tions. 



l^^di^^M 



DI8BA»ES OF tttE BESHEATOBY OBGANB. 



141 



Tttb«tf<)liliir eoiidttmptidn is imquestioiiably a hereditary dise^e. 
In the offiipting of phthisical parents, irheii ^e {ir^di^position is not 
very gr^at, muoh uhdoubtedly inay be done to ward off the disease — 
not, indeed, by reihedieS) but by such a modo of Hfb isid tends to render 
tho oonstitutioa more robust. If the dl^stioii b^ tigoroiis our efforts 
will probably be sueoessfuL If the stomach bd fastidious and difficult 
to manage, there is little ground for hopiS. Persoiis of phthisical 
fEoniliefl should not be bred up to iedeUta^ o<icupations, but rather 
to such as require being much in the opeh air^ With this condition, 
howeyer^ that there should not be espoturo to cold and wet. 

The chief use of seeking a milder climate for tiie phthisical iij, 
that they may be able to enjoy out of door exercise every day, 
without ^e risk attendant on such exposure in oUr Variable climate. 
This risk may be eoUaiderably diminished by usiug a respirator, 
which, when the disease is aotisoUy present) may be worn by night as 
well as by day. 

When tttbofeleB have made much progrsitef it k ehiel to detid a 
eonsumptive patient abroad ; and that which keeps up the credit of this 
pretence is an imperfect diiignosis« There an many forms of dhronic 
bronchitis, and even diseases of other parts of l^e body, remote from 
the chest, attended with febrile intermittent symptoms^ not unlike 
the hectie of phthisis, which sire benefited by k residence in- a milder 
dUmate f imd suoh cases are every day set down as so many instauoes 
of consimiptiion cured by a i^esidence abroad. 

Of late years ties ood^liver oil has gaitied a great reptttatioii in 
consumptive diseases ; if) belongs to the dass of medieines by which 
the genenU health is improved when feeble, and therefore shotdd 
not be oDutted^ The dose ueaally given i» too larg^j and ie liable to 
produce dyspepsia, or to excite the patient's disgust, so that he can* 
not oonti&ud its use; One teaspoonful twice or thrice a-day JAj in 
most instances, sufficient. It may be taken floating on ginger-wine, 
or beaten up with milk ; many prefer taking it without aHy siddition, 
as it is perfectly free from unpleasant taste or smell when pure. To 
children it maty be given by pouring it upon a piece of toasted bread, 
or some maihed pot&toee; in this form, witli the addition cf a little 
salt, it forms a very palatable mixture. Some have attempted to 
substitute frictione with oils, instead of their internal use^ on the 
ground that the persons employed in the wo(^en manufeetories^ who' 
live in an atmosphere of oil, are supposed to be exempt from con*' 
sumption. Such views at least deserve attention. 

When the disease is actually in progress, the treatment is the 



142 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUBOERT. 

same, yiz., the improyement by every possible meaos of the general 
healUi, and the alleviation of distressing symptoms, snoh as eough, 
night-sweats, and bowel complaint. Cough may be relieved by small 
doses of opiate medicines, as extract of henbane or of hemlock, in doses 
of from tyro to five grains ; or twenty or thirty drops of compound 
tincture of camphor in a little mucilage, or almond emulsion. Night- 
sweats are best treated by acids, of which the dilute sulphuric add is 
most commonly employed; fifteen to twenty drops may be given 
several times a-day, in a little water. Gallic acid has of late been 
much used for the same purpose, and is preferred by many physicians ; 
it may be given in the form of pills, in doses of three grains, twice or 
three times a-day. The diarrhoea, which complicates some cases of 
consumption, is very exhausting to the strength, and should be checked 
as speedily as possible ; the ordinary chalk mixture, with the addition 
of half a drachm of tincture of catechu and five drops of laudanum to 
each dose, will in many instances be sufficient ; if this should fail, the 
oxide of bismuth, which has been very highly recommended, may be 
tried, in doses of eight or ten grains, several times daily. Cases which 
resist these remedies are, in all probability, accompanied by very 
extensive disease of the bowels, and are little amenable to treatment 
of any description. 

Diseases op the Cavitt of the Chest, ob Pletjba. — Of these 
pleurisy has been already spoken of. Emftema is a collection of 
purulent matter in the cavity of the pleura, that is, between the 
pulmonary pleura and the costal pleura ; it either follows spon- 
taneous pleurisy, or is the effect of injuries. It is sometimes drawn off 
by the surgical operation termed paracentisis or tapping of the thorax. 

Htdbothorax is dropsy of the chest, and belongs to the general 
subject of dropsies. 

Pneumothobax is air in the cavity of the chest, and, most com- 
monly, mingled with fluid. 

In the two last diseases, as well as in empyema, there is some- 
times room for pal-acentisis. 

The chief diseases of the walls of the chest and of the diaphragm 
have been already spoken of; one may be added — ^namely, hysteric 
pain of the side, often of long duration, and resisting every kind of 
treatment. It appears to be of a neuralgic character, and often finally 
disappears, when the patient acquires a more robust description of 
health, 

— ♦— 



DISEASES OF THE ILIDNET. 143 



CHAPTER XV. 

DISEASES Of THE URINARY ORGANS. 

In the foUowing account of the diseases of the kidney, I shall 
especiall J bear in mind that I am addressing unprofessional readers ; 
for while it is my duty throughout this work to keep this circum- 
stance in view, it is doubly so when I enter upon a subject which 
is profound, and to a great extent enveloped in mystery. It is 
only of late years that even the principle on which the kidney acts 
has been clearly ascertained ; and therefore it can excite no wonder 
if some of its diseases are matters of modem disooy^ry, and if others 
still remain obscure. 

Before, however, commencing this subject, I propose to consider 
in general terms the principle upon which the kidney acts ; for, as 
will be readily evident, if iJiat be clearly imderstood, we shall obtain 
a clue to the study of most of its diseases. 

The kidney belongs to a class of organs known as the excretory, 
organs, whose duty it is to remove from the system noxious or un- 
necessary material. The necessity for this class of organs will.be 
evident at a glance ; for occasionally substances directly hurtful are 
taken into the system, while non-nutritive, and an excessive supply 
of nutritive material is of daily occurrence. Moreover, as a change 
is continually proceeding in the structure of every part of the body, 
the old matter must be removed as the new matter is introduced. 
The noxious and non-nutritive substances are, for the most part, 
removed from the system by the bowels, as is also a part of the nutritive 
material when that is in excess ; but when the matter has fairly entered 
the system — ^that is, the blood-vessels — ^it can no longer be got rid of in 
this manner. Thence arises the necessity for the existence of the 
excretory organs, that thus by the aid of the skin, lungs, liver, and 
kidneys, and a few lesser organs, the unnecessary nutritive material, 
and that derived from decaying tissues, may be removed. Since we 
are daily introducing into the body much matter which must be 
thrown out of it ; and since the destruction of the tissues proceeds at 
every moment, it must be evident that the excretory organs are of 
vital importance, and that upon their efficient action the avoidance 
of local and general disease must mainly depend. Whenever, there- 
fore, these organs, one or all, act insufficiently or excessively, we 
must expect disease. 



144 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND BUBOERT. 

The following is the mode in which the kidneys perform their 
functions : — The blood, loaded with the matters to be excreted, is 
brought to them, and yery freely distributed, by means of myriads 
of yessels as large as a hair only, from which these organs select 
the matters referred to, and remoTe them, either in the forms in 
whioh they exist in the blood, or so change the forms that the 
elements assume a more conrenient and portable shape. The term 
€xereiwn properly refers to the latter action only. 

The foregoing obserrations have been made in reference to the 
eliminating organs as a body, for as the principle eyolyed is common 
to them all, it was thought that it would not mystify the subject, 
but interest readers, to widen the range of obsenration as fiur as 
possible. Each oorgaa has, howeyer, certain special substances to 
eyolye, although the material to be remoyed has much the same 
ultimate chemical constitution ; and each one has a speeial anatomy, 
special diseases^ and special xo-aotions by its diseases upoin the 
system. 

The urinary apparatus consists of the secreting organs, or kidneys, 
and a eontaining organ or bladder, two communicating tubes, or 
ureters, between these, and a canal leading externally fhHn the 
bladder. Of these the kidney, and a canal by which the seeretionB 
would be discharged, are alone necessary; but since it would be 
highly mconyeaient that the secretion should be passing away at 
eyery moment, tiie bladder is proyided to contain a certain quantity, 
with power to retain the fluid until it is nearly flUed. The neceesary 
or essential part is met with in a yery low class of animals, and even 
in the minute water insects which are too small to be examined by 
the unaided sight. In many <rf the lower animals there is no bladder, 
and there the secretion is poured at onoe into the bowel or its outlet ; 
but in all tiie higher orders there are the parts aboye mentioned a« 
existing in mfus. 

In the ooostruction of Uie kidney it is needful that pioyisian 
should be made for three acts : 1st, the free distribution of the blood 
in yery minute yessels, so that eadu particle of blood may be acted 
upon; 2ndly, the chemical or yital action, whereby the urinary 
substances may be separated and modified ; and 3rdly, the renMval 
of the secretion. Such a condition of the kidney is obsenred in man. 

There are two kidneys in man, one on either side of the spinal 
column, in the upper part of the loins, and embedded in fkt. Each 
one is four inches in length, two inches in breadth, and one inch in 
thickness. The left one is larger and thinner than the right, and i^ 



DISEASES OF THE UEINABY OBOANS. 



145 



also about a quarter of an ounoe hearier. The ayerage weight 9eemB 
to be from four and a half to six ounces in the male, and somewhat 
less in the female ; the proportion to the whole weight of the body 
is one to fiye hundred. The kidney in man is smooth, and without 
divisions upon its surface, while that of the oalf^ and other 
animals and insects, is diyided into numerous eztenud lobes. The 
whole organ has a dear red oc^ur, indicating its great yascularity ; 
but the part lying nearest to the sur&ee (hence called the cortical 
part) has the deepest hue. This external or cortical portion is that 
in which the urine is formed ; while the part placed more intenially, 
and terminating in a number of pointed portions or nipples, is ohiefly 
that which conveys the urine so secreted to a membranous cavity 
called the pelvis, from which it im ultimately forwarded to the 
bladder. It is probable that the chemical action is admost solely confined 
to the cortical portion, and thete we must look for the proper structure 
of the kidney. This structure consists of a transparent membraae^ 
fbrmed into a tube nearly as small as a hair, having externally a 
net^wock of blood-vessels to supply the blood, and internally a 
layer of cells called epithelium, to secrete the urine from the bk>od. 
One end of this tube is expanded into a kind of globe, named after 
a celebrated anatomist Malpighi, and within or upon this is a 
net-work of blood-vessels. The more central portion, called the 
medullary portion, also consists of tubes, but they are straight, lying 
in bundles side by side, and terminate at the end or apex of the 
nipple. This is also known as the tubular structure, and as it also 
possesses a layer of cells, although li»wer than those observed in the 
cortical portion, it Is probable that it exercises some influence ever 
the secreted fluid. As the Isst portion^ cor pelvis, is merely a kind of 
bag, with an open neck to collect the uiine, and a tube to convey it 
away, I need not fnrtlier refer to it. 

It wiU be perceived fr)[>u this short description of the ndatite 
structure of the kidney, that the epithebal cells are the most im« 
portaut organs, since the essential function of the kidney is conflded 
to them. These little bodies^ too small to be seen by the naked eye^ 
do net live for a long period, but after a time put on a vongh and 
dai^er ccdoitred appearanes, and are thrown off by the membrane to 
which they were attached. The constant renewal of these cells is 
therefore of the utmost moment to the kidney ; for without them, 
not only would urine^ properly 9» oaQed, not be prodnced, but the 
thin parts of the blood would pass through the kidney unchanged, 
and the patient die from exhaustion. When disease ot the stracture 



146 



HOUSEHOLD MEDTCINE AND SUROEBT. 



of the kidney oociin it ia chiefly in reference to these cells, on the 
principle that disease is most likely to attack the most active organs. 

I have now shown that, in a state of health, there are certain 
matters in the blood which must be remoTcd by the kidneys, and 
that the kidneys haye an apparatus fitted for their removal, their 
chemical reconstruction, and the ejection of them from the system. 
I have also inferred that if this eliminating action be carried on 
, in excess, or not sufficiently carried on, we may f^m either cause 
alone expect a disordered or unnatural secretion, and some diseased 
or disordered condition of the general system as the result of it. I 
may now further add, that if the state of the blood be unnatural or 
diseased, so probably will be the secreted fluid, as indeed it will be if 
the secreting organ itself, or any part of it, more particularly the 
epithelial cells, be diseased. Thus we arrive at the conclusion that 
the state of the urine may be a valuable guide in the investigation of 
disease ; and indeed we know that in all ages a high degree of im- 
portance has been popularly ascribed to any change observable in 
that fluid. Let us now, as a standard of comparison, first consider 

Heaxtht IlBiifB, which possesses the following characters: — 
It is clear when passed and until decomposition begins, and has an 
acid reaction on the emersion of litmus paper; the colour is that of 
straw, but it varies somewhat in different individuals — ^with the 
period of the day, being darker in the morning — and with the quantity 
of fluid taken into the stomach, being darker in proportion to the 
small quantity of fluid. Its odour is peculiar ; but when !&esh it 
has neither a sweet nor a pungent odour. The specific quantity, or 
its weight when contrasted with an equal quantity of water, is from 
12 to 25 per 1000 more than water, or in other words, is as 1012 or 
1025 to 1000. When boiled it still remains dear, and the addition 
of a strong acid, with or without heat, causes it only to become a 
little browner. There are no crystals or any deposit, except a very 
little light-floating mucus at the bottom of the vessel. 

The urine which is passed on rising in the morning is purer than 
that passed later in the day, because it is drawn £rom the blood pro- 
ducts more especially, and is less influenced by the introduction of 
substances with the food. This kind of urine is called f4rina aanffuinif, 
while that secreted after taking food is termed urina ciH, 

The influence of food over the physical qualities of the urine has 
been well developed by Dr. B. Jones. He states that the urine is 
most acid when the contents of the stomach possess the greatest 
acidity, and vie$ versA, The urine passed the latest after taking food is 



DISEA6B8 OF THE URINABY ORGANS. 147 

genmlly the moBt add; that passed during digestioxi is three or four 
times less aoid, and sometimes eyen alkalin& Immediately before 
each meal the urine always shows the greatest acidity ; that passed 
in two or three hours afterwards shows the least. The decrease is 
greatest three hours after breakfast, and fiye or six hours after dinner, 
when it reaches the minimum. In the absence of food the acidity 
remains nearly the same for twelve hours, but falls directly after 
taking food. With animal diet only, the diminution of acidity after 
food is yery rapid, and more permanent than after mixed diet, the 
urine oft»n becoming alkaline. With yegetable food, excluding sub- 
acid fruits, the decrease of acidity aft»r food is much less marked, 
and the increase of acidity before food much more eyident. 

The chemical analysis of the urine shows it to be the most com- 
plex fluid known. Thus it contains urea, uric acid, creatine, creatinum 
deriyed from the dying tissues, hippurio and lactic acids, sulphates, 
phosphates, and chlorides of sodium, with mucus and other organic 
matters. 

DisoBSEBED Ubimb. — The most frequent change from a healthy 
standard is a muddiness which occurs after urine, which was dear 
when passed, has been set aside for some minutes. If a small 
quantity be poured into a bottle, a number of floating, thready, or 
dusty brown partides will be observed ; but if the bottle be hdd 
near to the Are the whole will disappear, and the urine be again dear. 
The substance deposited is the UthaU or urate of ammonia^ and 
the appearance of it is due to the cooling of the urine. It results 
horn, exposure to cold, from slight and ordinary catarrh, and from 
indigestion. It is of no consequence, except as indicating these 
general derangements. At other times this turbid urine puts on a 
pink hue, and occasionally so much so as to be very remarkable. This 
is owing to an excess of the colouring matter of the urine united to 
ammonia, and called the purpurate of ammonia. This is also met with 
in fevers and in indigestion, but in a form somewhat more aggravated 
than that already referred to. There are no crystals observed in 
either of the above cases, and the urine is add. 

The lithie or urie add constitutes the red sand or gravel with 
which every one is familiar ; it being frequently observed as small 
red grains at the bottom of the vessel. It feels gritty and sandy to the 
touch, and is not observed in urine immediately after it is passed, or 
so long as that fluid continues warm ; and therefore some hours should 
be allowed to elapse before an examination is made. It may be found 
in urine which is perfectly clear, or it may be devdoped in a cloud of 



148 



HOUSBHOLD MSOICINE AND BUKOKHY. 



mucus. If the quantity be small, it ea& be observed only when the 
urine is placed in a bottle, when it may be seen adhering to thd 
sides, or lying at the bottom. This state of urine k observed in many 
conditions of the system* It is very firequent in pettonA who liye 
freely imd take much animal food, or wines, spirits, or ide ; and 
when in excess, it is aecompanied by an irritaUe condition of the 
kidneyi with pain in the back, frequent desire to pass water, tiunit, 
and some degree of heat and anxiety, and then patients are said to 
hare an attack of grayel. Here, also, there is indigestion ; and in 
addition to the appropriate treatment, it will be proper to employ the 
hip-bath twice a-day, to avoid all stimulants, and especially such as 
nitre, under the idea of forcing the urine, and to tikfi tea-spodnf ul 
doses of Epsom or Griauber salts, with half a tea-spoonful of caifbonate 
of soda, or a less quantity of potass, twice or thrice a-day. Diluelits, 
such as barley-water and linseed- tea, are to be freely drank ; t^egetftl^ 
acids may also be used, and perfect rest enjoined. 

Another common urinary deposit is the oxalate of lime, crystals of 
which are found so frequently, whether alone or combined, iiii so 
many states of the system, that they cannot be regarded as peculiar 
to any, or indicatiye of disease. Neither these crystals, nor ike osalie 
acid of which they are partly formed, are foulid naturally in Urine ; 
and hence it is a matter of interest to know how they hard been ^ro* 
dnced. In the first place, they may haye been t^en into the stonuudi 
with food, as rhubarb and sorrel, and similar plants, which oontalii 
these crystals in great abundance. They ore generally tcmxA After 
drinking champagne, and they may be produced by a chemical chitngie 
in the sugar which we eat ; and this is probably a frequent mode of 
production. 

Sugar, which is nearly allied to oxalate of lime, is not a aomponent 
part of natural urine, but is met with in certain diseMed states of 
the system. There are two kinds of sugar in common lue, knowii as 
grape-^ugar and cane-sugar. The latter is the ordinary 8U|^ of 6om* 
merce ; while the former is alone met with in the urine. This is' an 
important inquiry; since the presence of sugar in the urine is indioa*> 
tive of great waste (d nutritire material, and would certainly lead to 
decay of the system. The detection of it is not difiovdt. If st quan-* 
tity of Such urine be evaporated to an extract, and then digested in 
hot alcohol, white granular masses of sugar will be obsei*^d on the 
gMulual evaporation of the AlcohoL 

Another sinvple test is, to boil for a fiuntLte 6r tW6 a Httle 
of the urine with half its bulk of solution of potass, wheii the 



DISBASB8 OF THB URINABT OfiOANS. 



149 



colourless graf#'>9ugar becomes conyerted into oniDge«brown mo* 
lasses. 

If such urine be kept expose^ to tbe ^ at a modezately warm 
tempev^ture, it will put ou the vinoas or aoetoos fermentation, and 
tixe YegetfLble cells known as torules diabetica will appear i4 it* 

Another deposit very frequently met with is l^t of the phoq[>hate9 
of lime, or of ammonia and magnesia. These are the largest crystals 
produced in ur^e ; and when present in any quaj^itity, may be seen 
adhering to the sides or resting at the bottom of the oontaining vessel* 
Their existence, moreover, does not indicate disease, unless discovered 
very speedily after the emission of the urine ; for if healthy urine 
be set aside until decomposition has proceeded for some time, they may 
usually be found. This deposit is of general interest, from the faot 
that while urio acid abounda to the exclusion, or nearly sost of the 
phosphates in early life, and so long as the system retahis its health 
and vigour ; the phosphates abound, to the partial exclusion of the 
urates, in the urine of very old persons, and in others who are breakini^ 
up from disease or premature decay of the vital powers. Whatever, 
therefore, this deposit is at all habitual, it is of the utmost moment 
to attend to its indications. Jn such instance^ as indeed in nearly 
every caae, the urine will be only very slightly aoid, or more com'* 
menly alkaline, immediately it is passed, and will be prone to ytftj 
early decomposition. A pungent odour very frequ^itly accompaniea 
it ; whUe a frequent desire to pass urine, from inability to retaw it, 
is the first notieeahle symptom. It is customary to find a maniiettt 
turbidity of the urine immediately it is passed, and which cannot be 
removed by heai 

Besides occurring more or less as age advances, it is also oom« 
monly observed in those who live chiefly on vegetable diet, or who 
from pover^ or other causes do not take meat and stimulating drinks. 
In such instances, moreover, the urine is very prone to decomposition. 

When a child who has been accustomed to retain ite urine sud*- 
denly acquires the habit of wetting the bed without any evident cause, 
it will generally be found that the urine is alkaline, or insufficientiy 
acid ; and should it have continued sa for some time, the phoqthates 
will generally be present This state is sometimes associated with 
disease of the mucous membrane of the bladder, or other urinary 
organs, and then may be purely a local disease; but aa a rule, the 
frequent recurrence of this afiEection should be ascribed to general 
causes, and treated accordingly. 

When it arises from impending decay, it is not enough to render 



the urine acid by the administratioii of nitric or hydrochloric acids; 
for then the state of system would remain as before, and the disease 
would return. Acids are proper, but should only be a part of 
one general plan of treatment ; viz., to sustain the system. Change 
of air and scene are of no little importance. When it occurs as 
the result of some other disease, it must be treated as a part of that 
disease ; and when it occurs in children, as above mentioned, a liberal 
administration of acids, with bitter tonics, exercise in the open air, 
and animal food, will ultimately remoye it. Should the patient 
be living in a low or damp situation, he should be removed into a 
high and dry one. 

Many abnormal substances are occasionally found in the urine, as 
mucus, pus, blood, bile, and fat ; but these are matters too intricate 
for popular illustration, and I now proceed to detail some of the 
diseases to which the kidney is liable, and their effects upon the urine. 
Excessive action of the kidney is met with in hysteria, in which 
the urine is pale and almost odourless as water, and in enormous 
quantity. This results from the state of extreme excitability. 
A similar state of things is temporarily induced by fright, drink- 
ing simple fluids in excess, or from drinking stimulating fluids, 
and more particularly gin, from the juniper wMch it contains. As 
a whole, there is a greater action of the kidney in winter than in 
summer, so as to obviate the ill effects which might follow the dimi- 
nution of perspiration. In the instances referred to the chief ingre- 
dient in excess is the water ; but excessive action of the kidney may 
be indicated by the production of an unusual quantity of more im- 
portant elements, as uric acid. In the latter case, however, it is 
probably not^the excessive action of the kidney which increases the 
quantity of the uric acid, but the presence of a large quantity of the 
acid in the blood inducing the former. This may be highly important ; 
for if the excess of uric acid be not the result of excess of food, it 
depends upon the excessive destruction of the tissues, a cir- 
cumstance which would ultimately endanger the life of the per- 
son. 

The phosphates have been found in excess in insane persons, and 
have been held to indicate an unusual degree of wear and tear of the 
brain. When excessive action is only of short duration, and of unfre- 
quent occurrence, no ill effects to the kidney are induced ; but if it 
be constantly continued, it will end in throwing off the epithelial 
cells, and the destruction of the kidney by organic disease. 

Diabetes. — Another condition accompanying an excessive action of 



DISEAS£8 OF THE UBIMABY OBOANS. 151 

the kLdney is known as diabetes. Its essential peculiarity is that the 
urine contains so large a quantity of sugar as to be sweet to the taste, 
and smelling of sweet hay or of an apple room, and forming a 
cake of sugar on evaporation, from which crystals may be obtained. 
The other elements of the urine appear on the whole to be healthy, 
except the water, and this is so abimdant, that while the total quan- 
tity in health is about two pints, in this disease it is ordinarily seven 
to fifteen per day, and has been known to reach the enormous extent 
of eighty, and even two hundred pints in one day. To the tests 
for sugar I hare already given may be added the taste and odour 
of that substance, and the fact that the specific gravity of the urine is 
very high when sugar is present. In colour the urine is a pale 
green, and the fluid is transparent; yet if a drop fall upon the 
trowsers or any other article, it will, after evaporation, leave a pow- 
dery appearance of sugar. The symptoms, besides those of the urine 
now given, are very characteristie. Thus, as the fluid is drawn from 
the body by the kidney to so great an extent, little can exist elsewhere, 
and the skin is dry and harsh, and never perspires, while the bowels 
are costive from the like absence of fluid. The craving for fluid is 
also very remarkable, and is accompanied by a dry and red state of 
the tongue. As the sugar is composed of the elements ^of the food, 
the system is badly nourished, and nervous sinking and bodily wasting 
ensue, although the quantity of food taken is oftentimes very great 
It is clear that in the struggle now proceeding, the produc- 
tion of the sugar in the urine will ultimately starve the patient 
The questions of treatment are simply — ^how can we support the 
system, and yet not supply those elements from which the sugar is pro- 
duced ? It is manifestly a disease of the digestive and assimilative 
functions. Now it is found that vegetable food, and more particularly 
the most nutritious of this kind of food, as bread, grains of all kinds, 
including pease and beans, and potatoes, contain the moat sugar, or the 
most starch, a substance which is readily converted into sugar. 
Animal food, on the other hand, does not supply this kind of food. 
Thus, the plan is to restrict the patient absolutely to the various kinds 
of animal food, as meat, milk, and eggs, and these cooked and varied 
in a thousand ways. When he rebels and will take a little vege- 
tables, it should be of the green and fresh kinds, because they contain 
but little starch and sugar. He should be gradually limited to a 
small quantity of water to drink. The bowels should be regulated, 
but not by salts, and the functions of the skin excited by hot air 
baths. Opium, in full doses, and regularly administered, relieves the 



152 



HOUSEHOLD IffBDICIirB AVD BURGBKT. 



neiTout aiudetj, and qnieU the kidney, and therofiira is nuMfc 
yaliiftble. OreoMte has also been strongij reeommendedy and atod 
also, to give tone to tiie sjrstem. Frosh air, exeraue, change of scene, 
and amusement, are partioolarly beneAaud, bat care must ba taken to 
avoid exposnre to oold. 

The disease is nsuaUy one of long dnration, and when it ends 
fiitally it is hy indneing ^dsease of some other organ. It must always 
be regarded as one of great gravity. 

DsrscnvB AcnoK of the kidneys is usoally far more serious 
in its immediate ooossqoences. Sometimas the secretion altogether 
eeases, and then the patient dies in a few days. In these eases, 
the elements of the blood which ongfat to have been discharged are 
retained ; and b^ng retained, they poison the blood, and through that 
fluid injuriously adfoot every part of the body. The chief dement ot 
misohi^ is ths urea which may than be detoeted in the blood and 
perspiration, and gives an odour of wine to both fluids. The patient 
usually dies Irom disease of the brain or of the lungs. 

It is important to distiaguivh this disease f^m retention of urine 
within the bladder ; for, if the latter be discovered in time, the intro- 
duction of the catheter would remove it. The distinction is not 
usually difficult, sinoe in the latter ease Aero is a sw^ing and great 
tenderness at the lowest part of the bowels, and usually a frequent 
desire to pastf urine. Both eenditions, however, agree in this^ that 
medical advice ought at once to be sought These states of esBcessive 
or defective action may exist, so lur as is known, without any ii^am- 
matory oonditioa of the kichiey, and are not at first usually accom- 
panied by pain in the regioa of the organ. 

Obavsl, as it is usuaDy understood, is accompanied by ill-defined, 
or by sharp pain over the region of one or both kidneys, and there 
may or may not be tenderness on pressurew There is also much pun 
on every attempt to sit uprig^ or to tom in bed. At first this is 
the only symptom ; but soon afterwards there is some difficulty m 
passing urine ; thirst, and heat of ddn, and sleepiness are induced, and 
if relief be not obtained the pain will amount to agony. It is probable 
that even at this point there is some irritation of the kidney ; but the 
frequent use of hot baths, the administration of large doses of epium 
and of alkalies, as potass, with or without aperients, as may be requi- 
site, will suffice to remove the attadc The gravel in this case is 
usually of the red or urie acid variety. Sometimes a white gravel 
is met with, which consists of the phosphates, and is usually mized 
up with mucus, more or less ropy ; but in this case the suffering is 



. DISEASES OF THE UBINABY ORGANS. 153 

by no means so great The term grayel should be restricted to the 
presence of the former kind of deposit. 

Occasionally a calculus or stone is formed within the kidney, 
and lodges there or in the ureter, causing yery great distress. In 
this case, which is one of great danger, opium in one or two grains, 
doses every three hours, or chloroform, may be administered. The 
hot bath should also be used, and perfect quietude enjoined. lA a 
relaxed state of the parts, the stone may pass into the bladder ; but 
when it cannot pass, the case will probably end in death, from 
inflammation and consequent destruction of the kidney or ureter. 

Inflammation of the kidney in its acute form is a rare disease, 
except as the result of injury or a poisoned condition of the blood. 
There are several conditions of the system in which inflammation of 
the kidney, more or less acute, is apt to occur, such as scarlet-fever ; 
but in all these cases the blood has been previously poisoned by the 
disease, and acts upon the kidney. 

There is local pain, usually of a severe lancinating character, 
accompanied by great tenderness on pressure, either by the hand or 
the weight of the body as it lays upon the bed, with inability to 
turn, on account of the great suflering induced. 

If only one kidney be affected, it is probable that the other one, 
by taking an increased action, will suffice for a time to get rid of the 
urinary elements from the blood ; but should the diseaere continue for 
some time, or should both kidneys be diseased, the blood becomes 
poisoned, and then follows diseased action in the brain, lungs, and 
other organs. Inflammation of the kidney may terminate in abscess 
— ^Pyelitis — ^marked by increased constitutional disturbance, shiver- 
ings, and the appearance of pus in the urine. This is a very serious 
matter. The abscess may break into the cavity of the abdomen and 
oaiise death ; or be discharged into the bowels, with the same fatal but 
a more protracted result. Cases exist in which an abscess has opened 
externally, and life been prolonged for a considerable period. 

There are certain states of the kidney both of enlargement and 
contraction, of softening and of hardening, which no doubt have their 
origin in inflanmiation of the kidney, and known as 

Bbioht's disease, in which the tubes, or many of them, are 
emptied of the proper epithelial cells, so that the serum of the 
blood passes through unchanged. The condition of the urine is of 
essential value in the investigation of this not-yet-known disease. 

The symptoms are very varied. The most prominent being that the 
urine coagulates — that is, albumen becomes visible in it upon the appli- 



154 HOUSBaetOLD MBDICIirB AND SU&GBRT. 

cation of heat ; but this condition is entirely beyond domestio manage- 
ment, while, under the best medical care, the probability of recovery 
is exceedingly smalL 

Inflammation of the Bladdbb is characterized by pain be- 
tween the legs and above the pubes, especially upon pressure. There 
is also swelling and tension in the lower part of the abdomen, frequent 
desire to make water, which is either passed in small quantities and 
with much straining, or not at all. General uneasiness in the 
abdomen, nausea, and vomiting are not unfrequent. The pulse is 
feeble and irregular ; and if relief is not obtained, hiccough, delirium, 
and convulsion usher in a fatal result. This is a formidable disease, 
requiring energetic treatment, and great practical skill to overcome. 
General bleeding and the application of leeches over the region of the 
bladder and between the legs are very necessary ; warm poultices 
give much relief, as also the warm bath, and the exhibition of opiates* 
We must also induce perspiration by the use of saline draughts, oc 
antimonial wine, if the stomach is not too irritable to bear it, when 
Dover's powder in twelve 'grain doses may be given. Calomel 
in sufficient doses to make an impression upon the system is often 
necessary ; two grains with one of opium every four or six hours* 
When the bladder is distended, the water must be drawn aS by the 
catheter. 

The diet must be strictly farinaceous ; but when the inflammation 
terminates in suppuration, and a discharge of purulent matter indi-. 
cates what has taken place, the strength must be supported, and if the 
debility is great ale or porter allowed. Inflammation of the bladder 
always requires the urgent care of a professional man. 

Chronic Inflammation of the Bladdbb, or Vesical Catarrh^ 
is not an uncommon complaint, especially in old persons. It consists 
in a discharge of mucus with the urine, with some degree of irritation 
of the bladder. It may be occasioned by cold, gout, rheumatism^ 
scrofula, intemperance, and the abuse of highly seasoned food. It 
is often the result of acute affections of the kidneys and the urethra. 
It is a very troublesome complaint, and sometimes of very long 
continuance. It is best treated by anodynes to soothe the local irrita- 
tion ; demulcent drinks, as barley-water with gum dissolved in it ; 
and mild laxatives. When of long standing turpentine in doses of 
twenty to thirty drops three or four times a-day is highly beneficial. 
Tar- water has been recommended as a drink ; as also infusions of the 
uva ursi and pareira brava. Tonics, as quinine, are often necessary; 
an^ when complicated with gout, colchicum may successfully be 



DISEA8E9 OF THE XTItlKABT ORGANS. 155 

employed. If the urine itself ia at fitult, and iU irritating properties 
glye rise to the affection, the phosphates heing present (see page 149), 
the mineral acids mnst he exhibited. The bladder itselif may adran- 
tageously be injected "with emollient fluids, as the infusions of marsh 
mallow, lint seed^^or barley. An astringent lotion may in the seme 
way be locally applied. The diet must be mild but nutritious; 
consisting of milk aiid farinaceous food, with boiled meats rather than 
roasted. Flannel must be worn next the ddn to guard against the 
vicissitudes of climate. Chalybeate mineral waters are often useful. 
Stsakottst is a symptom of irritation of the urinary passages, 
and is chiefly characterized by a frequent desire to make water, of 
which very little passes, and that accompanied with much pain. It 
sometimes follows the application of a blister to any part of the 
body ; but is easily relieved by doses of camphor- water, with a few 
drops of laudanum, mucilaginous drinks, and warm fermentations. 

Inoontinsncb of IJRiKfi, or want of power to control its dis* 
charge, is a most painful affection. It may depend upon nervous 
influences, and upon irritation of the bladder itselif or a disordered 
state of the urine. In the first case We must strengthen the system, 
improve the general health, and give tone to the part. Steel wine is 
very useful in doses of half a drachm three times a-day. Gantharidefl 
have been very successfully administered ; and sea-bathing is highly 
beneficiaL If there is disease of the urinary organs, of which incon<* 
tinence is a frequent symptom, it must be treated accordingly. 
Children are sometimes subject to incontinence of urine during the 
night, depending upon an unusual and temporary susceptibility of 
the nerves of the organ to the stimulus of distention. It is commonly 
thought that punishment is the best cure in these cases ; but unless 
the principle upon which punishment operates be kept in view, the 
unfortunate child may be, and indeed often is, subjected to unavail- 
ing cruelty. Punishment can only operate by awakening attention 
to the first approaches of the sensation of the distention which enforces 
instant obedience; and which, when it has arisen, no effort of the 
will, even under the dread of punishment, is adequate to resist. The 
best mode of treatment is to allow no drink during the latter part of 
the day, to insist upon the bladder being evacuated before going to 
bed, and awaking the child during the night for the same purpose. 
Tonics, especially steel wine, and cold bathing are usefiil. 

SuFPESBSioN OF IJiiiNB, if uot ovcrcomc, soon proves fatal. It 
depends upon a diseased state of the kidneys, or from a mechanical 
impediment, as stones in the ureters (see page 153), to tbe flow of 



156 



HOUSEHOLD MEDIGINB AND SURGERY. 



urine from the kidney into the bladder* The most prominent sign 
of suppression is the absence of the secretion ; there is also a sense of 
weariness in the loins, with nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, and general 
dropsical swelling. The patient about the fourth day becomes coma- 
tose, and death soon takes place. In some cases pain in the loins 
may not occur, and the patient dies comatose in a few hours. When 
a mechanical cause induces suppression the pain is excruciating; 
after a time this subsides, and the patient dies. 

If the affection depends upon organic disease of the kidney, it is 
only one of a train of sjrmptoms which must be treated accordingly. 
But this is not always tiie case, and then blood-letting, opiates in full 
doses, the warm bath, and purgatives must be employed. When coma 
sets in death is inevitable. 

Ebtbntion of U&inb must be distinguished from suppression; 
and this is easily done by the empty state of the bladder, as detected 
by pressure with the hand over the pubes, and the use of the catheter. 

But I have said enough upon diseases of the urinary organs to 
show their very serious nature, and to afford some notions of the 
principles upon which they are to be treated. In conclusion let me 
add, that nearly all demand great practical skill, not only in bringing 
them to a successful termination, but even to detect their varieties 
and apply the appropriate remedies. None but a medical man should 
Venture to interfere with them. 



CHAPTER XVI. 



DISEASES OF THE XJTEBINE SYSTEM. 

The uterine system, in the females of the human race, presents a 
great complexity of organization, and a corresponding multiplicity of 
actions subservient to the important purposes of originating the germ 
of the new individual before conception; and after conception of sus- 
taining and nourishing the same up to that point of development at 
which it is destined to pass into the outer world. Among tl^ actions 
concerned in preparing the uterine system for the great work of 
reproduction, none is more remarkable than the secretion to which 
the femides of the human race are subject at nearly lunar periods 
during the entire continuance of their reproductive life. This 
singular peculiarity in their constitution gives origin to several 



DISEASES OF THE UTERINE SYSTEM. 



167 



diseases of a like peculiaritj — ^that is, to diseases unknown among 
the females of other animals — unknown in the males of the human 
race. The diseases falling under this head are chlorosis, or the 
green sickness, at the period when this secretion should first appear; 
amenorrhoea, or suppression of the secretion after it has already taken 
place; dysmenorrhoea, or painful menstruation ; menorrhagia, or pro- 
fuse discharge of that secretion ; leucorrhoea, or colourless secretion 
from the same organs. Of these in order. 

The commencement of this secretion coincides with the age of 
puberty, which appears in this country- most commonly to arrive in 
the fifteenth year. In the tables published on this subject, the appear- 
ance of the secretion is represented as taking place in the greatest 
number during the fifteenth year; next to that in the fourteenth 
year; then in the sixteenth; then in the seventeenth; then in the 
thirteenth. In rare cases, it occurs as early as the eleventh year, 
even in this country. The entire period of reproductive life in this 
climate hardly exceeds thirty years. 

Several changes are produced, besides the occurrence of this secre- 
tion, on the female frame at the time of puberty; these consist chiefly 
in the enlargement of the several organs concerned in reproduction, 
as indicated by the greater development of the mammary glands. 
When this last change takes place decidedly, after the completion of 
the fourteenth year, and signs of the girlish character giving place to 
the womanly at the same time appear, it seldom happens that the 
periodical uterine secretion is not quickly established in a complete 
manner within a short time. In a few, its commencement is not 
marked by any attendant indisposition. In most, however, at one or 
two periods before the secretion actually begins, there are uneasy 
feelings, such as disorder of the stomach and bowels, pains of the 
back and around the haunches, faintness, flatulent ^distentions, and 
the like. Some degree of feverishness may even arise. The secretion 
seldom assumes its proper aspect at the very first ; and it often hap- 
pens that several periods have occurred with such symptoms as are 
noted above, the secretion in the meantime being nearly colourless, 
before the proper secretion becomes established. A dark circle around 
the eyes usually accompanies the secretion, while the features for the 
most part have their natural expression somewhat obscured. When 
this important change becomes established with no greater difficulty 
than that now described, it is not considered that any disease has 
arisen. When, on the contrary, ill health arises, marked by peculiar 
characters, while the secretion either does not commence at all or 



"T 



16B 



HOUaSHOLD IfEDlGINJB ANP SITBOEEY. 



only in an imperfeot manner, the diaease now formed ia termed by 
pbysioiana Chloroaia, or, p<^ularly, the Green Siokness. 

C&LOBOBia, or Gbesn Sicxmias. — ^The aymptoma charaeterizing 
chloEoais are disorder of 1iie stomach, aometunes accompanied with an 
ii^eiinalaon to eat anbatanceB unfit for food, aa chalk, ashes, and the 
like; saUownesa of the surface, or eren discoloration; the veins not 
yromiiient but sunk ; tendency to swellings of the surface of the 
body ; prostration of strength ; palpitations ; Uie non-appearance of 
the uterine secretion at the proper periods. 

A question has arisen among medical authorities whether chlorosis^ 
as characterized by the signs just enumerated, should be regarded as 
a distinct disease, or merely as a train of disordered actions symp* 
tomatic of the non*appearance of the uterine secretion at the proper 
period of life. The name given to defect of this secretion under aU 
its forms is Amenorrhoea, and two species of this disease are uni« 
yersally recognised-^-^iamely, retention of the secretion, that is, its 
non-appearance at the usual age ; and suppression of the secretion, 
that is, its disappearance after having been established in the con- 
stitution. Those who regard chlorosis as solely symptomatic of the 
first of these species of amenorEhoea, include what they have to say 
of chlorosis under the head of that species, namely, the amenorrhoea 
of retention, refusing to chlorosis altogether a place among diseases. 
According to the opposite view, chlorosis is a depraved state of healthy 
one of the concomitants or effects of which is retention of the uterine 
secretion at the epoch when it should develope itself. This question 
faay seem at first sight to be a purely speculative difference of opinion, 
having no bearing on the great practical purpose of medicine, namely, 
the cure of disease. But the case really stands otherwise — ^for it 
sometimes happens that this uterine secretion fails to appear at the 
accustomed age, and yet no such symptoms as those induded under 
chlorosis arise ; and it is undeniable that the cure of chlorosis does 
not so much depend on the use of remedies known to promote directly 
the secretion in question, as on those which promote the general 
health, and thereby enable the uterine system to develope itself near 
the appointed time, in obedience to the law of a healthy female &ame. 

In the few words to which my accoxmt of chlorosis must be 
confined, that stete of the female frame is regarded as a distinct 
disease, one of the concomitants or effects of which is a retention of 
the proper uterine secretion. 

The prominent character in chlorosis is the defect of energy 
in the performance of the several functions. There is a deficiency 



DISEASES 0¥ THE UTEAINE SYSTEM. 



159 



in the proper Tigour of tbe einmlation of the blood, a8 indicated 
by the paleness and discoloration of the surface, by the palpitations^ 
by the want of fullness in the yeins, and by the tendency to 
dropsical accumulations in ike cellular tissue. The tendency to 
loss of breath under slight exertion is another indication of the feeble^ 
ness of the circulation; while it shows at the same a failure in 
the forces by which respiration is carried on. The nervous system 
participates in the general feebleness, as is indicated by the disposition 
to nervous and hysteric affections of various kinds. The pains of 
the head, back, loins, and haunches are of that kind which attends 
a languid droulation of ^be blood, in the central parts of the nervous 
system. The dyspeptic symptoms, that is, disorders of the stomach 
and bowels, point to the deficiency and depraved state of the secre- 
tions concerned in the several functions of the abdominal organs ; 
while complete prostration of the bodily strength could haerdiy fail to 
be the result of so much internal disorder, affecting the due nutrition 
of the muscular system. The blood is found to have lost its due 
chemical composition, being deficient in the important element of 
iron ; it is more watery, and the red globules less numerous. 

Thus chlorosiB is a cachetic state of the female frame — ^that is, 
one of the forms of what is termed a bad habit of body. It is 
closely allied to anemia, or the morbid state in which the red blood 
has become deficient. 

The causes which favour the origin of chlorosis in the female 
frtane entirely bear out the view which has just been taken of the 
character of the disease. An originally feeble fhune of body is 
imdoubtedly sufficient to subject the individual at the age in question 
to Ihe various symptoms constituting this disease. The changes 
destined to take plaee at that age demtuod an extraordinary effort on 
the part of the living forces. To sustain such an effort a consider- 
able increase in the nutrition of the whole frame must be necessary. 
If the Irving forces under the actual circumstances of the constitution 
be inadequate to carry out these changes, with the ordinary support of 
an extended nutrition, tiiea the unavailing efforts whidi take place still 
further debilitate these vital forces, and render them inefficient even 
for the uses to which they had before siloed, and (Porosis arises. 

The causes which, independency of any original feebleness of 
constitution, produce chlorosis, operate on the same great principle. 
These causes are such as enfeeble the frame as the peiiod of puberty 
approaches ; namely, sedentary occupations with late hours in the 
confined atmosphere of iH- ventilated houses, ware -rooms, and 



160 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND BUBOEBT. 

factories ; hot rooms and an oyer delicate system of training ; exoessive 
application to study without the relaxation and amusements congenial 
to the age of youth. 

When nothing has occurred beyond the slight disturbance of 
health abore described as commonly ushering in the appearance of 
the uterine discharge, little treatment is required farther than some 
attention to the stomach and bowels, the warm bath, or the warm 
hip-bath, and a little care in the regimen adopted. A tea-spoonful 
of calcined magnesia, or fifteen grains of bicarbonate of soda, with 
some aromatic water, such as cinnamon or pimento water, repeated 
as occasion requires, will usually correct the stomach disorder. 
When aperient medicine is necessary, some of the prepairations of 
aloes answer well, such as one or two ounces of the decoction of 
aloes, or a similar quantity of the wine of aloes. If the bowels be 
habitually confined, eyen half an ounce of the wine of aloes, taken daily 
during a short course, will often restore their tone and otherwise 
benefit the health. The warm bath and the warm hip-bath are not 
for constant use, but only for a few days before the time, when the 
effort to produce the secretion is expected. As to regimen, the case 
supposed hardly requires any special care in respect to mere diet ; but 
it does require that all unusual exeiiions, whether of mind or body, 
should be suspended ; and in particular, that late hours and causes of 
anxiety should be carefully ayoided. 

If the symptoms amount to what was represented aboye as 
indicating the actual state of chlorosis, the patient should be placed 
without delay under the care of a judicious medical man. It is 
not a disease to be treated by domestic remedies, except in its yery 
slightest forms; but the great objection to the treatment of a 
seyere case being imdertaken by a mother is that the fugitiye 
symptoms of chlorosis often conceal some yery serious disease, nay, 
too often a fatal disease. It is quite true that the medical man, 
called in howeyer early, may not find professional skill of any ayail 
to preyent the fatal termination of the disease, which may lurk 
concealed under the mask of chlorosis ; but surely he has taken from 
a mother, in such a case, a fearful responsibility, if he has giyen 
to her daughter what it was not in her own power to afford, — ^all 
the chance of presenration which the dispensations of Proyidence 
permit the art of medicine to supply. 

The principal remedy in chlorosis is steel in its seyeral forma. 
The tincture of the muriate of iron, or, as it is now termed, of 
the sesquichloride of iron, is a good form; it may be beg^un in 



r 



DISEASES OF THE UTERINE SYSTEM. 



161 



doses of ten or fifteen drops with a little -water three times a-day, 
and gradually increased to such an extent as the stomach will easily 
bear. There is another tincture of steel, namely, the tincture of 
the ammonio-chloride of iron, formerly termed the tincture of the 
flowers of Mars, which has had a great reputation in chlorosis and 
amenorrhoaa in general. It may be given in much the same doses 
as the tincture of the sesquichloride. The preparation of iron 
contained in the tincture of the flowers of Mars is also given in 
the foim of powder to the extent of from three to ten grains 
several times a-day. The compound mixture of iron is another 
excellent medicine in chlorosis ; it is given in the dose of one or 
two ounces several times a-day. The compound pills of iron have 
a similar composition and use. Both these last preparations contain 
myrrh, which has the reputation of being itself a good remedy in 
chlorosis. Iron may also be given combined with iodine, and quinine, 
the essential chemical principle of Peruvian bark. Iodine is itself 
an excellent remedy in chlorosis, either alone in the form of tincture, 
or in its combination with potassium, named the iodide of potassium, 
the same medicine which is termed the hydriodate of potassa. 
The dose of the tincture of iodine, simple or compound, is from five to 
fifteen drops three times a-day; the compound tincture containing 
both iodine and iodide of potassium. The dose of the iodide of potas* 
slum by itself is from two to five grains, several times a-day. The 
preparation in which iodine and iron are combined is the iodide of iron ; 
it is given in the dose of from one to five grains several times a-day. 
A syrup of iodide of iron is to be met with in the shops ; the dose of 
which is firom fifteen drops to a tea-spoonful three times a-day. 
Quinine, a most powerful tonic, is combined with iron, in the prepa- 
ration termed the citrate of iron and quinine, the dose of which is 
from three to five grains several times a-day. 

The aperients used in chlorosis should be of the warm character, 
like the decoction and wine of aloes already spoken of. 

A simple nutritious diet, sometimes wine or good malt liquor, gentle 
exercise in fresh air, amusements congenial to the age, are all points 
of the utmost importance in the management of this disease. 

AMEN0BBH<Bik. — ^Whcu uo chlorotic symptoms attend the non- 
appearance of the uterine secretion at the accustomed age, the usual 
rule laid down is to regard the patient as in health, and to discourage 
aU attempts at treatment. If, however, any other kind of ill health 
arises at this period, the patient must be committed to the charge 
of a skUlful medical man. For although, commonly, previous ill 



health he the eause of the retention of the uterine secretion at 
puherty, yet there are douhtless cases in which special causes operate 
to that e£foot and which require a particular consideration ; one of these 
is the occurrence of a mechanical ohstade to the exit of the fluid after 
l&e secretion has taken place. 

What is termed suppression of the uterine secretion {emenorrh<M 
ttippretaiams) still remains to be noticed. When a suppression of the 
ordinary uterine secretion has occurred at any other period of repro- 
ductiye life than the age of puberty, the first thing to be considered 
is how the health of the patient stands at the time in other respects. 
Such a suppression may be accompanied by a plethoric state, that is, 
an over-fullness of blood ia the whole system ; or it may be attended 
by a feeble state of health, agreeing even in a few respects with the 
ohlorotic condition as before described. In either case, what are 
termed vicarious hemorrhages-^that is, disohaiges of blood £rom 
various organs of the body-^^may take place, oorreQK>nding in their 
periods to the times at which the secretion should return. In either 
case, also, the various symptoms grouped under the head of hysteria 
may arise «id complicate the disorder of health. 

When there are distinct indications of the plethoric state, along 
with suppression of the uterine secretion, the treatment must be con- 
ducted on a plan considerably different from that to be adopted when 
the state of health is feeble. 

The plethoric state of the system is marked by a fullness of the 
veins, floridness of the countenance, the several parts of the body 
being prominent and well developed, the secretion in general copious, 
the pulse firm, all the actions performed with manifest energy. These 
are the signs of the plethora of early life in a vigorous frame. There 
is another form of plethora belonging to constitutions of less vigour, 
and for the most part at a less early period of life. It is mariced by 
ftillnessof the veins, a roundness and want of i>romineBce in the figure 
of the frame, owing to the more copious deposition oi fat, a less 
abundance in the secretions, a fullness but wont of firmness in the 
pulse, all the actions of the body being performed with less vigour. 
When amenorrhcea occurs in a previously plethoric habit, it is easy 
to understand that the suppression of an accustomed drain from the 
frame will generally aggravate that morbid plethoric state. The 
safety of the patient then from other diseases, such as plethora gives 
a disposition to, requires that means should lie taken to diminidi this 
condition. Where there is immediate danger from the plethoric state, 
general blood-letting is the most ready and effectual remedy; and 



DISBA8ES OV THE ITTSEIKE SYSTEM. 



i6S 



this remedy la much more likely to be called for and to be pmotiMd 
with safety in the firat deseribed form of pletbora than in the aeooad. 
In neither, however, ahould it be resorted to unless the caae be nigent, 
nor without the aanction of a judicious praotitioaer. No aoere verbal 
rules can suffice to teach a person when to iaiEe :blood, and when to 
abstain £rom blood-letting. To determine «ueh i| question skill is 
requisite. Laxatives oontributo much to the r.$duotion of the ple- 
thoric stato* The saline purgatives, such as the aulphate of magnesia^ 
that is, Epsom salts ; the bitartrato of potass, that is, cretm of tartar ; 
the potassio-tartrate of soda, that is, the ILooheUe salts, are the most 
appropriate, when they do not cieato much flatulent disturbance* 
The aloetio preparations, as having the effect of promoting the uterine 
secretion, should be resorted to at least in alteniation with the saline 
purgatives. Diuretic drinks are useful in the plethoric state, such as 
cream of tartar water, sweetened with sugar, commonly called imperial, 
tamarind water, lemonade, soda, potass or magnesia water. The diet 
should be restricted. All alcoholic drinks are to be prohibited, fix>m 
teble-beer to porter, wine, and spirits. When no immediate danger is 
threatened, moderate exercise and free exposure to air spre beneficial. 
But if the plethoric state be considerable, and likely to be productive 
of immediate ill consequences, the most eligible plan of management 
is complete rest, and nearly total abstinenoe for a few days. By this 
method the necessity for evacuant remedies is often wholly super* 
seded* The preparations of iron, as means of promoting the uterine 
secretion, are wholly inadmissible whUe the plethoric state oontinuea. 
When amenorrhcea is either imaccompanied by the plethoric state, 
or is marked by an enfeebled state of the functions at large, room is 
afforded for the more free employment of the remedies proved to have 
a more or less direot effect in the restoration of the uterine seoretion* 
These remedies, in technical language^ are termed £mnienagogues. 
Many of the more powerful substances contained in the catalogue of 
emmenagogues are far from safe ; all mention of these is therefore 
here omitted. The preparations of iron, either alone or eombined 
with bitter toniccf, the preparati(ms of iodine, the preparations of aloes, 
to all of which sufficient reference has already been made, still stand 
at the head of the list. Alterative medicines, such as the milder pre- 
parations of mercury, are sometimes necessary to restore the general 
health. Blue pill, the gray powder— hydraigymm cum caloe, as it is 
technically called— or small doses of calomel, are of this character. 
But these forms of mercury ahould never be prescribed without the 
sanction of a medical man; sinoe, while mercury is powerful for 



J 



164 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUftOEBY. 



the cure of diflease, it is also one of the medicines which, given nnder 
improper circomstanoefl, ib most detrimental to health. The bene- 
ficial effects of meicary rightly used are beyond all question ; but no 
substance called a remedy has more lires to answer for. 

The essential oil of turpentine — commonly called, in its purified 
form, the spirits of turpentine — ^is an excellent remedy in amenorrhoea ; 
and is doubly useful, because it is commonly well adapted to counter- 
act such derangements of the bowels, and such hysteric symptoms as 
often attend the disease in question. The essential oil of turpentine 
may be given daily, to the extent of one or two tea-spoonfuls, without 
much inconvenience, for several days in succession. It is apt at first 
to produce unpleasant symptoms ; but the patient soon becomes accus- 
tomed to the medicine. For the first two or three mornings of its use, 
the patient should remain in bed for a short time after it is taken; by 
which precaution probably all inconvenience will be avoided. It is 
taken with honey, mucilage of gum arabic, or milk. It is common to 
unite it with castor-oil, in nearly equal proportions ; and this method 
is perhaps the best to begin with, in case its irritating effects should 
be prolonged by a failure of any operation on the bowels. The essen- 
tial oil of turpentine is apt to irritate the urinary organs. This incon- 
venience is more readily produced by ten or twenty drops than by 
the larger doses. When it is desirable to continue the use of the 
essential oil of turpentine for a considerable time, it should be stopped 
for one or two days, at intervals of four or five days, while in the 
mean time bland fluids are freely drank; with which precautions 
hardly any inconvenience is ever experienced. Sometimes the essen- 
tial oU of turpentine is employed in the form of lavement ; that is, of 
clyster. A table-spoonful may be used daily, along with half a wine- 
pint of warmed milk or thin starch. Assafoetida is another remedy of 
much service in amenorrhoaa, and in the hysteric symptoms apt to 
arise at the same time. Assafoetida is given to the extent of five 
grains, three or four times a-day, in the form of pills. It is also 
excellent in the form of lavement, one or two drachms being diffused, 
by means of mucilage, through a pint of tepid water. 

The warm foot-bath, the warm hip-bath, and the warm bath, are 
of excellent service in amenorrhoea. Electricity, by shocks through 
the lower part of the trunk of the body, or galvanism, employed in 
like manner, are often of great use. Along with the remedies now 
enumerated, such a mode of life as is free from debilitating causes 
and depressing passions, while it tends to make existence an enjoy- 
ment rather than a burden, must, by all possible means, be promoted. 



DISEASES OF THE UTEBINE SYSTEM. 



165 



Dysmbnorbhcea, or Uneasiness attendant on the Periodical Uterine 
Secretion. — ^What is technically termed dysmenorrhoea is a train of 
uneasy feelings attendant on each return of the uterine secretion. The 
kinds of uneasiness are chiefly pain of the loins, tenderness on pressure at 
the lower part of the bowels, or even oyer the whole anterior region 
of the bowels and stomach ; darting colic pains ; squeamishness ; loose- 
ness ; painful affections of the bladder ; frequent hysteric symptoms. 
This train of symptoms generally goes on increasing, from a few hours 
to a few days, before the secretion becomes established, and when it is 
established, suddenly stops. The secretion is often, though not always 
scanty. A good deal of variety occurs in the proper treatment, owing 
to the various circumstances of different constitutions under which 
this disorder takes place. Sometimes cupping or leeches are neces- 
sary ; and saline purgatives, a short time before the expected appearance 
of the secretion. The warm bath is of frequent use, even tiie foot- 
bath, and fomentations are not to be neglected. Opiates are very 
generally beneficial But in the case of a malady which often proves 
a source of constantly-recurring distress for many years, the assist- 
ance of a judicious medical man is indispensable. It is his part to 
watch for a time the circumstances on which the dysmenorrhoea is 
dependent, and to suggest to the patient such changes in her mode of 
life as may conduce to the ultimate cure of the disease. 

Menobbhaoia. — ^The term monorrhagia, in its most received sense, 
denotes an increase in the natural quantity or frequency of the uterine 
secretion. The same term, however, is often employed to signify 
hemorrhage, or the discharge of actual blood from the uterus or womb. 
If those forms of hemorrhage which are connected with the state of 
pregnancy and with delivery are left out of account, there is less 
objection to including hemorrhage from the womb under monorrhagia. 
The uterine secretion, though it has nearly the same colour as blood, 
does not clot, like blood, when it collects in a mass. Thus there is a 
ground of distinction between the mere profiise discharge of the uterine 
secretion and actual hemorrhage from the womb. 

As respects the amount of the secretion, there is a great difference 
in different individuals. It becomes necessary, therefore, to make 
every individual a standard of health for herself. If the secretion 
has become more profuse, or recurs oftener than was customary, at the 
same time that the health has become coinddently impaired, then, as 
respects that individual, it may be pronoimced that the first-mentioned 
form of menorrhagia is present. It occurs under two states of the 
bodily frame, namely, in a plethoric state and in an enfeebled state. 



166 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINB AND 8UROERT. 



In the former state, the increased aeeretion is often kept up by the 
causes whioh hare created the plethora ; and nniess tho health and 
comfort be mueh interfered with^ it may not always be adTisable to 
take measures for diminishing this increase. For saoh an incarease 
may sometimes reUeye the system from what might otherwise ph>ye 
an unsafe fuUttess. At all erents, if it is to be ehe<^ed, means should 
be taken at the same time to bring the quantity of blood in the system 
within due bounds* Much m<HW commonly, tiie profuse secretion 
takes place in females of no great vigour of constitution ; and the 
effect of the additional drain on their system soondi^lays itself in an 
enfeebled state of health. The constitntional iU health consequent on 
increase of the uterine secaretion seldom assumer an acute character; 
it belongs in genez^ to the order of dironic maladies. But whetf 
actual bloody as known by its dotting, is diseharged-^for example, in 
consequence of exposure to fatigue and odd during menstruation — ^it 
'sometimes happens that the disease is attended with all l^e symptoms 
of constitutional reaction and fever whidi belong fo an acute attadk 
of inflammation. In sueh cases the treatment is much the same as 
in acute inflammation. The more common case, however, even when 
the discharge is blood (as known by its clotting), is more of the chronic 
character. In this chronic form, when the discharge iff blood, the 
symptoms, though not very different from those observed in mere 
chronic increase of the uteritie secretion, are commonly more severe. 
There are pains in the loinsj and in tiie region beneath the loin0~« 
sensation of weight and uneasiness in the lower part of the trunk of 
the body ; and while these weai^ off with the commonoement of the 
secretion, or of the hemonrhage, there arise paleness of the countenance, 
languor, lassitude^ and an inability to keep the body erect ; and if the 
discharge be profuse, impaired viston, sounding in the ears, squeamish- 
ness, and faintness, followed by more permanent sallowness of the 
skin, and tendency to dropsical swellings of the lower limbs. 
Hemonrhage of the recurring chronic character from the uterus admits 
of a very important distinction into two kinds — the idiopathic and th« 
symptomatiQ. When it occurs without any actual morbid alteration 
of the uterine system, such as is termed organic disease, the hemorr- 
hage is properly called idiopathic; when, on the contrary^ it is 
dependent on some such morbid alteration, then it is called sympto- 
matic uterine hemorrhage; it being, at the same time, altogether 
unconnected with pregnancy. When, then, chronic recurring uterine 
hemorrhage has arisen, the first step— «nd a most important step 
it is — should be to ascertain how far it is or is not dependent 



DI8EASBS OF TH£ UTBIIINE 8T8TKH. 167 

upon some aiicii diiease as polypus^ aeirrhHs, hydstidSi mole, at the 
like. 

In every form, of iiieiiorriiagia« whether the disdiarge be the 
natural secretioii or blood, rest in the recumbent posture is necessary. 
Best in hemorrhages is not merely a piece of i^gimm to assist tiie 
treatment by remedies ; it is an actual remedy, — ^because, by perfect 
rest in the horizontal posture, one of the ordinary forces concerned 
in the motion of the blood, namely, the compression of the yeins by 
the museles during their contraction, is suspended. If there be a 
plethoric state of the body, the appropriate remedies already adverted 
to must be had reoourae to. If there be febrile reaction of an acute 
land, the antiphlogistio treatmenl^^ineluding, it may be, venesection 
and cuppmg or leeching — and the antiphlogistic regimen — consisting 
chiefly in abstlnenoe — ^must be adopted* More commonly, however, 
owiog to the gneater frequency of the more chronic character in these 
maladies, an opposite kind of treatment is requisite, along with rest 
and abstinence^ namely, astringmts and tonies, combined with narcotic 
sedatives. 

The acetate of lead, commonly called the sugar of lead, combmed 
with opium, is one of the most esteemed remedies- at present in such 
hemorrhages. The dose of the sugar of lead is about three grains, 
united with one grain of opium ; and this combination, in the form of 
pill, is repeated, at short intervals, for some time. But whoever 
employs such a remedy incurs a certain responsibility, since the sugar 
of lead ranks among poisons ; and, moreover, by its too long continu- 
ance, may produce the disease named painter's colic, whi(^ has been 
known to prove fatal, though it had taken its origin from nothing 
beyond medicinal doses of the remedy. Dilute sulphuric acid is a 
safer astringent, and is prescribed even in cases where some degree of 
febrile excitement is present. The common infusion of roses contains 
a small quantity of dilute sulphuric acid ; so that it may be given 
very freely, even to the extent of a pint in twenty-four hours. It 
is common, however, to give it in smaller quantities, with an addi- 
tional proportion of the dilute sulphuric acid added. The dose of the 
dilute sulphuric acid is from ten to twenty drops, with a sufficiency 
of water, several times a-day. A pint of the infusion of roses con- 
tains less than a drachm ; that is, less than sixty drops or minims of 
dilute sulphuric acid. 

The sulphate of zinc, commonly called white vitriol, is a good and 
safe remedy in the profuse secretion. One grain may be given three 
times a-day for a long period. It is conveniently put into the form 



168 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERT. 



of pill with extract of gentian ; and, where a more powerful astrin- 
gent is required, it may be combined with catechu, kino, or the 
extract of ratanhy. The Gallic acid has of late been used in obstinate 
menorrhagia with much success. The dose is three grains, three times 
a-day. It is made into pill with Uquorice powder and confection of 
roses. The tincture of the muriate or sesquichloride of iron, before 
spoken of^ is a good remedy in cases of monorrhagia, when there is 
nothing to contra-indicate the use of iron. As it often happens that 
monorrhagia is kept up by the weakened state of the uterine vessels, 
cons^uent on the feebleness of constitution induced by its long con- 
tinuance, there is often room for all those remedies which serye to 
improve nutrition and to restore the general health. It seldom hap- 
pens that the loss of blood goes so tax at any one time as to create 
danger ; but were such a case to occur, the same means are to be 
resorted to as in the event of dangerous hemorrhages connected with 
the puerperal state — ^local mechanical means to intercept the exit 
of the blood and cause its coagulation, the application of ice, and 
the like. 

LsucoBSHCEA, or Whitss. — When the natural secretion which 
in health bedews the mucous membrane of the uterine passages 
becomes increased in quantity, the simplest form of leucorrhoea is 
present. The increase of this secretion is analogous to the catarrhal 
discharges of the nasal and bronchial passages. More or less of 
inflammatory action may affect the membrane, the natural secretion 
of which is increased ; and in proportion as inflammatory action 
has been set up in the membrane is the secretion altered in character 
as well as increased in quantity : — Whence it happens that the discharge 
in leucorrhoBa may even assume a purulent character. Ulcera- 
tions of the neck of the womb have lately been regarded as the origin 
of the more obstinate forms of leucorrhcaa. It cannot be denied 
that ulcerations, or excoriations resembling ulcerations, are often 
present in this disease, nevertheless the presence of these may be 
assumed as probable when the disease resists ordinary treatment, 
and the requisite applications made without that frequent use of 
those means of inspecting the parts and applying remedies -~ the 
recent rage for which in this country, adopted from across the 
channel, threatens to extinguish the modesty so long characteristio 
of our countrywomen. 

The more acute forms of leucorrhoea are often attended with 
marked constitutional disturbance, indicated by shiverings, sickness 
at the stomach, headache, and accelerated pulse. As rejects the local 



SISEASES OP THB TJTEETNB SYSTEM. 169 

symptoms, there is often at first some degree of itching, a sense of 
fiillness and uneasiness in the parts adjacent to the womb, pain in 
tiie loins, and in the sacral region that is immediately below the 
loins; the external parts are swelled, the glands at the upper part of 
the thigh enlarged, and when the discharge becomes folly established, 
a great part of the uneasiness wears away. Sometimes the bladder 
becomes inrolyed, and there is pain in passing the urine; and that 
fluid may oTen exhibit a frothy aspect. The chronic ft>rm may be the 
sequel of the acute, or may arise independently. There is no acute 
pain, but generally a sense of gnawing in the sacral region. There 
is usually oonsideraUe derangement of health, particularly in the 
digestiye organs: not unfi:«qoently palpitations and tendency to 
dropsical swellings of the anldes ; eren the eye-Hds are often tender; 
there is much languor, sallowness <^ countenance and emaciation, 
and often hysteric symptoms. The chronic disease, when of \6ng 
continuance, is much less manageable than the acute. In the acute, 
leeches and efopping are sometimes beneficial; and blistering the 
sacral region is useful in both the acute and chronic states. In the 
acute form the diet . should be farinaceous. Only the mildest lazatiYes 
should be used, and at first there should be complete rest ; and even 
in the latter stages walking should never be carried to fatigue. 
So long a» the disease is acute, no stronger injection should be used 
than the daily use of tepid water. In the chronic form the general 
health and the local treatment are the two great objects of attention ; and 
tonic remedies, and diet, require tobe adjuirtsdwith a skillful hand. Great 
attention must be paid to the digestive function, and the choice of such 
food as the patient can, in the first instance, receive without discomfort. 
The warm aromatic tonics and port wine are often found to answer. 
The warmer tonics are cascariUa, cusparia, canella; these may be 
given in the fonn of infusion or tincture. The tepid bath is of 
much service. Free ablution is quite essential to the cure ; and if 
the patient can bear the daily use of the cold hip-bath for this 
purpose, great benefit may be obtained. The tepid salt-water bath 
is often of excellent service to the general health. Sometimes 
astringents are given internally, with a view to check the local 
discharge ; and with the same object some remedies, which exert a 
peculiar influence on mucous membrane, are taken by the mouth. 
These removes, though held In contempt by many practitioners, 
are often found sufficient for the cure, and are in some respects to 
be preferred to local treatment The astringents employed in this 
manner ar^ alum, particularly alum combined with kino, for which 



there is a formula in one of the pharmaoopoeiaB ; kino combinod 
with opium as in the compoand powder of kino ; the dose of the 
compound alum powder is twenty grains, several times a-day; 
that of the compound, kino powder is the same, less frequently 
repeated, as in eyery twenty grains there is a grain of opium. The 
uva ursi, or bear's foot arbutus, is also a good astringent \ the dose is 
twenty grains of the powder. When the stomach will bear it in 
sufficient quantity, lime water is a proper remedy ; it is giyen with 
milk, equal parts of each to the extent of twelve ounces, or a 
pint of each daily. Among the remedies which act through the 
general system on the mucous membranes are the essentiid oU of 
turpentine, the cubeb pepper, the balsam of copaiba, also cantharides ; 
but the last should never be used unless under the superintendence of 
a medical man. Among the local remedies the vegetable astringents 
ar^ the safest, such as the decoction of oak bark, the infusion of 
galls, the watery solution of kino, and of catechu. The nitrate 
of silver has been much employed of late in obstinate cases as a 
local remedy, but that must be confined to the hands of medical 
men. 

LsuooRXHOSA or Children. — A purulent discharge, that is, a 
discharge of matter, sometimes takes place from the sexual passages 
in young female children. The affection appears to be the result of 
an inflammation of the membrane of the uterine passage, and is met 
with from a very early age up to eight or nine years. It often 
arises from teething, or other local causes of irritation, or from 
worms and uncleanly habits. It would seem that it sometimes be- 
comes epidemic ; and Mr. Wilde has lately published an account of a 
number of cases of this disease, which occurred about the same' time 
in Dublin. It is long since Sir AsUey Cooper, in his lectures, showed 
that false accusations have often been founded on this disease of 
young children; and most medical jurists have noticed the same 
thing, not only in this country but also on the Continent. At 
first sight it seems incredible that such things should happen in 
our age; but the incredulous may read Mr. Wilde's little pam* 
phlet, and see with what virulence, even on the part of persons 
who should be better informed, such accusations have been per- 
sisted in. Sir Walter Scott tells us, in his book on Draionologj 
and Witehcraft, what adepts children are in lying ; and Mr. 
Wilde's pamphlet is an additional practical illustration of the 
truth of a r^nark which should not escape the reeoUection of 
parents. 



DROPSIES. 171 



CHAPTER XVn. 

DBOPSIES. 

TirB term Dropsy is understood to mean the ftbnormal deposition of 
a watery fluid in certain parts of the body. 

Dropsy may be general or local ; that is, it may be spread orer 
the body, or be restricted to certain looalities. When general, it is 
termed 

General Daopst, or Anasaboa, which is the deposition of a 
watery fluid from the blood into the oellolar tissue, which lies 
directly underneath the skin with or without its extension to the 
deep-seated carities. Its ordinary course ia to commence at the 
ankles and feet, and thence to proceed upwards towards the knees. 
Should it continue to progress, it may then be observed in the hands 
and fore arms, and at tiie same time will proceed up the thighs, 
should it ftill further progress it will attack the tnmk and fkce, and 
in serere cases all these various parts remain dropsical at the same 
time ;. but even then the deposit is the greatest in the parts most 
dependent. 

There is not much difficulty in distinguishing the disease. At 
first the legs appear somewhat fuller, and feel a little harder, and a 
sensation of stiffness or tightness is experienced. In acute cases this 
is accompanied by fever, with heat of skin, and other evidences of 
general derangement; but in ordinary cases there is no additional 
general disturbance, and the skin retains only its ordinary tempe- 
rature. As the deposit increases the tissue gives away, and the skin 
becoming softer will pit, if the finger be strongly pressed into it. 
The next steps are simply those of degree, vix., the increasing size, 
the deepening pits on pressure, with the mark of the stocking and 
shoes on the foot, diminution of temperature in the part, and 
increasing extent of the effusion. The state of the general system 
will depend upon the cause of the dropsy, and upon the degree in 
which the functions of life are interfered with. 

Anasarca is frequently a sequence to scarlet fever, in which case 
the dropsy is of the acute kind, and may appear in any part of the 
body. The attendant fever, with its heat of skin and thirst, is con- 
siderable, and sooner or later symptoms of excitement of the brain 
occur. The kidney is especiidly apt to take on disease^ and the 
serous membranes of the body, as the pleura, to be afiSscted; the 



172 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND BUKOEBY. 



danger is yery imminent, and tiie issue is generally im&Tonrable. 
The treatment is one of much difficulty ; for it is necessary to reduce 
inflammation, and yet sustain tbe system. Small general bleedings 
and leeches, or cupping glasses to tiie loins or the back of the neck, 
according to the seat of local mischief; calomel in grain doses eyery 
four hours ; hot baths ; doses of tartar emetic to excite the action of the 
skin ; gentle purgatiyes, aa castor-oil, as frequently as can weU be 
borne, yrill be the proper mode of treatment; with this should be 
enjoined perfect rest, moderate warmth, light broths, and fuinaceoua 
food. As the feyer subsides the strength must be further suppoited 
by good beef-tea, and meat, and tonics. 

Anasarca also occurs towards the fatal termination of all long- 
continued diseases. In such cases, whether arising from general 
exhaustion, or decay, or from local disease, the blood becomes im- 
poyerished, and the yessels lose their tone. The case presupposes 
that nothing can be done, but the indications would be to keep up the 
powers of the system. 

The most common cause oi anasarca is organic disease of some 
yascular organ, especially the liyer; and is met with chiefly in 
persons who haye liyed in hot climates, or who haye been addicted 
to the abuse of ardent spirits. 

Disease of the kidney, and espeoially that form known as '^ Bright's 
disease" (page 153) is a frequent cause of dropsy ; and asthma, and other 
conditions of the lungs which seriously impede the circulation of 
blood, produce it. 

Treatment in all these cases is of little ayail when the disease has 
far adyanoed. The general plan, independent of attention to the 
local disease, is to keep up the system, to case the body in flannel, 
but to be careful that the skin is not irritated or broken ; for if a 
wound be produced it is difficult to heal. The body must be kept 
moderately warm, and especially the extremities. The legs must be 
ndsed, and exercise taken in the open air, if the state of the patient 
permit Little is to be done in the way of medicine, except to keep 
the bowels in a good condition; to giye good yegetable tonics, 
as gentian, or iron, and to add to the gentian fiye grains of the 
iodide of potassium, three times a-day. Should the skin of the 
extremities be ready to burst, it may be punctured here and there 
with a needle, which will permit the fluid to drain away to a wonder* 
ful extent. 

It must be borne in mind that the sensibility of the skin is 
materially lessened in such cases, and therefore the patient may not 



DROPSIES. 173 



be aware of the cold state of the extremities, or of a disposition which 
lying long in one position may give to the formation of sloughs. The 
att^idant should therefore watch and examine the parts daSLj, A 
water bed is exceedingly convenient in dropsies. 

Asctnis, or dropsy of the inyestLag membrane of the bowels, 
may proceed so far as to form an accumulation of many gallons of 
water. 

The danger of the disease will mainly depend upon the cause of it, 
although the obstruction to lixe circulation of the blood, and the 
passage of matter through the bowels, induced by the presence of the 
water, will have a serious import. As a whole, the case is one of very 
grave consequence. 

When the disease has originated in inflammation, and that in any 
degree continues, it will be proper to seek to lower it by local bleeding 
or blisters, and the administration of calomel and opium every four 
hours. If the system will bear it, even more lowering measures 
-should be taken, as general bleeding and tartar emetic ; but such is 
seldom permissible. Aperients of the saline kind (except the kidney 
be the source of mischief), with nitrate of potass, and other substances, 
as dandeUon tea, to increase the flow of urine, should be regularly 
and freely administered. The system should also be supported so fiur 
as not to increase or maintain fever. It is sometimes necessary in 
such cases to re-apply the blisters, and to dress them with mercurial 
ointment, since local iiiitation is of service, and Uie introduction of 
the mercury very valuable. 

Htdbothobax, or dropsy of the pleura, may attack one or both 
sides of the chest. Its most common cause is pleurisy ; but it also 
occurs from congestion of the lungs, and in the progress of general 
dropsy. The fluid will fall by its own weight to the lowest. part 
of the diest, and remain there for some time without its existence 
being detected. As the quantity increases, the expansion of the lungs 
is interfered with, and a sense of difficulty in respiration follows. 
When the quantity of water increases very slowly, the lung accom- 
modates itself to the pressure exerted upon it ; and the accumulation 
may be very considerable before its existence is suspected. The 
state of the breathing calls attention to it. A sense of oppression in 
respiration is therefore the first sign of this affection, an oppression 
which is increased if the patient lie upon the opposite 'side, and 
which is relieved when the trunk is nearly in an erect position. 
When the chest is about half full, the water may be dis- 
tinctly heard by the physician, and felt by the patient on any 



174 HOUSEHOLD MEDICIKE AND SUR6EBT. 

sudden motion of the bod j, and espedaUy wlien it is sbftken fiFom 
tide to side, as if a jar half fall with water were shaken. At this period 
snd later, the side of the ohesty in whieh the dropsy has oocnrredi maj 
be observed to bulge, and the spaces between the ribs will be wider 
and more proaunent The oppression of the limgs, and also of the 
hearty soon interferes with the general oirculation, and a blueness of 
the skin appears, with a disposition to congestion of the bndn or 
other organs, and to the formation of general dropsy. This will, of 
course, be the greater if both sides of the ehest be afieoted, and be 
proportioned to the quantity of water and the time during which the 
disease has continued. Besides these symptoms, the system will be 
influenced by the cause of the complaint, and if that have be^i inflam- 
mation, some excitement will renuun long after the true inflammation 
has subsided. This will be shown by fererish heat and thirst, and 
some lancinating pains, more or less acute, in the side. MoreoTer 
in the latter case the effusion of water will take place most rapidly, 
and usually after a short but serious illness, and thus, by the sudden- 
ness and degree of the pressure exerted by it, the functions of the 
lungs and heart wUl be more readily and seriously impeded. When 
the acute stage has passed, the treatment assimilates itself very much 
to that which is required in general dropsy. The health must be 
sustained by generous diet, or tonics, as bark and gentian, and, if 
possible, by carriage exercise. Calomel in gram doses thricea-day, until 
the g^oms feel slightiy sore, and a coppery taste is perceived, in the 
mouth, ,or five grains thrice a-day of the iodide of potassium may be 
exhibited ; also nitrate of potass in ten-grain doses thzice a-day, to 
excite the kidneys ; with general friction to the body, but especi- 
ally to the extremities. Flannel and a moderate degree of warmth 
are also very necessary. By these remedies it may be that the further 
effusion wiU be prevented, and the water already deposited gradually 
absorbed. But in some cases, and more particularly in those follow- 
ing inflammation, the whole cavity becomes filled with the fluid, and 
the pressure upon the lungs induces fear of sudden suffi)cation. In 
such cases we cannot wait for the slow action of the calomel and other 
remedies to promote absoiption, but must let out the fluid. This 
in effected by making an incision through the skin between two 
ribs, and then thrusting a large trochar into the chest, through which 
the fluid gradually but quickly escapes. By this mode nearly the 
whole of the dropsy may be at once removed; but the disease 
is not thus cured, for in all probability the fluid will be again 
depodted. 



DuOPSIES. 175 



Htdbopericabdivm, or dropsf of the bag of the heart, may occur 
from precisely the same causes as that of the chest, tie., inflammation, 
distension. of the contained organ or heart, and the progress of 
general dropay. The disease is far more serious than dropsy of the 
chest, because, as the free action of the heart is moce neceaaary to 
health, so is any impediment — a slight one even — ^to its action more 
likely to induce disease, and to end in death. This disease must 
always be regarded as a highly dangerous one. It is distinguished by 
a bulging oyer the region of the heart, with a sense of suffocation on 
pressure, and yielding a fall sound when percussed with the finger, 
and more or less disturbance of the circulation. Assuming it to haye 
arisen from inflammation, and therefore to be local, it can rarely exist 
alone for any lengthened period, but must, sooner or later, induce con- 
gestion and dropsy of the lung, and generaldropsy . When it occurs from 
obstacles to the circulation offered by disease in other organs, or is 
met with in the progress of general dropsy, it is yiewed as the 
forerunner of death. In its inflammatory form it has usually been 
found associated with, or caused by, an attack of acute rheumatism ; 
and it has also arisen, in other instances, from poisoned blood. The 
treatment is as indicated for dropsies in general ; but when rheu- 
matic disease exists, it will be proper to add wine of colchicum in fifteen- 
drop doses eyery four hours. Except in a few recent cases, the 
pericardium has not been opened to giye discharge to the fluid. The 
instances, howeyer, in which this operation has been performed proye 
that the performance of it is not attended with the danger which was 
formerly anticipated. 

It is needless to remark that the entire treatment of all these 
diseases must be confided absolutely to the medical practitioner. 

Htdbocephalus, or dropsy of the brain, occurs, for the most part, 
in children or yery young persons, whose heads are obseryed to be 
unnaturally formed and unusually large. In many inatances it exists 
before birlJi. 

The brain is surrounded on its outer surface by a membrane 
precisely similar to that of the heart and lungs, and which also fonns 
a shut sac. This bag-like membrane, like the others, is also moist- 
ened on its inner surface by a dew or yapour of a watery character ; 
and it is in this that the water in dropsy principally forms. This 
membranous bag is continuous with one which incloses the spinal 
marrow through nearly its whole extent, and which is also the 
seat of dropsical effusion ; so much so, that dropsy in the mem- 
branes of one part must, to a considerable extent, inydye the 



176 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

membranes of the other part. Bat bendes thia cavity (if that term 
may be applied to a bag which has its sides so dose as to rub against 
each other) there are also several small ones witiun the stractare of 
the brain ; and these are also lined by a similar membrane, and hare 
a similar watery secretion. 

Dropsy of Uie brain may then occupy one or both of these two 
parts. The position of the effosion is, however, not a matter of 
indifference ; for, since the most vital parts of the brain are placed 
within the structure, and in direct relation to thesnudl cavities referred 
to, any pressure from within must be more^erious in its consequences 
than an equal pressure from without. 

There is at all times a slight quantity of fluid in these cavities ; 
not injurious from its pressure, but really beneficial, by permitting 
free motion of one part of the brain upon another, or of the whole 
brain in the various motions of the body. A very slight excess, 
however, in itself constitutes a disease. Now, since the cavity of 
the skull is filled, or very nearly so, in a state of health, and the 
skull on the outside cannot weU be compressed, and the brain on 
the inside cannot well sustain pressiue, what must be the issue? 
The effusion usually takes place in early life ; that is, at a period 
when the bones have not attained their state of complete hardness,— > 
when the system readily yields to impressions, and when the function 
of growth or enlargement proceeds rapidly. Moreover, at that time 
the brain contains a larger proportion of water, and submits somewhat 
less fatally to compression. 

When water is first deposited in the membranous bag of the 
brain, it falls to the bottom of the skull, and passes into the spine. As 
it increases it obtains room by compressing the brain a little, and by 
expanding the skull, but more particulu*ly by the latter process ; and 
to so great an extent may this proceed, that the skull may become by 
expansion as thin as writing-paper, and acquire twice or thrice, or 
even more times, its natural size. The brain, however, suffers; 
and in longocontinued dropsy it is not imusual to find the patient 
idiotic, :aad the growth and development of the body greatly impeded. 
The end, however, in all such cases, must be fatal. When the 
effusion has entered into the cavities or ventricles of the brain 
before referred to, it induces enlargement of these cavities, and 
a thinning, by distension, of the upper part of the brain, so 
that it is sometimes reduced to a mere layer. This is a more im- 
portant form of the disease, since its imme^te action is to destroy the 
integrity of the brain, and interrupt its fimotions. 



sKoapsiES. 177 

It 18 a matter of dkpate whether this conditloixis neoesBarily the 
result of •tnflaaimation ; "buit this matters litde, since the treatment can 
have no veferenee to that^prior disease. What, then, fcan be done to 
relieTe^? Almost nothing. It is proper to support the system, and 
to keep up its power by good food, by tonics, and by exerdse. It is also 
right, for a timo) to giye calomel or iodide of potassium, and nitrate 
of potass, with a view of remeying the fluid by absorption ; and in 
some instances it is advisable to apply and re-aj^ly blisters to the neck 
or head, and to dress them with «iercurial ointment. When the 
disease has far advanced, it is far better to leave off local applica- 
tions y and, at all periods, it would be unwise to task the mental 
faculties. 

When the head of a child is unusually large, and perhaps pecu- 
liarly formed, the mother is very apt to fancy that it must have water 
in the head. But if the health continue good, or, if not so, if the 
mind retain all its powers, she may rest assured that the head is 
naturally formed ; for although the disease, at its earliest period, is 
not easy of detection, it is quite clear that it could not have advanced 
so far as to give a manifest enlargement to the skull witiiout inducing 
such mischief in the brain and body as would make it evident at a 
glance. The only point of fallacy is this, that the disease usually 
oecurs in children of the scrofulous temperament, in which the brain 
is unusually active, and the child oftentimes precocious ; and there- 
fore such an amount of disease as would only a little lessen the 
activity of the mind, would scarcely be perceptible from that 
guide alone. But in this case it is proper to compare the mental 
vigour of the present moment with that which previously existed ; 
and if it remains equal, and the more so if it be superior to its former 
state, there can be no such disease within the skulL 

There is another form of water on the head, which has long been 
said to constitute a form of apoplexy ; for it has been found to exist 
in cases of sudden death, when the s3^m]^toms have been referable 
to the head, and yet no other altered condition was observed after 
death. Since, as we have already observed, the bag and cavities of 
the brain do secrete a watery fluid, there is some reason to infer that 
this secretion might, in the cases referred to, have simply increased 
in quantity ; but while it is difficult to prove a negative all the 
principles of medicine rather lead us to seek for an anterior and 
separate cause. This cause is said to be congestion of the brain, and we 
have already seen that congestion of a part is very apt to induce dropsy 
in that or other parts ; moreover the suddenness of an attack of con- 



178 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

' ■ ' " ■ ■ — 111. II p 

gestiye apoplexy ooiresponds to that of the so-called iterouB apoplexy ; 
that 18, the patient falls suddenly, without warning, and is totally 
uneonscious, and if not soon relieved he speedily dks. The alleged 
points of difference are, that with congestion there is hlackness of the 
face, full pulse, and hot skin, while the opposites are observed in 
serous apoplexy. It must however be remarked that these evidences 
vary with the full or other conditions of the body, the period of lib, 
and the mode of attack. Moreover, since the signs of so-called 
serous apoplexy are negative, no one would venture so far to act 
upon them as to propose a treatment differing from that used in 
congestive apoplexy. . It is also farther believed, that this disease is 
oftentimes associated with a diseased state of the heart, in which its 
structure is partially converted into fat or oil. 

There is no treatment therefore for this form of dropsy, since it is 
not the dropsy but the congestion which constitutes the disease. The 
reader is therefore referred to the remarks on apoplexy. 

A third variety of dropsy of the brain is found in connection 
with inflammation. Inflammation of the brain, too, is most common 
in children, and most especially in those of scrofiilous temperament.^ 
such there is usually a deposit of tubercle in the brain. This tubercle 
is also met with in the lungs in consumption, and in other parts of 
the body, and is apt everywhere at some period to set up fatal in- 
flammation. It is also very apt to occur at the period of teething. 

The inflammation which is followed by effusion of a watery 
fluid is also oftentimes met with in adults, and may result from 
injury to the head, from exposure to the sun, £rom cold, or from a 
diseased state of the blood. Both forms of inflammation are highly 
dangerous, and the latter one is much more speedy in its course than 
the former. The symptoms which are most relied upon, to indicate 
its occurrence, are progressive insensibility, and at length loss of 
consciousness. Pinching scarcely arouses it. The faculty of sight is 
lost, so that the light does^not contract the pupil, and a candle may 
be held before the eye without causing it to blink. A glassy appear- 
ance is put on, and the eye is usually directed upwards. The 
hearing is also lost. The motions of the bowels take place invo- 
luntarily ; the patient lies helpless, and almost without making any 
motion whatever. If the effiision be considerable at the base of the 
brain, respiration and swallowing will be impeded, and the sufferer 
will soon die. 

The treatment of this form is that of the inflammation of the 
bndn, and requires the continued administration of one or two 



DROPSIES. ' 179 



grain doses of calomel OTery three hours; blisters and mercurial 
ointment to the head; nitrate of potass, and other remedies, for 
feTer, to excite the action of the skin and kidneys. Stimulating the 
feet by mustard plasters, or mustard foot-baths, is also a valuable 
remedy (see page 184). 

When the disease occurs in children, as aboye mentioned, it is 
sometimes lelieyed if salivation can be produced ; but it is found by 
experience that two hundred grains and upwards of calomel may 
be taken by a child in that condition without inducing salivation. 
The disease is, however, to be regarded as dangerous in the highest 
degree. 

Dropsy or the Ete-ball usually occurs in two parts, viz., in the 
anterior and posterior chambers, which are occupied by the aqueous 
or watoy humour, and posteriorly in the vitreous or ^assy humour 
of the eye. This is rather a surgical than a medical question, and, 
moreover, is not fitted for discussion in a popular work, so that I have 
only to add that, like other dropsies, it enlarges a part or the whole of 
the eye, and by its presence will end in destroying the eye, with or 
without bursting it. In an advanced state it is usual to pimcture the 
eye. It is believed to be at all times a local disease. 

Dbopst op the Glottis, or "Windpipe, occasionally occurs alone 
or in connection with general dropsy and other diseases. Its occur- 
rence is rapid, and its effects fatal. It is probable that no treatment 
will avail, when the a£fection has really set in, except that of making 
an opening into the windpipe to admit the air, which cannot pass in 
the ordinary way. 

OvASiAN Dropsy.— This is confined to females, and is of fre- 
quent occurrence. The ovaries are two small organs, of the size 
of a split walnut, lying on either side of the womb, and connected 
with the latter by means of a band or ligament, and a tube called the 
Fallopian tube. Its function is essentially associated with that of 
the uterus, and as it is called into operation at frequently recurring 
periods, it appears to have a special predisposition to this disease. It 
is composed of numerous small cavities or cells, about the size of a 
barleycorn when performing their functions, and the dropsy may 
occupy one of such cells ; or while one cell is especially enlarged 
and constitutes the bulk of the dropsy, some of the other cells may 
take on the diseased action to a lesser extent. When the latter is the 
case, the connecting or intervening solid substance is also enlarged ; 
so that the part, which in its natural condition would not weigh more 
than half an ounce, may, in this state of enlargement, have a weight 



180 HOUSEHOLD MBDICINB AND SURGERY. 

-^— ^^1— — ^■^— — - I I II I —^.^i^. I m il I 11 I ^i.»__ ■ ■ ■ I ■■ 

of many pounds. Moreover one oyaiy only may be affiacted, and 
that is usually the case. The orary, then, hemg placed on the 
side, and deeply in either groin, the first appearance of the dropsy 
will be in that position ; and as it usually occurs without pain, 
and proceeds slowly, the patient is unaware of its existence for a long 
period, and until the tumour has so much enlarged as to alter the 
form of the abdomen. At this period, howeyer, tiie enlarged oyary, 
from its position, must interfere with the action of the bladder, 
inducing an unusually frequent disposition to empty that yiscus, and 
also with the bowel, causing constipation and some difficulty in passing 
the feces. There will also be a sense of bearing down. 

The progress of the case is simply that of enlargement of the 
tumour, and consequently of the whole abdomen. The tumour, 
although it may incline a little toward its own side, will soon oc- 
cupy the whole front of the abdomen, pushing the bowels backwards 
towards the spine, and by its weight interfering with the passage of 
fece and the urine, and the function of respiration, and the full 
enjoyment of bodily exercise. It will give a dull sound on percussion ; 
and tapping it with the end of the finger on the one side, while the 
hand is applied to it on the other, will prove in this, as in ascites, the 
existence of a fluid. 

It is at all times of importance to distinguish ovarian dropsy from 
pregnancy and from ascites, and this at first, and on any particular 
day, is not at all times easy. It is often-times needful to watch the 
progress of the case. 

It may be popularly distinguished from pregnancy by its slow 
growth and enlargement, its lateral position, its more perfect fluctua- 
tion on percussion (but if the tumour be in great part solid this test will 
not apply), the absence of the usual morning sickness, of any change 
in the mammee, or sensation of motion and life in the child, and 
lastly, by the absence of the sound of the child's heart, as heard by 
the stethoscope. 

It may usually be distinguished from ascites by the following 
characters :^-In ascites the health is usually bad, the progress of the 
swelling tolerably rapid, the figure of the swelling and of the abdomen 
even, the bowels pushed up towards the chest, giving there a clear 
sound on percussion; while in ovarian dropsy the health may remain 
good, the progress is generally slow, the tumour is uneven and in 
front, so that the abdomen is not so broad and full on the sides, the 
intestines are thrown back, and therefore do not give a clear sound at 
the navel, but they may yield a dear sound on one or both groins. 



DISEASES OF THE BKAIN AND NBRYOUS SYSTEM. 181 

The progress of the case bemg slow, and the organ not a -vital one, 
the disease may, and usually'does, last for many years, and the tumonr 
may attain to so great a size as to hold several g^ons of fluid. Nothing 
can he popularly recommended to arrest its progress or to remoTe it ; 
and as the rule is that the case shall proceed, a period will arriye 
vhen it may be necessary to tap it and remoye the water. This 
should be deferred as long as possible, since the cavity will xefiU the 
sooner after the operation. Sometimes the tumour has been injected 
with port wine or iodine, and with aame success ; but since this and 
every other mode fails, it has been recommended to cut open the 
abdomen and take away the whole tumour. This is a very dangerous 
operation, and has caused the death of a majority of the patients 
operated upon. It is better to submit with patience, taking care to 
keep the bowela in order, and the system in health by exercise, 
moderate living, and ease of mind. It is highly convenient to wear 
a bandage, so fashioned that it will rest under the bulging part of the 
tumour, and passing round the back hold it as it were in a sling. 



CHAPTEK XVIII. 



DISEASES OF THE BKAIN AND NEBV0X7S SYSTEM. 

The nervous system in man consists of the encephalon, the spinal 
chord, the great sympathetic, and the nerves. The encephalon is 
that part of the nervous system which is lodged within the skull, 
consisting of the brain proper, or cerebrum; the lesser brain, or cere- 
bellum ; the medulla oblongata, or prolongation of the spinal chord 
within the skull ; the tuber annulare immediately .before the medulla 
oblongata ; the crura of the cerebellum and the crura of the cerebrum, 
which extend respectively from the tuber annulare to the cerebellum 
and the cerebrum. The spinal cord occupies the canal of the back- 
bone, and is continuous with the medulla oblongata by the great 
foramen of the occipital bone of the skull. Perhaps a more distinct 
view of the great centre of the nervous system in man is obtained 
by tracing it from the spinal canal upwards into the skull. Thus 
there is a great central column formed by the spinal marrow within 
the spinal canal ; the medulla oblongata, its prolongation within the 
skull ; the protuberance termed tuber annulare at the anterior and 
superior part of the medulla oblongata ; and finally, by the great 



182 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND 8UBGEBY. 

cordB termed crma of the cerebellam and emra of the oerehmm, 
vhioh extend from thig tuber amiulare zetpectiYely into the cere- 
bellum and oerebnim. It has only to be added, that this great 
central oohmn, nearly perpendicular throughout in man, is sur- 
mounted by the cerebellum and the cerebrum, and our view of the 
great centre of the ner?ous system is complete. The nenres do not 
connect themselTes vith the cerebrum and cerebeUum, but with the 
several parts of the central perpendicular column just described. 
The several parts of the nervous system just referred to, bdoag to 
what is sometimes termed the nervous system of animal life ; the 
nerves connected with it, namely, forty-three or forty-four pairs, 
being distributed to the skin, the organs of the senses, and the 
voluntary muscles. The remaining part of the nervous system, 
termed the sympathetic system, or the system of organic Hfe, exhibits 
a number of small fleshy kx^ng bodies, named ganglia, situated 
chiefly immediately in front of the spinal column, and by means of 
connecting filaments forming a chain extending from the skull to the 
coccyx, or lowest bone of the spinal column. The nerves derived 
from these smaller centres are distributed to the organs, the functions 
of which are directly concerned in the maintenance of the body, or 
to the organs of what are termed the vegetative functions. 

Not only, then, does the nervous system consist of a considerable 
number of distinct parts, to each of which a separate function is 
assigned ; but it is also made up, in most parts, of at least two sub- 
stances, namely, of white or tubular fibres, and of gray or cineritious 
fibres, each possessed of a separate office in the animal economy. 
Hence it follows, that the same kind of morbid action affecting <Mie 
part of the nervous system does not necessarily produce a train of 
symptoms at all resembling those produced by it when it attacks 
another part ; or, as it may be otherwise expressed, the diseases, that 
is to say, the trains of symptoms, produced by one kind of morbid 
action in different parts of the nervous system, depend on the 
character of the function belonging to each affected part. 

Cephalalgia, or Headache. — Headache is a part of a great 
number of diseases; nevertheless, it is useful to consider headadobe 
under certain circumstances, as itself a disease. Whenever, then, 
headache is the prominent character of a present state of ill-health, 
and it is not apparent on what morbid condition it depends, it is 
proper, in a practical point of view, to regard the disease present as 
headache or cephalalgia, and to determine, if possible, to what parti- 
cular derangement it is to be ascribed. Headache then, considered as 



DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEBYOU8 SYSTEM. 183 

a disease, is of a chronic kind, or, at least, of a non-febrile character. 
Sometimes pain of the head is dependent on an affection of the external 
parts coTering the skull — Whence the distinction of external and 
internal headaches. External headaches are popularly called rheu- 
matic headaches, and many of them are really oS this description. 
Other forms of external headache are painful affSsctions of the perios- 
teum or membrane coyering the external surfiice of tlie bones of the 
skull ; and neuralgic headache, that is, painful affections of the nerves 
of the scalp depending on irritations often in distant parts of the 
body. The internal headaches are chiefly, Ist^ headaches connected 
with derangement or disturbance of the circulation within the head; 
2ndly, headaches symptomatic of derangement in the digestiye 
organs; and 3rdly, headaches connected with organic alterations 
within the head. 

The rheumatic headache is generally diffused over the head. In 
rare cases it affects exactly one-half of the head. Most commonly 
the pain is remitting ; it is sensibly increased by the motion of the 
eyebrows, jaws, and adjacent parts, also by simple pressure and by 
percussion. As in other cases of rheumatic disease, there are rheu- 
matic pains elsewhere in the body, and particularly in the face, 
neck, and shoulders. The pain is often described as like something 
gnuq>ing the affected part, or like something moving backwards and 
forwards in the part The treatment, as in rheumatism, should be 
by alkalies and colchicum, hydriodate of potassa, and the other reme- 
dies usually employed in rheumatism. Headaches having their seat in 
the periosteum are sometimes benefited by fly-blisters. The hydrio- 
date of potassa stands here also among the remedies. The treatment 
termed alterative is also often serviceable, such as moderate doses 
of mild mercurials, dilute nitric acid, sarsaparilla, guiacum, meze- 
reon, sassafras. Sometimes incisions are required. Neuralgic head- 
ache^ when distinctly periodical, is often subdued by the remedies 
termed anti-periodics, of which the chief are sulphate of quinine and 
arsenic. The sulphate of quinine is a safe remedy in general. The 
dose is from two to three grains several times a-day. It may be made 
into pill with some vegetable extract, such as the extract of gentian; 
or may be given dissolved in water by the aid of five or six drops of 
dilute sulphuric acid to each dose. The common form of arsenic in 
medicine is the arsenical soltttion-— that is, a solution of the arsenite 
of potassa, each drachm of which contains half a grain of arsenic ; 
that is to say, of arseneous acid, or the white arsenic of commerce. 
The dose, however, at fiirst should not exceed five drops ; but for any 



184 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND 8irit6E&T. 

one but a medical practiti<»er to meddle with sock a teaedj ▼ould 
be vhoUy -onwarrantable. 

In internal headaches, dependent on derangement of the eiienia- 
tion, there is much nicety in the treatments It is tmdeniahle that 
even medical men cannot always easQy determine whether affections 
of the head be dependent on an increase or on a diminution of the 
due afflux of blood to the head. It seems hardly possible, therefore, 
to conrey, in popular t^nns, any proper notion of tiie groimds on which 
opposite methods of treatment are to be adopted. 

Headadies connected with derangements of the digestive organs 
are treated by those remedies common in indigestion and in hepatic 
obstructions — ^that is, disturbances in the secretion of bile. In the 
true bilious headache a Tomit is often of great serrioe. 

In headaches, connected with organic disease within the skull, littie 
else can be done than to enjoin rest, and the removal of everything 
which can create the slightest excitement Such ordinary imtants as 
light, heat, [noise, are sedulously to be avoided ; while the regulation 
of the ordinary actions of the body is promoted by eareful attention. 
Inflamkation WITHIN THB SxuLL. — The two chief divisions of in- 
flammatory disease within the skull are inflanmiation of the membranes 
of the brain, and inflammation of the substance of the brain. Under 
the name Phrenitis both kinds of inflammation were formerly placed. 
Within the present century a great many new names for these 
diseases have sprung up. Arachnitis and MeningitiB are names 
applicable to Inflammations of the membranes ; Encephalitis is most 
commonly used to signify inflammation of the substance of the brain. 
The influnmation of the membranes, and that of the substance of the 
brain, may each exist in an acute or in a chronic form. Yet the acute 
inflammation of the membranes in general presents a greater degree 
of violence and rapidity of progress than the acute inflammation of 
the substance of the brain. Sometimes inflammation within the skull 
supervenes on previous diseases of the head, in which cases the cha- 
racteristic symptoms are less striking. The violent acute primary 
form of inflammation of the membranes of the brain is marked by 
intense pain of the head ; flushed face ; redness of the eyes ; con- 
tracted pupil ; a wild expression of countenance.; intolerance of light; 
violent delirium; with all the marks of vehement febrile reaction; — 
these symptoms at length pass into a state of stupor, with more or 
less rapid sinking. 

In inflammation of the substance of the brain, there is sometimes, 
from the commencement, symptoms very similar to those just noticed 



DISEASES OF TUE B&AIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 1^5 

M indicating infiammation of the membranes, namely, severe pain of 
the head and delirium. In some eases, marks of disturbance of 
the Btomaeh first appear, as continued yomiting ; in othen^ the 
disease sets in with convubiona ; and in a fourth form, it commences 
with loss of speech, and other apoplectic symptoms. Another kind of 
inflammation of the suhatanoe of the brain, terminating in effusion of 
serous fluid in the ventrides of the brain, is what ia commonly called 
water of the head in children. Here, in the first stage, there is pain 
of the head, flashed &oe, and restlessness, with fever ; then squinting, 
dilated pupils, double Tisioo, and profound stupor. In the commeaoe- 
ment the pulse is unusually frequent; it then becomes slow, and 
sometimes again very frequent, — or it is sometimes observed that a 
rapid and slow pulse alternate in quick succession (see page 175). 

Mtbutib is inflammation of the substance of the spinal cord; 
while the term Sfinai*)! bningitis is applied to the inflammation of the 
membranes of the cord. Spinal meningitis is commonly a rapidly 
fatal disease. There is acute pain in the back, increased by motion, 
percussion, and pressure. Hiie pun sometimes shoots round the chest 
or the abdomen. Contractions qf the muscles are oommonly present, 
Tarying with the seat of the disease. In inflammation of the sub- 
stance of the cord, tiiere is usually dull pain in some part of the back, 
loss of sensation and motion, or numbness, and impaired sensibility ; 
(^ symptoms Tarying with the seat of the disease. 

All tiiese diseases are of the most serious character, such as no one 
destitute of medical experience can Tenture to treat The remedies 
required are blood*letting, cupping, leeching, blistering, and other 
forms of counter-irritation ; the application of cold, tartar-emetic, 
calomel, and other remedies, requiring for their proper adjustment all 
the resources of medical skill. 

Dblibixtm TBSMBNB.-~.The brain-fcTer of drunkenness appears to 
haye been one of the earliest names applied to the disease now termed 
delirium tremens. Till towards the close of the last century, this 
disease was generally regarded as a form of inflammation of the brain. 
This was a grave error; for the treatment which belongs to inflanunar 
tion within the skull has a very baneful effect on delirium tremens. 
One of the most striking features of delirium tremens is wakefulness ; 
there is great loquacity ; the ddirium is not usually so incoherent as 
in feyer and inflammation of the brain, and commonly turns on some- 
thing disagreeable, from which the patient wishes to escape. Trembling 
is by no means constantiy present The rules for distinguishing this 
disease from inflammation within the skull, and from incipient mental 

M 



186 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGEKT. 

derangement, are by no means sufficient without much practical 
experience. The great object is to procure sleep. Opium is the 
remedy employed for the purpose ; but the doses required are too large 
to be administered by any one not conyersant with medical practice. 
The abstraction of blood is yery dangerous, yet is sometimes necessary. 
This disease is yery apt to recur. The patient often recoyers more 
than once, yet is finally cut off by the disease. Drunkards often die 
exhausted by hemorrhage from the bowels. 

Palst. — ^Palsy, or paralysis, signifies the inability to moye a part 
naturally imder the control of the wilL One of the slightest forms of 
palsy is what eyery one must haye obseryed — 

Ptosis, or the sinkiog of the eye-lid. But we must not ascribe eyery 
such case to palsy ; the most common cause of this affection being the 
effect merely of an increased weight by the thickening of the part, so 
that the muscular fibres are not powierful enough to oyercome the resist- 
ance. In short, in eyery instance in which an inability to moye a 
part naturally under the control of the will has arisen, it is to be con- 
sidered whether this inability does not depend on a preternatural 
resistance, before it be pronounced that palsy is present. For 
example, there are seyeral forms of chronic lockjaw, in which the 
patient cannot open the mouth, not because the muscles — the office of 
which it is to open the mouth — are paralyzed, but because the antago- 
nistic muscles which shut the mouth are in a state of chronic contrac- 
tion. It is not impossible, howeyer, that a chronic lockjaw might be 
the result of a palsy of the muscles which should open the mouth; 
for this would be exactly analogous to the contractions of the elbow- 
joints obseryed in the saturnine, or painter's colic — a disease arising 
from the noxious effect of the slow poison of lead on the Hying system. 
In the saturnine colic the muscles which extend or straighten the 
elbow-joints'become paralyzed ; the consequence of which is, that the 
muscles which bend these joints are permitted to shorten or draw 
themselyes together permanently, so as to produce a corresponding 
chronic bent state of these joints. Sometimes a paralytic affection is 
confined to one side of the face — that is, from one half of the counte- 
nance all power of expression is gone ; the features are blank, still, and 
unmeaning, — .while the other half retains its natural aspect, except 
that the angle of the mouth is drawn a little awry. In short, the 
patient cannot laugh, weep, or frown, or express any emotion with 
one side of his face, while the features of the other may be in full 
play. As Dr. Watson, a great authority on this kind of local palsy 
says — ** One half of the aspect is that of a sleeping or of a dead 



DISEASES OF TAB BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 187 



person, or stares at you sdemnly ; the other half is alive and merry." 
In cases of this kind there is usually no deficiency of sensation. There 
is another description of affections of the face, in which there is a 
smaller amoimt of loss of motion, with a deficiency of sensibility over 
the whole of one side of the face. The insensibility is very exactly 
limited to one half, being terminated abruptly by the middle line ; the 
accompanying defect of muscular motion is that of contracting the 
masseter and temporal muscles of the same side. The loss of motion 
in cases of this form is, howeyer, much less conspicuous than the loss 
of sensibility, as the mouth, by means of other unaffected musdes, can 
be opened and shut. What is singular, the patients often complain 
of great pain in the very parts which are found to be totally destitute 
of sensibility. In a word, one side of the face may be cut, punctured, 
or burnt, without the slightest indication of sensibility; and yet, 
when these same parts are untouched, the patient may complain of 
the presence of constant excruciating pain in the same. All these 
singular circumstances admit of a complete physiological explanation. 
When there is a loss of s^sibility over one half of the face, the fifth 
pair of cerebral nerves is diseased somewhere in its course ; it is the 
nerve which gives sensibility to the face. The same includes some 
filaments concerned in motion — ^that is, in the contraction of the 
masseter and temporal muscles before spoken of — and therefore, 
along with the loss of sensibility in the parts supplied by the fifth 
neive, there is loss of motion to the extent in which that nerre 
supplies muscles. As respects the constant pain often referred to the 
fieuse in cases of this kind, it must be remembered that the law of sen- 
sation is, that the attendant consciousness has its local seat at the 
point to which ordinarily an impression is applied; that is, at the 
extremity of the nervous filaments affected by the impression. In 
such a case as that supposed, a cause of pain is applied somewhere in 
the course of the nerve, contrary to what takes places in health ; and, 
in obedience to the ordinary law, the reference is made of the con- 
sciousness to the place where the extremities of that nerve are 
distributed. The great nerve of motion in the face is the portion of 
the seventh pair termed *^ portio dura." That portion of the seventh 
pair includes no nerve of sensibility ; so that, when the " portio dura " 
of the seventh pair becomes diseased, there arises a loss of motor 
power on one side of the fkce, unaccompanied by any loss of sensibi- 
lity. Thus it plainly appears that palsy, when confined to small 
regions of the body, depends on disease of the nerves distributed in 
those regions. When, however, a larger extent of the bodily frame* 



188 HOUSEHOLD MBDTCINB AND 80ROERT. 

hsm loet iti Toluntaiy power, then a greater or lees portion of the 
central organs of the nenrons syetem, with whioh the Berres ave 
oonneoted, ie fonnd to be in a state of disease. Thus it was absady 
mentioned that myeliUs, or inflammatioa of the spinal marrow, is 
attended by palsy of the extremities. 

There are two kinds of more general palffjr, namely, Pabaplsoia, 
affecting the lower part of the body, so that all below a line 
transverse to some part of the spinal oanal is inyolyed ; and RMtD" 
FLBOiA, when one half of the body, maiked off by a Teitical line, 
is the seat of the disease. Paraplegia may be so eomplete as to affect 
the whole frame below the jimction of the head with the neck, con- 
stituting loss of motion and sensibility, without any other part of the 
nerrons centre but the spinal cord being diseased ; and it may decline 
from this completeness to a slight numbness and impainnent of power 
in the lower eactremities. Hemiplegia, eyen in its less oonq>lete 
forms, is an indication of disease of the head ; and, indeed, hardly 
differs from apoplexy. 

Apoplszy. — ^The apoplectio seizure, in its most characteristic 
form, is quite sudden ; the person falls down, and lies on the ground 
insensible; his breathing is performed slowly and witii a loud 
snoring sound, teehnieally termed stertor ; his pulse is slow and full; 
the mouth and often great part of the face are drawn to one 
side ; and fluid, sometimes frothy, issues from the mouth ; the face 
is often flushed, and the temporal arteries often strongly throb ; the 
pupils of the eyes may be natural and still contractile on the 
admission of light, or they may be unusually contracted, or, again, 
they may be pretematuraUy dilated. Sometimes there are manifest 
rigns of loss of power on one side from the first ; and in such eaaea 
there are occasionally convulsiye movements on the other side. Most 
commonly, when anything is put into the mouth, the patient swallowa; 
when this does not happen the case is very un&TOurable. After a 
longer or shorter time, if the patient is to recover, sensibility beoomes 
restored; but one side remains paralytic; that is, the form of 
palsy termed hemiplegia remains. The description now given 
applies to a certain proportion of cases coming under the head of 
apoplexy; but there is no small variety spread over the whole 
number of such attacks. A mere sudden attack of insensibility, with 
stertorous breathing, while the pulse continues perceptible, passiBg 
away after a time witiiout leaving any hemiplegia behind, is not to 
be accounted apoplexy. Attacks of this kind, not followed by pal^, 
belong rather to epilepsy than to apoplexy. Thus hemiplegia is an 



DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS STSTEM. 180 

■ »»»_^_ ■ ..III . 

essential part of apoplexy; in short, a sudden hemiplegia, eten 
without any period of insensibility, is so much the same . as the 
complete apoplectic attack that many pathologists with reason regard 
them as meridy slightly different fbrras of the same disease. Thus 
hemijdegia, as connecting itself so intimately with apoplexy, is a very 
different disease from paraplegia, and the several partial and locid 
forms of palsy. One point of agreement, however, is common to the 
whole series of these diseases, namely, that their seat is in the 
nervous substance. 

The particular alteration in the nervous substance, owing to 
which it fails of efficiency for its ordinary office, is not always of 
the same kind. It may be an organic change of substance, owing 
to diseased nutrition of a slow character; or it may be the effect of 
hemorrhage, by whidii the nervous matter is comprcnsed, and unfitted 
for its usual function ; or it may be simply an inereased afflux of 
blood to its capillary vessels, by which a similar effect is produced, 
without the actual extravasation of blood. 

Thus there is room for a conuderable variety of treatment in oases 
of palsy and apoplexy, according to the several circumstances of the 
constitution under which the disease has arisen. And it is in the 
proper choice of remedies appropriate to each particular case that the 
skill of the experienced practitioner is discovered* Yeneseotion, 
arteriotomy, cupping, leeches, blisters, setons, oold by water and 
ice, purgatives, electricity, galvanism, and other means may be neces- 
sary ; but until the arrival of the medical man, the patient should be 
placed in the recumbent position, with his head elevated upon pillows^ 
his neck-handkerchief removed, Ids shixt opened, his chest exposed, 
and cool air freely admitted. 

Epilspst. — ^The common English name for epilepsy is the Falling 
Sickness, since the person falls down, or rather is thrown on 
thie ground with violence, by the sudden contraction of the great 
muscles of the trunk ; and the onset of the attack is sometimes 
so sudden, that if the patient is walking with a burden on his 
head the burden is sometimes seen distinctly to fall through the 
air aftOT he is already on the ground. The whole body is agitated 
by continuous muscular contractions ; the contractions being usually 
of that kind which tend to straighten the trunk and extremities-* 
that is, to bri]>g them into a straight line. The head is often 
knodced against the ground by the same tendency in the neck ; the 
muscles of the face and eyelids (the eyes being fixed) are in violent 
motion ; the jaw is agitated with a convulsion by which the tongue, 



190 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND 8UBGEBY. 

which tends to be protruded, is often bitten and much lacerated, the 
teeth at the same time being loosened ; the &oe is yery generally 
swollen and liyid — sometimes pale ; the neck is swollen ; froth, and 
sometimes blood, issue from the mouth ; the pulse is often full and 
slow, and the breathing somewhat interrupted. After such symptoms 
have continued for some time, the preternatural motions cease ; the 
patient continues to lie insensible on the ground, breathing stertori- 
ously, while the pulse is slow, and often full. The sensibility by 
degrees returns, and the patient has no consciousness of anything 
which occurred during the fit. When the person subject to this 
disease is large and heavy, he often seriously hurts himself in the 
attacks. 

This disease occurs under very different circumstances of the con- 
stitution. Sometimes the patient is pale and thin, at other times 
robust, stout, and plethoric. It is frequent in children, and in them 
it is often dependent on worms in the intestinal canal. It is often 
connected in grown persons with irritations of various kinds in the 
intestines, and the other organs concerned in digestion. Hence one 
of its principal forms has been called Enteric Epilepsy. It is also 
sometimes connected with derangen&ent in the uterine function, and 
this form has been called Uterine Epilepsy. In these two forms the 
immediate cause is a sympathetic disturbance of the nervous system, 
originating in these distant organs of the body. But there is a large 
series of cases depending on direct irritation of the nervous system ; 
such cases are usually placed imder the head of Cerebral Epilepsy. 
The epilepsy of early life sometimes disappears at the time of puberty; 
but that of adult age is less frequently wholly removed. There are some, 
however, who suffer occasional attacks, and yet live through a long 
life. It is, however, in general one of the most serious diseases to 
which mankind is subject. • 

The remedies are very numerous, and require no small skill for 
their judicious application. Venesection, arteriotomy, cupping, and 
leeching, are among the remedies; but they must be used with a 
sparing Hand, and only under particular circumstances. Blistering, 
setons, and the other various forms of counter-irritation, are more 
extensively useful. Cold to the head is of the utmost service. 
Purgatives are of much benefit, particularly croton-oil. The spirit 
of turpentine, as already described, is of great use. Various anti- 
spasmodics, such as valerian, assafoetida, and the like. Many metallic 
tonic remedies, such as nitrate of silver and preparations of copper, 
zinc, arsenic, bismuth, and iron, are often beneficially employed. 



DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 191 

The yalerian powder is a safe and often useful remedy, as tending at 
least to diminish the number of the fits. It should be g;iyen in 
considerable doses, perhaps to the extent of from one to three 
drachms in the day. The expressed juice of the cotyledon umbi- 
licus, a species of pennywort, in the dose of a teaspoonful twice 
a-day, has of late been strongly recommended, and may be tried. 
Nitrate of silver is often very efficacious, but is liable to the objection, 
when carried far, of producing a permanent black metallic colour of 
the face. The preparations of copper, in the proper small dose, may 
be kept up for a long time without any bad effect on the health. 
Bismuth is also a safe remedy, and is often beneficial when disorder 
of the stomach attends the disease. The preparations of iron pro- 
bably act on a principle altogether different from that on which the 
other metallic removes are useful. In short, it would appear that 
the same rules apply for the administration of iron in epilepsy as in 
other diseases — that is, that it is beneficial only when a decided 
poverty of the blood is present — and that it may be very hurtful in 
the forms of epilepsy attended with the plethoric state. During the 
fit, nothing must be done but to prevent the patient injuring him- 
self; and in the after treatment there is much room for regimen, 
particularly as respects the occupation of the mind, and breaking 
habitual currents of thought by frequent changes in the mode of life. 

Hystbbia is undoubtedly a disease in which the nervous system 
largely participates. It may be doubted, however, if it should be 
regarded as a primary disease of that system, except in so far as a 
peculiar excitability of the nervous substance gives the chief predis- 
position to the disease. It is, in a great degree, a mental disease, or, 
as it may be rather termed, an emotional disease, being most strictly 
connected with mental emotion. Whatever tends to increase un- 
duly the natural susceptibility to emotion, also tends to aug- 
ment the disposition to hysteria. Whatever weakens the control of 
volition over emotions apt to run to excess, in the same degree lays 
the individual open to attacks of hysteria. The peculiar symptoms 
of hysteria occur in females; but symptoms .not indeed quite identi- 
cal, yet in the closest degree analogous, ocbur also in males. 

The symptoms of hysteria are very various. Sometimes a fit of 
hysteria consists in a single accession of fainting. A female suddenly 
faints, and after a longer or shorter period recovers completely, and 
yet a medical man may be right in terming the attack nothing else 
than a fit of hysteria. Sometimes the disease comes on in the form of 
a sudden difficulty of breathing. A young woman is seized with a 



1^ 



HOUSisLHOLO MEDICiKE AND 8UEOB&T. 



sudden fit of panting, with Yiolent agitation of the whole chest, and 
this may either pass away after a while, and nothing further he 
ohsenred, or she may oomphdn of a choking in the throat, and sense 
of a hall moring in the region of the stomach and howela, and then 
may swoon away, and in no long time reeorer and he as if nothing 
had happened. These are examples of slight forms of hysteria; hut 
it is often a disease of the greatest sererity. Sometimes it is so serere 
as to he with difficulty distinguished from epUepsy. Sometimes it 
takes tiie form of lock-jaw, and puts on distinctly the character of 
tetanus. There is, in iJiort, hardly any disease which it may not at 
times imitate. What is singular, it may eyen assume the i^pearanoe 
of inflammatory diMases, particularly of the ahdomen, such as inflam- 
matiicm of the peritoneum, or serous memhrane lining the howels, 
inflammation of the howels themselyes, inflammation of the liyer, 
and the like. On the other hand it sometimes imitates apoplectic 
diseases. While, then, every medical man must he much on his 
guard against mistaking mere forms of hysteria for such diseases as 
require Tery active treatment, he must be equally careful not to 
neglect the proper treatment of severe diseases in excitable females, 
under the idea that they may be mere varieties of hysteria. 

The remedies in hysteria are very nimierous. Even venesection, 
arteriotomy, cupping, and leeching, are sometimes requisite. But it 
requires the skill of an experienced medical man to determine this 
point ; since the unnecessary loss of blood tends to aggravate hysteric 
diseases. Purgatives are more easily managed; occasional purga- 
tives, even of some strength, are useful ; but the habitual use of 
purgatives is hurtfuL The remedies in the fit itself axe such cordials, 
and antispasmodics as the aromatic spirit of hartshorn, commonly 
termed the spirit of sal- volatile ; also the fetid spirit of hartshorn, or 
ammoniated spirit of assafoBtida ; of each of which a teaspoonful 
well diluted with water may be given, and a similar dose of the com- 
pound or ammoniated tincture of valerian may be administered. The 
application of hartshorn to the nostrils is also useful, care being taken 
that it is not too strong. An old practice was to bum feathers under 
the nose, by which, along with some other odoriferous vapours, harts- 
horn is extricated. In fainting, fanning the face with a large fan, or 
piece of pasteboard, is of great service ; and in severe cases, lave- 
ments composed of spirit of turpentine, well diluted, or of a mixturo of 
assafostida, are very useful. 

As regards the permanent cure, the great object is to improve the 
general health, to correct all derangements of action, to strengthen 



SKIN DISBASBS. 193 



the Nervous system, and by all possible mfians to promote the patient's 
control over her own feelings, that she may become able to resist the 
first beginnings of the disease. 

When there is nothing to oontra-indicate such treatment, the cold 
bath, the tepid bath, the cold shower-bath, or the tepid shower-bath, 
are of much utility. Most of the remedies known to be of aeryioe in 
•{K>plej^ find a place in the severer forms of hysteria. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

DISIASB8 OF THB SKIN. 

I HAVB already had occasion to describe several diseases, in the 
course of which the skin is very much affected. In some of these 
cases the condition of the skin forms a very prominent symptom, as 
in small pox, scarlet fever, and measles. In others it is less conspi- 
cuous, as in typhus and typhoid fevers. In all these cases, however, 
the cutaneous affection is but a consequence of a constitutional state, 
and no one now dreams of speaking of small pox or measles as skin 
affections, but as general diseases, with simultaneous affection of the 
skin. In strict language this is the case also with almost all the diseases 
which are commonly included under the term " diseases of the skin." 
As in small pox or measles, so in most other cases, there is some 
constitutional state which has, as its adjunct, marked cutaneous 
symptoms. Only as the skin-affection is, in these cases, the most 
prominent sjrmptom, it is found more convenient in practice to study 
its characters, and to use them as a means of classification. Never- 
theless it must always be borne in mind, that '^ diseases of the skin" 
is a phrase which implies only diseases with especial participation of 
the skin. 

The causes of diseases of the skin — i, e, the C(mstitutional condi- 
tion which precedes the cutaneous affection — are very various. 

Sometimes there is a general febrile state of the system, and sub- 
stances are formed in the blood which are foreign to it, and cause 
irritation of the skin, as well as other excreting organs. 

In other cases the process of digestion is especially in fault; 
the blood is therefore not properly formed, and, as a consequence, 
nutrition is badly carried on. 



194 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND BURGEUT. 



In a third class of cases the neirous system, and especially that 
part of it distributed in the skin, is diseased. 

In a fourth class of cases, some poisonous materiid has entered 
the blood, and cansed disease of it, and also of the solid structures ; 
this is the case especially in secondary syphilis — ^a terrible affection 
which men by their yices inflict upon themselves. 

In other cases, again, some singular diseases are produced by the 
presence and growth of parasitic plants on the skin. One disease, 
itch, is caused by an insect burrowing in the skin. 

In the treatment of diseases of the skin it is usually necessary 
to give remedies which may cure the particular constitutional state. 
Attention to the food is of the greatest importance, as many skin 
diseases are produced entirely by errors of diet. Local measures are, 
howeyer, often of great benefit, and the diseases caused by parasitic 
pljEUits and by animals are oftentreatedentirely by external applications. 

The diseases of the skin are classified according to their anato- 
mical characters ; the following classes may be made. 

I. Inflammations op thb Skin. 

(a.) Inflammations causing general redness of more or less of the 
skin, as Erythema and Boseola. 

(b.) Inflammations causing papulsB, i, e, little red spots arising from in- 
flammation of small parts of the skin, as Lichen and Strophulus. 

(c.) Inflammations causing yesides, as Eczema, Herpes, Bupia, and 
Pemphigus. 

(d.) Inflammations causing pustules, as Impetigo and Ecthyma. 

(e.) Inflammations causing tuberculoid swellings, as Lupus and Ele> 
phantiasis. 

(f .) Inflammations attended with especial disease of the cuticle, as 
Lepra and Psoriasis. 

II. Scaly diseases of the Skin. 

1. Diseases connected especially with the neryes, though being also 

often more or less inflammatory, as Prurigo and Urticaria. 

2. Diseases of the sebaceous follicles, as Acne and Sycosis. 

3. Diseases of the pigment of the skin. 

4. Diseases arising from parasitic plants, as Tinea or Ringworm, and 

Pityriasis. 

5. Diseases arising from animaculse, as Scabies or Itch. 

There are some rarer forms of disease which I haye not thought 
it necessary to include in this list. 



SKIN DISEASES. 



195 



I shall now proceed to make a few obeeryatioiis on each of these 
diseases. 

Erythema, and Bobeola. — Simple redness of the skin, not being 
from erysipelas, scarlet fever, &c., is called erythema or roseola. In 
erythema the redness is usually light in colour, and may affect any 
part of the body. There is often some amoimt of swelling, often in 
the form of nodules, which have a darker colour than the rest of the 
skin. There is usually some burning or itching. The redness is in 
larger or smaller patches, or spreads oyer a very considerable extent 
of surface. It is a disease of short duration, and in general easily 
cured by slight aperient and cooling medicines, and by applying cold 
water or Goulard's lotion to the skin. 

A form of erythema, in which the modules are large, occurs often 
in women whose monthly periods are not regular, and who have also 
a tendency to rheuma^m. The nodules are usually seated along the 
shin-bones; they are often as large as walnuts, bluish in colour, 
and very paitifuL After aperient and cooling medicines, quinine 
is the best remedy. 

When two adjacent folds of skin rub on each other, as in those of 
the skin in fat children, the skin becomes red from erythema. This 
is easily cured by cool lotions, or by sprinkling flour between the 
folds of the skin. 

BosBOLA is a more uncommon disease ; the redness is darker, and 
affects often the extremities of the body — ^the hands and feet. It is 
a slight disease, lasting four or five days, and requires only simple 
cooling treatment. 

Lichen and Strophulus are very like each other, and are cha- 
racterized by numerous small red points scattered over the skin. On 
pressure the redness disappears for a time. There is itching and 
tingling, especially in bed. 

In children, strophulus often occurs a few days after birth, and is 
called " red gum." It is a thing of no importance. 

There is a form of lichen which is very severe, and is therefore 
called '* lichen agrius." It affects adults whose constitutions have 
been injured in various ways. 

Another form is common in persons who have lately arrived in a 
tropical climate. It consists of numerous red spots, whi(^ itch and 
tingle greatly. It is called Lichen urticatus, or prickly heat. 

In this country lichen is sometimes a febrile complaint, and is 
attended with great gastric derangement, such as nausea, loss of 
appetite, languor, and irritability of temper. The spots itch intensely, 



I 



196 nOUSEHOLD MBDIGINB AND 8UROE11T. 

I -■ --■■■■■■■■III ■ -■-.-- ^_._ 

and are often so muoh irritated by scratching as to become encrusted 
with blood. 

The treatment of lichen is to live low, abstaining fi*om meat, 
wine, and beer; taking fraits, yegetables, and milk. In an adult^ 
two grains of blue pill eyery other night for three times, and erery 
morning three tea-spoonsftil of Epsom salts in infusion of roses, must 
be giyen ; and in fiye or six days three table^spoonsful of infusion of 
bark, with six or eight drops of dilute nitric acid twice a-day. To 
allay the itching use a tepid bath (temperature 86** Fahr.) 

The strophulus of new-bom children is usually connected with 
acidity in the stomach, and is to be treated with a few grains of 
magnesia. 

Eczema is an inflammation of the skin, attended by the formation 
of numerous little yesicles, which are set close together, and are filled 
with a clear or slightly turbid fluid. In two or three days they burst, 
discharge the fluid, and dry up. Usually, howeyer, other yesicles rise 
near them, and run through the same course ; so that there is a con- 
stant discharge of thin fluid, causing ** weeping" of the part 

The disease is sometimes acute, but more usually is chronic, and 
lasts for a long time. It leads to some thickening of the skin, and to 
the formation of thin crusts. It is extremely dilflcult of cure, and 
in certain cases has a tendency to become pustular. 

Eczema occurs sometimes from local irritation — sometimes it occurs 
from exposure to the sun — ^but often is connected with digestiye 
disturbance and a general febrile state. 

In its treatment, if there be feyer, yery little food must be giyen ; 
the bowels must be freely opened, and cold applications must be iised 
to the skin. When it has lasted some time, the same treatment, a 
little modified, must be continued. Very little meat and no fermented 
liquids should be taken. Alkaline medicines, especially the bicar- 
bonate of potass, are of use. For an adult, two scruples of the 
bicarbonate, in a wine-glass of water, may be taken twice a-day. 
The tepid bath is useful, and lime-water may be put into it with 
advantage. 

In chronic cases, weak lotions of lunar caustic (one grain to one 
ounce of water), or of creosote (four drops to one ounce of water), are of 
seryioe. If the case is of very old standing, alkaline lotions (half a 
drachm of liquor potassss to three ounces of water), followed by the 
ointment of the iodide of sulphur, twice a-day, are useful. In many 
cases a long treatment by a medical man is absolutely necessary. 

Hbbpes. — ^This is always an acute affection, and is formed by a 



SKIN DISEASES. 197 



number of little Tesides, filled with a clear fluid, which riae rapidly 
on a red inflamed ground. In three or four days these yesicles dry 
up and form a light scurf, and the redness of the skin disappears. Very 
frequently another spot, in the neighbourhood of the first, becomes 
affected, and runs through a similar eourse. 

Sometimes, towards the end of acute diseases, Tesides of herpes 
appear round the mouth. It is usually considered a farourable sign. 

The disease popularly called ** Srinolss " is a yariety of herpes. 
In this affection rather large yesicles form a sort of narrow belt round 
half of the body. A great deal of pain precedes the appearance of 
the yesicles, and lasts for weeks or eyen months after they haye 
disappeared. Shingles is an acute disease, attended with feyer and 
with great general distress. Its causes are yery obscure. 

The treatment of herpes is chiefly constitutional, — ^mercurial pur- 
gatiyes, followed by the liquor potass®, in doses of twenty or thirty 
drops in water, night and morning. The shingles is treated in the 
same way ; but opiates are often required to soothe the seyere pain. 

If herpes forms, as it does sometimes, on the generatiye organs in 
men or women, it causes considerable irritation, and may be mistaken 
for some serious disease. Goulard's lotion wiH usually cause a 
speedy cure. 

fiupiA is a disease in which the yesicles are yery large, and are 
succeeded by dark black adherent crusts. It is often connected with 
ulcerati(»i of the skin, and occurs in persons of broken-down habits. 
It is best treated by bark, sarsaparilla, and iodine. 

Impetigo is a disease characterized by small flat pustules, filled 
with a thick yellow fluid. They rise rapidly, and dry up in a few 
days, forming thick yellow crusts. Other pustules form beneath the 
crusts. Occurring on the face in children, this disease sometimes 
completely encrusts the face like a mask ; hence the term ** crusta 
laryalis," or ** impetigo laryalis." Eczema and impetigo haye yery 
dose relations to each other, and often run into each other, so that a 
mixed disease is formed, which is called " Eczema impetiginoides." 

Impetigo is especially apt to occur in spring and summer. It is best 
treated during its preyalence by great attention to diet and mild aperi- 
ents. After it is well, as recurrence is frequent, the skin should be 
kept yery clean by constant cold sponging. Immediately an appearance 
of the eruption is seen, the parts shoidd be coyered with collodion. 

Ecthyma is a disease characterized by large pustules, seated on a 
hard red base. It usually occurs in broken-down constitutions, and is 
treated with bark, cod-liyer oil, and iodine. 



198 HOUSEHOLD M£DICIli£ AKD SURGERY. 

I need not describe the disease called Elephantiasis or Lepsosx, 
as it is never, or very rarely, seen in this country. 

LuFus, or the Wolf, is a frightful and yery intractable disease ; 
it consists in great deposits in the skin of some part of the body — 
usually of some part of the face. The sldn is yery hard, and dark red 
swellingoccurs, which afterwards softens down, and an ulcer is formed^ 
which often eats away large portions of the nose or lips, and some- 
times even penetrates to the bones. This disease is connected espe- 
cially with the scrofulous habit, and is most. common in youth. 

It is to be treated especially by alteratives, especially iodine^ and 
by tonics. The cod-liver oil is very useful. It is often removed 
by operation, or destroyed by escharotics. The disease requires 
medical treatment, and is always very difficult of cure. 

Lepba (which is not the ancient Leprosy) and Psosiasis 
are very much alike. Both are formed by small red spots, 
which become covered with scales, but present neither vesicles 
nor pustules. Lepra often forms rings, the centre of which 
is free from disease, while the circumference is red and scaly; Psori- 
asis sometimes affects a large portion of skin, and causes great thicken- 
ing of it The scales are quite dry, and rapidly fall off, being as 
rapidly re-formed by the inflamed skin. Sometimes in psoriasis there 
are deep fissures and cracks in the skin, which bleed, and give great 
pain. 

Psoriasis sometimes forms on the palms of the hand; and is 
chiefly characterized by the dry and somewhat thickened skin, from 
which the cuticle peels off. 

Both lepra and psoriasis are to be treated by milky and farinaceous 
food ; mercurial purgatives and alkalies. Baths of warm and cold 
water are serviceable ; as also the wet sheet, which has long 
been used in medicine, although falsely said to have been in- 
troduced by the hydropathists. Ointments of iodide of sulphur, 
and of lead, if there be no fissures of the skin, are also beneficiaL 
Arsenic is often employed ; but without an extremely rigid diet all 
remedies are useless. Wine, beer, and meat must be abstained from. 
Yapour baths are often very useful. 

Prubioo is a disease denoted by intense itching, without anything 
being seen on the skin. Sometimes there are, however, some pale 
papules ; hence prurigo is often included among the papular diseases. 
It is, however, an affection of the nerves. Often patients scratch 
themselves so much that the parts bleed, and littie black points of 
effused blood are seen. 



DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 199 

Occurring in old people (prurigo senilis), this disease is most obsti- 
nate, and appears to be often connected with some fault in the action 
of the kidneys. 

Prurigo sometimes affects the fundament, or the parts of genera- 
tion, and gives rise to intolerable, itching and distress. It is best 
treated by mild aperients, and the acetate of potash, in doses of ten to 
twenty grains, in an ounce of water, three or foiur times a-day. 

As local applications to allay itching, nothing is so useful as a 
lotion of about two drachms of dilute prussic acid and four ounces of 
rose«water. As this lotion is highly poisonous, it must not be used 
without putting on the bottle a label that it is poisonous, and must 
not be taken internally. 

Urticabia, or Nettle Bash, is a disease almost always caused 
by some particular article of food, such as shell-fish, &c. ; or by some 
medicine, as ipecacuanha, in certain persons. 

There is intense itching of the skin, and large wheals rise rapidly, 
and as rapidly disappear. It is best treated by the warm bath, 
aperients, and emetics, if there be nausea. It usually disappears after 
starving for a day or two. If chronic, and of a rheumatic cha- 
racter, as it sometimes is, it requires medical treatment, and is often 
intractable. 

Acne. — In many persons the little sebaceous pollides of the skin, 
especially on the face, shoulders, and neck, become too much filled with 
contents, and form little swellings, in the centre of each of which is a 
small black point formed by the secretion, which has become black by 
exposure to the air. On pressing the little swelling a white substance 
exudes, which is often called a worm ; but it is in fact the sebaceous 
secretion. In this, however, little animals will form. 

The sebaceous glands, thus too much filled, sometimes inflame ; 
they become very red, and form matter in their interior. This is 
called Acne; or, if it occurs round the hair, as is sometimes the 
case, as in the beard, for example, it is called Sycosis. 

Both acne and sycosis are best treated constitutionally by purga- 
tives and very strict diet. If this does not cure them, the liquor 
potassse, thirty drops for an adult, in a wine-glass of water, night and 
morning, must be used. Bose-water, with one grain of corrosive 
sublimate in each pint, is very beneficial to bathe the parts. 

Diseases affecting chiefly the pigment, or colouring matter of the 
skin, will be best considered imder the section *<Hair." 

Diseases arising itom parasitic plants are very numerous ; they 
form the affections termed ringworm. The plants form especially 



200 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

round the haira, which are often abo invaded hf the growtfay and are 
destroyed. They are iitde fungi of different tpeoie8» and are veiy 
easily recognised by the microscope. 

All these diseasea are contagiouB, because the plants can be tnans- 
ferred firom one person to another. 

The most conunmi complaint in England ia the true Bingwmm, or 
TnvEA. TONDSN8. This disease affipcts ei^ecially the hairy scalp, and 
forms little rings, from which the hair has fallen ofil On looking at 
this ring, a fine powder can be seen round the remaining roots of the 
hair. Put under the microscope, this is found to be made up of the 
spores and thallus of the fungus, with portions of cuticle. 

PiTTBiABTS is another scaly disease, often classed with lepra and 
psoriasis. It is common in young persona, appears especially on the 
diest, and there forms yellow patches and scales. 

Both these diseases are easily cured by local measures ; the most 
efficient of which is the sulphurous acid lately recommended by Dr. 
Jenner (see pages 76 and 88). Formerly ringworm was much 
dreaded, on account of its obstinacy; but now, its nature being 
understood, it is easily cured. 

Itch (or Sg^bibs) is a disease arisiDg from the presence of a 
little insect called the Acarus, or Sarcoptea hominis. It buiTows in 
the skio, and lays eggs there. The irritatkm causes little pafiulse, 
vesicles, and pustules, and gives rise to a great deal of itching, especially 
at night, when the insect is most active. The papul» are most 
common between the fingers ; but they may ooeor all over the body, 
except the fiice. 

The disease easily yields to greasy applications ; for the animal 
requires air, which these take from it. The itch may slways be cured 
in a very short time — ^an hour or two will suffice. Place the patient 
in a warm bath, and rub him down with soft soap and fine sand. I 
say **rub him down," since Ihe object is to rupture the small and thin 
vesicles which contain the itch insect. This being done, sulphur 
ointment is to be freely rubbed in ; by which means the aoari will be 
exposed to its lethal influences, and effectually destroyed. This is a 
certain, but not very elegant procedure ; and if circumstances forbid 
its emplo3nDaent, a solution of the iodide of potassium in rose-water 
is a good application ; also sulphur ointment and baths of sulphur. 



■^MMMi*toH«M 



DISEASES OF TFSK HAIR, 



201 



CHAPTER XX. 



DISEASES OF THE HAIE. 

TVflBTHSR ire regard the human hair as useful or -as ornamental, tbe 
consideration of its diseases becomes of essential importance. Asa 
bad conductor of heat, it materially assists in preserviug an equaUe 
temperature of the body. In some sitoations, as a defence againat 
external irritants, — in others, as a tmsty watehman, the hair performs 
an office .at once beneyolent and wise ; while the beauty of luxuriant 
tresses, and sabum locks, and raven hair, has been a thcmie of 
adulation from the time of Solomon to the present day. Well would 
it be for our countrymen, if, like their continental neighbonrs, they 
wore their hirsute honours thick upon them, dcspising^conyestionalism, 
and using nature's gifts in the efficient and appropriate liberality in 
which they ha^e been pressed upon us. 

To those liable to colds and affections of the air^passages, the 
moustache and beard would form a Tery efficient protection ; while 
to working men, especially to those whose ayocastions expose them to 
the influences of yarious vapours, or oblige them to live in the midst 
of a cloud of fine dust — and what workshop is free from it ? — the hair 
upon tbe lips acts as a very respirai»r or sieve, preventing the 
entrance into the lungs of obnoxious particles. But, alas! fashion 
forbids ; and fashion ! who docs not consult the oracle } Hor Pythian 
voice commands more implicit credence than did the laws of Lycurgus, 
Soion, or Kuma. True ! her decrees may be sometimes sphynx-likie, 
and require to be tmriddled and modified before they can be adapted 
to the pcnsonal peculiarities of some of bcr crippled votaries. But at 
her shrine pain itself is willingly endured, and the natural proportions 
of the body distorted to comply with her exactions, High and low, 
rich and poor, — all classes of society, — bow to her authority. 

The hair, as other parts of the human economy, is liable to 
diseases peculiar to itself. Many are treated of by systematic writers ; 
but the majority are mere secondary affections of the skin, and com* 
plications of cutaneous diseases of the scalp. I shall in this place 
confine my remarks to those only which arc common in this country; 
and first of that which results in 

Baldkcbs, callod technically Aloi>2ciia, from a Greek word sig- 
nif3ring a fox^ l^at animal being said t6 be peculiariy liable to the 
afiTecti^. The loss of hair, whether at one spot or in the nms9, 



202 



HOUSEUOLD MEDTCINE AND SURGERY. 



constitutes the essential character of the disease, which may occur at 
any pciiod of life. There may he considerahle variety iu its form; 
since there may he only a general thinness of the hair, some patches 
of haldness, or the whole hody may ho entirely divested of its natural 
covering. The change may take place more or less rapidly — ^in a few 
days, or he so prolonged that its advances arc scarcely perceptible. 
The skin, also, may present widely different appearances ; it may 
appear perfectly healthy, or it may he pale and furfuraceous — ^that is, 
covered with small hran-likc scales, or it may be very scurfy, retain or 
lose its sensibility, or become itchy, hot, and irritable. The hair 
itself, before falling off, may preserve its healthy character, or other- 
wise ; and all these conditions become of essential importance in 
rightly understanding the source of the disease, and applying the 
most appropriate mode of treatment. 

The bulb or root of hair consists of an internal vascular pulp, 
invested with a capsule, from which is produced the outer part or 
rind of the shaft of the hair, and from the former its inner or central 
part. The whole bulb is inclosed in a membranous cell, to which, 
however, it is not attached, but through which vessels and nerves 
pass to its pulp. Baldness generally proceeds from a diseased con- 
dition of the follicles which nourish and support the hair bulbs, 
depending upon inflammation, ulceration, temporary deficient action, 
or death from pressure, friction, local irritants, or constitutional 
derangements. 

"When the hair follicles are obliterated, no method of treatment 
will restore them ; and here I must earnestly warn my renders 
against those empirical nostrum mongers who advertise the repro- 
duction of whiskers, moustache, eyebrows, &c., even when ^* lost by 
disease of any kind." Nothing will reproduce the follicles; and 
time and money are both thrown away by those who listei> to such 
seductive promises. A wig is the only remedy for a bald head from 
such causes ; and no amount of bear's grease will clothe a hairless 
face. As a general principle it may bo stated that whatever tends 
to establish relaxation and want of tone in the hair follicles and bulbs, 
becomes a cause of baldness ; and hence, when these organs are in a 
state of deficient action, judicious treatment may often remedy the 
evil. In this case the object in view is to excite the capillary 
circulation of the scalp, and thereby to promote the vitality of the 
follicles and bulbs, and enable them to nourish and support the hair. 
It must bo borne in mind that greasy applications are positively 
injurious, and that cases of their alleged success are extremely 



DISEASES OF THE HAIR. 203 

problematical. Our best and most recent authority upon diseases of 
the hair is Br. Burgess, who, after enumerating the remedies which 
have popularly been recommended for the cure of baldness, such as 
decoctions of wormwood, walnut leaves, horehound, lesser centuary, 
and mustard seeds ; and tinctures — that is, aromatic wines or spirits 
in various strength, of myrrh, hellebore, capsicum, and cantharides ; 
and embrocations of the oils of lavender, laurel, juniper, camomile, 
rosemary, thyme, mace, and turpentine ; and alcoholic solutions of 
zinc and copper — remedies which he has found for the most part 
useless, and seldom to effect the slightest good — goes on to recommend, 
as most successful, the fumigation of the scalp by means of an inge- 
nious apparatus of his own invention. Br. Burgess says, in his last 
edition of " Cazanave upon the Skin," page 252 : — 

" From a knowledge of the undoubted efficacy produced by the 
application of vapour, simple or medicated, to the human skin in 
cases of inveterate disease of that structure on other parts of the body, 
it occurred to mc that similar applications to the scalp, in cases of 
eruptive disease involving the loss of hair, would also be attended 
with good results. Messrs. Ferguson, surgical instrument makers to 
St. Bartholomew's Hospital, made, under my direction, the apparatus 
described below. 

" The vapour apparatus is extremely simple. It consists of a tin 
jar, about ten inches by four, with a conducting tube, on which is 
placed a stop-cock, for the purpose of diluting the vapour, or turning 
it off, and an elastic cap of Vulcanised Indian-rubber, which fits 
closely to the head, so as to prevent the vapour from escaping. A 
spirit-lamp, to sublime the appropriate medicinal agent, completes 
the apparatus for fumigating the scalp. In order to apply the vapour 
to the face, forehead, or temples, when occasion requires, one or two 
funnel-shaped tubes of caoutchouc • are made to screw on to the 
metallic conducting pipe, about two inches beyond the stop-cock. 
Bebellious patches of acne, or otimpctigo figurata of the face, may be 
treated in this manner, without risk of inhaling the vapour. 

" The remedies I have chiefly employed for fumigating the scalp 
in the manner described are iodine, sulphur, mercury, and the gum 
resins. The hair should be cut close in every instance with the razor- 
scissors (but the head should never be shaved) before applying the 
vapour. The application may be continued for twenty minutes or 
half an hour each time. It will cause an itching or prickling sensa- 
tion all over the scalp, and the head will then become bedewed with 
perspiration. 



204 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICIXE AND 8UBGERY. 



*' The great majority of diseases of the skin are constitationa], and 
those of the scalp are not an exception to the rule. Yet erery 
practitioner is familiar with the difficulty of removing the latter hy 
the unaided influence of constitutional treatment. Porrigo farosa, 
for example, which is one of the most tmsightly, as well as the most 
inTeterate of the eruptions of that region, may he temporarily relieved 
hy tonics and fomentations, and the skin even made to appear clean 
and healthy ; hut the virits still remains, and consequently the fure 
will he hut of short duration. 

" In this, as in other inveterate diseases -of the scalp, of constitn- 
tional origin, the skin, from the force of hahit, adapts itself to the 
morhid condition, which it retains with singular tenacity against all 
the usual methods of treatment. In all similar cases, the application 
of vapour, simple or medicated, as the case may require, to the 
diseased scalp, will be found a very efficient remedy. Where the 
object is to alter the vitality of the parts, this can be done more 
effectually by the repeated application of stimulating vaponr (die 
skin being previously cleansed with any detergent wash, and the 
hair cut close), than by the employment of caustic lotions or oint- 
ments. Indeed, greasy applications of every kind may be adran- 
tagcously dispensed with in the treatment of diseases of the sealp. 
That variety of baldness or loss of hair, which is the result of atony, 
relaxation, or disordered nutrition of the hair follicles and builds, 
already described, will be materially benefited by the employment 
of the vapour apparatus." 

Gray Hair. — I have now briefly to notice the change in criour 
of the hair ; although it may be hardly correct to, call that a disease 
which for the most part is a concomitant of age, and attributable to 
natural decay. Still many persons become prematurely gray, and it 
is not uncommon to find even in young heads that " gray does some* 
thing mingle." 

" My hair is* gray, though not with years ; 
Nor grew it -white 
In a single night, 
As men's have grown from sudden fear,** 

says the Prisoner of Chillon ; and from intense emotion in a few 

hours the hair has become perfectly blanched. Of this we have fami.- 

liar examples in Sir Thomas More, who became gray during the night 

preceding his execution ; in the case of Queen Mary ; and in that.of 

Marie Antoinette in the Temple ; 

" For deadly fear can time outgo, 
And blanch at once the hair." 



DISEJLSES OF THE HAIK. 205 

Mr. Erasmus AVilson, however, a well-known, authority upon skin 
diseases, doubts the truth of these examples ; and without entering 
upon the vexed question as to tho period which is necessary to effect 
this change, it is certain that the functions of secretion and absorption 
arc remarkably affected by emotion ; although Iiow this occurs is not 
in this place to be considered. Suffice it then to say, that in the hair 
eeUs there is a pigmentary or colouring matter as in the skin itself, 
and upon the extent of which depends its hue. In the Albino this 
pigment is altogether absent, and the hair is consequently white ; 
and. sioice in the Albino the constitution is very feeble, we have some 
ckie to .the eaiiy treatment, and see the necessity of availing our- 
selves,. upon the tet appearance of gray hair, of those means which 
may place the general system in a condition to ward off the effects of 
premnture decay, while they neurit and promote the secretory 
process. iMr. Erasmus Wilson, in his work on ** Healthy Skin," says 
^* there can be no doubt that the production in this climate of a dark 
pigment is a greater ex^tion to the economy than one of a lighter 
kind ; and hence, when the power of the nervous system is reduced, 
the formation of pigment is one of the first actions which suffers. 
When grayness shows itself in the hair, it is therefore an indication 
of want of tone in the hair-producing organs, and if this tone can be 
restored, the hair would cease to change." Mr. Wilson therefore 
recommends the same means for remedies preventing grayness as he 
docs for pvomoting the growth of hair; and these are as follows : — 
I. Vinegar of caatharides, half an ounce ; eau-de-Cologne and rose- 
water of each one ounce. To be mixed and applied. — II. Eau-de- 
Cologne, two ounces ; tincture of cantharides, half an ounce ; oil of 
nutmegs, h^lf a drachm ; oil of lavender, ten drops. Mix as before. — 
IIL Merezeon bark and horse-radish root, in small pieces, of each one ; 
ounce ; boiling distilled vinegar half a pint. This infusion is to stand 
for a week, and then strained for use. If these applications are found 
too irritating to the skin, they may be diluted and used less fre- 
quently. If they render the hair harsh and dry, a small quantity of 
pomatum may be applied. 

It is needless to say that the permanent restoration of gray hair 
to its- original colour is impossible by any remedial means. Those to 
wiiom, from any cause, grayness is unbearable, most use some dye 
to conceal it ; but they must not forget that there is no h^iisdye 
which is not at once detected by its metallic lustre and unnatural 
hue ; and -that, hoary locks are at all times preferable to ridiculous ' 
affectation. ! 
U 



I 



1:08 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



CHAPTER XXr. 



SCllOFULA. 



Scrofula implies a particular constitution not incompatible witli 
the most perfect health during a period of life extended to the utmost 
longevity of which the human species is susceptible. This seems at 
first sight a paradox of no further value than to create a momentary- 
surprise. It is true, however, that the scrofulous habit is even con- 
ducive to long life; provided it has not in the meantime been 
concerned in the production of alterations of organs incompatible 
with the further duration of life. The scrofulous constitution cannot 
withstand rude shocks applied to it in the shape of the exciting causes 
of disease ; but if, by a succession of fortunate circumstances, it has 
escaped those rude shocks, or has been placed in circumstances so 
favourable as to resist their influence, then that constitution, in itself, 
is not unfavourable to old age. As, however, there are not a few 
diflferent degrees of the scrofulous constitution, it will readily be 
imagined that what has been said applies only to those forms of that 
constitution not marked by great intensity. It is true, however, 
that many persons marked by the scars of scrofulous sores produced 
in childhood, reach an extreme old age. The scrofulous habit in this 
country among children is most commonly indicated by a soft and 
flaccid state of the solids ; fair hair ; blue eyes ; smooth skin and rosy 
cheeks, or at least pinky cheeks ; a turned upper lip, and generally 
by a thickened state of the lower part of the nostrils, the forehead 
being at the same time often protuberant, and the joints and abdomen 
tumid. 

It is to be borne in mind that there is a scrofulous constitution 
apart from disease and scrofulous diseases ; that is, diseases arising in 
that constitution, and possessing peculiar characters in consequence 
of the patient being possessed of that constitution. A. question arises 
whether scrofula be strictly a blood disease. It hardly is in the same 
sense in which scurvy is a blood disease. Scurvy is a disease unques- 
tionably depending on an altered state of the blood — ^let that altered 
stato of the blood be removed, as readily happens by an improvement 
of the diet, and the scurvy disappears. So long as no actual disease 
has arisen in a scrofulous constitution, the blood doubtless is in a 
healthy state, or at least cannot be said to have deviated from the 



SCROFULA. 207 



most healthy state In which it can exist in that indiyidual's constitu- 
tion. , And though when scrofulous disease has actually arisen, the 
blood doubtless deviates, in no small measure, from the standard of 
health, yet there is no reason to conclude that a vitiation of the blood 
has any greater primary influence in the actual production of the 
disease, than in the origin of those diseases which are not accoimted 
blood-diseases. I did not place scrofula for this reason among blood- 
diseases; and the place which it actually holds is convenient, as it 
belongs hardly less to surgery, of which I am next to speak, than 
to medicine, strictly so called, 

A scrofulous disease may arise at any age. It is sometimes seen 
even in infants less than a year old, and may even be developed for 
the first time after fifty. These two cases arc however exceptional — 
for scrofula most frequently originates between the first and second 
teething — and the greatest number of scrofulous patients are observed 
to be between five and fifteen years old. In most cases, when scro- 
fula attacks persons of adult age, it will be found that thoy have 
previously suffered from the disease in childhood. The disease is on 
the whole more frequent in the female than in the male sex. 

Scrofula commonly makes its appearance after some cause which 
has served to deteriorate the health. Thus the first symptoms often 
follow other diseases, whether acute or chronic, which have left the 
patient enfeebled. Of this description are the eruptive fevers, small- 
pox, scarlet fever, measles, gastric fevers, hooping-cough, and other 
protracted chest complaints ; or chronic cutaneous eruptions, as those 
of the eczematous form, or such as fall under what is termed the 
humid tetter (impetigo) and the dry tetter (psoriasis). When young 
children arc brought from the country to the confinement of a large 
town, especially in the beginning of winter, scrofula is very apt to 
affect them in spring. The €nd of winter and the beginning of 
spring are particularly remarked as the seasons at which scrofula 
makes its first onset ; and that is, doubtless, it is here the effect of the 
general impairment of health consequent on continued bad weather 
and confinement within doors. It is a disease certainly more com- 
mon in cold humid climates than in dry and warm counbies, or in 
dry and cold countries. 

Children broiight from a warm climate to a cold and humid 
air, such as that of Britain in winter, are particularly susceptible 
to this disease. It is remarked that children from the East 
Indies often suffer from scrofula in England ; and the same thing is 
even remarked in Franco of children brought to that country from 



308 



HOUSEUOLD MEDICINE AND SUEGEUY. 



Bfu£ and U10 warmer ptrtB of South America. JE^en. negroes, 
cdming to Europe from varm latatodefi, often eoi&r Bemrelj horn 
•crofiila. The eauses, then, which excite scrofula are such influences 
as, by a hang^-oontinued opcnUaon, impair the general health r these, 
however, are. not sufficient, unless there be that particnlar disposition 
given bf tine serofidous eonatitntion. This constitution — the marks 
of which have been already enumerated — ^is, in general, distinctiy 
hereditary^ It does not, indeed, always happen that the parents (or 
one of them) of a scrofulous child are decidedly ^cnofuloufl ; but as a 
child sometimes shows no particular resembhinco to either pormit in 
countenanoe and form, but to some remote ancestor or reiatiye, so a 
child sometimes, along with such a resemblance, draws the scsofulous 
habit from a remote source. The scrofulous constitation vaneamoeh 
in degree; so that, to produce the disease, theexcitiag eaitfleamustbe 
applied with an intensity proportionate to the feebleness of the pre- 
flUapositioQ. 

The simplestform of scrofula is a chronic swelling and alow uleera- 
tion of the glands of the neek. Such swellings yery commonly appear 
at the end of winter, and do not heal up till the approach of summer 
•^somewhat more than a jear from their first breaking out ; while 
they aiao show a very peculiar character when out into and carefully 
examined. In the first state of enlargement the glands present, when 
out into, a pale flesh colour, and an uniform soft fleshy texture. As 
the disease proceeds, the texture is firmer and the colour paler. In a 
more advanced stage, portions have lost the flesh-oolour, having 
become somewhat tran^arent, with a texture approaching to that of 
soft cartilage. During the course of these changes, there arues. in 
other parts the first appearance of the opaque-white structure^ the last 
step of alteration, which seems to be exactly analogous^ in all 
reapeots, to the white tubercle of the lungs in pulmonary consump- 
tion. This opaque-white or ash-coloured tubercular matter becomes 
gradually softened, until it passes into the soft cheesy matter, or ill- 
conditioned suppuration, so well known in scrofukms diseases. In 
short, in tubercles of the lungs the essential condition of the presence 
of pulmonary consumption consists in a deposition on the mucous 
membrane of the air-cells, of exactly the same kind as that whibh 
occurs in the lymphatic glands of the neck in the commonest. &rm of 
sccofula. 

Other lymphatic glands elsewhere in the body, though Ifiss fre- 
quently, are subject to like changes in scrofula. Lymphatic glands 
become so affected in the axilla or arm-^pit, in i^e groin, about the 



^^MB^^W>« 



SQJRCHFULiu 209 



beeaat, and. ia Out confae of tJie lymphatic yeasels of the inferior 
extremities. 

The scrofulous abscesses which arise in deep-aeated parts pro- 
bably often owe their origin to a primary scrofulous. a^Cectioa of the 
lymphatic glands in these situations. 

The gliOfida of the mesentery have in all respects a like«truciurc 
- with the glands of the neck. These are subject to scrofulous degene- 
ration, constituting a disease of the most serious charaoiter. This 
difleafie is termed tabes mesenterica, or mesenteric consumption. 
Tiiese glands then enlarge and become charged with tubercular 
mftttcr, but thi^y seldom suppurate. Along with this disease of the 
glands there is scrofuloos disease uid ulceration of the mucous 
£(>rlUicleB> or .muciparous glands of the intestines, so that the disease 
aJbM>st uni&rmly proves fatal, owing to the defect in the supply of 
nourishment from the intestinal tube. In rare cases, as in tubercles 
of the lungs, when but a small number of the mesenteric glands are 
s^cted, and a. chalky deposit takos places into these, recovery follows, 
as is sometimes proved by the patient dying, at a later period of life, 
of some other disease (see page 108). 

The diseases hitherto referred to are chiefly diseases of childhood ; 
the lymphatic glands, particularly those of the neck and of the 
mesentery, being at that age by far the most frequent seat of serofu- 
hws or tubercular deposit. But after puberty, and in early adult ago, 
tha summit of the lungs, particularly on the left side, is, bey(md all 
comparison, the place most liable to scrofulous or tubercular deposit. 
Scrofulous deposits on the larynx and windpipe often take place in 
caaneetion with the Uke disease of the lungs. Scrofulous deposits on 
the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal occur very uniformly 
in conneetion with pulmonary consumption, as well as with tabes 
mesenterica, or mesenteric consumption. The disease occurs in the 
small intestines, both in the solitary and in the aggregated follicles 
or gkinds. The same morbid change takes place also in the solitary 
glands of the ceecum, or upper extremity of the great intestine. 
Scrofulous deposits are not so common in the liver of grown persons 
— in eMdren they are not unfrequently met with in connection with 
ulceration of the bowels. In the spleen of ehiJdsen they are not 
unconuiion« On the surface of the peritoneum they are 'oftai met 
with. 

In the nervous system scrofulous deposit also occurs. It is met 
with in the brsdn oftener than in the spinal marrow. It is, perhaps, 
uxliformly connected with water of the head in children. 



210 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



Scrofulous deposits are rare in the muscular substance ; yet it is 
not unknown. In the heart it is particularlj rare. In adult age, 
tubercles are seldom confined to one organ. 

Scrofulous deposit is not uufrequent in bones, particularly in the 
bodies of the yertcbral* bones of the spine, and in the spongy ends of 
the long bones. The connection of scrofula with diseases of the bones 
and joints renders it a diseased action not less important in surgery 
than in medicine. 

Scrofula affecting the glands of the neck often disappears almost 
spontaneously after a time. Hence it appears that there is nothing 
malignant in the nature of scrofula. It destroys life only when it 
attacks so large an extent of the solids as to create a general febrile 
irritation of the hectic character, under which the powers of the system 
sink, or when it attacks organs essential to life, so that the continuance 
of existence is incompatible with the interruption of their function. 
Even in slight cases of scrofula, some degree of fever, approaching to 
the hectic character, arises ; and in mesenteric consumption and pul- 
monary consumption hectic fever is developed in its most marked 
character. 

Whatever be the seat of the scrofulous or tubercular deposit, if 
the progress of the disease can be checked whilo it is still little 
advanced, and the functions of nutrition can be maintained in a 
tolerable degree of energy, there is no reason why the disease may 
not disappear. As respects simple scrofula of the lymphatic glands of 
the neck, the almost spontaneous cure, as summer weather advances, 
is seen, in many instances, every season. But in the case of the 
severer forms, particularly mesenteric and pulmonary consumption, 
there is indeed too much ground for the common persuasion that these 
are incurable. Strong, however, as is the evidence of the incurability 
of these diseases, the belief should not be implicitly adopted. For it 
is plain that cases of this kind are only incurable when they have 
proceeded so far as to render it impossible for the system to rectify 
itself, owing to the extent to which nutrition has been interfered with. 
No case of scrofula, or scrofulous deposit, should be despaired of, so 
long as the system shows a tendency to rally under the application of 
a proper system of treatment, diet, and regimen. There is, however, 
no specific remedy against scrofula. We must describe the disease as 
being susceptible of a spontaneous cure when the nutritive functions 
can be brought back to- a state of healthy activity. 

Hence the hygienic means stand first among the remedies ; and 
the principal of these hygienic means is a pure and dry air. This 



SCROFULA. 211 



hygienic agent is one of the most efficacious, not only in scrofula, 
but in many other chronic maladies. Its efficacy, however, is 
very much increased if it can be combined with some share of 
bodily exertion. Of scrofulous persons, those arc most sure of a 
speedy cure who are able to bear some kind of country exercise 
in the open air; and one of the great uses of a change of climate 
in winter is that even the delicate may not be debarred from daily 
exercise. 

The diet deserves the utmost attention of the medical adviser. There 
can be no doubti;hat, in diseases of the kind under consideration, a too 
meagre diet has often been recommended in the fear of aggravating 
inflammation. But the inflammation connected with scrofulous deposit 
is of a slow character, and is often benefited rather than aggravated 
by a somewhat stimulant regimen. In general, the diet should be of 
the most nutritious character, care being taken, however, that it is 
not pushed beyond what the digestive organs can bear at the time 
without irritation. If the patient has cultivated a fastidious appetite, 
it will very often happen that the stomach rejects any change of diet 
or any increase in its quantity. "W"e must proceed, therefore, by 
cautious steps, and endeavour to habituate the stomach to a some- 
what greater exertion. The point to be aimed at is that the patient 
shall be brought to take daily such a quantity of animal and vegetable 
food as experience has proved to be necessary for the full nutrition of 
the living system. 

To promote the appetite and digestion, various tonic medicines 
are serviceable. Alkaline remedies, such as the bicarbonate of potassa 
and the bicarbonate of soda, in doses of from ten to twenty grains, 
several times a-day. To these may be joined various preparations 
of the bitter tonics, as the infusion of gentian to the extent of one or 
two ounces three times a-day. The sulphate of quinine may soon be 
substituted for this treatment or alternated with it, the dose for an 
adult being two or three grains several times a-day. In many cases 
preparations of iron are indicated by the languid state of the pulse 
and circulating system in general. A preparation of late introduced 
is the citrate of iron and quinine, which has frequently the very best 
effects; the dose is two or three grains three times a-day. This salt 
is freely soluble in water. 

The chloride of calcium, commonly called the muriate of lime, 
and the chloride of barium, commonly called the muriate of baryta, 
had at one time a reputation as tonic remedies in scrofulous diseases. 
These salts seem sometimes to be of use, but both are dangerous. 



160 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



factories ; hot rooms and an over delicate system of training ; 
application to study without the relaxation and amusementb 
to the age of youth. 

When nothing has occurred beyond the slight disti . 
health above described as commonly ushering in the ap] 
the uterine discharge, little treatment is required farther 
attention to the stomach and bowels, the warm bath, or 
hip-bath, and a little care in the regimen adopted. A tc i 
of calcined magnesia, or fifteen grains of bicarbonate of >' 
some aromatic water, such as cinnamon or pimento water. 
as occasion requires, will usually correct the stomach 
When aperient medicine is necessary, some of the prepn. 
aloes answer well, such as one or two ounces of the lU 
aloes, or a similar quantity of the wine of aloes. If the . 
habitually confined, even half an ounce of the wine of aloes, '< 
during a short course, will often restore their tone ann ■ 
benefit the health. The warm bath and the warm liip-h 
for constant use, but only for a few days before the tint , 
effort to produce the secretion is expected. As to regin . . 
supposed hardly requires any special care in respect to ni> : 
it does require that all unusual exei-tions, whether of m 
should be suspended ; and in particular, that late hours : 
anxiety should be carefully avoided. 

If the symptoms amount to what was represent ^ 
indicating the actual state of chlorosis, the patient shor.' 
without delay imder the care of a judicious medical t- 
not a disease to be treated by domestic remedies, exc([ * 
slightest forms; but the great objection to the tr--. 
severe case being undertaken by a mother is that * 
symptoms of chlorosis often conceal some very aerioiH 
too often a fatal disease. It is quite true that the i 
called in however early, may not find professional skill 
to prevent the fatal termination of the disease, will 
concealed under the mask of chlorosis ; but surely he i-. 
a mother, in such a case, a fearful responsibility, a' 
to her daughter what it was not in her own power t 
the chance of preservation which the dispensation:: ■ 
permit the art of medicine to supply. 

The princmal remedy in chlorosis is steel in it> / 
The tincture of the muriate of iron, or, as it is r. • 
the sesquichlorido of iron, is a good form ; it mar 



212 IIOUSEIIOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

except in Tery small doses. They must be administered by amedicsl 
man. If too large a dose of either should be taken by accident, the 
chemical antidote is sulphate of soda, common Glauber salts, or the 
sulphite of magnesia, common Bpsom salts. 

But no chemical remedy of late years has obtained so great a 
reputation in scrofulous diseases as iodine. Simple iodine in the 
form of tincture, the iodide of potassium, commonly called the 
hydriodate of potassa, and the iodide of iron, are among the best 
forms. The dose of these preparations requires to be adjusted with 
some earc. It is an essential rule to begin with a very small dose, 
and to augment it gradually up to that quantity whieh the constitu- 
tion can easily bear. 

It is hardly necessary to nottco the many rjemedies which at 
different times h&ye gained a reputation for the cure •of scrofula. 
It is easy to understand that in a disease, many hundred cases of 
which, generally of at least more than one year's standing, suddenly 
get well spontaneously eyery year on the approach of summer 
wvather, numerous drugs and practices will annually gain a credit as 
remsdies, to which they hare no good title. Of this desciiption, 
probaUy, is the reputation gained of late years in Prance by walnut 
tree leaves. Such also was the origin of the famed efficacy of the 
royal touch, practised annually in the beginning of summer by the 
Sorercigns of England from Edward the Confessor down to Queen 
Anne, and by the Kings of France down to Louis the Sixteenth. 
This practice is the origin of the popular name of 6cro£ula» ^' King's 
erii." 

One remedy, however, still remains to be mentioned, which well 
deseryes the reputation it has obtained, namely, the cod Uycr oil. It 
is not easy to imagine how this oil operates, so as to prove a remedy 
in scrofula. But certain it is that nothing is more surprising than 
the improvement made on the health of scroMous persons under its 
use. Its effect is probably connected with the improvoment of 
the functions of assimilation or those functions concerned in the 
transmutation of aliment into blood. But in whatever way it 
operates, advantage should be taken of the improvement made on the 
heaUh as soon as that appears, to put the patient under exercise out 
of doors and a fuller allowance of food suited to the new vigour 
acquired by the digestive organs. 

Sea-water as a pui^ative has a reputation in the cure of sorofula. 
-It is useful as an aperient — ^but must not be carried too fiar. It has 
tile ropatation of weakening less than most purgatives; that effioct, 




h(rw«rer, admits of explanation, sinoe, wbea administered, the 
pattients aie generally enjoying the benefit of the change perhaps 
from a crowded, town to the healthful breezes of the sea-coast 
Sea-bathing also stands high among the remedies. From this sketch 
it will appear on what principles scrofulous diseases are to be 
managed; while the great variety in the circumstances of each 
iadividaal patient will afford scope for a very great diversity in the 
details of the treatmeni« 



CHAPTER XXII. 

UEALINQ PROCESSES. 

I xow enter upon the legitimate domains of Surgery ; and first I 
propose to give the reader a olear idea, of the processes of repair 
which nature calls into action to restore or re-^unite parts injuned and 
torn by aoddont or design. Thus every one may be able to act the 
part of surgeon in the first moments of emergency ; save many 
a life now lost by delay ; and possess such knowlcdgo of what is 
often necessary as will restrain him from interfering with the 
judicious efforts of the surgeon. How o£ten are the best di- 
rected labaurs defeated by the officiousness of ignorant friends and 
parents. They will undo bandages which seem too tight ; they 
will object to sewing up disfiguring wounds; and opening deep 
abscesses in parts where the matter never could make its way out of 
the body, without destroying everything far and wide ; and prevent 
operations until it is too late to attempt them with any reasonable 
hope of success. The consequences of this tying up the surgeon's 
hands are that every year hundreds, nay thousands of persons are 
crippled for life, rendering them burdens to themselves and their 
friends ; lawsoits are instituted, causing heavy losses to one party or 
the other, aftd heartburnings and slanderings are engendered. To 
place the bulk of the community, then, in a position to appreciate 
rightly the true duty of the surgeon to his patient will be a boon to 
both. 

Among -those who live in thinly peopled districts, remote from 
surgical aid, and espeeially in our rapidly increasing settlements, it is 
essential that all should possess a clear elementary knowledge ol 



i 



214 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUUGERT. 

siirgcry; for injuries frequently require such prompt assistance that 
life may be lost long before any surgeon can reach Uie spot— a 
catastrophe which might be easily obyiated, if any bystander 
or neighbour possessed the slightest smattering of true surgical 
knowledge. 

The great business of surgery is to heal wounds or breaches of 
continuity, seen or hidden ; comprising under the name of wounds, 
not only any injury in which the skin is cut or torn, but those in 
which a deeply hidden part, as a bone, is broken, as well as ulcerations 
of internal parts, as of the tliroat ; in short, whenever apart is broken 
or destroyed, it must be regarded as a wound, which it is the 
surgeon's function to heal. Tme, ho has occasionally to interfere 
with what are not exactly wounds, as in removing stone from the 
bladder, or reducing a rupture ; but as a comprehensive definition, it 
would be difficult to substitute any other short description of what is 
included under the term surgery. 

The most numerous class of cases which can be fairly brought 
under the range of what may justly be called household surgery is that 
of simple injuries, such as wounds, bums, and scalds. Injuries of this 
kind form a distinct branch of surgery, because they arc often more 
formidable in the first instance than those which arise from constitu- 
tional causes, as ulcers ; although after the first danger has passed 
away they arc much more easily dealt with. I shall therefore 
proceed first of all to describe the nature and treatment of accidents, 
to which a sketch of the process of repair which is set in motion as 
soon as any injury is inflicted will form the most appropriate 
introduction. 

When 'we consider that man, even in the most highly civilized 
condition, is perpetually exposed to accidents of every description, 
from causes over which he has at times no control, it is obvious 
that some power must exist, inherent in the system, and ever ready 
to repair injury. "Without some such provision as this men would 
perish more rapidly than they could be replaced ; or else an injury 
could never be repaired, and the only termination to the sufferings 
occasioned by a wound, would be the end of life itself. Fortunately, 
however, for our own welfare and happiness, every animated being 
is endowed with this power of repair, and so beautifully and har- 
moniously is its office adapted to the necessities of the case, that the 
most serious violence often inflicts no lasting injuryj'and the healing 
of the most destructive lesion becomes a natural process, and is 
effected from first to last without interfering with those functions 



HEALIKG PROCESSES. 215 



which could not be safely interrupted. The action of repair is 
but an extension and continuance of the same process which first 
constriictcd the frame, and then served to maintain it in a liealthy 
state. 

Vast as our frame is, it is made up of cells and fibres of micro- 
scopic minuteness, possessed of individual vitality, each atom a 
structure in itself. Varied as its different parts appear, they are 
formed by the same process and out of the same primary elements^- 
the hardest bone and the most delicate skin, the insensible nail and 
the tender and transcendently beautiful organ of vision, are all mere 
modifications of one common form of growth. 

To conduct serious injuries to a successful termination is the 
proper business of the surgeon. Nevertheless his task in such cases 
is not BO much to set on foot a healing process, as to render available 
the natural tendencies implanted in the body for that purpose, by 
removing, as far as possible, all those obstacles which on many 
occasions interfere with the efforts of nature. It is a maxim on 
which the whole success of modern surgery rests — that there is in 
every frame an inherent power to repair injuries ; and that all the 
surgeon's remedies and applications arc only for the purpose of 
enabling that healing tendency to be developed without impediment. 
The great variety of circumstances under which injuries arise, and 
the diversities in the constitution of individuals, including their 
various states of more or less health at the time, thus afford full 
scope for the exercise of surgical skill. It would often be in the 
highest degree dangerous for a person uninstructed in surgery to 
attempt to perform the office of surgeon ; but there is no reason why 
he, like every one else, should not fully understand the real nature of 
the healing process implanted in the living system, and the limits 
within which it is in the power of art to aid it. 

The least complicated kind of injury to which the human body is 
subject is a clean cut, or what is called an incised wound, and this 
name it still retains, however deep it may penetrate into the soft 
parts, and however important the structures it divides, provided 
always that the cut be made with a sharp instrument, for when this 
is blunt the wound loses its simplicity of character. Thus, that made 
with the surgeon's knife, however large, owing to the fineness of the 
edge, still comes under the head of an incised wound, though it may 
have divided the whole thickness of the limb, as of the thigh down 
to the bone. If the same kind of wound be made with the sudden 
blow of a sabre, it will be equally an incised wound, provided the 



216 HOUSEHOLD MSDICINB AND 8UBGERT. . 

sabre be sharp in its edge like the surgeon's knife; but this it never 
is, and hence, thougb the one may at first present the same form as 
the other, the parts in the case of the sabre wound are not only 
divided, but also in some degree contused, the deviation from the 
simple character of an incised wound being great in proportion to 
the blnntness of the sabre. 

When an instrument without any cutting edge, or a blunt missile, 
strikes a soft part with great force and rapidity, it may produce at 
first what appears to be a simple cut ; but such a wound will be a 
perfect example of what is termed in surgery a contnsed wound. 
Every wound comes under one of these two heads. 

The reparative process which now ensues has boon described as a 
process of nutrition. In surgery the simplest form of this process is 
when a cut, made by a very sharp instrument like a razor, is closed 
soon after it is inflicted. When the divided surfaces are placed exactly 
in contact, and retained in this position, union takes place with surpns* 
ing rapidity. This is an instance of what surgeons caH *' union by the 
first intention." It is even supposed that small wounds of this kind 
unite without the interposition of any substance deposited fsottt the 
blood. In this case, then, new vessels must stretch from either side 
across the divided space, so that such part of the circulation as was 
interrupted by the cut is again restored. This kind of repair, 
however, takes place on so limited a scale as to be of small importance. 
In all cases where the wound made by a clean sharp>cutting in8tni« 
ment is of a considerable size, a deposit of coegulablo lymph is 
known to take place between the divided surfaces, and this coagu* 
lable lymph quickly becomes developed into a fibro-cellular tissue, 
while the situation of the cut remains marked at the surface by a 
thin line of cicatrix or scar. 

It is essential to the healing of wounds by the first intention, 
that the two cut surfaces should be brought into apposition. At the 
same time it is only in very small wounds that this is to be done at 
once, and without some precaution. For if the lips of a deep 
incised wound be brought into exact contact, and retained in union 
so as to prevent the escape of any fiuid which may collect beneath, 
tho object of the surgeon will be frustrated by the effused fluid 
separating tho cut surfaces in the deeper parts of the wounds It has 
been oemmon to draw together the edges of incised wounds by menu 
of adhesive straps, as they are termed, that is, narrow' bands of 
adhesive plaster ; but if these be applied insMdiately after suc^ an 
injury, and so as to cover the entire outer opening of the wound, 



HEALING FB0CESSE8. 217 

the effect just referred to will be very apt to occur. This has led 
some surgeons to resort to the old method of applying stitches, sinco 
their effect is exerted at a considerable depth, while they oppose no 
obstacle to the exit of fluid. Some difference of opinion exists among 
surgeons as to the propriety of stitches ; but there can bo no difference 
of opinion as to the necessity of placing the deeper parts of the 
wound in as close contact as the outer edges, and of adopting such 
measures as will secure the free exit of any quantity of fluid which 
may collect in the interior of the wound. 

The proof that union has taken place in such a wound by the first 
intention is, that it heals up without the subsequent discharge of 
any purulent matter. It will often happen in cases of deep incised 
wounds, that though healing takes place chiefly by the first intention, 
yet that some slight degree of suppuration does occur. Here then, 
strictly speaking, the process is a mixed process ; but it is commonly 
said that such a wound has healed by the first intention, when only 
a yery slight formation of matter has occurred. 

Sometimes the healing of wounds by scabbing is placed under a 
separate head. In this form of repair the raw surface of a woimd 
or abrasion acquires a covering of dried blood, under which a thin 
layer of coagulable lymph being poured forth quickly, passes into 
flbro-cellular tissue, and then becomes covered with cuticle. After 
this stage is completed the scab drops off. This mode of healing is 
especially observed in the lower animals ; for in them a wound of 
any kind is much less liable to be followed by the formation of pus 
than in man. 

Healing " by the second intention," in the language of surgery, 
is healing by the production of granulations from which pus is 
secreted, as ensues in the repair of an ulcerous abrasion, or after a 
severe contused wound.. Many erroneous ideas have existed on the 
subject of their production. For example, it has been supposed that 
a deep ulcer is filled up by successive tiers of granulations, until 
the new surface reaches the adjacent skin, when what is called 
cicatrization takes place. It has hence been concluded that there is 
an actual regeneration of the injured parts ; this however is not the 
case, notwithstanding that it is well known that in lobsters and 
some other such animals even the limbs are regenerated after they 
have been broken off. It must be remembered, however, that the 
toes of lobster or crab, though they serve the purpose of a skeleton, 
are in reality merely hardened integument or skin. In the case of 
an open wound, bowever, only one layer of granulations is formed on 



216 HOUSEHOLD MBPrcUfS AND SUBGERT. 

tbe §xaSa0e ; thi* Jftj^er i» ^rmed k^m an iafauon of Lym^. a tbin 

€l0Ar fluid, which Veoomes ozgawsod into a gnuuilar peUide. In a 

haaltby loie the q^uluaiti^ of this Oigfuiised safaBtencA ifl very small. 

On iumb oecMsoBfl, howevevi the youMiwra sifle abaTe tibe level 

of the aunKHHiAiPg pazta^ fonnlng whai k p^ularly called jdroud 

flesh ; this ealai^i^eiiiait.or eleTatiooi aoases from their dietenaum with 

serauB fluid, girixkg them aix luihealthy characteor. fiealtiiy.graii'a- 

latioBS^ on'.the contrary, are small, Arm, and mddy ; oad if «& g^mk- 

tunity occur of examiuing them by disseotien, they will.be found Ito 

form only a thin iayior. How then, it will be asked, does tike ^tiound 

become ^Isd upi In this way : — the gvanular surfaice serves the^urpeae 

of a temporary integument or akin ; beneath this an e&taion tains 

place, which in some degree assists in raising the granidations to ti^ 

level of tiie skin ; but the chief agent in bringing them to this, level 

is the .abaarpctiion and diminutiont of the surrounding tttBue8,.-aad 

particularly that of fat. As soon.aa both attain a common level, the 

granulations themselves umdergo aproeess of absorptiosi, 1^ jnaans 

of which the area of the wound is gradually- eontracted; the wound 

is Anally closed by the granular pellida, and the cellular an^Mtanee 

beiow it indurated by the effusion of eoagulshle lyai^ iato its 

interstices. Aftar the healing of suoh a sore there, is a dtipression 

marking its former seat, and tlus dei^resaion, seems? to. arise. &om the 

adj[acent parts. recovering from the emaeiation which has taken plaee 

dunog the process liiy which the surlaoe of the aoiiie.and that .of the 

adjacent skin are brought to the sam« leveil 13ie flrmer^lhe skin 

is on any part of the body, the larger is the cicatrix left by a healed 

wound : whfire the intogUAaents foemoi^ lax the mark of the sore is 

smallest. 

Thus the reader may see that the powers of naiuce are fuite 
adequate in a healthy frame to repair extremely seriaits injuries, and 
that, it is absolutely neeessary not to int^ere with the conservatvve 
action of these powers. Hence the principle which must always 
guide the surgeon s to give them fair play, by insisting on rest ^r 
the. injured part, however much it may ioterlsre with oth^ duties ; 
and this point can only be gained, in many inatanoes, by givmg the 
part that position in which the muscles are duly ijelaxed.. He may 
also learn from this, that the use of initating applications, such as 
liniments, ointments, &c., to which people ace so prone td resort 
after sprains, bruises, or wounds, is fraught with danger ; in fact, a 
directly opposite treatment, suoh as the carefld exclusion of air, and 
the application of a piece of lint wetted with simple wicker, fvad 



WOtZKBflL 219 

secured by a InncUige, see, in mdst cMefiy eonxbined wHh:ie8t;, idl that 
■is neeeBsary. 

The power of recently divided parte to colieire iff acmply exem- 
plified by the instances which have been recorded, where a finger er 
tibnmby after being completely severed from the hand, has zeu&ited, 
on being properly applied and fixed to the hand ; eome pait of. the 
suEcessful result is, however, due to the fact,, thi^ the bleeding was 
completely stopped before union was attempted. 

It seems almost an universal law, that in the hig^r animc^, sudi 
as man, no structure once destroyed by a wound can ever be oom- 
pletely replaced ; complete union may take place after simple division, 
but an absolute loss of substanee is* rarely reslnred. However firm 
the*newly-fetmed tissues may appear, they arc endowed with much 
less vital power tiian those they serve to replace, and they axe 
extremely prone to give way whenever the health isserioudy affected. 
Thus it has happened, that during attacks of that frightful malady 
seurvy, feaotores which had long healed bave again beoome'disunited ; 
the skueture which united the broken portions of bone being absevbed, 
or at least losing that integral pact' which gave it the neeeesaisy 
ficmness. Wounds also have re-opened, — a, fact whic^ teaches ns^ in 
the most foeolble language, how desiraUe it is in every case to save 
im much of .the original structures as possible. 

Having thus endeaivoiixed to give the reader a <deat idea of the 
irroeess of repair, and a general view pf the functions' of surgery, I 
ahaU now l^oceed. to rlay before him^ practical nrules fOT applying. these 
psiociplss, cemmeneing'with the simplest fenn*— the surgical rtreat- 
mant of injnnes* 



OHAPX££ XXIII. 

WOUNOS A|iD TTLOBHS. 



C^BAN wounds or cuts, as they are called, will, as I har\ne said, 
generally unite by a very simple process, all that is necessary being 
to maintain the divided surfaces in contact. When only, skin is ont 
through, adhesive plaster may be used ; but the bleeding should £i8t 
of all be thcEroughly stepped by means of cold water and gentle' pres- 
sure. Whffli this is done, the part should be carefully dried ;. and the 




220 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

straps of plaster being warmed, taking care that the plastec is not 
blistered by the heat, they are put on at a considerable distance from the 
wound, and then drawn at right angles 
across it, as in the annexed wood-out. 
A yery simple method of treating 
recent wounds is by what is termed 
the water dressing. A bit of lint rather 
larger than the wound is moistened 
simply with water and laid upon it, 
and oyer this is placed a piece of water- 
proof cloth or oiled silk, large enough 

to extend somewhat beyond the edges of the lint. Care must be 
taken that none of the threads of the lint pass out beyond the 
edges of the cloth or silk. The parts being brought properly in 
contact, the dressing is maintained in its place by means of a proper 
bandage. 

But if the wound be yery deep or gape considerably, stitches are 
undoubtedly the best means of securing complete union. It is true 
they are somewhat painful, but how much subsequent pain — how 
much deformity do they not ward off ! A wound may often be healed 
in a week or ten days by stitches, which would require three or four 
weeks if dressed with plaster. On the face and neck, especially in the 
female sex, it is absolutely necessary to ayoid them if possible ; and 
the many cuts inflicted on the delicate skin of these parts may be 
adyantageously treated with collodion. As in the former case, the 
bleeding should be stopped, and the edges of the wound brought into 
close contact ; the collodion is then applied with a small brush, which 
is passed once slowly oyer the wound ; the parts should be retained 
in contact by the fingers till the collodion has set, which takes place 
yery rapidly, and the brush should only be passed once oyer, lest the 
contraction of the second layer tear off the first. 

In more serious cases, where large blood-yesscls are injured, it 
becomes of the first consequence to stop the bleeding immediately. 
If an artery be injured, the blood will spout out sometimes in jets, 
sometimes in a bright red stream, which is often thrown to a con- 
siderable distance. The first thing to do is to place the finger on the 
side of the wound nearest the heart, and make pressure there ; thus, 
if the wound were on the arm, the finger should be pressed, as in the 
following diagram, on the side towards the shoulder; if on the hand, 
on the side nearest the arm, not towards the fingers; if on the neck 
or head, pressure should as a general rule be made below the wound ; 



vovsDa. S2I 



HI the tronk, beloir the heart; or 
sboTe the iround. Id luch eaMCt i 
t baadsge or handkerohief 
should be tied round tlie 
limb, and twuted tight with 
a «tick ; but mortiflcatiou 
might ariie &am nuh rough 
treatment, and if any of the 
large Teuels of the neck 
»-ere injured, life might be 
loat before it could be ap- 
plied, or the patient might 
be almoit strangled In effect- 
ing the necesaary pressure, 
■When the mouth of tic 
bleeding Tesicl can be leeo, 
it muet be secured with the 
forceps, and held vhile an- 
other person ties it. 

When the bleeding takes 
place from a vein, it fions 
mora regularly and softly, 
and the stream ia darker co- 
loured than that of an artery. 
The proper way to atop it is 
to press on the ude furthest 
from the heart 

BlebdihofhomiheNdse, 
from whateTer eauee, may 
generally be stopped by put- 
ting a tent into the nostrils. If tliid does not do, apply a cold lotion 
to Uie forehead ; raise the bead, and place both arms over the head, 
so that it will rest on both hands; dip the tent, slightly moiatened, 
into some powdered gum arahic, and plug the naatrila agsin ; or dip 
the tent into equal puis of powdered gam arahic and alum, and plug 
the DOse. If the bowels are confined, take a purgatiTe. 

In all cases of bleeding, plenty of air should be let into the room 
at any hazard, or the patient should OTcn be tnkon out into the open 
air ; cold water should be poured over the surface, or daahed on it, for 
the bleeding must be stopped. Surgeons arc ofteu compelled to enlarge 

iinds, in order to got at a bleeding tcxscI, or oren to use the actual 



222 HOUSEHOLD MBNeiHE^ AND BUBOEBT. 

oanterr-— l^e 8m*gioal term for a red-hot iran— wMeii Ikmy cannot 
reftch it with 13ie f&nespB and ligature. 

When bleeding takes place into the interior of the Imdyi as iato 
the chest or abdomen, the patient soon begins to gnwpale and Mat; 
the face assumes a waxy, death-like appearance, ajid oold penpiimtioas 
begin to break out, indicating a highly dangeimui oaadition. Wtas^t- 
ing, howeyer, is often benefioial, inasmuch as it teudi to amsifrtfae 
bleeding. Here, eren more than in wounds of the fimrfaae, cold air, 
dashing cold water ovetihe surface near the wound, and cold^rinks^ w» 
called for ; and one of the greatest men who erer practised smgery in 
Britain says of this class of wounds, " yon mnst i^pear crKel to he. 
kind ; water must be food and drink ; he muat he ^f ttsold'andchSlis 
and far better lie by a dike side, than to hai?^ all the eomflsta and 
attentions of his home and sorrowing friends." 

Wounds of the internal organs often prove fatol from'TasiaDS 
accidental circumstances. Those of the abdomen are partisalaiiyf dan^ 
gerous, because the contents of the bowels are apt tooaci^e «ndxto 
destroy life, either by the immediate irritation or the sai>80qiieiit 
inflammation they produce. Those of the chest are equally sorioBB, 
as they, if deep, thus rarely fail to interfere eillierwith tberesp i ration 
or the circulation of the blood. 

There is a yery preyalent belief that it is absolutely neoessaryifaafr 
the patient should be purged, or at least subjeeted to some form of 
medical treatment ; but in most cases this is unealled for, if not 
injurious. If the bowels be constipated and the tongufr foul, .a g^entle 
aperirat may be giycn, but otherwise the less medicine the better, »» 
long as no untoward symptoms set in ; the surgeon's attendance being 
an item of far more importance than his medicine. Nor is staryation 
necessary. A person confined to bed or the couch requires less food 
and stimulants than when taking actiye exercise; but there is no 
necessity for rushing into the opposite extreme. 

In eyery form of wound, unnecessary meddling, — ^looking to see 
how it is going on, a wish to be doing something, — should be guarded 
agaibst. All processes of repair require a certain time, and any attempt 
to shorten the due period will only haye tho effect of retarding the 
cure. So long as a wound is not becoming more hot and painful, and 
no alarming constitutional symptoms set in, it should not be dis- 
turbed, unless the dressings become saturated with moisture of any 
kind. Blood is nature's dressing, and the best. 

CoKTUSED Wounds. — ^When an instrument without any edge, as a 
blunt missile, strikes any part of the body, it inflicts a contusion, or 1 



Bcentdaed M^niad wmitd; nidi are guBslMt.vouDfU. The di£- 

ficultiei in the treatment of thia, the moat fomudable class, ariae fton 
coBtUrioii cHsed hj the rapid paaMge of the ball througli the 
t itba^rBMifniu the lewiog of tlie Twsela, and brenJuDgaf boa«^ 
which are aooaaicaallf abaltered into fragment. Whsa tlie baH 
atrikeairithleatrelacity, aawlieiiit isBpenli it is often flatiened And 
reboucdi, or if It hjla Kstoup adge of boas it m^ break in two. 

Fcrtiu»(el7 we seldoiu aee gunshot wounda,. bat cases of oentaaed 
wonnda fiom other cauaca are oammon euiu^ Among coutuead 
wBunda we rank those eauwd bf &.0 blow of a atone, sttoh, hanuner, 
poker, orpelkeaan'e baton, andtboae^&mn&lla. 

Thi* fbcm of wound is mere slow ia bealiBg, and apt to loave a 
Usgeraasr.thaniliiesii^lB Veandai t^fiiiic^l«>V^ow«<ntt, onwJueb 
auch injuries require to bo treated are eaeaHttaUr tin aajne^-^eati 
bringing the aides -of tdte wound as nluch in oontactor a^pmitian as 
we ma ; strict attantien to cleaDlinsaa ; Sus SiToidaace of -iiU cause* of. 
initalim ; and the remoral «f anj which emL 

All foreign hodiat— nid) a* balls, gi«.Tel, pieces of oloth— mnst, if 
they oan be reached, be remored. Tbia u best done hj pouring water 
over gTBTel ; while balla and pieoei of eloth gansiaUyreqiiire to be with* 
drawn by the fingera or forcepa. No irritating applications should be 
thengbt of; plenty of water is the beat dreesiBg, though when infiam- 
matioii sete in, iDtlons containing sugar of lead may be teed. A single 
fold of Hneo rag, and not a mesa of eiotlis, ii the beat medium for 
apidying them. If aera^ pain arise, opium may be given in doses 
of a gnin or two ; 
and daring thefitst 

titm after Uie aecir 
dectv a. little com- 
pound qiirit of la- 
vender or eau-de> 
lace (aromatic spirit 
of anunonia) ^oold 
be Bdmimstered. 

Great relief ia 
often esperienced 
by laying a cloth 
upon the part, and 

Buspanding a baein over it filled with a cold lotion, or even water,, ae 
in tllE BttneKed cut. Place a piece of oolioD ia the ba*in, eo that it 



224 



HOUSEHOLD MEDTCINE AND SUBGERT. 



shall allow the lotion to drop on the cloth, and thus keep it always 
wet. 

A wound of this kind generally heals hy the second intentioni the 
nature and process of which I have already explained. The granu- 
lations, or small red cones dotting tho surface, should be small, firm, 
and moderately red. When they show a tendency to become flattened, 
or pale and flabby, stimulating dressings, as balsam of Peru, or basili- 
con ointment, may bo requisite. If they are bright red, and there is 
much pain, or if the discharge be yery thin, sedatives may be given ; 
opium at night, in half grain or grain doses, is perhaps the best. 
When, on tho contrary, they rise above the surface, as is very apt to 
ensue in children after burns, blisters, scalds, &c., they require to be 
repressed with escharotics, as a weak solution of sulphate of copper, 
or to be dressed with dry lint. 

Ulcehs. — On account of the extreme similarity of treatment 
required in many instances for this class of wounds, and that gene- 
rally adopted for ulcers, it will be most convenient to treat of these 
in connection with the present subject. In fact, many of these wounds 
are converted into ulcers by the death of the part, or the absorption 
of its edges during the process of repair. 

But while the local treatment of an nicer — ^that is, the treatment 
applied directly to it — ^is in most of its features exactly that of a con- 
tused wound, the constitutional treatment has to be the reverse ; as 
an ulcer arises from a disordered state of the health, or constitutional 
tendency to disease. The bite of a flea, a scratch with the nail, or a 
slight bruise, will in some persons, especially if they have lived freely 
or followed unhealthy employments, be followed by an ulcer of a very 
serious, and, if neglected, of a fatal character. 

In addition to the means I have already mentioned, we possess 
a valuable remedy in irrigation, or the watering process; this] is 
effected by the continual dripping of water upon the ulcer, and may 
be employed in any form of ulcer except that where proud flesh forms. 
When it can be procured, the best plan is to resort to the proper 
apparatus, or irrigator ; but if not, a skein of lamp cotton or worsted 
may be substituted. One end of this is laid in a jug of water, while 
the other is suspended by means of a rod over the ulcer; oil-cloth 
may bo placed below to catch the water which has flowed over the 
ulcer, and which may be easily guided from the .oil-cloth to a tab 
placed on the floor. Another plan is, to fill a large bottle with water ; 
it is then corked, and a hole bored through the cork, and the water 
is poured out of this hole over the ulcer : it should be held at a con- 



ULCERS. 225 



siderable height above the spot the water falls on. Treated in this way, 
ulcers will often heal with great rapidity ; army surgeons have even 
succeeded in curing the wound and preserving a useful hand, when a 
soldier has shot himself through the hand in order to get discharged, — 
thus effectually frustrating his intentions. 

"When an ulcer is seated in the leg, the foot should always, during 
rest, be raised night and day to a level with the hip ; and if the parts 
around the ulcer look much inflamed, it should he raised even higher. 
When the edges of an ulcer are very thick and callous, it often becomes 
necessary to pare them down; in other cases, the surgeon is com- 
pelled to make a tolerably deep cut on each side, to divide the 
firm fascia or membrane, the tenseness of which does not allow 
the edges of the ulcer to approach each other sufficiently. Sometimes 
galvanism is resorted to with the best effects in pale, painless ulcers, 
and occasionally nothing but change of air will do any good. 

"When a person receives a severe contusion of the leg or foot, or 
breaks his leg, or is unable from some cause to bear the pressure of 
tho bed-clothes, it is advisable to know how to keep them from hurting 
the leg. This may be done by bending 
up a fire-guard ; but the best way is to 
make a cradle, as it is called, such as is 
figured in the wood-cut. This is done 
by getting three pieces of wood and 
three pieces of iron- wire, and passing the wire through the wood. 
This can be made to any height, and is very useful in all cases where 
pressure cannot be borne. 

The constitutional treatment will require to be suited to the 
varieties of the case. Persons of a full, plethoric habit and sluggish 
liver are benefited by aperients or purgatives containing a little blue 
pill, aided by saline medicines, such as nitrate of potass, seidlitz 
powders, &c. The shattered, irritable frame may require opium and 
quinine, with plain animal food well cooked, and a glass of sherry 
or Madeira to dinner. When there is great pain, free use may bo 
made of sedatives. In some pallid persons the use of steel is highly 
beneficial. 




2128 HOUSEHOLD HEMOIRfi AND SURGERY. 



- 



cHAPTift xxrv. 

VSLMnLimUB; 

FAAcniTKES form. & most importaift branch of SBTgsiyt ^^^ every 
member of the community ought to know, every patient and Mend 
i^ould be alflo warned, that it i» in some eemplieated caaes impoanBIe 
to prei^ent deformity or loss of use in the limb; that under the yery 
best treatment such un&Tourable symptoms may s^t in as to demand 
amputation ; and, finally, that death may ensue. 

As an example of the reparative power of the living body, there is 
nothing so* remarkable as the provision made -for I9ie reimion of 'broken 
bones. In ordinary cases a bone is broken quite through, either 
straight across or in an oblique direction. If the <^po£^te broken 
surfaces art placed in apposition, and retained there by proper means, 
union finally takes place. The substance by which the broken ends 
are cemented together is termed callus by surgeons, and muck dis- 
cussion has arisen as to the mode of its production, and the varmus 
modifications which it undergoes; Many writers eaU that i^lna 
which forms first ** provisional ;" that which is destined to last^ 
" definitive." 

During the first ten days blood is poured forth around the ends of 
the fracture, between those ends, and evenHnto i^oentral'cavity. The 
periosteum, or skin of the bone, grows red, swollen, and softened, and 
a reddish fluid is poured out between it and the bone, the ends of 
which no longer exhibit a fibrous appearance. The tube in the centre 
of the bone is gradually obliterated by the inflammation and swelling 
of the membrane lining it (the medullary membrane) ; the medulla 
itself (the marrow) acquires a greater consistence, and the portion of 
it in the one fragment becomes united with the portion of it In the 
other. Before this period has elapsed, the coagulated blood between 
the ends of the bone is replaced by a gelatinous fluid, and a reddish, 
fleecy substance often covers the fractured ends. 

In the second stage, from the tenth to the twenty-fifth day, the 
swelling of the parts becomes firmer, adhering more and more inti- 
mately to the substance between the ends of the bone ; the muscles 
regain their former appearance, and the swelling seems to recede 
towards the centre of the limb. The central cavity of the bone is now 
entirely filled up by a fibro-cartilaginous texture, into which its mem- 



FAACTUIUSBk 



2«7 



bntne his been tranafotmed, fonxung a Bpooies of 'pef between the tw 
ends. 

After ihe twentp'fifth day, the swelling arooad the hwtoxe — 
" the tUQioiir of the callus" — ^bjr degveea passcB into oartilage, and 
then into bone, forming a solid femle or clasp, in close contact 
with the bone. This is ooTered, like the origioid bone, with a ridn, 
B» that tile outside being entirely inyested by the seme membrane, no 
mark remains of the breach of oontinutfcy. The eunrouBding 
cellular tissue is still stiff and hardened. The central peg vapidly 
assumes a greater -consistence, and soon forms a solid osseous cylinder. 
There is new a tolerably firm union betwean IM broken bones ; and 
this stage of tbe process corresponds pretty nearly with the time 
when the surgeon discontixraes the apparatus for keeping tho^cnds of 
the bone in union. 

Between the Ihird and sixth montiis: the tumour of the callut 
becomes gradually more compact, and the central peg undergoes a- 
similar change. The substance between the fragments has all the 
consistettce of bone, but it has still to bo changed into bone, and 
become definitire oallus. 

The peg also suffem- a transformation ; it becomes of a lighter 
texture ; cells are produced within it ; and after a time it disappears, 
leaving the central canal as free as before, while the medullary mem- 
l^ane again assumes its former character. Lastly, the external 
portion of the proyisional callus disappears. 

The process, however, just described is drawn from observations 
on quadrupeds after fracture of their bones, and does not occur in tbe 
human body except under particular circumstances. That it docs so 
in the lower animals is owing to the union being constantly disturbed 
in order to observe accurately the process of repair. In man, how- 
ever, union of a fractured rib takes place in the same way, owing to 
the fracture being perpetually disturbed by breathing. 

During the first ten days after fracture in the human body, little 
or no change seems to take place beyond the effusion of coagulable 
lymph (a clear, fluid-like, dilute jelly) and serum (the watery part of 
the blood seen after a clot has formed when any person is bled), which 
trickle out from the pores and wounded ends of the vessels. A little 
later, coagulable lymph is poured out between the ends of the broken 
bone, and this by degrees becomes converted into bone. In some cases 
fibres and cells form first of all ; in some parts it is converted into 
cartilage. When the broken ends can be nicely adjusted, tbe new 
material is simply deposited between them. Tinder other cireum- 



228 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



staaccs it fills up angular spaces, and forms a hard lump of 

callus. 

No person should be ignorant of the fact, that though this provi- 
sional callus may be so hard as to serve for gentle ordinary move- 
ments of the limb, yet that so long a period as eight or nine months 
may elapse before the process of repair is complete ; and hence that, 
during this time, any one who has had the misfortune to fracture a 
bone should be extremely careful to avoid exposing it to any kind of 
violence. 

The great division of fractures is into simple and compound ; a 
fracture being compound when the broken bone protrudes through 
a wound of the skin. 

The symptoms of fracture are,— 1. Bending, shortening, or twist- 
ing of the limb. 2. Great looseness ; one end of the bone moving 
independently of the other ; or when pressed upon, one part giving 
way. 3. Crepitation; that is, a grating noise is heard when the 
broken ends are rubbed against one another. If the broken parts are 
much displaced, tbey must be drawn straight before this sound can be 
heard. The treatment, which applies alike to the leg and arm, is to 
place the ends of the bono in their natural position, so that its outline 
corresponds with that of the bone in the sound limb, and to maintain 
tbem there. 

When a man has broken his leg or thigh in the street, he should, 
with all gentleness, be placed on a litter or stretcher ; if these cannot 
be procured, a board or shutter may be used. If these are not at 




hand, a sort of cot (as in the figure) may bo made by tying a blanket, 
or piece of canvas, on two stout pieces of wood. Two shorter cross- 
pieces will give additional firmness and steadiness to the apparatus. 



FRACTURES. 229 



He should be lifted with the utmost gentleness ; care being taken 
that the broken end of the limb does not hang down, as otherwise the 
end of the bone may be forced through the skin, or a large vessel or 
nerve injured. The legs should be tied together, and the bearers care- 
fully instructed to carry the patient quite level, as persons have rolled off 
shutters and sustained tenible injuries in consequence' of neglecting 
this precaution. 

So soon as the patient is put to bed, his trowsers should be ripped 
off and withdrawn ; the limb is then to be set. One person holds the 
upper part of the limb, and then the surgeon draws the lower part 
do\vnwards till the limb is of the same length as its fellow. This 
is a dreadfully painful part of the process ; but it must be carried 
out with firmness, though with gentleness, or both limb and life 
may be lost. Chloroform is often given to spare the patient this 
suffering; but it is better, if he can bear the pain, to avoid it, 
as it often causes spasmodic movements of the limb before insensi- 
bility is produced. 

The limb is then placed in splints, which may be formed of paste- 
board or gutta percha soaked in hot water and carefully adapted to 
the shape of the part; one being placed on either side, and both 
together not being quite so wide and round as the limb. Sometimes 
wooden splints made expressly for each part by surgical instrument 
makers are employed, and for most kinds of fracture they 
are the best. Sometimes a firm roll of sheeting or a sand-bag 
on either side, held in position by means of strong tapes passing 
completely round, may be substituted. Greater steadiness may 
be obtained by folding thin pieces of deal about three inches wide 
in each end of the sheet, or a small bundle of straw tied together 
lengthways. 




FRACTrniiD LBO SET IH SPLINTS, AND LAID ON A FOLDED PILLOW. 

When the thigh is fractured, a long splint reaching from below 



232 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND 8UBGEBT. 

the patient's constitution. Here the surgeon has sometimes to cut down 
on the end of the hones and saw them off, the limh being then bandaged 
up again ; or a seton has to be passedright through the fracture, limb, and 
all, or other moans adopted to excite inflammation. Occasionally 
all means have failed. 

In certain coses of compound fracture — that is, when a bone is 
pushed through the skin — no skill can replace it, till the surgeon 
has either enlarged the wound or sawn off part of the bone. If, how- 
ever, in addition, the bone be very much crushed, or if from the 
coldness and swelling of the part there is reason to think any of the 
great blood-vessels are torn through, it may be necessary to amputate 
the limb. Although some excellent general rules have been laid 
down on this subject, yet so many varieties of accident occur, so 
many causes complicate fracture, that each case must in some measure 
be judged by its own merits. While it has really occurred that a limb 
condemned by the surgeon has been completely saved solely by the 
patient's refusal to have it amputated, it has still more frequently 
happened that the patient has not consented to amputation till death 
was inevitable. Very often a limb which the surgeon has saved 
from the most laudable motives, or out of compliance with the 
patient's wishes, proves ultimately such a burden that its removal 
is urgently demanded. These serious results, however, are much 
more apt to occur in the leg than in the arm, which, unless severely 
crushed by machinery, railroad accidents. Sec, rarely requires ampu- 
tation. 



CHAPTER XXV. 

DI8L0CATT0NS. 

Dislocations are known to have occurred by the altered shape and 
total loss of movement of the part, while there is not that looseness we 
see in fractures. When we handle a broken limb we can easily see 
that if we suddenly let go our hold of the far end of the limb, it would 
drop like a flail ; but in a dislocation all moves in one mass. 

I must here impress upon the reader a fact important to remember, 
namely, that the limbs of the aged are much more liable to be broken 
than dislocated, owing to a peculiar alteration, which at this period 
of life takes place in the more solid constituents of the bones, by 
which they are rendered more brittle. In addition to this, one very 



DISLOCATIONS. 233 



important party that of the neck' of the* thigh bone, tindergoes a 
complete change of form, passing gradualfy from an acute to a right 
angle, rendering it still more liable to fracture firom the slightest 
causes. Whenever, therefore, an elderly person has slipped off the 
curb-stone or a door-step, and complains of intense pain and 
inability to use the limb, we may always suspect that this bone is 
broken, howeyer slight the fall or slip may have been. 

The Lowsb Jaw is sometimes dislocated by gaping or yawning 
widely, or even by a very hearty laugh. The mouth is suddenly 
fixed, and wide open; the person cannot speak, and makes the strangest 
grimaces while endeavouring to do so. It is for the most part easy 
to reduce. The thumbs, well guarded by linen being wrapt round 
them, should be placed on the back part of the lower jaw, one 
thumb on each side. Firm pressure downwards is now to be made, 
while the chin is forced upwards with the fingers or by an assistant. 
When it is felt that the bone is on the point of yielding, tiie thumbs 
should be slipped to the outside of the jaw so as to guard against 
every chance of their being bitten. Where no one will risk his fingers, 
the pressure may be made with the handle of a f(n*k or a piece of 
wood. 

Thb Shotjlbeb.— When the shoulder is dislocated the arm cannot 
be brought from the side, or there may be a difficulty in raising it 
upwards. The form of the joint is clearly alt^-ed, but very differeiitly 
in some persons to what it is in otfaersj for the head of the bone may 
be driven downwards towards the arm^pit, or outwards on to the 
blade^bone, or forwards under the collar-bone. A rotmd hard mass, 
as large as an egg, is. felt in one of these places; it is the head of the 
bone. There is great pain, especially when the head of the bone is 
driven into the arm-pit, as it then presses on the great nerves of the 
arm; and sometimes the arm cannot be moved from the side, except 
to a very limited extent, and every attempt to do so causes great 
suffering* 

Like every other dislocation it must be reduced as soon as 
possible, and it is not difficult to replace the bone when the attempt 
is made soon after the accident The sufferer lying on his back, the 
surgeon throws off his boot and sits down face to face with his 
patient ; he then, as in the figure, page 234, places his heel in the arm* 
pit, and grasping the arm, draws it towards him ; so soon as it is fully 
extended the muscles around the head of the joint puU it into the 
ciavilT' or socket with such irresistible violence, that even when it 
has been drawn out and kept on the stretch by powerful pulleys, it 



S34 HOVSEBOLD MBDICIKI AND 8DBOEKT. 

lebinia vitii an andibla nup. AfUt ieAiaii<ni s disf dioiitd In 
vore for Iwo w tbrea vedi, ii^^gTaMDKn taken tint tlie linb be 
not expoMd to any TialeoM. 



.Anr dislocstioD, howerw, if iMglectsd or unncogniud, if ixim- 
^catad Tith fiactiira tA tha aocliet oriiend «f the b«gu, or if aoy 
entao^aiseitt of a piojeoliDg point of bono among tondons hu takm 
pisoa, mxf piova in praotioa tetj difficult to raduoe. Smaliaa ocoa- 
aionall; Bnc<:eed in making die patient bo weak and listless, that tba 
mnfsle* no longra oppose &a same rasiaUncs to Ihe torgeon't at- 
tempts; chloTofoim ill uaei for ibe aamB pnipose, oomplate lelazatioD 
taking place to aocn m tite patient is lendaEed inflensible. 
dialooatiaD* of the amaOiBc joinla the patiant'i atteidian ahonld ba 
direotad from the subjeet. Bat it aomatimes bai^ens tliat the beat 
dinotad skill faiJa, even wbtn aided by meolaDioal applianeet, *neh 
as povflifiil pulltfra; t/ray exeataan, hoiroTsr, ahonld be made to 
•void (o^ an tinilartanate nnilt; and ao long as the bandage on 
irhioh the tmetion i* iBAde is amao£hlf and erenlj applied, and 
the tiketian itself iapropeil; and ataadilr made, no danger need be 
feaTedfanaanytUag human strength conid do. WbenDamienawka 
condemned to be torn in pieces by wild hones, ftfter the ■"i""l» had 
been nigsd to the most frantie eflbrii for a foil hour, ha looked up at 
hia-tormanton and amiled I It was inat till the ligamenta had been 
dirided by the ecceoutioneT that the batbamot edict oould be fnlfllled. 

Tb> 'SitKfit. — This jwnt IB nmoh :ntore Torely disloeated than 
the ahonlder ; the diqilaDenient ie reduced by banding the arm mhoh 
tha knee. Hans instaad of one bone bdng dislocated from another, 
aa liappeos in the ahouldET, tiro aie dislocated from the third; and aa 
either one of the tvo bones of the forearm may be diaplaoed, it 
ftillowa tfaat.A«eaTeaeTenlTsri«tiea. Some of tJiem are diffionlt t 



ree^F^s^rsst^a 



DISLOCATIONS. 295 



xoco^pnifl^y ^t^wMy yrhmTvgvL fvoUing ownes on *, fonuB me ^M^ 
cuU to rectuoe; azi4 wm^ irlum r^uood n^picUyalip bacik agw. 
Aft^ tbe roduot^ % bandage imd sUaijp should b^ warn fyt two or 
three week* i aud if & fMrg^a's aid oiul he procured, it would he 
adyiaable in mwj oa^ea to haye the an» properly strappedy a»d etm^ 
stitutional treatment continued till the ligax)ientA have again tonly. 
united* 

T«8 Wiu^a^v Foros^ &o,«^When tiie wriit la diilocatad the 
aurgeon muat gnusp the Wdt and the arm being fi9;ed, the hand ia 
tlien drawn away fo>«L the arm, and turned either backwards or. 
forwarda} aooording to the direolion of the dislocation ; the diapUced 
bonea then gUde back to their natural poaition. Djalocationa of 
the thumb and fingera ara reduioed by bending them upon the 
dislocation ; that is, towards the opposite aide to that on wbich die- 
IpfiBtion had taken plaee« The thumb can aeldom be restored by 
^uUmg like the arm and shoulder. 

Tim Tbjqv is di8h>cated in so i^any 'varioua direotiona^ that it 
would be impossible to giro even a oondefoaed aocount of fifL The 
distortion of the limb is %uite of » difiSairent kind in soma cas^ to 
what it is in others* Xn o^a forjp^ the toaa are tnmed inwards, in 
another outwards; ix^ extreme oaaea they lie aci^sa the instep of the 
opposite foot, and the Umb is generally shortened* When amy of theaer 
signs are present, and there is a loss ^f power and motion, wij^ a ^;ied 
look about the limb ; when it cannot be turned round ; and when 
there is no crepitation, we may be pretty sure that dislocation has 
taken place. 

No dislocation requires the exercise of so much strength as this. 
The patient must lie on hia back, and the suj^B>^n, sitting before him, 
passes his leg between those of the patient, and fixes the hip by 
pressing with his foot against the fork; he then grasps the foot and 
ankle, and pulla steadily downward with hia whole force. Should 
be ]i<yt suoeeed the hip aotay bo ftxed by a fsldad sheet passed between 
the legs, and tied to seme fixed spot near the patient's head ; anDtber 
sheet is fastened by the *^ cloae bHoh'' just abo^ the knee> and 9i 
tliiS) or at a cord fastened to it, seveml penons may pull, or the rope 
may be passed tivrough a pulley, and managed by one person. Wbeo 
the limb is drawn out to its full length, the surgeon seizes the lliigb 
and Ufts it towards its natural poiitioR ; the head of the bone will 
fly back into the socket with a loud snap. 

Ths IjciB Cav Ain> KKm.r--Dislocatian of the knee cap may 
be reduced by bending the knee up towards the patient's head and 



i. 



1 

236 HOUSEHOLD MBDICTNE AND 8UKGEBT. 



flexing the leg forcibly back vpon the thigh ; fhe knee cap or pan U 
then easily pushed back into ita proper position. But iftiie knee 
itself be dislocated, the best plan to reduce it is for one person to 
hold the thigh and pull it' upwards as hard as he can, while another 
grasps the leg and draws it downwards until the dislocated bones 
slip back into their proper place. 

Dislocations of thb Anklb, Toes, &c. — Dislocation of the foot 
or ankle, as it is usually called, may take place inwards or outwards, 
forwards or backwards. When dislocated inwards, the small bone of 
the leg is generally broken, not at the ankle joint, but a little way 
up. One person must hold the leg firmly, while the other pulls the 
foot away from the leg in a line with it, as if he would lengthen the 
limb : when he has once got it into a line with the leg, he can gene- 
rally push tiie foot back into its proper place. Fracture must be 
looked for after reducing a dislocation inwards ; there may be no 
displacement, but the bone will be ^ound, on pressure, to be broken, 
about three inches aboye the ankle. When any of the small bones 
of the foot are thrust out of place, it is not always possible to reduce 
them, and they may require to be remoyed. Dislocations of the toes 
are reduced like those of the fingers, or by simple extension. 

If dislocation of the knee or ax^e be compound, that is, if the 
bones be pushed through the skin, it will often require amputation. 
It is rarely that such an accident occurs, and only extreme yiolence 
can produce it. 



CHAPTEE XXVI. 

SPRAINS. 



Sfbainb or Strains of any joint require far more urgent attention 
than is generally given to them. People are very apt to say, " Oh, 
it is only a alight sprain ; I twisted my ankle by slipping off the 
curbstone, or in coming down stairs — it will pass off in a day or so.'* 
It is more prudent to think he has done something worse than break 
his leg. 

Sprains, when neglected or mismanaged, especially in persons of 
unhealthy constitution, not unfrequently lead to irreparable injury to 
the joint, or loss of the Hml) : it is important, therefore, that the prin- 
ciples of treatment, which are very simple, should be generally under- 



I 



SPBAUfS. 237 



fltood, BO that in slight eases, or ia the absence of medical assistance, 
they may meet with immediate and judicious care. The following 
remarks will, for the sake of convenience, refer chiefly to the ankle, 
but are equally applicable to sprains of any other joint It should at 
once be ascertained, before swelling has commenced, whether there is 
any distortion of the foot outwards, inwards, or in any other direction ; 
or any appearance of projection or deformity about the joint If this 
be the case, it is almost certain that fracture of some of the bones has 
taken place, and the accident is of too serious a nature for domestic 
treatment In less severe cases the foot should be immediately 
plunged into water, as hot as the patient can bear, and deep enough 
to reach half-way up the leg» As this rapidly cools, fresh portions 
should be added, j&om time to time, so as to maintain the temperature 
as high as possible, and the cooled particles should be prevented from 
collecting in a stratum at the bottom of the pail by constant stirring. 
This should be continued for two, three, or four hours, according to 
the severity of the case, and until all pain has completely subsided, 
and should be renewed as often as the pain returns, which, for the 
first few days, will probably occur firom time to time. Perfect rest 
and immobility of the joint being the cardinal point in the treatment, 
it is advisable that, except in very slight cases, the patient should 
spend the first few days in bed, after which he may be removed to the 
sofa; it will be found, also, that much relief may be obtained by 
keeping the injured foot on a higher level than the rest of the body, 
which may be done by supporting the leg upon a hard and fim 
cushion, and preventing the pressure of the bedclothes by a light 
framework, whidi may be readily made out of a few sticks, bent into 
the form of an arch (see p. 225). Shortly after the accident swelling sets 
in, and may proceed to a considerable extent ; so long as it continues, the 
joint should be covered with folds of thin rag, moistened with a cool- 
ing lotion, such as the following : muriate of ammonia, three drachms ; 
water, vinegar, and spirits of wine, of each three ounces. Should the 
swelling be accompanied by much heat, redness, and throbbing pain, 
leeches may be applied in numbers proportioned to the age and 
strength of the patient— twelve are generally sufficient for a healthy 
male adult ; it is better, however, to avoid them, if possible, in persons 
of weak constitution. When the pain and swelling have subsided, 
the patient is too apt to 'suppose that there is no further risk; he 
begins to move the foot, or. even ventures to put it to the ground, 
when a relapse is the inevitable result The inmiobility of the joint 
should therefore be secured by the application of splints, which are 



238 HOUSEHOLD MCDICINB AND SUaOEBY. 

mott iMdily made of gntta peroha, about an ^ightii or a AtA. of an 
inch in tMcknesa* Two pieoes of thk should be out Bome^diat in tbe 
■hap6«f tho halTec of a gaitor, Wtnot so broad, aa it is not neOMsaiy 
tiiat thay ehoaid ^to meat m traa% and tliey dkonld nerely tarn 
«t«r the edge oi the bole ; ti^y ebonld be of traAoient length to 
ektend from the point of the little toe to three inohes above the ankle. 
'When sofUoed in boiUns vatnr Ihey may be aeonrately flaonlded to 
the jeinl^ and iftOMdiately hardened byplnnging them in oold iratnf ; 
itniy ehoikl then be applied^ firit deibnding the ildii hf a pieoe of eoft 
lint or a layer of earded eotton, and secured by a bandage eattendibg 
from the tees, and dra^m moderately tight, but nM so as to oooasion 
nnewa&ess. They mty be remoted once or twice a-^day, and the joint 
-veU Tabbed, either i«ith the hand idone or with some eUghtiy stimu- 
lating Unimettt For this purpose ^ Opodeldoe" is a &TOtiiite popular 
remedy, aad is very well adapted fbt tiie piirpose ; or the ordinary 
liniment of hartshorn abd oil may be employed^ and will be found 
equally «ffieaoioaft. The greatest eatttkm must be obeerred in com- 
mencing to use the Umb, ttnd the alighteat retom of pain must be 
the signal for «giiin laying np. The weakness and stiffiftess of the 
joint, which sometimes remain for a long ttoie, may be aUeriated by 
isb» eold douehe-^a very useM remedy when not abused> as it often 
is. The contents of a large ewer, poured from a height of three feet, 
will be sdlcient, soad ▼igorotts frietien with a coarse towel e^uld 
immediately succeed. The same general priivcipleB of tmatment, as 
has already been stated, apjdy to iB^raiaB in any sitnatioii. Wkere 
the part cannot be oonteniendy "^unged in hot water, fomefitatioDs 
may be substituted. The black and bl«ie dascoleradon which aooom- 
psnies bnnsss and serere sprains is caused by blood which has 
escaped f^om «mall vessels tnptored by the nolesaee* It eannot be 
temoved by leeches, as is often su^»osed — ^in moat instances, they do 
more harm than good ; it mnat be left to the efforts of nature, or, 
when eactensiTe, absoiptkm may be slightiy haKtened by gentle 
friotian^ 

We nvaA net eenfotrnd with ^^mfos those swsUings ef the joints 
which oecur witiiout violenee* As some of them are among the moat 
formida^e dueaaes to which the h^man frame ts sabject, while others, 
«ieh as housenudd's knee, requite little more than Mst, baaNbging, 
oeld lotions, and punoture into the fluid, it is impemtiTe to resort to 
fliose who alene can deoide upon the ease. 



BUSNS AND SGALD& 



239 



CaAPTEB XXVU. 

BTTSNd Ain> SCALDSr — BITES OF DOOS AND STINGS OP INSECT9. 

Bosais and S«auuDS' ar» to ttztvamtly aidke in iheia natove^ tKali QTeni 
iiL a jKOtAji, Mieiitifijei woA thej may be olasaed togetirar, and sttU! 
more so here, where the chief aim is to impart practieal izi8<iractio& 
in the most oosopressed fevm. It is. aknost unnsoessary to buj that 
bumiBg clothes must, be pni out inmiodiatelyy by laying the peiBOii 
on the floor and soUiiig a thick tablecloth^ great coat, or hearl^-rug 
Qfvev him. What still- eontiaues to. bom may be put out with water:,, 
warm if possible^ and not dai^d oyer a. patient serioofliy burnt, as 
soeh a shoek has proved fiattal. 

The patient should tlwn be put to bed,^ and a little wine or spirit 
and water giren i if there' is mueh pain, laudanum, in the propoctioiB 
of a drop to a child a year old, up to twenty-fire' or thirty drops to 
a grown person, may boi admimstered. The olotiies muc^ then be 
rsmoTsd wxtii all pessU»le gentleness^ plenty of soft cotton, wool, or 
waddiag,- being in the meantime procuved. This is then laid thickly 
on the burned part, and secured by a bandage^ I&< the more severe 
eases of' bum pus will often 16m. abundantly for- days after ; it should 
be gently sponged away with warm water, and list- laid over the part. 
After deep bums or scalds it often becomes necessary, as healings sets 
in, to keep the part on the- stieteh, to prevent the ooatraction or 
puckering of the skin, which causes the £nghtf«]f duformijties seen 
after these accidents, and whiehy by the way,^ when they do ensiWj ase 
generally remediable wholly or in part. 

When the patient seems getting drowsy and low^ aad the pulse 
small and flickering, steps must be taken to raise the sinking powws, 
or death may snatch him from our grai^. This is indeed the great 
source of danger. Wine, ammonia, and brao^ must be given, with 
hot beef tea or gruel. Smelling salts riK>uld be held to tike noetrils, 
hot bricks or bottles of hot water applied to the feet, and mustard 
poultices over the bowels or to the calves of the legs. As a 
last resource, an enema, containing three or four table-spoenftds of 
turpentine in a pint of gruel, may be thrown up. Death generally 
ensues when mote than half the suvfsee of ike trunk is burned or 
badly scalded. Gases of recovery are on reeord, but they are rare 
exceptions. 

When a ehUd k only sUghtly scalded, a little violet powder may 



■ai^ 



_L _:1 



itU 



BITES OF ANIMALS. 241 

^ ■III. — ■■■^■■ ■■» — m ^ ■ — ■■■III. ■»■■■ ■— I ■ ^i« I I .^^^^^^^^^^^ 

Te4-hot irony nitric acid, or potftasa fiun, and poultioed to enoour- 
ago a free diaoharge of matter. A little stimulant should be 
given, and the patient should as soon as possible be placed under the 
care of an experienced surgeon, who ought to see him occasionally 
for at least six months, for then only does he begin to be 
safe. 

Even when it is certain that the dog is not mad, the wound should 
not be neglected, as a very troublesome form of sore is apt to r^sult^ 
which discharges matter for a long time, and leares the bitten part 
weak and painful. Hot water should be poured, as from a tea-pot, 
into the wound several times daily, or by a sponge, and the nitrate 
of silver (lunar caustic), sharpened to a point, applied to every part 
of the bite. To allay pain at night, twenty or thirty drops of lauda- 
num may be given. The alarm felt at first may be quieted by giving 
the patient a Uttle wine, and re-assuring him as to the true nature of 
the accident. The bowels should be opened with a brisk purgative, 
With which a little calomel should be given, and mild, cooling medi- 
cines should follow for some time after. 

The bite of a cat, or even that inflicted by the human teeth, proves 
I *>c<»si(mally oztremely serious ; and if the root of the nail be bitten 
through, the nail often drops off, or must be torn o£^ before the place 
will heal. In such a case as this, if the wound threaten to spread, 
powerful caustics, such as the nitrate of silver, should be applied 
to every part of it. Oases are related where hydrophobia has resulted 
from the bite of a cat : but they are extremely rare, and not very well 
established. 

Of the bites of reptiles we have in this favoured country very few 

®**mple8. Abroad, as in India, and in some of our colonies, they are 

common enough, and the introduction of living specimens into 200I0- 

^cal collections sometimes offers an example, as in the case of the 

«eeper at the Zoological Gardens at Begent's Park, who died from 

the bite of the cobra capello. The only animal of this kind which we 

have to dread in England is the common adder. The bite is by no 

eans painful, but it is rapidly followed by alarming weakness, unless 

ittmulants are given on the spot. The patient grows pale and faint ; 

eold sweats break out; the limb becomes swollen and powerless, 

t71 * care, death may dose the scene, 
he o ht ^^^*^^ Tbitten has sufficient presence of mind, the first thing 
ougiit to do is to check the introduction of the venom into the 
system. Suppose that the wrist has been bitten as at Jin thtf following 
" ^©aiately tie a tape or string between the wound and the 



242 



HOUSEHOLD WSDlCTSfK AND 8UROE&Y. 




hearty thst » at 0, and MKoty the Ute wHh a penknife or nzor ; and 
if he ean reach the part with his moath, ike best way woidd be to 
sock the ^vronnd; no ak-pump 
or ezhanale4 eupping-g^aae 
eeuld eflectthe purpose so ireU 
as the heautiful xnechamsm of 
the hiOBaB mouth. If not, 
any of the bystaadem migbt 
SB&ly do BO, aS) unless there is 
a out upon the lips, no danger- 
ous results need be appre- 
hended from the poison. If 
this is not practtoable, a small 
glass, exhausted of its air by 
burning a piece of paper in it, 
should be placed over the 
around, and oliye-oil may be 
freely rubbed in it The patient shofdd then be put to bed. 
Wine or brandy may be given ; hot bricks to the feet, and a mus- 
tard poultice to the abdomen. Any abseesses whi^ form afterwards 
will require to be opened. 

KoBquitos, bugs, fleas, and some oth^ inseets^ ake poison the 
wound by Becreting into it a fluid which renders the bleed thinner 
and more fit for suction. In warm climates the bite of the mosquito 
is ofben foUowed by serere inflammation ; and if the skin be soratobed, 
troublesome sores may result. The pain and itching pro^ioed by 
these bites are greatly relieved by rubbing a Httle liqmd ammonia 
over them, either pure or mixed, with an equal proportion of cdive-^ 
Eau-de-Cologne or lavender water may be used for the same pmpose. 
On the west coast of Africa, where some of the woist cases of this 
kind are seen, the natives exhaust a rode euppiag-glass, and pbce it 
over the wound. 

Insects which sting, as wasps, horseflies, honetB, or bees, not 
only insert a poison into the womKl, but also frequently leave tiie 
sting itself, or pait of it, behind. In this case the sting should b« 
carefully drawn out with a pair of tweesevs, or the skin nay be 
opened with a needle, when a little squeesing will generally foroe 
out the sting. It is also recommended to press down the ddn on 
each side of the sting with the pipe of a watch-key ; the sting will 
then protrude, and may be seised and drown out 

Frictions of various kinds, as of hartshorn and oil, have been 



STINGS OF INSECTS. 



24d 



recommended, but I have more confidence in cooling lotions. If 
the patient can reach the part with his mouth he 'will soon find 
relief from sucking till it ceases to bum, and all the other symptoms 
will then rapidly subside of themselves. When the throat is stung 
the best application is the following:. — put a pieice of ammonia 
or smellings salts, the size of a nut, and four table-spoonfuls of 
yinegar^ or a little ether, into a glass, and b^the the part constantly 
with it. 

BtTos AND FLSAs.-^lt would be of more importance to devise some 
effectual means of keeping these pests at a distance, than of relieving 
the itching occasioned by their bites. The swelling of the eyelids 
occasioned by bugs is, however, very disagreeable, but the lotion 
already mentioned will generally remove it. As respects any means 
of prevention beyond the destruction of any live specimens as they 
become visible, I have little to say, further than to recommend that 
iron bedsteads should be substituted for wooden ; that the bedroom 
should be kept free from litter of every kind ; to see that children 
do not wet their mattresses and blankets ; and to close with putty or 
paint all the chinks in the floors and walls where these vermin might 
harbour. When bugs become very numerous, the only way to get 
rid of them is to tear down the paper from the room, and have the 
walls washed with lime, or fumigated by putting a little brimstone on 
a hot shovel, previously closing every chink by which air could 
enter. Here, however, it must be remembered that the vapour of 
brimstone agrees as little with the human lungs as with the respi- 
ratory apparatus of bugs. 

Lice. — The best means of destroying lice is to rub a little blue 
ointment, calomel, or white precipitate, about the roots of the hair. 
Should these means prove ineffectual — which is very unlikely — a 
lotion containing a little corrosive sublimate may be employed. A 
small tooth-comb will not always suffice^ and lice are apt to fasten 
where it cannot be used. 



244 



HOUSEHOLD MSDICIHB AND 8UBGERT. 



CHAPTER XXVin. 



AB8CB8BSS, CinT.KT.ATN8, JStC 



Abscbbs. — ^An alwoess is a collection of matter or pus ; it differs 
horn a boil, which ^nt%iT|<T a core — that is, a hard mass which is 
gradually protruded, and leaves a gaping hole; while an absoeBS 
may open and empty itself by a hole not bigger than a pin's head. 
It may arise from some foreign body being fixed in the part ; from a 
blow in an unhealthy subject; or from constitutional causes in 
delicate persons. 

The local and immediate treatment is the same. Surgeons gene- 
rally try at first to disperse the abscess, or prevent it from coming to 
a head ; aperient medicines, calomel and opium, salines, leeches, and 
lotions often succeed ; sometimes tartar emetic, so as to keep the 
patient nauseated, acts better than any known remedy. When, 
however, it goes on getting worse, poultices are generally ordered to 
draw it ; but their value seems very doubtfiiL They leave the abscess 
time to grow larger, and destroy more of the healthy structures ; 
they are apt to bring out quantities of very painful boils; and 
sometimes when applied too long, they leave the part so weak and 
exhausted that it will not heaL 

A far better plan is to evacuate the matter as soon as it has 
formed. This is generally known by the occurrence of shivering fits ; 
and by the part below feeling softer, as if there were fluid undemeaUi 
the skin. A history or lancet is used for this purpose ; some surgeons 
have recommended a harelip needle. The lowest side of the abscess 
should be chosen, so that the matter may flow away as fast as it 
forms, which continues to be the case for some days following. If it 
doses, another opening should be made^ and the sides then 
gentiy pressed together by a small compress, each side secured by 
a bandage ; the opening should be covered with lint. 

Abscesses which arise without any injury, and pour out thick 
matter of the same consistence and colour throughout, generally 
require light diet and mild aperients and bitters. In the scrofulona 
abscess, such as that which forms in the neck, a more tonic treatment 
Ib required, iodine, iodide of potassium, quinine, or steel, in the form 
of the citrate or wine (see p. 206) ; plain, nutritious, unstimulating diet 



WHITLOW. 245 



is the best* The soars left by the buzBtixig of such absdesses may 
generally be remoyed. 

Whitlow is a painful inflammatory affection of the finger. 
It generally attacks the tip, but may haye its seat about the root ; 
it is accompanied by signs of actiye inflammation, such as pain, heat, 
redness, and sweUing of the part. When seyere, the 'vrhole hand 
may be affected, and in mismanaged cases the inflammation may 
eyen extend up the arm. When a yellow speck shows itselif, it 
indicates pus. 

The common treatment by poulticing is most objectionable. 
When the patient can, he should at once seek the adyice of a 
surgeon. Eyery day people are seen in the hospitals, on whom 
amputation of the whole or part of a finger or thumb has to be 
performed, in consequence of their haying trusted to poulticing; 
hoping that when the whitlow came *\ to a head," it would burst of 
itself, and there would be an' end of all the suffering. The skin is 
often so thick that before this desirable consummation can be 
attained, all the structures near it are destroyed, sheaths of muscles 
and tendons, bones and joints being indiscriminately affected. A 
still more objectionable practice is that of applying cobbler's wax or 
some powerful stimulating plaster to draw the inflammation to the 
surface. It is difficult to calctdate the mischief that ensues &om 
this erroneous practice* 

The finger or thumb should be repeatedly plunged into water as 
hot as it can be borne. After this has been done for the greater part 
of an hour, the lunar caustic should be rubbed freely oyer the skin 
for a considerable distance around. A powder containing four grains 
of calomel with twelye of Doyer's powder is then to be giyen, and 
followed by a black draught. Some surgeons haye recommended 
i^^uent emetics with a yiew of lowering the inflammatory action. 
The hot bathing should be sedulously continued all this wldle, and a 
lotion containing acetate of lead may be freely used. As soon as a 
whitish or yellowish spot is perceiyed it should be opened, but there 
is no necessity for laying open the part yery widely, as is sometimes 
done. All. that is required is an exit for the matter, the formation 
and retention of which haye caused all this mischief. 

So soon as the matter is eyacuated all the symptoms begin to 
abate, but it will not be long before they reconunence, unless further 
steps are taken. Fresh accumulations of matter must be opened as 
fast as they form, and the patient will by this time haye gained 
so much relief that he will no longer object to the operation. 



246 HOUSEHOLD MBDIOINB AMD SUBGERY. 

A rim^ dfMBing of wttt lint, aad % snuiill btndage to keep tiia 
sides of the abscess gently in contact, and retain the lint in its plaee, 
are all the local tiwatment that is required. Should any siaiises 
fbrm they should be slit open; tiie operation is ahooet painless, a* 
the ridn has neariy lost all its feeling. By sinus surgeons understand 
a small passage disdiargiug matter, which veftsises to heal up from 
the bottom. 

BoziiS.-— A boil is a very hiffd, red, paiafal, eley^ted heat spot, 
sometimes almost as large as a walnut. For long it was oofluddsEed that 
they were benefleiai, purified the blood, dw., but this antiquated pre- 
judice, which simply arose tcom. negli^t ohservatioB, isgiyiBg way to 
more just ideas. Uiider thisTiewpetients werepuiged, bled, andlanoed 
for a complaint which yields better to aeids or alkalies with bitten, 
and a table-spoooM of yeast two or three times •<day ; the external 
use of eaustie, and milk diet. 

Cabsuwolbb exe very similar, but larger and ctill more lowering 

than boils, consequently the strength requires to be more assiduouslsr 

supported. 'They are often tresfted with great aneeess by disseotLog 

'out the haid core, and using wsler dresstng to the cavity left behind. 

Boils slso form on ti>e ingera and toes, find are very apt to be 
confounded with whitlows. They are quite -on the eurfkoe ; occa* 
sionally, however, a boil and a whitlow ibrm at the same place. 
The skin is raised up and distended with fluid, as if it had been 
seirersly scalded. It is, howeyer, mudi enrnfier ttaa. a eeald, and 
often dotted over with purple patcihes. Hie skin ehould be enipped 
off with scissors, which is a pmnftil afiiur, and then wet lint ahould 
be sfpplied. When eerersl boils form in euoeeesion the most snocessftd 
remedy is the lunar «aui^c ap^ied round the edges of each, ioUowed 
by soline me(Kcines, and a lit^e kudanum twioe a-day. 

OHtLBiADW.— In chilblains the lAan is net always elemted, hut 
thereis a mark like the staia of port wine. They are often accompanied 
by considerable stinging and pricking, and if neglected or improperly 
treated, chilblains, especially in sorofolpus dbildren, may lead to 
obstinate ulcers, which oooaaionally will not heal till eounlzy air or a 
leudenoe at the sea-side has been procured for the patient. 

A few words as to the nature, preventioa, and treatment of 
chilblains may not be unacceptable to those who know by experience 
the pain and annoyance whidh they often occasion during the cold 
and wet winter months. The immediate effect of edld upon the 
exposed ports of the body is to lower the yital energy; the small 
Uood-Tcssels of the ddn contract, and the part becomes cold, pale, 



imwsum^ 347 



aadmiiBb. In thv ^nditu»n, if heat be suddenly applied, «« bj 
ooml&g iato a warm reoio, or by holding the hands or feet, the parta 
most fseqaenily affected, to the Sse, the blood a^m raahes to the 
aurfaoe ^wdth a degree ot^oxce which the vesseh caoaot withstand; 
they become mueh distended, and the part is iwd, swoUea, and painful. 
When this process is frequenUy repeaM* the Teasels arepexaaaneatly 
w^aioBned, the part is slighdy swoUen, 'assumes a bluish or purple 
oqIoiu;, and is the seat-of intolerable itching or tingling pain, which is 
inczeased by heat It is now extremely susceptible to the effects of 
cold, which pzoduoes ^osh Attacks of- inflammation ; this fre^ently 
results in the formadon of blisters, the cuticle of which giving way, 
leoYes an open sore, which is generally yery difficult to heal. The 
weaker the circulation the more liable are these effects to be pro- 
duced. We thus see why chilblains ase most common on the hands 
and feet, which ace at a ^tanoe irom the centre of cisculatbui and 
also whythey so ^e^uently attack chUdreD, delicate females, and 
persons in a wefdc >8tate of health, while &a robust and healthjr 
seldom suffer. The knowle%e of the cause suggests the appropriate 
precautions to present their oceurBenoeu The oircuhttion of the 
extremities should be strengthened by plunging tham into cold water 
evezy moming, and immediattiy, withoid; waitix^g till they are 
thoroogldy chilled, xubbing them well dry with a coarse towel. The 
feet should he warmly clothed; lamb*s wool or merine should be 
worn next the skin, and a pair of siUc stockings 'drawn over 
them will add joraoh to the warmth, without interfering with the 
ffttingof a properly made shoe. Those who habitually suffier from 
eold feet, 'will ^Lerire much oomfort from a sock of idiamois leather. 
When there is nothing in the state of the general health to prevent 
it, active exercise may be taken in all weathers, the feet being pro- 
tected from, eold and w»t by Indian rubber golosheo. On returning 
home, dry stockings shoved be imSnediately substituted for those 
which jnay have becomie damp, either from the penetration ef water, 
or &0m the condensed perQnration ; and whUe doing so^ the oppor- 
tunity fdiould be taken of restoring the warmth of the feet by vigorous 
rubbing with the hand. If they be held to the fire without this pre- 
caution, or even if a warm room be entered, bhilblains are almost 
sure to zesult. The treatment of chilblains of whi«h the skin is 
unbroken consists in defending them &om the cold, and in the appli- 
cation of some slightly stimuhittt embrocation. Of these, one of the 
most use^ is a mixture of six parts of soap liniment with one of 
tincture of cantharides. This should be rubbed i^on the part twice 



24S HOUSEHOLD llEDIdNB AND SURGERT. 

or three times a-day, and a piece of soap plaster should then be 
applied, to maintain the temperature, and to prevent the £nction of 
the shoe. Equal parts of oil of turpentine and balsam of copaiba is 
also a useful application, but is objected to by many on account of 
its unpleasant smell ; the same objection, hoverer, does not hold 
good with regard to camphorated oil, camphorated spirits of wine, or 
the ordinary liniment of haxtshom and oil, which may be employed 
in slight cases. If the skin has become broken, the sore should be 
dressed with some stimulant ointment, to promote the healing 
process. The red precipitate or the resinous ointment is the best ; 
any small piece of dead tissue which may adhere to the surface of the 
sore must be removed by poultices before these applications are 
employed. 

In some obstinate cases, nothing effects any material benefit till 
the patient is removed to the country or 8ea«^de, and tiien the change 
is almost magical. A child who has had a deep inflamed ulcer form 
after a chilblaiD, and who has not slept without sedatives for weeks, 
or had any motion of the bowels without aperient medicines, will fall 
into a Boimd sleep the first night after removal to a difierent air ; the 
bowels will rapidly begin to act without medicine, and the appetite 
for plain food will increase daily. In order to hasten this beneficial 
change, it is desirable to call in the aid of quinine and steel ; po&y 
exercise to fatigue should be inculcated ; milk and lime-water, with 
brown bread, for breakfast, or instead of tea, are advisable, and 
plenty of fresh meat for dinner, — all salt or highly-seasoned food 
being improper. 

- Chapped Hands, one of the minor miseries of human life, are a 
source of annoyance not only to those who suffer from them, but to 
those who have to look at them. They seem to depend on an 
imperfectly organized inelastic skin, contracting imder the influence 
of cold. There are few cases which will not yield to the old- 
fashioned remedy of rubbing in grease and wearing gloves both 
day and night ; but where the affection is more obstinate, a solution 
of one part of honey in four of water, applied night and morning, will 
generally effect a cure. If additional means become necessary, the 
spirit of camphor, or tincture of iodine, may be brushed over the chape. 
In some constitutions it becomes necessary to resort- to still more 
powerful remedies ; the hand should be well poulticed, and, after the 
poultice is taken off, thoroughly washed with hot water, and dried, a 
solution of ten grains of nitrate of silver to an ounce of distilled wat» 
is to be brushed over all the cracks. The objection to this is, that for 



^ 



COBNB— BUNIONS— TABXC08I! VRXNS. 349 

9om9 d«70 afkr a Uaok stain is left cm Hbe l^rt; Vat tbi$ »$ mort 
tban oounterbaiaiieed by its good effi^ctcs aod gl^yo9 oaa «u^y be worn 
to oonoeal it. 

OoAN» are a growth of the oatiole or ecarfoslun^ vhioh beoomes 
thick and hard; they are generally produeod on some potnt mndb 
exposed to the pressore ol the boot or shioe. Pressure, howeyer, ii 
not the sole cause ; for some persons ofin veer tight boots and suffer 
but very little, while in others wearing them for a single day wiU 
produoe ooms. The best palliatiye for the pain is to sosJc the 
feet in yery hot water, and then to touc^ the corns well widi 
eaustio or tincture of iodine. The real remedy is to treat them like 
Wasitb : the shank of a tobaooo-^pxpe is to be made red-^hot, and the 
part touched with the tip seyeral times in suooession. The com, 
or the wart, generally dies yery speedily after thi% and may be 
scratched off when loose. This je infinit^y better than excising 
th^n, which is done by softening them by bathing, and then 
cutting completely round them with a sharp laneet. No one should 
attempt the operation on his own fi>ot, as yeiy bad, or even fatal 
results haye followed. Where both cutting and bnming are objected 
to, circular plasters, with a hole in the centre, may be tried ; or, if 
the com is on the sole of the foot, a sole of felt may be contriyed 
with a hole to receiye the corA. Liniment of ammonia, strong acetic 
acid, strong nitric acid, chloride of antimony, &c., are all recom* 
mended ; but perhaps none of them are so usefiU as the hot pipe* 

BrNToirs are still more difficult to manage } they are seated on 
the side of the joint of the great toe, and sometimes consist of a 
bag fiUed witk a glairy fluid between the skin and the bone. At 
other times the toe is distorted, the tip of it being drawn outwards, 
and the ligaments and the head of the bone thickened. This i« much 
the more serious form. 

Pressure should be ayoxded, and the foot freely bathed with hot 
water. If there is the distended bag, it should be punctured with 
a harelip-needle ; for if it be allowed to inflame and burst, it will 
proye very difficult to heal. A soft discutient plaster, as of mercury, 
often giyes great relief. When inflamed, cold lotions and absolute 
rest are called for. If neglected, the head of the bone may enlarge, 
and ulceration set in, leading to great /sufferings deformity, and lose 
of motion in the joint. 

Yabioobb Ybhtb arise (took a weakened state of the eoats of these 
-^Feesels, whereby their natural elasticity is in a great measure lost, in 
oonsequenee of which they driye the blood more slowly and feebly 



towards the heart ; and vhere, in addition, any ohstruction to the 
return of blood takes place at a point nearer the heart, as in persons 
obliged to stand great part of the day, as laundresses, shopmen, &c.) 
the whole weight of the ascending column of blood is thrown on the 
weakened veins, which in consequence become thickened and tortu- 
6us. In course of time, ulcers may result from the faulty state of the 
circulation, or a yein may burst, and serere or even fatal luemorrhage 
may follow. 

Cold lotions, cotton-thread bandages, and attention to the state of 
the bowels and liyer, will generally relieve slight cases ; but if more 
persistent, the general opinion seems now to be that the most effectual 
remedy is to tie some of the veins below the knee. The vein and a 
fold of the skin are pinched up, a harelip-needle is passed underneath, 
and then a piece of silk is wound tightly round it in the form of the 
figure 8. Afterwards the ends of the needle are cut off with pliers. 
Three or four veins may be tied at one time, and the needles may be 
left in till tbey excite some irritation and swelling. This procedure, 
however, is quite beyond household surgery. When a varicose 
vein bursts, the foot should be placed higher than the body, and 
cold applied, or pressure may be made on the side nearest the 
heart. 

Hjbmobbhoids, or Piles, which are varicose veins, form about 
the lower bowel, and often prove a source of danger as well as 
suffering. A hot, burning sensation is felt on going to stool, and 
blood is frequently discharged in considerable quantity. When 
the hemorrhage is great, cold water or ice must be applied ; or 
some astringent wash, as a solution of sulphate of zinc ; or con- 
tinued pressure must be made upon the part. In the management of 
piles, care must be taken to avoid constipation ; and in all cases 
patients find benefit from the steady use of some mild cathartic. 
Sulphur is much recommended, especially combined with lenitive 
electuary and supertartrate of potash. Independently of its laxative 
effect, says Mr. Hooper, sulphur appears to exert a kind of specific 
influence, and in many cases relieves the pain and irritation arising 
from piles a very short time after it is taken. A tea-spoonful taken 
in milk every night will generally keep the bowels sufficiently open, 
and in many cases effectually relieve the piles. Should the parts 
be mudi inflamed, leeches may be applied and Goulard lotion used. 
Where the ttunours are considerable and flaccid, and without infiamma- 
tion, powerful astringents, and even escharotics may be necessary. 
Gall ointment is often very useful, as also Ward's paste, a preparation 



PILBS-*-nSTULA~PB0LAF8U& 251 

of black pepper; while a supporting bandage to the part will be 
found to give relief. 

Sometimes small tumours, or excrescences of various shapes, form 
about the verge of the anus. These are excessively trouble- 
some, and must be removed by the surgeon, either by ligature or 
the knile. Pissures also often occur in the lining membrane, an4 
prove very annoying, while they afford a fertile field to the quack 
doctor for fraud and imposition. Any surgeon can at once relieve the 
complaint by an almost painless operation ; but the charlatan reaps 
.It rich harvest by magnifying the evil, and working upon the fears of 
the patient. . In no diseases than in those of the rectum is it more 
essential at once to consult, not the advertising quack, but the honest 
and regular surgeon* 

FiSTUiA may become a complaint of a very formidable character, 
and require a serious operation for its removal; and thus, whenever 
an abscess is discovered to exist about the anus, it is necessary at once 
to apply to a surgeon, since, when taken at the commencement, much 
future siiffering and annoyance may be avoided. The cellular 
membrane in these parts is very lax and loose ; abscesses readily form 
.among it, and^ if unchecked, spread and bupn>w by the side of the 
bowel. When this is the case, the abscess bursts by a long narrow 
.sinus oTjktuktf which may open and give exit to the matter, either 
•externally at the verge of the anus, or into the bowel itself. In 
either case the sinus requires to be laid freely open so as to allow the 
hoaling process to take place. Let all who suffer from fistula take 
heed how they listen to interested persons who profess to cure the 
complaint " without the knife." 

In women, many hfomorrhoidal affections depend on a disordered 
state or displacement of the womb, and nothing will permanently 
remedy them till this is set right. 

Pboi«^psus ani, or falling down of the bowel, is a frequent com- 
plaint of childhood ; and not uncommon in adult life. It consists of 
a protrusion of the bowel every time the feces are expelled. It is 
easily returned by gentle pressure ; and asti-ingent lotions, such as 
alum, zinc, or lead, generally effect a cure. Sometimes, however, 
surjfical interference is necessary, and a portion of the protruded 
and lax membrane must be removed. Instruments have been devised 
to retain the bowel within the body; but they are troublesome and 
awkward, while the knife will effect an almost painless and speedy 
•cure. 



252 HOX78EHOLO MXBIGINB AVD flCSQEBY. 



1 



CHAPTEB XXIX 

SOME 8PEC1AI. i:ll8SJLfiE8 AKD AOCIBSKTB — ^IftKOB OP^BSATtOim. 

BiTPTVBi^ or Hebvu, 18 a pntnuioD of a poitioii of l)ow«l imteu 
jGieaih the skin, vhioh it puslies before it It jnay take place about 
the ffNiSoky tho top of the thigh, the na^el, or at anj part of the-front 
of the abdomen. It generally happens during Tiolnnt exertian, Some 
pain is &lt at the time of the aoeident, and a aweUiag obasired, 
whioh inoreaseB in size when the pecaon stands, and goes.airay iHicn 
he lies down and presses npon it» It may also be felt mom diatinetiy 
on coughing. 

A trass is the remedy, after the rnptore has been returned, and 
no pains and expanse jdhould be spared to obtain one of the beat. 
Some cha£ng or uneaftness will be lelt for a few daya; bat this will 
soon go off when the truBs £ts weH. 

When a ruptnre oomes down, and oannot be replaced by gently 
kneading it with the fingers, ice i^uld, if possiHe, be applied over 
the swelling, or a pieo^f linen dipped in cold spirit and water, upon 
which a ouirent of air is Uown by a bellows or fon, the linen being 
wetted as it dries. It may dien somietimev be Yeduced ; failing this, 
however, the suigeon shoodd be sent for immeHaidy^ m if VLortaAoair- 
turn of the gut misues the result is very apt to be fatal, 

Stoinb. — ^The chief symptoms of this formidable oomplaiat vre 
pain on or after making water, the stream of wldcih is sometiines 
suddenly stopped. Bloody urine often flows after riding, especially 
when much jolting has «isued. The surest sign of all is that given 
by a steel sound introduced into the bladder; the ringing prodaeed 
by the contact of the two hard substeaMses bemg tiie ««ily positive 
proof. The stone can only be removed by operation; it may be 
crushed if small and soft in the bladder, or it may be removed 
through an opening made into the bladder firom witlunit; but all 
attempts to get rid of it by other means will only lead to loss of time 
,and money, and perhaps aggravate the disease. 

Thb £Ujt scarcely ever demands active interference; «nd its 
affections can wait bert, perhaps, of all diseases, the sargeonfs coming. 
When ear-ache is very bad, bathing it well with hot water, potting 
a roasted onion over or behind it, or a little cotton wool gentiy within 
its hollow, are useful. When wax is known to be present, the ear is 
to be syriuged out ; for this purpose the nozzle of the syringe should 



(X>£I) llf THE ISTi;. 253 



ztQver be tbruflt into tbe ear.; the stream ohly idioiild be tbroim i2^ 
tbe ear g?^tiiy dried^ aad then elosed trith oottcnx wooL In cooelosioiv 
I h&ve one word ef Adviee S'^Neyer tam^r vilib your own eara^ 
or suffer othec* to do to. 

BisBA^BS^ OF T9B £yil— 'As A gedetsl rulei the less the eye is 
aabjected to amateur autgery the better; ^be deUeate tissues of 
whleh it is composed lose their transparency witlt extreme faciHty, 
and the org:an may be setiously injured, or altogetiixer destroyed^ by 
eauses which in othar orgaiiM would scarcely attract a moment's 
ootice* 

The anterior or ejcpo^ed aurfaoe of the eye> as well as the inner 
sarfaoe of the eyelids^ Is oovered by a delieate transparent meoit»ane 
called the eonjonetiya. Immediately below this lies a suxxtg, whitei 
fibrous membrane^ the solerotie> which inoLoses and, to a oertain 
extent^ gives form, to the softer textures; the dear part of the eye, 
in. form andaj^^aranoe like a small watch glass, is the eomea ; im« 
mediately behind this is tiie blue, gtay, or brown iris, perforated in 
the centre by the jet blsok pupil, which frequently yaries in size^ 
contracting in the sum^lae axid ez^Mmding u» the shade. 

CoLx> IN TBn DtB) aa it is popularly termed, is au inflammation 
of thecoi^unc1^y& This may ocourat any time of the year, but, 
like other colds, is most frequent in damp and yariable weather, and 
is readily induced by exposure to a draught of cold air, as by sitting 
near an open door when heated, or trayeUing in a railway carriage 
with the faoe towards the open window. The first symptoms are 
heat, i,tehing, andstiffQeaB of the eye, which soon becomes blood-shot • 
tiie redness soon extends until the whole of the white of the eye 
assumes a bright scarlet colour, which, if examined with a magnifying 
glsdM, is seen to depend upon ad infinity of nunute blood-yessels, 
inyisible in healtii, but now distended with blood. A profuse dia* 
charge soon sets in ^ sometimes of dear water alone^ more frequently 
containingfiakesofmucnSytiike natural secretion of the conjunctiyai 
inereased m quantity. This ooUeoto and dries upon the eyelashes, 
f<»rming crusts^ and matting them toge&er during sleep, so as to 
render the opening of the eye in the morning a tronblesome and 
painful operation ; in some instances the discharge is so copious as to 
orerfio^ the eye and run over the cheek, irritating and excoriating 
the tender skin in the neighbouiihood. There ia seldom much pain, 
but rather a sensatijon of itching and soreness, and « feeUng as if a 
quantity of dust or fine grayeL had got into the eye } it ocOasionally 
hiappens, howeyer, Uiat there is a good deal of actual pain, and such oases 



f 



254 HOUSEHOLD MSDICIHS AKD SUKGSRT. 



ihoald alwajsbe le^Brded with soipicion. Thetraatment eonabts in 
dioppiiig into the eye, three or four times m-day, a aohitioii of nitiste 
of mtm (lunar caostic), in the proportion of one grain of the nit to 
an ounoe of distiUed water; the duchaige shoold be prerenfted from 
eonereting on the eyelashes br bathing them fieqiieiitly with tepid 
water, and die edges of the eyelids should be aneinted with fresh 
laid on retiring to rest^ to present them from adhering together 
duing sleep ; at die same time a gentle action should be k^t np on 
the boweis by small doses of Epsom 8alt% or by a Seidlits powder 
eyery morning. Leeches are rarely necessaiy, and freqnoitlj 
injnrions; when spplied upon the eyelids, they are Teiy apt to 
occasion a ''black eye,'* owing to the esespe of blood into the tissue 
immediately beneath the skin ; i^ therefore, they should be ordered 
by tiie medical attendant for this or any other disease of the eye, they 
^ooldbe applied to the temple or the eyebrow. As the disease 
decUnei, and the redness disappears, a solution of three grains of 
alum to an ounce of water should be substituted for the nitrate of 
silrer drops, which should nerer be used yery long at a time, as liiay 
are apt to produce indelible discoloration of tiie white of the eye. 
The alum lotion may be freely employed until the redness has been 
completely lemored ; and i^ as is frequently the case^ the inflamma- 
tion lingers long under the lower eyelid, an ointment composed of one 
drachm of red precipitBte ointment and seven of lard should be 
applied eyery night to the edge of the lid, immediately within the 
lashes, by means of a small camel-hair brush. The aboye remedies 
should produce a slight smarting, lasting a few minutes only, ea^ 
time they are applied ; if they cause much or lasting pain, they 
should be still further diluted. 

The redness by which this simple inflammation is characterized is 
of a bright scarlet hue, and is spread pretty eyenly oyer the whole 
sur£Mie of the eyeball; the yeasels can be readily seen with the naked 
eye, and can be made to moye by robbing the eyelid gently oyer the 
sur&ce of the eye. Should the redness be of a pale pink colour, pro* 
dueed by yessels so minute as only to be discerned through a powerfid 
lens, arranged in the form of a ring round the cornea, and not remove- 
able by pressure, inflammation of the deeper seated textures of the 
eye is indicated, and the disease is no longer amenable to domestic 
remedies. It should be remembered further, that the two forms of 
injection may co-exist, and that the pink ring, though present^ may 
be completely conoealed by the more superficial and florid yasoularity, 
and this is more or less the case in many of the more serious inflam- 



INFLAlfHATIOK OF THE ETE. 



255 



mations of the eye ; careful search shoiild therefore be made for other 
symptoms indicatiye of danger. Severe pain is always a suspicions 
symptom, and the more so when it occurs in panoysms, and is seated 
in the hone of the brow or temple. The iris should be carefully 
examined, and compared with that of the healthy eye ; if it present 
the slightest change of colour, or if the pupil have lost its perfectly 
circular form, and clear, sharp margin, it may be safely ccmcluded 
that the disease is of a formidable character. The same may be said 
if the cornea has become dim and hazy, like a piece of glass which 
ha9 been breathed upon; or when, with a thick, mattery discharge, 
its margin is surrounded by a prominent ring or wall of swollen 
conjunctiva. This last symptom indicates one of the most rapidly 
destructive diseases to which the eye is liable, twenty-four or thirty 
hours being sometimes sufficient for the total loss of the organ ; not 
a moment therefore, when it ia observed, should be lost in sending 
for medical assistance, pending the arrival of which, the nitrate of 
silver drops may be used, and the eyes covered with rags wet with 
the alum lotion, rendered as cold as possible by loe, if it can be 
procured. 

CoNJuircTiviTxs, or inflamibatton of theoonjunctiva, is common 
among newly-born infants, and furnishes the Blind Asylums with a large 
proportion of their inmates. The moment the slightest discharge is per^ 
ceived, the alum lotion should be assiduously used, at least once every 
hour, great care being taken to avoid any pressure on the eyeball in 
opening the eye; but it is only the slightest cases that can be safely 
intrusted to domestic management. 

The severer forms of inflammation of the conjunctiva are highly 
contagious, and, practically, it is safer to take the same view even of 
milder cases ; the hands, therefore, should be carefully washed each 
time that the eye is touched; and all handkerchiefis, towels, or sponges 
used by the patient, should be soaked in boiling water before they 
are used by any other person, 

The same form of inflammation which sometimeB remains in the 
lining membrane of the lower eyelid after an acute attack, frequently 
occurs independently of any more active symptoms. The eyelids feri 
stiff, heavy, and itchy ; they stick together on awaking in the morning, 
and can only be opened after patient bathing, and frequently at the 
expense of tearing out the eyelashes. Beading, writing, or minute 
work of any kind, renders the eyes weak and irritable, and bright 
light, whether artificial or natural, la painful ; the increased and viscid 
secretion of the conjunctiva is smeared over the cornea, especially at 



S50 HOUSIHOU) HBDlCniE AMD BOXQEKT. 

nigb^ Nndsring Uw oys dim, and ginng « oradle en appuMoee m 
if it ir«n aumnnded by & laiga Italo, Thioh dia^qiMn irli«a tha ay* 
ia ndibed. Sneh iMirw tiie b«>( treated by tba alnnt lodoa and tlia 
•intmMit already dawribed, tagethsT ■wiiit ffteat attantton to clsanU- 
Bern, and avoidanoe of muints work, capedBlly by ortiQoial light 
As time i* almcM inTariably MHne diitmbaDoe of the digeMin organi) 
amall doaea of rliubMb and Uoatbonat* of aoda, five gnins of tha 
braiM and tan of the lattai, may be taken ni^t and mondng, 
loDOidkkg to tha efibot prodoeed upon tha bowell; and wina and 
■piritl ahonld bo abetaioed bom, ea thoy invariably eg^arata the 



lanwBiOH OF Smaix Bodisb, aoch aa ineeota or minute particles 
of dnit or grarel, into the eye, in a Tray common aooident. Theee are 
ganerally «ooq wadnd out by tlra iaares««d B«(a^itioa of tean irhich 
tbay ^ite, aided by tha motjon of As eyelldi-, but eomelimea they 
are not so easily gat rid of, aad aa thty oocaaion great pain, It ia 
i m po rtan t to knov how (hey may b« remoTed. If vinbte, this ia rea^y 
dons with 6ie oor^er of a handkMoloeA or atill better, with a camel- 
hair brush. 

It often b^ipttu, hoveTOr, that irtnle th«re can be no doubt that 
they are still in the ayc^ nothi&g whaterer can be leen ; in such ci 
we may be otmfldeat of finding tliem adbering to the under surface of 
the upper eyelid, iDuae- 
diatoly in front of llie 
oBTUMi, and in order to 
bring them into Tiew, it 
ia neeeieary that the lid 
b« inrertod, aa in the 
wood-out, or turned in- 
aide out. Tbi« UtUe 
opeiatian may be done 

in the following way : — ■ 

Borne irf fha osntrol ejre- 
loahea abould b« firmly 
Mixed between the finger 
and thumb of the left 
hand, and tiie lid polled 

dow u w ai J^ and- ali^idy away, tnm &» eye ; the end of a fenitting- 
needJa, a frobe, the writing end of a pattiA peseil-oaM, or any gmoH 
inatrument, ahonld then be appHfid about thrse-eigfatlu of an ineh 
bom tha bolder of the Ud, n>d gant^ pveaaed dewswarde, while witli 



. BOBEIGK BODIES IN* TH£ ETK* 257 

the left 2»Bd the lldia foldod upwards orer it. If this he done rapidly 
and gently, not the slightest pam 10 occaaioned, and it is tendered 
oittdh i&Dxe tesy if the patient refrains from reaiatiag by forcibly 
attempting to doae.the eye. When inyerted, the little speok of dnvt 
may be aeen adhering ta the soi&ce of the eyelid, and may be 
remored with the comer of a handkerchief, or a camel-hair bnuh« 
If the fiearoh ia still froitleaa, whieh is seldom the ease, and if proper 
assietanoe cannot be proeured, the upper eyelid should be pulled 
gently forwairds from the eye by one person, while an asaiBtant directs 
ft stteam of tepid water under it by means of s syringe, taking great 
cairfl not to touch the eye with the nozzle of the instrument These 
and all other manipulatbtis about the eye should be eonduoted with 
extreme gentleness, as rou|^ usage not only increases the irritation 
it is designed to aUeyiate, but may be productive of serious inflamma^ 
tioB4 Female fihgera, when aTailahle, wiH be found mocs soft and 
deUcate than the homy digits of the rougher eer. 

Workers in atone and in metals frsegnently get small particles in 
the eye,^ which they term " fixes," and which, instead of resting upon 
the eyelids, are finnly 6xed upon the surface of the cornea. These 
^' fires" are minute chips of the metal, generally in a state of fusion, 
sparks whi^ are strud^: off redrhot by. the chisel or file; in some 
instances they rest merely iipoi^ the aur&oe of the cornea, and may 
be removed by a steady hand by. means of a small metal spatula, such 
as ia commonly uaed as a toothpick ; the upper eyelid should be care- 
fioUy fixed, aud the instrument should be applied with the lightest 
possible touoh. Very frequently, however, they are deeply buned in 
the substance of the oomea, and so firmly fixed that it is often a 
matter of difficulty to remove them, even with the appropriate instnu' 
meats* Nothing can be more datigerous than the attempts which are 
fre^u^tly made by workmen to remove these particles for themselves 
with the point of a penknile or other coarse instrament, and many 
eyes are annually lost in consequence of such rough treatment. On 
I the other hand, equally disastrous resulta may follow from leaving 
them where they are, jmd at the best, much pain, and a small opacity 
fr6m the tustiag of the metal, and the ulceration caused by its pre- 
sence. If proper assistance, therefore, cannot be i»rocured, a solutioh 
of sulphate of oopper (Uue stone), of the strength of two graizu of 
the salt to one of water, should be applied to the eye by means of ft 
small eye-bath, and retained there^ or repeated from time to time^ 
u&tU the particle of metal has been dissolved. This method has oidy 
been recently propo9ed, but is said to have succeeded in several 



258 



HOUSEHOLD MJBPICINB AND SUBGEBT^ 



T^ 



instancea; there can be.no question that it k vnoh safer than the 
rough use of instruments by unpractised hands. 

Mothers freqnently receiye a scratch pa the cornea from the sharp 
Uttle nails of their infants — an aendent which, trivial as it may 
appear, causes ezcessiye pain. If the eye be carefully examined in 
different lights, a minuts iiiraslon of the outer inyestment may be 
detected, by which tbe deeper and sensitive layers are exposed to the 
Motion of the4Bf!elid8 in their incessant motions, so that the pain is 
incessant. The best application, in such cases, is a drop of pure and 
poilBeily fresh castor-oil, which fills up £he little fiorrow to the leyel 
of the surrounding parts, and protects the sensithre surface from fric- 
tion ; other oils might answer the purpose, but from its viscidity, and 
unirritating qualities, castor-oil should be preferred when it can be 
procured. 

Accidents to the cornea, of whatever sort, occurring to persons in 
a weak state of health, especially when this has been occasioned by 
intemperance and debauchery, are very liable to be followed by 
abscess, penetrating through the whole thickness of its texture ; the ins 
then protrudes through the opening, the pupil is closed, and the sight of 
the eye is destroyed, or so much impaired that it can only be rendered 
available by an operation. Such persons, therefore, should be parti- 
cularly careful when they meet with injuries, and should place little 
confidence in their own medical skill. 

BuEBDiNG. — So far back as history throws any light on the 
subject, bleeding has been employed for the cure of disease, both 
in ^e most civilized and the most barbaroua countries ; and it was 
not till the present generation of surgeons sprang up that it received 
any material check. For the last twenty years the practice has been 
continually on the decline ; and of late the feeling against it has so 
gained ground, that many surgeons in large practice never bleed at 
all, and the others only in very rare instances. To bleed as men used 
to bleed half-a-century ago would soon injure the most eminent 
reputation. Perhaps in this respect men have rushed, as they are 
wont to do, from one extreme into the opposite. 

We are told that it is no longer the fashion — ^the practice of the 
day — to bleed ; that in consequence of our less active and more luxu- 
rious habits, we can no longer bear depletion as our forefathers did. 
But this is very doubtful ; for the men of the present day unque8tion<* 
ably enjoy better health, and perhaps more stamina, than those at 
any previous age. The abuse of the lancet rather arose from ignorance 
of true pathology, and of the evils that resulted from so much loss 



of blood, u well u trom want of better meana of controlliDg diseam. 
There la no longer any doubt tliat mnny paints were aaerifioed 
to pUebotomy, a> it waa pedantioally called, and that otbere were 
in no way beneSted by it. And here I miut niost aumeBtly 
entreat my readers to discard from their mind* die 
fallacy that, as soon aa an aafortunate pereoo falla 
from hia horse, or drops down in a fit, it is necesiary 
to bleed him; for in the majorily of oaaefl, a surer 
means «uuld not be ibund of dUpatohing the nutm. i 
to his grare. L 

When really neoesssry, the patient should be bled at |i 
the bend of the elbow ; and the surgeon having assured I 
himeelf by feeling that there is no art«ry pulsatiDg 
below the Toin he chooses, a bandage is tied light abave the elbow, ia 
the manner represented in the plate. The patient should bhaa snep 
a8tiak,or thebaokof achair; and when the mm begins to swell, it 
should be opened with a ibaip •laoder lancet, as in the cut. An 



oblique cnt, about one-third of an inch long, should be made acroea 
it The thumb of the left hand is placed on the Tein, just bebw the 
spot where it ia opened, to prevent the vessel from roUing, If no 



>i&««iMea*a 



*r T . t 



see 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICmS AND SURGEBT. 




blood fiowV) probftUy the tkhi only luus been divided, aid the Uue 

tBin may be Men between Hie eut edges ; if 

flOy it must be opened by a seeoud cat in the 

0$me dixeottoD. The thumb \A tiien te- 

moyed, and the blood aUoved to floW. It 

is yery rarely that more than half a pinty 

to a pint, requires to be dhiwn. To stop the 

flow of blood, the bandage is removed and the 

thumb placed oH the wound, whieh is then earefully cleansed ; a pad of 

lint is placed on it, and secured by another bandage, as in the cut< - 

V^coiNATioiK is not always so earefizlly pei^brmed as it might be. 
The lymph should be previously moistened with warm water ; and 
then the skin being stretched quite tight, three or four punoturea 
poiikting downwards should ^he made in the arm. The bleeding is 
then gentry stepped with cold water ; and when it haft ceased, tbe 
lymph should be inserted, and carefidly retained there for fidl five 
minutes. Both anns. should be vaccinated) and three ox* four good 
pustules secured. It sometimes happens that one vaccinator fails 
and another succeeds, simply from performing the operation with 
more care. 

TooTH-DEAwiNG should nevcT be attempted by any person who 
has not been practically instructed in the art. If the force 
be improperly applied, a moderate strength will shatter the tooth, or 
break it short off, rendering it a difficult task even for a skilful dentist 
to remove it. The sockets of three or four teeth have been wrenched 
off m masse ; and there are records of very serious injury arising 
from the imprudent attempts of unskillful persons. 

The bleeding which sometimes arises after tooth-drawing is best 
stopped, wheiy very severe, by plugging the cavity firmly with small 
pieces of lint or linen ; the compression being maintained by firmly 
closing the mouth. Cases, however, have occurred in which this 
caustic, a red-hot wire, and all means have failed to arrest the 
hemorrhage, and the patient died from loss of blood. 

Tbeatmbntop DaowNiNG. — ^Many lives are lost in cases of drowning, 
through the ignorance of those by whom the body is recovered from 
the water as to the proper steps to be taken to effect resuscitation. 
The long delay which takes place before medical aid can be procured 
extinguishes for ever the feeble spark of life, which might have been 
fanned into flame, had immediate assistance been at^habdi It la 
highly important, then, that every one should have dear ideas as tat> 
what is best to b^ done in sudi emergencies, do that not a moomit 



TEEATKENT OF DBOWNUffa 261 

ttftj be lost; «ad ai no time ii thU kaowledge xndre likely to be 
ealM into xequUitio& tbaa in tbe summer SMwtbB, whrnt every pool 
end stres«a is thronged iriUi bethersi tod euch Moideiits are rifoi It 
is soeroely neoeasary to preiaise a waixiing agaioat oertain rude and 
barbsroufl piaoticei wbtohvere formerly in Togue, wiUi the view of 
freeing the body from the water whioh is siraUowed in dzovning^ by 
hanging ii up by the beelsi rolling it oyer bairels» dbs. ; such unooulii 
treatment eonld have no other effect than to accelerate and insure 
deatib. The first object should be to convey the body to the nearest 
house as rapidly as possible, sending on a messenger beforehand to 
direct the pxepaeation of fires, hot water, &c. The manner in 
whidi the body ia carried is not devoid of importance. If the head 
he allowed to hang down unaupported, any effort at respiration will 
be prevented, and the free xetum of bieod firom the brain will be 
impeded ; if therefore a shutter, door, or tail-board of a cart cannot 
be procured, the head must be supported by a person for the purpose. 
Upon arriving at the house the body should be instantly stripped and 
placed in a well-wamied bed, or what is better, on a table, sofa, 
er boaxde, supported upon tressels, before a large fire, where a tem- 
perature of 75 or 80 degrees can be maintained, and surrounded 
with hot bottles or heated bricks wrapped in flannel ; care should be 
taken to ascertain diat these ore not overheated, as serious burns 
have been caused by earelessness on this point. The mouth and 
noetHls should then be earefolly deansed from the slime and mucus 
with which they are clogged, and which would prevent the entrance 
of air into tiie wind-pipe, and then artlfieial respiration should be 
instantly commenced, bearing in mind that this is I3ie most important 
of all the remedies that ean be adopted, and that the soocker it is 
commenoed, the less time that is lost in preliminary preparationa, the 
more likely it is to be auoeessfnl. For tfaie purpose it is sufficient to 
eompresB forcibly the ribs and abdomen, so as to expel the air from the 
lungs ; upon remitting the pressure the ribs again expand by their 
own elasticity, and a fresh portion of air is drawn in. This should 
be done steadily and regularly about twenty*five times in a minute, 
and in the misanttme a form of bandadge recommended by Dr. Kaye 
may be prepared, by which the process may be carried on with less 
fatigue and ' greater regularity. Take a piece of blanket, strong 
eheety or any strong cloth that can be most readily procured, six .feet 
long and eighteen inches wide ; tear it lengthwise into six strips at 
eaoh end, each three inehes in width, and two feet long ; place the 
untom portion below the back, and cross the strips over the chest 



262 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

and abdomen, interlacing them with each other : the Btripes are now 
to be gathered into a bundle at each side, and seized by two pOTsons^ 
who, by alternately pulling and relaxing, imitate as closely as possible 
the natural respiratory motions. It may be well, at first, to insure 
the patency of the windpipe, by opening the mouth and pulling the 
tongue forcibly forwards ; to prevent its slipping, it should be held 
by a towel or handkerchief. Of so much importance is artificial 
respiration, that when the body has been long in the water it shottld 
be practised immediately on reooTering it, especially when Hiere is 
no house close at hand. At the same time the legs and arms should 
be briskly rubbed with the naked hand or a piece of warm flannel, to 
promote the capillary circulation ; tiiis, which is rather a fatiguing 
duty, may be performed by relays of assistants, who should remain 
in another room when not employed, as it is important to have the 
air as pure and uncontaminated as possible. As soon as the patient 
is able to swallow, a tea-spoonfiil of wine, or brandy and water, may 
be given ; this should be done with caution, as if hastily attempted it 
may enter the windpipe ; when the full power of swallowing has 
returned, stimulants maybe given more freely. It is advantageous, 
sometimes, to commence the treatment by a large clyster of warm 
spirits and water. These measures should be actively persevered in 
for at least six hours, as several instances are on record where: such 
perseverance has been rewarded by the recovery of the patient, eve^ 
when the length of the immersion might have induced the opinion 
that any attempt would be'hopeless. 

Taeatment of Hakgino. — The first thing to do when a person 
is found hanging is to cut him down, remove the cord from the neck, 
and dash cold water freely upon the head, face, and chest Bleed, if 
blood will flow; apply hot turpentine to the legs and chest; and 
treat as directed in the preceding article upon drowning. A person 
who has been suspended more than a very few minutes can be seldom 
restored. 

GHOKiNQ.T-When a peHon has a fish-bone in the throat, press 
.the forefinger upon the root of the tongue so as to induce vomiting; 
if this does not succeed, let the patient swallow a large piece of bread 
or potato ; if still unrelieved, send for the surgeon. 

Suffocation from Noxious Oassss, &c. — ^Bemove to the fresh 
air; dash cold water on the face, neck, and breast; keep up the 
warmth of the body ; apply mustard poultices or hot turpentine to the 
soles of the feet and calves of the leg; and treat gener&Qy as in 
drowning. 



DRESSINGS. 263 



CHAPTER XXX. 

MISCELLAiniOITS NOTICES, 

DRESsmos are substances usually applied to parts for the purpose 
of soothing, promoting their re-union when divided, protecting them 
from external injuries, as a means of applying various medicines, 
to absorb discharges, protect the surrounding parts, and securing 
cleanliness. 

Certain instruments are required for the application of dressings 
in domestic surgery, namely, scissors, a pair of tweezers, or simple 
I forceps, a knife, needles and thread, a razor, a lancet, apiece of lunar 
caustic in a quill, and a sponge. 

The materials required for dressings consist of lint, scraped linen, 
carded cotton, tow, ointments spread on calico, adhesive plaster, 
compresses, pads, poultices, old rags of linen or calico, and 
water. 

The following rules should be attended to in applying dressings : — 
1. Always prepare the new dressing before removing the old one. -2. 
Always have hot and cold water at hand, and a vessel in which to 
place the foul dressings. 3. Have one or more persons ready to 
assist, and teU each person what they are to do before you commence — 
it prevents confusion ; thus one is to walh out and hand the sponges, 
another to heat the adhesive plaster, or hatid the bandages and dress- 
ings, and, if requisite, a third to support the limb, &c. 4. Always 
stand on the outside of a limb to dress it. 5. Place the patient in as 
easy a position as possible so as not to fatigue him. 6. Arrange the 
bed ufter changing the dressings ; but in some cases you will have to 
do so before the patient is placed on it. 7. Never be in a hurry when 
applying dressings; do it quietly. 8. When a patient requires moving 
from one bed to another, the best way is for one person to stand on 
each side of the patient, and each to place an arm behind his back, 
while he passes his arms over their necks ; then let their other arms 
be passed under his thighs, and by holding each others' hands the 
patient can be raised with ease, and removed to another bed. If the 
leg is injured a third person should steady it, and if the arm, the 
same precaution should be adopted* Sometimes a stout sheet is passed 
under the patient, and by several people holding the sides, the patient 
is lifted without any fatigue or much disturbance. 



2H HOUSEHOLD ICEI>1CINB IKD 



LiMT nuy be made in • bnray, bj nailing the cornera of k 
I^eoe of old linen to a board, and scraping itt aoitace irith a 
kuifs. It it mad either alone or opiMdvith ointment. Scraped 
lint i« the fins filamentt from ordinkry lint^ aod it tued to 
ttimulate ulcen and ttmoA diwdargea ; it i« what the French call 

SaniRD List is made iotoTariouiBhapeB, for paTtieuUrpnrpoaea. 

(For eitunpls, irhen it is aereired np into a eonlcal shape, 
» in tile ont, it ia called a lent, imd ia mod to dilate 
AiluLoui. iqieaii^ w m to allew the oattn to e«e«pe 
freelj, and to plug vomidi, id u to promote the fennatton of 
a clot of blood, and thus arrest blee^ng. When it ia 
loUed into littie balls Ihgj' are called twtetto, and are 
uaed tbc abaorbing mMter in eavities or blood in votmds. 
Another uaeful form is made by tolling a rasse of seraped 
lint into a long roll and tlien tying it In the middle with 
a piece of thread ; tha middle is then doubled and poshed into a deep 
seated woond bo a« to presi upon the bleeding Teasel, while the end* 
remain loose and assist in formingaclot; or it is used in deep-seated 
ukars to absorb the matter and keep the edges apart 
This farw ii called the taui'ihimet, Anotiier form is tliat 
called the jMb'*, iriiiah ii merely a bdl of eonq^d tint 
tied up in a pieoe of linen rag, m in the oat. Thia 
it used in the tnalment of protrusion of the atcrtk 
inehildrwi. 

CAttDBD ConoH is used as a dreating for laperflcial bums, aitd 
care should be taken to Ave it from specks, as flies are apt to lay 
their eggs Dtere, and generate maggots. 

Tow is shieBy onployed aa s padding for splints ; as oompraiiea ; 
aad alto aa an outer dreaung where tlMi« is much ditobat^ from a 

OnrmmrTB are tprsad on calico, lint, or even tUa layers 
of tow, by meant of a knife ; they should not be too thieUy 

ikssBBCTB PidWnft is CM into Mrips, ranging in width aoeor&g 
to fhe oatare of the woaod, &o., but die oenal wiAh is about tiiree> 
qnartna of an Indi. Isinglass plaster is not so uritating at diachylon, 
and is more easily removed, 

Oiiii iiiwiwii are made of ^deoss of linen, otlioa, lint, or tow, 
dmbM or ont into Tarious Atgea. They an used to dtmina 
dresungs in their ptaeeB, and to apply an equal prosiure orer parts. 



PADS — POULTICES. 



265 




Thfif ahould ba free from damS) hemi, aad k&ote. Ordinary oom^ 

prauet aro aqiuure, oblong, aad trianxolar. The 
pierced oompieed, $$ in the out, ie made by folding 
up a aquare pieee of linen fiye or aJjc timea on 
itaelf^ and then nieking ihe aidea with the soiaaort, 
ao as to cut out amaU pieeea. It ia then opened 
out, and apread with ointment It ia applied to 
discharging surfacea, for the purpose of allowing the maftter to paaa 
fre^y through tho hole% and ia frequently oovered by a thin layer of 
tow. jCompMuea are alao made ia the ahape of the Kalteae oinaa, 
and half a croaa, sometimes split singly, and at other times doubly ; 
or they are graduated by placing aquare pieeea of folded doth oaone 
another, so arranged ihat they decrease m sice eaeh time. Theae asa 
used for keeping up preaaure upoa certain parte. 

Pjlbb are made by aewing tew inside pieeea of linen^ or folding 
linen and sawing the pieces together. They are used to keep off 
pressure from parts, such as that caused by splinta in fr«oturea. 

PouLTiCBa are naunUy made of Uneeed-med, oatmeal, or bitead, 
^Hiuft oombined witk water or other fluids; aometimea they are 
made of earrota, charcoal) potatoes, yeast, linseed-meal, &o. ; but the 
beat and moat economical kind of poultice in a fribric made of sponge 
and wool felted together, and backed by Indian-rubber. It is called 
** Markwick'a Patent Spongio-piliney" and gained a priie model at the 
Great Xz^bitiim, —no email reeonmiendation for its use. The method of 
ueing thiavery dean and excellent poidtioe is aa foUowa :*-▲ piece of 
the material of the required form and size iscut off, and the edgea ajre 
paied or beiveUed off with a pair of sciaBorSy ao that the caeutohouo 
may come in contact with the surrounding skin in order to preyent 
evaporation of the fluid med ; for, as it only forma the yehicle^' we 
can employ the rarioua poultioea generally used i^ith much leas ex- 
penditure of time and n»ney, and increased deanlineaa^ For ei(-* 
ample, a 'rinegar poultice is made by moistening the fobrio with 
diatiUed tinegar ; an alum poultice^ by using a strong solution of 
ahim ; a charcoal poultice, by sprinkling powdered charcoal on the 
moisteDedsutfoee of the material ; a yeast pouUice, by using wanned 
yeaety and moistening the fohric with hot water, which is to be wdl 
aqoeeaed out prcYious to the absorption of the yeast ; a beer ponl- 
tioe» by employing warm porter drega or strong beer aa the fluid ; 
and a carrot poultice, by using the eoEpressed and eraporeted liquor of 
boUedcaurota. The maiterial costs about 0Qe<*&rthing a tquare inch. As 
a fomealatimi it ia moat inTaloaUey and by moiatening the material 



266 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUBGEBT. 



with compound camphor liniment or hartahom, it acta the same as 
a mustard poultice. It is a real blessing to the poor, who cannot 
afford to waste ''the staff of life" in making poultices. 

Cold Water is used as a lotion to keep the parts cool, or as a 
dressing to unhealthy ulcers ; it is applied by means of lint dipped 
in it and laid over the part, so as to allow the water to evaporate ; 
while sometimes the lint is covered with a piece of oiled silk to prevent 
evaporation. 

Fomentations consist of pieces of flannel or spongio-piline, dipped 
in hot water, wrung out, applied as hot as can be borne, and frequently 
changed. 

Bandages are stripes of calico, linen, flannel, muslin, elastic- 
webbing, bunting, or some other substance of various lengths, free from 
hems or dams, soft and imglazed. They are better after they have been 
washed. Their uses are to retain dressings, apparatus, or parts of 
the body in their proper positions, support the soft parts, and main- 
tain equal pressure. 

Bandages are simple and compound ; the former are simple strips 
rolled up tightly like a roll of ribbon. There is also another simple 
kind which is rolled from both ends, — this is called a double- 
headed bandage. The compound bandages are formed of many 
pieces. 

Bandages for the head should be two inches wide and five yards 
long ; for the neck, two inches wide and three yards long ; for the 
arm, two inches wide and seven yards long ; for the leg, two- 
and-a-half inches wide and seven yards long; for the thigh, three 
inches wide and eight yards long; and for the body, four or six 
inches wide and ten or twelve yards long. 

To apply a single-headed bandage, lay the outside of the end 
next to the part to be bandaged, and hold the roll between the little, 
ring, and middle fingers, and the palm of the left hand, using the 
thumb and fore finger of the same hand to guide it, and the right 
hand to keep it firm, and pass the bandage partly round the leg 
towards the left hand. It is sometimes necessary to reverse this 
order, and therefore it is well to be able to use both hands. Particular 
parts require a different method of applying bandages, and therefore 
I shall describe the most useful separately ; and there are different 
ways of putting on the same bandage, which consist in the manner 
the folds or turns are made. For example, the circular bandage is 
formed by horizontal turns, each of which over-laps the one made 
before it ; the spiral consists of spiral turns ; the oblique follows a 



BANDAGES. 



267 




course oblique or slantiiig to the centre of the limb ; and the ze- 
current folds back again to the point whence it started. 

Circular bandages are used for the neck, to retain dressings on 
any part of it, or for blisters, setons, &o. ; for the h^hd, to keep dress- 
ings on the forehead or any part contained within a circle passing 
round the head ; for the arm, previous to bleeding; for the leg, above 
the knee ; and for the fingers, as in the cut. 

To confine the ends of bandages, some persons use pins ; others slit 
the end for a short distance, and 
tie the two strips into a knot as in 
the cut; and some use a strip of ad- 
hesiye plaster, but this is a dirty 
method. Always place the point of 
a pin in such a position that it should 
not be likely to prick the patient, or the person dt>essing the 
limb, or be likely to draw out by using, the limb ; therefore, as a 
general rule, turn the head of the pin from tiie free end of the 
bandage, or towards the upper part of the limb. 

The oblique bandage is generally used for arms and legs to retain 
dressings. 

The spiral bandage is generally applied to the trunk and extremi- 
ties; but it is apt to fall off even when very carefully applied; therefore 
we generally use another, called the recurrent. 

The recurrent bandage (as in the cut) is the best kind of bandage 
that we can em- 
ploy for general 
purposes. The 
method of put- 
ting it on is as 
follows: — ^Apply 
the end of the 
bandage that is 
free, with the 
outside of it next 
to the skin, and 
hold this end 
with the finger 

and thumb of the left hand, while some one supports the heel of the 
patient ; then with the right hand pass the bandage oyer the piece 
you are holding, and keep it crossed thus, imtil you can place your 
right forefinger upon the spot where it crosses the other bandage, 




wiiott it must be kept ftrm. Now hold tiit nil of tke liinilinn in 
your left hand, witli the pafan lookiDg i^vaidi^ and takmg can to 
keep that part of the handapt between jonr xi^ Ijae i ngei, and the 
roll in your leftliand qmAe ilack; torn your left handover, and bring 
the bandage down upon the leg ns in the eat; then paaa the loQ 
nnder the leg towarda your light hand, and npest this antQ the leg 
is bandaged up to the knee, taking can not to dng tiie bandage at 
any time Auing the piooess of bandaging. When yon anive at die 
knee, pass the bandage roiind the leg in cixoles just below die knee, 
and pin it as nsuaL Bandaging is Tery easy, and if yon once aee any 
one apply a bandage properly, and attend to these rales, then will 
not be any difficulty ; but bear one thing in mind, without whieh yon 
will neyer pnt on a bandage even deoently ; that ia, noTer to dng or 
pull at a bandage, but make the turns while it is slack, and yon have 
your right forefinger ^aeed npon the point when it is to be folded 
down. When a limb is properly bandaged, the folds ahould ran as 
in the annexed cut. 




A bandage for the chest is always placed upon the patient wfaHe 
Id a sitting postiire ; and it may be put on in circles or spirally. It 
is used in fractures of the ribs, to retain dressings, and after seyere 
contusions. 

A bandage for the belly is placed on the 
patient spirally, carrying it from above 
downwards. It is used to compress the 

belly after tapping in dropsy, after child- WMy^SH^ //y 'Nfem * 
birth, or to retain dressings. 

The hand is bandaged by crossii^ the 
bandage over the back of the hand. 

For the head, a bandage may be circular, 
as h in the cut ; or spiral, as a in the same 
figure ; or both. In applying the one, com- 
mence by placing one circular turn just 
over the ears ; then bring it down from left 
to right, and round die head again so as to alternate a spiral with 




BASDAOES. 269 




I 



a eivDular tusn. It is vaed to rotaan dresaiiigs on tbe head, ov ovet the 
eife ; but tbis fona soon gets slack. The circular bandage ig the 
best, erossiBl^ it oter both eyes. 

For the leg aodi loot — Place the end just 
above the outer ankle^ and make two circular 
turns to prevent ItsaZippiBg ; then bring it down 
from the inside of the foot over the instep 
towards the outer part ; pass it under the sole 
of the foot, and upwards and inwards over the 
instep towards the inner ankle, then round the 
ankle, and repeat again, so as to make it as in 
the annexed figure. 

Aa it sdmetiaies h]q)pens that it is necessary to apply a bandage at 
once, and thtt maJterials are not at hand, it is desirable to know how 
to subrtitnte something else that any one may apply with ease. This 
is found to be effected by handkerchiefs, and an experienced surgeon 
(Mr. Mayor) has paid great attention to the subject, and brought it 
to much perfeetioo.. It is to him, therefore, that I am indebted for 
most of theae lunta. 

Any ordinary handkerchief will do ; but a square of linen folded 
into various shapes answers better. The shapes generally required 
are as follow : — ^The triangle, the long square, the cravat, and the 
cord. 

The triangular handkerchief used for the head is made by folding 
it from comer to comer. Place the base round the head, and 
the short part hanging down behind; then tie the long ends 
over it. 

The long-square is made by folding the handkerchief into three 
parts, or double it once upon itself. Used as a bandage to the ribs, 
belly, &c. If one handkerchief is not long enough, sew two to- 
gether. 

The cravat is folded as asual with cravats. It is used as a bandage 
for the head, arms, legs, feet, neek, &c. 

The cord is used to compress vessels, being, in fact, a temporary 
tourniquet when a knot is ntade in it, and placed over the vessel 
to be oomp9*eflS€«L It is merely a handkerchief twisted in its long 
diameter. 

Sometimes it is necessary to apply two or more handkerchief^, as 
in ii broken eoUar^bone, or when it is necessuy to keep dressings 
under the arm. It ia applied by knotting the two ends of one hand* 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE 4HD 



tuntiief together u in tbe cut, and paMing the left enn through it, 
then poMiiig another 



right arm, and tying it 
aa represented in the 
figure. By this means 
we can brace the shoul- 
ders veil back, and the 
handkerchief trill press 
firmly over tbe broken 
collar - bone ; besides, 
this fonn of bandage 
does not readily alip or 
get slack, but it pe- 
qmreato be combined 
with the aliag, in order 
to keep the arm steady. 
When a woman has 
' an inflamed breaatdiat 
requires support, or 

dressing to be kept to it, tie two ends of the handkerchief round her 

neck, and bring the body of 

it over the breast^ and pass 

it upwards and backwards 

under the arm of that side, 

and tie the ends of those 

around the neck. 

An excellent sHng is 

formed by placing one hand- 

kerehief around the neck, 

and knotting tbe two ends 
T tbe breast-bone, as in 

the out; then placing the 

other in triangle uadet the 
, to be supported with 

the base near to the hand, tie tbe ends oyer the other handkerchief; 

and pin the top to the olher part after passing it around the elbow. 
Cdppihq ia performed by throwing a piece of paper dipped into spirit 

if wine, and ignited into a wioe-glass, and placing it over the part, such 

IS the neck, temples, &o. This is dry cupping. It draws the fleah into 

the glass, and causes a determination of blood to tbe parl^ which is useful 



CnPPINO— LEECHEB. 271 

in headachB, or miray other complainta. This ia an excellent method 
of eitracdng the poison from 
woundt mode by addera, nud 
dogs, fish, See. 

0rdiiiU7 Cupping ii per- 
focmed the same as dry oupping, 
with this exception, that the 
part ia scarified or scratched with 
B lancet, so as to cause the blood 
to flow. Then the glasa ia placed 
over it again with the lighted 
paper in it, and when sofflcient 
blood has bsBD taken away, then the parts are sponged, and a piece 
of sticking plaster applied over them. 

TuK Lbbch used formedical purposes is called the Simdo mtdi- 
einalit, to distjngoish it froD) other Tsrieties, such as the S. languiiuffo. 



01 horse-leech, and the S, pitniKialit, or Lisbon leech. It Taries 

from 2 to 1 inches in length, and is of a blackish brown colour, 

marked on the back with six yellow spots, and edged with a yellow 

line on each side. Formeriy leeches were supplied by Lincolnshire, 

Yorkshire, and other fenny counties ; 

but latterly moat of the leeches are 

, proouredfromFrance,wheretheyare 

> now becoming scarce. 

When leeches are applied to a part 
it should be thoroughly freed Aom 
down or hair by shaving, and all dirt, 
liniments, &c. carefully and effectually 
cleaned away by washing. If the 
leech ia hungry it will soon bite ; but 
BometinieB great difficulty ia experi- 
enced in getting the animal to faaten. 
Wheo this is the case, roll the leech 
in a little porter, or moisten 
torfaee with a little blood or mUk, or sugar and water. Leeches 



272 HOUSEHOLD XEDXOINB AMD 8URGERT. 



may be applied by holding thorn over the part with a pieoe of liaea 
cloth, or by means of a glass, as in the out. 

When applied to the gams, care ahould be taken to uae a lee<^ 
glass, as they are apt to creep down the patient's throat ; a large 
swan's quill will answer the purpose af a leech glass. When leeches 
are gorged, they will drop off themselTcs ; never tear them off from a 
person, but just dip the point of a moistened finger in eome salt and 
touch them with it. 

Leeches are supposed to abetract about two drachma of blood, or 
six leeches draw about an ounce ; but this is independent of the 
bleeding after they have come of^ and more blood generally flows 
then than during the time they are sucking. 

After leeches come away, encourage the bleeding by flannels 
dipped in hot water and wrung out dry, and then apply a warm 
spoQgio^piline poultice. If the bleeding i« not to be encouraged, 
cover the bites with rag dipped in olive oil, or spread with pip^rmaoeti 
ointment, having previously sponged the parts clean. 

When bleeding continues from leech bites, and it is desirable to 
stop it, apply pressure with the fingers over the part, or dip a rag in 

a strong solution of alum and lay it over them, or 
/i- use the tincture of sesquiohloride of iron, or 

apply a leaf of matico to them, placing the under 
ijk^^^^^ surface of ihe leaf nextix) the skin, or touch each 
bite, with a finely-pointed piece of lunar caustio ; 
and if all these tried in euooession fail, pass a 
fine nfeedle through a fold of the skin so as to 
include the bite, and twist a piece of thread round it, as in the figure. 
Be sure never to allow any one to go to sleep with leech bites bleed- 
ing, without carefully watching them ; and never apply too many to 
children. 

After leeches have been used they should be placed in water, 
containing 16 per cent» of salt, which facilitates the removal of the 
blood they contain ; and they should afterwards be placed one by one 
in warm water, and the blood forced out by gentle pressure. The 
leeches should then be thrown into fresh water, which is to be renewed 
every twenty-four hours; and they may then be re-applied after an 
interval. of eight or ten days ; a second time they may be disgorged, 
after which they should be placed in reservoirs made of millstones, 
covered with Boman cement, and filled with water, which should be 
frequently changed. The bottom of the reservoir should be covered 
with a layer of clay, 14 inches deep, in which several aquatic plants 




J 



BLISTERS— APPLICATION OF COLD« 27S 

(the typha, and iris pseudo-acoms, for example), are allowed to 
grow. Instead of the reservoir you may use a tuh with lumps of 
clay moistened with water, and moss, and stones; they are thus 
enahled to clean themselves from the slime which covers their bodies 
and kills them. 

If a leech is accidentally swallowed, an emetio of salt and water is 
to be exhibited. 

ScABiFicATioN is useful in severe contusions and inflammation of 
parts. It is performed by scratching, or slightly cutting through 
the skin with a lancet, holding the lancet as a pen when ruling 
lines upon paper. 

Elistbrs may be allowed to remain on in ail adult for about 
twelve hours, and are best applied at bed-time. When they are em- 
ployed in children, from four to six hours will be long enough to effect 
their purpose, and a piece of tissue paper may closely cover the 
surface of the blistering plaster. In dressing a blister, care must be 
taken, in letting out the fluid with a pair of pointed scissors, not to 
remove the external layer of skin which has been raided, otherwise 
the pain will be much increased from exp69ure of the tender true skin 
to the air. A mild form of blister, or rather irritant, is that of 

Mustard, made by stirring flour of mustard and water together ; 
the addition of vinegar appears to diminish its activity — at least 
this is the case with brown mustard. Sometimes the mustard 
may be diluted with an equal part of linseed meal, and, in ether 
cases, such as those of children, a teaspoonful or two of mustard 
may be added to a bread poultice. As a general rule, it should not 
remain on longer than ten or fifteen minutes; in the child, five 
minutes will suffice. 

Application op Cold. — This may be used to the head in inflam- 
matory aflections of the brain and other cases, either in the form of 
ice or ice cold water. When ice is used, a bladder may be one-third 
filled with pounded ice, and the air is then carefully pressed out of 
the remainder of the bladder, which is then to be securely tied. This 
will conveniently fit the head. Instead of the bladder, a Mackintosh 
water cushion may be filled to one-half of its capacity with ice cold 
water, and the patient's head placed upon it. The water can, 
in this way, be readily changed. The linen cloth, which is com-i- 
monly used with the ice cold water, should be light, and frequently 
renewed. In all severe cases the head must be shaved before cold 
is applied. 

In cases where ice or snow cannot be procured, a freez- 



274 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUROEKY. 

ing mixture, consisting of the following substances, mavbe em- 
ployed : — 

Sal ammoniac, ... 6 ounces. 

Nitre, .... 5 ounces. 

Water, .... 16 ounces. 

Baths ^The Cold Bath ranges from about 50" Fahr. to 70° Fabr. 

It acts by producing a nerrous impression or shock, by cooling the 
surface of the body, and subsequently by the occurrence of the re- 
action or glow. If the person is weak, this reaction may not occur, 
and then the use of the cold bath must be given up. As the cold 
bath produces injurious effects, when immersion is continued for too 
long a time, such as headache, drowsiness, difficult breathing, and 
cramps, the individual using it, in order to increase the tone of the 
system, should be careful not to remain in the water longer than a few 
minutes. The cold bath can seldom be taken by a person in delicate 
health before breakfast; for there may not be strength to produce 
reaction. It is better to employ it after breakfast, but not too 
soon after taking food. It should be followed by active walking 
exercise. 

The Temperate Bath ranges from 70° to 85° Fahr. It is a good 
preparatory measure to the cold bath. 

The Tepid Bath has a temperature between 85° and 92° Fahr. 
It may be used at noon. One pound of salt to every pailful of 
water will make a bath of the strength of sea water. This addition 
will greatly improve the efficacy of the tepid bath. 

The Warm Bath ranges from 92° to 98° Fahr. 

The Eot Bath ranges from 120° to 160° Fahr. 

These and all other baths had better be employed by the 
invaUd only when recommended by his medical adviser, as there 
are cases in which the use of them would be injurious. The 
warm bath should not be used during the time digestion is 
going on. The patient should remain in the bath about twenty 
minutes. 

The Vapmir Bath differs according to the way of employing it, 
either by immersing the whole body in the vapour, so that this is 
inhaled, or by inclosing the body in a chamber or box, to which 
aqueous vapour is conveyed by a pipe connected with a boiler, 
so that the head is not exposed to the vapour, which there- 
fore is not breathed. The heating powers of the vapour bath, 



BATHS — LAYEMBNTS. 



275 



whether it is breathed or not, have been thus stated hj Dr. 
Forbes :— 



Tepid bath, ... 
Warm bath, ... 
Hot bath, 


NOT BHXATUBD. 


BBBATHXD. 


9e° to 106° 
106° „ 120° 
120° „ 360° 


90° to 100° 
100° „ 110° 
110° „ 130° 



Another mode of giving the vapour bath is the following : — ^The 
bather, undressed, is seated on a chair, and a pail of hot water is 
placed near him ; then the patient, the chair, and the bucket or pail are 
enveloped hj a blanket, either over his head, when it is intended 
that he should inspire the vapour, or pinned around his neck, when it 
is not to be inhaled. The body is soon enveloped in warm vapour, 
and one or two hot bricks may be thrown into the pail, should it be 
found necessary to increase the evolution of vapour ; but this must be 
carefully done, so as not to run the risk of scalding the patient. 

Cold Affusion. — ^When water, at a temperature of from 32° to 
60° Fahr., is poured over the body of the patient, it produces so 
powerful an effect on the system that the superintendence of a medical 
man will be required. When applied to the head only, as is often 
done to children, the head should be held over a basin, while water 
squeezed from a large sponge is allowed to fall from some height upon 
it. When it descends drop by drop upon the head, it has a powerful 
effect both in cooling that part, and in producing an impression on the 
nervous system. 

Gold and Tepid Sponging may be often employed with advantage 
where affusion would not be tolerated. It is very useful in abating 

heat of the surface ; if the individual is very debilitated, a little spirit 

may be added to the water. 

Shower Bath, — This is best employed on rising in the morning. 

If the patient is weak, the temperature of the bath should not be quite 

cold. Warm water should be put into the lower part of the bath for 

the feet. 

J)ouche Bath. — In this form of bath water is poured on the patient 

in a continuous stream from a jug held at some height above his 

head. The effect is very great if the height be considerable ; but is 

much moderated if held at a small distance, and if the water used 

be not quite cold. 

Lavements or Gltstebs differ in their effect accordiug to the 

quantity as well as the kind of liquid employed. The habit of constantly 



276 HOUSEHOLD MBDICINS AND 8UBOEBT. 

resorting to them, as a means of opening the hovels* is had. WhcA 
required to operate in this waj, the quantity of fluid for an in£EUDKb is 
ahout one ounce ; for a child, one to five years old, from three to four 
ounces ; for a youth, from six to fifteen years, firom five to eight ounces. 
The elastic bottle is yery conrenient for this purpose. The ordinary 
enema syringes, commonly sold in the shops^ answer well for adults. 



1 



CHAPTER XXXt 

SICK-ROOM MAKAGBMRNT. 

Thb BBD-.B00M. — The ehief points of importance, in determining- 
the situation of the room to be oocupied by a sick person, are, that it 
be of sice sufficient to allow free ventilation, without exposing tke 
patient to currents of cold air ; that there should be a fire-place in it, 
not dosed by a chimney board ; and that the windows should open 
from the top. It should have a northern aspect, in order to avoid 
the mid-day sun ; and be so situated as to be out of the way of all 
noise both of the homse and of the street. 

The importance of quietude is constantly witnessed by those who 
have much to do with the sick. The shock following any sudden 
noise in certain states of the bndn, and in commencing delirium, is 
sometimes very severe ; while the agitation created- by objects of 
fear, whether real or imaginary, is equally injurious to the patient. 
The weakened nervous system does not bear even slight noises ; and 
a heavy footstep, or even rustling the leaves of a book, or much 
whispering, cause restlessness and irritability, almost analogous to 
that condition of the brain which exists in the insane, in whom, 
according to Dr. ConoUy, the accidental '* slamming" of a door is 
sufficient to disarrange a whole ward for the day. 

All articles of furniture, which the patient does not require, had 
better be removed ; apd articles of clothing and damp linen should 
never be allowed to remain in the room. During the prevalence of 
certain diseases, to which a moist atmosphere is favourable, aa 
cholera, even the vessels which oontain water for the patientf a use 
had better only remain filled during the time they are likely to be 
required ; as the evaporation constantly taking place from thesmface 
of water renders the air of the room less dry than is desirable. 



THB BED-BOOM. v. 277 



A Fronoh bedstead, vithont oortaizis, is ordinarUy 1th9 best for the 
UBS of aa invalid, and in some cases it is desirable to have another 
placed in an adjoining room, to which the patient may be remored 
as occasion leqaires. In segaid to the bed on which the patient is to 
sleep, ordinary mattresses are too hard, especially in diseases attended 
with consideraUe debility, and of some duration ; and there i$ this 
disadrantage in the feather*bed, that it yields too much to pressure, 
and becomes knotty. Spring-stufibd mattresses are more saitable, as, 
irom their dastioity, they retain their form, and sre soffioiently soft. 
In all lingering diseases, however, attended with considerable emacia- 
tion, in which the patient remains long on his back, as in fever, 
palsy, or consumption, it is one of the most important duties of the 
nurse to observe frequently the state of the back over the more 
prominent bones. By changing the position of the patient from time 
to time, using small cushions filled with air or feathers, and the 
employment of such means as the me<tical man may direct, she may 
generally obviate the efibcts of pressure, and prevent the occurrence 
of what are called bed sores. It would be very easy to bring 
forward cases in which neglect of iMs point has been followed by 
fatal oonsequences, which otherwise would not have ensued, and 
which a little timely care would have prevented. 

A dergyman was lately brought under my notice, whose case 
strikiiigly exemplifies the importance of this point He was suffermg 
from paralysis of the lower half of the body. He was confbed to a couch, 
oonstnicted in such a way that it was unneoessary for him to be removed, 
even for the performance of any of the natural functions. The nurse 
neglected to inspect the back. The patient, from his disease, having 
lost dl sensibility of the part, made no complaint. The result was, 
that the part on which the patient rested mortified, to a considerable 
extent, before his medical attendant was aware it was in any way 
affected. The patient sank, not from the disease for which he came 
under can of his medical attendant, but from the local affection, and 
in ^Consequence of the neglect of his nurse. 

If, however, these attempts to prevent excoriation are not snc- 
eessfril, and pain and redness increase rather than diminish, the 
patient must be placed on the water-bed invented by Dr. Amott. In 
xtsing this bed it must be remembered that the head and shoulders have 
to be supported ; and therefore a thin mattress and pillow are required ; 
otherwise, in consequence of its greats weight, the trunk will sink down, 
while the extremities are tilted upwards. Or the patient may use 
one of the lately invented water-mattresses, which appears to answer, 



278 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

although, perhaps, not so completely as Dr. Amott's bed. A sofa for 
the use of the patient, during the time the bed is being made, and 
during convalescence, is, in many cases, a very desirable addition to 
the furniture of the sick room ; and also a reclining arm-chair, capable 
of being raised or lowered at will, is indispensable, since by its means 
the patient, as he regains his strength, may be gradually brought from 
a more or less recumbent to a sitting position. 

It is necessary to haye two tables in the room — one small and 
easily moyeable, placed by the patient's bedside, and on which may 
be placed such medicine or nourishment as is required for immediate 
use ; and at the foot of the bed another and larger table, for the yaiious 
medicines and other matters in occasional use. There should also be 
one or two drawers set apart for holding lint, bandages, linen rag, or 
articles rendered necessary by the peculiarities of the case, and also any 
prescriptions for medicines which the patient may have preyiously taken. 

A bed-table has also been constructed for inyalids, which is often 
yery useful in conyalescence. It is made so that the foot can be put 
under the bed, and the top of it project oyer, so as to hold anything 
required to be reached easily by the patient, as his food, or a book. 
The top may be made to rise higher, or be lowered, and is fixed to any 
height by means of a screw. 

It is desirable that there should be also in the room a graduated 
two ounce and a minim measure ; a small half-coyered cup, with a 
spout, to administer fluids to the patient without raising him; a 
thermometer to regulate the temperature of the room ; and a small 
slate or card, on which may be written any memoranda for the 
information of the physician of what has taken place during his 
absence, or any brief note respecting the patient, as the state of the 
pulse, respiration, &c., which the physician himself may be desirous 
of making to assist him in estimating the daily, weekly, or monthly 
progress of the case. 

An invalid night-lamp is often required for keeping liquids warm. 
It may consist of a wire gauze cylinder, containing a lamp that can be 
moved up and dowu, and fixed at any particular height from the 
vessel, holding what is to be warmed placed on the top. This vessel 
may be a small kettle for heating water for tea, &c. ; or, when this is 
removed, an earthenware vessel may be substituted, in which anx>w- 
root, &c., may be made. The temperature of the room should 
not exceed, or fall lower than 60° Fahr.; it may, however, be 
diminished gradually in typhus as the patient recovers, and in cases 
of hsemorrhage should be reduced as much as possible. 



VENTILATION. 279 



The room must be darkened when the eyes are very sensible to 
light, and during delirium ; and this is best effected by means of a 
curtain of green calico or linen. 

The propriety of carpeting the room will vary in different cases. 
For example, in cases of typhus fever, it is desirable to remoye all 
woollen articles, and keep the floor as clean as possible. In certain 
cases of cerebral excitement, a carpet should be placed wherever the 
attendants must necessarily tread. 

Ybntilation. — ^When we reflect that a healthy man, in one minute, 
renders from 120 to 130 cubic inches of air unfit for breathing, and 
that in ventilating a room about 4 cubic feet should be allowed for 
each man in the same space of time (see "Handbook of Ventilation"), 
we can form -some idea of the importance of a constant supply of fre^ 
air in the sick chamber. It is especially in those acute diseases 
characterized by a morbid condition of the blood, and capable of being 
communicated from one person to another by infection, that this is of 
the utmost importance. And since some of these diseases originate 
from the impure state of the air in ill- ventilated dwellings, and such 
a condition is most favourable for their communication to the healthy, 
it is found, as might be expected, that thorough ventilation and clean- 
liness are essential to the recovery of the sick, and offer the best 
security against the spread of the contagion to those who are in 
attendance upon them. It is proper, especially where the room is of 
moderate dimensions, not to allow persons to remain long at the bed- 
side ; and care should be taken that the patient is not exposed to the 
currents of cold air which usually pass from the door to the fireplace, 
and which, in scarlet fever, it is particularly necessary to avoid 
throughout the entire period of convalescence, as dropsy is not 
unlikely to occur as a consequence of neglect of this rule. 

All evacuations should be removed as soon as possible; and 
when required to be kept for inspection by the physician, they may 
be arranged in a separate room, the window of which is kept open. 
The inspection of them will also be necessary, even if not so directed, 
should they present any unusual character ; for no description will 
sufiice to furnish the precise information required by the medical 
attendant. In order to get rid of effluvia, a little solution of chloride 
of lime may be put in the vessels before they are used, or a small 
quantity of peat-charcoal will have the same effect. Some persons 
attempt to conceal effluvia by burning feathers, cascarilla, or brown 
paper, which only act by substituting one strong odour for another, 
rendering the air of the chamber still more impure. It is far better 



280 HOUSEHOLD MBDICINE AVD SURGERY. 

to emphj linen rags wetted with a solution of nitrate of lead, which, 
when waved about xapidlj^ remoye the most offidnsiTe odouiSy and at 
the same time purify Uie air of the room. An utenail may be emi^oyed, 
SMisiBting of an earthen yessel inclosed in • metallio pan, having a 
oover fitting into a wide grooye, fiHed with water, by which means 
the escape of all effluyuun is completely prevented. It is also 
essentially necessary that the sputa, or expectorated matters, should 
be kept, in all pulmonary affections, for the inspection of the medical 
attendant ; and it wiU be found convenient to have two vessels, so 
that one may be in use while the otiier, oontainiiig the natters 
expectorated within a specified time, is set aside for observatioii. 
These vessels should be kept dean *, and particular eare should be taken 
that their contents are not discoloured, either by some of the patient's 
food, medicine, or other extraneous matters getting into the vesaeL 
Serious mistakes have occurred in this way. For example^ the 
mixture of tobacco juioe or snuff with the matter expeot<»ated cauaes 
it to resemble so nearly that ordinarily brought up in inflammatioii of 
the lungs, that this disease has been erroneously supposed to be preeent 
in cases in which one of these substances has become mixed with the 
contenta of the vessel. 

Clxanijwsbs. — ^Few nurses are sufficiently careful in regard to the 
cleanliness of the sick, who require changes of clothing and bed linen 
oftener than in health ; and every day, if the patient can sit up long 
enough to have it done, the bedclothes should be carried into another 
room, and thoroughly aired. When the sick person esn sit up but a 
short time, it is well to have two sete of Uankets and sheets, one 
set of which can be used while the other is airing. 

Whtfi there is not so much debility as to make the effort of 
changing exhausting to the invalid, no clothes worn during the day 
should be retoined about the persqn at night ; nor should clothing worn 
during the night be allowed to remain on during the day, but a change 
of linen should be kept ready, properly aired by the time it is wanted. 

When the patient is too weak to cdlow of daily changes of lisben, 
then, instead, an entire change, in favour of clean linen, n^ust be 
made as often as possible. 

Personal cleanliness is also essential, and with due care there need 
be no fear of the patient taking cold. The face^ neck, arms, a^ 
sometimes also tiie feet, should be washed with warm soap-and-water, 
once or twice a-day, and afterwards carefully dried. The sense of 
Qomfort which this produces in the patient's feelings is m evidenoe 
of ita beneficial effeota. 



SITTING UP— MOVINGk 281 

All the articles and utensils in a sick room should be kept constantly 
clean, such as the spoons and glasses required for the administration 
of the medicines, which can be easily rinsed out, and dried inune- 
diately after they have been used; the medicine bottle is to be well 
corked, and this is especially important when any of the contents of 
the phial are of a volatile nature, such as ammonia or ether. 

Perhaps there are none of the requisites for the sick room which 
it is more necessary to keep clean than sponges, and yet, obvious as this 
may seem, it is often overlooked. What has been stated respecting 
their use in hospitals by Professor Miller (** Principles of Surgery ") 
applies also in a degree in private practice. He says, ^^ A sponge is a 
thing of some value in the eyes of a patient or nurse ; it becomes soaked 
with discharge of various kinds, it is hastily and imperfectly cleansed 
after each employment, and ere its daily course is run can hardly fail to 
have been the means of conveying noxious matter topreviously^healthy 
sores, inducing their degeneration, and perhaps exciting the serious 
complication of erysipelas." And when we take into consideration the 
fact that every sore is a powerfully absorbent surface, we shall under- 
stand more fully how important it is that nothing be applied to it capable 
of giving rise, by its irritating or vitiated properties, to such dangerous 
consequences. 

Sitting up. — ^When the patient sits up in bed, a flannel gown 
should be thrown around him, and as some invalids are compelled 
to adopt this position from inability to lie down, some method of 
support for the back must be adopted, and for this purpose bed-chairs 
are made ; but where they are not to be had, a small footstool, put 
behind the pillows and the bolster doubled, makes a very good substi- 
tute. The bed-chair has this advantage, — it may be elevated to any 
required angle by means of a rack behind. 

Moving. — "When a patient has to be moved from one bed to another, 
there is great inconvenience from attempting to lift him from the first 
bed to the second with his head in the same direction after his removal as 
before. The persons moving him, being placed between the patient 
and the second bed, are in their own way. The best way of obviating 
this is to place the head of the second bed opposite the foot of the 
first, with an interval of three or four feet between ; then the body is 
to be lifted from one bed to the other, by two or three persons, who 
will wheel round so as to place the head of the patient towards the 
head of the second bed, and opposite the foot of the first. 

If this removal is impracticable, as is often the case, it is easy to 
change even the under sheet, without much disturbance, by rolling it 



282 HOUSEHOID MEDICINE AND SUAHERT. 

up from the tides toirards the middle, and putting* the dean one on in 
its place, with one half rolled up likewise ; then getting thepatient oyer 
tiie two rolls, on the dean half^ and adjusting the side whidi he has 
left. 

I need scarcely repeat, that all the attentions required hy the sick 
should he giyen with the least possihle noise, that it should be the 
study of those about the inyalid to ayoid the opening and slamming 
to of doors, frequent passing from one side of the room to the other ; 
but this requires forethought and care, and is one of the dttoacter- 
istios of a well qualified nurse, of which I haye next to speak. 

The Nubse should not much exceed 56 years of age, nor be younger 
than 26 ; for if beyond the former period she is scarcely likely to possess 
the requisite strength for her duties, andif younger than the latter period 
she cannot be expected to manifest that prudence and forethought^ and 
that steadiness of deportment, which are so necessary in the sick room. 
Her health should be good, or she will be quite imfit for the duties of a 
nurse ; she should haye no tendency to spasmodic affections, yertigo, pal- 
pitation, gout, ulcers of the legs, paralysis, dropsy, or pulmonary affec- 
tions ; nor should her hearing or sight be defectiye. I haye known 
great inconyenienoe result from a nurse being deaf; the consequent 
danger of misapprehending what is said to her, and the obyious 
detriment to a patient who has not strength to speak in a loud tone, 
scarcely need be further alluded to. 

It is also requisite that she should be intelligent ; able to read and 
write, so that all danger of mistakes on her part in giying medicines 
may be ayoided. She should possess a cheerful disposition, and 
sufficient self-control and patience to bear with the irritability so 
often attendant on disease. Nothing can be more detrimental or in- 
appropriate than contention and strife in the sick room. The nurse 
should understand that fretfulness and discontent frequently accompany 
bodily disease, and that it is her business to soothe and not to retaliate. 

She should be willing and able to sustain fatigue and watching; 
not self-indulgent, but disposed to make sacrifices of personid eon- 
yenience for the welfare of her charge. General cheerfrtlness 
should be expressed in her countenance, which should neither be un- 
pleasing nor repulsiye ; she must be conciliatory, but not deficient in 
firmness where that is necessary, as in the administration of medicines, 
and possess a "yoifce eyer gentle and low," an excellent thing in woman, 
and especially so in an attendant upon the sick. 

Her attire, although simple and unpretending, should not be dark 
and sombre, but light coloured, and scrupulously clean; for if defective in 



1 



THE NURSE — ADMINISTRATION OF MEDICINE. 283 

this last particular, she is unlikely to have much regard to it in those 
who are under her charge. 

But if there is one point more than another on which I am dis- 
posed to lay stress, it is that the nurse he willing to follow implicitly 
the directions of the medical man ; inability to conform in this respect 
manifests her total unfitness for the office she has undertaken. Indeed, 
of all the defects that are occasionally met with in the sick room, 
there is none more serious, none offering a greater impediment to the 
progress of cure, than the presence of an " enemy in the camp" in the 
shape of a self-opiniated, captious, contradictory nurse. Such a one 
is apt to think that, because the treatment may be different from what 
she has seen adopted, in what she supposes a similar case, that there- 
fore it must be erroneous ; ignorant or forgetful that it is altogether 
out of her proTince to decide what constitutes sufficient resemblance 
in cases of disease to necessitate identical curative measures, and also 
that even similar diseases may both admit and require various modes 
of treatment. She who is chiefly anxious to establish her own 
influence, and parade her own skill and experience, will not be very 
scrupidous in adhering to the directions of the medical attendant. 

But this presumption will not characterize a nurse who aims at 
excellence in her own sphere; she will conscientiously obey the orders 
of the medical attendant, and be truthful in the reports she makes to 
him. Understanding her true relation to the invalid and to his physi- 
cian, she will form no low estimate of the importance of her functions, 
and strive satisfactorily to perform them. 

Administbation of Medioinb. — No bottle of medicine should be 
allowed to remain on the table, except when in actual use; the 
medicines employed for external application should be readily dis- 
tinguishable from others, and be kept in a place apart from the rest. 
Some druggists ,use coloured bottles for the purpose. Bottles con- 
taining laudanum, or any medicine which may act as a poison, should 
be kept in a cupboard not accessible without some little trouble. 

It is to be remembered that some medicines require to be largely 
diluted, acting more powerfully in that condition. This is especially 
true of aperients. Saline solutions, intended to act on the kidneys, 
should also be administered in a dilute form. 

To promote the action of diaphoretics, — ^that is, of medicines which 
induce perspiration, — it is necessary to remain in bed, and be covered 
with blankets. Hot diluents taken without food contribute to the 
same effect. Sleep appears to assist perspiration. 

The action of emetics is favoured by draughts of warm water. 



284 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



One teaspoonful to a tablespoonful of flour of mustard in half a pint 
of warm water, or three tablespoonsful of common salt diBSolyed in 
water, makes a good domestic emetic. When a medicine has been 
given to subdue inflammation, and the first dose produces sickness, it 
should not be discontinued if ordered to be repeated. On the con- 
trary, if purgative medicines continue to produce watery evacuations 
after having fully acted, their use should be suspended until fresh 
directions are obtained from the medical man. The taste of medicines 
may sometimes be disguised or rendered less nauseous by the vehicle 
in which they are taken, or by combination. Thus the taste of 
powdered bark and of rhubarb is best concealed by milk ; infusion 
of senna by tea ; castor oil is best taken in cold or hot milk ; decoc- 
tion of aloes has its bitterness lessened by extract of liquorice ; cod 
liver oil may be taken in milk or orange juice, although some take it 
best in water. 

When mercurial ointment is directed to be rubbed in, the hand of 
the attendant should be enveloped in a soft oiled bladder, and the 
friction should be conducted near a fire. In applying irritating lini- 
ments, as those containing croton oil, the hand should be defended by 
a glove ; for otherwise, if the eye be inadvertently touched, inflamma- 
tion is apt to ensue. 

Fumigations. — ^Pastiles, camphor, and the like, are worse than 
useless for this purpose. The vapour of vinegar diffused through tlie 
[ room is refreshing, but of very little efficacy. The most efifectual 
modes of fumigating are, by the vapour of nitric acid, and, still 
better, by the evolution of chlorine. The former is readily procured 
by pouring one part of oil of vitriol over two parts of nitre. Chlorine 
may be evolved in the following manner :— one part of chloride of 
lime may be mixed with forty parts of water, and placed in saucers 
about the room; the addition of a little sulphuric acid aids the 
extrication of the chlorine. The most economical proportions for 
fumigation are those employed at the Milbank Penitentiary : — 

Common salt . . . .10 ounces. 
Black oxide of manganese . . 2 „ 
Strong sulphuric acid . . 6 „ 
Water 4 „ 

This is to be placed in a shallow earthen pan, and be allowed to 
remain for some days. Of course this proportion is only applicable 
to destroying putrid effluvia in a large room, or for the purpose of 
disinfection when it has recently been occupied by patients afifected 



I 



MANAGEMENT OF THE SICK. 285 

with contagious diseases. Whether it be true, as some believe, that 
these agents have the power of destroying contagious matter or not, there 
can be no doubt of their utility in removing offensive effluvia, and at 
the same time lessening the impurity of the air. 

Mbaxs or Avoiding Contagion. — It is important for persons in 
attendance on those affected with contagious diseases, to avoid all 
unnecessary exposure by a very near approach to the sick, especially 
when the bed-clothes are raised, and the effluvia are emanating from the 
body of the patient in a state of concentration. Then the person 
approaching the sick may hold the breath for a short time, and stand 
in such a direction that any current of air may not carry the effluvia 
of the patient towards but rather away from him. It must be remem- 
bered also that infectious matter does not usually act beyond a few 
feet from the sick, and commonly it does not affect the healthy unless 
there is some predisposition. This would be caused by fasting, over- 
fatigue, watching, and mental depression ; these, therefore, must be 
avoided. The diet of the attendants should be rather generous; and 
after exposure, active exercise in tho open air will probably be 
advantageous. 

Dietetic Mai^aoement. — Even did my limits allow of it, I need 
not here enter fully into this subject, which forms part of the treatment 
of disease. One point I cannot pass without naming, — ^it is, that tho 
directions laid down by the medical man should be rigidly adhered to. 
How often is it found that disease is renewed again and again by 
some error in diet, against which the patient has been warned; how 
frequently do we find tho mind especially weak in this particular, 
and the sick alleging, as an excuse, that they took '' such a very little 
bit" that it could not possibly have done them harm. This shows a 
state of mind that requires mingled firmness and kindness on the part 
of the attendant and friends of the patient, as well as from the m-edical 
man; for however small that may be which is unfit for the patient, 
it is often quite sufflcient to derange his digestion and protract his 
recovery. In many cases tiiis adherence to rule in diet is the one 
thing essential to recovery ; and this " little bit" is the more objec- 
tionable from its very littleness ; for it is a great temptation and a 
monstrous excuse. 

"Watchfulness. — In fever it is important that the patient should be 
closely watched by the attendant, who should note how much sleep the 
patient gets, whether it is disturbed, or if there is confusion of mind 
on waking. The character and number of the stools must be noted. 
When the patient requires support, which in this and many exhausting 
: j 



286 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



diseases is the case when the disease abates^ especially during the njight, 
food must be given frequently and in small quantities. The danger of the 
patient sinking from mere exhaustion after severe disease must never 
be forgotten. Wine when ordered must be given regularly, and if it 
flushes the face and excites headache, it is not agreeing with the 
system, and its use must be suspended. 

General Management. — In threatened consumption the vigour of 
the constitution should be kept up by the use of the tepid or cold bath, 
frictions to the surface, exercise in the open air — on horseback, if 
possible. To the use of exercise, cold weather should not be any 
obstacle. l^Yen those who are much debUitated find their health 
increased by it. Flannel also should be worn next the skin, tixe 
patient at no period, especially during the night, allowing himself to 
feel the sensation of cold. When a change of residence is necessary 
in winter, Undercliff, Hastings, and Torquay are the best situations 
in this country. The diet should be farinaceous ; milk and the lighter 
meats should enter largely into it. When there is fever, heemorrhage, 
or inflammation, of course animal food would be improper. In 
discharges of blood, attended with feverishness, the patient should be 
kept quiet, and confined to vegetable food and milk. When exercise 
is allowable, it should be passive rather than active. When there is 
a tendency to Hydrocephalus, the wet-nurse, if the child be not 
weaned, should be quite healthy and free from any scrofulous taint, 
and from every habit likely to be injurious to her health. The child, 
after weaning, should be fed on a sufficient but unstimulating diet, 
including a moderate quantity of meat. It should be warmly dad, 
allowed plenty of exercise \n the open air, and not confined in close 
rooms. 

When there is a tendency to apoplexy, or the patient has been 
suflering from a fit, he must avoid all stimulation and excitement, 
especially from alcoholic drinks. He must sleep on a mattress, and 
with the head elevated. Exercise should be rather passive than 
active, and never prolonged to the extent of fatigue ; he should nerer 
run fast, strain, or make any great muscular exertion. Both the 
warm and cold baths must be used with the greatest caution, and not 
without the advice of a medical man. Every engagement of the 
mind, as well as every exercise of the body, must be characterized by 
moderation. In diseases of the heart, the same carefully regulated 
diet, the same moderation in the use of exercise, and endeavours to 
maintain tranquillity of mind, are necessary. As regards 

Moral and Mental Management. — It is most important at all 



MORAL AND MENTAL MANAGEMENT. 287 

times to promote the hopefulness of the patient, even when the result 
is doubtful. It is the very nature of most diseases to depress the 
spirits and to lead to gloomy apprehensions, and it should always be 
the object of the medical man, and of those around the sick, to dispel 
this gloom, by maintaining, as much as possible, a cheerful view 
of the case. Indeed this more cheerful view is often the more 
correct one, and the "very predictions of recovery tend to fulfil them- 
selves. When we observe the influence of travelling on the invalid, 
and stiU more of cheerful society in recruiting energies apparently 
wasted and gone, we may form some idea, though probably even then 
an imperfect one, of the powerful influence which mental tranquillity 
and cheerfulness exercise upon the organic functions. When the 
patient is suffering from serious disease, happily there is usually one 
at hand who can give that assistance and support which can never be 
looked for from the best trained nurse. What an antidote to suffering 
is the eye of affection ! What so cheering as its smile ? What so 
supporting as its sympathy ? And where the malady does not admit 
of cure, much of the distress of the sufferer may thus be alleviated. 
It is rarely necessary to shock the patient with the statement that his 
disease is incurable, although his friends should be informed of it. 

The patient, too, by gentle management may be led to speak on 
subjects bearing relation to the future, which will relieve his mind 
from much anxiety, and strengthen his "joy and peace " in looking 
forward perhaps to a happier state, at a time when all here is evidently 
passing away. It requires judgment and care to allude to such topics : 
the peculiarities of the patient's mind, as well as the period and 
probable result of the disease, must be taken into consideration ; for by 
an untimely and ill-judged statement, in which the justice rather 
than the forbearance and mercy of God is set forth, very injurious 
and even fatal consequences may result. I have always thought it 
better not to defer to the last allusions to such subjects in serious 
illness, but to mention them early ; not because there is an absence 
of aU hope of recovery, but because life is ever uncertain, and either 
event should be provided for. 

" And why not think on Death 7 Is Life the theme 
Of every thought, and wish of every hour, 
And song of every joy ? ** 

Thus the truths of Religion might be among the consolations of the 
sick chamber, resignation smooth the pillow of the dying, or gratitude 
fill the mouth of tiie restored with a song of praise to Him " who 
healeth all diseases." 



288 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 



THE DIET OF INYALIDS. 

Aboyb two thousand years ago it was laid down by Hippocrates as 
an axiom in medicine, that abstinence is of excellent effect in acute 
diseases, but dangerous in chronic ones ; and in modem times there is 
no doubt that the danger to which Hippocrates alluded is often 
incurred. The cases in which this danger threatens are not so com- 
monly those of defined chronic diseases, as those which consist in 
what is ordinarily called chronic ill health. It is not easy exactly 
to determine how far the actual cure of disease depends upon the direct 
influence of remedies, and how far upon the effect of the sanative 
powers of the constitution ; but it is certain that remedies, when they 
aid in curing, operate only in restoring to these sanative powers the 
natural energy of which, by adverse circumstances, they had been 
deprived. Acute diseases run a course during which, as it would 
seem, by the excited activity of certain functions, the morbific in- 
fluence, with or without the assistance of remedies, is overcome ; 
and if there be enough of vigour left in the system, recovery straight- 
way commences. In the meantime the system requires but little 
food, and that of the simplest kind ; and when the morbid action runs 
its course within a few days, total abstinence is perhaps the safest 
rule. But chronic diseases last so long, that if a like abstinence be 
practised, the patient must necessarily die of starvation, even though 
the disease may not be otherwise of a fatal character. And since 
what is called chronic ill health may continue for years, it is plain 
that unless pains be taken \o nourish the patient, the risk is not 
small that his death may be as much the result of deficient sustenance 
as of disordered health. The cases in which there is danger of an 
aggravation of the invalid state, or even of a fatal event solely from 
insufficient nourishment, are those in which the appetite is fastidious 
and digestion painful. It is to the management of the diet and 
regimen, in such cases, that my present observations are directed ; 
since a more special management of each particular constitution is 
requisite, whenever in invalids the appetite and digestion are good, 
and the opposite evil of over-nutrition arises. 

In general the stomach readily habituates itself to most kinds of 
food which in civilized life are currently said to be of easy digestion. 
When any article of this kind disagrees with an invalid, he will 



" 



VABIETY OF FOOD NECESSARY. 289 

often be able to bring the stomach to bear it by commencing with a 
very small quantity, which is gradually to be increased. This will be 
found to be a most important rule, it being certain that by the culti- 
vation of an excessive fastidiousness the health of the whole system 
is too often sacrificed to keeping the stomach exempt from occasional 
uneasiness. The diet generally most conducive to health is a due 
mixture of animal and vegetable substances ; for it is seldom that 
the living system tiirives under the mere use of animal food and 
bread. Fresh vegetables are generally requisite ; and if the stomach 
at first rejects these, pains should be taken to habituate it to their 
presence. In many states of ill health a purely vegetable diet is 
more soothing to the bodily frame, but owing to the great quantity 
required, during full health and under bodily exertion, it is hardly 
conceivable that ill health could be wholly removed by a merely 
vegetable diet. 

It is now proved, however, that vegetable articles of food contain 
all the essential chemical principles requisite for the repair of the 
fluids and solids of living bodies. In short, the great proximate 
elements or principles of the animal body, fibrine, albumen, caseine, 
and the like, do not appear to be formed in the animal body, but' to 
be produced chiefly from water, carbonic acid, and ammonia, in the 
process of vegetation, and to be merely extracted from vegetable 
aliments in the process of digestion. Vegetable food, then, provided 
it is in adequate variety, is all-sufficient for the nutrition of the 
animal frame ; and it is moreover preferable to animal food, as being 
less stimulating. But an objection lies to it, for the use of invalids, 
which is too often insurmountable — ^namely, the inconvenience of 
its great bulk giving rise to unbearable distention and uneasiness. 
In some kinds of ill health, it is advisable to employ vegetable food 
exclusively at first ; and then, when some degree of improvement has 
arisen, to add the lighter kinds of animal food. It will also be found, 
that a plan the opposite of this will sometimes be successful: — 
namely, to begin with such kinds of animal food in small quantities 
as the stomach will bear, and then to add vegetable articles of diet. 
If a patient labouring under chronic ill health really desires to 
recover, occasional trieds of new kinds of food must not be rejected 
merely from fear of exciting some slight disturbances of the 
stomach, which will often be calmed by calcined magnesia or bicar- 
bonate of soda, combined with some aromatic water. 

The distinction drawn of late years between those chemical prin- 
ciples of food which repair the blood and the solids, and those which 



290 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



merely mamtain animal temperature, ia of the highest importance. 
The maintenance of animal temperature, that is, the maintenance 
of the heat of the hody at nearly 100^ of Fahrenheit's thermo- 
meter, notwithstanding the more or less rapid abstraction of heat by 
the suiTounding air, is a function, the continued exercise of which is 
imperatively necessary to the support of life. In short, the maln> 
tenance of heat in the body is as essential as the perpetual renewal 
of the blood and the solids by direct nutrition. This maintenance of 
heat is accomplished by the slow combustion of carbon,- — an invariable 
constituent of the animal solids, as well as of the oommcm articles of 
diet. And tibis slow combustion is kept up by the oxygen of the 
atmospheric air unceasingly supplied in the act of respiration. 
Those kinds of food which are sufficient for the repair of the blood 
and of the solids are also capable of maintaining the slow combustion, 
in the act of respiration necessary for upholding the animal tem- 
perature ; but those kinds of food, which are in a strict sense termed 
respiratory or heat-evolving foods, are not adequate to the repair of 
the blood and the solids. The articles of food fit to repair the blood 
and the solids are those which, whether of animal or vegetable origin, 
contain fibrine, albumen, or caseine; the articles of food strictly 
named respiratory are those which, without containing the three 
principles just mentioned, consist of oily or fatty matter, sugar, 
starch, gum, or other non-nitrogenous principles. 

Mammals. — What is commonly called meat or flesh in our markets 
is the muscular substance of mammals — as the ox, the sheep, the pig, 
and their young; the deer, the rabbit, and the hare. It consists 
chiefly of flbrine, which is one of the chemical principles capable 
of repairing the blood and the solids. Besides flbrine, flesh 
contains a small proportion of albumen, some extractive matter, 
and two recently discovered substances, namely, kreatine and 
kreatinine, with certain saline matters. Although flesh consists 
of a large proportion of flbrine, and a very small proportion of 
albumen, while blood contains a large proportion of albumen 
and a small proportion of flbrine, yet flesh, approaches nearer in 
reality to the composition of blood than is at flrst sight apparent. On 
this subject Liebig says, *^ The commonest observations teach us, that 
flesh possesses a greater nutritive power than aU other kinds of food. 
The chief constituent of flesh is muscular flbre, or the flbrine of 
muscle, which constitutes nearly 70 per cent, of the dried flesh 
purifled from fat. In the flesh this muscular substance is interwoven 
with flne membranes ; and a multitude of nerves are ramifled through 



MAMMALS. 291 



it, as well as innumerable minute vesselfl, filled with coloured or 
colourless fluids. Chemical analysis has detected the cause of the 
nutritive property of flesh, in a manner free from doubt, by showing 
that the flbrioe of muscle and the albumen of blood contain the same 
elements in th^ same proportion ; and that these two bodies stand to 
each other in the same relation as &esh albumen and coagulated 
albumen. In composition, fibrine is nothing more than albumen of 
blood solidified and in an organised form. The difference, if any, is 
so minute, that an analysis of the muscular fibre does not differ more 
from one of albumen of blood than two analyses of the latter body 
do &om each other. The blood, considered as a whole, has the same 
composition as flesh." {Zi^bi^t " Familiar Letters on Chemistry," 
1851, pp. 346-7.) 

The cellular tissue of muscle passes, by boiling, into gelatine ; and 
young meats, it is well known, afford a greater quantity of gelatine 
than old. It is a f;^t familiar to every one, that the gravy of veal 
and of lamb gelatinizes more readily when cold than that of beef or 
mutton. Notwithstanding the difference in taste between the flesh of 
the several mammals employed for food, there is hardly any marked 
difference in their chemical composition. 

In a dietetic point of view the juice of flesh deserves particular 
attention. When finely-chopped muscular flesh is exposed to the 
action of cold water, assisted by pressure, there is left a white fibrous 
residue, composed of the muscular fibres, the cellular tissue, the 
vessels, and the nerves. When everything which can be removed 
has come away, the water is found to have dissolved from IC to 24 
per cent, of the entire weight of the dry flesh. Of the residue, the 
fibrine makes up about three-fourths. When this residue is heated 
to between 158° and 177° Fahr., that is, to a temperature considerably 
less than that of boiling water, the fibres shrink and become homy ; 
the mass no longer takes up water ; and when boiled it hardly im- 
parts any taste to the water, and is itself quite insipid ; it cannot be 
masticated, and even dogs reject it. 

In the juice, on the contrary, all the savoury constituents are 
found. This juice of flesh is commonly tinged red by some portion 
of the colouring matter of the blood. If this juice be gradually 
heated to boiling, the albumen of flesh separates at about 133° Fahr., 
in almost colourless cheesy floccules, while the colouring matter does 
not coagulate below 158° Fahr. The liquid is now of a pale yellow ; 
and shows the presence of a free acid by reddening litmus paper. The 
proportion of albumen which separates in this process is much 



292 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

greater with the flesh of young than of old animals. This liquid, 
after the separation of the albumen and colouring matter of the blood, 
has the aromatic taste and all the qualities of soup made from flesh. 
By evaporation under a gentle heat it passes finally to a brown 
colour, acquiring the flavour of roast meat. The brown soft mass, 
which remains after complete evaporation, is readily soluble in cold 
water. If one part be dissolved in thirty-two parts of hot water, an 
excellent soup is obtained. Thus, as Liebig remarks, ** The fibre of 
of meat, in its natural state, is steeped in and surrounded by a liquid 
containing albumen ; and the tender quality of boiled or roasted meat 
depends on the amount of the albumen deposited in its substance, 
and there coagulating, whereby the contraction, toughening, and 
hardening of the fibres is prevented. Meat is underdone or bloody," 
he continues, "when it has been heated throughout only to the 
temperature of coagulating albumen, or 133° Fahr. ; it is quite done 
or cooked, when it has been heated through its ilSiole mass to between 
158° and 165° of Fahr., at which temperature the colouring matter of 
the blood coagulates." {Liebig, ib., p. 417.) In accordance with 
these facts it is found that in the boiling of meat with water a diflerence 
of effect is produced when the boiling is differently conducted. Meat 
may be so boiled as to retain within itself its most valuable consti- 
tuents—or in such a manner as to afford a good soup at the expense 
of the best qualities of the meat. 

If the meat is introduced into the pot when the water is boiling 
briskly, and this brisk boiling be kept up for a few minutes, after 
which the pot is removed to a warm place, so that the temperature 
may be no more than between 158° and 165°, the meat will retain all 
its most essential qualities. In this case, by the sudden application 
of a considerable heat, a coagulation of the albumen on every side to 
a certain depth from the surface is effected, so that through the enve- 
lope so formed, neither can the water penetrate inwards, nor can the 
juices escape outwards from the substance of the meat. The flesh 
comes forth, when cooked, juicy and well flavoured. If, on the 
other hand, the meat be put into cold water and set on the fire, so as 
to be brought slowly to boiling, the soluble savoury matters of the 
flesh pass into the water, and a rich soup is afforded at the expense of 
the meat. In this case, the albumen is gradually dissolved out from 
the surface to the centre, while the fibre, losing in a greater or less 
degree its quality of shortness or tenderness, becomes hard and 
tough. The thinner the piece of flesh is, the greater is its deteriora- 
tion in this respect. If care be taken to avoid either extreme, a 



1 



MAMMALS. 293 



moderately good soup, like Scotch broth, may be obtained, without 
materially injuring the qualities of the meat. The soup recommended 
by Liebig, and now currently known by his name, is found of the 
greatest possible service in cases of debility. I quote his own 
words. '^ If finely chopped flesh be slowly heated with an equal 
weight of water, kept boiling for a few minutes, and then strained 
and pressed, we obtain the yery strongest and best-flavoured soup 
which can be made from flesh." {Liebig, ib., p. 410.) 

Even in roasting meat it is, upon the principle above referred to, 
advantageous to make the heat strongest at first, and after a while to 
reduce it. In roasting, the juice which first flows out being evaporated 
upon the surface of the meat, imparts the dark brown colour, and 
affords the lustre and the strong aromatic flavour of roasted meat. 

The free acid of the juice of flesh is not constant. It appears to 
be generated in consequence of changes which commence very soon 
after death. The muscles of animals just killed — that is, before 
the stiffness which follows death has taken place — do not redden 
litmus paper. Boiling, however, developes this acid quality. It has 
long been known that the flesh of animals newly killed, if cooked 
before the stiffening has commenced, eats tender enough. Few 
observations, however, exist as to the difference of effect on health, 
if there be any, of this mode of eating as compared with the more 
ordinary practice. There is, however, a small knot of persons in 
France, who have persuaded themselves that the use of the flesh of 
newly killed animals, of newly gathered vegetables, and of water 
fresh from the spring, is materially conducive to health and long 
life. The patriarch of this little sect is above ninety years of age. 
The animals employed by those who have adopted these views are, of 
course, chiefly poultry. 

In selecting the proper kind of food for invalids, the quality of 
digestibility deserves peculiar attention. On this point the tables i 
of Dr. Beaumont, founded upon observations made upon the Canadian, 
St. Martin, are of considerable service. St. Martin, however, although 
suffering from a fistulous aperture, by which the stomach could be 
looked into, was, nevertheless, for many years, in other respects, in 
robust health ; and hence the results drawn from this source, as to the 
digestibility of different kinds of food, are not to be taken as an 
absolute rule in regulating the diet of invalids, but only as affording 
some guidance in our efforts to discover the management requisite for 
each individual case. According to Beaumont, the several kinds of 
meat stand in the following order of digestibility. To render the 



294 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGEKT. 



comparisoii more obTiouB, the time required to complete the process 
is expressed in minutes. 



Bailed venison steak 

Broiled sucking pig 

Broiled firesh lamb 

Boiled beef with salt only 

Roast beef imderdone 

Beefsteak 

New poriE, recentl^p" salted 

Stewed pork, recently salted 

Broiled fresh mutton 

Boiled fresh mutton 

Broiled pork, recently salted 

Pork steaks . 

Fresh roast mutton 

Fresh lean heefj roasted diy 

Fresh lean beef with mustard 

Fresh lean beef, fried 

Broiled fresh veal . 

Old hard salted beef, boiled 

Recently salted pork, fried 

Fresh veal, fried 

Pork roasted, fat and lean 



Dr. Beaumonf 8 tables afford no indication of the comparative digesti- 
bility of hare or rabbit, neither of which, it is understood, is so 
digestible as beef or mutton ; but of that of the visceral parts of 
TniMTiTnftla the foUowing evidence is given : — 







96 miimtes. 






. 160 „ 






. 160 „ 






. 166 „ 






• 180 „ 






. 180 „ 






. 180 „ 






. 180 „ 






180 „ 






180 „ 






196 „ 






196 „ 






196 „ 






210 „ 






210 „ 






240 „ 






240 „ 






256 „ 






266 „ 






270 „ 






316 „ 



Tripe, soused 
Brains- of ox, boiled 
Fresh liver of ox, broiled 
Spinal marrow of ox, boiled 
Heart, fried . 



60 minutes. 

96 
120 
160 
240 



n 
n 

II 



The calf's sweetbread is very digestible, and well suited to invalids, 
probably promoting the digestion of other substances. Sidney is 
palatable, but less digestible than sweetbread. 

Birds. — Chicken is more tender and less stimulant than moat 
meats ; yet it is not under all circumstances more easy of digestion. 
It is not the best kind of food for persons whose digestive powers are 



BIRDS. 



295 



weakened or deranged ; but for tiie oonraleBcent from acute diseases 
it is commonly preferred, as tending less to excite febrile action. The 
eomparatiye digestibility of the seyeral kinds of birds will appear from 
the following extract from Beaumontfs^table : — 



"Wild turkey, roasted . . . . 


. 188 


minutes 


Domestic turkey, boiled . . . . 


. 146 




Domestic turkey, roasted 


. 150 




Wild goose, roasted . . . . 


. 150 




Full-grown chicken, fricasseed 


. 166 




Chicken soup .... 


. 180 




Domestic fowl, boiled 


. 240 




Domestic fowl, roasted . . . . 


. 240 




Domestic ducks, roasted . 


. 240 




Wild ducks, roasted . . . . 


. 270 





Besides the birds here referred to, the pheasant, the partridge, and 
the pigeon, are in common use; and when simply cooked and eaten 
in moderate quantity, they are well adapted to form part of the diet 
of l^e invalid. 

Fowls, as articles of food, are sometimes divided into the white- 
fleshed and the dark-fleshed. The former, as the chicken, the tuikey, and 
the pheasant, are not very difficult of digestion, but are chiefly prized 
as being little stimulating. Thus broiled chicken will sometimes 
remain on the stomach, when almost every other kind of food would 
be rejected ; and chicken broth is an excellent kind of food when the 
stomach is irritable. The grouse and black cock belong to the dark- 
fleshed fowls. These and the birds resembling them are rather stimu- 
lating, and hardly so easy of digestion as chicken. For invalids 
they should not be kept too long, and therefore young birds should 
be preferred. 

Aquatic birds — namely, waders and swimmers — ^have the flesh for 
the most part penetrated with f&t ; so that they are a less appropriate 
diet for invalids. To the waders the snipe and woodcock belong, and 
these are less objectionable. The brains, the gizzard, the intestines 
termed the trail, and the liver, particularly the fat liver of the goose, 
belong rather to the table of the epicure than to that of the invsdid. 

EoGS constitute an important part of the food of persons whose 
health is delicate. When newly laid and lightly cooked, as slightly 
boiled or poached, they are with most persons sufficiently easy of 
digestion. They should be boiled so that the white may be moderately 



296 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

coagulated, while the yelk remains fluid. Hard eggs are reckoned 
difficult of digestion, and, although the rule is very exceptionable, 
invalids should not venture upon them. Custards, custard pudding, 
and light puddings made with eggs, are often serviceable, particularly 
when butcher's meat is forbidden ; but omelettes, pancakes, Mtters, 
and other dishes made with eggs, and cooked by frying, must be 
sparingly used. 

Dr. Beaumont's experiments with eggs yield the following 
results : — 

Eggs, whipped raw .... 90 minutes. 

Haw fresh eggs 120 „ 

Boasted eggs 135 „ 

Soft boiled eggs 180 „ 

Hard boiled eggs 210 „ 

Fried eggs 210 „ 

Milk, as a kind of food, ranks near to eggs, and is more properly 
placed under the head of food than of drinks. It is in reality the 
type of food, being the sole nutriment of the young animal for so long 
a period. 

Milk is a very useful and valuable article of diet for invalids and 
convalescents ; although in many cases it is inadmissible, from the 
difficulty of digesting the fatty matter, or butter, which is one of its 
constituents. ** Milk diet is ordered when we are desirous of affording 
support to the system with the least possible stimulus or excitement. 
It is well adapted for inflammatory diseases of the chest, of the ali- 
mentary canal, and of the bladder, when it is considered expedient to 
employ a nutritious but not stimulating diet. After heemorrhages, 
when the powers of the system have been greatly exhausted, a milk 
diet is frequently beneficial. It has also been considered one of the 
best means of preventing and curing gout. It is a good diet also 
for many of the diseases of children, especially those of a strumous or 
scrofulous nature. In some of the above-mentioned maladies, when 
the stomach is weak and irritable, coVs milk is apt to occasion 
vomiting and other unpleasant effects, in consequence of the butter 
which it contains.'' — (Fereira, p. 605). 
Cow's milk consists of: — 

Caseine, about . . • 4^ per cent. 
Butter, about . . » ^ 
Sugar of milk, nearly . . 5 
Various salts, more than . ^ 
"Water, nearly . . .87 






FISH. 297 

Woman's milk differs from cow's milk chiefly in containing much 
less caseine and considerahly more sugar. Ass's milk agrees more 
nearly with woman's milk than with cow's milk, since it con- 
tains a small proportion of caseine and a large proportion of sugar. 
Goat's milk contains a little less caseine and a good deal more sugar 
than cow's milk. 

Milk agrees well with children ; but when cow's milk is found to 
create disorder in young people, ass's milk should be substituted. 
The addition of lime-water often renders milk more light on the 
stomach. According to Beaumont's table, the digestibility of milk, 
butter, and cream, stands as follows : — 

Boiled milk 120 miuutes. 

Baw milk 135 „ 

Melted butter 210 „ 

Cream subjected out of the stomach to the 
action of gastric juice . . .1530 „ 

Whey is an excellent diluent drink, as well as an article of nutri- 
tion. It is not improper in febrile and inflammatory complaints. 

Buttermilk is an agreeable cooling drink in febrile states. 

Cheese can hardly ever be suited to the invalid stomach. 

Beftiles. — Of the reptilia there is none employed in this country 
for food except the turtle, which is a tender, delicate diet, while 
young ; but when old the animal becomes tough and less agreeable to 
the stomach. Turtle soup is reckoned highly restorative. 

Fish. — The flesh of fish contains nearly the same proximate ele- 
ments as the flesh of mammals and birds, but with a decidedly larger 
proportion of water. Thus the flesh of the cod contains nearly 80 per 
cent, of water along with 20 per cent, of nutritive substance, namely, 
14 of albumen and flbrine, and 6 of gelatine. White fish is free from 
oil. Of this description are the whiting, the cod, the haddock, the 
sole, the plaice, the flounder, and the turbot ; on the other hand, fishes 
which have their flesh coloured, abound in oil, and are in consequence 
less easy of digestion. To this kind belong salmon, eels, herrings, 
pilchards, and sprats. Fish is plainly less nutritive than butcher's 
meat; but when used in moderate quantity is less stimulating. 
Fresh water fish are in general less adapted for invalids than salt 
water fish, which are at once more palatable and more digestible. 
The roe and sounds of fishes are unsuitable for invalids. 

Shell FisL-r-Among molluscous animals, namely, mussels, cockles, 
scallops, periwinkles, whelks, limpets, and oysters, the latter is the 
only one well adapted for the food of the invalid. 



Utitt Ui\\>t>\un.\) MI>.niCtNR AMD 8URGEKT. 






ii4 |t..««UMu^i'« f«|))<i <t)thtUiU tho foUowiag endoiee as to the 

tV.>lMi»>n o\Mf.i^ , , . , 175 mimites. 

V<t^t* »h>*v«t o>»K»«i , , , . 210 

Mnn> vM«*4mK^mK •» m^ai «* ih* moUuacft jnat J«feired to, ©ame 
^^^^^{^'^ ^h^ h^^A tM ^uA\ iWk <k"«J w>t » iugli •staeia; samely, the 
iviMtM.MA ^<U>i,.n f1»«^ ♦JvM»v> WWwWr w MSBOnaii crKwfisli, tbe river 

\ >^.» , .^ H« V* v\ r Tv* , ♦ 7hr v*Tn^u<t5i <u VQ$!9AaUe £K»d may be 

N • ^N ».«v V><.*«. "V.«>«^ A .*»llv ^S*J*^ 






V 




' • XH 



•■ «^ « ^ * 




TEGETABLEB AND FEUITS. 299 

Flour 392 lbs. 

Biscuit, or fine middliogs . 10 „ 

Toppings, or specks . . . . 8 „ 

Best poUard, Turkey pollard or twenty- 
penny 15 >» 

Fine pollard 18 ,, 

Bran and coarse pollard . . . 50 „ 

Loss sustained by eyaporation, and waste 

in grinding, dressing, &o. . . H n 

Total . . .504 lbs. 



Wheat contains a larger proportion of gluten than the other cereal 
grains — that is, than the other grains furnished by grasses. Semolina, 
soujee, and mannacroup, are granular preparations of wheat deprired 
of bran. According to Dr. Fereira, these substances are prepared 
from the best Kentish wheat. *' They possess," he says, " all the 
nutritive qualities of wheat, and are yery agreeable, light, nutritive 
articles of food, well fitted for invalids and children." Macaroni, 
vermicelli, and Cagliari paste, are obtained also from wheat. They 
are imported from Genoa and Naples; but are also made in this 
coimtry from semolina. Various preparations are sold more or less 
approaching to these. Hard's farinaceous food, according to Br. 
Fereira, is prepared from the finest wheat alone. Densham's farina- 
ceous food is a mixture of three parts wheat flour and one part of 
barley meal; on the contrary, according to the same authority, Bright's 
nutritious farina is potato-starch, and therefore very inferior in its 
nutritive qualities. Dr. Fereira's '< Treatise on Food and Diet" may 
be consulted advantageously on the several forms of wheaten bread. 

OaU, — ^The common oat used in this country is the Avena 
sativa. When the grains are denuded of their coverings, they are 
called groats or grits ; and these when crushed are termed Embden 
groats ; and when ground into flour, prepared groats. Oatmeal is 
made by grinding the kiln-dried grains, stripped of their husk and 
outer skin. Oats are nutritive; but are apt to disagree with the 
delicate. They form an excellent food for robust people accustomed 
to much out-of-door enrcise. Oatcake — that is, unfermented bread 
made of oatmeal — ^is very apt to cause heartburn in those imac- 
cufltomed to such food. 

BarUy^ obtained from several species of Hordeum, is highly 
nutritious. In Scotch broth, decorticated barley (sold as pot barley) 



298 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGEBT. 



Dr. Beaumont's table exhibits the foUoviag evidence as to the 
digestibility of oysters : — 

Fresh raw oysters .... 175 minutes. 
Fresh roasted oysters .... 195 
Fresh stewed oysters .... 210 



»» 



}} 



Many crustaceans, as well as the molluscs just referred to, come 
under the head of shell fish, and are in high esteem; namely, the 
common lobster, the thorny lobster or common crawfish, the river 
crawfish, the black-clawed crab, the prawn, and the shrimp ; all these 
are rather difficult of digestion, and should be avoided by invalids. 

Veobtables and Fruit. — The varieties of vegetable food may be 
treated according as they are derived from particular natural families, 
without following so much a strict botanical order, as such an arrange- 
ment brings together those kinds of vegetable food most closely 
allied to each other. 

Grasses. — From this family the most important articles of vege- 
table food are obtained; of these the chief are wheat, oats, barley, rye, 
rice, maize or Indian com, millet, and sorghum, durra or Guinea com. 
The proximate principles contained in food of this description are the 
following: — ^starch, vegetable albumen, ordinary gluten (including 
glutine proper, mucine, oily matter), sugar, gum, earthy phosphates, 
ligneous matter (bran, husk, &c.}, and water. Thus foods of this 
kind contain both nitrogenized or plastic elements of nutrition, and 
non-nitrogenized or respiratory elements ; the former being vegetable 
albumen, vegetable fibrine, gluten, and mucine ; the latter being 
starch, sugar, and gum. Dr. Beaumont's table affords the following 
evidence of the digestibility of several kinds of food derived £rom 
this source : — 



Boiled rice 






. 60 


minutes. 


Boiled barley soup . 






. 90 




Boiled barley . 






. 120 




Baked sponge cake . 






. 150 




Baked custard 






. 165 




Boiled apple dumpling . 






. 180 




Baked Indian com cake . 






. 180 




Indian com bread . 






. 195 




Fresh wheaten bread 






. 210 




Dr. Pereira gives the foUowinj 


b; table. 


as showing the products 


obtained by grinding one quarter, c 


r eight bushels of wheat : — 



YEOETABLES AND FKUITS. 299 

Floor 392 Ibft. 

Buouit, or fine middlings . 10 ,, 

Toppings^ or specks . . . . 8 „ 

Best poUardy Torkej pollard or twenty- 
penny . . . . . . 15 „ 

Fine pollard 18 „ 

Bran and ooarse pollard . . . 50 „ 

Loss sustained by eyaporation, and waste 

in grinding, dressing, &o. « . Up 

Total . . .504 lbs. 



Wheat contains a larger proportion of gluten than the other cereal 
grains — ^that is, than the other grains furnished by grasses. Semolina, 
soujee, and mannacroup, are granular preparations of wheat deprired 
of bran. According to Dr. Fereira, these substances are prepared 
from the best Kentish wheat. '* They possess," he says, " all the 
nutritiye qualities of wheat, and are yery agreeable, light, nutritiye 
articles of food, well fitted for inyalids and children." Macaroni, 
yermicelli, and Cagliari paste, are obtained also from wheat. They 
are imported from Genoa and Naples; but are also made in this 
country from semolina. Various preparations are sold more or less 
approaching to these. Hard's farinaceous food, according to Br. 
Pereira, is prepared from the finest wheat alone. Densham's farina* 
ceous food is a mixture of three parts wheat flour and one part of 
barley meal; on the contrary, according to the same authority, Bright's 
nutritious farina is potato-starch, and therefore yery inferior in its 
nutritiye qualities. Dr. Pereira's " Treatise on Food and Diet" may 
be consulted adyantageously on the seyeral forms of wheaten bread. 

Oats. — ^The common oat used in this country is the Ayena 
satiya. When the grains are denuded of their coyerings, they are 
called groats or grits ; and these when crushed are termed Embden 
groats ; and when ground into flour, prepared groats. Oatmeal is 
made by grinding the kiln-dried grains, stripped of their husk and 
outer skin. Oats are nutritiye; but are apt to disagree with the 
delicate. They form an excellent food for robust people accustomed 
to much out-of-door exercise. Oatcake— that is, unfermented bread 
made of oatmeal — ^is yery apt to cause heartburn in those unac- 
customed to such food. 

JSarUfff obtained from seyexal species of Hordeum, is highly 
nutritious. In Scotch broth, decorticated barley (sold as pot barley) 



286 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

diseases is the case when the disease abates, especially during the n%hty 
food must be given frequently and in small quantities. The danger of the 
patient sinking from mere exhaustion after severe disease must never 
be forgotten. Wine when ordered must be given regularly, and if it 
flushes the face and excites headache, it is not agreeing with the 
system, and its use must be suspended. 

General Management. — In threatened consumption the vigour of 
the constitution should be kept up by the use of the tepid or cold bath, 
frictions to the surface, exercise in the open air — on horseback, if 
possible. To the use of exercise, cold weather should not be any 
obstacle, "^ven those who are much debilitated And their health 
increased by it. Flannel also should be worn next the skin, the 
patient at no period, especially during the night, allowing himself to 
feel the sensation of cold. When a change of residence is necessary 
in winter, XJndercliff, Hastings, and Torquay are the best situations 
in this country. The diet should be farinaceous ; milk and the lighter 
meats should enter largely into it. When there is fever, heemorrhage, 
or inflammation, of course animal food would be improper. In 
discharges of blood, attended with feverishness, the patient should be 
kept quiet, and confined to vegetable food and milk. When exercise 
is allowable, it should be passive rather than active. When there is 
a tendency to Hydrocephalus, the wet-nurse, if the child be not 
weaned, should be quite healthy and free from any scrofulous taint, 
and from every habit likely to be injurious to her health. The child, 
after weaning, should be fed on a sufficient but unstimulating diet, 
including a moderate quantity of meat. It should be warmly clad, 
allowed plenty of exercise in the open air, and not confined in close 
rooms. 

When there is a tendency to apoplexy, or the patient has been 
suffering from a fit, he must avoid all stimulation and excitement, 
especially from alcoholic drinks. He must sleep on a mattress, and 
with the head elevated. Exercise should be rather passive than 
active, and never prolonged to the extent of fatigue ; he should never 
run fast, strain, or make any great muscular exertion. £oth the 
warm and cold baths must be used with the greatest caution, and not 
without the advice of a medical man. Every engagement of the 
mind, as well as every exercise of the body, must be characterized by 
moderation. In diseases of the heart, the same carefully regulated 
diet, the same moderation in the use of exercise, and endeavours to 
maintain tranquillity of mind, are necessary. As regards 

Moral and Mental Management. — It is most important at all 



MORAL AND MENTAL MANAGEMENT. 287 

times to promote the hopefulness of the patient, even when the result 
is doubtful. It is the very nature of most diseases to depress the 
spirits and to lead to gloomy apprehensions, and it should always be 
the object of the medical man, and of those around the sick, to dispel 
this gloom, by maintaining, as much as possible, a cheerful view 
of the case. Indeed this more cheerful view is often the more 
correct one, and the very predictions of recovery tend to fulfil them- 
selves. When we observe the influence of travelling on the invalid, 
and still more of cheerful society in recruiting energies apparently 
wasted and gone, we may form some idea, though probably even then 
an imperfect one, of the powerful influence which mental tranquillity 
and cheerfulness exercise upon the organic functions. When the 
patient is suffering from serious disease, happily there is usually one 
at hand who can give that assistance and support which can never be 
looked for from the best trained nurse. What an antidote to suffering 
is the eye of affection ! What so cheering as its smile ? What so 
supporting as its sympathy ? And where the malady does not admit 
of cure, much of the distress of the sufferer may thus be alleviated. 
It is rarely necessary to shock the patient with the statement that his 
disease is incurable, although his friends should be informed of it. 

The patient, too, by gentle management may be led to speak on 
subjects bearing relation to the future, which will relieve his mind 
from much anxiety, and strengthen his *' joy and peace " in looking 
forward perhaps to a happier state, at a time when all here is evidently 
passing away. It requires judgment and care to allude to such topics : 
the peculiarities of the patient's mind, as well as the period and 
probable result of the disease, must be taken into consideration ; for by 
an untimely and ill-judged statement, in which the justice rather 
than the forbearance and mercy of God is set forth, very injurious 
and even fatal consequences may result. I have always thought it 
better not to defer to the last allusions to such subjects in serious 
illness, but to mention them early ; not because there is an absence 
of aU hope of recovery, but because life is ever uncertain, and either 
event should be provided for. 

" And why not think on Death ? Is Life the theme 
Of every thought, and wish of every hour, 
And song of every joy ? ** 

Thus the truths of Religion might be among the consolations of the 
sick chamber, resignation smooth the pillow of the dying, or gratitude 
fill the mouth of the restored with a song of praise to Him '* who 
healeth all diseases." 



286 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 



diseases is the case when the disease abates, especially during the njight, 
food must be given frequently and in small quantities. The danger of the 
patient sinking from mere exhaustion after severe disease must never 
be forgotten. Wine when ordered must be given regularly, and if it 
flushes the face and excites headache, it is not agreeing with the 
system, and its use must be suspended. 

General Management. — In threatened consumption the vigaur of 
the constitution should be kept up by the use of the tepid or cold bath, 
frictions to the surface, exercise in the open air— on horseback, if 
possible. To the use of exercise, cold weather should not be any 
obstacle, '^ven those who are much debilitated find their healUi 
increased by it. Flannel also should be worn next the skin, ihe 
patient at no period, especially during the night, allowing himself to 
feel the sensation of cold. When a change of residence is necessary 
in winter, UndercliJOT, Hastings, and Torquay are the best situations 
in this country. The diet should be farinaceous ; milk and the lighter 
meats should enter largely into it. When there is fever, hsemorrhage, 
or inflammation, of course animal food would be improper. In 
discbarges of blood, attended with feverishness, the patient should be 
kept quiet, and confined to vegetable food and milk. When exercise 
is allowable, it should be passive rather than active. When there is 
a tendency to Hydrocephalus, the wet-nurse, if the child be not 
weaned, should be quite healthy and free from any scrofulous taint, 
and from every habit likely to be injurious to her health. The child, 
after weaning, should be fed on a sufficient but unstimulating diet, 
including a moderate quantity of meat. It should be warmly clad, 
allowed plenty of exercise in the open air, and not confined in close 
rooms. 

When there is a tendency to apoplexy, or the patient has been 
suflering from a fit, he must avoid all stimulation and excitement, 
especially from alcoholic drinks. He must sleep on a mattress, and 
with the head elevated. Exercise should be rather passive than 
active, and never prolonged to the extent of fatigue ; he should never 
run fast, strain, or make any great muscular exertion. Both the 
warm and cold baths must be used with the greatest caution, and not 
without the advice of a medical man. Every engagement of the 
mind, as weU as every exercise of the body, must be characterised by 
moderation. In diseases of the heart, the same carefully regulated 
diet, the same moderation in the use of exercise, and endeavours to 
maintain tranquillity of mind, are necessary. As regards 

Moral and Mental Management. — It is most important at all 



MORAL AND MENTAL MANAGEMENT. 287 

times to promote the hopefulness of the patient, even when the result 
is doubtful. It is the yery nature of most diseases to depress the 
spirits and to lead to gloomy apprehensions, and it should always be 
the object of the medical man, and of those around the sick, to dispel 
this gloom, by maintaining, as much as possible, a cheerful view 
of the case. Indeed this more cheerful view is often the more 
correct one, and the very predictions of recovery tend to fulfil them- 
selves. When we observe the influence of travelling on the invalid, 
and still more of cheerful society in recruiting energies apparently 
wasted and gone, we may form some idea, though probably even then 
an imperfect one, of the powerful influence which mental tranquillity 
and cheerfulness exercise upon the organic functions. When the 
patient is suffering from serious disease, happily there is usually one 
at hand who can give that assistance and support which can never be 
looked for from the best trained nurse. What an antidote to suflPering 
is the eye of affection ! What so cheering as its smile } What so 
supporting as its sympathy ? And where the malady does not admit 
of cure, much of the distress of the sufferer may thus be alleviated. 
It is rarely necessary to shock the patient with the statement that his 
disease is incurable, although his friends should be informed of it. 

The patient, too, by gentle management may be led to speak on 
subjects bearing relation to the future, which will relieve his mind 
from much anxiety, and strengthen his "joy and peace " in looking 
forward perhaps to a happier state, at a time when all here is evidently 
passing away. It requires judgment and care to allude to such topics : 
the peculiarities of the patient's mind, as well as the period and 
probable result of the disease, must be taken into consideration ; for by 
an untimely and ill-judged statement, in which the justice rather 
than the forbearance and mercy of God is set forth, very injurious 
and even fatal consequences may result. I have always thought it 
better not to defer to the last allusions to such subjects in serious 
illness, but to mention them early ; not because there is an absence 
of all hope of recovery, but becaiise life is ever uncertain, and either 
event should be provided for. 

** And why not think on Death ? Is Life the theme 
Of every thought, and wish of every hour, 
And song of every joy t ** 

Thus the truths of Religion might be among the consolations of the 
sick chamber, resignation smooth the pillow of the dying, or gratitude 
fill the mouth of the restored with a song of praise to Him " who 
healeth all diseases." 



286 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

diseases is the case when the disease abates, especially during the n^ght, 
food must be given frequently and in small quantities. The danger of the 
patient sinking from mere exhaustion after severe disease must never 
be forgotten. Wine when ordered must be given regularly, and if it 
flushes the face and excites headache, it is not agreeing with the 
system, and its use must be suspended. 

General Management. — In threatened consumption the vigour of 
the constitution should be kept up by the use of the tepid or cold bath, 
frictions to the surface, exercise in the open air — on horseback, if 
possible. To the use of exercise, cold weather should not be any 
obstacle. Even those who are much debilitated find their health 
increased by it. Flannel also should be worn next the skin, the 
patient at no period, especially during the night, allowing himself to 
feel the sensation of cold. When a change of residence is necessary 
in winter, Undercliff, Hastings, and Torquay are the best situations 
in this country. The diet should be farinaceous ; milk and the lighter 
meats should enter largely into it. When there is fever, heemorrliage, 
or inflammation, of course animal food would be improper. In 
discharges of blood, attended with feverishness, the patient should be 
kept quiet, and conflned to vegetable food and milk. When exercise 
is allowable, it should be passive rather than active. When there is 
a tendency to Hydrocephalus, the wet-nurse, if the child be not 
weaned, should be quite healthy and free from any scrofulous taint, 
and from every habit likely to be injurious to her health. The child, 
after weaning, should be fed on a sufficient but unstimulating diet, 
including a moderate quantity of meat. It should be warmly dad, 
allowed plenty of exercise in the open air, and not conflned in close 
rooms. 

When there is a tendency to apoplexy, or the patient has been 
suffering from a flt, he must avoid all stimulation and excitement, 
especially from alcoholic driqks. He must sleep on a mattress, and 
with the head elevated. Exercise should be rather passive than 
active, and never prolonged to the extent of fatigue ; he should never 
run fast, strain, or make any great muscular exertion. Both the 
warm and cold baths must be used with the greatest caution, and not 
without the advice of a medical man. Every engagement of the 
mind, as well as every exercise of the body, must be characterized by 
moderation. In diseases of the heart, the same carefully regulated 
diet, the same moderation in the use of exercise, and endeavours to 
maintain tranquillity of mind, are necessary. As regards 

Moral and Mental Management. — It is most important at all 



MORAL AND MENTAL MANAGEMENT. 287 

times to promote the hopefulness of the patient, even when the result 
is doubtful. It is the yery nature of most diseases to depress the 
spirits and to lead to gloomy appr^ensiona, and it should always be 
the object of the medical man, and of those around the sick, to dispel 
this gloom, by maintaining, as much as possible, a cheerful view 
of the case. Indeed this more cheerful view is often the more 
correct one, and the "very predictions of recovery tend to fulfil them- 
selves. When we observe the influence of travelling on the invalid, 
and still more of cheerful society in recruiting energies apparently 
wasted and gone, we may form some idea, though probably even then 
an imperfect one, of the powerful influence which mental tranquillity 
and cheerfulness exercise upon the organic functions. When the 
patient is suffering from serious disease, happily there is usually one 
at hand who can give that assistance and support which can never be 
looked for from the best trained nurse. What an antidote to suffering 
is the eye of affection ! What so cheering as its smile ? What so 
supporting as its sympathy ? And where the malady does not admit 
of cure, much of the distress of the sufferer may thus be alleviated. 
It is rarely necessary to shock the patient with the statement that his 
disease is incurable, although his friends should be informed of it 

The patient, too, by gentle management may be led to speak on 
subjects bearing relation to the future, which will relieve his mind 
from much anxiety, and strengthen his *' joy and peace *' in looking 
forward perhaps to a happier state, at a time when all here is evidently 
passing away. It requires judgment and care to allude to such topics : 
the peculiarities of the patient's mind, as well as the period and 
probable result of the disease, must be taken into consideration ; for by 
an untimely and ill-judged statement, in which the justice rather 
than the forbearance and mercy of God is set forth, very injurious 
and even fatal consequences may result. I have always thought it 
better not to defer to the last allusions to such subjects in serious 
illness, but to mention them early ; not because there is an absence 
of all hope of recovery, but because life is ever uncertain, and either 
event should be provided for. 

" And why not think on Death ? la Life the theme 
Of every thought, and wish of every hour. 
And Bong of every joy t *' 

Thug the truths of Religion might be among the consolations of the 
sick chamber, resignation smooth the pillow of the dying, or gratitude 
fill the mouth of Uie restored with a song of praise to Him " who 
healeth all diseases." 






306 HOUSEHOLD MBmCIKE AND SUUGERT. 

Claret indadeB the red wines of France, and especially those grown 
in the neighbourhood ai Bourdeanx. The j are light and wholesome 
wines, espedally when imported pure and unadulterated with brandy 
for the English marlut. For daily use, daiets take preced^ioe of all 
o<Ji«: wines ; although by gouty, rheumatic, and dyspeptio persona 
they are generally to be avoided from their acidity. £yen with 
claret it is not impossible seriously to injure the health, when too 
litUe regard is giyea to quantity. 

Burgundy is more stimulating than daret, and therefore must be 
used in less quantity. When it does not cause headache or indigestion, 
a moderate allowance may be yeiy beneficiaL 

Champagne is a wine in which the invalid must indulge with the 
greatest caution. It is very exhilarating ; and when the spirits fia^ 
a single glass may sometimes be found ben^cial. But it is also 
very intoxicating; and although it acts as a diuretic, the headache 
which follows its abuse is severe and leiigtliened. Grouty persons 
must refrain from champagne. 

Gemum Wuus are perhaps of all others to be preferred for invalids. 
Their acidity depends upon the presence of tartaric acid ; and so far 
are they, when sound, from creating acidity of the stomach, that they 
are often the only wines which can be taken without giving rise to 
that very annoying affection. liebig affirms that gout is unknown 
wherever the Rhine wines are habitually tak^i. 

Beer is the fermented infusion of cereal grains, andis better adapted 
for those who live much in the open air, and take a great deal of 
exercise, than for the invalid. At the same time the bitter beers are 
mild and grateful tonics, and often very beneficial in some forms of in* 
digesti(m, and in many states of constitutional debility. Excess in 
beer drinking — I have known a Grerman student drink forty-^ght 
"choppin" (about as many English pints) in the course of an 
evening — exerts a most pernicious effect on the oonstitution ; and 
the recent introduction of the light pale ales of Burton has proved a 
great step in the advance of temperance. 

Begapitui^tiox. — I cannot better conclude this chapter, or indeed 
my volume, than by laying down certain general niles and maxima, 
the observance of which is calculated, both in the healthy and in the 
invalid, to render digestion more easy and perfect ; and these I shall 
quote as follows, from a lecture lately delivered by Dr. George 
Budd, and reported in the Medical limes and Gassette, even although. 
I may thus repeat the substance of much of which I have before 
spoken. 



BECAPITULATIOX« S07 



Acoording to Sir Henry Holland, one of the best as irell as latest 
writers oa this subjecty tlie most important of these maxims are the 
following : — 

1. That the £ood should be well mastioated. 

2. That the stomaeh should never be filled to a sense of imeasy 
repletion. 

3. That there should be no urgent ezereise, either of body or mind, 
immediately after a full meal. 

The importance of proper maatioation has been long generally 
Tecognisedy and might have been inferred from the existence of special 
organs for this purpoBe, in some form or other, in all animals tiiat eat 
solid food. 

By mastication the food is ground down, and intimately mixed 
with saiira. The trituration of the food allows the gastric juice to 
act speedily on every particle of it on all sides, and so hastens that 
solution of it in the stomach in which stomach^digestion essentialiy 
consists. The chemist imitates the process when he grinds down in 
his mortar any hard and sparingly-soluble substance which he wishes 
to dissolve. The Inrd that feeds on hard grains, by an instinct more 
unerring than man's reason, swallows pebbles to inerease the grinding 
power of its crop. 

If the food be tough, and so escape proper trituration, or if it be 
swallowed in large morsels, through which the gastric juice cannot 
readily filter, it is dissolved in the stomach much more slowly, and 
tends to cause uneasiness of the stomach, and all the other evils that 
result from slow and imperfect digestion. 

There has been much difference of opinion respecting the uses of 
saliva. The first and most obvious use of it is, to lubricate the mass 
of food in the mouth, and so make it more easy to swallow. The 
quantity of saliva is in great measure determined by the need of it for 
this purpose. The more liquid the food, the less, cateria paribmy is 
the secretion of saliva. The saliva must also serve to keep separate 
the particles of the triturated food, and thus expose them more fully 
to the action of the gastric juice. 

Liebig, considering the great disposition which saliva has to froth, 
has rightly remarked, that it must convey into the stomach atmo* 
spheric air, and has suggested that a certain quantity of air, or rather 
of the oxygen it contains, may contribute to set in action or promote 
the digestive process. 

Besides these mechanical uses, saliva has a chemical action on the 
starchy principles of the food. It has no solvent or digestive action 



308 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND BUKGERT. 

on albumixLOUB substances, but, like the pancreatic juice, it promotes 
the transformation of starch into sugar, — ^the first step in the series of 
changes which starch can undergo in the animal bodj. 

Seeing that proper mastication may contribute to digestion in 
yaiious ways, it is obviously important, as regards digestion, that the 
organs of mastication be in a sound condition. If many of the teeth 
be wanting, the food may escape proper trituration. If the teeth be 
filthy, or be much decayed, the saliva, always prone to decomposi- 
tion, very readily becomes fetid ; and the food intimately mixed with 
this saliva, like food tainted in other ways, is apt, in persons of 
weak digestion, to offend the stomach, and to undergo in the stomach 
common putrefactive changes, thus causing all the discomfort that 
arises from surfeit 

The second maxim, ** not to fill the stomach to a sense of uneasy 
repletion," is more important than the maxim we haye just con- 
sidered, and more frequentiy broken. In the middle and upper 
classes of society, indigestion is too often, as a humorous writer 
termed it, " the remorse of a guilty stomach." The appetite is 
indulged, and more is habitually eaten than is required to nourish 
the body, or than the stomach can long continue to digest. The 
consequence is, that the stomach suffers, and that superfluous matters, 
including the hurtful products of imperfect digestion, pass into the 
blood, disorder the processes of nutrition in various parts of the body, 
by polluting the nourishing stream, and often cause permanent change 
of structure in the arteries, and in the liver and the kidney, which 
serve to eliminate the superfluous matters from the system. 

The sufferings of the stomach itself are but a small part of the 
ailments that habitual over-indulgence of the appetite brings on. 
Not unfrequentiy a vigorous stomach digests much superfluous food 
for a long time without pain or uneasiness, and the penalty of the 
indulgence is paid in occasional fits of the gout, or, more remotely 
still, in the various ailments that result from those permanent changes 
of structure that high living tends to bring on. 

Experience has shown, that uneasy digestion more frequently 
results from excess in the quantity of food than from any fault in its 
quality, — a circumstance which our present knowledge of the process 
of digestion enables us fully to explain. 

The gastric juice, out of the body, wUl dissolve the various kinds 
of food ; but, as Spallanzani long ago showed, it will dissolve only a 
limited quantity of any kind. When this limit is attained, the solvent 
power is expended. The digestive power may be restored to a certain 



RECAPITULATION. 309 



extent by the addition of water or of free acid ; but to dissolye much 
more of the food, there must be a fresh quantity of the juice. 

The stomach at any time can only famish a certain quantity of I 
gastric juice. If more fopd be eaten than this can dissolye, part of 
the food is imperfectly digested, and causes uneasiness of the stomach ; 
and often the undigested food, as Dr. Beaumont has shown, excites in 
the mucuous membrane an erythematous inflammation, which prevents 
the proper nutrition of the membrane, and the restoration of the 
expended power. 

Eating too frequently is equivalent to eating too much. When 
the power of the stomach is expended, it is gradually restored, like 
the intellectual power of the mind or the mechanical power of the 
muscles, by the nutrition of the organ on which it depends. For this 
restoration of power, whatever be its kind, an interval of rest is 
necessary. 

The absolute quantity of food required to nourish the body varies 
greatly in different persons, — ^partly from inherited peculiarity of con- 
stitution, partly from habits of life and other conditions. The supply 
must equal the demand, so that no positive rules as to quantity can 
be laid down. In some persons, without any peculiarity that consti- 
tutes actual disease, the waste of the body is much greater, and what 
is eaten is less perfectly assimilated, and more food is consequently 
required than in others. The rule, therefore, laid down by Dr. 
Holland, not to fill the stomach to a sense of uneasy repletion, is much 
better than any positive rules as to the quantity of food. The quantity 
of food should clearly never be greater than the stomach can easily 
digest. 

The third maxim, " that there should be no urgent exercise, either 
of body or mind, immediately after a full meal," merely enjoins 
obedience to a natural tendency, which man has in common with 
other animals. All alike have a disposition to rest when the stomach 
is full. Digestion reqiiires an additional flow of blood to the stomach 
and an expenditure of nervous power, and goes on more slowly when 
the means of its support — the nervous influence and the blood — are 
needed elsewhere. Men who earn their living by bodily labour, and 
have digestive power to spare, may often violate this rule with 
impunity ; but studious men, and men^of feeble digestion, can seldom 
do so without aggravating their ailments. The work of digestion is 
quite as much as the system can well do at a time. 

It is also important to easy digestion that the meals should be 
taken at proper times. With regard to the absolute time of meals. 



310 HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE AND SUROEBY. 



much depends en habit ; and this again is often determined by the 
custom of society, or the needs of business. The man of bosinesa, to 
avoid working immediately after dinner, must dine late ; the idle 
man must often dine alone, or he must dine late. Our legialatois, 
who do their work at night, and people of fashion, who visit at night, 
must have little sleep, or they must breakfSut late, and, consequently, 
dine late. They are hardly free agents in the matter, as long as they 
follow the business, or enter into the soeial amusements, of their class. 
ThefoUowingrulesare the best that canbelaiddownonthispoint : — 

1. That the substantial repasts should be separated by an interval 
sufficient to allow the stomach to recruit its power. 

2. That abstinence from food should never be so protracted as to 
induce a sense of exhaustion. Exhaustion from fasting, as from other 
causes, weakens the digestive power. If, then, the interval between 
breakfast and dinner be long, a light luncheon should be taken; 
if the dinner be in the middle of the day, a Ught supper. 

3. A third rule is, that the last heavy meid should be some hours 
before bed-time. 

The process of digestion, when it is easy and the food was re- 
quired, favours sleep. But sleep renders the digestion slower, and 
thus prolongs the irritation which uneasy digestion sets up; and the 
digestion of a heavy meal, by causing uneasiness in the stomach, and 
by furnishing superfluous or noxious matters to the Wood, when from 
the greater slowness of respiration and secretion these are less readily 
consumed or excreted, often disturbs the sleep. 

As Dr. Holland has remarked, much harm is done in this way by 
the lateness of the present fashionable hour of dinner. This is well 
suited to persons who are to spend great part of the night in the House 
of Commons or at a ball, in whom it prevents the exhaustion that 
would otherwise result from many hours of excitement ; but it is a 
source of much mischief to persons whose occupations call them up 
in good time in the morning, and who must, consequently, spend 
their nights in sleep. 

The food allowed to dyspeptics should not be too much restricted 
as to kind. The body requires a great number of principles for its 
healthy nutrition, and, unless these are furnished, the incessant waste 
of the body cannot be repaired. If the diet be too much restricted, 
some principle or principles may be wanting, which, although they 
enter only in extremely small quantity into the composition of certain 
tissues, may yet be required for healthy nutrition. 

The error most commonly committed on this point is to debar the 



RECAPITULATION. 311 



patient from vegetable food. Persons who eat freely of milk, which 
seems to contain all the nourishing principles of both animal and 
vegetable food, may abstain with impunity from fresh suoculent vege- 
tables and frmts ; but persons who eat sparingly of milk, as dyspeptic 
persons often do, from inability to digest it, cannot long abstain from 
succulent vegetables, or their preserved juices, without faUing, in eome 
degree, into that faulty state of nutrition that constitutes scurvy. 

The best diet is, generally, a mixed diet of animal and vegetable 
food ; and this may be sufficiently varied, without including the more 
unwholesome articles of the two daases. 

Persons of weak digestion should abstain from veal and pork, and 
from all salted, dried, or smoked meats, which experience has shown 
to be particularly hard of digestion. 

They should also abstain from new bread, which is apt to ferment 
and expand in the stomach ; and from pease, beans, and other vege- 
tables, which are hard to digest, and have an especial tendency to 
cause flatulence. With such restrictions as to the kind of food, and 
with the restrictions as to quantity which I have before mentioned, 
the patient may generally be allowed to follow his own desires. 

On the question of drinks it is still more difficult to lay down 
positive rules. Much has been written of late respecting the effects 
of alcoholic drinks, and opinion is still divided on the use and 
abuse of them. The following points seem, however, to admit of no 
reasonable doubt : — 

1st. That alcoholic drinks, by the stimulus and support they fur- 
nish, are of great service in various diseases attended with exhaustion 
or depression ; or in which there is inability to digest solid food. 

2nd. That the habitual use of them in moderate quantity is often 
beneficial to persons whose occupations are exhausting or depressing ; 
or who have long been accustomed to such stimulus. 

3rd. That by the mass of mankind, high and low, they are drunk 
to injurious excess. 

In persons who suffer from indigestion, if taken at all, they should 
be taken in very moderate quantity, and only at the time of meals, or 
soon after. If taken when the stomach is empty, they stimulate the 
stomach when it has no work to perform, and are absorbed more 
rapidly, and are consequently more apt to cause disorder in the head 
and elsewhere than at other times. 

The quantity that can be taken with advantage, or without injury, 
varies greatly in different persons, according to the constitution, the 
size of the body, the mode of life, and the previous habits. Any 



312 HOUSEHOLD MBDICINE AND SUBGERY. 

quantity is hartM that oppresses the head, or makes the skin hot, or 
disturbs the sleep. 

The effect of the di£Eerent fermented drinks, when taken to excess, 
differs greatly. 

The distilled spirits do the greatest direct injury to the stomach 
and the liver. The victims of spirit-drinking frequently die of organic 
disease of the stomach, or of that disease of the liver which is here 
fitly called the gin-drinker*s liver ; but they suffer litde from gout. 

The heavy malt liquors, probably from the greater dilution of the 
spirit, have little disposition to inflame the stomach or the liver, but 
have an especial tendency to bring on gout. No men are such 
melancholy victims of gout as men of the lower classes in London, 
who make their hard work an excuse for drinking enormous quantities 
of porter. 

Wines are free from the strongest objections to both these classes 
of drinks. They have much less tendency than spirits to damage the 
liver, and much less tendency than malt liquors to bring on gout. 

All seem to be intoxicating in proportion to the quantity of spirit 
they contain. All, therefore, if taken to excess, injuriously affect 
the brain. 

These leading facts, respecting the different effects of alcoholic 
liquors, may serve, in some degree, to guide us in prescribing one or 
the other of them. 

Spirits, and the drier wines, are best suited to gouty persons, or to 
men in the middle of life, who are of gouty families, or whose mode 
of living disposes to gout, — ^persons who would do weU always to 
abstain from heavy malt liquors. 

Malt liquors, from containing more of the elements of nutrition, 
are especially suited to agricultural labourers and others, whose work 
is hard, and whose diet is scanty and not sufficiently varied. 

The liquor that is most generally wholesome is wine. 

Tea and coffee are not open to the same objections as fermented 
drinks; but they are doubtless commonly taken to very injurious excess 
by nervous or excitable people in the upper and middle classes, who 
do not counteract their influence by bodily labour. 



1 



INDEX. 



ABSCB88B8, 244. 

Accidents, special, 252 ; to wodeers m 
stone and metals, 267^ 

Acidulous drinks, S03. 

Acne, 194. 

Acute taoA ehronic forms of rheam»- 
tism, 67. 

Adhesive plaster, 264. 

Advice, religious, 267. 

Affusion, oold, 276. 

After4reatment of leeches, 271. 

Age, influence of, 24. 

Ague, 46 : symptoms in, ib. ; treat- 
ment of, 47. 

Air-cells, collapse oL 135 ; dilationof, 
135. 

Albino, tbe, 205. 

Alcoholic drinkfs 305, 311. 

Ales, Burton, 306 ; pale, ib. 

Almond, 301 ; driQluB, 30& 

Alopecia, 201. 

Amenorrhcea, 157, 158, 161 ; symptoms 
of, 162 ; treatment of, 163. 

Amputation, 232. 

AnsBmia, 71. 

Anasarca, 171 ; causes of, 172 ; symp- 
toms in, 171 ; treatment of, 172. 

Animal broths, 304 ; beat, 20 ; para- 
sites, 39. 

Ankle, dislocatiom of tbe, 236. 

Antoinette, Marie, 204. 

Aphtha, 75; of vogetable origin, ib. 

Apoplexy, 186. 

Apple, 301. 

Application of bandages, 266 ; of cold, 
273. 

Applying leeches, 271. 

Apricot, 301. 

Aromatic drinks, 802. 

Arrow-root, 301. 

Ascarides, M. 

Ascites, 173. 

Ass's milk, 297. 

Assimilation of food, 20. 

Asthma, 180; svmptoms of, 131; 
treatment of, 132. 

Atmosphere, the^ 29. 

Atmo^heric vicissitudes, 9. 

Attire of tbe nurse, 282. 

Baldness, 201. 






Bandage for tbe belly, 268 ; for tbe 
chest, ib. ; for the foot, 269 ; for the 
band, 268 ; for the head, ib. ; for 
the leg, 269 ; the circular, 267 ; tbe 
oblique, ib. ; tbe recurrent, lb. ; the 
spiral, ib. 

Bandages, 266. 

Barley, 298, 299. 

Bathing, sea, 213. 

Baths— tbe douce, 275; the hot, 374; 
tbe shower, 275; the temperate, 
274 ; the tepid, ib. ; the vapour, ib. ; 
the warm, ib. 

Beans, 300. 

Beard, the, 201. 

Bed-cradl^ in wounds, 225; 

Bed-room of the sick, 276 ; manage- 
ment of, ib. 

Bed-sores, 277. 

Bed-table for invalids, 278. 

Beef-tea, 304. 

Beer, 306 ; bitter, ib. 

Bees, 242. 

Beet, 301. 

Bile, purposes of the, 100. 

Biliousness, 104. 

Birds, as food, 294. 

Bite of tbe cobra, 241. 

Bites of dogs, 239 ; of rejAlles, 240 ; 
treatment of, ib. 

Black currant, 301. 

lUadder, inflammation of the, 154; 
chronic inflammation of the, ib. 

Bleedin{f, 258; from the nose, 221; 
stopping, 220. 

Blisters, 273. 

Blood diseases, specific, 40 ; general, 63. 

Blood, fullness of, 70; quantity ab- 
stracted by leeches, 271; spitting 
of, 114; vomiting of, ib. ; oircula- 
tion of the, 27. 

Blood-vessels, dueaseof, 114; rupture 
of, ib. 

Blood, vomiting of, 114. 

Boils, 246. 

*' Boulettes," 264. 

" Bourdonnet," 264. 

Bowels, inflammation of the, 89. 

Brain, diseases of the, 181 ; dropsy of, 
175; inflammation of the, 178. 

Brambleberry, SOL 



314 



INDEX. 



Bread, new, 311. 

Bright's disease, 153. 

Bright's farina, 299. 

Bronchitis, 117, 125. 

Bronehocele, 78. 

Broth, 293 ; chicken, 804 ; mutton, ib. ; 
Scotch, 299 ; Teal, 304. 

Bugs, 242. 

Bunions, 249. 

Burgess, Dr., on diseases of the hair, 
203. 

Bums, 214, 289. 

Burton ales, 306. 

Buahnan, Dr., on the "legion ** reme- 
dies for cholera, 59. 

Buttermilk, 297. 

Gagliari paste, 299.. 

Calculus, 153. 

Canker, 76. 

Capsicum, 300. 

Carbandes, 246. 

Carded cotton, 264. 

Carrageen, 301. 

Carrots, 301. 

Catarrh, 125. 

Causes of anasarca, 172 ; of baldness, 
202 ; of chlorosis, 158 ; of diseases 
of the heart, 111 ; of diseases of the 
skin, 193; of scrofula, 207. 

Celery, 301. 

Cephalalgia, 182. 

Chapped hands, 248. 

Cheese, 297. 

Chemical principles of food, '289. 

Cherry, 301. 

Chicken broth, 304. 

Chicken-pox, 39, 57. 

Chicory, 303. 

Chilblains, 113, 244, 246. 

Children, leucorrhoea of, 170; milk 
for, 297. 

Chloroform in asthma, 132. 

Chloro!*i8, 157^ 158; causes of, 158; 
symptoms in, ib. ; treatment of, 
160. 

Chocolate, 303. 

Choking, 262. 

Cholera, 39, 58 ; treatment of, 63. 

Chronic and acute forms of rheuma- 
tism, 67. 

Chronic inflammation of the bladder, 
154. 

Chrouie laryngitis, 122. 

Chyle, 19. 

Chyme, 19. 

Chloride of lime, 279. 

Circulation, feeble, 112. 

Circulation of the blood, 27. 

Clean utensils, 281. 

Cleanliness in the management of the 
sick, 280. 

Clothing, change of, 220. 



Cobra, bite of the, 241. 

Cookies, 297. 

Cocoa, 303. 

Ood,S97. 

Cod-Urer oil, 141. 

Coffee, 302, 312 ; excess in. 111. 

O^d. 125 ; afihsiaii, 275 ; applioatkm 
of, 273 ; in the eye, 253. 

Cold water, as a lotion, 266. 

Colewort, 301. 

Colic, 90. 

Collapse of air-ceUs, 135. 

Collar-bone, fracture of the, 230. 

Complaints, liver, 100. 

Composition of the atmosphere, 81. 

Compound fracture, 232. 

Compresses, 264. 

Conditions of derelopment of dlwpaaes, 
40. 

Congestion of the heart. 111. 

Conjunctiyitis, 255. 

Constipation, 91; symptoms of, 92; 
treatment of, ib. 

Consumption, 139; symptoms in, 140; 
treatment of, 141. 

Contagion, 37, 38; means of aToiding, 
285. 

Contagious diseases, 38. 

Cooking of meat, 292. 

Corns, 249. 

Coryza, 125. 

Cough, Hooping, 118, 138. 

Cow-pox, 54 ; symptoms of, ib. 

Craw-flsh, 298. 

Croup, 117, 122 ; spurious, 129 ; symp- 
toms of, 124 ; treatment of, ib. 

Croydon fever, the, 43. 

Cacumbers, 301. 

Capping, 270. 

Cut, a dean, 215. 

Defective action of the kidneys, 152. 

Delirium in small pox, 52. 

Delirium tremens, 185. 

Densham*s farinaceous food, 299. 

Deposits in urine, 147. 

Diabetes, 150 ; symptoms in, 151 ; 
treatment of, ib. 

Diaphoretics, 283. 

Diarrhcsa, 95 ; symptoms of, ib. ; 
treatment of, 96. 

Diet for invalids, 288; in scrofula, 
211 ; mode of life influences, 25; 
variety in, 21. 

Dietetic management, 285. 

Digestibility, comparative, of several 
kinds of food, 293, 294, 295, 296 ; of 
food obtained from grasses, 298 ; of 
milk, 297 ; of oysters, 298 ; of various 
articlesof vegetable food, 301. 

Digestion, 19-; diseases of the orgnns 
of, 73 ; rules and maxims as to, 306. 

Dilation of air-cells, 135. 



INDEX. 



3U 



Dilution of medicines, 288. 
Dinner hoar, 310. 
Directions as to dressings, 263. 
Disease, Bright' s, 153 ; mesenteric, 
107 ; of kidney, 172 ; of the larynx, 
122 ; the inherent tendency of man 
to speculate on, 13. 
Diseases, blood, 40 ; conditions of de- 
velopment of, 40; connected espe- 
cially with the nerves, 194 ; of the 
sebaceous follicles, ib. ; of the pig- 
ment of the skin, ib. ; arising from 
parasitic plant, ib. ; arising from 
animalculaB, ib. ; contagious, 38 ; 
general blooid, 63 ; infectious, 38, 50 ; 
of blood-vessels, 114; of the brain 
and nervous system, 181 ; of the 
cavity of the chest, 142 ; of the ear, 
252 ; of the eye, 253 ; of the hair, 
201 ; of the heart,. 110; of the kid- 
jiey, 143 ; of the liver, 102 ; of the 
'organs of circulation, 109; of the 
orgEuos of digestion, 73 ; of the 
respiratory organs, 117 ; of the skin, 
193 ; of the urinary organs, 143; of 
the uterine system, 156 ; special, 252. 

Dislocation of 'the ankle, 286; of the 
elbow, 234 ; of the knee, 235 ; of the 
lower jaw, 233 ; of the shoulder, 
ib. ; of the thigh, 235 ; of the toes, 
236; of the wrist, 235. 

Dislocations, 232 ; redaction of, 233. 

Dogs, bites of, 289. 

Dressii^, directions as to, 263 ; ma- 
terials required for, ib. 

Drinks, 302, 311; acidulous, 303; al- 
coholic, 305, 311 ; almond, 305 ; 
aromatic, 302 ; emulsive, 305 ; fer- 
mented, 812 ; mucilaginous, 802. 

Dropsies, 171; distinguished from 
pregnancy, 180; general, 171; of 
the brain, 175 ; of the eye-ball, 179 ; 
of the windpipe, ib. ; ovarian, 
ib. 

Drowning, treatment of, 260. 

Drunkenness, 185. 

Dry cupping, 270. 

Durra, 298. 

Dyes, hair, 205. 

Djrsentery, 90. 

DysmenorrhoBa, 157, 165. 

Dyspepsia, 79, 101. 

Dyspeptics, 310. 

Dyspncea, 130. 

Ear-ache, 252. 

Ear, diseases of the, 252. 

Eating, the mode of, 22 ; time of, ib. ; 

too frequently, 309. 
Ecthyma, 194. 
Eczema, 194. 
Egg plant, 300. 
Eggs, as food, 295. 



Elbow, dislocation of the, 234. 

Elephantiasis^ 194. 

Embden groats, 299. 

Emetics, 283. 

Emulsive drinks, 305. 

Empyema, 142. 

Epilepsy, 189. 

Epithelial cells of the kidney, 145. 

Eruptions, cutaneous, 37. 

Erysipelas, 89, 53, 57, 117 ; symptoms 

of, 57 ; treatment of, 58. 
Erythema, 194. 
Esculent vegetables, 301. 
Evacuations, removal of, 279. 
Excess of food, 308. 
Exciting cause of rheumatism, 67. 
Excoriation, 277. 
Exercise of body and mind, 309. 
Experiments on St. Martin, 293. 
Expiration, 30. 
Eye, cold in the, 253 ; diseases of the, 

ib. ; foreign bodies in the, 256; 

scratches of the, 258. 
Eye-ball, dropsy of the, 179. 
Eye-lid, sinking of the, 186. 
Eyes, Inflammation of the, 53. 

Fastingj 24. 

Fever, infantile remittent, 45 ; inter- 
mittent, 46; poison, 39; relapsing, 
39, 44; remittent, 45; scarlet, 39, 
171; typhoid, 39, 42; typhus, 40; 
the Croydon, 43 ; yellow, 45. 

Fig, 301. 

Fire-King, the, 35. 

" First Intention," healing by, 216. 

Fish, 297. 

Fistula, 251. 

Fits, 98. 

Flatulence, 108. 

Fleas, 242. 

Flounder, 297. 

Fluid passing off from the skin, 35. 

Follicular disease of the larynx, 122. 

Fomentations, 266. 

Food, chemical principles of, 289 ; ex- 
cess o^ 808 ; indigestible, 22 ; quan- 
tity of, requisite, 309 ; rules for 
taking, 21 ; solid, 23; vegetable, 289, 
801. 

Foods, respiratory, 301. 

Foreign bodies in the eye, 256 ; in the 
stomach, 86. 

Forms of scrofula, 208. 

Fracture, compound, 232. 

Fracture of the collar-bone, 230. 

Fractures of the ribs, 280 ; of the skuU, 
ib. 

Fractured leg, 229 ; thigh, ib. 

Fractures, 226 ; natural processes in,ib. 

French beiEUis, 300. 

Fresh-water fish, 297. 

Fruit and vegetables, 298. 



316 



INDSX. 



Fruits, 801. 

Full and heavy meals, 23. 

Fullness of blood, 70. 

FumigatioQ of the scalp, 203. 

Fumigations, 284. 

Function defined, 17. 

Functional diseases of the heart, 110. 

Functions of the human body, 15 ; of 

the kidney^ 149. 
Fnmitnre of the sick-room, 278. 

Gall-bladder, the, 105. 

Gallstones, 105. 

Gangrene, 76. 

Gases» suffocation from noxious, 282. 

Gastric juice, the, 19, 308, SOB. 

German wines, 306. 

Gin-drinker's liyer, 812. 

Ginger beto, 804. 

Glands, perspiratory, 34. 

Glysters, 275. 

Goitre, 78. 

Gooseberry, 301. 

Gout, 63, 306 ; treatment of, 65. 

Gouty persons, 312. 

Gradation of organised subetaneea, 

15. 
Grapes, 301. 
Grasses, 298. 
Gravel, 152. 
Gray hair, 204. 
Green sickness^ 158. 
Green tea. 111. 
Greens, 301. 
Groats, 299. 
Guinea com, 296. 
Gums, inflammation of the, 74. 
Gums, leeches to the, 271. 
Gun-shot wounds, 223. 

Haddock, 297. 

Heematemesis, 115. 

Hemoptysis, 115, 135. 

Hflsmorrhoids, 250. 

Hair, diseases of the, 201. 

Hair dyes, 205. 

Hair, gray, 204. 

Hanging, treatment of, 262. 

Hard's farinaceous food^ 299. 

Hazel-nut, 301. 

Headache, 182 ; in typhuci, 41 ; rheci- 

matic,183; 8ick,89; treatment of, 189. 
Headaches, external, 183; internal, ib. 
Healing by '* first Intention," 216 ; by 

" second intention,** 217. 
Healing, powers of nature in, 218. 
Healing processes, 213. 
Health, 9. 
Healthy urine, 146. 
Heart, the, 27 ^ congestion of the, 111 ; 

diseases of the, 110; palpitation of 

the. 111. 
Heartburn, 299. 



Heat, animal, SO. 

Hemiphlegia, 188. 

Hernia, 252. 

Hoi'pes, 194. 

H«K)ping<i«oagh, 39, 118, 183; wyatp- 

tomsof, 193; treatment of, 1^ 
Hordeum, 299. 
Hornets, 942. 
Horseflies, 2^. 
Horse-radish, 301. 
Housemaid's knee, 238. 
Hydrocephalus, 175; symptoms ol^ 176. 
Hydroperieardiam, 175. 
HydrotllOfra3^ 142, 179 ; symptoms of, 

179. 
Hysteria, 191. 
Hysteric dyspnosa, 118. 
Hysteric pain of ths side, 143. 

Iceland moss^ 901. 

Imperial, 903. 

Impet^o, 194. 

Inflammation, msmbnoiouff, 75; mer- 
curial, 77 ; of the bladder, 154 ; of 
thebowelL 89 ; of the brain, 178 ; of 
the gams, 74 ; of the kidney, 153 ; of 
the mouth, 75 ; of the stomach, 81 ; of 
the windpipe, 123 ; within the skull, 
184. 

laflammatioQs causing general redness 
of more or less of the skin,. 194 ; 
causing papnto, ib. : causfang veeklcs, 
ib. ; causing pustules, fl>. ; causiiag 
tuberculoid swellings, ib. ; attended 
with especial disease of the eutiele, 
ib. ; of the skin, ib, 

In^Ban corn, 298. 

Indigestible foody 22. 

Infantile remittent fever, 45. 

Infants, sodding, 113. 

Infection, 37, 86. 

Infeotione diseases, 88, 50. 

Influensa, 125, 127; symptasBS ef, 
128 ; treatment of, ib. 

Injuries, treatment o^ 219t. 

Inoculation, 50. 

Inorganic nature, 17. 

Insects, stings of, 239. 

Inspiration, 30. 

Interference with the surgecm, ^8. 

Intermittent fever, 46. 

Internal organs, wounds of, 222; 

Irish, the, 40. 

Irish moss, 801. 

Itch, 88, 194. 

Jaundice. 105» 

Jaw, dislocation of the lower, 239i. 

Jaw, fracture of the lower, 230. 

Jenner, Dr., on specific blood diwwwtea, 
40 ; on the treatment of foreign 
bodies in the stomach, 88 ; on ti^e 
treatment of pityriaaiB, 200c 



INBEX. 



317 



Jerusalem artiehoke, 801. 
Joints, swellings of, 53, 238. 

Kidney beans, 300. 

Kidney, diseases of the, 143t 172; 
ei^thelial eellsof the, 145 ; excessiye 
action of the, 150 ; functions of the, 
143 ; inflammation of the, 153 ; 
structure of the, 145. 

Kidneys, the, 33 ; defectire aetion of 
the, 152. 

Knee, dislocation of the, 235» 

Konsso, in treatment for -wonnfly 99. 

Lachrymal glands, the, 83. 

Laryngismus stridulus, 118, 129. 

Laryngitis, 117, 118 ; chronic, 122 ; 
symptoma ci, 119; treatment of, 
120. 

Larynx, follicular disease of thei 122.. 

Lavements, 275. 

Lead-poisoning, 90. 

Leeches, 271 ; after-treatment of, ib. 

Leeching, 271. 

Leek, 301. 

Leg, fractured, 229. 

" Legion " remedies fm* cholera, 59. 

Lemon, 301. 

Lemonade, 303. 

Lentils, 300. 

Lepra, 194. 

Leucorrhcea, 157, 168; of children, 
170; symptoma in, 168 ; treatment 
of, 169. 

Lice, 243. 

Lichen, 194. 

Liebig on animal food, 891. 

Life, mode of, influeneea diet, 25. 

Lime, SOI. 

Limpets, 297. 

Lint, 264 ; scraped, ib. 

Liver complaints, 100. 

Liver, diseases of the. 102 ; importance 
of the functions oi the, 101 ; physi- 
ology of the, 100; treatment of 
diseases of the, 103. 

Lobsters, 298. 

Lotion, cold water, 266. 

Lungs, the, 29. 

Lupus, 194. 

Macaroni, 299. 

Maize, 298, 300. 

Malt liquors, 313. 

Mammals as food, 290. 

Man an omnivorous animal, 21, 93. 

Management, general, of the patient, 

286 ; of the sick-room^ 276. 
Mannacroup, 299. 
Maple, 301. 

Markwick's spongio-piline, 265. 
Mastication, 308. 
Materials required for dreseingsy 263. 



Meals, fUl and heavy, 23; timea for, 

309. 
Measles, 39, 49; aymptoms in, 49; 

treatment of, ib. 
Meaty eooking of, 292 ; salted meatfly 

311. 
Mechanics' InstitutiDna, 11. 
Medicine, administration of, 283 ; the 

science of, 13. 
Medlar, 301. 
Melons, SOL 

Membranous inflammation, 75. 
Menorrhagia, 157, 165; symptoms in, 

166 ; treatmoit of; 167. 
Menses, the, 156. 
Menstruation, 157. 
Mental management, 286. 
Mercurial inflammation, 77. 
Mercurial ointment, 284. 
Mesenteric disease, 107. 
Milk, 311 ; as food, 296; ass's, 297 ; 

cow's, ib. ; composition of cow's, 

296 ; diet, ib. ; digestibility of, 297 ; 

goat's, ib. ; leg, 116; woman's, 297. 
Millet, 75, 298» 
Mind, 18. 

Moral management, 286. 
More, Sir Thomas, 204. 
Mosquitos, 242. 
Moustache, the, 201. 
Mouth, inflammation of the, 75 ; 

ulcerated, 76. 
Moving the patient, 281. 
Mucilaginous drinks, 302. 
Mulberry, 301. 
Mumps, the, 78. 
Mushroom, 301. 
Mussels, 297. 

Mustard, 301 ; blister, 273. 
Mutton broth, 304. 
Myelitis, 185. 

Nausea, 86. 

Nectarine, 301. 

Nervous Bystem, the, 181 ; diseases of 

the, ib. 
Night-lamp, the, 278. 
Nose, bleeding from the, 221. 
Nurse, the, 282. 

Oatcake, 299. 

Oatmeal, 299. 

Oats, 298, 299. 

Offices of the hair, 201. 

Officiousness of frienda in surgioal 

cases, 213. 
Oil, 301. 
Ointments, 264. 
Old age, 25. 
Onion, 301. 
Orange, 801. 

Origin of worms in the body, 98. 
Organic nature, 17. 



318 



INDEX. 



Organs of eirealatton, diaeaMS of the, 

109. 
Organs, reqiiratory, diseases of fhe, 

117. 
Organs, urinary, diseases of the, 148. 
Orarian dropsy, 179. 
Over-indulgence, 808. 
Oysters, 297. 

Pads, 265. 

Palpitation of the heart, )U; treat- 
ment of, 112. 

J»^ y, 186. 

Pancreatic juiee, the, 106. 

Paralysis, 186. 

Paraplegia, 188. 

Parasites, animal and vegetahle, 39. 

Parasites of the stomach, 88. 

Parsley, 801. 

Parsnips, 801. 

Peach, SOI. 

Pear, 801. 

Pease, 800. 

Pemphigus, 194. 

Pereira. Dr., on food and diet, 299. 

Period for religious advice, 287. 

Period of reproductive life, 157» 

Periwinkles, 297. 

Pertussis, 133. 

Phlebitis, 116. 

Phlegmasia dolens, 116. 

Physiology, 11. 

Physiology of fractures, 226. 

Piles, 250. 

Pine apple, 301. 

Pityriasis, 194. 

Plague, 39. 

Plaice, 297. 

Plaster, adhesive, 264. 

Plethora, 70. 

Pleura, 142. 

Pleurisy, 135. 

Plum, 301. 

Pneumonia, 135; distinguished firom 
pleurisy, 137 ; sounds in, 138 ; 
symptoms of, 135 ; treatmentof, 139. 

Pneumo-thorax, 142. 

Poisoning, 81 ; lead, 90; tests in, 81 ; 
treatment in, ib. 

Poisons, fever, 39. 

Poor, relief to the, 26. 

Poor, the, exposed to typhus, 40. 

Pork, 311. 

Potato, 300. 

Potato starch, 300. 

Poultices, 265. 

Powers of nature in healing, 218. 

Prawns, 298. 

Pregnancy, dropsy distinguished 
from, 180. 

Principles contained in the grasses as 
food, 298. 

Process of digestion, 19. 



Prooessas, healing, 213; natural, in 

firactures, 226. 
Products obtained in grinding wheat, 

298. 
Prolapsus ani, 251. 
Protective power of vaccination, 55. 
Prurigo, 194. 
Psoriasis, 194. 
Ptosis, 186. 
Ptyalism, 77. 

Purifying the sick-room, 279. 
Purpura, 71. 
PyeUtis, 153. 
Pyrosis, 85. 

Quack medicines, 12. 

Quackery, 11. 

Quantity of food requirite, 809. 

Queen Mary, 204. 

Quince, 801. 

Quinsey, 77. 

Rashj the, in scarlatina, 47. 

Raspberry, 301. 

Raspberry vinegar, 303. 

Red currant, 301. 

Reduction of dislocations, 233. 

RefHgerating mixtures, 274. 

Relapsing fever, 39, 44 ; treatment of, 
45. 

Remittent fever, 45; s3nnptoms in, 
ib. 'f treatment of, 46. 

Repairing processes, 214. 

Reptiles, bites of, 240. 

Respiration, 29. 

Respiratory organs, diseases o^ 117. 

Rheumatic headache. 183. 

Rheumatism, 67 ; of the diaphragm, 
136; symptoms of, 67 ; treabnentof, 
69. 

Ribs, fractures of the, 230. 

Rice, 298, 300. 

Ringworm, 38, 194. 

Roasting meat, 293. 

Roe of fishes, 297. 

RosacecD, 301. 

Roseola, 194. 

Round worms, 79. 

Rubeola, 49. 

Rules and maxims as to digestion, 
306 ; for taking food, 21 ; in apply- 
ing dressings, 263. 

Rupia, 194. 

Rupture, 252; of blood-vessels, 114. 

Rye, 298, 300. 

Sago, 301. 

Saliva, uses of the, 307. 
Salivation, 77. 
Salt-water fish, 297. 
Salted meats, 311. 
Scabbing, 217. 
Scabies, 194. 



INDEX. 



319 



Sealds, 214, 289. 

Scallops, 297. 

Soarmcation, 278. 

Scarlatina, 47; symptoms in, lb.; 

treatment of, 48. 
Scarlet beans, 300. 
Scarlet fever, 39, 171. 
Scotch broth, 299. 
Scrofula, 206; causes of, 207; forms 

of, 208 ; treatment in, 210. 
Scarry, 71, 206. 
Sea-bathing, 213. 
Sea-sickness, 89. 
Sea-water, 212. 

" Second intention," healing by, 217.* 
Semolina, 299. 
Shell-fish, 297. 
Shrimp, 298. 
Sick headache, 89. 
Sick-room management, 276. 
Sickness, green, 158 ; sea, 89. 
Sitting-up, 281. 
Skin, the, S3: diseases of the, 193; 

treatment of, 195 ; inflammations of 

the, 194 ; the fluid passing off from 

the, 35. 
Skull, fractures of the, 230. 
Sleep, 24, 310. 

Sling, the, in fractures, 230. 
Slings, 270. 
Small-pox, 37, 39, 50 ; cases divided 

into groups, 51 ; deliriam in, 52 ; 

hospital, statistics o^ 52 ; symptoms 

in, 50 ; treatment of, 53. 
Soda water, 803. 
Sole, 297. 
Solid food, 23. 
" Soothing syrups," 73, 
" Sore mouth," 76. 
Sore throat, 126. 
Sorghum, 298. 
Soujee, 299. 

Sounds in pneumonia, 138. 
Sounds of fishes, 297. 
Soups, 293. 
Spasm, 85. 

Special accidents, 252 ; diseases, ib. 
Specific blood diseases, 40. 
Spinal meningitis, 185. 
Spirit-drinking, 312. 
Spitting of blood. 114, 118. 
Spleen, the, 106. 
Splints, 229. 

Sponges, 281 ; keeping clean, ib. 
Spongring, cold and tepid, 275. 
Spongio-piline, 265. 
Sprains, 236 ; treatment of, 237. 
Spurious croup, 129. 
St. Martin, experiments on, 293. 
St. Yitus's dance, 98. 
Starch, 301. 
Statistics of the small-pox hospital, 

52. 



Steel in chloroeis, 160. 

Stethoscope, the, 137. 

Stevens', Dr., saline treatment of 
cholera, 62. 

Stings of insects, 239. 

Stomach, cramp of the, 85 ; ill-treat- 
ment of the, 79; inflammation of 
the, 81 ; irritation of the, 84 ; para- 
sites of the, 88. 

Stone, 153, 252. 

Strains, 236. 

Strangury, 155. 

Strawberry, 301. 

Strophulus, 194. 

Suffocation, 262 ; f^om noxious gases, 
ib. 

Sugar, 801 ; in urine, 148. 

Surgery, 213. 

Sycosis, 194. 

Sympathy, 14. 

Symptoms of ague, 46; of ameno- 
rrhoea, 162 ; of anasarca, 171 ; of 
apoplexy, 188; of asthma, 131; of 
Bright's disease, 153 ; of chlorosis, 
158 ; of constipation, 91 ; of con- 
sumption, 140 ; of cow-pox, 54 ; of 
croup, 124; of delirium tremens, 
186 ; of diabetes, 151 ; of diarrhcea, 
95 ; of epilepsy, 189 ; of erysipelas, 
57 : of firactures, 228 ; of gout, 63 ; 
of hooping-cough, 133 ; of hydroce- 
phalus, 176 ; of hydrothorax, 173 ; 
of hysteria, 191 ; of influenza, 128 ; 
of laryngitis, 119; of leucorrhosa, 
168 ; of measles, 49 ; of menorrha- 
gia, 166; of pneumonia, 135; of 
relapsing fever, 44 ; of remittent 
fever, 45 ; of rheumatism, 67 ; of 
scarlatina, 47 ; of scurvy, 206 ; of 
small-pox, 50; of typhoid fever, 
43; of typhus, 41. 

Syphilis, secondary, 194. 

Tamarind water, 303. 

Tape-worm, 98. 

Tapioca, 301. 

Taste of medicines, disg^iising the, 
284. 

Tea, 302, 312 ; excess in, 111. 

Teeth, diseases of the, 73. 

Temperature of the human body, 35. 

Tendency of man to speculate on 
disease, 13. 

"Tent, a," 264. 

Tests in poisoning, 81. 

Thigh, dislocation of the, 235 ; frac- 
tured, 229. 

Thread-worms, 99. 

Thrush, 75. 

Time of eating, 22. 

Tinea, 194. 

Tobacco, 133. 

Tobacco-smoking, 111. 



320 



INDEX. 



Toes, difllocatioift of UtB, SiB. 

Tomato, 300. 

Toothache, 74. 

Tooth-drawing, 260. 

Tow, 264. 

Treatment after leeohiim, 271 ; oon- 
etitatknial, in woonds, 235; for 
worms, 90; in leeMe ciroulation, 
112; ingra7hair,205;ofiAaeeBBe8, 
244 ; of ague, 47 ; of amttLOrrhuaa, 
163 ; of anasarca, 172 ; of apeylexy, 
189 ; treatment of aadtes, 17S ; of 
astluna, 132 ; of baldness, 202 ; of 
bed sores, 277 ; of bite^ MO ; of 
bleeding finom fhe nose, 221; of 
chilblains, 246 ; of chlorosis, 160 ; 
of cholera, 63 ; of odd in fhe eye, 
254; of constipation, 92; of con- 
sumption, 141 ; of croup, 124 ; of 
delirium tremens, 186; of diabetes, 
151 ; of diarrhcea, 96 ; of diseases of 
the liver, 103; of diseases of the 
skin, 194; of drowning, 260; of 
dyspepsia, 79 ; of ^tpUapsy, 190 ; of 
erysipeiaa, 58; of firaetures, 228; 
of gout, 65; of hanging, 262; of 
headache, 183; of hnoping-cmigih, 
138 ; of bydrothorax, 174 ; of 
hwteria, 192; of inAmnza, 128; 
of hurngitis, 120 ; of leuoorrhoea, 
169; of measles, 49; of menorrha^^a, 
167 ; of palpitation, 112 ; of piles, 
250; of pneumonia, 139; of poison- 
ing, 82 ; of relapsing feyer, 45 ; of 
remittent fever, 46 ; c^ rheamatism, 
69 ; of srarlstina, 48 ; of scrofUla, 
^10 ; of skin diseases, 195 ; of small 
pox, 53 ; of sprains, 237 ; of typhoid 
fever, 44 ; of typhus, 42 ; of ulcers, 
224 ; of raricose veins, 250 ; of 
whitlow, 245 ; of wounds with 
foreign bodies, 223; surgical, of 
injuries, 219. 

Truffle, 301. 

Tubercular consumption, 139. 

Tuberculosis, general, 139. 

Turbot, 297. 

Turnips, 301. 

Turtle, 297. 

Turtle soup, 29. 

Typhoid fever, 39, 42; in Paris, 43 ; 
symptoms in, 43 ; treatment of, 44. 

Typhus fever, 39, 40 ; treatment of, 
^ ; the poor exposed to, 40, 

Ulcerated mouth, 76. 
Ulcers, 219, 224. 
Unfermented bread, 299. 
Urinary organs, diseases of the, 143. 
Urine, deposits in, 147 ; disordered^ 
ib.; hesilthy, 146; incontinence of. 



155; retention of, 156; nigar in, 

148; suppression of, 155. 
Urticaria, 194. 
Uterine syfttem, dbseases of the» 166. 

Vaccination, 50, 55, 260; paoteotive 

power of, 55. 
Vaccinia, 54. 
Vapour apparatns m diseases of tke 

hair, 203. 
Varicella, 57. 
Varicose veins, 242. 
Variety in diet, 21. 
Variola, 50. 
Veal, 311. 
Veal broth, 304. 
Vegetable food, 289, 301, 311. 
Vegetables and firuit, 298. 
VegetableBu esculent, SOI. 
Veins, vanoose, 249. 
Ventilation of the sick-room, 279. 
Vermicelli, 299. 
Vinegar, raspberry, 803. 
Vomhing, 86. 
Vomiting of blood, 114. 

Warts, 249. 

Washing the patient, 280. 

Wasps, 242. 

Watchfulness, 285. 

Water-braah, 85. 

Wat^'^iressing in wounds, 220. 

Water in the bead, 177. 

" Wetting the bed," 140. 

Wheat, 298, 299; products obtained 
in grinding, 298. 

Whilks, 297. 

Whey, 297. 

White fish, 297. 

White leg, 116. 

Whites, 168. 

Whiting, 297. 

WhiUow, 245. 

Wilson, Erasmus, on skin disea8ea,205. 

Windpipe, dropsy of the, 179 ; inflam- 
mation of the, 123. 

Wine, 312 ; Burgundjr, 306 ; Cham- 
pagne, ib. ; claret, ib. j German, 
ib. ; Madeira, 805 ; port, ib. ; Rhine, 
306; sherry, 305. 

Worms, 97; orighn of in the body, 
98 ; round. 99 ; thread, ib. ; treat- 
ment for, ib. 

Wounds, 214, 219 ; a bed cradle in, 
225; contused, 216, 222 ; gun-ahot, 
223 ; incised, 216 ; of intemu 
organs, 222; stitching in, 220; 
water-dressing in, ib. 

Wrist, dislooatian of the, 235. 

Yellow fever, 45. 



■ 



r 



f 



• 4 



/ 




9 
* • 




