^ ^s^^g^^afe 



FAMILY RECEIPTS, 




fci 



BEING A COLLECTION OF 



ONE HUNDRED 






DT A Tiff W A P*PfP A T 1* WHW 
x xxjmM f x Hod la X xlSaUoJb It JC4^Ju II 



OF RARE VALUE, INCLUDING 



MEDICAL, MECHANICAL, DOMESTJ^ & 



COMPILED 



BY B. F. WITT.^ 







CINCINNATI: 

PUBLISffED BY APPLEGATE. 

1854. 



t* 



K 



jj 



i 



! 



^Js^s>5 , se3^^^§l. 1 ^^^^§^^^^v^j^^^^^^^^I^^^^^ 



FAMILY RECEIPTS, 



BEING A COLLECTION OF 



ONE HUNDRED 



S1AIH, IHACTIGAI BHfilOT 



OF RARE VALUE, INCLUDING 



MEDICAL, MECHANICAL, DOMESTIC, &c 



COMPILED 

BY B. F. WITT 




< CINCINNATI: 
PUBLISHED BY APPLEGATE, 

1854. 



Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1854, 

By B. F. Witt, 

in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for 
the District of Indiana. 



C. F. O'DRISCOLL, 

CINCINNATI. 



T. WRIGHTSONS 
STEAM PRESS. 



FAMILY RECEIPTS. 



MEDICAL. 

Hydrophobia. 

Take one pound vinegar, morning, noon and night. 

Also — To allay the spasms, take one gr. opium, one gr. sal. 
nitre, one gr. camphor, 2 gr. digitalis, after which a strong decoc- 
tion of lobelia, to be repeated until vomiting is produced. 
Lobelia is the stand-by. 

Also — It is said that a strong decoction, made of the bark of 
the roots of the white ash, is a certain cure for hydrophobia. 

Toothache. 

Take alum and common salt, pulverized in equal quantities ; 
apply in the tooth with a piece of cotton. 

Also — Use gum copal and chloroform dissolved together. 

Bleeding of the Nose. 
Take dry smoked beef, grate fine, and fill the nostrils. 

Cough Powders. 

Capsicum, two parts ; ipecacuanha, two parts ; opium, one 
part, mix ; dose, five gr. every four hours, taken with honey. 

For a Cold. 

Take three cents' worth of licorice and three cents' worth of 
gum Arabic, put them into a quart of warm water, simmer till 
thoroughly dissolved ; then add three cents' worth of paragoric, 
and a like quantity of antimonial wine, let it cool ; and sip when- 
ever the cough is troublesome. 

Also — One table-spoonful molasses, two tea-spoonfuls castor oil, 
one do. spirits camphor, one do. paragoric. Mix and take often. 



4 FAMILY RECEIPTS. 

The above is one of the most effectual remedies for colds and 
coughs known. 

Incipient Consumption. 

Harlem oil, one pint linseed oil, half pint turpentine, 1 oz. 
sulphur. Boil the above together until the sulphur becomes a 
liquid ; this will take ten or fifteen minutes ; must boil very slow ; 
then add, when cold or tepid, one oz. oil of tar, two oz. oil of 
amber. If cold, heat until they are thoroughly mixed. 

Dose, for an adult, from ten to fifteen drops, to be taken in the 
evening previous to retiring. 

This has cured some cases, to my personal knowledge, that 
were well-nigh gone with the consumption. It is an excellent 
remedy for all diseases of the lungs and pipes, and will be found 
a valuable remedy when measles or similar diseases have affected 
the lungs. 

Cholera. 

Two oz. bi. carbonate soda, one oz. gum guiacum, one oz. cloves, 
one oz. cinnamon, one oz. hanthoxglum berries, one oz. anise- 
seed, one oz. white ginger, half to one oz. oil peppermint, three 
pints best French brandy. 

Dose, one small tea-spoonful every hour until checked ; more 
or less as the case may require. 

Sweat Powders. 

Two-fifth laudanum, three-fifth cream tartar, one-fifth podo- 
phyline. To be used same as Dover's Powders. 

Cathartic Powders. 

Equal parts pulverized com. ex. colocynth, rhubarb and podo- 
phyline. Used to regulate the bowels. 

Dose, for an adult, one-half the size of a grain of corn. 

Flooding. 

Take tender spice-wood sprouts, buds or berries, and make a 
strong tea, which, when cool, is ready for use. 

Dose, one gill, to be repeated in smaller quantities, as the case 
may require. The patient must be quiet. 

Also — Apply cold bandages over the bowels, and one to three 
pints cold water to be applied with a female syringe. 

Hemorrhage. 

One-half grain opium, one gr. sugar of lead, one gr. ipecac- 
uanha, one gr. capsicum. 

This, for one dose, to be given every half to three hours. 



FAMILY RECEIPTS. 5 

Also — Oil of fire-weed, or butter-weed, is one of the best of 
remedies. To be given, in five to twenty drop doses, every 
ten to thirty minutes. 

Dropsy. 

To the extract of elderberry juice add enough French brandy 
to preserve it. To be used as a beverage. 

Antibilious Powders. 

One lb. jalap, two lb. alex. senna, one lb. peppermint plant. 
Pulverize separately, then mix and pass through a fine sieve. 

Dose, from a tea to a table-spoonful, to which add a little loaf 
sugar and one gill boiling water. To be taken on an empty 
stomach. 

Used in all cases of bilious and febrile diseases. 

Neutralizing Mixture. 

Two dr. pulverized rhubarb, two dr. saleratus, two dr. pepper- 
mint ; add one pint boiling water and two table-spoonfuls of 
brandy. 

Dose, one or two table-spoonfuls every quarter, half, one or two 
hours, according to symptoms. 

Used for cholera morbus, cholera infantum, dysentery and 
summer complaint. 

Diarrhoea. 

Take equal parts of the tincture of laudanum, tincture of 
Cayenne pepper, treble strength ; tincture rhubarb, essence of 
peppermint, treble strength ; spirits of camphor. Mix in a bottle. 

Dose, from five to thirty drops, according to the violence of the 
symptoms. To be repeated every ten or fifteen minutes, if 
needed, until relief is obtained. 

Also — In the most severe cases, and after other well-tried rem- 
edies have failed, a tea of strawberry leaves has checked the 
disease in a few hours, and restored the patient to health. 

Burns. 

Take equal parts flaxseed oil, tallow and beeswax, and melt 
them together. 

Also — Cotton saturated with peppermint and sweet oil, and 
applied to the injured part, immediately gives relief. 

Also — In any case of burn or scald all the acute suffering of 
the patient may be at once and permanently relieved, by sprinkling 
over the surface a thick layer of wheat flour. 



6 FAMILY RECEIPTS. 

Cancers. 

Take common garden carrot ; scrape it, and add as much salt 
as it will dissolve ; bind this to the cancer and repeat as often as 
it becomes dry ; so continue until a cure is effected. It is also 
said to be good for warts. 

This remedy, though simple, has cured some cases that were 
entirely hopeless. 

Sore or Inflamed Breasts. 

Take one quart strong vinegar, a piece of beef's tallow, the 
size of a large hen's egg ; a piece of rosin, the size of a common 
hulled walnut ; clo. beeswax ; three inches horseshoe-bar tobacco ; 
boil till the vinegar is all evaporated, then strain. ' When cold, 
the above will form a salve which may be spread on a thin cloth 
and applied. 

This remedy has often been used to great effect by an old lady 
of my acquaintance. 

Bee Stings. 

A lump of wet saleratus, applied to the sting of a bee or wasp, 
will stop the pain in a moment and prevent it from swelling. 

Eestorative Cordial. 

One oz. comfrey, one oz. Solomon seal, one oz. Columbo root, 
one oz. gentian root, one oz. chamomile flowers. Bruise all toge- 
ther ; cover with boiling water, and then add two quarts of wine. 

Dose, one-half wine-glass full three or five times per clay. 

This is a very useful tonic in all cases of debility. It is 
valuable in fluor albus and incipient consumption. 

Warts. 

Take one-half oz. sulphur, one-half oz. ninety per cent, spirits ; 
put into an oz. vial, shake them well together, then freely apply 
to the warts for a few days, once or twice a day, and in a few 
weeks, or months at most, the warts will disappear ; and so with 
corns, in like manner. 

Also — Warts may be cured by washing them with a solution 
of soda, and allowing it to dry on them. 

Also — Put a drop of the tincture of iodine on the wart once a 
day, and it will generally fall off in a week. 

To Prevent Inflammation of the Breast. 
Cover the entire of each breast ( leaving a place about the size 
of a dollar for the child to nurse ) with diacylon plaster, or, in 
the absence of that, with common adhesive plaster, in from eight 
to ten hours after delivery. 



FAMILY RECEIPTS. 7 

This acts like a charm ; it keeps clown the fever and all inflam- 
mation of the breast ; and those who have been troubled with 
one of the worst of all complaints, need be no more afflicted, by 
following the above directions. If the child does not nurse, it will 
make but little if any difference, as the plasters tend to draw the 
milk out the same as if applied to a sore. 

I am sure this one receipt, or direction, will be of more value 
to some women than ten times the cost of the hundred. 

To Prevent Death by Lockjaw when occasioned by a Wound. 

Apply beef's gall. Besides its anti-spasmodic properties, the 
gall draws from the wound any particle of wood, glass, iron or 
other substance that may cause irritation. 

Cramp in the Stomach. 

Warm water sweetened with molasses or brown sugar, taken 
freely, will, in many cases, remove cramp in the stomach when 
opium and other remedies have failed. 

Erysipelas. 

A simple poultice, made of cranberries, pounded fine and 
applied in a raw state, has proved, in many cases, a certain 
remedy. 

Small -pox. 

One table-spoonful of good brewer's yeast, mixed with two 
table-spoonfuls of cold water, and given three or four times a day 
to an adult, and in less quantities to children, is a cure for 
small-pox. 

Kheumatism. 

With one pint spirits turpentine thoroughly mix one ounce 
Barbadoes tar ; rub the parts afflicted well with it, by a hot fire, 
before retiring, for three successive nights ; then omit three 
nights ; repeat the application as before, and in like manner a 
third time, when ordinary cases will yield. 

Croup. 

If a child is taken with croup, instantly apply cold ice- water, 
if possible, suddenly and freely to the neck and chest with a 
sponge. The breath will be instantly relieved. So soon as pos- 
sible, let the sufferer drink as much as it can, then wipe it dry, 
cover it up warm, and soon a quiet slumber will relieve the 
parent's anxiety. 

Also — At the first symptom of the disease, wet a napkin or 
towel folded to about four inches in width, and wind around the 



8 FAMILY RECEIPTS. 

naked throat of the patient, and then take about half a pound of 
clean, dry cotton-batting and tie it over the napkin so as to retain 
the animal heat. Give the patient plenty of cold water to drink, 
and cover it up warm in bed. The cough will cease, the patient 
will sleep all night and awake well in the morning. Wash in 
cold water and dress as usual. There is no danger of taking cold, 
and the dreadful effects of emetics are all avoided. This remedy 
has been tested by at least twenty trials withih the last five yearSj 
and it has never failed. 

It is equally efficacious in quinsy, if taken when the disease 
first manifests itself, as it is also in any other inflammation of the 
throat. 

In trying the experiment, don't take it into your head that 
flannel, or an old stocking, or some other substitute, will answer 
in place of cotton. Dry cotton-wool, and plenty of it, is a perfect 
non-conductor of animal heat, and hence it is the best article and 
only sure reliance. 

To Stop Bleeding from the Cavity of an Extracted Tooth. 

Pack the alveolus, from which the blood continues to trickle, 
fully and firmly with cotton, moistened in a strong solution of 
alum and water. 

Bone Felon. 

A thimblefull of soft-soap and quicksilver, mixed, and bound 
tightly over the felon, will draw it to a head in the course of ten 
or twelve hours. The core can then be removed, and, by the 
application of the usual poultices, the sore will soon be healed. 
The remedy is said to be a severe one, but altogether preferable to 
the disease. 

Dysentery. 

Saturate any quantity of the best vinegar with common salt ; 
to one large table-spoonful of this solution, add four times the 
quantity of boiling water ; let the patient take of this preparation, 
as hot as it can be swallowed, one tea-spoonful once every half 
minute until the whole is drank : this is for an adult. If necessary, 
repeat the dose in six or eight hours. Carefully avoid keeping 
this preparation in vessels partaking of the quality of lead or 
copper. The success of the remedy depends much on preparing 
and giving the dose as above directed. In order to keep the 
preparation hot, it would be well to place the cup which contains 
it in a bowl containing boiling water, otherwise it will cool 
before being taken. 

The above has been found entirely effectual in some recent 
cases. 



FAMILY RECEIPTS. 9 

Bite of Rattlesnake. 

A piece of common indigo, made into a paste, with spirits of 
camphor, and applied to the wound, will prevent any serious 
consequences. 

Skin Diseases. 

For some eruptions on the face, borax is an excellent remedy. 
The way to use it, is to dissolve an ounce of borax in a quart of 
water, and apply this with a fine sponge every evening before 
going to bed. This will smooth the skin, when the eruptions do 
not proceed from an insect working under the cuticle. Many 
persons' faces are disfigured by red eruptions, caused by a small 
creature working under the skin. A very excellent remedy is to 
take the flour of sulphur and rub it on the face dry, after washing 
in the morning ; rub it well with the finger, and then wipe it off 
with a dry towel. There are many who are not a little ashamed 
of their faces, who can be completely cured if they follow these 
directions. 



POULTICES. 

Mustard. 

Into a gill of boiling water, stir one table-spoonful of Indian 
meal, spread the paste, thus made, upon a cloth, and spread over 
the paste one tea-spoonful of mustard, as it is prepared for the 
table, instead of mustard flour. 

Ginger. 

This is made like a mustard poultice. 

Stramonium, or Jamestown Weed. 

Stir one table-spoonful of Indian meal into a gill of boiling 
water, and add one table-spoonful of bruised stramonium seed. 

Wormwood, &c., 

Are sometimes used for poultices. Steep the herbs in half pint 
of cold water, and when all the virtues are extracted, stir in a 
little bran or rye meal. The herbs must not be removed from the 
liquid. This is a useful application for a sprain or bruise. 

Hops. 

Boil one handful of dried hops, in a half pint of water, until 
the water is reduced to one gill ; then stir in enough Indian meal 
to thicken it. 



10 FAMILY RECEIPTS. 

Bread and Milk. 
Put a table-spoonful of the crumbs of stale bread into one gill 
of milk and give the whole one boil. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Cream Hectar. 

To one-half gallon water, two pounds sugar, three ounces 
tartaric acid, one-half ounce cream tartar, add the white of one 
egg and a half, moderately beaten. Of this preparation, take 
three table-spoonfuls to two-thirds of a glass of water, add one- 
half tea-spoonful of soda — stir, drink, and declare it a good, cool 
ing beverage. 

Preserve Beer. 

Take three pounds hops, three pounds ginger root, and put in 
a sack, tying up tight ; then, into a kettle with sufficient water 
to steep, and boil about two hours ; then take the sack out, press 
the remaining liquid out of it ; then boil the whole to two quarts ; 
to this add eight gallons molasses, shake well together, put in a 
keg and bung tight. To each gallon of the above, add from five 
to fourteen gallons water, shake well together ; then add a little 
yeast. The keg must be iron-hooped, thick heads, and corked 
tight when the beer is put up. 

Washing Fluid. 

To one pint of soft-soap, add two table-spoonfuls of spirits tur- 
pentine. If the soap is thin, it may be mixed cold ; but if the 
soap is thick, it must be warmed while stirring it together. This 
will make a quantity of soap sufficient to do a common w r ashing. 
Half a pint of the soap is to be put into as much warm water as 
will cover the clothes to be washed. Let them then stand thirty 
minutes, then wring them out and immediately put them in clear, 
cold water ; rinse well, put them then in boiling suds, and to this 
suds add one-half pint of the above compound ; let them boil 
fifteen or twenty minutes, take them through the sudsing water, 
and through rinsing w r ater, and whiter or cleaner clothes can not 
be had. 

Substitute for Gunpowder. 

One part yellow prussiate of potash, one part sugar, two parts 
chloride of potash. Dry well, and finely grind separately, and 
then intimately mix. This has ten times the force of common 
powder. 



FAMILY RECEIPTS. 11 

To Imitate Mahogany. 

Let the surface be planed smooth, and rubbed with a solution 
of nitrous acid. Then apply, with a soft brush, the following 
mixture : One ounce dragon's blood, dissolved in a pint of 
spirits of wine, and with the addition of one-third of an ounce 
of carbonate of soda, mixed and filtered. When the polish 
diminishes in brilliancy, it may be restored by the use of a little 
cold linseed oil. 

Cheap Wash for Wood. 

Take a clean barrel, that will hold water ; put in a half bushel 
of fresh quick-lime, and slack it, by pouring over it boiling water 
sufficient to cover it four or five inches deep, and stir it until 
slacked. Then dissolve in water, and add two pounds of sulphate 
of zinc ; ( white vitriol ; ) add sufficient water to bring it to the 
consistency of thick white- wash. 

To make the above a pleasing cream color, add four pounds 
yellow ochre. 

For a fawn color, take four pounds umber, one pound Indian 
red, and one-half pound lampblack. 

To make the wash gray or stone color, add one pound raw 
umber, and two pounds lampblack. 

Cheap Wash for Bricks. 

Take a barrel, and slack one-half bushel of lime, as before 
mentioned ; then fill the barrel two-thirds full of water, and add 
one bushel of hydraulic cement, or water lime, dissolved in water, 
and add three pounds sulphate of zinc. The whole should be of 
the thickness of paint, ready for use. This wash is improved by 
the addition of a peck of white sand, stirred in just before using. 
The color is a pale stone color. 

To make it a fawn color, add one pound yellow ochre, two 
pounds raw umber, and one pound lampblack. 

To make it a drab, add one pound Indian red, one pound 
umber, and one pound lampblack. 

To keep a Stove Bright. 

Make a weak solution of alum water, and mix your British 
lustre with it ; put two spoonsful to a gill of alum water ; let the 
stove be cold ; brush it with the mixture ; then take a dry brush, 
and lustre, and rub the stove till it is perfectly dry. Should any 
part, before polishing, become dry, and look gray, moisten it with 
a wet brush and proceed as before ; by two applications a year, it 
can be kept as bright as a coach body. 



12 FAMILY RECEIPTS. 

To make one Barrel of Soap. 

Take fourteen pounds of bar-soap, or four gallons of soft-soap, 
( soft-soap is best,) three pounds sal. soda, one pound rosin, pul- 
verized ; eight ounces of salt, two ounces borax, pulverized ; two 
ounces spirits turpentine, and five gallons soft water. Put all 
together, and place over a fire, where it should remain until the 
ingredients are all melted and thoroughly mixed. Then empty 
into a barrel, and add twenty-six gallons of soft water, and stir 
them well together; repeat the stirring every fifteen or. thirty 
minutes, for six or eight hours. In twenty-four hours you will 
have a barrel of the best soap ever used, at a cost of about one 
dollar. This is good. Try it. 

Marble Cement. 

Take plaster of Paris, and soak it in a saturated solution of 
alum, then bake the two in an oven, the same as gypsum is baked 
to make it plaster of Paris, after which they are ground to powder. 
It is then used as wanted ; being mixed up with water like 
plaster, and applied. It sets into a very hard composition, and is 
capable of taking a very high polish. It may be mixed with 
various coloring" minerals to produce a cement of any color, 
capable of imitating marble. Any one can prepare it. 

A hard Cement for Seams. 

A very excellent cement for seams, in the roofs of houses, or in 
any other exposed places, is made of white lead, dry white sand, 
and as much linseed oil as will make it into the consistency of 
putty. This cement gets as hard as stone, in a few weeks. It is 
excellent for filling up cracks in exposed parts of brick buildings ; 
and is also a good cement for pointing up the base of chimneys, 
where they project through the roof of shingled houses. 

To make Good Butter. 

The bad smell and taste of old butter may be entirely removed, 
by working it over in water, mixed with chloride of lime. Take 
a sufficient quantity of cold water to work it in, adding twenty- 
five to thirty drops of chloride of lime to every ten pounds of butter. 
When it has been worked until the whole has been brought into 
contact with the water, it should be worked again in pure water, 
when it will be found to be as sweet as when originally made. 

Beet Vinegar. 

Grate the washed beets, express the juice, and put the liquor 
in a barrel ; cover the bung-hole with gauze and place it in the 
sun. In a few weeks the vinegar will be good. 



FAMILY RECEIPTS. 13 

Black Indelible Ink. 

Two quarts of rain-water, one-half pound nutgalls, three ounces 
gum Senagal, ( Arabic, ) three ounces sulphuret of iron. Soak 
the nutgalls in three-quarters of the water ; the gum Arabic in one- 
half of the remaining water, warmed ; the sulphate in the other 
half. Let them stand in the several vessels forty-eight hours ; 
then mix them, and the ink is made. 

To prevent Eust or Corrosion. 

Dip the metallic articles in very dilute nitric acid, and then 
immerse them in linseed oil and drain off the excess of oil. 

To Drill Glass. 

Glass may be easily drilled with a small drill, operated by a 
bow, and kept moist with spirits of turpentine. 

Bed Bugs. 

Alcohol, half pint ; sal. ammoniac, one ounce ; spirits turpen- 
tine, half pint; corrosive sublimate, one ounce; camphor, one 
ounce. Put the camphor into the alcohol and dissolve it, then 
pulverize the sal. ammoniac and corrosive sublimate, and add to 
it ; after which, put in the turpentine, and shake all well together. 
This will kill any bed bug it touches ; and on washing the bed- 
stead, as well as the chiDks and crevices of the room with it, 
they become so unpleasant to this species of night-walkers that 
they decamp. 

Moths. 

A small piece of paper, or linen, just moistened with turpen- 
tine, and put in a drawer or wardrobe, two or three times a year, 
will effectually keep out the moths. 

Musquitoes. 

To keep from bedrooms, burn a little sugar in the room before 
retiring and they will not be troublesome. 

Also — Diluted oil of spearmint, rubbed on man or horse, will 
keep off these tormentors ; a few drops on your pillow at night 
will give musquitoes a dislike to your society. 

To prevent Bugs from Eating Vines. 
Put green tansy around them. 
Also — Sprinkle common wood ashes on vines, when wet. 

To drive away Fleas. 
Scatter pennyroyal about the room and over the beds. 



14 FAMILY RECEIPTS. 

Curing Eeef. 

The best pieces for corning, are the plates, ribs and brisket. 
Pack the pieces in casks, giving a very light sprinkling of salt 
between each layer. Then cover the meat with a pickle, made 
by boiling in four gallons of water, eight pounds salt, three 
pounds brown sugar, three ounces saltpetre, one ounce pearlasji, 
for one hundred pounds of meat. Keep a heavy flat stone on the 
meat, that it may be well immersed in the pickle. Beef packed 
in this way will keep good one year. 

To remove Black Stains from the Skin. 

To remove stains, caused by wearing mourning, &c> take one 
half ounce cream of tartar, and one-half ounce oxalic acid. Put 
this mixture into a gallicup, and moisten with a little water, to 
prevent its becoming too dry and hard, and cover closely. To 
use it, wet the black stains, on your skin, all over with water, and 
then, with your finger, rub on a little of the mixture ; then 
immediately wash it off with water, and afterward with soap and 
water. The black will thus entirely disappear. This mixture, if 
applied as above, will also remove ink, and all other stains, from 
the fingers, or linen. 

Keep this powder out of the way of children ; if swallowed^ 
it is a poison. 

Transplanting Evergreens. 

The first half of June is the best time, and if carefully and 
judiciously performed then, not one in twenty will die. When 
set out in the fall, chey will die universally. A large wheelbar- 
row-load of swamp muck, filled in around the roots of each tree, 
is very beneficial. 

To Destroy Eoaches. 

Take an earthen bowl, or other high earthen vessel, and fill it 
half full of molasses and water, made very sweet ; place it on 
the floor, near the haunts of the insects, and place one or more 
strips of boards or shingles, with one end resting on the vessel, the 
other on the floor. The insects, attracted by the odor of the 
mixture, will ascend these strips and plunge into the mixture, 
where they will speedily drown. Everything else, which would 
attract them, must be removed from their reach. 

To Eleach a Faded Dress. 

Wash the dress in hot soda, and boil it until the color appears 
to be gone, then rinse and dry it in the sun. Should it not be 
rendered white by these means, lay the dress in the open air, and 
bleach it for several days. If still not quite white, repeat the 
boiling. 



FAMILY RECEIPTS. 15 

Gold Solution. 

Warm one pint of pure rainwater, and dissolve in it two ounces 
cyanide of potassium ; then one-quarter of an ounce oxid of gold ; 
the solution at first will be yellowish, but will soon subside to 
white. 

To Clean Paint. 

Smear a piece of flannel in common whiting, mixed to the 
consistency of common paste, in warm water. Rub the surface 
to be cleaned quite briskly, and wash oft' with pure cold water. 
Grease spots will, in this way, be almost instantly removed, as 
well as all other filth, and the paint will retain its brilliancy and 
oeauty unimpaired. 

How to Make a Cistern. 

For a cistern to hold twenty -five barrels of water, procure one 
barrel of water lime, ( hydraulic cement,) and three barrels of 
clean coarse sand. If your soil is clay, or any kind of compact 
earth, dig a hole as near the shape of an egg^ end down, as far as 
you can ; mix your cement a little at a" time, and plaster it 
directly on the earth. You have no need of brick work. When 
the first coat is dry, put on the second, and perhaps a third, * 
though much thinner than the first. Cover the top with a large 
flat stone, if procurable, having a man-hole, and place for a pump, 
broken through the center. A cistern, eight feet in diameter and 
nine feet deep, will hold one hundred barrels. 

To Preserve Eggs. 

One pint quick-lime, one pint salt, to three gallons water. No 
care is needed in putting in the eggs, as they will be right end 
up, and will settle just below the surface, if proportioned right. 

Also — Dip them in boiling water for the space of five or six 
seconds, then wipe them dry and pack down in oats, with the 
little ends down ; in two months, turn again, with the large end 
down, and so continue turning so long as you wish to keep them. 

Also — Put one pint, or more, of lime into a barrel of water, 
and one quart of salt. Having made the lime water, take fresh 
eggs, and drop them on top of the water, when they will settle 
down safely. 

You will find either of these much better than salt. 

Trying Lard. 

A table-spoonful of saleratus put in a pailful of lard, soon after 
it begins to melt, much improves the quality ; but a little atten- 
tion is necessary to prevent its burning. 



16 FAMILY RECEIPTS. 

A Good Cement. 

Take some common lime, and mix it with a quantity of tar- 
just enough to make a tough dough ; use it quick, because it 
becomes hard in a few moments, and will never soak or crumble. 
This is a first rate cement for the purpose of making swine- 
troughs, feed-boxes, &c. 

A Cure for Lice on Farm Stock. 

When any stock are infected with lice, whether horses, cattle, 
sheep or hogs, give copperas in their food, every other day, for 
six or eight days ; say one tea-spoonful to a sheep. If this is 
followed, I will pledge my word, the prescription . will kill the 
vermin inside and out, leaving your cattle with a clean stomach 
and healthy. 

Gapes in Fowls. 

Steep lobelia and red pepper in hot water, not boiling, and mix 
their food with this water, as strong as they will eat it. 

Also — p u t one drop of spirits of turpentine into half a tea- 
spoonful of water, sweeten with sugar, and give to each chicken. 

Also — Take a timothy stalk, and rub off the seeds, introduce 
it into the windpipe, turning it around as you shove it down, and 
keep turning it as you draw it out, and the worms will stick to it 
and be drawn out with it. 

They will still gape for a while, but in a few hours they will be 
well. 

Colic in Horses. 

Oil of turpentine, two ounces ; sulphuric ether, one ounce ; 
sweet spirits of nitre, three ounces. Give at a dose ; and repeat it 
in two hours, if relief is not afforded in that time. The first dose 
seldom fails. 

Bots in Horses. 

Give a quart of molasses, or dissolve sugar with sweet milk. 
In thirty minutes the horse will be at ease. Then pulverize 
two ounces of alum, dissolve in a quart of warm water, and 
drench your horse ; in two hours, give one pound of salts, and he 
is cured. 

Films. 

Apply a tea-spoonful of molasses on the eyeball. Oxen, horses, 
cows and sheep are relieved in this manner, and no other remedy 
is equal to it. 



FAMILY RECEIPTS. 17 

Crackers. 

One quart of flour, with two ounces of butter rubbed in ; one 
tea-spoonful of saleratus, in a wine-glass of warm water ; half a 
tea-spoonful of salt, and milk enough to rub it. Beat it half an 
hour with a pestle, cut it in thin round cakes, prick them, and set 
them in the oven when other things are taken out. Let them 
bake till crisp. 

Bread. 

Mix dry, and well-rubbed together, two tea-spoonfuls of cream 
of tartar with one quart of flour ; then dissolve three-quarters of 
a tea-spoonful of super-carbonate of soda in a sufficient quantity 
of sweet milk ; mix the wdiole together, and bake immediately. 

If the above directions be strictly followed, bread will be 
produced of superior quality. To be eaten warm, add a little 
shortening ; if cold, none is needed. 

Domestic Yeast. 

Boil one pound of good flour, one-quarter of a pound of brown 
sugar, and a little salt, in two gallons of water, for an hour. 
When milkwarm, bottle and cork it closely. It will be fit for 
use in twenty-four hours. One pound of this yeast will make 
eighteen pounds of bread. 

Hominy Breakfast Cakes. 

Mash the cold hominy ,with a rolling-pin, and add a little flour 
and milk batter, so as to make the whole thick enough to form 
into little cakes, in the hand, or it may be put on the griddle with 
a spoon. Bake brown ; eat hot, and declare you never ate any- 
thing better of the batter kind. 

Soda Cake. 

Three cups of flour, two do. loaf sugar, one and a half do. 
sweet milk, half do. butter, two eggs, wdiites and yolks beaten 
up separately ; one and a half tea-spoonfuls cream of tartar, two- 
thirds do. soda. Beat the sugar, butter and yolks together. Stir 
the cream of tartar into the flour, and dissolve the sod" in the 
milk. This quantity will make what can be baked in . long 
tins. 

Virginia Egg Bread. 

Dissolve one-table-spoonfiil of butter in three and a half pints 
of milk; add one quart of Indian meal, half a pint of wheat 
flour ; a little salt, and two eggs, well beaten ; mix all w r ell 
together, and bake in a buttered tin. 



18 FAMILY RECEIPTS. 

Preparation for Silver Solution. 

Take one pint of pure rainwater ; add to it two ounces cyanide 
of potassium ; shake them together occasionally, until the latter 
is entirely dissolved, and allow the liquid to become clear ; then 
add one- quarter of an ounce oxid of silver, which will very 
speedily dissolve; and after a short time a clear, transparent 
solution will be obtained. 

To Remove Spots. 

A few drops of carbonate of ammonia, in a small quantity of 
warm rainwater, will prove a safe and easy anti-acid, and will 
change, if carefully applied, discolored spots upon carpets, and 
indeed all spots, whether produced by acid or alkalies. If any 
one has had the misfortune to have a carpet injured by whitewash^, 
this will immediately restore it. 



INDEX. 



Hydrophobia 3 

Toothache 3 

Bleeding of the Nose 3 

Cough Powders 3 

For a Cold 3 

Incipient Consumption 4 

Cholera 4. 

Sweat Powders 4 

Cathartic Powders 4 

Flooding 4 

Hemorrhage 4 

Dropsy 5 

Antibilious Powders 5 

Neutralizing Mixture 5 

Diarrhoea 5 

Burns 5 

Cancers 6 

Sore or Inflamed Breasts 6 

Bee Stings 6 

Restorative Cordial 6 

Warts 6 

To Prevent Inflammation of the 

Breast 6 

To Prevent death by Lockjaw when 

occasioned by a Wound 7 

Cramp in the Stomach 7 

Erysipelas 7 

Small-pox "J 

Rheumatism 7 

Croup 7 

To stop Bleeding from the Cavity of 

an Extracted Tooth 8 

Bone Felon 8 

Dysentery 8 

Bite of Rattlesnake 9 

Skin Diseases 9 

Mustard Poultice 9 

Ginger do 9 

Stramonium .do 9 

Wormwood, etc. .do 9 

Hops do , 9 

Bread and Milk .do 10 

Cream Nectar 10 

Preserve Beer 10 



PAGE. 

Washing Fluid 10 

Substitute for Gunpowder 10 

To Imitate Mahogany 11 

Cheap Wash for Wood 11 

Cheap Wash for Bricks 11 

To Keep a Stove Bright 11 

To make one Barrel of Soap 12 

Marble Cement. 12 

A Hard Cement for Seams 12 

To Make Good Butter 12 

Beet Vinegar 12 

Black Indellible Ink 13 

To prevent Rust or Corrosion 13 

To Drill Glass 13 

BedBugs 13 

Moths 13 

Musquitoes 13 

To prevent Bugs from Eating Vines. ' 13 

To drive away Fleas 13 

Curing- Beef 14 

To remove Black Stains from the 

Skin 14 

Transplanting Evergreens 14 

To Destroy Roaches 14 

To Bleach a Faded Dress 14 

Gold Solution 15 

To Clean Paint 15 

How to make a Cistern 15 

To Preserve Eggs 15 

Trying Lard 15 

A Good Cement 16 

A Cure for Lice on Farm Stock 16 

Gapes in Fowls 16 

Colic in Horses 16 

Bots in Horses 16 

Films 16 

Crackers 17 

Bread 17 

Domestic Yeast 17 

Hominy Breakfast Cakes 17 

Soda Cake 17 

Virginia Egg Bread 17 

Preparation for Silver Solution 18 

To Remove Spots 18 

19 



* 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



Hi 



ad 
II! 




014 184 272 9 • 



APPLEBATE & Co. 

BOOISEEERS, PUBUSPJS, 

-AJNT33 STATIONERS, 

43 MAIN STREET, CINCINNATI. 



We have one of the largest and best assorted Stocks in the West. Our stock 
embraces the best Works on 

THEOLOGY, MEDICINE, LAW, 

Mechanics, Agriculture, History, Travels, Philosophy, 
Tales, Memoirs, &c. &c. 

And a complete assortment of all the most desirable MISCELLANEOUS 
LOOKS published. Our Stock of 









Embraces all books of merit used in the West, from the Spelling Book to the 
Lexicon. Our Stock of STATIONERY embraces 

EVERY YARIETY OF.BLAHK BOOKS* 

From the smal 1 Memorandum Book to the large Super-royal Ledger, in- 
cluding every article lifeed in the Counting-room. We have for the Country 
Merchant a full variety of 

LETTER, CAP, AND NOTE PAPER, 

Envelopes, Wrapping Paper, Bonnet Boards. Ink, &c, &c. 

Among our own Publications, are CLARKE'S COMMENTARY, DR. 
DICK'S COMPLETE WORKS, ROLLIN'S ANCIENT HISTORY, PLU- 
TARCH'S LIVES, SPECTATOR, JOSEPHUS, Ac, &c. We invite all who 
deal in, or purchase Books, to eive us a call, as we are confident we can offer 
them such inducements as shall be mutually beneficial. 



WITT, HOLLINGSWORTH db Co. 



! M^j $M?%J0 SM[ 



w 



arq 



AND MACHINISTS, 

DUBLIN, WAYNE COUNTY. INDIANA. 



