Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



600086819 



w 



PRACTICAL TREATISE 



ON THE 



CHOICE AND COOKERY 



OF 



FISH. 



BY PISOATOR. 



SECOVD EDITION. 




LONDON: 
LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANa 

1854. 



-^^^/- C^, Zoo. 



London : 

A. and G. A. Spottiswoodb, 
New-ttreet-Square. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 



Introductory Bemarks 



PAQB 
1 



Section U. 
Section HL 
Section IV. 
Section V. 
Section VL 



CHAPTEB n. 

Directions for choosing Fishy with Bemarks upon their 

respective Qualities ------- lo 

Section L Freliminary Obseryations - - - 10 

Fishes of the Cod Kind - - > 14 

Fishes of the ilounder Kind - - 38 

Dories ------ 51 

Fishes of the Salmon Kind - - - 55 

Eels and Congers - - - - 66 

Section Vn. Fishes of the Carp Kind > - - 72 

Section VIIL Pikes and Laonces - - . . 85 

Section IX. Fishes of the Mackerel Kind - - 92 

Fishes of the Herring Kind - « 97 

Spinous Fishes, including Fishes of the 
Perch Ejnd, and Mullets, both red and 
grey ; the Sea Bream in all its varieties ; 

Wrasses, and the Tribe of Gurnards - 103 

Cartilaginous Fishes - - - - 123 

Section ynr As to the Choice of Salt Fish - - 129 

Section XTV. How to choose Crabs, Lobsters, and all 

other Kinds of Shellfish - - - 132 



Section X 
Section XL 



Section Xlt. 



IV 



CONTENTS. 



Section L 
Section IL 



On tiie Cookery 
Section L 
Section IL 
Section IH 
Section IV. 
Section V. 
Section VI. 
Section VII. 
Section VIII. 
Section IX. 
Section X. 
Section XL 

Section XEL 



CHAPTER IIL 

Of cleaning and preserving Fish, and 
preparing it for the Table 

How to cure and preserve Pish - 

CHAPTER IV. 
ofFish ------ 

How to boil Fish - - - - 

How to fiy Fish - - - - - 

Gravies for fried Fish - - - - 

How to broil Fish « - - - 

How to stew Fish - - - 

How to make Fish Curry - - - 

How to roast and bake Fish 

Fish Pies and Patties - - - - 

Fish Soups - - - - - 

Twice-laid Dishes of Fish - - - 

Potting, Scolloping, Pickling, and Ma- 
rinading- - - - - - 

Sauces for Fish - - - - - 



PAGE 

140 
151 



157 
158 
173 
197 
200 
207 
227 
229 
239 
247 
252 

255 
275 



THE 



CHOICE AND COOKERY 



or 



FISH. 



CHAPTEK L 



INTRODUCTOBT REMARKS. 



The object of the present work is to supply 
instructions upon the choice and cookery of fish ; 
a subjtect hitherto only partially treated upon by 
the many talented authors on the general art of 
cookery. Even in the very best of these books 
a great number of our most common and useful 
fishes are omitted altogether; whilst others are 
slightly glossed over, little being said about the 
edible merits, or by what particular mode of 
cookery they may be turned to the most profit- 
able advantage. As a proof of this, in six 
modem cookery works of the highest merit, we 
have searched in vain for something about the qua- 

B 



2 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

lities of the John Dory, which, although one of 
the best fishes the sea has produced, is altogether 
unnoticed; nor can we find the ling, — a very 
common, and yet one of the most useful fishes 
taken upon our coasts, — spoken of otherwise than 
as a dried salt fish; whilst no kind of fish 
whatever is capable of being dressed in a greater 
variety of ways, and few are equal to it in •every 
one of them. The red and the grey mullet, two 
fish as different from each other, as far as cookery 
is concerned, as any two kinds can possibly be, we 
find jumbled together in a very strange manner, 
as if both were of the same species; the only 
difference mentioned between them being, that 
the red are better than the grey; whereas in 
point of fact they differ so widely from each other 
in every essential particular, that no mode of 
cookery adapted to the one can be applied to the 
other without spoiling it outright 

But it is not our intention to find any ftirther 
fault with our talented writers on the art of 
cookery for their omissions in the fish department, 
in which, as far as they have gone, the subject 
has been so well treated, that our regret is that 
more has not been said upon it. This we hope in 
some measure to supply, and at the same time to 
point out how a valuable article of food, the 
importance of which does not seem to be suffi- 



IKTRODUCTOBY REMAEKSr 3 

ciently appreciated, may be turned to the most 
advantageous account. It is really a subject 
worthy of some attention in a country like our 
own, where the consumption of provisions of 
every kind is so great as to render us in some 
degree dependent upon foreign countries, not 
only for the luxuries, but even some of the most 
common and essential necessaries of life, and 
where consequently every available article of food 
we can obtain jfrom our own resources ought to be 
made the most of; notwithstanding which, by 
some woeful mismanagement, many tons of fish, 
instead of being used as food, are frequently cast 
away to rot upon a dunghill, or carted away for 
manure, that, if properly distributed, might have 
relieved the wants, not only of hundreds, but even 
of thousands of our needy fellow-creatures* 

This great evil formerly arose from the vast 
expense incurred and time occupied in carrying 
fish to any great distance overland from the 
places where it was caught ; which consequently 
placed the purchase of that article only within 
the reach of the more opulent classes of society, 
and these, even at the highest prices, could not 
always obtain it in a sound condition. These 
difiiculties are now in great measure removed by 
means of railway communication, through the 
medium of which fish of all kinds, and in a healthy 

B 2 



4 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OP PISH. 

State, may, at a trifling expense, be distributed 
throughout the whole length and breadth of the 
land, and thus afford all ranks and classes a 
valuable augmentation of the necessaries of life 
at a moderate price. In a national point of view, 
therefore, it is evident an increased consumption 
of this article of food must confer a great benefit 
on the whole kingdom ; for not only would the 
people generally be better and more cheaply fed, 
but our fisheries, so important to the interests of 
this coimtry, as affording the best nursery for our 
seamen, would be carried on far more extensively 
in proportion as the demand for their labours in- 
creased. For this the supply is ample ; all that 
is wanting is a demand for the article, and a 
knowledge of how to apply it when obtained. 

If the good qualities of many kind of fishes 
were better known, this desirable end would be 
very easily attained; but unfortunately many 
good and wholesome fishes are rejected merely 
from ignorance of their real value, or of the proper 
way of cooking them ; and this occurs more fre- 
quently with the most common and cheapest 
kinds of fish, many of which are superior to those 
of a rarer kind, and which are consequently sold 
at a much higher price. Such has been remark- 
ably exemplified in the instance of the hake, 
which, although so highly esteemed amongst the 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 5 

Portuguese (but upon whose coast it does not 
appear to be plentiful), as to be styled a royal 
68hy fit for the food of kings, has been so slightly 
regarded at Plymouth, where it is abundant, that 
till very lately it was altogether rejected by the 
opulent classes, and unthankAilly eaten by the 
poor, for no other cause' than the extreme cheap- 
ness and abundance of the commodity. Latterly, 
however, the merits of the hake have overcome 
this ill-founded prejudice, and it is now to be met 
with at the best tables, where we have had the 
gratification of seeing hake cutlets garnishing a 
splendid turbot, and even unanimously proclaimed 
to be the better fish of the two. Still, for all 
this, &r greater quantities of hake are often 
brought into our markets than can possibly be 
consumed in a fi*esh state; the consequence is, 
that tons weight are frequently spoilt, and carried 
off by cartloads at a time for manure. The same 
also occurs with respect to rays, with which the 
markets in the southern parts of the west of 
England are often so glutted, that not one tenth 
part of them can find purchasers, even at the very 
lowest price ; and yet when rays are prepared in 
the form of crimped skate, they are by no means 
a bad dish of fish, and in many places highly 
prized, when stewed is really delicious, and, what 
is still more, exceedingly wholesome and nutri- 

B 3 



6 CHOICE AND COOKERY OP PISH. 

tious; and yet, from the quantities of these fish, 
and the exceeding lowness of price at which they 
may be purchased, many of ihe very poorest 
people, and ahuost on the verge of starvation, 
will refuse to partake of them in any shape or 
form whatever. This, amongst numberless other 
instances we could mention, shows how desirable 
it is that the true qualities of all our fishes should 
be more generally known, as well as the criterions 
by which their sound and healthy condition may 
be most readily tested. The chief cause why fish 
is not a more favourite article of diet with many 
persons is, that they have chanced to partake of it 
when out of season, or tainted by decomposition, 
or spoilt by exceedingly bad cookery, and they 
have taken a disgust to it accordingly. A mackerel 
is a fine flavoured fish when perfectly fresh, and 
a very nauseous one when stale ; and yet the latter 
is the condition in which most of these fish are 
commonly eaten by those who live at a dis- 
tance from the places they are caught. The same 
remarks apply equally to many other kinds of 
fish, which, although excellent when dressed soon 
after they are taken, entirely lose their fine 
flavour a few hours afterwards, and, if kept much 
longer, become so insipid as to be altogether unpa- 
latable, although free from any taint of decompo- 
sition; whilst others, as th^ whole of the ray 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 7 

tribe for instance^ so far from being at all damaged, 
are greatly improved by being kept a day or two 
before they are cooked. Again, there are some 
kinds of fish — as the whiting pollock, and tam- 
lin cod — which are soft, watery, mawkish^ and 
insipid, if boiled inmiediately after they are cap- 
tured, but which by being powdered with salt a 
day or two before they are dressed, become both 
firm and well-flavoured, whilst with other fish, the 
same process produces an effect diametrically op- 
posite; the salt extracting every kind of good 
flavour, and often imparting a strong disagree- 
able taste in its stead, which it almost invariably 
does, if used in any considerable quantity for the 
purpose of preserving soles, and most, if not every, 
other kind of flat fish. 

The cleaning and preparing fish for the table 
also requires considerable care, and many good 
dish of fish is spoilt in consequence of inattention 
to this important matter. 

It is also essential to know what particular 
mode of cooking is best adapted to each indi- 
vidual kind of fish ; for, although some species 
are capable of being dressed in every variety of 
way that gastronomic ingenuity can suggest, 
and, if properly done, are good in every one of 
them, there are others that, although delicious 
if dressed in the mode to which they are espe- 

B 4 



8 CHOICE AND COOKERY OP PISH. 

cially adapted^ are scarcely eatable if cooked in 
any other manner. Thus, if a grey mullet were 
to be dressed without being gutted or scaled in 
the way a red mullet is usually done, it would 
be unfit to be eaten ; whilst a red mullet scaled 
and plain boiled, in the same maimer the grey 
ought to be dressed, would prove one of the 
most insipid fishes that could be brought to 
table. A carp, everybody knows, when stewed, 
affords a splendid dish, but, when simply boiled, 
is one of the very worst fish that can be eaten. 
Chads also, which are the young of the sea 
bream, although very indifferent fish when pre- 
pared in most of the ordinary ways of cooking, 
may be so cooked, that inexperienced persons 
would not know them from surmullet ; they are 
also exceedingly good marinated ; in addition to 
which, by the aid of a little butter and spice, 
they may be potted, and rendered in every re- 
spect equal to the potted charr for which the 
lakes of Cumberland have been so long and 
justly celebrated. 

With these few preliminary observations, we 
shall proceed at once with our subject. First, 
by offering such practical directions as may 
enable our readers to distinguish the different 
species of fish from each other, with remarks 
upon the respective merits of each individual 



rNTTBODUCTORY REMABKS. 9 

species ; as also the time of year at which they 
are to be found in the most sound and healthy 
condition, and the criterions by which this soimd 
and healthy condition can be most readily de- 
termined. 

Our next attempt will be to point out the 
proper way of cleaning fish, and preparing them 
for cooking, as also the best ways of preserving 
them either for a short or a long period, as 
circumstances may require. 

And, lastly, we shall afford all the information 
we can collect as to the various ways in which 
each individual species may be cooked, so as to 
appear at table to the greatest possible advantage ; 
as also the way in which it should be served up 
and garnished, and the different sauces and 
gravies with which it ought to be accompanied ; 
as also the various ways in which these gravies 
and sauces are to be prepared. 



10 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 



CHAP. IL 

DIBECTIONS FOR CHOOSING FISH, WITH REMARKS UPON 
THBIR RESPECTIVE QUALITIES. 

SECTION L 
Preliminart Obsebyations. 

• 

Most persons entertain the notion that certain 
kinds of fish all come into good season at the 
same time of the year, without any important 
diflPerence between the individual qualities of each ; 
in fact, that when a particular sort of fish is said 
to be in season, the whole species are equally 
good ; and, when out of season, all are bad in a 
like degree. Now this is most erroneous. It is 
true that in some months of the year the generality 
of fish of a particular kind are in better condition 
than at others ; and at those periods the greater 
number will be foimd to be in the primest order. 
But at the same time it must be borne in mind, 
that fish vaxy as much from each other in the 
relative state of their goodness, as either cattle 
or poultry ; so that, even in the most favourable 
periods of the year, many fish may always be 
met with in an unhealthy state, and of some par- 



CHOOSING FISH. 11 

ticular kinds^ as we shall duly notice hereafter, 
it is rare, at any season of the year whatever, 
out of a quantity exposed for sale, to find one 
half of them in proper order for the table ; and 
sometimes not even one in twenty can be met 
with approaching even to tolerable condition, and 
this even at a time of the year when fish of the 
same kind are usually considered to be in proper 
season. This shows how necessary it is that 
every caterer of a family should know how to 
choose fish as well as meat, poultry, vegetables, 
fruit, or any other article of food. 

There is, indeed, little risk, for those who can 
afford to pay the price, of buying a fish much 
out of condition from a first-rate fishmonger, 
however the article may prove as far as freshness 
is concerned ; as this kind of tradesman makes it 
a rule never to purchase any but first-rate fish, 
but upon which, as he must get a large profit 
to afford a sufficient remimeration for the in- 
vestment of capital in so perishable an article, 
the purchaser must expect to pay accordingly ; 
so that any one who is possessed of sufficient 
knowledge to select the article may usually ob- 
tain it at a great reduction of price in a public 
fishmarket, and generally in a much fresher state 
than he could obtain in the shop of a fashionable 
fishmonger. Still, those who know nothing of 



12 CHOICE AND COOKERY OP PISH. 

the matter, if they want a really good dish of 
fish, would do wiser to deal with a respectable 
fishmonger, and pay him what he asks, than run 
the risk of what they may purchase in the public 
markets, or from those persons who hawk fish 
about the streets and through the country; for 
into such hands as the latter all the refrise fish is 
sure to come, which, of course, they strive to 
dispose of to their most ignorant customers, 
well knowing their wiser ones would decline to 
purchase so worthless a commodity. This is 
another strong argument that every one who 
fittempts to purchase fish, should know something 
of the quality of the article ; and more particu- 
larly so, as little difference is made in the price 
between the good and the bad; so that, upon 
being able to exercise a sound judgment will 
depend whether you have the best, or the worst 
kind of commodity, for precisely the same amount 
of money. 

But it is not enough to be able to detect the 
healthy condition of a fish, or its state of fresh- 
ness ; for with some kinds it is essential to dis- 
cover the particular manner in which they have 
been captured; as the way in which fish are 
taken sometimes spoils some delicate kinds out- 
right, and others it impairs so considerably, that 
they are, or, at any rate, are supposed to be, sold 



CHOOSING FISH* 13 

at a cheaper rate than those which have been 
caught by some less injurious mode. Thus, 
whitings, haddocks, bibs, and surmullet, being 
very tender and delicate fish, if caught in a trawl 
net, are rendered all but worthless, in consequence 
of the pressure they encounter amidst the crowd 
of other fish, and the weeds, scrufF, and rubbish 
with which they are jammed up in the trawl net. 
Cod, ling, hake, and pollock, when captured in 
the same manner, all become more or less injured, 
sometimes to such an extent as to render them 
valueless, whilst at others the damage is but 
trivial ; still, however slight it may be, none of 
the last kind of fish caught in this way, are equal 
to those taken with a hook and line. Yet fish- 
vendors have never been known to cry stinking 
fish, or trawl-caught cod, hake, or whiting, which 
they usually strive, and often successfully, to pass 
ofF on every inexperienced purchaser as hook-and- 
line caught fish. 

The difference between hook-and-line fish and 
one caught in a trawl, may, however, be very 
readily detected by any one who will attend to 
the rules we shall lay down in the following 
section, and which we trust will be duly attended 
to by all our readers who intend to make pur- 
chases in the fishmarket. 



14 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH, 



SECTION n. 

FiSHBS OF THE COD KIND. 

The cod tribe consists of no less than sixteen dis- 
tinct species ; namely, the common cod, speckled 
cod, haddock, bib, pouting, whiting, whiting 
pollock, rawlin pollock, hake> forked hake, four 
species of lings — ^the single bearded, three bearded, 
and five bearded ; the burbot ; and also the torsk 
and the tadpole fish. They are all good fish, and 
afford the most wholesome food the sea produces ; 
being innocent and easy of digestion, and on this 
accoimt are permitted to be eaten by invalids 
in preference to any other kind of fish whatever. 
But good and wholesome as all these fish im- 
doubtedly are, great judgment is required in their 
selection, as a great many kinds are brought into 
the markets in very inferior condition, and, with 
the exception of whiting and whiting pollock, it 
is rare to find, amongst the different varieties of 
the cod tribe exposed for sale, one half of them 
in a fit condition for the table, and rarely, if ever, 
are one fourth part of them in first-rate order. 

1. The Common Cod. 

The codfish is taken on all parts of the British 
coast, but those caught on the Dogger-bank are 



THE COMMON COD. 15 

the most esteemed. Great numbers of large cod 
axe, however, caught on the Devonshire and 
Cornish coasts^ with which the fishmarkets of 
the seaport towns are plentifully supplied; but 
these fish do not often attain their highest state of 
perfection on the latter coast, as not one out of 
ten of those commonly exposed for sole can be 
considered in tolerable order, and not one in fifty 
in first-rate condition. 

There are two varieties of these fish, which 
may be distinguished from each other by the one 
having a long, sharp nose, extending to some 
distance beyond the eyes ; the nose of the other 
variety being blunt and wide. The former is 
usually found to be of a darker cast than the 
latter, although the colour in all these fishes, and 
in fact in most others, is found to vary according 
to the nature of the food upon which they subsist, 
and the kind of bottom they inhabit ; most fishes 
possessing the chameleon-Uke property of chang- 
ing their tints, and acquiring those of the soil 
they usually swim over; which assists them to 
oonceal themselves from the sight of numerous 
foes to whose attacks they are constantly liable, 
and to which a strong contrast in colour would 
constantly expose them. Hence it is that on 
rocky ground cod are often taken of a dark brown 
tint, resembling that of the ore-weed at the 



16 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 

bottom^ and eyen where the weeds acquire a 
reddish tint, the same hue is also imparted to the 
fishes inhabiting them. The prevailing colour of 
those codfish that are met with in clean ground is 
an ashy green cast aboye, the lower parts being 
white ; but in some the upper parts are of so pale 
a tint as to be nearly white, where these fish 
constantly inhaUt a light-coloured sandy ground. 

The codfish attains to a large size, instances 
having occurred of their weighing as much as 
sixty pounds, and Pennant speaks of one taken 
on the Yorkshire coast, that weighed as much as 
seventy-eight pounds ; but about twenty-five 
pounds may be considered as the usual average of 
an adult codfish. Until these fish attain a pound 
weight they are termed codlings, and from that 
size to ten pounds weight they are called tamlin 
cod, and when they exceed the latter weight, 
then they become entitled to be styled codfish. 

The large cod, if in good order, are generally 
the best flavoured fish, the smaller ones being 
less firm; and the smaller the fish, to the greater 
extent does this want of firmness prevail. The 
best way to counteract this defect is to sprinkle 
the fish with salt a day or two before it is dressed. 

As a general rule, the cod is a winter fish, 
coming into season in October and going out in 
February; its highest condition being about 



THE COMMON COD. 17 

Christmas, at which time most of the females will 
be found in roe ; and they continue good until 
very near the eve of depositing their spawn : but 
when this period approaches they become out of 
condition, and by the time it is finished they 
are thin and emaciated, and continue out of 
order for some months afterwards; yet, as it 
usually happens that some of these fishes cast 
their spawn many weeks earlier than others, the 
first begin to regain their condition before the last 
begin to fail, and thus some codfish may be found 
in tolerable order nearly all the year through. 

And now for choosing a codfish. In doing this 
you must select one that rises high and is well 
filled out at the nape, having a deep pit just be- 
hind the head, the sides being broad and ribbed 
with elevated ridges ; the flesh ought also to be 
stiff. If the fish has a tongue in its mouth 
it tells its high condition. A cod's tongue can 
never speak falsely in this respect, as it is never 
found in the mouth of one unless it is in first-rate 
order. 

The freshness of the fish may be tested by the 
brightness of its eyes, the redness of the gills, and 
the clear moisture of the slime upon its body ; 
although in a trawl-caught codfish the latter test is 
wanting, as the scales and slime being rubbed off in 
the net, the fish acquires the same dull, dry, and 

c 



18 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF PISH. 

stale appearance of a codfish that has been for some 
time captured; and it is from the scales being 
thus detached, and the dull, dry-looking aspect of 
the fish, that a trawl-caught codfish may be dis- 
tinguished from one taken by a hook and line. 
The colour of the gills will, however, stiU afford 
a test of its freshness, which may also be deter- 
mined by pressing the point of your finger hard 
enough upon the body of the fish to make an im- 
pression, which wiU remain if the fish be stale, 
but will rise again immediately on the removal of 
the pressure if it be perfectly fresh. 

There is a smaller variety of cod called the 
variable or speckled cod, which is sometimes taken 
on our coasts, and which differs from the common 
codfish in having a smaller head, and by the lower 
jaw being considerably shorter than the upper 
one, as it also does in its external colouring, 
which is a greyish brown speckled over with yel- 
low or pale drab spots. It is a smaller fish than 
the common cod, as it seldom exceeds seven or 
eight pounds weight; but if in good order is 
superior in flavour to a well-fed common codfish 
of the same size. 

2. The Haddock. 

The haddock bears some resemblance to the 
codfish, yet may easily be distinguished from it 



THE HADDOCK, 19 

by the black mark^ sometimes a stripe^ but more 
commonly a spot, on each shoulder, vulgarly be- 
lieved to have been made by the finger and thumb 
of St. Peter when he took the tribute-money out 
of the mouth of this fish, and which, as a me- 
morial of the miracle, has been continued to the 
whole race of haddocks down to the present day. 
Be this as it may, the haddock is an excellent 
fish; its flesh being finn and of a snow-white 
colour, with a creamy curd between the flakes. 
It may be dressed either quite fresh or slightly 
powdered, and it eats agreeably enough when 
salted either in pickle or dried. The larger the 
fish the firmer it is, depending of course upon its 
health and condition; for these fish differ quite 
Bs much from each other in their comparative 
goodness as the codfish, and quite as many bad 
specimens may be found amongst the one as 
the other, so that equal attention is necessary in 
making a selection of either of these fishes. 

To choose a haddock, pick out one, if you can 
find any such, that is deep-bodied, thick, and well . 
filled out, rounded at the poll, and elevated on the 
back ; for if sharp ridged, like the top of the roof 
* of a house, and if the form of the fish is lanky and 
compressed, it is out of season. It should also be 
of a pale brown on the back, the sides being 
bright and silvery, the slime clear and transparent, 

C 2 



20 CHOICE AND COOKEEY OP FISH. 

the scales undisturbed, and all the fins unruffled. 
If the scales are rubbed off, the body assumes a 
dull reddish tint, and if the rays of the fins, par- 
ticularly the tail fin, are broken, and separate 
from the membrane, the fish has been caught in a 
trawl, and will be scarcely worth eating ; as the 
pressure it encounters in the net squeezes up the 
Uver and intestines, and imparts a strong and 
disagreeable taint to the whole fish. Redness of 
the gills and brightness of the eyes also afibrd a 
test of the freshness of this fish. When it is stale 
the gills turn to a dull cast, the sides grow dull, 
and the fish becomes limp. A haddock, like a 
codfish, ought to be perfectiy stifiP; but this does 
not always occur even in a perfectly fresh and 
healthy fish ; still a fish diat does not stiffen never 
flakes out well. 

The largest haddocks, it seems, are found in 
Dublin Bay, and on the coasts of Devonshire and 
Cornwall ; on the latter of which they are some- 
times taken weighing as much as fourteen pounds, 
and specimens of from eight to ten pounds may be 
constantly met with in the fish-markets along the 
southern line of coast of those counties ; whilst 
from two to four pounds weight may be con- 
sidered the common average of those fishes ob- 
tained by the London^ markets fit)m the other 
parts of our sea-coast. 



THE BIB. 21 

The larger-sized haddocks keep better than the 
smaller ones; but those of all sizes are likely to ac* 
quire a rancid taint^ from the oily quality of their 
livers, if permitted to remain too long after they 
are caught without being gutted ; which process 
should never be unnecessarily delayed where cir- 
cumstances will otherwise permit. Haddocks are 
delicious, either boiled or fried, but are of rather 
too dry a nature to eat so well when stewed as 
cod, Ung, or hake ; and, although salt tends to 
preserve them, we consider it extracts in some 
degree the delicate richness of their flavour ; and, 
in our opinion, a haddock cannot be eaten too 
soon after it is caught. 

Haddocks are a winter fish, being in best order 
from November to February, which is the spawn- 
ing time ; after which the larger ones become thin 
and out of season, at which times they betake 
themselves to very deep water, where they are 
not oftien captured; the smaller ones, that have 
not arrived at a spawning time of life, are in 
proper condition for the table at all times. 

3. The Bib. 

The bib is a firm, sweet-tasted fish. It is very 

common in our fish-markets, where it is usually 

sold at a very cheap rate. It averages from 

c 3 



22 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

-about two pounds to half a pound weight. It is 
ti fish that keeps badly, from the oily nature of 
its liver, which soon imparts a rancid flavour to 
the fish, but which may be entirely prevented 
by extracting the intestines within a few hours 
after it is caught ; if this, however, be duly at- 
tended to, the fish will be found to possess a very 
agreeable flavour ; the larger ones being delicious 
when boiled, and the smaller ones equally so 
when fried, provided they be done soon after they 
are caught; but they lose a great deal of the 
delicacy of their flavour when kept ; and, though 
they may be preserved by being sprinkled with 
salt, it deprives them altogether of the fine taste 
they possess when perfectly fresh. From being 
so seldom partaken of in a state of perfection 
this fish does not bear so good a reputation as 
it really merits. Those caught in a trawl are 
rendered worthless, and may be detected by the 
dull aspect they acquire by being deprived of 
their scales. 

In selecting a bib, see that the eyes and 
scales look bright, and the slime on the bodies 
dear and transparent ; that the fish is well filled 
out, deep-bodied, high at the back, and thick 
behind the shoulders. Gut the fish as soon as 
possible, and cook it at the earliest opportu- 
nity. 



rrHE POUTING CODFISH. 23 

This fish Is known by a great variety of names ; 
at Southampton it is called a toup ; in many other 
places a whiting pout, or pouting ; in the west of 
England it is called a blin or blind ; at St. Ives 
it is known by the name of lug or leaf; and at 
Penzance by the title of bothock, which, we have 
been informed, in the ancient Cornish language, 
signifies large eyes, for which this fish is remark- 
able, a3 also for a membrane that covers them, 
which it has the power of distending like an air- 
bladder. 

4. The Pouting y or Power Codfish. 

The pouting is a smaller fish than the last; 
seldom attaining to more than a quarter of a 
pound weight. It resembles a bib of the same 
size so much in its general appearance, that 
many persons who eyen see the two fishes side 
by side do not detect the difference ; but which is 
apparent enough to a practised eye, the pouting 
being of a more elongated form than the bib, and 
its scales much larger in proportion. The pout- 
ing, when eaten within a few hours after it is 
caught, is one of the most delicious-flavoured fish 
the sea produces ; but it keeps so very badly, that 
unless cooked on the very day it is caught it loses 
all the delicacy of its flavour, and, although per- 
fectly untainted by decomposition, it becomes sp 

c i 



24 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 

tasteless by the time it has been twenty-four 
hours out of water as to be scarcely worth eating. 
On this account^ although swarms of these de- 
licious fish may be taken daily in Plymouth 
Sound during the whole of the summer and 
autumn months^ we have never seen one of them 
exposed for sale in the fish-markets of either 
Plymouth, Stonehouse, or Devonport, or, in fact, 
at any place offered for sale in any way. The 
only persons, therefore, who have the oppor- 
tunities of enjoying them are the amateur fisher- 
men and their friends ; and, as the former often 
captiu'e as many as ten or fifteen dozen of these 
fishes in the course of two or three hours, a 
sufficient supply can generally be relied on ; and, 
when nicely fried on the same day, they affi^rd as 
good a dish of fish as the most fastidious epicure 
could desire to partake of; but which, if the 
process were to be delayed until the following 
day, he would condemn as unfit to be eaten. 

5. Rawlin Pollock^ Whiting Pollochy and Wliiting. 

These three distinct species of fish have so 
great an external resemblance to each other, tiiat 
casual observers often mistake the one for the 
other. The two former, however, are distin- 
guishable from the whiting, not only by being 



POLLOCK AND WHITING. 25 

usually of a darker colour, but also In the fonna- 
tion of the jaws ; the upper jaw of the whiting 
projecting beyond the lower one, whilst in both 
kinds of pollock the lower jaw projects beyond 
the upper one. 

The diflference between the two kinds of pol- 
lock may be detected by examining their lateral 
lines ; that of the whiting pollock being of a dark 
colour and of a curved form, rising towards the 
middle of the back, and then sinking and running 
straight towards the tail; whilst in the rawlin 
pollock the line runs straight along the whole 
length of the body from gill to tail, and is of a 
silvery white. Both kinds of pollock attain a 
large size, the rawlin pollock sometimes reach- 
ing to forty pounds, the whiting pollock to as 
much as fourteen ; but about half that size may 
be taken as the usual average of the adult fishes. 

The rawlin pollock is not held in very high 
estimation, and has acquired a worse reputation 
than it deserves from being often met with out of 
season, as the larger fish usually are during the 
greater part of the summer months. The almost 
general rule, that ** the larger the size the better 
the fish" is reversed in the rawlin pollock, the 
email ones being much the best flavoured. 

In choosing one of these fish, you must see 
that it is thick about the poU, well rounded over 



26 CHOICE AND COOKEKY OF t'ISH. 

the back^ and that it carries its fulness down t6 
the very taiL The redness of the gills, bright- 
ness of the eyes, and elasticity of the flesh upon 
pressure afford the best proof of its freshness. 
The scales bemg rubbed off, and the fins broken, 
denote the fish to have been caught in a trawl; 
but it is liable to less injury when taken in this 
manner than most others of the cod tribe. It 
is a fish, also, that is improved by being salted 
before it is cooked, and makes an excellent 
salt fisL Indeed, Sir Bichard Bonnycastle, in 
his account of the products of Newfoundland, 
considers this fish, when prepared in this manner, 
superior to the cod, for which that part of the 
world has been so long celebrated. The rawlin 
pollock is, however, preserved in a different 
manner from the codfish, being exported to this 
eountry pickled in barrels, the cod being sent 
over dried. 

The whiting pollock is considered a better fish 
than the preceding ; but this fish is much im*- 
proved by being sprinkled with salt a day or two 
before it is cooked. 

The criterions of goodness in a whiting pollock 
are the depth and fulness of the body ; and its 
freshness is determined by the brightness of the 
eyes, the redness of the gills, and the clearness of 
the slime ; but which, soon dries up, even before 



l»OLLOCK AND WHITING. 27 

the fish gets in any way tainted, and often causes 
it to assume an untempting appearance before it 
becomes at all stale ; when this occurs, its fresh- 
ness may be tested by pressure, in the manner 
we have already pointed out. 

The rawlin pollock is known by various names, 
depending in a great measure upon its various 
stages of growth ; as coal fish, sethe, grey lord, 
and blockin. The fry, when small, are caUed 
billets, coalsies, parrs, and podleys ; when above 
a foot long they are termed poodlers. 

The whiting pollock sometimes, par excellence^ 
is styled pollock only. On the Yorkshire coast 
it is called a leet, and in Scotland a lythe. 

The whiting (or silver whiting as it is some- 
times called, to distinguish it from the whiting 
and rawlin pollock), when in prime order, as it 
generally is during the greater part of the year, 
is one of the most wholesome and delicate fish 
the sea produces; and, except during the spawning 
time, which occurs about January, may be con- 
sidered in season all the year round. The largest 
whiting are caught on the southern coast of 
Devonshire and Cornwall ; but those taken on the 
northern coast of those two coimties, although 
usually smaller in size, are superior in flavour. 
When perfectly fresh it is of a pale brown on the 
back, the sides silver and slightly mottled with 



28 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

greyish brown, the belly white, the slime per* 
fectly clear and transparent. As the fish grows 
stale the slime becomes thick, and imparts a dull 
appearance to the sides. When caught in a trawl, 
it assumes a dull, parboiled appearance, which is 
perceptible to the most unpractised eye ; and, 
being a fish of a very tender nature, a trawl-caught 
whiting is not fit to be eaten, and should be 
rejected accordingly. If treated properly, whiting 
will keep well, and are rather improved than 
otherwise by being kept a day, or sprinkled with 
salt before they are used; but the intestines 
ought to be extracted as soon as possible after 
they are caught. 

Those whitings which die stiff with their 
mouths wide open always flake out the best, and 
therefore should always be selected when the 
opportunity offers ; but this does not always 
happen, as we have often noticed several dozens 
x)f these fish all perfectly fresh and in good 
season, and yet not a stiff fish amongst the whole 
batch. 

6. The Hake. 

The hake, although little esteemed, is one of 
the most valuable fishes with which it has pleased 
a bountiful Providence to bless mankind. They 
jxe found in great abundance, and may be cooked 



THE HAKE. 29 

m a great variety of ways. It is very good when 
boiled^ either perfectly fresh^ powdered slightly 
with salt^ or cured ; either pickled^ or as a dried 
salt fish. Hake cutlets form as delicious a dish 
of fish as can possibly be produced; slightly 
powdered^ it makes a first-rate broil; it is also 
good stewed, either whole with a pudding in its 
belly in the way a pike is done, or cut up in 
steaks; and is very nice either marinated or 
potted. 

Hakes are in best order from about Michael- 
mas to Christmas ; but towards the latter end of 
January, as they approach near the spawning 
time, they begin to fail ; yet, unluckily, at these 
times they are taken in greatest numbers by the 
trawlers, whilst they remain in a weak and supine 
state at the bottom. This is much to be regretted, 
as at those times by far the greater portion of 
them are out of season, and consequently not in 
a proper state to be eaten ; and this is the chief 
cause of the hake's undeserved impopularity. 

A hake, indeed, that is at any time caught with 
a trawl, is inferior to a hook-and-line fish, and the 
difierence between the two may be detected by the 
scales being rubbed off, and the rays of the fins 
broken and detached &om the membranes, which 
always occurs more or less in a trawl-caught 
hake. Yet, although the trawl always does some 



30 CHOICE ANP COOKERY OF FISH. 

degree of damage to these fish^ it injures some 
much more than others ; yet often the damage is 
so triflings that the fish need not be altogether re- 
jected, particularly when a hook-and-line-caught 
hake in proper condition cannot be procured. 
If, therefore, the fish is well proportioned, and 
retains its stiffness, and the scales are only par- 
tially rubbed off, it may prove a very good fish ; 
but never purchase one that has not retained a 
considerable portion of its scales about the shoul- 
ders and forepart of the body. 

In a hook-and-Une hake the scales present an 
even and unbroken surface, the sides are bright and 
silvery, and the fins unbroken and unruffled. The 
proof of high condition consists in the stoutness 
of the body, the thickness of which should be 
carried well down towards the tail; but the 
abdomen should not be too much rounded and 
swollen. The freshness is proved by the redness 
of the gills, the brightness of the eyes and scales, 
and the transparency of the slime. 

7. The Forked Hake. 

The forked hake resembles the species last de-% 
scribed, but is of a stouter make. It is of much 
smaller size than the common hake, seldom exceed-i 
ing two feet in length, and may be recognised by 



THE LING. 31 

possessing two very remarkable long^ naked rays, 
forked at the extremity, and growing out from the 
throat about midway from the gape of the mouth 
and pectoral fin. This fish does not appear to 
be very plentifrd ; but may usually be met with 
in the Plymouth fish-market during the winter 
months. It is not, however, much esteemed. It 
resembles the hake, but is extremely inferior to 
it in flavour. The best way of dressing the 
forked hake is to split it open, and, powdering it 
with pepper and salt, to broil it over a clear fire, 
rubbing plenty of butter over it when done ; in 
which way it will be found to eat very agreeably. 
The same rules may be adopted for selecting 
tlus fish as the preceding one. 

8. The Ling. 

The ling is a first-rate fish, both for size and 
goodness. It sometimes attains to as much as 
seventy pounds weight, and thirty pounds is by 
no means an extraordinary size ; added to which, 
its flesh is firm, white, and of most exquisite 
flavour; it keeps remarkably well without the 
aid of salt or any other material for preserving it ^ 
though it takes the former very easily; and when, 
cured as salt-fish is far superior to any other kind 
prepared in the same way. There is, however, a 



32 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 

great deal of difference in the relative goodness 
which these fish bear to each other^ as even in the 
most &YOurable season of the year numbers of them 
may be found out of condition; and at others, 
perhaps not one in ten can be met with that is 
in first-rate order. It is necessary^ therefore, 
that every one who purchases a ling should know 
how to make a proper selection; to do which the 
following rules should be carefully observed. 

The fish must be stout and thick about the 

shoulders and forepart of the body^ decreasing 

by gradual and imperceptible degrees towards 

the tail^ the muscles being well filled up^ and 

marked by small elevated ridges or furrows; 

the fish ought also to be perfectly stiff. The 

abdomen should not be too much roimded. If 

the fish has a large protuberant belly, and 

becomes suddenly compressed at the vent, and 

thin towards the tail, it is altogether out of 

season. An ill-conditioned ling never becomes 

stiff; but the reverse is not always the case, as 

ling caught in a trawl seldom stiffen well; and 

sometimes this happens with a ling in good season 

caught with a hook and line ; but, whenever this 

occurs, the fish will not flake out so well as one 

that becomes perfectly stiff. Another imerring 

proof of the good or ill condition is the colour of 

the liver, which should be of an opaque, oreamish 



THE LIKG. 33 

cast^ approaching almost to whiteness^ and the 
paler the colour is^ the better is the condition 
of the fish. When out of order, the liver as- 
sumes a darker cast, imtil it acquires a reddish 
tint, which affords a sure indication tiiat the fish 
is out of season. Its freshness may. be tested in 
tiie same manner as in the codfish. Those fish 
which have been caught in a trawl-net may be 
distinguished from tiie others by having a dull 
look, and wanting the brightness of colouring 
displayed in a high-conditioned hook-and-line ling. 
This is caused by the slime having been rubbed 
off by the trawl-net. The latter mode of capture 
does not injure a ling so much as it does most 
other fishes of the cod tribe; but still a fish 
taken in this manner is not equal to one of the 
same kind caught with a hook and line. 

The largest lings are the best flavoured, the 
smaller ones being deficient in that firmness which 
forms such an excellence in the adult fishes. 
Until a ling measures twenty-six inches or up- 
wards from shoulder to tail it is called a drizzle, 
and is not allowed to rank as a sizeable fish; and 
when bounties were allowed by the government 
to fishermen upon the exportation of salted 
fish, drizzles were excluded from participating 
in them. 

Like tiie cod, the ling has a remarkably fine 



34 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 

sounds which con be either dressed &esh with the 
fish, or salted; in which way the tongues of these 
fish^ as also those of the cod, are prepared. The 
roes, both hard and soft, are also excellent. The 
greatest portion of what is called cod-liver oil, 
now so much used as medicine, is produced from 
the liver of this fish. 

Ling is cooked in the same manner as cod; 
in addition to which, on account of its superior 
firmness, it is excellent cold and pickled, or 
soused in the way salmon and mackerel are done^ 
It is also delicious potted in the manner we shall 
hereafter point out ; an economical mode of turn- 
ing cold fish, which is too often thrown away and 
wasted, to valuable account, at a cost that is next 
to nothing. Any cold portions which may be 
left also afford the best possible materials for fish 
sausages ; for faying in batter ; or covered with 
egg, cream, and cnmibs; the preparation of all 
which will be duly treated of iu its proper place. 

9. The Burbot. 

The burbot is the only member of the cod 
family that inhabits the fresh water. It is a 
moderate-sized fish, usually about two pounds 
weight, resembling a small ling in form, but, like 
the eel, covered over with a thick, mucous slime. 
It is said to be a delicious fish, resembling in 



THBEE-BEABDED LING. 35 

flavour, but superior to, the common fresh-water 
eeL It is not, however, a general fish in this 
country; being only met with in a few of onr 
rivers, as the Severn, Trent, and Cam, and in 
some rivers in Yorkshire and Durham. It is also 
known by the names of burbolt and eel-pout 

10. The Three-bearded Ling 

Is a moderate-sized fish, seldom exceeding the 
length of twelve or fourteen inches. It derives 
its name from possessing three barbs— two on the 
muzzle and one beneath the chin,— the common 
ling possessing only the latter. It is of a wider 
make than the common ling about the shoulders 
and forepart of the body, but becomes more 
compressed towards the taiL It differs also in 
colour, being curiousjy mottled with brown and 
red. It is a delicate fish, rather resembling a 
whiting than a ling in flavour ; but it ought to 
be cooked very fresh, as it loses all its flavour, and 
becomes flabby and disagreable, if kept for any 
time after it is taken. The best way to cook these 
fish is to split them open, and either fry or broil 
them. Their healthy condition and freshness 
may be tested in the same manner as the conmion 
ling. The fry, when not exceeding flve or six 
inches in length, are of a uniform brown colour. 
These make a delicious fry if cooked on the same 

P 2 



36 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

day they are caught; but, if kept longer, they 
lose all their delicate flavour. 

11. The Five^hearded Ling. 

The fiive-bearded ling is a little fish of four or 
five inches in length, possessing no less than five 
beards; two at the end of the nose, two just 
before the eyes, and one beneath the chin. It is 
a dark-looking, ugly fish, but eats very agreeably 
if nicely fried. 

12. The Tadpole Fish. 

The tadpole fish is even more repulsive in 
its appearance than the one we have last men- 
tioned ; and, its wide and depressed head, stout 
shoulders, short and compressed body, com- 
bined with its dark colour, give it some re- 
semblance to an overgrown specimen of the 
repulsive-looking reptile from which, there can 
be little doubt, it derives its name : still, in spite 
of appearances, it possesses a most exquisite 
flavour, as we can testify from our experience. 
It is, however, a very rare fish on our coasts ; so 
rare indeed, that some celebrated writers on 
natural history speak of it as if only one or two 
rare specimens had ever occurred. This, however, 
is not the fact ; it is certainly a scarce fish, and,, 
being small — for it seldom exceeds six or seven 



THE TOBSK. 37 

inches in lengthy and is very ugly to boot — the 
fishermen who catch them^ much oflener than is 
supposed, throw them aside as worthless. We 
ourselves have occasionally taken them with a 
hook and line ; and, having put the edible merits 
of the first we captured to the test, were so well 
satisfied with the result, that we have taken care 
to turn all the rest that have come in our way 
to the same accoimt. The best parts are about 
the head and collar-bones, which are beyond 
description delicious. 

13. The Torsh 

The torsk is entirely a northern fish, swarming 
about the Shetland Islands and the Orkneys, from 
whence we receive it in the form of dried salt-fish ; 
but it is rarely brought to our markets in a fresh 
state. It has, however, been sometimes brought 
from Scotland to London in well-boats ; but this, 
it seems, only occurs at rare intervals. When 
eaten quite fresh it is said to be rather tough ; on 
which accoimt it is usually preferred in a salted 
state. It has something the form of a ling, but is 
of a much stouter make. As we can only speak 
from our own knowledge of this fish in its salted 
state we must defer any further observations 
upon it until we come to treat upon the subject 
of salt fish. 

x> 3 



38 CHOICE AND COOKEKY OF FISH. 



SECTION m. 
Fishes of thb Flouioobb Kiin>. 

The flounder tribe, commonly called flat fish, 
contain several varieties of fish, many of which 
are celebrated, not only for the excellence of their 
culinary qualities, but also for the facility with 
which they may be preserved without artificial 
aid, as also for their wholesome and nutritious 
properties. Most of them are common upon our 
coasts, and some of them may be met with in our 
fish-markets in a fit condition for the table at all 
times and seasons of the year. 

1. The Turbot. 

The good qualities of a turbot are too univer- 
sally known to require either praise or comment 
£rom us. It is a fish of a remarkably rounded 
form; the upper part of the body is brown, 
minutely qMJckled, as if strewed over with fine 
sand, varying considerably in the depth of tint, 
in difierent specimens, from a pale cast to a 
dark and almost cinereous hue ; depending, in 
great measure, upon the colour of the soil the 
fish has been inhabiting. The same side is also 
interspersed with a number of small bony tuber- 



tHE TUBBOT. 39 

cles^ placed without any order^ and yarying in 
number in different fish. 

If in good order^ the pale side is of an opaque^ 
light cream colour^ with a slight blush of a 
pink or reddish hue, particularly about the fins. 
When it is out of season it is of a pale white, 
approaching to a milk-and-water cast. As good 
a proof as any of the high condition of a turbot 
is the thickness through the body ; and whenever 
iMs occurs you may rely upon it the fish is a 
good one. The redness of the gills and moisture 
of the body denote its freshness. When stale, 
the skin looks dry, and the pale side acquires a 
dull reddish tint of a darker cast between the 
flakes, which then become visibly developed. 
The turbot is, however, a fish that keeps very 
well, and, particularly in the winter season, is per- 
fectly good even when it presents the stale look 
above mentioned. To prevent tihese appearances, 
it is a practice of fishmongers to be constantly 
pouring water over the best fish ; but these ac- 
quire a soddened look, and may be recognised 
accordingly. 

A turbot has frequently a red appearance 
about the tail, which, although in reality no detri- 
ment, injures the look of the fish ; to coimteract 
which, fishermen are in the habit of opening a 
vein near the tail whilst the fish is living; 

D 4 



40 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OP PISH. 

which^ allowing the blood to escape^ preyents this 
unsightly appearance. 

Turbots sometimes grow to a very large size. 
The largest of the kind we have received any au- 
thentic account of, was one caught off Whitby in 
the spring of 1832, which weighed as much as 
1901bs.; but from about fifteen to twenty pounds 
may be considered the average weight of these 
fishes usually met with in our markets, although 
thirty, or even forty pounds, is by no means an 
unusual size. The best flavoured are those rang- 
ing between twelve and twenty pounds. 

In the northern parts of the kingdom this fish 
is called a bret, and in Scotland it is known by 
the name of bannock-fluke or rawn fluke. 

2. The Brill 

The brill bears a close resemblance to the 
turbot, but has a narrower body ; it is also thinner 
through, and its dark side is free from the small 
spiny tubercles with which the upper side of the 
turbot is always interspersed. There is little 
difference in the colour of the dark sides of these 
fishes, but the brill never acquires the rich creamy- 
pink cast of the turbot on the pale side ; which, at 
its very best, is only a pale or dull yellowish 
white, acquiring a bluish milk-and-water or 
curdy appearance, or a mottled kind of mixture 



\ 



THE HALIBUT. 41 

of bhiish milk-and-water tints with curdy milk- 
white, particularly about the fins. The opaque, 
or yellowish whiteness of the under side, and 
total absence of the milk-and-water cast, is the 
best proof of the good condition of a brillr 

It does not grow to anything like the size of 
the turbot ; seldom exceeding ten pounds, and 
the greater proportion not reaching to more than 
half that weight. It is a good and wholesome 
fish, but labours under the disadvantage of 
bearing too close a resemblance to the turbot} 
and, as it does not come up to the latter in 
excellence, the best brill that can be procured 
will be no more than a turbot of moderate, if not 
indifferent quality. 

At Plymouth this fish is called a holibut, or 
halibut, although that title belongs to a totally 
different kind of fish, being the one we shall next 
notice. In Cornwall it is called a kite, and in 
the northern parts of the kingdom a pearl. 

3. The Halibuty or Holibut 

The true halibut grows to a size we may fairly 
term enormous, instances having occurred of these 
fishes weighing as much as 500 lbs. ; and one 
hundredweight is no uncommon size. It is of a 
much more elongated shape, not only than either 
the turbot or the brill, but than most others 



42 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 

of the flounder tribe^ excepting the soles. The 
moderate-sized fish, of from twenty to fifty pounds 
weight, are the best, as the larger ones are very 
dry and coarse, and possess little flavour. On 
account of its vast size this fish is usually cut up 
and sold in slices. The best parts are the flakes 
about the fins, and the pickings about the head ; 
the other parts, though firm, are rather insipid. 
It may be dressed in every way a turbot may 
be done, as will be pointed out hereafter ; and, 
although inferior to the turbot, it is a very valu- 
able fish, and has one very great recommendation, 
that you may make a dish of it of which a blind 
person may partake without any danger of being 
choked by the bones. 

It is in best season during the spring. 

4. Tke Plaice. 

The plaice may be distinguished from all the 
rest of the flounder tribe by the orange-coloured 
spots upon its dark side. When it is in goocl 
season, the under side is of an opaque, creamy 
white, with a slight blush of pink over it. If it 
is of a milky white, or inclining to a curdy or 
milk-and-watery cast, it is out of season. Another 
proof of the goodness of a plaice is the thickness 
through the body; and it ought to be stiff*. 
The freshness may be tested by the brightness of 



THE PLAICE. 43 

the eyes^ freshness of the colouring on the dark 
side^ and clear moisture of the slime. 

It is a fish that grows to a respectable size, 
sometimes attaining to as much as ten pounds 
or upwards ; but about one-half that weight may 
be considered as ihe average size of a ftill-grown 
fish. 

When in prime order, it is excellent; but, 
from some cause we are unable to accoimt for, 
we have not, even at the most favourable times of 
the year, been able to find above one or two 
large plaice out of a dozen that can be considered 
in first-rate condition ; and, when otherwise, they 
are a very watery and insipid fish: so that, 
whether you get a very good or a very bad 
fish, will depend entirely upon the choice you 
make ; and, imless you really understand some- 
thing about the matter, leaving the fish vender out 
of the question altogether, the chances are always 
six to one at least against you, and sometimes a 
great deal more. The best time of the year for 
plaice is the latter end of the autumn ; experienced 
fishermen say, during the blackberry season; 
at which time you will find more of these fish in 
good order than at any other time of the year, 
although some may be found good as late as the 
middle or latter end of March. 

The large plaice are best boiled; but the 



44 CHOICE AND COOKEEY OP FISH. 

small ones should be Med. The roe should 
not be boiled m the body of the fish; but se- 
parately^ as it takes a much longer time to do 
than the fish itself does^ and if retained in the 
body of the latter until properly done, the fish 
itself would be boiled to rags. 

5. The Flounder. 

The flounder grows to the weight of about 
three or four pounds; but the greater number 
of those exposed for sale in the market do not 
exceed the weight of half a pound. It resembles 
a plaice in shape, but wants the orange spots on 
the dark side ; and may also be distinguished not 
only from the latter fish, but also all other flat 
fish, by possessing a row of small sharp spines 
surrounding the upper sides, placed just below 
the junction of the fins with the body. Another 
row marks the side line, and runs half-way down 
the back. The dark side is sometimes spotted 
with dirty yellow, and sometimes the prevailing 
dark colour is marbled with a darker shade of the 
same hue ; but the depth of tint varies in differ- 
ent specimens, depending chiefly on the colour of 
the ground they swim over. The lower side is 
white, but often marked with dusky particles of 
a dirty brownish cast, either entirely or partially 
covering it. This is considered rather as a proof 



THE DAB. 45 

of the good condition of the fish than otherwise ; 
but the most certain proof of goodness is the 
thickness of the body and the opaque colouring 
of the pale side^ which should have the appear- 
ance of white earthenware. If it has a clear or 
curdy appearance^ the fish is out of season. 
Flounders are in the best order in the latter end 
of the autumn and early part of the winter; 
though some may be found in good condition, 
not only through the whole winter, but also in the 
early part of the spring. Their condition depends 
in great measure on the time of their spawning, 
some shedding the roes much earlier than others ; 
at which time they fail in condition, and remain 
for some time after spawning out of season. They 
are inferior to most other kinds of flat fish, being 
apt to be soft and watery ; a defect which may, 
however, be in a great measure removed by ad- 
hering to the directions we shall lay down here- 
after, when we come to point out the way of 
cleaning and preparing fish for cooking. 

6. The Dab. 

The dab is a very nice little fish, resembling 
the two preceding ones, from which it may be 
distinguished, not only by possessing rough scales^ 
but also by the clear, pearly whiteness of its pale 



46 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

side, with the exception of that portion which 
covers the intestines, which, being of an opaque 
white, contrasts strongly with the clear white of 
the other part of the body. This fish rarely ex- 
ceeds a foot in length, but is a very good fish 
when nicely fried ; and few are to be met with 
from August imtil April that are not in good 
condition ; but after that time they go out of 
season, and few good ones are again to be met 
with imtil towards the latter end of the summer. 

7. The Smooth Dabj or Mem Sole. 

The smooth dab resembles the common dab ; 
but is without the rough scales of the latter, and 
is of rather a rounder make. It is a common 
fish in most parts of the West of England, and is 
in season at the same time as the common dab ; but 
certainly is not equal to the latter fish in flavour. 
It is known by a variety of names on different 
parts of our coasts; as smear dab, town tab, 
lemon dab, and sand fluke. 

8. The Whiffe, or French Sole. 

The whiffe is a remarkably thin fish, of an 
elongated make. The upper side is of a pale 
brown, the lower side a clear pearly white tinged 
with a reddish cast ; and, from tiie extreme thin- 
ness of the fish, if held up to the light, it is semi- 



THE TOP-KNOT. 47 

transparent. It grows to the length of about a foot 
and a half, but, from being so thin, it rarely weighs 
a pound. It is, take it altogether, the worst of 
the whole flounder tribe, being sofb and insipid. 
In some parts of Cornwall this fish is called a 
carter ; at Plymoutli it is called a French sole. 

These fish are better when fried than cooked in 
any other manner, and ought to be dressed soon 
after they are caught. 

9. The Top-Knot 

This is a singular-looking fish, being more of 
a square than either a round or oblong form. Its 
head is large, and formed like that of a brill or 
turbot. The colour of the upper side varies much 
in different specimens, acquiring the same colour 
as the rocky ground which it always inhabits, 
varying from a reddish brown to a deep cinereous 
cast When at rest it always adheres to the 
rocks, and, being of a corresponding colour, it is 
difficult to detect its presence, even in very clear 
and shallow water. The under side is a pearly 
bluish white, slightly tinged with a reddish cast. 
It is a small fish, seldom exceeding seven or 
eight inches in length, and, although not very 
scarce, is not often captured, as it does not take 
a bait very readily, and inhabiting rough and 
foul ground, is altogether out of the reach of 



48 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 

the trawlers. It is a good fish when nicely fried, 
but in no way superior to many more common 
fishes which may at all times be more easily and 
cheaply procured. 

10. The Sole. 

The sole is too well known a fish to require 
any particular description, except to point out 
the distinction between a good and a bad one ; 
for, although these fish may be obtained in good 
order all the year round, yet there is a great dif- 
ference, in point of goodness, between the different 
fishes of this kind we find exposed for sale at the 
same time. The best proof of goodness is the 
thickness of the body ; and the pale side should 
be of a creamy white. A milky whiteness denotes 
that it is not in prime order, and a bluish tinge 
that it is thoroughly out of season. The upper 
side varies considerably in depth of tint, from a 
pale fawn cast to a deep brown, depending upon 
the colour of the ground the fish usually frequents. 

The freshness is tested by the brightness of the 
colour on the dark side, and the transparency of 
the slime, which assumes a dull cast if the fish has 
been long out of the water. A frothy appearance 
may also be discerned on the pale side when the 
fish is perfectly fresh, which is never perceptible 
after the fish has been some time caught; but 



BEIHB ACK. — - THICK-BACK. 49 

all soles keep well^ particularly if gutted soon 
after they are taken^ so that they will remain 
good some time after the appearances above 
pointed out have departed 

There are three other kinds of fish very much 
resembling the sole in general appearance, but 
which never attain to any considerable size. The 
first of these is 

11. The Red-Back 

(So called from the prevailing colour on the dark 
side)^ which is mottled with darker shades of the 
same cast. It is rather broader than the common 
sole in proportion to its length ; from which it 
may also be distinguished by the superior size of 
its scales. It is a small fish^ seldom exceeding nine 
inches in lengthy and the greater number we meet 
with are not above half that size. It is not 
very conunon^ but is occasionally taken by the 
trawlers ; and, in point of goodness, is very in- 
ferior to the common sole. 

12. The Thick-Back 

Is a still smaller fish than the last. It is of reddish 
brown, speckled with minute spots of a darker 
hue of the same brown ; with small brown marks 
or blotches on the dark side, varying in size 
and number in different specimens, but princi- 

E 



50 CHOICE AND COOKEBT OF FISH. 

pally at the junctioii of the fins with the body. 
Although small^ they are quite equal id goodness 
to a sole of the same size. They are not a very 
common fish, but may be frequently seen in Ply- 
mouth fish-market in the early part of the spring. 



13, The Scald Fish 

Seldom exceeds four or five inches in length. It 
is shaped like a sole, but differs from it essentially 
in having the eyes placed on the reverse side of 
the head. Its scales are very large in proportion 
to its size, but come off* so readily as to be always 
rubbed away by the rough usage it encounters 
in the trawl nets ; which gives it the naked, par- 
boiled appearance from whence it derives its 
name. It is rather a scarce fish, which is little 
to be regretted, as, independently of its insignifi- 
cant size, it does not possess an agreeable flavour. 
There is also another small kind of sole, called 
the solinette ; which is a little fish of about the 
same size as the last, but is of a longer make 
than any of the preceding. It is a very scarce 
fish, and even when taken by the trawlers is 
usually thrown overboard with the weeds and 
rubbish of the trawl ; so that it very rarely finds 
its way into the fish-markets. 



JOHN-DORY. 51 

# • 

SECTION IV. 

Dories. 

The John-Dory is the only species of this 
tribe that is commonly met with on our shores, 
and the only one ever used as food ; for, although 
it has a disreputable relative, called the boar-fish, 
which is occasionally taken, the latter is so bad a 
fish as to be rejected by all classes ; so that it has 
only to be known to be avoided. In shape it bears 
some resemblance to the dory, but its immense 
eyes, contracted mouth, the want of the long 
filaments upon its back, and the absence of St. 
Christopher's mark, and its prevailing dull-red 
colour, are quite sufficient to point out the dif- 
ference to the eye of the most casual observer. 

As for the true John-Dory, his culinary merits 
are so great, that he may fairly be entitled to claii^ 
the palm of excellence with any of the products 
of the sea. He seems to have borne a highly 
merited reputation from the earliest ages of anti- 
quity, particularly amongst the Greeks, who, in 
ancient days, gave him the name of their supreme 
god Zeus, or Jupiter. Its modem title of dory 
is said to be derived from the French word, 
adorecy "worshipped," The Greeks of modem 
times also treat this fish with due respect, by 
hanging it up in their most sacred places of wor-^ 

B 2 



52 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

ship. According to some authorities^ also^ the 
dory^ and not the haddock^ is said to have been the 
fish that furnished St. Peter with the tribute- 
money; which has so far obtained credit^ that 
many contend that its name is derived from the 
Italian il jamtare, or ** the door-keeper," in allu- 
sion to St. Peter's office of keeping the keys of 
heaven. Others assert his dark spot was occa- 
sioned by the finger marks of St. Christopher, 
who captured one of these fishes as he was in 
the act of carrying his blessed Master aeross 
a ford. His name of John is stated to be de- 
rived from nothing more nor less than a cor- 
ruption of the French word jaune, or " yellow," 
from the golden tint that prevails over this fish 
when first taken out of the water. Be this as it 
may, we claim no better name for him than he has 
acquired by his culinary excellence ; and we coin- 
cide with the celebrated Mr. Quin, that no fish Is 
entitled to a better name in this respect. The 
love this eccentric personage bore to John-Dories, 
which he used to eat with the livers of surmullets, 
has given rise to some anecdotes at his expense. 
In his opinion the inhabitants of Plymouth ought 
to be the happiest people on the face of the 
earth, from the simple fact of their being blessed 
with a never-failing supply of this superlatively 
good fish : but It seems that, upon subsequently 



JOHN-DORY. 53 

paying a visit to that part of the world, the 
reality did not come up to his expectations; 
for he afterwards expressed an opinion, that, 
although the natiyes had a plentiful supply of 
good fish, they had no notion of cooking it, and 
were totally ignorant of the art of melting butter, 
80 that, if he looked for perfect happiness on earth, 
he must go elsewhere in search of it. 

The habits of thia singular being were very 
remarkable. He was often, without any appa^* 
rent cause, known to be in bed for two or three 
days together, sleeping away soundly during 
the greater part of the time* Whilst staying at 
Plymouth, his first question, when he awoke in 
the morning, was to inquire mto the state of the 
fish-market, and, if the report was unfayourable, 
he would merely desire to be called again on the 
following morning, and again betake himself to 
repose. 

On one occasion, on his return from Plymouth 

to Bath, his loye for John-Dories still renudning 

unabated, he sent directions to the landlord of 

the inn at lyybridge to procure some of the 

finest fish of this kind to be ready on the day 

he arriyed there ; and, in order that these might be 

dressed in the highest degree of perfection, he 

actually had a cask filled with salt-water strapped 

on to his carriage, not esteeming firesh-water to 

B a 



54 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

be SO well adapted to the purpose. Now^ it 
unfortunately so happened^ that^ in consequence 
of bad weather^ or some other cause^ no dories 
could be procured^ and so annoyed was Quiii 
with the disappointment^ that, although an ex- 
cellent dinner in every other respect had been 
provided, he refused to partake of it, or even 
to enter the house, and, casting his water-cask 
adrift, he left the place in a rage, and proceeded, 
fasting, on his journey. 

Dories are caught in very considerable quan- 
tities on the southern coasts of Devonshire and 
Cornwall, where some may be found in season 
nearly all the year through. A greater niunber 
of the full-grown fish are, however, to be met 
with in prime order from Michaelmas to Christ- 
mas. The small ones are always good, and even 
amongst the large ones, if iliere is a good supply 
in the market, it seldom happens but that one 
or two good ones may be picked out. The best 
proof of sound condition is tiie thickness of tiie 
body ; so that if you select the stoutest fish you 
can see from a lot of otiiers, you will be certain 
to have tiie best one. Freshness is tested by tiie 
redness of tiie gills, the brightness of tiie eyes^ 
and freshness of the colours, though the latter 
often acquire a faded appearance if the fish has 
been knocked about long in a trawl-net; but. 



THE SALMON. 55 

being a very firm fish, the trawl does it very 
little injury. It is a fish that keeps remarkably 
well; but should be gutted soon after it is caught, 
and, if kept for a day or two, the inside should 
be washed out with vinegar. ..^, 

Large dories are best boiled, but the small 
ones should be fried ; they may also be cooked 
in a variety of other ways, as we shaU hereafter 
}oint out. 

Dories are sometimes met with weighing as 
much as twelve pounds, but from two to four 
or five may be considered the usual average size 
of & ftdl-grown fish of this kind. 



SECTION V. 
F1SHB8 OF THB Salmon Knnx 

The Salmon* 

The salmonidse, or salmon tribe, are the very 
aristocracy of fishes ; and of these the salmon, 
the acknowledged king of the fresh waters, ranks 
pre-eminently first. 

iJthough a fish so familiarly known, it will be 
necessary for us to point out some directions by 
whidi the proper condition of this fish may be 

X 4 



56 CHOICE AND COOKBBT OF FISH. 

determined ; and this^ perhaps^ is more important 
for persons to know who reside near the places 
where the fish are taken than those who live at 
a distance; as it is notorious that the best- 
seasoned fish ^ipp sent away to wherever they 
are likely to find the readiest market^ whilst 
the worthless are retained for home consump- 
tion. The period of these fish coming in and 
out of season is determined in a great degree 
by that at which they deposit their spawi* 
When the rudiments of roe first show themselves 
the fish is usually in greatest perfection ; but^ as 
the roe increases in size, the fish gradually de« 
clines in health, and, on the eve of spawiing, 
is completely out of season ; still, as some of Ihese 
fish shed their spawn many months earlier than 
others, some salmon may be met with in tolerable 
condition throughout the greater part of the year ; 
yet the time the greatest numbers may be met, 
with in proper order is &om about the latter enl 
of May to the beginning of September. 

The best proof of the condition of a salmon is 
a small head, a thick shoulder, a great roundnisd 
and breadth over the back, and continued thick- 
ness down eyen to the tail ; the cheeks and sciles 
should be resplendent and silvery; and the fish 
itself stiff and firm. When out of season the 
sides lose their bright, silvery cast, which then 



THE SALMON* 57 

acquire a coppery tinge ; and the chedks^ particu- 
larly of the male fish, become marked with 
orange«coloured stripes; and, when at the very 
worst, the whole fish assumes a dusky cine* 
reous hue, whilst its thin ancbttemaciated ap- 
pearance denotes the wretched state of the fish ; 
but long before this, in fact as soon as the sides 
assume the coppery tinge above alluded to, the 
fish is imfit to be eaten. When a salmon first 
comes in from the sea, it is often covered with 
small parasitical insects, which, so far from de- 
noting ill-health, affords a certain proof of the 
excellence of its condition. 

The male fish, or, as it is sometimes called, the 
kipper, is known from the female by tlie hooked 
shape of the lower jaw ; and this, as the fish grows 
out of season, increases in size, forming at length 
a groove in the upper jaw. 

When the fish is cut up, the fiesh should be 
of a beautiful pink, and the fiakes clearly de* 
▼eloped. This is the best proof of its being in 
season. 

It is a common practice to crimp sahnon, in 
order to make it eat dry and crisp ; but, to pro- 
duce this efiect, the operation must be performed 
immediately after it is taken out of the water ; the 
fish being killed with a few hard blows over the 
head, and the incisions made instantly afterwards* 



58 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OP FISH. 

It is as unnecessarj as cruel to crimp the fish whilst 
they are alive ; nor is the practice by any means 
80 general as is supposed. At any rate, at every 
salmon fishery we have ever visited the universal 
practice has b^^ to kill the fish before the crimp-* 
ing process hailbeen resorted to. 

To choose crimped salmon, see that it rises at 
ihe edges of the cuts, and that the muscle is much 
contracted between them ; and that the flakes are 
well disclosed, and the flesh firm and elastic. 

When stale, the scales lose their bright appear- 
ance, and, unless continually wetted, become dried 
up; and the gills, instead of a red, assume a dirty 
brown tint; to coimteract which appearance dis- 
honest fish-venders have a practice of staioing 
the gills witii blood; but, as some of tiiis generally 
runs over the body of ihe fish, the trick is at once 
exposed to all those who have been put on tiieir 
guard against this imposture ; altiiough we have 
heard the fish venders declare it to be blood flow- 
ing &om the expiring fish, which must have died 
at least a week previously. 

The Salmon^PeeL 

The salmon-peel, or salmon-trout, very much 
resembles a salmon in its external appearance; 
but may be recognised as a distinct species by 
the fins, particularly tiie pectorals, which in the 



THE SALMON-PEEL. 59 

salmon are of a dark^ inky cast ; those of the 
salmon-trout being pale^ and in fact almost white* 
Both species of fish are in season at the same time 
of year ; and the salmon-trout, like the true sal- 
mon, when in proper order, presents the same 
bright, silvery cast, and also the beautiful pink 
flakes, when cut up, as the latter fish. In select- 
ing a fish of this kind, see that it has a very small 
head, that it is thick about the shoulders, and 
deep-bodied, and that the scales look bright> 
silvery, and moist. 

If the fish is of a lanky form, and the scales 
look dull, it is out of season. 1£ the skin looks 
dry it is stale. 

This fish is usually met with &om about one 
poimd to three pounds weight. The larger fish are 
generally most plentiful during the months of May 
and June ; and the smaller ones, (being the fry 
of the same year, which, having gone to sea, 
have returned again to the &esh water) about the 
latter end of July, and through the month of 
August to the early part of September. 

It must, however, be remarked, that this fish 
often exceeds the limits of size that we have 
mentioned, reaching occasionally to as much as 
eight or ten pounds; and Mr. Yarrell, in his 
History of British Fishes, informs us, that he 
had seen a salmon-trout in the possession of 



60 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

Mr. Groves, the fishmonger of Bond-street, that 
weighed as much as seventeen pounds. 

TheBtdUTrout. 

The bull-trout, budge, or bouge (sometunes. 
called a truJBE), resembles the two last-mentioned 
fishes; but is of a less elegant form, having a 
much larger head, and the sides and belly being 
of a less silvery cast, caused by the extreme 
thinness and transparency of its scales, beneath 
which the colouring of the body can be discerned. 
The tail fin, which is slightly forked whilst the 
fish is young, becomes convex as the fish gets 
older ; from which circumstance the adult fishes 
of this kind are known by the name of round 
tails. 

This fish grows to a large size, sometimes 
reaching to as much as twenty pounds ; but from 
four to eight pounds is the most common size. 
It is in season at the same time with the salmon ; 
but is not so highly esteemed as either that fish 
or the sahnon-peel, its flesh never a<^quiring that 
perfection of flavour, or attaining that beautiful 
pink cast, for which the other two fishes are so 
remarkable; for even when in primest order 
the flesh of the bull-trout only acquires a pale 
orange tint, and at other times it is of a yel- 
lowish white. On this account it is generally 



THE TROUT. 61 

acknowledged to be an inferior fish^ and is con- 
sequently sold at a much lower rate than either 
the salmon or the salmon-peeL 

The Grey or Lake Trout. 

The great lake or grey trout very much re- 
sembles the bull-trout in flavour. It is a fish 
confined to our -large standing waters^ as the 
lakes of Cumberland and Westmoreland^ and 
some of the large fresh-water lochs in Scotland. 
It grows to as large a size as the salmon ; but 
the middling-sized fish are considered the best, 
although, upon the whole, it is not a fish that 
appears to be held in much estimation. It is in 
season during the summer. 

The Common Trout 

There is no fish that varies more in condition 
than the common trout. The best are found in 
dear running waters ; and, when in best condition, 
their flesh has often the pink hue of the salmon. 
Still this tint is only peculiar to the trout in- 
habiting certain localities, as in many of our 
waters these fishes are never found to acquire it. 
In the absence of this, the best proof of their 
being in healthy condition is a coating of a deep 
brown cast just beneath the skin ; which is very 
perceptible when the fish is dressed, the flesh 



62 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

beneath being of on opaque white or cream 
colour. In some waters the trout come into and 
go out of season much earlier than in others. 

The best proof of condition is a small head^ 
thick shoulders^ deep body^ bright scales and 
^pots^ and a general splendour of colouring 
throughout. 

The small trout come in season earlier than 
the larger ones; the former being met with in 
tolerable order by the latter end of March or 
the early part of April, the latter rarely before 
the beginning of May. They are in best order at 
the middle or latter end of June, and continue 
good until September; after which the fish begins 
gradually to decline, and by October may be con- 
sidered to be out of season. 

The Parr. 

The parr is a delicious little fish of about six 
inches long, very like a small trout ; but from 
which it may be distinguished by possessing a 
more elegantly proportioned and rounded form, 
a blunter nose, and a smaller mouth ; whilst a 
large dark spot on the gill cover, for which the 
parr is singularly remarkable, affords an unerring 
mark of distinction. 

The parr is in best order during the three 
summer months ; and is one of tiie most delicious 



CHABB. — GRAYLING. 63 

fish we possess, being infinitely superior to ^ 
trout of the same size. It is excellent when 
fried, and is quite equal to charr when potted in 
the same manner ; the directions for which will 
be given hereafter. 

The Charr 

m 

Is much larger than the fish last mentioned, being 
from nine inches to a foot in length. It is 
of a longer make than either of those we have 
previously noticed. It is in best season from 
July to October ; but is not often taken in any 
considerable quantities until the months of 
November and December, when these fishes ap- 
proach the shallow waters for the purpose of 
depositing their spawn ; at which time they are 
beginning to fail in condition. They are only 
met with in some particular localities ; as in the 
lakes of Cumberland and Westmoreland, and in 
one or two large lakes in Wales. Their freshness 
is tested in the same manner as that of the trout. 

The Grayling 

Is an excellent fish, and an exceedingly useful one, 
as it serves to supply tiie place of the trout, 
coming into season at the time tiie latter begins 
to decline, and remaining good as long as the other 
continues out of condition. It sometimes attains 



64 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 

as large a size as five pounds ; but from three- 
quarters of a pound to three pounds weight is 
the most common size. 

A fiill grown grayling, when in prime order, 
is of a dark colour about the head and gills, 
haying a tinge of gold about the [ sides, varying 
with a purple cast when viewed in different 
lights. The little ones are of a bright silvery 
hue, and are in season all the year round. These 
fish are cooked in the same manner as the trout, 
and their freshness may be tested in the same way 
as that of the latter fish. 

Smelts and Atherines. 

The smelt is in best season from August to 
May. Its goodness, as well as the freshness of 
its condition, may be detected by a bright, silvery 
appearance, the redness of its gills, and the bright- 
ness of its eyes. If a dull cast prevails, the 
eyes look simk, and the abdomen discoloured, it 
is stale and unfit to be eaten. 

The Atherine 

Besembles a smelt, and is known by that name all 
along the southern line of the coast, where, it 
seems, the true smelt is rarely if ever to be found. 
It may, however, be easily distinguished from the 
true smelt by the form and size of its second 



THE VENIMES AND GWTNIAD. 65 

dorsal fin^ which is large and expanded^ with long 
soft rays connected by a membrane ; whilst the fin 
in the smelt is a small fleshy excrescence like that 
of the trout and sahnon without any rays what- 
ever^ and is termed the adipose fin^ which is 
peculiar to the whole sahnon tribe. 

Both the smelt and atherine bear a close re- 
semblance in flavour, being extremely delicate, 
and when properly fried make a very nice dish in 
themselves; but they are usually served up to 
table for the purpose of garnishing salmon, turbot, 
cod, and other large fish. 

The atherine does not continue in season so 
long as the smelt, as the former deposit their 
spawn about the latter part of January or the 
early part of February ; at which time they are 
out of season, and so remain for some time 
afterwards. 

They are in best condition from Michaelmas 
to Christmas. 

, The Vendis and Gwyniad. 

These two little fishes, which are about eight or 
nine inches in length, resemble the herring in 
their general appearance ; but, from possessing the 
adipose second dorsal fin, are classified amongst 
the sahnonidae. They are found in a few of our 



66 CHOICE AND COOKEEY OP FISH. 

lakes. They do not possess much flavour^ but 
are not amiss when nicely fried. 



SECTION VL' 
Eels and Congbbs. 



Eels. 

Eels and congers are both excellent fish. Of 
the former kind^ there are three distinct varie- 
ties; the silver eel, the grig, and the broad- 
nosed eeL Of these, the silver eel grows to the 
largest size, instances having occurred of this fish 
attaining to as much as twenty pounds weight: 
but occurrences of this kind are rare; three 
pounds being considered a good size for one of 
these fish, and by far the greater number of 
those we meet with in the markets being under a 
poimd weight. The silver eel is remarkable for 
a bright silvery cast over the belly, and is of a 
longer make than either of the other two varieties. 
The grig is of a greenish-brown on the upper 
side, and yellow on the belly. The broad-nosed 
eel is of a darker colour on the upper side than 
the two preceding, varying much, however, in 
depth of tint in different specimens — from an 
olive-brown to the darkest shade of that colour — 



EELS. 67 

in some approaching almost to blackness ; but the 
belly is always of a paler cast^ and sometimes 
perfectly white. It is also of a broader form 
about the shoulders^ and has a larger head and 
wider snout. 

The silver eel and grig are about of equal 
goodness when of the same size ; but, as the 
largest eels are always the best, the silver eel has 
so far the advantage over the other. The broad- 
nosed eel, although a good fish, is certainly 
inferior in quality to the other two. 

Eels are found both in fresh and salt water; 
but those taken in the former, particularly if 
clear streams, are the best; those inhabiting 
foul and muddy waters invariably possess a 
less agreeable flavom*. Eels are in season nearly 
all the year, but are at their worst from April 
to June, which is their spawning time; an 
operation that is performed whilst they lie em- 
bedded in the mud; but from the effects of 
which they are less injured, and recover more 
rapidly than any kind of fish we are ac- 
quainted with. 

These fish possess wonderful tenacity of life ; 
living and exhibiting active motions many hours 
after they have been taken from their proper 
element; being often found alive and vigorous 
when exposed for sale in the markets. When 

F 2 



68 CHOICE AND COOKEBT OF FISH. 

dead^ if the slime looks dear^ and the skin fiill, 
the fish is firesh ; but if the slime looks diy^ and 
ihe skin at all wrinkled^ they are stale. 

Eels are often skinned whilst alive ; which is an 
unnecessary act of barbarity, as their skins will 
come off very easily as long as the fish is quite firesh ; 
and they should always, as an act of common 
mercy, be killed before the operation is attempted* 
This may easily be done by severing the spine 
just behind the head, but taking care not to cut 
it quite off ; for, if this be done, the fish will live 
for some time after. How, or why this is, we 
leave to wiser heads than ours to determine; 
such, however, is the fact, the occurrence of 
which we have witnessed over and over again. 
Another way to kill eels speedily, is, to throw 
them into dust or dry ashes; either of which, 
adhering to their slimy coats, and thus stopping 
up the pores, kills them very speedily, and also 
renders them more easy to skin afterwards. If a 
small portion just above the tail is cut off the 
fish win soon bleed to death. The directions for 
skinning eels will be given in that portion of the 
work that relates to the cleaning and preparation 
of fish previously to the cookery. 

Tl. Corner. 
The conger bears so great an external re- 



THE COXGEH. 69 

semblance to the common eel as to induce many 
to believe that the former is only an eel of larger 
growth^ and that the difference in colour and 
general appearance results solely from the constant 
residence of the latter in salt water; but^ by 
any one who knows anything about fish^ the two 
fishes are easily distinguishable from each other* 
First, the conger, of whatever size it may be, 
has always the snout and upper jaw projecting 
beyond the lower one ; whilst the common eel is 
equally remarkable for its protuberant lower jaw. 
Secondly, the lateral line is scarcely visible in 
the common eel ; whilst that of the conger is very 
distinctly marked — ^broad, and of a whitish colour. 
And, thirdly, the internal structure of these 
fishes differs still more widely ; the conger having 
a great many more bones than the eel, par- 
ticularly towards the tail, and in possessing a 
greater number of vertebrae. 

The conger grows to a large size, some- 
times reaching to as much as eighty, ninety, or 
even one hundred pounds weight ; but the best 
for the table are from ten to twenty pounds; 
these, when properly cooked, present a most 
delicate appearance, from the snow-like whiteness 
of their flesh, and, what is still better, possess a rich 
and truly delicious flavour. When stewed, conger 
is quite equal, and certainly, as fsur as wholesome- 

W 3 



70 CHOICE AKD COOKERY OF FISH. 

ness is concerned, superior to the best fresh-watet 
eels ; possessing all the excellence of high flavour 
of the latter, without the luscious grossness which 
so many object to in eels in whatever manner 
they may be cooked. Yet, with all these ad- 
vantages, from some cause or other, the conger is 
not popular with many persons, its consumption 
being chiefly confined to the lower classes ; who, 
in the West of England, consume vast quantities 
of these fish, for which they usually pay a higher 
price than they could often procure cod and al- 
ways Ung of the very best quality. 

The Cornish peeple put this fish into a pie. 
In the Channel Islands an excellent soup is made 
of it; and it is capable of being turned to advan- 
tage in a great number of other ways ; as roasted, 
or baked with a forcemeat-pudding in its belly ; 
fried in steaks or cutlets, and marinated or potted : 
but it is not good either boiled or broiled, except 
when it has been previously salted, and even in this 
state it does not equal either cod, ling, or hake. 

In Cornwall a singular mode of curing conger 
prevailed even as far back as the reign of Queen 
Elizabeth ; which was merely to slit the congers 
in halves, and, without any ftirther preparation, 
to hang them up in a kind of shambles erected 
for that purpose, where, allowing them to become 
fly-blown, so that all the parts liable to decom-* 



THE CONGEB. 71 

position were thus destroyed, the residue, being 
thoroughly dried in the sun, became in this 
manner fit for use. When perfectly cured, it 
was exported to Spain and Portugal, and there 
groimd into powder, and used by the natives 
of those countries for the purpose of thickening 
their soups ; but, although formerly carried on to 
some extent, we find that for some years past the 
trade has totally ceased. 

Congers are in best season from May to 
January, the latter of which months is their 
spawning time, when the fish begins to decline, 
and does not regain its condition for some months 
afterwards. 

In most of the fish-markets in, the West of 
England, congers, when exposed for sale, are 
cut up in portions to suit different customers. 
At these times, the whiteness of the flesh, as 
contrasted with a muddy, dirty -looking cast, 
denote the condition of the fish; the quantity 
of fat that lies dlong the spine is also an in- 
dication of the high season of the fish. When 
the fish is entire, the best proof of its goodness 
is the stoutness of the body and the depth of the 
lateral line, which should be in a kind of deep 
furrow. K fresh, the eyes are bright and the 
skin is moist; if the skin looks dry, and the 

eyes dull, it is stale* 

r 4 



,72 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OP PISH. 

There is a great difference in the depth of 
colour of these fish ; some being of a pale brown, 
or even almost white on the upper part, and the 
belly white as snow. Others are of a deep brown 
or purplish tint, and some of an inky blackness ; 
but all of rather a lighter cast upon the belly. 
This difference in colour is owing in great mea- 
sure to the particular kind of ground they in- 
habit; those found amongst rocks being dark, 
and those in clean or sandy grounds of a lighter 
hue, according to the colour of the soil at the 
bottom. 



^ SECTION vn. 

Fishes of the Carp Kiin>. 



There are several species of fish which natu- 
ralists classify as belonging to the carp tribe. Some 
of these are excellent fishes, but the majority of 
them are soft, watery, and insipid, and will 
scarcely bear comparison with even the very 
worst products^ the sea, 

TTie Common Carp and the Crucian. 

The owunon carp is a very good fish when 
properly cooked, which is by being stewed in a 
rich gravy; another species, the crucian, is a 



THE CABP AND CBUCIAN. 73 

very inferior fish, and, though capable of being 
made an agreeable dish, can never be rendered 
equal to the former fish. Externally, the two 
fishes bear a strong resemblance to each other ; 
but as one is so much the superior, it is essential 
that we should give such directions as may enable 
our readers to detect the difference between thenu 
One certain rule for discrimination is the 
size, for a crucian seldom exceeds the weight of 
two pounds ; so that if you select a fish of three 
or four pounds weight, you may, though not 
safe firom deception, at any rate congratulate 
yourself upon being the purchaser of something 
monstrously wonderful. But these other cri- 
teria may always be relied on : t^ Thus, the 
crucian is a deeper-bodied fish tiian fhe common 
carp ; its head is also shorter, and its nose more 
blunt. The colour also is paler ; the sides being 
of a light olive brown, with a slight golden cast, 
becoming pale towards the belly, the lower part 
of which is white, whilst, in the true carp, the 
general colour is a deep brown on the back, 
growing paler, and acquiring a deep golden cast 
on the sides, passing into a lighter shade towards 
the belly. The head of the true carp is also of a 
much darker cast than that of the crudnn ; but 
the most certain and never-£uling mark of dis- 
tinction lies in the formation of the back fin^ 



74 CHOICE AND COOKEBT OF PISH. 

which. In the former fish, sinks soon after its 
commencement ; a peculiarity that does not occur 
in the latter fish. 

The common carp sometimes attains to a con- 
siderable size, instances having occurred in this 
country of these fish weighing as much as fifteen, 
and even eighteen poimds; but these are mere 
pigmies in comparison to those of Germany and 
Italy. In the former country we are told they 
often grow so large as to weigh as much as 
seventy pounds, whilst from thirty to forty 
pounds is a size by no means uncommon. But 
the carps of Italy far exceed even these in bulk ; 
instances having been recorded of their being 
taken in thf . Lake of Como, weighing as much as 
two hundred pounds. 

The usual size of what may be termed adult 
carp in this country ranges between three and 
eight pounds. 

The crucian very rarely exceeds two pounds, 
and about three-quarters of a pound may be 
considered its average size. 

Carp are in best season during the month of 
April, whilst the roe is somewhat advanced, but 
before the time of shedding it commences. This 
lasts ov»r a period of some weeks, as these fish do 
not deposit the whole of their eggs at once, but, 
like domestic fowls, continue to lay them from 



THE CABF. 75 

time to time ; and, after this has gone on for some 
time^ the fish becomes thin and emaciated^ and 
a red and raw appearance is yisible about the 
abdominal region^ caused by the scales being 
rubbed off from that portion of the body. 

In many waters that are well adapted for the 
fattening of carp, they are found to acquire a 
rank and muddy taint, either from the nature 
of the soil, or, more probably, from the par- 
ticular property of some kind of vegetable matter 
upon which they subsist. This bad effect can be 
coimteracted by placing the fish for a few days in 
a small pond or stew of clean water. 

Two other modes have, however, been practised 
successfully in removing this muddj|^ taste : one 
is to sew up a piece of bread in the body of the 
fish when it is undergoing the frying process 
previously to stewing, the bread being extracted 
before the fish is transferred into the stewpan ; 
the other, which is the French plan, is to pour a 
glass of strong vinegar down the throat of the 
fish whilst it is alive, which produces an instant- 
aneous exhalation through the pores, which is 
said to be also greatly facilitated by instantly 
scaling the fisK The latter part of the proceeding 
we think had better be dispensed with, or at any 
rate not attempted so long as the fish has a spark of 
life remaining in him; after which it is appre- 



76 CHOICE AND COOKEBT OF FISH. 

hended the scaling process would be of little at 
no service in producing the desired result. 

In Holland^ we are informed, it is a very c(Hn« 
mon practice, not only to keep carp alive for 
several weeks out of water, but even to fatten 
them by inclosing them in a net enveloped in wet 
moss, and feeding them occasionally with bread 
sopped in milk; taking care to refresh them from 
time to time by throwing cold water over the 
moss. In winter they are transported to a con- 
siderable distance packed in wet moss in baskets. 

The carp, although mentioned by Aristotle and 
PUny, and some other ancient writers, does not 
appear to have been held in very high estimation 
in their days ; and, though it has borne a fair 
repute in modern times, it is rather amongst our 
continental neighbours than ourselves. Accord- 
ing to a celebrated French work on the art of 
cookery*, the head of the carp is the best part of 
him, being le morceau d^honneuvy and which for 
that reason the author adds, ^^ doit itre offert a la 
personne la plus consideree.^^ Next to the head, 
the portions about the back are considered to be 
the best. 

The roe of the carp is often dressed with the 
fish, and is wholesome and well flavoured; in which 

* La Nouvelle Cuisine Economique. 



THE CABP. 77 

respect it differs from that part both of the pike 
and the barbel ; the spawn of the latter being of a 
poisonous nature^ whilst that of the former is so 
strong a cathartic, as, to use the words of a French 
writer, to purge violently jpar haut, et par has *, 
and to such a degree as to endanger the lives of 
the sufferers. 

When out of season a number of small white 
warty excrescences appear on the top of the head 
of a carp, and whenever this occurs the fish is 
thoroughly out of season, and should be rejected 
accordingly. As long as the slime remains moist, 
and the scales look bright, the fish is firesh, but 
when the fish looks dry, the colours dull, and 
the eyes dim and sunken, it is stale. 

In Italy and some other parts of the continent, 
a kind of caviar is made of the hard roe of the 
carp, which is considered equal in flavour to that 
of the sturgeon ; and finds great favour in the 
eyes of the Jews, who universally reject the 
caviar made firom the sturgeon, which, being a 
fish without scales, is forbidden by the Levitical 
Law, and is consequently an abomination to all 
true Israelites. 

* La Nouyelle Cnisine Economiqae. 



78 CHOICE ANP COOKEBY OF FISH. 

The Fresh-water Bream 

Is a fish something resembling a carp, but diflfer-^ 
ing from it in the extreme depth of its body. 
Although held in little repute at the present day, 
these fish seem to have borne a better character 
some centuries ago. Thus, according to Chaucer, 

'* Full many a fair partrich hadde he in mewe, 
> And many a breme, and many a luce* in stewe." 

Whilst an old French proverb says, *^ He who 
hath breams in his pond may bid his friends wel- 
come. 

The head and belly are said to be the best 
parts of a bream, whilst, as we have just before 
observed, the head and back are the best portions 
of the carp. Breams are dressed in the same 
manner as the latter fish, and the smaller ones 
may be fried ; but they are rather insipid when 
cooked in that manner. Another plan is to broil 
them with the scales on; but even then they 
are very poor and tasteless. In Ireland the poorer 
classes cure them by splitting and salting them, 
and drying them in the sun ; and when so cured 
they eat them with their potatoes. 

These fish are in best condition from midsum- 
mer to Michaelmas. Their spawn is harmless, 
but possesses little flavour. Their spawning time 

* A pike, or jack. 



THE BUDD. 7& 

is May ; about which time and for a month or so 
afterwards, they are out of season. 

Their freshness may be discerned in tixe same 
way as in the carp : when stale their eyes look 
sunk and dim, and a redness may be detected 
about the belly, particularly in the region of the 
yentral fins. 

The prevailing size is from one to three pounds 
weight, although examples have been foimd of 
these fishes attaining: to as much as seven or ei&:ht 
pounds weight. 

The Rudd 

Is a fish resembling the bream, but may be re- 
cognised as a distinct species by the eyes and fins, 
the sides of the latter being yellow, whilst those of 
the former are of a reddish cast; the fins of the lat- 
ter are also red, those of the bream being of a light 
cast, tinged at the extremities with red or brown. 

The rudd does not attain so large a size as the 
bream; still rudds of two poimds weight are 
sometimes taken ; but a rudd weighing a poimd is 
considered a fine fish of the kind. It is cooked 
in the same way as the carp and bream, and, 
although far inferior to the first, is certainly supe^ 
rior to the latter fish. 

The rudd is not a general fish, yet the waters 
in which they are found generally afibrd a plenti- 



80 CHOICE AND COOKEBT OF FISH. 

fill supply of them. They inhabit the broads of 
Norfolk^ and most of the firesh waters of that 
county; as also those of Cambridge and Warwick- 
shire; they may also be met with in the Ids 
about Oxford^ and are occasionally caught in liie 
Thames. 

As this fish is distinguished by various names 
in diflerent localities, it will be necessary, to pre- 
vent confusion as to identity, to give such of them 
as we are acquainted with ; which are rudd, red- 
eye, finscale, and shallow. The scientific name 
is Leuciscus erytJirophthalmus. It is in season at 
the same time as the bream. 

Roach J Dace^ and Chub. 

All these fishes are too familiarly known to re- 
quire any particular description, and all bear a 
very bad culinary reputation, being watery, soft, 
and insipid, even to a proverb. 

The best way to dress them is to fry them so 
thoroughly as to deprive them of every watery 
particle, and then, by the aid of good melted 
butter and anchovy sauce, they may pass as a dish 
of fish when no better kinds can be procured; 
and for this purpose the small fish are far more 
adapted than the large ones. All these fish are 
at their best, if such a term can be applied to 
them, from July to October. 



THE BASBSL. 81 

The spawn of all these fishes is wholesome, and 
is by many considered the best part of them ; but 
it is tasteless, ^d carries out the old adage of ^^bad 
the crow, bad the ^g; " and we must also bear in 
mind, that when these fishes are in spawn they 
are always out of condition, which may be de- 
tected by the white, warty excrescences which 
appear about the head, in the manner we have 
previously noticed as peculiar to the carp. 

The Barbel 

Is so bad a fish, that it is almost rejected by all 
classes in this country as an article of food ; and 
yet our French neighbours, by dint of good 
cookery, do contrive to make a very good dish 
out of such apparently impracticable materials, 
dressing it in the same way as the carp. But 
Ihe spaL, from the poisonous quaUties^e have 
already alluded to, is always rejected. 

The large barbels are considered the best ; and 
the parts about the head around the tongue, and 
the pickings about the collar-bones are esteemed 
the choicest morsels. 

This fish attains to a respectable size, ranging 
from between two to five poimds weight. 

♦ Antk, p. 77. 

a 



82 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF PISH. 

The Gudgeon 

Is a small fish of six or seven inches long ; but 
which^ in spite of the smallness of size^ is held 
in fair esteem on account of its wholesome qua-* 
lities and delicacy of flavour ; hence it is recom-* 
mended to invalids ; and^ as these fish cannot be 
eaten in too fresh a state, they are exposed for 
sale alive in small tubs or vessels. They soon 
decompose after death ; which may be detected 
by a dull-red, discoloured appearance about the 
abdomen, through which the intestines often pro- 
trude. They ought, therefore, to be gutted as 
speedily as possible after they are taken, as the 
delay of even an hour or two may cause them to 
become tainted ; when, if the precaution we have 
recommended had been adopted, they would have 
kept good for a much longer time. 

The best, and we believe the only proper way 
of dressing gudgeons, is by frying them, when, 
if cleverly done, they will nearly equal smelts in 
delicacy of flavour. 

Minnows^ Loaches^ and Bullheadsy 

When you can obtain a sufficient supply, make 
a very nice fry ; but they ought all to be cooked 
very soon after they are taken, as they soon 
become tainted. 



THE TENCH. 83 

The Tench. 

This fish is distinguished from all the rest of 
the carp tribe by the slimy coating, like that of 
the eel, with which its body is covered. It is a 
delicious fish when in prime order, being in our 
humble opinion by far the best of all the carp 
family, and it has decidedly the advantage of 
being capable of being cooked in a greater variety 
of ways than all the rest of them put together* 
Stewed tench, either alone or accompanied by a 
few fresh-water eels, forms one of the best dishes 
the art of cookery can possibly be exercised 
upon; whilst few fresh-water fishes can equal 
a tench when either boiled or fried; added to 
which, it makes most excellent water souchy. 
. As Aese fishes bury themselves in the mud 
during the winter months, from which they do 
not emerge until the mild weather begins to set 
in, they can seldom be obtained in any quantity 
before April, from which time, until about the 
early part of Jime, they are in first-rate order; but 
when they conunence shedding their spawn, which 
occurs about the middle of the latter month, they 
begin to decline ; though they soon regain their 
health and strength, and are again fit for the 
table by the latter end of July or early part of 
August. 

The male fish may be recognised from the 

G 2 



84 CHOICE AND COOKERY OP FISH. 

female by having the beUy, or ventral fins, of 
a much larger size than those of the latter. 

Tench are sometimes met with so large as to 
weigh five pounds ; and an instance once occurred 
of a fish of this kind being taken at Thomville 
Boyal that weighed as much as twelve poimds. 
What is still more wondttrftil, it was taken out of 
a small pond full of weeds and rubbish, and from ' 
a hole from under some roots, from whence it 
had no mode of egress ; and, from the contracted 
limits of its prison, the fish being unable to main- 
tain its natural position, had acquired a form, or 
rather deformity, suited to fit its place of confine- 
ment. In other respects it was in good health 
and condition. 

The usual size of the tench we commonly 
meet with ranges from a quarter of a pound to a 
pound, or a pound and a half, although two 
pounds weight is not uncommon. 

The best proof of health and condition is a 
rounded fulness behind the head, an elevated back, 
and a body deep and well filled out. The re- 
splendent golden cast we often see upon the sides, 
although usually, is not always, a sure proof of 
the goodness of their flavour ; neither is the dark, 
muddy cast we sometimes see any more certain 
proof to the contrary ; instances having occurred 
where these fishes have presented a most beau- 



PIKES AND LAUNCES. 85 

f 

tiful golden exterior, and yet have tasted so 
muddy, rank, and disagreeable as not to be 
eatable; whilst, on the oilier hand, others of 
an inky blackness have proved exceedingly well 
flavoured. 

The muddy taint in tench may be removed in 
the same manner as wv have before mentioned 
with respect to carp.* 

The transparency of the slime, and general 
moisture of the body and brightness of the 
scales and eyes, afford certain proof of the fish 
being fresh. When the slime is dried up, the 
gills pale, and the eyes look dull and sunken, it 
is stale. 



SECTION vm. 

Pikes Ain> Ladicces. 



There are two species of pike, the river-pike 
or luce, and the sea-pike or garfish ; but which, 
although arranged by naturalists as belonging to 
the same family, have little resemblance to each 
Other, excepting in the position of their fins ; for 
in size, form, and flavour, they differ very mate- 
rially from each other. 

The fresh-water pike sometimes attains to as 

* .See oftC^, p. 75. 
O 3 



86 CHOICE AND COOKERY OP FISH. 

much as forty pounds weight; but instances of 
this kind are very rare, thirty pounds being an 
unusual bulk, and twenty pounds is considered a 
large size ; so that from twelve to fifteen pounds 
may be considered as the common average size of 
the adults of this species. But the largest fish 
are not the best, being ^Ht to be coarse : on this 
account, a preference is usually given to fish 
ranging from seven to ten poimds weight. 

The fresh- water pike is a winter fish, being 
usually met with in best order fit)m September 
to February. The spawning-time is about April, 
previously to which the fish begins to decline ; so 
that even before it actually commences to deposit 
its spawn, it becomes out of season, and so con- 
tinues for three or four months afterwards. The 
spawn itself, for the reasons we have already 
given*, is always rejected. 

These fishes were, it seems, more highly valued 
in former times than they are at the present day ; 
for, we find that in the reign of Henry VIII. 
they were considered so great a dainty that a 
large one fetched more than double the price of a 
house-lamb, and a young jack, or pickerel, than a 
fine capon. This high price has been attributed 
to the extreme scarcity of these fish in those days, 
they having, according to some authorities, been 

• Antk, p. 77. 



THE PIKE. 87 

only just then introduced into this country ; yet 
this cannot possibly be correct, as it is clearly 
established that pikes were a marketable com- 
modity in this kingdom as far back as the reign 
of King Edward I. 

The best portions of a pike are those over the 
ribs, which have, in 4p3ition to superiority in 
richness of flavour, the advantage of being free 
from those forked-bones with which the other 
parts of this fish are plentifully supplied^ and 
which prove exceedingly troublesome. 

In the first year the young pikes — or rather 
jack, for so they are technically styled until they 
attjun the weight of four pounds — have a greenish 
cast over their scales, which assumes a grayish- 
brown tint, with large pale spots as the fish 
increases in size and age. When in highest 
condition, these spots acquire a golden tint, and 
the grey cast turns to an olive green, which, 
combined with a bulky thickness about the 
shoulders, and depth of body well filled out, 
aflbrd a sure proof of the healthy order of the fish. 

We have heard, and also read of fishes of this 
species being sometimes met with of a beautifiil 
golden cast, with black spots, and of others possess- 
ing a green backbone; the latter of which are said 
to be highly esteemed, on account, we presmne, 

of the rarity of this extraordinary peculiarity, 

a 4 



88 CHOICE AND COOKEKT OP FISH. 

as green bones present anything ratlier than an 
agreeable appearance ; and^ in fact, is the chief, if 
not the sole, cause why the sea-pike (which also 
possesses this peculiarity) has fallen into unmerited 
disrepute. 

Proof of freshness in a pike is shown by the 
moisture on the body,'|pilliancy of the scales, 
and a clear development of its colours, as also by 
the brightness of the eyes and redness of the 
gills : if these properties are wanting, the fish 
is stale. 

The Sea-Pike^ or Garfish, 

Bears more resemblance to an eel than its fresh- 
water namesake, being of a remarkably elongated 
form, and carrying near the same depth of body 
from the gills to within one-fifth the distance 
from the tail; but its most remarkable features 
are produced by the long and slender form of the 
jaws, which project forward like the bill of a 
snipe or woodcock. It is of a dark green colour 
on the back, the sides and belly being bright and 
silvery. The bones, as we have previously re- 
marked, are of a bright green colour ; and this, 
added to a smell resembling copper, which this 
fish emits when first taken out of the water, has 
raised an unfounded prejudice against its edible 
qualities ; for it is a mild, well-tasted fish, quite 



LATTNCES. 89 

free from any rank or disagreeable taint, resem- 
bling very mucli a mackerel in taste^ but rather 
dryer. The emission of a strong and unpleasant 
odour from fish in a raw state affords no indication 
of any similarity in its flavour. Few fish, when 
raw, have a stronger of more disagreeable fishy 
smell than herrings, floftnders, and fresh-water 
eels ; and yet the flavour in none of these fishes 
is in the slightest degree affected by it, and none 
emit a more agreeable odour when cooked. 

Grarfish are usually eaten plain boiled; but 
we consider the best way to cook them is to 
split them through and extract the backbone, 
and then either fiy or broil them. They are in 
season all the summer through, when it is very 
rare to meet with any that are not in excellent 
condition ; for which good quality these fishes 
are more singularly remarkable than any other 
kind of fish we are acquainted with. 

When perfectly fresh their sides are bright 
and silvery ; if they look dim and dry they are 
stale. These ought to be cooked soon after they 
are caught^ although they will keep far better 
than mackerel and many other kinds of fish. 

Launces* 

Launces bear a resemblance to the sea-pike 
^1 shape and in the silvery colouring of their 



90 CHOICE AND COOKERY OP FISH. 

Bides; but absence of the beak-like elongation 
of the jaws shows a marked distinction between 
them. The former also differ essentially from 
the garfish in the number^ shape^ and position 
of their fins, the former wanting the ventral 
fins, with which the lattep is provided ; and also 
in having a very el oi ^ fo ed dorsal fin, which 
extends nearly from the nape to the tail, that 
of the sea-pike being placed far back, and, al- 
though elevated, being narrow. 

There are two distinct kinds of launces, the 
greater and the less; the larger kind being 
known in most places as the sand-eel, the smaller 
as the sand-launce. In many parts of Cornwall, 
nowever, we have found these titles reversed; 
the term sand-launce being applied to the larger, 
and sand-eel to the smaller species. The latter 
it must, however, be observed, is so much the 
better fish, that the two will not bear any com- 
parison with each other, the larger kind being 
watery and insipid, the smaller delicious beyond 
description. It is most essential, therefore, that 
we should point out how the two kinds may be 
distinguished from each other ; for, although the 
larger kind sometimes grows to the length of two 
feet, and the smaller species is seldom more than 
seven or eight inches, yet it often happens that 
small fish of the former kind associate themselves 



LAUNCES* 91 

with the lattelr full-grown fishes, so that numbers 
of both kinds, all of the same size^ are often cap- 
tured together. 

The points of difference consist in the larger 
species, which we will distinguish as the sand- 
eel, having a more cylindrical or eel-like body ; 
the sides of the sanjpiimce being of a more 
flattened form, with the lateral line very slightly 
developed, which in the former fish is marked 
with a deep furrow : the colour of the upper 
part of the sand-eel is also darker than that of 
the sand-launce, being of a dark olive green; 
that of the sand-launce, when living in its native 
element, being pale brown, turning first to a 
pale green after the fish is taken out of water, 
and then to a greyish blue. 

When fresh, the sides look bright and 
silvery, and, as they grow stale, they assmne a 
reddish cast. 

They are in best season during the latter 
end of September and early part of October, 
at which time they are fiiU of roe. The males 
may then be distinguished from the females by 
being more distended with the milt than the 
latter are with the spawn. They should be 
dressed with the roes in their bodies, and, when 
so cooked, are delicious. The great drawback to 
the utility of these excellent little fishes is, that 



92 CHOICE AND COOKEBT OF FISH. 

they decompose so very rapidly, that they can 
seldom be eaten to perfection at any considerable 
distance from the place where they are caught. 
The best way to keep them is to gut them, and 
dry them thoroughly in a toweL These fish 
may also be kept alive for a day or more, if placed 
uninjured amongst wet'jbea-weed the instant 
they are captured. Both species penetrate be-* 
neath the sand where left bare by the receding 
tide ; fit)m whence they are dug up with prongs 
and a particular kind of rake or hook adapted 
for that purpose. They also swim about in 
large shoals, and are sometimes taken by bushels 
at a time in a very fine-meshed net. Yet good, 
as these fish are, far greater numbers are con- 
sumed as bait for catching other fish than as 
food, and they are seldom brought into the fish- 
markets along the southern line of the coast of 
England, although many places there abound 
with them. 



SECTION IX 
F18HB8 OF thb.Mackebel kind. 

There are four species of mackerel, viz., the 
common mackerel, the cad or horse-mackerel, 
the tunny, and the banito. The two former are 



THE COMMON MACKEBEL. 93 

Very common fishes^ but the two latter are only 
occasiomil visitors to our shores. The only shape 
in which we can get tunny is in a pickled state 
firom abroad, and the banito we never see in any 
shape or form. As our sole object is to treat 
about such fishes only as may be met with in 
our fish-markets, we aliall therefore pass over the 
two latter, and confine our observations to the 
two former species. 

The Common Mackerel 

Is a very general fish, and perhaps more familiarly 
known to the public than any other kind of fish 
whatever ; and yet very few persons know how 
to recognise a good fish of this kind firom a bad 
one ; though with no species of fish whatever is 
this knowledge more requisite ; for not only is 
there a vast difference between the relative good- 
ness of condition of these fishes, but they also 
keep so badly, that it is quite as necessary to 
know how the state of its fireshness may be pro* 
perly tested. On account, indeed, of fish of this 
kind keeping so badly, an act of Parliament was 
expressly passed so far back as the reign of King 
William III., authorising the sale of mackerel 
on Sundays; and thus the law has continued 
to the present day* 



94 CHOICE AND COOKERY OP FISH, 

The best proof of the condition of a mackerel 
is a deep body well filled out, rising high, and 
rounded over the back, carrying its i^ilness 
very far down the body, which must be stiff and 
bent, with the tail curved upwards. Unless a 
mackerel is in prime order, a narrow black line 
of an inch or two in lengtii unites the black bars 
or lines upon the back, a little above the lateral 
line, and between the tail and the termination 
of the second back fin. This is termed by scien- 
tific fisherman "the rogue's mark ; " and, although 
not a proof that the fish is thoroughly out of 
season, is never found in a fish that is in first-rate 
condition. 

When a mackerel is perfectly fresh, the back 
is of a pale green, the colour bright, and the 
black bars distinctly marked ; those of the males 
being nearly straight, whilst those of the females 
are in a waving line. The sides and belly should 
look bright and silvery, varying, like mother-of- 
pearl, with blushes of pink about the pectoral 
fins. As the first becomes stale, the upper part 
turns from green to blue, at first bright, but 
becoming duller by degrees ; the pearly tint dis-» 
appears from the sides ; a dull shade of brown 
appears about the lateral line, and the slime, if 
not dried up, looks dirty; the body loses its stiff- 
ness, and, as decomposition advances, the skin 



\ 



THE COMMON MACKEEEL. 95 

gets wrinkled, and the bowels oftentimes pro- 
trude ; though the latter sometimes occurs from 
pressure, even before the fidi becomes tainted by 
keeping ; but, from whatever cause it may arise, 
a burst fish is never fit to be eaten. 

The bulk of mackerel are in best season from 
July to Christmas. Many persons, however, 
consider that mackerel are best in the spring; 
which is a very great mistake, as at that time 
of the year they are thin and emaciated, so that 
amongst a thousand not one can be foimd that is 
really in proper order for the table, and, what is 
equally remarkable, scarcely one of these early 
spring fish is ever known to stiffen after death, 
which affords a certain indication that they are 
then out of season. 

There is, however, at all times a great difference 
in the quality of the shoals of these fishes ; some 
being found to contain a preponderating number 
of good fish, others of bad fish, and very often, as 
in the early part of the spring, of bad fish al- 
together. 

We have generally found the largest fish, if in 
proper condition, to possess the finest flavour, 
although many prefer the smaller ones, as not 
possessing that degree of luscious richness which 
some object to in a mackerel ; and which may 
account for persons liking the thin spring 



96 CHOICE AKD COOKEBY OF FISH. 

mackerel, wliich certainly have no kind of rich 
flavour whateyer about ikm. 

The ftesh of the 'jpackerel, when the fish is 
in prime order, is of an opaque whiteness ; when 
out of season, or kept too long, it assumes a 
dingy hue, like dirty water slightly tinged with 
milk. The usual weight of a foU-grown mackerel 
in good season is about a pound and a half; but 
they sometimes exceed two pounds weight. 

TTie Scad, or Horse Mackerel, 

Bears some resemblance to the mackerel ; but is 
flatter on the sides, and is remarkable for having 
its lateral line covered with a series of broad 
scales or plates. The general appearance of this 
fish is pleasing enough to the eye; the upper 
part being of a dusky-olive hue, varying with 
blushes of azure and green, which are very bright 
when the fish is just taken out of the water ; the 
extremity of the gill-covers, throat and under 
jaw are of a purplish black, and bear the ap- 
pearance of having been stained with ink. 

This fish does not reach to quite so large a size 
as the common mackerel. Like the latter, these 
fish assemble together in large shoals, and are 
often taken in great quantities ; but they yield 
very little profit to the fishermen, being very ill- 
tasted, and, therefore, few persons who have once 



THE HEBBING FAMILY. 97 

tasted them will purclu^ie or eat them at any 
price. Yet, we have l^ard some persons speak 
favourably of them ; and, JPwe often see them in 
the fish-markets in Devonshire, we suppose they 
must meet with purchasers, otherwise they would 
never find their way into places where such de- 
licious fishes as sand-eels, weevers, and pout- 
ing, although abundant in the neighbourhood, are 
never exposed for sale. 



SECTION X 
Fishes of the Herring Kiin>. 

There are no less than seven kinds of herrings 
sold in our fish-markets, all of them very good 
and wholesome fishes. They are as follows: — 
the herring, pilchard, sprat, anchovy, whitebait, 
and two species of shad, the allice and the 
twaite. 

HerringSy Pilchardsy and Sprats. 

All these three species closely resemble each 
other in general appearance, but in flavour they 
differ altogether. 

The difference in form consists in a pilchard 
being of a fuller make, well rounded over the 
back, and its sides well filled out ; those of the 

H 



98 CHOICE AND COOKERY OP FISH. 

herring being flattened and compressed. The 
back fin is also differently placed in these fishes^ 
being more forward^lbi the pilchard than the 
herring; so that if suspended by it, the former 
will drop by the tail and the latter by the 
head. 

Pilchards are in best season from July to 
Christmas, at which period they become heavy 
in spawn, when the flesh loses a great portion 
of its rich moisture; so that the fish at such 
times eats more dry, which some consider to 
be an improvement. After spawning, pilchards 
become out of season; but they are not so de- 
teriorated by its effects as the herring, and the 
fishermen do not scruple to eat pilchards in this 
state, who would reject a shotten herring as utterly 
worthless. 

Pilchards, if they can be eaten perfectly fresh, 
have very much the same rich flavour a^ salmon- 
peel; but, from their extremely oily nature, they ac- 
quire a rancid taste within a very few hours after 
they are taken ; and the flesh, which, if cooked in 
proper time, would have been of a curdy whiteness, 
then acquires a dull, reddish cast. 

The best way of cooking them is to broil them 
with their scales on, without gutting. They are 
also very good split, and peppered and salted. 
They also make a rich pie. In Cornwall numbers 



HERRINGS. 99 

are salted in every year, for 'home use, and a still 
greater number for foreign, consumption. But, al- 
though esteemed by the Cornish people, and those 
to whom they are sent abroad, they are too strong 
and rancid to suit the palates of the generality 
of persons, and will not bear any comparison 
either with Yarmouth bloaters, or Scotch red 
herrings. 

There is very little difference in the relative 
goodness which these fish bear to each other as 
£ar as condition is concerned; so that if one is 
good, his companions are equally so. If fresh, 
and uninjured by pressure, their scales are bright 
as silver ; if they look dull, or the scales fall off 
very readily, and they are red about the gills, 
they are getting stale. 

Herrings, unlike the former fish, differ very 
much from each other in point of relative 
goodness ; so that the selection of these is a 
matter of importance. The male fish are always 
the best ; and may be detected by their superior 
size and depth of body, particularly when the 
spawning time draws near, the male being 
always more turgid with the milt than the female 
is with spawn. The bright silvery appearance 
and firm adhesion of the scales ia the best proof 
of freshness. If the sides look dull, and a 
redness appears about the gills and abdomen, the 

H 2 



100 CHOICE AND COOKEKT OF FISH. 

fish is too stale to be eaten. Herrings are in 
best season from June to November. After they 
have shed their spttwn^ which occurs about 
January, they are trnfit to be eaten; but they 
continue good nearly up to the very eve of 
spawning. 

Herrings are usually fned; but the Scotch 
people often boil them, and there are also a 
variety of other ways in which they may be 
turned to account, as we shall notice hereafter. 

Sprats are so very like herrings excepting their, 
difference in size, that many persons have treated 
them as the fry of the latter fish ; but there are 
some marked differences which denote the species 
to be distinct. One is, that the sprat wants the 
axillary scales which are foimd both in the her- 
ring and pilchard: another is, that a serrated 
roughness runs along the whole line of the 
abdomen of the sprat, which in the other two 
species is perfectly smooth ; added to which, the 
flesh of the former is of a much darker cast when 
cooked. 

Sprats make a delicious fry, and are a most 
valuable acquisition to the poorer classes, being 
often taken in such abundance as to be sold 
remarkably cheap; but, like many other of the 
gifts of Providence, these fish are the less esteemed 
on account of the bountiftil manner in which 



WHITEBAIT. 101 

they are supplied and the extremely low price at 
which they can be purchased. 

Sprats are usually most abundant and in best 
season during the winter months. Their fresh- 
ness may be tested in the same manner as in 
herrings and pilchards. The smaller fish are the 
best flavoured. 

Whitebait 

These little fishes, which were formerly sup- 
posed to be the fiy of the shad, are now satisfac- 
torily proved to be a distinct species that never 
exceed the length of a few inches. These fish 
are in best season during the months of July, 
August, and September, and their merits are too 
weU known to require one word from us upon 
that head, except to observe that, like sprats, the 
smaller-sized fish are better than those of larger 
growth. Their freshness may be detected by 
their silvery appearance ; if they look dull and 
soft about the abdomen they are stale. These 
fish, like the pouting and sand-launce, keep very 
badly, requiring to be cooked very shortly after 
they are caught ; on which aceoimt they are never 
eaten to perfection when transported to any con- 
siderable distance from the place where they 
are captured. They are found chiefly in the 
Thames. 

H 3 



102 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

Anclwvies, 

These fish, although Inhabitants of our seas, 
are not often captured upon any part of our 
coasts, for want of some mode of fishing properly- 
adapted to the purpose; those we consume are 
always sent over to us from abroad preserved 
in pickle. Like sprats and whitebait, the very 
large ones are not so good as those of smaller 
size. 

Sfiads. 

Both species of shads resemble an overgrown 
herring. Of these the allice is the larger fish ; 
being sometimes met with as much as two feet 
in length. The twaite is usually about one- 
half that length ; and may be distinguished from 
the former fish by a row of dusky spots, five or 
six in number, commencing at the gill covers, and 
running along the side line about half-way down 
the body. The allice has only one of these spots, 
which is placed immiediately behind the gills. 
The twaite also possesses teeth, which the allice 
is entirely without. These distinctions ought to 
be borne in mind, as there is a great difference 
in the merits of the two fishes ; the allice being 
in evejy respect the better fish. 

The best season for both these fishes is April, 
May, and the early part of June. About July 



SPINOUS PISHES. 103 

they shed their spawn ; and In order to allow them 
to do this unmolested, they are not allowed to be 
caught in the Thames after the 26th of Jime. 

The criteria of freshness are the same as in the 
herring. 



SECTION XL 

Spinous Fishes, including Fishes of the Perch kind 
AND Mullets, both Red and Gret ; the Sea Bream 
IN ALL its varieties ; Wrassbs ; AND the Tribe of 
Gurnards. 

There are no less than six different kinds of 
perch amongst our edible fishes, although only 
one of them, the fresh-water perch, is commonly 
known by that appellation. The other kinds are 
the bass, ruff, great weever, and little weever, 
and the red mullet. All are excellent and whole- 
some fishes ; but the greater part find more 
favour in the eyes of thos^ who eat them than in 
those whose duty it is to clean and prepare them 
for the table ; not only on accoimt of the great 
tenacity with which the scales adhere to their 
body rendering their removal a tedious and diffi- 
cult operation, but abo on account of the sharp 
spines which all these fishes possess; some of 
which, indeed, are of a poisonous nature, so that 
a pimcture from them not only infficts consider- 

H 4 



104 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 

able pain, but, as we shall notice hereafter, may 
be productive of very serious consequences. 

The Common Perch. 

This fish may readily be distinguished by its 
hog back, which is provided with two fins ; the 
first armed with sharp spines, united by a mem- 
brane ; the second consisting of soft flexible rays. 
It is remarkable for the dusky bands which orna- 
ment its upper part, the ground of which is a 
deep olive brown, changing to a golden tinge, 
varying in blushing tints of pink, blue, and 
purple, whilst the fish is fresh, but which vanish 
as it becomes stale. Perch are in best season 
from July to February, at the latter end of which 
they deposit their spawn, and continue out of 
season for a month or two afterwards. 

They are a sweet, well-tasted fish, but the 
bones prove very troublesome in the smaller 
fishes. Perch, however, sometimes attain a re- 
spectable size. Pennant speaks of one that 
weighed as much as nine pounds, but it is not 
often that a perch of three pounds can be met 
with. Two pounds is not uncommon ; yet half 
a poimd may be considered the usual average 
weight at which this fish may be procured. 

Perch may be cooked either by boiling, frying. 



THE BAS& 105 

or stewing, and for water souchy they stand 
superior to all others. 

The best proof of their good condition is the 
folness and elevation of the back, and marked 
development of the colours; the freshness, as 
we have already remarked, may be tested in the 
same manner. These fish keep much better than the 
trout, and, in fact, most other fresh-water fishes. 
They are also remarkably retentive of life, so 
much so indeed, as to allow of their being 
brought alive to market; and Mr. Yarrell tells 
us, that in Boman Catholic countries they are 
frequently transported alive for forty or fifty 
miles to market, where, if not sold, they are 
again returned to their natural element, to be 
reproduced on some future occasion. 

The Bass, 

This fish has the spinous fins and hard, adhesive 
scales of the perch, but resembles a salmon in 
colour, and somewhat in form ; on which account 
the fishwomen of the west of England have 
dignified it with the title of " sahnon-bass," 
although it is in no way whatever connected 
with the salmon family. StiU, for all this, the 
bass is a very good fish and a very useful one, 
as it is capable of being cooked in a great variety 
of ways, — boiled, broiled, fried, stewed, baked. 



106 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

or made up into a pie. It is also excellent when 
soused in the same way sahnon and mackerel are 
usually done. Yet, although so good a fish, it is not 
a fashionable one, scarcely ever in any shape or 
form making its appearance at the tables of the 
wealthy ; and yet it was highly esteemed amongst 
the ancients, many of their writers, and amongst 
them Pliny and Ovid, having celebrated its culi- 
nary excellence. 

The bass attains sometimes to eighteen pounds 
weight ; but about half that bulk is the usual size 
of a full-grown fish. They may, however, be met 
with of all sizes, from one ounce upwards. 

Bass are in best order in the autumn and 
winter months. The best proof of the condition 
of this fish is the form of the body, which should 
be rounded over the back, without any inter- 
mediate depression, until it passes the anal fin. 
A dark olive-brown on the upper part is a sign 
of good condition. The sides should be bright 
and resplendent like silver. K a bass has a dull, 
leaden grey on the upper part, the sides dull grey 
instead of silvery white, and the back sinking 
just about the second dorsal fin, the fish is out of 
iseason. 

The spawning time is during the summer; but, 
as some of these fishes deposit their spawn many 
weeks earlier than others, it follows that some 



THE RUTF. 107 

get into good condition at a time when others are 
unfit to be eaten. 

The bass is a fish that keeps very well, and, 
if gutted and hung up by the head in a cool 
place, will, in moderate weather, remain good for 
two or three days without the assistance of salt 
or any artificial aid whatever. 

The Ruff 

Is a small fish off five or six inches in length, 
resembling a small perch ; but from which it may 
be distinguished by having only one back fin, 
and wanting the dusky bands on the upper 
part, for which the perch is so remarkable. It 
affords a dainty dish when nicely fried. It comes 
in season about midsummer, and continues good 
until the spring following, when it sheds its 
spawn. The best proof of freshness is bright- 
ness of the eyes, vividness of the colours, and 
redness of the gills. 

Weevers. 

There are two kinds of weevers ; the greater 
and the lesser weever. The former is remarkably 
long and slender, with flat compressed sides, and 
of about a foot in length, and with a forked tail ; 
the lesser species is rather a deep-bodied fish, but 
its sides are flattened and compressed, and its 



108 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 

length about three or four inches. They are 
both prettily marked fishes, being striped over 
the body and sides with various colours ; but they 
have a waspish look about their countenances, 
which is borne out by the formidable weapon they 
bear in the form of three or four short but sharp 
spines placed on the nape just behind the 
head, with which they can inflict a puncture 
attended with great pains, often succeeded by 
violent itiflammation. To prevent these con- 
sequences, the French fishermen are compelled, 
by the laws of their country, to cut off these 
spines before they are allowed to expose the fish 
for sale. The most effectual cure for a wound of 
this kind is to make a strong brine, and then, 
plunging in the wounded part, to keep the 
brine as hot as the patient can bear it. Mr. 
Couch says,* that smart friction with oil soon 
restores the part to health. It is probably owing 
to a prejudice against these fishes arising from 
their poisonous weapons, that they are rarely 
eaten in this country, although held in great 
esteem amongst the French ; which indeed they 
truly merit, as they possess a sweet and rich 
flavour, very like that of the sole. They are 
excellent fried or stewed. Although plentiful in 

* Yarrell's British Fishes, p. 21. 



THE BED MULLET. 109 

the neighbourhood of Plymouth, they are never 
exposed for sale in the market. We have some- 
times found them huddled together amongst the 
small fish that are sometimes caught by the 
trawlers, and brought into the market, where they 
are sold at almost a nominal price to the poor; 
and we have often obtained an excellent dish of 
this fish for the smallest amount of money we 
chose to give. Mrs. Glasse mentions the weevers ; 
but we do not believe they are alluded to in any 
of the more modem works on the art of cookery. 
On the coast of Cornwall the weevers are called 
bishops. On the Sussex coast the larger species 
is known by the name of sea-cat ; and in Scotland 
by that of gowdie. 

The Red Mullety or Surmullet 

This is a very beautiful, as well as one of the 
most delicious productions of the sea. When 
first caught it is of a delicate rose colour, striped 
with yellow; but these fine colours fiuie soon 
afber death. It is sometimes found to reach two 
pounds, but about half a pound is the most usual 
weight. 

This fish has been held in great esteem 
from a very early age; and the vast sums the 
ancient Komans gave for it appear almost in- 



110 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 

credible. Thus, according to Dryden's trans- 
lation of Juvenal, — 

"The lavish 
Six thousand pieces for a mullet gave, 
A sesterce for each pound ;** 

amounting, altogether to the sum of 48Z. 8^. 9rf. 
of our money ; whilst, according to Pliny, a con- 
sul named Asinius Celer, gave 8000 nummi, or 
64Z. lis. Sd. modem English currency for a single 
fish of this kind. Neither did the extravagance 
of these people end even here ; as, according 
to Seneca, they were so exceedingly fastidious 
about the freshness of this fish, that it seemed 
not enough unless it was put alive into their 
guest's hand; and, according to the luxurious 
habits of those days, rich epicures kept stews in 
their very eating rooms, so arranged, that the fish 
could be taken out alive from under the table, 
and placed upon it; and he also tells us they 
took great pleasure in seeing them change their 
colours when they were dying. Pennant also 
informs us that Apicius, of renowned gastronomic 
memory, invented a method of suffocating these 
fishes in the garum sociorum^ or famous Car- 
thagenian pickle, and afterwards making a rich 
sauce of their livers. 
Independently of their extreme delicacy of 



THE RED MULLET. Ill 

flavour, they are celebrated for the delicious taste 
of their livers, which is the only sauce that should 
be eaten with them ; on which account they are 
usually dressed without being drawn, in the same 
manner as woodcocks : but this is an objectionable 
mode, as the intestines have afterwards to be 
separated from the livers ; which, if not properly 
done, leads to very disagreeable consequences; 
besides which, the garbage presents an imsightly 
appearance. But all this may be avoided by adopt- 
ing the plan we shall point out when we come 
to treat of the proper ways to prepare and cook 
this most excellent of fishes. 

Red mullets are in best season during the latter 
part of summer ; and so they continue until the 
end of the year. The best proof of their fresh- 
ness is the brightness of their colours and the 
moisture on the scales ; as also the brightness of 
the eyes and redness of the gills. If they look 
dry, and are soft about the abdomen, the eyes 
sunk, and the gills pale, they are stale. 

If caught in a trawl they are comparatively 
worthless, the livers being squeezed up with the 
intestines, and utterly spoilt. A trawl-caught 
surmullet may be recognised by having its scales 
rubbed off. If you see one of these fishes with 
all its scales on, you are safe, for even if caught 
in a trawl it has in that case incurred no injury. 



112 CHOICE AND COOKEEY OP FISH. 

The Grey Mullet 

Is a totally differently shaped fish from the red, 
being of a rounded cylindrical form ; and has, in 
terms, more apt than elegant, been compared to 
that most nseftd article a rolling pin. It is of 
a leaden-grey colour on the back, the sides and 
belly being silvery. As its food consists chiefly 
of marine vegetables and small insects it collects 
from the mud, it frequently acquires a muddy 
taint, particularly if not gutted soon after it is 
caught ; so that if cooked without being drawn, 
and dressed like a surmullet, it would be one 
of the most nauseous fishes that could be 
brought to table; and yet, if cooked in a 
proper manner, it is an exceedingly good fish. 
The best way of dressing them is by boiling or 
stewing, and the smaller ones are very good fried. 
They are also very nice when preserved like 
pickled salmon, and eaten cold. In the Mediterra- 
nean, what is called botargo is made of the roes 
and milts of these fishes. The materials being 
taken out, and cleansed, are steeped in salt and 
water for four or five hours; and being then 
pressed between two boards or stones, and again 
washed, is afterwards dried in the sun for about a 
fortnight, when it is considered suflSciently pre- 
pared for use. 

The grey mullet grows as large as seven or 



THE SEA-BBEAM. 113 

eight pounds, and five or six pounds is a very 
common size. It seems, however, that there is a 
amall species, that seldom exceeds a pound weight, 
and which may be distinguished from the larger 
kinds by the extreme protuberance of its fleshy 
lips ; but there does not appear to be any dif- 
ference in flavour between one of these fishes and 
one of the same size of the other species. 

The Sea~Bream 

Is a very deep-bodied fish, with a remarkably 
vertical profile ; it has large scales, and very 
large eyes, and just behind the gill-cover it is 
marked with a dusky spot similar to that upon a 
haddock. The upper part is of a pale brown, 
with a slight pinkish cast tinged with grey, grow- 
ing silvery towards the lower parts, which are 
white. The smaller breams are called chads. The 
latter are of a greyer cast than the full-grown 
fishes, and do not acquire the reddish tinge until 
they are somewhat advanced in size. 

The full-grown fishes are often met with 
weighing as much as three pounds; and some- 
times reach to as much as five pounds weight. 
They are in best season during the summer and 
autimm months, and are remarkably plentifiil on 
many parts of our coast, particularly upon those 
of Devonshire and Cornwall; in the neighbour- 

I 



114 CHOICE AND COOKERY OP PISH. 

hood of which they are sold at a remarkably 
cheap rate. 

The best way of cooking them is by stewing ; 
when, if well done, they are quite equal to any 
fresh-water carp, which, when prepared in this 
manner, they very closely resemble in flavour. 
They are also very good baked with a forcemeat 
pudding in their bellies. They may also be 
cooked in the same way as we shall hereafter 
point out for dressing surmullet ; and in that form 
afford so good an imitation of the latter fish, that 
few persons who are not good judges of fish 
would detect the difference. They also make a 
very good fish-pie. The chads, or young fish, are 
very nice marinated ; and when potted in the way 
we shall hereafter point out, may be made nearly, 
if not quite, equal to potted char. 

It is, however, a fish that does not keep well, 
and ought to be gutted soon after it is taken. 
Another disadvantage it possesses is, that it does 
not take salt well ; consequently, it is next to 
useless to attempt to preserve it in that manner. 

The brightness of the eyes and colours, and 
transparency of the slime, denote it to be fresh ; 
when stale, it looks dull, and becomes soft and 
discoloured about the abdomen. 



BAT — BECKEB — BLACK BBEAM. 115 

Hie Rajfy or GiluSeady 

Is a fish resembling the bream, from which it is 
distinguishable by the singular form of the profile, 
which is nearly vertical ; as also in the form of 
the tail-fin, which is shaped like a crescent ; and 
by wanting the dusky spot behind the gill-covers. 
It is of a larger size than the bream, and possesses 
a delicious flavour ; but, unfortunately, is rather 
a scarce fish upon our coasts. 

The Becker y or Braise^ 

Also very closely resembles a bream ; but, like 
the fish last mentioned, does not possess those 
dusky spots which are peculiar to the former 
fish. Its body is of a longer make, and the 
profile less vertical than that of the bream, and 
its colours are brighter. It is also, when ftiU 
grown, rather a larger fish; and is considered 
to possess a superior flavour. It comes in sea- 
son at the same time as the bream, and may be 
cooked in precisely the same manner. Although 
not a scarce fish, it is by no means so common 
as the bream. 

T%e Black Bream 

Is a fish of about the same size and shape as the 
conmion bream; but rather deeper-bodied, the 
back being remarkably elevated^ and the profile 

I 2 



116 CHOICE AND COOKERY OP FISH. 

exceeding verticaL The colour varies, in different 
specimens, from a dusky, slaty hue, to ahnost 
blackness; the sides are paler, and when the 
fish is caught of ahnost a silver hue ; but, after 
the fish has been a short time out of water, it 
acquires a darker tint. It is about the same 
size as the bream, but is a fatter fish, and pos- 
sesses a richer flavour. It may be cooked in the 
same way as the bream, and its freshness may 
be tested in the same manner. 

It is somewhat strange that, although this fish 
is by no means scarce upon our coasts during the 
latter part of the simimer and throughout the 
whole of the autumn months, yet none of the 
firy, or a fish of the kind under a pound weight, 
is ever met with. 

Wrasses, 

There are no less than nine varieties of thi& 
fish upon our coasts ; all of which are so soft, 
watery, and insipid, that not all the art of 
cookery can convert them into a good dish of fish. 
The best way of turning them to account is to 
split them, powder them well with pepper and 
salt, and broil them, rubbing in plenty of butter. 

Upon the whole, however, they are more 
required to be known to be avoided, than to be 
selected for any culinary purpose whatever. 



GURNARDS 117 

The ballan-wrasse, the largest of the tribe, 
Bometimes attains to as much as eight or nine 
pounds weight, and four or five pounds is a 
common size. In general appearance this fish 
resembles a fresh-water carp; but is remark- 
able for possessing large flexible lips, which, 
turning upwards, disclose two rows of teeth, 
rather resembling those of terrestrial animals than 
fishes. Most of the other kinds are small, and 
do not generally exceed half a pound weight; 
but some of them are remarkable for the beauty 
of their colours ; still all seem alike bad, as far 
as their edible qualities are concerned. 

Gurnards^ 

These fishes, of which we possess five distinct 
species, are all of them good and wholesome ; 
and, fortunately, they are distributed in toler- 
able abundance upon most i)arts of our coasts. 
All these fish closely resemble one another in 
flavour, as weU as form; their flesh is white, 
exceedingly sweet and firm, and shells out into 
snowy flakes ; and, what is highly advantageous, 
they keep exceedingly well without the assist- 
ance of salt, and, if required, will take the salt 
very nicely, and may be easily preserved by that 
means. Of these, 

I 3 



118 CHOICE AND COOKEEY OF FISH. 

The Tulfish 

Is the largest in size, attaining to the weight of 
nine or ten pounds, but commonly ranging from 
about a pound to five pounds weight. Like the 
rest of the gurnard tribe, this fish has a large 
head, wide at the top, and sloping gradually 
towards the nose ; the cheeks being armed with 
strong, bony plates. The body, which is thickest 
about the shoulders, tapers away gradually, and 
becomes very slender towards the tail. The 
tubfish is brown upon the back, red on the 
sides, with a golden cast below, the belly being 
of a snowy whiteness. This fish is remarkable 
for the size and beauty of its pectoral fin, which 
expands like a fan ; being of a greenish brown, 
edged with deep blue, the effect of which is 
entirely lost when the fin lies folded up like an 
old umbrella on the fish-stalls. 

The best criterion of good season in this fish, 
and the same rule is equally applicable to the 
whole tribe, is the thickness of the body, and 
the brilliancy of the colours ; the latter of which, 
as well as the redness of the gills, affording the 
best possible proof of their freshness. If the 
gills are dry and pale, and the eyes dim and sunk, 
the fish is stale. 

From its superiority in size, and the abundance 
with which it is supplied, the tubfish may be con- 



THE tubpish:. 119 

sidered the most valuable of the whole of the 
gurnard tribe. It is capable of being cooked in 
a great many ways. It is exceedingly good plain- 
boiled; and presents a very attractive appearance 
when prepared in that manner^ from the snowy 
whiteness of its flakes. It is also very good either 
split and fried, or cut up in quarters, being weU- 
coated with egg and bread-crumbs. It also makes 
a nice dish either stewed, or baked with a force- 
neat pudding in its beUy. It is not, however, 
considered equal in flavour to the piper; but 
which we are inclined to think rather proceeds 
from the greater scarcity of the latter fish. We 
have often partaken at the same time of tubfish 
and pipers, both kinds of which have been cooked 
in the same manner, and served up at the same 
time, and we could never detect any diflerence 
whatever in flavour between the two fishes ; which, 
after all, is no ill compliment to the piper, the 
tubfish being in reality so good a fish that even to 
equal it is no small merit. Tubfish may be found 
in good order at all times of the year; but, as there 
is a great difference between fishes of this kind, 
great care will be required in the selection. 



X 4 



120 CHOICE Ain> COOKEBT OP PISH. 

The Piper. 

This fish^ although It does not attain so large a 
size as the tubfish^ is sometimes met with weigh- 
ing as much as two pounds^ though usually 
from three-quarters to a pound and a half; which 
is about double the average weight of most of 
the other gurnards^ with the exception of the 
tubfish^ and with this exception the piper may 
fairly be ranked as the second best-sized fish of 
the whole tribe. 

It is of a reddish pink cast on the upper side, 
the belly snOwy white. But, besides its colour, it 
is of a more slender make than the tubfish ; for, 
although tolerably stout about the shoulders, it 
tapers away very remarkably towards the taiL 
This fish may always be recognised by the sin- 
gular formation of its snout, which is armed with 
two broad, cloven plates, with a sharp spine at the 
end, — a very formidable, offensive weapon. 

The piper, like the tubfish, may generally be 
met with in good season all the year through ; 
the best proof of which is the stoutness about the 
shoulders. 

The Red Gurnard, 

This fish does not usually attain to more than 
half the size of the piper ; from which it may be 
distinguished by wanting the cloven plates on 



THE BED ALIC&. 121 

the snout. The upper part is also a deeper and 
more decided red. It resembles the two last in 
flavour^ and its goodness may be tested in the 
same manner. 

The Red Alick 

Is even a smaller fish than the one last described,, 
as it seldom exceeds half a pound weight; the 
greater number being no more than a quarter 
of a pound. They are elegantly formed little 
fishes, having a smaller head than others of 
the gurnard tribe; which, with a remarkably 
vertical profile and large bright eyes, gives 
them a very quamt and pleasing appearance. 
They are of a deeper and duller cast of red than 
the red gurnard, and their sides are streaked 
with minute, dark-brown spots. Some specimens 
are found having the upper sides of the same 
olive-brown cast as in the tubfish. They are 
also remarkable for the extreme roughness of the. 
lateral line. 

These fish are sold indiscriminately, under the 
name of red gurnards, with the true fish of that 
name, both kinds being usually exposed for sale 
at the same time in the fish-markets. Nor do the 
generality of persons detect any difference between 
the two fishes; though this is obvious enough to 
the practised eye. But there is a still greater dif- 



122 CHOICE AND COOKEEY OP FISH. 

ference in the flavour ; the flesh of the red aliek 
being much more dry than any of the other gur- 
nards ; which some object to in this fish, whilst 
others esteem it the more highly for that very 
reasoiL It has also another recommendation, that 
you seldom find one of these fishes that is not in 
good order ; which is not the case with any of the 
rest of the gurnards. 

[The Grey Gurnard 

Is met with from half a pound to a pound and a 
half in weight. It may be distinguished from all 
the rest of its tribe by the greyish colour of its 
upper side. It is not so highly esteemed as the 
rest of the gurnards ; but is, nevertheless, a very 
good and wholesome fish. It does not, however, 
come into season so early as its congeners, being 
aeldom found in good order before September; 
from whence it continues in season until the 
fipring. But at all times a number of these fish 
may be met with that are in a thin and emaciated 
condition, and these should always be rejected. 
The proof of good condition is the fulness of the 
body, and a bright coppery tinge upon the sides. 
Its freshness is tested in the same way as the 
rest of its tribe. 



BAT FISHEd. I2d 



SECTION xn. 

CABTUAaiKOUS FiSHEB. 

Cartilaginous fishes are so described on 
account of having their muscles supported by 
cartilages instead of bones^ to distinguish them 
from those we have previously been treating of, 
which are termed osseous, or bony fishes. Carti- 
laginous fishes are far less numerous than true 
bony fishes, comprising chiefly the rays, the 
sturgeon, the lampreys, and the whole shark 
family. 

Fishes of the Ray kind* 

Notwithstanding there are no less than twelve 
distinct species of these fish, the flesh of the 
whole of them usually passes under the general 
term of skate, which is the very worst fish of the 
whole tribe. From the unprepossessing exterior 
of these fishes, they are less highly esteemed than 
they deserve; and many persons reject them alto- 
gether, for no other reason. Yet what can be 
more absurd than to refuse a wholesome and de- 
licious article of food because the animal affording 
it has an imprepossessing exterior ? For — 



124 CHOICE AND COOKEBT OF PISH, 

** It is the flavonr forms the test of merit ; 
Which, when with wholesome qualities combined, 
Forms the intrinsic value of aJl fbod. 
If mere exterior is to claim the palm, 
Then must the woodcock to the parrot yield. 
The spotted leopard supersede the deer, 
And dories to the blue-striped wrasse give place. 
Yet, is the ermine better than the hare. 
Because its coat bedecks the robes of kings ? 
^ Or is the adder better than the eel 
Because its painted skin contents the eye? * 
So, as the mind doth mark the worth of man. 
And not gaj clothes, for such a fool can wear. 
Thus for our table should we choose those things 
Whose goodly qualities are there display'd ; 
Nor deem their virtues less, because, forsooth. 
Their raw exterior wears unseemly guise. 
Do not foul ways oft lie through fertile lands 
And richest mines beneath a barren soil ? " 

The best kinds of rays are the thomback, and 
the common^ or homelyn ray. The former may 
be recognised by the body being covered with 
thorny tubercles, and the homelyn ray may be 
distinguished from the skate by having the snout 
less protruded; that of the latter fish being 
remarkably long and sharp. 

The best portions of all these fishes are the 
parts surroundmg the fins; which should be cut 
up and prepared in the manner we shall hereafter 
point out. It may be cooked either boiled, broiled, 
fried, or stewed ; and when done in the latter 
way, very few other fish come up to, or, in fact, 
will bear a comparison to it ; and yet it is very 



LAMPREYS. 125 

rarely dressed in that manner. If any of the 
stewed fish is left, the flesh, mixed up with the 
gravy, and converted into sausages, is far superior 
to every other thing of the kind we have tasted 
Few fishes, therefore, could be turned to much 
greater advantage in a family than a ray, bemg 
one of the most nutritious and wholesome fishee^ 
we possess, and delicious when properly cooked ; 
added to all which advantages, a few pence may 
generally obtain a sufficient quantity to supply 
a plentiful meal for several persons. 

In selecting one of these fishes, choose the 
thickest you can find ; and never take a skate, if 
you can obtain a thomback or a ray. 

The way to crimp and prepare them will be 
noticed hereafter. 

These fish keep remarkably well, and, in fact, 
except in very hot weather, are improved by 
being kept for a day or two before they are 
cooked. 

Lampreys, 

There are three kinds of lampreys — tiie sea- 
lamprey, the common lamprey, and the pride ; 
but the last mentioned, being an exceedingly 
small fish, and of no use, except as bait for 
catching those of a larger kind, we shall pass it 
by without further notice. The appearance of 



126 CHOICE Ain> COOKERY OP PISH. 

ail these fishes is repulsive ; not only from their 
snake-like form and eye, but also from their open, 
circular mouth, and the seven holes on each side, 
which serve them as their gills. With respect 
to their organisation also, they rank amongst 
the very lowest of the vertebrated animals, not 
having even a backbone to boast of; the place 
of which is supplied by a mere gristle, without 
any processes or protuberances whatever. Yet, 
ungainly as these fishes may now appear, they 
were kept as pets by the ancient Romans ; for 
we are informed that Antonia, the wife of Drusus, 
had a pet lamprey, in whose gills she hung gems 
and earrings; a species of unnecessary finery 
the fish, no doubt, would gladly have dispensed 
with. Licinius Crassus also brought his lam- 
preys, which he kept in a vivarium, to become 
so tame as to be obedient to his voice, and to 
come and receive food at his hands; whilst we 
are also told, that the celebrated orator, Quintus 
Hortensius, wept at the death of one of these 
fishes that he had kept long and loved exceed- 
ingly. 

But as every dog has his day, it seems those 
of the lampreys have long since passed away, 
as far as keeping them for pets is concerned; 
and they are only now esteemed for their real 
qualities, which are very good ones, being nice 



LAMPREYS. 127 

fishes, either potted, stewed, or made up into pies^ 
Still, it seems, they are more agreeable to the 
palate than wholesome to the body, being apt to 
create surfeits if eaten in too great quantities. 
One of our kings (Henry the First) is said to 
have met with his death in consequence of in- 
dulging in a too-plentifiil meal of these fishes ; 
and yet, strange to say, this very self-same 
fatal material, cooked up in a pie, is by ancient 
custom transmitted annually at Christmas as a 
token of loyalty by the city of Gloucester to the 
soyereign of this country ; a gift attended both 
with expense and difficulty; for, on account of 
the scarcity of these fishes at that particular 
season of the year, they can hardly be procured 
at a guinea a-piece. 

The greater, or sea-lamprey, sometimes attains 
to as much as four or five pounds weight. Its 
body has a curiously mottled appearance, of a 
rusty red and brown, which, when the fish is 
in the water, gives it something the appearance 
of an old, rusty piece of broken iron hoop. The 
smaller, or river-lamprey, rarely exceeds a foot in 
length, and in shape and colour resembles a small 
fresh watcar eeL 

Both these fishes are in their highest state of 
perfection during the months of April and May ; 
about which time the sea-lamprey comes up firom 



128 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OP PISH. 

the salt water into the fresh for the purpose of 
depositing its spawn ; after which, like all other 
fishes, it becomes out of season. But it is not 
often met with in this state; for, as soon as it 
has spawned, it returns again to the sea, where it 
soon recruits its exhausted strength. 

Sharks. 

Although there are no less than fourteen 
species of sharks to be found upon our coasts, two 
only, the rough hound or morgay, and the dog- 
fish, are consumed as food; and even the two 
latter are seldom eaten except in a salted state. 
The dogfish, when split and dried, we have been 
assured by every one who has possessed the ap- 
petite or courage to partake of it, is a rich and 
well-tasted fish, resembling very much salmon 
prepared in the same manner. Dried dogfish, and 
also morgays, are often exposed for sale in the 
fish-markets at Penzance. 

The white shark is rarely, though sometimes, 
seen upon our coasts ; but is universally rejected 
as an article of food by all classes in this country, 
on accoimt of its propensity for feeding upon 
human fiesh. We have, however, been told by 
many seafaring persons who have partaken of it, 
that its fiesh is very good, bearing a strong resem- 
blance to veal, both in fiavour and appearance. 



THE STUBGEON, 129 

The Sturgeon. 

This, although a fish of most peaceable disposi- 
tion, bears an external resemblance to the shark 
race, particularly in the projecting snout and 
position of the mouth. A sturgeon, from its large 
size, is sold and cut up in portions in the fish- 
mongers' shops. It is a rich and well-flavoured 
fish, and exceedingly useful, from its capacity of 
being cooked in a great variety of ways. Unfor- 
tunately it is a scarce fish in this country, and 
consequently, when obtained, is sold at a high 
price. The proof of goodness is, that the flesh 
should cut clean, and present a white appearance, 
strongly contrasted with the blueness both of its 
veins and gristle ; a brown or yellowish cast in 
these parts denotes the fish to be in bad condition. 

It is of the hard roe of this fish that caviar 
is usually composed, although sometimes, as we 
have previously noticed, it is prepared from the 
hard roes both of the carp and grey mullet. 



SECTION xm. 

As TO THB ChOICB OF SaLT EiSH. 

The fishes that are usually salted dry, are cod- 
fish, ling, hake, whiting, and rawlin pollock, 
silver, whiting, and the torsk or tusk. 

K 



130 CHOICE AND COOKEBT OP FISH. 

Ling, cod, and hake, and, in fact, all other salt 
fish, ought to appear of a light colour, and present 
a perfectly dry appearance, free from spot or mil- 
dew, but they should not feel hard to the touch. 
These fish should always be thick and stout, par- 
ticularly behind the head, and the stoutness should 
be carried on down to the very tail. 

The most esteemed ling are those taken on the 
coasts of Scilly and Penzance, and also at St. 
Ives, in Cornwall ; but the best cured fish of the 
kind we have met with have been preserved at 
Polperro, a fishing station in Cornwall, about ten 
or twelve miles westward of Plymouth, which are 
less hard and dry than those prepared at any of 
the other places we have mentioned. 

The codfish taken on the coast of Newfound- 
land are neither so large nor so good as those 
cured on the Cornish coast, but they are usually 
sold at a cheaper rate. 

Next to cod and ling, hake may be considered 
the best salt fish; when cured in the common 
way, it is termed Poor John, or stock fish. At 
Plymouth, they have a method of smoking them, 
in the way of red herrings and dried salmon. 

Dried salmon should be thick about the 
shoulders and deep-bodied throughout; and the 
flesh, when it is cut, of a deep pink colour, as dis- 
tinguished from the dim red, which is imparted 



CHOICE OP SALT FISH. 131 

by means of saltpetre to a colourless and un- 
healthy fish ; numbers of which are cured in this 
way, and whose defects are attempted to be dis- 
guised in the manner we have just mentioned. 

Red herrings shoiild look very bright, and shine 
like burnished metal, and be thoroughly stiff. If 
limp, and dull in colour, and soft; or broken about 
the belly-parts, they are not good. 

Pilchards should look firm; but these fishes 
are seldom met with iU cured, although, from 
their extreme saltness and strong, oily, rancid 
taste, few persons, excepting those who have 
been accustomed to them from early life, can be 
prevailed upon to eat them. 

Fishes kept in pickle shoidd present a clean ap- 
pearance, and be free from spots or bruises. They 
shoTild also feel firm and elastic to the touch. 

Anchovies shoiild be firm and hard, and the 
abdomen entire and unbroken ; they should also 
be of a red colour imder the skin. K soft and of 
a brown colour, with the abdomen broken, and 
the ribs showing through the aperture, they are 
bad. The smaller ones are considered superior 
to those of larger size. 



X 2 



132 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 



SECTION XIV. 

How TO CHOOSE CbABS, LoBSTEBS, Ain> ALL OTHEB KINDS 

OF Shell Fish. 

Crabs and Lobsters. 

Crabs and lobsters are often purchased alive, 
and this is usually the wisest course, as by this 
means you not only insure the freshness of the 
article, but avoid the possibility of buying any 
such as may have died a natural death, either in 
the well-boats, or in the cobles in which they have 
been kept. We know that the greater portion 
of boiled crabs and lobsters with which a large 
town near one of our great crab and lobster de- 
p&ts is supplied, consists of those which have died 
in this manner; and, after a sudden summer 
flood, the fresh waters of which often prove fatal 
to the store shell-fish, crabs, lobsters, and cray- 
fish are pretty sure to be cried aroimd the town. 
If the crier is silent, you may rely upon it the 
rain has done no mischief to the lobster stores. 

The best proof of the goodness of a crab, 
whether dead or alive, is in the depth of the red- 
ness of colour on the upper side, and the clean 
appearance, and absence of all spots, bruises, or 
blemishes on the lower side ; a dirty, yellowish 
brown back, and spots, and marks of bruises 



CHABS Ain> LOBSTEBS. 133 

about the body and daws, denote a sickly con- 
dition. 

When boiled, the upper part will be of a 
deeper red than when it is in a raw state, and 
Ihere should also be a strong spring or elasticity 
in the joints of the l^s and claws, which, if they 
hang loosely, show either that the fish is stale, or 
has died a natural death preiiously to being 
boiled. 

The female crab is easfly recognised from Ihe 
male by possessing smaller claws, and by having 
a much wider flapped taiL The former is con- 
ddered inferior, although those persons who are 
partial to the cream of a crab give it apreference, 
and it certainly makes up in cream for what it 
wants in claws. 

It is a good rule to choose both crabs and 
lobsters by weight, those that are the heaviest 
being always the best. 

Crabs and lobsters both come into season at 
the same time tiiat oysters go out, and may be 
considered in their best order from April until 
October. 

In choosing a lobster: if it be alive, select one 
whose shell is hard and firm, whose coat looks 
dark, and bears evidence of having been a long 
time worn, as an old outside denotes a soimd in- 
terior. The male is known from the female, not 

K 3 



134 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OP FISH/ 

only by wanting the roe which is generally found 
adhering to the belly of the latter, but by pos- 
eessing much larger claws, and haTing a narrower 
tail, which is stiff and hard ; that of the female 
being broad and soft. The female is in best 
order just as the rudiments of roe first make their 
appearance, at which time a rich coral will be 
found in the head, which disappears as the eggs 
increase in size. Many persons, however, give a 
preference to the male, or cock lobster, as possess- 
ing fiesh of a more firm and delicate flavour, and 
as presenting also a more pleasing appearance to 
the eye. 

The best way of teslin&c the freshness of a 
boiled lobster isL try the spring of il.e tail, which 
is strong and elastic if the fish be fresh; but slack 
and loose, it is either stale, or, like a crab exhibit- 
ing the same symptoms, has died a natural death 
previous to its cooking. Press the cheeks, and if 
they yield readily to the pressure, the fish is in 
bad order; if they feel hard and resist the pressure, 
it is in good condition. 

There are two species of crayfish, the one being 
found in the fresh water, and the other in the sea. 
The former is of very small size, not being much 
more than double the size of a large prawn. The 
sea crayfish attains a considerable bulk, being 
at least twice as heavy as the largest lobster. The 



PBAWNS AKD SHBIMPS, 135 

Bmaller species has claws like a lobster^ but not so 
large in proportion to the rest of the body ; the 
sea crayfish has no large claws, but possesses 
slender legs, with a small kind of forceps at 
thdt extremity, with which it can give a very 
severe pinch. Both species resemble a lobster, 
but do not come up to it in flavour; the 
smaller being more insipid, and the latter ra- 
ther too tough and wanting the exquisite rich- 
ness of flavour for which the lobster is so pre- 
eminently distinguished. Still, crayfish are by no 
means to be despised, and when lobsters cannot 
conveniently be procured, they act very well as 
substitutes. 

Their goodness and freshness is tested in the 
same way as with lobsters. 

Prawns and Shrimps. 

Prawns and shrimps are in best order when the 
females are in roe, the latter being, in fact, the 
most delicious part of them. When boiled, if 
they axe ebstic a^d spring back upon being puUed 
by the tails, and the flesh is moist within the 
shells, well filled out, they are fresh ; if dry, 
tough, and shrunk up, they are stale ; and if soft, 
slender, and watery, they are in bad condition. 

K 4 



136 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OF FISH. 

A great deal of the qualities of both shrimps 
and prawns depends upon the care bestowed 
upon the boiling of them^ which we shall give* 
proper directions about hereafter, 

^ 

Oysters. 

The goodness of oysters depends chiefly upon 
the nature of the ground from which they have 
been taken; and it is from the particular quality 
of the ground that the Colchester oysters derive 
the goodness for which they have been so long 
and justly celebrated. In some bottoms that are 
affected by minerals, the oysters not only acquire 
a disagreeable taint, but become so unwholesome 
as to be absolutely poisonous ; as is the case with 
the oysters caught in Falmouth harbour; and yet, 
by being removed to more healthy groimd, they 
soon become purified, acquire a good flavour, and 
lose all their pernicious qualities. In other grounds 
the oysters, although not actually unwholesome, 
are thin and ill-tasted, but the latter defects may 
be cured by cleansing and feeding the oysters for 
a week, or even a lesser time, in the manner we 
shall by and by point out. 

There is an old and a very true saying, that 
oysters are always in season as long as there is an 
R in the month. 



HOW TO PEBSEBVE OYSTERS, ETC. 137 

Mussels and Cockles. 

These should be full in the shell, and look clean 
and free £rom mud. Cockles, if taken from a 
muddy ground, should be kept for three or four 
days in clear salt water. 

How to preserve and cleanse Oysters, Mussels, 

and Cockles, 

The best mode of cleansing and fattening 
oysters, is to place them flat on their sides in a 
pan, with enough water not only to cover them, 
but also to fill up the pan nearly to the brim. 
Salt water is best adapted to the purpose, but if 
you can only procure fresh water, then you should 
throw in a little salt proportioned to the size of 
the vessel, but taking care not to over do it, as 
too much salt will injure if not kill the oysters. 
The water should be changed once every day, and 
as soon as fresh water is put in, cast in a handful 
or two of flour, barley, or oatmeal, to which may be 
added about the same quantity of wheaten bran. 
By adopting this plan, you will find a consider- 
able improvement even in the course of a couple 
of days, and by the expiration of five or six days 
they will become perfectly fat, in which state, 
with care, they may be kept for upwards of a fort- 



138 CHOICE AND COOKEBY OP FISH. 

night ; but after being kept over a week they are 
rather more apt to decline than improve in con- 
ditioiL The shells should also be careftdly 
examined every day, and if any are foimd to 
remain constantly open, they should be at once 
removed, as the oyster is then either dead or in a 
dying state ; and, if allowed to remain, will prove 
injurious to the health of the rest. A cool cellar 
is the best place to keep them in. 

Mussels and cockles should be kept in clean 
water — salt is the best — in the same manner a» 
oysters, and the water changed once or twice. 
They shoiild be so kept for a day at least before 
they are used, for the purpose of cleansing them 
from the sand, mud, and other impurities usually 
found in shellfish of this kind when first taken up 
from their beds at the bottom ; but it is not ne- 
cessary to feed them, unless you wish to preserve 
them for any length of time. 

In choosing mussels, those which are of a deep 
colour and very sharp at the edges are generally 
the most tender and best flavoured; those that 
are of a slate colour, or bluish cast, and rough 
and worn at the edges, are generally hard and 
tough. 

Cockles that have the whitest shells are gene- 
rally the best, being usually found in clean sandy 



COCKLES. 139 

ground, and therefore free from the muddy taint 
which often renders cockles so unpalatable ; they 
wiU, however, require longer cleansing when 
taken from a sandy than a muddy bottom, in 
order to free them thoroughly from the sand^ 
which, until they are entirely free from it, is as 
disagreeable in its way as the muddy taint we 
have already alluded to* 



140 HOW TO CLEAK AND PBESEBVE PISH. 



CHAP. IIL 

OF CLEANING AND PBESEBVINa FISH, AND PBEPABINQ 

IT FOB THE TABLE. 

The cleaning of fish is a very important matter, 
but, being a disagreeable office, is often en- 
trusted to unskilful hands, who execute their 
task so negligently, that almost as many fish 
are injured by this process as by bad cookery. 
The chief thing to be attended to, is to cleanse 
away every offensive particle, and not to maul 
about or handle the fish in such a way as to de- 
prive it of its stiffiiess, which, if lost, will destroy 
a great portion of its fimmess. Another thing is 
to do the thing in the right way ; for it must be 
remembered that different kinds of fishes require 
to be cleansed in a particular manner, and that 
what may be proper for one will be exceedingly 
detrimental to another. Some require to be 
opened by the belly, others by the back; in 
some, the intestines are drawn out by the gills, 
without the fish being split open at all ; and in a 
few, the intestines are allowed to remain alto- 
gether; others are cooked with the scales on. 



PBEPABING FISH FOB THE TABLE. 141 

being merely wiped with a dry cloth to rub off 
the external slime. Again, some require not only 
to be scaled, but also to be skinned, either wholly 
or partially, — as eels, scate, and soles; whilst 
others require scalding for the purpose of assisting 
in getting off their skins, or cleansing them from 
the strong slime with which their bodies are coated. 

In cleansing fish, a pump or cock of running 
water is very advantageous, as the force of the 
running water washes out everything that is ne- 
cessary without that pawing about, and rubbing 
or scrubbing, which proves so detrimental to Ae 
firmness of the fish. 

As a general rule for cleaning most kinds of 
fish, haTing dipped the fish in water, lay (t flat 
on its side, either on a board or a flat stone, keep- 
ing it in a firm position by grasping it with one 
hand about the head and shoulders, whilst with 
the other, by the aid of a knife, you scrape off all 
the scales and slime, taking especial care not to 
cut, break, or bruise the skin of the fish. Having 
cleansed one side, turn over the fish, and do 
the like with the other; then cut off the fins 
and wash the fish just enough to clear it of any 
slime or loose scales that may still adhere to it; 
then open the fish, if it is one that is required to 
be opened by the belly, by cutting it open in the 
middle with a sharp knife to a little below the 



142 HOW TO CLEAK AND PEESEBVE PISH. 

vent; then extract the gills and intestines, taking 
care not to break or bruise the roes, if any, as 
also the liver, when either of the latter are 
intended to be preserved and eaten with the fish ; 
and be careM to scrape and wash out all the 
blood that lodges about the backbone : then wash 
Ihe fish quickly, but thoroughly, handling it as 
little as possible; and as soon as this process is 
completed, take it out of the water and hang it up 
by the head, to allow the water to drain off, and 
do not leave it one moment in the water after the 
washing is complete, as by so doing the flavour 
and finnness will often be materially injured. 

AH the cod tribe require great care, particularly 
in cleansing the back bone from the blood, which, 
if allowed to remain, turns black when the fish 
is cooked, and presents a very disgusting appear- 
ance. To prevent this, all this tribe, from their 
peculiar formation, require to be cut open for 
some distance down below the vent; the sound 
should be carefully separated with a sharp knife 
close to the hack bone, on one side only, leav- 
ing it attached to the opposite side, and then 
the blood on the interstices of the back bone 
can be reached so as to permit the blood to bo 
scraped out either with the point of a knife, or a 
small brush. 

In preparing hakes, it is a frequent practice to 



PEEPABING FISH FOB THE TABLE. 143 

extract the back bone, which can be drawn out 
quite clear jfrom the fish without any portion of 
the flesh adhering to it, but which we do not 
believe can be done with any other species of fish. 
The way it is managed is, after opening the fish 
by the belly and disembowelling it, to insert the 
finger and thumb of the right hand betwixt the 
vertebrae, just behind the head, and forcing them 
onward by the edge of the bone down the whole 
length of the body as &r as the fish is opened, 
it by that means is drawn out entire, and quite 
free from the flesh. 

In cleaning turbot, flounders, and all fish of 
that kind, it will be necessary that they should be 
opened considerably below the vent, otherwise it 
is difficult to extract the whole of the intestines, 
and impossible to cleanse the entire cavity of the 
body properly ; and from neglect of this kind it ia 
that flat fish are so often found to have that im- 
pleasant muddy taint about the abdominal parts. 

Before attempting to scale perch, weevers, gur- 
nards, or any kind of fish possessing spines, the 
latter should always be cut ofi^, to prevent the 
possibility of a puncture, which is certain to pro- 
duce painftJ, and possibly serious, consequences. 

Fishes that require to be opened by the back, 
and which will be duly noticed when we treat of 
the manner in which each particular kind of 



144 HOW TO CLEAN AND FBESBBYE FISH. 

fish is to be cooked^ should be split through 
from nose to tail with a very sharp knife^ 
so that the flesh may be cut clean and without 
being jagged close to the back bone; the belly 
being left entire, and the fish thus spread open. 
This mode of preparation is weU adapted to some 
particular kinds of fish when designed for either 
broiling or frying, such as sahnon peel, mackerel, 
garfish, cod, whiting, and fish of the like kind; 
as by that means the rich fat portion about the 
belly part is preserved, which would be in great 
measure lost if the fish was opened by the belly 
in the usual way. When opened by the back, 
also, the form of the fish is better suited to either 
the gridiron or the frying-pan, than when pre- 
pared in any other way. 

Opening by the back is also an excellent plan 
when fish are intended to be regularly salted in 
to keep ; as not only is the salt more easily ap- 
plied, but the parts about the belly, which would 
otherwise become too dry and hard, by the above 
process become the best portions of the fish. 

Sprats, sand-launces, and many other very small 
fishes, are best cleaned by cutting off the head 
just below the collar bones, and at the same time 
drawing out the intestines with the gills, without 
ripping open the bodies. This, in the case of 
sand-launces, may and ought to be done without 



4 

PBEPABING FISH FOB THE TABLE.' 145 

drawing out the roes ; which, provided the fish 
possess any, should be allowed to remain, and 
be dressed in their bodies. As the scales and 
alime of all the last-mentioned fish come off very 
readily, they should be merely rubbed off with 
a dry cloth, rubbing upwards, and not attempting 
to scrape them off with a knife. 

Fishes that are intended to be dressed with 
then- scales on ought to retain them entire and 
miruffled, as the object of permitting them to re- 
mam is to prevent the moisture and rich juices of 
the fish from exuding and wasting away in the 
cookery. For this reason pilchards, when in- 
tended to be dressed with their scales on, must 
not even be wiped with a cloth, but must be 
cooked exactly in the same state they are taken 
out of the nets, as the slightest rubbing would 
instantaneously detach every scale from their 
bodies. Other fishes whose external scaly cover- 
ing is of a more enduring nature, as the bream 
and surmullet, may be rubbed gentiy from the 
head downwards, but this, particularly with the 
latter fish, must be very tenderly done. 

Flounders, although a soft and watery fish, may 
be made to eat more dry and firm by adopting the 
proper plan of cleaning them. To manage this, 
get your flounders as fresh as you possibly can. 
If they be alive, kill them, either by breaking 

L 



146 HOW TO CLEAN AND PBESEBYE FISH. 

open their throats^ or knocking them on the head; 
and as soon as they are dead^ cut off the tail and 
back and anal fins close to the body ; then gut 
the fish, and hang them up by the head, when 9 
considerable quantity of slimy water will exude 
from them. On the following morning skin the 
fish, either on both sides, or on the dark side only, 
and, washing off all the mucous slime, hang them 
up again in the wind and air, so that they may 
get thoroughly dry ; then cut them in pieces, and, 
coating them well with egg and bread-cnunbs, fry 
them careftdly, and they will make a delicious dish 
of fish. 

Soles are usually skinned on the dark side only; 
the pale side requires to be careftdly scaled, which 
is often very negligently done, and that side of 
the fish all but spoilt in consequence, as few things 
we meet with at table are more disgusting than a 
mouthful of fish scales. A small portion of the 
dark skin of the sole, dried and preserved, is ex- 
cellent for fining coffee. 

Red muUets are usually dressed without being 
either scaled or gutted ; the object of omitting the 
latter process being to preserve the livers entire 
and uninjured : but this may be done, under care- 
ful management, without the necessity of retaining 
the disgusting quantity of garbage and half di- 
gested food with which the bodies of these fish are 



PEEPABING FISH FOB THE TABLE. 147 

80 fully supplied. This maybe contrived by making 
a cut across the body, just below the gills, through 
which the garbage and the liver may be drawn, 
and the latter, after being careftdly separated £rom 
the offal, can be again introduced through the 
aperture into the body of the fish. Another way 
of preserving the livers and getting rid of the 
superfluous parts, is to gut the fish, and, after 
wiping out the inside with a cloth, to detach the 
liver from the garbage, and boil it separately from 
the fish in a small saucepan ; and then, melting 
your butter in the same liquor the livers were 
boiled in, mix up the whole together as a sauce 
to accompany the fish. This we think the best 
plan of the whole, as the most imperfect livers 
may by this means be turned to the utmost ac- 
count, without the possibility of the smallest 
particle that is really good being wasted in the 
process of cooking. 

Rays, thombacks, and the whole of that class of 
fishes, should be skinned: this is best done imme- 
diately after the fish is killed, which may be ma- 
naged by dividing the spine behind the head, and 
stripping off the skin immediately afterwards, when 
it will come off more readily than when the fish 
has been some time dead. Another plan of pre- 
paring a ray is to cut off the tail close to the 
body, and to cut round the edges of the fins, and 

L 2 



148 HOW TO CLEAN AND PBESEBYE FISH. 

then hang up the fish by the head, when a great 
quantity of watery slime will drain from it ; and 
if the skin does not come off readily the skinning 
process may be accelerated by scalding the fish in 
boiling water. The best parts are the fins, the 
cartilages of which should be cut across with a 
sharp knife into strips of about an inch or so in 
width. The other parts may be cut up in small 
pieces. When cut up, the pieces should be 
thrown into strong salt and water, and kept there 
for some hours, or even a day or more, before they* 
are dressed, which will extract every rank taint, 
and impart a more white and delicate appearance 
to the flesh. 

Eels should be skinned before they are dressed. 
This must be done whilst they are quite fresh, 
otherwise the skins do not come off so readily ; 
but it is as unnecessary as cruel to skin them 
whilst alive, for the skins come off quite as easily 
when the fish is recently dead as when the bar- 
barous proceeding above alluded to is practised. 
The way to kill eels speedily we have already 
pointed out. To skin these fish in the most 
easy manner you should first cut just through the 
skin all aroimd the body below the gill aper- 
tures ; then stick a strong skewer or the prong 
of a stout steel fork through the head above, and, 
holding on by that part with one hand, take a 



PEEPABING FISH FOE THE TABLE. 149 

Coarse towel in the other^ and^ grasping the fish 
tightly just below the part where you have cut 
through the skin, drawing your hand hard down- 
wards, you may strip it off entire, as you would a 
stocking. 

We understand it is a common practice in 
Ireland merely to rub off the slime, and to cook 
the eels without depriving them of their skins. 
We ourselves once partook of eels so prepared ; 
but this occurred merely through the ignorance 
or carelessness of the cook; which, combined with 
exceedingly bad cookery in every other respect, 
produced so nauseous a mess, that nothing short 
of the perils of absolute starvation could induce 
us again to venture upon a dish of eels prepared in 
iliat manner. But congers should never be skinned 
before they are cooked, and, as they have little 
slime on their bodies, they may easily be scraped 
dean. In fact, the skin of the conger is exceed- 
ing rich, and adds much to the delicacy of the 
flavour of these truly excellent fishes. 

Salt fish requires attention in being properly 
soaked in water previously to being dressed; and 
it is from inattention to this very important 
matter that salt fish is usually found so over-salt, 
hard, and disagreeable, which renders it a less 
favourite article of food than it would be if proper 

La 



150 HOW TO CLEAN AND FBESEBYE FISH. 

care and attention was paid in preparing it for 
cookery. 

To prepare a salt fish — a ling, for example^ 
which is by far the best of all fish that can be 
cured in this manner, — it should lie for six or 
eight hours at least in a sufficient quantity of fresh 
water to cover it entirely; being then taken 
out, it should be scrubbed with a hard brush 
or a coarse cloth, placed on a clean stone or flat 
board, and then allowed to drain for six or eight 
hours more. After this, it should again be placed 
in water, which, if it can be kept about luke- 
warm, will be all the better ; and there it should 
be suffered to continue for ten or twelve hours, 
when it will be found to sweU considerably, and 
also to have become pliant and tender. Warm 
milk-and-water is considered to soften and im- 
prove both the flavour and appearance of the fisL. 
Some persons add vinegar to the water as a 
means of extracting the salt. Two soakings and 
one draining are indispensable to render the fish 
fit for cooking; one soaking, fi)r however long 
a time (which, by the « way, is all the salt fish 
usually gets), only makes a kind of pickle, in 
which, as long as the fish remains, it gets rid of 
very little of its original saltness. 

Dried cod may be prepared in the same manner 
as ling ; and it must also be observed that the 



TO PRESEEVE SALT FISH. 151 

smaller fish of either kind do not require to re- 
main so long a time in the water upon each soak- 
ing as those of large size. 

Dried salmon does not require much soaking. 
In fact, an hour in lukewarm water, or even less, 
if the fish be not very thick through, will he quite 
sufiicient, and if allowed to remain much longer, 
the flavour will be impaired. After being taken 
out of the water, it should be allowed to drain 
for half an hour, or perhaps a short time longer, 
before it is dressed. One soaking only will be 
required. 

Ked herrings and anchovies should be merely 
washed in hot water before they are dressed, 
the former being allowed to remain in it for 
about three or four minutes afterwards ; but the 
latter should be taken out immediately after they 
have been thoroughly washed and scraped. 

Eed herrings are sometimes prepared by being 
steeped in boiling beer, in which they are allowed 
to remain until the liquid becomes cold. 



SECTION IL 

How TO CUBB iin> FBB8BSVB FiSH. 

The business of preserving salt fish usually 
devolves upon fish-curers residing at the stations 

L 4 



152 HOW TO CLEAN AND PEE8EEVE FISH. 

where the fish are captured ; but we consider it 
may not be altogether superfluous, in a work of 
this kind, to point out the various modes in which 
it may be done, for the convenience of any of our 
readers who may feel inclined to put them into 
jM-actice, 

When the fish are only intended to be pre- 
served for a few days before they are dressed^ 
then, if the weather be cool, merely a slight 
sprinkling of salt will be a better plan than 
throwing the fish mto a strong pickle, which wiU 
soon destroy the curdy appearance of the flakes, 
whilst the strength of the salt will extract a great 
portion of its true flavour. If the fish is to be 
kept over more than one day, all the salt should 
be washed off* on the second day, and fresh salt 
sprinkled over it; this will prevent a tainted 
taste, which will otherwise be imparted to it, par- 
ticularly when the fish is allowed to lie flat on its 
side in a dish. To prevent this, where fish are 
intended to be kept only for a day or two, and 
the weather is cool, it is a good plan to take out 
the eyes and fiU up the apertures with salt, rub- 
bing at the same time a small quantity over the 
rest of the fish, particularly the inside and the 
interstices about the backbone. Having done this, 
the fish should be hung up by the head in a cool 
place. If the weather is at all warm, it will be 



TO PRESEEVE FISH WITHOUT SALT. 153 

advisable to make an incision on one side of the 
backbone, from the very junction of the head to 
the body down nearly to the tail, and fill up the 
aperture with salt ; for it is always about the back- 
bone that the fish becomes first tainted ; so that, if 
the weather is very imfavourable for keeping fish^ 
the safest plan will be to cut out the backbond 
altogether and fiU in plenty of salt in its place. 

In cool weather, if you wish to avoid imparting 
too much saltness to your fish, you may call in 
the aid of pepper, and thus render less salt neces- 
sary. This is particularly well adapted to fish 
that are intended for broiling; and you may also 
add a little ground mace or allspice. 
. If you are desirous of keeping your fish for 
any length of time, so as to preserve its original 
flavour untainted with saltness, the best plai;! is 
partially to dress in a way suited to the mode in 
which it is to be finally prepared for the table. 
If simply to be boiled or fried, then the fish may 
be about half-done in either of those modes ; and 
if intended for stewing or currie, then the frying 
part of the process may be previously gone 
through; and by this means, in mild weather, the 
fish may be kept good for two or three days 
without the aid of salt or other mode of preserva- 
tion than that we have recommended. 

Parboiling salmon soon after it is caught is an 



154 HOW TO CLEAN AND FBESEBYE FISH. 

excellent way of preserving its curdy flakes^ when 
you find it desirable to keep it for several days 
before it is finally cooked for the table. Another 
way of preserving salmon without the aid of salt, 
the latter of which is considered to extract much 
of the richness of its taste, is to hang it up in a 
cool place, wash out the inside every day with 
Tinegar, and afterwards to throw a quantity of 
I)epper over the same parts. 

When fish are intended to be regularly salted 
in and preserved for a length of time, considerable 
attention will be required in every stage of the 
proceeding, as a slight neglect in any one of them 
may render all the others unavailing. The fish 
usually prepared in this manner are ling, cod, 
hake, pollock, whiting, and the torsk, and gur- 
nards of all sorts and kinds, as also herrings, 
pilchards, and sprats; salmon and salmon-peel 
may be cured in this manner. In the western 
parts of Cornwall dogfish and morgays, and* 
mackerel, are preserved as salt fish, besides rays of 
every sort and description. The latter kind of 
fish are first well scrubbed, to get off the slime, 
and are then immersed in a strong pickle of brine ; 
in which they are kept for ten days or a fort- 
night. They are then taken out, and submitted 
to a second scrubbing and pickling; and, after 
remaining about four or five days more in the 



LING^ GOD^ HAKE, SALMON, ETC. 155 

pickle, are hung up to dry in sheds, being ex- 
posed to the open air and sun whenever the 
opportunity permits. Gurnards are also cured in 
precisely the same manner. The latter are also 
very good when smoked like red-herrings. We 
once tried rubbing the prepared smoking liquid 
over these fishes when dried and salted, and found 
them excellent. 

Ling, cod, hake, and the rest of the cod tribe 
are split open by the back; and the intestines 
being extracted, they are immersed in pickle for 
about ten days or a fortnight. They are then 
taken out, and, being well rubbed with dry salt, 
are hung out to dry, a small stick being thrust 
through them, as we see in the carcases of sheep, 
pigs, and oxen, to keep the body of the fish in a 
proper position ; as well for the purpose of giving 
it a good appearance as to place it in the most 
&vourable form for drying. 

But Hub drying process is a very tedious one; 
for, before it is thoroughly completed, the fish 
require firequent exposure to the sun and air; 
and if a violent shower of rain comes on before 
they can be collected and put in a place of 
shelter, they sustain considerable injury ; and are 
spoilt altogether if allowed to remain until the 
rain has thoroughly saturated them. 

When salmon, or any of the salmon tribe, are 



156 HOW TO CLEAN AKD PRESEEVE FISH. 

salted, it is an improvement to make the pickle 
with equal portions of salt and saltpetre. Hake 
are also cured in the same way, when they are 
intended to be smoked as weU as dried. This 
smoking process is a great improvement to salted 
hake, as it also is to all the salmon tribe ; and 
may be done in the same way as hams or bacon. 
When fish are kept in pickle only, they should 
be taken out after they have been a week or ten 
days in the brine, and be thoroughly washed — 
piiping over it il tixe best way rand new picUe 
being made, the fish should be cast into it, and 
there allowed to remain imtil required for use. 
When wanted for the table, they should be watered 
and drained, for the purpose of extracting the salt, 
in the same manner as dried salt fish. Keeping 
fish in pickle improves the colour, or rather pre- 
serves it better than when the fish is thoroughly 
dried; but if kept for any great length of time, 
it is difficult to extract the excessive saltness 
which it imbibes there. 



ON THE COOKERY OF FISH. 157 



CHAP. IV. 

OX THE COOKEBY OF FISH. 

And now we enter upon the most important por* 
tion of our subject, which is the actual cookery of 
fish in all its various branches ; as boiling, frying, 
broiling, stewing, curries, roasting and baking 
in every sort of way, pies, patties, soups, potting, 
pickling and marinating, and, in short, every 
device and contrivance that gastronomic ingenuity 
has invented for the purpose of turning this valu- 
able commodity to the most advantageous pur- 
poses. These different modes we purpose treating 
of in the same order which we have here laid 
down ; and although, by dint of mere uistructions, 
we cannot hope to make a perfect cook, we still 
trust the instructions we shall be enabled to give 
will show how every kind of fish may be ren- 
dered most available, and how a vast number of 
fishes, all easily procured, but hitherto neglected, 
may be converted into most useful articles of 
food, and even of actual luxury, at a lower rate 



158 THE GOOBLEBY OF FISH. 

than we can procure the most common and 
coarsest kinds of food. 



SECTION I. 
How TO BOIL Fish. 



Boilings although apparently so simple a' 
process, is one by which, through carelessness 
and inattention^ more fish are spoilt outright 
than by any mode of cookery whatever. What, 
indeed, can be more imsightly or more unpala- 
table than fish sent to table a mere mass of rags 
and tatters, except what may also be just as often 
seen, a fish produced half-raw ; and, in addition to 
both these defects, covered with the scum of the 
boiler, or half-deluged in water, for want of a fish- 
drain upon the dish, or from the slovenly manner 
in which it has been dished up? 

One great cause why fish are so often badly 
boiled is, that they are merely cast into a kettle, 
and there allowed to remain until they are con- 
sidered sufficiently cooked, without any consider- 
ation as to the rate at which the water is boiling. 

To boil a fish of any considerable size in a 
proper manner, it should be put into cold water ; 
and as soon as it begins to boil strongly, its force 



HOW TO BOIL FISH. 159 

should be instantly checked, either by throwing 
in a small quantity of cold water, or removing the 
kettle from too close a contact with the fire; 
which must be continued from time to time, so that 
the water may only boil gently, until every por- 
tion of the fish is thoroughly dressed. If allowed 
to boil away fiercely, the skin would be split, and 
the outer portion overdone, while the parts near 
the backbone would be utterly raw. Care also 
must be taken to keep the kettle covered, lest 
soot or any other dirt should fall into it, and 
the cover merely taken ofP from time to time for 
the purpose of removing any scum that may have 
arisen upon the surface. 

Small, tender fish, such as whiting and cod- 
lings for instance, should not be put in until the 
water boils ; but in all other respects the process 
should be conducted in the same way as with fish 
of a more bulky size and solid nature. 

When the fish is done enough, the fish-plate 
should be lifted up gently ; then, holding it over 
the kettle, allow the water to drain off; which 
being done, place the fish on a fish-drain or upon 
a clean napkin, taking care not to do so as long as 
a drop of water continues to flow from it. Do not 
dish it up, however, until the moment before it is 
to be sent to table ; for although it may be kept 
warm for a considerable time under a cover. 



160 TH£ COOBLEBY OF FISH. 

the damp arising from the steam will counteract 
in a considerable degree the good effect of your 
placing the fish dry upon the dish, and if cir- 
cumstances prevent you from being able to send 
the fish to table as soon as it is done, then the 
best way to keep it warm is to allow it to remain 
on the tin plate, which must be placed across the 
top of the kettle, the upper side of the fish being 
covered up with a clean cloth. 

Salt, vinegar, and horseradish thrown into the 
water in which the fish is boiled is very good, 
not only for improving its flavour, but abo pre-* 
serving its appearance, by preventing the skin 
from breaking. 

How to boil a CocTs Head and Shoulders. 

A large cod should never be boiled entire ; as 
the part near the tail being much thinner than 
about the shoulders, the former portion would be 
overdone before the thicker part would be much 
more than half-cooked. For this reason, therefore, 
the fish should always be dressed in portions. 
The head extremity, being the part most esteemed, 
is usually made the company dish. 

In order that it may be properly boiled, the 
head and shoulders should be bound with broad 
tape three or four times round before the fish is 
committed to the kettle, for the purpose of pre- 



HOW TO BOIL PISH. 161 

venting the cheeks from breaking away, as they 
are otherwise apt to do ; the kettle should con- 
tain sufficient cold water to cover the fish, and to 
this should be added a handful of salt, a bundle 
of sweet herbs, a couple of wine-glasses of vine- 
gar, and a little shred horseradish. When the 
water boils, it must be checked in the manner 
before directed *, and kept boiling gently, until it 
is done enough. A moderate sized head and 
shoulders will take about half an hour. 

You may ascertain whether or not the fish is 
sufficiently done by inserting a fish-slice at the 
backbone, when, if you can raise the flesh clear 
off it, and it appears white and done, the fish is 
ready for the table. Cod, if crimped, will take a 
shorter time than if dressed in a solid piece. 
When you take up the fish, unwind the tape 
carefully, so that none of the skin may be broken,, 
and dish up the fish according to the directions 
we have previously laid down. If you intend to 
dress either the spawn or the liver, it must not be 
done in the body of the fish, but be placed along- 
side it in the kettle, where, if it be at all large, it 
must remain for a short time after the fish is 
taken up ; for it takes a longer time to become 
thoroughly done than the fish itself, and hence it 
is that we so often see the middle part of a roe 

♦ See page 159. 
M 



162 THE COOKEEY OP FISH. 

Bent to table in a half raw state. Garnish with 
scraped horseradish^ and place the roes and liver 
by the side. If the fish has a soft roe, it should 
be fried instead of boiled. 

Oyster sauce is the proper axjcompaniment to a 
boiled cod's head and shoulders; next come cockle 
sauce, shrimp, crab, lobster, Comubian sauce, or 
anchoyy ; although there is no kind of fish sauce 
that may not be eaten with it. Mustard, with 
plain melted butter, is also well suited to it, and, 
indeed, mustard mixed with most kinds of sauces 
is found to give them an improved flavour. 

Codlings may be boiled entire. Previously to 
cooking the latter, it is a good plan to take out 
their eyes and fill up the sockets with salt, as 
they become more firm and flake out better when 
powdered with salt for a day or two before they 
are eaten, than they will be found to do when 
cooked perfectly fresh. 

To boil Ling* 

Ling may be boiled in exactly the same way as 
a cod ; but as the skin of the former is more firm 
than that of a cod, it is unnecessary to bind up 
the cheeks in the manner we have directed for 
the latter. There is also this difference between 
the tail portion of a cod and a ling, that the latter 
will take as long to be thoroughly boiled as the 
head and shoulders of the fish, there not being 



HOW TO BOIL PISH. 163 

that disproportion of the solidity of those parts 
as in the codfish. Boiled ling should be accom- 
panied with the same sauces as codfish, and be 
garnished and served up in the same manner. 
The tail portion of the ling is considered superior 
to the head, or any other part; and the nearer 
the extremity of the tail, the more agreeable is 
the flavour. 

To boil Pollacksy HakeSy Haddocks^ and Whiting. 

These fish, if not very large, may be boiled en- 
tire. They do not take so long in boiling as a 
cod or ling of the same weight, and should be 
placed in boiling instead of cold water ; but they 
must be kept boiling gently. They may all be 
eaten with the same sauces as the cod ; but mus- 
tard mixed up with melted butter is particularly 
well adapted for whiting, and can only be ex- 
ceeded by Comubian sauce ; some of the latter 
being mixed up with the mustard. 

To boil Cod£ Sounds and Tongues. 

Previously to the boiling, the tongues and 
sounds must be steeped for three or four hours in 
warm milk and water, and then thoroughly 
scraped and cleansed. After this, they must be 
put into a saucepan, with fresh milk and water, 
in which they should boil very gently until they 

M 2 



164 . THE COOKEEY OF PISH, 

become tender ; and when done, they should be 
served up accompanied with egg sauce. Mus- 
tard or Comubian sauce are the best accompani- 
ments. You may garnish either with scraped 
horseradish or boiled parsnips. The horseradish, 
and also the egg sauce is sometimes strewed over 
the sounds and tongues. 

To boil Salt Cody Ling^ or any other kind of Salt 

Fish, 

The fish, after being well watered and drained, 
pursuant to our previous directions*, should be 
boiled very slowly in water into which a wine- 
glass of vinegar and some shred horseradish 
should be cast. The fish must be put into cold 
and not boiling water, and boiled in all respects 
in the same way as we have directed a fresh cod 
to be done.t It should be served up with egg 
sauce, mustard, and plain melted butter, and may 
be garnished in the same manner, with shred 
horseradish or boiled parsnips, as with cods' sounds 
and tongues. 

To boil Salmon, 

Salmon, if large, should be boiled in portions, 
like a codfish ; if small, it may be dressed entire, 
and this is best done by fixing the tail in the 

• See page 149. f See page 161. 



HOW TO BOIL PISH. 165 

moudi by means of a skewer^ and boiling it in a 
turbot-kettle ; the fish being sent up to table 
resting on its belly, with the back uppermost. 
The spawn and liver may be placed beside it on 
the same dish. The salmon, like the cod, if 
dressed in a large piece and uncrimped, should 
be put into cold water, and boil rery gradually ; 
but if crimped or dressed in thin slices, it should 
be put at once into boiling water, in which, after 
permitting it to remain about a minute, lift up 
the drain, and letting the water flow off*, let it 
thus remain for about a couple of minutes, repeat- 
ing this once or twice afterwards, which will 
cause the curd to set, and make the fish eat more 
crisply ; then return it to the kettle, and let it con- 
tinue to boil at a gentle rate imtil done. 

The best sauce for salmon is lobster, shrimp, 
or anchovy ; it may also be eaten with ketchup, 
or soy, Comubian sauce, or vinegar. Sliced cu- 
cumber may also be eaten with it ; as also capers 
mixed up in melted butter, prepared in the same 
way as when eaten with boiled mutton. 

Trout and Salmon PeeL 

All these fishes should be boiled whole, and 
eaten with the same sauce as the salmon ; vine- 
gar and scraped horseradish should be put into 
the water with them, and, in taking them up, 

M 3 



166 THE COOKEEY OP FISH. .» 



•t 



allow the water to drain away from them, and 
take care to avoid breaking the skin. 

To boil Tench. 

This fish should be boiled in precisely the same 
way as the last, and served up garnished with 
sliced lemon, and chopped parsley, mixed up in 
melted butter. It may also be accompanied by 
slices of cucumber. 

Bassey Mullet, and Perch. 

All these should be boiled in the same manner 
as codlings and whitings. The two former may 
be eaten with crab, lobster, shrimp sauce, or 
anchovy; the latter with soy, ketchup, Comu- 
bian sauce. Chili, or common white wine vine- 
gar, to the latter of which may be added sliced 
cucumber. 

Gurnards. 

These fishes are boiled in the same manner 
as the last, and may be accompanied with crab 
sauce, which seems peculiarly adapted to them, 
but there are few, if any, sauces they eat amiss 
with. They should boil very gently, and care 
should be taken to prevent as much as possible 
the skin from breaking ; but this cannot be wholly 
prevented by any care or precaution, and the 



HOW TO BOIL PISH. 167. 

fresher the fish the more it occurs. These fish 
may also be boiled with a pudding in their bellies^ 
in the manner we shall direct a fresh water pike 
to be done. 

Herrings and Pilchards. 

These fish, when boiled, must be previously 
scaled and washed, and then rubbed over with 
vinegar and salt, and should be put into boiling 
water, and allowed to boil away at a moderate 
rate for about ten minutes, and should be eaten 
with parsley and butter, or mustard mixed up 
with melted butter. Pilchards may be eaten 
with raw onions chopped up fine. 

To boil a Pike. 

A pike, when boiled, should always be dressed 
with a forcemeat pudding in its belly, which 
should be prepared as follows : bread-crumbs, a 
small portion of sweet herbs and parsley chopped 
fine, a little lemon peel, a good sized piece of 
butter mixed up with the yolks of a couple of 
eggs, and seasoned with nutmeg, cayenne, com- 
mon pepper and salt ; a few oysters chopped up 
will make a valuable, but not indispensable, addi- 
tion. The pudding must be served up in the 
belly of the fish, which should then have its tail 
skewered in its mouth, and be boiled and served 

M 4 



168 THE COOKERY OF FISH* 

up in the same manner as we have previously 
directed for a salmon.* Garnish with sliced 
lemon, and serve it up with plain melted butter. 

Eels and Congers. 

Neither of these fishes should be boiled, 
unless of large size. Eels should be first 
skinned, but the skin must be retained upon 
congers; but either kind should be cut up in 
small portions, to disguise their snake-like form, 
and for the same reason most persons throw the 
head away. They should be served up with 
chopped parsley, mixed up in melted butter. 

To boil a Turbot. 

Great attention is required to boil a turbot 
properly, for being, when in prime order, a very 
thick and solid fish, as compared with the rest of 
the flounder tribe, it necessarily takes some time 
to boil thoroughly, and if the process be con- 
ducted carelessly the skin is very apt to break, 
which not only injures the appearance of the fish, 
but in some degree deteriorates from its goodness. 
To prevent this some preliminary steps are neces- 
sary, both in preparing the water, as well as the 
fish itself, before it is put into it. 

* See page 165. 



HOW TO BOIL PISH. 169 

In the first place^ see that your kettle is suffi- 
ciently large, and then pour into it water enough 
to cover the fish, and throw in a handful of 
salt, half a pint of vinegar, some pieces of shred 
horseradish, and sweet herbs ; let all these in- 
gredients boil up for some time in the water, so 
that it may imbibe all their strength ; then lift 
ofPthe kettle and allow the water to become per- 
fectly cooL Then take the turbot, and scoring 
it just through the skin on the dark side (which 
is the most effectual means of preventing it 
from cracking on the other), place your fish in the 
kettle, with the dark side downwards, and as soon 
as the water boils check it as before directed.* 
A moderate sized turbot will take about twenty 
minutes, and a large one from five-and-twenty 
minutes to half an hour boiling. When done 
enough, take care to drain it well, lay it on a 
napkin placed upon a fish-drain, and serve it up 
garnished with sliced lemon, and scraped horse- 
radish strewed over the fish. The spawn of a 
hen lobster spread over the white side of the fish 
gives it a very elegant and attractive appearance. 

It should be accompanied with lobster, or 
shrimp, or crab sauce. Anchovy, soy, ketchup, 
Cornubian sauce, or vinegar, may also be eaten 
with it, as may also sliced cucumber. 

* See page 159. 



170 THE COOKERY OP PISH. 

Brills, Plaice, FlounderSy and small Halibut 

All these fish may be prepared and boiled in 
the same manner as a turbot ; but it must always 
be kept in mind that not being so thick and solid 
they will not take so long a time in their cookery. 
They may all be eaten with the same sauces as a 
turbot^ except that crab sauce is better adapted 
than any other kind whatever to a boiled plaice. 

The larger halibuts are usually boiled cut up 
in portions, and a turbot may also be dressed in 
the same way. 

To boil Soles, 

These fish should be skinned on both sides 
previously to boiling, and should have a littie 
shred horseradish, a wine glass of vinegar, and 
a littie salt cast into the water ; they should boil 
very gently, and care should be taken to skim off 
all the sciun. Serve up either with shrimp, 
lobster, crab, or anchovy sauce. Garnish with 
sliced lemon, and strew a little shred horseradish 
over the fish. 

To boil Scats. 

This fish, being prepared as before directed*, 
should be placed in boiling water, and boil for about 
a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. As the 

♦ See page 147. 



HOW TO BOIL PISH. 171 

thinner parts do not take so long a time as the 
thicker in dressing, the latter should be put into 
the water first. Crab sauce is the best accom- 
paniment ; but if that cannot be procured, you 
may substitute anchovy or Comubian sauce. 

To boil Sturgeon. 

The fish should be placed in sufficient cold 
water to cover it, into which should be cast some 
pieces of lemon peel or stick of horseradish, some 
whole pepper, and a pint of vinegar to every two 
quarts of water. Carry on the boiling process 
in the same way as in cooking a cod's head and 
shoulders.* Garnish with sliced lemon and scraped 
horseradish, and serve it up with crab or lobster 
sauce, plain melted butter, and anchovy sauce. 
Sliced cucumber may also be served up with it. 

To boil Mackerel. 

No fish is so easily boiled as mackerel, pro- 
vided you only boil them long enough, as none 
requires so much boiling to make it firm ; and, 
like an egg, the longer you boil them the harder 
they become; for we have known instances where 
they have been allowed to boil for upwards of 
three hours, and yet were not only firm and 
solid, but the flavour not in the slightest degree 

* See page 161. 



172 THE COOKERY OP PISH. 

impaired. This is very unaccountable, as every 
other kind of fish we are acquainted with would 
have been boiled to rags, or a mere pulp, or dis- 
solved altogether by such a mode of treatment. 
If any one doubts what we have stated, they 
have only to try the experiment to set all such 
doubts at rest. 

Chopped fennel in melted butter is the proper 
sauce for boiled mackerel; some persons eat 
green gooseberries with them. 

To boil Crabs, Lobsters^ and Crayfish. 

Let the water boil fiercelv, then cast into it a 
handM or two of salt, and then plunge in the 
crab or lobster. About a quarter of an hour will 
boil a large crab or lobster, but a smaller one will 
do in lesser time. 

A crab may be killed by cutting off a portion 
of one of its legs between the joints, when it will 
speedily bleed to death ; but if the leg be divided 
at a joint, the contraction of the muscles will 
prevent the blood from flowing, and thus the 
desired effect will be prevented. 

Prawns and Shrimps 
Are often utterly spoilt in undergoing the 
process of boiling, though, if properly managed, 
it is very simple and easy. First have the 



HOW TO FRY FISH. 173 

water boiling briskly, throw into it a handful or 
two of salt, and then cast in the prawns or 
shrimps^ which, as soon as they are done enough, 
will float upon the surface. They should then 
be emptied out into a cullender, and as soon 
as the water has drained off from them, they 
should be thrown into a dry towel, and a good 
quantity of salt strewed over and rubbed into 
them quicUy, wMst they remain hot, which 
having done, wrap them up in the towel, and 
there allow them to remain until they become 
quite cold. 

To boil Cockles and Mussels. 

These only require to be placed in a stew-pan 
over a brisk fire. No water will be required, as 
the liquor which oozes from their shells will be 
ample for the purpose. As soon as the shells are 
sufficiently open to permit you to extract the 
animal substance within, they are dressed. 



SECTION II. 
How TO FBT Fish. 



Notwithstanding the wretched examples of 
fried fish we have often met with at the tables 
of our acquaintance, there is no branch in the art 



174 THE COOKEBT OP PISH, 

of cookery more easy to attain, if the proper 
means are but duly attended to. 

In the first place, the fire should be clear and 
free from smoke, and yet not bum too fiercely. 

Secondly, the frying pan must be clean, and 
not overworn in the service, as in the latter case 
the fish win be likely to stick to it, and also to 
become burnt and discoloured. 

Thirdly, the pan should be properly prepared 
by being moistened with a little butter or lard, 
which should be melted in it over the fire, and 
when completely dissolved, the pan should be 
wiped out with a cloth before the fat in which 
the fish is intended to be fried is cast into it. 

Fourthly, the lard, butter, dripping, oil, or 
whatever material the fish is to be fried in, must 
not be stinted in quantity. This should also be 
allowed to be not only completely dissolved, but 
also to boil up before the fish itself is placed in 
the frying-pan. 

Fifthly, the fish itself should be thoroughly 
dried and folded in a cloth, and either well 
dredged with flour, or completely coated with egg 
and bread-crumb. 

Sixthly, when once in the frying-pan, the 
fish must never be left for one moment un- 
attended to, and must fry at a moderate rate, and 
when one side is done enough, it must be care- 



HOW TO FEY PISH. 176 

fully turned over with a fish-slice on the other, 
until that side also is thoroughly cooked. 

When done sufficiently, let all the fat drain off, 
which is best done by means of a hair sieve ; 
then place the fish on a fish drain, or if intended 
for company, place it on a napkin. 

Oil is generally considered the best material to 
fry fish in, but we have found hog's lard answer 
the purpose equally well, besides the advantage of 
being much cheaper. Beef and pork dripping 
may also be used, but the dripping of mutton 
does not answer so well, as it is apt to impart 
a muttony flavour to the fish. Butter does not 
&y fish so well as dripping, and should not be 
used when the latter can be procured, except 
when the fish is to be merely partly fried as a 
preliminary stage to the stewing process, when 
good fresh butter will be the proper thing to be 
used. 

If the above rules 'are careftJly adhered to, 
there will be no difficulty whatever in attaining 
the desired object. 

How to fry Cod. 

The portion of a codfish best adapted for 
frying is the thin part about the tail, which 
should be split dose to the backbone^ the latter 



176 THE COOKERY OP FISH. 

of which may be either cut out entirely, or one 
side may be fried with a portion of the bone 
adhering to it. This portion of the cod is usually 
fried without being coated over with any egg and 
bread-crumbs; and should be served up with 
plain melted butter, and eaten with anchovy, 
Comubian sauce, soy or ketchup. 

If the thicker parts of the fish are fried, they 
should be cut in slices of about an inch in 
thickness, through the backbone, and may be done 
either with or without egg and bread-crumbs. 

Large haddocks, ling, whiting pollack, coal- 
fish, and large bass, may also be prepared and 
served up in the same manner. 

Codlings^ small Haddocks, and Pollack, 

Having scaled the fish, and washed it clear 
from all slime, open them by the back close 
to the backbone, and split them down to the 
very tail, leaving the belly-part entire; then 
taking out the intestines, and thoroughly cleans- 
ing the backbone, flour and dry your fish, and 
fry them in plenty of dripping until they become 
of a fine pale brown, managing them very care- 
fully, particularly in turning them in the frying- 
pan, as they are very tender and apt to break in 
pieces if at all roughly handled. When done, 
drain off the fat, and serve them up garnished 



HOW TO PET PISH. X77 

with fried parsley^ and accompanied with plain 
melted butter^ mustard and vinegar^ and anchovy 
or Comubian sauce. 

To fry Whiting. 

Fix the tail of the fish in its mouthy in which 
position it can be secured by means of a small 
wooden skewer, although it jfrequently happens 
that the long, sharp teeth of the fish are alone 
sufficient for the purpose ; then, having the fish 
perfectly dry, rub the body over with an egg 
beaten up, and then sprinkle it plentifully with 
bread-crumbs; after which place each fish so 
prepared upon its beUy in the frying-pan, with 
plenty of dripping all ready, in the manner we 
have previously mentioned, and fry them very 
gently until the under-side is done, and then turn 
them over carefully, and let them fry at the same 
rate until thoroughly cooked. Be sure not to 
stint the dripping, for if you do, you will pro- 
bably spoil your fish. When done, garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve them up on a napkin, 
accompanied with plain melted butter, mustard, 
vinegar, Comubian sauce, anchovy, soy, or 
ketchup. K Comubian sauce, which is particu- 
larly well adapted to whiting cooked in the above 
manner, is used, mixing it with mustard is by many 
considered an improvement. Whitings are some- 

N 



178 THE COOKEET OF FISH. 

times skinned previously to being coated with 
egg and bread-crumbs. 

In order that the fried parsley may look well, 
and retain its colour, after being well washed, 
it should be thrown into boiling dripping, but 
must only be permitted to stay there for a few 
seconds, which will crisp it suflGlciently, with- 
out destroying its colour, as it would certainly do 
if allowed to remain much longer. 

The mode of frying whiting we have just 
mentioned, is better adapted to small or moderate 
sized fish than to those of any considerable size ; 
the latter of which when fried are either split up 
in the way we have directed codlings and had- 
docks to be done, or else, without being split, are 
cut up into two or three pieces, in which form 
they are often employed to garnish some larger 
kind of boiled fish. We ourselves, however, con- 
sider it a bad plan to associate boiled and fried 
fish together in the same dish, as the steam arising 
from the former must necessarily prove injurious 
to the latter, and which, on that account, should 
always be served up in a separate dish. Habit 
probably has reconciled us to the inconsistency 
of placing boiled and fried on the same dish, but 
in which there is no more real propriety than 
there would be in placing fried mutton chops or 
veal cutlets as a garnish for a boiled round of 



HOW TO FEY FISH, 179 

beef, which, if so produced at table, would ex- 
cite no small degree of amazement amongst the 

company. 

'^^ fry fFhitinff'pouts, 

These fish are delicious if they can be procured 
perfectly fresh, and be properly fried afterwards, 
the latter of which is not a very easy task, even 
for a practised hand, as these fish are exceedingly 
tender, and, from being required to be dressed 
fresh, axe apt to curl up in the frying-pan and 
break in frying, in spite of all the care that may 
be taken to prevent it. The best way, however, is, 
after scaling and gutting the fish, which must be 
by the belly, to dry them with a cloth for an hour 
or so before they are required for the frying-pan, 
and, previously to placing them there, dredge 
them well with flour or egg and bread-crumbs, 
and fry them in plenty of dripping, until they are 
thoroughly done and become brown and crisp; 
then serve them up garnished with sliced lemon, 
and accompanied with the same sauces as whiting. 
Any kind of small fish may be fried to advantage 
by following these rules. 

To fry Hake. 

This fish should always be fried in cutlets, which 
makes one of the best dishes of fish that can be 
placed on a dinner-table. They should be prepared 

N 2 



180 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

as follows : — Cut the cutlets lengthwise^ and not 
across the body of the fish^ of about the length 
and breadth^ but of twice the thickness^ of an 
ordinary veal cutlet, the fish being previously 
well scaled and gutted, and the backbone ex- 
tracted in the manner we have already pointed 
out*, but the skin must be retained ; then, drying 
the pieces well in a cloth, cover them plentiAilly 
with egg and bread-crumbs, and when dressed 
serve them up in a dean napkin, and garnish wiHi 
Med parsley and sliced lemon. Melted butter and 
the same sauces may be eaten with it as with 
whiting. 

The head, backbone, the portions about the 
fins, and other parts not adapted for cutlets, may, 
however, be turned to very good account in fur- 
nishing the materials for a gravy to accompany 
the cutlets, the directions for making which will 
be duly given when we come to treat of fish- 
gravies, — a subject by no means to be passed 
over lightly, though it is a branch of the art of 
cookery which people in general know little about, 
or seldom attempt to carry into practice. 

* See page 143. 



HOW TO PKT FISH. 181 

To fry Eels. 

Eels require to be cut up in pieces before they 
are fried. If large, they should be done very 
slowly, and in an ample supply of dripping. 
Egg and bread-crumbs should be sprinkled over 
them ; to this parsley and sweet herbs, chopped 
up very fine, are sometimes added. Serve them 
up with plain melted butter, and also chopped 
parsley in melted butter; capers are also con- 
sidered u good accompaniment, as a corrective of 
the fiit, luscious flavour of these fishes, which 
is found too strong for delicate stomachs, and for 
the same reason we consider the Comubian sauce 
particularly well suited to them ; still, any of the 
sauces we have before mentioned may be used. 
The heads, from their snake-like form, should 
never be prepared and served up with the other 
parts. 

To fry Congers. 

The smaller kind of congers are fried cut up 
in the same way as eels, but are not previously 
deprived of their skins ; the heads and the por- 
tions near the tail are, however, often rejected, 
the former from its snake-like look, and the latter 
on account of the quantity of small, wiry bones 
that abound in that portion of the body, and 
prove exceedingly troublesome; still these re- 

V 3 



182 THE COOEJBET 0£> FISH. 

jected parts serve to make a gravy for the other 
parts^ and may also be converted into an excellent 
soup^ as we shall duly notice hereafter. 

To fiy conger properly, the process must be 
twice gone through. First, the pieces must be 
put mto the fiying-pan with a moderate quantity 
of dripping, in wHch the fish must be first par- 
tially fried, for the purpose of extractinsc the 
watery paxides from Z^body, .}A6kTLng 
with the fat in the pan, causes a considerable 
frizzing, and in this the fish would never fry to a 
proper brown colour. Let the frying, however, 
go on until the frizzing begins to subside, and 
then take out the fish, and having poured away 
the contents of the pan, wiped it out, and put in 
plenty of fresh dripping, replace it on the fire, and 
when the dripping is melted and begins to boil, 
put in the pieces of conger again, and let them 
fry gently until thoroughly dressed. When done, 
serve it up with plain melted butter, parsley and 
butter, or fennel sauce ; anchovy, soy, ketchup, 
or Comubian sauce may also be eaten with it. 

If a fish-gravy is made from the other parts, it 
should be served up in boats with the melted 
butter. 



HOW TO FRY FISH. 183 

To fry Lampreys. 

The sea lamprey should always be split up 
p«Tiou8ly to frying, and the gristle which sup- 
plies the place of a backbone extracted. Only 
the parts below the holes or gill apertures are fit 
to be eaten ; the slime should also be well scraped 
off^ but the skin should be retained. It should 
be fried imtil it becomes a fine pale-brown, and 
should previously be well coated with flour, or 
estST and bread-crumbs. 

T^. smaU river lamprey may be fried cut up 
in small pieces like an eel, and without being 
split open, the slime being first cleaned away, 
and the parts above the gill-holes cut ofi* and 
cast away. They should be eaten with chopped 
parsley and butter. 

To fry Perclu 

Perch, previously to being fried, should be 
opened by the belly, and all the fins cut off close to 
the body ; care also must be taken to scale them 
thoroughly, which often proves a troublesome affair, 
on account of the great tenacity with which the 
scaley coating adheres to their bodies. When 
cleaned and scaled, they should be well dried, 
and then, being coated in egg and bread-crumbs, 
should be fried of a light-brown. Gumish with 
fried parsley and sliced lemon, and serve them up 

H 4 



184 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

with plain melted butter. Many of the fish- 
sauces we have previously mentioned may be 
eaten with this fish. Bufies and weevers, and 
also shads^ or the fry of the sea-bream may be 
cooked and served up in the same manner. 

To fry Bass and Mullet 

Small bass and muUet^ that is, fishes of either 
of these kinds^ of less than half a pound weight, 
should be prepared and Med in the same manner 
as we have just before directed for cooking 
perch; when they exceed the above-mentioned 
size they should be split open by the back^ and 
filed in the way we have before directed for cod-* 
lings and haddock. A very large bass should, 
however, be cut up in steaks, in the way we have 
ordered a cod to be done; but a large mullet 
should be cut up in cutlets in the same manner 
as a hake. The head, bones, and other super- 
fluous parts will serve as materials for a gravy. 

Serve up with plain melted butter, and any of 
the fish-sauces we have before mentioned may be 
eaten with either of these fishes. 

To fry Wrasse. 

Scale them thoroughly, and cutting off" all their 
fins close to the body, pepper and salt them well, 
and hang them up to dry for three or four hours 



HOW TO PBT PISH. 185 

before you attempt to fiy them^ which must be 
done in plenty of dripping ; and they should be 
fried very brown, to get rid as much as possible 
of the watery softness which makes all these 
fishes so little prized as articles of food. 

To fry Gurnards. 

Gurnards of every kind, when intended for the 
frying-pan, may be opened by the back or belly, 
the slime and scales having been previously 
scraped off, and the fins all cut away close to the 
body ; they should be well dried and thoroughly 
dredged with flour, but without using any egg or 
bread-crumbs. They should be fried in the same 
manner as codlings and haddocks ; but being a 
more solid fish, they will take a longer time in 
doing. Garnish with fried parsley and sliced 
lemon. Crab, lobster, shrimp, or oyster sauce 
makes a very agreeable accompaniment, but 
every kind offish-sauce is suited to them. 

To fry Carp and Tench. 

Carp are not often fried, except as a prepara- 
tory step to the stewing process ; but when they 
are to be dressed entirely by frying, they must 
be done in precisely the same manner as the 
perch. K the fish has a roe, it should be fried 
separately, and not in the body of the fish; and. 



186 TH£ OOOKEBT OF FISH. 

if laige^ will take a longer time to be thoroughly 
done than the fish itsel£ Gumish with fried 
parsley and sliced lemon^ and the roes of the fish, 
one lobe being placed on each side of it. The 
sauce should be melted butter and anchovy^ with 
a slight squeeze of lemon in it. 

Tench may be fried in the same way, but 
should be served up with parsley and butter, or 
fennel-sauce; yet any of the other sauces we have 
mentioned may be eaten with it. 

To fry Rtidds, Bream, Boach, Dace, Chub, and 

BarbeL 

All these fish should be prepared in the some 
manner as the perch, but should be fried very 
thoroughly, so as to extract the water, and give 
them something of a firmness, which frying, 
better than any other process, is calculated to 
produce on soft, watery, and insipid fishes, as all 
these most undoubtedly are. They should^ 
therefore, be fried until they become perfectly 
brown and crisp, and then, if eaten with an- 
chovy or Comubian sauce, mixed up in melted 
butter, they will serve as a passable dish of fish 
when no better kinds can be procured. 



HOW TO FET FISH* 187 

To fry Mackerel and Garfish. 

These fish^ when intended to be Med^ should 
be opened by the back^ and being thoroughly 
dried, may be fried, either dredged over with 
flour or egg and bread-crumbs* They must be 
fried in plenty of dripping, and of a deep-brown 
colour. They may be served up either with 
parsley and butter, or fenneL Comubian sauce, 
mustard and vinegar, mixed up m melted butter, 
is the best sauce, as it conceals the excessive rich- 
ness which so often causes these fish, if eaten in 
quantity, to disagree with many constitutions; 
but they will eat very agreeably with anchovy, 
soy, or ketchup. 

Gurfish, after being well scaled and the fins cut 
ofi*, should be opened by the back, and the back- 
bone taken out ; then, being cut in pieces, should 
be fried in the same manner until done thoroughly 
brown. They may be served up in the same way, 
and eaten with the same sauces, as mackerel ; the 
latter of which they very much resemble in 
flavour, but are rather dryer. 

To fry Sand Launce^ Sprats and Minnows. 

All these little fishes are cleaned by nipping off 
their heads just below the gill-covers, and draw- 
ing out the intestines, the scales and slime being 
rubbed off with a rough towel, and being dried 



188 THB GOOKBBY OF FISH. 

in a doth and well dredged with flour^ should be 
filed thoroughly brown and crisp^ so that tihe 
smaller fish may be eaten bones and ally without 
danger or inconvenience. Gramish with sliced 
lemon^ and serve them up with plain melted 
butter. 

To fry Whitebait 

Dry them thoroughly, then, dipping them in 
egg, throw them in some flour, giving them a 
shake, so that plenty of flour may adhere to their 
bodies, and then, placmg them in a frying-pan, 
with plenty of dripping, continue to dredge them 
wiA flour aU the time they are fiymg, until it 
forms a complete coating over them. Take care 
to keep them all in motion, so that they may not 
adhere to each other, or stick to the frying-pan. 
Serve them up with a lemon cut in halves, and 
eat them with brown bread and butter. Very 
small sprats or minnows may be cooked to advan- 
tage in the same way. 

To fry Herrings and Shads. 

Herrings, after being deprived of their scales, 
must be opened by the belly ; then take out the 
inside and preserve the roe, which must be fried 
separately. Then, having thoroughly cleansed the 



HOW TO FEY FISH. 189 

fish^ score it in three or four places across the body 
on both sides into the very backbone^ by which 
means the watery particles^ which are so objection- 
able in these fish^ will escape^ and the flesh will be- 
come crisp and firm. Dry and flour them weU^ and 
fry them till they are done perfectly brown, and 
garnish with the roes. Fried onions are also 
an excellent accompaniment with these fish^ and 
should be served up with the roes in the same 
dish with the fish. 

Mustard and vinegar mixed up in melted butter 
is the best sauce. 

Shads of both kinds may be fried and served* 
up in precisely the same manner as herrings. 

'^0 fry Pilchards* 

Pilchards should be thrown into the frying- 
pan just as they come out of the nets, and, if 
possible, care should be taken to select such only 
whose scales are perfect and entire. Very little 
dripping will suffice to fry them, as they are so 
fat and rich as to supply their own dripping. 
When done, serve them up in their scales, which 
may be easily removed when they are to be 
eaten by inserting a knife under, when the whole 
covering will come off entire. When a pilchard 
can be procured fresh and living from the sea, 
and cooked as soon after it expires as possible, it 



190 THE COOKEBY OF FISH. 

is extremely rich and delicious ; but^ from its tat 
and oily nature^ they soon become fat and rancid5 
BO that, except at the spot where they are taken, 
they cannot be partaken of in their highest state 
of perfection. These fish are usually eaten by 
the Cornish people with salt and water, with raw 
onion chopped up fine. We, however, consider 
plain melted butter, mixed up with mustard and 
vinegar, and fried chopped onions, to be a great 
improvement on the salt and water and raw 
onion. 

To fry Salmon. 

Cut your fish in slices of about a hand's thick- 
ness, fry them slowly of a pale-brown, and take 
care that they are done enough, and serve them 
up with plain melted butter and anchovy sauce. 
Sliced cucumber is also a pleasing accompani- 
ment. 

Another Way, 

Take your slices of fish in the proportions 
above mentioned, and after seasoning them with 
cayenne and pepper and salt, envelope them in 
white paper, and fry them imtil they are suffi- 
ciently done; then serve them up in the paper 
with plain melted butter and anchovy sauce ; 
some consider caper sauce as an agreeable accom- 
paniment. 



HOW TO F»T FISH, 191 



•, 



To fry Surmullet 

Prepare your surmullet according to the direc- 
tions we have previously laid down*, and, folding 
them up in white paper, fry them until thoroughly 
done, and then serve them up in the paper, ac- 
companied with plain melted butter, which, with 
their livers managed according to the instructions 
we have already given, is the only sauce that 
should be eaten with them. 

To fry Salmon^ Peal, Trout^ Grayliny, and 

Charr^ 

Any of these fish, if large, should, previously 
to being fried, be opened by the back, and cooked 
in every respect as mackerel have been directed 
to be done, and may be served up with the same 
sauces, as also with the addition of shrimp or 
lobster sauce. 

Small fish should be opened by the belly, and, 
being well coated with egg and bread-crumbs, 
should be fried brown and crisp, (jamish with 
fried parsley and sliced lemon, and serve them 
up witii plain melted butter and anchovy sauce. 

Smelts, Gudgeons, and Atherines 

May be prepared and cooked in the same manner 
as in the last receipt All these fish should be 

* See pages 146, 147. 



192 THE COOKBEY OF FISH. 

careAilly scaled — an operation we have often seen 
very carelessly done^ particularly with smelts and 
atherines. These fishes ought also be gutted, 
which is frequently omitted in the atherine^ but 
in which it is more necessary than with any other 
kind of fish we know ; for^ although delicate in 
flavour, these fish are as filthy feeders as ducks, or 
even the very swine* 

To fry Dories. 

A small dory, when properly fried, is a most 
delicious fish, and this is the mode in which 
the smaller kind of this fish can be turned to 
best advantage. Being a firm, flat-sided fish, it 
seems fitted by nature for a frying-pan, and it 
may be done either with or without egg and 
bread-crumbs. Do not stint the dripping, and 
take care that the fish does not stick to the pan. 
When done, garnish with fried parsley and sliced 
lemon, and serve up with plain melted butter and 
anchovy sauce. 

To fry Soles y small Turhots, and Brills. 

All these fish, if of small size, shoxild be fried 
whole, the skin on the dark side being skinned oflT, 
and the pale side well scraped and cleansed from 
scales and slime. The fins must be cut close to 
the sides of the fish, which must then be well 
dried either in a dry cloth, or by exposure to the 



HOW TO PBT PISH. 193 

m 
air, and then, being well sprinkled with egg and 

bread-crumbs, must be fried of a fine pale brown, 
using plenty of dripping for the purpose, and 
taking especial care that the fish do not bum or 
stick to the frying-pan. Gramish with fried 
parsley, and serve up with melted butter, an- 
chovy, or Comubian sauce: crab, lobster, and 
shrimp sauce will also be suited to either of ih.es& 
fish. 

If they are of large size, they should be divided 
into two or three pieces. This will enable you 
to ascertain whether your fish is thoroughly 
cooked or not, which you may do by inserting a 
fish-slice near the backbone, in raising up tiie 
flesh in the manner we have previously pointed 
out.* 

Another way of frying SoUsy §*c. 

A delicious dish of fried fish may be made of 
either of the last mentioned fish, as also of plaice, 
dabs, flounders, or any other kind of flat fish, by 
pursuing the following instructions. Scale the 
fish carefully, and then cutting the flesh as closely 
and smoothly as possible from the bone, roll 
several of the pieces together with the skin out- 
wards, so as to form a kind of fillet, between the 
layers of which you must place a forcemeat, con- 

* See page 161. 
O 



194 THE COOKERY OP PISH. 

« 

sisting of bread-crumbs, a small portion of parsley, 
and a little egg to bind the whole together ; and 
if you wish to make it still more savoury, you 
may add a few pickled or firesh oysters or shrimps, 
chopped up and mixed in the forcemeat. The 
outer parts should be coated with egg and bread- 
crumbs, and the whole should be fried thoroughly 
in an ample supply of dripping, and, when done, 
should be served up with a sauce prepared out of 
the heads, bones, and other superfluous parts, in 
the manner we shall hereafter point out.* 

Dabsy JPlaice, Flounders, 8fc. 

These fish should be scaled and carefully 
cleaned, but, with the exception of flounders, no 
part of the skin should be removed ; the latter 
may, however, be prepared either with the skin 
on, or skinned on the dark side, or on both sides, 
in the way we have J)reviously pointed outf, and 
in the latter case should be covered with egg and 
bread-crumbs. The others may be done either 
with or without the latter coating, but they must 
otherwise be well dried and plentifully dredged 
over with flour. If the fish are large they should 
be cut up in pieces, but if small they should be 
dressed whole. Garnish with fried parsley, and 

♦ See pp. 197—200. f See page 170. 



HOW TO FRY FISH* 195 

serve up with plain melted butter and anchovy or 
Comubian sauce. 

To fry Turbot Cutlets. 

Cut off the fish from the bones in cutlets of 
about a hand's breadth ; take off any skin that 
may adhere to the dark side^ but allow that on 
the pale side to remain. Sprinkle the pieces well 
with egg and bread-crumb, and fry them in a 
plentiM supply of drippmg. BriUs, large plaice, 
flounders, and dories, may be prepared^in the same 
way. The heads and bones will make a gravy 
for the fish. 

Another mode. 

Instead of egg and bread-crumbs, substitute 
batter, and in the latter case take care to have a 
plentiful supply of dripping in the pan, otherwise 
the cutlets will be likely to burn and the batter 
to get tough. 

How to prepare Batter to fry Fish, 

Break a couple of eggs in half a pint of milk ; 
add to this six table-spoonsful of flour, and gra- 
dually mix the whole together. This ought to be 
done an hour or two before the batter is required 
for use, which must be beaten up again just be- 
fore the cutlets are steeped in it, by which means 

o 2 



196 THE COOKERY OF FISH. 

it wiU become more light than when beaten up 
and used immediately. 

To fry Skate or Thorvbaclu 

The fish being cut up in strips^ as before 
directed, should be well sprinkled with egg and 
bread-crumb, or coated in batter, and when fried 
of a nice brown should be served up garnished 
in the same manner, and eaten with the same 
sauces, as fried turbot cutlets. To this you may 
add crab sauce, which is particularly well suited 
to this fish. 

To fry Salt Fish. 

Small split codfish, and other salt fish of small 
size, after being watered to extract the salt, pur- 
suant to the instructions we have before laid 
down*, should be fried entire, and served up with 
plain melted butter. Comubian sauce, mixed up 
with mustard and vinegar, is the best sauce to be 
eaten with it. 

To fry Salt-Jish Cutlets. 

Having well watered the fish, cut out the 
cutlets of about half a hand's breadth, and, dipping 
in batter, fry them of a pale brown. Garnish 

* See page 149. 



GEAVIES FOB FRIED FISH. 197 

with fried parsley, and serve them up with plain 
melted butter. 

To fry Cods Sounds and TonguLes^ Mussels^ and 

Oysters. 

Having cleaned and prepared your sounds and 
tongues, as before directed *, dip them in batter and 
fry them of a pale brown. Oysters and mussels 
may be done in the same way. It is indeed a 
good plan to dress and serve up the soimds, 
tongues, and oysters with the salt-fish cutlets, as 
the whole eat more agreeably when associated 
together than either will do when served up 
separately. Some of the liquor of the oysters, 
mussels, or cockles, should be mixed up with the 
batter. 



SECTION m, 
Ghayies fob fbied Fish. 



Gravies for fried fish are seldom thought of; 
and yet in many instances they are a great im- 
provement, and really a valuable acquisition, 
particularly to those who have a dislike to melted 
butter. The heads, bones, and other parts of the 

* See page 163. 
O 3 



198 THE COOKERY OP FISH. 

fish, which would otherwise be thrown away^ or 
a very common and cheap kind of fish, with only 
the aid of a little butter or dripping, an onion or 
two, and a small portion of sweet herbs, will form 
the foundation, to which only a glass or two of 
wine need be added to make it as perfect as the 
most lavish expenditure could effect. 

When large fish are fried either in steaks or 
cutlets, then, as we have previously observed*, 
the heads and bones may be used for the purpose; 
but when the fry consists of only small fish 
which are cooked whole, then either some of the 
same kind, or some other kind of fish, as small 
eels, congers, gurnards, flounders, or the heads 
and bones of a hake, which are thrown away by 
scores in the fish-markets in the west of England, 
and which any one would be thanked for carrying 
away, may be called into service, as may also the 
head and the tail extremity of a good-sized 
conger, the latter of which, from being so inter- 
spersed with thin wiry bones, which, though no 
detriment to it for making gravy, renders it ex- 
ceedingly unpleasant to eat in most other ways. 

The head, bones, and whatever other pieces 
you use, must be thoroughly cleansed, and should 
then be either fried or baked in butter until they 

♦ See page 180. 



GRAVIES FOfi PRIED PISH. 199 

become brown; the pieces must then be taken 
out and placed in a stewpan^ with a small 
quantity of water or broth. A large-sized onion, 
or two or three small ones, well coated with flour, 
must then be fried brown in the butter in which 
the pieces of fish were done, and then, with the 
butter, must be cast into the stewpan, with some 
sweet herbs and a small piece of butter of about 
the size of a walnut, or, what is still better, a 
proportionate quantity of cream in lieu of the 
butter. Season with cayenne, common pepper, 
salt, nutmeg, a squeeze of lemon, a teaspoonful of 
Cornubian sauce, or twice that portion of lemon 
pickle or ketchup. Let the whole stew together 
until it becomes of the consistency of raw cream, 
or rather imtil the liquid has decreased about 
one-third of its original quantity. 

You may add to the above some pickled onions 
and mushrooms, as also a few oysters, either fresh 
or pickled ; if fresh, add to the gravy in the stew- 
pan the liquor of the oysters also. A glass or 
two of wine, either red or white, will also be 
found an improvement. 

If your stock of head and bones is not sufii- 

cient, then throw in a spare cutlet or two of the 

fish, or a small eel, conger, gurnard, or flounder 

cut up in pieces, and without any consideration 

about their being all of the same kind of fish.^ 

o 4 



200 THE COOKERY OP FISH, 

When done^ throw out the contents of the 
stewpan into a cullender or haur sieve^ and let 
the liquid strain through it. If it proves too 
thin^ add to it a little melted butter^ coated in 
flour, and when prepared serve it up in boats 
with the fish. 



SECTION IV. 
How TO BROIL Fish. 



In broiling fish, the points to be chiefly at- 
tended to are — 

First, to have a clear fire, not too fierce, and 
yet sufficiently strong not to exhaust its force 
before the cookery is complete. 

Secondly, to have the gridiron quite clean. 

Thirdly, the fish must be well cleansed and 
dried. 

And fourthly, all the time the broiling is going 
on, take care to keep the fish from sticking to the 
bars of the gridiron, which injures both the ap- 
pearance and fiavour of the fish. To prevent 
this, the fish should be well dusted with flour, 
the bars of the gridiron having previously been 
rubbed either with butter, lard, or suet; and the 
fish should not be laid on until the bars are tho- 
roughly heated. 

A little salt cast upon a strong coal fire is a 



HOW TO BROIL FISH, 201 

very good way to check the smoke and allay the 
strength of the fire, which at the same time makes 
it bum bright and clear ; but charcoal, coke, or 
cinders afford the best embers for broiling 
purposes. 

How to broil large Codfish, Ling, Hake, Had- 
docks, Pollack, or Basse, 

All the above-mentioned fishes, when broiled, 
should be cut up in portions in the same way as 
for flying, and be prepared in the same way, 
except that coating with egg and bread-crumbs 
must always be omitted; but its place must 
be supplied with a plentiful covering of flour. 
The pieces must be well seasoned with pepper 
and salt, which should be cast over them whilst 
dressing. When done, rub in a good supply of 
butter before the fire : mustard, vinegar, and 
Cornubian sauce will be a proper accompani- 
ment. You may also serve up some plain 
melted butter; although, if a sufficient quantity 
of butter be rubbed into the fish, the melted 
butter may generally be dispensed with. 



202 THE COOKERY OP FISH. 

To broil Salmon Peel, Trout, Mackerel, CodlingSy 
Whitings, Haddocks, IVhiting Pollack, and 
Gurnards. 

All these fishes should be dressed entire, 
being split by the back and spread open, and 
being well peppered and salted inside ; after 
which they must be well dredged with flour on 
both sides, to prevent them from sticking to the 
gridiron; and when done, lay them flat and 
spread open, with the inside uppermost, into 
which plenty of butter must be rubbed before 
the fire. 

To broil Herrings. 

These fishes should be prepared in the same 
manner as for frying*, and should be thoroughly 
dried and well dredged with flour. The roes 
should not be dressed in the fish, but dressed 
separately ; but as the latter are apt to slip off^, 
between the bars, into the fire, the best way of 
dressing them is by frying ; and as fried onions 
are an excellent accompaniment to broiled her- 
rings, the roes and onions may share the frying- 
pan together. The herrings should be broiled 
until they are thoroughly brown, and, plenty of 
butter being rubbed into them, they should be 
served up with mustard and plain melted butter, 

• See page 188. 



HOW TO BROIL FISH. 203 

To broil Pilchards. 

Pilchards should be placed without any pre- 
vious preparation on the gridiron, and, when 
done, should be served up in their scales, without 
rubbing in any butter over the fish, the rich 
moisture retained within by the scales rendering 
butter quite superfluous. The scaly covering 
will come off entire by placing a knife under it. 
Vinegar is the best sauce, for the fish itself is 
quite rich enough without the aid of melted 
butter. The Cornish people use salt and water, 
with onions, chopped up fine, as an accompaniment 

To broil Sprats. 

Wipe off the scales with a rough towel, then, 
drawing out the intestines by the gills as before 
directed*, run a small wooden skewer through 
the eyes of half a dozen or more, and so broil 
them, sending them up on their backs, which will 
cause them to eat more crisply than any other 
means that has been yet discovered ; and when 
so prepared, they form a very cheap and really 
excellent dish of fish. 

To broil Eels. 

Prepare the eels in the same manner as for 
frying t, broil them over a slow fire, and, if they 

* See page 144. f See page 18U 



204 THE COOKERY OP PISH. 

are large, bestow plenty of time, and see that 
they are thoroughly done throughout. Serve 
them up with plain melted butter, or with parsley 
and butter. 

To broil Salmon. 

Cut the fish In slices, as for fiying*, season 
them well with cayenne and conunon pepper, a 
little nutmeg and some salt, then wrap the slices 
up in white paper, well buttered, and broil them 
over a slow fire. Serve them up in the paper, 
accompanied with the same sauces as with fried 
salmon, f 

To broil Surmullet 

The fish being prepared in the same manner as 
before directed J, and the slime wiped off with a 
cloth, but in so careful a manner as not to dis- 
place a scale, the fish must be folded up in white 
paper, which, being rubbed over with butter, must 
be broiled over a slow fire. The fish must be 
sent up to table in the paper, accompanied with 
plain melted butter. The way of treating the 
livers we have already mentioned §, and it will, 
therefore, be unnecessary to repeat the same in- 
structions again in this place. 

• See page 191. J See page 191. 

t Ibid. ^ § See page 147. 



HOW TO BBOIL PISH. 205 

To broil Bream and Shads so as to resemble 

Surmullet. 

Wipe the fish down the body with a cloth, so 
as to cleanse it from the slime, but not so as to 
displace anj of the scales ; then, opening the fish, 
take out the inside and wipe out the body with 
a cloth ; and then, separating the liver from the 
intestines, introduce it again into the fish's belly, 
wrap the fish in white paper, and broU it in the 
same manner as a surmullet, and serve it up the 
same way. A fish under a pound weight is best 
adapted for this purpose ; and, as fish of this kind 
are remarkably cheap and plentiful, the livers of 
two or three fishes may be taken to fill the body 
of one fish, and the other fish applied to some 
other purpose ; and when prepared in this manner 
there are very few persons upon whom these fish 
might not be passed for genuine surmullet. 

To broil Cod^s Sounds and Tongues. 

Prepare these as for boiling*, and after season- 
ing them with cayenne, and common pepper and 
a little salt, flour them well and broil them whole. 
Serve them up with melted butter. 

* As to which, see page 163. 



206 THE COOKEET OP PISH. 

To broil Redherrings and Salt Pilchards. 

Having steeped the herrings either in boiling 
water or beer, pursuant to the directions before 
laid down*, broil them before a brisk fire, upon a 
toasting-fork, until they are suflSciently done, and 
be sure that the roe is thoroughly dressed through; 
then rub in as much butter into it as will absorb 
before the fire. If any of them contain hard roes, 
open the belly, and insert some butter between 
the lobes of the roe, closing it up again so that 
the heat may the more readily melt the butter. 

Mustard is the proper accompaniment for red- 
herrings, although but few persons seem aware 
of it. 

Salt pilchards may be broiled in the same way 
as redherrings. 

To broil Salt Fish, 

Salt fish, after being well watered, pursuant to 
our previous directions f, may be broiled on a 
gridiron, over a slow fire, and, when done, as much 
butter should be rubbed into it as it will absorb. 
It may be served up with egg sauce and parsnips. 
Mustard also may be eaten with it. 

» See page 151, f See page 151, 



JHOW TO STEW FISH, 207 



SECTION V. 
How TO STBW Fish. 

Stewing, although one of the most useful as 
well as economical ways to which fish may be 
turned to account, is one that is far less fre- 
quently practised than either of the modes we 
have already treated upon, arising probably 
from the erroneous notion which exists amongst 
those who know nothing at all about the mat- 
ter, that it is a difficult, tedious, and expensive 
process, and at all times most uncertain in its 
results. Now this is altogether wrong ; the pro- 
cess is neither difficult nor tedious, and though 
it necessarily occupies some portion of time, yet 
it is not necessary that so much of the cook's 
attention is to be taken up with it during the 
interval as to prevent him, or her, as the case may 
be, from attending to many other matters; and 
so far from being expensive, it is in reality a very 
cheap mode of cookery, as the fish itself, with the 
aid of a few fried onions and a small quantity of 
butter, will supply a sufficient gravy. And thus 
a very savoury dish of fish may be made out of 
some very cheap and common fish, that will quite 
equal what can be so prepared from the most scarce 



208 THE COOKERY OF FISH. 

and expensive kinds ; and as to uncertainty of 
the result, that we will venture to say will never 
occur to those that will take the trouble to ad- 
here to the few very simple rules we shall lay 
down. 

The great error In stewing fish is, that the fish 
only undergoes one of the necessary processes, 
being placed raw in a quantity of water, accom- 
panied with a few vegetables and, perhaps, a few 
glasses of wine, all here thrown away, and there 
allowed to boil away to rags in a stewpan, and then 
served up, broth and all together, the previous 
process of flying and preparing the gravy having 
been altogether omitted, and thus presenting such 
a sad sloppy, uninviting mess, that a person must 
be either very hungry or polite who would 
venture to partake of it, and still more so if he 
could be induced to do so a second time ; and 
yet the same materials, properly managed, and 
even without the aid of the wine so wasted and 
thrown away, might have made a delicious dish, 
which every one would have partaken of with 
satisfaction and have gladly eaten of again. 

How to stew Basse, Sea Bream, and Gurnards, 

Both the basse and the bream require great 
attention in removing the scales, which adhere 
very closely to the skin : the fish also must be 



HOW TO STEW FISH. 209 

careftilly cleansed^ and the fins cut off to the body. 
It most then be fried over a tolerably brisk fire, 
in a good quantity of butter, lard, or dripping, 
until it is about three parts done. Then take it 
up, and place it in a stewpan, and add to it a 
good meat gravy, or a fish gravy prepared in the 
manner we are about to point out, and about an 
equal proportion of water or broth, a table spoon- 
ful of soy or ketchup, or half that quantity of 
Comubian sauce or lemon pickle, a slice or two 
of lemon, and a bundle of sweet herbs ; season 
with cayenne, common pepper, a little nutmeg, 
and a blade or two of mace. Then flour one or 
two onions, and fiy them brown in the same 
butter in which the fish was fried, turning them 
quickly to prevent their sticking to the pan, and 
when well browned, throw them, dripping and all, 
into the stewpan. 

The above are the essential ingredients ; but if 
you wish to make your gravy superlatively rich 
and good, add to it a wine-glass or two of wine, 
a few pickled mushrooms, and a few oysters, either 
jfresh or pickled. 

Let the whole stew gfntly for about an hour, 
then take up the fish and pour the gravy over it, 
and garnish with slices of lemon and fried bread 
cut three comerwise. 

A forcemeat pudding, prepared according to 



210 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

the instructions we have previously given in our 
directions for boiling a pike*, sewn up in the 
bodies of any of these fishes, will be found an 
agreeable addition. 

If you desire to have a fish gravy, it may 
be prepared out of the same materials and in 
the same manner as we have before directed for 
frying, and should stew quite as long, so as to ex- 
tract the whole of the nutriment from the mate- 
rials, but 6hould contain rather more liquid in 
proportion, so as to allow for the shrinkage and 
thickening of the gravy during the stewing pro- 
cess after it is added to the fish. It is a good 
plan to prepare the gravy the day before it is 
wanted, and allowing it to become cold, to skimi 
off all the fat that may have accumulated on the 
surface, so as to have the gravy as free from fat 
as possible. 

To stew Carp and Tench, 

Having scaled and prepared your fish as above 
directed*, sew up a piece of bread into the fish's 
belly, suflSciently large to fill up the whole cavity f, 
and fry it in the same manner as the last ; then 

* See page 167. 

f The bread is inserted for the purpose of removing any 
muddy or disagreeable taint the fish may have acquired from 
the nature of the bottom, or some kind of weeds peculiar to the 
waters they m^y come firom, as noticed in page 75. 



HOW TO STEW FISH. 211 

take up the fish, cut through the stitches carefiilly, 
and, opening the belly, take out the bread, and 
place the fish in a stewpan. Having next fried 
up the onions and prepared your gravy, pour the 
whole over the fish, and let it stew in the same 
manner as the last. 

You may add half a pint of wine to the gravy, as 
also a few pickled mushrooms and oysters, which 
will make the gravy exceedingly rich and delicious. 
Many persons kill their carps by cutting their 
throats, and, saving all the blood, throw it in for 
the purpose of enriching the gravy. Garnish and 
serve up in the same way as directed in the pre- 
ceding receipt. 

To stew Pike and Hake, 

These fish should always be stewed with a 
forcemeat pudding in their bellies, prepared ac- 
cording to our previous directions * ; and, fixing 
the tail in the mouth with a skewer, fry and stew 
them in the same manner as carp or tench. 
Gumish with sliced lemon, and serve up the fidi 
resting upon its belly. 

This is an excellent way of turning a large hake 
to most profitable account, as by this means, for a 
shilling, a delicious dish may be obtained, suffi- 

• See page 167. 

F 2 



THE C'X'-KEBT OF FISH. 
*i:U^ e:^.: or t.;3, or eren a down 



T:' tt-'v Can-. K'r anv -jiher of the prrriousiif 

mi^ti:>rwi FUhf white, 
W^r.^n tko £sh i* :■> b* ?tewed white, it should 
onlv unJer^i oae-thlnl of the trjiag process it 
uniU'r^i'es when iat^nded to be done brown, and 
d>e frring proceas is, in &ct, oftm £?peD^ vt^ 
ahogetber. The && aost b« plaoeil in & etewpon, 
witli aboat % couple oTijatrts o( mot broth or thin 
Ssh gnvy, the materials of which laasX be ^mpl; 
boOedor stewed, wtthoat being pre vioaslybrowneel, 
yet n> lon^ as tbcvoogUy to extract aD the good- 
ness from the material^ but in a larger quantity 
of water, to preyent the liquid ft|P becoming too 
thick. ^Vdd to the broth or g 
wine, a oottple of onioos, i 
and a bundle of eweet h 
common pepper and i 
away tor about an h 
is goii:^ 
wine in a « 
onion, «G 







217 
m 



or "i" iii: .: 7.rc-vim/i -.a ...- • 

J ...» «•» - ■• •*•».« ''r . % 




•' 




7 



a- 

ttCC, 

abotit 
cczc of 

Jcv, a«^ 
I cixvenne 

inorccVieiits 

your f^^^h if 
It tlieiu into 



214 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

make all these into gravy^ and fill up the body 
with a forcemeat pudding. Gramish with sliced 
lemon. 

To stew Conger, fresh-water Eels, Ling, Hake, 
Cody 8fc,y in steaks, brown. 

Cut your steaks in the same way as before 

in precisely the same manner as for stewing 
bass, &c. t, the head, bones, and other superfluous 
parts of the fish forming the gravy. Take care, 
if possible, not to break the pieces in taking them 
up. Garnish with fried bread, cut three comer- 
wise, and sliced lemon. To this you may add 
forcemeat and egg-balls, which are certainly a 
vast improvement. 

This is an admirable mode of dressing a 
moderate-sized conger; but only the middle 
portions should be used in the stew, the other 
parts should be used to supply the gravy. 

Fresh-water eels may be stewed in precisely the 
same way, only that every portion of them ex- 
cept the heads may be devoted to the stewpan. An 
additional squeeze or two of lemon, and a rather 
larger quantity of soy, Cornubian sauce, or 
ketchup, will be an advantage to the latter kind 

* See page 167. f See page 108. 



HOW TO STEW FISH. 215 

of fish ; and a glass or two of wine In tiie gravy 
will always be an improvement : if you consider 
the wine too expensive, substitute the same 
quantity of cider, which will answer the purpose 
nearly as well ; so well, indeed, that few persons 
would detect the difference. The forcemeat and 
egg-balls must, however, be omitted, which, 
though so well adapted to stewed conger, are 
not suited to fresh-water eels when cooked in 
that way. 

To stew Lampreys. 

Split open the lampreys and extract the gristle 
that supplies the place of a backbone ; cut them 
up in pieces and stew them brown, precisely as 
we have directed for eels, in the preceding re- 
ceipt. They may also be dressed by rolling up 
the pieces in a fillet, which can be kept together 
by running a skewer through it. 

The small river lampreys, after being prepared 
in the same manner as for frying, may be stewed 
cut up in small pieces. 

Another way of stewing Lampreys. 

Having prepared your lampreys, rolled up into 
fillets as in the preceding receipt, place them in 
the stewpan, together with a few slices of butter, 
in half a pint of gravy, and half that quantity of 

F 4 



216 THE COOK£BY OF FISH. 

white wine or dder^ and the same quantity of 
claret or port wine^ an onion cut up in slices^ a 
a little lemon-peel cut up fine, and a bundle of 
sweet herbs ; season well with pepper, salt, dovesj 
nutmeg, a blade or two of mace, and a little 
cayenne; stew over a slow fire. When done, 
pour off all the liquor into a saucepan, and boil 
it up with a couple of anchovies, a tea-spoonAil 
of mustard, and a squeeze of lemon ; thicken the 
gi^vy by shaking in a little flour, and after the 
whole has boiled up for a few minutes, take up 
the fillets firom the stewpan, and, placing them in 
a dish, pour the gravy over them. Garnish with 
fried bread and slices of lemon. 

When the lampreys can be procured alive, it is 
a frequent practice to bleed them and preserve 
their blood to mix with and enrich the gravy. 

To stew CongerSy Eelsy Sfc, white. 

Congers, when stewed white, are cut up in 
wider portions than when stewed brown, and are 
indeed sometimes done in one entire piece. It 
should only undergo the first preliminary frying 
process in the manner we have before pointed out, 
in order to extract all the rank and watery par- 
ticles*, after which the fish should be transmitted 

* See page 182. 



HOW TO STSW risH. 217 

to the Btewpan. Then boil one or two onions in 
the water or broth in which the fish is intended 
to be stewed, until they become soft and tender. 
Then pour ilie liquid over the fish, and add 
to the same a quantity of new milk, and let it 
stew gently imtil it is thoroughly done; then 
throw in a Sufficient quantity of cream to make a 
rich gravy. Season with cayenne and salt, keeping 
the whole in motion, so as to prevent it from 
curdling, for two or three minutes; and just 
before taking it up, add to it a squeeze of a 
lemon. 

To stew MackereL 

Open the fish by the back, and take out the 
bones ; and with the latter, the heads, and any 
other materials you have at hand, make about 
half a pint of fish gravy ; to this add about the 
same quantity of meat gravy or strong meat 
broth, a piece of butter coated in flour, an an- 
chovy or half a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, 
the same quantity of Comubian sauce or about 
twice as much soy or ketchup, a squeeze of 
lemon, a little chopped fennel and parsley, and 
a pickled onion or two. Season with cayenne 
pepper, and salt. Having all these ingredients 
prepared in your stewpan, cut up your fish, if 
large into quarters, if small split them into 



21S THE COOKKKl- OF FISH. 

l,alv,>. ; lln-i. r..ll tlio piece! round a irooden 



,ko«oi 



,„l. ,.1,, 



tlioiii in a sauccl>an, 



addi 



irla» ..r |»«t wnio to tl.o gnivy ; let it boil for • 
iniiinio or two ; tlieu take up the fiA, and, «»« 
.li-oiniua llie si-.vy tlinmgli a hair sicTe 01 
eull.iiiler. pour it ovor the fish. Garnish mtl | 
tried bivjui, out three cornerwise, and shced 
leuuui. 

r,. .(,«• S*s and all kinds of moda-ale-ia^ 
Flal-Jisli. 
llaviiiS .kinneJ nud prepared yonr •olel M 
Wore dinvted, I'rv them until they are half- 
tlone, nud then »tc»- them in the same my m 
I for bass ', with the simple addi- 
louple of rtncho\-ies, or a table-epoonfid 
r sauce, thrown into the graTJ. 
u^, plaice, and dabs may he done ■ 
wjiy. but should be dressed with t1 
, but which, of course, should bo 
I from scales and elime, aud the 

It i» : ' 

! pil 




221 

en no 
And 





water. 


• 


•ic su- 




of the 




boil it 




le you 




»u mii^t 




;ing cure 


• 


•c, depend 


- 


ided t(j iic- 


T-: '■ 


piece, four 


1* • . 


vv milk, and 


• '■'■ .-* 


be :?ufficient. 


-" 's«- .:* ■■ 


the sauee i.s 




and cut up into 




• rolled in flour. 


8»v 1U\ -- 


: with the oiuon.s 


• • 


• of these boll up 


5* *"nmi«t a,.: p^. 

f^w lonie . ■• . 
**5 edIed • 


.'.'Out half an hour. 

.1 tiu'ow it in a di>h, 

. e^rix over it. and ^ar- 


' "lU ,; 





I'Ugc 150. 



220 THE COOKEBY OF FISH. 

done *y and served up with forcemeat and egg- 
balls^ being garnished with fried breads cut three 
comerwise^ and sliced lemon. 

To stew Sturffeofu 

Sturgeon should be cut up in slices of about 
an inch, or a little more, in thickness, which^ 
being half-fried, should be placed in a stewpan 
with some good veal broth, an onion, and a 
bundle of sweet herbs, and be allowed to stew 
until it becomes perfectly tender. Having then 
fried an onion or two in the butter in which the 
fish was previously Med, pour this, and also 
the gravy in which the fish was stewed, into a 
saucepan, adding to it a glass or two of wine, 
some butter rolled in flour, or about the same 
proportion of cream, and a spoonful of ketchup, 
or half that quantity of Cornubian sauce. As 
soon as the whole has boiled up well together, 
strain it through a sieve or cullender, and pour 
it over the fish. Garnish with sliced lemon. 

To stew salt Ling, 

This is a very nice way of cooking a salt ling, 
and an exceedingly useful one, as you may at all 
times have a stock of the necessary commodity 
in hand to supply an emergency whenever it may 

* See page 214. 



HOW TO STEW PISH. 221 

be required^ and at a time and season when no 
other kind of fish can possibly be procured. And 
now for the receipt. 

Having thoroughly steeped your fish in water, 
and allowed it to drain^ so as to extract the su* 
perabundant saline particles *, take a piece of the 
proportionate quantity you require, and boil it 
gently, until sufficiently done to enable you 
to pull it in pieces with a fork, which you must 
do by that means, at the same time taking care 
to detach all the bones from it. 

The supply of sauce will, of course, depend 
upon the quantity of fish it is intended to ac- 
company. For a moderate-sized piece, four 
onions, four eggs^ and a pint of new milk, and 
half that quantity of cream, will be sufficient. 
The onions must be boiled before the sauce is 
made, and the eggs boiled hard and cut up'into 
slices. Then take some butter rolled in flour, 
and some mustard, and mix it with the onions 
and eggs, and let the whole of these boil up 
gently with the fish for about half an hour. 
Then take up the whole and throw it in a dish, 
placing sliced hard-boiled egg over it, and gar- 
nish with sliced lemon. 

• See page 150. 



222 THE COOKEBY OF FISH. 

To stew Cod^B Sounds and Tongues. 

Having the sounds and tongues prepared as 
before directed*, boil them in milk and water until 
they are about half-done. Then, having ready 
some veal broth, put into it two boiled onions, a 
small piece of butter rolled in flour and enough 
cream to thicken the gravy, and a piece of lemon- 
peel ; then put in the sounds and tongues, and let 
the whole stew away gently for about twenty mi- 
nutes. Season with a little nutmeg, cayenne, com- 
mon pepper and salt. Garnish with sliced lemon. 

To stew Pilchards with Potatoes. 

This is a truly Cornish dish, and will, we fear, 
suit few but Cornish palates. Wash some salt 
pilchards, and place them with some peeled pota- 
toes in a saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of 
water to prevent the stew from burning ; let the 
whole boil until the potatoes are done, and then 
serve up the fish and potatoes in the same dish. 

To stew Lobsters. 

Take a large lobster, or two small ones, and 
extracting all the meat from the head, body, tail, 
and claws, and carefully extracting the black gut, 
break it all up into small portions ; put the whole 
into about half a pint of strong fish or meat gravy, 

♦ See page 163, 



HOW TO STEW FISH. 223 

in which the shells should be previously broken, 
small^ and boiled up ; add to this a piece of 
butter rolled in flour or a proportionate quan- 
tity of cream^ half a glass of white wine or a 
table-spoonful of vinegar, an anchovy, or a tea- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, the same quantity of 
Cornubian sauce, soy, or ketchup ; add a slight 
squeeze of lemon. Season with cayenne, com- 
mon pepper, salt, nutmeg, and some pounded 
mace ; let the whole warm gently over a slow 
fire until it begins to simmer ; then serve it up 
garnished with sliced lemon and bread sippets. 

Another way. 

The lobster, being minced up fine, should be 
stewed in a pint of strong beef soup in which 
the broken shells should be first boiled up, to 
which must be added butter coated in flour, a 
glass of wine, a tea-spoonfiil of anchovy, and 
another of soy or ketchup, and a squeeze of lemon. 
Season with cayenne pepper, salt, and a little 
bruised mace ; let the whole stew very slowly, 
and simmer for two or three minutes. Serve it 
up in the same manner as in the last receipt. 

To stew Lobsters in the Irish way. 

Cut and break a boiled lobster, but not into small 
pieces; then having ready-prepared a mixture 
of mustard and vinegar, seasoned with ca.^^\Ji»ia^ 



224 THE COOKEBY OF FISH. 

put this^ with the lobster and a good-sized piece 
of butter, into a stewpan ; keep the cover close 
for about five minutes ; then throw in a glass of 
sherry or madeira, and let it bcHl up for about 
five minutes more; then serve it up garnished 
with sliced lemon. 

In Ireland this savoury mess is often prepared 
in the same apartment in which it is eaten, being 
cooked in a machine called a dispatcher , which 
has a spirit-lamp under it, and is dressed in the 
presence of the company, whose appetites are 
greatly excited by the agreeable odour it emits 
whilst the cooking process is progressing. 

Mr. Michael Angelo Titmarsh, in his Irish 
Sketch Book, speaks in tie highest terms of this 
dish ; he also informs us that porter is drank with 
it, and whisky punch afterwards. 

To stew Prawns and Crayfish. 

These must be boiled according to the direc- 
tions we have previously laid down*, and when 
cold the shells and heads, which should be slightly 
bruised, must be boiled up in a small quantity of 
water or meat broth, with a blade or two of mace, 
and a few whole peppercorns, until the strength is 
thoroughly extracted from the whole of the in- 
gredients. Then strain off the liquor and throw 

* See page 172. 



HOW TO STEW FISH. 225 

it into a stewpan with a glass of white wine, or 
rather less than the same quantity of vinegar ; a 
good-sized piece of butter rolled in flour, or a 
trifle more than the weight of the butter in 
cream; season with cayenne, common pepper, 
salt, a little grated nutmeg, and some poimded 
mace ; then put in the prawns' tails, and let the 
whole sunmer gently together for a minute or 
two, but be carefiil it does not boil up too strongly; 
^hen pour the whole into a dish, and serve them 
up hot. 

A portion of lobster, cray fish, or crab, may be 
mixed up with the prawns, if required. 

To stew Oysters. 

Mix the liquor of the oysters with an equal 
quantity of water or meat broth, a little white 
wine or vinegar, a little whole pepper, or a blade 
or two of mace ; let the whole boil up together, 
and then put in the oysters and let them just 
boil up ; thicken the gravy with a piece of butter 
roUed in flour, or, what is still better, a propor- 
tionate quantity of cream. Serve them up with 
the gravy ; garnish with sliced lemon and bread 
sippets. 

To stew Mussels and Cockles. 
Having placed your mussels or cockles in a 



226 THE COOKEBY OF FISH. 

stewpan over the fibre, until the shells become 
open, throw them into a cullender over a deep 
dish, so that you may be able to preserve a suflS- 
cient quantity of the liquor that comes from them ; 
then take out the contents from the shells and 
throw as much of the liquor as you require into 
a small stewpan ; add to it a good-sized piece of 
butter, and a proportionate quantity of vinegar to ' 
give it an agreeable flavour ; season with cayenne, 
plenty of common pepper, and warm it gently 
over a slow fire, keeping it stirring all the time, 
and when it simmers, throw in the mussels or 
cockles, and there let them remain for about a 
couple of minutes ; then throw them into a deep 
dish and serve them up hot. 

In preparing mussels, be careful to extract their 
fibrous beards, which, if eaten, will be attended 
with very unpleasant, if not serious, conse- 
quences. Still, these beards, from their wiry 
texture grating against the teeth, cause their 
presence to be generally detected. It is from 
inadvertently swallowing these beards that mus- 
sels have acquired the ill and undeserved cha- 
racter of being of a poisonous nature, and which 
has been erroneously supposed to proceed fi'om a 
small kind of crab sometimes found in the shell ; 
but this little creature is quite innocuous, and 
may be eaten with impunity by any one who may 



r 

HOW TO MAKE PISH SAUCE. 227 

think proper to venture upon so untempting a 
little morseL 



SECTION VL 

How TO MA2LE FlSH CUBBT. 

It may be kid down as a general rule, that 
every kind of fish that is adapted for stewing, may 
be converted into a curry; and added to this, 
fish that have been already dressed may also be 
pressed into the service, and all kinds mixed 
together, which, so far from being in any way 
detrimental, will be rather an improvement to 
the whole. 

The foimdation of all fish curries should be a 
rich fish-gravy, made with the bones, heads, and 
some portions of the flesh either of the same, or 
of some other kinds of fish adapted to the pur- 
pose, prepared as before directed.* To this should 
be added about twice the quantity of fried onions 
that are used in preparing the stewed fish, to 
which you may also add a clove or two of garlic ; 
add to this a tea-spoonful of Comubian sauce, a 
dessert spoonful of curry powder, and a piece of 
butter rolled in flour. 

Having half fried your fish as for stewing, 

♦ See page 197. 
g2 



228 THE COOKEBT OF EISH. 

place it in a stewpan, pour in the gravy, and 
let the whole stew slowly the same time you 
would allow for stewing in the ordinary way. 
Then, having your rice prepared and nicely boiled, 
serve it up in a separate dish from the curry. 

Some attention is requisite in boiling the rice. 
The best and most simple plan is to boil the 
rice gentiy until sufficientiy done; and then, 
throwing off all the water from it, place the 
saucepan either on a stove, or in an oven, or over 
the fire, until the grains separate. 

To curry Prawns. 

Boil an onion in a small quantity of water, 
until it is reduced to a pulp; in this stew the 
heads and shells of the prawns, as before directed* ; 
and, having strained off the liquor, throw it into 
a stewpan, and let it warm gently until it sim- 
mers ; then put in the prawns, with a spoonful 
of curry powder and a tea-spoonfiil of Comubian 
sauce. Let the whole sinuner for about two 
minutes, stirring the whole well together. Serve 
them up with boiled rice. 

To curry Lobsters, 

Stew your lobster, as before directed; and, 
when it begins to simmer, add to it a tea-spoonful 

* See page 224. 



HOW TO BOAST AND BAKE PISH. 229 

of Comublan sauce, and double that quantity of 
curry powder. Let the whole simmer gently, 
stirring it well for about a couple of minutes^ 
then throw the whole out upon a dish covered 
with rice. 



SECTION VIL 

How TO BOAST AND BAKB FiSH. 

Fish, whether for roasting or baking, are both 
prepared in much the same way ; and, therefore, 
we purpose treating of them together. 

To hake a Cod!s Head. 

Fill a baking-dish with about a quart of water, 
or broth ; add to this an onion stuck with cloves, 
a piece of lemon peel, and a little grated horse- 
radish, a large spoonful of pepper, a little Cayenne, 
some grated nutmeg, and a blade or two of mace. 

Having prepared your fish as for boiling*, ex- 
cept that the head is not to be bound roimd with 
tape ; place this in the baking-dish, dredging well 
with flour that portion which remains above 
water, sticking abo pieces of butter, of about the 
size of oysters, or larding it all over with small 
pieces of fat bacon or salt pork, and place the 

* See page 16(>. 
Q 3 



230 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

dish In an oven, and there let it remain until 
sufficiently baked. Then take up the fish^ and 
place it carefully on a clean dish ; and pour out 
the liquor firom the baking-dish into a saucepan, 
adding to it a glass of wine or cider, or something 
less than half that quantity of vinegar, a few 
oysters, either fresh or pickled, chopped up in 
small pieces (if in summer, when oysters cannot 
be procured, substitute cockles or mussels) ; add 
a tea-spoonful of the ketchup, soy, or half the 
quantity of Comubian sauce, and a piece of 
butter well coated with flour. The whole must 
be kept well stirred together until it boils, and 
must then be poured into the dish over the fisL 
Garnish with fried bread and sliced lemon. 

To roast a Cod^s Head. 

Boil a cod's head and shoulders until it is about 
half don%. Then, taking it up, strip all the skin 
careftdly off, and place it before a brisk fire, 
basting it well with butter, and dredging it over 
with flour ; and, as soon as the froth rises, strew 
fine bread-crumbs over it, and continue basting 
until the fish is thoroughly done. Then serve 
it up, garnished with fried parsley, or scraped 
horseradish, and sliced lemon around the border 
of the dish. 

Oyster sauce may also be served up with it. 



HOW TO EOAST AND BAKE FISH. 231 

Another Way. 

After preparing, parboiling, and stripping off 
the skin as in the last receipt, dredge over the 
fish with flour and lard it with pieces of fat 
bacon ; bake it in an oven until sufficiently done, 
and then brown it over with a salamander. 

To bake a Pike, 

Having well scaled and cleansed the fish, and 
cut off its fins, stuff the beUy with a forcemeat 
pudding, prepared as before directed, and then 
place the tail in the mouth in the same manner 
as for stewing * ; next lay the fish upon its belly 
in a baking-dish, flour it well, and stick it over 
with pieces of butter of the size of oysters, or lard 
it with pieces of fat bacon. Then place it in a 
connnon oven, or what perhaps is still better, 
a Dutch oven before the fire, basting it occasion- 
ally with the dripping that comes from it. When 
done, take out the fish and place it on a clean 
dish; and then adding a squeeze of lemon, a 
litde soy or ketchup, and a little melted butter 
stir up the whole weU together, and pour it into 
the dish with the fish. 

♦ Seepage 211. 



Q4 



232 THE COOKEBY OF EISH. 

To bake Hakey Ling^ Bass^ Creamy and Gurnards, 

Anj of these fishes may be baked with a pud- 
ding in their bellies^ in the same way as a pike ; 
but with the exception of the hake and ling, the 
rest must lie upon their sides, being of too bulky 
a make to permit their tails being fixed in their 
mouths. 

Ling, as also conger, are, however, usually 
baked cut up in portions in the same way as for 
stewing*; but in all other respects are cooked 
and served up in the way we have just before 
pointed out 

To bake Fish in Fillets, 

Take any of the fish we have last mentioned, 
as also any kind of flat-fish you like ; cut off the 
head, and after skinning, splitting, and boning 
them, roll them up in fillets; flour them, and 
stick them with butter, or lard them with fat 
bacon, and bake them in an oven, or in a Dutch 
oven before the fire. Make a fish-gravy out of 
the head and bones f, and pour it over the fish. 
Serve it up with plain melted butter. 

Another Mode. 

Having skinned and boned the fish as before 
directed, coat it well on both sides with egg and 

♦ See page 213, t See page 197. 



HOW TO BOAST AND BAKE FISH, 233 

bread-crumbs, mixed with a little parsley shred 
very fine ; then have ready some bearded oysters 
chopped up, place these between the rolls, and 
bind up the fish in fillets; season them with a 
little cayenne, nutmeg, and a tolerable quantity 
of pepper and salt, and bake them as in the 
former receipt. Serve up with oyster-sauce. 

To hake Hake on Potatoes. 

Take a large baking-dish; rub the bottom of it 
well with fat bacon, and then dredge it with 
plenty of flour ; next, peel a sufficient quantity of 
potatoes to cover the bottom of the dish; after 
which, take the body of a hake, the head being 
first cut off and the backbone extracted*, and 
having well seasoned the inside with pepper and 
salt, spread the fish over the potatoes with the 
back uppermost, which must be larded over with 
bacon, and thoroughly dredged over with flour. 
It must then be committed to the oven; and, 
when done, served up hot in the same dish in 
which it was baked. 

Any other kind of fish we have pointed out as 
adapted for baking, may be prepared in the same 
manner, and affords an excellent dish at a cost 

♦ See page 143. 



234 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

seldom exceeding a shiUing, sufficient to satisfy 
at least have a dozen hungry mouths. 

To hake Carp, 

Haying scaled the fish and cut off the fins^ lay 
it in a baking-dish^ and pour over it sufficient 
wine (whether red or white is inmiateiial) to 
cover the fish ; season with cloves, nutmeg, mace, 
cayenne pepper, and salt; add to this a bundle of 
sweet herbs and an anchovy, or a small quantity 
of anchovy sauce, and bake the whole for about 
an hour in an oven ; then pouring off the liquor 
into a saucepan, add to it some butter rolled in 
flour, a squeeze of lemon, and boil up the whole 
together, taking care to keep it well stirred all 
the time ; then placing the fish in a clean dish, 
pour the sauce over it. A basse, gray mullet, 
hake, or sea bream, is exceedingly good dressed 
in the same way. 

If you are desirous to save a portion of the 
wine, you may substitute an equal quantity of 
cider with the wine ; or, instead of the cider, the 
same proportion of a good fish-gravy prepared as 
before directed.* 

To bake Salmon. 
First, scale the fish; then, taking out the 
backbone, chop up some shrimps and oysters, 

• See page 197. 



HOW TO ROAST AND BAKE PISH. 235 

mixing these with bread-crumbs and a little 
parsley chopped up very fine, and seasoning 
with a little cayenne, common pepper, and salt; 
roll up the whole tight, and, after dredging well 
with flour, stick it about with butter, or lard it 
well with fat bacon ; and, placing the fish in a 
baking-dish, bake it in a quick oven. Mix the 
gravy that comes from the fish with a little butter 
rolled in flour, and then placing the fish in a clean 
dish, pour the gravy over it. Garnish with fried 
parsley and sliced lemon. 

Another Way. 

Take either the middle piece or tail end of a 
salmon, dredge it thoroughly with flour, and, 
binding it round with a piece of tape, hang it up 
to a bottle-jack, or fix it in a cradle-spit, or in a 
Dutch oven, and let it roast before a good fire, 
basting it from time to time with butter. When 
done, finish off the gravy as in the foregoing 
receipt, and serve up the fish in the same way as 
there directed. 

To bake Eelsy CongerSy and Lampreys. 

Eels must be must be previously skinned, as 
before directed*; but either of the two latter, if 
used, must retain their skins. The heads of either 

* See page 148. 



236 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

kindflj as also the tails below the vent; must not 
be used Fill the belly with a forcemeat pudding, 
and sew it up ; floiur the fish well, and stick it 
over with pieces of butter, or lard it with fat 
bacon, and place it in a baking-dish; make a 
gravy or broth with the heads and tails and pour 
it into the dish with the fish, and bake it in a 
moderate over. When done, pour off the gravy; 
and, after skinuning off the fat, strain it through a 
sieve ; add to it a tea-spoonfiil of lemon pickle, 
twice that quantity of ketchup, an anchovy, and 
a slice of lemon ; let the whole boil up together 
for a few minutes, shaking in at the same time a 
little butter and flour, to thicken it ; then turn 
the fish into a clean dish, and pour the gravy over 
it. Garnish with sliced lemon and fried parsley. 

To roast a Conger. 

Take about seven or eight pounds of the 
middle portion of a conger; and having pre- 
pared and enclosed a forcemeat pudding in its 
belly, and dredging it with flour, and sticking it 
over with butter or larding it with fat bacon, fix 
it with some splints to a spit, or suspend it to a 
bottle-jack before the fire, and there let it roast 
until done, basting it from time to time with the 
gravy that comes from it, and occasionally dredg- 
ing it over lightly with flour. When done, take 



HOW TO ROAST AND BAKE PISH. 237 

it up in a clean dish. Then add to the gravy 
that has come from the fish, some gravy or broth 
produced from some of the other parts of the 
conger prepared as previously directed * ; and if 
this proves at all thin, thicken it with a little 
butter rubbed in flour, or a proportionate quan- 
tity of cream, to which add a tea-spoonful of Cor- 
nubian or anchovy sauce, or double that quantity 
of soy or ketchup. 

To roast Sturgeon* 

Sturgeon is considerably improved by lying 
in salt and water for six or eight hours before it 
is cooked ; then cleanse it weU, fix it on a spit, 
and baste it well with butter whilst roasting, 
dredging it lightly from time to time with flour, 
and when half done, have prepared some fine- 
grated bread, with a few sweet herbs and a little 
parsley chopped up very fine, which being cast 
over it will, by the aid of the butter and flour, ad- 
here to the fish ; when done enough, take it up and 
place it in a clean dish ; and pour over it a sauce pre- 
pared according to the instructions of the celebrated 
Mrs. Glasse ; viz., a pint of water, an anchovy, a 
small bit of lemon peel, an onion, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, mace, cloves, whole pepper, black 

♦ See page 197. 



238 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

and white, and a piece of horsera&h ; cover it 
dose, let it boll a quarter of an hour, then after 
straining it, return it again to the saucepan, pour 
in a pint of white wine, about a dozen oysters and 
their liquor, two spoonsful of ketchup, two of 
walnut pickle, the inside of a crab bruised fine, 
or some pieces of lobster or shrimps, a piece of 
butter rolled in flour, a spoonAil of mushroom 
pickle, or juice of lemon ; let all simmer together, 
and when the fish is dished, pour the sauce over 
it. Garnish with fried bread and sliced lemon. 

* Another Mode. 

Another mode is to take a piece of sturgeon of 
the proportionate size required; and after plunging 
it in water and salt, as we have just before di- 
rected, and washing it clean, to parboil it ; and 
then, stripping off* all the skin, to roast it precisely 
according to the preceding directions, and serve 
it up with the same sauces. 

To roast Salmon. 

This fish can be roasted either entire or cut 
up in portions, and may be done either in a 
Dutch oven or in a cradle-spit; or it may be 
tied with splints to a common spit, or suspended 
to a bottle-jack. It should previously be scaled ; 
and whilst roasting, should be basted with butter. 



PISH PIES AND PATTIES. 239 

and occasionally dredged with flour. It is some- 
times the practice to strip off the skin, and supply- 
its place with a coating of egg and bread-crumbs ; 
but we consider the former to be the better plan ; 
as, by retaining the skin, you keep in and retain 
the rich moisture, which, if permitted to escape, 
causes the fish to eat too dry to be pleasing to 
most palates. Add a little melted butter and a 
glass or two of wine to the gravy that drips from 
the fish; and warming this up in a saucepan, 
place the fish in a dish, and pour the gravy over 
it. Garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon. 



SECTION vm. 

Fish Pies and Patties. 



Fish pies are a valuable addition to a bill of 
fare ; and the Cornish people have so great a 
predilection for this particular branch of cookery, 
that there are few fish found upon their coasts 
that are not applied to this purpose. Some fishes 
are, however, much better adapted to it than 
others, as they ought to possess a firm muscle, 
and be as free as possible from bones ; but ten- 
der fish, such as whiting, however delicious when 
cooked in a way to which. t3aey «ii^ ^Aas^Kfc^^ 



240 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

make very bad pies ; and should never, thereforej 
be devoted to that purpose. 

Eel Pie. 

Prepare your eels as for frying*, and cut them 
up in the same manner ; season them with a little 
cayenne, common pepper, and salt, and pour in 
sufficient water nearly to fill the dish ; and placing 
on a lid of crust, bake them until they are 
thoroughly done. Then take off the lid, and 
pour in some cream proportioned to the size of 
the pie; and mstantly replacmg the crust, the 
cream will mix up with the gravy, and make it 
just what it ought to be. Some use butter ; but 
this is not near so good as cream, being apt to 
make the gravy very oUy, and thus renders it as 
unpleasant to the taste as to the sight. 

Conger Pie, 

This is prepared in much the same way as in 
the last receipt, except that the tail portion, on 
account of the nmnerous bones with which it is 
interspersed, had better be left out. When the 
pie is done, some portion of the gravy should be 
poured out before the cream is put in, as a much 
greater portion of liquid will be found to exude 



FISH PIES AND PATTIES. 241 

from a conger than an eel when undergoing the 
baking process shut up in a pie. 

Hake Pie. 
Hake^ when intended for a pie, should be cut 
up in cutlets, as for frying* ; and being placed in 
a pie-dish, and seasoned with a little cayenne 
pepper and salt, should be baked in the same 
manner as an eel pie, and with the addition of 
cream to enrich the gravy. If you wish to save 
the cream, then have a fish gravy prepared before- 
hand, and, allowing it to become cold, pour this 
over the cutlets when placed in the dish, before 
putting on the lid and committing it to the oven. 

Bass Pie. 
Bass make an excellent pie, being prepared in 
much the same way as the hake, with this differ- 
ence, that the former fish, instead of being cut up 
in cutlets, is cut up in thick steaks through the 
backbone ; and all the roots of the fins should be 
cut out, the bones of which would otherwise 
prove exceedingly troublesome. Any of the 
larger kind of gurnards, as also ling, may be 
prepared to advantage in the same way. 

Sea-Bream Pie. 
These fish are usually put in whole, being 

* See page ISO, 
R 



242 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

first very carefully scaled^ and the Bus cut out 
by the roots. Wrass are also cooked in the same 
manner ; but as they are exceedingly watery, the 
whole of the liquid coming from the fish should 
be strained off and a good supply of cream sub- 
stituted in its place, so as to make these fishes 
as palatable as circumstances will admit. Bream 
pie, however, is excellent; but wrass pie we cer- 
tainly cannot praise. 

Salmon Pie. 

Cut up the fish in cutlets, in the same manner 
as a hake is done ; lay the pieces in a pie-dish, 
the bottom of which must be well rubbed with 
butter ; season with cayenne, common pepper, 
and salt; add some bruised shrimps, or some 
portions of lobster, and fill up the pie about half 
full with water. Then, with the salmon bones, 
head, and any other ingredients you have at 
hand, make a good fish gravy ; and when the pie 
is done, open the lid and pour the gravy into it 

Flat-fish Pie. 

Any kind of flat-fish is suited for a pie ; but of 
all these the sole is by far the best. For this 
purpose the largest-sized fish of the kind are to 
be preferred. These must be cut, in cutlets, 
carefully from the bones, and placed in layers in 



PISH PIES AND PATTIES. 243 

the pie-dish, each layer being seasoned with 
cayenne, plenty of common pepper, a little grated 
nutmeg and ground mace, and between each 
layer must be placed some oysters deprived of 
their beards, or a few bruised shrimps; the beards 
and liquor of the former, or the heads and shells 
of the latter, being previously boiled up with the 
head and bones of the sole, imtil all the goodness 
is extracted, the whole is poured into the pie-dish, 
over the cutlets, which are then to be covered over 
with a crust and thoroughly baked, and when 
done the lid must be lifted up, and a quantity of 
cream, proportioned to the size of the pie, poured 
into it, and the lid again closed down to permit 
the cream to become thoroughly mixed up with 
the gravy whilst the latter remains boiling hot. 
This we consider the best of all fish pies, and 
may be eaten either hot or cold. 

Pilchard Pie in the Cornish mode. 

Carefully scale your pilchards, which you must 
take care to ascertain are perfectly firesh, and 
having scalded a few leeks, place them in about 
equal proportions with the pilchards in the pie- 
dish, with sufficient water nearly to fill the dish ; 
and when baked enough, open the lid, drain off 
all the liquor, and pour in some cream or new 
milk. 

B 1 



244 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

Salt-JUh Pie. 

Prepare your fish as for stewing*, and when it 
will bear it pull it in pieces with a fork ; and 
having four or five hard-boiled eggs chopped up 
fine, season the whole with cayenne and com- 
mon pepper, and then fill up the di&h with as 
much milk as it will contain ; when the pie is 
baked, lift the lid, pour a little cream into it, 
and close it up again immediately. 

Lcbster Pie* 

Prepare your lobsters in the same way as for 
stewing t ; and if the lobster be a female, beat up 
the coral and spawn in a mortar. This being 
done, cast all you have picked out, both great and 
small together, into a stewpan, with a small 
quantity of water, veal broth, or thin fish gravy, 
three tea-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a good-sized 
piece of butter rubbed in flour; season with 
cayenne, pepper, salt, a small quantity of grated 
nutmeg, and pounded mace. Let all these in- 
gredients warm very gently over a slow fire, until 
the mixture begins to simmer ; then put the whole 
into a very shallow pie dish, and cover it with a 
rich crust, and bake it until the paste is done, 
when it will be ready for the table. 

♦ See page 221. f See page 222. 



FISH PIES AND PATTIES. 245 

Lobster Patties. 

Prepare the lobster as in the last receipt, only 
that the tail part should be broken up in rather 
smaller portions. If you intend to have small 
patties, bake up some fine puff paste in patty- 
pans, the bottoms of which you must well butter, 
otherwise the patties will stick to them. Fill up 
the space between the pastry and that which 
the lobster is intended eventually to occupy, 
with a small piece of bread, in order to preserve 
a sufficient hollow space for the latter purpose. 
Then place the patties in the oven, and whilst the 
baking process goes on warm up your lobster 
with the necessary ingredients in a stewpan, 
taking care it never quite reaches to the boiling 
point ; and when the patties are baked enough, 
lift up the lid of each, and, carefully extracting 
the bread, pour the lobster, and a proportionate 
quantity of the liquid in which it was stewed, into 
the hollow place the bread previously occupied. 

K a larger patty is required, then of course 
the bread inserted must be proportioned to it, 
although, in the larger-sized patties, it is a more 
common practice to dispense with the lid, or cover, 
altogether ; but, in either case, the bread should 
be inserted to preserve the space the lobster is 
designed to occupy. 



246 THE COOKERY OF FISH. 

Shrimp and Prawn Patties. 

Prepare your patties as directed in the last 
receipt; and^ having stewed the shrimps or 
prawns in the way we have previously pointed 
out* (but of course omitting the onions), pour 
them, with their sauce, into the patties; serve 
them up folded in a napkin, to keep them hot 
They may, however, be eaten cold, and in the 
latter form make an excellent dish for a supper 
table. 

Oyster Patties. 

Having bearded your oysters, boil up the 
beards and hard parts in the liquor till all their 
strength is extracted, and the bulk of liquid con- 
siderably reduced in quantity ; then strain it 
through a hair sieve, and, having cut up the re- 
maining portion of your oysters into small pieces, 
throw them, together with the strained liquor, 
into a stewpan ; season with cayenne, common 
pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, and grated lemon- 
peel. Let the whole warm gradually until it 
begins to simmer; then throw in a sufficient 
quantity of cream to thicken it, and keep turning 
until it is thoroughly mixed together, and then 
pour the contents into your patties. Be not too 

♦ See page 224. 



PISH SOUPS. 247 

sparing of your cream, for, depend upon it, 
milk and flour will never answer the purpose, 
whatever strict economists may assure you to the 
contrary. 

Sometimes oysters are put in whole, instead of 
being chopped up ; and when they are very fine, 
a single oyster only is placed in a patty of a pro- 
portionate size, the gravy being fiUed in with it ; 
and a number of these patties are placed one above 
another, thus forming a kind of pyramid, which 
has a very pleasing appearance, and looks exceed- 
ingly well upon a supper table. 

Another mode, 

A delicious patty may be made by mixing up 
chopped portions of veal sweetbread with oysters, 
in about equal quantities, the oysters prepared 
according to the foregoing receipt. 



SECTION EL 
Fish Soups. 



Fish soups, although not very often used, are 

many of them excellent, and almost any kind of 

fish may be turned to profitable account in this 

way, and this even after having been previously 

s 4 



248 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

cooked, particularly if a little meat brol3i can 
be procured ; and many heads, bones, and por- 
tions of fish that are carelessly thrown away 
and wasted, might with little trouble have as- 
sisted in the form of a very delicious soup, in 
helping out the following day's dinner. Several 
kinds of fish may be mixed up together, which 
in fact is generally an improvement, some giving 
strength and nourishment, and others imparting 
a flavour to the soup, as in the receipt fol* 
lowing. 

FUh Soup. 

Take about two pounds of eels or congers, one 
pound of crimped skate, and about the same 
weight of flounders, or any other kind of flat-flsh 
or gurnards, cleanse them properly, cut them up 
in pieces, and fry them in butter until they are 
about half-done ; then place them in a boiler, 
in about three pints of water or meat broth; 
having flrst seasoned the pieces with cayenne, 
common pepper, and salt, add a bundle of sweet 
herbs and parsley, and let the whole stew for 
several hours, so that not only all the strength 
and goodness may be extracted from the flsh, but ^ 
that the liquid may be reduced to about one-third 
of its original quantity. Whilst the stewing is 
going on, fry a couple of onions, coated with flour. 



FISH SOUPS, 249 

in the butter in which the fish was previously 
fried, until thoroughly brown, and then throw 
them into the soup, together with the butter in 
which they were fried. Thicken with a little flour 
and butter, and add a little ketchup, soy, or Cor- 
nubian sauce. Then pour out the contents, and 
strain them through a hair sieve or cullender into 
a basin, and there allow them to get cold, when all 
the fat which accumulates upon the surface should 
be removed ; when wanted for use, the soup may 
be again warmed up. You may add vermicelli or 
macaroni to the soup. 

Conger Soup, in the Jersey mode. 

Take five pounds of conger to three pints of 
water, cut the former up into small pieces and place 
them in a boiler with the water, until the liquid 
is reduced to about two-thirds of its original quan- 
tity ; then strain it off through a hair sieve or cul- 
lender; add to it the same quantity of new milk 
as there is of soup, and warm tiiis up again ; 
throw in some green peas, which should be boiled 
up in the soup until thoroughly done, and then 
the peas and soup must be served up togetiier. 

To make Conger Soup in imitation of Turtle* 

Prepare the soup as in the first receipt, and 
then cut off some belly-pieces of a lai^<^ i:«ti^t 



250 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

into pieces of about an inch square^ and fiy them 
in butter until about one-half done^ and then 
throw the pieces^ with the butter in which they 
were fried, into the prepared soup, in which they 
must be allowed to stew until thoroughly done ; 
thicken the soup with butter rolled in flour, or a 
proportionate quantity of cream, give a squeeze 
of lemon, and add to this forcemeat and egg- 
balls. 

Oyster Soup* 

Make a soup according to first receipt, and 
when it is strained off, beat up the yolks of ten 
hard eggs, with the hard part of a pint of oysters, 
in a mortar, and cast this, with the liquor and 
the remaining portions of the oysters, into the 
soup, and let the whole simmer together for 
about half an hour ; then have ready the yolks of 
six raw eggs, well beaten, and add them to the 
soup ; keep the mixture stirring over the fire until 
it becomes thick and smooth, allowing it only to 
simmer slowly, and on no account to boil. 

Mussel Soup. 

Stew the mussels in the liquor which comes 
from them, into which must be thrown some 
butter rolled in flour, some parsley, and a 
bundle of sweet herbs; allow them to simmer 



FISH 80UPS. 251 

until the liquid is reduced to about one-haJf its 
original quantity ; then strain off the liquor, and 
mix it with some soup prepared according to the 
first receipt, and after warmmg up the whole, 
throw in the mussels, and serve up the latter 
together with the soup. 

Eel Soup, 

Take some fresh-water eels, skinned and cut 
up in the same way as for frying*, and to every 
pound-weight of fish put a quart of water, some 
whole pepper, an onion, and a bundle of sweet 
herbs; add a little soy, ketchup, or Cornubian 
sauce, and let the whole stew gently until half 
the liquor is wasted. Fry an onion or two in 
butter, and when done brown throw it, with the 
butter, into the soup. Strain the soup as before 
directed, and having some pieces of toasted bread 
cut up in small pieces in a tureen, pour the 
soup over them. 

Lobster and Crayfish Soup. 

Take three quarts of strong veal broth made 
without herbs, the crumb of four French rolls, the 
flesh of a lobster, or sea crayfish, or a proportion- 
ate quantity of river crayfish or of prawns, pound 
up the whole in a mortar, tc^ether with the coral 

* See page 181. 



252 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

and spawn^ if any ; season with cayenne, common 
pepper, and salt ; add a glass of wine, or half 
that quantity of vinegar, and a slight squeeze of 
lemon; let the whole stew gently for about half 
an hour, and serve it up with a French roll, 
stuck full of almonds, floating in the tureen. 



SECTION X 
Twice-laid Dlshbs of Fish. 

Although any portions of fish that are left un- 
consumed are usually considered so worthless as 
to be thrown away and wasted, they may always 
be turned to some, and very often really profitable, 
account. The smallest portions may assist in 
making fish soups or enriching gravies, and the 
larger may often be submitted to some process 
of cookery by which they may be rendered quite 
as agreeable as when first produced in the way 
they were originally cooked. 

To fry Turboty SoleSy or Dories that have been 

previously dressed. 

Take as much of these fishes as you can entire, 
in one solid piece, from the bones; coat them 
with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in 
plenty of dripping until they become a fine pale 



TWICE-LAID DISHES. 253 

brown. Serve them up with melted butter, 
anchovy or Comubian sauce, soy, or ketchup. 

You may, if you please, substitute batter pre- 
pared according to the directions before given *, 
as a substitute for the egg and bread-crumbs. 

We have only enumerated soles and turbot, 
but any other kind of flat-fish may be prepared 
in the same way. 

'^0 fry cold Cod, Ling^ 8fc, 

Any portion of cod or ling that may be left 
cold must be separated, so as to be divided by 
the flakes in pieces of about half an inch in 
thickness, and being coated either in egg and 
bread-crumbs or in batter, may be fried as in 
the last receipt, and served up with plain melted 
butter, oyster sauce, vinegar, mustard, soy, 
ketchup, anchovy, or Comubian sauce. 

Another mode. 

Pull the fish completely to pieces with a fork, 
picking out the bones, and mix it up thoroughly 
with an equal proportion of mashed potatoes ; add 
to this four or five hard eggs chopped up fine, 
mized with a raw egg and a small quantity of 
melted butter, just enough to bind the whole 
together; make them up in small flat cakes, of 

* See page 195* 



254 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

about an inch in thickness^ or mould them into 
the form of sausages ; fry them brown^ and eerve 
them up with plain melted butter and mustard. 

Fish Sausages. 

Take any previously-dressed fish, and^ after 
carefully extracting all the bones, mince it up 
fine, season with cayenne, common pepper and 
salt, and mix up with it a sufficient quantity 
of raw beaten egg, to bind the whole together; 
make the mixture up into the form of sausages, 
or of small balls. Fry them brown, and serve 
them up with plain melted butter ; bread-crumbs^ 
or cold mashed potatoes, may be mixed up with 
the fish, and they may also be coated with bread- 
crumbs, by rubbing a little raw egg about the 
outside of the balls or sausages, and then strewing 
the bread-crumbs over them. 

Fish that has been previously stewed, particu- 
larly skate, the gravy that is left being mixed up 
with the fish, are really delicious prepared in this 
manner. 

Oyster Sausages, 

These are prepared by chopping up some veal 
very fine, then pounding it in a mortar, and 
chopping up an equal proportion of oysters very 
small, all of which are mixed up with bread- 
crumbs and a little beef suet, and moistened with 



POTTING, PICKLING, ETC. 255 

some of the liquor taken &om the oysters, the 
whole being bound together by means of an egg 
beaten up, and being previously seasoned with 
cayenne, common pepper, salt, and a little beaten 
mace, is moulded into t^ie form of sausages or 
balls, and Med in butter. 

Lobster Balls, or Sausaffes, 

Take the flesh of a lobster, together with the 
coral and spawn, if any, and pound the whole in 
a mortar, adding to it bread-crumbs to about one- 
quarter the proportion of the lobster ; season with 
cayenne, common pepper, salt, and bruised mace. 
Mix up a little melted butter with the other in- 
gredients, and, making it up into balls or sausages, 
coat the latter with egg and bread-crumb, and 
fry them of a fine pale brown. 

Potting is also an excellent way of turning 
cold fish to good account ; but this subject belongs 
properly to the next section, and will be there 
fully entered upon. 



SECTION XL 

POTTINO, ScOLLOPmO, PiCKLINO, AJU) MaBINATINO. 

To pot Lobster cold. 

For this purpose a hen lobster is the best suited, 
[ix up the coral and spawn, and the pickings 



256 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

about the head, and all the flesh from the claws^ 
in a mortar, seasonmg it with cayenne, conunon 
pepper, salt, and bruised mace ; add to this some 
thick melted butter, until the whole becomes one 
entire paste ; then take the meat from the tail, 
taking care to extract and cast away the black 
gut which runs down through it, and beat it up 
in like manner ; then put one-half of the last- 
pounded meat in the bottom of the pot, the part 
from the head and claws in the middle, and the 
remaining half from the tail portion upon the 
top ; and cover the whole with clarified butter. 

To pot Lobster hot. 

Prepare and pound the meat from the head 
and claws as in the last receipt, but omitting the 
butter ; then break up the flesh from the tail in 
small pieces, but do not pound it ; press the latter 
in a deep baking dish, cover it with butter, and 
bake it for about half an hour ; then take it out 
and let it cool, and when it becomes so, turn it 
out into pots, spread the pounded parts on the 
top, and pour clarified butter over it. 

To pot Lobsters according to Mrs. KaffaldCs 
receipt, which cost ten guineas. 

The authoress above alluded to, in her edition 
of " The Experienced English Housekeeper,'* 



POTTING, PICKLING, ETC. 257 

published in the year 1787, presents her readers 
with the following valuable receipt: — 

*^ Take twenty good lobsters, and when cold 
pick out all the meat from the tail and claws (be 
careful to take out the black gut in the tails, 
which must not be used) ; beat fine three quarters 
of an ounce of mace, a small nutmeg, and four or 
five cloves, with pepper and salt ; season the meat 
with it; lay a layer of butter in a deep earthen 
pot, then put in the lobsters, and lay the rest of 
the butter over them (this quantity of lobsters 
will take at least four pounds of butter to bake 
them) ; tie a paper over the pot ; set them in an 
oven ; when they are baked tender, take them 
out, and lay them on a dish to drain a little ; then 
pot them close down in your potting-pots, but do 
not break them in small pieces, but lay them in 
as whole as you can, only splitting the tails. 
When you have filled your pots as ftdl as you 
choose, take a spoonftd or two of the red butter 
they were baked in, pour it on the top, and set it 

before the fire to let it melt in ; then cool it and 

■* 

melt a little white wax in the remainder of the 
butter, and cover them. N.B. — Lay a good deal 
of the red, hard part in the pot to bake, to colour 
the butter, but do not put it into the potting- 
pans." 

By adopting the above plan a sufficient quan- 

8 



258 THE COOKEBT 07 FISH. 

tity of lobsters may be preserved to be in readi- 
ness for immediate use^ of which you may always 
avail yourself when unable otherwise to obtain a 
lobster of any kind either for love or money. 

Another way* 

Split the tail and extract the black ^t of one 
or two lobsters, which should be only parboiled; 
butter the bottom of a baking-dish and place your 
pieces flat in it, seasoning them with a little 
cayenne, allspice, nutmeg, white pepper and salt; 
then placing bay-leaves between each piece d 
lobster, cover the whole with butter and bake 
them in a slow oven. When done, press down 
the lobster by placing another dish that fits the 
upper parts of the baking-dish, filling the former 
with heavy weights, and keeping up this pressure 
for at least six or eight hours ; then take out the 
lobster and throw away the bay-leaves, and then, 
filling your pots with the portions of lobster, 
cover the whole with clarified butter. 

To pot Crayfish* 

This should be done in the same way as before 
directed for lobsters, for in every way in which 
the latter may be done the former may be done 
also, with only this simple difference, that a cray- 
fish being often of a more watery nature than a 



POTTING, PICKLING, ETC. 259 

lobster, the flesh of the former should be squeezed 
between two plates, so as to press off all the water 
before it is placed in the pc*«-i— bii4 this latter 
course of proceeding will be unnecessary when 
the baking process, as mentioned in the preceding 
receipt, is resorted to. 

To pot Prawns^ Shrimps, and river Crayfish, 

Bruise up the tail portions, which must be ex- 
tracted from the shells, and mixing them up with 
a little melted butter, and seasoning with a little 
cayenne, common pepper, salt, and a very little 
bruised mace, place them in pots and pour clari- 
jBed butter over them. If there is any coral or 
spawn, this should be aU picked out and mixed 
up with the other parts. 

Another mode. 

Pound the parts you have extracted from the 
shells in a mortar, and mix them up into a paste 
with a little butter ; season as in the last receipt, 
and, putting the meat in a pot, cover It over 
with clarified butter. 

A third way. 

Put the tails of the prawns, as whole as you 
can extract them from their shells, into the pots 
in which they are to be baked ; and if there is 

B 2 



260 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

any coral in the heads, or eggs, these should be 
inserted to fill up the spaces; then season as 
before directed, and pressing down the contents, 
cover over with butter, and let the whole bate in 
a slow oven from about ten minutes to a quarter 
of an hour. When perfectly cold, turn all out 
into a fresh pot in which they are to make their 
appearance at table, and, pressing them down 
close, pour clarified butter over them. 

To pot Crab 

Mix up the white flesh of the body and claws 
with about one-fourth the same quantity of the 
cream of the crab ; season with cayenne, common 
pepper, bruised mace, and salt ; place the mixture 
in a pot, and pour melted butter over it. 

To pot cold Fish. 

Almost every kind of cold fish may be made 
available in this way, but those fish which are 
the firmest and most free from bones are the best 
adapted to the purpose ; any parts may be used 
that are free from bones, and the pickings about 
the head and fins of a ling or codfish, the skin and 
sound chopped up small, all come in most advan- J 
tageously for this purpose. This mode is as '' 
simple and easy as it is economical and useful. 
All you have to do is to pull the solid parts of the 
£sh to pieces with a foxk^ «ivvd to pick out the 



POTTING, PICKLING, ETC- 261 

other parts by the same means ; mix up the whole 
in a basin, with a little melted butter, seasoning 
with cayenne, common pepper, salt, and a little 
bruised mace ; and, placing the mixture in pots, 
pour clarified butter over it. A few minutes are 
ofl;en sufficient to complete the whole process. 

The fish we have usually employed in this 
way are ling, cod, hake, conger, basse, bream, 
mackerel, ray, turbot, and flat-fish of all kinds, 
and every one of them has given satisfaction ; 
but as each gives a different flavour to the 
preparation, it is difficult to say which of them 
is the best. It may be prepared from cold 
fish cooked in every possible way ; and, if made 
from fish that has been either previously stewed 
or curried, any gravy that is left should be mixed 
up with the fish, which will serve still further to 
enhance the richness of the flavour. 

When prepared in this way, with a little 
parsley strewed over the top, it presents a tempt- 
ing appearance either at a breakfast or a supper 
table, and is also admirably adapted for a luncheon 
or a pic-nic. 

ChaVy Trout^ and Chads. 

Gut and scale your fish, and cut off their heads 
and fins ; then season each fish well with pepper, 
salt, allspice, and a UtUe cayeim^-, «^t^^ ^^^s^ 

S 3 



262 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

open and lay them in layers^ with their backs 
uppermost^ in a baking-dish^ into which you mngt 
then pour sufficient clarified butter to coyer them^ 
and tying paper over the dish^ bake them all 
night in a very slow oven, for if the oven is 
too hot the fish will become baked up dry, and 
utterly spoiled; but by baking slowly the bones 
turn to a soft gristle, and afford no impediment 
whatever to the eating of the fish* It will be 
necessary, therefore, to examine the fish before 
you finally take them up, to see that the bones 
have become properly softened, which even sevend 
hours' baking, where the oven is very cool, will 
not accomplish ; still it will not do to risk them 
in an oven too hot ; and therefore, if they do not 
bake enough in one night, give them a few hours 
more baking, until you find they are thoroughly 
done and the bones have acquired the desired con- 
sistency. Then allow the fish to become cold, 
and place a baking-dish, with weights upon that 
containing them, in the way we have before 
directed for potting lobsters*, and keep up a 
heavy pressure for six or eight hours, then turn 
out your fish, and laying them in layers in pots, 
press them down tight and pour clarified butter 
over them. If you wish to keep them for any 
length of time, pour melted mutton suet over 






50TTING, PICKLING, ETC, 263 

them instead of clarified butter, and when you 
intend to use them take off the mutton covering, 
and, scraping away the portion of fish that has 
come into immediate contact with it, pour over 
clarified butter in its stead. 

Another way. 

Having prepared your fish as before directed, 
dry them in a cloth ; next lay them on a board 
or stone, and strew a quantity of salt over them, 
and let it remain for six or eight hours ; then rub 
it gently off, wiping the fish afterwards carefully 
with a cloth, and then seasoning them with 
bruised mace, ground cloves, and grated nutmeg 
on the inside, but with pepper and salt only on 
the outside, put them into a deep pot, with their 
bellies uppermost, and pour in sufficient clarified 
butter to cover them ; bake them for five or six 
hours in a slow oven. When they are dressed, lay 
a board over them, and turn them upside down, 
to let the gravy run from them; scrape the salt 
and pepper very carefully off, and season them 
exceedingly well, both inside and out, with the 
above seasoning; then lay them close in broad 
thin pots, with the backs uppermost, and cover 
them with clarified butter. 



B 4 



264 THE COOKSSr OF FISEL 

To pat SabtunL 
Having well scaled the fish^ split it into cutlets, 
wipe them with a dean diy doth^ but do not 
wash them; then season with cayenne^ Pepper, 
allspice^ and a little salt, and place the cutlets in 
layers in a baking-dish^ with some baj-leayes 
betwixt each layer^ over which pour clarified 
butter sufficient to cover the whole; bake in 
a slow oven for about three hours. When done, 
drain off the oil and gravy that exudes from the 
fish, and then press the fish in the same way we 
have previously directed a lobster to be done * ; 
next press it down tight into pots, and cover it 
with clarified butter. 

. To pot Salmon that has been previousli/ dressed. 

Take any portion of cold salmon, clear it from 
the bones, and pick it in pieces with a fork; 
season with allspice, pepper, and salt; add to 
this some thick melted butter, so as to make it 
into a paste, but without moistening it too much; 
then press the mixture into a pot, and pour 
clarified butter over it Some of the coral and 
eggs of a lobster, and bruised portions of the 
latter, or bruised shrimps or prawns, are a valu- 
able addition, and greatly improve both the 
appearance and flavour. 



POTTING, PICKLING, ETC. 265 

To pot Mackerel^ Gurnards^ BassCy Mullet^ Sfc. 
Split your fish and extract the backbone, and 
if the fish are large divide them into four parts, 
if small into two; season them in the same 
manner as trout and char * are directed to be 
done, and placing the pieces in a baking-dish, 
cover them with clarified butter, and cover the 
dish with paper ; bake them for about two hours 
in an oven moderately heated, and after allowing 
them to become cold, press them between two 
baking-dishes, at the same time draining off all 
the gravy that comes from them; then place 
them in pots, and cover them with clarified butter. 
Besides the fish we have above enumerated, any 
other kind of solid and firm fish may be prepared 
in the same way. 

To pot Eels. 
Having skinned your eels, split them in two, 
and take out the backbone ; cut them in pieces 
two or three inches long; season with a little 
cayenne, allspice, grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, 
and a small quantity of sage rubbed very fine ; 
place the pieces of eel in layers in a baking-dish, 
over which you must pour sufficient clarified 
butter to cover them, and then tie paper over 
the top and bake them in a tolerably quick oven 

• See page 262, 



266 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

for about an hour and a half. When cold^ take 
them out^ press them into pots and pour clarified 
butter over them. 

To pot Congers. 

Congers must not be skinned^ but in other 
respects must be cut up in the same way as fresh- 
water eels; they will, however, require to be 
done in a very slow oven, in which they should 
be allowed to bake for eight or ten hours, until 
all the numerous fine bones which abound so 
much in the tail portions of congers are dissolved 
to a gristle. When done, press them and strain 
off the liquor that comes from them^ and place 
them in pots as in the preceding receipt. 

To pot Lampreys. 

Lampreys may be potted in the same way as 
eels are before directed to be done ; in addition 
to which the following mode is often adopted: — 
The lampreys being well wiped upon the outside, 
so as thoroughly to cleanse away the slime, are 
then split open below the gill-holes, and the 
gristle that stands them instead of a backbone 
carefully extracted ; they are then cut off below 
the gills, and the portions intended to be potted 
well rubbed with pepper and salt, and so allowed 
to remain for ten or twelve hours. They are 



POTTING, PICKLIKG, ETC. 267 

then wiped dry, again seasoned with pepper, salt, 
bruised mace, and a little grated nntmeg, and 
rolled up in a fillet, and in that form put into 
a pot, sufficient clarified butter being poured in 
to fill up the crevices and cover the fish ; paper 
is then tied over the pot, and they are baked for 
about three hours in a moderately heated oven ; 
when nearly cold, they are slightly pressed, and 
the gravy drained from them, and when quite 
cold they are put into pots, and clarified butter 
poured over them. 

To scollop Lobster* 

Having extracted the lobster from the shell, 
break it into very small pieces, mixing up the 
coral and eggs, if any, with it; season with 
cayenne, common pepper, bruised mace, and salt^ 
and place the mixture in scoUopHshells ; then 
break up the shells and claws of the lobster, and 
place these in a small quantity of water, and let 
the whole stew until reduced to about one-half its 
original quantity ; then strain off the liquor in a 
small saucepan, and thicken it with a piece of 
butter rolled in fiour, and pour sufficient of this 
into the scollop-shells to moisten the whole con- 
tents ; then sprinkle bread-cnmibs over the top, 
and bake the scollops in a dutch-oven before the 
fire ; and when done, brovna. o^^x ^^ \st^»&c- 



268 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

crumbs with a salamander, and serve up in the 
scollop-shells. 

To dress a Crab, cold. 

Crabs are best done in their own shells^ when 
intended to be eaten cold. To do tlds^ extract 
all the flesh from the claws and body^ taking care 
to pick out CTcry particle of shell; mix the whole 
together with a good quantity of mustard and 
vinegar, a little cayenne, common pepper, and 
salt ; and having thoroughly cleansed the back 
shell, fill it up with the mixture, which should be 
eaten cold, without any fiirther dressing. 

To dress a Crab, hot. 

Mix your crab, as in the preceding receipt, 
but add to it about one-fourth the proportion of 
bread-crumbs, mixed up with it, and several 
pieces of butter stuck amongst it ; put this mix- 
ture either into the back shell of the crab, or into 
scollop-shells, which must be baked before a fire 
or in an oven ; and, when done, brown over with 
a salamander, and serve up in the crab or scollop 
shells. 

Scolloped Oysters. 

Place a layer of bread-crumbs in scollop-shells, 
the bottoms of which should be previously well 




POTTING, PICKLINO, ETC. 269 

rubbed with butter; then, having bearded a 
suflScient quantity of oysters, place them in layers 
upon the bread-crumbs ; season them well with 
pepper and salt, and place a number of small 
pieces of butter between the layers ; then arrange 
another layer of bread-<;rumbs, butter, and 
oysters, until the shells are quite filled up, and 
cover the whole with bread-crumbs, and a few 
more pieces of butter upon the top of all. Bake 
before the fire, or m an oven, and, when done 
enough, brown them over the top with a sala- 
mander, and serve up in the shells. 

Mussels, cockles, and every edible kind of 
shellfish, may be prepared in the above manner. 

To pickle undressed Salmon. 

Scale the fish, and rub it well with a dry 
cloth, and scrape out the blood carefully from the 
backbone, but wash it not; then cut ofi* its 
head, and cut up its body into two or three 
pieces, across ; then boil the fish in equal propor- 
tions of water and vinegar, with a few cloves and 
blades of mace, tiQ it be done, taking care to skim 
ofi* all the scum that comes upon the surface 
whilst boiling; then take up the fish, and allowing 
both that and the liquor in which it was boiled to 
become cold, add to it about ou^-^Scixi^ Ts^st^s^ 



270 THE COOKEBT OF FIBH. 

Tin^ar, a clove or two, and aome whole pepper^ 
and then replace the fish in the liquor. 

Tront, salmon peel, basse, mullet, and mackerel^ 
are all excellent when prepared in the above 
manner. 

To fickle cold Sabnum. 

Boil up some portion of the water in whidi 
the fish was previously cooked; add to this about 
the same quantity of vinegar, and throw in a few 
whole peppercorns ; as soon as the liquor begins 
to bubble take it off the fire, and place in it any 
previously-dressed cold salmon you may be 
desirous of preparing and preserving in this 
way. In case the salmon should not have been 
sufficiently done previously, then boil it up in 
the pickle until it becomes thoroughly dressed 
throughout. 

Turbot, flat-fish of all kinds, basse, sabnon peel, 
trout, mullet, ling, hake, gurnards, and in fact 
nearly, if not every kind of fish that is adapted 
for boiling, may be prepared in the way we have 
just pointed out; but with most of the latter a 
few bay-leaves boiled up with the pickle will be 
found a decided improvement. 

To pickle Oysters. 
In opening the oysters, take care to preserve 



POTTIKG, PICKLING, ETC, 271 

the liquor, add to this an equal quantity of 
vinegar, a glass of white wine, a blade or two of 
mace, some whole peppercorns, and a little salt ; 
boil up this mixture for about five minutes, taking 
care to skim off all the scum ; then put in the 
oysters, and let them simmer very gently for 
about ten minutes; then cast them, with the 
liquor, into deep earthen pots, and tie them over 
tight with dried bladder, white leather, and 
paper, so as to exclude the external air until you 
require them for use. 

To pickle Musseh and Cockles, 

Extract the contents from the shells as pre- 
^ously directed,* If intended to be eaten imme- 
diately, throw in about one-third of vinegar in 
proportion to their own liquor ; season witii pepper 
and salt, and a littie cayenne ; let this get cold, 
and then cast in the mussels or cockles. If in- 
tended to keep for a longer period, you must 
then add tiiree parts vinegar in proportion to the 
other liquor. 

Water Souchy. 

This may be prepared from most kinds of fishes, 
but p^ch, tench, and flounders are tiiose usually 
employed for the purpose. The principal thing 

* See page 225. 



272 THE COOKERY OF FISH. 

to be kept in view in preparing water sonchy^ is 
to extract every particle of goodness from one 
kind of fish to make a rich soup to dress thoee 
-whose bodies are intended to be eaten. To 
accomplish this object, you must take about one- 
half of the weight and quantity of the fish, and 
boil them to a mash in about two quarts of 
water and some broken parsley and parsley roots, 
until the greater portion of the flesh of the fish may 
be strained with the gravy through a cullender, 
which being done, add a little parsley chopped 
fine, and then place the remainder of the fish 
in the liquor ; season with pepper and salt, and 
let the fish stew until thoroughly done^ and then 
throw them, with the soup in which they have 
been stewed, into a tureen. 

If you have large and small fish, or fish of 
various kinds, you should use the inferior and 
smaller ones for the soup, reserving the latter 
for the purpose of cooking and serving up 
whole. 

Another way. 

Scale, gut, and thoroughly cleanse your fish, 
put some salt into the water you purpose cooking 
it in ; then separating an onion into round rings, 
throw these in, together with a handful of clean 
parsley; then add about as much milk as will 



POTTING, PICKLING, ETC- 273 

turn the water white, and boil the fish in this 
until they are done enough. Serve them up in 
a tureen with the soup, parsley, and onions. 

A third way. 

Prepare your fish as in the foregoing receipt, 
and then pla«e them in a stewpan in a gravy 
made as follows : — ^melt some butter in a stewpan, 
then throw in a little boiling water, some sliced 
onions, a few sUces of carrot or turnip, some 
parsley roots, a little Comubian sauce, soy, or 
ketchup; season with pepper, salt, and a little 
allspice, and when the fish is nearly done, give a 
slight squeeze of lemon into the gravy; then 
give the whole a shake, and serve it up, gravy 
and all, in the same dish. 

To marinade Mackerel, Herrings, Pilchards, 

Chads, 8fc, 

Cleanse your fish and cut off their heads ; rub 
into the inside plenty of bruised mace or all- 
spice, pepper, salt, some whole peppercorns, and 
a blade or two of mace ; and then place them, in 
layers, in a baking-dish ; put bay-leaves between 
the layers, and pour in about three-parts vinegar 
to one of water sufficient nearly to fill the dish. 
Bake in a slow oven for about five hours, whetv 
you may examine the fisk \/o «AC^T\slas3L SS. '^'^ 

T 



274 THE COOKEBT OF FISH, 

bones have become soft; if not, thej must be 
baked longer^ and until such time as all the bones 
become converted into gristle, when they may be 
taken up, and, being allowed to remain in the 
liquor until it becomes cold, the whole must be 
carefully shifted into a clean dish, so that the 
fish may not be broken in the transit. 

To marinade Conger^ Ling, Hake, Sfc. 

To marinade large fish, the backbone should 
be extracted and the fish cut up in pieces ; which, 
being seasoned as in the foregoing receipt, should 
be baked until thoroughly done in a tolerably 
quick oven, and, being permitted to become cold, 
should be then shifted into a clean dish. 

If, however, the tail portions of a conger are 
done, it will then become necessary to resort to 
the slow-baking process, for the purpose of dis- 
solving the wiry bones, which will not be so 
effectually done if the fish is baked quickly. 

To collar Eels. 

Skin and gut as many eels as you may require ; 
then take out their backbones and cut off their 
heads; next season them well with cayenne, 
common pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, a 
few bruised cloves, some sage chopped fine, and 
a little grated lemon-peeL EoU up the fish in fil- 



8AUCES. 275 

lets j and bind them round tightly with tape. Boil 
them in salt-and-water and vinegar^ in equal pro- 
portions^ imtil they are done. Then take out the 
fi^h and throw in some whole peppercorns ; cast 
the pickle into a deep dish^ and when it become^ 
quite cold place the fish in it. 

Congers, lampreys, garfish, gurnards, and 
mackerel, may be prepared in the same way ; but 
none of these must be deprived of their skins. 

Lobster Salad, 

The lobster being boiled, the whole of the flesh 
should be extracted from the shell and claws, the 
tail part being cut or broken in tolerably large 
pieces, and the whole, with the cream, coral, and 
eggs, if any, well mixed up together and put into 
the bottom of the bowl ; the salad and salad mix- 
ture being thrown over it. 



SECTION xn. 

Sauces fob Fish. 

Lobster Sauce. 

Extract the meat from the shell and clawa^ 
and break it up into small "pv^cifc^ ^ -^^M^X^as^^ 

T 2 



276 THE COOK£BT OF FISH. 

a hen lobster^ take out all the coral and spaini, 
and pound it up fine in a mortar. Boil the 
shells^ which should be broken up^ in half a pint 
of water, or, what is still better^ the same quan- 
tity of veal or some other meat broth^ with a little 
groimd allspice or bruised mace^ and whole pepper, 
and a little scraped horse-radish. Let this boil 
until the whole strength of the ingredients is 
extracted; then strain off the liquor^ and throw 
it, with the pieces of lobster, into a stewpan, 
adding to it half a poimd of cream^ or, if that 
cannot be conveniently obtained, the same quan- 
tity of thick melted butter, a teaspoonful or two 
of anchovy sauce, or a dissolved anchovy, and a 
slight squeeze of lemon. Stir the materials about, 
and let the whole simmer for about five minutes; 
but be careful not to let it boil ; for if you do, it 
will destroy the colour, which cannot easily be 
restored. Season with a little cayenne and salt 
whilst the stewing process is going on; and, 
when comi)leted, serve up the sauce in boats. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

Prepare your shrimps as for stewing*, only add 

a little more liquor, which must be thickened 

with melted butter or cream. Whilst stewing in 

the pan, add a teaspoonful or more of anchovy 

♦ See page 224. 



SAUCES. 1^77 

sauce^ in proportion to the quantity of shrimps ; 
season with salt, cayenne, and a little bruised 
mace or allspice. Serve it up in boats. 

Crab Sauce. 

Pick out a sufficient quantity of the meat of a 
boiled crab, and mix it up with an equal propor- 
tion of its cream ; then, having ready some thin 
melted butter in a stewpan, throw the mixture 
into it with about a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce 
or an. anchovy; thicken with cream or butter 
coated in flour, and season with cayenne, allspice, 
and salt. Serve it up in boats. 

Oyster Sauce. 

In openmg the oysters, take care to preserve 
the liquor ; then, having bearded and taken off the 
tough portion of the oysters, stew these with the 
beards in the liquor, to which you may add broth, 
if you have any, if not, as much water as you 
will require in proportion to the sauce you intend 
to make, but at the same time allowing a suffi- 
cient quantity for it to diminish to about one-* 
half the original bulk before you put in the 
oysters. Previous to this, however, the liquor 
must be taken up and strained, and thickened 
with a good-sized piece of butter rolled in flour, 

and to which must be added an anchovy or a tea* 

T 3 



278 THE COOKEBY OF FISH. 

spoonful of anchovy sauce. Then place the oysters 
in the sauce and keep the whole turning rounds to 
prevent the butter from curdling until thoroughly 
warmed up ; and then serve up in boats. 

Cockle Sauce. 

Mix up a good-sized piece of butter in plenty 
of flour, and melt it with some of the liquor from 
the cockles, a spoonful of anchovy sauce^ or a dis- 
solved anchovy, and a little vinegar ; then throw 
in the cockles, which must be previously boiled 
and extracted from the shells, and shake them 
about for two or three minutes ; and serve them 
up in boats. 

Mussel Sauce. 

This is prepared in precisely the same way as 
the last, only that in the present instance it will 
be an improvement to substitute white wine for 
vinegar. 

To prepare Anchovies for Sauce., 

Take as many anchovies as you are likely to 
require out of the pickle ; dip them into boiling 
water, and, taking them out instantly, lay them 
flat upon their sides, and scrape off* all the scales 
and white slime, and with a knife remove what- 
ever portion of intestines they may contain. 



SAUCES. 279 

Then fill a water-plate with boiling water, and, 
laying the cleansed anchoyies upon it, take out 
the backbones and mix up all the flesh (which 
will speedily dissolve with the heat of the plate 
into a kind of paste) with a little butter and flour. 
This may afterwards be thrown into and mixed 
with melted butter. 

If you wish for a nice anchovy paste for a 
sandwich or toast, then mix up the anchovy with 
the butter only. 

Another way. 

To two anchovies as above, add one glass of 
white wine and water, half a nutmeg grated and 
a little lemon-peel; when it has boiled five or 
six minutes, strain it ofl^, and add to it a spoonful 
of white-wine vinegar ; then prepare some rich, 
melted butter, and cast the mixture into it, stir* 
ring it well together for about a minute, and 
serve it up in boats. 

Horseradish Sauce. 

Stew an onion to a pulp in good fish or meat 
gravy; into this grate ateas^nM of horse- 
jradish ; to which add a couple of anchovies, or 
two teaspoonsM of that sauce and the same 
quantity of mi^stard. Let the whole simmer 
gently over the fire, keeping it €»t\s?cYc^ ^ '^sife 

T 4 



280 THE COOKEBT OF FISH. 

time^ and thicken it either with cream or batter 
rolled in flour^ and just before you take it up give 
a slight squeeze of lemon* 

Fennel Sauce. 

Boil the fennel in the same water in \vhich jou 
do the fish^ and^ when it becomes tender^ take it 
out, and^ chopping it up fine^ mix it with plain 
melted butter. 

Egg Sauce. 

Boil two or three eggs hard; then strip off the 
shells ; take off the whites and chop them up, but 
not too fine ; afterwards chop up the yolks* in 
like manner ; then mix yolk and white well to- 
gether, and throw both into good melted butter. 
This sauce is particularly well adapted to all 
kinds of salt fish, and may be eaten with mustard 
by those who are partial to the latter article. 

Parsley and Butter, 

Having chopped the parsley fine, boil it up 
with the water or broth in which the butter to 
accompany it is intended to be melted; or, in 
other words, melt the butter and cook the parsley 
at the same time; for, as soon as the butter is 
completely melted, the parsley will be done 
enough also. 



SAUCES. 281 

Caper Sauce. 

Chop up the capers fine, and throw them into 
melted butter, and serve it up in boats. 

This sauce is not conunonly used with fish, 
but is well adapted for salmon, mackerel, pil- 
chards, eels, and other rich and luscious fish. 



I i 



;i' 



■. 



INDEX. 



Alick, red, description of, 121. 
how to boil, 166. 
fiy, 185. 
broil, 202. 
stew, 208. 
Anchovies, how to choose, 102. 
Atherine, how to distinguish from 
true smelt, 64. 
proof of freshness, 65. 
how to cook, 65. 



B. 



Bilking, practical obsenrations 

upon, 229. 
Barba, how to cook to best ad- 
vantage, 81. 
Bass, description of, 105. 
directions how to choose, 106. 
how to prepare for cooking, 

141. 
how to boil, 166. 
fry, 184. 
broil, 201. 
ftew, 208. 
bake, 232. 
make a pie, 241. 
pot, 261. 
pickle, 270. 
marinade, 273. 
Batter, directions for making, 195. 

directions for frying in, 195. 
Seckar, description of, 115. 
directions for cooking, ib, 
how to stew, 208. 



Beckar, how to bake. 232. 
Black bream, description of, 115. 

how to dress, 116. 
Bishop, See Weever. 
Boiling, practical suggestions re* 

specting, 158 — 173. 
Bones of fishes, how turned to best 

advantage, 179. 
Botargo made from the roes of 

grey mullets, ib, 
Bothock, See Bib. 
Braise, See Beckar, 
jSream (freshwater), description of, 
78. 
how to dress, 186. 
Bream (sea), description of, 113. 
how to boil so as to resemble 

surmullet, 205. 
how to stew, 208. 
bake, 232. 
make a pie of, 241. 
pot so as to resemble 
charr, 261. 
Bret See Burbci, 
BriU, description of, 40. 
how to choose, 40, 41. 
boil, 168. 
fry, 192, 193. • 
fry in cutlets, 195. 
fry in batter, ib, 
dress twice-laid, 252. 
Broiling, practical observations 

upon, 200. 
BvU trout, description of, 60. 
when in season, ib, 
how to boil, 165. 
fiy, 191. 
Burbot, description of, 34. 



284 



INDKX. 



C. 



Caper aauce^ how to make, 281. 
Carp, description of, 72. 
how to choose, 73. 77. 
when ont of season, 74. ' 
mnddy flavour in, how cored, ib, 
best portions of, 76. 
how to fry, 185. 

stew brown, 210. 
white, 212. 
bake, 234. 
Carter, See Whiffe. 
Chads, how to broil so as to re- 
semble sarmollet, 205. 
how to pot so as to resemble 
char, 261. 
Char, when in best season, 63. 
freshness of, how ascertained, ib. 
how to cook, 191. 
pot, 261. 
Chub, observations upon, 80. 
best mode of cookhig, t6. 
how to fry, 186. 
when in best condition, ib. 
Cod, description of 14 — 18. 
when in best season, 1 6. 
how to choose, 17. 
soft and watery taint, how best 

removed, 16. 
how to choose, 17. 
rules for selecting a healthy 

fish, ib. 
proofs of freshness, ib, 
how to clean and prepare, 142. 
powder with salt, 152. 
cure, 154. 
boil, 1.58. 160. 162. 
sauces to accompany, 162. 
how to fry, 175. 
broil, 201. 
stew, 214. 
bake, 229. 
roast, 230. 
pickle, 270. 
dress twice-laid, 253. 
marinade, 274. 



Cod, mIl See Salt-Ji^ 
Cod, iamiiM, obserrations nf 

16. 
Cod's eowtde and tongues, hoi 
prepare for cooking, 163^ 
how to boil, ib. 
fry, 197. 
broil, 205. 
stew, 222. 
Cod, variable, how distioguifi 
from common codfish, 18. 
Codlmg, how to boil, 162. 

fry, 179. 
broil, 202. 
Comger, diflTerence between ) 
common eel, 69. 
various modes of cooking, 

70. 
how to choose, 71. 
when in best season, tft. 
how to boil, 168. 
fry, 181. 
stew, 213, 214. 
bake, 235. 
roast, 236. 
make a pie of, 240. 
soup, 248, 249. 
pot, 266. 
marinade, 274. 
collar, ib, 
Connor, See Wrasses, 
Crabs, how to choose, 132. 
when in best season, 133. 
how to distinguish male fi 

female, ib, 
how to boil, 172. 

dress cold, 268. 
dress hot, ib, 
make sauce of, 277. 
Crayfish, how to choose, diffei 
kinds of, 134. 
how to boil, 172. 

stew, 222. 224. 
pot, 258, 259. 
scollop, 267. 
Crimping fish, observations U] 
67. 



INDEX. 



285 



Crimpish fishy object of, is to 
make the fish eat dry and 
crisp, 57. 
of skate and rays, how managed, 
148. 
Crimped fish take a shorter time 
in boiling than when done in 
a solid piece, 161. 
Crucian, how to distingoish from 
a carp, 73. 
how to cook, 210. 
Curing fish, directions for, 154. 

158. 
Curry, directions for making, 227. 

229. 
CuUets, how to cook, 195. 
hake, 179. 
turbot, 195. 
brUl, ib, 
plaice, t^. 
flounder, ib. 
dory, ib, 
salt-fish, 196. 



D. 

Dabs, description of, 45, 46. 

how to fry, 194. 
Dace, best modes of cooking, 80. 
how to fipy, 186. 

marinade, 273. 
Dog-fish^ how cured and preserved, 

128. 
Don/i description of, 51. 
origin of name, ib. 
anecdotes of Mr. Quin respect- 
ing, 52, 53. 
when in best season, 54. 
how to choose, 54. 
criteria for determining the 

freshness of, ib. 
how to dress, 192. 
Drizzles, small lings when so 
termed, 33. 



E. 



Eeis, yarieties of, 66. 
when in best season, 67. 
proofs of freshness, 68. 
how to kill, ib. 

skin, 148. 
boil, 168. 
fry, 181. 
stew, 214. 
bake, 235. 
roast, 236. 
make a pie of, 240. 
coUar, 274. 
Eel-pout See, Burbot 
Egg sauce, directions for making, 
280. 



F. 



Fennel sauce, how to prepare, 280. 
Five-bearded ling, description of, 

36. 
Flat-fish pie, how to make, 242. 
Flounders, description of, 44. 

proof of good condition, 44, 45. 

at what time in best condition 
45. 

how to prepare for cookery, 145. 

best modes of dressing, 1 70. 194. 

pie, 242. 

how to make water-sonchy of, 
271. 
Forked hake, description o^ 30. 

how to dress, 30. 
French sole. See Whiffe. 



G. 



Gar-fish, description of, 88. 

when in best season, 89. 

criterion of freshness, ib. 

how to fry, 187. 

collar, 274, 275. 
Grayling, when in best season, 63. 

signs of freshness in, 64. 



286 



INDEX. 



Gravy ^ fish, how to prepare, 197. 

200. 
Grey gurnard^ description o^ 122. 
how to boil, 166. 
fiy, 185. 
broil, 202. 
Grey mvUet See MmBHs^ grey. 
Gudgeon, descriptioii o^ 82. 
stfueness in, how detected, Uk 
how to fiy, 191. 

nuurinade, 273. 
Gwnards, yarious species, how 
distingnished, 117—122. 
how to boil, 166. 
fiy, 185. 
stew, 211. 
pot, 265. 
collar, 275. 
Gwyniad, description o( 65. 



H. 

Haddock, description of, 18, 19. 
signs of health, condition of, 19. 
criteria of freshness, 20. 
when in best season, 21. 
how to clean, 141, 142. 

powder with salt, 152. 

cure, 154. 

boil, 163. 

fry, 176. 
proper sauces to be eaten with, 

176, 177. 
how to broil 
Hake, merits of, 28, 29. 
when in best season, 29. 
how to choose, 29, 30. 

prepare for cookery, 142. 

powder with salt, 152. 

cure, 154. 

boil, 163. 

fry, 179. 

broil, 201. 

bake, 232, 233. 

bake on potatoes, 233. 

make a pie of, 241. 



Hake^ how to pot, 260. 
pickle, 27a 
marinade, 274. 
HerrtMs, how to disdngiiiflh i 
puchards, 97. 
when in best season, 99. 
males, how distingoished i 

females, ib, 
how to boil, 167. 
fry, 188. 
broil, 202. 
marinade, 27S. 
Herrings, red, how to choo» 
prepare for cookery, 151. 
how to dress, 202. 
Hdibut, best portions of, 42. 
Homelyn ray. See Ray. 
Hook-and-line fish, how dis 
guished from those cang^ 
the trawl nets, 17. 20. 29. 



J. 

Jack. See Pike. 

John Dory, See Dory, 



Kite, See BrilL 



Lake trout, observations npon, i 
Lampreys, different kinds o^ 1 
distinguished, 125. 
when in best season, 127. 
how to fry, 183. 
stew, 215. 
bake, 235. 
pot, 266. 
collar, 274. 
Launce, different species, how 
tinguished from each oti 
90. 



INDEX* 



287 



Launces, how to dress, 187. 
Xiemon dab, description of, 46. 
Xm^, description of, 81. 
y directions for choosing, 32. 

* how to dean, 142. 

powder with salt, 152. 
[ cure as salt fish, 154. 

* boil, 162. 
fry, 176. 
broil, 201. 
stew, 213, 214. 
bake, 232. 

dress twice-laid, 253. 
pot, 260. 
Ling, five-bearded, description of, 

36. 
Ling, three-bearded, description of, 
35. 
how cooked to best advantage, 
35. 
Ling, salt, how to choose, 130. 
how to prepare for cooking, 
150. 
boil, 164. 
fry, 196. 

fiy in cutlets, 196, 197. 
stew, 230. 
twice-laid, 253. 
Lobster, how to choose, 133. 
male, how distinguished from 

female, ib, 
when in best season, ib, 
test of freshness of in, when 

b(Mled, 134. 
how to boil, 172. 

stew, 221, 222. 
in the Irish way, Ut, 
make a pie of, 244. 
patties, 245, 246. 
curry, 228. 
soup, 251. 

balls or sausages, 
255. 
pot, 255. 258. 
scollop, 267* 
salad, 275. 
sauce, t&. 



Long-nose* See Gar-fisL 
Lug-a-leaf, See Bib, 



M. 

Mackerel, various species of, 92. 
how to choose, 94. 
prooft of staleness in, ib, 
when usually in best season, 95. 
how to boil, 171. 
proper sauces for boiled, 172. 
how to fry, 187. 
broil, 202. 
stew, 217. 
pot, 265. 
. pickle, 270. 
marinade, 273. 
collar, 274. 
Merry sole. See Smooth dab. 
Minnows, how to dress, 82. 
how to cook to eat like white- 
bait, 188. 
Morgay, how usually cured, 128. 
MuUet, grey, description of, 112. 
how cooked to best advantage, 

ib. 
how to boil, 166. 
sauce to be eaten with, ib, 
how to fry, 1 84. 
stew, 210. 
pot, 26a 
pickle, 270. 
marinade, 273. 
Mullet, red, when in best season, 
111. 
criteria for freshness in, ib, 
how to recognise a trawl^canght 
fish, Uf, 
prepare for cookery, 146. 
fry, 191. 
broil, 204. 
Mussels, proof of healthy conditioa 
in, 137, 138. 
how to boil, 173. 
fry, 197. 
stew, 225. 



288 



how to KoUopi, 367. 
pickle, 271. 
make mice U, 27& 



N. 
rfooMB* Dee \jjf9ttn» 



O. 



O^Mttn, goodneai depends chiefly 
upon the nature of the groond 
they inhahit, 136. 
dUagreeable taint in, how reme- 
died, 136. 
when in proper season, ib. 
best modes of feeding, 137. 
how to frj, 197. 

make into pies and pat- 
ties, 245, 246. 
soap, 250. 
saoiiagCK, 254. 
how to scollop, 268. 
pickle, 270. 
sauce, 277. 



P. 



Parbaiiing nalnum, benefit to be 

derived by, 153. 
Parr, how distinguishable from a 
small trout, 62. 
how to dress, 63. 
Paraley-and-lmUer, how to pre- 
pare, 280. 
Pearl See Brill, or HMut. 
Perch, description of, 104. 
when in best season, ih, 
proof of condition, ib, 
various modes of cookery, 105. 
how to boil, 166. 
fry, 183. 



Ptnkf Ikms to 



271 — ^273L 



Pike, ficcdi 



S73. 
fix; 269 
i 



spawn oC mrvHioleaGiiie, i 
best portiofia oi, 87. 
imxrf' of good eonditioo, < 

fineshneasy 87. 
how to boil, 167. 
Stew, 211. 
bake, 231. 
PiSksea. See 
PUdktrdSfhow to 
herrimn. 97 
when in best seaaofn, 98. 
difierent modes of cochin 
how to choose, 99. 
fry, 189. 
bn^ 203. 
stew on potatoes, 
make a pie of 

Cornish mode, : 
marinade, 273. 
Piper. See Gurnards. 
Plaice, how recognised fro 
rest of the flounder trib 
when in best order, 42, 4i 
best proof of, 42. 
criteria of freshness, 42. 
how cooked to best adva 

43, 44. 
how to boil, 170. 
fry, 194. 
Pollock, rawlin, difference be 
and whiting pollock, 2i 
how to choose, ib. 

powder, 152. 
cure, 154. 
boil, 163. 
fry, 176. 
broil, 201. 
Pollock, whiting, how to c 
25. 
various modes of cooking, 



INDEX. 



289 



Poliock, how to powder, 1 52^ 
cure, 154. 
boil, 163. 
fry, 176. 
broil, 201. 
Pope. See Buffe. 
Patties, 239—247. 
Pickling, observations upon, 269. 

271. 
Pies, directions for making, 239 

—247. 
Potting, observations upon, 255. 

266. 
Pout, eel See Eel-pout, Burbot 
Pout. See Whiting-pout, 
Power codfish. See Whiting-pout 
Praums and shrimps, how to 
choose, 135. 
when in best season, ib, 
how to boil, 172. 
stew, 224. 
currj, 228. 

make pies and patties of, 
246. 
soup, 251. 
how to pot, 259. 
sauce, 276. 



R 



Bavmflanh. See Turhot. 
Bayan gilt-head, description of, 

115. 
Bays, twelve distinct species of, 
123. 
flesh of, when prepared for 

table designated skate, ib, 
best kinds of, 1 24. 
what are the best portions, ib. 
make excellent sausages, ib. 
directions for cleaning and pre- 
paring, 147. 
how to cure as fsalt-fish, 154. 
boil, 170. 
fry, 196. 
stew, 219. 



Bay, how to make into balls or 
sausages, 254. 
pot, 261. 
Bed alick. See Gurnards. 
Bed bach, how distinguishable 

from the sole, 49. 
Bed gurnard. See Gurnard, 
Bed mullet See Mullet, red. 
Boach, best mode of cooking, 80. 
Budd, how distinguished from the 
freshwater bream, 79. 
how to be cooked, ib. 
Buffes, how distinguished, 107. 
criteria of freshness in, ib, 
how to fry, 191. 

marinade, 273. 



S. 



Salad, See Lobster salad, 
Salmon, when usually in season, 
56. 
best proofs of, ib, 
signs of unhealthy condition, 57. 
effect of crimping upon, 57. 
distinction in appearance be- 
tween male and female fish, 
67. 
signs of staleness, how de- 
tected, 58. 
how to preserve fish, 153, 154. 
cure, 155, 156. 
boil, 164. 
fry, 190. 
broil, 204. 
bake, 234, 235. 
roast, 238. 
make a pie of, 242. 
sausages, 254. 
how to pot, 260. 264. 

pickle, 269, 270. 
Salmon, dried, how to choose. 130. 
how to prepare for cooking, 151. 
S<dt-fish, how to choose, 1 29. 
how to prepare for cooking, 
149. 151. 



U 



290 



INDEX. 



SaU'figh, how to cure, 154. 
how to boil, 164. 

fry, 196. 

dress in cutlets, ib, 

broil, 206. 

stew, 220, 221. 
pie, 244. 
twice laid, 258. 
Sabmrn-peel^ how recognised, 58, 59. 
how to choose, 59« 

boil, 165. 

fly* 191. 
broil, 202. 

pot, 261. 263. 
pickle, 270. 
roast, 238. 
stew, 220. 
Sand eel See Launces, 
Sandfleuk. See Smoothdab, 
Scad, description of, 96. 
observations upon the merits of, 
96. 
Scaldfish, description of, 50. 
Shad, two species of, how distin- 
guished, 102. 
when in best season, ib, 
directions for the cookery of, 
188. 
Shrimps. See Prauma and 

Shrimps. 
Skate. See Rai/s. 
Smelts, when in best season, 64. 
how distinguished from the 

atherine, ib. 
criteria of freshness in, ib. 
how to cook, 191. 
Smooth dab. See Dab, smooth. 
Sole, how distinguishable from its 
varieties, 48, 49. 
how to choose, 48. 

prepare for cooking, 146. 
boil, 170. 
fry, 192, 193. 

in fillets, 193. 
stew, 218, 219. 
Sprats, how to distinguish from 
small herrings, 100. 



Sprats, when in best season, 10 
how to prepare for cookc 

187. 
how to dress, ib. 
Stewing fish, directions for, 2 

227. 
Sturgeon, how to choose, 129. 
how to stew, 220. 

roast, 236, 237. 



T. 

Tench, when in best season, 83 
male how distingaishable fr 

female, ib. 
how to choose, 84. 
rank and muddy taste in, h 

obviated, 85. 
criteria of freshness of, tft. 
how to boil, 166. 
fry, 185. 
stew, 210. 
make water-souchy 
271 — 273. 
Top knot, description of, 47. 
Thoniback, See Hays. 
Torsk, description of, 37. 
Town-dab. See Smooth dab. 
Trout, how to choose, 61. 
when in best season, 62. 
criteria of condition a 

freshness, ib. 
how to boil, 165. 
fry, 191. 
pot, 261. 263. 
pickle, 270, 271. 
TurboU description of, 38, 39. 
proof of good condition in, 3 
how recognised from brill 

halibut, 40. 
how to boD, 1 68. 
fry, 192. 

dress in cutlets, 193. 
stew, 218, 219. 
make a pie of, 242. 



INDEX. 



291 



TurhoU liow to dress twice-laid, 252. 

sausages, 254. 

how to pot, 260. 

pickle, 270. 
Twaite, See Shads. 



V. 

Variable cod. See Codfish, 
Vendace, description of^ 65. 



W. 

Water-souchifj directions for mak- 
ing, 271—273. 
Weeverst description of 107. 
spines of, capable of inflicting a 

severe wound, 108. 
how to fiy, 184. 
Whiffe, description of, 46. 
best mode of cooking, 47. 



Whitebait, description of, 100. 
best season for, ib, 
how to dress, 188. 
Whiting., when in best season, 27. 
how to choose, 27, 28. 
boil, 163. 
fiy, 177, 178. 
broil, 202. 
Whiting pout should be gutted as 
soon as possible after being 
captured, 22. 
how to dress, 179. 
Whiting poUock, See Pollock, 
WrasseSf nine varieties of, 116. 
how to fiy, 184. 

maJ^e a pie o( 242. 



Z. 



ZeuSf name of the dony amongst 
the ancients, 51. 



THE END. 



N»MtreHt-Sqiure. 



A CATALOGUE 

NEW WOBES 

IN GENERAL LITEEATUHE, 



L0NI9MAM, BROWN, OREEK, akd LONQM&NB,* 



CLABBIFIED INDEX. 

Agricnltnre ud Rural AfiUn. 

Low''Iek'iiiu<<oi/iHty 



■ ekiiiui<ii>IA|iltal 



iMdHiri b utto n CnltM<la~ I 



BoDki of General Utility. 



s&T'.'-l^S'iru'^ii,., 




















,«.-;„..'i'J?."?.'-c?.C-i. 


























S'^7.'i'V'',«a\l5;'"! : : : 








KsSi'f'iRliilJ'r"".' ; : : 













Botany uid Gacdenloff* 



CLAUIFIED INDEX. 









Jriut^, ClVma RlrtsfHlU - 



^=K:Ss-:rs?aff! 



Gfogmphr Mid ftMiin 



ul'iUiiMirkiiiJTki) 



Hedldne uid Snrser;. 



TO Mbssbs. LONGMAN AMD Oo.'s CATALOGUE. 



3 



Hardn*! Book of DifnHlet - - - 10 
Hole's Bna? on Mechiiiies* IiMtitnkions lo 
HolUnd's Menul Physlologf - - - 11 
Hooker'tiCewGnide - - • - II 
Howitt*t Rural Ufe of BofflMid - - n 

„ Visits to ReoMurkable PlMei - n 
JFameton's CommonpUce Book - * IS 
JeCFrey's (Uord) Contrihntioaa - - 13 
London's Ladr^s Coontrr Conwuilon - ]6 
Blacaalaf's Crkleal mn* HUtofleal BMagra i ft 

,, Speeches • - * - 16 
Mackintosh^ (Sir J.) Miseellwieons Works if 
Memoirs of a Maltre d'Armoa • • SS 

Maitland'a Charch in the Catacombs • |S 
Pancal's Works, bT Pearce • • • 18 
Pjrcroft's English Ylesdinf - • • 19 
Report on Indnstrial Iiistmetlon • '11 
Rich's Companion to Latin Dictionaij - 19 
Riddle's Latin Dictionaries ... 19 
Rowton's Debater ••-••■ 19 
St. John's Nemesis of Power • * - 90 
Schoolmaster's Uifficalties • - - 99 
Seaward 's Narrativeof his Shipwreck - SO 
Sir R Offer De Coverler • ' • SI 

Smith's (Rev. SfdneV) Works • 'SI 
Southej'sConimon-rlace Books • "SI 

„ The Doctor etc. - - • S8 
Sonvestre's Attir Philosopher - • SS 

„ Confessions of a Working Man 8R 

Stephen's Essays - - • - - 2S 
Stow's TrainiDir System - - - -92 
Thomson's Oatline of the Laws ofThoaght 33 
Townsf^d's Sute Trials - »- - - S4 
Willich's Popular Tales .... 94 
Zumpt's Latin Grammar . - . .34 

Natural History in OeneraL 

Catlow's Popular Conchoitigf • ■ ' 7 
Ephemera and Young on the Salmon . 9 
Ooase's Mat ural History of Jamaica . 9 
Kemp's Natural History uf Creation . SS 
Kirby and .Spence's Kntomologr - -IS 
Lee's Elements of Natural Historr . l*.! 

Maunder's Treasury of Natural History • 16 
Turton's Shells of the British Islands • 34 
Waterton's Essays on Natural History • 34 
Yonatt's The Dog ..... 34 
„ The Horse . > -84 

l-Volmne Encyclopsedias and 
Dietionaries. 

Blaine's Rural Sports *• • -6 

Brande's Science, Literature, and Art . 6 
Copland's Dictionary of Medicine • • 8 
Cresy's Civil Engineering ... 8 
Owilt's Architecture . . . . g 
Johnston's Geographical Dictionary . 13 
Loudon's Agriculture .... 14 
Rural Architecture . .14 
Gardening .... 14 

PlanU 14 

„ Trees and Shrubs - . . 14 
M«Culloch*s Geographical Dictionary - 15 
,, DirtionsixT of Commerce . 16 
Murrar'sEncTclopaediaof Geography > 18 
Sharp's British Gasctteer ... 30 

Ure's Dictionary of Arts, etc. • > > 34 
Webster'sDomesticBeonomy • • '94 

Religious and Moral Works. 

Amy Herbert ...... 30 

Bloomfield's Greek Testament • 6 

,, Annotations on ditto . • 6 






»> 



Pntcs 
Calling and Responsibilities ofa Governess 7 
Calvert's Wife^ Manual 
Conybeare and Howson's 8t. Paul . 
Comer's Sunday Book ... 
Dale's Domestic Liturgy 
Defence of £elip«ee/^«ifk • 
Discipline - - . - . 

Barl's Daughter (The) ... 
Eclipse nf Faith .... 
Rnglisbman's Greek Concordaace - 

„ Heb. and Chald. Concord. 

Ezperienre of Life (The) 
FAice's French Protestants 
Gertrude 



Harrison's Light of the Foige 

Hook's (Dr.) Lei'tureson Passion Week 

Home's Introdurtion to Beriptnres 

„ Abridgment of ditto 
Jameson's Sacred l.egend« 

„ Mnnaatic Legends . . 

„ Legends of the Madonna 
Jeremy Taylor's Works ... 
Kippis's Hymns .... 
LiSneton Pnrsonage .... 
Letters to My Dnknown Friends • 

„ on Hapfiness - ^ » 
Littoo's Church of Christ 
Maitiand's Church in the Catacombs 
Margaret Percival 
Miirtineaa'aChurrh History . 
Milner's Church of Christ 
Montgomery's Original HTnms 
Moore On ?he Use of the fiody 

,t „ Sonl and Body . 

^ 's Man and his Motives 
Neale*s Closing Scene ... 

,, Resting Places of the Just . 

„ Riches that bring no Sorrow 

„ Risen from the Ranks . 
Newman's (J. H.) Discourses . 
Ranke's Ferdinand and Maximilian 
Readings for Lent .... 

** Confirmation 

Robinson's Lezicoo to the Greek Testa- 



ment ..... 

Saints our Example ... 

i)elf-Uen1ai .... 

Sermon on the Mount, Ulomlnnted > 
Sinclair's Journey of Life 

,1 Pouiah legends 
Smith's (Sydney) Moral Philosophy 

tt (G.) Sacred Annals . 
Southey's Life of Wesley 
Stephen's (Sir J.) EcclcsiMtical Biogn«hy 
Taylor's Loyola . - . . 

,, Wesley .... 
Thumb Bible (The) ... 

Tomer's Sacred History 



7 

8 

8 

8 

9 

9 
90 

9 

9 

9 
90 

8 
90 
10 
11 
11 
11 
13 
IS 
13 
IS 
12 
90 
14 
IS 
14 
16 

Iff 
16 
W 
17 
17 
17 
IH 
18 
18 
18 
W 
SS 
90 
30 

19 
90 
SO 
9U 
SI 
SI 
SI 
81 
SI 
SI 
S3 
93 
34 
S4 



Poetry and the Drama. 

Arnold's Poems . '- . . • 6 
Aikin's (Dr.) British Poets ... 8 
BailUe's (Joanna) Poetical Works . . 6 
Belfast's Lectures on the English Poets 6 
Bode's Ballad, from Herodotus . • 6 
Calvert's Wife's Manual ... 7 

Flowers and their ICIndred Thoughts . 18 
Goldsmith's Poems, illustrated . . 9 
KIppis's Hjmns • . . . -IS 
L. K. L.'s Poetical Works - . - 12 
Linwood's Anthologia Osonlensis > .14 
Macaulay's Lays of Ancient Rome • '15 
Montgomery's Poetical Works . .17 
„ Original Hymns . .16 



CLASSIFIED INDEX. 



FellUcal Econonr Jt Slatlitloa. 

■nlM-i BluUlkU nsBBUlu - . t 
Cili4'i Lttuti om Airinlm . . ; 

llKk'taMnftthleBl,atKlUtleaJj an. 



ludt'i mttimvi ar I<3i»ci, lie. - 
Hiv'i CMl iBilHcriai . - - 
DaUbict^ oiSlnj ■rConnll. eic. 






Bnnl Sports. 



ThaHnUiiI'Md 

Rl Jtb'i Ppaitlai HuUil. 



Teterinuy Kedldne, ete. 



Vay«ffM and TrATels. 






WorkB of Kctiim. 



ALPHABETICAL CATALOGUE 

OP 

NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS 

PDBLI8HBO BY 

Mbssbs. LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS, 
PATERNOSTER BOW. LONDON. 



Miss Acton's Modem Cookery- 

Book.— Modern Cookery in a]l its Branckes, 
reduced to ■ System of Rasy Pmctice. for 
the ase of Private Kamiiies. In a Series of 
Receipts, all of which have been strictly 
tested, and areriTen with the most minnte 
exactness. By Eliia Acton. .New Edition ; 
with Directions for Carriny, and other Ad- 
ditions, Plates and WoodcuU. Fcp. 8to. 
price 7«> 9d. 

Adams.— A Spring in the Can- 
terbury Settlement. Br C. Wabbsn 
Adams, Esq. With Fire Illnstntlons. Post 
8to. price 6$. M. 

Aikin. — Select Works of the 

British Poets, from Ben Jonson to Seattle. 
With Bioi;raphical and Critical Prefaces by 
Dr. Aikin . New Edition, with Sapplement 
by Luor Aikin { consisting' of additional 
Selections, from more recent Poets. 8to. 
price I8f. 

Arnold.— Poems. By Matthew 

Arnold, Author of Poemt bw A. A New 
Edition, greatly altered ( With, a Preface. 
Fcp. 8to. price 6$. M. 

*•* Mere than on^tUrd oftk* eontenU 
•f tkii volume €9n$Ut$ •/ P»*m§ now Jlr$t 
fuktUhHl. 

Austin.— Oermany from 1760 to 

IBM; Or, Sketches of German Life from 
the Decay of the Empire to the Expulsion 
of the French. Reprinted from the .Btfla- 
knrgk Rtviewt with large Additions. By 
Mia. Austin. PostSro. [Nearlp readf, 

Joanna Baillie's Dramatic and 

Poetical Works, complete in One Volume i 
Comprising the Plays of the Passions, 
Miscellaneous Dramas, Metrical Legends, 
FujgiUTC Pieces, (sereral now Arat pub- 
lished) , and Ahalya Baee. Second Edition, 
including a new Life of Joanna BiUllie ; with 
a Portrait, and a View of Bothwell Manse. 
Square crown 8to. 31«. elotb or i2i. bound 
In morocco. 



Baker.— The Bifle ai^d the Honnd 

in Ceylon. By S. W. Bakbr, Esq. With 
several Illustrations printed in Colours, 
and Engnrings on Wood. 8to. price I4i, 

Balfour.— Sketches of English 

Literature from the Fourteenth to the 
Present Century. By Culba LooAa BaXi- 
rooR. Fcp. 8to. 7$. 

Bayldon's Art of Valuing Bents 

and TillaifeB, and Tenant's Right of Enter- 
ing and Quitting Farms, explained br 
several Specimens of Valuations; witn 
Remarks on the Cultiratlon pursued on 
Soils in diCFerent Situations. Adapted to 
the Use of Landloids, Land Agents, Ap- 

Siraisers, Farmers, and Tenants. New 
Mitioni corrected and revised by John 
DoNAUMON. 8to. 10a. M. 

Banfield.— The Statistical Com- 
panion for 1854 1 Exhibiting the most In- 
teresting Facta in Moral and lutellectnal. 
Vital, Econoosical, and Political Sutistics, 
at Home and Abroad. Corrected to the 
Present Timet and including the Census 
of. the British PopuUtion taken in 1851. 
Compiled from Official and other Authentic 
Sources, by T. C. Banfiblo, Esq., Su- 
tihtical Clerk to the Council of EdnoUion. 
Fcp. 8to. price 5s. 



Lord Belfiuit.— Lectures on the 

English Poets and Poetry of the Nineteenth 
Century. By the Right Hon. the Eabx. of 
BBi.FAaT. 9ro. price 8«.M. 



Berkeley.— Beminiscences of a 

Hunuman. By the Honourable Grantlbt 
F. Bbbkbiat. With four Etchings by 
John Leech (one coloured). Svo. price 14*. 

Bewley. — Decimal Interest 

Tables, calculated at 6 per Cent, from 1 
Day to 366 Days, and from 1 Month to IS 
Months, on from £1 to ^MiJOOOi To which 
are added. Tables of Commission, from | 
per Cent, to 5 per Cent, advancing by 
Eif hths. By John Bbwi.bt. 8vo. price Sis. 



- Bluk't PncUeftl ¥Kitbe dn 



Blklue'i Sneyelapsdia of Annl 

•U KtaUii ■> B«>a imn^nrHju'illii 

BUlr*! OlurandastMl ud Hia- 



Qr. Bloomfield's AcUUtionU 



w'liJ, UJ}., vs. j. N»'eiIIiIiid,"i'>U1> 

'aCoUeseand 



Bode.— Ballads from HeTodotns : 



A TrHtdse on the Steun Engliie, 



■•P»*IIWriWlik» 



.J 



Bonne.— & Oat«olilsm of tbl 
Bi«nill«.— A DieUonuf of Bd- 

Jj 'J;*i"j^^"' '-*S.l. ud «.: law 

Tie HUPPLEUKNT irpintdj, pric<b.U 

BaU.-Ihe Uatcnul Huugs- 
Bull -Hlnta to HathET*, ta 

M.U. M.GdHlon. "c^5^«V "■ 

BmKen — Hlj^polytos and his 

Bit.c^j'uit'.'. "n o''S!'?"'°"'nS ' 



r»»>.»i. .T LOMQMAN, BKOWN. A..I. CO. 7 1 


Buaseii-Sgypt'B PIkc in TTni- 










s.fjs?^"^'ii.':;^-.?'rr?Jz£%' 




SS2Sf|'SiE;\E 


■«<uidE4IU-. S.C.I.HUU.. 


Oilmt.-^nui wife'* Huul, 


sv„?v" ili^-Zu'r ";;'iE.°a« 


!SSi»'SSS" 




nVirtjjpV""' ™'™' " f"^'" ''■' 


The Oaiijv ft BupouslbmtlM 










lud, l.dy. rU lt«Dla<IOD lo'lkl BKLiDC.Ion 






OtUow.-Popnlftr Cwichologyi 


Bl*luip BuUei'B OesBral AUu 


K-K;j;r:M;7v;.i,'.;; 


iSS-SSYSrs 


!SHSSS3=S1S 


E3ra."M..r!jsfi-, 


' "*■ 


«jh»ue i^Ks ii. t«* u« ^'';;j,",'' 


OedL-The Stud T>m) or, 


rjb-s.r^'xv.s.'-^jd'XiS";; 


Itx! T. BcTUiu Roral Bm. irle^ Ml, 


lallbDud. 


Bimdei, ot Bui Hiinci ud Hoauri, 


"■^.'.(^^SkIHS 










Oeeil.-Bec«rda of the OhiM, 


BJaliop BnUei'a Sketch of Mo- 




















£l"iL jSTrllBo.i-iu "J.V'p^'.'i;. 


rl-S^-J-""-'"- 


l« K.,«.i.;>,d « .u lb. c....ric. ». .h. 


C«cU.-SltblcpT*eUce| orHliibi 


Es;j-."'^""'""-.'.';-rx',i':i- 


s°Ji::i;fr:,'^r-'"..=te:;'^' 


teS^riJX'.'-s^-'si.Ji'i'ra 




llainlV-Aa'?">du(>.D»!'drH^n' 




iis^^i^ 


Tbi Cabinet LBiryeri A Fopn- 


Obalybwu'g Hlstorietl SiiiTBy 


l"d cSj^,'li.!rr"Dil^u^^r?Vii:" 


RSsSSF*=i5 


K^Sl^l"Zt™■i:7^S 




?;;=•„ S"jS;i,r.-r"^r^t-;-r";'' 




kii .k. i>.i.'uc Ao."( lb. h.'.i„ r>«. 


l'i"7,l^'j^Z'.', «''-u"S;."'n2£ 







8 NEW WOKKa tut 


MEW EOITIOMS 




^..Sl5^ InwUdli Book.- 






M^^Ttl^ ^^^Ik^'.^Zri^^ 


rklZVnta.DtpBIBni il <k< Rlir-I Al- 




SHs^."^.';r^i "f~d 








OhCTMul on Cclonr.-Tln! Prl»- 


iE< B«k bI c^uk» e^!^1S^ ii- 


d>k> It Humoir ud Coaml Diroloin, 


Ifll^^Ss 


sri"3:.:;..r.i-.-.'rM»!! 


-— '{?sS;=s»<^;^:it^ 


sSaSltnSS 


DaTlj.-Cl]l]ui dQrinf th« Wit 

ud alBci Iki Pim. Bt Sir J. F. Dini. 


Oonyhewe ud HowMn.-Tlw 


SSfSS^r^SS 




I>t ]Fellce.-mrtory ofthe Pw 


KJ.S'SS'. ftSJS. S-AiS 




sSSbiSS^S 


Sce«.8.. 




po.lS™.pri«U.. 


Copl»nd.-ADictIonary of Pr*o- 


pS^fSHH 


UHB ^D C«niDlllD0P1ivfllcEaBTnaB«eB 




KJS^!^i^=^;t|5.^S^^^ 


™* iX^Si :r : rttS'i ^^iZ 






Tl» Oblldien's Own SuiuUy. 


reiS:-SSS 


i^K; ESS3i3;: 


DeUl)«die.-The Geologic*! Ob. 






0«»y.-An Encydopeili. of 




i;;j,rx-j,T."p-ruT?d^f; 


DeI»l>eclie.-Ileport on the Oeo- 








*3. U..W. 




The Orlckrt-rield, or, the Bci- 


De la BiTe.-A TtuUm oa Xlec 




5!rs-^.?fa;4f .ST*;".';..5,:i 


Gtno. l>T>oVDl<i»..Mik..i.^ 







TnBLKBiD BY LONOMAH, BBOWN, tmi Co. 9 

Dtadpliiu. By the Antlior of Funday (ProfesEDT^.—Ilie Siit>> 

" Lltuii u Hr OnkDOin rrlfult," iir. tfrl.Hilur i( Hii Lntniii Dn Itil Ngo- 

BMinl snout, Hlui^.: ia». r''« Uiulllc KlmmK, niUniriil bilgn »,g 

EutlRkc-lbteriali for » m*- uU»™^tU''Vj"s^i^ii>?Si^'!! 

The Eellpi* of Talth) or, a MjS^r.S^'D.^V_^jr»^(^'i'K'p,^ 

A Defence of The EcUpM of '';^^^5^'^iJS2?S^2liI?^ 

■cciniuaai. i^ riiiriin |i "I'li iiif/ 

The EngllihiniB'a Greek Con- S"^;^^SS»0"lu*tai'*wiS 

• Coo'^nrutt V, tS pnui ' n'vui, iriiE rruKlB. — Azmalj, Anecdotes, 

mw EiiEllahmu'a Hebrew ud £5:^! "pitl^^B^,;!' '^'" 

urtU v«w*ii!r%ri^taii".>i X The Foetlcd Work! of Oliver 

Ephemcn. — A Handbook of _ _, „ „ . _ ■ .^ ■ 

/niUi>( I Twkb^ FIT niuq, Traiiuw. Mr. W. R. Qrcg's Contribntloiic 

Boltrn FUklni, ud a£lBOD (lAl>) I >iAi ulklldlatruik IjiTln.-bHnM PaB- 

IkcNilinlHriliiiT oIIUTFrnihiUdlU Ue.L ud SocUI Sdnu-s. t^lritalM 

Oomey.— HlBtorieal Sketehet} 

Ephemera,- The Book of the 5I:^?^S_''"fir~^".S"^':' 

Bhifl/ihiKiiplRiUiKuiinl lilli4«j »"-7'-«- 

■■""■■ '^"'"- 0*Ilt.-An EneyelapMdlm of 

W. SMUne, Baq.-HlitorT of n^S^'ir^'^^^a^H'tSSiX 

UK. ■•aiWi hli i,l,o Id t.dl., in£. Airk^unini CMpriiliiiin^i^Bjkl, 



MEW WORKS tm XEW EDITIONS 



SMoiej Hall's Cknml Ltrgt 



Hfjollton.— Dlaeiudoni In Thl- 



■. SnT B«'~i Idl- 



ers rArchdeMon).— The Lttb 



HarriBCiii> ~ The Ugbt of the 






Haydn's Book of IMfnltlMiets- 






L^, Mm • Nn EdlOHjh. 



■n. rrid Ih. katf-Wnrnd. 



BaTdon.— The Uft of 

naMR Hir^M, Mtaudid ] 

ud r^SSSF^ i^ TAi^^.'k 



Sfi John Eenchel, — OntUnw 



I HIll.-Trareli tn Siberia and 



Harry Hieover.— The Hnnting- 



Harry Hieover.-PracMcal 



Harry Hiecrnr.— The Stud, tor 



Harry Hleom.— The Poelcet 



Harry ffieorer. — Stable Talk 



miita DD Etiquette and the 



Hole.— Prise Euay on the wi« . 



Lord HolUnd't Henoln.— 
Lord Holland'* Toreign Kend- 



PUBLISHBD BY LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. 



11 



Holland.— Chstpten on Mental 

Pkysinlogy. B7 Sir Usnbt Boixakd, Bart., 
F. R.8., Physldan-Extniordioary to the 
Queen ; and Phftidan iu Ordinary to His 
Royal Hiffhnpaa Prince Albert. Foanded 
chiefly on Chapters contained in MeHeml 
Notn mnd Re0eetioni, by the lame Author. 
Fcp. 8to. price lOi. M. 

Hook. — The Last Days of Our 

Lord's Mlnistrr t A Coarse of Lertvreson 
the principal ETents of Passion Week. By 

WAI.TXR FAXQVBAft HoOK, DJ>., Chu>- 

lain in Ordinary to the Queen. New Edi- 
tion. Fcp. Sfo. price 6c. 

Hooker and Arnott.— The Bri- 
tish Flora; Conprising the Ph«noiramoas 
or Fl«rtreriiif Plants, and the rerns. The 
Sixth Edition, with Additions and Correc> 
tioos, and numerous Fifures, iUnstrmtlTe 
of the Umbelliferous Plants, the Compo- 
sito Plants, the Grasses, and the Ferns. 
By Sir W. i. Hookbk, F.R.A. and L.S.etc., 
and O. A. Waumr Arkott. LL.D-, F.L b. 
ISmo. with 1:1 PUtes, price 14f., with the 
Plates coloured, price 31«. 

Hooker.— Kew Gardens) or, a 

Popular Guide to the Royal Botanic Gardens 
of K.ew. By Sir WnxiAX Jackson Hookjsb. 
K.H., D.C.L., F.R.A. and L.8., etc. etc. 
Director. New Edition » with numerous 
Wood Engrarings. 16mo. price Sixpence. 

Home.— An Introduction to the 

Critical Study and Knowledge of the Holr 
Hrriptnres. By Thomas Habtwxu. Hormb, 
B.D. of St. John's College, Cambridge. Pre- 
bendary of St. Paul's. New F.dition, re- 
vised and corrected : with num^ious Maps, 
and Facsimiles of Biblical MannseripU, 5 
Tols. Svo. price 63«. 

Home.— A Compendious Intro- 
duction to the Study of the Bible. By 
Thomas Hartwsu. HoRira, B.D. of St. 
John's College, Cambridge. Being an Ana- 
lysis of his Jmtrodmetiou to tke Vritieal 
Btudg •md KnowMip0 0/ tkt flo/jr Serip- 
turea. New KdiUon, corrected and en- 
larged ( with Maps and other EngraTings. 
1^0. price 9li. 

Howitt.-(A. M.) An Art Stn- 

dent in Munich, By Akxa ICart Huwitt, 
2 Tols. post Svo. price 14f . 

Howitt.— The Children's Tear. 

By Mart Howitt. With Four Illustrations, 
engraved by John Absolon, from Original 
Designs by Akka Mart Howrt. Square 
16mo. price fts. 

William Howitt's Boy's Coun- 
try Book. Being the real Life of a Conatrr 
Boy, written by Himself: Exhibiting aU 
the Amusemenu, Pleasures, and Pursuits 
of Children in the Country. New Edition; 
with 40 Wooocuta. Fcp. Ato. price Hf. 



Howitt.— The Rural Life of En- 
gland. By William Howitt. New Edition, 
corrected and revised ; with Woodcuts by 
Bewick and Williams; uniform with FiHt$ 
to Uemarkahlt Ptaee$. Medium 8to. 21«. 

Howitt.- Visits to B«markable 

Places; Old Halls, Battle-Flelds, and 
Scenes illustratire of Striking Passages in 
English History and Poetry. By William 
Howitt. New Edition ; with 40 Woodcuu. 
Medium 8to. S1«. 

Second Series, chiefly in the 

Counties of Northumberland and Durham, 
with a Stroll along the Border. With up- 
wards of 40 WoodcnU. Medium 8to. Sli. 

Hudson.— Plain Directions for 

Making Wills in conformiiT with the Law; 
with a clear Exposition of the Law relating 
to the Distribution of PerMinal Esute In 
the case of Intestacy, two Forms of Wills, 
and much useful lufnrmation. By J. C. 
Hudson, Esq., late of the Legarr Ihity 
Office, London. New and enlarged Kdition , 
including the prorisions of the Wills Act 
Amendment Act of iSSi, (introduced by 
Lord St. Leonards). Fcp.Sro. Ss.M. 

Hudson.— TheExecntor's Guide. 

By J. C. HoDeoN, Esq.. New and eniarKod 
Edition I with the Addition of Directions 
for paying Succession Duties on Real Pro- 
perty under Wills and Intestacies, and a 
Table for finding the Values of Annuities 
and the Amount of Legacy and Succession 
Duty thereon. Fcp. 8to . price 6t. 

Humboldt's Aspects of Nature. 

Translated, with toe Author's authorlly, by 
Mrs. Sarins. New Edition. l6mo. price 
6«. : or in 2 rols. St. M. each dotk ; 2a. M. 
each sewed. 

Humboldt's Cosmos. — Trans- 
lated with the Author's authority, by Mrs. 
Sarins. Vols. I. and II. l6mo. Half-a- 
Crown each, sewrd ; St. M. each cloth : or 
in post 8fO. I3«. M. each cloth. Vol. III. 

PDSt 8to. 12«. M. each dotk: or in 16ao. 
art I. 2*. 6d. sewed, U. id, cloth | and 
Part II. a$. sewed, 4$. cloth. 

Humphreys. — Sentiments and 

Similes of Shakspeare : A Classified Se- 
lection of Similes, Definitions, Descrip- 
tions, and other remarkable Passagea in 
Skaktneare's Plays and Poems. With an 
elaborately illuminated border in tke cka- 
iBCteristie style of tke EUaabetban Period, 
Busslre caned covers, and other Embel- 
lishments, deiicned and executed by H- N. 
HvMPKBSTs. Square, post 8to. price 21«. 

The Beport of the Committee 

appointed by tke Council of the Society of 
Arts to inquire into tke Subject of Indus- 
trial Instruction. Witk tke Evidences. 8ro. 
price fie. 



12 



NEW W0BK8 AHD NEW EDITIONS 



JamMoii.— AOommonpUGe Book 

of Tkoaglits, Mtmocles. and Fancies, Ori- 
idiwl ud tMtcted. Part I. Bthks and 
Ckaraeteri Part II- Utaratore «nd Art. B7 
Mrs. Jammwm. With EtckinRt and Wood 
BngritflBn. Svaia crown 8to. 

Hn. Jamewn*! Legexids of the 

Saints aad ifartm. f orminir tks First 
i(«ri*a ol ttmrM •md Legemdmrp Art. 
Sseond UiUna t with nnsMfont Wood- 
cats, and IS Btehloffs by the Antlior. Squars 
crowa tro. ^les Sf. 



Kn. Jameion^s Legends of the 

Mnnaslie Order, as represented in the 
Fine Arts. FaralnK the Hecond Series of 
Awrftf nmd Lfgemimrv Art. Second Rdl- 
tion, corrected and cnlarfrd i with II Btrh- 
invs by the Aatbor, aad 88 Woodcnts. 
Sqnare crown 8vo. price 28t. 



ICn. Jameioii's Legendi of the 

Madonna, as represented in the Fine Arts. 
Fomlnf the Third Herics of 8mer«4 mint 
Leg*ndiirp Art. With U DnMtinfS by the 
Author, and l&'i Wood Eufravinfs. Sqnare 
crown 8to. price SSs. 



Lord Jdtrty^s Gontribntioiis to 

the Rdinbarvh Review. A New Bdidon, 
complete in One Volume, with a Portrait 
engraved byUsNRT KoBiNsojv.and « Vig- 
nette View of Craigcrooli, enjrraTed by 
J. Consen. Square crowo 8ro. 2i«. cloths 
or aOi. calf. 

••• Also a LIBRARY EDITION, in 3 
els. 8ro. price 42f. 

Bishop Jeremy Taylor^s Entire 

Works t with Life, by Biibop Hsbbr. Re- 
vised and corrected by the Rev. Cbahlss 
FaoK Ji^amn, Fellow of Oriel College, Ox- 
ford, lu Ten Volumes. Vols. II. toX 8vo. 

8 rice Half a-Guinea each. Vol. I. romprlsinif 
liabop Heber's Life of Jeremy Taylor, ex- 
tended by the Editor, is meartg ready. 

Johnston.~ANew Dictionary of 

Geoflrraphy, Deiicriptive, Physical, Statis- 
tical, and Hiatoriealt Forminr a complete 
General tiasetteer of the World. By Autz- 
Amsnn Ksith JoBNtroir, F. R.S.B., 
F.R.G.8.FXy.8. ; GeoKrapher at Edinburgh 
in Ordinary to Her Mi^eiitv. In One Volume 
of 1,440 PSffrsi eomprlsinr nearly 60,000 
Names of Places. 8vo. price M«. cloth 1 
or half-bonnd in vnsaia, 4U. 

Eemble.— The Saxons in Eng- 
land : A History of the English Common- 
wealth till the period of the Nonnan (con- 
quest. By J«atr Mitcku<l Ksmbi.b> 
M.A., P.C.P.S., etc. 3 vols. 8vo. price 28t. 



Kipjis's Oolleetion of HyimH 

ai«d Psalms for Pablic mb4 Privats Wurship. 
Mew EdiOoni Includlmg a New Sannle- 
stent hy ths Rev. Emcvit* Kka. MUA. 
IRaso. price 4*. cloth, cm- 4».%d. f«Mi.- 
Thc SurrLSMBifT, sapatatelr. nrie* Ikkt- 
pence. ^^ 

Kirby.— The Life of the Bey. 

WiLUAitKi»nT,M A..V.1l^.,FJ18..etc. 
Eectnr of Barhaaa. Aatkor of one of the 
BrldeewaterTrantises, nn4 J^nt-Aathor of 
the Intr*dutti»m l« Bmtmtm^ltm. By the 
Rev. JoBN F&KBXAX, MJk.. Rector of 
Ashwicken, Norfolk, mb4 Hani Ueaa. 
With Portrait, Vlfaette, aad Facsimile. 
8vo. price Us. 

Kirby & Spencers IntrodiieCieii 

toEntonmlngyi or, Blemeats of the Na* 
tnnl Hiatory of Iqseets: eonsiwisiBf aa 
accoant of aesions aad aaefal lasects, af 
their Mctamorphnoes, Pood, Stratagems, 
Habitations, H«>cletles, Mutioas. Noises, 
Hybernation, lastiaet, ete. Nf^ RdMos, 
S vols. 8vo. with Plates, price tl«. Sd. 

Laing's(SJ Observations on the 

Social and Political State of Deaaark and 
theDvehlesofSleawkkaad HolalciaialSil: 
Being the Third Series of .Yof #s a/* a 3W- 
melter. 8vo. price Us. 

Laing's (S.) Observations on the 

Socinl and Political State of the Koropeaa 
People in 1848 and 1849 1 Beiair the Se- 
cond Series of Notn o/m Trmm*ilgr. dn. 
price 14«. 

L. E. L.-The Poetical Works 

of Letitia Kliznbeth Landon; comprisiar 
the fmprorUatriee^ the fenetian Br>ieA 
let, the Golden I'iolet, the TroHkmdvnr, 
and Poetical Remains. New Edition • with 
9 Viffnettea by Richard Doyle. 2 vols. 16mo. 
10«. cloth I morocco, 2U. 

Br. Latham on Diseases of the 

Heart. Lectures on SnbJecU connected 
with Clinical Medicluet JHseaaes of tlie 
Heart. Bv P. M. Latham. M.D., Pbysiriao 
F.xtraordinary to the Queen. New Edition. 
S vols. l2mo. price lfi«. 

Mrs. R. Lee's Elements of Na- 
tural History 1 or First Principles of Zoo- 
logy I comprising the Priaciplea of Classi- 
fication, iuterspersed with amnslag and 
Instmctive Accounts of the most remark- 
able Animals. New Bdition, enlmrred; 
with numerous additional Woodcnts. rep. 
8vo. price 7'> M. 

Letters on Happiness, addressed 

to a Friend. By the Author of Ltttert fe 
U9 Unknown Fritndt, ete. Fcp. Svo. 
price 6m. 



ruiuiRu Bt lOSOMAH. BBOWjr. uio Co. 

LARDNER'S CABINET CYCLOPEDIA. 

loiT, Womtbl. Uunlua, ib> Ana ul Bckaicu, MuhiI BkHBt, ud 

II AS>iIuiiIOrl|U^W«tifar 

am JoRM HRssnirm, i sir waltkb scotT, 

BIK DAVID BREWITM, TBK KKV 0. 1, OLSIO, 

luuN FOBsriiR, ' I JOHN FuiLura, r^i., e.B. 



I. lUlUn HniUlc? . I nl. •■.«<. n. Hi 



Danhta** BMofT vl Pe- 



lt. FMkfiiliS OtAk ul Ro. 



Ilill^a LhH of Kmlmi'i I 









D NEW EDITIONS 



LettcrB to my DnloiDWii rricndi 
Llndlc;.— The Theerygf HtrrU- 

Dr. John LiocQey'i Introdnctlaii 



Llnwood.— intholosla Oxmlen- 



Dr. Uttle on Sefomutlra,— On 

>I.D„ Fh>llH» lo lie I3ii«n Hmpiuli 

Litton.— The Chnrch of Cluiat, 

lUU.uiliinl.' hD.pnccKb 

Lorimer'i tOJLcttera to aTonng 



Iiondou'a Self-Instmotlon for 






London'! £neyclopKdi» of Trea 

i™ .fr"' " ''^ abrian*. CiiatMWI 
Iki Hur [i*r> vid ant! ^ GnJ 



Loodan'^Eticyclopsedia ot&gn- 

dacUaai«IA|rtHLimn 4 iB^Suf 

London's Eneycloinedltk ol" 



London'! Encyclopiedia of Cot- 



Loudon's Eortns Brltannioiui 





Mrs. LoodOD'a AnuUiir Ou- 




<.!»>'• Oliudu. BtKic • Mo.lMHlu]d« 


B.... -ifl i„T "' rt» A™^ B, 


«W .lut ilu^U M "»IMj ■••*"" 


TJoii.i B»iKgiDK Miotoij.. N«» 






Hw>ll'^>'inX>'>l^"»~ u'S'iitI- 














Hi. Huianlay's Ltiyi of Andent 


«,';S.''KS°3 


^-ft^^JI^S-f. 








Hn. Londui'i Lady'a OonntiT 




SHrJuTrTF-^rS 


Hwdoiutld.-'mia Veroechloi 






Sl^i^^'A'wpKl-i.'^'"'' ""■ 


Low.-a Treatise on the Do- 


Sii JameaHMUntoih-imrtorT 


ss.;i,-.'r/M:4S.i:-r-'"i 






^.S^i<L„^m. UhurKdWoSi'^ 


low.-Zlementa of Practical 


MMkliitoah.-Sl3- Junea KMk- 






UoD.IFIuU.lb. M».l«j3>,='lbeU., 




Ki'.'*B;rE:^!Vi:,"5^«T.r."y^ 








►<,, pri„ )!,. da-h f or JO,. bV~.- 1. «U. 


H>csaUy.~Speechei of the 




5ai!ri:;^;."sv!'-A.-^^: *=- 


SSSSi;."^"c':i;-*:JJii7.1s^°* 








SiJJ'MlSlt.'pi.i™'! TTiJf'.'S «m!^: 












C<»nl.1». no. lotrf ULcIck 1 k^.nu^, 






Hr. MbcmIbt'i OilUcal and 


M'Cnnoeh.-A IHjeUonur, 












•«>.pri«<3.. 


x«'..'Ss'"™*ai?s^"''°' 




H'OaUoch.-Aii Aeconnt, De- 




«ripU» ™l SWoUiOc^ M Ik. MlUh 


pri«>l.. 


taMi . K.UMno, lu bini. Ph,.lul 






^■*SK:.*,s?rffi.'v^^A'Eir: 




X oi*'«Sb-''J!I"'"' '™' 


ntcitt. . ' 



16 



NEW W0BK8 AHD NEW EDITIONS 






KaitUod.— The Church in the 

CataeoMbst A DeMifptloa of the PriaU* 
live Chveh of IUmm, Ulutntod hj its 
8ef«lchral Rcamint. B7 tk« Rer.CBAALu 
Maitlamo. Nov B«tloB, with auf Wood- 
caU. 8vo. prico 14«. 

Kn. Karcet'e OonTennitioni on 

CWablrj, la vhirh th« Elcaaoats of tkat 
edaaca ara fuaUlaiif Kulalaed and lUaa- 
tratad kjr fisMriaanta. Naw Rdition, aa- 
largad aad faapfOYad. S volt. fcp. 8vo. 
price 14«. 

Kn. Maroet*8 Ctonyenations on 

Nataral PUIoaophf, la which the RlaaieaU 
of that 8elance ara faodliarlf azplainad. 
Naw fCditloiii calarfed and corractad 1 with 
Si PUmi. Fcp. 8ro. price 10«. M. 

Mn. Xareet's Oonvenations on 

Political Beonomjr. la which the BlcaiaBU 
of that Selcace are faaiiUarlr axpliUacd. 
Naw Edition. Fcp. 8to. price 7«. M. 

Kn. Kazcet*! Oonvenations on 

Vegetable Phralolofy; compraheadinf the 
Klements of Botany, with their Apniicatlon 
to Agricnitare. New Kditlon) with Foar 
Plates. Fcp. 8to. price 9«. 

Km. Kareet*8 Ctonyenatione on 

Land and Water. New Kdition, reviaed 
and corrected ; with a rolonred Mwp, ahew- 
ing the comparatiTe Altitude of Moantaint. 
Fcp. 8to. pnce 6«. td. 

Martineao.— Church History in 

Knglaiid i Being a Siietrh of the Hiatonr of 
the Church of England from the ENrlie»t 
Timea to the Period of the Reformation. 
Bj the ReT. Artbub IfABTiNBAO. M.A., 
late Fellow of Triuity College, Cambridge. 
12mo. price 6$. 

Kaunder^s Biographical Trea- 

kurr I conaiating of Memoirs, Siietchei, and 
brief Notices of above |-2,UUU Kuiiueui Fer- 
auns of all Ages and Nations, from the 
Earlieat Period of History: forming a new 
and complete Dictionary of UniTersal Bio- 
graphy. The Eighth Edition, revised 
through ont. and brought down to the close 
of the year I868 rep. Hvn. I0«. ^lotb t 
bound in roan. Hi. 1 calf lettered, 12<. 6d. 

Maunder^s Historical Treasury j 

comprising a General Introductory Outline 
of Universal History, Ancient and Modern, 
and a Series of separate Histories of every 

Principal Nation that exists t their Rise, 
rogresB, and Present Condition, the Moral 
and Social Character of their respective 
Inhabitants, their Religion, Mannerb, and 
Cnstoms, etc., etc New Kdition t revised 
throughunt, and brought down to the Pre- 
aeot Time. Pep. 8to. 10«. cloth} toan, 
J2/.;calf,13f.O/. 



Kannder*! Sdentlile and Ute* 

rarr TWaaaryi A New aad Popalar Ka> 
eydopmlia of Sclenca aad di« bellaa- 
Lattrca 1 laeiadiaf all Braachcs of Sdeace, 
aad eveiy aul^ect coaacctad with Utcra- 
^ •»* Art. New Bditioa. Pqp. 8fo. 



Kaunder's Treasury of STatural 

History i Or, a Popular DictioaarT of Ani- 
mated Natarai la which the Zoological 
Charaetarlatlea that distlacalsll th« difcnal 
ClMa«s,6eaara, aad ^^acies, arc eoaibined 
with a variatT of iatereatinc InferaUlioa 
lUaatfaliva of the HaUtsTlaaUacU, aad 
General Economy of the Aaimal KinMom. 
With 900 Wood^. New Bditioa.^cp. 
8vo. price 10s. doth i roaa, ISs.; calf. Us. W. 



Kaunder's Treasury of Snow- 

ledge, and Ubtniy of Refereaeo. Coanils- 
iBff. » Bnglbh IMctioBanr and OraMmr, 
aa universal Gasetteor, a Claaalral Dlctiaa- 
ary, a Chronplogy, a Law DIctloBaiT, a 
Brnopaia (rf the Peercgc, aaaerona aseM 
lubiea, etc The Twentieth Editfoa can* 
fullv revised and corrected thronahoat: 
With some Additions. Fcp Bro. prire MS. 
cloth I boaad la roan, ISs. ; calf, 13t, 6d. 



Merivale. — A History of the 

Rnmans under the Empire. By the Rev. 
CaARLBs McBivAXJi, B D.. late Fellow of 
St. John's College, Cambridge. Vols. 1. 
and II. 8vo. price 28*. ; and VtA. III. com 
pleting the History to the Eatobliahaeat of 
the Monarchy by Augustus, prica 14*. 



Merivale.— The Fall of the Ro- 
man Republic : A Short Hlstorr of the last 
Century of the Commonwealth. 'Bt the Rev 
CBARLBsMsRivALJi, B.D., late l^ellow of 
St. John's College, Cambridge. ISao. 
price 7«.M. 



Merivale.— Memoirs of Cicero: 

A Translation of Cteero in ki$ Letteri, by 
Bernard Rudolph Abehen. Edited by the 
RsY. CaARz.B8 MaRXTjLX.s, B.D. iSmo. 



Milner^s History of the Church 

of Christ. With Additions by the late Rev. 
Isaac Milmbr, D.D., F R.S. a New 
Edition, revised, with additional Notes 
by the Rev. Tk UaAXTKAac, B.D. 4 vols. 
8vo. price 62i. 



Montgomery.— Original Kjmxia 

( for Public, Social, and PriTate Devotioa. 
\ "ft^ 3viu,%1&.Qui<iMMAakT. ISnao. is. M. 



PUBLISHED BT LONGMAN, BROWN, AND Co. 



17 



James Hontgomery^i Poetical 

Workit CoUectire Edition: witli the 
Author*! AotobiOipraphiGiil Preface*. A 
New Edition, complete in One Volume; 
with Portridt and Virnette. Square crown 
8to. price 10«. 6d. cloth ; morocco, 3I«.— 
Or in 4 ToU. fcp. Sro. with Portrait, and 
Seven other PUtei, price SOi. cloth; 
morocco, 36«. 

Hoore.—Uan and bis Hotiyes. 

Bf QsomoB Mooms, M.D., Member of the 
Rofal Colleve of Physicians. Third and 
cheaper Edition. Fcp. Sro. price <«. 

Moore.— The Power of the Soul 

over the Body, considered in relation to 
Health and Morals. Bjr QbOkob Moobb, 
M.D., Member of the Roral Colleare of 
Physicians, etc. Fifth and cheaper Edition, 
Fcp. 8to. price 6t, 

Moore.— The Use of the Body in 

relation to the Mind. By OBomoB Moobb. 
M.D., Member of the Royal College of 
Physicians. Third and cheaper Edition. 
Fcp. Sro. prices*. 

Moore. — Health, Disease, and 

Remedy, familiarly and practically con- 
id in a few of their Relations to the 



sidere 

Blood. By Gbobob MooBBt M.D 
Svo. 7«. M. 



Post 



Moore.— Memoirs, Journal, and 

Correspondence of Thomas Moore. Edited 
br the Riirht Hon. Lobd John Russbu., 
M.P. With Portr^ts and Vignette Illustra- 
tions. Vols. 1. to IV. post 8to. price 10>. M. 
each. 

The Pifth and Sixth Volumes 

of MOORB'S MKMOIRS. JOURNAL, and 
CORRKjsPONDENCB, with Portraits of 
Lord John Russell and Mr. Corry, and 
Vignettes, byT. Creswick, R.A., of Moore's 
Residenc'e at Pails and at Sloperton. Vols. 
V. and VI. post Sro. price 31«. 



Thomas Moore*sPoetical Works. 

Containing the Author's recent Introduc- 
tion and Notes. Complete in One Volume; 
with a Portrait, and a View of Sloperton 
Cottage. Medium Svo. price Sis. cloth; 
morocco 42«. 

•«* Also a New and Cheaper Issne of 
the First collected Edition of the above, in 
10 vols. fcp. 8ve. with Portrait, and 19 
Plates, price Sfis. 



Moore. — Songs, Ballads, and 

Sacred Songs. By Thomas Moobb, Author 
of LiUlm Rookht etc. First collected Bdition, 
with Vignette by R. Doyle. 16mo. price 
6$. cloth I 13s. M. boud in morocco. 



Moore's Irish Melodies. New 

Edition, with the Autobiographical Preface 
from the Collective Edition of Mr. Moore's 
Poetical Works, and a Vignette Title by 
D. Maclise,'R.A. 16mo. pric« 6s. doth} 
]2«. id. bound in morocco* 



Moore's Irish Melodies. lUns- 

trated by D. Maclise, R.A. New and 
cheaper Bdition; with 161 Designs, and 
the whole of the Letter-press engraved on 
Steel, by F. P. Becker. Super royal Svo. 
price 81«. M. boards ; bound In morocco, 
jes. 12s. M. 

The Original Edition of the 

above, in Imperial 8vo. price 6S*. boards; 
morocco, £4. \4», 6d.i proofs, 4E6. 6s. 
boards, — maf itill bt had. 



Moore's Lalla Bookh s An Ori- 
ental Romance. New Edition; with the 
Autobiographical Preface from the Col- 
lective Edition of Mr. Moore's Poetical 
Works, and a Vignette Title 4>y D. Maclise. 
R.A. l6mo. price is. cloth ; 12«. ^. bound 
in morocco. 

Moore's Lalla B.ookht An Ori- 

enul Romance. With 18 highly-finished 
Steel PUUes, from Designs by Corboold, 
Meadows, and Stephanoff, engraved under 
the superintendence of the late Charles 
Heath. New Edition. Square crown Svo. 
price 15s. cloth | morocco, SSe. 

A few copies of the Origind Edition, In 
royal Svo. price One Guinea, $till remain. 



Morton.— A Manual ofPharmacy 

for the Student of Veterinary Medicine: 
Containing the Suhstances employed at the 
Royal Veterinarr College, with an attempt 
at their Classiacation ; and the Pharma- 
copoeia of that Institotlon. By W. J. T. 
MoBTON, Professor of Chemistry and 
Materia Medica In the College, fifth 
Bdition (1854). Fcp. Svo. price 10s. 

Moseley.— The Mechanical Prin- 
ciples of Engineering and Architecture. 
By the Rev. II. MosBX.Br. M.A., F.R.S., 
Professor of Natural Philosophy and As- 
tronomy in King's College, London. Svo. 
price 24s. 



Mure.— A Critical Sstory of 

the Language and Literature of Ancient 
Greece. Br Wuxiam Mubb, M.P. of 
Caldwell. I vols. Svo. price 86s. 

Vol. IV. comprising Hift- 

torical Literature (vom >^« ^^«n «^ '«T«n.« 
Comp«a\V\oik \o Wu \>*«Sa. o\ Ylet«sA.«.v» 
Svo. w\Ok Vl«9 » 1»^«« ^^* 



18 



NEW WOKK8 AND NBW EDITIONS 



Kumf*! Sneyclopndia of Qeo- 

Kraphr i CoarrUlMa CMipl«t« DeKtIptlon 
of tk« Evtiii esMHtlkflu Rchutoa lothe 
HwweDljr Bodies, lu Pli7*kcal Stractarc. 



/ 



the Indutnr. CoM»«ie«, Political laatlta- i 
tloni, and CMI asd Social State of All 
Nations. Second Edition ( with 82 Maps, 
•ad mrxmds of 1,000 othor Woodemts. 
8vo. price 00*. 

Neale. — ** Biien from the 

Ranhs T* Or, Coadnet wemu Caste, by 
the Rot. RBSKiifa Nbai.*, M^., Rector of 
KIrton, boffolh. Fcap. Ovo. price M. 

Neale.-The Biehei that taring 

■o Sorrow. Bj the Rev. Ebskihb Mbaui, 
M.A., Rector of KIrton, Soffolh. Fcp.Svo. 
price t«. 

Neale. —The Earthly Besting 

Places of the Jnst. By the Rer.SBSKiitB 
NBiLi.B, M.A., Rector qf KIrton, Snffolh. 
Fep. 8vo. with Woodcvts, price 7«> 

Neale.— The Clofing Scene) or 

Christianity and Infidelity contrasted in the 
Last Honn of Remarlisble Persona. By thr 
Rev. Ebskimb Nbaxb, M.A., Rector of 
Klrtoa , Snffolh . New Bdltions of the First 
and Second Series. S vols. fcp. 8to. price 
12s.} or separately, tt.each. 

Newman.— Discourses addressed 

to Mixed Cnn|{rrgations. By John Hknbt 
Nkwmak, Priest oftbeOrstory of St. Philip 
Neri. Second Edition. 8to. price 12«. 

Lieutenant Osbom^s Arctic 

Jnnrtisl. StriiT Leaves from an Arctic 
Jonrnal i or, Eifhteen Months in the Polar 
Regions in search of Sir John Franlclin's 
Expedition. Bt Lieut. Sbbrabo Osbobn, 
R.N-, Commanding H.M.S.V. Pioneer. 
With Map and Four coloured Plates. Post 
8to. price 12«. 

Owen Jones.— riowers and their 

Kindred Thoughts. A Series of Stansas. 
By Mart Anne Bacok. With beautiful 
iUuntrations of Flowers printed in Colours 
bjr Owen Jones. Imperial 8to. prke 31«. M. 
elegantly bound in calf. 

Owen.— Lectures on the Com- 

Kratire Anatomy and Phrsiology of the 
▼ertebrate Animals, deiiTered at the 
Royal College of Surgeons in 1843. By 
Richard Owbn, F.R.S. Hunterian Pro- 
fessor to the College. N^w Edition, cor- 
rected. 8to. with Wood Engrarings . 

[7m thepreu. 

Professor Owen^s Lectures on 

the ComparatiTC Anatomy and Physiology 
of the Vertebrate Animals, delivered at 
the Royal College of SurseonB in 1844 and 
1S49. With numerous Woodcuts, VoUl. 
8ro. price 14«. 



The Complete Works of Blaise 

Pascal. Traaalated froM tho Frcack.wlth 
Memoir, IntrodaetioBB to the varioas 
Wofks. BdHorial Notes, aad Appendices, 
WGBO«oBpBA»cB.Ba4. a voia. pMt aro. 
with Portrait. SSs.W. 

Vol.1. FascalVi Provincial 

Letters I with M. VUleoiaiB's Rsaay on 
Pascal prefixed, and a new Memoir. Post 
8to. PoftiaitfSs.M. 

Vol. i. Pascal's Thoughts 

OB RelifioB and BTMencea of ChrlatlaBity. 
with Additleos from oriylnal MSS.t from 
M. Faogtoe's Edition. Post 9ro, 8$. M. 

Vol. 8. PascalVi Miaeella- 

aeoBs Writiaga, Cowespondence. Detached 
ThoB«hu, ete. from M. Faaifftee'a BditloB. 
PostSvo.Ss.M. 

Captain Peel's Travela in STnUa. 

—A Ride through the Nubian Desert. By 
Captain W. Pbbl, R.N. Poai 8vo. with ■ 
RoBte Map, price t$. 

Pereira's Treatise on Pood and 

Diet. With Obserrations on the DIetetieal 
Regimen suited for Disordered States of 
the Digestive Organs t and an Account of 
the Dietaries of some of the principal Me- 
tropolitan and other Bstabllahments for 
Paupers, Lunatics, Criminals, ChUdren« the 
Blch,ete. 8vo. !•«. 

Peschers Elements of Physics. 

Trausiated from the German, with Notes, 
by B. Wbs*. With Diacrama and Wood- 
cuts. 8 vols. fcp. 8vo. 21s. 

Peterborough. — A Memoir of 

Charles Mordaunt, Earl of Peterborough 
and Monmouth. With Selections from his 
Correspondence. By the Author of U»eke- 
la^t etc. 3 Tols. post 8to. price 18«. 

Phillips.-A Guide to Geology. 

By JoBN Panxirs. M.A. F.R.S. F.G.s>., 
Deputy Reader in Geology In the ITniTcrsity 
of Oxford ; Ronorarr Member of the lm> 
penal Academy of Sciences of Moscow, etc. 
Fourth Edition, corrected to the Present 
Time t whh 4 Plates, fcp. Svo.priee i$. 



Phillips's Elementary Intro- 
duction to Mineralogy. A New Edition, 
with extensive Alterations and Additions, 
bjH. J.Bbookb, F.R.S., F.GS.; andW. 
H. Miixbb, M.A., F.G.S., Professor of 
Mineralogy in the UniTersity of Cambridge. 
With numerous Wood KugruTinga. Post 
8to. price 18s. 

Phillips.--Pigures and Descrip- 
tions of the Palmoxoic Fossils of Cornwall, 
Devon, and West Somerset; observed in 
the course of the Ordnance Geological Sur- 
vey of that District. By John Phuxifs, 
I F.R.S. F.G.S. ete. 8vo. with 60 Plates, 



Fomr's Sketcbst In New Ze>- 



Pycraft'i Coonc of Engllih 

Uil chHr« UlUoiiITcr. Sts. rrlci li. 

St. Kem'i HfdlDal QoIiIb ( for 

«eb ddU, tMi Juu^tll^ FwutMHn I 
CoBfriAiiiinaplMtllDjin DUnu- 

>>< Hc.IIw'a^ MU«U 3^>, IK. 

Blcli't ninitntted Oomputioti 

AnlllM. Pnlkio.fchailll! * 

Sir J. KiehudMii'a JonRwl of 

• Bmi Vnwi ihnuk Rigen't Ludiiil 
Wt£u A, 



1,1.*«J_- 



XlolunUim (Captain).— HoTH- 



Blddle'a Complete lAtin-Eos- 

„,_,„^ miKnfllii-UHn Ulcllo~>7, ?.. 
MpMMij ^ T^ufl^g jtUi> Dlill»mT,ll«. 

Blddle'i Copiana and Ctltteal 






CJuiktJ Wordi. Borkl B^a. pfH U. 

lUven'a Bole- Amatenr'a Siildef 

Dr. E. Bobluaon'a Greek and 
Boby.— Remaini, Lesendan ft 



Bogera.— £iaays aelectad &ani 
Dr. Bojet'i Theuuraa of Enf- 



Bowton'i DelMteri A Seriea of 



Lettera of Raehael I«dy X 



20 



NEW W0BK8 AHD NEW EDITIONS 



St. John (the Hon. T.)— Sunblet 



la SMTch of Sport, is Oonunr, Franco* 
Fbboiii&mdBt. Joa3(. WltiiFo«reolo«i«4 



Italf, and Rosala 
Fbboiii&mdBt. Jo 
PUtos. Foot Sro. price 9«. M, 



Br the Honourable 



/ 



St. John (H.)— The Indian Ar- 
chipelago; lu Hlttorjand Preicnt State. 
Bf HoBACB 8C. JoHM, Author of Tkt Bri- 
tuk CoNf Maft te imMmf etc. S toU. poet 
8to. price Um. 

St. John (J. A.)— There and 

Back Again in Search of Beantj. By 
Jambs Aveoenis 8r. Joan, Anthor of 
/•<«, etc. StoU. postSvo. pricaSU. 

St. John (J. A.)— The Nemesis 

of Power t Canaes and Forms of Political 
Rerolations. Br Jambs Auodstus ^t. 
Joaix. Author of ITkere mnd Back mgaiUf 
etc. Fcp.Sro. [Jm$tr9mdf. 

JSt. St. John's Work on Egsrpt. 

Uii: An Egyptian Pilgrimage. Br Jambs 
Aooutrcs St. JoHM. :i rols. post sro. iU. 

The Saints our Example. By 

the Anthor of Letter$ to mm Unknown 
Friend$, etc Fcp . Sro . p rice ja. 

Schmitz.— History of Greece, 

from the Earliest Times to the Taking of 
Corinth b]r the Romans, B.C. 146, malnlf 
based upon Bishop Thirlwull's History of 
Greece. By Dr. Leon hard Scbmitx, 
F.R.H.B. Rector ofthe High School of Edin- 
burgh. New Edition. 12mo. price 7«. M. 

A Schoolmaster's Difficulties at 

Home and Abrosd:— 1. In regard to his 
Callintr; S. In relation to Himself: 3. As 
concerning his Charge ; 4. About Commit- 
tee«; 5. With Pupil-Tearhers; 6. Touching 
lutpectors; J. On the Matter of Society ; 
R. In Prospect of the Future; and 9. Af 
fecting Personal Relations. Fcp.8ro.4«.M. 

Sir Edward Seaward's Narra- 
tive of his Shipwreck, and consequent Dis- 
corery of certain Islands in the Caribbean 
Sea : With s detail of many extraordinary 
and highly intereHting_ Rrents in bis Life, 
from 1733 to 1749. Third Edition ; 3 rols. 
post 6ro. 2U. 

An Abbidomenti in 16mo. price 2$. 6d. 

The Sermon on the Mount. 

Printed on Silrer; with Picture Subjects, 
) numerous Landscape and Illuntratlre Vie- 
uettes, and Illuminated Borders in Gold 
and Colours, designed expressly for this 
work by M. Lepelle dv Bois-Gallais. 
formerly employed by the French Gorern- 
ment on the great work of Count Bastird. 
Square )8mo. price in ornamental boards, 
One Guinea} or 3U> 6d. bound In morocco. 



Self^Denial the FrepamtUm for 

Raster. By the AatlMMr of L«««#rt t» m§ 
Unknown FrUnA. LHt^n mm Umfphuot, 
Mc. Fcp. 8ro. price Sb. 6^ 

SewelL— Amy Herbert. By a 

Lady. Xdited by the R«t. "Wixxiam 
8bwbix,B.D. FeOow sad Tirtor of Exeter 
CeUeM, Oxford. Nov Kdttiea. Fcp. Sro. 
price vs. 

SewelL— The EarlVi Daughter. 

By the Anthor of .^Isif 'Horkort, Kdlted 
hy the Rer. W. Sbwbu,. B. D. S toIb. fcp. 
Sro. to. 

SewellsHatertnide t A Tale. By 

the Anthor of Amf Herkort. Edited by 
the Rer. W Sbwbxx, BJ>. New Btf tkn. 
Fcp. Sro. price 6s. 

Sewell.~Laneton Parsonage i A 

Tale for Children, on the pracHcal Use of 
a Portion of the Church Catechiaa. By 
the Author Jmjt Herkert. Edited by the 
Rer#W. Sbwbix, B.D. New Editiea. 
S rols. (cp . Sro . price ISt. 

SewelL— Margaret PerdvaL By 

the Anthor of Amg Herbert. Edited by 
the Her. W. 8bwbi.l, B.D. New Editioe. 
3 rols. fcp. Sro. price 12s. 



Bf the $ame Author , 

The Experience of Life. New 

Edition. Fcp. Sro. price 7'< 6d. 

Readings for a Month Prepara- 
tory to Confirmation : Compiled from the 
Works of Writers of the Early and ofthe 
English Church. Fcp. Sro. price 5a. 64. 

Readings for Every Day in 

Lent : Compiled from the Writings of 
Bishop Jbrsmt Tati.or. Fcp. Sro. 6$. 



Sharp^s New British Gazetteer, 

or Topogrsphical Ulctionanr of the British 
Islands and Narrow Seas : Comprising con- 
cise Descriptions of about Sixty Thousand 
Places, Seats, Natural Features, and Oo- 
Jects uf Note, founded on the best Antho 
rities; full Particulars of the Bonndaries, 
Registered Electors, etc. of the Parlia- 
mentary Boroughs ; with a reference under 
erery name to the Sheet of the Ordnance 
Surrey, as far as completed ; and aa Ap- 

Sendix, containing a General View of the 
esources of the United Kingdom, a Short 
Chronology, and an Abstract of certain 
Results of the Census of 1S51. 3 rols. Sro. 



D at LOHOMAN, 1 



The ramlly Sba^pem) 



Short Whlft] Ita BIk, Fro- 

ritu. khA Lait I Whh Oh«rvM1opi In 
aLi4 the I^n of n^mel. Cbh^o, Eevtd, 

Slncbir.— Tlie Jonnwy of Uft. 

Fc^.s™°,*p>lc.'(;''°"" 

Sincltdr.— Foplali Lesenda or 
St Soger de Cnrerley. Trom 

I WMd Eaemlin. bv J«hi ThoBMoq' 
«°«Sf "l.t'ltf ™t™ ^*K"d 
iwlciiu, iTigno. trt» OiH SUIUd|. 

SmM'i ElemeolB of Slactro- 

HfuUmir. Ttlri EdUloi. nilHd, c«. 

Smith'! Sacred Annals.— Stored 

dr, Til Hliunr' ud HclllMl of <t> 
PtHtui, annli*, ud HamuA, eoHecled 

Sacred Anuala: Td. I. The 
Sacred Annals ; ToL n. The 



The Works of the Rer. Sydney 



The Ber. Sydney Smith's Ele- 






The Lift and OarreipoDdence o 



Sonthey'i Life of Wesley i and 



Southey's Commonplace Book*. 

HcBD-udi, UieiuT ud MUccLUiiui. 
Ftin Bum- CHOICE rASSA0E9, HE. 



Bobert Southey'sCompleteFoet- 



*nlk- frp- 6tv. wlUi PArtndl ud 10 FIuh, 



HtBm PuFldDr/rb. Hliuvrr ind B> Sclect WoTkS of tfalC '&-^%£B.\ 



MEW WOKKB i 



Btephen.— Leetnrw gnthemi- 

jSh Br«".!."Vi:.B..Vj?''''' 



StcpliBii.~Efuyi In EcbI wI m- 
StMl't ShipmMter'i AMliUnt, 

UM*'lii*J>r^n. N^'uillgi' re 



StonelieiiKc. — The ereyhound: 

Ster. — The Tnlulng Syirtein, 
Or. SnUierlaiid'a Jonnial ef a 



Siralik-Eiisllili Helodin. By 
SnJiL— Letters of Ltnu*. C bx- 



> NEW EDITIOKB 

1Ue.-0B tkt atrength tf ■!»■ 

ertdr*!, Wnaibt tn* kad Cat 

TkTler.— Li^olm I ftnd J«niltljnn 
^hTloz.-Wedey uid Hethodlmm. 

B^I««Tjl.«, fM 9,„. wlUi . Pv 

ThlrlwalL-The KatoiT of 

^UL B. <k< Wnkt R« Ik. Lou 

ftlliu • ^'^iXi'*' ■•••CI""* 
ThomHn (The Ber.W.}— An Oot- 



'nionuon'B Tables of Interest, 



Thomson'! Seasons. Edited by 
Thornton.— Zohr«.bi oria Mid- 
Todd (Chirlea!. — A Series of 

cSI'"'" 



M 



•rs'. 



^\^ "is'^^j^ 



PUBLISHED BT LONGMAN, B&OWN, AMD Co. 



23 



THE TBAVELLEBS XJBKABT, 

In eonne of Pttbllcadoti in Volomct at Half-a-Crown, Mid in Parts price One Shilling enek. 
Compriainf books of ralnable Information and acknowledged merit, in a form adapted for 
readisf while TraTellinf , and also of a character that will render them worthjof preterratton. 

YOL. I. MACAULAY'S ESSAYS on WARHEN HASTINGS and LORD CLIVK ..3 6 

II. ESSAYS on PITT ft CHATHAM« RANKS ft GLADSTONE S 6 

III. LAING'S RESIDENCE in NORWAY S 8 

IV. PFEIFFER'S VOYAGE ROUND the WORLD S 8 

V. BOTHEN, TRACES of TRAVEL from the EAST S 6 

VI. MACAULAY'S ESSAYS on ADDISON, WALPOLE, and LORD BACON 3 

VII. HUC'S TRAVELS IN TARTARY, etc 3 6 

VIII. THOMAS HOLCROFT'S MEMOIRS ..„ 3 6 

IX. WERNE'S AFRICAN WANDERINGS 3 6 

X. Mrs. JAMESON'S SKETCHES in CANADA S 8 

XI. JERRMANN'S PICTURES from ST. PETERSBURG 3 6 

XII. The Rbt. G. R. GLEIG'S LEI PSIC CAMPAIGN 3 8 

XIII. HUGHES'S AUSTRALIAN COLONIES 3 6 

XIV. SIR EDWARD SEAWARD'S NARRATIVE 2 8 

XV. ALEXANDRE DUMAS' MEMOIRS of a MAITRE-D'ARMSS 3 6 

XVI. OUR COAL-FIELDS and OUR COAL PITS 3 6 

XVn. M'CULLOCH'S LONDON and GIRONIERE'S PHIUPPINES 3 8 

XVIII. SIR ROGER DE COVERLEY and SOUTHEY*S LOVE STORY 3 6 

XIX. JEFFREY'S ESSAYS on SWIFT and RICHARDSON and ) . ^ 

LORD CARLISLE'S LECTURES AND ADDRESSES } 

XX. HOPE'S BIBLE in BRITTANY and CHASE in BRITTANY 3 6 

XXI. THE ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH and NATURAL HISTORY of CREATION i 6 

XXII. MEMOIR of DUKE of WELLINGTON and LIFE of MARSHAL TURENNE 3 8 

XXIII. TURKEY and CHRISTENDOM and RANKE'S FERDINAND ) 

and MAXIMILIAN ) ' 

XXIV. FERGUSON'S SWISS MEN and SWISS MOUNTAINS and 1 ^^^^ 

BARROW'S CONTINENTAL TOUR i ' 



3 6 



3 6 



XXV. SOUVESTRR'S WORKING MAN'S CONFESSIONS and | . ^ 

ATTIC PHILOSOPHER in PARIS ) 

XXVI. MACAULAY'S ESSAYS on LORD BYRON, and the COMIC DRAMA- \f ^ 
TISTS and his SPEECHES on PARUAMENTARY REFORM (18S1-S3) ) 

XXVII. SHIRLEY BROOKS'S RUSSIANS of the SOUTH and ) 

Ds. KEMP*8 INDICATIONS of INSTINCT } 

XXVIII. LANMAN'S ADVENTURES In the WILDS of NOR.TB. K^^^\^K.. 
XXIX. Dk CUSTINE'S RUSSIA, Abridged 



t 8 



24 



NEW W0BK8 AND NEW EDITIONS. 



The Thumb Bible ) or, Verbum 

Senpltermaai. Br J. Tatloa. Belaf an 
EpItuMM of the OM and New TMuacati 
la BagUih Venc. Refrintcd from tiM 
EtfltkM, of l(t8B« bonad aad elaipcd. la 
•4ao. price Kight — apea c e. 

Townsend.— TheliYM of Twelve 

Xmlneut Jadget of the Last aad of the Pre* 
■cat Cratarjr. BjW.C. Towxixiio, Xeq., 
M^Am Q*C. S vols. 8vo. price Sai. 

TowniencL—Kodem State Tri- 
als, mrUrd aad iUniitnted witk Rwayi aad 
Notei. Br W. C. Townnno, Em}., M.A. 
Q.C. t roll. 8ro. price Wfl. 

Sharon Tomer's Sacred His- 
tory of the World, attempted to be Philo- 
■ophicellj considered, In a Series of Letter* 
to a Sob. New Rditina. edited by the 
Aathor's Son, the Rer. 8. TvrnEb. 
8 role, poet 8ro. price 81e. W. 



Sharon Turner's Sstory of En- 




/ 



enrr \ 

rerlsed by the Rer. 8. Tubmbb. 4 rols! 
8ro. price Me. 

Sharon Tomer's Sstory of the 

Anglo-Sazoni, from the Karlieat Period to 
the Norman Conquest. The Serenth Kdi* 
tiou, reviled by the Rev. 8. Turner. 
8 roll. 8to. price S6«. 

Dr. Turton'sManual ofthe Land 

and Freshwater Shells of the British Is> 
lands. New Edition, with considerable Ad- 
ditions. By John Edward Qr<.t: with 
Woodruts, and 12 coloured Plates. Post 
8to. price 15f. 

Dr. Ure^s Dictionary of Arts, 

Manulactures and Mines : Containing a 
clear Exposition of their Principles and 
Practice. The Fourth Edition, much en- 
larged and corrected throughoM; with all 
the Information comprised in the Supplf 
ment of Recent Jmpromementt brimght 
down to the Present Time, and incorporated 
in the Dietionury. Most of the Articles 
beini( entirely re- written, and many New 
Articles now first added. With nearly 
1,600 Woodcuts. 3 rols. 8ro. price 60i. 

Waterton.— Essays on Natural 

Histury, chiefly Ornithology. UyC. Wa- 
terton, Esq. With an Autobiogmphy of 
the Author and Views of Walton Hall. New 
and cheaper Edition. 2 rols. fcp. 8ro. lOi . 

Separately: Vol. I. (First Series), o«. 6d. 
Vol. 11. (ijecond Series), 4t.M. 



Alaric Watts's Lyrics of the 

Heart, aad other Poeais. With 41 highly 
fiaished Liae Eafrarinfa, esecoteo «• 
pressly for the work by tiM moat emlaeat 
Paiatera and Kagrarera. Square crown 8ro. 
price 81«. M. boards, or 4m. bonad In mo> 
roecei Proof laipressloas, CSe. boards. 

Webster aad Parkea's Ency- 

elopadiaof Doaestic Bcoaoosy; Comprising 
snea sabiecte as are moat immediately 
coanected with Hoasekeepltig ; As, The 
CoBstroctioa of Doaiesiie Edifices, with 
the Modes of Wanaiag, Veotilating, and 
Ufhdag them— A Deacription of the rari- 
oos Articles (rf Farnitare, with the Nature 
of their Materials— Duties of SerraaU, etc. 
New RditioB; with aearly 1,000 Woodcuts, 
8re. price COe. 

Willich's Popular Tables for 

ascertainio|r the Value of Ufebold, Lease- 
hold, and Church Property, Renewal Fines, 
etc. Third Edition, with additional Tables 
of Natural or Hyperbolic Logarithms, Tri- 
gonometry, Astronomy, Geography, etc. 
Poet thro, price 9«. 

Lady Willoughby's Diary (1635 

to 1688). Printed, ornamented, aud bound 
la the st^le of the period to which Tke 
Dimrf refers. New Edition ; in Two ParU. 
Square fcp. 8ro. price 8*. each, boards i or, 
bound in morocco, 18a. each. 

Wilmot's Abridgment of Black- 
stone's Commentaries on the Laws of En- 
gland, intended for the use of Young Per- 
sons, and comprised in a series of Letters 
from a Father to his Daughter. A New 
Edition, corrected aiul brought down to the 
Present Day, by Sir John E. Eabdlbt 
WiLMOT, Bart., Barrister- at -Law, Recorder 
of Warwick. 12mo. price 6«.6tf. 

Touatt.-Thc Horse. By Wil- 

LiAM YooATT. With a Treatise of Draught. 
A New Edition; with numerous Wood En- 
gravings from Designs by WiUiam Harrey. 
(Messrs. Longman and Co.'a Edition shonid 
be ordered). 8ro. price IDs. 

Touatt.-The Dog. By William 

YooATT. A New Edition; with numerous 
Engravings from Designs by William Har- 
rey. 8ro. 6«. 



Zumpt's Larger Grammar of 

the Latin Language. Translated and adapted 
for the use of the English StudenU, by Dr. 
L. ScBMiTZ, F.R.S.E., Rector oftheUlsh 
School of Edinburgh t With nnmerous Ad 
ditions and Corrections br the Author and 
Translator. The Third Edition, thoroughly 
rerised; to which is added, an index (by 
the Rer. J. T. White, M.A.) of all the Pat- 
saves of Latin Authors referred to aud 
explained in the Grammar. 8ro. price I4i. 



March^ 1854. 



I/vndont Ftinted by JC. Mjlmm.In^ "L«a«,^»X*xxw»\«tl8*i!<«» 



