a^-4 



ijk.\ 






^^> 



%.Hi^ 



yr^-:\ 



r-m 



f:itn >■ 




''4%/t^ 




Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/essaysonagricultOOgisbuoft 



ESSAYS 



ON 



AGRICULTURE, 



LONDON: 

PRINTED BY WOODFALL AND KINDER, 

ANOEL COURT, SKINNBR STREET. 



<, 



ESSAYS 



AGRICULTURE, 



RY THE LATE 



THOMAS GISBORNE, Esq., 

OP YOXALL LODGE, STAFFORDSHIRE. 



REPEINTED, BY PERMISSION, FROM THE QUARTERLY REVIEW. 



1. CATTLE AND SHEEP. 

2. AGRICULTURAL DRAINAGE. 

3. ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 

4. HIGH FARMING, an unpublished fragment. 



THIRD EDITION. 



LONDON: 
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET. 

1854. 



.cA '■■<> )■., 






PREFACE 



The Author of this volume of " Essays on Agriculture," 
the late Thomas Gisborne, of Yoxall Lodge, Staffordshire, 
was born in 1787, and died in 1852. He was an extensive 
landowner in the counties of Stafford and Derby ; he per- 
sonally farmed a considerable acreage of arable and pasture 
land, and was especially conversant with the dairy and with 
cattle and sheep feeding. Mr. Gisborne was also well ac- 
quainted with the agriculture of Scotland, both. Lowland 
and Highland. Few agriculturists of his day were more 
generally known in their class ; few men, in public or 
private life, were more beloved. His talents, his various 
attainments, his warm heart and popular manners, his 
ardent love of field sports, made him the delight of 
numerous friends. A Member of the British House of 
Commons for a quarter of a century, he was well known 
as a " public man," and his speeches and pamphlets on 
various subjects were numerous ; but it is the purpose of 
the present volume, simply to collect, in their entirety, 
his valuable writings on Agriculture. 

The first three Essays were written by Mr. Gisboene 
in 1849 and 1850, and originally appeared in Nos. 
CLXVIII., CLXXT., .and CLXXIII., of the Quarterly 
Review. The article on Agricultural Drainage was sub- 
sequently carefully revised by him, and separately published 
by Mr. Murray, in 1851, passing rapidly through two 
editions. 

The proofs of this first reprint were submitted by the 
deceased Author to the further revision of his schoolfellow 



VI PREFAOR. 

and neighbour, the late Sir Robert Peel, who, on the 
system and under the superintendence of Mr. Josiah 
Parkes, had early deep-drained his Drayton estate. An 
extant private letter from that eminent statesman to Mr. 
Gisborne, dated Whitehall, 26th June, 1851, is not only 
a high testimony to the value of this Essay, but an inte- 
resting evidence of the earnestness and sagacity of Sir 
Robert Peel, amidst the distractions of public life, on 
subjects affecting the progress of agriculture. The follow- 
ing is an extract : — 

" I do not think the article admits of improvement by addition ; cer- 
tainly not by omission. Would it be easy to present engraved plans 
and sections of the ordinary four-foot Drain for the reception of l|-inch 
Pipe; and of the Tools used in making the Drain and laying the Pipes 
and Collars ? Some people understand such an appeal to their Senses 
in half the time they comprehend one to their Reason. — Many of those 
who drain extensively neglect to have a plan of the Draining of each 
field made at the time that the work is done : a hint as to the advantage 
of this might be advisable." 

Mr. Gisborne had intended a similar revision and 
re-publication of the articles on Cattle and Sheep and 
Ancient Agricultural Literature; but death intervening, 
they are now reprinted as they originally appeared in 
the Review, with the addition only of the Tables of 
Contents. 

The fourth Essay, on High Farming, is a posthumous 
publication. It was written in 1851-2, and designed for 
the same channel of publicity. A printed proof of " High 
Farming " was found in his Study ; but the latter part 
appears not to have received the Author's final correction, 
nor had it then been fully approved by the Editor of the 
Review.* 

Mr. Gisborne had also meditated a succession of 
articles on other agricultural topics, which would doubtless 
have been composed and published, had his life been 
spared. There is reason to believe that the earliest paper " 

* The proof is endorsed by Mr. Gisborne as " corrected," so far as the 
last paragraph in pages 235-6 of this volume. 



PREFACE. Vll 

he contemplated was one on " Woods and Plantations." He 
had also intended, at the suggestion of the Earl of Lonsdale, 
a dissertation on the " Revival of Agriculture in Britain " 
— considering that a decided era was ascertainable ; and 
the history would have been carried down to, and have 
embraced, the introduction and development of the turnip 
and green crop systems of farming, which constitute the 
grand basis of improvement and progress in British, as 
contrasted with the declension of Roman, Agriculture, so 
clearly traced and described in his Essay on '* Ancient 
Husbandry." 

The above circumstances — of the degree of ultimate 
revision of the respective Essays by their Author — are 
thus particularly stated, because some of his views are 
subjects not only of pending discussion and difference of 
opinion, but of naturally important and enduring interest. 
Truth and public enlightenment, however, were the sole 
aim of the writer, and if now alive, he would have honestly 
abandoned any demonstrated error; he scorned sinister 
falsehood and ignorant prejudice, and he had little sympathy 
with their victims. 

The sterling merit and popularity of these remarkable 
contributions of Mr. Gisborne to the periodical literature 
of his times, amply justify the collection and republication 
of his Essays in a complete and permanent form. It 
is a vulgar error to regret that eminent literary men of 
the present age should have " wasted " their labour as 
*' writers of reviews." No greater fallacy has been current. 
Even the minor periodicals are in some sort the nurseries 
of national literature. They are essentially cosmopolite, 
as the medium of much foreign communication with the 
Republic of Letters. The higher class of Reviews maintains 
the standard of literature, and contributes to the purifi- 
cation of the public appetite and taste for knowledge, 
whilst it creates and trains up a certain number of superior 
writers. Perhaps, in no instance, can it be proved that 
Contributors of any class have, in consequence, failed to 



PREFACE. 



make the best use of their faculties and accomplishments. 
On the contrary, the attraction and remuneration of Re- 
views largely increase and encourage the productions of 
authors, and open new markets for books. A Reviewer tests 
his own powers, and perfects them in a leading Periodical ; 
and Time, aided by the accumulation and reprint of 
his contributions, gives him a permanent celebrity and 
the widest sphere of influence. It is scarcely necessary 
to cite the increasing number of such Essayist collections 
in our own days, not excluding " Essays from the Times!'' 
Such authors become instructors of Posterity. — Thus the 
brilliant names, in our own generation, of Walter Scott, 
Southey, Jeffrey, Hazlitt, Mackintosh, Sydney Smith, 
Arago, Brougham, Guizot, Thiers, the two Mills, McCul- 
loch, Senior, G. C. Lewis, Macaulay, Croker, Wilson, 
James Stephen, Lord Mahon, and Albany Fonblanque, 
become fixed stars in the firmament of literature. 

The liberality of the Proprietor of the Quarterly Review 
permits the present publication. The political opinions of 
Mr. GiSBORNE, it is well known, were not in accordance 
with the principles on which that able Periodical is 
habitually conducted. Nevertheless, the sagacity of its 
Editor discovered in Mr. Gtsborne, and produced on 
neutral ground, a highly-gifted Contributor, whose mental 
labours might otherwise have never been brought to light. 
These mutual relations constitute real liberality; may they 
be everlasting ! 

The entire Agricultural and Political Essays and Speeches 
of Mr. GisBORNE, in Parliament and " out of doors," with 
a brief memoir of their author, are in the press, and will 
be early published. In the meantime this portion, con- 
sisting exclusively of Essays on Agriculture, cannot be 
unacceptable to the Land Owners and Tenant Farmers of 
Great Britain and Ireland. The proprietors and tillers 
of the soil must now depend solely on themselves. Con- 
tests between " Protectionists " and "Free Traders " are 
exhausted discussions. Agriculturists can henceforth only 



PREFACE. IX 

ask the Legislature for Fair Play, in acts of free trade for 
all classes. 

The personal life of Mr. Gisborne was, for nearly 
half-a-century, connected with the stirring events and 
party-action of his day; but in all his writings on Agri- 
culture, and in his speeches at Farmers' Meetings and 
Agricultural Societies, he ever avoided controversial poli- 
tics. On such occasions and times, Agriculture was his 
only text; his single object the advancement of the Art 
of Husbandry. 

H. S. 
Yoxall Lodge, Staffordshire, 
20th October, 1853. 



CONTENTS. 



1. CATTLE AND SHEEP. 



PAGE 

Introduction 1 

Pure British Paces .... 3 
The improved Breeds and Races 4 
Improved Short-horns and Lei- 

cesters 6 

Devons, Herefords, West-High- 
landers 13 

Falkirk Tryst 16 

The Sheep Dog 21 

Irish Cattle 23 

Mountain Sheep 24 



FAGK 

Leicesters, Southdowns, &c. . 25 

Pigs 26 

Of Quality in Animals ... 29 
Distinction between Races and 

Breeds 30 

Qualifications of the Breeder 37 

The Feeding of Cattle ... 37 

The Lodging of Cattle ... 46 
Effect of improved Breeding 

on the Prices of Meat . . 48, 



2. AGRICULTURAL DRAINAGE. 



PAGE 

Preface to Second Edition . 68 
Results of personal observa- 
tion of Drainage during four 

years 54 

Lord Wharncliffe's system of 
Drainage confuted by Josiah 

Parkes , . 55 

Introduction to Original Ar- 
ticle in Quarterly Review . 57 
Ancient authorities on Drain- 
age, British and Foreign 57-72 
Roman Writers on Draining . 73 
Earliest notice of English 

Draining 73 

Andrew Yarranton .... 74 
Captain Walter Blith ... 75 
Sluggish Rivers and Water- 

Mills; injury done by them 78 
Joseph Elkington, Drainage of 

Springs 81-85 

Under - drainage, definitions 

and terms 85 

Smith of Dcanston . . . 85-88 
Josiah Parkes, C.E., his Works 
on Drainage 88 



PAOB 



Cause of Coldness of Retentive 
Soils 90 

Their temperature raised by 
Draining 91 

Four feet, where attainable, 
prescribed as a minimum 
depth for Drains — Reasons 95-97 

Effect of depth and direction 
of Drains 97-99 

Mode in which Water of 
Drainage enters Drains 99-101 

Materials of Conduit, Sticks, 
Straw, Clods, and Mole-- 
plough 101 

Horse-shoe Tiles form a bad 
Conduit 102 

Introduction of Cylindrical 
Pipes for Land Drainage . 104 

Pipes and Collars, and Pipe 
and Collar - making Ma- 
chines 105 

Cost of Drains per yard — 
Form and Tools . . . .105 

Obstruction of Drains by 
Roots, note .... 105-107 



xu 



CONTENTS. 



Resistance from friction to 
Water entering Drains, how 
overcome, and quantity of 
Water Avhich a Conduit of 
1-inch pipes can discharge. 

105-109 

Danger of interruption to a 
Conduit of Pipes uncol- 
lared 109 

Controversy on deep and 
shallow Draining . . . .110 

Operation of deep Drains in 
the most retentive Soils, 
the stiffest Clays . . . .112 

Reasons for presuming that 
deeper Drains than four feet 
now in use are not generally 
required 114 

Deep-drained Lands are ca- 
pable of absorbing more 
Rain without superficial dis- 
charge than shallow-drain- 
ed Lands 115 

Authorities in favour of deep 
Draining — Sir Robert Peel, 



Earl of Lonsdale, Dukes of 
Northumberland and Bed- 
ford 115-118 

Warming and Ventilating re- 
tentive Soils rank among 
the most important etTects 
of Land Drainage . . . .119 

Amateur Draining, Draining 
Engineers and their Ser- 
vices 121-123 

Average cost per acre of 4-feet 
Drainage 123 

Postscript: — Observation on 
the action and effect of deep 
Drains executed in the years 
1846 to 1850 . . . 123-125 

Device for examining the 
Working of Drains, and im- 
portance of retaining a Plan 
of the Drainage of every 
Field 126 

Plates illustrative of Drained 
Land 127, 128 

Plate of Draining Tools . . 129 



3. ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 



PAGK 

British Writers on the sub- 
ject — Adam Dickson, C. W. 
Hoskyus 134 

Grecian and Carthaginian 
Agriculture — Greek and 
Punic Authors 140 

Standard points of a Cartha- 
ginian Ox, as settled by 
Mago, B.C. 600 144 

Roman Agricultural Writers 
— Cato, Varro, Virgil, Co- 
lumella, Pliny, &c. . . . 144 

Agriculture not a progressive 
Art during eight centuries . 147 

Roman systems of Farm oc- 
cupation 149 

Farm Buildings and Land- 
lord's Villa 154 

Division of Farm Labour; 
Farm and Household Wa- 
ges; Food, &c 156 



General opinion of Roman 
agricultural Authors against 
the profitableness of High 
Farmbig ; meaning of the 
term 157 

Management of Pastures and 
Water Meadows . . . .158 

Management of arable Land, 
and course of Cropping , .161 

Green Crops for Cattle . . .165 

Turnip Culture ; its estimation 167 

Roman opinions on the ex- 
haustion and improvement 
of Land by certain Crops . 167 

Various methods of reaping 
and harvesting Grain . . 168 

Notice of Reaping Machines 
used in Gaul, propelled by 
Oxen 169. 198 

Threshing and Winnowing 
Machines 170 



CONTENTS. 



XIU 



Use of Straw for Fodder and 
Litter 170 

Manures; their management, 
methods, and seasons of 
applying 171 

Lime; its application, mode 
of burning 173 

Marl ; great use of in Gaul and 
Britain, described by Roman 
Authors 175. 197 

Enclosures, Fences .... 175 

Use of Beer and Yeast . . . 176 

Fallows ; their treatment ; 
number, depth, direction, 
and precision of Ploughings 178 

Cato's famous Maxim on the 
use of the Plough and Dung 179 

Reprobation of ploughing 
Land when wet .... 180 

Numerous forms of Plough in 
use 180 

Wheat Sowing; questions of 
early or late and of thick 



or thin sowing; quantity of 
seed per acre; return per 
acre ; gradually declining 
yield at successive periods. 

182-184 

Prices of Wheat and Rent of 
Land at various periods of 
Roman history ; rising Prices 
and declining Rents in the 
later periods 184 

Declension of Roman Agri- 
culture; its causes traced. 

184-188 

Distinction between Roman 
and British modern Agri- 
cultural Systems; exhaust- 
ing and self-sustaining Pro- 
cesses 188-195 

Observations on the Condition 
of our British and Gallic 
Ancestors and their Agri- 
culture, derived from Roman 
Authors 196 



4. HIGH FARMING. 



The object of Farming is Gain ; 
Profit the proof of good 
Farming 203 

Definition of phrase High 
Farming; data assumed as 
to condition of Farms ; 
Draining, Manuring, &c. 205-207 

Mr. Huxtable's statements of 
the cost of Wheat Culture, 
and its Return, examined 

208-213 

The theory of Manures, as re- 
cognised by Mr. Huxtable, 
Mr. Pusey, and others, ex- 
amined and disputed . 213-218 

Mr. Huxtable's Experiments 
in manufacturing Pork, and 
Pig Manure ; his Conclu- 
sions disputed . . . 218-221 

Mr. Huxtable's Calculations of 
the profitable return from 
Turnips in manufacturing 



Beef disputed ; protest 
against Mr. Huxtable's Esti- 
mates 221 

Mr. Milne's account of Mr. 
Huxtable's, Mr. Rigden's, 
and Mr. Morton's methods 
of Farming, and outlay per 
acre; Mr. Rigden's outlay 
and returns compared . 222-224 

Mr. Caird's statement of the 
Auchness Farm examined . 226 

Review of Mr. Pusey'sPamph- 
let(1851); criticism on Che- 
mical Theories ; economy of 
good Fai'm Implements, 
Threshing - Machines, &c. ; 
Stack - yards ; Mr. Pusey 's 
ideas of Draining; demo- 
lition of Hedge-rows; de- 
struction of Game; Clay- 
burning ; Water - meadows, 
the Author's puzzle as to the 



XIV 



CONTENTS. 



Ammonia Theory ; Farm 
Buildings ; proper comple- 
ment of Farm Horses; foul- 
ness of Land ; how to in- 
crease Produce; use and 
cost of Ammonia in Wheat 
growing 227-247 

Jethro lull, and Spade Hus- 
bandry; a cause of Irish 
Pauperism 247 

Mr. Johnston, and observa- 
tions on his Work " Eng- 
land as it is in the Middle 



of the Nineteenth Cen- 
tury" 248, 249 

Certain conditions of success 
in Arable Farming . . . 250 

British and Foreign Prices of 
Grain compared .... 251 

Britain better fitted for grow- 
ing Barley than Wheat pro- 
fitably 253 

Conclusion: position and fu- 
ture prospects of the British 
Landowuer 264 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 



CONTENTS. 








PAGE 


Introduction ...,..,. 1 


Pure British Races 








. 3 


The improved Breeds and Races 








. 4 


Improved Short-horns and Leicesters 








. 6 


Devons, Herefords, West-Highlanders 








. 13 


Falkirk Tryst . 








. 16 


The Sheep Dog . 








. 21 


Irish Cattle 








. 23 


Mountain Sheep 








. 24 


Leicesters, Southdowns, &c. . 








. 2i 


Pigs .... 








. 26 


Of Quality in Animals . 








. 29 


Distinction between Races and Breeds 








. 30 


Qualifications ol the Breeder . 








. 37 


The Feeding of Cattle . 








. 37 


The Lodging of Cattle . 








. 46 


Effect of improved Breeding on the P 


rices of 


Meat 




. 48 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 



We purpose to confine ourselves on the present occasion 
to that department of agriculture which is engaged in 
furnishing a supply of animal food to the inhabitants of 
these realms. Though we trust that we may be pardoned 
for offering to our readers, almost exclusively, statements 
and remarks drawn from our personal experience and 
observation, we hope it will not be supposed that we are 
indifferent to the rich and interesting literature of con- 
temporary agriculture. Mr. Stephens' " Book of the 
Farm "* (of a new and improved edition of which one volume 
has just reached us) is only one of several comprehensive 
Manuals that have been received with very general appro- 
bation by the classes best able to judge of their merits. 
The agricultural magazines published on both sides of the 
Tweed may well be referred to with satisfaction, as evi- 
dences of the spread of curiosity and speculation as to all 
questions connected with this great department of national 
industry ; and though neither France nor Germany has of 
late been sterile in the same line, we believe we may 

* " The Book of the Farm ; detailing the Labours of the Farmer, Farm 
Steward, Ploughman, Shepherd, Hedger, Cattleman, Fieldworker, and 
Dairymaid." By Henry Stephens, F.R.S. E. Second Edition, in 2 vols., 
with numerous Illustrations; 8vo.; Edinburgh and London, 1849. 

B 



AGRICULTURE. 



safely say that foreigners are ready to admit, as yet, the 
superiority of this branch of our insular manufacture. At 
any rate, the great extent to which their best writers rely 
on the facts and reasonings of ours, cannot be questioned. 
Nor can it be denied that this rapid succession of dictiona- 
ries, treatises, pamphlets, journals, and the large circulation 
which many of them deservedly attain, are features of the 
time — and features somewhat remarkable when we call 
to mind that, within the memory of living men, agriculture 
had scarcely advanced since Virgil wrote the Georgics ; 
that the volumes of TuU and Arthur Young were the only 
agricultural publications which could be found in an 
English farmer's library, even where such a phenomenon 
existed ; and that in the department of cattle-breeding, in 
which we have now distanced the rest of the world, the 
Roman poet appears to have had much the same perception 
of the cardinal virtues of a bull or cow, as most of the 
practical British farmers of those generations which pre- 
ceded Collins and Bakewell. 

Up to their time cattle and sheep were produced accord- 
ing to the generosity of the land on which their lot hap- 
pened to be cast. Perhaps we owe it to difficulties of 
internal communication that very distinct races maintained, 
in some districts of small extent as compared to the sur- 
face of Great Britain, a separate existence. Over the rest 
of the country some little attention was paid to the 
qualifications of the ox as a beast of draught, but beyond 
this the cow was merely a milk and calf producing animal. 

The bull was selected for his proximity, and his best 
recommendation was that he had given sufficient evidence 
of the talent which Mr. Shandy desiderated in Obadiah's 
grave pet. *' Their bull gendereth and faileth not." When 
he had served the parish in this capacity for three or four 
years, he was discarded, from a prevalent and probably 
•well-founded idea that uncanonical connexions were, on 
more than one account, inexpedient. He was th«n 
marched off to Stilton or Porchester Castle to feed French 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 3 

prisoners ; or, if his size and substance were favourable, lie 
was degraded into an ox, and took his place in the team. 
Of his progeny, the males, with the exception of a successor 
or two in his owu vocation and a few oxen for the plough, 
were made into very immature veal. The females were 
reared. Such as were seasonably prolific, and as showed 
milking qualities, succeeded their mothers in the dairy ; 
and the remainder, after having been indulged with the 
best pasture which the district afforded, served to relieve, 
with the tenderness of youth, the uniformity of old cow 
beef which formed the staple supply of the provinces. 

Of the pure races we must speak more definitely. 
England preserved the Devons and the Herefords. We 
add, with some hesitation, the appropriately-named Long- 
horns, which still struggle for a separate existence in a 
small district round the point where the counties of 
Warwick, Derby, Stafford, and Leicester approach each 
other. To fix on a known point, we should say they hail 
from Atherstone. Some splendid horns from this race are 
preserved by Lord Bagot at Blithfield. As late as the year 
in which the General Agricultural Meeting was held at 
Derby, a bull of this sort obtained a prize. The earliest, 
and that very recent, representative of the Short-horn, of 
which we have knowledge, was a large, uncouth, patch- 
coloured animal from the district of Holderness — a milk- 
seller's cow. Wales furnished a mean, black, mountain 
bullock, dignified with the name of a Runt, which still ap- 
pears in considerable numbers in the markets of the western 
and southern grazing districts. Perhaps the improvement 
which has of late years been made in this race by the in- 
fusion of West Highland blood can hardly be called a cross. 
We apprehend that both races speak Gaelic. Scotland 
gave us the unquestionable West Highlander, whose head- 
quarters are now fixed in Argyleshire and West Perth, 
and the somewhat more equivocal Galloway; perhaps even 
the rough east country stot, from Aberdeenshire and its 
associate counties, may claim some locus standi in this enu- 

B 2 



4 AGRICULTURE. 

meration. In Ireland we trace no distinctive breed. The 
distinction of the Irish ox and heifer was, that they were 
the worst-shaped and worst-fleshed animals which ventured 
to appear in an English market. " Good things scarce : 
plenty of Irish," because an almost proverbial description 
of a cattle fair. The same system of haphazard breeding, 
which overran a large portion of England and Scotland, 
prevailed universally in Ireland. As with, the human, so 
with the bovine race. Each endowed with a marvellous 
fecundity : maidens and heifers equally precocious. The 
same circumstances of penury, hardship, and neglect which 
made the Irish (not " the finest," but) the most degraded 
peasantry who came into permanent contact with civiliza- 
tion, made the Irish ox the most degraded of oxen. 

So stood the case a short century ago. But a great 
change was at hand. The early systematic improvers of 
our stock took the readiest, and perhaps, under the circum- 
stances, the most scientific course. Having come to a 
definite, and, in the main, an accurate, perception of the 
objects which it was desirable to attain, they selected and com- 
mingled, without any regard to afiinity of race, the animals 
which appeared likely to realize their vision. Immediate 
success attended their efforts. The merits of the first cross 
are proverbial, and even while we write, the newspapers offer 
us a confirmation of the proverb in the statement, that the 
prize ox, which this year (1849) furnished the baron of beef 
for the Christmas festivities at Windsor Castle, was bred 
by Prince Albert, was an animal of rare symmetry, quality, 
and fatness, and was the produce of a buffalo cow by an 
Ayrshire bull. In sheep, Bakewell put together white- 
legged and black-legged, horned and polled, long-woolled 
and short-woolled. Nor was the case much different in 
cattle. The late Earl Spencer traced much of his standard 
short-horned blood to a Galloway cow, which is still, we 
believe, a luminary of the Herd-book, and which produced 
one or more animals of agricultural celebrity. Still the 
desire for something distinctive prevailed; and as every 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 

three or four years brought a fresh generation of these 
animals, their fleeting series enabled a successful experi- 
mentalist to establish something of uniformity within the 
limits of one human life. So, from most heterogeneous 
materials, breeds both of cattle and sheep, having respec- 
tively distinctive qualities, were called into existence. Of 
either sort, one — of cattle, the improved short-horn, and of 
sheep, the new Leicester — obtained a decided pre-eminence. 
They gained a footing in almost every agricultural dis- 
trict of England and Scotland. The uncivilized herds 
and flocks of our predecessors shrank before them as rapidly 
as the red man before the white in the New World ; and 
though fashion certainly pushed them into some districts 
for which they were unsuited, and in which they degenerated 
rapidly, yet in the main they have retained their conquests. 
No doubt they trenched on the dominion of the old and 
pure races. They drove in their outposts and even made 
inroads into their territory. Meanwhile the possessors of 
the old races were not insensible to the spirit of improve- 
ment which was abroad, nor to the fierce competition which 
was forced upon them. To them, as to men in higher 
station, three courses were open. They might discard their 
own stock as unequal to the occasion, and adopt that which 
the enterprise of other men placed within their reach ; or, 
following the example before their eyes, they might aspire 
to success by crosses of which their own herds should be 
the foundation ; or, thirdly, they might seek improvement by 
judicious selection and rejection within their own domains. 
Happily, they adopted the last course, and the purity of our 
old races of cattle was maintained. Who would not regret 
the disappearance of the beautiful Devon and the picturesque 
West Highlander ? Either position or design had kept these 
races pure, and they retained all the distinctive marks of 
purity. Thus they were improved without being adulterated, 
and remain to this day as marked in their respective cha- 
racteristics, as they were before an improved short-horn or 
a new Leicester had been called into existence. Their im- 



6 AGRICULTURE. 

provement has perhaps not been so rapid as that of the new- 
breeds, but they did not start from so low a point of de- 
gradation. Nor should it be forgotten that they occupy 
districts below the average of the kingdom in fertility. 
On the whole, they have maintained the contest for supe- 
riority with various success — a success regulated perhaps 
at times by fashion and caprice, but resulting on the whole 
in good judgment and truth.* 

We should now, perhaps, be in condition to estimate the 
results of a struggle which has continued for more than 
half a century. But before we can pronounce even a 
qualified opinion, we must have a very clear perception 
of the principles on which a decision ought to be founded. 
The real and only question for the farmer is, what breed 
of cattle will, year by year, yield me the largest money 
return per acre, or per given quantity of various sorts of 
food consumed by them ? And this question is not settled 
by saying. Taken — 10 tons of short-horns and 10 tons of 
Devons ; 50 tons of food of equal quality were consumed 
by each lot ; the short-horns gave beef as 21 to 19, or vice 
versa. 1st. We must know the respective histories of 
each 10 tons ; we must have a debtor and creditor account 
of each up to the time of weighing in. The one may have 
credit for services in the dairy, the other for services in 
the team ; or the creditor side may be blank in the case of 
either or both. We must here consider the breeder and 
the feeder as one man. Before we can answer the question 

* A split has arisen in the Herefords, of which we cannot explain the 
origin, but which we regret, though we cannot say that it has produced 
any deterioration. The difference, though small, is decided, and the 
respective parties are of course very positive. The general Hereford is 
an animal with a white face, upward horns, and a tawny side. The 
animal of the offset has a speckled face, generally a broad white stripe 
down his back, and shorter legs and more horizontal horns than his 
relative. Of the speckled-faced Herefords, the late Mr. Price, Earl 
Talbot, and Sir F. Lawley have been the most distinguished breeders. 
The contest between speckled-face and white-face is not worth carrying 

on. 

" Facies non omnibus una 

Nee diversa tamen, qualis decet esse sororum." 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 1 

SO interesting to him, we must know the antenatal cost of 
each 10 tons, and their respective debits and credits up to 
the day when they leave the hands of the beef manufac- 
turer for the shambles. Sndly. We must know which 
fetched the most money— the beef represented by 21, or 
that by 19. It is easy to say, "I have bred a beast xxf 
rare symmetry, great size, early maturity, first-rate quality." 
Equally ready are the inquiries, '* After how many failures ? 
— At what cost ?— How stands the balance ?" These ques- 
tions are answered by many brave and contradictory asser- 
tions ; by many wild and contradictory guesses ; but by no 
statistics on which we can found a safe conclusion. And, 
yet, on the answer depends, on average agricultural farms 
suited to any description of cattle, the whole question of 
successful breeding and feeding. The statistics are not 
forthcoming ; first, because few farmers keep any accounts 
but a cash-book ; and, secondly, because considerable in- 
tricacy arises from the circumstance that the breeder and 
feeder (in the case of cattle) are ordinarily not the same 
person. To those who give to the public accurate statistics 
of one farm, or of one animal, we are under great obliga- 
tions ; but the questions at issue can only be solved by a 
multitude of instances. Being, therefore, without the sure 
monition of arithmetic, and left to our own observation, 
aided by the opinions of men of sagacity, and finding no 
very definite or decided preponderance in those opinions, 
we are not in condition to offer to our readers any guidance 
on which we could safely advise them to found their prac- 
tice. But, we may mention some of those characteristics 
of the various animals which we have under review, which 
must be important points of consideration whenever in- 
creased knowledge shall enable us to bring the main ques- 
tion to a definite issue. Before we do so, we may be 
allowed to premise, in a single sentence, that in the breed- 
ing of cattle — as in every other important human pursuit — 
national objects are promoted by the successful skill and 
industry of individuals. The first vocation of a cattle- 



8 AGRICULTDRE. 

breeder is to furnish his countrymen with the dairy ; with 
all its multitudinous comforts and luxuries. We scarcely 
know a more important national object of its class, than to 
place a free supply of milk within the reach of the great 
body of our population. The next vocation of the breeder 
is, to supply animal food — milk and animal food in the 
case of cattle — wool and animal food in that of sheep. 
Animal food is suited both to our climate, and to the hard- 
working energy of our people. The breeder has to cater 
for appetites, which bodily exertion has made rather active 
than critical; as well as for others, of which sedentary and 
intellectual pursuits bave blunted the desire for quantity, 
but at the same time stimulated the appreciation of quality. 
Bearing these objects in view, we proceed to remark on 
those qualities of the various descriptions of agricultural 
animals which subserve to their attainment. 

From their general and hitherto progressive prevalence, 
the new breeds of cattle and sheep claim our first notice. 
We have already adverted to the manner in which (if 
at the expense of a little accuracy we may use the most 
expressive phrase) they were created. To the short-horns 
we must award the merit of uniting milking qualities 
with a propensity to get fat, to a degree which rarely, if 
ever, had been previously found in the same animal. We 
doubt, however, whether the mothers of the prize bullocks 
are the animals which fill the milk-pail. To that very 
simple agricultural implement is, as we fancy, to be traced 
the slack and bare loin which is the characteristic failing 
of this breed. In the shambles at Birmingham, where a 
large proportion of the well-fed cows from our dairying dis- 
tricts are slaughtered, you may generally perceive the blue 
and bare spot on the loin, though the rest of the carcass 
is loaded with fat. The advocates of the new breeds claim 
for them, that with a given amount of food, and in a given 
time, they will yield a larger weight of beef and mutton 
than animals of the old races. With some qualification 
we are prepared to admit the claim. In the case of se- 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 9 

lected individuals, previously brought to a certain age, or 
point, of maturity, we think that the claim is well founded. 
Our qualification has reference to the previous history of 
the animals. As we hinted above, we must begin at the 
beginning. We have no doubt, we might almost say ex- 
perience has proved, that if 1000 short-horned females 
were subjected to the breeding process in competition with 
1000 West Highlanders, Devons, or Herefords, not only 
in the first named would there be more failures of produce, 
but among the products there would be more animals of low 
quality, coarse, and utterly exceptionable, than would be 
the case in any of the three old races. As little doubt 
have we that 1000 Leicester ewes would produce fewer 
lambs, and among those fewer more rickety, wry-necked, 
and turn-in-the-head, than 1000 ewes of any other breed. 
This is because, though art may improve upon nature, it 
never can become so unvarying and sure in its operation. 
The varieties and incongruities which have been introduced 
on account of their connexion with some coveted quality, 
will from time to time re-appear. The concoctor of a new 
breed is always liable to disappointment. He introduces 
into his herd some unknown animal on account of certain 
apparent excellences, but he cannot tell what qualities, 
though latent in the individual, run in the blood. The 
flat side, vulgar head, or hard flesh of some paternal or 
maternal ancestor may re-appear in the offspring. We 
have heard Mr. Buckley of Normanton, the owner of one 
of the oldest and purest flocks of Leicester sheep, say 
that, from time to time, gray faces and black feet appeared 
among his lambs. We have before us a letter from the 
late Earl Spencer to a friend, who had consulted him on a 
point in breeding, in which he says, " Your cross will not 
justify a very high-priced bull, but, in order to secure you 
against anything monstrous in his stock, you must ascer- 
tain that you have several generations of real good blood." 
With such incidents a breeder of horses is familiar. He 
selects a bay mare with black legs, and unites her wilh a 

b3 



10 AGRICULTURE. 

male having the same characteristics. If the produce 
should be chestnut, with a bald face, and what the dealers 
call white stockings, we can assure him of sympathy from 
many fellow sufferers. To disappointments of this class 
the proprietors of original, or very old, races are less liable. 
Every connoisseur in cattle is aware, that, in a drove of 
short-horned bullocks or heifers, there will be more diver- 
sity of shape, of quality, of colour, and of aspect, than 
in a corresponding drove of West Highlanders, Devons, or 
Herefords. Another difficulty besets the breeders of short- 
horns, and all others who have attained to animals of great 
merit by many mixings and crossings. You have selected 
the breeding stock for size, symmetry, propensity to fatten, 
or for what a Frenchman would call a " je ne sais qnoi;" 
and a breeder, a sparky appearance. When you have se- 
cured the recurrence of these qualities in their offspring, 
as far as bovine frailty permits, you have invariably attained 
this object at some sacrifice of fertility. We have known 
some breeders of short-horns who have been, and perhaps 
still may be, desirous of having bulls with the heads of 
heifers and the thighs of bullocks. The offspring of such 
males is always deficient in quantity, and is of weak con- 
stitution ; the progeny inherits the paternal effeminacy. 
When such a blunder has established itself in a herd, it 
can only be redeemed by recurrence to a male, 

" cui turpe caput, cui plurima cervix, 
Et crurum teuus a mento palearia pendent." 

These are the true and natural indications of taurility. 

Our lamented friend, Mr. Edge of Strelley, having 
shaped in his imagination a breed of cattle formed on his 
own model, great size, symmetry, and a propensity to 
fatten, spared no expense to realize his vision. Aided by 
a most correct eye, and with no prejudices, personal or 
local, he selected at any cost, and from any quarter in 
which he found them, the animals, both male and femule, 
which he thought likely to answer his expectations. Nor 
was he disappointed in the qualities of their offspring. 



CATTLE AND SHEEP II 

But after some years, when he seemed to have attained, or 
to be on the point of, perfection, he came to a dead lock ; 
his females, though much solicited, refused to give him 
produce. On this ground, and on this only, we believe, he 
broke up his herd and discontinued the pursuit. Lord 
Spencer, an enthusiastic advocate of short-horns, admitted 
in more than one public speech that, in his herd, fecundity 
had diminished to an inconvenient degree, and was only 
maintained by a degree of care and attention which could 
hardly be extended to the general breeding stock of a king- 
dom. We know the ready answer — The females are too 
fat. But that is not the whole question. We lately in- 
spected a herd of Herefords, the property of a distin- 
guished and (we speak on the authority of his farming ac- 
counts) very successful agriculturist. The breeding cows 
and heifers, living solely on crushed gorse, were consider- 
ably above the point of marketable beef in fatness. We 
have no doubt they would be very bad milkers. The bulls 
were loaded with fat ; but there was no deficiency of calves ; 
the drafts on account of barrenness were very few. The 
expression of the owner was, " I have no trouble on that 
score." Twins were by no means unknown in the herd. 
Since short-horns have been very generally introduced 
into the midland counties, barrenness has been a great 
" trouble" to the cheese-making farmer. 

We will endeavour to sum up impartially. Even the 
improved short-horn is by nature a coarse animal, requir- 
ing a good climate and a generous soil, and unprofitable 
for merely feeding purposes. Sterility is a serious tax on 
any herd which, by great care and attention, has attained 
to a respectable quality of flesh, and to symmetry of form. 
The dairy sustains the short-horns. The cast cows soon 
acquire a rough coating of fat, and form a valuable supply 
of low-priced beef for the manufacturing and colliery dis- 
tricts — for those appetites which we have described as 
being active without being critical. But we should be un- 
just if we did. not assign to the short-horns one quality of 



12 AGEICULTURE. 

great value in an agricultural animal — composure of mind. 
The males have lost the combativeuess of their species. 
We can hardly conceive a more ludicrous sight than a bull 
from Althorp, or Babworth, thrust into the arena at 
Seville, or Ronda. The females yield precedence without 
contest. If you introduce a little petulant Highland cow 
into a dairy of short-liorns, of which every individual is 
double her own weight, she at once becomes mistress and 
leader of the herd. We have been in the habit of attend- 
ing annually a sale of fat cattle where the stalls are filled 
with beasts of various descriptions. The short-horn is 
released from the stake to which he has been tied for four 
months, and proceeds to the hammer with all the solem- 
nity which befits an animal who is walking to his own 
funeral. The West Highlander, as soon as he ascertains 
that he is free, rather in frolic than in fury breaks through 
the ring of his intending purchasers, blunders over a fence, 
and celebrates his recovered liberty by most extraordinary 
antics. The butchers get but a passing view of him. 
"Now, gentlemen," says the facetious auctioneer, "you 
must shoot him flying." His sale proceeds without the 
solemn pinching and punching, and the wise looks which, 
in the case of a more patient animal, are preliminary to a 
bid. Some excitement has been produced by the scene, 
and, if the gin^bottle has done its duty, he generally sells 
well. But we beg pardon. — We must not altogether pass 
by the important point of early maturity. Here the short- 
horns claim a decided pre-eminence. We will not alto- 
gether negative the claim, though we do not find it borne 
out by the declared ages of the animals which are ex- 
hibited for prizes at the Smithfield show. We only desire 
to ask and to receive candid answers to two questions, and, 
in order that we may dismiss the subject, our questions 
shall have reference to new Leicester sheep as well as to 
short-horned cattle. Have, or have not, these two breeds 
possession of the most fertile districts which are deveted 
to breeding ? Have they, or have they not, during their 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 13 

two first years, more indulgence than falls to the lot of the 
young of other breeds? 

So many general points have entered incidentally into 
this review of short-horned merits, that we can be more 
concise respecting the old races. We will take Devons 
and Herefords together as having many points in common. 
They are confessedly prolific; neither are suited to a 
farmer whose rent is to be made by the produce of his 
dairy; we reck little of the services rendered by their 
bullocks in the team ; human labour must be at a low ebb 
where it can be profitably associated with so slow a beast 
as an ox ; bullock-teams and railways will not, we think, 
long co-exist. We must admit that something will be 
sacrificed, for we are not insensible to the superior quality 
of meat of mature age. The claims of these two races are 
founded on good constitution, on the very rare occurrence 
of animals without merit, on a considerable capacity to bear 
hardship without suffering, on symmetry sustained with 
less care than in any artificial breed, and on the high 
quality of their beef. When their symmetry does fail, it 
is generally in the fore-quarters ; where the high-priced 
beef lies, they seldom fail. They are unrivalled in the 
deep cut of lean meat well covered with fat along their 
whole top and sides, which butchers find so acceptable to 
their best customers. If compelled to give a decision be- 
tween the two races, we should say, with much hesitation, 
'* If you wish to please your eye, take the Devons ; if your 
pocket, the Herefords." 

We approach the West Highlander with some fear, lest 
we should ramble into romance instead of adhering to plain 
agricultural truth. How can any man leave either his 
garret in Grub-street, or the tails of a set of lumbering 
short-horns in a Lincolnshire homestead, to visit the free 
and spirited denizen of Gare Loch Side, Glen Lyon, and 
the storm-swept Hebrides, without feeling some excite- 
ment? Unless the West Highlander has gazed on you 
from a rocky knoll in his native glen — unless you have 



14 AGRICULTURE. 

felt how much he ornaments and animates the scene, you 
will not admire and love him as we do. The first merits 
of a West Highlander are his hardihood and his great 
industry. Whether you order him to find his living on a 
black moor in summer, or to gather up the crumbs which 
have fallen from the rich man's table on your feeding pas- 
tures in winter, he is equally prosperous and cheerful. In 
storms or severe weather you never see him setting up his 
back and shivering under a hedge or wall ; he is constantly 
working for his bread. We knew a grazier who always 
cleaned up his pastures in winter with West Highlanders, 
and who objected on principle to giving them any fodder, 
even when there were several inches of snow on the 
ground, saying that it only taught them idle habits. Some 
years back we saw annually at Falkirk a lot of West High- 
land bullocks bred by Mr. Stuart of Harris, and brought 
by him to that market. They were the best lot of one 
man's breeding which we ever saw; Mr. Stuart kindly 
gave us their history. From the day of their birth they 
had never been under cover ; neither they nor their mo- 
thers had ever received a scrap of food from the hand of 
man. In the summer they roamed through the mountain 
glens. The Atlantic storms throw up on the west of 
Harris long ranges of sand-hillocks, which become fixed 
by the roots of a coarse grass, to which, if we remember 
right, Mr. Stuart gave the name of Bent. We believe it 
is the same grass which such of our readers as visit Paris 
may see extensively planted on the railway sides between 
Boulogne and Abbeville for the purpose of fixing the 
drifting sands. Mr. Stuart's herd, when driven from the 
hills by storms and snow, retreated to these sand-hills, 
and found from them all that they ever received of 
shelter and food. Both summer and winter they were 
almost independent of man. The bullocks began their 
southern travel by a sailing voyage of 60 miles over a very 
uncertain sea ; they then walked about 220 miles to Fal- 
kirk, mostly over open moors, on which they bivouacked at 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. ' 16 

■night, picldng up a living by the wayside as they jour 
neyed. At Falkirk they appeared healthy and lively, 
fresh as from their native glen, firm in their flesh, and 
with the bloom of high condition on their long and silky 
coats. Nor, indeed, were their health, strength, and con- 
dition superfluous ; for, through the intervention of Mr. 
Carmichael, or some other eminent Scotch dealer, we be- 
lieve that their general destination was the Vale of Ayles- 
bury (another walk of nearly 400 miles, for it was before 
railways were in general use for cattle), where they re- 
velled in the, to them, unwonted luxury of such pastures 
as are found on the farms of Mr. Senior or Mr. Rowland, 
and before the day twelvemonth on which they had stood 
on Falkirk Moor, they had probably all appeared in the 
shop of Mr. Giblett, or some other West-end butcher. The 
West Highlander is eminent for the excellence of his 
flesh ; it is not very easy to put on, but when there, it is 
of first-rate quality and price. This animal does not com- 
pete in size with the short-horn or Hereford, but, in the 
hands of Mr. Stuart, and of the principal Perthshire and 
Argyleshire breeders, he seems to us to be large enough. 
About six years ago one bred by Mr. Campbell, of Monzie, 
obtained the first prize in his class at the Smithfield show, 
and was sold to a butcher for nearly £50. At the same 
time the higher and more barren glens furnish the same 
animal in a smaller compass, and to a gentleman residing 
in his country mansion he is almost as well worth having 
for his beauty as for his beef. The West Highlander has 
one natural defect, which, however, skilful men have much 
remedied by judicious selection and rejection without tam- 
pering with his purity. He has it in common with the 
wild and with the least cultivated races of his species — 
with the bison, the buffalo, both of Italy and South Africa, 
the bullock of Caff'raria, and the mountain bull of Spain. 
The defect is thinness in the thighs and a general falling- 
off in the hind-quarters. It is a grave agricultural failing. 
The West Highlander is not very docile, nor very obser- 



16 AGRICULTURE. 

vant of artificial boundaries. His habits of free ranging 
are not very easily overcome. 

Having carried our readers to the Highlands, we must, 
at the risk of being somewhat episodical, request that 
on their return south they will accompany us to Falkirk 
Moor on the second Monday or Tuesday in either Septem- 
ber or October. They will there witness a scene to which 
certainly Great Britain, perhaps even the whole world, 
does not afford a parallel. On the Monday morning they 
will see the arrival on this flat and open moor, of flock 
after flock, to perhaps the average number of 1000 in 
each, of sheep — some black-faced with horns, some white- 
faced and polled — the individuals of each flock being, how- 
ever, remarkably uniform in size and character. They 
will probably observe that the flocks arrive in pairs, the 
first being a draft of wethers, and the second of ewes, from 
the same farm. Each flock will be attended by two or 
three men, and at least as many dogs. They take up 
their respective stations on the moor without confusion, 
and stand in perfect quietude in little round clumps, which 
are separated from each other by only a few yards. The 
dogs are the main guardians, and though they are generally 
lying down and licking their travel-worn feet, no unruly 
animal who breaks the ranks escapes their vigilance, but is 
instantly recovered. Among the shepherds friendly recog- 
nitions are taking place ; the hand and the mull are freely 
ofl'ered and accepted, and the news from Ben Nevis, Dun- 
vegan, Brahan, Jura, John o'Groat's and The Lewis is 
communicated in a singularly soft language, strange to 
southern ears. We doubt whether we do not much under- 
rate the whole number of sheep thus collected at 100,000. 
Mr. Patersou, Mr. Sellers, Mr. Kennedy, and Mr. Cameron, 
of Corachoilie, will each have several thousands on the 
ground. We have heard that this last patriarch has 
50,000 head of cattle and sheep on his several farms. 
The greater part of the sheep are in the hands of their 
respective breeders, though no inconsiderable number 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 17 

have been purchased, without being seen, at the Inverness 
wool fair, by dealers who are perfectly acquainted with the 
qualities of every large flock. Soon after tlie groups have 
been collected in the manner which we have described, a 
large number of agricultural-looking gentlemen on horse- 
back and on foot begin to move among them ; these are 
partly southern dealers, but more generally the large 
turnip-growers from the east coast of Scotland, and from 
the northern and eastern counties of England. The 
merits of each flock are so accurately known by those who 
have an interest in frequenting Falkirk, that a cursory 
inspection suffices. No stranger accustomed to the bustle 
and the crowd, the handling and the haggling, of an English 
fair, would suspect that transactions of a magnitude to 
which Barnet, St. Faith's, and Wey Hill, afford no parallel, 
were on the eve of taking place. The owners are seldom 
with their flocks, but their whereabouts is easily ascertained 
by those who want them. " What are ye seeking for the 
Gordon Bush ewes ? or for the Invercashley wethers the 
year?" says the purchaser; and if the parties are well 
known to each other, a price is named within Is. or per- 
haps within dd. a-head of what the vendor means to accept. 
A few words pass about the abatement of the odd shilling 
or sixpence, and with a half-jocose complaint that the 
vendor was shabby with his lucky penny last year, several 
thousand sheep have changed hands. The news of the price 
at which the best lots are sold spreads through the fair, and, 
within a very trifling percentage, the value of every other 
lot is at once ascertained. A large proportion of the lots 
pass from year to year into the same hands. No purchaser 
of a smaller number than 500 must expect to get sheep at 
first hand from any of the standard flocks ; indeed, these 
magnates generally decline to divide their lots at all. On 
the outskirts of the fair will be found small, mixed, and 
inferior lots, where the buyer may have haggling for Id. 
a-head to his heart's content. The settling at Falkirk is 
as peculiar as the dealing. No man brings money, i. e. 



18 AGRICULTURE. 

currency, with him to Falkirk. On a portion of the moor 
adjoining the sheep-ground, and adjoining also to long 
lines of booths, a wooden penthouse about 5 feet square 
announces itself by exterior placard to be " The Royal 
Bank of Scotland;" the British Linen Company, the Com- 
mercial Bank, and every other banking company north of 
Tweed appear there also by similar wooden representatives. 
The purchasers come to the fair provided with letters of 
credit, and, stepping into the tabernacle to which they are 
accredited, bring out in large notes the amount required ; 
these are handed to the vendor in an adjoining booth, and 
are probably, within a very few minutes, at his credit with 
the issuer or with one of his rivals ; for a Scotchman, deal- 
ing with a banker who is very reasonable in his charges, 
and who is to be found in every village in the land, always 
throws on him the responsibility of keeping his money. 
The bankers in the aggregate carry from the ground the 
same notes which they brought in the morning, a few 
scratches of the pen in their books having sufficed to 
balance all these large transactions. The clearing of the 
ground is as orderly as the other proceedings of the day, and, 
under the superintendence of the best herds and the best 
dogs in existence, the immense fleecy mass moves off, with 
almost military precision, on its southern and eastern 
journey. 

What shall we say of the gathering of the morrow? 
Every isle and holm which opposes its rugged crags to the 
fury of the Western Ocean between Islay and the Orkneys; 
every mainland glen from the Mull of Cantyre to Cape 
Wrath, pours in its pigmy droves, shaggy and black, or 
relieved only, as to colour, by a sprinkling of reds, and of 
duns, graduating from mouse to cream-colour. From 
Northern and Eastern Sutherland, Caithness, Ross, and 
Inverness they come in, longer on the leg, smooth, and 
vulgar. From central Argyle, Perth, and from some of 
the islands, come the carefully-bred West Highlanders; 
these are the flower of the show, engage every one's talk, 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 19 

and attract every one's attention; every individual of them 
is a delight to the eye of a connoisseur. Aberdeen and 
Forfar send in droves of large and bony, but useful, 
bullocks. A few Ayrshire cows and heifers for the dairy, 
some miscellaneous lots, and a few Irish, make up the 
account. We do not know the numbers ; we have heard 
of 30,000, and again of 60,000. The October show is 
the most imposing. The almost universal colour is black ; 
the moor is in appearance one black mass. You may 
be accommodated with every size, from that of a New- 
foundland dog to a bullock of 100 stones. The cattle 
are mostly in the hands of dealers, having been bought 
up at the Northern and Western markets ; many, how- 
ever, of the best West Highlanders are brought to the 
tryst by their breeders, and you may see a kilted laird 
from the Hebrides standing, like Rob Roy, at the tails of 
his own bonny stots and queys. Every dealer in small 
cattle offers you Skye beasts, and you would be inclined to 
attribute almost miraculous productive powers to that cele- 
brated island, till you were informed that (as a merchant 
would say) " that is the favourite brand," and that large 
numbers of these beasts are brought from the other Hebri- 
dean isles to the Skye markets. To speak generally, every 
one of these animals has his predestined course ; the 
smallest, called six quarters, from being only eighteen 
months old, will clean up the rough pastures and eat a 
little straw in Clydesdale, Dumfriesshire, Cumberland, and 
the neighbouring districts. The older of the small cattle 
will proceed to Brough Hill, a very favourite fair with 
dealers, because it is said to be attended by more gentle- 
men's bailiffs than any other in the United Kingdom. The 
finest West Highland heifers are for Yorkshire, and the 
bullocks for the counties of Leicester, Northampton, and 
Buckingham. The heavy north-eastern bullocks will supply 
the Lothians with stall -feeders, and will go in large numbers 
for the same purpose to Northumberland, Lincolnshire, 
Norfolk, and the south eastern counties of England. These 



20 AGRICULTURE. 

are all Norfolks when they get to Smithfield market. The 
proceedings are as orderly, and the dealings on as large a 
scale, as those of the preceding day. A few small lots of 
a score each may be found, but generally they run from 50 
to 300 and upwards. A purchaser of less than the whole 
of one of these large lots gets his number, not by a selection, 
but by a cut : a drover passes through the black mass, and 
cuts off by estimation the number ; they are then counted 
and made up to the required figure by alternate selections 
on the part of the buyer and seller. A third day follows, 
but it is not of much account. The cattle are for the most 
part miscellaneous lots, and what a Scotchman calls his 
shots, and an Englishman his culls. We have been some- 
what minute in describing these proceedings, because they 
are on a scale of magnitude quite unknown to Southern 
agriculturists. We can assure our readers that the men 
who carry them on are quite equal to the occasion. We 
always considered our annual intercourse with them to be 
both a privilege and a pleasure. No trading class can fur- 
nish more intelligent men than the Scotch stock-farmers, 
perhaps, indeed, than the Scotch agiiculturists generally ; 
men well educated, of courteous and simple manners, of 
great intelligence and much general information, enter- 
prising, and keenly alive to every reported improvement. 
We never could associate with them without drawing rather 
disagreeable comparisons. Many of these men are originally 
and still from the Cheviot district of the border ; several of 
them hold stock farms in districts separated by hundreds 
of miles from each other, besides a more agricultural farm 
on which they reside. Their system must be excellent, for 
they only see their mountain farms a very few times in the 
year. Others hold only one farm and reside on it ; and of 
these, some on the west coast of Sutherland have long been 
the resident gentry and quasi lairds of the district, though 
holding under their great superior, the duke of that ilk. 
Till the very recent introduction of roads and inns, their 
houses were the only refuge of the traveller from the 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 21 

tnountain and moor. We must always have a grateful re- 
collection of a lady who strongly objected to these inno- 
vations on her generous and refined hospitality. Though 
60 miles from her doctor, and dependent on coasting 
traders for luxuries and fashions, she looked back with 
regret to the days when she had no conveyance but a horse 
or a boat. 

Having spoken of the stock-farmer and of the shepherd, 
we must introduce to our southern readers the third member 
of the triumvirate, the Dog. To any inquiry of a Scotch 
shepherd as to the race of one of his faithful ministers, you 
would receive the answer, " Hout ! he is jist a collie." But 
this designation is far too indiscriminate, for it is applied 
equally to the malapert animal which, at the sound of your 
wheels, rushes from every black hut, and, having pursued 
you for a few score yards with his petulant yaffle, gives his 
tail a conceited curl and trots back to inform the family 
that he has driven you off the premises. Far different is 
the sheep-dog. Whether employed in driving on the road, 
or herding on the hill, his grave and earnest aspect evinces 
his full consciousness that important interests are committed 
to his charge. When on duty he declines civilities, not 
surlily, for he is essentially a good-tempered beast, but he 
puts them aside as ill-timed. At an early age the frivolity 
of puppyism departs from him, and he becomes a sedate 
character. At home he shares his master's porrich ; lies 
on the best place before the fire ; suffers with complacency 
the caresses of the children, who tug his ears and tail, and 
twist their little fingers into his long coat ; and, without 
inviting familiarity from a stranger, receives him with dig- 
nified courtesy. When accustomed to the road he will, in 
his master's temporary absence, convey the flock or herd 
steadily forward, without either overpacing them or suffering 
any to ramble ; and in the bustle of a fair he never becomes 
unsteady or bewildered. But the hill or moor is his great 
theatre. There his rare sagacity, his perfect education, and 
his wonderful accomplishments, are most conspicuous. On 



2Q AGRICULTURE. * 

the large sheep-farms a single shepherd has the charge of 
from three to six or more thousand sheep, varying according 
to the nature of the country and climate. In performing 
his arduous duties, he has in ordinary seasons no assistance 
except from his dogs. Those shepherds who have studied 
political economy introduce the principle of division of 
labour into their kennels. When on the hill they are 
usually accompanied by two dogs : of these, one is the 
driving-out, and the other the bringing-in dog. To the 
first he points out a knot of sheep, and informs him by 
voice and action, that he wishes them to be taken to a 
distant hill. The intelligent animal forthwith gathers the 
sheep together, and acts according to his master's instruc- 
tions. By similar means he informs the second that a lot 
of sheep, on a distant hill, are to be brought to the spot on 
which he then stands ; and with equal certainty they are 
shortly at his feet. To either dog he indicates the indi- 
vidual sheep which he is to catch and hold. The eagerness 
and impetuosity with which the dog rushes at the neck of 
his captive would lead you to suppose that the poor animal 
was in great danger. Nothing of the sort. The dog fol- 
lows Izaak Walton's precept, and handles him as if he 
loved him. The hold is only on the wool. The sheep 
stand in no habitual terror of the dog ; though within a 
few yards of him, the elder will quietly chew the cud, and 
the younger shake their heads and stamp with their feet, 
provoking him to frolic, or mimic war. We have spoken 
here, simply, of the daily occurrences of the sheep-walk — 
milk for babes — for we fear that the more staggering, but 
not very ill-authenticated, instances of canine shepherding, 
with which we might fill our pages, would prove too strong 
for southern stomachs. Whoever has not read the Collie 
stories of the great Ettrick herd and bard, has anyhow a 
rich amusement before him. We love the long face, sharp 
nose, and sincere countenance of the sheep-dog : — 

" His honest, sonsie, baws'nt face 
Ay gat him friends in ilka place.'' 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. ^ 23 

One word of advice to our southern friends who rent 
Scotch moors for grouse-shooting: keep on good terms 
with the shepherds. With a little encouragement, a collie 
dog will find every grouse-nest on the moor. A dinner 
for the shepherds, with whisky in moderation, followed by 
tea and a dance for their wives and daughters, are among 
the cheapest and most effectual modes of moorland game- 
keeping. " Experto credey * 

We hardly know how to apologise for this wild digres- 
sion ; but we must recall our thoughts from their wander- 
ings, and return to more homely matters. Having spoken 
of Short-horns, Devons, Herefords, and Highlanders, we 
should be unjust if we passed altogether without notice 
the great improvement which has taken place in the last 
thirty years in Irish cattle. Though large in amount, it 
has not been in any uniform direction. As far as we 
know, there is still neither a race nor a breed of cattle in 
Ireland. We have heard of Kerry cows, and we know 
there are cows in Kerry ; but, though rather extensively 
versed in cattle, we have no idea what a Kerry cow is, as 
distinguished from any other mongrel. The improvement 

' * We wish that some competent classical authority may be able to 
assm-e us that in the Odyssey, 14th Book, lines 24 and 26, the words 

" Oi Se 6t) aAAoi," " Oi Tpeis," and " toj/ 5e TeVapToi/" refer tO the fwes 

recro-apes which are mentioned only two lines before ; and not, as 
some commentators suppose, to four assistant swineherds, who have not , 
been previously mentioned at all. The latter interpretation receives 
some colour from the number of portions into which the supper was 
divided, which favours the idea that the number of Eumseus' assistant 
herds was four. Still, however, we are inclined to hope and believe 
that Homer spoke of the dogs. It is curious to find that the ancients 
were so well aware of the refined education which the canine race are 
capable of receiving, that the poet could, without comment, represent 
that Eumseus had sent a dog, alone, to take a fat pig from his country 
station to the city, where, for very good reasons, he was somewhat 
chary of trusting himself. In the "Y/u.i'os ets 'Ep^^i/^ Apollo's cows were 
committed to the sole custody of four dogs, 

equivalent to the saying of our South Country hinds, " he's as 'cute as a 
Christian." We knew an old Whig lord, who, during the long Tory 
rule, always said of his favourite dog, " He has more sense than any of 
our ministers." 



24 AGKICULTURE. 

in Irish cattle began, we believe, by the introduction of 
long-horned bulls from the neighbourhood of Atherstone. 
The rage for short-horns quickly crossed the Irish Channel, 
and contributed its share to the general progress. Into 
the mountain districts there has been a large infusion of 
Scotch Highlanders. We saw lately a drove of some 
hundreds of small cattle from the county of Down, of 
which nearly one-half showed unmistakeably the Highland 
cross, and a few had a touch of the buffalo. We have been 
told that a resident Irish nobleman has buffalo milking- 
cows for domestic use. The general result is, that Ireland 
now supplies a large quantity of very useful second-rate 
bullocks to the Leicester and Northampton fairs, and fur- 
nishes beef, quite equal in quality to the average of the 
United Kingdom, to Liverpool, Manchester, and the sur- 
rounding district. This comes for the most part in the 
shape of strong heifers, admirably grazed, and the supply 
is now continuous through the whole year. 

From cattle we must descend to sheep. The sheep is 
by nature an animal of the mountain and the wilderness, 
and the sheep of agriculture is eminently artificial. If we 
should attempt to reduce the various sorts into races, or 
even, with one or two exceptions, into breeds, we should 
find the task far beyond our knowledge and powers. We 
know that, from time immemorial, a small dingy white 
sheep, which has had the honour to give a name to the 
first quality of mutton and of flannel, has existed on the 
mountains of Wales. Probably these, if any, have a title 
to the name of Ancient Britons. Very similar were the 
fleecy inhabitants of the Scotch Highlands till they were 
superseded, it is said not above 150 years ago, by a black- 
faced sort from England, which have again been driven 
from all but their most rugged and inhospitable fastnesses 
by an incursion of white faces from the border. To the 
old race, which still exists in Wales, in Orkney, St. Kilda, 
and in the parks of some Highland lairds, the Portland 
sheep seems to bear a close affinity. In the hands of 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 25 

persevering Scotchmen, the black-faces have attained a 
consistency and an uniformity which does not exist in 
England ; the old Norfolk is their nearest English repre- 
sentative. The Cheviots, also, have much improved by 
their migration to the north ; they have also acquired con- 
siderable consistency, and we doubt whether it has been 
judicious to tamper with it by the introduction of Leicester 
blood. A white-faced horned sheep, which inhabits a 
moorland district called the Derbyshire Woodlands, the 
old Cambridgeshire, and a Dorsetshire sheep, bear to each 
other a marked resemblance. The Southdown, far the most 
comely of our English sheep, has about him several of the 
characteristics of an old race. But how gat he without 
his horns ? In agriculture the Southdowns are invaluable. 
Grazing the shortest and driest pastures — bearing, from 
their hardihood and from the closeness of their fleece, con- 
finement on a claggy lair, either in the turnip-field or in 
the fold, better than any of their congeners — they are not 
only of more general utility to the mixed farmer, but they 
also yield a supply of mutton considerably above the average 
in quality. The black-faced Shropshire ewe is a vulgarized 
Southdown, which has acquired size and has lost quality. 
We hear that a big Cotswold sheep is studying refinement, 
and trying to force himself into favour. But of all the 
polled and white-faced sorts, the New Leicester, though 
he may of late have somewhat declined in favour, remains 
still far the most important. With no pretensions to be a 
race, they have become, beyond all dispute, a very distinct 
breed. The New Leicester tup, in his best form, has a 
smart head, is long and low, with a tabular back, with wide 
rumps, '* thick," as graziers say, " through the heart of 
him," with wonderfully covered sides and shoulders, but 
very interior to the Southdown in his legs of mutton. The 
colliers in the north say that " a little fat mutton makes 
a many fat potatoes." To furnish that mutton is the voca- 
tion of the New Leicester, and he performs it worthily. 
He is mutton food for the million ; and sincerely we hope 

c 



26 AGRICULTUBE. 

that, in his present or in some improved form, he will be 

brought year by year more within their reach. With some 

deductions, analogous to those which we urged in the case 

of the short-horn, we must admit his superiority over his 

competitors in this particular, that he yields, at the least 

costj and in the shortest time, the largest weight of meat. 

There our eulogium must end. His flesh is coarse, his 

wool is inferior, his constitution is tender. Obesity of body 

and serenity of mind act and re-act on each other, and have 

conspired to make a Leicester tup a marvel of idleness. 

He is equally difficult to provoke to love or war : he dies 

soft under hardships. Showmen find it to be their interest 

to place together a giant and a dwarf — the extremes of the 

human race. In order to exhibit at one view the extremes 

of the *' genus ovinum^" with a Leicester ram, prepared for 

the show, should be coupled a Welsh ewe from Cader Idris, 

fresh from the hill, newly shorn, and having just weaned 

her lamb. We throw out the hint to Mr. Burgess or Mr. 

Stone. 

If the sheep of agriculture is an indefinite animal, the 
agricultural pig is still more so. Every tyro in breeding 
has tried his hand on them. Every gentleman farmer 
presents his friend with '• a gilt of my own breed," " En- 
courage the breed of pigs," said the Bishop of Chester (now 
of London) to his clergy, if credit is to be placed in the 
metrical version of his lordship's Charge, indited by the 
Rev. Sydney Smith. We hope that what was enjoined on 
a parson is not forbidden to a reviewer, for we have had 
our experience in pig-breeding. We inherited a long- 
legged sow, hog-backed, bristly-maned, flat-sided, slouch- 
eared, rather a ferocious-looking animal. Twice a year 
she was followed down the lane by an almost interminable 
series of little grunters — reduplications of mamma — six- 
teen, eighteen, we believe even twenty at a litter. But 
how could these satisfy the eye of a critic ? So we began 
afresh, and a few years of judicious selection and crossing 
gave us animals of almost perfect symmetry. The litters, 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 5? 

however, from far in the teens, dwindled to six, four, and 
at length our favourite sow produced one. Nor was this 
all. The roaded bacon three inches thick, for which, 
when trimmed with beans, we have seen gastronomes of 
undoubted authority desert farther-fetched dainties, was 
replaced on our table by six inches of rather flabby fat, 
unredeemed by lean. So when we could not even save 
our bacon we gave up the pursuit ; and we are inclined to 
think that our experience was a sort of epitome of high 
breeding. A snub-nosed race, called Chinese pigs, or 
Tunks, have some distinctive marks. They may, for what 
we know, claim an antiquity coeval with the Shee-king 
and Shoo-king, though, indeed, we are not precisely aware 
of the authority on which they are said to have come from 
" the Flowery Land." They are funny little fellows ; pert 
and queer in their ways ; very symmetrical ; poor breeders, 
and not exactly th€ pigs to furnish contract bacon. Tho 
Neapolitan, the Portuguese, and the Berkshire pigs have 
many points in common. For a constant supply of pleas- 
ing pigs we should select the Lisbon market. They are 
the only cleanly animals of a domestic nature (we make no 
exceptions) in Portugal ; very uniform, very symmetrical 
when fat, and of sufficient activity to get their living in 
the chestnut-woods during the early part of their lives. 
To this feeding we should have attributed the delicacy of 
their pork, if we had not heard, on good authority, that in 
America mast-fed bacon is very inferior both in firmness 
and quality to that which is fed on grain. Whether the 
animal which, by an agreeable alliteration, is called a 
Hampshire Hog owes any of the celebrity of his bacon to 
acorns and beech-nuts, we will not pronounce. We are in- 
clined to attribute a good deal to careful and scientific 
curing. Pigs, both in their natural and domestic state, 
deteriorate if exposed to cold. We are told that the wild 
boars of Barbary, Bengal, and Scinde are much finer 
animals than those which endure the severity of a northern 
winter in the forests of Germany. Nature made the pig 

c 2 



28 AGRICULTURE. 

an animal of great activity and spirit. Man, in the due 
exercise of the power which has been conferred upon him 
of moulding nature to his own convenience, has made him 
a creature of flitches and hams. We think, however, that, 
in the case of the pig, the transforming power has been 
exercised rather wantonly. Of all the overloaded animals 
w^hich deform our cattle-shows, none so entirely outrages 
delicacy as the improved pig. Unless his legs shrink under 
the weight of his shapeless carcass ; unless his belly trails 
on the ground ; and unless his eyes are quite closed up by 
fat, he has no chance of a prize. The extremes of domestic 
swine are Prince Albert's prize pig at the one end, and the 
pig whose domestic hearth is in the hut of the Finn, all 
the way from St. Petersburgh to Archangel, at the other. 
This latter is an animal of skin and bone. From his looks 
you would not suppose that he has any vitals ; there seems 
to be no room for them. His bristles, if not his ornament, 
are at least his distinction. He furnishes them to our 
markets to an extent both in quantity and value which, but 
for custom-house statistics, would be thought fabulous, and 
to which we only reconcile our judgment by recollecting 
that he appears, by these his representatives, on the toilet- 
table of every lady, we might almost say of every female, 
in Great Britain. As to flesh, if one could conceive such 
an animal to be ever subject to the tender passion, the 
epithalamium with which Person honoured the union of the 
lean master of Benet with a leaner bride would be highly 
applicable to him : — 

" Though you could not, like Adam, have gallantly said, 
' Thou art flesh of my flesh,' for flesh ye had none, 
You at least might have said, * Thou art bone of my bone.'" 

Such are the extremes. " Medio tutissimus ibis" 

But in swinecraft we are pigmies when compared with 
the ancients. Ulysses, at one swine-station in Ithaca (and 
we are told that he had others on the mainland), which 
was under the care of Eumaeus, had 600 breeding sows. 
They were lodged in twelve stately chambers (fifty in a 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 29 

chamber), built of quarried stone, and adequately furnished 
with yards, fenced in by a substantial paling. The male 
pigs (-oXAoi/ '!rav^oTs^oi) were only 360. This disproportion 
of numbers is accounted for by a statement of the insatiable 
voracity of the " godless suitors." So much for swine. On 
the subject of turkeys, geese, fowls, rkbbits, and "such 
small deer," we must refer our readers to the " Book of the 
Farm." Be it noted, however (though not mentioned in 
this new Stephani Thesaurus), that the prime turkeys of 
East Anglia, whom we apologize for classing among " small 
deer," are capons. This is true at least of the huge Go- 
liahs, the glories of Guildhall, one of which an astonished 
Paddy pronounced " fit to draw a gig." 

In comparing the merits of the various agricultural ani- 
mals which furnish food to man, we have frequently spoken 
of quality, and we wish to explain a little more definitely 
what we intend thereby. We consider firmness in the fat 
and a fine grain in the lean to be the criteria of quality. 
We believe that in those animals where fat and lean are 
associated, the firmest fat invariably covers the finest- 
grained lean. Any person who has had the good fortune 
to eat Highland venison with fat on it, will have observed 
that the fat of a stag differs from that of a Lincolnshire 
tup much as heart-of-oak differs from the wood of a Wey- 
mouth pine or poplar. The wild deer's fat is a substance 
of firm texture, hardly degradable, we should think, into 
dips or short sixes. The fat of the fallow-deer possesses 
much of the same enviable quality. When we descend 
from the forest and the park to the pasture and stall, we 
can form a series both for sheep and beasts which will 
hardly be called in question. For sheep— the Mountaineers, 
the Southdowns, various nondescripts, down to the New 
Leicesters. For beasts — Scots generally, Devons, Here- 
fords, indiscriminate crosses and mongrels, down to the 
Improved Short-horns. In each case the butchers' shops 
will confirm our lists. There the animal which stands at 
the top will sell for at least \d. per lb. more than the 



30 AGRICITLTURE. 

animal which stands at the bottom. In both cases, in the 
article of quality, the new and very artificial breeds stand 
decidedly below all their competitors. To them must be 
awarded the merit of producing a coarse article in great 
abundance and at a low price, suited to those whose appe- 
tites are keen and not critical, and whose means are 
limited ; whereas the old races will furnish an article of 
higher quality for those whose tastes incline, and whose 
means permit, them to be more fastidious. Whether any 
individual farmer shall produce one article or the other 
must be left to his own decision ; and, if wise, he will 
decide the point on the same grounds of position, facilities, 
and connexion which determine a cotton-spinner to m^e 
forties cotton-twist, or to make one-hundred-and-sixties ; 
and which determine a calico-printer to manufacture prints 
for ladies, or prints for housemaids. 

Our readers will have observed further that in all these 
lucubrations we have made a marked distinction between 
races and breeds, and we wished to state the basis on which 
that distinction rests. Of late years certain sages have 
brought prominently before the public a science to which, 
in the prevailing rage for a Greek nomenclature, they have 
given the name of Ethnology. This science occupies itself 
in investigating the localization, the affinities, and the dis- 
tinctive qualities of the various races of men. It is a cir- 
cumstance which we would rather call satisfactory than 
singular, that the observations made and the facts collected 
-—made and collected with true philosophic indifference as 
to the conclusion to which they might tend — all lead to the 
belief that mankind have sprung from one original pair. 
M this conclusion, on grounds merely philosophical, Cuvier 
and Humboldt have both arrived. We call the conclusion 
satisfactory, because it may re-assure some very worthy 
people, who discountenance philosophical investigations 
because they entertain narrow-minded apprehensions that 
revelation will not be able to take care of itself. As men 
multiplied, their different families were placed in different 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 31 

circumstances of climate, soil, food, security, and demands 
for exertion, both mental and bodily. These external cir- 
cumstances produced modifications both in the form and 
capacities of their bodies, and in the qualities and capacity 
of their minds. When successive generations had been so 
long subjected to the same influences that these modifica- 
tions had become so far engrafted and permanent, that they 
were found in all the individuals who remained under the 
influences, and would endure for long periods even in those 
who were removed from them, a distinct race of men had 
been called into existence. Two familiar illustrations of 
this permanence will occur to every one : the Jew, though 
by ethnologists he would only be considered as one subdi- 
vision of an important race, is said to have maintained his 
national physiognomy in all the various circumstances in 
which the Dispersion has placed him ; and we know that 
the Negro, when not contaminated by white blood, retains 
his woolly hair, his thick lips, his long heel, and his men- 
tal incapacities, though he has been transplanted for gene- 
rations from the banks of the Tchadda to those of the 
Mississippi. To any investigation into races of animals 
the aid of language is wanting altogether : history also is 
more silent, and tradition more obscure, than in the case 
of man. Still considerable materials remain to those who 
may be inclined to pursue an interesting inquiry, for which 
we have neither leisure nor knowledge. Even zoologists, 
who seldom pretend to have much respect for the Mosaic 
records, seem, on the whole, inclined to an orthodox con- 
clusion — to wit, that animals came as individual pairs from 
the hands of the Creator. This opinion is favoured, it 
must be owned, by operations of nature of which unphilo- 
sophical people are daily witnesses. Nature permits the 
connexion of many animals and birds, which have consi- 
derable apparent similarity, to be productive of offspring, 
but refuses to carry fertility further. The horse breeds 
with the ass, the dog with the fox, the pheasant with the 
domestic fowl, the goldfinch with the canary ; but all the 



33 AGRICULTDRE. 

offspring are sterile. On the other hand, the buffalo breeds 
with the short-horn, the dray-horse with the Shetland pony, 
the deer-hound with the poodle, the Dartford fowl with the 
bantam, the Caucasian with the Bushman ; and all the off- 
spring are fruitful. And yet the outward dissimilarity is 
greater in the individuals forming the respective pairs in 
the latter series than in the former. Is it an unnatural 
hypothesis, then, that, in all cases in which the offspring 
of a connexion is fruitful, the father and mother are both 
descended from one original pair? We think not; but 
for our immediate purpose — and it is a practical one — it is 
sufficient that we should feel assured that the same in- 
fluences of climate, soil, security, ease, or hardship, which 
have exercised so permanent an effect on man, have also 
formed different races from animals originally of the same 
type. 

To come to our own case of cattle — where we find much 
uniformity of size and shape, a self-colour, and a similarity 
of disposition and aspect, recurring generation after gene- 
ration, and even remaining after the external circumstances 
of the animal have been materially changed, we have rea- 
son to conclude that these distinctive marks have been 
produced by natural causes ; in short, that Nature without 
the interferoLce of man has produced a race of cattle : and 
further, we shall be confirmed if we find that this race 
does not require the assistance of man to preserve it from 
deterioration. Should history, ancient painting or sculp- 
ture, or even reasonable tradition, give evidence that ani- 
mals, having the same distinctive marks, existed at a re- 
mote period, our conclusions will have received still further 
confirmation. On the other hand, we witness daily the 
immense power which man possesses of modifying the va- 
rious animals which he has reduced to domesticity. Sir 
John Sebright bred pigeons to a feather ; and thirty years 
ago we were used to see here and there dairies of sheet 
cows, which some very fanciful gentleman had called into 
existence. But these artificial animals had a constant ten- 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 33 

dency to relapse, and to lose those coveted distinctions 
which the sedulous care of man had impressed upon them. 
Still, by patient and judicious perseverance a breeder of 
cattle may produce considerable uniformity, and impress 
distinctive characters and qualities on the animals which 
he calls into existence ; and by dint of liberal rejections 
may maintain the distinction for a lengthened period. 
When he has done so he may be fairly said to have 
created, for all agricultural purposes, a new breed of cattle ; 
and in this sense Collins (perhaps), and Bakewell (cer- 
tainly), may be said to have respectively created a breed of 
cattle and of sheep. But these breeds never have become, 
and probably never would become, races. We have abun- 
dant evidence that their distinctive qualities can only be 
maintained by the sedulous care of man. When Devons, 
or Herefords, are transplanted from the banks of the Exe, 
and the Wye, to those of the Hawkesbury, their offspring 
continue to be Devons and Herefords. But the short- 
horn, under similar circumstances, resolves himself into 
his elements ; and distinct traces of all the mongrels out 
of which he was concocted re-appear within a few genera- 
tions. In Midland dairies short-horns have nearly sup- 
planted all other breeds. No one can move among them 
without observing how very inferior they now are to what ' 
they were ten years ago. When they came from the north 
they had all the merits which belong to the breed. Under 
the ordinary care of the dairy-farmer they have deterio- 
rated rapidly. Several large farmers have appealed to the 
north again, and have procured bulls of undoubted blood 
(whose dams and sires were No. this, that, and the other, 
in the herd-book), without producing any very satisfactory 
results. We doubt whether improvement is to be found 
within the limits of the herd- book; our faith is, that, 
when an artificial breed has been created by crossing, it 
can only be maintained by crossing. We looked lately 
through stalls containing 50 short-horned cows in course 
of preparation for the Birmingham meat-market. Wher- 

c 3 



M AGRICULTURE. 

ever one appeared somewhat better than her neighbours, 
the invariable explanation was, " She has a good cross in 
Tier." When Bakewell died he left on his farm a good 
flock of sheep, perhaps for their purposes the best in 
the kingdom. His successor imagined that a breed had 
been created which could perpetuate itself and its merits ; 
but, under that system, and in his hands, the flock came 
to a melancholy end — size, constitution, fertility, flesh, 
wool — all gone ; nothing but a little tallow left. The 
successor of this gentleman was a Derbyshire man ; and 
he brought with him on to the farm a good flock of sheep. 
They had in them a good deal of Bakewellian blood ; but 
when their owner saw them dwindle, he had recourse to a 
large roughish ram from the limestone district of his 
native county : a big-headed, big-boned, big-muscled ani- 
mal : — 

" omnia magna. 
Pes etiam." 

Under such management this flock, of which we have now 
lost sight, for a long time retained its celebrity. 

We have appealed to self-colour as one characteristic of 
a race of cattle. We have done so partly because, with 
few exceptions, quadrupeds in a state of nature are self- 
coloured ; and we are not aware of any wild animal whose 
colours are patchy or glaring. The British wild cattle, as 
preserved in the parks at Chillingham, Cadzow, Chartley, 
and Lyme, are of a dingy white, with tawny ears. The 
cattle of mountainous countries, which have been very in- 
accessible to agriculture, are always of self-colours — black, 
red, or dun. The Cafl'rarian cattle are black. The queer 
little cow which, within the memory of man, had a pure 
existence in Normandy and the Channel Islands, and which, 
being celebrated for the richness of its milk, came to our 
markets under the name of an Alderney, was fawn-colour, 
with tawny ears. So-called Alderneys are still brought 
to those vicinities in which gentlemen's seats abound ; but 
by crossing they have lost their uniform colour, and some 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 35 

of their other characteristics. The voice of antiquity in- 
dicates self-coloured cattle. The bulls which Nestor sacri- 
ficed on the strand at Pj'los were 7ra/.t/x£^«v£?. The bull 
which escaped Mercury, when at three days old he started 
on a foray to drive Apollo's cows, was xt/avEo?, probably 
black ; but, whatever were the exact shades, certainly self- 
coloured. The bull, over whose sacrificed carcass the oath 
of the 'ETrra Irrl Gri^ong was sworn, was black. Indeed 
the only instance which occurs to us, in which party- 
coloured cattle are alluded to by any classical author, is 
the line in which Virgil declares his own toleration of 
motley : — 

" Nee milii displiceat maculis insignis et albo ; " 

and this very expression seems to indicate the prevalence 
of self-colours, and that the variety which he mentions 
was not in very general favour. Then comes the vexata 
qucBstio of horns. Wide-horned and lofty-horned are con- 
stant epithets applied to cattle in the Greek authors. It 
always appeared to us that, in a claim for antiquity of race, 
any animal who came into court without horns exhibited 
a prima facie case against himself. On the other hand, 
a gentleman, who is as enthusiastic as ourselves about 
Scotch cattle, but who, while we prefer the Highlander, 
fixes his affections on the graceful Galloway, always main- 
tains that horns raise a presumption of a bar sinister 
in the escutcheon, and considers our horned cattle as the 
offspring of what Mr. Thomas Moore calls " a museum of 
wittols." The Hereford brings good evidence that he is 
the British representative of a widely-diffused and ancient 
race. The most uniform drove of oxen which we ever 
saw consisted of 500 from the Ukraine. They had white 
faces, upward horns, and tawny bodies. Placed in Hereford, 
Leicester, or Northampton market, they would have puzzled 
the graziers as to the land of their nativity ; but no one 
would have hesitated to pronounce that they were rough 
Herefords. The splendid cream-coloured ox of Lombardy 



36 AGRICULTDRE 

is a Hereford in form. You might dye him into a Hereford, 
but all the dappling in the world would not make him into 
a short-horn. So much for modern affinities. There are 
hints also from antiquity. The calf ^^fronte niveus videri, 
catera fulvus," must have been a Hereford. According to 
the description in a fragment of Bion, the bull which ferried 
Europa across the sea from Crete was so complete a 
Hereford, that he might have come from the herd of Mr. 
Price or Sir F. Lawley. We are gratified by these evi- 
dences of permanence. A few years ago we had some appre- 
hension that, under the influence of fashion and favour, the 
democratic insurrection of the breeds would have swept 
away the races. We knew the origin of the breeds ; they 
had been loosely put together under our own eyes. Nothing 
in their career satisfied us that we knew accurately what 
was to come. Our aspiration was for something standard. 
We did not think that what Horace Walpole called the 
union of " nobody's son with everybody's daughter " was a 
satisfactory basis on which to found the supply of cattle for 
a great beef and mutton eating nation. Now the tide has 
turned. The new breeds have manifestly declined in popular 
favour. They will no doubt still occupy the position which 
may be due to their ascertained utility. The current of 
authoritative decision has also turned. It did for many 
years run in favour of the new breeds : now the balance is 
the other way. At every important exhibition the highest 
prizes have of late been carried off by the races. As good 
Conservatives we rejoice at this, for they are the Bovine 
aristocracy, and we wish to see them maintain their position 
in society. If we should seem to our readers to have spoken 
with too little favour of those enterprising and persevering 
men who originated our new breeds, and have carried them 
to their present point of excellence, we beg at least to dis- 
claim all sympathy with those scoffers who represent the 
breeders and the bred as being much on a par in in- 
tellect — 

" Strong as his ox, and ignorant as strong." 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 37 

In our estimation, no man ever became an eminent breeder 
without possessing many very valuable mental qualities — 
the power of accurately observing matters both important 
and minute, and of appreciating their value — -judgment and 
decision — perseverance — and another quality still more 
valuable than these, self-reliance. 

Having travelled so far with our mute companions, we 
must say a few words on their more immediate preparation 
for the final stage in their career. 

Of cattle made fat on natural pasture little need be said. 
No doubt a grazier, to be successful, must exercise consi- 
derable judgment in the selection of animals, and must 
discern with an experienced eye when his land is stocked 
to the exact point at which it will give the greatest produce. 
We have heard it said of one old gentleman, that he could 
tell when there was half a bullock too much or too little in 
one of his hundred-acre fields. A very small proportion of the 
grass land in England will, unassisted, turn out animals of 
the degree of fatness which is required by modern customers, 
and a still smaller proportion in other countries. Such 
lands, however, do exist about Boston and other fen-land 
vicinities in Yorkshire and Lincolnshire ; sparingly on the 
alluvial borders of some of our principal rivers, and in the 
vales of Belvoir, Aylesbury, and Evesham. Equal, perhaps, 
to any of these, and far above their average, are the splendid 
upland pastures which are found in Burton, Great Bowden, 
and other townships in Leicestershire (many of which our 
fox-hunting friends overlook, with an enthusiasm not purely 
agricultural, from Carlton Clump near Kilworth Beau- 
champ), in Braybrooke and Fawsley in Northamptonshire, 
and in Lidlington and another township, of which we forget 
the name, in Rutland. Nor must we omit the celebrated 
hundred-acre field at Cestus Over, of which local tradition 
sayeth, that, on a fine showery day in May, the farmer laid 
down his stick on a bare spot, and, being hastily summoned 
home by his dinner-bell, left the stick behind him. After 
his dinner he smoked only one pipe, and, returning straight 



SB AGRICULTURE. 

to the field, was unable to find the stick, which, having in 
the interval been smothered by the growing grass, was only 
discovered when the pasture was eaten bare in the suc- 
ceeding winter. 

The history of the grazing lands in the Midland Counties 
is singular. For no other district has nature done so much, 
and industry and science so little. A generation, with 
which many of us who are still in a green old age have had 
personal intercourse, saw these upland pastures in a state 
of ploughed common fields, the enormous ridges having 
been produced by many centuries of ploughing, the furrow 
being always turned upwards. These ridges still remain 
(and he is a good hunter who skims them cleverly), very 
frequently describing an easy double curve. When inclosed, 
and devoted to pasture, these lands were not sown with 
artificial grasses, but were left to acquire the turf with which 
it pleased Nature to clothe them. For forty or fifty years 
they improved progressively. From that time^they have 
been stationary, at least, if not retrogressive. Except a 
little, and generally very imperfect, soughing,* they have 
received no improvement. Lord Gardner and Mr. Little 
Gilmour fly over the same ox-fence now, which was charged 
of yore by The Meynell, Lindo, and Germaine. Some 
graziers, to be sure, have diminished the size of their 
fields by subdividing, and some have increased it by grub- 
bing up fences, and no doubt such spirited men were, in 
this British Bceotia, considered to be improving farmers. 
But " adhuc sub judlce lis est.'' The real improvements 
in agriculture passed these men by, or were brought to 
their doors without exertion on their parts: — take as an 
instance the improvement of cattle, and the improved 
mode of conveying them to market. They had a monopoly, 
and the sluggishness which attends monopolies. But John 
Bull will never submit to be stinted in his beef. 

To avoid, however, all disagreeable points — somehow 
land of a quality which would graze cattle had become 
* An old Midlazid county term for Under-draining. — Editor. 



CATTLE AKD SHEEP. 3§ 

inconveniently scarce, in proportion to the demands of 
John's increasing family ; and thus stimulated, his inge- 
nuity has found a substitute in an immense extension of 
artificial feeding. Our ancestors had an ample supply of 
beef from August to November. By dint of lattermaths 
and a little hay, a few beasts were kept on, rather in a 
stationary than in an improving condition, till the cold 
weather had fairly set in ; then they were slaughtered, and 
by pickling and salting dry (nothing exists now on which 
Mr. Moore could found his joke, " hung beef, my Lord, if 
you try it,") furnished beef for the winter and spring. A 
stalled ox was a luxury, and a rare one. We believe we 
need not go far back to the period when the Midland 
Counties did not furnish a single systematic stall-feeder. 
By most farmers the process was considered to be ruinous. 
Artificial green food is now grown on land of every 
description. The tables have been turned on the mere 
grazier. The mixed farmer overwhelms him with num- 
bers, with weight, and with fatness. We have daily under 
our eye lands, now united into one farm, which bring to 
market annually '250 beasts, averaging about 100 Smith- 
field stones each, and a still larger number of fat sheep. 
Within thirty years those lands supplied about a score of 
the former, of about two-thirds the above-named individual 
weight, and only a few score of the latter. On two some 
what smaller and neighbouring farms the change has been 
still greater, and in the same direction. The mere 
grazing farms have receded in value more than any other 
lands in Britain. Men of capital, occupying largely in the 
Lothians, Northumberland, Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, and 
Norfolk, have improved their systems, have stood their 
ground, and have many of them been blessed with pro- 
sperity. Those who live in the vicinity know the melancholy 
list of Leicestershire and Northamptonshire graziers who, 
starting with undoubted capital, and carrying on business 
on a large scale, have occupied as their fathers occupied 
before them, and, with no fault but that of belonging to a 



40 AGRICULTURE. 

Stationary system, have been overwhelmed ; have disap- 
peared from the scene ; having commenced with property 
and ended with debt. Our remarks apply with increased 
force to the second and third rate grazing-lands of the 
Midland District. A few years ago we should have looked 
for tbe least improved district of agricultural England 
from the top of Robin a-tiptoes, on the confines of Rutland, 
Leicester, and Northampton. No prospect could, in an 
agricultural point of view, be more melancholy. Large 
spongy pasture fields, so encumbered with vast ant-hillocks 
that nothing but an accomplished hunter could gallop 
among them with safety, bounded by rambling fences — 
land of considerable power and inconsiderable produce. 
•' I went by the field of the slothful ; and lo, it w^as all 
grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face 
thereof, and the fence thereof was broken down. Then I 
saw and considered it well : I looked upon it, and received 
instruction."* 

The stall-feeding of cattle is no modern invention, 
though, as a general agricultural practice, it may almost 
be said to be new in England. The '* stalled ox" is cited 
as a luxury in the Book of Proverbs. The difference 
between stall-fed and grass-fed oxen is marked in the daily 
consumption of Solomon's household — " Ten fat oxen, and 
twenty oxen out of the pastures." But though stall-feeding 
is now general as well as ancient, no agricultural practice 
has proved a more fruitful occasion of controversy. Cooked 
food and raw food, warm food and cold food ; open yards, 
open sheds, and close cattle-houses ; tying by the neck 
and turning loose in boxes : each of these practices has its 
enthusiastic and unhesitating advocates. So also as to the 
description of food. The object is admitted — the greatest 
produce at the least cost. One man would be ruined but 
for gorse ; another cannot dispense with hay ; a third 

* We are told by a resident that something in the way of improve- 
ment has been done near Kobin a-tiptoes, and that much remains to be 
done. 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 41 

declares hay to be superfluous, and that the object may 
be attained by the " corpus vile " of straw. So in roots : 
mangold-wurzel has its enthusiastic advocates, and equally 
so parsnips, carrots white and red, cabbage, and swede 
turnips respectively.. And, again, in the cerealia and their 
congeners ; men of nice observation discriminate between 
the beneficial effects of each : some by chemical analysis ; 
some by the Baconian process of induction ; and the result 
is, that meals of every description — barley neat and barley 
malted, grains, linseed, oil and oil-cake — are accepted and 
rejected with most perplexing confusion. We really 
wonder that those who feed by book do not throw up the 
case in despair. "We should be as unwilling to decide 
these points on the conflicting testimony of the corre- 
spondents of agricultural journals as we should to give a 
verdict on the evidence of Irish witnesses. The contro- 
versies will generally be best settled by a reference to 
local facilities. Gorse is good — where you have poor and 
congenial land and ready access to a water-wheel or steam- 
engine to crush it eff*ectually. Grains are good — where 
you are near a large brewery and can buy them at or 
under 4c?. per bushel. Hay is good — where you have 
meadows which are effectually manured by some river or 
stream ; and you may, or perhaps you must, make straw 
an article of diet to your feeding-cattle, where hay would 
cost you 3Z. per ton. We believe that 10s. per ton would 
more than balance the feeding-value of any two sorts of 
meal. Where a stall-feeder has on his premises the 
means of grinding or crushing, there can be no doubt as 
to the economy of consuming by his cattle any sort of 
unmarketable corn. Where he is distant from a mill, it 
may be economy to give it whole. We do not think that 
the controversy between barley and malt is ripe for decision. 
As to roots : if you are so fortunate as to occupy a deep 
dry loam, you may grow parsnips or carrots, or anything 
else short of tropical exotics ; but beware of them on the 
sharp gravels or shallow sands, from which, by a plentiful 



42 AGRICULTURE. 

application of manure, you may coax an ample crop of 
turnips, and may feel yourself much at your ease as to the 
mode of using them, as you may draw them off, or consume 
them on the land, in all weathers. On land which, how- 
ever well drained, has an inclination to be sticky, you 
must make up your mind to have more trouble with your 
green crops ; but if used tenderly, it will give you a heavy 
weight of mangold- wurzel, turnips, or cabbage. They 
should, however, be sown early, for you will have no 
comfort with them if they remain on the land after 
November. 

So we dispose of all articles in general use for cattle- 
feeding — except oil-cake. It is amenable to no local facili- 
ties, and is just as applicable to one situation as to another. 
In spite of repeated denunciations, it maintains its ground. 
The popular tradition respecting it is singular. For many 
years linseed-cirushers threw what they considered as the 
refuse of the mill to the manure-heap. A cottager's lane- 
fed cow, having access to one of these heaps, was observed 
to be frequently feeding at it ; and she gave evidence, by 
the sleekness of her coat and the increased fulness of the 
pail, that the food was highly beneficial. So it came into 
use, and was soon found to produce fat as no article had 
ever produced it before. Veterans of our standing will 
remember the denunciation of cake -fed beef. It had an 
unnatural taste — the shambles where it prevailed had an 
unnatural smell — the grain was coarse — the fat was liquid 
or rancid — the meat would not keep — and so forth. Now 
Mr. Giblett or Mr. Slater gives 6^^. per Smithfield stone 
extra for a Norfolk-fed Scot (the animal of all in the 
market which has eat the most oil-cake), simply because 
they dare not send any other sort of beef to the nobility 
and gentry who are their customers. No other article of 
food (except perhaps bean-meal, which has the disadvan- 
tage of making the flesh hard) gives to a butcher the same 
full confidence that the dead weight of an animal will be 
fully equal to his appearance when alive. All the pre- 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 4$ 

judices against this food were founded on the three letters. 
OIL. Persons who are prejudiced neither investigate 
nor reason, or they would have discovered that linseed-cake 
consists of the husks and farinaceous parts of linseed from 
which all the oil has been expressed by most powerful 
machinery ; and that though the quantity of oil expressed 
from a given quantity of seed has been constantly on the 
increase in consequence of improvements in the machinery, 
there has been no corresponding, nor indeed any, decrease 
in the fat-producing properties of the cake. A more re- 
fined investigation would have informed them that a ton of 
cake contains less oil than a ton of any sort of grain. The 
same delusion which appalled the consumers delighted 
the producers of beef. They fancied that it was about to 
lead them to an important discovery. They argued, not 
illogically — " If the remains of oil in this article of cake 
have such great feeding properties, how vast must they be 
before any oil has been expressed from it ! " 

Forty years ago we saw at Bretby, under the charge of 
Mr. Blackie, and at Swarkestone Lowes, then occupied by 
Mr. Smith, the earliest systematic stall-feeder in the 
midland counties, considerably extensive preparations for 
crushing, and steaming, and steeping linseed. Some other 
feeders went a step further, and said, " If oil adulterated 
with husks, &c., is so feeding, how much more feeding 
must oil unadulterated be ! " and they gave the oil neat. 
But all the parties soon relinquished such practice. The 
result did not bear out the a. priori reasoning. The beasts 
so fed never got very fat, and the fat they had was very 
loose and oleaginous. Experience soon showed that neither 
linseed nor oil could be used with advantage until they 
were let down by a very large admixture of chopped straw 
or of some other low-qualitied matter. On this experience 
the recently-renewed practice of feeding with linseed (of 
which Mr. Warnes is the apostle) is founded. We give 
the account of the preparation in his own words : — " One 
pailful of linseed-meal to eight of water." This makes a 



44 AGBICULTURE.- 

jelly. " A large tub being conveniently placed, a bushel of 
pea-straw or turnip-tops cut into chaff is put in ; two or 
three hand-cupsful of the jelly are poured in," stirred up, 
&c. " Another bushel of the turnip-tops, chaff, &c., is 
next added ; " and so on till the tub is full. And besides 
this, when Mr. Warnes begins to have a near view of the 
butcher, he adds " barley or pea-meal to the mixture." The 
prejudices against cake are now exploded. It has a fair 
hearing, and stands or falls on its merits. No doubt it is 
expensive food ; but it is so effective, so clean, so easily 
stored, and so much less liable to pilfering than any sort 
of meal, that we expect to see it stand its ground. 

When farmers have determined on the description of 
food, how are they to give it? — hot or cold? cooked or 
raw ? We have seen an argument as follows (we have not 
space to extract the passage, but we will state the argu- 
ment fairly) : — A certain sustained temperature of body is 
necessary to the health and growth of every animal. 
Liebig has shown that this animal heat is produced 
and sustained by combustion — oxygen inhaled into the 
lungs burns carbon which it finds in the blood — if it does 
not find carbon enough in the blood it seizes on the carbon 
which exists in the fat, and if there be no fat, then on the 
carbon in the muscle of the body. Food supplies the car- 
bon to the blood, and through the blood to the fat and 
muscle. If you introduce a quantity of cold food into the 
stomach of an animal you lower the temperature of its 
body. The first duty of the food so introduced will be to 
furnish as much carbon for combustion as will restore the 
normal heat, and the residue only can be applied to making 
fat and muscle. If you give warm food, the quantity re- 
quired for the above purpose will be smaller, and the resi- 
due applicable to fat and muscle will be larger. Therefore 
there is a waste of food in giving it cold. We detect no 
flaw in this reasoning : but a sort of instinct founded on 
long experience always prompts us to look out for practical 
qualifications of abstract reasoning. We were just pre- 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 46 

paring to say to the reasoner — "Before we can consent to 
found our practice on your argument, you must prove to us 
that burning the extra food in the body is not the cheapest 
way of restoring the heat destroyed. Charge yourself with 
the very considerable outlay requisite for warming the food 
— with the fuel — with the labour and waste : take into 
account that, when you have heated your food, it will cool 
very rapidly while it is before the beasts ; that it will cool 
very rapidly while it is being divided into portions ; that 
any which is left must be heated over again." We were 
just going to say, " When you have taken all this into the 
reckoning, tell us the result," when we stumbled on the 
following passage in an account of the Cattle Lodge at 
Howick : — *' The opinion of the feeder is, that the animals 
did not thrive so well on steamed straw as when it was 
given naturally. We believe that, with the exception of 
linseed— if, according to Mr. Warnes' experiment, that is 
an exception — it will not be found that the cooking food 
for cattle, even if it be beneficial, will repay the extra 
cost," &c. Remembering that Mr. Warnes has been the 
great advocate for warm and cooked food, we turned back 
to his experiment, and we find as follows : — Eight Scots 
shut up in October : four fed *' on the cold linseed muci- 
lage ; " "the other four have had boiled linseed." "His 
own opinion, and that of many other farmers who have 
seen the animals, is, that the four fed on raw linseed are 
superior to their competitors." Mr. Warnes says, "But 
admitting the fattening properties of both systems to be 
equal, the cold must possess the greater advantages — 1st, 
because firing is dispensed with," &c. And again, " So 
satisfied has Mr. Warnes become of the superiority of the 
cold linseed, that he means at once to adopt it in the feed- 
ing of the rest of his cattle." It is somewhat singular 
that we have made the whole of these extracts from the 
same publication in which we had previously found the 
Liebigian argument, which we have abstracted, put for- 
ward as conclusive. Year by year prizes have been offered 



46 AGRICULTURE. 

to agricultural machine makers for the hest apparatus for 
preparing warm and cooked food for cattle. Many feeders 
have within our knowledge gone to a great expense in put- 
ting up such an apparatus. Every one of them has, we 
believe, discontinued its oise. Nothing is so contemptible 
as to sneer at unsuccessful experimentalists. Truly our 
very best hopes for agriculture are founded on the entire 
explosion of the spirit which used to prevail at our farmers' 
market-tables in this respect. The reasonable experi- 
mentalist is now looked up to as a general benefactor. 
The patriotism of those who, having the means, make 
promising experiments, either in agriculture or in anything 
else, without a view to their own personal advantage, takes 
a very rational line. Every one knows and regrets that 
many discoveries, made by ingenious men in the spirited 
prosecution of commercial enterprise, though they have 
proved to be of great national advantage, have failed to 
realize a profit to the inventors, and have in some unfor- 
tunate cases resulted in their ruin. We are inclined to 
believe that the experiment of giving warm and cooked 
food to cattle has failed. 

We have already adverted to the very ambiguous sounds 
emitted by the oracles when consulted On the subject of 
the lodging of cattle. Our own experience, in a mode- 
rately-sheltered situation, is, that beasts do best in open 
sheds well flanked, but open to the S. or S. E. The 
Norfolk man is prodigal of his straw, and his beasts come 
out beautifully clean. The Midland and Western man is 
perforce more economical, and the same cleanliness is 
hardly to be attained. We know an instance in which 
cows lie habitually without litter, and are decently clean. 
Their hind legs stand on a strong flag (the produce of the 
district, probably of the farm), and behind them is a 
flagged trench fourteen inches wide and three deep. In 
twelve years no injury has occurred to the cattle from this 
trench. At regular intervals holes of an inch diameter 
are drilled through the flag in the bottom of the trench, 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. <iV 

and communicate with a drain. The more solid matters 
are removed with the least possible labour, by means of a 
shovel which exactly fits the trench. The fore parts of 
the animals lie on the natural ground. The feeding beasts 
are as prone to recumbency as in any well-littered stalls, 
and, except on the east coast, we have seldom seen a 
cleaner cow-house. The arrangement for bullocks is more 
complicated, involving the necessity of a drain covered by 
a bored flag or grating into the middle of each stall. We 
are bound to admit that the tails, to the great injury of 
their cleanliness, are apt to slip into the trench when the 
animals lie down. We wish we could suggest a remedy 
short of docking that ornamental member. On this farm 
the proportion of arable land is very small, and every 
straw is cut up for cattle-keep. The cow-house which we 
have described is a great favourite of ours, because it solves 
a difficulty which very much perplexes every improving 
Midland and Western farmer, namely, scarcity of litter. 
We are inclined to think that the sphere within which this 
difficulty is felt is extending; the tendency of modern 
agriculture being to longer courses, and to a less frequent 
recurrence of straw-giving crops. The real vocation of 
straw on farms having a large proportion of grass-land, if 
not on all others, is to give bulk to more nutritive articles 
of cattle-keep. When it is cut up and properly sugared, 
cattle will eat it to the stumps. Box-feeding is a recent 
practice, and highly commended. It must involve a liberal 
use of straw or other litter. The idea that the animal 
should be confined for months in a loose box, from which 
nothing is removed, is not very comfortable; but the prac- 
tice is connected with the consideration of the injury which 
manure may suffer by exposure to the weather. We know 
one spirited experimentalist who has gone to a very mate- 
rial expense in roofing, in order that he may have the 
whole of his manure under cover until it is laid on the 
land. This is a strange innovation on the practice which 
prescribed repeated heapings and turnings before the 



48 AGRICULTURE. 

manure was brought into use. Some years ago we read in 
an agricultural journal, that to mix up a large quantity of 
snow with a heap of manure was highly beneficial, and 
philosophical reasons, which we have forgotten, were given 
for the practice. Should the doctrine of a dry lair now 
prevail, the liquid-manure tanks will be deprived of their 
principal source of supply. 

Till very lately flesh-meat in general, and beef in parti- 
cular, had its seasons of plenty and low price, succeeded 
by scarcity and high price, just as regularly as summer 
and autumn are succeeded by winter and spring. The 
extremes were from August to December, when naturally- 
fed beasts poured into the market, and from February to 
June, when those which were fed artificially came in by 
driblets. Those who have watched the markets for the few 
last years will have observed, first a tendency to equaliza- 
tion, and then to a complete turning of the tables, which 
has been fully developed in the season now in progress. 
The first-named period gave, in the year 1848, to Smith- 
field, for the Monday's market, from 2000 or 2500 bullocks, 
with a price for the first quality from 3s. 10^. to 4s. 4(/. 
per stone. The second period, now in progress in 1849, 
is giving from 3200 to 3600 bullocks, with a price for the 
first quality from 3s. Ad. to 3s. Sd. Nor do these figures 
represent the full difference of the supply of meat, because 
there can be no doubt that a larger amount of dead meat 
comes in by railway in the cold months than in the warm. 
This is a great revolution, which we have no doubt will be 
in some degree counteracted by an increased prevalence of 
artificial feeding in summer, either as auxiliary to grass- 
feeding, or as independent of it. 

We have now brought to a close the principal remarks 
which have occurred to us as bearing on that vocation of 
the occupier of land, in pursuance of which he furnishes a 
supply of animal food to his country. We take leave of 
our cattle-loving friends, and we hope they will not think 
us less friendly to them because we have omitted any pro- 



CATTLE AND SHEEP. 49 

minent mention of the distressing position in which we 
and they are placed by the unprecedentedly low price of 
this article of agricultural produce. Whatever measures 
they may consider it incumbent on them to take with refer- 
ence to protection or to taxation, general or local, we think 
it must be wise to keep these matters quite distinct from 
the question of the most efficient practice. We cannot 
look around us and doubt that, in order to maintain our 
position, to the most efficient practice we must resort; 
and if our remarks can assist any struggling farmer in 
discovering and adopting it, we shall have attained our 
object. 

We had hoped to have included in this article some re- 
marks on draining, a subject so intimately connected with 
artificial feeding that it may almost be called its founda- 
tion. But time and space forbid. A few memoranda 
which we had made must be returned to our desk, perhaps 
to be re-produced on some future occasion. 



AGRICULTURAL DRAINAGE. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Preface to Second Edition . . ' . . . .63 

Results of personal observation of Drainage during four years . 54 
Lord Wharncliffe's system of Drainage confuted by Josiah Parkes 55 
Introduction to Original Article in Quarterly Review . . 57 

Ancient authorities on Drainage, British and Foreign . 67-72 

Eoman Writers on Draining . . . . . .73 

Earliest notice of English Draining . . . . .78 

Andrew Yarranton ....... 74 

Captain Walter Blith ....... 75 

Sluggish Rivers and Water-Mills ; injury done by them . . 78 

Joseph Elkington, Drainage of Springs . . . 81-85 

Under-drainage, definitions and terms . . . .85 

Smith of Deanston ...... 85-88 

Josiah Parkes, C.E., his Works on Drainage . . .88 

Cause of coldness of Retentive Soils . . . .90 

Their temperature raised by Draining . . . .91 

Four feet, where attainable, prescribed as a minimum depth for 

Drains — Reasons ..... 95-97 

Effect of depth and direction of Drains . . . . 97-99 

Mode in which Water of Drainage enters Drains . . 99-101 

Materials of Conduit, Sticks, Straw, Clods, and Mole-plough ' . 101 
Horse-shoe Tiles form a bad Conduit .... 102 

Introduction of Cylindric Pipes for Land-Drainage . . 104 

Pipes and Collars, and Pipe and Collar-making Machines . . 105 

Cost of Drains per yard — Form and Tools .... 105 
Obstruction of Drains by Roots, note . . • . 105-107 

Resistance from friction to Water entering Drains, how overcome, 

and quantity of Water which a Conduit of 1-inch pipes can 

discharge ....... 105-109 

Danger of interruption to a Conduit of Pipes uncollared . .109 

Controversy on deep and shallow Draining . . .110 

Operation of deep Drains in the most retentive Soils, the stiffest 

Clays ........ 112 

Reasons for presuming that deeper Drains than four feet now in 

use are not generally required ..... 114 

D 2 



52 



CONTENTS. 



Deep-drained Lands are capable of absorbing more Rain without 

superficial discharge than shallow-drained Lands . .115 

Authorities in favour of deep Draining — Sir Kobert Peel, Earl of 

Lonsdale, Dukes of Northumberland and Bedford . 115-118 

Warming and Ventilating retentive Soils rank among the most 

important effects of Land Drainage . . . .119 

Amateur Draining, Draining Engineers and their Services 121-123 

Average cost per acre of 4-feet Drainage . . . . 123 

Postscript : — 
Observations on the action and effect of deep Drains executed in 

the years 1846 to 1850 ..... 123-125 

Device for examining the Working of Drains, and importance of 

retaining a Plan of the Drainage of every Field . . 126 

Plates illustrative of Drained Land .... 127, 128 
Plate of Draining Tools . . . . . .129 



PEEFACE TO SECOND EDITION. 



Probably many of the persons who will see this Preface, 
are aware that I contributed to the " Quarterly Keview " an 
article on Agricultural Drainage, which appeared in its 171st 
Number, and which, in the year 1850, was reprinted by 
Mr. Murray in a separate form. Mr. Murray has now re- 
quested that I will revise this reprint for a second edition. 
It would be troublesome to divest the thing of its reviewing 
form ; but as it has become a treatise, I think that I may 
drop with advantage the critical spirit. I have, therefore, 
struck out several passages having reference to controversial 
writings, which it is no longer necessary to keep before the 
public; I have woven into the treatise a few matters which 
further experience and observation have brought to my 
notice ; but the main principles and arguments remain as 
they were. I have increased confidence in them. Since 
the article was first written, I have continued to employ in 
draining from 15 to 20 men both winter and summer. A 
drain made in summer is, in the article of excavation, ge- 
nerally somewhat more costly than the same work executed 
in winter ; but it is less liable to injury from slips, or to 
interruption from bad weather. The carting of materials is 
also less troublesome in summer, and the work is generally 
executed in a cleaner and more perfect manner. I am 
partial to summer draining when it can be done without 
unreasonable interference with crops. Several of my neigh- 
bours carry on drainage perseveringly on the system which 
I have endeavoured to explain ; and I believe that, without 



54 PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION. 

aa exception, they coincide with me in opinion as to its 
beneficial effects. I have had the opportunity of watching 
for more than three years the operation of 4-feet drains 
9 yards apart on 40 acres of the stiffest clay which I ever 
saw in any county, absolute clay to the surface without any 
covering of soil. This draining was not executed by me, 
nor does the land belong to me. I could wish any agri- 
culturist, who doubts the efficacy of deep drains in clay 
soils to see this land, and to converse with its present 
owner ; who, some years ago, before it was drained, aban- 
doned its cultivation in despair. J doubt whether any water 
has either remained on or ran off its surface since it was 
drained. It forms part of the disafforested forest of Need- 
wood, and is in the parish of Tatenhill, county of Stafford. 
I have seen it stated in an agricultural publication, that 
deep drainers have been compelled to diminish the inter- 
vals between their drains with which they originally com- 
menced. This has not been the case with me, nor with 
any other deep drainer with whom I am acquainted. I 
began with 9-yard intervals, and now use 12 on similar 
land, and am satisfied with the result. I put my draining 
to a severe test. I invariably abolish the ditches in the 
fields which I have drained, and never admit a grip, or 
water furrow. For autumn-sown crops, wheat, vetches, or 
beans, I always give the last furrow across the slope of the 
land. In short, I throw every possible impediment in the 
way of the superficial discharge of water. I believe that, 
with the exception of one or two hours during the deluge 
which burst the Holm firth Reservoir, and which was 
general over the Midland Counties, no water has run from 
the surface of my drained lands for the last three years, 
and none stands on them an hour after rain has ceased. I 
think that these facts are sufficient proof of the efficiency 
of the draining. Lord Wharncliffe has proposed a herring- 
bone system of draining, consisting of a somewhat deep 
main drain running in the line of steepest descent, into 
which discharge a series of parallel shallow drains, djjawn 



PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION. 65 

across the slope of the land. His Lordship gives a general 
adhesion to the doctrine, that steepest descent is the true 
line of drainage. I do not therefore see why his shallow 
drains are not placed in that direction. Nor does his 
Lordship profess any confidence in the shallow system; 
but recommends it on the score of economy. I think that 
Mr. Parkes, in a small publication entitled *' Fallacies, &c.," 
has shown that his Lordship's system, taken as a whole, is 
not entitled to that recommendation. Were I to adopt his 
Lordship's system, I must abandon, 1st, the principle of 
depth, and 2nd, the principle of direction ; and if I aban- 
doned those two principles, I had much better put this 
treatise into the fire than send it to Mr. Murray for re- 
publication. 

I trust that my readers will have the kindness to impute 
the egotism which pervades this Preface to a sincere con- 
viction on my part that I have derived more advantage 
from the statements which practical men have kindly given 
to the public, of the results of their own operations, than 
from any other sort of agricultural reading. 

T. GiSBORNE. 

Yoxall Lodge, April 10, 1852. 



AGRICULTURAL DRAINAGE.* 



Pindar bequeathed to us the maxim " "ApurTov ^ev i;^&)^," 
to which the Portuguese have added the equally pithy pro- 
verb, "Water is wealth." The present state, the early 
history, and the ancient remains of eastern and southern 
countries concur in informing us, that the first and most 
successful efforts of agriculture were directed to an artifi- 
cial supply of water to the various objects of cultivation. 
The special promise made to the Israelites was, " The 
land, whither thou goest in to possess it, is not as the land 
of Egypt, where thou sowedst thy seed, and wateredst it 
with thy foot, as a garden of herbs : but the land whither 
thou goest is a land of hills and valleys, and drinketh 
water of the rain of heaven." And so our northern and 
sea-girt isle drinketh the rain of heaven to repletion ; 
•' immensum ccelo ruit agmen aquarum" We do not span 
our valleys with aqueducts, and rib the sides of our hills 
with superficial courses, to convey adventitious water to 
our agriculture. On the contrary, we invoke ingenuity to 
devise, and science and labour to execute, subterranean 

* 1. " Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society." Vol. IX., Art. XL, 
" On the Failure of Deep Draining," &c. By Wra. Bullock Webster. 
London, 1848. 

2. " Mechi's Experience in Drainage," &c. Third Edition. London 
1848. 

3. " Essays on the Philosophy and Art of Land Drainage." By Josiah 
Parkes, C.E. London, 1848. Longman and Co. 

d3 



58 AGRICULTURE. 

conduits to relieve our cultivated lands from the excess of 
water which they receive from the skies. When the agri- 
cultural interest congregates for the purpose of mutual 
condolence or congratulation, their pattern men never fail 
to declare that draining is the foundation of agricultural 
improvement — and that if there be salvation for them, it 
is to be found in draining. Every here and there a booby 
exists who says, *' How can you expect grass to grow if 
you take the water away from it? How in a dry summer?" 
But he is overwhelmed at once by the rush of the agri- 
cultural mind in an opposite direction. Through the 
length and breadth of the laud a crusade has been 
preached against water. Pipes and collars are the devices 
of this national movement. This is " the piping time of 
peace." We have put our necks into the collar, have 
taken suit and service, and have sworn allegiance to this 
cause. We find ourselves associated with a very motley 
crew, who are brought together indeed by some unity of 
object, which they not only seek to attain by various and 
incongruous means, but carry on a fierce internal contro- 
versy, in which every disputant accuses the plan of his 
opponent of failure, and boasts largely of his own success. 
We will endeavour to impart to our readers the conclusions 
on which, after some experience, a close observation of the 
works of those who claim to be authorities in this matter, 
and a painful and ill-requited attention to the literary and 
oratorical war which is raging around us, we have deter- 
mined to base our own practice. 

But before we take a prospective view of our craft, we 
must glance at its early history, and at the various steps 
and stages by which it has arrived at its present position. 
Though the ancients for the most part courted water as an 
ally to their agriculture, they did not hesitate in many 
cases to encounter it with great energy and perseverance 
as its enemy. They were not slow to perceive the extra- 
ordinary vegetative capacity of those amphibious lands 
which are deposited by large rivers within the debateable 



DRAINAGE. 59 

margin of two elements, of which their agricultural poet 
says, 

" Hue summis liquuntur rupibus amnes 
Felicemque trahunt limum." 

Any person disposed to acquire, at a small expense of 
time and trouble, a general knowledge of the war which 
men of old carried on with the marsh and the fen, may 
consult the first two-and- thirty columns of the great work 
entitled, "The History of Embanking and Drayning of 
divers Fens and Marshes, both in Foreign Parts and in 
this Kingdom ; extracted from Records, Manuscripts, and 
other authentic Testimonies by William Dugdale, Esq., 
Norroy King of Arms." This indefatigable man, though 
a very voluminous writer, scorns any superfluous exordium, 
and commences his book and the history of antediluvian 
draining by the following sentence : — " That works of 
draining are most ancient and of divine institution we 
have the testimony of Holy Scripture." After a passing 
notice of the draining of the earth on the subsidence of 
the Deluge, he proceeds to say, " That those nations 
which be of greatest antiquity, and of chief renown for 
arts and civility, are also famous for their works of this 
nature, is evident from the practice of the Egyptians, the 
Babylonians, the Graecians, the Romans, and several others 
of which I shall give instance." In pursuance of this 
purpose our author furnishes us with a detail of various 
•works of draining, embankments, and outfalls commenced 
in Egypt shortly after the Flood, and carried on to the 
Christian era. Among the illustrious promoters of the 
art he names Mysis, Sesostris, Sabacon, Psammeticus, 
Necos, Psamrais, Bocchoris, Darius, Amasis, Alexander, 
the Ptolemies, Cleopatra, and Augustus Caesar. He takes 
a somewhat discursive view of a navigable channel from 
the Nile to the Red Sea, which was commenced by Sesos- 
tris before the Trojan war, and, after several futile 
attempts by succeeding princes, was completed by a 
Ptolemy. The various routes by which the traffic of 



00 AGRICULTURE. 

Europe passed to the Indies do not escape his observation ; 
and he settles the track of Solomon's voyage from Eloth 
to Ophir. For this varied information he cites, among his 
authorities, the sacred books of Exodus, Kings, and 
Chronicles, and appeals to the secular testimony of Hero- 
dotus, Theocritus, Strabo, Diodorus Siculus, Josephus, 
and Eusebius. Having thus happily dispatched Egypt, 
our author proceeds to Babylon. We learn, on the au- 
thority of Herodotus, Pliny, and Strabo, that the drainages 
of Belus and Gobaris were effected by improved outfalls, 
whereas their female successors in the art, Semiramis and 
Nitocris, worked by embankments. Nor are we left igno- 
rant that it was Sir Walter Raleigh's opinion that the 
reason why " there is so little written of Belus, who 
succeeded Nimrod as the first Assyrian monarch, is that he 
spent much of his time in disburthening the low lands of 
Babylon, and drying and making firm grounds of all those 
great fens aiid overflown marshes which adjoined to it." 
Passing into Greece, our author, who never rashly rejects 
the miracles of a heathen god or of a popish saint, holds 
an even hand between Thessalian tradition, which imputes 
the draining of the lake Baebeis to Neptune, and the 
opinion of Herodotus, which inclines to an earthquake ; 
*• but," says he, " no man can deny it to be a very remark- 
able work of draining, or that it is now a place of extra- 
ordinary pleasantness." Unless our schoolboy recollections 
deceive us, either some '* Musa Etonensis" or old Latin 
poet says, — 

" Ut ferus Alcides Acheloia cornua rupit, 
Dum petit amplexus, Deianeii'a, tuos." 

We now learn, with reference we suppose to this story^ 
that Achelois roared as a river, and not as a bull, and that 
the mythical horn broken off by Hercules was one of the 
river's devious courses ; for " they which collect truth out 
of fables say that Hercules, who was generally beneficial, 
for CEneus his father-in-law's sake restrained the exorbi- 



DRAINAGE. 61 

tant overflowings of the river with banks and trenches, and 
drained a great part of the adjacent country ; and that this 
was the cornucopia which the poets made to be the emblem 
of plenty." We will not drag our readers through the 
Pompeian Marshes, the Fossa Mariana, or the Fucine 
Lake. Suffice it to say, that the alternate reclamations 
and re-floodings of these and other Italian swamps are 
faithfully recorded, from the consulate of L. A. Gallus and 
M. C. Cethegus unto the reign of Theodoricus. For all 
this we have the usual medley of authorities, commencing 
with Livy, Pliny, and minor Latin annalists, and ending 
with the Odyssey, the Iter ad Brundusium, and some 
inscriptions from a temple at Terracina. We are reminded, 
moreover, that a Roman consul, who had reduced his pro- 
vinces to a state of tranquillity, was ordered by the senate, 
*' ne in otio militem haherent,'' to employ his legions in 
winning lands from the sea on the coast of Latium; 
" neither is the employment thought too mean for the 
legions, though consisting of freemen :" a very natural re- 
flection for Norroy King of Arms, being himself a practical 
drainer, and which he specially commends to the notice of 
the authorities at the Horse Guards. 

For the drainages in the Belgic region our author claims 
no higher antiquity than a.d. 863. He assures us, on the 
authority of Kilianus, "the learned Euredius," Sermundus, 
and the edicts of the Pistensian synod, that, in 863, Bald- 
win the First, son-in-law of the Emperor Charles the 
Bald, commenced the works about Bruges. These works 
appear to have endured till the year 1 1 69, when — a breach 
having occurred, " the which the Flemings could by no 
means fill up, neither with wood, nor any other matter, 
for that all sunk as in a gulf without any bottom " — by 
agreement between Floris, earl of Holland, and Philip, 
earl of Flanders, a thousand men, expert in making of 
dykes, were sent to stop the breach : " who being come to 
the place, they found a great hole near unto this dam, and 
at the entrance thereof a sea-dog, that, for six da^'s toge- 



62 AGRICULTURE. 

ther, did nothing but cry and howl very terribly. They, 
not knowing what it might signify, resolved to cast this 
dog into that hole ; whereupon a mad-headed Hollander, 
getting into the bottom of the dyke, took the dog by the 
tail, and cast him into the midst of the gulf, with earth 
and turf after him ; so as, finding a bottom, they filled it 
up by little and little." Hence the name Hondtsdam, 
and the dog in the armorial bearings of the town of 
Dam. 

'• I now descend to Holland and Zealand," whence he 
proceeds to Friesland, Holstein, and Mexico. But we 
spare our readers even an enumeration of the authors, 
commencing with " P. Bertius de Aggeribus," and ending 
with " Pierius Winsemius de rebus Frisicis " and " the 
learned Schoneveldeus," who are cited by this man of sin- 
gular research in support of scraps of history, quasi-geo- 
logical deductions, moral reflections, and queer anecdotes. 
At length we are fairly landed on the sea-board of Kent, 
and find the history of English embanking and draining 
given, after our author's peculiar fashion, in 832 folio 
columns. We have waded through them; and hardly 
know whether to exhibit this feat to our readers as an 
example or as a warning. We will endeavour to impart 
to such of them as have not trod the path before us, a 
general idea of the ore and of the dross which this mine 
contains ; leaving to their own taste the decision whether 
they will work it further. But we must premise that even 
those who are acquainted with the *' Monasticon " cannot 
read this work without marvelling at the extraordinary 
industry of the man, and at the strange objects to which 
it was applied. He devours public records and other 
documents, which represented Blue Books in his day, with 
all the voracity, and digests them with more than the 
accuracy, of our Joseph Hume. He revels in dates, mea- 
surements, and prices. He affects no originality, and 
indulges in little disquisition. He ransacks all literature, 
the most standard and the most obscure, for anything 



DRAINAGE. 63 

which, by a liberal construction, can be considered analo- 
gous to his subject. From an epic poem to a catalogue, 
nothing comes amiss to him. The result is, that the work 
of which we speak has no more to do with the philosophy 
of embanking than of billiards, nor more with the art of 
draining than of music. To be sure, in the former case, 
the words which recur from time to time are marsh-banks, 
fen-dikes, weirs, and dams, not cushions, cannons, and 
hazards ; and in the latter, sluices, gates, spouts, and 
clows, not flats, sharps, and semitones. But, beyond a 
familiarity with these terms, a student of Dugdale will 
learn nothing either of the philosophy or of the art. Three 
thousand five hundred names of persons, and nearly five 
thousand names of places, are the staple of the work. It 
may interest some of our readers to know that Thomsons, 
Dicksons, and Jacksons had not yet appeared on the scene ; 
whereas Sweteblodes, Thunders, and Forshames have per- 
haps now departed from it. The name of every person 
who sat on a commission of sewers from the time of the 
third Henry to that of the second James is recorded, as 
well as the name of every plaintiff and defendant in a 
marsh-land suit, and of every place immediately or re- 
motely connected with these litigations. When A. sues B. 
for having failed to repair a dyke or scour a sluice, the 
plea, the answer, the replication, the rejoinder, the evi- 
dence, the adjournments, the rehearings, and the verdict, 
are given with the utmost minuteness. Probably a dili- 
gent student might extract from this work a digest of 
marsh-land law, and show how, from time to time, it was 
advanced and settled. Then we have a record of every 
session of sewers and assembly of jurats through twenty -one 
reigns, and a full account, or more frequently a copy, of each 
of the'\r propi'io motus and presentments. These sometimes 
produce curious matter, as in the following instance : — 

" In 6 Edward II. the jury for the hundred of Cornylo 
exhibited a presentment unto Hervic de Stantone and his 
fellow-justices itinerants, imparting that the Prior of 



64 AGRICULTURE. 

Christchurch in Canterbury did, about ten years then past, 
divert the course of a certain water, called Gestling, in 
which such felons as were condemned to death within the 
said hundred ought to suffer judgment by drowning ; so 
that by this turning of that stream, those condemned per- 
sons could not there be drowned as formerly ; and that 

this was to the prejudice of the King The Sheriff, 

therefore, had command that he should cause the said 
gutter to be put into the same condition as it was before ; 
and the said Prior was amerced." 

A fair sample of these documents, which run through 
hundreds of columns, we take at random from a present- 
ment of the jurors at a session of Sewers in 13 Eliza- 
beth : — 

"15. That Mil-lane, from Tholomer's drove, and reach- 
ing from the crest in Mampasse to the pipe in the drove, 
be made in height 4 feet, and in breadth 8 feet, by the 
Dean of Ely and Lord Berkley. 

'• 16. That the lands between Sorrell Dyke and Belly- 
mill Dyke do make Sorrell Dyke and Belly-mill Dyke in 
height 6 feet and breadth 8 feet." 

This presentment, of which we have copied the 15 th and 
16th articles as being among the shortest, runs on to No. 
120. Somewhat more interesting is a detailed account of 
the early efiforts of Francis and William, Earls of Bedford, 
to improve the great level, for which they and their parti- 
cipants received 95,000 acres of land.* 

Being in the neighbourhood of Thorney, we will here 
allude to a singular statement with reference to that lord- 
ship which we find in a tract printed in 1629, and entitled 
"The Drayner Confirmed, and the Obstinate Fenman 
Confuted :"— 



* A work, in two thick quarto volumes, published in 1830, by Mr- 
Wells, registrar of the Bedford Level Corporation, gives a full account, 
historical, legal, practical, and statistical, of the drainage of the Gi-eat 
Level of the Fens. The account is as minute as Dugdale's, with less 
entertaining gossip, but no doubt possesses great local interest. 



DRAINAGE. 65 

*' At Thorney Abbey my Lord of Bedford lets between 
three and four hundred acres of rising ground upon which 
the abbey stands, for 300Z. per annum, whereas the rest of 
his lordship of Thorney, containing sixteen or seventeen 
thousand acres of drownd ground, is esteemed and now 
lyeth of little or no value. Yet it appeareth by the his- 
toric of "William of Malmesbury (vouched by Mr. Camden), 
who lived about twelve hundred years since,* that in his 
time it represented a very paradice : for that in pleasure 
and delight it resembleth heaven itself; in the verie 
marishes bearing trees that for their straight tallnesse, and 
the same without knotts, strive to touch the starres. A 
plaine there is as even as the sea, which with greene grass 
allureth the eye ; so smooth and level that, if any walke 
along the fields, they shall find nothing to stumble at. 
There is not the least parcel of ground that lyes waste and 
void there. Here you shall find the earth rising for apple 
trees, there you shall have a field set with vines, which 
either creep upon the ground or mount on high upon poles 
to support them, for in those days vineyards were very 
frequent in England." 

Perhaps the Fenland vineyards are as figurative as 
other portions of this description, but there is no reason 
to doubt that the latter end of many portions of the Fens 
was worse than the first. In accordance with the above 
recital are the facts largely stated by Dugdale, and con- 
firmed by subsequent observations, of submerged forests of 
the finest trees, whose roots are fixed in solid earth many 
feet below the present drowned surface of the fen, with 
other evidences of pristine fertility. On the other hand, 
*' large rudders done over with pitch, as also anchors, 
barge nails, and other naval instruments," found many feet 
below the now solid ground at Eye in Suffolk, give evi- 
dence that that place was, as its name imports, formerly 

* That would be about A.d. 420. No doubt the meaning is, in the 
twelfth century. William of Malmesbury is supposed to have been 
born about 1050. 



66 AGRICULTURE. 

an island. Such metamorphoses are appropriately noticed 
by Ovid in a passage beginning — 

" Vidi ego quod fuerat quondam solidissima tellus 
Esse fretum, vidi factas ex asquore terras"— 

and they are largely spoken of by A mm. Marcellinus and 
other ancient writers. Dugdale and his predecessors im- 
pute these changes to earthquakes, between which opinion 
and the modern theory of alternate subsidence and eleva- 
tion, we must leave the Dean of York to decide. 

The legal details in Dugdale 's work are infinitely tedious. 
Still they present several points worthy of observation, 
and give evidence of an equal administration of justice in 
very early times of our history. We find, almost invari- 
ably, a performance of its public duties enforced on pro- 
perty, and local jobbing repressed with a firm hand. Our 
author, rejecting the Britons as barbarous, and the Saxons 
as illiterate, fixes on the Romans as the first who reco- 
vered lands by banking out the sea in England, fortifying 
himself by a fanciful interpretation of a passage in " the 
famous Tacitus, an author of that time." On the autho- 
rity of monastic records he declares a marsh-land common 
law, administered by twenty-four elective jurats, to have 
been in existence a.d. 796, and to have been then desig- 
nated in " unquestionable documents," as " antiqiias et 
approhatas consuetudines." The most important power of 
the jurats was that of levying a rate, and distraining for 
non-payment, for which distress, in case of imminent 
common danger, there was no replevy, " quia necessitas 
dej'ensionis talis inopinata, si venerit, legi communi vel 
justiticB suhesse non poterit." But in 35th Hen. III., the 
sheriff of Kent, on a threatened irruption of the sea into 
Romney Marsh, replevied the distresses. The king in- 
stantly issued his writ and letters patent restraining the 
sheriff, and, in consequence of " the controversies risen 
between the jurats and the marshraen," he sent down 
" Henry de Batho, a famous justice itinerant of that time, 
to hear and determine them." 



DRAINAGE. 67 

He framed on this occasion ordinances which settled the 
•' laws and customs of Romney Marsh," and are frequently 
referred to in royal commissions and Acts of Parliament as 
" The famous ordinances of Henry de Batho." " They 
have been long ago made the rule and standard whereunto 
all the other marshes and fens in this nation were to con- 
form." Romney Marsh is the subject of the first chapter 
on English affairs. We recommend it as a fair sample of 
our author's matter and manner. It will be interesting to 
most readers, though probably the majority will not wish 
to pursue the subject further. 

The monastic orders were large landowners in all the 
English fens, from which circumstance our author is led to 
favour us with a considerable amount of legendary lore. 
We are informed that " Ethelreda, called vulgarly Audrey," 
and subsequently St. Audrey, performed numerous mira- 
cles, and founded a religious house of nuns in Ely, of 
which she became abbess. To us, among the most mar- 
vellous of her miracles are, that, having been married to 
" Tombert, a prince of the Southern Gyrvii or fenmen, at 
his death she retired into the Isle of Ely, a pure virgin, 
notwithstanding she was his wife almost three years : " 
" that about five years from the beginning of such her re- 
tirement, Egfrid, king of Northumberland, being highly 
inflamed with her beauty, obtained her for his wife ; " and, 
finally, that " after she had been wedded about twelve 
years, she, without any free leave of her said husband, as 
a queen and a virgin repaired to the monastery in Cold- 
ingham in Scotland." It is perhaps less surprising that, 
when at the close of one year King Egfrid desired to have 
her domestic society again, she, by a series of miracles 
very analogous to those performed by Moses in the wilder- 
ness, resisted all his attempts to recover her. In like 
manner " St. Guthlach, a devout hermit," founded the 
abbey of Crowland, where, before " that devout servant of 
Christ, no countryman could endure to dwell by reason of 
apparitions of devils which were frequently seen there ; " 



68 AGRICULTUEE. 

and that these apparitions were formidable we are assured 
by a description of them as they appeared to Guthlach in 
his cell — •' black troops of unclean spirits which crept in 
under the door, as also at chinks and holes, and coming in 
both out of the sky and from the earth, filled the air, as it 
were, with dark clouds. In their looks they were cruel, 
and of form terrible, having great heads, long necks, lean 
faces, pale countenances, grisly beards, rough ears, wrinkled 
foreheads, fierce eyes, foul mouths, teeth like horses', spit- 
ting fire out of their throats, crooked jaws, broad lips, loud 
voices, burnt hair, great cheeks, high breasts, rugged 
thighs, bunched knees, bended legs, swollen ankles, pre- 
posterous feet, open mouths, and hoarse cries," — a parti- 
cularity of description which might suffice for a Russian 
passport, or for the Hue and Cry. 

We are next favoured with the authentic anecdote and 
original rhymes about King Cnut and the sweet singing of 
the "Monckes in Ely." Then, many columns are occu- 
pied by the assault of William the Conqueror on the Isle 
of Ely — his futile attempts to carry the position by means 
of a witch — the prodigious feats of Hereward the Saxon — 
and the final conquest, after a seven years' siege, in conse- 
quence of the treachery of an abbot. The narrative of the 
Fenland insurrection in the time of the Commonwealth, 
which was headed by the notorious Lieutenant-Colonel 
John Lilburne, " a person," says Dugdale, " of a most 
turbulent spirit, and who since died a quaker," though 
abundantly garrulous, is somewhat more in the tone of 
sober history. Cornelius Vermuden, a native of the Low 
Countries, contracted with Charles I. to recover a large 
extent of drowned fen, over which certain royal rights ex- 
tended, on conditions by which all existing rights appear 
to have been fairly compensated. Under this contract 
Vermuden and his participants recovered 74,000 acres of 
previously worthless fen so effectually, that the average 
crops of wheat on it were three and a half quarters -per 
acre, oats eight quarters, " and for six years together seven 



DRAINAGE. 6d 

quarters of oats on one acre." Vermuden and Co. received 
their stipulated remuneration in the shape of 24,500 acres 
of the reclaimed land. On this they built a town called 
Sandtoft, erected a church, and introduced as settlers 200 
families of Walloon and French refugee Protestants. For 
eighteen years they held quiet possession. According to 
Dugdale's representation, Lilburne gathered round him 
three classes of malcontents : 1st, those patriots to whom 
a royal grant under the great seal was an unjustifiable 
exercise of prerogative ; 2ndly, the jealous John Bull, to 
whom the vicinity of a foreigner and a Frenchman was an 
offence ; and 3rdly, the unreclaimed man,* who even in 
civilized societies, lingers on the margin of the waste and 
of the fen. These parties, " taking advantage of the 
present distractions," broke down the sea-banks, let the 
water in on the houses, crops, and cattle, and destroyed 
works which had cost 200,000L in the erection. They 
seized by force the property, which they did not destroy, 
and Lilburne appropriated to himself the parsonage house 
at Sandtoft (using the church as a barn) and several thou- 

♦ All writers on marsh-land affairs afford abundant evidence of the 
existence and of the turbulence of this class. In James I.'s time they 
adopted a new mode of warfare, " by bringing of turbulent suits in law, 
and making of libellous songs to disparage the work," of which kind I 
have here thought fit to insert one, called " The Powtes Complaint," — a 
dozen stanzas, of which probably a couple will suffice for our readers : — 
" They '11 sow both beans and oats where never man yet thought it, 
Where men did row in boats, ere undertakers bought it : 
For they do mean all fens to drain, and waters overmaster. 
All will be dry, and we must die, 'cause Essex calves want pasture. 

" "Wherefore let us entreat our ancient water nurses 
To shew their power so great, as t' help to drain their purses ; 
And send us good old Captain Flood to lead us out to battle, 
Then two-penny Jack, with scales on 's back, will drive out all their 
cattle." 
We knew a clergyman of the old school who complained vehemently 
when a marsh was drained in the vicinity of his parsonage. He said it 
had been worth several pounds a year to him in pike and wild ducks. 
Our reverend friend was a most expert snarer of woodcocks. A neigh- 
bouring squire gave him a quarter of beef every Christmas on condition 
that he should not set springes on his estate. 



70 AGRICULTURE. 

sand acres of land. When the injured parties attempted 
to obtain redress by law, Lilburne, by his influence with 
the Parliament, the army, and the magistrates, parried 
their efforts for eleven years ; and though they at length 
got a decree of the Council of State in their favour, the 
nature of the case rendered it impossible that they should 
receive any adequate redress. 

Here we must close our notice of this singular work : a 
laborious structure framed on a model which is assuredly 
little suited to the habits of modern writers, and as little 
to the fastidious tastes of modern readers. Yet it was 
highly esteemed by our ancestors. It has been several 
times reprinted, and we learn from the preface to an edi- 
tion which was published in 1772, that ten guineas was 
the sum " at which this work when it can be met with on 
sale, which rarely happens, is sold." It still holds a place 
in our libraries, and the copies which come into the market 
are freely bought at the price of some guineas. In the 
edition of 1772 the spelling has been modernized, and the 
black letter, in which names of persons and places was 
originally printed, discontinued. 

If Dugdale had not detained us so long we would will- 
ingly have given our readers an abstract of the Tract 
entitled "The Drayner Confirmed." It was printed in 
the year 1629, and again in London, 1647. It is anony- 
mous, and from certain similarity of style and expression, 
we should, but for its practical tendency, be inclined to 
attribute it to Sir Wm. Dugdale. It contains some curious 
Fenland history, and enumerates eight Acts of Parliament, 
between the 9th Hen. III. and I2th Edw. IV., all passed 
with a view to the improvement of the fens. But thB 
main object of the writer is to incite his own countrymen 
to a general measure for the drainage of the fens in Lin- 
colnshire and five adjoining counties. He undertakes to 
show : 1st, that it would be honourable to the King and 
profitable to the Commonwealth ; 2ndly, that it is feasible; 
and 3rdly, how a competent reward may be apportioned for 



DBAINAGE. 71 

them that should undertake so great a work. He adverts 
to the fact that some " overthwart neighbours " (the Hol- 
landers, to wit) had proposed to drain our fens on condition 
of receiving one-third part of the land recovered. Against 
this project the author argues with stubborn patriotism, 
and shows the absurdity of our allowing foreigners to 
*' empty themselves " into our marshes, while we are send- 
ing our own countrymen into Ireland, Bermuda, &c. Still 
he is not wholly destitute of cosmopolitan feelings, as 
evinced by the declaration, " neither yet would I be under- 
stood to be so envious to strangers, as that I had rather 
the water than they should possesse the land." The whole 
treatise is quaint, clever, and entertaining. We have en- 
deavoured in vain to obtain a printed copy. That which we 
have (by the favour of a friend) is in manuscript. 

In addition to the two volumes by Mr. Wells to which 
we have referred, we possess much valuable literature on 
the subject of Fenland drainage in voluminous reports to 
Parliament, in the works of Rennie and Telford, and in 
the " Transactions of the Institution of Civil Engineers." 
We cannot at the moment refer to any printed evidence of 
Mr. Tycho Wing's services to the cause, but we know that 
no man has laboured more assiduously to diffuse useful 
knowledge among Fenmen, and to incite them to scientific 
practice. Many publications, both ancient and modern, 
have reference to the state of Holland, Zealand, Sleswick, 
and Holstein, and to the creation of territory in those ex- 
traordinary countries. The never-ceasing resistance which 
is there carried on against a devouring element is of 
the highest interest, both historical and scientific. This 
subject, however, we pass by the more willingly, because a 
very able article expressly devoted to it in the 174th No. 
of the " Edinburgh Review," leaves little to be supplied or 
desired. The student of Fenland literature will observe 
two instances of the slow manner in which great projects 
ripen, though, when founded on a correct appreciation of 
man's ability to add to his power or enjoyment, they seldom 



72 AGBICULTURE. 

fail to recur to his mind in due season. In the very com- 
mencement of the seventeeth century Cornelius Vermuden 
and the author of the ** Drayner Confirmed," pointed out 
the methods of draining Whittlesea Mere and the adjoining 
country, almost as they are enacted in the statute of 1844, 
and strongly recommended their execution. In like man- 
ner, in 1640, Adrian Leegh water proposed to drain the 
Sea of Haerlem by means which, with the substitution of 
wind for steam power, are analogous to those which are 
now in course of employment. 

Some years ago a Grand Ducal work was published in 
Florence, giving a history of the operations carried on by 
that persevering family in the Tuscan Maremma. The 
work consists of a thick octavo volume, accompanied by a 
thin quarto of plates and statistics, the whole got up in 
superior style. The general engineering appears to be 
good, and plans are given of the principal bridges, locks, 
and weirs, as well as drawings of the tip-waggons, pile- 
drivers, and other engines. The object of the operation 
appears to have been, in part at least, sanitary. Tables 
are given of the population at different eras in the Ma- 
remma, with notices of the proportion of sick admittecl 
into the Royal hospitals, previous and subsequent to the 
drainage. The whole work is interesting, both as it relates 
to the recovery of land and the increase of salubrity. 

So much for the first phase of the controversy between 
agricultui'e and water. It may rather be called the reco- 
very of land than its improvement — absolutely so in the 
cases where large surfaces of water have been replaced by 
cultivated land, and partially, to say the least, in the more 
ambiguous cases of what old Dugdale calls overflown 
marshes, where the contest has been settled in favour of 
dryness and solidity. Our readers will observe that we 
have not entered into the process of recovery — that has not 
been our object ; but we have wished to give them a suc- 
cinct account of the existing literature on the subject, and 
to indicate to such as are interested where they may find 



DRAINAGE. 73 

treatises, historical, legal, scientific, and practical, on an 
art, which, on the present occasion at least, we do not pro- 
pose to teach. 

Two other cases remain in which water appears as an 
opponent of agriculture. The first is that in which rain, 
falling on pervious lands, and filtered through them much 
to their benefit, reappears in the shape of springs on the 
surface of lower lands not equally pervious, much to their 
injury. The second is the case of lands which, from close- 
ness of texture, are not able to pass down the rain which 
falls upon them, and can only get rid of the portion which 
the plants growing on them do not consume, by superficial 
discharge or by evaporation. The combat with these two 
cases marks two distinct eras in the history and progress of 
draining. The first enemy the Romans encountered man- 
fully, as was their wont. Their remedies were, open and 
covered drains from three to four feet deep, the latter being 
half filled with small stones or very clean gravel previous 
to the return of the earth. In the absence of stones and 
gravel, " sarmentis, vel stramine subjecto cooperiantur, vel 
quibuscunque virgultis," branches, straw, or any kind of 
twigs. They fortified every important outlet with stone- 
work or other masonry. For non-filtration on tenacious 
lands they appear to have had no other remedy than clean 
furrows, water-gripping and open cuts running across the 
slope of the hill. Their sensibility to the evil of surface- 
water is shown by the many and minute directions for get- 
ting rid of it, which are given by all their agricultural 
writers — Cato, Varro, Columella, Virgil, Pliny, and Pal- 
ladius. This whole matter is ably treated by Mr. Dickson, 
in his fifteenth and sixteenth chapters of " Husbandry of 
the Ancients," where the reader will find an ample reference 
to all the authorities. 

The earliest notice of English draining which we have 
discovered, is contained in a broadside in vol. iv. of the 
Collection of Proclamations, &c., once belonging to James II. , 
now in the library of the Society of Antiquaries, London. 

E 



74 AGRICULTURE. 

" Herein," says the writer, who dates from Paine's End, the 
16th of Nov., 1583, " is taught, even for the capacity of the 
meanest, how to drain moores, and all other wet grounds 
or bogges, and lay them dry for ever." The draining for 
wet grounds is of a shallow order, and is illustrated by a 
herring-bone pattern. The main drain is to be filled with 
stones ; but our capacity is certainly too mean to understand 
how an open course for the water is to be maintained in 
the lateral drains, or *' slope drayners," as the writer calls 
them. The directions for executing them are as follows : — 
"Dig them one foote deepe at the least, and one foote 
broade in the bottome, and not above two inches broade at 
the top, so will the top close up againe and the bottome 
will be hollow," — '* so shall you lose no ground. The charges 
for ten acres is 26s. Sd., besides carnages, which charges, 
the earth which you ceCrt out of the ditch and drayners, 
being wel spread, wil countervail for the manuring of the 
ground." The directions "To draine Bogs" contain all we 
know at the present day, or nearly so, with the exception 
of the use of the boring-rod. 

Our researches into agricultural literature have brought 
us acquainted with Walter Blith, " a Lover of Ingenuity," 
and Andrew Yarranton. Like other writers on husbandry, 
both published at a time of great agricultural depression. 
The former, about 1640, in " The English Improver," " dis- 
covered to the kingdome that some land, both arable and 
pasture, may be advanced double or treble," other five or 
ten, some twenty fold, &c., &c. The latter, in 1677, in 
** England's Improvement by Sea and Land," taught his 
countrymen to " outdo the Dutch without fighting, to pay 
debts without moneys, to set at work all the poor of England 
with the growth of our own land," and many other things. 
We have but a few words with him, for, though he does not 
entirely overlook draining, he says nothing on it to our 
purpose. His grand remedies are — 1st. To lower the rate 
of interest to landowners by means of a registry of .deeds. 
This, according to him, would enable them to take a cer- 



DRAINAGE. 7S 

tificate of registry to the Bank of England, or to Overend 
and Gurney's, and to discount it at 3 per cent. So much 
for landlords. 2nd. For tenants he has public grana- 
ries, in which they are to deposit their corn, and to receive 
for it corn-notes ; these will pass from hand to hand " ac- 
tually equal to cash," which, consequently, can never be 
scarce. 3rd. Manufactures are to be encouraged by a strict 
monopoly of the home market. He concludes thus :— " If 
any gentleman, or other, please to put pen to paper, in 
opposition to what is here asserted, I shall give him a civil 
return, bound up with the second part, where these seven 
heads shall be treated on "—two will sufiBce : — 

" 3rdly. Demonstrate and make it appear how Ireland 
may be brought to twenty years' purchase, and made as 
useful to England, and of as great strength, as Norway is 
to Denmark." 

" 6thly. How to employ six thousand young lawyers and 
three thousand priests for the good of the public and 
mankind." 

This second part we have unfortunately been unable to 
discover. We beg pardon for digression, but we could not 
wholly pass by remedies so admirably suited to our own 
wants and times. 

Our copy of the first edition of Walter Blith's book is 
without date, but it was evidently published before Charles 
and the House of Lords were set aside, for in th« title- 
page it speaks of the " Kingdome," and it is addressed to 
the two Houses of Parliament. A large type, a wide mar- 
gin, and a liberal incorporation of Tusser's Khymes, only 
extend the work to the modest size of 3 68 pages. But in 
1652 matters are much changed. Walter Blith, " a Lover 
of Ingenuity," has become Captain Walter Blith. The 
word '* Kingdome " is dropped out of the title-page. The 
"third impression, much augmented," is dedicated to "The 
Right Honourable the Lord Generall Cromwell." The 
author s ideas, as well as his book, have evidently expanded 
at the rapid rate then in fashion. He thus describes the 



76 AGEICULTURE. 

state of the farmiag interest in his days. He says that the 
smaller farmers live worse than '* those in Bridewell : " — 

*• And for the best of them, they live as uncomfortably, 
moyliug and drudging ; what they get they spend ; plow, 
sow, and reap, and all to bring the year about; and can 
they make even at year's end, if servants' wages can be 
payd, rent discharged, and teems maintained, and family 
alive, all is well. I dare say fewer estates are raised, tho 
in itself an honest calling, than by any calling or employ- 
ment w^iatsoever ; Whistle it in and whistle it out, as the 
proverb is." 

In proposing his remedies, he discourses of leases, of 
tenant right, of employing more capital, of vermine (game), 
and of '* slavish custome never affecting ingenuity," as 
glibly as Richard Cobden, and as confidently as John 
Bright. He also proposes means for silencing the great 
plea of the labourers — " Will you set us on worke ? We 
will work if you'll provide it." He speaks very dispara- 
gingly of all the agricultural writers of his day except 
" Master Gabriel Plats," but bears the following testimony 
to the estimation in which Lord Bacon's works were then 
held : — " But Sir Francis Bacon's Natural Historic let it 
have high esteeme, 'tis full of rarities and admiration for 
true philosophie, and shall be acknowledged as a sun in the 
theore to these poor and low moonelight discoveries." With 
all this, however, we cannot now occupy ourselves. It is 
when our author comes to draining and irrigation, on which 
he is more diffuse than on any other single topic, that he 
becomes a man after our own heart. Page after page he 
insists on the absurdity of putting water of irrigation on 
the top of your land till you have effectually drawn the 
existing water out of the bottom : — 

" And for thy drayning trench it must be made so deepe 
it go to the bottome of the cold spewing moyst water that 
feeds the flagg and rush "— " a yard or foure feet deep, if 
ever thou wilt drayne to purpose." And again, " to- the 
bottome, where the spewing spring lyeth, thou must go, 



DRAINAGE. 77 

and one spade's graft beneath, how deep soever it be, if 
thou wilt drayne thy land to purpose. I am forced to use 
repetitions of some things, because of the sutablenesse of the 
things to which they are applyed, as also because of the 
slownesse of peoples apprehensions of them, as appears by 
the non-practise of them, the which wherever you see 
drayning and trenching you shall rarely finde few or none of 
them wrought to the bottome." " But for these common 
and many trenches, ofttimes crooked too, that men usually 
make in their boggy grounds, some one foot, some two, T 
say away with them as a great piece of folly, lost labor and 
spoyl, which I desire to preserve the reader from."* 

Equally sagacious are the directions about outfalls " to 
take thy water clearly from thy drayne." On the subject 
of straightening tortuous and sluggish watercourses, this 
man of the Commonwealth was in advance not only of his 
own day but of ours : — 

*' A straight water-course cut a considerable depth in a 
thousand parts of this nation would be more advantageous 
than we are aware of. And though many persons are in- 
terested therein, and some will agree, others will oppose ; 
one creek lyeth on one side of the river in one lord's 
manor, and another lyeth on the other side : why may not 
one neighbour change with another when both are gainers ? 
I dare say thousands of acres of very rich land may 
thereby be gained, and possibly as many more much 
amended that arre almost destroyed." 

And he proposes a law which shall give facilities for this 
improvement, and shall protect all interests. Having dis- 
coursed to the Lord General on seven prejudices to land, 

* In the materials for forming the conduit in a covered drain, no 
advance seems to have been made from the time of Cato to that of 
Walter Blith. Cato says, " Sulcos lapide consternito. Si lapis non erit, 
perticis saligneis viridibus quoquoversus collatis consternito. Si pertica 
non erit, sarmentis colligatis." Blith's directions are: " Thou must take 
good green faggots, willow, alder, elme, or thorne, and lay it in the 
bottome of thy works ; or rather, take great pibblestones or flintstones." 



IfQ AGRICULTURE. 

he thus proceeds : — '* The eighth prejudice may be the 
many water-mills, which destroy abundance of gallant land ; 
turning it to a bog, or to mire, or else to flagg, rush, or 
mareblabb ; some mills, worth 101. or 12^. per annum, 
destroy land worth 20L, dOL, or 40L per annum. I knowe 
it of my own knowledge." — Every word of which is as 
true in the year 1849 as it was in 1652 ; and the remedies 
which he proposes are now even more appropriate and effi- 
cient, because we are able to substitute steam power for 
wind and horses, which he contemplated. To prostrate 
the weirs on all our sluggish streams would be the greatest 
recovery of " gallant" land which now remains feasible in 
England. The day of their doom is probably at hand. 
Most of our water corn- mills are of barbarous structure, 
inconveniently situated as to roads, and expensive in the 
maintenance of their weirs, floodgates, banks, and goats. 
Many on the larger streams lose one-third of their time 
in winter from excess of water, and those on the smaller 
the same amount in summer from deficiency. We re- 
member an instance in which all the mills on the river 
Soar, in Leicestershire, stood still, for six weeks continu- 
ously on account of flood. Through all the north and 
centre of England, as well as through considerable por- 
tions of the west, good engine-coal is delivered at all rail- 
w^ay stations at from 4s. to 7s. per ton, and 3s. Qd. per ton 
is not an uncommon price at the pits. These prices will 
be more effective enemies to the beggarly water-mills, and 
more powerful friends to the gallant lands, than Walter 
Blith's denunciations. In a report made by Mr. Josiah 
Parkes to the President of the Board of Health, we find 
the following remarks, to which we give our hearty as- 
sent : — 

" The sluggish rivers of the midland and southern coun- 
ties of England oppose great impediments to land-drain- 
age, being usually full to the banks, or nearly so, and con- 
verted into a series of ponds by mill-dams erected ata few 



DRAINAGE. 7 'J 

miles' distance below each other; so that frequently no 
effectual drainage of the richest alluvial soil, composing 
the meadows, can be made without forming embankments, 
or by pumping, or by resort to other expensive means. 
The greater number of corn and other water-mills through- 
out England ought to be demolished for the advantage of 
agriculture, and steam-power should be provided for the 
millers. I believe that such an arrangement would in 
most cases prove to be economical for both parties. 

" A striking example of the economical and beneficial 
result arising from the destruction of mill-dams, and the 
substitution of steam for water power, has recently been 
exhibited under the operation of ' The Rye and Derwent 
Drainage Act,' resulting from the wise and friendly co- 
operation of the Earls of Carlisle and Fitzwilliam (the 
chief proprietors), with other landowners, to knock down 
three mill-dams and give the millers steam, thereby re- 
storing the river to its natural bed and proper function as 
the great artery of drainage, and enabling thousands of 
acres of land to be drained and reclaimed, or brought into 
more profitable cultivation at a very moderate cost. This 
excellent work has its termination at New Malton, in 
Yorkshire. 

" If all the rivers of England were surveyed, from the 
sea to their source, the mills upon them valued, the extent 
of land injured or benefitted by such mill-dams ascertained, 
and the whole question of advantage over injury done to 
the landowners appreciated and appraised, I have little 
doubt but that the injury done would be found so greatly 
to exceed the rental of these mills, deduction being made 
for the cost of maintaining them, that it would be a mea- 
sure of national economy to buy up all the mills and give 
the millers steam power." 

We wish our limits would permit us to follow the Captain 
through the dissertation on over-ploughing, thick and thin 
sowing, and various sorts of manures, and to extract a very 



80 AGRICULTURE. 

acute passage on the application of chemistry to agriculture. 
We strongly recommend the third edition of " The English 
Improver" to such of our readers as are not scared by a 
discursive style and great neglect of arrangement, and are 
willing to winnow a great deal of corn out of a very confused 
heap of chaff. The work is embellished by a frontispiece, 
at the top of which the royal and parliamentary forces en- 
counter each other in hostile array. In the centre they are 
beating their swords into ploughshares and their spears 
into pruninghooks ; and at the bottom they are ploughing 
with two horses abreast, and performing other agricultural 
operations. Various plates give drawings of a wind-mill 
fitted with a scoop or lading- wheel for draining fens, and a 
great number of agricultural tools and implements ; among 
others, *' The Harfordshire wheeled plough," condemned 
by Blith for its clumsiness, but still retaining its place in 
parts of that county; and " The double Plough, ploughing 
two furrows at one time," which still lingers in the midland 
counties. Nor must we forget a picture of the gallant 
Captain,, given in connection with a water-level devised by 
himself, and which seems to be identical with one lately 
re-introduced into this country from Italy, and patronized 
by Prince Albert and other eminent agriculturists. The 
Captain's figure is very imposing, but in most unagri- 
eultural garb — a wig as fine as the Speaker's ruffles, trunk- 
hose, and spurs. He holds in his hand the levelling-staff, 
which is fitted with a sliding bull's eye after the modern 
fashion. "VVe part from this sagacious veteran with much 
affection. A fine patriotic spirit pervades all his reflections, 
as well as a strict morality, tinged perhaps with a little 
puritanism.* 

* Since we penned the above, we have observed that Mr. Parkes 
introduced Captain Blith to his hearers in a lecture delivered at New- 
castle before the Royal Agricultural Society, and published in vol. vii. 
of their Journal. Mr. Parkes has selected for quotation from Blith 
several of the same passages as ourselves, and he mentions one remark- 



DRAINAGE. 81 

In England the two cases of injury from water which has 
passed through the earth, and water which has not, are 
very frequently complicated, and run into one another by 
an almost insensible gradation. Except in very barbarous 
and some sub-alpine districts, the era of draining for mere 
springs has passed by, and the work has on the whole been 
well executed. We possess better materials for forming a 
conduit, and some better tools, but probably no other ad- 
vantage over old Elkington.* We know very little beyond 
what he taught us, and perhaps do not require to know more. 
Joseph Elkington was a man of considerable genius, but he 
had the misfortune to be illiterate, and to find a very inef- 
ficient exponent of his opinions, and of the principles on 
which he conducted his works, in John Johnstone. Every 
one who reads the work, which is popularly called Elkington 
on Draining, should be aware, that it is not Joseph who 
thinks and speaks therein, but John, who tells his readers 
what, according to his ideas, Joseph would have thought and 
spoken. In one portion of the book, entitled " On Hollow and 
Surface Draining in general," which is discussed in nineteen 
sections, Johnstone teaches avowedly in his own person, his 
first sentence being, " This is a part of the draining system 
not coming within the limits of Mr. Elkington's practice." 
It is enough to say that these nineteen sections do not con- 
tain a single suggestion of any value to a modern drainer. 
A reader who has some previous acquaintance with the 
subject will get a general idea of Elkington's discovery and 
method from the earlier portion of the hooh, though, unless 
he has seen some of Elkington's work, he will not therefrom 
form an adequate opinion of his sagacity. Johnstone, mea- 
sured by general capacity, is a very shallow drainer. He 

able point which had escaped us, that this old drainer " prescribes, in all 
cases, excepting for water-meadows, the driving the drains right up and 
down the fall of the land." 

* " An Account of the most approved Mode of Draining Land, ac- 
cording to the System practised by Mr. Joseph Elkington." By Joha 
Johnstone, Land Surveyor. Edinburgh, 1797. 

E 3 



m 



AGKICULTUEE. 



delights in exceptional cases, of which he may have met 
with some, but of which we suspect the great majority to be 
the products of his own ingenuity, and to be put forward 
with a view to display the ability with which he could en- 
counter them. We shall pass by such cases altogether. 
No doubt they are numerous in the aggregate ; but they 
form a very small percentage of the work of draining which 
has to be done or redone in Great Britain. They are, 
moreover, for the most part too complicated to be quite un- 
derstood without actual inspection, too varied for useful 
classification, and must be left to the skill and sagacity of 
the operator. A slight modification of Johnstone's best and 
simplest plan, with a few sentences of explanation, will suf- 
ficiently elucidate Elkiugton's mystery, and will comprehend 
the case of all simple superficial springs. Perhaps in Agri- 
cultural Britain no formation is more common than mo- 
derate elevations of previous material, such as chalk, gravel, 
and imperfect stone or rock of various kinds, resting upon 
more horizontal beds of clay or other material less pervious 
than themselves, and at their inferior edge overlapped by 
it. For this overlap geological reasons are given, into 
which we cannot now enter. In order to make our expla- 
nation simple, we use the words gravel and clay as generic 
for pervious and impervious material. Our drawing is an 



Gravel \^^^ 


nA 




Gravel 


^^^ 


i> s 


m 

h 


Zl^ 


i 



OutMl 



Crravel 



attempt to combine plan and section, which will probably 
be sufficiently illustrative. From A to T is the ovierlap. 



DRAINAOE. $B 

which is in fact a dam holding up the water in the gravel. 
In this dam there is a weak place at S, through which water 
issues permanently (a superficial spring), and runs over the 
surface from S to 0. This issue has a tendency to lower 
the water in the gravel to the line M m. But when con- 
tinued rains overpower this issue, the water in the gravel 
rises to the line A a, and meeting with no impediment at 
the point A, it flows over the surface between A and S. In 
addition to these more decided outlets, the water is pro- 
bably constantly squeezing in a slow way through the whole 
dam. Elkington undertakes to drain the surface from A 
to 0. He cuts a drain from to B, and then he puts 
down a borehole, an Artesian well, from B to Z. His bole 
enters the tail of the gravel ; the water contained therein 
rises up it ; and the tendency of this new outlet is to low er 
the water to the line B h. If so lowered, it is manifest 
that it can no longer overflow at A or at S, and the surface 
from A to is drained so far as the springs are concerned. 
Though our section can only represent one spring and one 
summit overflow, it is manifest that, however long the hori- 
zontal line of junction between the gravel and clay niaybe, 
however numerous the weak places (springs) in the overlap 
or dam, and the summit overflows, they will all be stopped, 
provided they lie at a higher level than the line B h. If 
Elkington had driven his drain forward from B to n, he 
would at least equally have attained his object ; but the 
borehole was less expensive. He escapes the deepest and 
most costly portion of his drain. At x he might have 
bored to the centre of the earth without ever realising the 
water in this gravel. His whole success, therefore, depended 
on his sagacity in hitting the point Z. — Another simple 
and very common case, first successfully treated by Elking- 
ton, is illustrated by our second drawing, Between gravel 
hills lies a dish-shaped bed of clay, the gravel being con- 
tinuous under the dish. Springs overflow at A and B, 
and wet the surface from A to and from B to 0. D is 
a drain 4 or 5 feet deep, and having an adequate outlet, 



84 



AGRICULTURE. 



D Z a borehole. The water in the gravel rises from Z to D, 
"and is lowered to the level D m and D n. Of course it ceases 




to flow over at A and B. If Elkington's heart had failed 
him when he reached x, he would have done no good. All 
his success depends on his reaching Z, however deep it may 
lie. Elkington was a discoverer. We do not at all believe 
that his discoveries hinged on the accident that the shepherd 
walked across the field with a crow-bar in his hand. When 
he forced down that crow-bar, he had more in his head than 
was ever dreamed of in Johnstone's philosophy. Such 
accidents do not happen to ordinary men. Elkington's 
subsequent use of his discovery, in which no one has yet 
excelled him, warrants our supposition that the discovery 
was not accidental. He was not one of those prophets who 
are without honour in their own country; he created an 
immense sensation, and received a parliamentary grant of 
one thousand pounds. One writer compares his augur to 
Moses' rod, and x\rthur Young speculates, whether, though 
worthy to be rewarded by millers on one side of the hill 
for increasing their stream, he was not liable to an action 
by those on the other for diminishing theirs. He appears 
to have generally used stones as a conduit, but occasionally 
a sort of drain-brick, the pattern of which came from 
France. The duty was not then taken off such materials, 
and formed a sore impediment to their use and improve- 
ment. 



DBAINAGE. 85 

After Elkington, we find no notability in draining till 
■we come to Smith of Deanston, and his name at once 
introduces us to modern practice and modern controversy. 
We have now to deal with the case of lands which get rid 
of the rain which falls upon them so slowly, that it becomes 
either an hindrance to fertility, or an inconvenience to 
agriculture, or both. This evil is often, perhaps oftener 
than not, complicated with an almost imperceptible oozing 
of bottom-water squeezed through the earth by the pres- 
sure of superincumbent subterranean reservoirs, existing 
in higher grounds, situated sometimes at a considerable 
distance. But the surface-water is the main point, and 
the bottom-water, if we may so call it, is amenable to the 
same treatment, and, except in one occasional case,* will 
be removed by the same means. But we can get on no 
farther without definitions ; and here we are in a difficulty. 
The nomenclature of draining is indefinite, because the 
ideas of those who have practised the art have been con- 
fused. Probably no other art ever had so long an infancy. 
In the word soil, we include, for our present purpose, the 
whole depth to which land is treated in our operations. 
All our readers will have heard of soils open and stiff — 
pervious or permeable, and impervious — porous and re- 
tentive. We mean to select for use the last pair of these 
epithets. By porous soils, we mean those which, in their 
natural state, are capable of filtering through themselves 
all or the greater part of the rain which falls upon them. 



* When "we said that no one had yet excelled Elkington, we were 
speaking of the treatment of mere springs. In the complicated case to 
which our text refers, Mr. Parkes has often and most skilfully combined 
his own more peculiar practice with Elkington's discovery; removing 
the water from above by parallel thorough-drains, and giving to that 
which is squeezed up from below an easy access to the same drains by 
boreholes. This combination would however be useless in the hands of 
a man who did not inherit somewhat of the old prophet's sagacity. He 
appears to have dropped his mantle on a man of his own county. Mr. 
Parkes has introduced a great improvement by securely piping down 
his boreholes, and by connecting those perpendicular pipes with the 
pipes in his drain. 



86 AGRICULTURE. 

By retentive soils, we mean those which, in their natural 
state, retain the whole or the greater part of the rain 
which falls upon them, until it has run off by superficial 
discharge, or has been exhausted by evaporation. Of the 
.terms cut, trench, and drain, we shall use exclusively the 
latter ; and as the word sough or surf has been popularly 
extended beyond its original meaning, which was simply 
the artificial aperture left in the re-filled drain for the 
passage of the water, we shall drop that word altogether, 
and substitute the word conduit. Our predecessors have 
used almost indifferently the phrases surface-draining, 
hollow draining, the frequent drain system, furrow-draining, 
and thorough-draining. Of these we shall select the last, 
as best descriptive of our object. We call that thorough- 
draining which assimilates retentive soils to porous to this 
extent, that it enables them to filter through themselves 
to the depth of the drains all the rain which falls upon 
their surface ; or if that object cannot be entirely attained, 
the thoroughness of the draining varies inversely as the 
quantity of water got rid of by other means. By water of 
drainage we mean all water existing among the particles of 
soil beyond that which they are able to retain by attraction. 
The water of drainage in any soil will stand at a level like 
any other dammed-up water. In order to avoid circum- 
locution, we shall ask leave to call this level the water- 
table. In using the word attraction, we shall drop capil- 
lary, which is a favourite with writers on draining. We 
drop it because it conveys no definite idea to our mind as 
connected with particles of soil ; because attraction is per- 
fectly intelligible ; and because every one may, by the 
simplest experiments, and the use of his own eyes, convince 
himself that particles of soil have an attraction for water 
so strong as to overcome to a certain extent the force of 
gravity. 

Imperfect attempts at thorough-draining were probably 
first made in the southern counties of England. The 
conduit was usually formed of thorns or other twigs, the 



DRAINAGE. 87 

cuttings of the hedges, covered with straw. In Leicester- 
shire nearly a century ago, and perhaps earlier, a conduit 
was formed in clay at the bottom of the drain by a super- 
imposed turf (locally called clod-soughing); and the practice 
is not quite exploded in that and other counties, which 
are backward in their agriculture. Attempts, moreover, 
were made in various parts of England to form a conduit 
by means of a mole-plough. This instrument had a great 
but very transient reputation. Smith of Deanston was 
therefore by no means the author of thorough- draining, 
but he saw much more clearly than any of his predecessors 
the benefits to be derived from it, and he has the high 
merit of having brought them prominently before the 
public. No doubt whatever can exist that Mr. Smith gave 
the first effectual impulse to the practice, and to that 
extent his nameis justly associated with thorough-draining. 
One sentence in an article which he furnished to " The 
Third Report of Drummond's Agricultural Museum," 
makes a considerable approach to a right conception of the 
advantages of thorough-draining, as they are now revealed 
to us. 

"When soil is immediately incumbent on open rock, 
especially on whin or green-stone, which is very open from 
its many fissures, the land is always uniformly fertile. 
If, therefore, we observe carefully the operations of nature, 
we shall never be at a loss for principles to guide us in the 
cultivation of the soil. In the last stated example, the 
open rock under the soil affords frequent and pretty 
uniform channels of escape for the water; hence the 
obvious suggestion of the frequent drain system^ 

So utterly innocent was poor Johnstone of any such ideas, 
that in a chapter on " Hollow-draining in General," he 
publishes such stuff as follows : — 

" In soils that are so tenacious as to retain water on the 
surface till evaporation carries it ojff, such as are found in 
Sussex, Surrey, and in many other counties, this method 
of draining has been tried, and found entirely to fail.'* 



88 AGRICULTURE. 

. . . . " Open trenches, with the ridges and water- 
furrows properly formed and directed, is the only method 
whereby its drainage can be effectually accomplished. It 
is necessary to lay it up in ridges properly placed, and to 
cut small open drains across the ridges w'here requisite, 
communicating with each other, and with the furrows ; 
and thus all the water-furrows operate as drains " — a sin- 
gular conception, certainly, of an art on which he pub- 
lished a book in quarto. Smith's execution was inferior 
both to his conception and to his zeal. The depth of his 
frequent drains was not suflBcient to attain even the 
benefits which he foresaw ; the materials for his conduit 
were cumbrous. The quantity of surplus left after refilling, 
when 15 in. of stone are put into a drain several inches 
wide at bottom, is very objectionable ; and his prices for 
the execution of the work, when transferred to England, 
are fabulous. He has the merit of having first stated 
boldly that all drained lands should be worked flat without 
ridge or furrow, and he prescribes the line of steepest 
descent for the general direction of drains, and gives cor- 
rectly some of the reasons for that practice. If his powers 
of reasoning had been equal to his zeal, or even to his 
perception, he would not have allowed himself to be out- 
stripped, as he has been, by others in an art which he had 
in some degree made his own. 

Josiah Parkes, C.E., in a work entitled "Essays on the 
Philosophy and Art of Land-drainage," published last year,-!^ 
has very materially extended the objects and benefits of 
thorough -draining, and for every extension has given au- 
thentic instances and philosophical reasons. Mr. Parkes's 
style is clear and unaffected, and we think that very few holes 
can be picked in his reasoning. His first Essay is entitled, 
" On the Influence of Water on the Temperature of Soils ;" 
also, •' On the Quantity of Rain-water and its Discharge by 
Drains." It is the first attempt which we have seen to reduce 

* The former of these Essays had appeared in the Journal of the 
Agricultural Society in 1844, and the latter in 1846. 



DRAINAGE. 89 

draining to a science ; and, where want of data forbids that 
object to be obtained, Mr. Parkes indicates very clearly the 
avenues to future success. The treatise is somewhat too 
scientific for general agricultural readers, and on that 
account not fitted to be transferred in the form of a con- 
nected abstract into our pages; but.it contains several 
interesting tables, and is pregnant with important facts 
and accurate deductions, of which we shall avail ourselves, 
without further acknowledgment, in the remarks on tho- 
rough-draining which we propose to offer to our readers. 
Mr. Parkes's second Essay, the Newcastle Lecture, to 
which we have already referred, is more popular in its 
nature, and very practical. Every farmer may read it 
with advantage. Mr. Mechi has given us " Experience in 
Drainage." He is an experimentalist in agriculture, and 
we should think a very sanguine one. With respect to 
many of his speculative conclusions, we should be sorry to 
give a directly adverse opinion; but we fear that, in order 
to escape doing so, we must take refuge in the modified 
Scotch verdict — not proven. We could not speak harshly 
of a gentleman whose assistance we crave at our toilet 
every morning, who imparts so freely to the public his 
failures as well as his successes, and who appears to 
bear so good-humouredly the banterings of the London 
Farmers' Club and the "Mark Lane Express." More- 
over, Mr. Mechi asks very acute questions, and makes 
shrewd remarks, some of which we may not improbably 
call to our aid. 

Here we take our leave of draining literature, and 
descend to practice. We will assume, without proving, that 
water of drainage, stagnating in the soil, is prejudicial to 
esculent vegetation. If this be not so, all that we and our 
predecessors have learnt and written, has been learnt and 
written in vain. We will assume, also, that to raise the 
temperature of what are familiarly and justly called our 
cold soils, will be beneficial to vegetation. Having made 
these assumptions, we will prove — 1st, that the main 



90 



AGRICULTUEE. 



cause of the coldness of these soils is the removal of the 
water of drainage by evaporation ; 2ndly, that their tem- 
perature is very much raised during the vegetative season 
of the year by the removal of this water by efficient drain- 
age ; 3rdly, we will state the reasons for our conviction 
that, in all soils, the existence of the water-table within 
less than 4 feet of the surface of the land is prejudicial 
to vegetation; 4thly, we will show that the water of 
drainage will be best removed at a reasonable expense, 
and the level of the water-table will be best reduced by 
frequent parallel drains of a depth never less than 4 feet ; 
5thly, that the direction of these drains should, as a general 
rule, be in the line of steepest descent ; 6thly, that pipes 
and collars form a better and cheaper conduit than any 
other which has been hitherto adopted ; and, Tthly, we will 
give our opinion on the disputed point whether, in the most 
retentive soils, drains of 4 feet will effectually remove the 
water of drainage. 

1st. The main cause of the coldness of retentive soils is 
the removal of water of drainage by evaporation. 

The evaporation of water produces cold : it cools wine ; 
in hot climates it produces ice. These facts are known to 
every one. To determine the actual degree of cold pro- 
duced by the evaporation of one pound of water from soil 
is rather a complicated, and not a very certain, operation ; 
but scientific reasons are given for an approximation to 
this result— that the evaporation of one pound of water 
lowers the temperature of 100 lbs. of soil 10°. That is to 
say, that if to 100 lbs. of soil holding all the water which 
it can by attraction, but containing no water of drainage, is 
added one pound of water which it has no means of dis- 
charging except by evaporation, it will, by the time that it 
has so discharged it, be 10° colder than it would have been 
if it had the power of discharging this 1 lb. by filtration ; 
or more practically, that if rain, entering in the propor- 
tion of I lb. to 100 lbs. into a retentive soil which is satu- 
rated with water of attraction, is discharged by evaporation, 



DKAINAGE. 91 

it lowers the temperature of that soil 10°. If the soil has 
the means of discharging that 1 lb. of water by filtration, 
no effect is produced beyond what is due to the relative 
temperatures of the rain and of the soil. Mr. Dickenson, 
the eminent paper-maker, who has several mills and a 
considerable landed estate in Hertfordshire, has deduced 
from a series of observations, which are, we believe, entitled 
to great confidence, that of an annual fall of 26 inches of 
rain, about 11 are filtered through a porous soil. The 
whole of this 1 1 inches (and probably more) must be got 
rid of by a retentive soil, either by evaporation or by 
superficial discharge. The proportions in which each of 
these means will operate will vary in every case, but this 
will be an universal feature — that these 11 inches will 
maintain in undrained retentive soils, at all except some 
accidental periods of excessive drought, a permanent sup- 
ply of water of drainage, which will be in constant course 
of evaporation, and will constantly produce the cold con- 
sequent thereon. Retentive soils never can. be so warm 
as porous, for a simple reason. Every one knows, or may 
know, that if into two flower-pots, with holes in the bottom, 
are put respectively equal portions of gravel and clay, 
equally heated to any point short of torrefaction, and if 
equal quantities of water are administered to the surface 
of each, water (water of drainage) will run from the gravel 
long before it begins to run from the clay. Gravel can 
hold by attraction much less water than clay can. At the 
time when each is saturated by water of attraction, and 
neither holds any water of drainage, evaporation will begin 
to act upon the water in each, and will act most strongly 
in the vegetative period of the year. The cold produced 
will be in proportion to the quantities of water evaporated 
respectively, and will of course be greatest in the retentive 
soil. We will reserve a further cause of coolness in reten- 
tive soils, which is also connected with evaporation, till we 
have spoken of the depths of drains. 

2nd. The temperature of retentive soils is very much 



9S AGRICULTURE. 

raised during that period of the year in which vegetation is 
active by the removal of water by drainage. 

Many experiments have shown that, in retentive soils, 
the temperature at 2 or 3 feet below the surface of the 
water-table is, at no period of the year, higher than from 
46° to 48°, i. e. in agricultural Britain. This temperature 
is little affected by summer heats, for the following short 
reasons. Water, in a quiescent state, is one of the worst 
conductors of heat with which we are acquainted. Water 
warmed at the surface transmits little or no heat down- 
wards. The small portion warmed expands, becomes lighter 
than that below, consequently retains its position on the 
surface, and carries uo heat downwards.* To ascertain the 
mean heat of the air at the surface of the earth over any 
extended space, and for a period of eight or nine months, 
is no simple operation. More elements enter into such a 
calculation than we have space or ability to enumerate; 
but we know certainly that, for seven months in the year, 
air, at the surface of the ground, is seldom lower than 48°, 
never much lower, and only for short periods : whereas, 
at 4 feet from the surface, in the shade, from 70° to 80° 
is not an unusual temperature, and in a southern exposure, 
in hot sunshine, double that temperature is not unfre- 
quently obtained on the surface. Now let us consider 
the effect of drains placed from 2 to 3 feet below the 
water-table, and acting during the seven months of which 
we have spoken. They draw out water of the temperature 
of 48°. Every particle of water which they withdraw at 
this temperature is replaced by an equal bulk of air at a 
higher, and frequently at a much higher, temperature. 
The warmth of the air is carried down into the earth. 



* When water is heated from below, the portion first subjected to the 
heat rises to the surface, and every portion is successively subjected to 
the heat and rises, and each, having lost some of its heat at the surface, 
is in turn displaced. Constant motion is kept up, and a constant 
approximation to an equal temperature in the whole body. The appli- 
cation of superficial heat has no tendency to disturb the quiescence of 
water. 



DRAINAGE. 93 

The temperature of the soil, to the depth to which the 
water is removed, is in a course of constant assimilation to 
the temperature of the air at the surface. From this it 
follows necessarily, that during that period of the year 
when the temperature of air at the surface of the earth 
is generally below 48°, retentive soils which have been 
drained are colder than those which have not. Perhaps 
this is no disadvantage. In still more artificial cultivation 
than the usual run of agriculture, gardeners are not insen- 
sible to the advantage of a total suspension of vegetation 
for a short period. In Britain we suffer, not from an 
excess of cold in winter, but from a deficiency of warmth 
in summer. Grapes and maize, to which our sombre skies 
deny maturity, come to full perfection in many regions 
whose winters are longer and more severe than ours. 
However, we state the facts, without asking to put a large 
amount therefrom to the credit of our drainage. A friend 
of ours, who lived on the north side of a hill in a subalpine 
district, did not see the sun for three months in the year. 
He maintained that this was an advantage : that during 
those three months the sun was worth nothing to any one : 
whereas in summer he enjoyed the early beams of that 
luminary for some hours before he appeared to his neigh- 
bours on the south side of the hill, as well as his declining 
rays after they had lost him. Perhaps our readers may 
think that what we and our friend take by our respective 
notions is much on a par. To a beautiful provision of 
nature, by which, during seasons of excessive heat, summer 
rains are made subservient to the double purpose of cool- 
ing the arid surface and conveying warmth to the deeper 
recesses of the soil, we can advert only cursorily, on account 
of insufficient data. We have no satisfactory British ex- 
periments with reference to the surface-heat of the earth. 
Professor Leslie's only commence at 1 foot below the sur- 
face. Schubler's experiments, made near Geneva, in the 
year 1796, are strictly superficial. His thermometers were 
sunk in the soil only to the depth of ^Lth of an inch. In 



94 AGRICULTURE. 

that sunny clime he found the mean heat of soil, at that 
depth, to be at noon, for six successive months, 131°. If 
that were his mean heat for six months, we cannot doubt 
that it is frequently obtained as an extreme heat in the 
hottest portion of our year in England. Mr. Parkes gives 
temperatures on a Lancashire flat moss, but they only 
commence at 7 inches below the surface, and do not extend 
to midsummer. At that period of the year the temperature 
at 7 inches never exceeded 66°, and was generally from 
10° to 15° below the temperature of air in the shade, at 4 
feet above the earth. At the depth of 13 inches the soil 
was generally from 5° to 8° cooler than at 7 inches. Mr. 
Parkes's experiments were made simultaneously on a 
drained and on an undrained portion of the moss; and 
the result was, that, on a mean of 35 observations, the 
drained soil at 7 inches in depth was 10° warmer than the 
undrained at the same depth. The undrained soil never 
exceeded 47°, whereas after a thunder-storm the drained 
reached 66° at 7 inches, and 48° at 31 inches. Such were 
the effects at an early period of the year on a black bog. 
They suggest some idea of what they are, when in July or 
August thunder- rain at 60° or 70° falls on a surface heated 
to 130°, and carries down with it into the greedy fissures 
of the earth its augmented temperature. These advantages 
porous soils possess by nature, and retentive soils only 
acquire them by drainage.* 

* The only temperature of thunder-rain given in Mr. Parkes's Tables 
is 78. This, we imagine, must be an extreme heat. We have heard, 
with much satisfaction, that Mr. Parkes is, by means of his numerous 
staff stationed at the works which he is carrying on in many parts of 
Great Britain, Ireland, and (we believe) France, conducting a series of 
experiments on the temperatures of water of drainage, which tend to 
show an increase in some proportion to the length of time for which 
the drainage has been executed. We know no experiments connected 
with agriculture to the result of which we look with more hopeful 
expectation. Any agriculturist may, by means of a delicate thermo- 
meter, conduct and record such observations on his own farm. Probably 
the water of drainage from firm land may be expected to be higher in 
temperature than that from the quoted bog in summer, and low^r in 
winter. 



DEAINAGE. 95 

3rcl. Tn all soils the existence of the water-table nearer 
than 4 feet from the surface of the land is prejudicial to 
vegetation. Here open upon us the yelpings of the whole 
shallow pack. Four feet ! The same depth for all soils ! 
Here's quackery! We think Mr. Parkes must have stood 
in very unnecessary awe of this pack, when he penned the 
following half-apologetic sentence, which is quite at vari- 
ance with the wise decision with which, in other passages 
of his works, he insists on depths of four feet and upwards 
in all soils : — " In respect of the depth at which drains 
may, with a certainty of action, be placed in a soil, I pre- 
tend to assign no rule ; for there cannot, in my opinion, 
be a more crude or mistaken idea than that one rule of 
depth is applicable with equal efficiency to soils of all 
kinds."* Those words — equal efficiency — are a sort of 
saving clause; for we do not believe that when Mr. Parkes 
wrote them, he entertained " the crude or mistaken idea " 
of ever putting in an agricultural drain less than 4 feet 
deep, if he could help it. We will supply the deficiency 
in Mr. Parkes's explanation, and will show that the idea 
of a minimum depth of four feet is neither crude nor mis- 
taken. And as to " quackery " — which occurs passim in 
the writings and speeches of the shallow drainers — there 
is no quackery in assigning a minimum. Every drainer 
does it, and must do it. The shallowest man must put his 
drains out of the way of the plough and of the feet of 
cattle. That is his minimum. The man who means to 
subsoil must be out of the way of his agricultural imple- 
ment. These two minima are fixed on mechanical grounds. 
We will fix a minimum founded on ascertained facts and 
on the principles of vegetation. 

Every gentleman who, at his matutinal or ante-prandial 
toilet, will take his well-dried sponge, and dip the tip of it 
into water, will find that the sponge will become wet above 

* Smith of Deanston may perhaps be open to some observation, for 
we believe that he did unadvisedly recommend, in thorough-draining, 
an equal depth and equal distance for parallel drains in all soils. 



96 AGRICULTUEE. 

the point of contact between the sponge and the water, and 
this wetness will ascend up the sponge, in a diminishing 
ratio, to the point where the forces of attraction and of 
gravity are equal. This illustration is for gentlemen of 
the Clubs, of London drawing-rooms, of the Inns of Court, 
and for others of similar habits. For gentlemen who are 
floriculturists, we have an illustration much more apposite 
to the point which we are discussing. Take a flower-pot a 
foot deep, filled with dry soil. Place it in a saucer con- 
taining three inches of water. The first effect will be, that 
the water will rise through the hole in the bottom of the 
pot till the water which fills the interstices between the 
soil is on a level with the water in the saucer. This effect 
is by gravity. The upper surface of this water is our 
water-table. From it water will ascend by attraction 
through the whole body of soil till moisture is apparent at 
the surface. Put in your soil at 60°, a reasonable summer 
heat for nine inches in depth, your water at 47°, the seven 
inches' temperature of Mr. Parkes's undrained bog; the 
attracted water will ascend at 47°, and will diligently occupy 
itself in attempting to reduce the 60° soil to its own tem- 
perature. Moreover, no sooner will the soil hold water of 
attraction, than evaporation will begin to carry it off, and 
will produce the cold consequent thereon. This evaporated 
w^ater will be replaced by water of attraction at 47*^, and 
this double cooling process will go on till all the water in 
the water-table is exhausted. Supply water to the saucer 
as fast as it disappears, and then the process will be perpe- 
tual. The system of saucer-watering is reprobated by every 
intelligent gardener ; it is found by experience to chill 
vegetation ; besides which, scarcely any cultivated plant 
can dip its roots into stagnant water with impunity. Ex- 
actly the process which we have described in the flower- 
pot is constantly in operation on an undrained retentive 
soil : the water-table may not be within nine inches of the 
surface, but in very many instances it is within a foot or 
eighteen inches, at which level the cold surplus oozes into 



DRAINAGE. 97 

some ditch or other superficial outlet. At 18 inches, 
attraction will, on the average of soils, act with consider- 
able power. Here, then, you have two obnoxious principles 
at work, both producing cold, and the one administering 
to the other. The obvious remedy is, to destroy their 
united action ; to break through their line of communica- 
tion. Remove your water of attraction to such a depth 
that evaporation cannot act upon it, or but feebly. What 
is that depth? In ascertaining this point we are not alto- 
gether without data. No doubt depth diminishes the power 
of evaporation rapidly. Still, as water taken from a 30- 
inch drain is almost invariably two or three degrees colder 
than water taken from 4 feet, and as this latter is gene- 
rally one or two degrees colder than water from a conti- 
guous well several feet below, we can hardly avoid drawing 
the conclusion that the cold of evaporation has consider- 
able influence at 30 inches, a much-diminished influence 
at 4 feet, and little or none below that depth. If the 
water table is removed to the depth of 4 feet, when we 
have allowed 18 inches of attraction, we shall still 
have 30 inches of defence against evaporation; and we 
are inclined to believe that any prejudicial combined 
action of attraction and evaporation is thereby well guarded 
against. The facts stated seem to prove that less will not 
suffice. 

So much on the score of temperature ; but this is not all. 
Do the roots of esculents wish to penetrate into the earth — 
at least, to the depth of some feet ? We believe that they 
do. We are sure of the brassica tribe, grass, and clover. 
All our experience and observation deny the doctrine that 
roots only ramble when they are stinted of food ; that 6 
inches well manured is quite enough, better than more. 
Ask the Jerseyman ; he will show you a parsnip as thick 
as your thigh, and as long as your leg, and will tell you 
of the advantages of 14 feet of dry soil. You will hear 
of parsnips whose roots descend to unsearchable depths. 
We will not appeal to the Kentucky carrot, which was 

F 



98 AGRICULTURE. 

drawn out by its roots at the antipodes : but Mr. Mecbi's, 
if we remember right, was a dozen feet or more. Three 
years ago, in a midland county, a field of good land in good 
cultivation, and richly manured, produced a heavy crop of 
cabbages. In November of that year we saw that field 
broken into in several places, and at the depth of 4 feet 
the soil (a tenacious marl, fully stiff enough for brick- 
earth) was occupied by the roots of cabbage, not sparingly 
— not mere capillae — but fibres of the size of small pack- 
thread. A farmer manures a field of four or five inches of 
free soil reposing on a retentive clay, and sows it with 
wheat. It comes up, and between the kernel and the 
manure it looks well for a time, but anon it sickens. An 
Irish child looks well for five or six years, but after that 
time potatoe-f ceding, and filth, and hardship, begin to tell. 
You ask what is amiss with the wheat, and you are told 
that when its roots reach the clay they are poisoned. This 
field is then thorough-drained, deep, at least four feet. It 
receives again from the cultivator the previous treatment ; 
the wheat comes up well, maintains throughout a healthy 
aspect, and gives a good return. What has become of the 
poison ? We have been told that the rain-water filtered 
through the soil has taken it into solution or suspension, 
and has carried it off through the drains, and men who 
assume to be of authority put forward this as one of the 
advantages of draining. If we believed it we could not 
advocate draining. We really should not have the face to 
tell our readers that water, passing through soils containing 
elements prejudicial to vegetation, would carry them off, 
but would leave those which are beneficial behind.* We 
cannot make our water so discriminating; the general 
merit of water of deep drainage is, that it contains very 
little. Its perfection would be, that it should contain 
nothing. We understand that experiments are in progress 

* We do not deny that some subsoils contain matter prejudicial to 
vegetation, but generally they are not worse than a caput ntortuum ; 
seldom quite so bad. 



DRAINAGE. 99 

-which have ascertained that water, charged with matters 
which are known to stimulate vegetation, when filtered 
through 4 feet of retentive soil, comes out pure.* But to 
return to our wheat. In the first case, it shrinks before 
the cold of evaporation and the cold of water of attraction, 
and it sickens because its feet are never dry ; it suffers the 
usual maladies of cold and wet. In the second case, the 
excess of cold by evaporation is withdrawn ; the cold water 
of attraction is removed out of its way ; the warm air from 
the surface, rushing in to supply the place of the water 
which the drains remove, and the warm summer rains, 
bearing down with them the temperature which they have 
acquired from the upper soil, carry a genial heat to its 
lowest roots. Health, vigorous growth, and early maturity 
are the natural consequences. 

We think we have established that all soils will be bene- 
fited by the removal of the water-table to 4 feet, which 
must suffice under this head ; and we think every candid 
reader will be convinced that, by this single operation of 
lowering the water-table, many soils, hitherto sterile, and 
consequently much underrated, may be made into useful 
agricultural land. We will take together the fourth and 
fifth heads : they will occupy only a few sentences. They 
relate to the depth and direction of the drains by which 
the water-table is to be lowered. 

Water can only get into drains by gravity, which only 
acts by descent — technically, by fall ; the fall must be pro- 
portioned to the friction which the water encounters on its 
passage. Suppose drains 4 feet deep to be placed 12 yards 
apart on level land, it is plain that water at that depth, 
lying at the intermediate point between the two drains, 
will not get into either of them. A fall of some inches 
will be required to enable it to overcome the friction of 
6 yards of retentive soil. In order, therefore, to lower 
the water-table to 4 feet at all points, the drains must be 

* Since this Essay was first printed, a portion of these experiments 
has been communicated to the public by Professor Way. 

F 2 



100 AGRICULTURE. 

some inches deeper than 4 feet. If the land lies on a 
slope (say 4 inches to the yard), drains of 4 feet, if driven 
on the line of steepest descent, will effect the object ; be- 
cause, though water at 4 feet, lying at the intermediate 
point between two drains, in a line at right angles to them, 
cannot for want of fall get into either of them by travelling 
6 yards, it will find a fall of 4 inches at less than 7, and 
of 8 inches at less than 8, yards. If we must speak quite 
correctly, this intermediate water will never get into the 
drain till there is a fresh supply ; it will descend perpen- 
dicularly, pushing out that which lies below it, and will be 
itself displaced by a fresh arrival from the heavens. In 
order that the whole soil, if homogeneous, or nearly so, 
may be drained evenly, it is manifest that the drains must 
be parallel. Extra friction in the soil must be met either 
by making the drains deeper, or by placing them nearer. 
On this point, which is one of practice rather than of prin- 
ciple, each case must be left to the sagacity of the operator. 
We doubt whether in any natural soil the friction is so 
great as to resist a fall of 1 inch in a yard. If we are 
right in this point, we should always attain the object of 
lowering the water-table to 4 feet by 4-feet 6-inch drains, 
parallel, and 12 yards apart. We have already stated one 
advantage which results on a slope from driving the paral- 
lel drains in the line of steepest descent: to wit, that 
when they are so driven, all water which lies at the same 
depth from the surface as the bottoms of the drains, can 
find a fall into one or the other by travelling a little more 
than half the distance between them ; whereas, if the 
drains are driven across the slope, half the water so situated 
as to depth can only find a fall into the lower drain, and 
in order to reach it must travel distances varying from 
one-half to the full interval between the two. Smith, of 
Deanston, stated one reason for the steep course, namely, 
that on slopes alternate horizontal beds of porous and 
retentive soil frequently cropped out; that the w^ter 
issuing from the lower edge of the porous runs over the 



DRAINAGE. 101 

surface of the retentive ; that a drain driven across the 
elope in the retentive leaves this issue untouched : whereas 
a drain driven in the line of the slope cuts every one of 
these horizontal beds, draws the water to the depth of the 
drain out of the porous, and stops the overflow. Some 
one comes forward, and says, — " I have seen a case where 
the alternate beds are parallel, not overlying, perpendicular, 
not horizontal, and lie in the line of the slope. There 
your rule will not apply." Quite true ! but Smith's case 
frequently occurs, and is worthy of a general observation ; 
yours is very rare, and is not. You must deal with i t 
according to your ingenuity. But perhaps the greatest 
recommendation of the steep drain is, that the water gets 
so freely out of it ; it is no sooner in the drain than you 
are rid of it : whereas, in the horizontal drain it lingers 
lying against the lower side, oozing through the land and 
inviting attraction. In very steep lands, the general direc- 
tion of the natural cracks is across the line of slope, for 
the same reasons of gravity as in landslips, breaks in em- 
bankments, and other similar cases. Many valleys seem 
to have obtained their present form by a succession of little 
landslips, which are still in progress where a stream is 
washing away the foot. In such cases the steep drain cuts 
through all the cracks, and relieves them of their water. 

We now come to the conduit. 

If sticks, straw, clods, and the mole-plough have not 
entirely fled before modern improvements, we should un- 
worthily detain our readers by occupying a single line in 
giving them a parting kick. Stones must not be dismissed 
quite so summarily : they form an imperfect conduit, but 
we cannot say that in no situation is it advisable to use 
them. Many wet common lands, on their enclosure, and 
many of the slopes of moorland hills, when first brought 
into arable cultivation, are exceedingly encumbered with 
stones. It is almost as cheap to bury them in 4 or 5 feet 
drains as to cart them into heaps. We have seen instances 
where as many stones came out of the drain as would form 



102 AGRICULTURE. 

the conduit. Such soils are generally very firm. A narrow 
slab or inch board, fitting the bottom of the drain, will be 
a secure foundation for stone, a foot in depth, laid in the 
form which its nature may suggest. We will answer for 
the board. In taking up considerable lengths of drains 
5 and 6 feet deep, and so laid more than sixty years ago, 
we have seen no instance in which either oak, alder, birch, 
or willow has been materially decayed ; twigs and sticks, 
from similar depths, have been equally sound and tough. 
In the comparatively rare cases to which we have referred, 
we permit, without approval, the use of a stone conduit. 
We know no instance in which it is worth while (as Smith 
recommends) to quarry and break stones to form a con 
duit. 

We shall shock some and surprise many of our readers, 
when we state confidently that, in average soils, and, still 
more, in those which are inclined to be tender, horseshoe 
tiles form the weakest and most failing conduit which has 
ever been used for a deep drain. It is so, however; and a 
little thought, even if we had no experience, will tell us 
that it must be so. A doggrel song, quite destitute of 
humour, informs us that tiles of this sort were used in 
1760 at Grandesburg Hall, in Suffolk, by Mr. Cbarles 
Lawrence, the owner of the estate. The earliest of which 
we had experience were of large area and of weak form. 
Constant failures resulted from their use, and the cause 
was investigated; many of the tiles were found to be 
choked up with clay, and many to be broken longitudinally 
through the crown. For the first evil, two remedies were 
adopted ; a sole of slate, of wood, or of its own material, 
was sometimes placed under the tile, but the more usual 
practice was to form them with club-feet. To meet the 
case of longitudinal fracture, the tiles were reduced in size, 
and very much thickened in proportion to their area. The 
first of these remedies was founded on an entirely mistaken, 
and the second on no conception at all of the cause of the 
evil to which they were respectively applied. The idea 



DRAINAGE. 



3 03 



was, that this tile, standing on narrow feet, and pressed by 
the weight of tlie refilled soil, sank into the floor of the 
drain ; whereas, in fact, the floor of the drain rose into the 
tile. Any one at all conversant with collieries is aware that 
when a strait work (which is a small subterranean tunnel 
6 feet high and 4 feet wide or thereabouts) is driven in 
coal, the rising of the floor is a more usual and far more 
inconvenient occurrence than the falling of the roof: the 
weight of the two sides squeezes up the floor. We have 
seen it formed into a very decided arch without fracture. 
Exactly a similar operation takes place in the drain. No 
one had till recently dreamed of forming a tile drain, the 
bottom of which a man was not to approach personally 
within 20 inches or 2 feet. To no one had it then occurred 
that width at the bottom of the drain was a great evil. For 
the convenience of the operator the drain was formed with 
nearly perpendicular sides, of a width in which he could 
stand and work conveniently, shovel the bottom level with 
his ordinary spade, and lay the tiles by his hand ; the 
result was a drain with nearly perpendicular sides, and a 
wide bottom. No sort of clay, particularly when softened 
by water standing on it or running over it, could fail to 
lise under such drcumstances ,* and the deeper the drain 
the greater the pressure and the more certain the rising. 
A horseshoe tile, which may be a tolerably secure conduit 
in a drain of 2 feet, in one of 4 feet becomes an almost 
certain failure. As to the longitudinal fracture — not only 
is the tile subject to be broken by one of those slips which 
are so troublesome in deep draining, and to which the 
lightly-filled material, even when the drain is completed, 
offers an imperfect resistance, but the constant pressure 
together of the sides, even when it does not produce a 
fracture of the soil, catches hold of the feet of the tile, and 
breaks it through the crown. Consider the case of a drain 
formed in clay when dry, the conduit a horseshoe tile. 
When the clay expands with moisture, it necessarily presses 
on the tile, and breaks it through the crown, its weakest 



104 AGRICULTUEE. 

part.* When the Regent's Park was first drained, large 
conduits were in fashion, and thej were made circular by 
placing one horseshoe tile upon another. It would be 
difficult to invent a weaker conduit. On re-drainage, in- 
numerable instances were found in which the upper tile 
was broken through the crown, and had dropped into the 
lower. Next came the Q form, tile and sole in one, and 
much reduced in size — a great advance ; and when some 
skilful operator had laid this tile bottom upwards we were 
evidently on the eve of pipes. For the P tile a round 
pipe moulded with a flat-bottomed solid sole O^ is now 
generally substituted, and is an improvement ; but is not 
equal to pipes and collars, nor generally cheaper than they 
are. 

Almost forty years ago, small pipes for land-drainage were 
used concurrently by the following parties, who still had 
no knowledge of each other's operations: — Sir T. Wich- 
cote, of Asgarby, Lincolnshire (these we believe were 
socket-pipes) — Mr. R. Harvey, at Epping — Mr. Boulton 
at Great Tew, in Oxfordshire (these were porcelain 1- 
inch pipes made by Wedgwood, at Etruria) — and Mr. John 
Read, at Horsemonden, in Kent. Most of these pipes 
were made with eyelet-holes to admit the water. Pipes 
for thorough draining were incidentally mentioned in the 
Journal of the Agricultural Society, for May 1843, but 
they excited no general attention till they were exhibited 
by John Read (the inventor of the stomach-pump) at the 
Agricultural Show at Derby in that year. A medal was 
awarded to the exhibitor. Mr. Parkes was one of the 
Judges, and brought the pipes to the special notice of the 
Council, and was instructed by them to investigate their 

* The tile has been said, by great authorities, to be broken by con- 
traction, under some idea that the clay envelopes the tile and presses it 
when it contracts. That is nonsense. The contraction would liberate 
the tile. Drive a stake into wet clay ; and when the clay is dry, observe 
whether it clips the stake tighter or has released it, and you Avill no 
longer have any doubt whether expansion or contraction breaka-the 
tile. Shrink is a better word than contract. 



DRAINAGE. 105 

use and merits. From this moment inventions and im- 
provements huddle in uijon us faster than we can describe 
them. Collars to connect the pipes, a new form of drain, 
tools of new forms, — particularly one by which the pipe 
and collar are laid with wonderful rapidity and precision, 
by an operator who stands on the top of the drain — and 
pipe-and-collar-making machines (stimulated by repeated 
prizes offered by the Royal Agricultural Society), which 
furnish those articles on a scale of unexampled cheapness. 
For all these inventions and adaptations we are mainly in- 
debted to Mr. Parkes. The economical result is, a drain 
4 feet 6 inches deep, excavated and refilled at from l^d. 
to 2d. per yard — the workmen earning 12s. and upwards 
per week; and 333^ yards of collared IJ-inch pipes for 
18s. — being 1 2s. per thousand for the pipes, and 6s. per 
thousand for the collars ; larger sizes at a proportionate 
advance. We shall best exemplify the improvements to 
our readers by describing the drain. It is wrought in the 
shape of a wedge, brought in the bottom to the narrowest 
limit which will admit the collar by tools admirably adapted 
to that purpose. The foot of the operator is never within 
20 inches of the floor of the drain ; his tools are made of 
iron plated on steel, and never lose their sharpness, even 
when worn to the stumps ; because, as the softer material, 
the iron, wears away, the sharp steel edge is always promi- 
nent. The sloping sides of the drain are self-sustaining, 
and the pressure on its floor is reduced to a minimum ; the 
circular form of the pipe and collar enables them to sus- 
tain any pressure to which they can be subjected ; the 
adaptation of the bed in which they lie to their size pre- 
vents their wriggling. They form a continuous conduit, and. 
whose continuity cannot be broken except by great violence. 
However steep the drain, the water running in the pipe 
can never wash up its floor. They offer almost insuperable 
impediments to the entrance of vermin, roots,* or anything 

* I am afraid that I must materially modify this expression, as far as 
roots are concerned. The words " almost insuperable impediments" are 

F 3 



106 AGRICULTURE. 

except water, and they are more portable both to the field 
and in the field than any other conduit previously dis- 
covered : cheap, light, handy, secure, efficacious. 

Perhaps some of our readers will boggle at this word 
efficacious. Doubts will begin to trouble inexperienced 
minds ; — Will water get freely into these narrow-bottomed 
drains ? Will pipes of this small capacity convey it away ? 
The scepticism is natural ; but on each point we are able to 
offer them abundant consolation and conviction — consola- 
tion from experience, conviction on argument. We have 
seen hundreds of drains wrought in the manner we have 
described, and laid with pipes, and in no instance where 
the land contained water of drainage have they failed to run 
freely. We never heard any one say they did not. This 
ought to satisfy every person who is not of his own know- 
ledge aware of an instance to the contrary : " Quod semper, 

not applicable. My own experience as to roots, in connexion with deep 
pipe draining, is as follows: — I have never known roots to obstruct a 
pipe through which there was not a perennial stream. The flow of 
water in summer and early autumn appears to furnish the attraction. 
I have never discovered that the roots of any esculent vegetable have 
obstructed a pipe. The trees which, by my own personal observation, 
I have found to be most dangerous, have been red willow, black Italian- 
poplar, alder, ash, and broad-leaved elm. I have many alders in close 
contiguity with important drains, and, though I have never convicted 
one, I cannot doubt that they are dangerous. Oak, and black and white 
thorns, I have not detected, nor do I suspect them. The guilty trees 
have in every instance been young and ft'ee growing; I have never con- 
victed an adult. These remarks apply solely to my own observation, 
and may of course be much extended by that of other agriculturists. 
I know an instance in which a perennial spring of very pure and (I 
believe) soft water is conveyed in socket pipes to a paper-mill. Every 
junction of two pipes is carefully fortified with cement. The only 
object of cover being protection from superficial injury and from frost, 
the pipes are laid not far below the sod. Year by year these pipes are 
stopped by roots. Trees are very capricious in this matter. I was told 
by the late Sir K. Peel that he sacrificed two young elm trees in the 
park at Drayton Manor to a drain which had been repeatedly stopped by 
roots, The stoppage was nevertheless repeated, and was then traced to 
an elm tree far more distant than those which had been sacrificed. 
Early in the autumn of 1850 I completed the drainage of the upper 
part of a boggy valley, lying, with ramifications, at the foot of marly 
banks. The main drains converge to a common outlet, to which are 



DRAINAGE. 107 

quod ubique, quod inter omiies " is, if we remember right, 
a sufficient ground of faith ; but, on argument, the water 
must get into the drain, and must get into the pipes. This 
is a matter on which we have seen even sensible men so 
muddle-headed that we fear we must be elementary. We 
will assume the drain to be 4 feet deep, and the water-table 
to be at 1 foot below the surface of the earth. Every par- 
ticle of water which lies at 3 feet below the water-table has 
on it the pressure of a column of water 3 feet high ; this 
pressure will drive the particle in any direction in which it 
finds no resistance, with a rapidity varying inversely to the 
friction of the medium through which the column acts. 
The bottom of our drains will offer no resistance, and into 
it particles of water will be pushed, in conformity with the 
rule which we have stated : rapidly, if the medium opposes 
little friction ; slowly, if it opposes much. The water so 
pushed in runs off by the drain, the column of pressure 

brought one 3-inch pipe and three of 4 inches each. They lie side by 
side, and water flows perennially through each of them. Near to this 
outlet did grow a red willow. In February, 1852, I found the water 
breaking out to the surface of the ground about 10 yai-ds above the 
outlet, and was at no loss for the cause, as the roots of the red willow 
showed themselves at the orifice of the 3-inch and of two of the 4-inch 
pipes. On examination I found that a root had entered a joint between 
two 3-inch pipes, and had travelled 5 yards to the mouth of the drain, 
and 9 yards up the stream, forming a continuous length of 14 yards. 
The root which first entered had attained about the size of a lady's 
little finger; and its ramifications consisted of very fine and almost silky 
fibres, and would have cut up into half a dozen comfortable boas. The 
drain was completely stopped. The pipes were not in any degree dis- 
placed. Boots from the same willow had passed over the 3-inch pipes, 
and had entered and entirely stopped the first 4-inch drain, and had 
partially stopped the second. At a distance of about 50 yards a black 
Italian poplar, which stood on a bank over a 4-inch drain, had com- 
pletely stopped it with a bunch of roots. The whole of this had been 
the work of less than 18 months, including the depth of two winters. 
A 3-inch branch of the same system runs through a little group of 
black poplars. This drain conveys a full stream in plashes of wet, and 
some water generally through the winter months, but has not a peren- 
nial flow. I have perceived no indication that roots have interfered 
with this drain. I draw no general conclusions from these few facts, 
but they may assist those who have more extensive experience in draw- 
ing some, which may be of use to drainers. — T. G. 



108 AGRIOULTUBE. ^ 

being diminished in proportion to the water which runs off. 
Into the spot which offers no resistance, be it large or be 
it small, the water above that level must be pushed till the 
column is so reduced that its weight will not overcome 
friction. As friction will be greatest at the intermediate 
point between two parallel drains, the water will stand a 
little highest at that point and will decline in a regular 
gradation to the level of the bottom of each drain. Take 
a familiar illustration — for, like Walter Blith, we are 
obliged to use repetitions, though we will not follow his 
example in saying why. In a soil which is saturated with 
water — (and by saturated we mean that, in addition to its 
water of attraction, it has the interstices between its par- 
ticles filled with water of drainage) — sink a deep hole, no 
matter how narrow ; it will stand full of water. Draw the 
water out rapidly — it will fill again from the bottom. Into 
the space where there is no resistance the water must come. 
This is a parallel case to the bottom of the drain from 
which the water runs off — the point of non-resistance re- 
mains, and to it all the water in the soil must come up to 
the limit which we have above assigned. Will the small 
pipes carry off the water? This is a mere question of 
capacity, and can be decided by accurate calculation ; the 
calculation is given at length in pp. 43-45 of Mr. Parkes's 
Essays. We will only state the result. If an acre of land 
be intersected with parallel drains 12 yards apart, and if 
on that acre should fall the very unusual quantity of 
1 inch of rain in 12 hours, in order that every drop of 
this rain may be discharged by the drains in forty-eight 
hours from the commencement of the rain — (and in a less 
period that quantity neither will, not is it desirable that it 
should, filter through an agricultural soil) — the interval 
between two pipes will be called upon to pass two-thirds of 
a table-spoonful of water per minute, and no more. Inch 
pipes, lying at a small inclination, and running only half- 
full, will discharge more than double this quantity of water 
in forty-eight hours. The mains or receiving drains are of 



L 



DRAINAGE. lOd 

course laid with larger pipes. Experience has established 
this average, that a 3-inch pipe will discharge the water of 
9 acres, 4 of 16, and so on ; the quantity of acres being 
equal to the product of the diameter of the pipe in inches 
multiplied into itself. 

We were astounded to find at the conclusion of Mr. 
Parkes's Newcastle Lecture this sentence: — "It may be 
advisable for me to say, that in clays, and other clean-cut- 
ting and firm-bottomed soils, I do not find the collars to be 
indispensably necessary ; although I always prefer their 
use." This is a barefaced treachery to pipes : an abandon- 
ment of the strongest point in their case — the assured 
continuity of the conduit Every one may see how very 
small a disturbance at their point of junction would disso- 
ciate two pipes of 1 inch diameter. One finds a soft place 
in the bottom of the drain, and dips his nose into it 1 
inch deep, and cocks up his other end. By this simple 
operation the continuity of the conduit is twice broken. 
An inch of lateral motion produces the same efiect. Pipes 
of a larger diameter than 2 inches are generally laid with- 
out collars ; this is a practice on which we do not look with 
much complacency ; it is the compromise between cost and 
security, to which the afiairs of men are so often compelled. 
No doubt a conduit from 3 to 6 inches in diameter is much 
less subject to a breach in its continuity than one which is 
smaller ; but when no collars are used, the pipes should be 
laid with extreme care, and the bed which is prepared for 
them at the bottom of the drain should be worked to their 
size and shape with great accuracy. 

To one advantage which is derived from the use of col- 
lars we have not yet adverted — the increased facility with 
which free water existing in the soil can find entrance into 
the conduit. The collar for a l^-inch pipe has a circum- 
ference of 3 inches. The whole space between the collar 
and the pipe on each side of the collar is open, and afibrds 
no resistance to the entrance of water ; while at the same 
time the superincumbent arch of the collar protects the 



110 AGmcULTURE. 

junction of two pipes from the intrusion of particles of 
soil. We confess to some original misgivings that a pipe 
resting only on an inch at each end, and lying hollow, 
might prove weak and liable to fracture by weight pressing 
on it from above ; but the fear was illusory. Small particles 
of soil trickle down the sides of every drain, and the first flow 
of water will deposit them in the vacant space between the 
two collars. The bottom, if at all soft, will also swell up 
into any vacancy. Practically, if you re-open a drain well 
laid with pipes and collars, you will find them reposing in 
a beautiful nidus, which, when they are carefully removed, 
looks exactly as if it had been moulded for them. 

And now for the controversy between the deep and the 
shallow. 

We shall dismiss with a very few words two classes of 
writers on the subject of draining — 1st. Those who limit 
the advantages of a drain to the water which is passed into 
it from its ow^n surface, and who therefore enjoin that it 
should be filled with porous material, and that it should be 
shallow. 2nd. Those who will not drain 4 or 5 feet deep 
because it makes the ground too dry for the roots of plants. 
This idea must have come from some garret, having been 
conceived by an ingenious recluse brooding over his ig- 
norance, and reasoning as follows : — What makes vege- 
tation burn up? The absence of water from its roots. 
What takes away the water ? Deep drains. Ergo, deep 
drains are the cause of burning. We will supply a 
formula : — Why does vegetation burn ? Because its roots 
are very superficial. Why superficial ? Because they 
won't face the cold of stagnant water. What removes the 
cold and the water ? Deep drains. And the facts exactly 
coincide with our logic. Deep-drained lands never do 
burn. Nothing burns sooner than a few inches of soil on 
a very retentive clay. No land is less subject to burn than 
the same soil when, by 4 or 5 feet draining, a range of 3 or 
4 feet has been given to the previously superficial roots. 

Having dismissed these two small matters, we must 



DRAINAGE . Ill 

treat more respectfully a lingering scepticism as to the 
efficacy of deep drains in very retentive soils ; and instead 
of wondering at this sc epticism, we wonder rather that deep 
thorough-draining has so rapidly made converts. Repre- 
sentations are made of soils which consist of some inches 
of a moderately porous material reposing on a subsoil which 
is said to be impervious ; and we are told that it is of no 
use to make the drain deeper into the impervious matter 
than will suffice for laying the conduit. If the subsoil is 
impervious, as glass or even as cast-iron or caoutchouc are 
impervious, we at once admit the soundness of the argu- 
ment. We only want to ask one question — Is your subsoil 
moister after the rains of mid-winter than it is after the 
drought of midsummer ? if it is, it will drain. Mr. Mechi 
asks, shrewdly enough, " If your soil is impervious, how 
did you get it wet?" This imperviousness is always pre- 
dicated of strong clays — plastic clays they are sometimes 
called. We really thought that no one was so ignorant as 
not to be aware that clay lands always shrink and crack 
with drought, and the stiffer the clay the greater the shrink- 
ing, as brickmakers well know. In the great drought 36 
years ago, we saw, in a very retentive soil in the Vale of 
Belvoir, cracks which it was not very pleasant to ride 
among. This very summer, on land which, with reference 
to this very subject, the owner stated to be impervious, we 
put a walking-stick 3 feet into a sun-crack without finding 
a bottom, and the whole surface was what Mr. Parkes not 
inappropriately calls a net-work of cracks. When heavy 
rain comes upon the soil in this state, of course the cracks 
fill, the clay imbibes the water, expands, and the cracks are 
abolished. But if there are 4 or 5 feet parallel drains in 
the land, the water passes at once into them, and is carried 
ofif. In fact, when heavy rain falls upon clay lands in this 
cracked state, it passes off too quickly, without adequate fil- 
tration. Into the fissures of the undrained soil the roots 
only penetrate to be perished by the cold and wet of the suc- 
ceeding winter ; but in the drained soil the roots follow the 
threads of vegetable mould which have been washed into 



112 AGRICULTURE. 

the cracks, and get an abiding tenure. Earth-worms follow 
either the roots or the mould. Permanent schisms are esta- 
blished in the clay, and its whole character is changed. An 
old farmer in a midland county began with 20-inch drains 
across the hill, and, without ever reading a word, or, we be- 
lieve, conversing with any one on the subject, poked his way 
step by step to 4 or 5 feet drains in the line of steepest 
descent. Showing us his drains this spring, he said — 
"They do better year by year ; the water gets a habit of 
coming to them." A very correct statement of the fact, 
though not a very philosophical explanation. Year by year 
the average dryness of the soil increases, the cracks are 
further extended, and seldomer obliterated. A man may 
drain retentive soils deep and well, but he will be disap- 
pointed if he expects what is unreasonable. No intelli- 
gent and honest operator will say more, than that money 
judiciously expended in draining them will pay good, and 
generally very good, interest. If you eat off turnips with 
sheep, if you plough the land, or cart on it, or in any way 
puddle it when it is wet, of course the water will lie on the 
surface, and will not go to your drains. A 4-feet drain may 
go very near a pit or a water-course without attracting 
water from either, because water-courses almost invariably 
puddle their beds, and the same effect is produced in pits by 
the treading of cattle, and even by the motion of the water 
produced by wind. A very thin film of puddle always wet 
on one side is impervious, because it cannot crack. 

No system of draining can relieve soils of water-of- 
attraction. That can only be exhausted by evaporation. 
Retentive soils hold it in excess ; its reduction by evapora- 
tion produces cold ; and therefore retentive soils never can 
be so warm as porous. Expect reasonable things only of 
your drained retentive soils, and you will not be disap- 
pointed. Shallow drainers start with the idea of a drop 
of water falling on the top of the soil, and working its 
solitary way through narrow and tortuous passages to a 
drain ; and they say that it would be lost in the labyrinth, 
which we think very likely. They have no idea that the 



DRAINAGE. 113 

"water operated upon by the drain is that which lies at the 
level of its own bottom, which runs off, and is replaced by 
that which was immediately above it. And on account of 
this operation, which we have before explained, it is 
necessary in retentive soils, in which friction is greater 
than in porous, to have the drains deeper, in order to 
lower the water-table to the same extent. A column of 
6 inches may suffice to push water from the intermediate 
point between two drains in a porous soil, and it may 
require a 12-inch column in a retentive. In that case the 
drain in the retentive soil must be 6 inches deeper than 
in the porous. Ignorance says, Drain shallower because 
your soil is retentive. Experience and reason say. Drain 
deeper. We may here notice, that in clay lauds the portion 
within 1 or 2 feet of the surface is almost always more 
retentive than that which lies below; simply, we appre- 
hend, because its particles have been comminuted and 
packed close by the alternate influences of wet and dry, 
heat and cold. When dried below by drains, and above 
by evaporation, it is certain to crack and become perme- 
able ; and this operation may, if necessary, be assisted by 
subsoiling or other artificial means. 

The practice of deep thorough-draining is not quite new 
in England, for, if we remember right, Arthur Young 
states that the best draining which he saw in his agri- 
cultural tour was in Yorkshire, on an estate of Lord 
Rockingham's, by parallel drains 4 feet deep running in 
the line of steepest descent. Nothing more was heard of 
the matter till a few successful cases in Kent and Sussex 
were offered to the notice of agriculturists. No sooner, 
however, was the practice advocated strongly by Mr. 
Parkes and others, than a host of correspondents of various 
agricultural publications furnished more instances of the 
abandonment of deep draining on account of failure than, 
we verily believe, they could have authenticated cases of 
practice. Probably it is not now necessary to advert 
further to such statements. We believe that they have 



114 AGRICULTUEE. 

subsided into quiet oblivion. The practice so derided and 
maligned has advanced with wonderful strides. We 
remember the days of 1 5 inches ; then a step to 20 ; a 
stride to 30 ; and the last (and probably final) jump to 50, 
a few inches under or over. We have dabbled in them 
all, generally belonging to the deep section of the day. 
We have used the words " probably final " because the 
first advances were experimental, and, though they were 
justified by the results obtained, no one attempted to 
explain the principle on which benefit was derived from 
them. The principles on which the now prevailing depth 
is founded, and which we believe to be true, go far to show 
that we have attained all the advantages which can be 
derived from the removal of water in ordinary agriculture. 
We do not mean that, even in the most retentive soil, 
water would not get into drains which were laid somewhat 
deeper ; but to this there must be a not very distant limit, 
because pure clay, lying below the depth at which wet and 
drought applied at the surface would expand and contract 
it, would certainly part with its water very slowly. We 
find that, in coal mines and in deep quarries, a stratum of 
clay of only a few inches thick interposed between two 
strata of pervious stone will form an eftectual bar to the 
passage of water ; whereas, if it lay within a few feet of 
the surface, it would in a season of heat and drought 
become as pervious as a cullender. But when we have 
got rid of the cold arising from the evaporation of free 
water, have given a range of several feet to the roots of 
grass and cereals, and have enabled retentive land to filter 
through itself all the rain which falls upon its surface, we 
are not, in our present state of knowledge, aware of any 
advantage which would arise from further lowering the 
surface of water in agricultural land. Smith, of Deanston, 
first called prominent attention to the fertilizing efiects of 
rain filtered through land, and to evils produced by allow- 
ing it to flow off the surface. Any one will see how much 
more effectually this benefit will be attained, and this eVil 




DRAINAGE. 115 

avoided, by a 4-feet than by a 2-feet drainage. The latter 
can only prepare 3 feet of soil for the reception and 
retention of rain, which 2 feet, being saturated, will reject 
more, and the surplus must run off the surface, carrying 
whatever it can find with it. A 4-feet drainage will be 
constantly tending to have 4 feet of soil ready for the 
reception of rain, and it will take much more rain to 
saturate 4 feet than 2. Moreover, as a gimlet-hole bored 
4 feet from the surface of a barrel filled with water will 
discharge much more in a given time than a similar hole 
bored at the depth of 2 feet, so will a 4-feet drain dis 
charge in a given time much more water than a drain of 
2 feet. One is acted on by a 4-feet, and the other by a 
2-feet, pressure. 

We have something to say on the score of authority. 
The late Sir Kobert Peel was a great drainer. He began 
shallow, was disappointed at the results, and adopted deep 
draining. He began with miscellaneous conduits — but 
settled into pipes and collars. Within the last six or 
seven y^ars of his life. Sir Robert Peel drained 2000 acres in 
the counties of Warwick, Stafford, and Lancaster — a por- 
tion (perhaps considerable) on the requisition of tenants. 
Reports were industriously circulated, by speech and writing, 
that Sir Robert was dissatisfied with the results of his deep 
draining, in consequence of which a letter was addressed to 
him, to which he gave a prompt reply. He laid his cor- 
respondent under no restrictions as to the use of that 
reply, and it has been kindly communicated to us. We 
extract the following sentences : — 

" It is utterly untrue that I am dissatisfied with the 
experiment of deep draining. I have had many prejudices 
to contend against; the purely stupid ones against any 
novelty — any innovation on the old system of agriculture ; 
those, too, prompted by self-interested jealousy of the new 

machinery which innovation renders necessary 

I have permitted some drains to be laid at less than 4 feet, 
partly to humour tenants, on strong clays, who wished to 



116 AGRICULTURE. 

avoid the expense of very close draining at the additional 
depth, . . . If I had a field in my own occupation, of 
stiiBf clay, I should place close drains 21 or perhaps 18 feet 
apart ; but I should prefer 4 feet, notwithstanding the 
additional expense, to 3." 

After a caution against dogmatizing and presuming 
*' that a rule good in their own case must necessarily be 
good in every other," he thus proceeds : — 

" I can conceive a case in which, if you had a limited 
sum to expend — say AL an acre — the nature of the ground 
might be such that the increased closeness might com- 
pensate for diminished depth — I mean, for instance, that 
drains 18 feet apart and 3 feet deep might be more 
effectual than drains 25 feet apart and 4 feet deep." 

Sir Robert then touches on the importance of " breaking 
up that indurated mass which the trampling of many 
successive years has formed," to which, as he says, sufficient 
attention is seldom paid. Probably the words " in my 
own occupation," quoted above, have reference to the 
consciousness of the writer that stiff clays are frequently 
80 occupied after drainage as to render the operation of 
little or no value. The whole letter shows a complete 
acquaintance with the subject of thorough-draining. 

Perhaps the Earl of Lonsdale was the first large land- 
owner who, bt/ personal observation, became convinced of the 
agricultural advantages of deep draining. He picked up 
this knowledge during his able superintendence of the 
metropolitan roads, and has applied it very diligently on 
his extensive estates, and is, we believe, applying it still. 
But he must speak for himself. On the 22nd Sept., 1 849, 
at an agricultural gathering in Carlisle, he made the fol- 
lowing very decisive observations : — 

*• My noble friend has alluded to my draining. I will 

tell you frankly where I learnt the art. My noble friend 

has spoken of my management of the metropolitan roads. 

That was a little plaything compared to what I have since 

xperienced. It is a fact, however, that I learned draining 



DRAINAGE. 117 

not in the country, but in the town, even in the great town 
of London, and then forgot it until I came in possession of 
my property in Westmoreland and Cumberland. Many of 
you, I dare say, know that some portion of the county 
of Middlesex is low and flat, with a strong clay. We found 
that what we called shallow draining took a little water off 
the surface of the roads, but did not strengthen or harden 
the foundations ; the roads were soon in as bad a state 
as ever. After various consultations upon the subject with 
a friend of mine, we determined to drain 5 or 6 feet deep. 
From that moment their maintenance did not involve half 
the previous expense. We had extensive powers in that 
Act, and I remember on one occasion we were driving a 
drain through a gentleman's garden, which it was necessary 
to do on that particular spot. The owner, of course, was 
offended, and cried out : he lustily protested against our 
interference, appealed to the Legislature, and in every way 
opposed our measures. We, however, persevered in our 
drainage ; and two years afterwards the same gentleman 
came to us and said, ' I can't think what has happened to 
my garden, for the vegetables come a month earlier than 
they used to do, and remain good on the ground a month 
later.' Originally, I admit, then, I learned draining in the 
metropolitan roads ; and all my other experience in later 
years leads me to think, notwithstanding what has been 
said in its favour, that shallow draining of 2 feet, or 2^ 
feet deep, is three-fourths of your money thrown away. 
I know gentlemen at public meetings are apt to make 
concessions about draining, but upon that point I am 
very firm, because I believe, nay, I know, I am sure, that 
deep draining is decidedly the best ; and I never yet in all 
my experience — and I have gone over as much land as any 
one in the kingdom, for though late in life I have again 
taken to the chase, and keep a pack of hounds at Tring ; 
and, with reference to Hertfordshire, Buckinghamshire, 
Oxfordshire, and Bedfordshire, I can say that I am per- 
petually riding over farmers' lands in those counties, and I 



118 AGRICULTURE. 

know, I say, as well to what depth that land is drained as 
if I had seen or done it myself. I look upon it, and I wish 
you to view it in the same light, that when you are putting 
in shallow drains you are incurring a dead loss; and I 
would urge you to examine the difference between the 
effect of the two systems, for nothing can be more striking 
than the contrast presented by land under deep and shallow 
draining. I have seen this exemplified on the estates of 
two friends of mine, the Duke of Northumberland and the 
Duke of Bedford, two noblemen of very opposite opinions, 
and each residing in different parts of the country, but 
both most energetic in endeavouring to improve their 
lands. The Duke of Bedford, although his predecessor 
laid out large sums of money in shallow draining, has now 
entirely discarded the system. In fact, deep draining is 
the only system that can with a certainty of success be 
adopted ; and I would advise you, gentlemen, before you 
lay out money upon what is called shallow draining — espe- 
cially as capital is not yet cheap, and you would still have 
to pay more than 3^ per cent, for it — to consult and ex- 
amine those lands that have been subjected to the other 
system. In particular soils, no doubt, you may drain a 
little too wide, and you will have to rectify the evil, as it 
is called, afterwards ; but as to the depth of the drain, there 
can be no dispute. It was only the other day I received 
a report from a tenant on a farm of my own near White- 
haven, which was as wet a place as could be conceived, 
and I believe the land was rather looked upon with dismay 
by the farmer when he saw it cut and hacked about in that 
fashion; but this year he has reaped the benefits of deep 
draining, and he reports to me that while the occupiers of 
the adjoining farms formerly always secured their crops 
before him, he now gets his in before any of them, and 
his harvest this year has come three weeks earlier than 
usual. Such has been my experience on this important 
subject." 

Space forbids our taking more than a passing notice of 



DRAINAGE. 1 1 

the Acts of Parliament which have heen recently passed 
for advancing public, and facilitating the advance of pri- 
vate, money on the security of lands to be improved by 
draining. They mark the strong hold which the subject 
has on the minds of agriculturists. Both the Acts and the 
evidence on which they are founded will be interesting to 
those landowners who require as alienum to assist in carry- 
ing out their improvements. 

One word with our readers before we part. They may 
dislike the terms to the use of which we have been driven, 
and we are by no means unconscious of their imperfections; 
but we hope that we have so limited them by definition as 
to remove much of their ambiguity. Our purpose has been 
to bring, in a connected view, before them the objects and 
the advantages of thorough-draining, and to explain in a 
popular way the principles on which those objects are 
carried out and those advantages are attained. That to 
remove water, which is either injurious to vegetation or 
obstructive to agricultural operations, is one object of 
draining, is patent to every one. That if it be removed 
by superficial discharge it will carry off with it elements 
beneficial to vegetation, because they form the most soluble 
part of soils, no one will doubt, though he may not have 
fully realized to himself what very hateful things furrows, 
and ditches, and water-grips, and other artificial aids to 
this superficial discharge really are. It requires but little 
observation to discover that, with few exceptions, porous 
soils are fertile, and, with equally few, very retentive soils 
are sterile. But the persons are less numerous who are 
aware that the greatest object and the most important ad- 
vantage of thorough-draining is, that it warms and ven- 
tilates retentive soils. Of warmth we have spoken largely. 
Ventilation is more obscure. But close observation of 
agriculture and of horticulture will not allow us to doubt 
that alternation of fresh air and of fresh water are con- 
ducive to fertility. It is not unreasonable to suppose that 
as stagnant air ceases to sustain the lives of men and ani- 



120 AGRICULTURE. 

mals, and stagnant water the lives of fishes, so stagnant 
air and water may cease to administer to the purposes of 
vegetation. In cultivable land in our climate, porousness, 
either natural or artificial, is the only known avenue to 
warmth and ventilation. 

Some points of practice have found their way into our 
dissertation, but we have not sought to give a manual — 
indeed, we have studiously endeavoured to avoid it. If 
we should give a stimulus to amateur draining, we shall do 
a great deal of harm. We wish we could publish a list of 
the moneys which have been squandered in the last forty 
years in amateur draining, either ineffectually or with very 
imperfect efficiency. Our own name would be inscribed in 
the list for a very respectable sum. Every thoughtless 
squire supposes that by the aid of his ignorant bailiff he 
can effect a perfect drainage of his estate ; but there is a 
worse man behind the squire and the bailiff — the draining 
conjuror. We knew a jockey at Newmarket, a solemn and 
mysterious man. His first master told us that he was an 
idiot — that he could never in his life get a reason from 
him. ♦* But," said he, "he is an inspired idiot on horse- 
back." So the village conjuror, by dint of mystery and 
one lucky hit among a score of failures, is supposed to 
receive inspiration as soon as he takes the draining spade 
in his hand. These fellows never go direct about their 
work. If they attack a spring, they try to circumvent it 
by some circuitous route. They never can learn that 
Nature shows you the weakest point, and that you should 
assist her — that Hit him straight in the eye is as good a 
maxim in draining as in pugilism. An evangelical clergy- 
man complained to the Rev. Charles Simeon that when he 
wished to preach extempore, utterance was denied to him; 
he supposed because he lacked faith. " Olli suhridens'' 
the venerable man replied ; ** No, my dear brother, justifi- 
cation is by faith, but extempore preaching is by works." 
Neither the squire nor the bailiff nor the conjuror lacks 
faith, but they are sadly deficient in good works — in edu- 



DRAINAGE. 121 

cation, in knowledge, in science, in accurate thought, in 
experience — ^in short, in everything which in complicated 
operations conduces to success. If you wish to drain, we 
recommend you to take advice. We have disposed of the 
quack, but there is a faculty, not numerous but extending, 
and whose extension appears to us to be indispensable to 
the satisfactory progress of improvements by draining— a 
faculty of draining engineers. If we wanted a profession 
for a lad who showed any congenial talent, we would bring 
him up to be a draining engineer. 

What we preach we practise. After thirty-six years of 
experience, we became tired of struggling with unskilful 
workmen, bad tools, and worse supervision. A perusal of 
one of Mr. Parkes's essays induced us to look carefully 
into his works, and we then asked his assistance. Of 
course we do not mention Mr. Parkes's name to the exclu- 
sion of, or even in preference to, that of any other engineer 
who may have equal abilities and attainments ; and if we 
did, we should only lead the great majority of those who 
wish to drain into error, for we believe that, except in cases 
of considerable extent, it is hardly possible to secure his 
services. We cannot disparage our own skill, and in truth 
we called in Mr. Parkes as a measure of economy. A 
short detail of our proceedings (similar, no doubt, to those 
of other land-owners with other engineers) will best explain 
how we have secured that advantage. We proceeded to- 
gether to the ground, where we made trial- holes, and con- 
certed outfalls, and directions, and depths, and frequency. 
We have no doubt that Mr. Parkes would have been quite 
as well satisfied to settle all these points without any con- 
cert on our part. Then we began to differ. We were im- 
patient, and wanted to begin, but Mr. Parkes would not 
turn a sod till he saw pipes and tools and fifteen tolerable 
spademen, with their ordinary spades and picks, on the 
ground. He furnished us with a list of tools, which we 
procured from Mr. A. Lyndon of Birmingham. They 
appear to be of a very enduring sort, and are extremely 

a 



122 AGRICULTURE. 

liked by the workmen ; a set for from fifteen to twenty 
men costs five guineas. Mr. Parkes calculated the number 
and sizes of the pipes which would be required, and then 
made the contract for them — certainly 10 per cent, lower 
than we should have procured them, simply because the 
makers knew that Mr. Parkes was well aware at what price 
they could be afforded, and was prepared, in case of neces- 
sity, to establish a tilery, as he had previously done on 
estates in several counties. Pipes, tools, and spademen 
being at length provided, Mr. Parkes brought a foreman, 
with whom he set out drains, and left the work under his 
superintendence. To this man we paid 20s. per week. 
He understood pretty accurately the prices of work, and 
dealt fairly between the employer and the labourers. He 
instructed them in the use of the new tools. He measured 
up the work, kept the accounts, paid the men, and laid 
every pipe and collar with his own hands. It would be 
scarcely more absurd to set a common blacksmith to eye 
needles, than to employ a common labourer to lay pipes 
and collars. For these services we paid to Mr. Parkes 5s. 
per acre drained, and some travelling expenses. In each 
of the two years preceding that on which we had Mr. 
Parkes s assistance, we drained similar and adjoining land. 
We do not believe that Mr. Parkes would have varied 
either the direction or the depth of any of our drains. He 
would have made them less frequent— intervals of 12 yards 
instead of 10, and 10 instead of 8. Allowing for this, we 
find that the saving on Mr. Parkes's draining, after it is 
debited with every charge, is more than 10s. per acre. We 
verily believe that, in the case of a totally-inexperienced 
land-owner or bailiff, the saving would be reckoned by 
pounds, not by shilHngs. Our readers will expect that we 
should say something about cost. We do not think that 
we ever saw so favourable a combination of circumstances, 
that efficient thorough-draining of retentive land could be 
executed at from 4 to 5 feet deep, under 4Z. per acre. We 
have seen fewer no cases in which it might not be executed 



DRAINAGE. 123 

for U. The minimum price for excavating and refilling a 
4-feet 6-incli drain is, according to our experience, l^d. 
per yard. This low price is generally in those clays which 
require the most frequent drains. The maximum, ^^d., 
except in cases where there is actual rock. The frequency 
with which the pickaxe is used is nearly an accurate mea- 
sure of the necessary advance of price. 

Our parting word shall assure our readers, that every re- 
ported case of failure in draining which we have investi- 
gated has resolved itself into ignorance, blundering, bad 
materials, or bad execution. 



POSTSCRIPT. 
Since the substance of this Essay was first published, a 
dry March has afforded us the opportunity of investigating 
accurately the effects of some drainages executed in the 
manner which we have recommended. In the winter of 
1846-7 we drained a portion of an old forest which had 
never received any culture — drains 4 feet 6 inches deep, 
in the line of steepest descent, parallel, 9 yards apart, th« 
conduit formed of 1-inch and l^-inch pipes collared, the 
shape of the land a regular plane, with an inclination of 
about 1 inch in a yard. Six inches of light brown mode- 
rately friable soil on a ver^ retentive clay, which passed at 
4 feet deep into a somewhat opener clay or mark Surface 
before drainage plashy in wet weather, and covered with a 
fuzzy grass, blue in summer and white in winter, on which 
no animal would willingly graze, and barely worth, to let, 
5s. per acre. In the first summer after drainage the 
herbage was visibly improved. In the second autumn the 
cattle grazed it bare. During the second winter it was 
covered with a dressing of lime and soil, at an expense 
rather under ol. per acre. In this, the third summer, it 
has a very good herbage, atid any neighbouring farmer 
would give for it, to graze only, 25s. per acre. We con- 

a 2 



124 AGRICULTURE. 

sider the expenditure ou this land to have paid about 10 
per cent. At the end of a dry fortnight in March we sunk 
a trial-hole, 6 feet long, 2 feet wide, and 5 feet deep, in 
the direction of the drains, and at the intermediate point 
between two. The water in the hole stood at 4 feet 
8 inches from the surface, or 3 inches above the bottom of 
the drains. During a fortnight which passed without 
material rain, the level of this water-table was not percep- 
tibly varied. A pash of rain then raised it about six inches, 
but four dry days reduced it to its previous level. Every 
face of the trial-hole was a net-work of cracks. We con- 
sider this draining to have done its work effectually ; and 
we had the pleasure <jf showing this trial-hole to two con- 
siderable land-agents, who had previously doubted the effi- 
ciency of 4-feet draining in very retentive land. Early in 
the autumn of 1849 we drained land very similar to that 
just mentioned, and similarly in all respects, save that the 
drains were 12 yards apart. Simultaneously with the 
trial-hole above mentioned, we sank three of the same depth, 
dimensions, and direction, at points, 4, 5, and 6 yards 
respectively from one of these more recent drains. The 
water stood in these holes at 2 feet 2 inches and 2 feet 
3 inches from the surface, and during the dry fortnight 
sunk from 1 inch, decreasing regularly, to half inch per 
day. The pash of rain above mentioned raised this water 
to within 1 5 inches of the surface. It then subsided in a 
ratio diminishing from 1^ inch to half inch per day, till, 
by the crumbling of the sides, and consequent puddling of 
the bottom, these holes lost their experimental character. 
This trial confirmed our previous experience, by showing 
that retentive land deep drained does not effectually part 
with its water, till a considerable period of drought, heat, 
and perhaps vegetation, has passed over it. Our third in- 
vestigation was on land of nearly the same character and 
slope as those which we have named, differing, however, in 
that it was overhung by a hill rising at 5 or 6 inches in 
the yard to the height of 50 feet, the rise terminating in a 



DRAINAGE. 125 

plain of some extent. The steep ground bad a subsoil of 
seraiporous marl, was not drained, and showed little sign 
of wet. The drains in the lower land were in the line of 
its descent, and were driven well into the point where the 
steeper rise commenced. In this ground we sunk four trial- 
holes at points equidistant from the drains, and in their 
direction. The appearances disclosed by three of these holes 
were not satisfactory. The water-table was less lowered 
than in the previous case, and even after they had been 
opened and exposed to a dry wind for some days, their 
faces, and that which fronted the hill in particular, re- 
mained dark and damp, and water was evidently squeezing 
through them. In the fourth trial-hole the water-table 
stood several inches lower than in the other three, and all 
its faces exhibited the cracked appearance which is usual 
in well-drained land. About 3 yards from the upper end 
of this fourth trial-hole a deep drain passed between it and 
the hill. The inevitable conclusion appears to be, that, in 
land so situated as we have described, some sort of cutting 
off drainage is essential to a perfect cure. A single deep 
drain passing under the hill, at the point where the steeper 
rise begins, may not be effectual, because, whenever its 
depth (be it 4, 5, or 6 feet) is exhausted by the fall of the 
land, the water from the higher ground having passed 
under it will appear at the surface. We are about to drain 
some land similarly circumstanced, and we have set out 
the drains in the direction which a collier expressively 
calls half-rise, bisecting the right angle formed by the line 
of steepest descent and the horizontal line. We hope by 
this compromise to secure, with respect to every portion of 
the land drained, most of the advantages of a drain in each 
of these directions. 

The late Sir K. Peel took an interest in the reprint of 
this Essay. On the morning of the day on which he made 
his last speech in the House of Commons, he addressed a 
letter to us on the subject of the reprint. We cannot, 
indeed, we know not why we should, deny ourselves the 



126 AGRICULTURE. 

gratification of quoting from his letter the following testi- 
mony — " I do not think that the article admits of improve- 
ment by addition, certainly not by omission." Sir Robert 
then suggests that drawings of some of the necessary 
draining tools should accompany the reprint. We have 
selected from a sheet of patterns, furnished to us by Mr. 
Walter Adams Lyndon, of Birmingham, those tools with- 
out which, in our opinion, 4 or 5 feet drains cannot be 
neatly or economically executed. 

A suggestion made by Sir R. Peel in the letter to which 
we have referred, will carry most weight if given in his 
own wards : " Many of those who drain extensively neg- 
lect to have a plan of the draining of each field made at 
the time that the work is done. A hint as to the advan- 
tage of this might be advisable." The plough soon oblite- 
rates all superficial traces of the drains; and we know by 
experience how soon every one concerned either forgets, or 
remembers very inaccurately, their precise position. 

The very inappropriate and unpleasing name of cesspool 
has been given to a device for securing at all times an easy 
inspection of the working of drains, at points in their inter- 
mediate course. At the confluence of two or more drains, 
or at any suspicious point in an important drain, a perpen- 
dicular drop of 2 or 3 inches is made in the floor, and (as 
we have seen at Drayton Manor) an earthenware article, of 
length proportioned to the depth of the drain, and shaped 
like a chimney-pot, is introduced. It is made with such 
holes as may be requisite for receiving the nose of a pipe 
from each delivering-drain at the higher level, and the nose 
of the discharge -pipe at the lower. In lieu of the chimney- 
pot, a hole a foot square, bricked up (with the same ar- 
rangement of the noses of the pipes) to the surface of the 
ground, will answer the same end. The top in either case 
may be covered with a stone flag or wooden lid. Lift up the 
lid, and a glance shows you whether the drains concerned 
are doing their duty. These peep-holes are very cheerful 
things. Nothing gladdens the heart of an agriculturist more 



DRAINAGE. 



127 



than to see his drains running merrily. In permanent grass 
they may be placed anywhere, and some unobtrusive corner 
can generally be found for them in arable land. We finish 
with masonry every important outfall, and consider the few 
shillings which this costs one of the most satisfactory items 
in our drainage expenditure. 

July 20, 1850. 



No. 1. — Section of Land hefore it is Draivied. 




1. Surface Soil. 3. Water of Evaporation. 

2. Water-Table. 4. Water of Capillary Attraction. 

5. Water of Drainage or Stagnant Water. 



No. ?. — Section of Land after it is Drained. 




«o ftst 



1. Surface Soil. 

2. Water-Table. 



3. Water of Capillary Attraction. 

4. Water of Drainage, or Stagnant Water. 



J28 



AGRICULTURE. 



No. 3. 




SKETCH OF THE WHEAT PLANT 

at different periods of Vegetation, showing the depth to which the 
fibrous roots can be generally traced in free mould, taken from a 
drawing in the Drummond Agricultural Museum in Sterling. 



ANCIENT 
AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 



b 



CONTENTS. 

PAOB 

British Writers on the subject— Adam Dickson, C. W. Hoskyns . 134 

Grecian and Carthaginian Agriculture— Greek and Punic Authors 140 
Standard points of a Carthaginian Ox, as settled by Mago, b.c. 

600 ........ 144 

Roman Agricultural Writers— Cato, Varro, Virgil, Columella, 

Pliny, &c. 144 

Agriculture not a progressive Art during eight centuries . . 147 

Roman systems of Farm occupation .... 149 

Farm Buildings and Landlord's Villa .... 154 

Division of Farm Labour; Farm and Household Wages; Food, &c. 156 
General opinion of Roman agricultural Authors against the profit- 
ableness of High Farming ; meaning of the term . . 157 
lilanagement of Pastures and Water Meadows . . . 158 
Management of arable Land, and course of Cropping . . 161 
Green Crops for Cattle ...... 165 

Turnip Culture ; its estimation ..... 167 

Roman opinions on the exhaustion and improvement of Land by 

certain Crops ....... 167 

Various methods of reaping and harvesting Grain . . . 168 
Notice of Reaping Machines used in Gaul, propelled by Oxen 169. 198 

Threshing and Winnowing Machines .... 170 

Use of Straw for Fodder and Litter . . . . .170 

Manures; their management, methods, and seasons of applying . 171 

Lime; its application, mode of burning .... 173 

Marl; great use of in Gaul and Britain, described by Roman 

Authors 175. 197 

Enclosures, Fences ....... 175 

Use of Beer and Yeast ...... 176 

Fallows; their treatment; number, depth, direction, and precision 

of Ploughings ....... 178 

Cato's famous Maxim on the use of the Plough and Dung . 179 

Reprobation of ploughing Land when wet .... 180 

Numerous forms of Plough in use . • 180 



] 32 CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Wheat Sowing; questions of early or late and of thick or thin 
sowing; quantity of seeds per acre; return per acre; gradually 
declining yield at successive periods . . . 182-184 

Prices of Wheat and Kent of Land at various periods of Roman 

history ; rising Prices and declining Rents in the later periods 184 

Declension of Roman Agriculture; its causes traced . 184-188 

Distinction between Roman and British modern Agricultural Sys- 
tems ; exhausting and self-sustaining Processes . 189-195 

Observations on the Condition of our British and Gallic Ancestors 

and their Agriculture, derived from Roman Authors . . 196 



k 



ANCIENT 

AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE.* 



Early in the eighteenth century Adam Dickson was born 
at Aberlady in the county of East Lothian. His father 
followed the profession of theology and the practice of 
agriculture, and brought up the son to his own pursuits. 
A liberal education at the University of Edinburgh quali- 
fied him for the former, and experience on his father's 
large farm, aided by intercourse " with the farmers of that 
opulent county, who are many of them not unfit to con- 
verse with men of letters," made him an adept in the 
latter. He was, says his biographer, " a man of a very 
lively apprehension, of an ardent mind, and of a clear and 
sound judgment." In 1750 he was ordained minister of 
Dunse in the shire of Berwick ; but even at that early 
period the anticipatory growlings of the storm which was 
destined a century later to rend the Kirk of Scotland in 
twain, were now and then heard, and an opposition to his 
settlement was raised among the parishioners of Dunse. 
Such, however, were " the ability, good sense, and engaging 
temper of Mr. Dickson, and such the candour and gene- 
rosity of his conduct, that his most sanguine opponents 
soon became his greatest friends." Having thus happily 

* " The History of Agriculture in Ancient, Mediaeval, and Modern 
Times." By Chandos Wren Hoskyns, Esq. 12mo., 1849. 



134 AGRICULTURE. 

surmounted his ecclesiastical troubles, he had time to turn 
his attention to the spirited exertions which were at that 
period overcoming, in the county of Berwick, much greater 
difl&culties than had been encountered by the improving 
agriculturists of his native shire. For several years he 
vexed his agricultural soul with the books of husbandry 
which had been published in England, and which " were 
ill calculated for the soil and climate of Scotland." More- 
over, ** many of them consisted chiefly of uncertain specu- 
lations on theories not well supported by the history of 
facts." By these circumstances and considerations Mr. 
Dickson was led to *' select for himself a corner of litera- 
ture for which the habits of his life had peculiarly qualified 
him." In the year 1764 he published the first volume of 
a *' Treatise of Agriculture," and the second some years 
afterwards. With this treatise we, with some compunction, 
acknowledge ourselves to be entirely unacquainted, and 
must therefore accept the assurance of Mr. Dickson's 
biographer, that it *' has ever since been held, not only to 
be the book best adapted to the practice of the Scottish 
farmer, but, upon the whole, one of the most judicious and 
practical treatises on the subject ever published in Britain." 
Soon after the completion of this his first work, Mr. 
Dickson was translated from Dunse to Whippingham in 
East Lothian, and there he spent the last six years of a 
life which was accidentally terminated by a fall from his 
horse. During that period he prepared for publication, 
" by years of anxious study," a work of considerable in- 
terest, of which we propose to give some account to our 
readers. 

The two branches of Mr. Dickson's education qualified 
him better than most men who either preceded or have 
followed him, to trace the analogy between ancient and 
modem agriculture, and to supply the connecting link. 
In 1788 this work was printed in Edinburgh by Mr. 
Dickson's representatives, under the auspices of the then 
Duke of Buccleugh, in the form in which the materials 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 135 

were left by their author ; painfully deficient in the cur- 
tailment, condensation, and arrangement which they would 
have received if he had superintended their publication. 
The mere omission of duplicate, triplicate, and quadrupli- 
cate long quotations from ancient authors, accompanied at 
each repetition by a diffuse translation and commentary, 
would reduce " The Husbandry of the Ancients" from two 
volumes to one. To the anonymous editor we are indebted 
for nothing but a very common-place dedication, and a 
meagre account of Mr. Dickson contained in six pages. 

Agricultural literature occupied a far higher position 
among the ancients than it has hitherto attained in our 
day. A mere enumeration of the names of those authors 
whose works remain, and the testimony which many of 
them bear to the merits of Mago the Carthaginian, whom 
they declare to have been the father of agricultural litera- 
ture, will leave no doubt on the question of precedence. 
To Hesiod, Theophrastus, Xenophon, Cato, Varro, Virgil, 
Columella, Pliny, and Palladius, whom have we to oppose? 
A few notices of agriculture may be found in Lord Bacon's 
works, and Sir H. Davy wrote an agricultural book, which 
was by no means one of his most successful efforts ; and 
here, as far as we know, our first class must end abruptly. 
We are not insensible to the merits of Arthur Young and 
Jethro TuU, but we can hardly put them on a par with Cato 
and Pliny ; and we doubt whether we could not even now 
farm more successfully by following the directions of the 
two ancients than of the two moderns. We have a few 
pastoral and bucolic poets to whom we must oppose Theo- 
critus and Homer, who are not included in our former list 
and who are infinitely superior to any of them, with the 
single exception of Hogg, as practical shepherds, neat- 
herds, and swine-herds. Nor is a study of these old writers 
a mere matter of fancy. We could take up almost any 
one of them and begin with him the agricultural year — 
prepare the field — sow the crop — weed it — reap it — har- 
vest it — thresh and winnow it — ascertain the weight per 



136 AGRICULTURE. 

bushel, and the yield in flour or meal — market it — buy, 
feed, clothe, and lodge the agricultural slaves — purchase, 
rear, and sell the cattle and fowls — collect and prepare 
the manure — and make out, at the end of the year, a more 
accurate balance-sheet than could be furnished by half the 
farmers in Great Britain. For all this we are mainly in- 
debted to Mr. Dickson. The agricultural writers had 
received their fair share of criticism ; but it was not likely 
that passages which were rendered obscure by obsolete 
names and technical phrases would be elucidated by schor 
liasts and commentators — albeit doctors and professors 
eruditissimi necnoyi illustrissimi — to whom a modernised 
version would have conveyed a very imperfect idea, on 
account of their total ignorance of the art which was the 
subject of discussion. Philology could not elucidate the 
operations of the " vervactor " and " iraporcitor" to Madame 
Dacier, nor could the Muse explain to Mr. Martyn the 
connexion between the "buris" and the " stiva." Mr. 
Dickson thus alludes to some of his controversies with 
these profound men : — 

*' As all the commentators explain the passages con- 
cerning ploughs in a sense different from what I have 
done, it is with great diffidence that I deliver my opinion. 
At the same time I use the freedom to observe, that it is 
not in the least surprising that the whole class of com- 
mentators should go wrong in a matter of this kind, as 
there are none of these learned persons that seem to have 
given themselves the trouble to acquire any knowledge of 
the nature and construction of ploughs, or of the various 
uses of the several parts." 

He himself brings to his task competent classical know- 
ledge, an intimate acquaintance with the existing practices 
of agriculture, and abundant zeal and industry. Nothing, 
however, can exceed the dulness of his dissertations. For 
instance, eleven dreary pages, and the collation of more 
than thirty passages from Cato, Varro, Virgil, Columella, 
Pliny, Saserua, and Palladius, will convince the persevering 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 1.37 

reader that the " vimineffi crates " mentioned in the first 
Georgia were not, as •' the learned commentator Popma," 
in his controversy with Servius, supposes, dung-carts, but 
clod-crushers ; and that the " rastrum " of Columella and 
others was identical with the " quadridens " of Cato, and 
was the implement used by the " occator." Dickson ap- 
pears to us to have generally succeeded in making out his 
point, though in some obscure passages he seems rather to 
have been determin ed to make a meaning than to have suc- 
ceeded in finding one, and in those cases he is not very 
scrupulous about altering the text of his author. On the 
whole, however, he has evolved an intelligible and consis- 
tent system of agriculture as pursued by the Romans, and 
has brought before us some incidental but very interesting 
notices of the modes of cultivation practised in Greece, 
Sicily, Gaul, and Britain. The Reverend thresher has 
beat out the grain, but has left it jumbled up with the 
straw and chaff in one confused heap, which we will en- 
deavour to reduce into more marketable dimensions. But 
before we do so we must shortly notice the more recent 
labourer in the same field, Mr. Wren Hoskyns. This 
author ventures on a far larger range than his predecessor ; 
and though his book only consists of 160 very small pages, 
he finds room for a great deal of mild moralizing, and for 
many and rather ambitious dissertations, which have no 
very close connexion with the " History of Agriculture in 
Ancient, Mediaeval, and Modern Times." 

Mr. Hoskyns is evidently a well-informed and accom- 
plished man. He appears to have a genteel knowledge of 
practical agriculture, though in that respect he cannot be 
compared with our hard-handed pastor. The persevering 
reader will have to follow him through page after page of 
simple reflections, very nicely got up and prettily worded, 
without encountering a syllable of which he can disapprove. 
It is a relief to find something to deny — or even to doubt ; 
and we present the following passage as a favourable spe- 
cimen of Mr. Hoskyns's more adventurous flights. Though 



138 AGRICULTURE. 

we are not prepared absolutely to contest its doctrine, 
Cicero and Seneca certainly rise to our minds as stumbling- 
blocks in the way of our according to it an unqualified 
assent : — 

" If one may be allowed the reflection, agriculture ought 
to have been carried to greater perfection by the Romans 
than by any other nation. The habits of the farmer's life 
do — at least as far as all experience hitherto has gone — to 
a certain extent indispose the mind for an abstract idea. 
This was a marked want in the mental constitution of a 
Roman. When Pilate asked What is truth ? he put a 
question which might be cut upon brass or adamant, to 
stand for ever as the characteristic question of a Roman. 
The first blunder of every English schoolboy, in his early 
attempts to translate English into Latin, is his natural 
and simple attempt to give a direct rendering of abstract 
terms from his own language into the other. Even the 
word action, the most energetic, perhaps, of abstract terms 
one could select at hazard, he would unconsciously endea- 
vour to express in Latin by a word which, to every Roman 
ear, would mean a sea-fight or a suit at law. An abstract 
idea was nonsense to a Roman ; a true story, a true book, 
or a true man would at once have found a place and a re- 
cognized meaning in his understanding. But when the 
Roman asked, What is truth ? the question was not parti- 
cular, but generic : it applied to the whole catalogue of 
abstract ideas; to that entire department of the human 
mind which is able to reflect upon itself, and express 
thought separate from objects." 

We must confess that this goes beyond us. Two and 
two are four. No idea can be more " abstract," no thought 
can be more " separate from objects." Does Mr. Hoskyns 
really mean that this idea was " nonsense to a Roman "? 

The only portion of ancient agriculture with respect to 
which Mr. Hoskyns gives us any material information that 
is not contained in Dickson's work, is that of Egypt. 
Even that section, however, comprises nothing more than 



ANOIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 139 

the ordinary Scriptural allusions, a reference to Egyptian 
remains in the British Museum, a dissertation on hierogly- 
phics and on the origin of alphabets, and a long quotation 
from Pliny, descriptive of the rise and subsidence of the 
Nile, and of the agricultural operations consequent thereon. 

Our knowledge of the subject in question has not only 
been confirmed, but also very much enlarged, of late 
years. The notices of it which occur in Diodorus, Strabo, 
Pliny, Plutarch, and other writers, have been brought 
together by Sir Gardner Wilkinson in the first volume of 
the second series of his " Manners and Customs of the 
Ancient Egyptians." They receive a most interesting 
illustration from the drawings which this distinguished 
traveller and his fellow-labourers have brought to light 
from the tombs. Not only is the manner in which these 
men of old performed the operations of husbandry placed 
strikingly before our eyes, but we are admitted at once 
into the penetralia of the economical, and, we might almost 
say, moral management of a farm. The owner, attended 
by his faithful dog, watches the work ; the scribe or clerk, 
with his desk and double stand, containing black and red 
ink, receives and records the tale of corn, cattle, poultry, 
and even eggs ; the labouring men and beasts plough, sow, 
reap, thresh, winnow, are rewarded and punished ; and, 
finally, the despised neat-herd leads before us an ox, one of 
Pharaoh's fattest kine, whose fair proportions are, no 
doubt, intended to be a satire on the deformity of his 
attendant. Our enumeration contains less than one-half 
of what is vividly portrayed. Sir Gardner, intimately 
acquainted with present Egypt, traces in many instances 
the analogy which exists between ancient and modem 
practice. Most of our readers are probably acquainted 
with his work; those who are not have a rich treat in 
store. 

We can hardly suppose that Mr. Hoskyns was ignorant 
of Dickson's book, which has been frequently quoted in the 
" Royal Agricultural Journal " and other kindred publica- 



140 AGRICULTURE. 

tions. We think that some recognition of the labours of 
a predecessor, who probably very much lightened his own 
task, would have been no more than a graceful tribute. 
Mr. Hoskyns's mediaeval and modern dissertations are 
foreign from our present purpose. He has a long passage 
on the application of steam to the cultivation of the soil, 
and expresses a strong opinion that the hitherto-failurea 
have resulted from a misdirection of the power. A steam- 
engine, he says, should dig, not plough. We are told that 
digging is a very satisfactory, ploughing a very unsatisfac- 
tory, operation. We read on the tiptoe of expectation, 
hoping to learn how a steam-engine shall be made to dig ; 
but Mr. Hoskyns cruelly passes on to determine how much 
coal would lift a man from the valley of Chamouny to the 
top of Mont Blanc. We have been obliged to qualify our 
praise of Mr. Hoskyns's book, which is, however, by no 
means uninteresting ; indeed, we rather think it is suited 
to a considerable class of non-agricultural readers. 

Before we return to our more homely instructor, who 
occupies himself almost wholly with Roman husbandry, 
we must despatch, in a few sentences, the little information 
which we have been able to gather on Grecian and Cartha- 
ginian agriculture. Though Attica was arid, Laconia 
swampy, Megara rocky, and Corinth dependent on impor- 
tation for a supply of food, the art of the husbandman was 
not without its literature. Pliny laments over forty Greek 
treatises on agriculture, which were lost in his day ; and 
Columella reckons them at fifty. The pursuit may not 
have been held in high esteem, but its operations were 
certainly familiar to the educated class. Hesiod was 
strictly an agricultural writer ; and the allusions to farm- 
ing operations in Homer and Theocritus are definite, and 
entirely practical. Euboeus, a-v^u/Tng . opx,a'[^°i uv^pm, is no 
fanciful swine-herd ; and, however ideal the ditties of Lyci- 
das and Thyrsis may be, their shepherding is quite real. 
In the passage relating to the capture of Dolon, Hectqr s 
spy. Pope, following Madame Dacier, has made a sad hash 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 141 

of a simile which is perfectly plain to those who under- 
stand the proprieties of ploughing. In the agricultural 
compartment of Achilles' shield, we see before us no poeti- 
cal field, but a deep loamy fallow, the texture and colour 
of which indicate that it is receiving its third furrow ; and 
in the crop of grain which is falling before the sickle, we 
have an accurate division of labour which a Norfolk farmer 
might do well to imitate : — 

fieca-iXtvs 5' Iv roTfft ciof^yy 
'%x7i<7rTpov 'i^eov, iffrrixn i-r oyfiav yn66trvvo5 KTjp. 

This must have been in the palmy days of protection. 
Probably few of our living poets would be capable of giving, 
and as few of their readers of appreciating, so detailed an 
account of the simplest farming operations. These notices 
of agriculture in Herodotus and Thucydides are only inci- 
dental ; but a work by Theophrastus, which has descended 
to us, is by no means, as Mr. Hoskyns intimates, a mere 
" botanical catalogue of plants." It contains many useful 
practical directions, and frequently discriminates, with much 
accuracy, between the modes of husbandry suited to dif- 
ferent countries and climates. 

Xenophon is said to have bought and occupied a farm 
near Smyrna, where he wrote the agricultural treatise com- 
monly called his OEconomicks, and which is frequently ap- 
pended to the Memorabilia. It treats of farming, garden- 
ing, and household management, under which last head it 
gives valuable instructions for the government of wives. 
Cicero praises this treatise highly. It contains the passage 
in which Cyrus the younger exhibits himself to Lysander 
as 'The Persian farmer;' " ut intelligatis," says Cicero, 
" nihil ei tarn regale videri quam studium agricolendi." 

The few notices which we possess of Carthaginian agri- 
culture are singular, and scarcely reconcilable with each 
other. Heeren reckons the fertile provinces of Carthage 
in Africa to have been about equal in area to Ireland ; and 
divides the remainder of their African territory between 



142 AGHICULTDRE. 

Nomad tribes and Lotophagi. It appears from Diodorus, 
Polybius, and Strabo, that the Carthaginians received 
large supplies of grain from Sardinia and Sicily. Heeren, 
of whose research and judgment it would be impossible to 
speak too highly, says : * 

" The foreign colonies of Carthage were always chosen for 
the purposes of commerce ; but those within her own ter- 
ritory were, at least for the most part, inland, and fixed 

upon for the promotion of agriculture It 

was a general principle of Carthaginian policy to improve, 
as much as possible, the cultivation of their lands, and to 
accustom the native tribes under their subjection to do the 
same. . . . They, in fact, appear to have attached 
more importance to agriculture than to commerce. . . . 
. . It is plain that families of the first rank were in 
possession of large estates, from whose produce they drew 
their income ; while on the contrary, there is not a single 
trace, in the whole history of the republic, of their being 
concerned in trade." 

It is difficult to reconcile these opinions of Heeren's 
with Cicero's statement that a preference for trade and 
navigation, and a neglect of agriculture and arms, were the 
main causes of the weakness of Carthage.f The modem, 
however, derives much support from indisputable facts re- 
lating to Carthaginian literature. Kings, or perhaps pre- 
sidents, but at all events great generals, were among their 
agricultural writers. " Mago, the Carthaginian, and Hamil- 
car (says Columella) held it not beneath their dignity, when 
they were unoccupied by war, to contribute by treatises on 
farming their quota towards human life." We learn from 
several sources that the books of Mago on agriculture 
amounted to twenty-eight ; that they were translated into 
Greek by Cassius Dionysius of Utica ; that on the final 
destruction of Carthage, when the whole literature of the 
conquered nation was given over by the Romans to their 

* We quote from the translation published at Oxford in 1838. 
t De Eepublica, 2. 4. 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 143 

African allies, these twenty-eight treatises were considered 
80 valuable, that they were specially excepted, brought to 
Rome, and by the senate ordered to be translated at the 
public expense. Pliny says that D. Silanus, belonging to 
one of the first families, surpassed the other translators. 
They are treated as of great authority by Varro, Columella, 
Palladius, and Pliny ; and in the appendix to Heeren will 
be found thirty-one distinct passages in which the maxims 
of the Carthaginian author are handed down to us. It is 
singular enough that no one of these passages has any refer- 
ence to the cultivation of any species of grain. One pas- 
sage gives directions for the grinding or pounding of maize, 
barley, lentils, vetches, and sesame. Another strongly re- 
commends landed proprietors to be resident — " He to whom 
an abode in the city lies close at heart, has no need of a 
country estate." The directions for culture apply solely to 
vines, olives, the nut tribe, poplars, and reeds. We un- 
fortunately do not learn the structure of his humanity-hives, 
but it appears that he disapproved of destroying the bees 
when the honey was taken. Columella vouches, on personal 
experience, for the excellence of the Punic receipt for 
making the very best wine, " passum optimum." Farriery 
(including the symptoms of broken-wind in horses, and a 
prescription), a critical operation to which male animals are 
subjected, and the gestation of mares and female mules, are 
all brought under review ; and we have the astounding 
statement, that in Africa the latter females were nearly as 
prolific as the former. This is more surprising, because 
Cato — who died before his " Delenda est Carthago " was ful- 
filled, and accordingly shows no acquaintance with Mago's 
writings— makes the same assertion. "Upon the health 
of black cattle," says Varro, " I have borrowed a good deal 
from the books of Mago, which I made my herdsmen care- 
fully read." And not only does the Carthaginian treat of 
the health of cattle, but he gives directions for buying oxen 
for the plough, so precise that they will perhaps interest 
our readers. Both Heeren and Dickson have translated 



] 44 AGRICULTURE. 

the passage, but as each appears to us to fail in giving 
the precise meaning, we have ventured on a translation of 
our own: — 

"The young oxen which we buy should be square in 
their form, large limbed, with strong, lofty, and dark- 
coloured horns, broad and curly fronts, rough ears, black 
eyes and lips, prominent and expanded nostrils, long and 
brawny neck, ample dewlaps pendant nearly to the knees, 
a wide chest and large shoulders, roomy-bellied, with well- 
bowed ribs, broad on the loin, with a straight, level, or 
even slightly-depressed back, round buttocks, straight and 
firm legs by no means weak in the knee, large hoofs, very 
long and bushy tails, the body covered with thick short hair 
of a red or tawny colour, and they should be very soft 
handlers {tcictu corporis mollissimoy 

Palladius gives directions in nearly the same words, 
without, however, intimating that he derived them from 
Mago — a very tidy ox, whether he be purchased in Libya 
in the year B.C. 600, or in Northamptonshire a.d. 1850. 
More than one Mago figures in Carthaginian history, but 
the agricultural writer is supposed to have lived in the 
time of Darius, and to have been the founder of the great 
Punic family from which Hannibal sprang. 

Of the Roman agricultural writers Cato claims precedence 
as first in time, and first in honour. The Censor died, 
aged 88, in the year 150 B.C. He is treated with great 
deference, and is much copied by most succeeding authors 
on the same subjects. He was a practical husbandman, 
having inherited from his father a Sabine farm. In his 
writings he recommends careful and precise, but by no 
means high farming. Most of his maxims tend rather to 
a limitation of outlay than to active improvement ; and he 
falls under the lash of Plutarch, for having heartlessly re- 
commended the sale of worn-out oxen and slaves. When- 
ever Cato rises to our mind's eye, it is in the form of our 
venerable friend Joseph Hume. Had we an historical 
painter, our financial reformer ought to sit to him for the 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 145 

figure of Cato denouncing to the senate the extravagance of 
Scipio's camp. " In parsimonia," says Livy, ** in patientia 
laboris, ferrei prope corporis animique : quern ne senectus 
quidem, quae solvit omnia, fregerit," We are far, how- 
ever, from insinuating that a future satirist will have oc- 
casion to say — 

" Narratur et prisci Joseph! 
Ssepe mero caluisse virtus." 

Two Sasernas (father and son) lived between the time of 
Cato and Varro, and wrote on agriculture. Their works 
have not descended to us ; but they are quoted as of ac- 
knowledged authority by all the succeeding writers. 

Varro, ** Romanorum doctissimus," lived through nearly 
the whole century which immediately preceded the Christian 
era. He was one of Pompey's generals and admirals, and 
was subsequently librarian both to Julius and to Augustus 
Caesar. His own very valuable library was wantonly de- 
stroyed by Anthony. He was a very voluminous writer, but 
a philological treatise, and his " De Re Rustica " are all 
that remain to us. The latter work was written when he 
was eighty years of age, and is in the form of a dialogue. It 
is in three parts, and is dedicated to his wife. He was a 
practical agriculturist, and frequently refers to the opera- 
tions on his own farm, but he relies principally on the au- 
thority of Mago, and some Oreek writers. The work is by 
no means servilely rustic, but diverges from time to time 
into mythology and ethics. 

Some fascinating sentences in the " De Senectute "hardly 
warrant our placing Cicero among the agricultural writers. 
Though they display some practical knowledge, they relate 
rather to the amenities than to the labours of husbandry. 
In his opinion " vita rustica parsimoniae, diligentiae, justitiae, 
magistra est" [Pro Rose); "aratores" are "id genus homi- 
num quod optimum atque honestissimum est." {In Verr. 2.) 
Agriculture, with him, is rather an honour to princes, and 
the ornament and solace of declining age, than a painful 
struggle with thorns and thistles brought forth by the 

H 



146 AGRICULTURE. 

ground, which yields bread to man " in sorrow " and in the 
•' sweat of his face." 

Of the Georgics we need only say, that they afford not 
the least striking instance of the exquisite skill with which 
the Roman poet could borrow more than a foundation, and 
rear on it a structure possessing all the charms of originality. 
Perhaps, none but an agricultural reader will fully perceive 
the perfect harmony which is maintained in the Georgics 
between the imagination of the poet, and the homely 
science of the farmer. The two characters never clash. 
Whenever the farmer comes on the scene — however smooth 
the verse and elegant the diction — the directions which 
he gives are precise, ample, practical, and sound. The 
poem becomes a hand-book of husbandry. Virgil (born 
B.C. 70) succeeds Varro in the catalogue of agricultural 
authors. 

Columella usually personates the classics of agriculture, 
and horticulture, to our imagination : partly, perhaps, be- 
cause his works have come to us nearly entire and in large 
volumes ; but principally, we think, because we know him 
merely as an agricultural writer, whereas most of his rivals 
or coadjutors are familiar to us as kings, generals, states- 
men, orators, philosophers, or poets. He was a Spaniard, 
and apparently born about the time of the Christian era. 
He occupied a Pyrenean farm, and speaks more largely of 
his success in cultivating the vine, than in any other depart- 
ment of husbandry. He introduces to us an uncle of his 
own name as an eminent flock-master, who much improved 
his sheep by introducing rams from Africa. We suspect 
that on this statement is founded the popular opinion, that 
Columella established the Merino sheep in Spain. Columella 
makes free use of the agricultural writers who preceded him, 
particularly of Mago, to whose authority he submits with 
willing deference. Among the Latin authors whom he 
cites with respect, is Julius Graecinus, the father of Agricola. 
Columella's work is divided into twelve books — two on 
farming and farm-premises — but which contain also some 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 147 

directions, partly moral and partly physical, on the selection 
and management of agricultural slaves : three on the vine, 
olive, and orchard fruits — two on agricultural and domestic 
animals, from which, on prudential grounds, he excludes 
the sporting-dog — one on poultry — one on bees. In the 
9th book he attempts, with small success, the supplement 
to the Georgics which Virgil indicated : — 

" Verum hasc ipse equidem spatiis ioclusus iniquis 
Praetereo, atque aliis post me memoranda relinquo," 

and breaks into verse on the subject of gardening. Three 
more books treat of the bailiff, his wife, wine, vinegar, 
jampots, and the kitchen garden. 

Pliny died a.d. 79. His contributions to the agricultural 
library are a small portion of the great work which he has 
left as a monument of his industry and research. We have 
no reason to suppose that he had any personal knowledge 
of agriculture. He was in that instance, as in many others, 
a diligent, but not always a discriminating compiler. Of 
the elder authors, to whose own works we can still refer, he 
uses most freely Mago, Cato, Varro, and Virgil. He speaks 
of Columella, but for the most part slightingly. 

Palladius published a.d. 355. He was a landed proprietor 
in Sardinia, and also near Naples. He wrote fourteen 
books of a farmer's calendar, and a poem on the art of 
grafting. He seems to have been rather a servile copyist 
from the older writers, but his work was much esteemed in 
the middle ages, and was translated into English, in 1803^ 
by Thomas Owen. 

Thus we have before us a series of literature, devoted to 
one object, extending over eight, and, in the Roman de- 
partment alone, over five centuries. No one can wade 
through the whole mass without observing the striking 
fact, that neither at the end, nor during any part, of the 
series, does agriculture present itself as a progressive art. 
We are introduced to no improvements, to no newly-in- 
vented implements ; we are told of no practices abandoned 

H 2 



148 AGRICULTURE. 

as obsolete or superseded. We find, with tbe single ex- 
ception of lucerne (and perhaps cytisus), no new object of 
culture. From Cato to Palladius the same routine is 
prescribed, and generally in the same terms. Their most 
refined practices — those in which they made the nearest 
approach to a successful application of mechanical power — 
may be traced in the historical books of the Old Testament, 
and in the prophets. We encounter a few prudential and 
very cautious maxims about trying experiments ; but we 
are told of no fruit (if there be an exception, it is in the 
case of vineyards) ; and as we work down the series we meet 
with increasing complaints of diminished produce, and de- 
clining profits. The characteristics of Koman agriculture, 
as described in the books, were — system, accuracy, and 
great vigilance against waste. It was careful, painstaking, 
garden -like farming, with very few artificial or adventitious 
aids. We exclude, altogether, from our consideration the 
degraded period when Roman farms were screwed down to 
4 acres (7 jugera) apiece. This state of things — if indeed 
it ever existed — was social, not agricultural. The story 
of Attilius Regulus, who, having heard — while he was pur- 
suing a career of conquest in Africa — that the bailiff of his 
4-acre estate was dead, and that his farming slave had run 
away, immediately sent to the senate a catalogue of his 
spades, hoes, rakes, and spuds, and informed them that, 
unless they took these implements into their special care, 
and procured for him another bailiff and another slave, he 
should leave the command of the army and come home to 
look after his property, is very amusing, but is of no agri- 
cultural import, unless it be at O'Connor Ville or Sniggs 
End. But, when the Romans got wiser, in our estimation, 
though worse perhaps in that of M. Louis Blanc, farms took 
the size which was adapted to the convenience of culture. 
Farming which was carried on without expensive imple- 
ments, and without powerful machinery, did not offer the 
inducements which now exist to large holdings. Probably 
02^ acres (1 plough), or 125 acres (2 ploughs) of arable 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 149 

land, could be cultivated as economically as a larger 
breadth. 

Before we describe the Roman course of culture, we must 
say a few words on their system of occupation. In this we 
find a progressive change, and a constant approximation to 
modem practice. The first definite accounts represent pro- 
prietors residing on their own lands, and joining personally 
in all the labours of agriculture. Called off from time to 
time to war, or council, when the demand for their public 
services ceased, they returned to their homely occupation. 
Before the time of Cato, however, the habitual residence of 
the proprietor had become more rare. The claims or the 
attractions of Rome and other cities prevailed, and the 
farmhouse (villa) was delivered over to the custody of the 
bailiff (villicus) ; pleasant and even luxurious apartments 
being reserved for the occasional occupation of the owner. 
Cato gives directions suited to this state of things, of which 
Varro and Columella make whining complaints, intimating 
that, in their day, Roman landowners were more inclined 
to hold up their hands in the circus, and theatre, than to 
apply them to the plough and pruning hook. Though one 
passage from Cato is rather long, we hope that those of our 
readers who are acquainted with it will not be sorry to have 
it brought back to their recollection ; and that those who 
are not will be interested by it as we have been ourselves. 
We are again obliged to discard Dickson's translation : — 

*' When the proprietor arrives at the villa, and has paid 
his respects to the household gods,* he should, if he pos- 
sibly can, go round his farm on that day ; if he cannot do 
that, certainly on the next. When he has completed his 
own inspection, on the morrow he should have up his bailiff, 
and inquire of him what work has been done, and what re- 
mains to be done — whether the work is sufficiently forward, 

• Cato is very precise in this matter. In his directions to the bailiff 
he expressly forbids him to allow his wife to do " rem divinara," or to 
employ any one to do it on her account. " Scito dominum pro tota 
famine rem divinam facere." — c. 143. 



150 AGRICULTURE. 

and whether what remains can be got through in due 
season — what has been done about the wine, corn, and all 
other matters. When he has made himself acquainted 
with these things, he should then compare the work done 
with the number of days. If work enough does not seem 
to have been done, the bailiff will say that he has been 
very diligent — that the slaves could not do any more— that 
the weather has been bad — that slaves skulked — that they 
have been taken off to public work. When the bailiff has 
given these, and many other, reasons, bring him back to 
the actual details of work done. If he reports rainy weather, 
ascertain for how many days it lasted, and inquire what they 
were all about during the rain. Casks might be washed 
and pitched, the farmhouse cleaned, corn turned, the cattle- 
sheds cleaned out and a dung-heap made, seed dressed, old 
ropes mended, and new ones made ; the family might mend 
their cloaks and hoods. On public holidays old ditches 
might have been scoured, the highway repaired, briers cut, 
the garden dug, twigs kidded, the meadow cleared, thistles 
pulled^ grain (far) pounded, and everything made tidy. 
When the slaves have been sick they ought not to have 
had so much food. When these matters are pretty well 
cleared up, let him take effectual care that the work which 
remains to be done, shall he done. Then he should go into 
the money account, and the corn account ; examine what 
has been bought in the way of food. Next, he should see 
what wine and oil have come into store, and what have 
been consumed, what is left, and how much can be sold. 
If a good account is given of these things, let it be taken 
as settled. All other articles should be looked into, that if 
anything is wanted for the year's consumption it may be 
bought ; if there is any surplus it may be sold ; and that 
any matters which want arrangement may be arranged. 
He should give orders about any work to be done, and 
leave them in writing. He should look over his cattle with 
a view to a sale. He should sell any spare wine, oil, and 
corn, if the price suits. He should sell old work-oxen, and 



» 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 151 

culls, both cattle and sheep ; wool and hides, old carts and 
old iron implements; any old and diseased slave ; and any- 
thing else which he can spare. A proprietor should be 
seeking to sell rather than to buy." 

Cato would have been invaluable as master of an Union 
workhouse. 

The next pbase of occupation was called " Politic." The 
politor or partuarius was a resident working partner, bring- 
ing no capital into the concern, but receiving, as his remu- 
neration, a stipulated share of the produce. His proportion 
of grain varied from one-ninth in the best land, to one-fifth 
in the most sterile. An elaborate calculation leads to the 
conclusion that, on an arable farm of 125 acres, a politor 
would receive from 30 to 35 qrs. of various kinds of grain 
as his share ; but the information does not seem to be of 
much value, as we are ignorant what privileges of mainte- 
nance, for himself or his family, he received from the pro- 
duce of the farm. It is difficult to ascertain the exact terms 
of partnership ; but it appears that the course of husbandry 
to be pursued was prescribed by them. 

'* Liberi Coloni" — i. e. farmers paying rent and cultivating 
wholly on their own account— first appear in the pages of 
Columella;* and in a passage too long to extract, he dis- 
cusses the pros and cons of this mode of occupation. He 
comes to this general conclusion, that a farm never produces 
so much as when it is occupied by the proprietor: that even 
under a bailiff, unless he is very rapacious (and taking 
that word as his text, he enumerates the various modes in 
which a bailiff can cheat), it will produce more than under 
the hands of a tenant ; but that if it be of that sort on 
which a tenant cannot commit very great waste, is distant, 
and not easily accessible to the owner, in that case it had 
better be let. His rules for the management of tenants 
are so applicable to all times, that we cannot curtail them, 

* Cato uses the word Colonus, but it is evident from the context that 
he indicated thereby not a tenant farmer, but a yeoman resident on his 
own land. 



152 AGRICULTURE. 

and we give them in Dickson's tolerably faithful, though 
very clumsy translation : — 

" A landlord ought to treat his tenant with gentleness, 
should show himself not difficult to please, and be more 
rigorous in exacting culture than rent ; because this is less 
severe, and upon the whole more advantageous ; for when 
land is carefully cultivated, it for the most part brings pro- 
fit, never loss, except when assaulted by a storm or pillagers ; 
and therefore the farmer cannot have the assurance to ask 
any ease of his rent. Neither should the landlord be very 
tenacious of his right in everything to which the tenant is 
bound, particularly as to days of payment .... On the 
other hand, the landlord ought not to be entirely negligent 
in this matter, for it is certainly true, as Alpheus the usurer 
used to say, that good debts become bad ones by being not 
called for. I remember to have heard it asserted by Lucius 
Volusius, an old rich man, who had been consul, that that 
estate was most advantageous to the landlord, which was 
cultivated by farmers born upon the land ; for these are 
attached to it by a strong habit from their cradles. So 
indeed it is my opinion, that the frequent letting of a farm 
is a bad thing ; however, it is still worse to let one to a 
farmer who lives in town, and chooses rather to cultivate it 
by servants than by himself. Saserna used to say, that 
from such a farm a lawsuit was got in place of rent." 

The younger Pliny, in a letter to Calvisius Rufus, dis- 
cusses the desirableness of purchasing an estate which had 
been offered to him. He states that it was very much worn 
out, and was consequently offered to him at a much lower 
price than that for which it had previously been sold ; that 
it would be necessary to displace the tenants, who were 
without capital, and had been repeatedly distrained and 
sold up ; and that the investment would pay him 4 per 
cent., the usual interest on loans being at that period 6 per 
cent. The standard agricultural sentence about bad times, 
" communi temporis iniquitate," occurs in Pliny's letter. 
We grumble by prescriptive right. Pliny, the ever«elf- 



I 



ANCIENT AGBICULTURAL LITERATURE. 153 

complacent orator, advocate, senator, and poet, is a most 
discontented landowner. His farms are a constant trouble 
to him : — 

" To Naso. — A storm of hail, I am informed, has de- 
stroyed all the produce of my estate in Tuscany ; while 
that which I have on the other side the Po, though it has 
proved extremely fruitful this season, yet, from the Exces- 
sive cheapness of everything, turns to small account." 

" To Genitoi\ — Nor is this all ; for not only the farmers 
claim a sort of prescription to try my patience as they 
please by their continual complaints ; but also the necessity 
of letting out my farms gives me much trouble, as it is ex- 
ceedingly difficult to find proper tenants." 

The desirable size for a farm is discussed by several of 
the writers, and generally in the prudential spirit of Virgil's 
maxim : — 

" laudato ingentia rura, 
Exiguum colito." 

Columella prefaces the maxim, — " That the farm ought to 
be weaker than the farmer," — by saying that it was " de- 
rived from tlie Carthaginians, who were a very acute people." 
Palladius says epigrammatically, " foecundior est culta exi- 
guitas, quam magnitude neglecta." But on this point Pliny 
is most diffuse — though we believe that Dickson erroneously 
interprets expressions which Pliny applied to ownership, 
and not to occupation. When he says — " sex domi semis- 
sem Africae possidebant, cum interficit eos Nero princeps," 
— we cannot suppose that half of the province was absorbed 
by what we should call six farms, and that the bailiffs of 
these six unfortunate gentlemen w^ere the sole occupiers. 
He declares, however, by less equivocal expressions, that 
the ancients were of opinion that it was very desirable to 
limit the size of farms.* The stories which he tells have 

* Nevertheless large arable farms were known to remote antiquity. 
It may not be safe to found on the numbers in the highly poetical and 
figurative book of Job; but we learn from a purely-historical statement 
iu the book of Kings, that Elisha was ploughing with twelve yoke of 

H 3 



154 AGRICULTDEE. 

also the same tendency as the maxims which we have cited. 
For one we must find room and a translation : — 

" I cannot forbear stating one instance from old times, 
from which we may perceive both that questions of culture 
were brought judicially before the people, and also how men 
of that time were in the habit of defending themselves. 
C. Furius Cresinus, a freedman, became the object of much 
ill-feeling on the part of his neighbours, in consequence of 
his gathering from a very small field much more produce 
than they could obtain from very large ones. He was ac- 
cused of attracting the crops from other fields by charms. 
Sp. Albinus appointed a court day to hear this charge ; and 
Cresinus, fearing that he might be found guilty, when the 
tribe were about to pronounce their verdict, brought his 
live and dead farming stook into the forum ; and he brought 
with him a stout wench, and Piso says that she was in good 
case and well clad. His iron implements were exceedingly 
well manufactured, the spades were strong, the shares 
powerful, and the oxen in high condition. Then he said, 
' Tiiese, Romans, are my charms ; but I cannot show you, 
or bring into the forum, my mental labours, my vigils, nor 
the sweat of my brow.' " 

On the subject of farm-buildings it is difficult to gather 
much from these writers, principally because, as w^e have 
said, they w'ere complicated with the villa, which was, as 
Its name implies, the country abode of the landlord. On 
this point Cato forgets his usual frugality, and recommends 
comfort approaching to luxury, with a view of attracting and 
retaining the residence of the proprietor. Columella is 
very elaborate on this subject. In the first place, he is 
fastidious as to situation, both on the score of health and 
jucundity, and his only prudential maxim is, that a villa 
should be situated at some distance from a high road, as 
otherwise all your idle acquaintance will be dropping in 

oxen, himself with the twelfth. This, on the Eoman computatioiii of 
60 odd acres to a plough, would make the prophet the occupier of 
arable laud to the extent of 800 acres. 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 155 

upon you, and will very much interrupt the business of the 
farm. In giving the plan of the villa, he is very diffuse on 
the apartments of the proprietor, the winter apartments, 
the spring apartments, the summer apartments, and the 
bath-rooms ; and on their respective aspects : the pleasure 
grounds come in also for a specific notice ; but his direc- 
tions for the " Rustica" — which includes the kitchen, the 
servants' lodgings, and the stables — and the " Fructuaria," 
which comprise the oil-cellar and press-room, wine-cellar, 
hay-loft, granary, &c., are less precise and intelligible. 
Both Cato and Varro prescribe, in general terms, that the 
farm should not be too large for the villa, nor the villa for 
the farm, and point out the inconveniences of each excess ; 
and both give instances of known parties by whom respec- 
tively each of these maxims has been transgressed. It is 
not, however, till we come to Palladius, in whose time 
tenant-farming had become more usual, that we find any 
directions which are conformable to our notions of a farm- 
house and buildings. He says that the buildings ought to 
be proportioned to the value of the farm ; and that, in case 
they were burnt down, the extreme sum allotted to rebuild 
them ought not to exceed two years' rent : a sum which in 
our climate would be very inadequate to fulfil our notions 
of improved agriculture — probably it would not do much 
more than erect apartments and ofiBces for Mr. Huxtable's 
pigs. 

From the earliest antiquity oxen seem to have furnished 
the moving power to the plough, though in a single pas- 
sage, to which we have already alluded. Homer says that 
in heavy fallow mules are far preferable. As the Romans 
assigned 60 odd acres to each plough, they assigned to it 
also 3 labourers, a proportion which did not include vine- 
dressers, or those who were employed in olive and fruit 
orchards. A passage in Columella indicates that a portion 
of the labourers employed on a farm were " soluti, quibus 
major est fides ;" but the bulk were slaves, and they were 
sometimes worked in fetters, "alligati." The younger 



156 AGRICULTURE. 

Pliny says that he must let his land because he does not 
possess '* vinctos." Cato and Columella prescribe that the 
ploughman should be tall, because he will preside with 
more power at the stilts ; whereas short and strong-backed 
men can do stooping work with more ease. A buhulcus 
should be humane, but have a terrible voice, in order that 
by it the oxen may be urged to work without being much 
harassed by the whip or goad. Columella gives the sin- 
gular direction, that if you have any particularly vicious men 
among your slaves, you should make them vinedressers, 
because that work requires clever fellows, " ac plerumque 
velocior est animus improborum hominum." Tallness and 
strei/gth are of importance in the bubulcus ; but of none 
in the overlooker, who ought to be *' sedulus ac frugalis- 
simus." Cato gives a complete dietary for the establish- 
ment :— 

" For the bailiff 100 lbs. of wheat per month in winter ; 
one-eighth more in summer. 

" For the female housekeeper and shepherd, 75 lbs. each 
per month. 

" For the slaves 4 lbs. of bread each per day in the 
winter. 

" From the time they begin to dress the vineyard, 5 lbs. 
per day till they have figs, when they revert to 4 lbs." 

In addition to this bread the slaves had a restricted al- 
lowance of an article called pulmentarium, which appears 
to have been a dried compound of olives, apples, pears and 
figs. Pliny says that the name is derived from puis, which 
was the food of the ancient Romans — "pulte autem, non 
pane, vixisse longo tempore Romanes manifestum." When 
the pulmentarium was exhausted, they had in lieu an al- 
lowance of salt fish and vinegar, with a small portion of oil ; 
and each person was allowed rather more than a peck of 
salt in the year. For three months after the vintage the 
beverage of the slaves was a weak wine called lora, in the 
consumption of which they were unrestricted. Colurotella 
and Pliny give the particulars of its manufacture, and 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 157 

Dickson supposes it to have been equal to small beer. For 
the rest of the year they had real wine, and, by a very ela- 
borate calculation, Dickson makes out the daily ration to 
have amounted to rather more than a pint and a half 
English. We take all our quantities on trust from Dickson. 
Any person who is curious on the subject will find the data 
given at length in his work. 

Cato, having fed his household, proceeds to clothe them. 
The passage is not very clear, but we take it to mean that 
each individual received a tunic (a jacket without sleeves) 
annually, and a saga, three and a half feet long (probably a 
smock frock) biennially ; also a pair of good wooden clogs 
every second year. Cato prescribes, that before you serve 
out a new tunic or saga, you should receive the old one, to 
be used in the manufacture of centones — that is, rough 
cloaks of patchwork, serviceable also as bed-quilts. Auso- 
nius, in the preface to his Cento from Virgil, has many 
quaint allusions to the origin of the literary term. 

We have said that the general tendency of these old 
writers is against high farming, by which we mean a large 
outlay with a view to increased produce. At the same time 
they are unanimous in their condemnation of slovenly and 
indolent farming. They prescribe a degree of accuracy 
and care which is certainly unknown in our general hus- 
bandry. This we shall see more fully when we come to 
speak of their course of culture. They insist on a most 
careful application of all the internal resources of the farm, 
and guard most anxiously against any neglect or waste of 
an article which may be used in reproduction ; but there 
are very few indications of their having looked beyond the 
boundary fence for any means of augmenting the fertility 
of their lands. Cato's maxims all tend to repress outlay ; 
and Pliny discusses the whole question in a passage which 
is too long to quote, but which is remarkable both for its 
sentiments and expressions. He brings forward, appa- 
rently with some hesitation, the unanimous opinion of the 
ancients, that (in plain English) nothing pays worse than 



158 AGRICULTURE. 

high farming — " nihil minus expedire quam agrura optim^ 
cole re." He gives an instance of a very rich man who 
ruined himself by farming for ostentation. He says there 
is a mean course, and he appears to intimate (though the 
passage is obscare), that a tenant, working himself and 
having a family which must be maintained, may do some 
things with profit which would be ruinous to a proprietor 
who lived at a distance, and hired the labour which was 
employed in doing them. He defends the ancients against 
the charge of having recommended bad farming. He says 
that by their oracular expression, ** bonis malis," they 
merely meant that you should do things well and cheap ; 
a point at which we have been aiming all our lives, and 
have never hit it. 

Having cleared away these preliminary matters, we will 
now accompany the Eoman farmer into his arable lands, 
and into his meadows and pastures, and will describe the 
management which he applied to each. We will take the 
latter and shorter subject first. As to pasturing, the de- 
tails are few ; but it is a pursuit much commended by the 
writers, on the characteristic ground that it calls for little 
outlay. Columella reports Cato to have answered the in- 
quiry, how a man could get rich quickest by farming? 
*' By being a good grazier." How next? "By being a 
middling grazier." " I regret," says Columella, " to add, 
that to the inquiry, repeated a third time, so wise a man 
should have replied, ' By being a bad grazier ; ' " though, as 
to his second answer, there can be no doubt that middling 
grazing is more profitable than the best management in 
any other line of agriculture. Pliny admits the two first 
responses to be genuine, but snubs Columella by discre- 
diting the third. He says that Cato's purpose was to in- 
culcate that we should depend most on those returns which 
were got at the least expense.* Meadows are included in 
the same category of commendation. All the writers 

* Mr. Hoskyns gives a different interpretation to the passage, but has 
evidently mistaken its meaning. 



ANCIEKT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 159 

agree that they were called by the ancients, ** prata quasi 
parata," as being always ready to produce without culture. 
If you have water, says Cato, make water meadows rather 
than anything. If you have no water, make dry meadows 
to the utmost extent you can. Minute directions are given 
for passing the water slowly and evenly over the land, 
without allowing it to stagnate. Too much water is said 
to be as objectionable as too little. "No doubt," says 
Columella, " the natural grass which a rich upland pro- 
duces will make finer hay than any which you get by 
watering; but from thin land, whether it is stiff or light, 
watering is the only way in which you can get a crop." 
Pliny particularly recommends to turn over your meadows 
any water which runs from a highway. Columella and 
Palladius give precise instructions for renewing hassocky 
and mossy meadows by the plough. You will get fine corn 
crops from them after their long rest — " post longam desi- 
diam." They are to be ploughed and well summer- worked, 
and sown in autumn with turnips or beans, and the next 
year with corn. In the third year they are to be very 
carefully worked till every weed and root is extirpated, and 
then sown with vetches and hay-seeds (the hay-seeds, says 
Pliny, may be collected in the haylofts and mangers), 
and the vetches are not to be cut till they have shed a 
part of the seed. The land must be worked quite fine 
and even with hoes and clod-crushers, so as to break down 
everything which might be an impediment to the scythe. 
The water is then to be laid on, but very gently if the sur- 
face is loose, because a force of water would wash the soil 
from the roots of the grass, and hinder them from making 
a strong turf. For the same reason you must not permit 
-the new-sown grass to be trod by cattle. In the second 
year, if the ground is dry enough, small cattle may be ad- 
mitted after the hay is cut ; and if it has become very firm, 
the larger cattle in the third. If you wish for a full crop 
of hay, you must clear your early and weak meadows of 
cattle in January. Lands less subject to burn may be 



160 AGRICULTURE. 

pastured till February or March. The manure, ^'hich 
should be the greenest you have, " recentissimum," and 
which may with advantage have hay-seeds mixed with it, 
should be laid in February on such parts of the meadow 
as cannot be watered. It seems probable that the majority 
of Eoman meadows were ill-drained, so much stress is laid 
on the evil of treading them with cattle. Pigs also were 
interdicted, on account of their rooting propensities. M. 
Porcius is brought forward to testify to the value of mea- 
dows. They are less subject to injury by storms than any 
other part of the farm ; they require the least expenditure ; 
they give a crop every year, and, indeed, more than one, 
for the pasturage of the aftermath is of as much value as 
the hay. The Campus Rosea is said to have been the 
most valuable plot of land in Italy. We had hoped, and 
indeed believed, that the story of the stick was genuine 
Leicestershire ; but Caesar Vopiscus, the sedile, is produced 
both by Varro and Pliny, to vouch that in that celebrated 
field he laid down his stick overnight, and could not find it 
in the morning, because it was smothered in grass. The 
time which we claim, however, on behalf of Cestus Over 
is not a whole night, but only while the farmer ate his 
dinner and smoked one pipe. 

The Romans frequently mowed their meadows twice, 
first in May, and secondly in August or September, and 
watered them between the mowings. They mixed the 
second crop with oak and elm leaves, and used it as fodder 
for sheep. Dickson calculates, on somewhat uncertain 
grounds, that the first mowing of a Roman meadow pro- 
duced more than two and a half tons of hay to the statute 
acre. That the crops were large appears probable. To 
mow a jugerum, three-fifths of a statute acre in a day, is 
said to require a good workman, whereas an ordinary Eng- 
lish labourer reckons an acre to be a day's work. All the 
writers prescribe that the grass should be cut before the 
seed is ripe, and before the stalk has become dry. Pliny 
boasts of a discovery of whetstones, which would sharpen 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 161 

a scythe with water ; whereas the Cretan whetstones, 
which alone were known to their ancestors, would only 
sharpen with oil, in consequence of which every mower 
had a horn of that liniment tied to his leg. The Italians 
used short, the Gauls long scythes. Every maxim of Eng- 
lish, and even of Scotch haymaking is diligently set forth : 
precautions against rain, against undersweating, and over- 
heating. Pliny supposes that when hay is got too green 
the sun sets the ricks on fire. We have by no means ex- 
hausted the subject; but 

" Claudite jam rivos; forsan sat prata biberunt." 

The Roman agricultural course, with the partial excep- 
tions to which we shall have occasion to advert, was of the 
simplest possible description — a crop of grain and a fal- 
low. Every year one-half of the arable land was in grain, 
one-half in fallow. One-third of the fallow was sown with 
some sort of green crop to be mowed for the cattle, and 
this portion of the fallow, and this alone, was manured ; 
the result being, that the arable land was manured once in 
six years, and in that period bore three grain crops and 
one green crop.* This we should bear in mind when we 
come to consider what effect a long perseverance in this 
course had on production. The naked fallow received 
three or four ploughings during the summer, besides the 
seed furrow. To sow the grain in autumn was considered 
to be far the best practice ; but any portion of the land 
which, from bad weather or other impediments, could not 
be completed in autumn, was sown in spring. The grain 
was wheat or barley. The wheat was of many varieties ; 
white, red, black, bearded, and smooth are expressly men- 
tioned ; and these do not exhaust the catalogue of names. 

* Dickson ascertains by an elaborate calculation that, on a well- 
managed farm, sixfficient dung was made to manure three -tenths of the 
laud annually. It appears, however, from Cato and other writers, that 
a large portion of the manure was devoted to grapes, olives, and other 
fruit. Cato assigns half to fruit and half to grain, which would make 
the portion of arable land manured annually even less than we have 
stated. 



l6Ji AGRICULTURE. 

Some are said to be suited to free and dry, others to strong 
and moist land. Siligo, triticum, and far adoreum appear 
to have been the favourite sorts ; and the two first varie- 
ties cannot have been very far removed, if Pliny's state- 
ment, that siligo sown on certain lands for three years 
turns into triticum, be correct. He, however, starting 
with the maxim, that no book is so bad that something 
may not be learned from it, picks up a good many loose 
stories, and he is, if we remember right, the author who 
vouches that if oats be sown on a certain day of the moon, 
they will come up barley. Of barley there were several 
varieties, both in colour and form of the grain — " longius 
leviusque, aut brevius, aut rotundius, candidius, nigrius, 
vel cui purpura est" — of which Pliny says that the white 
was least able to stand bad weather. All the authors 
agree that barley prospers only in a free and dry soil. It 
was sown in September and October, and again from 
January to March. Spring sowing appears to be less con- 
demned in the case of barley than of wheat. 

The mode of sowing grain affords, perhaps, the most 
marked distinction between Roman and modern practice. 
Their system was twofold. The land was well reduced by 
the irpeoc, which was our harrow, and was used both for 
pulverization and for drawing weeds to the surface, and by 
the crates, which was an implement for crushing clods. 
Both these were worked by oxen. If the land were 
naturally dry, it was next drawm into ridges (similar, 
probably, to our turnip ridges) by a double mould board 
plough. The seed was then sown by hand broadcast on 
these ridges, and the major part, of course, settled into 
the furrows. It was then covered by hand with rastra— 
i. e. rakes,* and lightly, for the ridges certainly were not 

* There is little or no evidence that the rostrum was ever drawn by- 
cattle, though, from the expression " gravibus rastris," used by Columella 
in his poetical book, and "iniquo pondere rastri," by Virgil, com- 
mentators have assimilated it to our harrow. As Columella was speak- 
ing of an implement to be used, not on the farm, but in a garden, the 
reasonable conclusion is that it was to be worked by hand. Probably a 



ANCIENT AGBICULTURAL LITERATURE. 163 

obliterated. They are always spoken of as a beneficial 
defence against drought to the corn growing on dry land. 
If the land to be sown were moist, so that injury to the 
crop from wet might be apprehended, the seed was scat- 
tered on the reduced and level surface, and, the double 
mould-board plough being introduced, by its operation 
most of the seed was covered up in the ridge. Several of 
the writers say that he was a clumsy ploughman who 
required an occator to follow him for the purpose of 
covering any portion of the seed. The result of both 
modes of sowing was, that the corn came up in rows, 
separated by a considerable interval ; so considerable, in- 
deed, that it was not unusual to plough between them 
after the corn had grown to some height. Dickson and 
TuU differ as to the meaning of the word occatio, and as 
to the operation which it indicates. Probably they were 
acquainted with passages in which Varro and Verrius 
derive the word from occoedere, but neither of them seems 
to have been aware that a passage in the *' De Senectute " 
completely settles the point — " quae (sc. terra) semen oc- 
coecatum" covered up — put out of sight " cohibet, ex quo 
occatio (quae hoc efificit) nominata est." After this cover- 
ing of the seed the land remained quiet till wheat had put 
out its fourth, and barley its fifth, blade. It then received 
its first hoeing (sarritio), which in dry land included what 
we should call earthing up ; in moist land, where the corn 
was already on a ridge, the operation was simple hoeing. 
A second hoeing was given in the spring. These two 
hoeings were the universal practice, and a third and fourth 
are spoken of. Even the careful Cato is inclined to think 
that more than two hoeings may be given with advantage. 
Then followed hand-weeding (runcatio), which in the case 
of prickly plants was performed with a glove — " velata 
manu debet runcari." Pliny tells a curious story about 

heavier rake was used for levelling ridges and for breaking clods than 
for giving a light covering to seed. It is doubtful whether the Romans 
ever used the harrow to cover seed. 



164 AGRICULTURE. 

the origin of the still further operation of ploughing 
between the rows of corn. In the course of a razzia, 
which seems to have taken place in spring or early sum- 
mer, the Salassi easily destroyed the winter-sown crops of 
their enemies. But the panic and millet, which were only 
just coming up, were not susceptible of the same sort of 
injury. They were therefore ploughed in. As however 
the crops recovered, and proved unusually abundant, hus- 
bandmen adopted the practice of ploughing among their 
corn, either when the spike was just showing itself, or 
"when it had put forth two or three leaves ; probably about 
the stage which we call spindling. 

The whole operation of growing a crop of wheat or 
barley was, as respects two-thirds of the crop, as follows : — 
A bare fallow extending from June (the time of harvest) 
to the September in the following year : four or more 
ploughings, and efficient breaking down by harrows and 
other implements ; two or more hoeings and a hand- weed- 
ing. This is represented to have been ordinary practice, 
and the maxims are in conformity. *' He," says Columella, 
" appears to me to be the very worst of farmers who allows 
weeds to grow among his crops. The produce must be 
exceedingly diminished if weeding is neglected." On this 
point we must let Dickson speak for himself. " When we 
consider how frequently in the ancient husbandry the land 
was fallowed, how frequently and at what seasons the 
fallow was ploughed, we are apt to imagine that there 
would be very little necessity for weeding; and yet the 
care of the Roman farmers in this article seems to exceed 
their care in every other thing." Weeds, however, were 
not the only objects of the hoeings. The ancients con- 
sidered that the growth of corn was much promoted by 
stirring the ground. One, or frequently two, of the four 
ploughings having been given to the bare portion of the 
fallow-break before winter, a larger proportion of the force 
of the farm could be devoted to the land which was sown 
with crops to be mown green for the cattle. Day by day 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 165 

it was ploughed down as mown, a point on which the 
writers insist very strongly, and it appears to have received 
the same culture which we have described above. The 
fallow-break was called vervactum. In addition to these 
ordinary corn lands they had a small proportion which 
they called restihilis, as being capable of great endurance ; 
land which had qualities analogous to those possessed by a 
horse which can go at a great pace and stay at it : or by a 
vocalist who can hold a note for an indefinite period. This 
land bore a crop every year. Pliny speaks of land which 
was so kindly that the crop smothered everything and 
required no weeding ; * and Cato says, that as soon as the 
corn was cleared off, this land might be sown with vetches 
on a single furrow without manure, that it might be 
pastured down in December, and would still yield an 
undiminished crop in spring. Lands which had rested 
long, or were fresh brought into cultivation, were called 
novalia, and were subjected to a severer course of cropping 
than the old tilled land. Barley was considered to be a 
severer crop than any other. This epitome of grain- 
growing as practised by the Eomans was applicable not 
only to Italy, but certainly to Sicily, to Spain, to the 
province which they called Africa, and probably to other 
southern provinces. Particular notices occur of parts of 
Syria and of Egypt, and Mesopotamia, where inundations 
made all the land restihilis. Practices to which we shall 
briefly refer are spoken of by Pliny as prevalent in Gaul 
and Britain, which are represented to have been grain- 
exporting provinces. 

We must lump together in one sentence the various 
herbs which were cultivated by the Romans as green food 
for cattle ; and we regret that we can give so little infor- 
mation respecting them. Cicer — pulse of some kind — unde 

* Pliny's expression is "omnia hsec" (i.c. hoeing and weeding) 
" supervacua facit indulgentia coeli." Columella says, " cceli conditio et 
terrse bonitas ea est," &c. Columella says also, that on ordinary land 
lupines are the only crop which does not require weeding, because they 
smother all weeds. 



166 AGEICULTURE. 

Cicero — Ervum, often coupled with Cicer — Farrago, pro- 
bably mixed corn to be mown green — Ocimum, of which 
all we know is, that Pliny says it was supposed to flourish 
most when sown with cursing and railing — Vicia, vetch — 
Cytisum — (remembering the word in Virgil's first Eclogue, 
we turned to the commentary and found this explanation) : 
" Genus fruticis sive herbae cujus species multiplex, et 
descriptio apud diversos diversissima : " — Lentils, lupines, 
fenu-greek, pisum, peas, faba. The Romans cultivated 
more than one sort of bean, and probably this faba, which 
was mown green for fodder, was the kidney bean, Cato 
leads the way with most minute directions for sowing these 
green meats, and is followed by the other authors. The 
first crop to be put in as soon as the corn is off the land : 
this will be ready for autumnal mowing ; and two or three 
succession crops to last for the remainder of the year. 

To the Medica — probably lucerne — Dickson devotes a 
chapter, and we must devote a sentence. Though Pliny 
says that it was brought into Greece " a Medis per bella 
Persarum, quae Darius intulit," it appears to have been un- 
known to Cato and to Varro as an object of Roman culture. 
Virgil mentions it once as being sown at the vernal 
equinox, and as requiring very rich land. Columella, 
Pliny, and Palladius are full of its merits. The sum of 
their praises is — that one sowing lasts ten (Pliny says 
thirty) years ; that it may be mown from four to six times 
annually ; that it fattens lean, and cures sick cattle ; that 
it enriches land ; and that the produce of three-fifths of a 
statute acre will abundantly maintain three horses for a 
whole year. These statements appear to some modern 
agricultural writers marvellous or miraculous. We believe, 
however, that, bating the thirty years and the enriching 
land, they are constantly equalled now a-days in the fertile 
island of Jersey. Beans were considered a very valuable 
crop, and were subjected to very careful cultivation. 

Hemp, flax, poppy, panic, and millet, were Roman crops ; 
but we fancy only incidentally and in by-corners, and not 



ANCIENT AGRICtJLTURAL LITERATURE. 167 

in any regular course of culture.* Legum or legumen did 
not imply a class of plants; but all crops which were 
pulled up by the rootf instead of being cut by sickle or 
scythe. Hence, beans, peas, flax, hemp, &c., are spoken 
of as legum as well as turnip, rape, and radish. On turnips 
the later authors are diffuse, but we must be concise. 
Pliny declares that no crop is so valuable except grapes 
and corn; that they are most wholesome food for man, 
and excellent, dressed in a variety of ways ; that they keep 
through the year, either pitted, or when mixed with 
mustard ; that they are most valuable in ornamental cookery, 
as capable of receiving six colours besides their own, one 
of the colours being purple — a quality possessed by no 
other kind of food ; that when boiled they will feed fowls, 
and that the leaves are good for cattle ; and finally, that 
he has seen one 40 lbs. weight. Columella says that in 
Gaul the bulbs are used as winter food for cattle and sheep. 
As to culture, the Romans sowed the best sort of turnip 
after five ploughings on dry and free land, in rows well 
manured ; thinned then to eight inches asunder ; and, like 
us, were very much plagued by the fly (culex), which they 
combated with soot, steeped seed, and other remedies 
similar to our own, and probably about as effectual. 

Many passages occur in the writers, which, taken singly, 
appear to indicate a strong opinion on their part, that 
whereas some crops exhausted, others improved the land. 
Probably, however, the majority of these passages have 
reference to a practice which was very prevalent in their 
agriculture, namely, sowing vetches, beans, and more es- 
pecially lupines, for the purpose of ploughing them in 



* Flax is universally condemned by the writers as an exhausting 
crop. Pliny, however, enters largely not only into its cultivation, but 
into the mode of steeping and dressing it, and into its manufacture into 
fine linen, sail-cloth, candle-wicks, fish-nets, and snares for wild boars. 
He says that each thread in a then extant breast-plate of Amasis, king 
of Egypt, consisted of 365 ply. 

t Dickson, not adverting to this meaning, is surprised that Colu- 
mella should reckon turnips among the pulse — legumina. 



168 AQBICULTURE. 

when they began to form seeds. By the writers generally 
more benefit is attributed to this practice than modern 
experience would appear to justify. It is true that in the 
Roman course of a crop and a fallow no time was lost by it. 
The opinion also that some crops, even when gathered, 
improved the land, did prevail — for Columella, who strongly 
advocates the ploughing-in system, thinks it necessary to 
combat it : — 

•• Some tell us that a crop of beans stand in the place 
of a manuring to the land — which opinion I would inter- 
pret thus; not that one can make the land richer by 
sowing them, but that this crop will exhaust it less than 
some others. For of this I am certain, that land which 
has had nothing on it will produce more corn than that 
which has borne these pulse in the preceding year." 
An opinion in which we cordially coincide. 

Ex)man harvesting presents several variations from Bri- 
tish practices. In some cases the ears of the standing 
corn were gathered by a sort of comb, cut off, and carried 
to the thrashing floor — the straw being cut by a subse- 
quent operation. The mode in which this was done is ac- 
curately described by the writers, and is vividly portrayed 
in the drawings from the Egyptian tombs. This plan is 
said to have answered well in thin crops, but to have been 
troublesome when they were heavy ; it would no doubt be 
still more so when they were laid and twisted. In other 
cases the corn was cut low, and having been gathered to- 
gether, was passed through combs or hackles, which detained 
the ears. These being cut off, were carried away separately 
in wicker-baskets. Pliny remarks, that both these modes 
are favourable to straw which is to be used for thatching. 
About Rome the corn was cut in the middle by a sickle. Varro 
is of opinion that from this cutting in the middle, the word 
messis was derived. The upper part of the straw was called 
palea, and was used for fodder ; the butt ends, stramentum, 
were used as litter. In some countries they pulled up all 
their corn by the roots, and fancied, says Phny, that the 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 169 

disturbing the surface thereby was beneficial to the land. 
The reaping on Achilles' shield is similar to ours, except 
that it implies a greater division of labour than we usually 
carry out. In a previous passage, Homer declares the 
practice of rich men to have been, to start a gang of reapers 
at each end of a field of corn, and to their approach he 
likens that of the Grecian and Trojan hosts. Pliny, in a 
very obscure passage, and Palladius, in one which is more 
minute, describe a reaping-machine which was used in the 
large farms in Gaul. We do not think that Messrs. 
llansome and Mr. Hornsby would take the words of either 
author, or both combined, as working directions for the 
construction of the implement. This much is evident, that 
the body of the machine was fixed on an axle which con- 
nected two wheels. To the axle were fixed a pair of shafts, 
into which a very steady working ox was harnessed, not in 
the usual manner, but, as a stable-boy would say, with his 
head where his tail should be. Consequently, when he 
walked on, instead of pulling by the shafts, he pushed by 
them, and drove the implement into the standing corn. 
By some machinery which we cannot undertake to describe, 
it collected ears of corn, cut them off, and dropped them 
into a receptacle — " in carpentum :" Pliny says " vallum." 
Palladius says, that this implement answered well in open 
and even land, and that some farmers in Gaul cut their 
whole harvest with it without employing any reapers. 

Threshing presents as many varieties as reaping, and 
most of them must have been very old. Almost every one 
can be identified with some expression in the 27th and 
following verses of the 28th chapter of Isaiah. Threshing 
was generally performed immediately after harvest, and 
frequently in the fields ; but Columella says, that where 
the ears only were cut off, they could be carried into the 
granary and threshed during the winter. The threshing 
was by flail, by treading out (for which horses are said to 
have been better than oxen), and latterly by a machine 
drawn by cattle, described sometimes as having teeth, 

I 



170 AGEICULTDRE. 

sometimes rollers, called tribula, traha, and plostellum, and 
which, whatever it might be, was adopted from Carthage. 
All the writers put forth their strength in describing the 
construction of the area or threshing-floor. Cato forms a 
concrete-like surface of heavily rolled and rammed earth 
(cylindro aut pavicula cosequato), and saturated with the 
lees of oil (amurca). Varro follows his lead ; Columella 
adds that the floor is improved if straw be introduced into 
the mixture. Pliny and Palladius macadamise flint, pound 
it, and roll it with the fragment of a column ; but the latter 
mentions a floor *' saxo mentis excisa," we suppose flagged. 
Virgil, in a charming passage, which is as poetical as it is 
correct, constructs a threshing-floor. Two lines suffice to 
describe the handworking of the earth, the levelling it 
with a very heavy roll, " ingenti cylindro," and the covering 
with a solid surface of chalk : a third line points out that 
weeds and dust, which would spoil the grain, should be 
guarded against ; while six more suffice to specify those 
peculiar habits of mice, moles, toads, weevils, and ants re- 
spectively, from which injury may be expected. Four words 
thrown in by way of &c. conjure up ideas of centipedes, 
earwigs, woodlice, and other disgusting inhabitants of cracks 
and chinks. 

The Romans would not have incurred Mause Headrigg's 
reprobation by " impiously thwarting the will of Divine 
Providence, in raising wind for their ain particular use by 
human art." They were content for the most part to " dight 
the corn frae the chaff" " by casting it with shovels in the 
teeth of a moderate wind. In cases, however, of protracted 
calm or other emergency, Columella recommends the use 
of a vannus. It is mentioned by Virgil among the " duris 
agrestibus arma," as " mystica vannus lacchi ; " and was no 
doubt a fan of some sort. The words are the same. They 
also used sieves to free the grain from dust. These are 
mentioned both in the Old and New Testament. 

The modes of using straw were various, and the variations 
were local. Ordinarily the upper half was used as cattle 



AtifCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. ]7l 

food, the lower as litter; but when the former failed, the 
latter was bruised on stones — a rude anticipation of our 
chaff-cutting— and sprinkled with salt to induce the cattle 
to eat it. Columella sets very little value even on the 
palea. He says that in many places cattle are fed on it 
from necessity, but •* minus commode." Varro directs that 
where the ears only of the corn have been reaped, the straw 
should be cut and gathered immediately after harvest; 
but that if the crop were thin and labour is scarce, it will 
not pay for this, and it should then be pastured with cattle 
as it stands. Thatching houses with straw is spoken of as 
a practice confined to particular localities. Cato is precise, 
that every spike of straw or stubble should be gathered for 
litter, and even that it should be eked out with leaves of 
ilex. Virgil says, that to burn the stubble on barren land 
is good practice. Pliny, noting that this is done " magno 
Virgilii prseconio," adds, that the principal benefit arises 
from the destruction of the seed of weeds. Both Isaiah 
and Obadiah allude to the practice of burning stubble. In 
classing straw as fodder, the writers all agree in the order 
of merit — millet, barley, wheat. The straw of pulse only 
was given to sheep. 

As to manure, the directions of the prose men are rather 
precise than cleanly, and we shall not enter into the sub- 
ject very largely. It is only Virgil, as Dryden says, who 
can " toss his dung about him with the air of a gentleman." 
The value of every living creature on the farm as a manure- 
making machine is most minutely weighed up ; and the 
separate sorts of manure are classed according to their re- 
spective values. The schedule presents some variations 
from modern opinion. The manure from water-fowl is said 
to be of no value, which contrasts strangely with our ap- 
preciation of guano. Columella puts manure from pigs at 
the bottom of the list, for which Pliny sneers at him. We 
stumbled somewhere on a passage interesting to modern 
farmers, which we cannot now refer to. The purport was, 
that part of the value of corn given to cattle is replaced in 

1 2 



179 AGRICULTURE. 

the increased strength of the manure. A diligent collection 
of everything which can beneficially swell the bulk of the 
heap is prescribed — leaves, weeds, scrapings of highways, 
&c. He is a very idle farmer, says Columella, who does 
not get together some manure, even if he does not keep 
cattle. The only allusion to extraneous manure, purchased 
for the farm, is confined to that made in aviaries, which 
seems to have been sown by hand both on meadows and on 
corn. Cassius is quoted as a great authority on the re- 
spective values of manures. Cicero and Pliny enter into 
the early history of manuring. The former says that it is 
singular that the learned Hesiod, writing about agriculture, 
should not have said a single word about manuring, whereas 
Homer, who lived so many ages before him (ut mihi videtur), 
represents Laertes to have soothed the regret which he 
felt on account of his son, by cultivating and manuring his 
land. In the descriptions of Laertes's gardening, as it 
has come to us, there is not a syllable about manuring ; 
whereas in the seventeenth book of the Odyssey there 
is a distinct notice of a manure heap, and of the agricul- 
tural purpose to which it was to be applied. Pliny 
asserts the antiquity of the practice, follows Cicero in 
the story about Laertes, and adds that King Augeas first 
discovered the advantage of manuring in Greece, and that 
Hercules published it in Italy : a statement which appears 
to negative the claim of King Stercutio to the invention 
for which he was immortalized and worshipped. Far be it 
from us " tantas componere lites." The marvel would ap- 
pear to be, not that a cultivator should make the discovery, 
but that any one should miss it. 

Close on the heels of the directions for collecting 
and multiplying manure, follow those for its manipulation 
and management. Dickson revels in the middens. Skilful 
husbandmen, say Colunuella and Pliny, cover up their 
heaps, and suffer them neither to dry by the wind, nor to 
be parched by the rays of the sun. Hollow water-tight 
receptacles which retain the moisture are recommended. 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 173 

Either oak leaves should be intermixed, or an oaken stake 
driven into the heap to prevent serpents from breeding 
there. Columella delicately observes that the treasure 
should not be piled up in front of the parlour (praetorii) 
windows. Cato and Varro say that manure, heaped, turned, 
and rotted down, is stronger than when green. From this 
opinion Columella and Palladius dissent, holding that the 
benefit of the turning and fermentation consists in their 
destroying the seeds of weeds, but that they weaken the 
manure; and they therefore prescribe that it should be ap- 
plied quite fresh to grass land, where the weeds cannot so 
easily get root. Palladius thinks it necessary to wash sea- 
weed in fresh water before it is used as manure. Manure 
was principally applied in spring and autumn. A little and 
often was considered to be the best practice. Wet land 
required more than dry. Dickson ascertains that 800 
Winchester bushels of well-prepared manure to a statute 
acre was an average Roman dose. Pliny says that some 
persons think that land is best manured (optime stercorari) 
by having sheep, perhaps cattle (pecora), folded on it. 

Theophrastus says, that mixing earths, " ponderoso leve, 
levi ponderosura, macro pingue et contra," will often stand 
in the place of manure. Columella also records that his 
uncle, who was a most scientific and industrious farmer, 
improved his land by applying chalk to his sandy, and 
sand to his chalky and clay soils. Pliny, giving vent to 
the contempt for Columella which he is so little careful to 
conceal, says, "that is the practice of a madman. What 
can a man hope for who cultivates in this manner?" 

Though lime was used agriculturally by the Romans 
only in their vineyards and orcliards, we cannot wholly 
pass by the curious information which Dickson's chapter 
on the subject contains. Cato recommends its application 
to olives, and Pliny to vines, but more particularly to 
cherries. He says that cherries were unknown in Italy 
till Lucullus introduced them after his victory over Mithri- 
dates, A.u.c. 680, and that, within 120 years of their intro- 



174 AGRICULTURE. 

duction/they were dispersed bj the Romans as far as Bri- 
tain. We are very much inclined, however, to claim an 
indigenous origin for our bird-cherry, and for the Scotch 
gean. We learn from Palladius that builders and plas- 
terers were as fastidious about lime in his day as in ours, 
each requiring the limestone and the sort and quantity of 
sand appropriate to their operations respectively. Cato 
describes most minutely the mode of building the kiln 
and of burning the lime. We may certainly consider it as 
a singular proof of his sagacity, that, for several years last 
past, the practice of lime-burning in England has tended 
to return to the principle which Cato prescribes, from one 
which had long been considered as a great improvement. 
Limeburners will understand us when we say, that Gate's 
principle was, close fires and a very obstructed supply of 
air, each kiln -full of lime being an independent burning. 
The modern practice among large limeburners has been, 
till recently, deep open-topped kilns, supplied with fuel 
and limestone on the surface, the fire being urged by a 
brisk draft of air from the bottom, which served also to 
cool the lime in its descent to the holes in the kiln-bottom, 
whence it was drawn in a continuous stream. We have 
some experience in the matter, and believe that, in point 
of economy, Cato is vindicated. He also describes a 
system of burning lime in partnership. The owner finds 
the stone, the kiln, and the fuel. The working partner 
quarries the stone, and finds all the remaining labour. 
They divide the spoil. The practice is not unknown now, 
nor do the proportions vary very materially ; but our divi- 
sion is less favourable to the working partner, and ought 
to be, because our fuel is so much less cumbrous. Al- 
though Pliny limits the agricultural use of lime by the 
Romans to olives, vines, and cherries, he says that the 
Hedui and Pictones (the people of Autun and Poictiers) 
made their general land very productive by its applica- 
tion. 

Varro reports, that when he led an army through Trans- 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 175 

alpine Gaul as far as the Rhine, he passed through a 
country having neither olives, vines, nor apples, — where 
they manured the land "Candida fossicia creta." Pliny 
says that on wet cold land in Megara the Greeks, who 
tried everything, applied "leucargillon." In Gaul and 
Britain, however, what we call marling appears to have 
been a staple practice in husbandry, and to it Pliny devotes 
several pages. He enumerates six different kinds of marl, 
called marga, terra fullonia, glischromargon, eglecopala, 
capnoraargos, and other fine names. Some were clayey 
for light lands ; some sandy for heavy lands ; some rocky, 
and retaining that form, to the great hindrance of stubble- 
mowing, till several years of sun, rain, and frost reduced 
them. Some lasted 10 years, some 30, some 50. Some 
were got at the day ; and one sort, which lasted 80 years, 
and which no man had ever been known to apply twice to 
the same land, was got in Britain by means of narrow pits 
30 yards deep. The mode of working described by Pliny 
is similar to a sort of rude coal-getting, which is now 
sometimes practised, where the seam lies at no greater 
depth. We have seen superficial marl pits in the midland 
counties, in which grow the ruins of ancient oaks, acorns 
perhaps in the time of Pliny. 

The general corn lands of the Romans were not enclosed 
or fenced, except occasionally against public highways. 
They were acquainted, however, with every species of 
fence which is now in use, and applied them to vineyards, 
gardens, orchards, cattle-folds, and parks in front of the 
villa in which wild animals were confined, ♦' ut possidentis 
oblectarent oculos." Palladius, the last of the writers, 
recommends that meadows should be enclosed. Quick 
fences — " vivae sepes " — says Columella, are preferable to 
dead, because a mischievous fellow going by with a torch 
cannot set fire to them. They were raised from seed, 
with much preparation and culture, in which pea-meal and 
old ship ropes bear a conspicuous part. Directions may 
be found in one or other of these authors for raising every 



176 AGRICULTURE. 

sort of fence which now prevails in Great Britain or Ire- 
land. Pliny particularly describes the frame by means of 
which such mud walls as are now seen in Buckinghamshire 
and adjoining counties were reared. He limits them to 
Africa and Spain. 

Notwithstanding the ameliorations of climate which we 
are told to hope for from draining, we do not expect to see 
vines an object of the British farmers culture, nor wine- 
making one of his household labours ; we shall, therefore, 
merely intimate that any one who is anxious to learn " the 
ancient " practice in these matters, will find ample informa- 
tion in the agricultural writers. Beer comes home to our 
sympathies. Pliny says bluntly enough — "The western 
nations have their own way of getting drunk, by steeping 
barley. In Gaul and Britain the ladies use the yeast 
(spuman) as a cosmetic." This art, we fear, is lost; but if 
the patriotic Member for Derby will listen to the voice of 
antiquity, Bass's Kalydor may become as celebrated as his 
Pale Ale. The second use of yeast survives. These na- 
tions, says Pliny, used it for fermenting their bread: 
*' Qua de causa levior illis quam caeteris panis est." But 
the use of beer was not confined to the western nations. 
The Egyptian zythus was beer — Suidas says a.7ro npiS^,- 
7t^ow,£voc made of barley — and Pelusium was the Burton- 
on-Trent of Egypt : — 

" Ut Pelusiaci proritet pocula zy thi." 

Moreover, the Egyptians, being destitute of hops, flavoured 
their ale with the bitter luj^ine, and with an acrid wild 
carrot, of which Pliny says — "nemo tres siseres edendo 
continuaret." Wilkinson, most properly, devotes two or 
three pages to the Egyptian zythus. In Spain they made 
beer which would keep for several years. Tacitus speaks 
of German beer more scornfully than is consistent with its 
modern reputation. " Potui humor ex hordeo aut fermento 
in quandam similitudinem vini corruptus." 

Beer runs through all the classics. Athenaeus say3.that 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 177 

beery men dance, and sing, as merrily as those who are 
overtaken in more generous liquor. Aristotle states, with 
more discrimination, that the former, when helplessly 
overcome, lie on their backs, and the latter on their faces. 
-(Eschylus, Sophocles, Herodotus, Archilochus, Hecataeus, 
and Aretaeus, all mention beer. Xenophon, during the 
retreat of the Ten Thousand, passed a convivial night with 
an Armenian sheik near to the sources of the river Phasis. 
The sheik's daughter, who had been married nine days, 
graced the feast with her presence. Her husband was not 
of the party, being off in the mountains coursing. On 
the floor of the subterranean dwelling stood a vessel filled 
with barley-bree, and furnished with hollow reeds of va- 
rious sizes. Want of a common language did not prevent 
the observance of customary convivial compliments. The 
host, as his benevolence prompted, led some favoured 
guest to the beer-barrel, where the politer sort sucked the 
liquor through the reeds ; but others, who had not learned 
manners, thrust in their noses like oxen. Xenophon says 
it was strong drink, but very pleasant when you were used 
to it. When the sun had risen on their revels, Xenophon, 
who commanded the rear-guard, took the sheik with him to 
the van of the army. There they found that General 
Cheirisophus, and his officers, had also met with good 
quarters, and were still protracting their festivities. They 
were crowned with rushes, and Armenian boys were minis- 
tering to them. To these boys they indicated by signs 
the form in which their services were required. Seven 
days were spent in these pastimes. On the eighth they 
took the sheik for their guide, and his son as hostage for 
his fidelity. The sheik led the army three days' march 
into the snow. Cheirisophus suspected treachery and 
struck the sheik, but neglected to fetter him. The sheik, 
resenting the indignity, levanted in the course of the night, 
leaving his son behind him. Then arose the only serious 
difi'erence of the whole retreat between Xenophon and 
Cheirisophus, probably as to the fate of the boy. That 

I 3 



178 AGRICULTURE. 

however, was settled by another general, Episthenes, who, 
having taken a fancy to the hoy, carried him to Greece, 
and he proved, says Xenophon, very faithful. 

In treating of fallows, we have spoken of the number of 
ploughings which the Komans gave to their land ; but our 
description would be incomplete if we did not allude to 
the manner in which they were executed. On this point 
some passages are obscure, and Dickson is neither a very 
definite nor a very safe guide. He wishes to conclude 
from a single expression in Pliny, which appears as likely 
at least to refer to the width as to the depth of the furrow, 
that the ordinary Roman ploughings were nine inches 
deep. As we know that they were generally executed by 
two oxen, and that a jugerum, three-fifths of a statute 
acre, was a regular day's work, and was in free land con- 
siderably exceeded, a general depth of nine inches will 
not, to a practical farmer, appear very probable. They 
were not, however, very superficial, for Pliny will not 
allow a depth of four fingers — three inches — to be a 
ploughing ; but calls it a scarification. As, moreover, one 
ploughing in the fallow course received a distinctive name, 
" proscindere," with respect to which Pliny says " vi omni 
avato," and as he states that it was not unusual to attach 
six or even eight oxen to one plough, it seems probable 
that once at least in the fallow course the land was stirred 
to a considerable depth. There are several maxims about 
going below the roots of all the weeds. We should bear 
in mind that the Roman plough was an implement which 
did not of necessity turn a furrow, though it was capable 
of doing so by a direction given to it by the man who pre- 
sided at the stilts. Our word furrow implies a slice of 
land turned over, whereas their word " sulcus " implies 
only a certain breadth disturbed and lightened up. The 
object of their fallow ploughings, and indeed of all their 
ploughings, except breaking up turf and the ridging which 
we have already described, was to stir all the land to an 
even depth. To effect this, they prescribed very narrow 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 179 

and equal breadths and very straight lines. They had not 
the trouble which we experience, from the circumstance 
that the plough in going and returning turns the slice 
opposite ways. The Roman ploughman returned on his 
own traces, and one criterion of the perfection of his work 
was, that the surface should be left so even as to make it 
difficult to discern where the plough had gone. The over- 
looker is recommended to walk over the newly-ploughed 
field, and to thrust in repeatedly a pointed stick, by which 
he will discover whether any land has been left unmoved. 
In order to ensure perfect culture, their second ploughing 
was always across the first. And even when the declivity 
was so great that they could not in either case go directly 
up and down, they took two oblique directions across the 
hill which would intersect each other. The characteristic 
of Roman ploughing was precision. To move uneven 
breadths was called to plough " sulco vario," and was much 
condemned. Lumps of earth undisturbed were called 
"scamna," and were said to diminish the crop, and to 
bring a bad name on the land. He who ploughed crooked 
was said to prevaricate, " praevaricare ; " whence, says 
Pliny, the phrase was imported into the law courts, and 
having been applied to those who went crooked in their 
ploughing, came to be applied to those who went crooked 
in their statements. The ridge on which corn was sown 
was called " lira " and '* porca." " Liras rustici vocant 
porcas." With us Prince Albert and Mr. Pusey have 
superseded the ridge-backed sow. We were content to 
look no further than " lira " for the derivation of the word 
•' delirare ; " but Mr. Hoskyns insists that it should be 
" de linea arare," whence also delirious. We wish some 
skilful husbandman would import these Roman maxims 
into the midland counties, where nineteen ploughmen out 
of twenty either prevaricate or are delirious. 

So great was the importance which the ancients attached 
to ploughing. " What," says Cato, " is the first point in 
good cultivation ?" " Bene arare. — Quid secundum? Arare. 



180 AGRICULTURE. 

— Quid tertium? Stercorare." Pliny declares the pas- 
sage to be oracular, but muddles it in quoting. Theo- 
phrastus, who long preceded them both, says that no crop 
ought to be grown on the fallow-break unless it can be 
cleared off so soon as not to prevent the land from receiving 
all its summer ploughings. Cato forbids his bailiff to 
plough when it is wet, or to cart over it, or even to allow 
cattle to go upon it. He says that it will not recover itself 
for three years. Columella, Pliny, and Palladius say that 
if you meddle with land while it is wet, you will lose the 
whole season. Dickson is very elaborate in investigating 
the construction of ancient ploughs, and appears to be 
borne out in the following conclusions : — 

" The ancients had all the different kinds of ploughs 
that we have at present in Europe, though perhaps not so 
exactly constructed. They had ploughs without mould- 
boards, and ploughs with mould-boards ; they had ploughs 
without coulters, and ploughs with coulters ; they had 
ploughs without wheels, and ploughs with wheels ; they 
had broad-pointed shares and narrow-pointed shares ; they 
even had, what I have not as yet met with amongst the 
moderns, shares not only with sharp sides and points, but 
also with high-raised cutting-tops. Were we well acquainted 
with the construction of all these, perhaps it would be 
found that the improvements made by the moderns in 
this article are not so great as many persons are apt to 
imagine." 

The Egyptian ploughs, as represented in the drawings, 
are mere raud-scratchers, drawn sometimes by oxen, some- 
times by cows with their calves skipping by their sides ; 
and Pliny says that, on flooded lands, he has seen a plough 
drawn by a donkey on one side, and an old woman on the 
other— "vili asello, et a parte altera jugi anu vomerem 
trahente." Among the drawings from the Egyptian tombs, 
engraved for Sir G. Wilkinson, are several which repre- 
sent ploughing, sowing, and other operations, and in one 
of these a roller drawn by two horses driven with reins is 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 181 

introduced. The roller is hollow, supported by a frame- 
work inside, in diameter about two-thirds of the height of 
the horses, and the drawing would be no inaccurate repre- 
sentation of a modem agricultural iron roller. We are not 
aware that the use of such an implement in husbandry is 
mentioned by any of the ancient writers. If Columella had 
been acquainted with its use, he would not have recom 
mended that land, laid down for meadow, should be 
smoothed by an instrument which, according to his own 
account, worked so clumsily as the crates. We have already, 
seen, that, in compressing a threshing-floor, a piece of a 
broken column was pressed into the service as a makeshift 
roller. The Eomans might have valued this implement as 
a breaker of clods, and as an assistant to fine tilth ; but 
not a single passage intimates that they sympathised with 
our idea of the advantage of a firm bed for the roots of 
corn. Quite the contrary. Perhaps, in the climate of 
Italy, their crops were not so liable to be top-heavy as ours 
are. Perhaps the young plant was not so liable to be 
thrown out by frost. 

When we come to sowing, the remarkable unanimity 
which, on moist points of practice, pervades the old authors, 
gives way to a diversity that sorely perplexes the minister 
of Whittingham. That candid judge expends much unsuc- 
cessful labour in attempts to reconcile their opinions ; and, 
where this is hopeless, would fain make out that none of 
them can be convicted of heterodoxy. The directions given 
by them are very analogous to those which any gentleman 
would receive, if he were to enter an English county on 
one side, and ask the opinion of every farmer he met till 
he went out on the other. One would tell him to sow thin, 
because his land was poor, another because it was rich. A 
third would say, *' Be liberal with your seed, because you 
are early in the season ; " and a fourth would advise the 
same " because you are late." A fifth and sixth would 
differ as to whether wet land, or dry, required the most 



182 AGRICULTURE. 

seed.* This is the substance of what the ancients say in va- 
rious passages — which we are not careful to harmonize, partly 
because their differences will dwindle when we mention the 
narrow limits between the thick and thin sowing. With 
few exceptions they recommend early sowing, and, as was 
their wont, enforce the practice by an epigrammatic maxim 
— " Early sowing sometimes deceives the husbandman ; 
late sowing never — because the crop after it is always bad." 
Pliny will not have the joke, probably because he finds it 
in Columella, and gives the maxim — " Early sowing some- 
time disappoints the husbandman, late sowing always." 
Their mode of sowing was by hand, broadcast ; or rather, 
according to the Egyptian drawings, overcast. A two- 
handed seedsman nowhere appears. We find in Theo- 
phrastus and Pliny an opinion which lingers still among 
seedsmen, where it has not been superseded by the drill. 
The same land was said to require varying quantities of 
seed in different years, and its taking much was " infausto 
augurio " for the crop. The land was supposed to be 
hungry, and to devour the seed. Theophrastus laughs at 
this as "fool's talk;" but Pliny says it is ** religiosum 
augurium." Dickson explains the matter very naturally. 
In sowing, the step and hand go together. When the land 
is clammy the seedsman takes short steps, and gives the 
field more handfuls. A clammy seedness is generally fol- 
lowed by an unproductive harvest. 

The next and last point of practice is the quantity of 
seed sown : and in our observations upon it we shall con- 
fine ourselves to wheat. We approach the matter with 
some anxiety, because on our accuracy respecting it hangs 
the only chance we have of ascertaining what was the pro- 
ductive return for all the laborious culture which we have 
described. We may state as a preliminary, that the 

* Probably be would not meet a farmer who would tell hira, with 
Pliny, that if seed barley remains long in the ground without vegetating, 
it will come up oats. 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 183 

Romans were extremely particular in the choice of seed. 
They insisted on its being sound, plump, and well formed. 
They selected by hand from the ripened crop the boldest 
ears, rejecting all those which had any deaf husks. They 
were aware of the advantage of introducing seed from land 
which varied in soil or climate, and they represent that the 
produce of seed, taken indiscriminately, always degenerated 
in a few years. On the subject of quantity the writers are 
nearly unanimous, and very precise. There is, perhaps, a 
slight tendency in those who wrote last to increase the 
quantity of seed. The smallest quantity of seed -wheat 
named is rather less than two bushels to the statute acre 
— the largest exceeds two and a half by a small fraction. 
Cato is silent on the subject of quantity ; but all the other 
Roman authors are unanimous in fixing on five modii to the 
jugerum, or less than two bushels and a quarter to the 
statute acre, as the standard quantity of seed-wheat. Both 
in the Scriptures, and in the old heathen authors, state- 
ments occur of the returns of one hundred, and one hundred 
and fifty, to one. These are, undoubtedly, meant to express 
very large crops ; but how large, while the seed is an un- 
known quantity, it is impossible to ascertain. If we take 
two bushels of wheat as the seed for an acre, no practical 
farmer will be very apt to believe that any one ever reaped 
300 bushels, or 37^ quarters, of wheat from a single acre. 
By reducing seed, and by giving space and extra culture 
to each individual plant, an almost unlimited return, to 
one, may be obtained. That some such explanation must 
be given of these large statements is confirmed by the 
circumstance that, in the same passage in which Pliny 
makes them, he states also that an agent of Augustus sent 
him from Byzacium in Africa nearly 400 stalks (germina) 
from a single corn of wheat ; and that Nero received from 
the same place 360 "stipulas ex uno grano." In our 
homely way, we saw last summer, a single bean producing 
7 stems, 129 pods, and 519 beans, which any one so dis- 
posed might call a return of 519 for one. The return of 



184 AGRICULTURE. 

the field from which this root was taken was 33 for one. 
When the Romans measure and state their seed, their pre- 
tensions are much more moderate. Varro, using a little 
above two bushels of seed to the statute acre, claims a 
general return of 10 for one ; and of 15 in land of extra- 
ordinary fertility. That is, about 21 and 32 bushels per 
acre respectively. He speaks of this rate of produce as a 
great falling off from what had been obtained in the time 
of his ancestors. Half a century later, Cicero {in Verrem) 
gives an account of the produce in the rich lands of Sicily. 
He .claims 2^ bushels of seed to the statute acre, and says, 
that well-cultivated land gives eight for one, or, " ut omnes 
Dii adjuvent .... quod perraro evenit," ten — equal to 
20 and 25 bushels respectively. In another half century. 
Columella says that, over the larger part of Italy, the in- 
stances are few in which the return is more than four 
to one.* The increasing lamentations over diminished 
produce, as we descend in the Eicries of authors, are quite 
consonant with these returns. They are confirmed also by 
unequivocal declarations in the later writers — that both the 
selling price and rent of land had declined, though the 
price of wheat had risen gradually from 3s. Qd. per quarter 
before, and 10s. in the time of Cato, to 60s. in the time of 
Pliny. The expense of agricultural labour had not, in the 
meantime, increased materially. Palladius, the latest 
author, states the price of an agricultural slave to be from 
60Z. to 66Z. Cato is said to have paid for them 601. each ; 
but this is mentioned as being considerably below the 
market price, and is given as a specimen of his skill in 
purchasing. 

We have thus brought to a close our long digest of 
ancient agricultural practice and produce. In renewing 

* Some attempts have been made to explain away or to discredit this 
passage in Columella, but apparently without any reason. His " cum 
quarto responderint " is exactly analogous to Cicero's " efhcit cum octavo '' 
— " cum decumo extulisset," and to the " cum decimo redeat " of Varro. 
In short, this is the only way in which the ancients express the amount 
of produce. 



AKCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 185 

our acknowledgments to Dickson for the assistance which 
he has given us, we are bound to say that, for many of our 
statements, he is not answerable. Some things which he 
either missed, or purposely passed by, we have brought 
forward from the men of old; and in several cases in 
which he has appeared to us to misconceive their meaning, 
we have, after due consideration, followed our own opinion, 
without making the difference between us matter of con- 
troversy. His translations we have generally discarded. 
Several matters on which he dwells largely, but which did 
not seem to have much connection with British agriculture, 
we have omitted altogether. Equally, we have omitted 
the constantly-recurring directions of the ancients to 
govern ourselves, in sowing various seeds, or in eradicating 
particular weeds, by certain lunar and sidereal influences ; 
and another class of directions, as a sample of which 
we may give, that a seed hopper ought to be lined with 
the skin of an hyena. Our reverend author is scandalised 
that some modern sceptics should have treated these maxims 
as superstitious, and is at much pains to prove that they 
are, or may be, consistent with sound reason. We by no 
means sneer at them, calling to mind that the best house- 
keeper we ever knew would never allow a pig to be killed 
when the moon was waning, because bacon cured under 
those influences would not, to use her own phrase, " swell 
in the pot." 

We are quite aware how many unexpected matters may 
turn up when we come to reduce a system of agriculture, 
which is depicted on paper, to the rough realities of prac- 
tice. But the Roman authors appear to us to have this 
peculiarity, that they never look forward, but always back- 
ward. Their anxiety is not to promote progress, but to 
guard against declension. It is enough for Columella and 
Palladius to cultivate as Cato and Varro directed, and 
Cato and Varro are satisfied to appeal to the Greek writers 
and Mago. No one of them, as far as we recollect, claims 
any improvement as of recent discovery. We have eras 



186 AGRICULTURE. 

in our agriculture, but they appear to have had none. We 
can point to the period when the value of our sands was 
doubled or trebled by the introduction of turnip husbandry, 
and the consequent intimate union of the fleece and the 
plough. We can tell that, through general enclosures, the 
exhausted clays of our open fields were allowed to recover 
their fertility by long rests in grass. Sowing corn by the 
drill, threshing by horse power and by steam, permanent 
under-drainage, the new Leicester sheep and the improved 
short-horn, all attest our progress. They had nothing of 
the sort. They describe a very advanced and refined 
system of tillage, but they treat agriculture as an art 
whereof the origin is veiled in the mists of antiquity, 
which they do not seek to penetrate ; which had descended 
to them in a state of perfection, beyond which they scarcely 
ventured to look ; and which they must be careful not to 
deteriorate. Dickson's abiding faith is, that they were 
better fiirmers than the moderns, and, on almost every 
point where ancient and modern practice differ, he gives 
the preference to the former. Nor is he alone in these 
opinions. The very latest historian of the Papal States 
says, " Agricultural science has not been carried as high in 
Scotland as it was carried more than two thousand years 
ago by the Romans, as any one who has ever studied the 
Scriptores Rei Rustics will readily admit" (vol. iii. p. 637). 
Whether the Rev. John Miley, D.D., himself has ever 
studied them, though he puts the word in italics, we are 
somewhat doubtful ; but, at any rate, from these judgments 
we appeal to the results. No one, we believe, doubts or 
denies, that the agriculture of Scotland, if imperfect, and 
the still less perfect agriculture of England, have resulted 
in constantly-increasing produce, and enabling those coun- 
tries to supply not only an increasing population, but a 
population whose scale of maintenance — with the exception, 
alas ! of the class of mere agricultural labourers — has been 
constantly improving. Confessedly the reverse was the 
case in Roman agriculture. The successive writers speak 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 187 

of the same districts, the same soils, and constantly deplore 
diminished produce. And yet they do not say that the 
land received fewer ploughings, or hoeings, or weedings ; 
that manure was less carefully husbanded ; or that a less 
scientific course of cropping was adopted. 

This falling off, having reached its crisis in the time of 
the later writers, evidently puzzled them sorely. Columella 
commences his treatise with it, and says that the fault 
cannot be in the earth. She must have the same principles 
of fertility as heretofore— so he has recourse to absenteeism 
and luxury, and such other explanations as pass muster 
with us in settling an Irish or West Indian difficulty now- 
a-days. Pliny only discusses the mystery — " Quaenam 
ergo tantse ubertatis causa erat ? " It was either, he says, 
that the earth was then cultivated by the hands of great 
generals, and rejoiced—*' ut fas est credere" — in a plough 
crowned with laurel, guided by a ploughman who had re- 
ceived a triumph ; or that these men planned their course 
of crops with as much judgment as their campaigns, and 
laid out their fields with the same diligence as their camps. 
One reason is about as good as the other. The latter might 
be applicable to the four acres of Cincinnatus or Attilius 
Regulus, hut we are slow to believe that nature produces 
a generation of men who are all giants in mind, body, or 
spirit ; and we have no doubt that the age of Cincinnatus 
produced the usual proportion of husbandmen of only or- 
dinary intelligence and energy. We believe that failure 
was inherent in the system. Roman agriculture was founded 
on the assumption that culture alone would enable land to 
export corn continually for an indefinite period. They 
acted tenderly on the assumption, and said, every other year, 
" alternis annis." A constantly-diminishing produce — 
diminishing probably in proportion to the length of time 
during which the assumption had been put to the test 
— proclaimed its failure. On this assumption, TuU at- 
tempted to base a system ; but it did not survive him. Mr. 
Huxtable enunciates it as a principle, and founds calcula- 



188 AGRICULTURE. 

tiotis upon it ; but no farmer who ever lived, ancient or 
modern, has relied on it so little in practice. His boxed 
bullocks, shedded sheep, and pampered pigs, are a standing 
contradiction to his claim of a continuous yield of 16 bushels 
per acre. This, according to Roman husbandry, would be 
32 bushels per acre in alternate years ; with the addition 
(which we cannot stop to calculate, but the data for the cal- 
culation are given in Mr. Huxtable's pamphlet) due to a 
manuring once in six years. To Mr. Huxtable's assumption 
we oppose Roman results. He cannot cultivate better than 
they did ; and between the time of Varro, and that of Colu- 
mella, they reduced the yield from 23 bushes per acre to 
about 12 ! What shall we say to Mr. Mechi ? Nine hundred 
to a thousand quarters of com bought annually for con- 
sumption on a farm of 170 acres.* Does not the shade of 
old Cato haunt his dreams ? " Patrem familias vendacem 
non emacem esse oportet." When we descend to instances 
which are less controverted, we find that the practice of 
Mr. Hutley in Essex, Mr. Hudson of Castleacre, and, in 
short, of every successful arable farmer in Norfolk, Lincoln- 
shire, or the Lothians, is founded on conviction that land 
which exports corn continuously is not self-sustaining. 
Such of our agricultural readers as have the misfortune 
or the advantage of forty years' recollection, will confirm 
our statement that the great bulk of the English common 
fields — more particularly those which ran the rain off their 
surface — were, on the eve of enclosure, reduced to the 
state, described by Columella, of a return of about four for 
one. In fact, the common-field system, which was one of 
a continuous carrying off of corn with no other aid but 
fallowing, and a little light adventitious manure, soot, and 
so forth, had worn itself out. 

And here we remark the great distinction between Roman 
agriculture and ours. Theirs was correct, precise, regular, 
persevering, careful, but altogether unelastic. Ours, coarse, 

* We speak on the authority of the "Times" Agricultural Commis- 
gloner. 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 189 

without S3'stem, inaccurate, often wasteful, but full of re- 
source. They saw their produce dwindle, and their country- 
become more and more dependent on importation for daily 
bread ; and, with every temptation in price, found no re- 
medy. When our clays struck work, we resorted to a ge- 
neral system of enclosures, which enabled us to give them 
rest without entire abandonment ; and we applied all our 
energy to obtain the wheat and beans, which they had fur- 
nished to us, from a description of land which every pre- 
vious generation had considered to be wholly unsuited to 
such produce. We ransacked earth and sea, home and 
abroad, for adventitious manures. No doubt we have had 
great advantages. Any one who casts his eye over the list 
of British imports and exports, will recognise at once an 
enormous balance remaining with us of matters resoluble 
ultimately into manure. Indeed the account is almost all 
one way. In our hardwares and crockery we export no 
elements of fertility, and our exports of textile fabrics are 
but a small fraction in weight of the raw material which 
we had previously imported. We have to look far back for 
the period when we regularly exported grain, and when 
our imports of wool failed to balance, or nearly so, our ex- 
ports of manufactured woollens. To set against all this 
there is great waste ; but even the sea makes us some 
compensation, in the shape of fish and wrack, for the filthy 
contributions which our rivers pour continually into its 
bosom. The emerald fringe, which surrounds all our 
towns and most of our villages, attests the general balance 
and its application. The suburban lands, which are brought 
to the acme of fertility, as far as that can be attained by 
extra-manuring, form a very appreciable portion of the 
surface of England ; besides which, lands lying at distances, 
varying with the facilities of carriage or back-carriage, 
assist in sweeping off the fertilizing matters which accu- 
mulate in our great towns. There is no evidence in the 
ancient writers of any such process. There can be no doubt 
that, after the conquest of Carthage, Italy imported largely, 



190 AGBICULTURE. 

and that a large portion of her imports came as tribute, 

without much return. Probably the want of easy means 

of transport prevented the agricultural use of the manures 

which might have been economised in the towns. In the 

absence of such aid the constant repetition of corn crops, 

aggravated, in many cases, by a systematic robbery of the 

arable field for the sake of the more profitable vineyard, 

produced the state of exhaustion to which the progressive 

diminution of return so fully testifies. 

No point in agriculture is better established than that 

long rest (what the Romans called " longa desidia ") in grass 

gives to land renewed, or increased, powers of producing 

crops when it is again restored to culture. No fact is so 

entirely unexplained. None so palpably contradicts all our 

maxims. Here is no tillage, no stirring up, no exposure 

to light or air, no succession of crops. What becomes of 

the doctrine that the roots of plants exude something which 

is noxious to their own species ? A field is laid down in 

grass, and every year it exports something ; beef, mutton, 

wool, milk — or bone, sinew, and muscle, in the shape of 

store cattle.* Coexistent with a continuous export is the 

anomalous fact of increased productive power. Of this 

remedy for exhaustion we have availed ourselves largely. 

Our extensive pastures are our storehouses of grain — our 

safeguard against protracted dearth. Serious alarm would 

soon cover them with grain again. Our history teems with 

protests and futile laws against the increase of pasture. 

The process was inevitable: agriculture was rebelling 

against exhaustion, and was adopting the only remedy which 

difficulties of transport then permitted ; a remedy of which 

* We have no inclination to discredit the statement that a marked 
declension of cheese produce occurred in the old dairy lands of Cheshire, 
and was axTCsted by the application of bone manure, nor to throw any 
doubt on the chemical explanations which have been given of those 
circumstances. We may mention, however, that in the great midland 
cheese-making district, to which parts of five counties contribute, and 
in which the generality of the cow pastures have been from time im- 
memorial unviolated by the plough, we never heard of any such declen- 
sion or remedy. 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 191 

the moistness of our climate diminished the sacrifice, and 
perhaps also increased the efiScacy. In addition to this 
remedy, we now possess a 'preventive. We prevent the 
exhaustion of our lands by ihe application of adventitious 
manures. But the remedy, whatever its deficiencies, is not 
attended by outlay. It is simply a pro tempore abandon- 
ment of cultivation. On the other hand, the preventive, 
to which we have given the fanciful name of high farming j 
is altogether dependent upon outlay. An outcry for the 
application of increased capital to farming is evidence that 
a state of exhaustion has been reached, or is in immediate 
prospect. When Sir R. Peel tells his tenants that an 
average produce of about 2 to 2^ quarters of wheat per 
acre cannot pay, he indicates that their lands have ap- 
proached the state which Columella describes to have been 
reached in Italy.* To this result of their agriculture the 
Romans never systematically adopted a preventive, nor 
did they contrive any specific remedy. Their business was 
to conquer and rob the world : their provinces bore an 
overwhelming proportion to their domestic limits. So it is 
in our case : but our connection with our outlying depen- 
dencies was never framed on Roman principles, and their 
wide compass will not absolve us from the necessity of 
turning our attention, with painful intensity, on our inter- 
nal resources. 

Though the Romans never practised the resting system, 
any description of modern agriculture which should pass 
it by would be incomplete. In a new country a settler sub- 
dues a piece of land, flogs it to death and abandons the 
carcase, and then repeats the operation on a new subject. 
That is the agricultural system in large portions of the 
United States. A great part of Russian Finland consists 
of low irregular hills, which yield a spontaneous growth 
of fir-wood. When the trees in this puny forest have at- 
tained the size of a fence-rail, the cultivator sets it on fire, 

* PVom a printed circular letter of Sir Robert Peel's to his tenants 
Drayton Manor, Dec. 24, 1849. 



192 AGRICULTURE. 

and following the burning with one or more ponies har- 
nessed to a tool which cannot accurately be called either 
plough, hoe, or spud, but which in his hand jumps about 
with the agility of an opera-dancer, he scratches the wood- 
ashes into the little deposits of soil which exist between 
the protruding rocks and stumps, and with them some 
seed-rye ; repeating this crop for two or three years, ac- 
cording to the staple of his soil ; and then resigning his 
exhausted victim in order to renew the operation on the 
piece of forest which is next in succession. It would be 
difficult to improve his agriculture. A somewhat analogous 
occupation of various poor wastes was, within a century, 
known in England. In many of the enclosed counties, 
particularly in the Midland, Northern, and Western, whole 
districts are described by the appellation of up and down 
land. The agricultural principle was, to call on mysterious 
nature to renew the exhausted soil. The system was frugal, 
but slow. It might consist with pack-horses, perhaps with 
stage- waggons, but it was scouted by post-coaches, and ex- 
ploded by railroads. It was not suited to a country fully 
occupied, and which had an increasing population. The 
gross produce was necessarily small, and could support 
neither high rents nor heavy payments. Every new agri- 
cultural device proposed to get rid of it. 

We can remember when it was treason to agricultural 
science to doubt that the four-course shift, with turnips 
consumed by sheep where they grew, was self-sustaining. 
Sufficient virtue was supposed to exist in the feet of the 
sheep to set at nought a principle which had been sanc- 
tioned by experience in every age and every clime. The 
answer to the statement that land stimulated by culture 
could not, permanently, export its produce without ex- 
haustion was — rotation of crops and the four-course shift. 
Sane men assured the agricultural world, that a farm 
divided into four equal parallelograms, to be occupied suc- 
cessively by turnips, barley, clover, and wheat, would go 
on for ever on its own resources with increasing fertility. 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 193 

But these flattering prospects were destined to be mate- 
rially abated. Turnips missed, land was clover-sick : in 
short, Nature had not changed, and land, severely cropped, 
was exhausted. Now rotations are at a discount, and the 
jargon about improving crops — which Columella despised 
eighteen hundred years ago — has ceased ; and high manur- 
ing, in one form or other, possesses the agricultural mind. 
No instructor has a chance of a hearing unless he professes 
to teach the farmer how he can restore to the earth the 
nitrogen, or ammonia, or some mysterious element which 
every one admits to have been carried off to the mill, the 
malt-house, and the shambles. Why all this outcry about 
draining? Mainly because draining is a necessary pre- 
liminary to successful manuring. When land is surcharged 
with water, and runs the rain off its surface, one portion of 
the manure which is applied to it is rendered effete by wet 
and cold, and another portion is swum away ; but if land 
be porous by nature, or is rendered porous by art, every 
particle and every element of the manure is available for 
reproduction. The counties of Norfolk and Lincoln pro- 
duce tenant farmers who manure, not like the Romans, 
once in six years, but for every crop. Every schemer in 
agriculture professes to have a plan by which we shall 
drive foreigners from our markets by the mere exuberance 
of our domestic production. Some of all this may be 
absurd, some exaggerated, but it shows the bent of the 
national mind. Whenever the history of British agricul- 
ture is faithfully written, it will tell, not of a tame acqui- 
escence in diminishing produce, not of the helpless iteration 
of a worn-out course, but of constant improvement. It 
may be truly said of the Roman agriculturist, that he 
farmed as his fathers did before him ; but of no class of 
men could it be said less truly than of the British. Who 
among us would found his practice on an authority fifty 
years old ? 

It would be very easy — nay, it is daily practice — to write 
a description of British agriculture founded on undoubted 

K 



194 AGEICULTURE. 

facts, but which shall be a caricature. From the backward 
arable practice of grazing and dairying districts — from the 
wayside cows of arable districts — from wheat-fields sacri- 
ficed to hop-gardens — from desolate lands, the improvement 
of which has been impeded by difficulties of tenure and 
mixed and imperfect ownership — from some sacrifices to 
the picturesque — and from more to the cherished feelings, 
prejudices, if you will, of resident proprietors, which forbid 
the absolute introduction of the rectangular system which 
scientific precision would dictate — any critic, viewing the 
countiy from the window of a railway carriage, might 
select a group of agricultural deformities. They would 
bear the same relation to our general husbandry which 
reports from the felon's dock and the police office would 
bear to our general morality. A discerning " commis- 
sioner " finds, in every district of Britain, some farming 
practice carried to considerable perfection, or some agricul- 
tural improvement urged to a considerable extent. The 
British farmer has acquired a sort of prescriptive right to 
be called pudding-headed, and beef-witted, and would 
hardly know himself by any other description. He adopts 
it with perfect good humour ; and yet, when he comes to be 
looked into, he stands out as the man who, under some 
disadvantages of climate and some of tenure, has urged a 
limited area, of no exuberant natural fertility, to an amount 
of produce hitherto unparalleled in the world's history — 
and is urging it onward still. There is talk, indeed, of 
throwing land out of cultivation, but action is all the other 
way. Never was the indomitable energy of the British 
agriculturist more conspicuous than at this moment. A 
fall in the value of every article of farming produce — which 
his experience gave him no reason to anticipate — has dealt 
him a blow under which he staggers. When abundantly- 
stocked markets have reduced the price of goods below 
the cost of production, the cotton- spinner takes to short 
time, the iron-master blows out furnaces, and the collier 
shuts up his pits for three days in the week. -Under 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 196 

similar circumstances— guided, we hope, by a sure instinct, 
which we blindly follow without comprehending it — the 
agriculturists make an universal rush to produce more. 
Everybody is determined to confute Malthus, and to prove 
to him that he misplaced the ratios— that the agricultural 
ratio of increase will double the produce of a rural district 
much sooner than the procreative ratio will double the 
population. Sir Robert Peel tells his tenants that 2 or 2 J 
quarters per acre cannot pay. No doubt that is so. A gross 
produce of 41. or 5L per acre from the golden crop of the 
series cannot sustain a landlord, a tenant, a rector, police, 
bridges, gaols, churches, lunatic asylums, union workhouses, 
labourers, and a chancellor of the exchequer. We must 
have 2 or 3 quarters per acre more. Mr. Huxtable, Mr. 
Hudson, and all of us, are solving, or endeavouring to 
solve, the problem how to buy them (for buy them we must) 
for less than they will fetch in the market. We are trying 
to confute the Roman maxim — "bene colere necessarium 
est, op time damnosum." Our faith, if we have any, is in 
the power of consumption. We trust that the stomachs of 
all Her Majesty's subjects are in a course of progressive 
dilation. " Produce more," say statesmen authoritatively, 
philosophers dogmatically, protectionists dolefully, free- 
traders fiercely. If we were to suggest " produce cheaper," 
we hardly know whether we should meet with a seconder. 
This indeed would involve many severe struggles which we 
would fain be spared. Visions of the disruption of ancient 
connections — of the extinction of some deserving classes — 
of the application of the rule and square to the face of the 
country — flit painfully before our eyes. Having seen the 
domestic spindle and loom swept into the unsightly factory 
— almost every independent brook-side producer, in every 
class, absorbed into some leviathan steam-driven establish- 
ment — Her Majesty's mail-coach, and Mr. Newman's neat 
post-chaise attached to the Rail — we can hardly hope that 
agriculture alone will be able to maintain its old relations, 
and to resist the economical pressure. 

k2 



196 AGKICULTURE. 

We are unwilling to close this long article without a 
word or two more on some conclusions respecting our Gallic 
and British ancestors, at which we have arrived from a pe- 
rusal of the agricultural writers of Rome. When her pro- 
fessed historians passed the boundaries of Italy, they oc- 
cupied themselves little with any matters which had not 
immediate bearing on the career of Roman conquest. The 
nations to their north and west were unknown to history, 
were classed under the general appellation of barbarians, 
and nothing respecting them appeared worthy to be re- 
corded except the degree of resistance which they were 
able to offer to the Roman arms. Of what Mr. Hoskyns 
appropriately calls their " inner life " we learn nothing. 
Even when Tacitus writes a treatise " On the Manners of 
the Germans," he gives an account of them which nothing 
but our respect for a great name prevents our calling 
childish and absurd. The people he professed to describe 
were a great nation, who repeatedly foiled the Roman 
generals, and destroyed their armies, and who, though 
harassed on their frontiers, were in fact never conquered. 
In epigrammatic and antithetical sentences he sets before 
us a state of orderly but very democratic freedom. Men 
inspired by romantic virtue, and restrained by puritanical 
morality ; women chaste, constant, and devoted, as became 
the wives and daughters of such heroes. If the nation had 
a fault, it was a somewhat too great proneness to convivial 
hospitality. That their dwellings were covered neither 
with tile nor thatch, that the men wore a robe pinned on 
with a thorn, and that the semi-nudity of the females was 
only redeemed from indecency by their perfect innocence, 
is all that we learn about their lodging and clothing. A 
statement that they made an intoxicating liquor from grain ; 
and three sentences, which are rather negative than de- 
scriptive, dispatch the whole subject of their agriculture. 
The conclusion of the treatise declines, with a prudent re- 
serve, to pass any opinion on the apparently prevalent 
report that the remoter tribes combined the visages of men 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 197 

with the bodies of beasts. From such history, and from 
the statements and silence of Caesar and Livy, we appeal 
to numerous, but incidental and entirely unsuspicious cir- 
cumstances, which meet us in the agricultural writers. They 
appear to us to warrant the inference, that a settled con- 
dition of society, and considerable progress in the useful 
arts, existed in Gaul and Britain before those countries 
were known to the Romans. Indeed, we doubt whether 
civilization was not rather repressed than advanced by their 
classic invaders. Nor is this opinion inconsistent with the 
fact that they were conquered. That they fell before ar- 
mies to whose equipment and training the accumulated 
science of centuries had been applied, is analogous to the 
case of the village hero, who, though he has by activity 
and pluck thrashed all his rural competitors, finds himself 
powerless in the hands of a professional prize-fighter. 

The Romans found Gaul a country of large farms (lati- 
fundia), in which various agricultural appliances quite 
unknown to themselves were habitually practised. The 
Romans were ignorant of the general use of lime in agri- 
culture — they learned it in Gaul. They found chalk bene- 
ficially applied to corn-growing, both in Gaul and in Britain. 
In both countries various marls were applied to various de- 
scriptions of soil with scientific discrimination. In Britain, 
a particular description of marl, which was used as a top- 
dressing to land, was got by pits 10 yards deep. This cir- 
cumstance is very significant. Every one conversant with 
underground work will be aware that it implies some power 
of freeing the works from water, and some scientific mode 
of ventilating them. The heavy expense of such an im- 
provement is justified by the statement that the benefit 
endured for eighty years, and was only repeated after the 
expiration of that period. That circumstance, again, im- 
plies a settled state of society and great security of pro- 
perty. A Roman writer is not likely to have invented these 
matters, and we attach much more weight to inferences 
justly deducible from them, than we do to Caesar's vague 



198 AGRICULTDRE. 

statement, that no family ties existed in Britain, and that 
the connubial arrangements were analogous to those of the 
poultry-yard and sheep-fold. The case of agricultural 
implements is still stronger. Pliny states that the 
Romans, ignorant themselves of any other mode of sepa- 
rating flour from bran than a common sieve, found in Gaul 
a dressing-machine on the modern principle of a brush 
working in the inside of a porous bag, and brought it into 
use in Italy. We have already named the machine for 
reaping corn, which was so effective that, on many farms 
in Gaul, it superseded every other mode of reaping. We 
must recall to our readers what this machine performed. 
With no other aid than that of being kept in motion by a 
bullock, it collected the ears of the standing corn, .cut 
them off, and dropped them into a chest which was part of 
the machine. Nothing of the sort is shown to have existed 
in civilized Egypt. In that country, as well as in Italy, 
the system of reaping the ears only, leaving the straw to 
be mowed by a subsequent operation, was in great favour ; 
but the work was performed by hand. We believe that 
modern mechanists have failed in every attempt to make a 
satisfactory reaping-machine ; and among the vast and 
almost speculative variety of implements which grace our 
agricultural shows, we are not aware that one which has 
professed to accomplish this operation has of late found a 
place.* The single fact, that the north-western nations 
made fermented liquor from grain, may not indicate any 
high degree of civilization ; but the statement, that, by the 
skilful application of one product of their brewing in the 
hindred art of baking, they enjoyed lighter bread than 
was known to the luxurious Romans, is not without signi- 
ficance. 

In these cursory remarks we have confined ourselves 

* This was practically true in 1850, the date of the author's state- 
ment; but in 1852 reaping-machines of good promise, though still im- 
perfect, were introduced from America, and some English ones were 
revived which bid fair to become permanent implements. — Editor. 



ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE. 199 

strictly to deductions from the incidental statements of the 
agricultural writers. We are quite aware that this is a 
very narrow corner of a great field, which abler husband- 
men than ourselves are occupying with resources which we 
do not pretend to command. We have- the satisfaction, 
however, of knowing that our partial conclusions point in 
the same direction as their more extensive and elaborate 
researches. 



HIGH FARMING. 

AN UNPUBLISHED FRAGMENT. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGK 

The object of Farming is Gain; Profit the Proof of good Farming 203 
Definition of phrase High Farming; data assumed as to condition 

of Farms; Draining, Manui-ing, &c. .... 205-207 

Mr. Huxtable's statements of the cost of Wheat Culture, and its 

Return, examined 208-213 

The theory of Manures, as recognised by Mr. Huxtable, Mr. 

Pusey, and others, examined and disputed . . . 213-218 
Mr. Huxtable's Experiments in manufacturing Porlc, and Pig 

Manure ; his Conclusions disputed .... 218-221 
Mr. Huxtable's Calculations of the profitable return from Turnips 
in manufacturing Beef disputed; protest against Mr. Hux- 
table's Estimates 221 

Mr. Milne's account of Mr. Huxtable's, Mr. Kigden's, and Mr. 
Morton's methods of Farming, and outlay per acre ; Mr. Rig- 
den's outlay and returns compared 221-224 

Mr. Caird's statement of the Auchness Farm examined . . 225 
Review of Mr. Pusey's Pamphlet (1851); criticism on Chemical 
Theories; economy of good Farm Implements, Threshing- 
Machines, &c. ; Stack-yards; Mr. Pusey's ideas of Draining; 
demolition of Hedge-rows ; destruction of Game ; Clay-burn- 
ing; Water-meadows, the Author's puzzle as to the Ammonia 
Theory : Farm Buildings ; proper complement of Farm Horses; 
foulness of Land ; how to increase Produce ; use and cost of 

Ammonia in Wheat growing 227-247 

Jethro Tull, and Spade Husbandry ; a cause of Irish Pauperism . 247 
Mr. Johnstone, and observations on his Work " England as it is in 

the middle of the Nineteenth Century" .... 237. 248 
Certain conditions of success in Arable Farming .... 250 
British and Foreign Prices of Grain compared .... 252 
Britain better fitted for growing Barley than Wheat profitably . 253 
Conclusion : position and future prospects of the British Land- 
owner 254 

K 3 



HIGH FARMING.* 



" If good farming will not pay, certainly bad will not," said 
Lord Stanley (Derby), or at least so his Lordship is reported 
to have said, at an agricultural meeting at Bury. The 
phrase was suflficiently expressive, but appears to us not to 
have been logically accurate ; because, in our estimation, 
paying is the criterion of goodness in farming. If no sort 
of farming will pay, there is no good farming. *' Cadit 
qiiestio.'' Then hurrah! for the wilderness. Let us with- 

* 1. " The Improvement of Farming. What ought Landlords and 
Farmers to do ? " By Ph. Pusey, M.P. for Berkshire. London, 185L 

2. " The Present Prices." By Kev. H. Huxtable, A.M., Rector of Sutton 
Waldron, Dorset. Seventh Edition. Blandford and London, 1850. 

3. " High Farming, under liberal Covenants, the best Substitute for 
Protection." By James Caird, Farmer, Baldoon. Seventh Edition. 
Edinburgh and London, 1850. 

4. " Report of a Visit to the Farms of Mr. Rigden, Sussex, Rev. Mr. 
Huxtable, Dorset, and Mr. Morton, Gloucestershire." By David Milne, 
Esq., of Milnegraden. Berwick-on-Tweed, Edinburgh, and London, 
1850. 

5. " Copy of a Paper on the Subject of British Agriculture read before 
the Society of Arts, November 27th, 1850." By Mr. J. J. Mechi. London, 
1850. 

6. "Free Farming to meet Free Trade." By Hugh Smith, Surveyor. 
London, 1850. 

7. " Mr. Huxtable and his Pigs." By Porcius. Edinburgh and London, 
1850. 

8. "A Letter on Agricultural Education." By Charles Lawrence 
Esq. London, 1850. 

9. "On the Construction of Farm Buildings in Ireland." Dublin, 
Liverpool, and London, 1850. 



204 AGRICULTURE. 

draw from the gentle slopes and softened vales which we 
occupy so unprofitably, and restore them to our predeces- 
sors, the elk and buffalo, the wild boar and stately stag, 
who at least did not weary heaven and earth with their com- 
plaints. We are not unreasonable. We admit any farm- 
ing, which pays the rate of profit due, on a comparison 
with other trades, to its pleasantness, to its salubrity, and 
to the even tenor of its way, without deteriorating the 
freehold, to be positively good. If it pays a higher ^rate, 
or if it improves a freehold, it is comparatively better. 
If it does both, it is good in the superlative degree. When 
we speak on behalf of the agricultural interest, we can 
enter into no compromise with farming which does not pay. 
Without claiming to be eloquent, we think that we could 
get up a fine sentence, and assure the farmer that it is his 
high destiny to provide sustenance for the race whose 
ancestor God formed in his own image ; and that when he 
makes two ears of wheat grow where one grew before, he 
may glory in being the benefactor of mankind. But we 
are afraid that the self-importance which we might conjure 
up would fade away before a distress for rent and taxes, 
and that the sight of two stacks of wheat where only one 
stood before, would fail to cheer the heart of the bold 
peasant — "his country's pride," or to dry the eyes of the 
mother of his children, when they had once been placed 
in the schedule of the bailiff. No ! The object of farm- 
ing is gain. Whether an agriculturist grows bread to 
strengthen man, wine to gladden his heart, oil to make 
him of a cheerful countenance, or opium to poison him ; 
whether his barley be made into wholesome ale or delete- 
rious gin, he has but one concern — does the cultivation 
pay ? The landlord manufactures and brings to market 
corn and beef; the cotton-lord muslin and calico. Inci- 
dentally, the one class of products feeds mankind, and the 
other clothes them. But the price, not the application, 
concerns the producer. That is the commercial principle ; 
and the closer either party sticks to it the more probable 



HIGH FARMING. 205 

will be his success. We therefore, with some reluctance, 
but on conviction, lay aside all sentiment, and approach 
the subject of agriculture in the driest economical spirit. 

Having thus strictly limited the sense in which only we 
can consent to use the phrase good farming, we come next 
to another phrase of modern origin, but which now con- 
stantly occupies the mouths or pens of all agricultural dis- 
putants. We like the phrase because it is so very definite 
and so very unassuming. "High farming" is simply a 
higher, or more than average, expenditure of money on 
land, in order to make its agricultural produce greater. 
Extra expenditure in labour, in manure, or in machinery, 
is its essence. It passes by the subject of profit and loss. 
Agricultural journals have been content to record that 
Lord A., Sir J. B., or Squire C, have, by high farming, 
extracted thirty tons of swedes per acre from land whose 
previous produce was only fifteen. The record of the fact 
has not been accompanied by a balance-sheet. These indi- 
viduals were spirited agriculturists— an epithet which may 
have been correct, but which sounds rather queer in con- 
nection with the most plodding occupation under the sun. 
When the grumblings of the agricultural classes rose 
higher than the recognised standard, and began to be 
somewhat of a nuisance to their non-agricultural fellow- 
citizens, the thirty tons of these spirited individuals were 
cast in the teeth of their more cowardly brethren, and 
they were bid to go and do likewise. They demurred to 
the mandate. The demurrer was, in substance, that high 
farming is not good farming, in the sense to which we have 
limited the latter phrase. The case is now on for argu- 
ment at the tribunal of agricultural opinion ; and at the 
head of this article we have placed before our readers a list 
of the arguments hitherto brought forward by the most 
eminent counsel in the cause. 

We must assume two data, in both of which we believe 
that the conviction of our experienced readers will go along 
with us. 1st. That the natural produce of average land 



206 AGRICULTURE. 

may be increased by manuring. 2nd. That with respect 
to all land which is not pestered with furrows, water-grips, 
ditches, and such abominations, and which, consequently, 
either by nature or by artificial aid, absorbs all the rain 
which falls upon it, something approaching to a definite 
ratio has been established by experience between ingesta 
and egesta — between the quantity of manure applied and 
the increase of produce. If water runs off the surface of 
land, it is impossible to say how much this ratio may be 
disturbed. The manure applied may go to fertilize an 
alluvial meadow indefinitely distant, or to assist in forming 
a rich mudbank in the ocean.* 

We will illustrate these data by the simplest case which is 
within our own experience, and will state the results. When 
on a portion of a field of meadow-land, which, in its natural 
state, would yield one ton and a half of hay per acre, 
we sow four cwt. of Peruvian guano, we find that the 
produce is in the first year increased to two tons per acre, 
and that in the second year an effect of a few cwt. per 
acre, certainly under five, remains. The outlay in guano, 
including cost, carriage, pounding, sifting, and sowing, is 
quite 45s. per acre. The result is, that we have bought 
hay at SI. per ton, having some increase of aftermath to 
set against the harvesting of fifteen cwt. of hay. This 
suits us, because we are habitual buyers of hay ; and this 
mode of purchase is ready, saves marketing and other 
interruptions. But were we haysellers, we are convinced 
that we should be losers, because in ordinary seasons the 
transaction would be about evenhanded, and once and again 
in a series of years comes a dry May and June, in which 
guano has little or no effect. This, then, is not good 
farming, because there is no profit. It is not very bad 

* Few persons, except those who have both observed and thought 
accurately, are aware how much furrows impede the beneficial effects of 
draining. They entice the water to the place which has been last and 
most trodden by the horses, and last and most glazed by the plough, 
and where it has consequently most difficulty of ingress. 



HIGH FARMING. 207 

farming, because there is no loss. It is a favourable 
specimen of amateur farming, because the amusement 
costs nothing. This is an instance founded on existing 
prices ; and the circumstance that it turns out about a 
drawn game renders it, perhaps, the more suited to our 
purpose, because it places in the simplest form before our 
readers the only elements on which success depends — the 
cost of the operation and the value of the increased pro- 
duce. If Peruvian guano should fall fifty per cent, (the 
market value of hay remaining constant), then, buying hay 
at a little above 30s. per ton, and selling it at 60s., we should 
enjoy a profitable trade. If guano should rise fifty per 
cent., buying at 90s. and selling it at 60s., we should 
be speedily ruined. And, on the other hand, guano 
remaining constant, variations in the market value of hay 
would produce corresponding results. If all the operations 
of high farming could be reduced to this simple form, there 
would be, no doubt, no dispute. The oracle from Auchness 
would have been silent ; the Times would not have 
commissioned ; Huxtable would not have preached ; Por- 
cius would not have grunted ; Milne would not have 
reported ; Pusey would not have moderated ; and we 
should not have written this article. But unfortunately, 
the complications of high farming are very numerous and 
very difficult to define. We will only state two instances. 
Every agriculturist knows that a Dr. and Cr. account of 
all the stall-fed cattle in Great Britain would exhibit a 
large balance of loss. It is possible, though not very easy 
to determine, that the money which is lost on the bullock 
is received back with usury in the barley ; but in the case 
of a progressive farm there will always be abundant scope 
for difference of opinion on the question, whether the 
balance which is lost at the banker's can be found in the 
land ? Any man who undertakes to make a balance-sheet 
on either a progressive or on a retrogressive farm will find 
himself frequently at fault. The question of capital and 
revenue will constantly occur'. He will find that it is as 



Ji08 AGRICULTUKE. 

diflScult to close the capital account of a farm as of a rail- 
way, and that the results of farming accounts, even if kept 
on the most improved models, may be very misleading 
guides, and require to be acted on with much caution and 
discrimination. Mr. Hux table has given to us a pamphlet 
which has gone through many editions, and which we 
therefore suppose to have taken considerable hold of the 
public mind. He undertakes, inter alia, to show to British 
agriculturists how they may grow wheat with profit at 5s. 
per imperial bushel. Pressed by the difiQculty of account 
of which we have spoken, he endeavours to present a 
simple case of buying manure and selling wheat attended 
by a satisfactory result : — 

*' I shall proceed now to apply the principles A and B 
to answer the question, * Can wheat be grown profitably 
for 5s. per bushel ? ' 

" In the first instance I shall take the most unfavourable 
case — that of growing wheat successively year after year 
upon the same field, the manure, ammonia, being all pur- 
chased. Here the problem will be. At what cost can a 
crop of thirty-two bushels per acre be raised on the average 
of seasons ? 

Bushels. 

Natural produce of the soil 16 

The straw, containing ^ per cent, of nitrogen of 
previous crop of 32 bushels, weighing 3200 lbs., 
will furnish by its decomposition in the soil 

19 lbs of ammonia, or 3| 

12^ X 5 = 63 lbs. of ammonia will produce . . 12| 

Total 32 

"The present price of ammonia, whether in guano or 
sulphate of ammonia, is 6<i. per lb. 

"The field being free from couch, will require only one 
ploughing. The thresViing is supposed to be performed by 
steam, at a cost of l^d. per bushel. The horse-labour has 
been charged at the cost for which it can be done by-hired 
horses in this neighbourhood. 



HIGH FARMING. 



209 



" With these data, the cost of an acre of wheat will be 

as follows : — 

£, s. d. 
Rent, 1?. ; tithes, 5«. ; rates, Is. 6c?. ; way-rate, lOd 18 4 
Ploughing, harrowing, drilling, crushing . .10 

Tradesmen's bills 5 

Bird-keeping and hoeing 5 

Reaping, 10«.; harvesting, 35. lef. . . . 13 1 
Taking in rick for threshing and marketing . 4 10 
Threshing 32 bushels at Ud. per bushel . .040 

Seed, 2 bushels 10 

62^ lbs. of ammonia, at 6d . . . . 1 11 3 

Total 6 16 



£ 8. d. 
The produce, 32 bushels, at 5s. .800 
Expense of crop . . . .616 

For the interest on capital and profit 1 18 6 per acre. 



'* This particular case has been adduced, not certainly as 
an instance of good husbandry, for it is the very reverse, 
but as an illustration of the manner in which the true 
principles of agriculture should be applied." — Present 
Prices, Seventh edition, pp. 22, 23. 

We neither admit nor deny that 16 bushels per acre is 
rightly taken as the "natural produce of the soil." We 
neither admit nor deny that 5 lbs. of ammonia will pro- 
duce 1 bushel of wheat. We assume these points in order 
that we may investigate with Mr. Huxtable other matters 
connected with his account. We know no way in which 
a farmer can derive advantage from a didactic example 
except by applying it to his own case and trying how it 
will work. We will proceed to do so. We have come 
recently into the occupation of 100 acres of arable land, 
situated in a midland county. On 20 acres of it we should 
be very thankful to grow wheat profitably for 5s. per 
bushel. But in order to do so we must comply with Mr. 
Huxtable's conditions — " the field being free from couch.'' 
In this district we include under the name of twitch or 
quitch the whole class of perennial weeds whose roots do 



210 AGRICULTURE. 

not descend below the depth of an ordinary ploughing. 
Well! on the 1st October, 1851, we will deliver to Mr. 
Huxtable this 20-acre field. He shall pay 28s. id. per 
acre (his own price) for rent, rates, and taxes ; and on the 
1st October, 1852, vVe will pay to him (51. per acre if the 
field is " free from couch," and fit to receive seed- wheat on 
one ploughing, harrowing, drilling, and crushing. But we 
have other and even worse enemies than couch — coltsfoot, 
thistles, sow-thistles, bindweed, and other deep-rooted 
plants, penetrating far below the track of an ordinary 
plough, and far more difficult to eradicate than couch. 
We will cheerfully give Mr. Huxtable an additional 0,1. per 
acre if he will restore our land to us free from these. We 
have a third enemy, and particularly to wheat — water. 
Our land is undrained, and lies on an.^ impervious subsoil. 
Nothing less than drains 4 feet 6 inches deep and 12 yards 
apart (or something quite equivalent in cost), laid with 
pipes and collars, will effectually subdue this enemy. We 
will give Mr. Huxtable U. per acre to execute this work, 
and he will lose money by it. The land being so re-deli- 
vered to us freed from weeds and water, on October 1st, 
1852, we think it not improbable that what Mr. Huxtable 
calls the natural produce of the land, that is, the quantity 
of wheat produced without the application of any manure, 
might be 16 bushels per acre, and we have Mr. Huxtable's 
ammonia and word for the other 16. So that, in the year 
from October, 1852, to October, 1853, we shall, according 
to Mr. Huxtable's data, have laid out Ql. Is. Qd., and shall 
have received St., and be consequently II. 18s. M. in 
pocket. What have we to set against this? First, 12^. 
for clearing and draining, on which we will charge 4 per 
cent., amounting to 9s. 66^. Then we must have capital* 
horses, ploughs, drills, carts, crushers, harrows, &c., a 
threshing-machine, and a steam-engine. We will not ask 
for the IQl. 6s. per acre which is employed by Mr. Rigden. 
We will not even require the Ql. per acre which, at present 
prices, Mr. Pusey thinks sufficient. We will be content, 



HIGH FARMING. 211 

under the mode of cultivation assumed by Mr. Huxtable, 
with a modest Al, per acre. In our own agricultural calcu- 
lations we always charge 20 per cent, annually on horses, 
implements, and machinery, for interest, repair, and re- 
placement. We see that at p. 31 of his pamphlet Mr. 
Huxtable allows 20 per cent, on horses and 15 per cent, 
on implements and machinery. We will adopt his lowest 
charge. Then what shall we say about management and 
overlooking, either by ourselves or by a paid substitute, on 
100 acres of arable land? can we say less than 50^. per 
annum, or 10s. per acre? The account will therefore 
stand as follows : — 

Mb. Huxtable's Plan of Growing Wheat at 5s. per bushel, 
Br. and per Contra. Cr. 

£ s. d. 
Surplus received in 1st year 1 18 6 







£ s. 


d. 


To interest on 12Z., 


at 4 


per 




cent. . 




. 9 


6 


To interest on Al 


, at 


15 




per cent. 




. 12 





To Management 




. 10 





To Balance 




. 7 





Total 


. 1 18 


6 



Total . . 1 18 6 



By surplus . . .070 

Mr. Huxtable gives no reason why any subsequent year 
should be better than the first. We will give several why 
they should be much worse. We find therefore that, alto- 
gether setting aside profit, it will require thirty-four years 
to replace the 12/. which we have expended. We have 
adopted all Mr. Huxtable's data without believing in them ; 
we have applied his illustration on his own terms to our 
case, and we are sorry to be obliged to inform him, with 
much respect, that he is of no use to us at all ; he has not 
taught us to grow wheat with profit at 5s. per bushel. If 
any of our agricultural readers are fascinated with Mr. 
Huxtable's statement, we advise them to try our plan of 
applying his illustration fairly to their own case. We 
must go further. We must prove to Mr. Huxtable, if he 



213 AGRICULTURE. 

be reasonable, which we have no reason to doubt, that 
should he attempt to act on his own illustration, it will 
break down under him. He shall be a fortunate youth 
just popped into the occupation of land at 285. 4a?. per 
acre rent and taxes, free from couch, the natural produce 
of which is 1 6 bushels of wheat per acre. We will not 
inquire into the previous history of the land. Mr. Hux- 
table shall occupy it as he proposes, and at the end of the 
first year, when he has paid 10s. for management, and 125. 
for interest, repairs, and replacement of implements, 
horses, and machinery, which payments he cannot escape, 
he will remain with liSs. Qd. in hand, and there we advise 
him to keep it, for it will soon be required. Does he 
think, that vs^hen for four or five years in succession he has 
grown a wheat crop with one ploughing, given as a seed- 
furrow in the months of October or November, with as 
much money expended in hoeing as it can claim from the 
charge " birdcatching and hoeing 55." (for we are not told 
on what terms these two items associate), his land will still 
remain free from couch ? How much of his precious am- 
monia will, after the first year, have been occupied in 
growing weeds and not wheat? To what amount will 32 
bushels per acre have dwindled ? Will the land in five 
years be anything but a mat of weeds? Will anything 
less than the accumulated sixteen-and-sixes restore it to 
its former state of purity ? We really thought that grow- 
ing successive corn crops had gone out of fashion even as 
an illustration. We hope that Mr. Huxtable will not 
think that we trespass on his province when we remind 
him — "Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to 
thee." ** Tn the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." 
He appears to us to propose to eat bread without the 
sweat of his face. He says this is " not certainly an in- 
stance of good husbandry." Certainly not, for it will not 
pay. But it is not even a good illustration, for it will not 
work. The land under this management will not produce 
permanently 32 bushels. After five years it might graze 



HIGH FARMING. 213 

a donkey, but it would not grow wheat. We are bound, 
however, to admit that if, in evety-day farmivg, 5 lbs. of 
ammonia, costing 2*. 6c?., will produce a bushel of wheat,*'* 
worth at the present moment 45. 9</., the fact is of great 
importance to agriculturists, and Mr. Huxtable has done 
well to bring it prominently before them by his widely- 
extended publication. Still we could not consider that, or 
any similar discovery, as a permanent source of more than 
average profit to a wheat-grower, because the general recog- 
nition of such a ratio would very shortly be followed either 
by a rise in the price of ammonia, or by a fall in the 
price of wheat. 

Before we can apply Mr. Huxtable's illustrative account 
to another purpose which we contemplate, we mast state 
the theory of manures which he, as do Mr. Pusey and 
others to some extent, recognises as established : — 

1st. Nitrogen is the base of ammonia, into which, under 
ordinary farming circumstances, it converts itself by im- 
bibing one-fourth of its own weight of hydrogen. 

2nd. Ammonia is the only manure of any value in the 
growth of cereals. 

Proved as follows : — 

Fourteen tons of ordinary farm-yard and stable manure 
have been shown by analysis to contain two cwt. of am- 
monia. 

Three contiguous pieces of land, in all respects similar, 
having been sown with wheat — No. 1, without manure ; 
No. 2, fourteen tons farm-yard and stable dung; No. 8, 
two cwt. ammonia — the quantity of wheat produced by 
No. 2 and No. 3 was exactly equal, as were, of course, 
also their respective excesses over the produce of No. 1. 

Therefore the carbonic and phosphoric contents of the 
fourteen tons of dung were of no value whatever in grow- 
ing wheat, which, as far as phosphates are concerned, is 

* We are sorry to observe, that in the experiment stated by Mr. Pusey, 
p. 6, 8 lbs. of ammonia were required to produce a bushel of wheat — a 
woful inroad on our anticipated profits. 



214 AGETCULTDRE. 

Strongly confirmed by the experiments given by Mr. Pusey 
at p. 5 of his pamphlet. 

Neither are the mineral contents of the dung of any 
value ; confirmed also by the experiment of burning four- 
teen tons of dung, and applying the ashes to wheat growing, 
with a. sWght prejudicial effect. — Pusey, p. 5. 

The bushel of wheat which refuses to be produced with- 
out the application of five lbs. of ammonia to the soil, and 
will receive no substitute, contains in itself and in its 
straw only two lbs. of ammonia, and is therefore a very 
"wasteful," "extravagant," "costly" plant, as are barley 
and oats. — Huxtahle, pp. 19 and 28. 

In the case of turnips. "The simple phosphorus, which 
did nothing for wheat, nearly equals the dung for turnips." 
" Ammonia single does harm." — Pusey, pp. 6 and 7. " The 
mineral theory equally fails," " the application of potash 
diminished the size of the bulbs" (p. 6); and so doubtful 
is the case of carbon, that Mr. Pusey, after speaking with 
much hesitation, sums up as follows : — " At present, how- 
ever, we can only say that the three leading principles of 
manure are, 1st, ammonia; 2nd, phosphorus; and pro- 
bably, 3rd, carbon." — p. 8. 

But turnips, which refuse to be fed by ammonia, are 
"thrifty plants;" they, "from their own resources, add 
to the amount." One ton of swedes contains more than 
five lbs., and one ton of tops more than twelve lbs. of am- 
monia. — Huxtahle, p. 35. 

We know not how our readers feel, but we are in such a 
whirl, that, when we consider where we are and where we 
have been, we are doubtful whether we are not involving 
ourselves in a labyrinth instead of assisting others in 
finding their way out. Let us look back one moment. 
Few years have elapsed since all who held the established 
faith believed that carbon was the main essence of manure, 
that a supply of carbon to the soil was the secret of agri- 
cultural success. Then arose a great prophet — a really 
great man, in spite of one failure — who paraded before us 



HIGH FARMING. 216 

the mineral contents of vegetables, and assured us, that if 
•we supplied the soil with those mineral elements, the ve- 
getables would find their organic elements for themselves. 
We all ran after him. But his doctrine came to a natural 
end, not by experiment, but by experience. The mineral 
elements of wheat were supplied to the soil, and the return 
in wheat was — nil. And so the mineral theory is gone. 
Now have arisen a marvellous flight of philosophers, 
Lawes, Gilbert, Way, Boussingault, Playfair, and others, 
who agree wonderfully in the main, and teach us, that am- 
monia is absolutely the only manure for cereals ; that 
phosphorus is probably the only manure for turnips, and 
perhaps for the other leguraina (but of this we are not cer- 
tain) ; and that it is doubtful whether carbon be a manure 
at all. We cannot help remembering the old farmer, who 
broke into a momentary pause in an animated dissertation 
on alkalies, and carbonates, and silicates, with the blunt 
exclamation, "I' my opinion there's nought like muck." 
And though we are by no means inclined to dispute, or 
even to doubt, that these philosophers have rightly esta- 
blished the singularly- varying appetites and antipathies of 
our cereals and legumina, we cannot forget, that, either by 
a wonderful chance or by a special providence, the refuse 
of these vegetables taken almost indiscriminately, and the 
excrements of animals, taken in the same manner, form 
a compound in which every object of culture finds the ele- 
ments necessary for its vigorous growth and perfection. 
And so universal — we had almost said, so equal — is the 
benefit, that, after thousands of years of experience, practi- 
cal farmers are not even yet agreed to what crop their 
home-made manure is most beneficially applied ; and 
whereas one man bestows it on his wheat, another on his 
beans, and a third on his turnips ; the fourth man lays it 
on his mowing land, to be, if we are to believe our modern 
instructors, exhausted by the sun, dissipated by the wind, 
and drenched by the rain. Strange as the statement may 



f)16 AGRICULTURE. 

sound to some of our readers, we do not hesitate to oppose 
experience to philosophy and reason, and to declare our 
belief, that in no way is manure applied more effectually 
than in the manner last stated ; by which we mean, that 
if the same quantity of manure which would increase a 
crop of wheat 50 per cent, be bestowed on the surface of 
a piece of upland meadow, it will increase the crop of hay 
in more than the same ratio. Well, then, and wisely, has 
Mr. Pusey summed up this part of his subject in the fol- 
lowing sentence : — 

•' The mineral theory hastily adopted by Liebig has 
broken down ; no other has taken place. Our best autho- 
rity, Mr. Lawes, has established certainly so much, that, of 
the two active principles in manure, ammonia is specially 
suited to corn, phosphorus to turnips, and that turnips are 
probably benefited by the woody matter of straw. But 
vegetable chemistry, having no fixed truths of her own as 
to the sources from which plants derive their food, or the 
mode in which they appropriate it, is not advanced enough 
to lay down laws for farming, or sit in judgment on its 
established practices. Except Liebig's suggestion for dis- 
solving bones, and Sir Robert Kane's for using flax-water 
as manure, I know no agricultural process arising out of 
chemical discovery. The more we value the labours of 
agricultural chemists, the more warmly we look forward, 
as I do, to their future progress, through the patient exa- 
mination of existing practice, which is itself the accumu- 
lated and varied science of ages, the more we should dis- 
courage undue expectations of immediate advantage. It 
is a great mistake to suppose that men can be made far- 
mers by teaching them doubtful chemistry. But are we, 
therefore, to abandon agricultural chemistry because it is 
yet doubtful, and has not yet brought forth more fruit ? 
Rather let those who are able cultivate it the more dili- 
gently by careful experiments, that, step by step, we may 
reach more certain knowledge hereafter. No one, mean- 



HIGH FARMING. 217 

while, can doubt the high value of Mr. Lawes's experi- 
ments in the field, or Mr. Way's researches in the labora- 
tory." — Pusey, p. 14. 

Perhaps, however, a ray of philosophic light, to which 
Mr. Pusey has adverted, breaks through the mist with 
which we are environed, and enables us to assign a reason 
for the faith in alternate husbandry which experience has 
engrafted in our minds. When manure is applied to a 
crop of turnips, they appropriate the phosphorus which it 
contains, but, for some unaccountable reason, refuse to 
touch the ammonia. (We use the word unaccountable, 
because, according to Mr. Huxtable, a crop of 32 bushels of 
wheat contains only in grain and straw 96 lbs. of ammonia, 
whereas 20 tons of turnips and tops, which he seems to 
consider to be an equivalent crop, contain 174 lbs. — p. 35.) 
The ammonia, therefore, remains in the soil ready to nourish 
the cereal crop which will so appropriately follow. If, vice 
versa, the manure be applied to the wheat, that grain will 
appropriate or " waste" {Huxtable) the ammonia which it 
contains, leaving the phosphorus untouched and ready to 
nourish the succeeding crop of turnips. 

Mr. Huxtable, however, feels none of the doubt and 
hesitation which so much perplex Mr. Pusey. He weighs 
out his equivalents ; 5 lbs of ammonia on the one hand, 
and a bushel of wheat on the other, with exactly the same 
confidence with which ho would put a sovereign into one 
scale and two half sovereigns into the other. In the illus- 
trative account on which wo have commented, Mr. Hux- 
table bought his ammonia from the drysalter, but he says 
that he can manufacture it cheaper. The digestive organs 
of animals, principally pigs, are his laboratory. Here we 
find ourselves unwillingly, but, in order to avoid constant 
explanations, compelled to adopt a new term — nitrogen; 
and we must beg our readors to bear in mind, that, in all 
the operations of which we are about to speak, nitrogen, 
without any act of man, converts itself into ammonia, 
adding to itself at the same time one-fourth of its previous 

L 



S18 AGRICULTURE. 

weight : so that, -when we speak of manure, four of nitrogen 
is five of ammonia. Mr. Huxtable lays down this pro- 
position — that, if you give to an animal food containing 
nitrogen, one-fourth of that substance will be appropriated 
to his carcass, and the other three-fourths will pass away 
in his excrements (pp. 19, 20): he, however, suggests at 
p. 23 that the quantity appropriated to carcass is a constant 
quantity (31bs. in 100 lbs. of flesh), and by no means de- 
pendent on the amount of nitrogen in the food : and we 
deduce from his figures, that, if a pig be fed wholly on 
barley meal, he will appropriate a third of the nitrogen 
which it contains to carcass, leaving only two-thirds in the 
manure; whereas, if he is fed on beans and lentils, he 
will appropriate to carcass hardly more than one-sixth, 
leaving nearly five-sixths in the manure. This is a most 
important variation, as we shall see by-and-by ; and, indeed, 
Mr. Huxtable himself is of opinion, that, by neglecting 
this difference, he lost 20Z. in one porcine transaction of 
only 211?. Os. We must, however, let this hare sit for 
the present, having first given our readers a specimen 
of the fearless way in which our author draws his con- 
clusions : — 

"Therefore, if we know how much nitrogen there is in 
the food given to a beast, and know how much he has in- 
creased in live weight upon that food, then, as each 100 lbs. 
of live weight contains 3 lbs. of the nitrogen, we can 
estimate how much nitrogen, and, therefore, how much 
ammonia is contained in the manure : in other words, we 
can pronounce how many bushels of wheat that manure 
will grow." — Seventh edition, p. 20. 

Tbere is no waste here. 

We must now pass to another, but ancillary, class of 
Mr. Huxtable's statements. He gives us (p. 26) a detailed 
account of an experiment in manufacturing pork, which 
was of sufiBcient extent as well as duration to be entitled 
to much weight. We do not perceive in it the elements 
of uncertainty which have been suspected by others. We 



HIGH FARMING. 219 

believe tlie proportion between dead weight and live weight, 
which he assumes, to be well established, and not to be 
stated too high. The important result is, that 5 J lbs. of 
dry food, being about four-fifths mixed meals, and one- 
fifth bran and pollard, will make one pound of swine's 
flesh. We believe that, on an average of English markets, 
the value of this 5 J lbs. of food would be id., and that, on 
a like average, the value of a bacon hog is M. per lb. It 
is somewhat singular, that, in the case of an ox stated at 
p. 20, if we reckon his food at the present market price, he 
will have cost A^d. per lb., which would be about his value 
in an average English market. In both these transactions, 
therefore, the feeder must seek in the manure, interest of 
capital, risk or insurance, attendance, expenses of mar- 
keting, and profit. If this be so, how important the ma- 
nure is, and how important it is to use nitrogenous food, 
and how important it would be to discover a breed of ani- 
mals generous enough not to appropriate any nitrogen, 
which, after all, is but 3 per cent, of their live weight! 
That is the great desideratum in agriculture. •' Thus in 
the preceding experiment, if the meal, instead of being 
half barley, had consisted wholly of beans or lentils of 
which the nitrogen is about 4 per cent., the manure would 
have contained 500 lbs. more of ammonia : or, according 
to the rate of ammonia in our estimate, have supplied the 
essential materials for 100 more bushels of wheat." As- 
suming, therefore, that the food and the pork balance one 
another, a more favourable result than we could exhibit on 
the average of 20 years of pig-feeding, a summary of the 

account framed on Mr. Huxtable's data will stand thus : 

from 1704 lbs. nitrogen given in food, deduct 434 lbs. sold 
to the butcher: there remain 1270 lbs. = 1524 lbs. ammo- 
nia = 305 bushels of wheat ; to which add 100 bushels 
lost by the error of using barley vice beans, and the grand 
total is 405 bushels of wheat created by feeding an ave- 
rage of 80 pigs for about six months. Mr. Huxtable 
arrives within 5 bushels of the same conclusion by a less 

L 2 



220 AGEICULTURE. 

simple process. But we own that he is too fast for us. 
We cannot follow him. His calculations are all made in 
vacuo, without any allowance for resistance of the air or 
for friction. And yet he tells us that Ammonia, the ohject 
of his fond admiration, is the most volatile creature alive 
— that she will elope with anybody, and is sorely in need 
of protection (p. 21). He talks a great deal about fixing 
her, but he leaves us quite behind. We have no idea what 
he proposes to do to her, or how she would act if she were 
fixed. We are much consoled by finding {Pusey, pp. 8-10) 
that the accomplished editor of the ** Royal Agricultural 
Journal" is as much perplexed as ourselves. 

We must now bring back our readers to the point from 
which we started, and must remind them that Mr. Huxtable 
has stated that ammonia is too dear at 6cZ. per lb., and that 
he can manufacture it for less. We are examining whether 
he has done so. We have been obliged, by the state of the 
markets, to cut down the price of his pork from ^d. and 
4^6?. to i.d,, because, neither in this year, nor in the last, 
has the price of bacon hogs been more than 4J. per lb. in 
the average markets of England. This, by his own state- 
ment, leaves his pork just evenhanded with his food. 
Though we accept with perfect confidence Mr. Huxtable's 
statements, we do not, as our readers will have perceived, 
confide in his deductions ; but, for the purposes of this 
investigation, we accept them all. Mr. Huxtable, having 
bought his pigs and sold them, having paid interest on the 
money employed, and insurance on the pigs, having lodged 
never less than 70, and sometimes 90, having coohed for 
them, having cleaned them, we suppose rung them ; having 
tended them in sickness and in health, — having done all 
this for more than six months, has, at the end of that time, 
by his own showing, received, for doing it all, 1524 lbs. of 
ammonia, worth, at M. per lb., 38Z. 2s. Has his ammonia 
cost him less than %d. per lb. ? We believe, that, on any 
fair charge for the particulars which we have stated, on any 
fair return on the buildings and apparatus necessary for 



HIGH FARMING. 221 

lodging and feeding from 70 to 90 pigs, it has cost him 
more ; and that even the additional 500 lbs. which he says 
that he ought to have got, but which he did not get, would 
fail to bring down the ammonia to the price at which he 
buys it from the drysalter. Having, therefore, before 
shown that he cannot, by buying ammonia, grow wheat to 
profit at 5s. per bushel, we have now shown that neither 
can he do so by manufacturing it. 

We need not follow Mr. Huxtable into his calculations 
of the feeding value of his turnips. Mr. Curwen, Mr. 
Boxwell, and Mr. Howden, may be quite right when they 
estimate that a certain weight of clover and turnips will 
produce so much live weight in an animal, but we appre- 
hend that Mr. Huxtable is quite wrong when he reduces 
that live weight into beef by the tables, and reckons that 
beef at the highest market price. Beef varies at this mo- 
ment in Smithfield market from 3|ci. to 6^(1. per lb. ; and we 
apprehend that twelve pounds of beef, made by a ton of 
yellow turnips, would be estimated there at the former 
figure, which would sadly derange Mr. Huxtable's calcula- 
tions. This, however, we may remark, though it is worth 
but a passing sentence, that if it is bad to farm with our 
instructor on the plan of either buying or manufacturing 
ammonia, it is worse to farm with him without doing either ; 
for in the latter case we must deduct from the debtor ac- 
count the price of 62^ lbs. of ammonia, and perhaps 5s. 
from threshing and harvesting ; and from the creditor 12|^ 
bushels of wheat, leaving the balance in hand 12s. Sd. (or, 
if the wheat be reckoned at the present price of 4s. 9d. 
per bushel, 7s. 4|d.) to pay interest of capital and profit 
on an acre of wheat grown on land free from couch, and 
ready to receive the seed on a single ploughing. Never 
before were we conducted by an agricultural instructor to 
so complete a reductio ad ahsurdnm. 

Even if our investigation of Mr. Huxtable's accounts 
had been more favourable to his views, we must have pro- 
tested altogether against the basis on which they are 



222 AGRICULTURE. 

founded. He starts with an ideal farm, a farm the whole 
of which is free from couch, and ready to bear wheat with 
one ploughing, and yet the occupier has no capital in the 
land. The previous history of the farm is considered to 
have nothing to do with the matter. Our objection is, that 
such farms do not exist. No man can take such an one ; and 
to an occupier who has brought one into that state, a notice 
to quit without compensation would be a sentence of ruin. 

Though we have examined Mr. Huxtable's estimates 
strictly, and have differed from him freely, we must not 
allow him to suppose that we are insensible to the services 
which he has rendered to agriculture. His mind is full of 
knowledge, and his style of writing is clear and lively. 
Almost every page in his book conveys information, or 
suggests useful reflection. The manner in which, at p. 31, 
he systematises the general cost of cultivation, under the 
three heads of motive power, manual labour, and rent and 
charges, is the best which we have ever met with. The 
severest sentence which we should be justified in passing 
on his present performance is, that the cheerful and ardent 
spirit in which he pursues useful and benevolent objects, is 
not unlikely to involve those who accompany him in a 
somewhat dangerous fascination. We have much pleasure 
in bringing before our readers the testimony which Mr. 
Milne, one of his fellow-labourers in the field of agricul- 
tural literature, bears to his worth : — 

" Mr. Huxtable is clergyman of the parish in which his 
farms are situated. I do not believe that there are many 
clergymen in the English Church, or in any Church, more 
devoted to their professional duties, or more successful in 
the discharge of them, than he is. In proof of this re- 
mark, it need only be mentioned, that, shortly after his 
appointment as rector of the parish, finding that the parish 
church was in a very dilapidated condition, and that it was 
diflBcult or impossible, from the state of the law, to get it 
properly repaired or replaced by another, he erected a new 
parish church entirely at his own expense. Moreover, by 



HIGH FARMING. 223 

the handsome style of architecture adopted, and in the 
neatness of the interior fittings and furnishings, he still 
further indicated the homage which he wished to render 
to the Master in whose service he lahours. He has es- 
tablished Sabbath-schools, to which, besides preaching twice 
every Sunday, he assiduously attends. Among the adult 
population of his parish, who, in their younger days, had 
not the benefit of the schools since established, he endea- 
vours to supply the deficiencies of education by pecuniary 
rewards ; for the Dorsetshire labourers are excessively ig, 
norant, not one in twelve, as I learned from a well-informed 
proprietor in that county, being able to read. It was from 
the same benevolence which dictated these efforts and sa- 
crifices, that Mr. Huxtable was led to think of, and take 
up the business of farming, that he might have the means 
of giving regular employment and good wages to the able- 
bodied labourers of his parish. 

*' From what has been said as to Mr. Huxtable 's many 
parochial duties, it will at once be inferred that he does 
not superintend or direct the operations on his farms, as 
one would do who has nothing else to attend to. Days 
frequently elapse without his being on either of them, and 
hence the expense of management is necessarily greater 
than usual, especially on farms so small in extent." — 
Pp. 36, 37. 

Mr. Milne's very interesting pamphlet contains an ac- 
count of his visit to the farms of Mr. Rigden (Sussex), 
Mr. Huxtable (Dorset), and Mr. Morton (Gloucester). An 
abstract worthy of the publication would be very instruc- 
tive, but we cannot attempt it, partly because space forbids, 
and partly because it deals rather with the practices than 
with the pecuniary results of high farming. Some of the 
particulars, however, with which we are made acquainted 
are intimately connected with the latter subject. Many 
of our readers will be surprised to learn that these farms 
occupy a capital of 16Z. 5s., 16L, and 12/. per acre respec- 
tively. 



12S4 AGRICULTURE. 

With respect to Mr. Rigden's farm, we learn that on 
the side of expenditure the acreable charge amounted 
at Martinmas, 1849, within small fractions, to the 
following sums: — rent and taxes, 2Z. ; tradesmen's bills, 
9s. 6ci. ; insurance, losses, and sundries, 2s. Qd. ; wages, 
9,1. Sd. ; purchased manures (including an allowance on 
purchased food), Ik, and seeds 3s. ^d. : the whole 
amounting to 4529Z. " The value of the total produce, 
on an average of the last two or three years, Mr. Rigden 
estimates at 91. per acre," — amounting to 6660Z. (now of 
course considerably reduced by a further fall of prices), 
and leaving a balance of 2131Z. From this gross produce 
the following items must be deducted: — 1st, the value of 
the portion consumed in the business of the farm ; and, 
9nd, the interest of 12,000Z.» a considerable portion of 
which being invested in farm-horses, implements, furniture, 
&c., ought, for interest, repair, and replacement, to give a 
return of from 15 to 20 per cent. We have worked out 
this sum by the aid of the best agricultural accounts which 
we know to have been published, and of our own experi- 
ence. We could not give the particulars without defending 
them by more minute explanations than would be suited to 
these pages ; but we can assure our readers that they do 
not present a gaudy result. The impression produced on 
our mind is, that in no other business, with which we are 
acquainted, would Mr. Rigden's gi'eat intelligence and 
enterprise, and large capital, have met with a less adequate 
reward. Mr. Rigden is a very high farmer. His practice 
is, of course, in some degree modified by his contiguity to 
a large town. Having seen a portion of his farm last year, 
we are now confirmed by Mr. Milne's account in the im- 
pression which was then produced on our minds — that 
nothing which can conduce to success is either omitted or 
misapplied. In this case the extra manure is for the most 
part purchased, not manufactured on the farm. Mr. Rig- 
den has the advantage of getting quite 25 per cent, more 
than the ordinary rural price for the milk of 21 cows, and 



HIGH FAEMING. 225 

of selling 50 acres (one-fifteenth of the extent of his farm) 
of potatoes on the ground. He has this further advantage 
to an arable farmer, that, except against a railway, he has 
not a fence on his farm. He had one hedge, but he 
grubbed it up. 

We now come to the much-controverted case of Auch- 
ness, in the county of Wigton. It lies in a nutshell : 240 
acres — rent under 22s. per acre ; as far as appears in the 
account, subject to no charge for tithe or tax. If this be 
so, Auchness, transported into the parish of Sutton Wal- 
dron, and subjected to Mr. Huxtable's charge of 8s. Qd. 
per acre for tithe and tax, would yield a landlord's rent of 
13s. 6^^. per acre, of which it appears that 7s. Qd. is interest 
of money laid out in draining and extra building. This 
poor farm has been forced by admirable management to 
the extraordinary gross produce of 2518L 15s. annually, or 
about 101. 9s. per acre. 



Gross produce £2518 15 

Debited with rent . . . je262\ 

„ labour . , . 417 > 1205 

Purchased food and manures . 526 ) 



It leaves a balance of . . £1313 15 
to pay for the portion of the produce consumed in the 
operations of the farm, tradesmen's bills, interest of money, 
incidental expenses, and profit. The gross produce ap- 
proaches very nearly to ten rents. Though the labour is 
8s. per acre less than IVIr. Eigden's (the difference perhaps 
arising from the rate of wages, which are very high near 
Brighton), the farming at Auchness is in many respects 
higher than at Hove. At the former place the purchased 
manures and cattle food amount to nearly 44s. 6d. per acre, 
whereas at the latter they are only 21s. Qd. The gross 
produce at Auchness exceeds that at Hove by 29s. per 
acre, being 6s. per acre more than the excess of purchased 
manure and food. The peculiar advantages of the farm at 
Auchness appear to be, that it lies at a low elevation, near 
a good shipping port, has water-power, ample and con- 

L 3 



226 AGBICULTURE. 

venient buildings, a climate singularly suited to green crops, 
an unlimited supply of peat, and 500 cart-loads annually 
of sea-weed for the manufacture of manure. The sur- 
prising produce appears to result mainly from management 
of cattle and manure, very superior to what is ordinary, 
but anywhere attainable by the combined efforts of landlord 
and tenant, and from the devotion of nearly one-fourth of 
the farm to the potato crop. We lay little stress on the 
latter circumstance. A man as enterprising and as intelli- 
gent as Mr. McCulloch will always find some crop particu- 
larly suited to his locality and tenure. It may be potatoes, 
or carrots, or parsnips, or chicory, or woad, or teazles, or 
flax. We once knew a man who, on a very high and poor 
farm, made money by growing chamomile. The man, not 
the place, produces such results. Mr. Caird gives us no 
statement of the capital employed by the tenant of Auch- 
ness, nor any figures which enable us to come nearer to a 
balance than the account which we have laid before our 
readers : but we see no reason to doubt that Auchness is 
an instance of good farming — that it pays well. Our 
decided opinion is, that if all the landlords in Great Britain 
were like Colonel M'Douall of Logan ; if they had farms 
having the advantages of Auchness, tythe and tax free^ 
which they were willing to let at 14s. per acre ; and if, 
moreover, they were willing and prepared to lay out eight 
or nine rents on the farm, receiving 4 per cent, return ; 
their tenants, as skilful and as highly qualified in all 
respects as Mr. David McCulloch, might farm high with 
much confidence, even at present prices, and find high 
farming good. We cannot expect this to take place at 
once, but in the meanwhile there is a great deal in Mr. 
Caird 's description of Auchness well worthy the attention 
and imitation both of landlords and tenants. 

We fear that our readers will not consider that our 
account of High Farming is on the whole very cheerful ; 
but our account of ordinary arable farming will be still 
less so. Before, however, we come to the latter subject. 



HIGH FARMING. 227 

we must hear what-^e editor of the " Royal Agricultural 
Journal" says on the forpaer. 

Mr. Pusey's pamphlet is a most valuable contribution to 
agricultural literature. It is also most timely, and every 
■way worthy of the position and character of the editor of 
the leading agricultural journal of the empire. Assuming 
the existing difficulties of agriculture without dilating on 
them, glancing fairly and candidly at the alleviating circum- 
stances by which a large fall in the price of produce has 
been accompanied, he applies his main efforts to bringing 
pointedly before owners and occupiers of land the remedies 
which are offered to them by science and by experience, 
and which are consequently quite within their own power. 
These remedies he ranges systematically under a number of 
heads, of which some, having reference to permanent im- 
provements, are addressed more particularly to owners, and 
others, which relate to recurring culture, to occupiers of land. 
He is a great master of condensation. Forty lines of what 
he calls introductory remarks explain and vindicate his whole 
purpose and plan ; and already, in the second page, he is 
deep in the mysteries of vegetable chemistry. Into these 
we have been led incidentally, in treating of Mr. Huxtable's 
propositions. Animal chemistry is discussed in three pages 
singularly lucid and comprehensive. Probably some of the 
following propositions may be new to our readers. Vege- 
table nutrition is darker than animal, because " vegetables 
have the task of transmuting dead elements into living 
matter," and the "hidden powers" by which they work 
are yet undiscovered ; but animals find their " substance 
ready made in the vegetables which they consume," their 
" stomachs do not compound their flesh from the ingre- 
dients of their food, but, finding that flesh ready formed 
in the corn or hay, merely select and appropriate it." 
Gluten, albumen, fibrine, flesh, muscle, blood, are *' exactly 
the same body," "never vary in composition," "quite 
identical." When an animal eats food containing gluten 
and carbon, he burns the carbon to keep himself warm, 



228 AGRICULTUEE. 

and builds up the gluten into " flesh without change, just 
as a house is built up with stones from a quarry." All 
animals desire food containing carbon in cold weather, and 
reject it in warm, " as we light our fires at Michaelmas, 
and leave our grates empty in May." So far there is a 
delightful concord among all the authorities, and by these 
rules we may proceed to build up lean meat with great 
confidence. But when we come to fat, Liebig, Playfair, 
and Boussingault have each a theory of his own. We shall 
imitate Mr. Pusey's prudent reserve in expressing no 
opinion on their differences. We certainly have been 
startled by the proposition that mangold-wurzel contains 
very little fat or milk, which substances are contained more 
abundantly in straw ; and, as our own cattle have always 
fed faster and milked better on mangold-wurzel than on 
any other vegetable food, we cordially agree in Bous- 
singault's candid admission, that " practice has got the start 
of theory ; and I own, with perfect humility, that I think 
its conclusions are in general greatly to be preferred." 

Passing from chemical to mechanical science, Mr. Pusey 
lingers, somewhat incongruously, with meteorology by the 
way, and declares his belief that the climate of England is 
the best in the world for farming. The only important 
deductions, however, which he draws from a considerable 
array of meteorological facts, and from an isothermal map 
of the world, are, that though draining pipes of one inch 
diameter may be sufficient in a country where the annual 
fall of rain is only 25 inches, they may be quite inadequate 
in another where the fall is 50 inches ; and that manure 
may be much less injured by rain in an open fold-yard in 
the former county than in the latter ; in both which con- 
clusions we have no doubt that our candid readers will 
cordially concur. 

Mr. Pusey puts forth his full strength when he impresses 
upon farmers the immense advantages which mechanics have 
conferred upon agriculture, and he accuses them, temperately 
but firmly, of having been slow to avail themselves of 



HIGH FARMING. 229 

those advantages. He estimates a saving in motive power, 
as represented by horses, " putting the expense of each 
horse at only lOZ. a year," of 750,000/. annually since 1 840 ; 
and this arising from the only partial adoption of the im- 
proved implements which agricultural shows have brought 
under every one's observation. In the case of carriages he 
proves that the economy in capital is even greater than the 
economy in operation, for, whereas on a farm of 200 acres 
they would cost under the old system 161L, they are amply 
furnished under the new for 57L 10s. "To use them" 
(the old carriages) " still, is like running a stage-coach in 
these days between London and Bath." He next adverts 
to the increased use of agricultural steam-engines, and to 
their greatly-diminished consumption of fuel. He calcu- 
lates the saving by the employment of the best threshing- 
machines, as compared with threshing by hand, to be 7s. 
per acre on wheat ; and states that they will perform double 
the work of ordinary machines which are still in general 
use ; " a difference which could not exist two years at 
Manchester," — a very apt illustration, for we have heard it 
said that every successful cotton-spinner of old standing has 
broken up or burnt his machinery two or three times in the 
course of his career. Mr. Pusey says that he will never 
incur the expense of barning another rick before threshing 
it, and hints at dispensing with barns altogether. We do 
not know whether he means to risk rain when threshing. 
He lives in the driest county in England. We should not 
be disposed to be so adventurous, but we are inclined to 
think that barns are not unlikely to be in some measure 
superseded by covered stack-yards, built on pillars, and 
covered perhaps with corrugated iron. In a small pamphlet, 
entitled " On the Construction of Farm-Buildings in Ireland" 
(W. S. Orr and Co., London and Liverpool), this plan is 
advocated, and detailed estimates are given of the expense. 
The writer justly says : — 

'* The use of the covered stack-yard is not only a shelter 
to the produce, but a considerable saving in the expense of 



330 AGRICULTURE. 

Stacking and thatching. These operations have to be carried 
on in the busiest season of the year, when labour is dearest ; 
and the after expense of pulling the hay-rick is a waste of 
material and loss of money. In the covered stack-yard 
these objections do not exist; the ricks are formed as fast 
as the carts can be unloaded, and a cloudy sky or a 
threatening horizon does not frighten or injure the farmer 
in the middle of his stacking operations." 

From threshing, the transition is easy to cutting up the 
" loose straw into chaff," for which operation Mr. Pusey was 
wont to, pay 2d. per six-bushel basket. He now, by means 
of Mr. Corne's chaff-cutter, performs the same amount of 
work for one farthing, •' one-eighth only, therefore, of the 
cost incurred here twelve years ago." Mr. Pusey may be 
sanguine in his calculation of these savings, but we quite 
agree with him that mechanical science has conferred 
greater advantages on agriculture than chemical. It may 
be doubtful whether the latter has materially increased the 
amount, but there can be no doubt that the former has very 
materially diminished the cost of production. " But," says 
Mr. Pusey, "farmers have been, to say the least, rather 
slow." The cost of motive power, — the cumbrous wagon 
and slow horses, always favourites with the wagoner be- 
cause they allow him to be slow also, — the ill-constructed 
plough, a favourite with the ploughman because it lightens 
his labour a little by increasing that of his horses a great 
deal, — are year by year pulling down the old-fashioned 
arable farmers of the midland and western counties. No- 
thing can save a man who goes slow when all the rest of 
the world is going fast. 

Hitherto Mr. Pusey has addressed himself to occupiers 
of land. He now introduces his advice to ow^ners, with 
the following observations: — 

" Ten years since nothing struck me so much as the 
varied means possessed by the owners of land in England 
for raising, permanently, the productiveness of their estates. 
In no country are those means so various. Scotland and 



HIGH FARMING. 231 

Flanders are monotonous in contrast with England. In 
none has so much been effected. And, after ten years' 
labour, the same thing still strikes me as forcibly. It is on 
these recognised practical improvements that our depen- 
dence, I firmly believe, must be now placed. Not only, too, 
have we these varied means, but most of them are very 
cheap means. They would average three or four pounds an 
acre, and the crops are increased by them, be it remem- 
bered, without increase of the tenant's outlay. I know no 
other safe investment in which moderate expense produces 
so large a result of profit as in many of these permanent 
improvements of land. At the present time, however, the 
landlord's anxiety is, to avoid permanent loss of income. 
He should, therefore, raise the productive power of each 
farm, and there are very few farms on which the owner, 
consulting with the tenant, may not find some effective and 
cheap improvements to make." — Puseyy pp. 2Q, 23. 

The improvement of land is then ranged under twelve 
heads, of which some are of general, some of local, and 
two or three, we think, of rather questionable application. 
Draining stands first in the list, and we are far from 
questioning the propriety of its precedence. But, before 
we proceed further, we must make a professional appeal to 
the editor of the *' Koyal Agricultural Journal." We do so 
because, in the matter to which we refer, he has more 
power than any other person ; and though we shall inter- 
rupt the current of our ideas, and the thread of our dis- 
course, we cannot consent to hide our appeal in the ob- 
scurity of a note. We seldom read a paper in the Journal, 
or in any other agricultural publication, without encoun- 
tering some local term or phrase with which we are wholly 
unacquainted. We entreat the editor to reform the voca- 
bulary of agriculture, first by his own practice, and then by 
his influence. We appeal from Mr. Pusey to the editor. 
Mr. Pusey states the depth of his drains in feet and inches, 
and the intervals in yards and feet, but he states the length 
in poles. Why this should be, unless it has some sly re- 



232 AGEICULTURE. 

ference to the difficulty of ascertaining the longitude, we 
cannot conceive. We have no idea what a pole is. Perhaps 
the length of Mr. Pusey's walking stick, or some personal 
measure. Perhaps he does not know that a rood of draining 
in Leicestershire and Derbyshire is seven yards, and in 
Staffordshire eight ; and that if you leave out one of the o's 
in this measure, you-cut down the length to five yards and 
a half. With respect to the words " inch," foot," and 
"yard," there is no such uncertainty of interpretation. 
They convey to the minds of every one of Her Majesty's 
British subjects a definite and an unvarying meaning. 
Again Mr. Pusey talks of bushels and quarters of lime. 
We believe that we are the largest lime-burners in England, 
but we do not know what quantities these terms indicate. 
We occasionally burn lumps of lime which would not go 
into a bushel. Though cwts. and tons do, unfortunately, 
in respect to a few articles and in a few localities, refuse to 
conform to the definite meaning to which they are confined 
by Act of Parliament ; and though we admit that, in the 
north-western provinces, lime is one of the articles which, 
in passing from what mercantile men call first hands, de- 
clines to be cut down from 120 lbs. to 112, yet we believe 
that the use of the words tons, and cwts. would, even with 
respect to it, convey much more general and more definite 
information than quarters and bushels. 

Mais revenons. We wish we could consider draining to 
be one of " the very cheap means " of improvement which 
Mr. Pusey indicates. We have never found it so. He 
gives us a table of the prices which he pays for draining. 
We cannot estimate the price of labour per yard, because 
we do not know the length of Mr. Pusey's pole ; but a cost 
per acre of only 2L 5s. Id. for five-feet drains and llf- 
yard intervals, is by us perfectly inexplicable. Nor can we 
understand how five-feet depths with these intervals should 
cost only 3s. 4d. per statute acre more than four-feet depths. 
The cost of 17s. 3ci. per acre for pipes is only explicable on 
the supposition that they are small and used without collars, 



HIGH FARMING. 233 

a mode of draining which we would hardly thank any one 
to execute for us gratis. With extended experience we 
adhere to a statement which we made two years ago in this 
Journal : — " We do not think that we ever saw so favour- 
able a combination of circumstances, that efi&cient thorough- 
draining of retentive land could be executed at from four 
to five feet deep under 4Z. per acre. We have seen few or 
no cases in which it might not be executed for 5Z." We 
cordially agree with Mr. Pusey, that, "instead of saying 
that a whole farm," or a whole field, should be drained at 
a stated interval, you should " unfold your plan as you pro- 
ceed." We agree, with the same cordiality, that to pre- 
scribe the same depths and the same intervals for all lands, 
is perfectly empirical. But when Mr. Pusey says — " a line 
of wetness may be found on a hill-side where the springs 
are thrown out, oozing through " (we should have thought, 
running over) " the field below — draw your drain deeply 
along this line " — we differ from him entirely. We never 
saw an instance in which such a case was encountered most 
cheaply or most effectually in the manner prescribed. We 
dissent, for the following reasons. The cause of the line of 
wetness is, that a porous stratum reposes on a retentive, 
and the water which has sunk through the former, being 
unable to sink through the latter, bursts out to the day 
at their line of junction, or at some parts of it. But Nature 
is not studious to level her surfaces very accurately before 
she brings them into opposition, and therefore their various 
points of contact are seldom found to be exactly in the 
same plane. In order that the drain in the line of wetness 
may be effectual, it must pass below all the points of contact 
of the porous and retentive strata ; it must in its whole 
length cut into the retentive stratum. If, therefore, on any 
given line, the average depth of the points of contact of 
the two surfaces being six feet, there is one place in which 
the depth is ten feet, the drain must be ten feet deep in 
its whole length. If it be not, the water passing, and at 
that lowest point with most freedom, under the drain, will 



934 AGRICULTURE. 

appear at the surface on the land below. Add to this, the 
external line of junction between the two strata is seldom 
so straight or of so even curvature as to afford a desirable 
line for a drain. If, on the other hand, an experienced 
drainer examines the surface, he will always be able to dis- 
cover the lowest point or points of contact between the two 
strata ; we mean lowest with respect to the slope of the 
hill. If into that lowest point or points he drives, up the 
line of steepest descent, an adequate drain or drains, he 
will so lower the level of the water which stands in the 
porous stratum, that it will cease to flow over the edge of 
the retentive, which is the evil to be remedied. If a stream 
of water enters into a barrel with an open top, it will flow 
over the rim or over some one or more low places in it. 
But if you bore into the barrel, a foot below the rim, a 
hole or holes of sufi&cient capacity, the water will then 
cease to flow over, and the barrel for a foot below the rim 
will become dry. We have been dififuse on this point, be- 
cause we have seen many instances of well-executed drains, 
drawn along the line of wetness, which have been ineffec- 
tual, and because we know no theory, deserving to be ex- 
ploded, which lingers more pertinaciously than that of the 
line between wet and dry. Mr. Pusey mentions an instance 
in which by a ditch which cost 20Z. he drained forty acres 
of land. We have seen a case of " line of wetness " in 
which one drain, driven in the steepest slope four feet deep 
increased to seven in the last twenty yards, effectually 
stopped a flow of water over nine acres of land, four of 
which did not belong to the person who executed the drain. 
We quite admit, though we do not know from what source 
Mr. Pusey derives the maxim, that " one drain well laid to 
suit the circumstances will often save a dozen by rule," and 
generally that it is much more satisfactory to drain by force 
of head than by force of money. 

Still, whenever Mr. Pusey writes on draining, we deside- 
rate the recognition of what appears to us to be one great 
if not indeed the main object — the preparation of the- land 



HIGH FARMING. 235 

to receive and admit all the rain which may fall upon it. 
On well-drained land this preparation is always in progress, 
or at least effectually progresses until it has been effectually 
attained. Nature has only two ways of drying the surface 
of retentive lands — one, the great atmospheric drain, evapo- 
ration — the other, the drain by vegetation. In winter both 
these are in abeyance ; and the consequence is, that when 
such lands at that season become saturated with water, 
they continue so till those natural drains begin to act again. 
When rain falls on land in this saturated state there is no 
admittance ; the house is full, the inmates are three in a 
bed already ; the vagrant must pass on to some other 
asylum, and he always takes anything which he can carry 
away with him. But when such land is well drained, every 
drop of water which runs out of the drain leaves room for 
a drop to enter at the surface ; every hour of fair weather 
prepares for an hour of rain. The vital difference between 
four-feet drains and two-feet is, that the constant tendency of 
the former is to have nearly four feet of soil prepared for the 
reception of rain, whereas the latter can only prepare some- 
thing less than two feet. Every one knows that the effect 
of open ditches and of straightened watercourses has been 
to increase the rapidity with which our floods rise, and to 
limit their duration, with the concomitant result, that the 
streams carry down much more mud with them. The effect 
of general under-draining would be to reverse both these 
results. Rain falling on soil ready to receive it, and filtered 
through, would pass off much more equably, and would 
carry away with it no impurities. "With us, the last 
fortnight of January and the first of February passed with- 
out downfall. Our drains, on retentive lands, ceased to 
run. Then came a heavy fall of rain. The ditches of our 
neighbours on undrained lands ran full and very muddy : 
our drains ran equably and quite clear water. After four 
days of light frost our neighbours' ditches ceased to run, 
but our drains continued for a fortnight, and were running 



236 AGRICULTURE. 

gently when more rain came. These matters are worth 
observation. 

Having appealed to the editor of the " Royal Agricultural 
Journal" on one subject, we will now take the liberty of 
appealing to its correspondents on another. We have no 
doubt that some one or more of them are quite competent 
to furnish information which would be of great value to 
drainers. We want a table which will show at one glance 
the water-passing power of pipes at various degrees of in- 
clination — something of the following sort : — 

Fall in 10 yd8. Size of pipe. Water passed per 

•' ^ ^ minute. 

1 inch . . 3 inches . . x gallons. 

2 „ . . „ . . n „ 

3 „ . . „ . . m „ 

and so for every size of pipe commonly used up to the 
sharpest fall, say four or five inches in a yard, which is 
likely to occur in agricultural drainage. There is no use 
in providing for extreme cases. The table might be so 
arranged as to indicate at what respective inclinations the 
various-sized pipes become equal to one another in water- 
passing power. We shall feel an additional obligation, if 
the gentleman who is so kind as to undertake this will 
abstain from using any learned phrases, such as " sub- 
tending angles," and so forth. We know nothing which is 
usually determined more by a random guess than the size 
of pipes in a receiving drain. To say so many acres to so 
many inches is nothing, unless we know the inclination. 

We spare the admirers of the soft beauties of agricul- 
tural England the pain which they would experience in 
reading Mr. Pusey's denunciations of hedges and hedge- 
row timber. We hardly know whether this ruthless re- 
former would leave a hedge or a tree standing between 
John of Groat's and the Land's End. They are doomed. 
This is certainly a cheap improvement, for, when you have 
eradicated them, you are quite sure that the hedge cannot 



HIGH FARMING. 237 

be there again for one ten years, nor the tree for a century. 
On this subject we will not trust ourselves, but will hand 
over Mr. Pusey to the tender mercies of William John- 
ston, barrister-atlaw, who, in two volumes full of varied 
and useful information, has undertaken to hand down to 
posterity " England as it is in the Middle of the Nine- 
teenth Century : " — 

'• One great charm in the general tone of the English 
landscape arises from the abundance of timber all over the 
face of the cultivated land. From one end of the civilized 
world to the other, the hedge-rows and hedge-row timber 
of England have been, and are, the admiration of the tra- 
veller, A great destruction of this timber is, however, 
now in progress, and it appears likely to increase. In 
order successfully to compete with foreign farmers, who 
are now as free to bring their produce into English mar- 
kets as English farmers are, scientific agriculturists declare 
that it is expedient to make our fields larger and more 
open to sun and rain, by removing hedges and fences ; that 
the shade of trees is injurious to the ripening of grain, 
and therefore that they should be removed ; that timber- 
smothered land is a reproach to scientific and economical 
farming ; that to keep pace with the advancement of agri- 
cultural knowledge, and to meet the activity and compe- 
tition of the age, the hedge-rows, which have heretofore 
been considered the beauty of England, must, from consi- 
derations of utility, be abandoned ; that land must be 
looked on as nothing else than a manufactory of agricul- 
tural produce ; and that farmers who think of anything 
else than profit are little better than fools. Such are the 
theories of those who bring the wisdom of city counting- 
houses or scientific lecture-rooms to bear upon rural 
aff'airs." 

But the case is more hopeless than even Mr. Johnston 
states it to be. The heartless wisdom which calculates 
that the hedges in one parish in Devonshire would have 
reached "from London to Edinburgh," and exults that 



338 AGRICULTURE. 

they are now so much reduced that they would *• stretch 
little further than York " — which says, '• The utter extinc- 
tion of the land overshadowed by trees would be gladly 
submitted to by every farmer, provided the trees were to 
be annihilated, and that without any diminution of rent," 
— comes not from a scientific lecture-room, nor from a city 
counting-house, but from the Conservative M.P. for Berk- 
shire and editor of the " Royal Agricultural Journal ;" and 
the man who boasts that it is now a very long time since 
his own internal fences have been removed entirely, is the 
same individual. 

Four-footed game are doomed also — another cheap im- 
provement; but we are thankful to Mr. Pusey for tole- 
rating pheasants and partridges. He reckons burning 
clay, claying, liming, boning, and chalking among cheap 
♦'landlords' improvements." No one of these operations 
is of general application. Perhaps situations may be found 
in -which each of them may produce an improvement 
having somewhat of permanence. Nothing but local ex- 
perience is a safe guide. Of lime, Mr. Pusey says, " it is 
considered indispensable on the west side of England, and 
is generally found utterly useless elsewhere." Of burning 
clay, we beg to state, that though he cites eight witnesses 
■who all testify strongly in its favour, and though we do not 
at all doubt their testimony, our experience tells us that 
this practice also is only of local advantage. We have 
burnt clay in Staffordshire and Derbyshire, we have seen 
it burnt for several successive years on a large scale and at 
vast cost in the former county, and we never saw an in- 
stance in which it was followed by any apparent advantage, 
and we have seen several, where the surface of the land 
was burnt, in which the result was manifest deterioration. 
We state this, not to dissuade persons from proving the 
effect, but to caution them against practising on a large 
scale before they have proved it. We need not go far to 
find a gentleman whom the clay-burning papers in the 
"Agricultural Journal" have cost hundreds of pounds. 



HIGH FARMING. 239 

which he might just as well have thrown into the Bay of 
Biscay. 

Our great agricultural authority rivals Cato in his advo- 
cacy of water-meadows, but this with a limitation which 
will at once exclude half England, for he insists that the 
water shall be soft. We shall be obliged to him if he will 
reconcile the following statements, which we find at pp. 10 
and 33 of his pamphlet : — *' If you pour a solution of am- 
monia on loamy soil, the water, when it escapes below, will 
be free from ammonia." " Putrid urine, sewer-water, pass- 
ing thi\)ugh loam, as Mr. Hux table found, become pure 
as well as clear" (p. 10). " Our own pure and warm 
springs, issuing from the depths of the earth, fertilize our 
meadows by bringing with them ammonia, the result, per- 
haps, partly of ancient volcanic action, partly acquired by 
filtration through the upper soil, for in soil, too, even un- 
cultivated soil, modern chemistry has recently detected 
ammonia" (p. 33). How is this ? You pass water charged 
with ammonia through soil, in order that it may leave its 
ammonia ; and it does leave it — it comes out free. You 
take other water which has passed through soil, because it 
has picked up ammonia in its passage, and you pass it 
through other soil, in order that it may leave this ammonia 
behind. Why should it leave on its second passage that 
which it has picked up on its first ? There is some con- 
fusion here. 

On the subject of farm-buildings Mr. Pusey speaks with 
his usual good sense and moderation. He is of opinion 
that the farmer should be as well lodged as the parson. 
But of the buildings he says, " A man with 3000Z. set 
apart for the purpose might well be uncertain what plan to 
adopt. Notwithstanding the really excellent plans of farm- 
buildings we have recently published, for one I should cer- 
tainly be puzzled ; because farm steadings, like certain 
countries, are really in a state of revolution ;" and always 
will be. We are about to erect buildings on an arable 
farm, and with a sparing use of bricks (now, however, 



240 AGRICULTURE. 

much cheapened), we shall, with great care as to arrange- 
ment, use in the main larch poles and slabs. These will 
last twenty or thirty years, and at the time of their erec- 
tion we shall plant a waste acre with larch or fir, which will 
come in for repairs, or for renewal, if, in the meantime, a 
better arrangement has been discovered. Moreover, we 
can now have a brickyard, without being troubled by the 
visits of the exciseman, and in it we can make our own 
draining-tiles and pan-tiles for covering, if we find it ex- 
pedient. By these means, instead of the 101. which is 
often required, we expect to execute the work for 2Z., or at 
most, SI. per acre. It seems to us, that, in our present 
state of knowledge as to the management of manure, 
whenever a farmer can command abundance of litter, or 
dried peat, or any other substitute, boxes for the feeding 
of cattle and lodging of horse, cheaply erected, and dis- 
pensing with liquid manure tanks and water-carts, or other 
arrangements for its distribution, afford the best and most 
economical plan; for we are quite of opinion with Mr. 
Pusey, that " liquid manure is a pretty toy, but solid dung 
is for farming in earnest." On half the farms with which 
we are acquainted, want of extent and permanence in tbe 
building is not the evil, but an arrangement which forbids 
economy and the prevention of waste ; and we know many 
in which a fire once in half a century, if it had burnt the 
buildings only, would have been a benefit to the property. 
And this state of things is not peculiar to agriculture. 
What manufactory is there in England to which buildings 
erected half a century ago are not a nuisance, and an im- 
pediment to the successful prosecution of the concern ? 
We are much too apt to attempt to impose our wisdom on 
succeeding generations. We see plans for making farm- 
buildings fire-proof. What can be more absurd than any 
considerable expense incurred for that object, when you 
must have such inflammable articles as straw and hay on 
the premises, and when a wheat-stack containing 100 
quarters is, even at present prices, of more value than a 



HIGH FARMING. 241 

barn or a stable ? Low prices must, among other expe- 
dients, be met by an economy of dead capital. 

The rest of Mr. Pusey's excellent treatise is devoted to 
■what he calls '* the practice of farming," and comes there- 
fore only collaterally within our present scope. But, se- 
veral pages on, " The Foulness of Land" has «o intimate 
a connection with the expenses of cultivation, and Mr. 
Pusey's statements are so utterly opposed to our own ex- 
perience, and to everything which we have ever seen stated 
by any other agricultural writer except Mr. Huxtable, 
that we cannot pass them by without notice. Mr. Pusey 
quotes from " Bayldon," a standard work, "the absolute 
expense" of fallowing an acre, "and his charge is esti- 
mated, be it observed, not for a field casually foul, but as 
a regular ingredient of the cost of the entire turnip crop 
of a farm every year." The absolute expense amounts to 
'HI. 9s. Qd. per acre. If to this be added the 28s. 6^. per 
acre for rent, tithe, and taxes, included in our proposal to 
Mr, Huxtable, the amount will be SI. 18s. per acre. Our 
field is casually foul, fouler probably than the average land 
of England, when its turn comes to be fallowed. On the 
other hand, we are sure that land which has for a series of 
years been periodically subjected to Mr. Bayldon's fallow 
would be much less foul than the average. We do not, 
therefore, after having seen Mr. Bayldon's detailed esti- 
mate, repent of our charge of 6Z. per acre for making a 
field, casually foul, *' free from couch ;" nor do we think 
that the additional 'HI. for eradicating the deep-rooted 
weeds, whose existence Mr. Pusey completely ignores, is 
excessive. Every farmer knows that when a field is ca- 
sually foul, or even of average midland and western county 
foulness, both these enemies cannot be destroyed by the 
fallow of one average summer. But Mr. Pusey proposes 
to strike out the whole of Mr. Bayldon's bill, except 8s., 
adding Is. per acre on the following authority: — Mr. Hud- 
son, of Castleacre, forks the couch out of his wheat stub- 
bles at the expense of Is. per acre, and sows his turnips 

M 



242 AGRICULTURE. 

with one ploughing, for which the above-natned 8s. is al- 
lowed by Mr. Pusey. This is marvellous enough ; but in 
farming, when any statement comes to us well authenti- 
cated, we accept it as far as the imtance in which it has 
occurred is concerned. We know, however, that if this 
forking of couch were attempted on our wheat stubbles, 
or on the bulk of those over which our eye passes, the 
hardened surface would come up in lumps, and the couch, 
instead of being presented on the surface in the handsome 
form in which Mr. Pusey has presented it to us by a draw- 
ing, would be broken into short lengths, each imbedded in 
a hard lump of soil, and ready to sprout with the first 
rains of autumn, and could only be destroyed by *' the 
ploughing, harrowing, rolling, raking, and burning, * very 
likely' repeated a third time," which he so much depre- 
cates. We know, further, that if we should attempt to 
grow turnips on one ploughing from a wheat stubble, we 
should never get a sufficiently tender tilth to ensure a 
plant. Oh ! that Mr. Hudson and Mr. Bond could be our 
godfathers, and that, leaving 8s. for ploughing and Is. for 
forking, we could " strike out at once the remainder of Mr. 
Bayldon's long bill, which will give a saving of 2i. per 
acre upon the turnip crop, that is, on one quarter of an 
arable farm ; and as \l, is the average rent of land in 
England, a saving of one-half the rent. Let no one here- 
after speak of clean farming as expensive farming. What 
high farming may be remains to be seen. At all events, 
according to Mr. Bayldon, we have saved two pounds per 
acre to pay for artificial manure on our turnip crop, which 
we must hope will suffice." — Pusey, p. 47. 

On his own farm Mr. Pusey allows only one pair of 
horses to one hundred acres of land — a lower estimate 
than we have seen elsewhere. He says, " I had a farm 
full of couch, and having now made it clean — " Happy 
man ! But we long intensely to know at what cost of 
money and of time he made it clean. What capital of 
cleanness has he invested in the farm ? What sum does 



HIGH FARMING. 243 

it owe him annually for permanent interest on cleanness, 
or for gradual replacement of money ? We want to know 
" what landlords and farmers ought to do," not on clean 
farms, but on average farms. Will he tell us what sum of 
money must be invested to make all the farms in England 
as clean as his own ? He, a provident man, got landed in 
good times. We are still struggling in the slough, and 
want him to tell us how we are to get out. We admit, 
however, freely, though we differ with him sometimes, 
that he has done more to help us out than any man we 
know. 

Passing on to other points of practice, Mr. Pusey takes 
frequent occasions of showing that the idle, the ignorant, 
and often even the parsimonious farmer is the " real 
spendthrift." He treats both of increase of produce and 
of reduction of expenses, and perhaps, on the whole, gives 
rather the greater prominence to the latter topic. This is 
at least an useful corrective to other agricultural publi- 
cations, which have dwelt almost entirely on the former. 
We beg leave to convey to Mr. Pusey, with much respect, 
our sincere obligations. He opposed the late legislative 
changes which affected his order, and probably retains on 
that subject his old opinions ; but he writes with admirable 
candour ; and the unrepining and even hopeful spirit in 
which he treats of the prospects of agriculture, indicates 
the influence of a temper and of principles which it must 
be a happiness to any man to possess. 

Mr. Pusey says that farming estimates of the expenses 
of cultivation are fanciful things ; and often they are so. 
But there must be expenses, or there must be limits within 
which they can be estimated. We are sure that we could 
form an estimate which no man could prove to be exces- 
sive, but which would show that where an arable farmer 
grows only twenty bushels of wheat, thirty of barley, and 
forty of oats (gross produce at present prices about U. 4s. 
per acre) — and in this category would be included more 
than half the arable farmers in England — he must draw iri 

M 'Z 



244 AGRICULTURE. 

many cases for the whole, and in all for a large portion of 
his rent, tithe, and taxes, either on his own capital or on 
the staple of his farm. Neither of these funds is likely 
to answer his drafts long. What then must be done ? He 
can only improve his position in one of two ways ; either by 
producing more at his present cost, or by producing his 
present quantity at less cost — or partly by the one and 
partly by the other. Produce can only be increased either 
by enabling your crops to avail themselves more fully of 
resources already existing in the soil — which is improved 
culture ; or by adding resources to the soil — which is extra 
manuring; or partly by one and partly by the other. Im- 
proved culture is a leech, and tends to exhaustion. You 
have a horse going four miles an hour; you flog him, and 
he goes eight; but the next time you flog him he will only 
go six, and so every time in a diminishing ratio, till at last 
he will not go at all. If your whip is only sharp enough 
to increase his pace from four to six in the first instance, 
he will probably go a little longer, but will only traverse 
the same ground in the end. To this general rule there 
is, in practical husbandry, one important exception. To 
the extent to which the improved culture effects the extir- 
pation of weeds, the cultivation crop may be increased 
without producing increased exhaustion. (We will have a 
word with Jethro Tull's new-fangled disciples, the spade- 
husbandry men, by-aud-by.) Even if this view of the 
case be wrong, still the advantage of improved culture 
must be estimated by a balance between increased cost and 
increased produce. Extra manuring may be effected from 
two sources, either by purchasing manure directly, or by 
purchasing it circuitously, i. e. manufacturing it by the 
agency of cattle. In the latter case the manure is equally 
purchased, whether the cattle consume food expressly 
bought for them, or whether they consume what would 
otherwise have been sold. Which is the cheaper way of 
providing extra manure ? That may be a question difficult 
to answer, because the cost in one case is fixed, and in the 



HIGH FARMING. 245 

other variable. Our impression, rather than our opinion, 
is, that where a farmer is a good buyer and a good seller, 
where he has such an arrangement of buildings and such an 
apparatus as enable him to reduce the cost of preparation 
of food and of attendance on his cattle to a minimum, he 
will manufacture manure cheaper than he can buy it ; but 
the contrary where one or more of these elements of success 
are wanting. We think, however, that the manufacturer 
plays on the whole the surer game ; 1st, because he can be 
certain of the quality of his article ; and, 2ndly, because 
we do not think that it is established beyond doubt that 
the light concentrated manure, on which he must mainly 
rely if he is a purchaser, will for a series of years maintain 
a farm at the same point of fertility as those which are 
manufactured by the old-fashioned organs of digestion. 
But the improvement of a farmer's position, either by pur- 
chasing manure or by manufacturing it, depends wholly on 
the balance between the cost of the manure and the value 
of the increased produce. He may make his position 
better, or he may make it worse. Fourpence per pound 
for ammonia may raise him ; sixpence may depress him. 
Mr. Pusey, relying on the Rothamsted experiments, says 
that 18s. worth of guano will produce 40s. worth of wheat. 
We never found it so, or saw it so, in actual farming. 
We think it very unlikely that it should be so. It would 
be better than California. It would be impossible to keep 
it secret. Any blockhead could find it out. Any blockhead 
could practise it. There is no science, no skill, hardly any 
exertion. It is very little more than putting 18s. into a 
banker's hand to receive 40s. in six months. There would 
be a guano mania, and a guano king. Perhaps our own 
experience is a little nearer the mark. In the summer of 
] 849 we thoroughly drained and fallowed well twenty acres 
of poor land. In February, 1850, we sowed it with barley, 
and sowed at the same time 4 cwt. of guano per acre. The 
cost of the guano when sowed was 45s. per acre. We are 
morally certain, judging from previous experience, that the 



246 AGRICULTURE. 

crop of barley on this land, grown after a year's fallow 
without manure, would not have been less than three 
quarters per acre. The actual crop varied only a few 
bushels in the whole field from five quarters per acre. 
We cannot state to half a bushel per acre, because we do 
not know exactly what allowance to make for a few trees 
whicli stand in the field. The barley was not of first 
quality, worth 22s. or 23s. per quarter. In short, the 
extra barley just paid for the guano. Still we think that 
we had an advantage in the transaction. The increased 
crop kept down annual weeds. We expect to find an 
advantage, perhaps 5 cwt. of clover-hay per acre, this year. 
Independent of the pleasure of seeing a good crop on poor 
land, we should be just willing, on mercantile grounds, to 
repeat the transaction, and we believe that a similar 
description would be very applicable to average cases of 
buying guano and selling produce. When we come to the 
second means of improving a farmer's position — producing 
the same quantity at less cost, there is no doubt, no 
balance; the account is pure gain. Be it much or be 
it little, he has improved his position by the whole. If it 
has cost him 4d. to thresh a bushel of wheat, and by a new 
method he threshes it for 2^., on a crop of twenty bushels 
he has improved his position by 3s. 4c?. per acre. If it has 
cost him 8s. per acre to plough his land, and by an im- 
proved implement and method he ploughs an acre in the 
time which three-fourths occupied before, he has improved 
his position by 2s. per acre on every ploughing. If by the 
removal of fences and trees he adds one productive acre to 
every ten {Pusey, p. 26), he has improved his position by 2s. 
per acre, supposing the rent to be 20s. How we are getting 
on ! We should soon put a rent between the farm where 
these things are well done, and where they are ill done. 
But we give these merely as the simplest and unexaggerated 
examples. And let there be no mistake : read Mr. Pusey's 
pamphlet. Improved and efficient implements do not cost 
more than the unimproved and inefficient — frequently less. 



HIGH FARMING. 247 

You need not read anything to tell you that a square field 
costs less to cultivate than a three-cornered. An owner 
who will not put his fields into the shape in which they 
can be cultivated at least cost, does not deserve rent. In- 
crease your produce by increased culture wherever the 
increased produce will pay for the increased culture. In- 
crease your produce by extra manure whenever the extra 
produce will pay for the extra manure. But under all cir- 
cumstances, and in all states of markets, use your utmost 
endeavours to raise the same amount of produce at dimi- 
nished cost. 

Now a word with the spade-husbandry men ; and we 
shall treat them very curtly, because, among the many 
humbugs which benevolent individuals have run after, we 
believe this to be the rankest of all. They found them- 
selves on Jethro Tull, and say that he discovered that 
culture would supply the place of manure. He discovered 
nothing but a mare's-nest. The discovery of which they 
speak would have been the greatest ever made in agricul- 
ture, and such discoveries never die. But TuU's no-dis- 
covery has been dead these hundred years. Ancient or 
modern, there is not a single evidence in its favour except 
his own. But, they say, garden culture and garden produce. 
See how a gardener digs, and chops, and trenches. Did they 
ever know a gardener who would cultivate without manure ? 
Ours is ravenous, insatiable ; we dread to see him near our 
manure-heaps. We know something of this matter, because 
we grow potatoes every year by the plough, harrow, and 
horse- hoe, and others, where we cannot plough, by the 
spade, rake, and hand-hoe. The former always beat the 
latter, because the former set of implements are more 
efficient than the latter. On two-thirds of the cultivated 
land in England nothing can be less efficient than a spade 
and rake. They cannot deal with cloddy land at all. Pray 
do not overwhelm us with instances, because we can prove 
your case ad nauseam by adopting the well-established plan 
of stating one side. We know two instances, in each of 



248 



AGRICULTURE. 



which a benevolent gentleman has devoted a field of the 
finest old turf to labourers' gardens. The produce has been 
enormous, the admiration of every one, has gone the round 
of the papers. It would have been just the same with the 
plough, but gentlemen vigilantly guard their very fine 
old turf from the plough. We know several instances in 
which ordinary land, devoted to labourers' gardens, has di- 
minished year by year in produce, and in which the number 
of deserted plots has year by year increased. We do not 
at all deny or doubt that the occupation of a piece of spade- 
husbandry land is an alleviation to a man who cannot get 
work ; nor do we deny or doubt that an inducement to pick 
and scrape the roads very often prevents waste. We have 
seen instances in which a labouring man has been tolerated 
in taking possession of twenty or thirty perches of a very 
poor waste, and by picking and scraping has manured it up 
to a very considerable produce ; perhaps, if a value were 
placed on his own time and on his children's, at considerable 
cost. But the sight is gratifying: a man has acquired an 
object endeared to him by honest industry, and has taken 
a step on the road to independence. When moral good 
has been created, we do not strictly scrutinize the econo- 
mical results. But all this is very different from employing 
spade-husbandry as a remedy for agricultural pressure. 
Spade-husbandry created the Irish paupers, but it very 
soon left us to maintain them. 

In a work to which we have already alluded, Mr. 
Johnston, whose general tone and reflections will, we have 
no doubt, receive the sympathetic approval of a large body 
of readers, intimates that, recently, in the Quaiterlt/ 
Review, we have spoken with unbecoming coolness of the 
future prospects of agriculture. The coolness must have 
been of manner ; it could not have been of feeling, for it 
would be difficult to find a person more completely bound 
up with agriculture, by habit, by taste, and by interest, 
than ourselves. We might have expressed regrets which 
would have been sincere, but which would also have beeu 



HIGH FARMING. 249 

expressed in vain. We did, in the passage to which Mr. 
Johnston excepts, anticipate for agriculture a revolution to 
be occasioned by economical pressure ; and we still fear 
that our anticipation was correct, and that the revolution is 
in progress. All the merely arable farmers, below the first 
class, whom we see or kn w, have employed for the last 
two years less labour, have purchased less manure, and are 
wearing out their farms and themselves. Our observation, 
indeed, though not confined to the midland counties, lies 
principally in them, and there the practice of arable farming 
is at a very low ebb. Many of the farmers depend mainly 
on other modes of occupying their land, and every operation 
connected with crops raised by the plough is performed at 
much greater cost and in a much more imperfect manner 
than in the southern or eastern counties. We do not 
think that on farms where the principal dependence is on 
dairying, grazing, or sheep-breeding, the pressure is very 
severe. Grass farms have been less afiected than arable, 
partly because there has been a less percentage of fall in 
the price of their produce than in cereals, but principally 
because the cost of production has not hitherto fallen in 
the same ratio as the price of produce, and on grass farms, 
as compared with arable, the cost of production is a very 
immaterial item. Gloomy, however, as is the view which 
we take of the present state of arable farming, if we are 
asked whether it will again prosper in England ? limiting 
our ideas to the degree of pecuniary prosperity which is 
due to a very engaging, a very salubrious, and a tolerably 
certain employment, we answer without hesitation, that we 
believe that it will ; but not till after a revolution. We 
feel strongly the pain of a revolution, and we are quite 
aware, that no business, partly from the habits of those 
who carry it on, but much more from real natural impedi- 
ments, from its fixtures we may say, and from its tenures, 
submits so slowly and so unwillingly to a revolution as 
agriculture in England. Still the revolution must and will 
be effected, and those will have the best chance of pros- 



250 AGRICULTURE. 

perity who get through it before they are subjected to the 
full force of domestic as well as of foreign competition. 
When the revolution is effected, we cannot be blind to the 
following considerations : — Mr. Pusey says that England 
has the best climate in the world for farming ; and per- 
haps, if we couple green crops with cereals, this opinion is 
correct. England affords the best market in the world ; 
has (in our own hemisphere) the most concentrated popu- 
lation, and the best communications; furnishes the best 
and cheapest implements and machinery. Money is ha- 
bitually cheaper in England than in any other country. In 
works of labour and of skill Englishmen challenge the 
world for efficiency. The existing laws are oppressive to 
agriculture, but we have a right to expect that justice will 
prevail, and that agriculture will be relieved. These are 
surely elements of prospective prosperity. Still, looking to 
unlimited competition, and bearing strongly in mind how 
difficult it will be to subject husbandry, which cannot shift 
the venue, and which must be more or less tied to existing 
institutions, to the purely-economical regulations which 
would be adopted in a newly- established manufacture, we 
would rather express our opinion of prospective arable 
prosperity negatively than positively. 

Ist. We believe that no arable farm will prosper which 
has not, at the least possible outlay of dead capital, buildings 
which, in extent and arrangement, and position, will facilitate 
the greatest economy of labour. 

2nd. That no arable farm will prosper on which, from 
want of concentration or of good roads, the internal com- 
munications are inconvenient and expensive. 

3rd. That no arable farm will prosper which is not of 
sufficient size to employ economically the most efficient 
implements suited to its texture, the best machinery, and 
probably steam-power. 

4th. That no arable farm will prosper which does not give 
fkcilities for the economical production and good manage- 
ment of manure — when such facilities have been discovered ; 



HIGH FARMING. 251 

5th. Which is not dry by nature or thoroughly drained, 
and entirely emancipated from all sacrifices to taste, fancy, 
or prejudice. 

We assume capital and skill in the occupier. We believe 
that, under any circumstances which we can anticipate, 
men of capital and skill will be ready to take farms com- 
plying with these conditions ; that they will pay an annual 
sum to cover rent, tithe, and tax ; and that on an average 
of years they will make a competent profit. They will 
farm higher or lower (but never so as to diminish the fer- 
tility of their lands), in conformity with the principles which 
have been developed in this article. 

The conditions here stated are novel in British agri- 
culture, but they are not unreasonable. Mutatis mutandis, 
they would not be considered stringent if applied to any 
manufacture ; indeed, no manufacture could prosper which 
did not comply with them. 

In speaking of the farm of Auchness we made allusion to 
the advantages which some farmers have derived from paying 
attention to crops which either do not occur or occur on a 
more limited scale in the ordinary routine. Probably new 
objects of culture may be introduced, because pressure is 
near enough akin to be also the mother of invention. We 
look forward also to a different appreciation of the present 
objects of culture. Fine wheat appears to us to be in Great 
Britain a forced production, and very ungrateful for the se- 
dulous care which we bestow upon it. We select seed with 
the utmost attention, we create and import varieties, we in- 
vent implements expressly for the culture of wheat, we write 
more on the culture of wheat than on that of any other 
grain ; and when we have done all, the random cultivation 
of Poland and of many other countries leaves us far in the 
rear in quality. The Times, containing a return dated 
*' Corn Exchange, Monday, March 17, 1851," is now before 
us, audit presents the following results: — The highest price 
of ant/ British wheat is 455. per quarter. The highest 
price of Dantzic is 48s. The highest price of Lincolnshire 



252 AGRTCULTDRE. 

and Yorkshire wheat is 38s. ; of Rostock and Wismar, 45s. 
of Pomeranian, 43s. ; of Ubermark, 42s.; of Silesian, 40s. 
of Hamburg, Bremen, Holstein, and Lower Rhine, 40s. 
of Brabant and Lou vain, 40s. ; of Flemish and Zealand, 
42s. ; of French, red, 40s., white 42s. ; — a sufficiently 
discouraging result. And be it remembered, that the 
highest-priced Lincolnshire and Yorkshire wheat is pro- 
bably fresh threshed, whereas all these foreign wheats 
have probably been aome time in warehouse, and have 
certainly been subjected to a much longer sea-voyage than 
the English, and are necessarily more stale and in inferior 
condition. Flour tells the same tale. Both the French 
and the American deluge us with flour of finer quality 
than any which can be produced by British millers from 
British grain. Any one who has seen the white breads of 
the Continent, of Paris, of Turin, and of Florence, and the 
macaroni of Naples, must be aware that it would be vain 
to expect such products from British flour ; and when he 
compares the cultivation of those countries with that of 
England, he may well be surprised at such results. The 
fact is, that the quality of wheat depends much more on 
climate than on culture. When we look to barley, we find 
exactly opposite results. We quote from the same docu- 
ment. The finest British barley 28s. per quarter ; the finest 
Saal, 25s. ; Danish, 2 Is. ; Baltic, small, 18s. ; Baltic, large, 
21s.; and the only foreign barleys which are quoted as of 
malting quality are the Saal and some Danish chevalier. 
The case of oats is similar to that of barle3% The finest 
British oats, 2 Is. per quarter ; the finest foreign, IBs. 
Thus in barley and oats we distance our competitors as 
much as they distance us in wheat. If you are disposed 
to experiment in high farming, no grain is so hazardous as 
wheat. The least extra manuring, or in a moist season 
even an ordinary manuring, will throw it down. No grain 
falls so early, is so slow in rising again, or receives so 
much injury when down. You may bestow manure on 
barley with much greater confidence of a beneficial result. 



HIGH FARMING. 253 

If you see a man pass from growing wheat to growing 
barley, depend upon it he has either improved his culture 
or his land has been drained or otherwise substantially 
benefited. All the least and worst arable farmers in 
England below the hills grow what they call their " bit of 
wheat," but barley is quite above them. Many of our 
neighbours on undrained lands tell us that it is of no use 
to sow barley, explaining, by true farmer's logic, first, that 
there would be none, and, secondly, that what there was 
would be fit only for the pigs. But we have exploded that 
idea. Three of our neighbours, who have thoroughly- 
drained and highly-manured land of weak staple, not very 
free, and lying on a retentive bottom, have grown in each 
of the last three years between 50 and 60 bushels per acre 
of barley, weighing 55 lbs. per bushel, and of a quality ac- 
ceptable to the brewers of Burton-on-Trent. This year, 
for the first time, we have done it ourselves. Thorough 
draining will make any land barley-land, unless elevation 
forbids. The case, therefore, stands thus:— Barley is the 
grain which is most grateful for high farming — barley is 
the grain, the production of which, of fine quality, we have 
the greatest power to extend — ^barley is the grain as to 
which we have least reason to dread the number or the 
power of our foreign competitors — barley is the grain, the 
consumption of which is limited by a tax amounting at 
the present time to cent, per cent. — and barley is the grain 
which is not allowed to be drunk on the producer's premises 
for the purpose of reproduction unless he pays the tax. 
We had almost said, indeed, if the editor does not think 
that it savours of political intimidation, we shall be obliged 
to him if he will allow us to say, that we will never vote 
for a county member who does not vote for the repeal of 
the Malt Tax. 

Many persons have expressed an apprehension that the 
owners of landed property in Great Britain are in danger 
of being permanently degraded. We do not believe that 
this can be the case in a country constantly increasing in 



254 AGKICULTOHE. 

population and wealth, which is constantly consuming land 
by buildings, pleasure-grounds, roads, railways, docks, and 
cemeteries, and in which the possession of land is a pride 
and a passion. Nor do we believe that the revenue de- 
rived from real property can be permanently diminished. 
The British landowner never felt himself to be a rich man, 
as compared to a person deriving an equal income from 
other sources, because, whatever might be his personal 
frugality, he has always been subject to the temptation of 
expending his savings on his property, and it has been 
quite as often on blunders and fancies as on improvements 
which added to his revenue. It may be that for a period, 
now commenced or at hand, he may have to season the pride 
of his position with somewhat of increased pressure, be- 
cause he is always in debt. He has been the shuttlecock 
of those legislatures who have sported with the currency; 
struck up to a giddy height from 1797 to 1815, from which 
height he has been let down by successive subsidences to 
his present depressed condition. Mr. Johnston, in " Eng- 
land as it is," reckons the " indebtedness " of real property 
in England at one-half of its absolute value, and the 
annual charge of such indebtedness at one-half of its 
revenue. But for the circumstance that this debt, both as 
to principal and interest, is a ''fixed amount of money,'' 
the statement would amount to no more than this — that 
the apparent owners of the real property in question only 
own one-half of it, and that somebody else owns the other 
half. "But," as Mr. Johnston justly observes, "when we 
take into account debts or fixed engagements of any kind, 
a change in the currency must disturb the balance of justice; 
and when the change is such as to increase the value of 
money, it is a severe measure of oppression upon the 
weaker and indebted class, while an undue advantage is 
given to those who are least in need of it." Under this 
oppression the present race of landowners are struggling ; 
and, on the whole, manfully. A certain amount of change 
in the ownership of land is always in progress, and is no 



HIGH FARMING. 255 

doubt salutary to the body politic ; but the tenacity of 
landowners has, under all difficulties, opposed a successful 
resistance to a sweeping revolution. Any one who looks 
into Fuller's Worthies, or Sir William Dugdale's Catalogues 
of Commissioners, or into the indexes attached to Plott s 
and other county histories, will find the old names attached 
to the old places to a considerable extent. Our hope and 
belief is, that, notwithstanding present difficulties, the 
hereditary owners of land will, by a continued exertion of 
the energy and prudence which carried those from whom 
they inherit their possessions through all changes, continue 
to maintain their social position. 

The reproach of British agriculture, that she had no 
literature, is fast passing away. The works which we have 
placed at the head of this article would be creditable to any 
science and to any age. We are not acquainted with the 
agricultural publications north of Tweed, but we have been 
told that they have great merit. We constantly see with 
wonder and admiration the variety and spirit by which the 
Royal Agricultural Journal is sustained. The Agricultural 
Gazette, attached to the Gardener's Chronicle, contains 
almost weekly some practical article of sterling value. 
The letters of the Times Commissioner have ably supplied 
a deficiency which has existed ever since the time of 
Arthur Young's agricultural tour. They have informed the 
general body of agriculturists of the varieties of practice 
which have obtained a permanent footing in various dis- 
tricts, causing each to contribute its quota of knowledge 
and experience to the general stock of information. In 
offering our humble mite, we are, indeed, proud of our 
fellow-labourers. 



Woodfall and Kinder, Printers, Angel Court, Skinner Street, London. 



^ 



■ ; 



\ 



^ 



