


,il^ 



NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



07897536 8 




\J"\\ 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2007 witii funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/cooksownbookliousOOIeen 



TEE 



COOK'S OWN BOOK, 

1 



AND 

HOUSEKEEPER'S REGISTER. 

BEING RECEIPTS FOR 

COOKING OF EVERY KIND OF MEAT, FISH, AND FOWL j 

AND 

MAKING EVERY SORT OF 

SOUP, GRAVY, PASTRY, PRESERVES, AND ESSENCES. 

WITH A COMPLETE 

SYSTEM OF CONFECTIONERY; 

TABLES FOR MARKETING ; 

A 

BOOK OF CARVING? 

AND 

MISS LESLIE'S SEVENTY-FIVE RECEIPTS 

FOR 

PASTRY, CAKES, AND SWEETMEATS. 



^^^^^^^i^^%^r^r>>^^^^^l%ii^ 



BY 

A BOSTOIV HOUSEKEEPER. 



Mm ^nrk nni 35nstnii : 

C. S. FRANCIS AND COMPANY. 

1854. 



1 ' : L r- 

1 n t-j 1 



:^'.7 TO^X 



public library 
4()y701A 

AtrOR. LENOX AND 

TILDEN fOWNDATlORS 

R 192d L 



Entered, according to act of Congress, in the year 1833, by 

MUNROK &. FRANCli, 

In the Clerk's Ofllco of tlie District Court of Massachusetts, 



PREFACE. 



The cook exercises a greater power over the public health and 
welfare than the physician, and if he should be a charlatan in his art, 
alas ! for his employers. Hitherto, or until of late years, the cook 
has had to educate himself, while the physician appropriates all the 
knowledge of antiquity, and of every succeeding age; his individual 
cases are all classed according to general principles, while the rules 
that have regulated the preparation of our food, have been discordant 
and unnatural. Ih the present age, indeed, cookery has been raised 
to the dignity of an art, and sages have given their treatises to the 
world. Very has a monument in the cemetery of Pere La Chaise, 
among the tombs of warriors, poets, and philosophers, recording of 
his life that 'it was consecrated to the useful arts.' Virgil however, 
writes that the best delights of Elysium were showered upon those 
who received wounds for their country, who lived unspotted priests, 
who uttered verses worthy of Apollo, or who, like Veiy, consecrated 
their lives to the useful arts. On the utilitarian principle the cook 
should be much elevated in public estimation, and were he to form a 
strict alliance with the physician, the patriarchal ages would return, 
and men would die of nothing but sheer old age. 

After insanity, the most grievous affliction of Providence, or rather 
of improvidence and imprudence, is Dyspepsy : a malady that under 
different names has decimated the inhabitants of civilized countries, 

■' and of almost all countries, in which man is a ' cooking animal.' To 

V the dyspeptic, the sun has no cheering ray, the air no elasticity or 
balm ; the flowers are without fragrance, music is without melody, 
and beauty without charms. Life is a blank ; affection has lost its 
power to soothe, and the blessings scattered by Providence, are con- 
verted into ministers of torment. Food becomes a bane ; the very 

. staff that supports life, gives the flagellation that renders life a curse. 

■ All that^can delight is lost, — but all that can depress and sting, has a 
tenfold activity and power. 



IV PREFACE. 

The dyspeptic's < May of life, has fallen into the sear, the yellow 
leaf.' Sleep that should visit every pillow but that of guilt, is to him 
no friend ; if he slumbers, it is to dream, like Clarence, of hideous 
forms of suffering, and to w^ake to their reality. This is but a faint 
picture of Dyspepsy 

* Her gloomy presence saddens all the scene. 
Shades every flower and darkens every green, 
Deepens the murmur of the falling floods, 
And breatlies a browner horror on the woods.' 

This malady is beyond the science of the physician, but w^ithin the 
art of the cook ; in the proverb, Doctor Diet is ranked above Doctor 
Q,uiet and Doctor Merryman ; though all are good. 

« 

The late Mr. Abernethy referred almost all maladies to the stom- 
ach, and seldom prescribed any remedy but a proper diet. This it is 
the province of the cook to provide ; and the design of this book to 
indicate. The vv^ork is not designed to spread a taste for pernicious 
luxuries: and every recipe has been sanctioned by custom. The 
responsibility of the cook is lightened, and his duty facilitated. He 
has here a dictionary of reference, an encyclopedia of his art. The 
details are full, and the authority is perfect. There were various 
works of merit that it was useful for the cook to study, but here are 
collected t!ie best parts of all, with the convenience of alphabetical 
arrangement, and in the compass of a moderate volume. If it is a 
sin to waste the best gifts of Providence, it should be little less than 
a felony to spoil them. When we have collected the materials for a 
house, we never trust the building to an unskilful architect: yet we 
are often obliged to commit the preparation of our feasts as well as 
of our common food, to agents without knowledge. This knowledge 
is now supplied. 

More than health depends on the proper preparation of food : our 
very virtues are the creatures of circumstances, and many a man has 
hardened his heart, or given up a good resolution, under the operation 
of indigestion. Who that knows the world, ever solicits with confi- 
dence a friendly or charitable act of another before dinner. 

The natural and moral v/orld are reciprocally dependent ; soul and 
body are so linked, that when one loses its tone the other is deprived 
of its eqiumimity. The system of morals therefore becomes identi- 
fied with that of cookery, and the great English moralist, who was 
learned in both systems, thus spoke of the connexion ; ' Some peo- 
ple ' said Doctor J ohnson, ' Lave a foolish way of not minding, or of 
pretending not to mind, what they eat. I for my part mind my belly 
very studiously, and very carefully, and I look upon it that he who 
does not mind his belly will hardly mind any thing else.' 






PREFACE. V 

It has heei. the study of the author, to make every recipe plain, 
and the proportions certain ; little is left to discretion, that could be 
reduced to measure. The system of confectionery is perfect ; and if 
strictly followed every cook may become a first rate confectioner. 
Labor, care, and expense have been bestowed upon the work, and the 
publishers feel so secure of its merit, and of the public want of such a 
book, that they have caused it to be stereotyped. This would have 
been hazardous with a novel or almost any literary work ; but the 
number of those who eat is far greater than of those who read. A 
good book few can estimate; all can enjoy a good dinner, and the 
publishers anticipate a proportionate encouragement. 

Having devised this work for families, we hope that it may offend 
no one, that we give a word of counsel to domestics : our book may 
be every way good, yet will its usefulness be much impaired if do- 
mestics are not docile and faithful. 

We have fortunately, in this country, but one class of people : al' 
are free, and all are politically equal. Our domestics are in New 
England designated as help^ to indicate that they are the equals, and 
assistants, rather than the inferiors of their employers. Yet the 
feeling of independence may be carried too far, and it may be ungra- 
ciously expressed. There is no disgrace, and there should be no 
shame in filling well a subordinate station; the hired ploughman, 
maid, or cook are not, in an offensive sense, any more the servants of 
their employers, than the merchant and the lawyer. All these engage 
to perform certain services for an equivalent, and it is the duty of all 
to do them faithfully. 

The number of domestics is very large — perhaps the average is 
five to four families — and it may be even greater. Yet, unfortunate- 
ly for their welfare, interest, or character, they are almost constantly 
shifting, and in few families do they remain long. In England, a 
good domestic is often provided for during life, and it is a desirable 
situation. It might be so here, if our domestics would strive to ac- 
commodate themselves to their situation. There is hardly a family, 
in which a kind, respectful, and faithful domestic might not be rciained 
for years, and at the best wages. Here then is a home, comfort, and 
friends. Yet the greater number are contented to live a few months 
in a place, till the best years of life have slipped away, without pro- 
vision for age, and without friends, or home. The proverb of the 
rolling stone contains the best lesson for dojnestics. 



■o 



Service in any department is no sacrifice of independence. A 
domestic is in all things as free as any other class, but it is a 
bad kind of independence that would lead one, when desired to do a 



A 



» 



yj PREFACE. 

thing in the line of a common employment, to do it ungraciously 
and rather as an irksome or unjust task, than as a duty. 

Minor vexations, frequently repeated, are equal to greater individ- 
ual calamities; as many small enjoyments constitute much ot the 
pleasures of life. Around the social board every member of the tam- 
ilv is collected thrice at least in twenty-four hours. Thither the 
head of the family returns from the labors or cares of his busmess to 
recruit his strength and to relax his mind. If he return to a table 
constantly and invariably ill spread ; to a dinner to which he could 
invite noVriend, and in which he can have no enjoyment; a cloud 
will gather on the calmest brow, and a feeling of dissatisfaction may 
be extended to other things. It is not beneath the solicitude ol a 
good wife, who would not suffer any abatement m the aflection ol 
which she is the object, diligently to study this book, and constantly 
to provide a neat and well dressed repast. 

Boston, March, 1832. 



MANAGEMENT OF FAMILIES. 



In domestic arranojement the table is entitled to no small share 
of attention, as a well conducted system of domestic management 
is the foundation of every comfort; and the respectability and 
welfare of families depend in a great measure on the prudent 
conduct of the female, whose province it is to manage the domes- 
tic concerns. 

However the fortunes of individuals may support a large expen- 
diture, it will be deficient in all that can benefit or grace society, 
and in every thing essential to moral order and rational happiness, 
if not conducted on a regular system, embracing all the objects 
of such a situation. 

In domestic management, as in education, so much must depend 
on the particular circumstances of every case, that it is impossible 
to lay down a system which can be generally applicable. 

The immediate plan of every family must be adapted to its own 
peculiar situation, and can only result from the good sense and 
early good habits of the parties, acting upon general rational 
principles. 

What one family is to do, must never be measured by what 
another family does. Each one knows its own resources, and 
should consult them alone. What might be meanness in one, 
might be extravagance in another, and therefore there can be no 
standard of reference but that of individual prudence. The most 
fatal of all things to private families, is to indulge an ambition to 
make an appearance above their fortunes, professions, or business, 
whatever these may be. 

The next point, both for comfort and respectability, is, that all 
the household economy should be uniform, not displaying a parade 
of show in one thing, and a total want of comfort in another. Be- 
sides the contemptible appearance that this must have to every 
person of good sense, it is productive of consequences, not only of 
present, but future injury to a family, that are too often irreparable. 

In great cities in particular, how common is it that for the vani- 
ty of having a showy drawing-room to receive company, the family 
are confined to a close back room, where they have scarcely either 
air or light, the want of which must materially prejudice their 
health. 

To keep rooms for show, where the fortune is equal to having 
a house that will accommodate the family properly, and admit of 
this also, belongs to the highest sphere of life; but in private fam- 
ilies, to shut up the only room perhaps in the house which is really 
wholesome for the family to live in, is inflicting a kind of lingering 



Vlll FAMILY MANAGEMENT. 

•murder upon the inmates; and yet how frequently this considera- 
tion escapes persons wlio mean well by their family, but who still 
have a grate, a carpet, and chairs, too fine for every day's use. 

Another fruit of this evil is, seeing more company, and in a 
more expensive manner than is compatible with the general con- 
venience of the family, introducing with if an expense in dress, 
and a dissipation of time, from which it suffers in various ways. 

Social intercourse is not improved by parade, but quite the 
contrary; real friends, and the pleasantest kind of acquaintance, 
those who like to be sociable, are repulsed by it. It is a failure 
therefore every way — the loss of what is really valuable, and an 
abortive attempt to be fashionable. 

A fundamental error in domestic life of very serious extent, 
involving no less the comfort than the health of the family, arises 
from thg ignorance or mistaken notions of the mistress of the house 
upon the subjects of diet and cookery. 

The subject of cookery is thought by too many women to be 
below their attention, or, when practically engaged in, it is with 
no other consideration about it than, in the good housewife's 
phrase, to make the most of every thing, whether good, bad, or 
indifferent; or to contrive a thousand mischievous compositions, 
both savory and sweet, to recommend their own ingenuity. 

If cookery is worth studying, as a sensual gratification, it is 
surely much more so as a means of securing one of the greatest of 
human blessings — good health; and we cannot quit this part of the 
subject of domestic management without observing, that one cause 
of a great deal of injurious cookery originates in the same vanity 
of show that is productive of so many other evils. In order to 
set out a table with a greater number of dishes than the situation 
of the family requires, more cookery is often undertaken than 
there are servants to do it well, or conveniences in the kitchen for 
the purpose. Thus some viands are done before they are wanted 
for serving up, and stand by spoiling, to make room for others; 
these are again perhaps to be succeeded by something else; and 
too often are things served up that had better be thrown away, 
.than to be used for food. 

The leading consideration about food ought always to be its 
wholesomeness. Cookery may produce savory and pretty looking 
dishes without their possessing any of the qualities of food. It is 
at the same time both a serious and ludicrous reflection that it 
should be thought to do honor to our friends and ourselves to set 
out a table where indigestion and all its train of evils, such as 
fever, rheumatism, gout, and the whole catalogue of human dis- 
eases lie lurking in almost every dish. Yet this is both done, and 
taken as a compliment. We have indeed the " unbought grace 
of polished society, where gluttony loses half its vice by being 
stripped of its grossness." When a m.an at a public house dies of 
a surfeit of beef steak and porter, who does not exclaim, what a 
beast! 



COOKING UTENSILS. IX 

How infinitely preferable is a dinner of far less show where 
nobody need be afraid of what they are eating! and such a one 
will be genteel and respectable. If a person can give his friend 
only a leg of mutton, there is nothing to be ashamed of in it, pro- 
vided it is a good one, and well dressed. 

A house fitted up with plain good furniture, the kitchen fur- 
nished with clean wholesome-looking cooking utensils, good fires, 
in grates that give no anxiety lest a good fire should spoil them, 
clean jrood table linen, the furniture of the table and sideboard 
good of the kind, without ostentation, and a well-dressed plain 
dinner, bespeak a sound judgment and correct taste in a private 
family, that place it on a footing of respectability with the first 
characters in the country. It is only the conforming to our sphere, 
not the vainly attempting to be above it, that can command true 
respect. ^ 

COOKING UTENSILS. 

The various utensils used for the preparation and keeping of 
food are made either of metal, glass, pottery ware, or wood; each 
of which is better suited to some particular purposes than the 
others. Metallic utensils are quite unfit for many uses, and the 
knowledge of this is necessary to the preservation of health in 
general, and sometimes to the prevention of immediate dangerous 
consequences. 

The metals commonly used in the construction of these vessels 
are silver, copper, brass, tin, iron, and lead. Silver is prefera- 
ble to all the others, because it cannot be dissolved by any of the 
substances used as food. Brimstone unites with silver, and forms 
a thin brittle crust over it, that gives it the'appearance of being 
tarnished, which may be accidentally taken with food; but this 
is not particularly unwholesome, nor is it liable to be taken often, 
nor in large quantities. The discoloring of silver spoons used 
with eggs arises from the brimstone contained in eggs. — Nitre or 
saltpetre has also a slighi efl^ect upon silver, but nitre and silver 
seldom remain long enough together in domestic uses to require 
any particular caution. 

Copper and brass are both liable to be dissolved by vinegar, 
acid fruits, and pearl-ash. Such solutions are highly poisonous, 
and great caution should be used to prevent accidents of the kind. 
Vessels made of these metals are generally tinned, that is, lined 
with a thin coating of a mixed metal, containing both tin and lead 
Neither acids, nor any thing containing pearl-ash, should ever be 
suffered to remain above an hour in vessels of this kind, as the 
tinning is dissolvable by acids, and the coating is seldom perfect 
over the surface of the copper or brass. 

The utensils made of what is called block tin are constructed 
of iron plates coated with tin. This is equally to be dissolved as 
the tinning of copper or brass vessels, but iron is not an unwhole- 



A DIET. 

some substance, if even a portion of it should be dissolved and 
mixed in the food. Iron is therefore one of the safest metals for 
the construction of culinary utensils; and the objection to its more 
extensive use only rests upon its liability to rust, so that it requires 
more cleaning and soon decays. Some articles of food, such as 
quinces, orange peel, artichokes, &.c. are blackened by remaining 
in iron vessels, which therefore must not be used for them. 

Leaden vessels are very unwholesome, and should never be 
used for milk and cream, if it be ever likely to stand till it become 
sour. They are unsafe also for the purpose of keeping salted 
meats. 

The best kind of pottery ware is oriental china, because the 
glazing is a perfect glass, which cannot be dissolved, and the" 
whole substance is so compact that liquid cannot penetrate it. 
Man}i^of the English pottery wares are badly glazed, and as the 
glazing is made principally of lead, it is necessary to avoid put- 
ting vinegar, and other acids into them. Acids and greasy sub- 
stances penetrate into unglazed wares, excepting the strong stone 
ware; or into those of which the glazing is cracked, and hence 
give a bad flavor to any thing they are used for afterwards. They 
are quite unfit therefore for keeping pickles or salted meats. 
Glass vessels are infinitely preferable to any pottery ware but 
oriental china, and should be used whenever the occasion admits 
of it. 

Wooden vessels are very proper for the keeping many articles 
of food, and should always be preferred to those lined with lead. 
If any substance has fermented or become putrid in a wooden 
cask or tub, it is sure to taint the vessel so as to make it liable to 
produce a similar effect upon any thing that may be put into it in 
future. It is useful to char the insides of these wooden vessels 
before they are used, by burning wood shavings in them, so as to 
coat the insides with a crust of charcoal. 

As whatever contaminates food in any way must be sure, from 
the repetition of its baneful effects, to injure the health, a due 
precaution with respect to all culinary vessels is necessary for its 
more certain preservation. There is a kind of hollow iron ware 
lined with enamel, which is superior to every other utensil for 
sauces or preserves: indeed it is preferable for every purpose 



DIET. 

That we require food, as vegetables require water, to support 
our existence, is the primary consideration upon which we should 
take it. But in our general practice of eating, it cannot be said, 
"we eat to live," but are living passages or channels, through 
which we are constantly propelling both solids and fluids, for the 
sake of pleasing our palates, at the severe cost often of our whole 
system. 



DIET. XI 

A reasonable indulgence in the abundant supplies of nature^ 
converted by art to the purposes of wholesome food, is one of the 
comforts added to the maintenance of life. It is an indiscriminate 
gratification of our tastes, regardless of the consequences that 
may ensue from it, that is alone blamable. But so great is our 
general apathy in these respects, that even on the occurrence of 
diseases, from which we are all more or less sufferers, we scarce- 
ly ever reflect on our diet, as the principal, if not the sole cause 
of them. We assign them to weather, to infection, to hereditar)^ 
descent, to spontaneous breeding, as if a disease could originate 
without a cause; or to any frivolous imaginary source, without 
suspecting, or being willing to own, mismanagement of ourselves. 

VV^e derive the renewal of our blood and juices, which are con- 
stantlv exhaustino' from the substances we take as food. As our 
food, therefore, is proper or improper, too much or too little, so 
will our blood and juices be good or bad, overcharged or deficient, 
and our state of health accordingly good or diseased. 

By aliment, or food, is to be understood whatever we eat or 
drink, including seasonings; such as salt, sugar, spices, vinegar, 
&c. &c. Every thing, in short, which we receive into our sto- 
machs. Our fjod, therefore, consists not only of such particles 
as are proper for the nourishment and support of the human body, 
but likewise contains certain active principles, viz. salts, oils, and 
spirits, which have the properties of stimulating the solids, quick- 
ening the circulation, and making the fluids thinner; thus render- 
ing them more suited to undergo the necessary secretions of the 
body. 

The art of preserving health, and obtaining long life, therefore 
consists in the use of a moderate quantity of such diet as shall 
neither increase the salts and oils, so as to produce disease, nor 
diminish them, so as to suffer the solids to become relaxed. 

It is very difficult, almost inipossible, to ascertain exactly what 
are the predominant qualities either in o\ir bodies or in the food 
we eat. In practice, therefore, we can have no other rule but 
observing by experience what it is that hurts or does us good; 
and what it is our stomach can digest with facility, or the contrary. 
But then we must keep our judgment unbiassed, and not suffer it 
to become a pander to the appetite, and thus betray the stomach 
and health, to indulge our sensuality. 

The eating too little is hurtful, as well as eating too much. 
Neither excess, nor hunger, nor any thing else that passes the 
bounds of nature, can be good to man. 

By loading the stomach, fermentation is checked, and of course 
digestion impeded; for the natural juice of the stomach has not 
room to exert itself, and it therefore nauseates its contents, is 
troubled with eructations, the spirits are oppressed, obstructions 
ensue, and fever is the consequence. Besides, that when thus 
overfilled, the stomach presses on the diaphragm, prevents the 
proper play of the lungs, and occasions uneasiness in our breath- 



XU DIET. 



ing. Hence arise various ill symptoms and depraved effects 
throughout the body, enervating the strength, decaying the senses, 
hastening old age, and shortening life. 'J'hough these effects are 
not immediately perceived, yet they are certain attendants of 
intemperance; lor it has been generally observed in great eaters, 
that, though from custom, a state of youth, and a strong constitu- 
tion, they have no present inconvenience, but have digested their 
food, suOered surfeit, and borne their immoderate diet well; if they 
have not been unexpectedly cut off, they have found the symptoms 
of old age come on early in lil'e, attended with pains and innume- 
rable disorders. 

If we value our health, we must ever make it a rule not to eat 
to satiety or fulness, but desist while the stomach feels quite easy. 
Thus we shall be refreshed, light, and cheerful; not dull, heavy, 
or indisposed. Should we ever be tempted to eat too much at one 
time, we should eat the less at another. Thus, if our dinner has 
been larger than usual, let our supper be less, or rather quite 
omitted ; for there is no man, however careful of his health, who 
does not occasionally transgress in this way. 

With regard to the times of eating, they must to a certain degree 
be conformed to family convenience, but ought to be quite inde- 
pendent of the caprices of fashion. The great things to be guard- 
ed against are, either eating too soon after a former meal, or 
fasting too long. — The stomach should always have time to empty 
itself before it is filled again. 

Some stomachs digest their contents sooner than others, and if 
long empty it may destroy the appetite, and greatly disturb both 
the head and animal spirits; for, from the great profusion of nerves 
spread upon the stomach, there is an immediate sympathy between 
that and the head. Hence the head is sure to be affected by 
whatever disorders the stomach, whether from any particular ali- 
ment that disagrees with it, or being overfilled, or too long empty. 
Such as feel a gnaAving in the stomach, as it is called, should not 
wait till the stated time of the next meal, but take a small quanti- 
ty of light, easily digested food, that the stomach may have some- 
thing to work on. 

Young persons in health, who use much exercise, may eat three 
times a day. But such as are in years, such as are weak, as do 
no work, use no exercise, or lead a sedentary life, eating twice in 
the day is sufficient ; or, as in the present habits of society, it might 
be difficult to arrange the taking only two meals, let them take 
three very moderate ones. Old and weak persons may eat often, 
but then it should be very little at a time. 

The quality of our food is a subject of greater difficulty than 
the quantity; moderation is an invariably safe guide in the latter 
instance; but though always favorable to prevent ill effects from 
any error in quality, it will not always be effectual. 

To a person in good health, with a strong stomach, and whose 
constant beverage is water, cold or tepid, according to the sea- 



Ditr. xiii 

son, or some aqueous liquor, the niceties of choice in food or 
cookery are less material than to persons with naturally weak sto- 
machs, or to those in sickness, or for children. But all persons 
who would to a certainty preserve their health and faculties, and 
live out the natural term of life, should use plain food, as all high 
seasonmgs and compound mixtures have an injurious effect, soon- 
er or later, on the strongest constitutions. If a i'ew instances can 
be quoted to the contrary, these, like other anomalies in nature, 
cannot constitute an exception to a well established fact. 

No part of our aliment is more important than our beverage 
It is essential to moisten and convey our more solid food into the 
stomach, and from thence to the respective parts of the body. To 
allay thirst, to dilute the blood, that it may circulate through the 
minutest vessels, to dissolve and carry off by the watery secre- 
tions the superfluous salts we take in our food; to answer these 
purposes no liquid is so effectual as pure water, with the exception 
of some few cases. No other liquid circulates so well, or mixes so 
immediately with our fluids. All other liquors are impregnated 
with particles which act strongly upon the solids or fluids, or both 
but water being simple, operates only by diluting, m.oistening, ana 
coolin.o-, which are the great uses of drink pointed out to us by 
nature. Hence it is evident that water is in general the best and 
most wholesome drink; but some constitutions require something 
to warm and stimulate the stomach, and then fermented liquors 
taken in moderation are proper; such as beer, ale, cider, wine 
&c. the choice and quantity of which depend on the age, const' 
tution, and manner of living of the drinker; and to have therr- 
pure is above all things essential; r^ otherwise, instead of being 
of any benefit, they will be highly detrimental. 

Drams, or distilled spirituous liquors, the use of which is unhap- 
pily very prevalent, are of the most poisonous qualities; and from 
their direful effects are the destruction of thousands. From the 
degree of heat they have undergone in distillation they acquire a 
corrosive and burning quality, which makes them as certain to 
kill as laudanum or arsenic, though not so soon. They contract 
the fibres and vessels of the body, especially where they are 
the tenderest, as in the brain, and thus destroy the intellectual 
faculties. They injure the coat of the stomach, and thus expose 
the nerves and weaken the fibres till the whole stomach becomes 
at last soft, flabby, and relaxed. From whence ensues loss of 
appetite, indigestion, and diseases that generally terminate m 
premature death. Spirituous liquors in any way, whether alone 
mixed with water, in punch, shrub, noyau, or other liqueurs, are 
all slow poisons. 

It would be endless to enter on an account of the different quali- 
ties of all sorts of wines, but it may be said in general, that all 
the light wines of a moderate strength, due age and maturity, are 
more v/holesome for the constitution than the rich, hot, strong, 

B 



XIV BOILING. 

heavy wines; for the light wines inflame the juices of the body 
less and go off the stomach with less difficulty. 

The last thing to be said concerning liquors is, that wine and 
all other strong liquors, are as hard to digest as solid strong food. 
This is not only evident with respect to persons of v/eak stomachs 
and digestion, but also trom strong healthy people, who only 
drink either water or small beer at their meals, and are able to 
eat and digest almost double the quantity of what they could if 
they drank strong liquors. It appears very plain, therefore, that 
we should not drink strong liquors at our meals, as by their heat 
and activity they hurry the food undigested into the habit of the 
b?)dy, and by that means lay a foundation for various distempers. 
An abstinence, in short, from fermented liquors would preserve 
our mental faculties in vigor, and our bodies from many painful 
disorders that afflict mankind, as there is no doubt that we may 
principally ascribe to them the gout, rheumatism, stone, cancer, 
fevers, hysterics, lunacy, apoplexy, and palsy. 



BOILING. 

This most simple of culinary processes is not often performed in 
perfection. It does not require quite so much nicety and atten- 
dance as roasting ; to skim your pot well, and keep it really boiling 
(the slower the better) all the while, to know how long is required 
for doing the joint, &c., and to take it up at the critical moment 
when it is done enough, comprehends ahnost the whole art and 
mystery. This, however, demands a patient and perpetual vigi- 
lance, of which {"ew persons are capable. 

The cook must take especial care that the water really boils all 
the while she is cooking, or she will be deceived iii the time ; and 
make up a sufficient fire at first, to last all the time, without much 
mending or stirring. A frugal cook will manage with much less 
fire for boiiing than she uses for roasting;. 

When the pot is coming to a boil there will ahvays, from the 
cleanest meat and clearest water, rise a scum to the top of it, pro- 
ceeding partly from the water ; this must be carefully taken off as 
soon as it rises. 

On this depends the good appearance of all boiled things. When 
vou have skimmed well, put in some cold water, which will throw 
vip the rest of the scum. 

The oflener it is skimmed, and the clear>er the top of the water 
is kept, the sweeter and the cleaner will be the meat. 

If let alone, it soon boils down and sticks to the meat, which, 
instead of looking delicately white and nice, will have that coarse 
and filthy appearance we have too often to complain of, and the 
butcher and poulterer be blamed for the carelessness of the cook 
in not skimming her pot. 



BOILING. XV 

Many put in milk, in make what they boil look white ; but this 
does more harm than good : others wrap it up in a cloth ; but 
these are needless piecautions : if the scum be attentively removed, 
meat will have a mucR more delicate color and finer flavor than it 
has when muffled up.* This rnay give rather moie trouble, but 
those who wish to excel in their art must only consider how the 
processes of it can be most perfectly performed : a cook, who has 
a proper pride and pleasure in her business, will make this her 
maxim on all occasions. 

It is desirable that meat for boiling be of an equal thickness, or, 
before thicker parts are done enough, the thinner will be done too 
much. 

Put your meat into cold water, in the proportion of about a quart 
of water to a pound of meat : it should be covered with water during 
the whole of the process of boiling, but not drowned in it ; the less 
water, provided the meat be covered with it, the more savory will- 
be the meat, and tlie better will be the broth. 

The water should be heated gradually, according to the thick- 
ness, &c. of the article boiled. For instance, a leg of mutton of 
ten pounds weight should be placed over a moderate fire, which 
will orradually make the water hot, without causing it to boil for 
about forty minutes ; if the water boils much sooner, the meat will 
be hardened, and shrink up as if it was scorched : by keeping the 
water a certain time heating without boiling, the fibres of the meat 
are dilated, and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken 
ofl" as soon as it rises. 

The editor placed a thermometer in water in that state which 
cooks call gentle simiiiering ; the heat was 212^, i. e. the same 
degree as the strongest boiling. 

Two mutton chops were covered with cold water; one boiled a 
gallop, while the other simmered very gentl;/ for three-quarters of 
an hour : the chop which w^as slowly simmered was decidedly su- 
perior to that which was boiled ; it was much tenderer, more juicy, 
and much higher flavored. The liquor which boiled fast was in 
like proportion more savory, and when cold had much more fat 
on its surface. This explains why quick boiling renders meat 
hard, &.c., because its juices are extracted in a greater degree. 

Reckon the time from its first coming to a boil. 

The old rule of 15 m.inutes to a pound of meat, we think rather 
too little : the slower it boils, the tenderer, the plumper, and whiter 
it wuU be. 

For those who choose their food thoroughly cooked (which all 
will who have any regard for their stomachs), tv.^enty minutes to a 
pound for fresh, and rather more for salted meat, will not be found 
too much for gentle simmering by the side of the fire, allowing 
more or less time, according to the thickness of the joint, and tiio 
coldness of the weather : to know the state of which, let a ther- 
mometer be placed in the pantry ; and when it falls below 40 ^, tell 



XYl BAKING. 

your cook to give rather more time in Botli roasting and boiling, 
always rememberingj the slower it boils the better. 

Without some practice it is difficult to teach any art ; and cooks 
seem to suppose they must be right, if they put meat into a pot, 
and set it over the fire for a certain time, making no allowance 
whether it simmers without a bubble or boils a gallop. 

Fresh-killed meat will take much longer time boiling than that 
which has been kept till it is what the butchers call ripe; and long- 
er in cold than in warm weather : if it he frozen, it must be thawed 
before boiling as before roasting ; if it be fresh-killed, it will be 
tough and hard, if you stew it ever so long, and ever so gently. 
In cold weather, the night before the day you dress it, bring it into 
a place of which the temperature is not less than 45 degrees of 
Fahrenheit's thermometer. 

The size of the boiling-pots should be adapted to what they are 
to contain : the larger the saucepan the more room it takes upon 
the fire, and a larger quantity of water requires a proportionate 
increase of fire to boil it. 

In small families we recommend block-tin saucepans, &c. as 
lightest and safest. If proper care is taken of them, and they are 
well dried after they are cleaned, they are by far the cheapest ; 
the purchase of a new tin saucepan being little more than the ex- 
pense of tinning a copper one. 

Let the covers of your boiling-pots fit close, not only to prevent 
unnecessary evaporation of the water, but to prevent the escape 
of the nutritive matter, v.hich must then remain either in the meat 
or in the broth ; and the smoke is prevented from insinuatmg itself 
under the edge of the lid, and so giving the meat a bad taste. 

If you let meat .or poultry remain in the water after it is done 
enough, it will become sodden, and lose its flavor. 

Beef and mutton a little tmrfer-done (especially very large joints, 
which will make the better hash or broil,) is not a great fault ; by 
some people it is preferred : but lamb, pork, .and veal are uneata- 
ble if not thoroughly boiled ; but do not over-do them. 

A trivet or fish-drainer put on the bottom of the boiling-pot, rais- 
ing the contents about an inch and a half from the bottom, will 
prevent that side of the m.eat which comes next the bottom from 
being done too much, and the lower part of the meat v/iil be as 
delicately done as the other part ; and this will enable you to take 
out the contents of the pot, without sticking a fork, &c. into it. 
i^ you have not a trivet, use four skewers, or a soup-plate laid the 
wrong side upwards. 

BAKING. 

Baking is one of tlic clieapest and most convenient ways of 
dressing a dinner in small families; and, I may say, that the oven 
is often the only kitchen a poor man has, if he wishes to enjoy a 
joint of meat. 



BAKI.VG, XVll 

1 do not mean to deny the supeiior excellence of roasting to 
baking; but some joints, when baked, so nearly approach to the 
same when roasted, that I have known them to be carried to the 
table, and eaten as such with great satisfaction. 

Legs and loins of pork, legs of mutton, fillets of veal, and many 
other joints, will bake to great advantage, if the meat be good; 
I mean well-fed, rather inclined to be fat: if the meat be poor, no 
baker can give satisfaction. 

When baking a poor joint of meat, before it has been half 
baked 1 have seen it start from the bone, and shrivel up scarcely 
to be believed. 

Besides those joints above mentioned, I shall enumerate a few 
baked dishes which I can particularly recommend. 

A pig, when sent to the baker prepared for baking, should have 
its ears and tail covered v.ith buttered paper properly fastened on, 
and a bit of butter tied up in a piece of linen to baste the back 
with, otherwise it will be apt to blister: with a proper share of 
attention from the baker, I consider this way equal to a roasted 
one. 

A goose prepared the same as for roasting, taking care to have 
it on a stand, and when half done to turn the other side upwards. 
A duck the same. 

A buttock of beef the following way is particularly fine. After 
it has been in salt about a week, to be well washed, and put into 
a brown earthen pan with a pint of water; cover the pan tight 
with two or three thicknesses of cap or foolscap paper: never 
cover anything that is to be baked with brown papei', the pitch 
and tar that is in brown paper will give the meat a smoky, bad 
taste: give it four or live hours in a moderately heated oven. 

A ham (if not too old) put in soak for an hour, taken out and 
wiped, a crust made sufficient to cover it all over, and baked in 
a moderately heated oven, cuts fuller of gravy, and of a finer 
flavor, than a boiled one. I have been in the habit of baking 
small cod-fish, haddock, and mackerel, with a dust of flour, and 
some bits of butter put on them; eels, when large and stuffed; 
herrings and sprats, in a brown pan, with vinegar and a little 
spice, and tied over with paper, A hare, prepared the same as 
for roasting, with a k\v pieces of butter, and a little drop of milk 
put into the dish, and basted several times, vfill he found nearly 
equal to roasting; or cut it up, season it properly, put it into a 
jar or pan, and cover it over and bake it in a moderate oven for 
about three hours. In the same manner, I have been in the hab- 
it of baking legs and shins of beef, ox cheeks, &c. prepared with 
a seasoning of onions, turnips, &c.:they will take about four 
hours: let them stand till cold, to skim off the fat; then warm it 
up all together, or part, as you may want it. 

All these I have been in the habit ofbakino; for the first families. 

The time each of the above articles should take depends much 
upon the stale of the oven, and I do consider the baker a suf^ 

T5* 



XVllI ROASTING. 



ficient judge; if they are sent to him in time, he must he very 
neglectful if they are not ready at the time they are ordered. 



ROASTING. 

Let the young cook never forget that cleanliness is the chief 
cardinal virtue of the kitchen; the first preparation for roasting 
is to take care that the spit be properly cleaned with sand and 
water; nothing else. When it has been well scoured with this, 
dry it with a clean cloth. If spits are wiped clean as soon as the 
meat is drawn from them, and while they are hot, a very little 
cleaning will be required. The less the spit is passed through 
the meat the better; and, before you spit it, joint it properly, es- 
pecially necks and loins, that the carver may separate them easi- 
ly and neatly, and take especial care it be evenly balanced on 
the spit, that its motion may be regular, and the fire operate 
equally on each part of it; therefore, be provided with balancing- 
skewers and cookholds, and see it is properly jointed. 

Make up the fire in time; let it be proportioned to the dinner 
to be dressed, and about three or four inches longer at each end 
than the thing to be roasted, or the ends of the meat cannot be 
done nice and brown. 

A cook must be as particular to proportion her fire to the busi- 
ness she has to do, as a chemist: the degree of heat most desira- 
ble for dressing the different sorts of food ought to be attended 
to with the utmost precision. 

The fire that is but just sufficient to receive the noble sirloin 
will parch up a lighter joint. 

Never put meat down to a burned-up fire, if you can possibly 
avoid it; but should the fire become fierce, place the spit at a 
considerable distance, and allow a little more time. 

Preserve the fat, by covering it with paper, for this purpose 
called " kitchen-paper," and tie it on with fine twine; pins and 
skewers can by no means be allowed; they are so many taps to 
let out the gravy: besides, the paper often starts from them and 
catches fire, to the great injury of the meat. 

If the thing to be roasted be thin and tender, the fire should 
be little and brisk: when you have a large joint to roast, make up 
a sound, strong fire, equally good in every part, or your meat 
cannot be equally roasted, nor have that uniform color which 
constitutes the beauty of good roasting. 

Give the fire a good stirring before you lay the joint down; 
examine it from time to time while the spit is going round ; keep 
it clear at the bottom, and take care there are no smoky coals in 
the front, which will spoil the look and taste of the meat, and 
hinder it from roasting evenly. 

When the joint to be roasted is thicker at one end than the 
other, place the spit slanting, with the thickest part nearest the fire 



ROASTING. Xix 

Do not put meat too near the fire at first; the larger the joint, 
the farther it must be kept from the fire: if once it gets scorched, 
the outside will become hard, and acquire a disagreeable, empyr- 
eumatic taste; and the fire being prevented from penetrating into 
it, the meat will appear done before it is little more than half 
done, besides losing the pale brown color, which it is the beauty 
of roasted meat to have. 

Be very careful to place the dripping-pan at such a distance 
from the fire as just to catch the drippings: if it is too near, the 
ashes will fall into it, and spoil the drippings. 

If it is too far from the fire to catch them, you will not only lose 
your drippings, but the meat will be blackened and spoiled by 
the fcetid smoke, which will arise when the fat falls on the live 
cinders. 

A large dripping-pan is convenient for several purposes. It 
should not be less than twenty-eight inches long and twenty inch- 
es wide, and have a covered well on the side from the fife, to 
collect the drippings; this will preserve them in the most delicate 
state: in a pan of the above size you may set fried fish, and vari- 
ous dishes, to keep hot. 

The time meat will take roasting will vary according to the 
time it has been kept, and the temperature of the weather; the 
same weight will be twenty minutes or half an hour longer in 
cold weather, than it will be in warm; and if fresh killed, than if 
it has been kept till it is tender. 

Kverybody knows the advantage q? slow boiling. Slow roasting 
is equally important. 

It is difficult to give any specific rule for time; but if your fire 
is made as before directed, your meat-screen sufficiently large to 
guard what you are dressing from currents of air, and the meat 
is not frosted, you cannot do better than follow the old general 
rule of allowing rather more than a quarter of an hour to the 
pound; a little more or less, according to the temperature of the 
weather, in proportion as the piece is thick or thin, the strength 
of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and the frequency with 
which you baste it; the more it is basted the less time it will lake, 
as it keeps the meat soft and mellow on the outside, and the fire 
acts with more force upon it. 

Reckon the time, not to the hour when dinner is ordered, but 
to the moment the roasts will be wanted. Supposing there are a 
dozen people to sip soup and eat fish first, you may allow them 
ten or fifteen minutes for the former, and about as long for the 
latter, more or less, according to the temptations the "bo]*gout" 
of these preceding courses has to attract their attention. 

When the joint is half done, remove the spit and dripping-pan 
back, and stir up your fire thoroughly, that it may burn clear and 
bright for the browning; when the steam from the meat draws to- 
wards the fire, it is a sign of its being done enough; but you will 
be the best judge of that, from the time it has been down, the 



XX. FRYING. 

strength of the lire you have used, and the distance your spit has 
been liom it. 

Halt' an hour before your meat is done, make some gravy, and 
just before you take it up, put it nearer the fire to brown it. If 
you wish to froth it, baste it, and dredge it with flour carefully: 
you cannot do this delicately nice without a very good light. 
The common fault seems to be using too much flour. The meat 
should have a fine light varnish of froth, not the appearance of 
being covered with a paste. Those who are particular about the 
froth use butter instead of drippings. 

A good cook is as anxiously attentive to the appearance and 
color of her roasts, as a young beauty is to her complexion at a 
birthday ball. If your meat does not brown so much, or so even- 
ly as you wish, take two ounces of glaze, i. e. portable soup, put 
four table-spoonfuls of water, and let it warm and dissolve gradu 
ally by the side of the fire. This will be done in about a quarter 
of an hour; put it on the meat equally all over with a paste-brush 
the last thing before it goes to table. 

Though roasting is one of the most common, and is generally 
considered one of the most easy and simple processes of cook- 
ery, it requires more unremitting attention to perform it perfect- 
ly well than it does to make most made dishes. 

That made dishes are the inost dithcult preparations, deserves 
to be reckoned among the culinary vulgar errors; in plain roast- 
ing and boiling it is not easy to repair a mistake once made; and 
all the discretion and attention of a steady, careful cook, must 
be unremittingly upon the alert. 



FRYING. 

Frying is often a conyenient mode of cookery; it may be per- 
formed by a fire which will not do for roasting or boiling; and by 
the introduction of the pan between the meat and the fire, things 
get more equally dressed. 

The Dutch oven or bonnet is a very convenient utensil for small 
things, and a very useful substitute for the jack, the gridiron, or 
frying-pan. 

A frying-pan should be about four inches deep, with a perfectly 
fiat and thick bottom, twelve inches long and nine broad, with 
perpendicular sides, and must be half filled with fat: good frying 
is, in fact, boiling in fat. To make sure that the pan is quite 
clean, fub a little fat over it, and then make it warm, and wipe it 
out with a clean cloth. 

Be very particular in frying, never to use any oil, butter, lard, 
or drippings, but what is quite clean, fresh, and free from solt 
Any thing dirty spoils the look; any thing bad-tasted or stale, 
spoils the flavor; and salt prevents its browning. 

Fine olive oil is the most delicate for frying; but the best oil is 
expensive, and bad oil spoils every thing that is dressed with it 



FRYING. XXI 

For general purposes, and especially for fish, clean fresh Jard 
is not near so expensive as oil or clarified butter, and does almost 
as well. Butter often burns before you are aware of it; and what 
you fry will get a dark and dirty appearance. 

Dripping, if nicely clean and fresh, is almost as good as any 
thino-; if not clean, it may be easily clarified. Whatever fat you 
use, after you have done frying, let it remaimin the pan for a few 
minutes, and then pour it through a sieve into a clean basin; it 
will do three or four times as w eil as it did at first, i. e. if it has not 
burned: but, the fat you have fried fish in must not be used for 
any other purpose. 

To know when the fat is of a proper heat, according to what 
you are to fry, is the great secret in trying. 

To fry fish, parsley, potatoes, or any thing that is watery, your 
fire must be very clear, and the fat quite hot; which you may be 
pretty sure of, when it has done hissing, and is still. We cannot 
insist too strongly on this point: if the fat is not very hot, you 
cannot fry fish either to a good color, or firm and crisp. 

To be quite certain, throw alittle bit of bread into the pan; if it 
fries crisp, the fat is ready; if it burns the bread, it is too hot. 

The fire under the pan must be clear and sharp, otherwise the 
fat is so long before it becomes ready, and demands such attend- 
ance to prevent the accident of its catching fire, that the patience 
of cooks is exhausted, and they frequently, from ignorance or im- 
patience, throw in what they are going to fry before the fat is half 
hot enough. Whatever is so fried will be pale and sodden, and 
offend the palate and stomach not less than the eye. 

Have a good light to fry by, that you may see when you have 
got the right color: a lamp fixed on a stem, with a loaded toot, 
which has an arm that lengthens out, and slides up and down like 
a reading candlestick, is a most useful appendage to kitchen fire- 
places, which are very seldom light enough for the nicer opera- 
tions of cookery. 

After all, if you do not thoroughly drain the fat from what you 
have fried, especially from those things that are full dressed in 
bread crumbs, or biscuit powder, &c., your cooking will do you 
no Credit. 

The dryness offish depends much upon its having been fried in 
fat of a due degree of heat; it is then crisp and dry in a few min- 
utes after it is taken out of the pan: when it is not, lay it on a soft 
cloth before the fire, turning it occasionally, till it is. This will 
sometimes take fifteen minutes: therefore, always fry fish as long 
as this before you want them, for fear you may find this necessary. 
To fry fish, see receipt to fry soles, which is the only circum- 
stantial account of the process that has yet been printed. If the 
cook will study it with a little attention, she must soon become an 
accomplished frier. 

Frying, though one of the most common of culinary operations, 
IS one that is least commonly performed perfectly well 



XXll BUOILIISTG. 



BROILING. 



Cleanliness is extremely essential in this mode of cookery. 

Keep your £Tridiron quite clean between the bars, and bright on 
the top: when it is hot, wipe it well with a linen cloth: just before 
you use it, rub the bars with clean mutton-suet, to prevent the 
meat from being marked by the gridiron. 

Take care to prepare your tire in time, so that it may burn 
quite clear; a brisk and clear fire is indispensable, or you cannot 
give your meat that browning which constitutes the perfection of 
this mode of cookery, and gives a relish to food it cannot receive 
any other way. 

The chops or slices should be from half to three-quarters of an 
inch in thickness; if thicker, they will be done too much on the 
outside before the inside is done enough. 

Be diligently attentive to watch the moment that any thing is 
done: never hasten any thing that is broiling, lest you make 
smoke and spoil it. 

Let the bars of the gridiron be all hot through, but yet not 
burning hot upon the surface: this is the perfect and fine conditicn 
of the gridiron. 

As the bars keep away as much heat as their breadth covers, it 
is absolutely necessary they should be thoroughly hot before the 
thing to be cooked be laid on them. 

The bars of gridirons should be made concave, and terminate in 
a trough to catch the gravy and keep the fat from dropping into 
the fire and making a smoke, which will spoil the broil. 

Upright gridirons are the best, as they can be used at any fire 
without fear of smoke; and the gravy is preserved in the trough 
under them. 

N. B. Broils must be brought to table as hot as possible; set a 
dish to heat when you put your chops on the gridiron, from whence 
to the mouth their progress must be as quick as possible. 

Wiienthe fire is not clear, the business of the gridiron may be 
done by the Dutch oven or bonnet. 

Take care to have a very clear, brisk fire; throw a little salt on 
it; make the gridiron hot, and set it slanting, to prevent the fat 
from dropping into the fire, and making a smoke. It requires 
more practice and care than is generally supposed to do steaks to 
a nicety; and for want of these little attentions, this very common 
dish, which every body is supposed capable of dressing, seldom 
comes to table in perfection. 

Ask those you cook for, if they like it under, or thoroughly 
done; and what accompaniments they like best; it is usual to put 
a table-spoonful of ketchup, or a little minced eschalot, into a dish 
before the fire; while you are broiling, turn the steak, &.c. with a 
pair of steak-tongs, it will be done in about ten or fifteen minutes; 
rub a bit of butter over it, and send it up garnished with pickles- 
and finely-scraped horse-radish. 



• •• 



BROTHS AND SOUPS. XXlll 



BROTHS APsD SOUPS. 



The cook must pay continual attention to the condition of her 
stew-pans, soup-kettles, &c. which should be examined every time 
they are used. The prudent housewife will carefully examine the 
condition of them herself at least once a month. Their covers 
also must be kept perfectly clean and well tinned, and the stew- 
pans not only on the inside, but about a couple of inches on the 
outside: many mischiefs arise from their getting out of repair; 
and if not kept nicely tinned, all your good work will be in vain; 
the broths and soups will look green and dirty, taste bitter and 
poisonous, and will be spoiled both for the eye and palate, and 
your credit will be lost. 

The health, and even life of the family, depends upon this, and 
the cook may be s^re her employers had rather pay the tinman's 
bill than the doctor's; therefore, attention to this cannot fail to 
engage the regard of the mistress, between whom and the cook it 
will be my utmost endeavor to promote perfect harmony. 

If she has the misfortune to scorch or blister the tinning of her 
pan, which will happen sometimes to the most careful cook, 1 ad- 
vise her, by all means, immediately to acquaint her employers, 
who will thank her for candidly mentioning an accident; and cen- 
sure her deservedly if she conceal it. 

Take care to be properly provided with sieves and tammy cloths, 
spoons and ladles. Make it a rule without an exception, never to 
use them till they are well cleaned and thoroughly dried, nor any 
stew-pans, &c. without first washing them out with boiling water, 
and rubbing them well with a dry cloth and a little bran, to clean 
them from grease, sand, &c., or any bad smell they may have got 
since they were last used: never neglect this. 

Though we do not suppose our cook to be such a naughty slut 
as to wilfully neglect her broth-pots, &c., yet we may recommend 
her to wash them immediately, and take care they are thoroughly 
dried at the fire, before they are put by, and to keep them in a dry 
place, for damp will rust and destroy them very soon: attend to 
this the first moment you can spare after the dinner is sent up. 

Never put by any soup, gravy, &ic. in metal utensils; in which 
never keep any thing longer than is absolutely necessary for the 
purposes of cookery; the acid, vegetables, fat, &c. employed in 
making soups, &c. are capable of dissolving such utensils: there- 
fore stone or earthern vessels should be used for this purpose. 

Stew-pans, soup-pots, and preserving pans, with thick and round 
bottoms (such as saucepans are made with), will wear twice as 
long, and are cleaned with half the trouble, as those whose sides 
are soldered to the bottom, for sand and grease get into the 
joined part, and cookeys say that it is next to an impossibility to 
dislodge it, even if their nails are as long as Nebuchadnezzar's. 

Take care that the lids fit as close as possible, that the broth, 



XXIV BROTHS AND SOUPS. 

soup, and sauces, &.c. may not waste by evaporation. They are 
good for nothing, unless they fit tight enough to keep the steam in 
and the smoke out. 

Stew-pans and saucepans should be always bright on the upper 
rim, where the fire does not burn them; but to scour them all over 
is not only giving the cook needless trouble, but wearing out the 
vessels. * 

Lean, juicy beef, mutton, or veal, form the basis of broth; pro- 
cure those pieces which afford the richest succulence, and as fresh 
killed as possible. 

Stale meat will make broth grouty and bad tasted, and fat meat 
is wasted. This only applies to those broths which are required 
to be perfectly clear: fat and clarified drippings may be so com- 
bined with vegetable mucilage, as to afford, at the small cost of 
one penny per quart, a nourishing and palatable soup, fully ade- 
quate to satisfy appetite and support strengtlv this will open a 
new source to those benevolent, housekeepers, who are disposed 
to relieve the poor, will show the industrious classes how much 
they have it in their power to assist themselves, and rescue them 
from being objects of charity dependent on the precarious bounty 
of others, by teaching them how they may obtain a cheap, abun- 
dant, salubrious, and agreeable aliment for themselves and fam- 
ilies. 

This soup has the advantage of being very easily and very soon 
made, with no more fuel than is necessary to warm a room. Those 
who have not tasted it, cannot imagine what a salubrious, savory, 
and satisfying meal is produced by the judicious combination of 
cheap homely ingredients. 

The general fault of our soups seems to be the employment of 
an excess of spice, and too small a portion of roots and herbs. 

There is no French dinner without soup, which is regarded as 
an indispensable overiure ; and believe it an excellent plan to begin 
the banquet with a basin of good soup, which^ by moderating the 
appetite for solid animal food, is certainly a salutiferous custom. 

We again caution the cook to avoid over-seasoning, especially 
with predominant flavors, which, however agreeable they may be 
to some, are extremely disagreeable to others. 

Zest, soy, cavice, coratch, anchovy^ curry powder, savory ra- 
gout powder, soup herb powder, browning, ketchups, pickle li- 
quor, beer, wine, and sweet herbs, and savory spice, are very 
convenient auxiliaries to finish soups. Sec. 

The proportion of wine should not exceed a large wine-glass- 
ful to a quart of soup. This is as much as can be admitted, 
without the vinous flavor becoming remarkably predominant; 
though not only much larger quantities of wine (of which claret is 
'ncomparably the best, because it contains less spirit and more 
flavor, and English palates are less acquainted with it), but even 
veritable eau de vie is ordered in many books, and used by many 
(especially tavern cooks). So much are their soups overloaded 



BROTHS AXD SOUPS. XXV 

With relish, that if you will eat enough of them they will certainly 
make you drunk, if they don't make you sick: all this frequently 
arises from an old cook measuring the excitability of the eaters' 
palates by his own, which may be so blunted by incessant tasting, 
that to awaken it, requires win3 instead of water, and cayenne 
and garlic for black pepper and onion. 

The art of composing a rich soup is so to proportion the seve- 
ral ingredients one to another, that no particular taste be strong- 
er than the rest, but to produce such a fine harmonious relish that 
tlie whole is delightful. This requires that judicious combination 
of the materials which constitutes the "c/i'^/cZ'oswuj'e" of culinary 
science. 

In the first place, take care that the roots and herbs be per- 
fectly well cleaned; proportion the water to the quantity of meat 
and other ingredients, generally a pound of meat to a quart of 
water for soups, and double that quantity for gravies. If they 
stew gently, little more water need be put in at first than is ex- 
pected at the end; for when the pot is covered quite close, and 
the fire gentle, very little is wasted. 

Gentle stewing is incomparably the best; the meat is more ten- 
der, and the soup better flavored. 

It is of the first importance that the cover of a soup-kettle 
should fit very close, or the broth will evaporate before you are 
aware of it. 

Place your soup-pot over a moderate fire, which will make the 
water hot without causing it to boil for at least half an hour; if 
the water boils immediately, it will not penetrate the meat, and 
cleanse it from the clotted blood, and other matters which ought to 
go off in scum; the meat will be hardened all over by violent heat; 
will shrink up as if it was scorched, and give hardly any gravy: 
on the contrary, by keeping the water a certain time heating with- 
out boiling, the meat swells, becomes tender, its fibres are dilated, 
and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken off as soon 
as it appears. 

It is not till afler a good half hour's hot infusion that we may 
mend the fire, and make the pot boil : still continue to remove the 
scum; and when no more appears, put in the vegetables. Sec. and 
a little salt. These will cause more scum to rise, which must be 
taken off immediately; then cover the pot very closely, and place 
it at a proper distance from the fire, where it will boil very gently, 
and equally, and by no means fast. 

By quick and strong boiling the volatile and finest parts of thcj 
ingredients are evaporated, and fly off with the steam, and the 
coarser parts are rendered soluble ; so you lose the good, and get 
the bad. 

Soups will generally take from //tree to six hours. 

Prepare your broths and soups the evening before you want 
them. This will give you more time to attend to the rest of your 
dinner the next day; and when the soup is cold, the fat may be 

Q 



XXVI BROTHS AND SOUPS. 

much more easily and completely removed from the surface of if. 
When you decant it, take care not to disturb the settlings at the 
bottom of the vessel, wliich are so fine that they will escape through 
a sieve, or even through a tamis, which is the best strainer, the 
soups appear smoother and finer, and it is much easier cleaned 
than any sieve. If you strain it while it is hot, pass it through a 
clean tamis or napkin, previously soaked in cold water ; the cold- 
ness of this will coagulate the fat, and only suffer the pure broth 
to pass through. 

The full flavor of the ingredients can only be extracted by very 
long and slow simmering ; during which take care to prevent 
evaporation, by covering the pot as close as possible: the best 
stew-pot is a digester. 

Clear soups must be perfectly transparent; thickened soups, 
about the consistence of rich cream; and remember that thickened 
soups require nearly double the quantity of seasoning. 

To thicken and give body to soups and sauces, the following 
materials are used: they must be gradually mixed with the soup 
till thoroughly incorporated with it; and it should have at least 
half an hour's gentle simmering after: if it is at all lumpy, pass it 
through a tamis or a fine sieve. Bread raspings, bread, isinglass, 
potato mucilage, flour, or fat skimmings and flour, or flour and 
butter, barley, rice, or oatmeal and water rubbed well together. 

To their very rich gravies, &c. the French add the white meat 
of partridges, pigeons, or fowls, pounded to a pulp, and rubbed 
through a sieve. A piece of beef, which has been boiled to make 
broth, pounded in the like manner with a bit of butter and flour, 
and gradually incorporated with the gravy or soup, will be found 
a satisfactory substitute for these more expensive articles. 

Meat from which broth has been made and all its juice has been 
extracted, is then excellently well prepared for potting, and is 
quite as good, or better, than that which has been baked till it is 
dry; indeed, if it be pounded, and seasoned in the usual )i:aaner, 
it will be an elegant and savory luncheon, or supper, and costs 
nothing but the trouble of preparing it, which is very little, and a 
relish is procured for sandwiches, &c. of what heretofore has been 
by the poorest housekeeper considered the perquisite of the cat. 

Keep some spare broth lest your s^^oup-liquor waste in boiling, 
and get too thick, and for gravy for your made dishes, various 
sauces, kc. ; for many of which it is a much better basis than 
melted butter. 

The soup of mock turtle, and the other thickened soups, will 
supply you with a thick gravy sauce for poultry, fish, ragouts, &.c. ; 
and by a little management of this sort, you may generally con- 
trive to have plenty of good gravies and good sauces with very 
little trouble or expense. 

If soup is too thin or too weak, take off* the cover of your soup- 
pot, and let it boil till some of the v/atery part of it has evaporated, 
or else add some of the thickeninsj materials we have before men- 



OBSERVATION'S. XXVll 

tioned ; and have at hand some plam browning. This simple pre- 
paration is much better than any of the compounds bearing that 
name; as it color^ sauce or soup without much interfering with its 
flavor, and is a much better way of coloring them than burning 
the surface of the meat. 

When soups and gravies are kept from day to day, in hot weather, 
they should be warmed up every day, and put into fresh-scalded 
tureens or pans, and placed in a cool cellar; in temperate weather 
every other day may be enough. 

We hope we have now put the common cook into possession of 
the whole arcana of soup-making, without much trouble to herself, 
or expense to her employers. It would greatly diminish the ex- 
pense, and improve soups, if the agents employed to give tliQm a 
zest were not put in above fifteen minutes before the finish, and 
half the quantity of spice, &c. would do. A strong heat soon dis- 
sipates the spirit of the wine, and evaporates the aroma and flavor 
of the spices and herbs, which are volatile in the heat of boiling 
water. 

Warm fluids, in the form of soup, unite with our juices much 
sooner and better than those that are cold and raw : on this ac- 
count, RESTORATIVE SOUP is the bcst food for those who are en- 
feebled by disease or dissipation, and for old people, whose teeth 
and digesti^'e organs are impaired. 

iVfter catching cold, in nervous headaches, cholics, indigestions, 
and different kinds of cramp and spasms in the stomach, warm 
broth is of excellent service. 

After intemperate feasting, to give the stomach a holyday for a 
day or two by a diet on mutton broth, or vegetable soup, Sec. is the 
best way to restore its tone. " The stretching any power to its 
utmost extent weakens it. If the stomach be every day obliged to 
do as much as it can, it will every day be able to do less. A wise 
traveller will never force his horse to perform as much as he can 
in one day upon a long journey." 



OBSERVATIONS ON CERTAIN ARTICLES. 

We shall conclude these Introductory Observations, with a few 
remarks on the qualities of certain Articles in common use. 

Butter. 

Well made pure butter is lenient and nourishing, eaten cold, 
in moderation, with bread. But upon hot new bread, or hot 
toast, or used as sauce to animal food, it is not wholesome. In 
the two first instances it is very apt to turn acid in the stomach; 
and in the latter, to float uppermost in the stomach, and disturb 
the digestion. If melted thick and carefully, and eaten with 
vegetable food and bread only, it is not so liable to this objection. 

Butter is good for dry, constipated habits, but not for such as 
are bilious, asthmatic, or corpulent. 



XXVlll OBSERVATIONS. 

Honeij. 

Honey is nourishing and wholesome, particularly for persons 
wiih coughs, weak lungs, and short breath. It is balsamic, 
cleansing, and makes the body soluble. 

Great care should be taken to get it fresh and pure; it is apt 
to turn sour by long keeping. 

Sugar. 
Sugar used in moderation is nourishing and good, but much 
of it destroys the appetite, and injures the digestion. Moist 
sugar is the sweetest, and most opening; refined sugar, of a bind- 
ing nature. The preparations made of sugar, such as barley- 
sugar, sugar-candy, kc. are all indigestible and bad, as the good 
properties of tbe sugar are destroyed by the process it undergoes 
in the making them. They are particularly injurious to children, 
from cloying their delicate stomachs. Young children are in 
general better without sugar, as it is very apt to turn acid and 
disagree with weak stomachs; and the kind of food they take 
has natural sweetness enough in it not at ail to require it. 

SoM. 

Salt, moderately used, especially with flesh, fish, butter, and 
cheese, is very beneficial, as it naturally stimulates weak or dis- 
ordered stomachs, and checks fermentations. But if it be im- 
moderately used it has a contrary efiect. Very little salt should 
be used with vegetable food of the grain or seed kind; for the 
less salt that is put to it the milder, cooler, pleasanter, and easier 
of digestion it will be. Salt excites the appetite, assists the 
stomach in digesting crude phlegmatic substances, is cleansing, 
and prevents putrefaction; but if too much used, it heats and dries 
the blood and natural moisture. It is best for phlegmatic, cold, 
and moist stomachs; and most injurious to hot, lean bodies. 

Salt-petre is particularly bad for bilious persons. 

Vinesrar. 

Vinegar is cooling, opening, excites the appetite, assists diges- 
tion, is good for hot stomachs, resists putrefaction, and there- 
fore very good against pestilential diseases. Too much use of it 
injures the nerves, emaciates some constitutions, is hurtful to the 
breast, and makes people look old and withered, with pale lips. 

The best vinegar is that which is made of the best wines. 
Lemon-juice and verjuice have much the same qualities and ef- 
fects as vinegar. 

The commonest vinegar is least adulterated. 

C\Iustard. 
Mustard quickens the appetite, warms the stomach, assists in 
digesting hard meats, and dries up surperfluous moisture. It sel- 
dom agrees with weak stomachs. 



OBSERVATIONS. XXUC 

Spices. 

Cayenne pepper, black pepper, and ginger, may be esteemed 
the best of spices. 

Nutmegs, cloves, mace, cinnamon, and allspice, are generally 
productive of indigestion and headache to weak persons. 

Garlic, Sj'c. 

Garlic, onions, rocambole, shallots, leeks, and horse-radish, 
are occasionally good for strong stomachs, but generally disa- 
gree with weak stomachs. 

Tea. 

The frequent drinking of a quantity of strong tea, as is the 
general practice, relaxes and weakens the tone of the stomach, 
whence proceeds nausea and indigestion, with a weakness of the 
nerves, and flabbiness of the flesh, and very often a pale wan 
complexion. Milk, when mixed with it in some quantity, lessens 
its bad qualities, by rendering it softer, and nutritious; and, with 
a moderate quantity of sugar, it mav then be a proper breakfast, 
as a diluent, to those who are strong, and live freely, in order to 
cleanse the alimentary passages, and wash off the salts from the 
kidneys and bladder. But persons of weak nerves ought to ab- 
stain from it as carefully as from drams and cordial drops; as it 
causes the same kind of irritation on the tender delicate fibres of 
the stomach, which ends in lovviiess, trembling and vapors. 

It should never be drank hot by any body. Green tea is less 
wholesome than black or bohea. 

Coffee. 

Coffee affords very little nourishment, and is apt to occasion 
heat, dryness, stimulation and tremors of the nerves, and for 
these reasons is thought to occasion palsies, watchfulness, and 
leanness. Hence it is very plain that it must be pernicious to hot, 
dry, and bilious constitutions. If moderately used it may be 
beneficial to phlegmatic persons, but, if drank very strong, or in 
great quantities, it will prove injurious even to them. 

The following remarks on Coffee, were published in London, 
by a physician. 1st. The raw coffee should be round and small 
grained, free from dirt and of a light color. It should have no 
appearance of mouldiness, and be kept quite free from any strong 
smell. It should not be long kept in sacks with other provisions, 
as there is no substance more apt to obtain strong and disagree- 
able odors from the presence of its neighbors. Kum injures it; 
and Miller even goes so far as to state that a few bags of pepper 
on board a ship from India upon one occasion spoiled the whole 
cargo. 

C2 



TOOL OBSERVATIONS. ^ 

2nd. When the graifis are large, flat, and of a green color, 
they should be kept on hand, in a dry situation, a long time before 
use. Every West India planter knows this fact, although his 
interest often induces him to send the article to market before it 
is old and dry enough. 

3d. Roasting cotiee is by far the most difficult operation of the 
housekeeper; when carried far enough, an aromatic oil is formed 
by the heat and forces itself out upon the surface of the grains, 
giving them a glossy appearance, and an odor which is consider- 
ed their perfection; yet too little roasting prevents the aroma 
from appearing, and too much completely volatilizes it, leaving 
nothing but a Hat bitter taste. The heat should be strong and 
the operation shortened as much as possible without burning the 
grains. The roaster should be close or well covered all the time, 
and in order to improve the looks and flavor, a small piece of 
butter may be added to the coffee, while parching. 

4th. When thus prepared, coffee may be preserved for use in 
large quantities, without losing much of its freshness, provided 
the vessels containing it be well covered. 

5th. An infusion of coffee is better than a decoction, simply 
because the heat, in the last case, bc-ing stronger and more last- 
ing, drives off" more of the aromatic oil. It is better, therefore, 
to grind the coffee very fine, and then to expose it, by means of 
a bag or strainer, to the action of boiling water, than to boil it 
any length of time. Heat, though unavoidable, injures the flavor, 
and the best coffee I remember to have tasted was made by ex- 
posing the powder to a pressure of cold water; a tea-spoonful of 
this extract, thrown into a cup of hot water, was sufficient. It is 
not a bad method to allow the ground coffee to lie in cold water 
between meals, and then prepare it by adding hot water. Just in 
proportion to the continuance of heat, in this and in the last 
operation, the fragrance disappears, and is replaced by a strong 
bitter taste, which, according to the experiments of Chenevix, de- 
pends upon the presence of tannin (resembling that in tan bark). 
Roasting, besides forming this bitter substance, deprives the cof- 
fee of its nutritious qualities. 

Chocolate. 

Is rich, nutritious, and soothing, saponaceous, and cleansing; 
from which quality it often helps digestion, and excites the appe- 
tite. It is only proper for some of the leaner and stronger sort of 
piilegmatic constitutions, and some old people who are healthy, 
and accustomed to bodily exercise. 

Cocoa. 

Is of the same nature as chocolate, but not so rich; and there- 
fore lighter upon the stomach. 



OBSERVATIONS, XXXI 

Fruit. 

Fruits are of different degrees of digestibility. Tliose of a hard 
texture, as some kinds of apples, melons, apricots, several sorts 
of fleshy plums, and all immature fruits, are difficult of digestion. 

Strawberries, raspberries, currants, gooseberries, cherries, 
green-gages, peaches, nectarines, melting pears, mulberries, figs, 
grapes, medlars, when all quite ripe, are more easily dissolved in 
the stomach. 

Fruit, moderately eaten, is wholesome, particularly as correct- 
ing the grossness of animal food. But an excess of it, and es- 
pecially of unripe fruit, is productive of many diseases; amongst 
children in particular, it often occasions such as the nettle rash 
and St. Anthony's fire. 

Fruit invariably disagrees with bilious persons; but is a sover- 
eign remedy for the sea scurvy, and for diseases arising from an 
excess of animal food. 

JVuts and Almonds. 

Most kinds of nuts, and almonds, from their milky or oily na- 
ture, contain a good deal of nourishment; but they require to be 
well chewed, as they are difficult of digestion. Persons with 
weak stomachs should not eat them. The worst time at which 
they can be eaten is after a meal. 

Olives. 
Olives that have been gathered immature or unripe, and put into 
a pickle to keep them sound, are apt, especially if frequently eaten, 
to obstruct the stomach and passages. The best way of eating 
them is with good bread, when the stomach is properly empty To 
eat them upon a full stomach is very bad. 



NOTE. 

Receipts for making all kinds of Bread, Biscuits, Blancmange, 
Buns, Broth, Cakes, Creams, Custards, Jams, Jellies, Paste, Pies, 
Puddings, Soups, Sauces, &c., will be found under these general 
heads ; the method of cooking the several meats are arranged under 
the name of each meat. Still there are interspersed throughout the 
book single receipts under the letter of the name, of which many of 
the above articles are composed. We will instance the following, 
viz : — 

Cakes, — Almond, Crumpets, Echaudes, Fanchonrittes, Flemish wa- 
fers, Frangipane, Gateau, Gingerbread, Hedgehog, Jumbles, 
Kisses, Lemon Bonbons, Macaroons, Madelains, Meat, M if- 
fins, Oat, Orange, Perlingo, Sally Lunns. 
Bread, — Almond, Brentford, Filbert, French Rolls, Rusks. 
Creams, — Under various fruits of which they are made. 
Veal, — Friar's chicken, Gratin, and many articles under Calf 
FoAvls, — See also Chickens, Capons. 
Beef, — See also Ox. 



XXXll. 



The following Engraving represents the method of dividing an Ox 
for the table, in England, and in most of the southern cities of the 
United States. The method in Boston varies considerably, dividing 
into smaller pieces, and this plan we pursue in the following tables ; 
but the manner of cooking each is nearly the same. 




1. Sirloin. 

2. Rump. 

3. Edge Bone. 

4. Buttock. 

5. Mouse Buttock. 

6. Veiny Piece. 

7. Thick Flank. 

8. Thin Flank. 
9 Leg. 



10. Fore rib: Five ribso 

11. Middle rib: Four r'.bs. 

12. Chuck: Three ribs. 

13. Shoulder or leg-of-mutton piece 

14. Brisket. 

15. Clod. 

16. Neck, or Sticking Piece. 

17. Shin. 

18. Cheek. 



MARKETING TABLES. 



BEEF. 



THE HIND QUARTER. 





Price per lb. 




Method of cooking. 


Sirloin 


10 to 12 


cents 


Roasted. 


Rump 


10 to 12 


» 


Roasted, or Steak, or Stew. 


Edge Bone 


6 to 8 


J) 


Boiled. 


Round 


8 to 10 


jj 


( Alamode, Boiled, or savory salt- 
( ed Beef. 


Veiny Piece 


6 to 8 


5) 


Steaks or Roast ; or baked or salted 


Thick Flank 


6 to 8 


}> 


Steaks, or corned. 


Thin Flank 


6 


9) 


do. 


Leg Ran 


4 


» 


Boil ; Soup, or Stew. 


Leg 


2 


>J 


Soup or Stew. 



First Cut, 2 Ribs 
Second Cut, 2 Ribs 10 

Third Cut, 2 Ribs 8 

Fourth Cut, 2 Ribs 6 

Chuck Rib 5 
Shoulder of Mutton Piece 5 

Shoulder Clod 3 

Brisket 6 

Rattleran 6 

Sticking Piece 3 

Neck 2 

Shin 2 

Head (20 cents) 

Tail (2 cents) 

Heels, given with the head 



Leg 
Loin 



Rack, neck end 



Rack, best end 

Shoulder 

Breast 

Head 

The Chine or the Saddle, two 
Loins. The Haunch' is a 
Leg and part of the Loin, 



THE FORE QUARTER. 

10 cents Roast. 



»> 



5> 



5) 



5> 



J> 



?J 



5J 



» 



55 



55 



»J 



do. 
do. 
do. 
Boil or Stew, or for making gravy 
Steaks or Bouilli. 
Boil or Soup, or Beef Sausages. 

( Boil, or Bouilli ; or stewing, or 

( Harricot, or Salted. 
Boil. 

Boil, or Soup. 
Gravy. 

( Soup ; excellent Scotch barley 

( Broth, Stewed. 
Soup, Stewed. 
Soup, Stewed. 
Boiled, Jelly, Soup. 



MUTTON. 


8 to 10 ce7its 


Boil, Roast. 


6 to 8 „ 


Chops — Roast, Boil, 


5 to 6 „ 


j Boil, Roast, Irish Stew, Harricot, 
( Stewed, Broth. 


6 to 8 „ 


Chops, or Broth. 


6 ,5 


Roast. 


6 „ 


Broth, — Grilled. 


4 „ 


Broth. 



} 



Roasted, Venisonified. 



XXXIV 



MARKETING. 



VEAL. 



Loin 

Leg 

Fillet 



8 to 10 cents 



n 



Knuckle, or whole Leg 8 
Breast 8 to 10 



Breast an 


d Neck 


6 


Rack 




6 


Shoulder 




6 


Brisket 




^ 8 


Cutlets 




10 



» 



n 



5) 



)) 



)) 



J) 



55 



J) 



55 



Roast. 

Cutlets, Roast, Boil. 

i Roasted, Veal Olives, Scotch 

( Collops. 

Broth, Ragout, Stew, Soup. 
Roast, 

Roast, Stew, Ragout, Curry- 
Soup — Chops to fry. 
Roast, or Bake. 
Stewed, Ragout. 
Fried, Broiled. 
Head, scalded, (50 to 60 ds. each) Broiled plain. Hash. 

Bf.f.f is plentiest and cheapest from October to January ; and best 
from Jannarij to May. 

Vf.al is best from April to July. 

jMutton is best from October to June. 

Grass Lamb is best from June to October. 

The Quality of Butcher Meat varies (juite as much as the price of it 
— according to its age — hoiv it has been fed — and especially how it ha^ 
been treated the loeek before it has been killed. 

PORK. 

Comes into Market. Plentiest. 

May June. 

July August. 

Aug. Nov. & Dec. 

salt, all the year. 
November, and continue all the year. 



Roasting Pigs 

Quarter Pork 

Spare Ribs and Chine 

Middlings 

Bacon Hams 



Chickens 

Fowls 

Ducks 

GJeese 

Turkeys 

Wild Ducks 

Brants 

Partridges 

Quails 

Woodcocks 



POULTRY. 

Comes into Market. 

July 

All the year 

July 

August 

September 

do. 

April 

September 

do. 



Plentiest. 

Nov. 

do. 

October. 

Nov. 

Nov. & Dec. 

Oct. & Apr. 

May. 

October. 

January. 

August. 



July 

Ohs. — Poultry is in greatest perfection, ivhen in greatest plenty. 

The price of it varies as viuch as the size and quality of it, and the 
supply at mnrket, and the demand for it. 

It is generally dearest from March to July, and cheapest about Sep' 
(ember, ivhen the Game season commences, and the tveather being colder^ 
allows of its being brought from more distant parts. 



MARKETING. XXXV 

The above information will, we trust, he very acceptable to Economi- 
cal Families, who, from hearing the very high price Poultry sometimes 
costs, are deterred from ever inquiring about it. In the cheap seasons 
ice have noted, it is sometimes as cheap as Butcher-meat. 

Those who pay the highest, do not always pay the dearest, price. In 
fact, the Best Meat is the cheapest ; and those who treat a tradesman 
liberally, have a much better chance of being ivcll served, than those who 
are forever bargaining for the Market Penny. In dividing the Joints, 
there is always an opportunity of apportioning the Bones, Fat, Flaps, 
Sfc. so as to make up a variation of much more than a penny per pound 
in most pieces ; and a Butcher loill be happy to give the turn of his knife 
in favor of that Customer ivho cheerfully pays the fair price of the arti- 
cle he purchases ; have those loho are unwilling to do so any reason to 
complain ? Have they not invited such conduct. 

DIRECTIONS FOR CURING AND COOKING PICKLED FISH.* 

The use of Pickled Fish, such as Mackerel, Salmon, Shad, &.c. 
is becoming more general than formerly, and would be still more 
extensive if the proper mode of preparing them for the table was 
better understood. These fish constitute not only a salutary diet, 
but in many cases makes a very beneficial change in our food. 

Whoever will give the following directions a fair trial will be- 
come sensible of their value: — 

First. The fish should be kept covered by the pickle by means 
of a fiat stone or slate, laid on them. The oil, or animal fat, 
which floats on the top of the cask, should not be removed, as it 
prevents the fish from rusting; but in taking the fish from the 
barrel or keg, this oil ought to be put aside, care being taken not 
to let the fish touch it. Secondly — The fish should be washed 
clean, then put to soak in a large quantity of water for eight or 
ten hours, with the flesh side down. The time of soaking may be 
varied to suit the palate. It must again be washed clean, put it 
to soak six or eight hours in milk, (if you have it) then dry it by 
the fire. Thirdly — When dry lay it on the gridiron, with the flesh 
side downward, over pretty lively coals, for five minutes, or till it 
is moderately browned, then turn it with a plate, or some flat in- 
strument that will not break the skin, and let it remain over the 
coals ten or fifteen minutes, or till it is cooked sufliciently. Slide 
it oft' the gridiron into the dish, and strip off" the backbone with a 
broad knife: pat the fish, to cause the thick part of the fish to 
absorb the fat from the belly part; use no butter — then you will 
enjoy all the flavor and juices of the fish. 

If a Mackerel or Shad so prepared does not relish, it must be 
more the fault of the palate, than of the food. How many arti- 
cles, capable of being made into excellent dishes, are lost of 
spoiled from want of care and skill, in dressing them. 

* As the whole beauty uf pickled Fish depends upon the right method of cooking it, w .• 
insert by itself the receipt of Capt. Henry Purkitt, .Massachusetts Inspector of Fish, ^1 
obligingly handed it to t;;e Editor. 



TABLE 



OF 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



By which persons not having scales and weights at hand may 
readily measure the articles wanted to form any receipt, without 
the trouble of weighing. Allowance to be made for any ex- 
traordinary dryness or moisture of the article weighed or meas- 
ured. 



WEIGHT AND MEASURE. 



Eggs _ . - ten eggs are 

Brown sugar - one pound, two ounces, is 

White Fugar, powdered one pound, one ounce, is 

Loaf-sugar, broken - one pound is - - 

I5utier — when soft - one pound is - 

Indian meal - - one pound, two ounces, is 

Wheat flour - one pound is - - 



one poimd 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart. 



LIQUIDS. 



Four large table-spoonfuls are 
Eight large table-spoonfuls are 
Sixteen large table -spoonfuls are 



half a gill, 
one gill, 
half a pint. 



A common-sized wine-glass 
A common-sized tumbler holds 



half a gill, 
half a pint. 



THE ART OF CARYING; 

WITH HINTS ON 

THE ETIQUETTE OF THE DINNER TABLE. 



Without a perfect knowledge of the art of Carving, it is impossible to perform the 
honors of the table with propriety ; and nothing can be more disagreeable to one of a 
sensitive disposition, than to behold a person, at the head of a well-furnished board, 
hacking the finest joints, and giving them the appearance of having been gnawed by 
dogs. 

It also merits attention in an economical point of view — a bad carver will mangle 
joints so as not to be able to fill half a dozen plates from a sirloin of beef, or a large 
tongue ; which, besides creating a great difference in the daily consumption in fami- 
lies, often occasions disgust in delicate persons, causing them to loathe the provisions, 
however good, Avhich are set before them, if helped in a clumsy manner. 

I cannot, therefore, too strongly urge the study of this useful branch of domestic 
economy; and I doubt not that whoever pays due attention to the following instruc- 
tions, will, after a little practice, without which all precept is unavailing, speedily 
acquire the reputation of being a good carver. 

I have prefixed a few Hints on the Etiquette of the Dinner Table, which I trust 
will be found useful. In that, however, much must be left to a quick and observant 
eye, and a determination to render yourself as agreeable as possible. 



HINTS ON THE ETIQUETTE OF THE DINNER 

TABLE. 

AS HOST. 

The important day on which you feast your friends being arrived, you will be duly 
prepared to receive the first detachment. It were almost needless to observe that 
the brief interval before dinner is announced may be easily filled up by the common- 
place inquiries after health, and observations on the weather; as the company 
increases, provided they were previously acquainted, you will find your labors in 
keeping up the conversation very agreeably diminished. 

While your guests are awaiting the announcement of dinner, it will be expedient 
that you should intimate to the gentlemen of the party, as unobtrusively as possible, 
which lady you wish each to take in charge, that, when the moment arrives for your 
adjournment to the dining-room, there may not be half a dozen claimants for the 
honor of escorting la plus belle of the party, while some plain demoiselle is under the 
painful necessity of escorting herself. Such a scene as this should be carefully pro- 
vided against by the mode above suggested. 

When dinner is announced, you will rise and request your friends to proceed to the 
dining-room, yourself leading the way, in company with your most distinguished 
female visitor, followed immediately by the hostess, accompanied by the gentleman 
who has the best claim to such an honor. The remainder of the guests then follow, 
each genileman accompanied by the lady previously pointed out to him. 

D 



xl 



CARVING. 




MACKEREL. 



In helping, first cut off the head, at 1, as that part is very inferior and unsavory 
then divide down the back, and give a side to each ; if less is asked for, the thickest 
end, which is the most choice, should be served. Inquire if the roe is liked ; it may 
be found between 1 and ,2. That of the female is hard, of the male soft. 



CARP, PERCH, HADDOCK, ETC., 

will be easily helped by attending to the foregoing directions, 
is esteemed a delicacy, which should be borne in mind. 



The head of the Carp 




cod's head and shoulders. 

Introduce the fish-slice at 1 , and cut quite through the back, as far as 2, then help 

f>ieces from between 3 and 4, and with each slice give a portion of the sound, which 
ines the under side of the back bone. It is thin, and of a darker color than the other 
part of the fish, and is esteemed a delicacy. 

Some persons are partial to the tongue and palate, for which you must insert a 
spoon into the mouth. The jelly part is about the jaw, the firm part within the head, 
on which are some other delicate pickings; the finest portions may be found about 
the shoulders. 




TURBOT. 

The under side of this fish is the most esteemed, and is placed uppermost on the 
dish. The fish-slice must be introduced at 1, and an incision made as far as 2 ; then 
cut from the middle, which is the primest part. After helping the whole of that side, 
the upper part must be attacked, and as it is difficult to divide the back bone, raise 
it with the fork, while you separate a portion with the fish-slice; this part is more 
solid, and is preferred by some, though it is less delicate than the under side. The 
fins are esteemed a nicety, and should be attended to accordingly. 

BRILL, SOLES, PLAICE, 

and^a^ fish in general, may be served in the same manner as a Turbot. 



CARVING. 



xli 



SECTION II. 

JOINTS. 

In helping the more fleshy joints, such as a Sirloin of Beef, Leg ot Mutton, Fillet 
of Veal, cut thin smooth slices, and let the knife pass through to the bones of Mutton 
and Beef 

It would prevent much trouble, if the joints of the loin, neck, and breast, were cut 
through by the butcher previous to the cooking, so that when sent to table they may 
easily be severed. Should the whole of the meat belonging to each bone be loo thick, 
one or more slices may be taken off from between every two bones. 

In sorne boiled joints, round and aitch-bone of beef for instance, the water renders 
the outsides vapid, and of course unfit to be eaten ; you will therefore be particular to 
cut off and lay aside a thick slice from the top, before you begin to serve. 




SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

Cut m to the bone at the line 1, and help thin slices of lean from each side of the 
incision ; the prime part of the fat lies at the outer edge, at 2. 

Should more meat be required than can be got from that part, cut on either side of 
the line 3, which represents the blade bone, and some good and delicate slices may be 
procured. By cutting horizontally from the under side,, many " nice bits '' will be 
obtained. 




LEG OF MUTTON. 

The finest part is situated in the centre, sit 1, between the knuckle and farther ena; 
insert the knife there, and cut thin, deep slices each way, as far in as 2. The out- 
side rarely being very fat, some neat cuts may be obtained off the broad end, at 3. 
The knuckle of a fine leg is tender, though dry, and many prefer it, although the 
other is the most juicy. There are some good cuts on the broad end of the back of 
the leg, from which slices may be procured lengthwaj^s. 

'The cramp bone is by some esteemed a delicacy; to get it out, cut down to the 
thighbone, at 4, and pass the knife under it in a semicircular course, to 5. 



HAUNCH OF MUTTON 



coiisists of the leg and part of the loin, cut so as to resemble a Haunch of Venison, 
It must be helped at table in a similar manner. 



xlii 



CARVING. 



SADDLE OF MUTTON. 



This is an excellent joint, and produces many nice bits. Cut the whole length of 
it close to the back bone, and take off some long thin slices in that direction. The 
upper division consists of lean ; the fat may be easily got at by cutting from the left 
side. 



LOIN OF MUTTON. 



As the bones of this joint are divided, it is very easily managed. Begin at the nar- 
row end and take off the chops ; when the joints are cut through, some slices of meat 
may be obtained between the bones. 




FORE aUARTER OF LAMB, 

First divide the shoulder from the scoven, which consists of the breast and ribs, 
by passing the knife under the knuckle, in the direction of 1,2, 3, and cutting so as 
to leave a fair portion of meat on the ribs ; lay it on a separate dish, and squeeze the 
juice of half a Seville orange over the other part, which, after being sprinkled with 
pepper and salt, should be divided in the line 3-4. This will separate the ribs from 
the gristly part, and you may help from either, as may be chosen, cutting as directed 
by the lines 5, 6. 

SHOULDER OF LAMB 

must be carved like a shoulder of mutton, of which it is a miniature edition. 

LEG OF LAMB. 

Follow the directions given for leg of mutton, at page xli. 

LOIN OF LAMB 

may be helped similar to a loin of mutton. (See loin of mutton.) This, and the 
two foregoing, being small joints, should be helped sparingly, as there is very little 
meat on them, especially when first in season. 




AITCH-BONE OF BEEF. 

Cut off and lay aside a thick slice from the entire surface, as marked 1-2, then help. 
There are two sorts of fat to this joint, and, as tastes differ, it is necessary to learn 
which is preferred. The solid fat will be found at 3, and must be cut horizontally ; 
the softer, which resembles marrow, at the back of the bone, below 4. 

A silver skewer should be substituted for the one which keeps the meat properly 
together while boiling, and it may be withdrawn when you cut down to it. 



CARVING. 



n • • • 

Xllll 




SIRLOIN OF BEEF. 



There are two modes of helping this joint. The better way is by carving long thin 
slices from 1 to 2 ; the other way is by cutting it across, which, however, spoils it. 
The most tender and prime part is in the direction of the line 3 ; there will also be 
found some delicate fat, part of which should be given with each piece. 



• RIBS OF BEEF 

may be carved similar to the Sirloin, always commencing at the thin end of the joint, 
and cutting long slices so as to give fat and lean together. 

ROUND OF BEEF. 

This joint is so very easy to attend to, that we have not deemed it necessary to 
give a drawing of it ; it only requires a steady hand and a sharp knife. The upper 
surface being removed, as directed for the aitch-bone of beef, carve thin slices, and 
give a portion of fat with each. 

You must cut the meat as even as possible, as it is of consequence to preserve the 
beauty of its appearance. 




A TONGUE. 



Cut nearly through the middle, at the line 1, and take thin slices from each side. 
The fat is situated underneath, at the root of the- tongue. 




A calf's head. 



Cut thin slices from 1 to 2, and let the knife penetrate to the bone. At the thick 
part of the neck end, 3, the throat sweetbread is situated; carve slices from 3 to 4, 
and help with the other part. Should the eye be asked for, it must be extracted with 
the point of the knife, and a portion given. The palate, esteemed a delicacy, is situ- 
ated under the head, and some fine lean may be found by removing the jaw-bone; 
portions of each of these should be helped round. 



xliv 



CARVING. 



A LOIN OF VEAL 



should be jointed previous to beings sent to table, when each division may be easily 
cut through with a knife. The fat surrounds the kidney, and portions of each should 
be given with the other parts. 




A BREAST OF VEAL 



is composed of the ribs and brisket, which must be separated by cutting through the 
line 1-2 ; the latter is the thickest and has gristles. Divide each portion into conve- 
nient pieces, and proceed to help. 




\\v:v\V^..^Y'-^vv.v 



FILLET OF VEAL 



resembles a round of beef, and should be carved similar to it, in thin and very smooth 
slices, off the top ; cut deep into the flap, between 1 and 2, for the stuffing, and help 
a portion of it to each person. 
Slices of lemon are always served with this dish. 



HAND OF PORK. 



Cut thin slices from this delicate joint, either across near the knuckle, or from the 
blade bone, as directed for a shoulder of mutton. This forms a nice dish for a tete- 
a-tete diimer; there is not sufficient for a third person. 




ROAST PIG. 

As this is usually divided as above, before sent to table, little remains to be done 
by the carver. First separate a shoulder from the body, and then the leg ; divide the 
rihs into convenient portions, and send round with a sufficiency of the stuffing and 
gravy. Many prefer the neck end between the shoulders, although the ribs are con- 
sidered the finest part; hut as this all depends on taste, the question should be put. 
The ear is reckoned a delicacy. 

Should the head not be divided, it must be done, and the brains taken out, and 
mixed with the gravy and stuffing. 



A LOIN OF PORK 

is cut up in the same manner as a loin of Mutton. See page xli. 




z\v 



LEG OF PORK. 



Commence carving about midway, between the knuckle and farther end, and cut 
thin deep slices from either side of the line 1 . For the seasoning in a roast leg, lift 
it up, and it will be found under the skin at the large end. 




HAM. 

The usual mode of carving this joint, is by long delicate slices, through the thick 
fat, in the direction 1-2, laying open the bone at each cut, which brings you to the 
prime part at once. A more saving way is to commence at the knuckle and proceed 
onwards. 

Some persons take out a round piece at 3, and enlarge the hole, by cutting thia 
circular slices with a sharp knife. This keeps the meat moist, and preserves the 
gravy, but seldom looks handsome. 



SECTION III. 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 



The carving-knife for poultry is smaller and lighter than the meat carver ; the 
point is more peaked and the handle longer. 

In cutting up a Turkey, Goose, Duck, or Wild Fowl, more prime pieces may be 
obtained by carving slices from pinion to pinion, without making wings ; this is an 
advantage when your party is large, as it makes the bird go farther. 




A FOWL. 



It will be more convenient in carving this to take it on your plate, and lay th« 
joints, as divided, neatly on the dish. Fix your fork in the middle of the breast, and 
take the wing off in the direction of 1-2 ; divide the joint at 1, lift up the pinion with 
your fork, and draw the wing towards the leg, which will separate the fleshy part 
more naturally than by the knife ; cut betweea the leg and body at 3 to the bone, 2, 



xlvi 



CARVING. 



give the blade a sudden turn, and the joint will break if the fowl is not old. When 
a similar operation is performed on the other side, take oiT the merrythought, by cut- 
ting in to the bone at 4, and turning it hack, which will detach it; next remove the 
neck hones and divide the breast from the hack, by cutting through the whole of the 
rilis, close to the breast. Turn up the hack, press the point of the knife about half 
way between the neck and run)p, and on raising the lower end it will separate easily. 
Turn the rump from you, take off the sidesmen, and the operation is complete. 

The breast and wings are the most delicate parts, but the leg is more juicy in a 
young bird. Great care should be taken to cut the wings as handsome as possible. 

A TURKEY. 

The finest parts of this bird are the breast and wings ; the latter will bear some 
delicate slices being taken off. After the fore quarters are severed, the thighs must 
be divided from the drumsticks, which, being tough, should be reserved till last. 
In other respects, a turkey must be dealt with exactly as recommended for a fowl, 
except that it has no merrythought. 

Give a portion of the stuffing or forced-meat, which is inside the breast, to each 
person. 

A PARTRIDGE 

is cut up in the same manner as a fowl, only, on account of the smallness of the bird, 
the merrythought is seldom divided from the breast. The wings, breast, and merry- 
thought, are the finest parts of it, but the wing is considered the best, and the tip of 
it is reckoned the most delicious morsel of the whole. 




A PHEASANT. 

Fix your fork in the centre of the breast, and make incisions to the bone at 1-2, 
then take off the leg in the line 3-4, and the wing at 3-5 ; serve the other side in the 
same manner, and separate the slices you had previously divided on the breast. In 
taking off the Avings, be careful not to venture too near the neck, or you will hit on 
the neck bone, from which the wing should be divided. Pass the knife through the 
line 6, and under the merrythought towards the neck, which will detach it. The 
other parts may be served as directed for a fowl. 

The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the most delicate parts, although the 
leg has a higher flavor. 

WOODCOCKS, GROUSE, ETC. 

are carved similar to a fowl, if not too small, when they may be cut in quarters and 
helped. 
Snipes, being smaller, should be divided in halves. 




PIGEONS. 



The usual way of carving these birds is to insert the knife at 1, and cut to 2 and 3, 
when each portion may be divided into two pieces and helped ; sometimes they are 
cut in halves, either across or down the middle, but as the lower part is thought the 
best, the first mode is the fairest. 

Should they be very large and fine, they may be served like fowls. 



CARVING. 



xlvii 




A GOOSE. 

Take off the wing by putting the fork into the small end of the pinion and press 
it close to the body •" divide the joint at 1 with the knife, carrying it along as far as 2. 
Remove the leg by cutting in the direction of 2-3, and divide the thigh from the 
drumstick ; then sever the limbs on the other side, and cut some long slices from 
each side of the breast, between the lines a and b. 

To get at the stuffing, the apron must be removed, by cutting from 4 to 5 by 3. 
It is rarely necessary to cut, up the whole of the goose, unless the company is large, 
but the merrythought may be taken off: there are two side bones by the wing, which 
may be cut off, as likewise the back, and lower sidebones. The best pieces are the 
breast and thighs. 

A DUCK. 

Remove the legs and wings as directed above for a goose, and cut some slices 
from each side of the breast. The seasoning will he found under the flap, as in the 
other bird. Should it be necessary, the merrythought, sidebones, &c., can be de- 
tached in the same manner as recommended for a fowl. 




HAUNCH OF VENISON. 



First let out the gravy by cutting in to the bone across the joint at 1-2, then turn 
the broad end towards you, make as deep an incision as you can from 3 to 4, and 
help thin slices from each side. The greater part of the fat, which is much esteemed, 
will be found on the left side, and those who carve must take care to proportion both 
it and the gravy to the number of the company. 




HARE. 

Insert the point of the knife inside the shoulder at 1, and divide all the way down 
to the rump, at 2 : do the same on the other side, and you will have the hare in three 
piece?. Pass the knife under the rise of the shoulder, at 2-1, to take it off; the leg 
may be severed in a similar manner : then behead it — cut off the ears close to the 
roots, and divide the upper from the lower jaw. Next place the former flat on a 
plate, put the point of the knife into the forehead, and divide it through the centre 



Xlviii CARVING. 

down to the nose. Cut the back into convenient portions, lay the pieces neatly on 
the dish, and proceed to serve the company, giving some stuffing (which will be 
found in the inside) and gravy to each person. 

The prime parts are the back and legs ; the ears are considered a luxury by some, 
as are the head and brains : they may be distributed to those that like them. 

Should the hare not be very tender, it will be difficult to divide the sides from the 
back, but take off the legs by cutting through the joints, which you must endeavor 
to hit. You will then be able to cut a few slices from each side of the back. Next 
dissever the shoulders, which are called the sportsman's joints, and are preferred 
by many. The back, &c., may then be carved as directed above, 

RABBIT. 

The directions for cutting up a hare will be amply sufficient to enable the carver to 
dispose of this animal. The best part is the shoulders and back, which must b? 
divided into three or four pieces, according to its size. The head should not be giv«f»* 
unless asked for. 



THE 



COOK 



? Q 



J 



A L M 

ABERDEEN CRULLA. (See Cakes.) 
ALAMODE BEEF. (See Beef.) 
ALAMODE VEAL. (See Veal.) 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (1) 

Take luili" a pound of Jordan almonds, lay 
tliem ill cold water all niglit; the next morn- 
ing bland) them in cold water ; then take them 
out and dry them in a cban cloth, beat them 
very fine in a little orange flowea* water; then 
take six eggs, leave out four whites, with a 
Sittle beaten mace; beat thsm well in a mar- 
ble mortar; take ten ounces of fresh butter, 
melt it, add a little grated lemon-peel, and 
put them in the mortar with the otlier ingre- 
dients; mix all well together and lill your 
patty-pans, having lined them witli thin puiF 
paste. 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (2) 

Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, 
and a few bitter with a spoonful of water; 
then add four ounces of sugar pounded, a 
spoonful of cream, and the whiles of two eggs 
well beaten; mix all as (juick as possih-le; 
put into very small patty-pans, and bake in 
a pretty warm oven twenty minutes. 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (3) 

Blanch six ounces of sweet, and half an ounce 
of bitter almonds; let them lie half an hour 
in a drying stove, or before tlie fire ; [)ound 
them very fine in a mortar, with two table- 
spoonfuls of rose water, to prevent them from 
oiling; set into a stew-pan half a pound of 
fresh butter; set it in a warm place, and 
cream it very smooth with the hand, and add 
it to the almonds, with six ounces of sifted 
loaf sugar, a little grated lemon-peel, some 
good cream, and four eggs; rub all well to- 
geth.er with the pestle; cover a patty-pan 
with puff paste; fill in the mixture; orna- 
ment it with slices of candied lemon-peel and 
almonds split, and bake it half an hour in a 
brisk oven. 

ALMOND CONSERVE, BURNT. 

Blanch and cut six ounces of sweet almonds 
into small strips, lay them on paper and put 
them into an oven ; when they are brovvn^ 



ALM 

take them out, and throw them into two 
pounds of sugar boiled to petit casse, stir 
the mixture well mitil it begins to blow, end 
then pour it into paper cases or moulds. 

ALMONDS, ENGLISH FASHION. 

Mix almonds and filberts scp'ded in equal 
quantities; chop one half very fine, cut tlie 
rest each into two or three slices; put the 
whole in douijie their weigiit of sugar, 
prepared by boiling it with some lernon- 
p,ee! rasped ; stir the almonds very well 
in the sugar, taking it off the fire, and 
add one or two whites of eggs; pour it in 
pajjer large enough to contain the whole, and 
cut it in slices for use Jis you think proper, 
when baked as usual. 

ALMOND FRAZE. Blanch a pound 
of Jordan almonds, and sleep them in a pint 
of cream, ten yolks, and four whites of eggs; 
take out the almonds and pound them fine in 
a marble mortar; then mix them again in 
the cream and eggs, put in sugar and grated 
bread, and stir them all together; then put 
some fresh bistter into the pan, let it be hot 
and pour it in, stirring it in the pan till they 
are of a sufificient consistence; and when 
enough, turn it into a dish, strew sugar over 
it, and serve it up. 

ALMOND FRITTERS. Blanch three 
quarters of a pound of sweet almonds, pour 
over tliem three table-spoonfuls of rose water, 
and in a quarter of an hour a pint of cream ; 
let them stand two or three houis, then pound 
them in a mortar till they become quite a 
paste; add the L'eaten yolks of six eggs, two 
or three pounded Naples biscuit; sweeten 
with pomided loaf sugar, and jiiix all well 
together; melt a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter in a frying-pan, and when hot, pour in 
the mixture, and stir it constantly till thick, 
and of a light brown co^or. Serve it witli 
sifted loaf sugar over the top. 

ALMOND BROWN GINGER- 
BREAD. Beat a quarter of a pound of 
blanched almonds with thin gum-water, a 
few drops of lemon-juice, a little powdered 
cinnamon, c" d some ginger finely grated and 



ALM 



2 



ANC 



seered to give it a brov.ii color; sweeten 
and smooth it well, roll it out thin, and cut 
it into squares; dry it in a stove or before 
tiie fire. 

ALMOND ICEING, for Bride Cake. 
The whites of six eggs, a pound and a half 
of double-refined sugai-, a pound of Jordan 
almonds blanched and jwunded with a little 
rose water ; mix altogether and whisk it well 
for an hour or two, lay it over the cake and 
put it in ths oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS, BITTER. 
Take a pound of bitter ahnonds. rub them 
well in a clean cloth, and beat them to a caste 
witli the whites of three or four egg« ; then 
put tliem into an earthen pan viitu three 
pounds of powder-sugar, mix them together 
well, and if tlie paste should be too dry, 
moisten it with white of egg. Drop it on 
sheets of paper in lumps about tlie size of a 
walnut, and bake tliem in a close, gentle oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS, SWEET, 
Are done in die same way. But two pounds 
of sugar are sufficient for a pound of almonds. 

ALIMOND MILK SOUP. Take half a 
pound of sweet ahnonds, put them on die fire 
with some water until near boiling, then 
blanch and throw tliem into fresh water; 
di'ain and pound diem. Boil a pint of wa- 
ter, a littb sugivr, salt, cinnamon, coriander, 
and lemon-peel, for a quarter of an houi", and 
rub die almonds dirough a sieve to diis. Lay 
some slices of toasted bread in a dish, and 
poiu- the milk of ahnonds on it, as hot as 
possible widiout boiling. 

ALMOND PUFFS. Blanch two ounces 
of sweet almonds, and beat them fine with 
orange flower water, whisk tlie whites of 
tliree eggs to a high fioth, strew in a little 
sifted sugar, mix the almonds with die sugar 
and eggs, and add more sugar till as thick 
as paste. Lay it in cakes, and bake it on 
j:)aper in a cool oven. 

ALMOND RICE. Blanch sweet al- 
monds, and pound them in a marble mortar ; 
mix them in a little boiling water; press 
tlieni as long as there is milk in the almonds, 
adding fresh water eveiy time; to every 
quart of almond-juice, put a (juarter of a 
pound of rice and two teaspoonsful of orange 
flower water; mix Uiem all together, and 
simmer it over a slow charcoal fire ; stir it 
repeatedly, and when done, sweeten it at 
pleasui'e; serve it with beaten cinnamon 
BUewed over. 

ALMOND ROLLS, BITTER. Blanch 
and pound eight oiinces of almonds five of 



sweet and three of bitter) to a very fina 
paste ; then place eight ounces of flour on 
your slab ; make a hole in the middle, and 
put into it eight ounces of powder-sugar, the 
yolks of four eggs, and a grain of salt; mix 
them all well together into a firm smootu 
paste; roll it out and cut it into four ei\v:,u 
parts ; roil each piece to the same lengdi ; 
cut diem into pieces about the size of a wal- 
nut, and form them to the shape of a wild 
turnip, and as yon do tliem put them on a 
baking-tin lightly buttered ; dorez them and 
bake diem of a proper color in a moderate 
oven. When they are taken from tlie oven, 
let them stand a little while to di-y. 

ALMOND PUDDING. (See Pud^ 
ding.) 

ALMOND TUMBLES. Blanch and 
pound three ounces of almonds vei"j' fine, 
when almost beaten enough, take die A\liite 
of an egg beaten to froth, one pound of dou- 
ble-refined sugar well beaten, and put it in 
by degrees, working it into a paste witli your 
hands, roll it out and halve it on buttered 
plates in a hot oven. 

AMERICAN BLANCMANGE. (See 
Blancmange.) 

AMERICAN GINGERBREAD. Take 
half a pound of fresh butter melted, one pound 
and a half of dried and sifted flour, the same 
quantity of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of pounded ginger, nine eggs, the yolks and 
whites separately beaten, one glass of I'ose 
water, and one of white wine; mix all diese 
well togedier, and beat it for an hoiu- ; then 
with, a spoon spread it over flat tin nan&, 
about the thickness of a penny-piece; bake 
it of a light brown, and Mhile warm, cut it 
into oblong pieces, and place them on end 
till cool, A\hen they a\ ill be veiy crisp. 

AMERICAN VINEGAR. (See Vin- 
egar.) 

AMERICAN SNOW BALLS. Boil 
some rice in milk till it be swelled and s(;ft; 
pare and carefully scoop out the core of five 
or six good-sized apples, put into eacli a lit- 
tle grated lemon-peel and cinnamon ; place 
as much of the rice upon a bit of linen as 
will entirely cover an apple, and tie each close- 
ly. Boil diem two hours, and serve tliem 
with melted butter, sweetened with sugar. 

ANCHOVIES 7/ash half a dozen an- 
chovies, and take tne meat fiom die bones ; 
cut them into four fillets, place them on a 
dish with some sweet herbs, cut small; and 
the yolks and whites of liaid eggs, also citf 
small. 



ANC 



APP 



ANCHOVY BUTTER. Wash youv 
anchovies carefully, take out the bones, and 
dry them; then pound diem in a moitar 
until tliey are reduced to a paste ; and mix 
tliis paste with double die quantity of fresh 
butter. 

ANCHOVIES, BUI TER OF. Wash 
from the pickle some fine young anchovies, 
bone, and take oft' the heads, then pound them 
in a mortar with fresh butter till quite smooth, 
and rub it tlu'ough a sieve. 

ANCHOVY PASTE, Pound them in a 
mortar, then rub it through a fine sieve ; pot 
i^ cover it with clarified butter, and keep it 
in a cool place. If you have essence of ancho- 
vy, you may make anchovy paste extempore, 
bv rubbing die essence with as much flour as 
vvill make a paste. 3Iem. — This is merely 
mentioned as the means of making it imme- 
diately ; it will not keep. 

ANCHOVY POWDER. Pound die fish 
in a mortar, rub them through a sieve, and 
make them into a paste with dried flour, roll 
it into thin cakes, and dry them in a Dutch 
oven before a slow fiie ; pounded to a fine 
powder, and put into a well-stopped bottle, it 
will keep for years; it is a very savoury 
relish, sprinkled on bread and butter for a 
sandwich, &c. See Oyster Powder. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (1) Cut seme 
thin slices of bread about the length and 
breadth of a finger; fry them in oil. Place 
them on a dish, and pour on them a sauce 
made of oil, vineijar, whole pepper, parsley, 
sjallion, and shallots, cut up together. Then 
cut the anchovies into thin slices, and- lay 
diem on die toast. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (2) Bone and 
wash the anchovies, pound dieni in a mortar 
with a little fresh butter; rub them through a 
sieve and spread them on a toast. You may 
add, while pounding the anchovies, a little 
made mustard and curry powder, or a few 
grains of Cayenne, or a little mace or other 
spice. It may be made still more savoury, by 
fiying the toast in clarified butter. — N.B. 
Keep youi' anchovies well covered ; first tie 
down your jar with bladder moistened with 
vinegai', and then wiped dry; tie leather 
over that: when you open a jar, moisten the 
bladder, and it will come ofl' easily; as soon 
as you have taken out the fish, replace the 
coverings; the air soon rusts and spoils 
anchovies. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (3) Bone and 
roll up two or three anchoivies, place diem 
upon pieces of dry toast, and garnish with 
curled parsley. 



ANGELICA TO CANDY. Cut the 

stalks \\ hen thick and tevuhir, put them on 
in boiling water, and when \ery tender, drain 
it oft', and throw them into cold water ; peel 
off" the skin, and scald them in a thin sirup, 
made with the same proportion of sugar that 
there is of fruit ; heat it twice a day till the 
sirup is almost di-ied in, and then dry diem 
under garden glasses, or in a stove, and turn 
them twice a day. 

APPLES. Cooks, in choosing apples for 
culinary purposes, should always be guided 
by the weight, die heaviest being alwajs the 
best ,• and those are particularly to be taken, 
which, upon being pressed by the thumbj 
yield with a slight cracking noise. Large 
apples possessing these qualities should be 
taken in preference to small ones, as diere 
is less waste in peeling and coring. 

APPLE BLACK-CAP. (1) Divide 
twelve large apples in halves, core them, and 
place them on a thin patty-pan or mazarine, 
quite close to each odier, with the flat side 
downwards; squeeze a lemon into two 
Ipoonfuls of orange flower water, which pour 
over them ; shred fine some lemon-peel, throw 
it over them, and grate fine sugar all over. 
Set them in a quick oven, and bake diera 
half an hour. When served, strew fine su- 
gar all over the dish. ' 

APPLE BLACK-CAP. (2)- Pare 

the apples, lay them in your pan, strew a (e\v 
cloves over diem, a little lemon-peel cut very 
small, two or three blades of cinnamon, and 
some coarse sugar; cover the pan with brown 
paper, set it in an oven with the bread, and 
let it stand till the oven is cold. 

APPLES, TO BAKE WHOLE. Put 
some sound and well chosen apples into a 
pan, widi a small proportion of cloves, a 
little lemon-peel, some brown sugar, a gl.iss 
Oi- more of red wine, accoi'ding to die ([uan- 
tity of fruit ; put them into a quick oven, and 
bake diem at least one hour. The sugar to 
be limited according to tlie quality of the 

apples. 

,*■ 

APPLES, CHARLOTTE OF. (See 

Charlotte.) 

APPLE CHEESECAKES. Pare, core, 
and boil twelve apples widi sufficient water 
to mash diem; beat diem very smoodi, add 
six yolks of eggs, the juice of two lemons, 
and some grated lemon-peel, half a pound of 
fresh butter beaten to a cream, and sweet- 
ened with powder sugar, beat it in with the 
apples. Bake in a puff" crust and serve open. 

APPLES CLEAR. Boil half a pound 



APP 



APF 



of loaf sugar in a pint of water ; take oflF the 
Bciun, and put in some large apples, paved, 
cored, and cut into quarters, widi the peel 
an:l juice of a lemon ; let them boil till cleai', 
>vitli<)Ut a cover upon the sauce-pan. 

APPLES COMPOTE. (1) Cut some 
apples in half, core them, prick the skins with 
a knife and throw them into cold water; 
tlien put them into a pan witJi some clai ified 
sugar, and stew diem gently till tender ; place 
the apples in a dish, and pour the suup 
tlirou^h a sieve over them. 

APPLES COMPOTE. (2) Pare and 
cut lialf a dozen fine apples in half, and put 
them into a pan -.vith a little water and lemon- 
juice ; then clarify half a pound of sugar, and 
when you have sk.mmed it put in your appljjs, 
and the juice of a lemon ; tiun the apples 
frequently. As soon as you find the fork will 
penetrate them, they are sufficiently done, and 
may be taken out; strain and reduce the 
syrup; strain it again, and then pour it over 
yoiu" apples, wliich may be served either hot 
or cold. Gmnish Avitli the peel of a veiy red 
apple, cut into various devices, and laid on 
tlie apples. 

APPLES, WHOLE. The proceeding is 
the same as the last, except that die apples, 
when pared, are not divided, and die cores 
ai-e taken out w ith a piercer. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. Pare and 

scoop out the core of six large baking apples, 
put part of a clove, and a little gsated lem- 
on-peel, inside of each, and enclose them in 
pieces of jnifi" paste; boil them in nets for 
the purpose, or i)its of linen, for an hour. 
Before servirig, crt oft' a small bit from the 
top of each, and put in a tea-spoonful of su- 
g-ar, and a bit of fresh butter; replace the bit 
of paste, and strew over Uiem pounded loaf 



APPLE DUMPLINGS , BAKED. 

Make diem in the same way, but instead of 
tieing them in cloths lay them in a buttered 
dish and bake them. 

.*& 

APPLES, DRIED OR BAKED. Al- 
ways choose the clearest of baking apples, 
prick them rather deep with a pointed knife 
in several places, and put them in a mode- 
rate oven upon a baking plate; when half 
done squeeze them pretty flat with the hands, 
strt.w diein on bodi sides with powder sugar, 
and put them again into a soaking oven, 
with some more sugar over them. Keep 
tlicm in a dry place. 

APPLES FESTOONED. Peel some 
golden pippins, core them whole, and stew 



them to three parts with sugar and a little 
water; make the sirup pretty rich to clog 
to the apples ; wrap them round with a diin 
paste, cf.t with a psiste-cutter, and make knots 
or fioweis with the same paste to ]nit on the 
top ol'lhe aj-ples ; rasp some sugar over, and 
bake a very short time. 

APPLE FLOATING ISLAND. 

Bake or scald eight or nine large apjples; 
when cold pare and pulp them through a sie\'e, 
beat tliis up with fine sugar ; put to it the 
whites of four or five eggs that have been 
beaten with a litde rose water; mix it a lit- 
tle at a time, and beat it till it is light; heap 
it on a rich custard or on jelly. 

APPLE FOOL. Pare, core, and cut 
into thin bits, some good stewing apples; 
stew them till tender, Avith a little water, 
two cloves, a bit of cinnamon, and tlie peel 
of half a lemon ; pulp half a pound through a 
sieve, and add the same weight of brown sugar, 
the juice of a lemon, and the whites of two 
eggs; beat them all together for an hour. 
Serve it upon rich cream, or a boiled custaid, 
in a glass dish. It may be made in the same 
way as the goosebeny ibol, as may also stew- 
ed rhuliarb. 

APPLE FRAZE. Cut apples into thick 
slices, and fi"v them of a clear light brown; 
take diem hom the pan, and lay them to 
diain ; they may be pared or not ; then make 
a batter. Take five eggs, leaving out two 
whites, beat them up with cream or flour, 
and a little white w ine, make it of the con- 
sistence of pancake batter; pom' in a little 
melted l)utter, mixed w ith nutmeg and sugar. 
Let the batter be hot, and drop in the flitters, 
laying on every one a slice of apple, and then 
a spoonful of batter on each. Fry them of 
a pale brown, when taken up, strew double- 
refined sugar all over them. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (1) Beat the 
yolks of eight eggs, the whites of four, well 
together, strain them into a pan ; then take 
a quart of cream, make ir moderately hot, 
and add two glasses of sack, three-cjuarters 
of a pint of ale, and mix them well together 
When it is cool, put to it the eggs, beating 
it well together, then add nutmeg and ginger 
grated, salt and flour at pleasure. The bat- 
ter should be pretty thick ; then put in sliced 
apples, or scraped pippins, and fry them quick 
in butter. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (2) Pare, 

core, and cut your apples into quarters, soak 
them for two or diree hoius in brandy, sugar, 
green lemon-peel, and orange flower watei'; 
w hen they have thoroughly imbibed die fla- 
vor of these ingredients, drain, and put them 



APP 



APP 



into a cloth well sprinlded with flour, and 
Bliake them so that tlie tlour may adhere all 
over them ; fiy them of a good color, glaze 
witli sugar and a hot salamander. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (3) Stew 
Fome apples cut small, together with a little 
water, sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon; 
when soft, add a little white wine, the juice of 
half a lemon, and a bit of fresh butter ; when 
cold, mix them with a batter, as for Tun- 
bridge puffs, or enclose them in rounds of puff 
paste. Fry, and serve them with sifted loaf 
sugar over Uiem. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (4) Four well- 
beaten eggs, half a pint of cream, two table 
spoonfuls of yeast, three of white wine, and 
two of rose water ; half a tea spoonful of gra- 
ted nutmeg, and of salt; make it into a thick 
batter with flour, peel and core two or three 
apples, cut them into thin bits, and mix them 
with the batter; cover it over, let it stand, 
placed near the fire, about an hour ; drop it 
into boiling lard, and serve them in a napkin 
witii sugar strewed over them. Gooseberries 
previously stewed may be done in tiie same 
way. 

APPLES, GLAZED. Peel a dozen of 
apples and leave the tails ; gore at the oppo- 
site side not quite through, and boil them 
with half a pint of red wine, some sugar, 
and a spoonfiil of brandy, siinmer slowly that 
they may not break ; when nearly done, take 
tliem out, reduce the sirup to a caramel, and 
put in the apples, rubbing diem all over Avith 
it ; or you may Aviap them in a paste, rasp 
sugar over, bake a short time, and glaze with 
a white glaze. 

APPLE MARMALADE. (1) Boil 
some pippins till they begin to get tender, then 
put them into cold water; pare and coi"e 
them ; squeeze the pulp through a sieve and 
put it over the fire, letting it remain till it be- 
comes very thick ; then weigh an equal cjuan- 
tity of fine sugar ; boil it till the sugar arises in 
sparkles which cluster together ; put the mar- 
malade to it, and stir them well with a wood- 
en spoon till the apple begins to boil; then 
tJike it off and when a little cool, put it into 
pots, but do not cover them till quite cold. 

APPLE MARMALADE. (2) Pare, 
core, and cut your apples into small pieces, 
put them into water with a little lemon-juice 
to keep diem white. Take them out after a 
short time and drain them. Weigh, and put 
them into a stew-pan ; if for present use, half 
a pound of sugar will be sufficient for each 
pound of apples, but if for keeping, double 
that quantity will be necessary. Add to it a 
Btick of cinnamon and tlie juice of a lemon. 
1* 



Put the stew-pan over a brisk fire and cover 
it; when the apples are pulped stir die mix- 
ture till of die projier consistence: then put 
die marmalade into pots. 

APPLES IN PANCAKES. Cut some 
apples vei-y small, stew them with a little 
white wine, grated lemon-pee!, pounded cin- 
namon, and brown sugar; masli diem, and 
spread it over pancakes ; roll them up, and 
serve with sifted loaf sugar over diem. 

APPLE POUPETON. Pare some 
good baking apples, take out the cores, and 
put them into a skillet; to a pound and a 
lialf of apples, put a quarter of a pound of su- 
gar, and a wine glass of water. Do diem 
over a slow fire, add a little cinnamon, and 
keep, them stirring. When of die consist- 
ence of a marmalade, let it stand till cool ; 
beat up die yoU^s of fuur eggs, and stir in four 
table spoonfuls of grated bread, and a quarter 
of a pound of fresh butter ; then form it into 
shape, bake it in a slow oven, tui'n it upside 
down on a plate, and serve. 



APPLE 

serves.) 



PRESERVE. {See Pre- 



APPLES AND RAISINS. Pare and cut 
twelve apples into quarters, and each quarter 
into four pieces, put them into a pan with four 
ounces of good fresh batter, two of sugar, over 
which the zeste of an orange has been grated, 
and a quarter of a pound of currants well 
washed ; toss up these ingredients over a mod- 
erate fire for a few minutes and tlien let them 
cool. Make a round under-crust seven inch- 
es in diameter, moisten the edge and put on 
it a band of puff paste three-quarters of an 
inch high and half an inch thick ; put your 
apples, &c. in this so as to form a sort of 
dome, cover diem with the puff paste, taking 
caie that it does not extend beyond the band, 
upon which it mast be pressed down; wash 
it over with white of e^g, and bake it 
in a gentle oven f)r about an liom". When 
a little cooled, take the whites of two eggs, 
whipped to a strong froth and mixed with 
two ounces of powder sugar, and mask v\id; 
it your cake, sprinkling it widi sifted su- 
gar; then, ha,ying drained and dried some 
(aurants, mix them with sugar, and strew 
them o\er the dome ; form a crown of small 
meringues with the remainder of the white 
of egg, and place it on the band ; cover them 
with sifted sugar, and color the whole of a 
clear yellow in die oven, and then serve im- 
mediately. 

APPLES IN RICE. (1) Scoop om 
the cores, and"<pare, very neatly, half a doz- 
en good-sized apples ; boil them in diin, clari- 
fied sugar ; let them imbibe the sugar, and 



APR 



6 



APR 



DC careful to preserve tlieir form. Make a 
marmalade with some other apples, adding 
to it apricot marmalade, and four ounces of 
rice previously boiled in milk, with sugar and 
butter, and the yolks of two or three eggs; 
put them into a dish fir table, surround it 
with a border office, and plvu'e the wIioIh ap- 
ples in the rice, and marmalade and bake it. 
When done, put into each of the apples a tea 
spoonful of any kind of sweetmeat you may 
think proper. 

APPLES IN RICE. (2) Pare, core, 
and cut four or five good apples in quarters ; 
boil some rice in a cloth, and when soft put 
in the ajiples, tie it up very loose, and boil 
gently till sufticiently done. 

APPLE SOUFFLET. Prepare apples 
as for baking in a pudding, put them int<^a 
deep dish, and lay upon the top, about an 
inch and a half thick, rice boiled in new 
milk witii sugar; beat to a stilf froth the 
whites of two or tliree eggs, with a little sift- 
ed loaf sugar, lay it upon the rice, and bake 
it in an oven a light brown. Serve it instant- 
ly when done. 

APPLE A LA TURQUE. Neatly pare 
and pierce out the cores of eight or ten ap- 
ples, put them on the fire with a '.hin sirup 
of clar'.ied sugar, cover them close and let 
them sunmer gently; turn them, that both 
sides may be done. When thoroughly done 
lay them on a dish, with a wet paper over 
tliem. Put a paste round the dish you serve 
them in, and bake in a gentle oven to hiuden 
it, then put in a layer of ap])Ie sauce, over 
which put the apples, and fill the holes where 
the cores were with dried cherries or ap- 
ricot j:un, then cover it witli the apple sauce; 
beat up the whites of six eggs to a froth, 
and add powder sugar till tiiey appear quite 
smooth; make the ajjples wiirm, and lay the 
white of egg over them, smoodi it nCdtly over, 
and sift some |)ovvder sugar over it; color it 
in a gentle oven. 

APPLE WATER. Cut three or four 
krge apples into slices, put them into a jug, 
and poiQ- a (]uart of boiling water over them ; 
cover the jug. When quite cold, strain a!id 
Bweeten it, and add a little lemon-juice. 

APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Weigh 
equal ((Uantities of loaf sii|^ar and of apricots; 
scald them, and take off die skins. Clarify 
and boil die sugar, put the f-ait into it, and 
let it remain lor two or three days; put the 
apricots i'Uo glasses. Mix with the sirup 
the best pale brandy, half and half, a.id pour 
it o\ cr the apricots and keep liiem closely 
covered. Peaches e.nd nectarines may be 
done in tlie same way. 



APRICOTS, CHARLOTTE OP. 

Choose twenty-four fine, plump, but not too 
ripe, apricots, pare and divide them into 
eight parts, toss them up in a quarter of a 
pound of fine sugar, and two ounces of warm 
butter; in the meaiitinie line a mould as di- 
rected (aee Churlotic) ; pour in the apri- 
cots, and finish as usual. When tiu-ued on 
your dish, cover it lightly with apricot mar- 
malade, and serve it immediately. 

APRICOTS TO DRY. Pare the apri- 
cots, and carefully take out the stones ; blanch 
tlie kernels, and put them into the apricots ; 
strew o\ er a pound of fruit the same quantity 
of finely-pounded loaf sugar, and let them 
stand till the sugar has extracted the juice, 
then boil all together gently; when the fruit 
is tender, take it out with care, and boil the 
sirup till very rich; pour it over the fruit, 
and in three days put it upon dishes, and dry 
them in the sun under garden glasses, turning 
them once or twice a-day, to keep the shape 
as round as possible. Any inferior apricots 
may be cut down and boiled in the sirup, fot 
tarts. 

APRICOT MARMALADE. Take 
some fine apricots, and choose from amongst 
them those which are of the deepest yellow 
and the ripest, (they must not be too ripe.) 
Peel them, take out the stones, and chop thera 
up ; weigh twelve pounds of them and put 
them into a preserving-pan, with nine pounds 
of powder sugar ; place your pan over a cjuick 
file, and keep yoiu- preparation constantly 
stirring with a long wooden spoon. To find 
out when the marmalade is sufficiently done, 
let a few diops fall into a glass of cold water, 
and if they do not spread in the water your 
marmalade is ready to put into pots. An- 
other method of ascertaining when your mar- < 
malade is done is by taking some on the end of 
your finger and thumb, and just rub them to- 
getlier, and if on separating them you find tlie 
mai-maiade forms a tliread, it is sufficiently 
done. 

APRICOTS A LA PORTUGAISE. 

Take a dozen of ripe apricots, cut them in 
half, and take out tlie stones; place them on 
a silver plate, and pour over some clarified 
sugar, vviUi a little water; put them on a 
stove without covering them; v\hen suffi- 
ciently done, take them fiom the fire, and 
strew sugar over; then put on the lid of die 
baking-pan under Uie fire, to make them of a 
good color. 

APRICOTS, WHOLE. Choose the fin- 
est yellow, but ncjt too ri|5e, ajnicofs; take 
off the stalks, prick them on each side with 
a pin, make an incision with the point of 
a knife, tlu'ough which extract tlie stone 



ART 



ASP 



Then put them on the fii-e with as much wa- 
ter as will covei- them, until neai- boilijig, 
when, if suft, the apricots should be tlirown 
into cold water ; take cai'e tliey are all equal- 
ly tender. Drain them on a hurdle, and in 
the meantime claiify and boil some sugar 
to die degree you require; put in a little 
water, and when it lx»iis remove it from the 
fii-e, and add to it tlie fruit,-and having given 
tliem a few Ixjilings together, let them cool, 
then di-ain and place them in yoiu" compotiers. 

ARTICHOKES Ai\D ALMONDS. 

Take half a pound of sweet almonds blanch- 
ed and beat fine, witli two tea spoonfuls 
of orange-tlower or rose \v ater ; dien take 
a quart of cream, and boil it with a small 
quantity of cinnamon and mace; sweeten it 
with fine sugar, and mix it with the almonds ; 
stir diem togedier, and strain it through a 
sieve. Let the cream cool, and thicken it 
with tlie yolks of six eggs ; tlien g:unish a 
deep dish, and lay paste at the bottom; then 
put in slu-ed artichoke bottoms, being fisst 
boiled ; and u|)on these a little melted butter, 
.slwed citi-on, and candied orange; repeating 
tlie same until the dish is nearly fall, then 
pour in die cream, and bake it widiout a lid. 
When it is baked, grate sugar over it, and 
serve it hot. Half an hoiu' will serve to 
bake it. 

ARTICHOKES BOlf.ED. Soak them 
in cold water, w ash them well, dien put them 
into plenty of boiling water, with a handful 
of salt, and let them boil gently till they are 
tender, which will take an hour and a half, 
or two hours: the surest way to know when 
tliey are done enough, is to diaw out a leaf; 
trim Uiem and drain tliem on a sieve; and 
send up melted butter w idi them, which some 
put into small cups, so tliat each guest may 
- have one. 

ARTICHOKES TO BOIL. Cut off the 
stalks close to die bottom, wash them well, 
and let them lie for some hours in cold wa- 
ter; put them on in boiling water with a 
little salt in it, cover die pan closely, and 
boil them an hour and a half. If diey are 
old, and have not been fiesh gathered, tiiey 
will take a longer time to boil. Melted but- 
ter is sened with them in a sauce-tuieen. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, to Dry 
iND Pickle. Half boil the artichokes, 
8li-ip oft" the leaves, and pull out the choke; 
put the bottoms into small jars, and cover 
diem with a cold boiled brine of salt and 
water; put melted mutton suet on tne top to 
exclude the air, and tie bladder over tliem. 
To dry them, they are boiled as for eating, 
the leaves and choke pulled out, and the bot- 
'oms dried upon dishes in an oven, and then 



kept in paper bags. Wlien to be dressed, 
they must be laid into warm water, and soak- 
ed for two or three hours ; they may then be 
plain boiled, and eaten widi melted butter, 
or stewed hi gravv widi a little niushioom 
catsup, pepper, and salt, and thicKened with 
a bit of butter rolled in fiour. They aie a 
great impro\''Efment to ail made dislies and 
meat pies. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, PICKLED. 
Boil the artichokes till the leaves can be pull- 
ed oft' without breaking the bottoms ; leave 
on the pait called the choke, set them aside 
till cold, then put Uiem into wide-moudied 
bottles. Boil, in vinegar, some salt, pepper, 
mace, and sliced nutmeg, and, when cold, 
pour it over the artichokes ; tie bladder over 
the bottles. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM. (1) 

Are boiled and dressed in the vari.ous ways di- 
rected fjr potatoes. i\. B — Tiiey should be 
covered with thick melted butter, or a nice 
white or brown sauce. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM. (2) 
Tliey must be neatlv peeled, and boiled very 
gently by the side of the stove, with a little 
salt in the water; when done (but not too 
much, or they will not look well) place diem 
on tlie dish, and serve with plain butter, or 
any odier sauce you please. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM, to 

Fricasske. Wash an.d scrape or \vA\e 
diem; boil them in milk and water till they 
are soft, which will be from a quarter to half 
an hour. Tidce them out and stew them a 
iaw minutes in the f.'llowiiig sauce: — R^li a 
bit of butter, die size of a walnut, in flour, 
mix it wiiii half a pint of cream cr raillv;' 
season it with pepper, salt, and grated nut- 
meg. Tiiey may be served j;lain boiled, 
with a little melted butter poured over 
them. Scoizonera is fi icasseed in the same 
manner. 

ARROW -ROOT. Mix with two or 
three table-spoonfuls of arrow-root liaif a 
pint of cold water ; let it stand for nearly a 
quarter of an hour, pour oft" the water, and 
stir in some pounded sugar; boil a pint of 
milk, and pour it gradually ujion the iurow- 
roct, stirring it one way all the time. Or 
it may be made \\ ith water in wliicli lemon 
peel has been boiled, and ihen a glass of Poit 
or white wine and a little nutmeg stirred 
into it. 

ASPARAGUS. Set a stew-pan with 
plenty of water in it on the fire ; sprinkle a 
handful of sak in it ; let it boil, and skmi it; 
tlien put in your asparagus, prepared dius* 



ASP 



8 



BAG 



gcrape all the stalks till they are perfectly 
clean ; tlirow them into a pan of cold water as 
you .scra|)e them ; when they are all done, tie 
them up in little bundles, of about a quarter 
of a hundred each, with bass, if you can get 
iit, or ta|)e (string cuts them to pieces;) cut 
off the stalks at the bottom that they may be 
all of a length, leaving only juSl enough to 
serve as a handle for the green part; when 
tliey are tendei- at the stalk, which will be 
in from twenty to thirty minutes, they are 
done enough. Great care must be taken to 
watch the exact time of their becoming ten- 
der; take them upjustatthat instant, and 
they will have their true flavor and color: 
a minute or two more boiling destroys both. 
While the asparagus is boiling, toast a lound 
of a (luarlern loaf, about half an inch thick ; 
brown it delicately on both sides; dip it 
lightly in the liquor the asparagus was boiled 
m, and lay it in die middle of a dish: melt 
sonie butter, dien lay in the asparagus upon 
llie toast, which must project beyond the as- 
paragus, tliat the company may see there is 
a toast. 

ASPARAGUS, BOILED. Scrape and 
tie them in small bundles; cut them even, 
boL them quick in salt and water ; lay them 
on a toast dip^ped in the water the asparagus 
was boiled in ; pour over them melted butter. 

ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. Toast a 
slice of bread, butter it, and lay it on a dish ; 
butter some eggs thus: take four eggs, beat 
tliem well, put them into a sauce pan widi 
two ounces of butter, and a little salt, until 
of a sufficient consistence, and lay ihem on 
the toast; meanwhile boil some asparagus 
tender, cut tlie ends small, and lay them on 
the eg<js. 

ASPARAGUS, FRENCH. Boil it, and 
chop small the heads and tender part of the 
stalks, together with a boiled onion ; add a 
IJtile salt and pepper, and the beaten yolli of 
an egg; beat it up. Serve it on sippets of 
toasted bread, and pour over it a little melt- 
ed butter. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. (See Soups.) 

ASPICK. Take a knuckle of veal, a 
knuckle of ham, a diick slice of beef, and if 
they will not make your jelly stiff enough, 
add two calf's feet, or snnie swards of bacon 
rasped ; put them into a sauce-pan with a pint 
of rich stock, and sweat it over a stove till 
reduced to a glaze, then moisten it with stock, 
boil and skim it well. Put to it two onions, 
two carrots, salt, parsley, scallions, four cloves, 
two bay leaves, and a clove of garlick ; let 
die whole stew for seven hours, then strain off 
\he bquor or consomme. Break foui* eg^ 



into a stcwpan, and put to them the consomms 
when cold, the juice of two lemons, and two 
spoonfuls of tarragon, and beat it \\ itli a 
wliisk over the liie till near boiling, and u hen 
it does so, remove your stew-pan to a smaller 
fire, and place fire on the lid lor half an hour; 
then pass it through a wet napkin doubled. 
If the jelly is not suiticiently clear, clarity it 
a second time. Put a layer of diis jelly, about 
half an inch thick, at die bottom of an aspick 
mould, garnish it with truffles, whites of eggs, 
sprigs of parsley, &c. according to your taste, 
pour in another half inch of die jelly, while 
liquid, with great care, so as not to d scorn- 
pose your garnish, then put either calf's 
brains, breasts of fowl, veal sweetbreads, 
cocks' combs, kidneys, fat livers, or game. 
Be sure to lay v\ hate'ver you may use, as equal 
and sniocjth as possible, then fill up your moiild 
with jelly, and let it stand till set. When 
wanted, dip the mould in hot water an in- 
stant, place yciu- dish on die top and turn it 
over. 

ATTELETS, OYSTER. (See Oys- 
ters.) 

ATTELETS are silver skewers. 

AUNT MARY'S PUDDING. {Set 
Puddings.) 



B. 



BACCHIC CREAM. (See Cream.) 

BACCHIC SAUCE. (See Sauce.) 

BACON. Cover a pound of nice streaked 
bacon or salt pork with cold water, let it boil 
gently for three-quarters of an hour ; t;ike it 
up, scrape the under side well, and cut off 
the rind: grate a crust of bread not only on 
the top, but all over it, and put it before the 
fire for a few minutes: it must not lie diere 
too long, or it Mill dry it arid spoil it. Two 
pounds will refjuire about an hour and a half, 
according to its t'lickness ; the hock or gam- 
mon being very thick, will take more. The 
boiling of bacon is a very simple subject to 
<;omment upon ; but our main object is to 
teach common cooks the art of dressing com- 
mon food in the best manner. Bacon is 
sometimes as salt as salt can make it, there- 
fore before it is boiled it must be soaked in 
warm water for an hour or two, changing 
the water once ; then pare off the rusty and 
smoked part, trim it nicely on the under side, 
and scrape the rind as clean as possible. 
Ihem. — Bacon is an extravagant article in 
housekeeping ; there is often twice as much 
diessed as need be: when it is sent to ta- 
ble as an accompauimeiit to boiled ooultjy 



B AC 



BAR 



or veal, a pwund and a half is plenty for a doz- 
en people. 'A good German sausage is a 
very economical siibsli'ute for bacon; or fried 
pork sausages. 

Note. — Bacon in England and salt 
pork in America are the same thing. 
What we name bacon, the English call 
ham. 

BACON TO BROIL. Make up a sheet 
of paper into the fonii of a dripping-pan ; cut 
your bacon into thin slic<^, cut oft' the rind, 
lay the bacon on the paper, put it u]:>on tlie 
gridiron, set over a slow fire, and it will 
broil cleanly. 

BACON AND EGGS. Cut a quarter of 
a pound of streaked bacon into thin slices, 
and put them into a stewpan over a slow fire, 
taking care to turn them fiequently; when 
sufficiently done, pour the melted fat of the 
bacon into a dish, Iji'eak over it seven or eight 
eggs, add two spoonfuls of gravy, a little 
salt and pepper, and stew the whole o\er a 
slow file: pass a salamander over it, and 
serve. 

BACON, GAMMON, TO BAKE. Lay 

it to steep all night in water, scrape it clean, 
and stuft' it with all manner of sweet herbs, 
as thyme, sage, savory, sweet marjoram, pen- 
ny-rnval, strawberiy leaves, violet leaves, and 
fennel; chop these small, and mix them with 
the yolks of hard eggs, pepiTer and nutmeg 
beaten, and boil it until tender. When it is 
cold pare oft' the under side, pull off" the skin, 
season it with pepper and nutmeg, and piit it 
in a pie or pasty, widi whole cloves ;\nd slices 
of raw bacon laid over it, and butter; close it, 
and bake it. 

BACON OR HAM SLICES. Ham, or 
bacon, may be fried, or broilr-d on a gridiron 
over a clear fire, or toasted with a f jrk : take 
care to slice it of the same thickness in every 
part. If you wish it curled, cut it in slices 
about two inches long (if longer, the outside 
will be done too much bef )re the inside is 
done enough); roll it up, and put a little 
wooden skewer through it : put it in a cheese- 
toaster or Dutch oven, for eight or ten minutes, 
turning it as it gets crisp. This is considered 
the handsomest way of dressing bacon;, but 
we like it best uncurled, because it iscrisper, 
and more equally done. Slices of ham or 
bacon should not be more than half a quarter 
of an inch thick, and will eat much more 
mellow if soaked in hot water for a quarter 
of an hour, and Uien dried in a clodi before 
tliey are broiled, &c. 

BACON RELISHING RASHERS. 
If you have any cold bacon, you may make 



a very nice dish of it by cutting it into slices 
about a quarter of an inch diick ; grate some 
crust of bread, as directed for ham and pow- 
der them well with it on both sides ; lay die 
rashers in a cheese-toaster, they will be 
biowned on one side in about three minutes, 
tui-n them and do tlie other. These are a 
delicious accompaniment to poached or fried 
eggs: the bacon having been boiled fust, is 
terider and mellow. Tli-iy are an excellent 
garnish round veal cutlets, or sweetbreads, 
or calf's head hash, or gi'eea peas or beans, 
&c. 

BAIN MARIE. A flat vessel, contain- 
ing boiling water, meant to hold other sauce- 
pans, eidier for purposes of cookei-y or to keep 
dishes hot. The advantages of preserving 
the heat of dishes by the bain marie is this, 
that no change is eff"ected in the tlavor of 
die ingTedients. 

BALM BEER. (See Beer.) 

BANBURY CAKES. (See Cakes.) 

BARLEY CREAM. (See Cream.) 

BARLEY WATER. Take a couple of 
ounces of pearl barley, wash it clean with 
cold water, put it into half a pint of boiling 
water, and let it boil for five minutes; pour 
off" this water, and add to it two quarts of 
boiling water: boil it to two pints, and strain 
it. The above is simple barley water. I'o 
a quart of this is frequently added two ounces 
of tigs, sliced; die same of raisins, stoned; 
half an ounce of liquorice, sliced and bruised ; 
and a pint of water. Boil it till it is re- 
duced to a quart, and strain. Obs. — These 
drinks are intended to assuage diirst in ardent 
fevers and infiammatory disorders, fur which 
jilenty of mild diluting licjuor is one of the 
principal remedies: and if not suggested by 
the medical attendant, is frequently demanded 
by honest instinct, in terms too plain to be 
misunderstood : the stomach sympathizes with 
every fibre of the human frame, and no part of 
it can be distressed widiout in some degree 
off"ending the stomach: dierefore it is of tne 
utmost importance to sooth this grand organ, 
by rendering everything we ofi'er to it as 
eleijant and aijreeable as the nature of the 
case will admit of: the barley drink prepared 
according to the second receipt, will l)e re- 
ceived widi pleasiue by the most delicate 
palate. 

BARLEY BROTH. (See Broth. ) 

BARLEY GRUEL. Take three ounces 
of pearl barley, of which make a quart of 
barley water ; if it be not white, shift it once 
or twice ; put in two ounces of currants clean 



BEA 



10 



BEE 



picked and washed, and when they are plump- 
ed, pour out the gruel and let it cool a little; 
tlien put in the yolks of three eggs well l>eat- 
en, half a jiint of white wine, and of new 
thick cream half a pint, and lemon-peel; 
then sweeten with fine sugar to your taste; 
stir it gently over the fire, until it is thick as 
cream. 

BARLEY PUDDING. (See Pud- 
ding.) 

BARBERRY JELLY. (See Jelly.) 

BARBERRY CONSERVE. Put a pound 
of ripe barlxjriies and half an ounce of pow- 
dered fennel seed into a silver vessel, widi a 
glass of watei- ; boil them three or four times, 
and prefis. the juice through a siexe. Rqjlace 
the vessel on the fire vxiih the juice, and add 
to it a pound and a half of sugar, boiled au 
casse. Boil together a few times, and then 
pour the conserve into cases. 

BARBERRY SIRUP. (See Siinip.) 

BARBERRIES TO PICKLE. Boil the 
bruised berries of a few bunches in salt- 
and-water; strain, and put a gill of the 
liquor to a (juart of vinegar, with an ounce 
of salt, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 
a quarter of an ounce of pounded ginger, and 
a little sliced horse-radish; boil and strain 
it, then pour it hot over the barberries, the 
finest bunches having been previously select- 
ed and placed in jars; when cold, cover them 
closely with bladder. They may also be 
kept in a jar, with a strong brine of salt-and- 
water poured over tliem. When any scum 
is observed upon tlie surface, the brine must 
be pjoured off, and some fresh added. They 
are kept closely covered. 

BARBERRY SIRUP. (See Sirup.) 

BASIL VINEGAR. (See Vinegar.) 

BATH BUNS. (See Buns.) 

BATTER FOR FISH, MEAT, FRIT- 
TERS, &c. Prepare it widi fine fiour, salt, 
a little oil, beer, vinegtir, or white wine and 
the whites of eggs beat up ; when of a proper 
thickness it will drop out of the spoon about 
the size of a nutmeg at once. Fry in oil oi- 
nog's lard. 

BATTER PUDDING. (See Pud- 
ding.) 

BEA?>S. Cut, wash, and boil the beans, 
and then throw them into a cullender. Put a 
piece of butter into your table-dish, lay the 
Leans on it, and garnish them with chopped 



parsley laid round like a cord ; heat the dish 
and serve. 

BECHAMELLE. Reduce some sauce 
tournee over a good fire, moisten with chick- 
en broth or consomme, constantly stirring to 
prevent its catching ; when of the proper con- 
sistence, add two glasses of boiling cream, 
continue stirring; pass it thi'ough a hair sieve 
and serve. 

BECHAMEL, OR WHITE SAUCE. 

Cut in scjuare pieces, half an inch thick, two 
pounds of lear. veal, half a pound of lean ham ; 
melt in a stewpan two ounces of butter; 
when melted, let the whole simmer until it 
is ready to catch at the bottom (it requires 
great attention, as, if it happen to cat(;h at 
the bottom of the stewpan, it will spoil the 
look of your sauce) ; then add to it three 
table-spoonfuls of flour; Avhen well mixed, 
add to it three pints of broth or water (poiu* 
a little at a time, that the thickening be 
smooth) ; stir it until it boil ; put the stew- 
pan on the corner of the stove to boil gently 
for two hours ; season it with four cloves, 
one o-iion, twelve pepper-corns, a blade of 
mace, a few mushrooms and a fagot made 
of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf. 
Let the sauce reduce to a quart, skim the fat 
oft", and strain it through a tamis clodi. To 
make a bechamel sauce, add to a quart of 
die above a pint of good cream ; stir it until 
it is reduced to a good thickness; a few 
mus.'u'ooms give a good flavor to tliat sauce; 
strain it tlirough a tamis clotli. 

BEEF. The names of die various pieces, 
accordinsr to the method of dividing the car- 
cass, are as follows: — The Innd quarter con- 
tains Uie Sirloin; Rump; Edge-lx>nf ; But- 
tock, or Round; JMouse Buttock; Veiny 
Piece; Thick Flank; Thin Flank; Leg 
Ran; Legs; Fore Rib; Five Ribs. — The 
fore quarter contains the Middle Rib of four 
ribs; Chuck of three ribs; Shoulder, or Leg- 
of-Mutton Piece, containing a part of the 
Blade-bone; Brisket; Clod; Neck End, or 
Sticking Piece; Shin; Cheek. Besides 
these are the Tongue and Palate. The En- 
trails consist of the Heart; Sweetbreads; 
Kidneys; Skirts; and three kinds of Tripe, 
the Double, the Roll, and the Red Tripe. 

Ox beef is considered die best. The flesh 
sliould feel tender, be fine in the grain, and 
of a brig'iit red color, nicely marbled or mix- 
ed with fat. The fat should be white, rather 
dian (jf a yellow color. 

Heifer beef is excellent \A'hen finely fed, 
and is most suitable for small families. The 
bone should be taken out of a round of lieef 
before it is salted, and it must be washed, 
skewered, and bound round firmly before be- 
ing boiled. Salt beef should be put on with 



BEE 



11 



BEE 



plenty of cold water, and when it boils the 
sciini removed. It is then kept simmering 
for jiomo lioius. A piece weighing fifteen 
pounds will reciuire three hours and a half to 
boil. Carrots and tiu-nips fjr garnishing 
should be put on to boil widi the beef. If 
in the least tainted, a piece of charcoal may 
be boiled widi it. 

When beef is to be kept any lengdi of time, 
it should be carefully wiped every day. In 
warn", weatner, wood vinegar is an excellent 
preservative: it is put all over the meat with 
a brush. To protect the meat from Hies, it 
may be sprinkled over with pepper. Tainted 
meat may be restored by washing in cold 
water, afterwards in strong chamomile tea, 
after which it may be sprinkled widi salt and 
used the following day, fiist washing it 
in cold water. Roughly pounded chaicoal 
nibl:>ed all o^'er the meat also restores it when 
tainted. In Scotland meat is frequently kept 
a fortnight smotliered in oatmeal, and care- 
fully wiped e^ery day; and if it should be a 
little tainted, it is soal'^ed some hours before 
it is used, in oatmeal and water. 

These directions equally apply to all sorts 
of meat. The sirloin is the prime joint for 
roasting. When to be used, it should be 
washed, then dried with a clean cloth, and 
the fat covered over with a piece of white pa- 
per tied on w ith diread. The spit should be 
kept at all times exceedingly clean : it must 
be wiped diy immediately after it is drawn 
from the meat, and washed and scoured eveiy 
time it is used. Care should be taken to bal- 
ance the roast properly upon the spit, but, if 
not exactly right, it is better to make it equal 
by fastening on a leaden-headed skewer dian 
to pierce it again. The fij'e should be pre- 
pared by putting on plenty of coals at the 
back. When put down, it should be about 
'ten inches from the fire, and gradually drawn 
nearer. It is first basted w ith a little butter 
or fi'esh dripping, and then well basted with 
its own fat all the time it i. roasting. Ten 
minutes before serving, it should be sprinkled 
with a little salt, then dredged w'ith flour, and 
basted till it is frothed. When it is diawn 
from the spit some gravy will run out, to 
which may lie added a little boiling salt-and- 
water pom'ed along tlie bone: the beef is then 
garnished with plenty of finely scraped horse- 
radish. A sirloin, weighing about fifteen 
pounds, should be roasted for diree hours and 
a half. A thinner piece of the same weight 
recjuires only three horns. In cold weather 
meat requires longer roasting than in warm, 
and if newly killed than if it has beer kept. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (1) Take about 
eleven pounds of the mouse buttock, or clod 
of beef, or a blade-bone, or the sticking-piece, 
jr the like weight of the breast of veal; cut 
it into pieces of three or four ounces each ; put 



tliree or four ounces of beef drippings, and 
mince a couple of large onions, and put thera 
into a la]-ge deep stewpan ; as soon as it is 
quite hot, flour die meat, put it into the stew- 
pan, keep stirring it with a wooden spoon; 
when it has been on about ten minutes, dredge 
it with flour, and keep doing so till you have 
stirred in as much as you tldnk will diickea 
it; then cover it with boiling water (it will 
take about a gallon), adding it by degrees, 
and stirring it together ; skim it when it boils, 
and then put in one diachm of ground black 
pepper, two of allspice, and two bay leaves; 
set the pan'by the side of the fii'e, or at a dis- 
tance over it and let it stew \evy slowly for 
about thjee horns ; when you find the meat 
sufficiently tender, put it into a tureen, and 
it is ready for table. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (2) Take the 
bone out of a small round of fine ox beef, cut 
some fat bacon in long strips, dip diem into 
common and sliallot vinegar mixed, and roll 
diem in the following seasoning: Grated nut- 
meg, black and Jamaica pepper, one or two 
cloves, and some salt, parsley, chives, lemon- 
thyme, notted marjoram, and savoury, shred 
quite small. Lard the beef xery thickly, bind 
it firmly with tape, and rub the outside with 
the seasoning. Put it into a saucepan, with 
the rind of a lemon, four large onions, the red 
part of tlu-ee or fom" carrots, and two turnips 
cut into dice; add a tea-cupfld of strong ale 
and one of vinegar ; let it slew for six or eight 
hours, turning it two t r three times. Half 
an hour before sening, take out the beef and 
vegetables, skim off the fat, strain die sauce, 
and thicken it with a little flour-and-water 
mixed snioodi, add a tea-cupful of Port wine, 
return it all into die pot, and let it boil. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (3) Take a rump 
or piece of beef, bone it,J)eat it well and lard 
it with fat bacon, then put it into a stewpan 
with some riitd of bacon, a calf's foot, an 
onion, caiTot, a bunch cf sweet herbs, a bay 
leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, some cloves, 
salt, and pepper, pour over die w hole a glass 
of water, let it stew over a slow fire for six 
hoiu's at least. A clean cloth should be 
placed over die stew pan before the lid is 
put on, which must be carefiil'y closed. 
When it is done, strain the gravy tluough a 
sieve, clear off die fat, and serve. 

BEEF ALADAUBE. Take a round, 

a rump, or a veiny piece of beef, lard it with 

bacon, half roast it, or fry it brown; put it 

into a stewpan or a pot that will just hold 

it; add some gravy, an oinon stuck widi 

! cloves, half a pint of white wine, a gill of 

I vinegar, a bunch of sweet lierbs, pepper 

cloves, mace, and salt; cover it down very 

I close, let it but just simmer till it is tender, 



BEE 



12 



BEE 



take two ox palates, two sweetbreads, truf- 
fles, morels, artichoke bottoms, stew them all 
together in some gra\'y, and pour over the 
beef; have ready some forced meat balls fried, 
make some long, others round, dip some sip- 
pets into baiter, fry and cut tliem three cor- 
ner ways, and stick them into the meat; lay 
the balls round the dbh. 

BEEF ALABRAISE. (1) Bone a 
nmip of beef; lard it very thickly with salt 
pork seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, 
and allspice, and season tlie beef with pepper 
and salt; put some slices of bacon into the 
b(jttom of the pan, with some whole black pep- 
per, a little allspice, one or two bay leaves, two 
onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of 
sweet lierbs. Put in the beef, and lay over it 
some slices of bacon, t\vo quarts of weiik 
stock, and half a pint of white wine. Cover 
it closely, and let it stew between six and 
seven hours. Sauce for the beef is made of 
part of tiie liquor it has been stewed in, 
strained, and thickened with a little flour and 
butter, adding some green onions cut small, 
and pickled mushrooms. It is poiued hot 
over tlie beef. 

BEEF ALABRAISE. (2) After a 
rump of beef has hung far five or six days, 
bone, and lard it diickly, but so as not to ap- 
pear upon the surface, with bits of salt pork 
or ham cut about half an inch square, and 
rolled in the following seasoning well mixed: 
— I'inely minced onion, paisley, thyme, a lit- 
tle garlic, pepper, and salt. "NVhat is left over 
of the seasoning add to a pint of \inegar, one 
uf Port wine, and a tea-cupful of salad oil; 
steep the beef in this for one night; the fol- 
lowing day paper it, and roast it in a cradle 
spit. Baste it well, and serve it with a thick 
brown g^'avy. A little lemon-juice and sliced 
pickled cucumbers may be added. Garnish 
with slices of buikd carrot and scraped horse- 
radish. 

BEEF ALANGLAISE. Take a rump 
of beef, or any piece you like better of the 
same size; lie it up neatly with packthread, 
and i)ut it into a stew pan with two or three 
carrots, a parsnip, three or foiu- onions, a 
bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of 
garlic, a bay leaf, tliyme, and basil ; moisten 
w itli some slock or water, season, and let 
the beef stew gently till half done, then put in 
a few small cabbages, prepared in tlie follow- 
ing manner; boil a large cabbage, and hav- 
ing stjueezed it perfectly dry, talve off the 
lea\ es one by one, and put widiin each leaf 

lilile veal or other forcemeat, surrounding 
it with three or four more of the leaves, in 
euch a manner as to form little cabbages, 
something larger than an egg ; tie these with 
Dacktljread, and let tliem be stewed with the 



beef. When the whole is done, clean away 
the outside loose fat, and put your beef in a 
dish, cut tlie little cabbages in half, and place 
them round the dish, with die cut side out- 
ward. Take a little of the stew, strain it 
through a sieve, and having skimmed off the 
fat, add a little cuUis to thicken it. Reduce 
this o\er the fire to the consistence of a sauce, 
serving it oAer tlie meat and cabbages. 

BEEF BALLS. Mince veiy finely a 
piece of tender beef, fat and lean ; mince an 
onion, with some boiled parsley; add gi'ated 
bread crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, 
giated nutmeg, and lemon-|:eel ; mix all to- 
gether, and moisten it witli an egg l)eaten; 
roll it into balls ; flour and fry tliem in boil- 
ing fresh dripping. Ser^e them wiUi filed 
bread crumbs, or with a thickened brown 
gravy. 

BEEF BOUILLL (1) In pUin Eng- 
lish, is understood to mean bftiled 1 eef ; but 
its culinary acce[-tation, in tlie Fiench kitch- 
en, is fresh beef diessed without boiling, and 
only very gently simmered by a bloAv fire. 
Cooks have seldom any notion, tliat good soup 
can be made without destroying a great deal 
of meat ; however, by a judicious regulation 
of the fire, and a vigilant attendance on tlie 
soup-kettle, this may be accomplished. You 
shall have a tureen of such soup as will satisij' 
the most fastidious palate, and the meat make 
its appearance at table, at the same time, in 
possession of a full portion of nutritious succu- 
lence. This recjuircs nothing more than to 
stew the meat very slowly (instead of keeping 
the pot boiling a gallop, as common cooks 
too commonly do), and to take it up as soon 
as it is done enough. See " Soup and 
bouilli," " Beef Shin stewed," " Scotch 
bailey brotli." JMeat cooked in this manner 
affords much more nourishment than it does 
dressed in the common way, is easy of diges- 
tion in proportion as it is tender, and an in- 
vigorating, substantial diet, especially \alua- 
ble to the poor, w hose laborious employments 
require support. 

BEEF BOUILLI. (2) Take a rimip 
of beef, or part of one ; bone and tie it togeth- 
er in a neat form, and put it into a pot, with 
any odd bits of butcher's meat you may hap- 
pen to have in die house, either beef, veal, or 
mutton; you may add, also, tlie bones, feet, 
and necks of poultry or game, the meat of 
which lias been taken fov other dishes ; place 
your p )t on a moderate fue, not quite full of 
water, and skim gently. When it has boiled 
a short time, put in some salt, turni|;s, six 
carrots, and six onions, into one of which you 
should stick tliree cloves; add a bimch of 
leeks. Let tlie whole boil gently, till the beei 
is perfectly done ; then take it out, and servo 



BEE 



13 



BEE 



it up eitlier with fresh parsley, witli a sauce^ 
or witli onions or other vegetables. 

BEEF BROSE. After any large piece 
of lyecX has lieen taken out of tlie pot it was 
boiled in, skim oft' the fat with part of the 
li(luor, and boil it in a saucepan. Have 
ready in a bowl oataieal that has been toasted 
brown before the fire, pour in the boiling 
liquor and stir it a little; if too thick, add 
more liquor, and send it to table quite hot. 

BEEF BAKED. Let a buttock of beef 
which has been in salt about a week, be well 
washed and put into an earthen pan, with a 
pint of water; cover the pan tight wiUi two 
or three sheets o( foolscap paper — let it bake 
four or five houis in a moderately lieated 
oven. 

BEEF BAKED WITH POTATOES. 

Boil some potatoes, peel, and pound them in 
a mortar with one or two small onions; 
moisten them with millv and an egg beaten 
up; add a little salt and pepper. Season 
slices of beef, or mutton chops, with salt and 
pepper, and more onion, if the fiavor is ap- 
proved; rub the bottom of a pudding dish 
with butter, and put a layer of the mashed 
potatoes, which should be as thick as a bat- 
ter, and then a layer of meat, and so on al- 
ternately till the dish is filled, ending widi 
potatoes. Bake it in an oven for one hour. 

BEEF TO COLLAR. Cut off the end 
of a brisket of beef, and bone it ; sprinkle it 
wiU) salt and saltpetre, and let it lie a week ; 
mix together some gi'ated nutmeg, Jamaica 
and black pepper, some chopped lemon thyme, 
sweet marjoram, and parsley ; strew it over 
the meat, roll it up hard, sew it in a cloth, 
put it into a large jar of water, tie it closely, 
and bake it in an oven ; take it out of the 
jar and press it with a heavy weight. When 
it is quite cold, take off the clotli, and keep 
it dry. 

BEEF BROTH. {See Broth.) 

BEEF, COLD RUMP STEAKS TO 
WARM. Lay them in a stewpan, with 
one large caion cut in quarters, six berries 
of allspice, the same of black j^epper, cover 
the steaks with boiling water, let them stew 
gently one hour, thicken the liquor with floiu- 
av.d butter rubbed together on a plate ; if a 
pint of gravy, about one ounce of flour, and 
the like weight of butter, will do ; put it into 
the stewpan, shake it well over Uie fire for 
rive minutes, and it is ready ; lay the steaks 
and onions on a dish and pour the gravy 
tJu'ough a sieve over them. 



BEEF CULLIS. 



(See Cullis.) 
2 



BEEF, COLD TENDERLOIN. (1) 

Cut off entire the inside of a large sirloin of 
beef, brown it all over in a stewpan, dien 
add a quart of water, half apint of Port wine, 
a tea-cupfiil of strong beer, two table-spoonfuls 
of vinegar, some pepper, salt, and a large 
onion finely minced; cover die pan closely, 
and let it stew till the beef be very tender 
Garnish with pickles. 

BEEF, COLD TENDERLOIN. (2) 

Cut oft' the meat, with a little of the fat, into 
strips three inches long and half an inch 
thick ; season with pepper and salt, dredge 
them with flour, and fry them brown in but- 
ter ; then simmer them in a rich brown gravy ; 
add of inusluoom catchup, onion, and shallot 
vinegar, a table-spoonful each. Gainish 
with fiied parsley. 

I BEEF FILLET IN MADEIRA. Lard 
a good fillet of beef, the same as for roasting, 
join the ends together, and place it in this 
manner in a stewpan, with some onions, car- 
rots, and a bouquet garni, some consomme 
and Madeira, cover it with a buttered paper ; 
let it boil for a moment, and afterwards let 
it boil slowly. Put fire upon the top of your 
stewpan. When it is done strain the broth 
through a silk sieve, reduce it, and serve it 
as a sauce to your meat. 

BEEF FILLET ROASTED. Thisfil- 
let lies only in the inside of the sirloin next 
to the chine, and is the tenderest part of the 
ox ; spit this on a small spit, but do not run 
it dirough the best part of the meat : roast it 
gently, and baste it with butter ; catch gravy 
in a dish while the beef is roasting; in the 
meantime make a sauce for it with sweet 
herbs and parsley slu-ed fine, the yoll<s of four 
eggs, an onion, and some orange-peel cliop- 
l^ed small ; put these into sweet butter, gravy, 
a spoonful or two of strong brodi and vine- 
gar, stew them all together. Put your beef 
into diis sauce, and serve it hot. 

BEEF FRICANDEAU. Take a nice 
bit of lean beef, lard it widi bacon, seasoned 
widi pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. 
Put it into a stewpan witli a pint of broth, 
a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all 
sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlick, a 
shallot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. 
When the meat is become tender, cover it 
close; skim the sauce well, and strain it. 
Set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is re 
duced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with 
this, and ser\'e the meat on sorrel sauce. 

BEEF GOBBETS. Take about six 
pounds of any piece of beef, except die leg or 
shin, cut it >^.jto pieces about the size of a hen's 
egg, put them into a stewpan, and just covei 



BEE 



14 



BEE 



them with water, put tliem over the fiie, and 
when tlie ocum rises, skim it clear off, then 
put in some cloves, mace, allspice, and whole 
pepper, tied in a muslin, six iieads of celery, 
cut an inch long and well washed, a carrot 
or two cut in slices, two tiunips cut ia dice, 
a bundle of sweet herbs, some pej)per and 
salt, and a crust of bread ; stew it till the 
meat is tender, and then take out the spice, 
herbs, and bread ; have some crusts of Fi'encli 
roll crisped before the lire, put them in a dish, 
and put the meat, &c. over them. You put 
in two ounces of Scotch bailey or rice when 
you put in the herbs. 

BEEF GRAVY. (See Gravy.) 

BEEF H-BONE. Is to be managed in 
exactly the same manner as the round, but 
will be sooner boiled, as it is not so solid. 
An H-bone of 201bs. will be done enough in 
about foiu- houj-s ; of lOibs. in three hours, 
moi'e or less, as the weatlier is hotter or 
colder. Be sure tlie boiler is big enough to 
allow it plenty of water-room : let it be well 
covered with water: set the pot on one side 
of the fire to boil gently: if it boils quick at 
first, no art can make it tender after. The 
slower it boils, the better it will look, and 
tlie tenderer it will be. The same accom- 
panying vegetables as in "Beef Salt Round." 
Dress plenty of carrots, as cold carrots are a 
general favorite witli cold beef. Idem. — 
Ei)icures say, that the soft, fat-like marrow, 
which lies on the back, is delicious when hot, 
and the hard fat about the upper corner is 
best when cold. 

BEEF HASHED. (1) Take tlnee or 
four onions, chop them very line, and put diera 
into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and 
a liitle flour ; stir it over the fire tiU nearly 
done and well browned; then moisten them 
with a little stock and half a glass of wine, 
adding some salt and coarse jTei^pcr ; let them 
stew till they are thoroughly done, and very 
little sauce remains ; tiien put in the cold 
beef, minced small, and let the whole sim- 
mer till it has taken the flavor of tlie onion. 
When you serve, add a spoonful of mustard 
and a little vinegar. 

BEEF HASHED. (2) Cut some of 
the underdone part of tlie beef, in slices, 
widi some of Uie fat, put it into a mall 
stewpan, with some onion or shallot, (a 
very little will do), a little water, pepper, 
and salt: boil it tiU the onion is quite soft, 
then put some of tlie gravy of the meat to it, 
and the hash. Do not let it boil ; have a 
small hot dish widi sippets of bread ready, 
and put tlie hasli into it, but first mix a large 
spoonful of vinegar vviUi it ; if shallot vinegar 
is used tliere will be no need of the onion or 



raw shallot. You may add a spoonful of 
walnut liquor or catchup. Obser\e, that it 
is owing to boiling hashes or minces, dial 
they get hard. All sorts of stews, oi' meal 
dressed a second time, should be only sim- 
mered ; and diis last only hot tluough. 

BEEF HAM. Rub a little common salt 
over a piece of beef of about twenty pounds 
weight ; take out die bone, and in one or two 
days, rub well into die teef the following in- 
gredients, finely pounded and well mixed: 
— two ounces of sal-prunella, four ounces of 
brown sugar, six ounces of bay salt, one 
ounce of white pepper, and of cloves and nut- 
meg, a quaiter of an ounce each ; tlien strew 
over it half a pound of common salt. Let it 
lie fifteen days, turning it daily. It is then 
hang up ; or when taken out of the pickle, it 
may be boiled, and allowed to stand till cold 
in the water in which it was boiled ; or it 
may be baked in a deep dish, covered with 
a coarse paste. 

BEEF HEART, TO ROAST. Wash 

it well, and clean all the blood carefully fi'om 
the pipes: jjarboil it ten or fifteen minutes in 
boiling water; drip the water from It; put 
in a stuffing which has been made of bread 
crumbs, minced suet or butter, sweet marjo- 
ram, lemon thyme, and parsley, season- 
ed with salt, pepper, and niitmeg. Tut it 
down to roast while hot, baste it well with 
butter, froth it up, and serve it \\ ith melted 
butter and vinegar; or with gravy in the 
dish, and current jelly in a saiice-tuieen. 
To hash it, follow die directions given for 
liai-e. 

BEEF HUNG, BURGESS'S METH- 
OD OF BOILING. Hung beef for grat- 
ing should be put en in boiling water, and, 
to preserve the color, kept boiling as fast as 
possible. Allow for six pounds of beef one 
hour and a half. It will keep good for a 
length of time. 

BEEF, HUNTING. Rub well into a 
round of beef weighing about foity pounds, 
three ounces of saltpetre ; let it stand five or 
six liours; pound three ounces of allspice, 
one of black pepper, and mix Uiem with two 
pounds of salt, and seven ounces of brown su- 
gar. Rub the beef all over with die salt and 
spices, let it remain fourteen days, and evei-y 
odier day turn and rub it wiUi die pickle; 
dien wash oft the spices, and put it into a 
deep pan. Cut small nearly six pounds of 
beef suet, put some into die bottom of the 
pan, but the greater part upon die top of the 
beel. Cover it with a coarse paste, and 
baJie it eight lioui's. When cold, take off 
the crust, and pour off" the gravy. Ii w ill 
keto good for tlu-ee mondis. Presoive the 



BEE 



15 



BEE 



gravy, as a little of it improves the flavor of 
liashes, soups, or any made dishes. 

BEEF KIDNEY. Take some kidneys, 
cut them into thin slices, and broil them witli 
a piece of butter, some salt, pepper, parsley, 
and green onions, and acloveof garlick,the 
whole sjiould be shred fine; when tliey are 
sufficiently done, take diem off the fire (they 
should not broil too long, or tliey will become 
tough) ; add, when you serve tb.em, a few 
drops of vinegar and a little cullis. Beef 
kidneys may likewise be served, widi shallot 
sauce, or sauce piquante. 



BEEF 

Sauce.) 



KIDNEY SAUCE. (See 



BEEF MINCED. (1) Take some cold 
roasted fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and 
suet, then chop the meat as fine as possible, 
and put it into a reduced Spanish sauce made 
boiling hot ; when ready to serve, add a bit 
of butter to it. Serve your mince with soft 
boiled eggs round it, or with pieces of toast- 
ed bread. 

BEEF MINCED. (2) Mince yoiir 
beef very small; put it into a saucepan with 
a little gravy and a little of the fat of 
fowl or any other fat, moisten it with some 
stock and a little white wine ; season accord- 
ing to your taste, then let it simmer over a 
gentle fue till it is sufficiently done. 

BEEF OLIVES. Cut the beef into long 
thin steaks; prepare a forcemeat made of 
bread-crumbs, minced beef suet, chopped 
parsley, a little grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt ; bind it with tlie yolks of 
eggs beaten ; put a layer of it o\er each steak ; 
roll and tie them \\'ith thread. Fiy them 
lightly in beef dripping ; put tliem in a stew- 
pan with some good brown gravy, a glass of 
white wine, and a litde Cayenne; diicken it 
widi a little flour and butter ; cover the pan 
closely, and let them stew gently an hou>\ 
Before serving, add a table-spoonful of mush- 
room catchup ; garnish widi cut pickles. 

BEEF AND OYSTER SAUSAGES. 

Scald three-quarters of a pint of oysters in 
their own lifjuor ; take them out and chop them 
finely; mince one pound of beef and mutton, 
and three-quarters of a pound of beef suet; 
add die oysters, and season with salt, pepper, 
mace, and two cloves pounded ; beat up two 
eggs, and mix them well with the other ingre- 
dients, and par-k it cltjt^ely into ajar. When 
to be used, roll it into the firm of small sau- 
sages ; dip diem into the yolk of an egg beat- 
en up; strew grated bread crumbs over them, 
or dust v/itli flour, and fry them in fresh 
•iiipping. Serve them upon fried bread hot. 



BEEF PRESSED. Salt a piece of bris- 
ket (thin part of the flank) or the tops of die 
ribs, widi salt and saltpetre, five days, then 
boil it gently till extremely tender; put it 
under a great weight, or in a cheese press, 
till perfectly cold. It eats excellently cold, 
and for sandwiches. 

BEEF POTTED. Take three pounds 
of lean beef, salt it two or three days with 
half a pound of common salt, and half an 
ounce of saltpetre ; divide it into pieces of a 
pound each, and put it into an earthen pan 
just sufficient to contain it ; pour in half a 
pint of water ; cover it close with paste, and 
set it in a verj' slow oven for four houis: when 
taken from the oven pour the gravy fiom it 
into a basin, shred the meat fine, moisten it 
with the gravy poured from the meat, and 
pound it dioroughly in a marble mortar with 
fresh butter, till it becomes a fine paste, sea- 
son it with black pepper and allspice, or 
cloves pounded, or grated nutmeg; put it in 
pots, press it down as close as possible, put 
a weight on it, and let it stand all night; 
next day, when it is quite cold, cover it a 
quarter of an inch diick with clarified butter, 
and tie it over with paper. 

BEEF SALT ROUND. As diis i.? 
too large for a moderate family, we shall 
write directions for the dressing half a round. 
Get the tongue side. Skewer it up tight and 
round, and tie a fillet of broad tape round it, 
to keep the skewers in their places. Put it 
into plenty of cold Avater, and carefiilly 
catch the scum as soon as it rises: let it boil 
till all the scum is removed, and then put t!ie 
boiler on one side of the ilre, to keep sim- 
mering slowly till it is done. Haifa round 
of 151bs. will take about three hours: if it 
weighs more, give it more time. Wlien you 
take it up, if any stray scum, &c. sticks ^o 
it that has escaped the vigilance of your skim- 
mer, wash it off with a paste-brush: garnish 
the dishes Avith carrots and turnips. Send 
up carrots, turnips, and parsnips, or greens 
&c. on separate dishes. Peas pudding, and 
MY PUDDING, are all very proper accom- 
paniments. N. B. — The outside slices, 
which are generally too much salted and too 
much boiled, Avill make a very good relish a^s 
potted beef. For using up tlie remains of a 
joint of boiled beef, see also Bubble and 
Squeak. 

BEEF RAGOUT. Take a rump of beef, 
cut the meat from the bone, flour and fry it, 
pour over it a little boiling water, about a 
pint of small beer; add a carrot or two, an 
onion stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, 
salt, a piece of lemon-peel, a bunch of sweet 
herbs; let it stew an hour, Uien add some 
good gravy ; when die meat is tender take it 



BEE 



16 



BEE 



«ut, strain the sauce, tliicken it with a little 
flour; add a little celery ready boiled, a little 
catcliup, put in the meat, just simmer it up. Or 
tlie celery may be omitted, and the ragout en- 
riched by adding mushrooms fresh or pickled, 
artichoke-bottoms boiled and quartered, and 
hard yolks of eggs. A piece of flank, or 
any piece that can be cut free from bone, 
will do instead of the rump. 

BEEF RISSOLES. Chop finely a 
pound of lean tender beef, and a quarter of a 
pound of beef suet ; poiuid them in a maible 
mortar; mix with it a quarter of a pound of 
grated bread, a little onion, and a head of 
garlick bruised ; season with salt and pepper; 
bind it with three eggs well beaten ; make it 
up into small cakes, fry them of a light brown, 
then stew them in gravy for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

BEEF RIBS BONED AJVD ROLLED. 

When you have kept two or tlii'ee ribs of 
beef till quite tender, take out the bones, and 
skewer it as round as possible (like a fillet 
of veal): before they roll it, some cooks egg 
it, and sprinkle it widi veal stuffing. As the 
meat is more in a solid m.ass, it will require 
more time at the fire ; a piece of tenor twelve 
pounds weight will not be well and thoroughly 
roasted in less than four and a half hours. 
For tlie first half hour, it should not be less 
than twelve inches from the fire, that it may 
get gradually warm to tlie centre: the last 
half hour l)efore it will be finished, sprinkle 
a little salt over it; and if you wish to frotli 
itj flour it, &.C. 

BEEF RUMP BAKED. Take a rump 
of l)eef, what size you please, bone and lard 
it, season it with salt and fine spices put it 
into a stewpan just large enough to hold it, 
together with half a pint of white wine, some 
green onions, mushrooms, and shallots ; some 
lean bacon is an improvement. Close die 
edges of the pan with a strong paste ; let it 
stew in an oven for five or six hours according 
to the size of \'our meat, then serve it witii 
its own sauce strained. You may dress a sir- 
loin in the same Avay. 

BEEF RUMP TO §>JEW. (1) Bind 
the teef tightly, stick in four cloves, and put 
it in a saucepan, with three quarts of water, 
a quarter of an ounce of black pepper half 
beaten, some salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
and three anchovies ; turn it often, and when 
half done take it out, pour off the licjuor ; put 
in the l)eef again, with a pint of Port wine 
and half a pint of table l>eer made scalding 
hot, and some of the liquor strained ; stew it 
till tender, cleaj- off die fat, and if tlie sauce 
is not strong enough, add well-seasoned beef 
gravy ; thicken it with fioui* rubbed down in 



a little cold water. Dish the beef, and pour 
y round it. 



the gra\ 



BEEF RUMP TO STEW. (2) Tie 

up the beef, and put it on to stew with nearly 
as much cold water as will cover it; add three 
pounds of fat bacon cut into slices, a handfiil 
of thjine, eight onions, four small carrots, 
two turnips, two or three bay leaves, some 
black pepper, a little allspice, mace, and 
three cloves, a pint of Port wine and one of 
Sherry. Let it stew gently between seven 
and eight hours. Take out tlie beef, strain 
the liquor, and skim off all the fat ; thicken 
it with a little floiu- rubbed down in cold 
water, boil it up, and pour it over the beef. 
Have ready carrots and turnips, cut accord- 
ing to fancy, and boiled tender in weak gra- 
vy, and put them round the beef before seiT- 



B E E F RL MP-STEAKS STEWED. 

The steaks must be a litt'e thicker than for 
bruiling: let them be all die same thickness, 
or some will be done too litde, and others too 
much. Put an ounce of butter into a stew- 
pan, with two onions; when the bi;;er is 
melted, lay in the rump-steaks, let them stand 
over a slow fire for five minutes, then turn 
them and let die other side of them fry for 
five minutes longer. Have ready boiled a 
pint of button onions; tliey will take from 
half an hour to an hour; put the Ii(|uor tliey 
were boiled in to die steaks; if theie is not 
enough of it to cover them, add broth or boil- 
ing water, to make up enough for that j)urpose, 
with a dozen corns of black pepper, and a 
little salt, and let tliem simmer very gently 
for about an hour and a half, luid then strain 
off as much of the lifjuor (about a [lint and 
a half) as you think u ill make the sauce. 
Put two ounces of Inittcr into a stewpan ; 
when it is melted, stir in as much flour as 
will make it into a stiff paste; some add 
thereto a table-spoonful of claret, or Port 
wine, the same of mushroom catchup half a 
tea-spoonful of salt and a (juarter of a tea- 
spoonful of ground blac-k pepper: add the 
liquor by degrees; let it boil up for fifteen 
minutes; skim it, and strain it; serve up the 
steaks with the onions round the dish,and pour 
the gravy over. Veal cutlets or mutton clioj:s 
may be done the same way, or as veal oUves. 

BEEF RUMP-STEAK BROILED 
WITH ONION GRAVY. Peel and slice 
two large onions, put them into a quart stew- 
pan, with two table-spoonfuls of water ; cover 
the stewpan close, and set it on a slow fiie 
till the water has boiled away, and the onions 
have got a little browned ; then add half a 
pint of good broth, and boil the onions tijl 
diey are tender ; strain the broth from them, 
and chop them very fine, and season it »fitli 



BEEF 



17 



BEEF 



mushroom catchup, pepper, and salt: put the 
onion into it, and let it boil gently for five 
tnintilr?; pour it into the disii,and!ay over it 
a liroiled iiiinp steak. If instead of Ijroth 
you use good beef gravy, it will be super- 
lative. 

BEEF SAUSAGES. Take two beef 
steaks about the size of two hands, and the 
thi(;kness of a finger; beat them well to make 
them fiat, and pare the edges of them ; then 
mince the parings with beef suet, parsley, 
green onions, mushrooms, t\vo shallots, and 
some basil leave,^, the whole slired fine, and 
mixed into a f >rcemeat with the yolks of foiu* 
eggs; spread tiiis f)rcemeat on the slices of 
beef, and roll them up in the form of sausages ; 
tie them up with packthread, and stew them 
with a little stock, a glass of wine, some salt, 
pepper, an onion stuck with two or three 
cloves, a carrot, and a parsnip; when they 
are done, strain the liijuor ; and, having 
skimmed off" the fat, reduce it over the fire 
to the consistence of a sauce. Take care 
that the sauce is not too higly flavored, and 
serve it over your sausages ; or they may be 
served with any ragout of vegetables you 
please. To serve the sausages cold, to make 
a dish for the second course, i educe th6 sauce 
by letting it boil with the sausages till almost 
all the fat is consumed ; then let them stand 
to cool with what remains of the sauce ad- 
hering to them, and serve upon a napkin. 

BEEF, SHORT OR SPICED. (To 

be eaten cold.) Hang up ten or twelve 
pounds of the middle part of a brisket of 
beef for three or four days, then rub well into 
it three ounces of finely powdered saltpetre, 
and, if spice is approved of, one ounce of 
allspice, and half an ounce of black pepper; 
let it stand all night, then salt it with three 
pounds of well-pounded bay salt, and half a 
pound of treacle, in which let it remain ten 
days, rubbing it daily. When it is to be 
boiled, sew it closely in a cloth, let the water 
only simmer, upon no account allowing it to 
boil, for nine hours over a slow fire, or upon a 
stove. Whe.i taken out of the water, place 
two sticks across die pot, and let the beef stand 
over the steam for lia.lf an hour, turning it 
from side to side, then press it with a heavy 
weight. It must not be taken out of die 
cloth till perfectly cold. 

" BEEF SOUP. {See Soup.) 

BEEF, SPRING GARDEN. Cut a 

piece of lean beef into diin slices like Scotch 
collops, lard it diick with bacon, and put it 
into a pan with salt, pepper, mace, two or 
three bay leaves, atid a hunch of sweet herbs ; 
bake it ; then clear out all the gravy, and fill 
U up with clarified butter. 
2* 



BEEF TO SALT FOR IMMEDIATE 

USE. Salt a round of beef moderately up- 
on ihe tops and sides, put it upon sticks, or 
the tongs of a clieese-tiil), over a tub of cold 
water, and Uie salt will be drawn dirough it, 
so that it will be fit for boiling next day. 

ANOTHER METHOD IS— To rub 

for half an hour into any piece of beef a good 
(]uantity of salt, and let it lie for three or 
four days without touching it, wlien it may 
be used. 

BEEF SIRLOIN. The noble sirloin of 
about fifteen pounds (if much thicker, the out- 
side will be done too much before the inside 
is enough), will require to be before the fire 
about three and a half or four hours ; take 
care to spit it evenly, that it may not be 
lieavier on one side than the other ; put a little 
clean dripping into the drippingpan, (tie a 
sheet of paper over it to preserve t!ie fat), 
baste it well as soon as it is put down, and 
every (juarter of an hour all the time it is 
roasting, till the last half hour ; then take 
oflT die paper, and make some gravy for it ; 
stir the fire and make it clear: to brown and 
froth it, sprinkle a little salt over it, baste it 
with butter, and dredge it with flom-; let it 
go a few minutes longer, till the froth rises, 
take it up, put it on die dish, Sec. Garuisli it 
with hillocks of horse-radish, scraped as fine 
as possible with a very sharp knife. A York- 
shira pudding is an excellent accompaniment. 

BEEF SHIN STEWED. Desire tlie 
butcher to saw the bone into three or four 
pieces, put it into a stewpan, and just cover 
it with cold water; when it simmers, skim 
it clean ; then put in a bundle of sweet herbs, 
a large onion, a head of celeiy, a dozen ber- 
ries of black pepper, and the same of allspice: 
stew very gently over a slow fire till the meat 
is tender ; this will take from about three 
hours and a half, to fijur and a half. Take three 
carrots, peel and cut them into small squares ; 
peel and cut ready in small squares a couple 
of turnips, with a couple of dozen of small 
young round silver button onions ; boil them, 
till tender ; the turnips and onions will be 
enough in about fifteen minutes; the carrots 
will require a!)out twice as long: drain them 
dry. When the beef is quite tender, take it 
out carefiilly with a slice, and put it on a dish 
while vou thicken a pint and a half of the gra- 
vy: to do this, mix three talile-spoonfuls of 
flour with a tea-cu])ful of the beef liquor ; stir 
this thorouglily togedier till it boils, skim off 
the fat, strain it through a sieve, and put your 
vegetables in to warm; season with pepper, 
salt, a'.id a wine-glass of mushroom catchup, 
or Port wine, or both, ana ) our >t over die 
beef. Dr. Kitchener commends this dish as 
one of the very best that »'aa be caj'riea lo 



BEEF 



lb 



BEER 



table, and advises it be called Ragout Beef. 
A LKG OF Mutton is excellent dressed 
tlie same way. 

BEEF STEAKS, BROILED. Cut 
tlie steaks off a rump or the ribs of a fore 
quarter; beat diem well with a rolling-pin. 
Have the gridiron peifectly clean and heated 
over a clear quick fire ; lay on the steaks, 
and, with meat tongs, keep turning them con- 
stantl}', till they are done enough ; tlirow a 
little salt over them a little before taking them 
off the fire. Serve them as hot as possible, 
plain, or with a made gravy and sliced on- 
ion, or rub a bit of butter upon the steaks 
the moment of serving. Mutton chops are 
broiled in the same manner. 

BEEF STEAKS, STEWED. Fry the 

steaks in a little butter; take them out of the 
pan, and fry in it a minced onion ; return the 
steaks, with i little boiling water or gi'avy, 
some pepper, salt, and a table-sfioonful of vin- 
egar ; stew them gently for two or three hours ; 
thicken the sauce widi butter rolled in flour ; 
and serve witli or without pickles. 

BEEF STEAK PIE. (See Pie.) 

BEEF STEAK PUDDING. (See 
Pudding.) 

BEEF STEAKS, DRESSED. Cut 

thin steaks, longer than they are broad, off a 
rump ; beat diem with a rolling-pin ; season 
them with pepper, salt, and finely minced 
onion ; roll and tie thetn with a thread ; cut 
tliein even at the ends ; fi'y them brown with 
a little butter ; make a sauce with a piece of 
butter biowned with flour, some gravy or 
water, a minced onion, pepper, and salt. 
Boil it, and add the steaks, and let them stew 
an hour. Before serving, ada some mush- 
room catchupj and take off the threads. 

BEEF, SCARLET. Mix a little mace, 
cloves, alispice, black pepper, and salt- 
petre together, rub it well into two pounds of 
tender lean beef; let it lie six days, tuniing 
it daily, and rubbing it with the pickle; dien 
roll and tie it firmly with tape; put it and 
the pickle into a small jar, with a slice or 
tvi'o of beef suet under aftd over it ; tie it close- 
ly, and bake it an hoiu\ It is eaten cold, 
cut in thin slices, and garnish with parsley, 
'.f long kept, the color fades. 

BEEF STEWED. (1) Stew in five 
quarts of water the middle part of a brisket 
of iieef weighing ten pounds, add two onions 
stuck with two cloves, one head of celery, 
one large carrot, two turnips cut small, a 
handful of sorrel leaves, half an ounce of 
black peppc, and seme salt. Stew it gent- 



ly for six hours. Make a strong gravy with 
carrots and turnips, the tui nips to be scraped 
and fried of a brown color in butter ; add 
pepper, salt, a little Cayenne ; thicken it with 
floui- and butter, and pour it over tlie beef, 
with the carrots and turnips. 

BEEF STEWED. (2) Take ten 
pounds of a brisket of beef, cut die short ribs, 
and put it into a well-buttered saucepan, with 
two large onions, stuck with three or four 
cloves, two or three carrots cut into quarters, 
a bunch of sweei herbs, a small lemon sliced, 
and five quarts of water ; let it stew seven 
hours. Strain and clarify Uie gravy — thicken 
it with butter and flour. Chop the carrots 
with some capers, mushroom catchup, and 
Cayenne. Any other pickle that is liked may 
be added. 

BEEF STOCK. (See Stock.) 

BEEF, MUTTON, OR VEAL TEA. 

Cut a pound of lean graiy meat into thin 
slices ; put it into a quart and half a pint of 
cold water ; set it over a very gentle fire, 
where it will become gradually wanii ; when 
the scum rises, let it continue simmering 
gently for about an hour ; then strain it 
dirough a fine sieve or a napkin ; let it stand 
ten minutes to settle, and tlien pour off the 
clear tea. N. B. — An onion, and a few 
grains of black pepper, are sometimes added. 
If die meat is boiled till it is dioroughly 
tender, you may mince it and pound it and 
make potted beef. 

BEEF TRIPE FRICASSEE. Let 

your tripe be veiy v/hite, cut it into slips, 
put it into some boiled gravy, with a little 
cream and a bit of butter mixed with flour; 
stir it till the butter is melted; add a littk 
white wine, lemon-peel gi'ated, chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt, pickled mush- 
rooms, or lemon-juice; shake all together i 
stew it a little. 

BEER, SPRUCE. When ten gallons 
of water, six pounds of molasses, and diree 
ounces of bruised ginger have boiled togeth- 
er for half an hour, two pounds of die outer 
sprigs of the spruce fir are to be added, and 
boiled for five minutes ; the whole is then to 
be strained tlirough a hair sieve, and when 
milk-wami, put into die cask, and a tea- 
cupful of good yeast stiired well into it. 
When it has fermented a day or two, it is to 
be bunged up, and die following day bot- 
tled. It will be fit for use in a week. The 
ginger is sometimes omitted, and instead 
of the spiiice fii", tliree ounces of the essence 
may be used, which is to be well wnisked, 
together widi the molasses, and a gallon or 
two of vvai'ni water; dien put into the cask. 






B££R 



19 



Bl S 



which is to be filled up with water, and the 
3 east added. 

BEER, SPRUCE. (2) Tlie propor- 
tions are ten gulluns of water, three ([iiarts 
of molasses, a tea-cupful of ginger, the same 
of allspice, three ounces of hops, three 
ounces and a half of the essence of spruce, 
and hah' a pint of good yeast. The hops, 
ginger, and allspice, nuist be boiled togeth- 
er till tile hops fall to tlie bottom ; the molas- 
ses and spruce are then to be dissolved in a 
bucket-full of the liquor, the whole strain- 
ed into a cask, and the yeast well stirred in ; 
when tlie fernientatioji ceases, the cask is 
to be bunged up. 

BEER, BALM. Eleven gallons of 
water and ten pounds of brown sugar are 
to be clarified with the whites of twelve 
eggs, carefully skimmed and boiled till 
nearly reduced to ten gallons ; two pounds 
and a half of the yellow flower of lemon 
balm being put into a cask, the liquor, 
when milk-warm, is to be poured over it, 
and four or five table-spoonfuls of thick 
yeast added. The cask must be filled uji 
morning and evening with what works over 
it, and bunged up when the fermentation 
ceases. In a month the beer may be bottled, 
and in two or three months it will be fit for 
drinking. Half die quantity of the flower 
of lemon balm will probably be found to 
communicate a flavor sufficiently strong, if 
added when the fermentation is nearly over. 

BEER, GINGER. For a ten-gallon 
cask, eleven gallons of water, fourteen 
pounds of sugar, the juice of eighteen lem- 
ons, and one pound of ginger are allowed; 
die sugar and water are boiled widi the 
whites of eight eggs, and well skimmed ; 
just before coinmg to the boiling point, the 
ginger, which must be bruised, is then ad- 
ded, and boiled for twenty minutes; when 
cold, the clear part is put into the cask, to- 
gether with the leinon-juice and two sjjoon- 
llils of yeast ; when it has fermented for 
three or foiu" days, it is fined, bunged up, 
and in a fortnight bottled. It may be made 
vvxdiout tlie fruit. 

BEER, GINGER, QUICKLY MADE. 

A gallon of boiling water is poured o\ev 
threc-(iuarters of a pound of loaf sugar, one 
ounce and a quarter of ginger, and the peel 
of one lemon; when milk-warm, the juice 
of the lemon and a spoonful of yeast are ad- 
'ied. It should be made in the evening, and 
bottled next morning, in half-jiint stone bot- 
tles, and die coik tied down with t\\ ine. 

BEER TO BOTTLE. When the 
brisluiess and liveliness of malt liquors m 



the cask fail, and they become dead and 
vapid, which they generally do soon after 
they are tilted ; let them be bottled. Be 
careful to use clean and dried bottles ; leave 
them unstopped for twelve hours, and Uien 
cork them as closely as possible w\\\\ good 
and sound new corks; put a bit of lump SU' 
<jar as bigr as a nutinesr into each bottle: 
the beer will be ripe, i. e. fine and spark- 
ling, in about four or five weeks: if die 
weather is cold, to put it up the day before 
it is drunk, place it in a room where there 
is a fire. Remember there is a sedinieni. 
&c. at die bottom of the bottles, which vol* 
must carefully avoid disturbing; so poui it 
oft' at once, leaving a wine-glassful at tiie 
bottom. 

*^* If beer becomes hard or stale, a few 
giains of carbonate of potash added to il 
at the time it is drunk will correct it, anc* 
make di"au({ht beer as brisk as bottled ale. 

BEET ROOT, May be either baked 
or boiled; it will take from an hour and a 
half to three hours, according to the size of 
the root, to cook properly. 

BEET ROOT PICKLED. Boil the 
loots tender, peel, and cut them in what 
shape you .please . Put them into a jar, and 
pom" over them a hot pickle of vinegar, pep- 
per, ginger, and sliced horse-radish. You 
may add capsicums and Cayenne. 

BENTON SAUCE. (^See Sauce.) 

BENTON CAKES, (See Cakes.) 

BIRDS POTTED, how to pre- 

SERVE WHEN THEY BEGIN TO GROW 

BAD. When biids have come a great way 
they often smell so bad that they can scarce- 
ly be borne from the rankness of the butter, 
by managing diem in the following manner 
they may be made as good as ever. Set a 
large saucepan of clean water on the fire; 
when it boils take off the butter at die top, 
then take the fowls out one by one, throw 
them into that saucepan of water half a 
minute, whip it out, and dry it in a cloth 
inside and out; continue till they are all 
done, scald the pot clean ; v\ hen the birds 
are quite cold, season diem widi mace, 
pepper and salt, according to taste, put 
them down close in a pot, and poui* claii- 
fied butter over tliem. 

BISCUITS. (1) Weigh eight eggs, an 
equal weight of sugar, and the weight of four 
in flour ; beat up die yolks of five, and put 
them in an eaiilien vessel with some rasped 
lemon-peel and the sugar, beat diem togeth- 
er for a long lime, then add the whites of 
eleven eggs also well beaten, then mix in the 



BIS 



20 



BIS 



flotir by degrees, pour this into paper cases 
of \\hate\er fi^nn and size you please; «trew 
pouder sugar over them, and bake in a cool 
oven. 

BISCUITS. (2) Make a pound of flour, 
file yoik of an egg, and some milk into a 
very stiff paste; beat it well, knead till quite 
smooth, roll very thin and cut into biscuits, 
prick and bake in a slow oven till dry and 
crisp. 

BISCUITS, ALMOND. (1) Blanch 
and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet al- 
monds, spiinkling them occasionally with fine 
sugar; then, heat them up for a quarter of an 
hour with an ounce of flour, the yolks of three 
eggs, and four ounces of fine sugar, adding 
afterwards the whites of four eggs whipped to 
a froth : have ready some paper moulds made 
like b<ixes, about the length of two fingers 
s(]uare ; butter them within, and put in the 
biscuits, throwing over thera equal quantities 
of flour and powdered sugar : bake in a cool 
oven, and when the biscuits are done of a 
good color, take them out of the papers. 
Bitter almond biscuits are made in the same 
manner, with this difference, that to two 
ounces of bitter almonds must be added one 
ounce of sweet almonds. 

BISCUITS, ALMOND. (2) Take 
eiglit ounces of sweet, and as many bitter al- 
monds, fifteen whites, and eight yolks of eggs, 
two ounces of flour, and two pounds of powder 
sugar, pour boiling water on your almonds, 
and almost immediately after turn that away 
and pour cold water on them ; rub off the 
skins one by one with a napkin, then pound 
tliem to a paste in a mortar, moistening them 
with the whites of two eggs. Beat the fif- 
teen whites to a snow, and the eight yolks 
witii half the quantity of the sugar, and then 
mix them with the ahnond paste; put the 
remainder of the sugar into a basin ; sift some 
flour over it ; stir the mixture till all the in- 
gredients ai'e thoroughly incorporated, and 
pour it into small paper cases, glaze them 
with the sugar and flour r^ifted over them. 
Bake them in a pretty waim oven. 

BISCUITS, A.LMOND ( SMALL). 

Beat up the yolks of three eggs for ten min- 
utes, with four ounces of j)owder sugar and 
one ounce of bitter almonds well pounded; 
then add a whole egg, and beat it up five 
minutes longer. Wiiip the whites to a strong 
froth; mix th.em and an ounce and half of 
fine sifted flour with the yolks; work this 
paste well, and dien pour it into small well- 
buttered copjier moulds melon-shaped ; glaze 
litem; sprinkle tiiem with powder sugar, 
and bake for eighteen or twenty minutes in 
R moderate oven. 



BISCUITS, ALMOND (Souffles). 
Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, cut 
them into dice and diy them in the oven. 
Make a glaze with the whites of two new- 
laid eggs ; mix the almonds and a pinch of 
'irisped orange-flowers into this, and put it 
into very small paper cases ; do not fill them 
above half full, as they rise considerably ia 
the oven, and would otherwise fall over and 
spoil their appearance; bake tliem in a 
moderately heated oven. As soon as they 
are pretty firm, they are done. 

BISCUITS, ANISE (SMALL). Wash 

four di'achms of starred anise, and dry it in 
the oven ; work up the yolks of five eggs and 
a quarter of a pound of powder sugar for 
about ten minutes; whip the whites to a 
strong froth, and mix them lightly with the 
yolks : add a quarter of a pound of dry sifted 
flour and the anise ; pour this paste into a 
paper case, eleven inches long by seven wide. 
Bake it in a slow oven for about forty or 
fifty minutes, when, if firm, take it out. As 
soon as it is cold remove the paper, and cut 
the biscuits into whatever forms you please: 
dry them in the oven until they become 
brittle. 

BISCUIT, BREAD. D17 fine flour and 
powder sugar, of each half a pound, tlior- 
oughly: beat up four very fi-esh eggs for ten 
minutes, then add the sugar, beat them ten 
minutes longer, put the flour, and continue 
beating ten minutes more. Butter your bak- 
ing plates and bake. Caraway or aniseed 
may be added, if you please. 

BISCUITS, BUTTER. Make a paste 
as for sweet biscuits, and when you have 
put in the flour, pour over it eight ounces of 
melted butter, after it has cooled a little; 
mix them together a short time with a wood- 
en spoon, and put into buttered moulds, 
which must only be filled three parts, as the 
paste puffs up considerably, and would rise 
liom the moulds, without care. 

BISCUIT CAKE. (See Cake.) 

BISCUITS, CHESTNUT. Take six 
ounces of roasted and skinned chestnuts, a 
little grated lemon-peel, a pound and a ha.f 
of powder sugar, and ten whites of eggs. 
Pound the chestnuts to a paste, and then 
beat it up in an eartlien pan with die other 
ingredients ; when your paste is of a proper 
thickness, take it up with a knife, and lay 
it on paper, and form into biscuits whatev^t 
size you please. Bake them in a moderate 
oven, and when of a nice color take tlieni 
out. Do not remove tliem from the paper 
till tliey are cold. 



BI S 



21 



BI S 



BISCUITS, DROP. (1) Pound and sift 
a pound of fine sugar, take the yolks of seven 
and the wiiites of ten eggs and beat well sepa- 
rately for an hour. Dry and sift a pound of 
fine Hour, and when cold mix it with the 
eggs and sugar, beat all together for a quarter 
of an hour, drop upon paper, sift sugar over, 
and bake them. 

BISCUITS, DROP. (2) Beat a pound 
of sugar, the yolks of four, and whites of two 
eggs, with a little white wine, then put in a 
pound of flour, and a few seeds, mix all well 
togetlier. Butter a paper, lay your batter 
on in spoonfuls, ice them with fine sugar, 
and set tliem in a gentle oven. 

BISCUITS EN CAPSULE. Put half 
a pound of fine sugar into an earthen pan, 
and poiu' over it the yolks of twelve eggs ; 
put the whites into a preserving-pan, and 
whisk them foi* half an hour ; in die mean- 
time the sugar and yolks of eggs must be 
.stirred with a wooden sjjoon, and pour them 
on the whites ; stir them gently, add six 
ounces of fine flour and two of powder sug^ir 
eiffed, and the grated rind of a lemon. Mix 
it all well togedier, but with great care, lest 
the snow of the whites should fall. Witii 
this fill some small buttered moulds, or pa- 
per cases, and bake them in a (luick oven to 
e deep yellow, first sprinkling them with su- 
gar. If they are in moulds, turn them out 
when baked ; but they may remain in the 
paper cases, which need not be buttered. 

BISCUITS, FILBERT. Take half a 
pound of filberts, an ounce of bitter almonds, 
the whites of six, and the yolks of three 
eggs, an ounce of flour, and half a pound of 
sugar; blanch and pound the filljerts and 
almonds, adding, occasionally, a little white 
of egg to prevent their oiling. Beat the 
whites to a snow, then the yolks, mix the 
latter with half the sugar ; beat them well, 
and having mixed the other ingredients to- 
gether, put them into a sieve, and whilst 
yo'i are beating, sift them into the whites; 
when all are thoioughly incorporated, pour 
the preparation into jjaper cases, and bake 
them in a moderate oven. A little grated 
lemon-peel, or any other aromatic ingre- 
dient added to the yolks, greatly improves 
tliese biscuits. 

BISCUIT, FRENCH. Weigh Cive eggs, 
and their Aveight in dried and sifted flour, 
and in finely-pounded loaf sugar; beat the ; 
whites of die eggs to a stiff froth, and by 
degrees beat in tlie sugai and the flour, and , 
then add the beaten yolks ; with a spoon half 
fill yellow tea-cups, previously rubbed with 
butter, and sift loaf sugar over the top. Bake 
them in a quick oven. Or, drop tJie biscuit 



in a round form upon sheets of white pap^ 

buttered ; sift sugar over them. 

BISCUIT, KING'S. Put half a pound 
of butter into a basin, and work it about 
well with a wooden spoon ; break six eggs 
and whisk them well, add a half pound of 
jiowder-sugar, and whisk ten minutes longer, 
and then mix diem with the butter; stir in 
six ounces of currants, and die same of diied 
flour. When all is well mixed, drop it, die 
size of a shilling, on paper, and bake in a 
(}uick oven. Take them olT while hot. 

BISCUIT, LEMAN'S. Sift and di7 
a pound of fine tioiu- ; rub it into a quailer 
of a pound of butter, two ounces of poundec" 
and sifted loaf sugar, and a bit of volatil«> 
salt about the size of a nut; mix in as much 
new milk warmed as will make it into a stiff 
paste; work it well togedier, and let it re- 
main for two or three hours, and then roll it 
out, and make it into small scjtiare biscuits, 
and into round balls a little flattened; prick 
diem with a fork, and bake them upon tins 
in a quick oven. Take care diey do not 
become brown. 

BISCUITS, NAPLES. Put three- 
quarters of a pound of fine flour to a pound 
of fine sifted sugar ; sift bodi together three 
times, then add six eggs beaten well, and a 
spoonful of rose-water; when the oven ia 
nearly hot, bake tliein, but not too wet. 

BISCUIT, THE NUNS. Take the 
whites of twelve eggs, and beat them to a 
froth; a pound of almonds, blanch them, and 
beat them w^idi the froth of the white.'- of 
eggs, as it rises; dien take the yolks, and 
two pounds of fine sugar and beat them well 
together, dien mix the almonds with the 
sugar and eggs ; then add half a pound of 
flour, with the peel of four lemons grated, and 
some citron shred small ; put tlie composition 
in little cakepans, and bake them in a cjuick 
oven, and when they are colored, turn thein 
on tins to harden the bottoms: but before \ou 
set them in the oven again, sifi on thein .some 
double-refined sugar. Let the pans be but- 
tered, and fill tffein half way. 

BISCUITS, POTATO. (1) Beat the 
yolks of fifteen eggs with a pound of sifted 
sugar, grate the t'u}^ of a lemon en a piece 
of lump sugar; scrape oft' the yellow siigur 
with a knife, and having dried it well, add 
it to die above, and continue to beat till it 
becomes quite white; in the meantime whip 
up an equal number of whites, and mix them 
lightly with the rest; dien sift into it half a 
pound of potato flour; stir it in, and pour 
the preparation into paper cases, but not to fill 
them ; glaze, and place tlie cases on paper 



BIS 



22 



BIS 



laid on a clean baking-tin, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

BISCUIT, POTATO. (2) Beat sepa- 
rately llie yolks and whites of fifteen eggs, and 
witli the yolks beat a pound of pounded and 
sifted loaf sugar, and the grated peel of a lem- 
on ; when very light add die whites, and sift in 
through a silk sieve half a pound of flour of 
potatoes; mix all lightly togedier, half fill 
paper cases, and strew over them roughly 
pounded sugar, put a piece of paper upon a 
board, place the paper cases upon it, and 
bake diem in a moderate oven. To oi'nament 
them, ])ut here and there upon the top a 
little red-currant jelly, and serve them. 

BISCUITS, THE QUEEN'S. Take 
a pound and a half of flour, a pound and a 
half of fine sugar, the whites of twenty-four, 
and the yolks of eighteen eggs, put in cori- 
ander seedi beaten small at discretion; mix 
these well together, and make them into a 
soft paste, add a little soft yeast or not. Lay 
diis paste on paper, or in crusts about two 
inches broad, and four inches long, set them 
in a modulate oven, and when they begin 
to turn brown, take them out, and lay them 
on paper, in a dry place. 

BISCUITS, RICE. Take the gi-ated 
rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggs, 
the yolks of six, half a pound of rice flour, 
ten ounces of powder sugar, two ounces of 
ap|)le, and the same of apricot, marmalade, 
and two ounces of orange-flowers. Pound 
the marmalades and orange-flowers together, 
then add the whites of eggs, whipped to a 
snow; beat the yolks with the sugar for a 
quarter of an hour, ]Hit diem to the rest, and 
when well mixed in, add the lemon-peel and 
rice-flour ; work all together, ])our die prep- 
ai'ation into paj^er cases, bake diera in a 
moderate oven, and glaze tliem. 

BISCUITS, SMALL. Make a paste 
with a (juarter of a pound of flour, three 
spoonfuls of fine powder sugar, and the same 
of marmalade ; add whites of eggs to Avork 
it pretty soft ; and make diis paste to what 
shape and size you please. * 



BISCUITS, SPUNGE. Beat togedier, 
for half an hour, four well-beaten eggs, and 
half a pound of finely-pou.ided loaf sugar ; 
dien mix in lightly six ounces of dried and 
sifted flour, and the grated peel of a lemon, 
or a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, with a 
table-s]io()nful of rose water. Floui" the 
pans, fill them half full, and sift pounded 
sugai' over them. Bake diem in a quick oven. 

BISCUITS, ST. CLOUD. Sift two 
ounces of rice-floiu" through a tammy into an 



eartnen pan, with half a pound of powder 
sugar, die yolks of four eggs, and a little 
green lemon grated ; beat tliem up together 
for a quarter of an hour: whisk the v^hites 
of eight eggs to a froth and mix them with 
the yolks. Put this into buttered moulds or 
paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven. 
When done take them from the mould while 
hot, and ice them in the ibllowing manner: 
beat up half the white of an egg and two 
spoonfuls of powder-sugar with a wooden 
spoon, add occasionally a few ckops of lem- 
on-juice; when it becomes quite white lay it 
over the biscuits; and place them in the oven 
a minute to diy. 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (1) The weight of 
eight eggs in flne'y-pounded loaf sugar, and 
of four in di-ied flour; beat separately th^ 
whites and yolks ; with the yolks beat die 
sugar for half an hour, then add die whites 
and the flour, and a little grated niilnieg, 
lemon-peel, or pounded cinnamon. Bake 
them in yellow tea-cups, or drop diem upon 
paper, as the French biscuits. 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (2) Mix together 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, the same 
quantity of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
ten well- beaten eggs, and a few pounded 
cloves. Drop this upon floured tins, and 
bake it. 

BISCUIT, SWEET. One pound of 
flour, half a pound of butter, the same (pian- 
tity of finely-pouiuied sugar, ami two eggs, 
vvidiout being beaten; make it all into a 
very stiff' paste widi cool water, roll it out, 
and to form die biscuits, roll a bit of the 
jiaste iiito a ball about tiie size of the yolk 
of an egg, flatten it a little, and place tiiem 
upon tins to bake. 

BISCUITS, YARMOUTH. Pick and 
wash half a pound of currants, dry them well, 
rub a little flour with them, and put them 
with half a pound of powder-sngar, tlinie- 
quarters of a pound of sifted flour, and half 
a pound of fresh butter; mix them into a 
paste with tln-ee eggs, roll it out to the 
thickness of the eiglitii of an inch, cut them 
into what shapes you please. Bake them of 
a light color in a hot oven. 

BISHOP. Roast four good-sized bitter 
oranges till they aie of a pale brown color; 
lay them in a tureen, and put over d>em half" 
a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and three 
glasses of claret; jjlace the cover on the 
tureen, and let it stand till next day. W^lieti 
required for use, put the tureen into a pan of 
boiling water, press die oranges widi a spoon, 
and run the juice through a sieve ; thun boi) 
the remamder of the bottle of claret, taking 



BLA 



23 



BLA 



care that it do not burn; add it to the strain- 
ed juice, and serve it warm in glasses. 

BLAt\C. A mixture of butter, salt, 
water, and a slice ul" leinoa ; also as follows: 
— Cut a pound of beef suel, and the same of 
fat bacon into dice, half a pound of butter, 
die juice of a leniiin, salt and pepper, one or 
two onions, a buiicli of parsley, a little Uiyine, 
a bay leaf and spice. 

BLANCMANGE. (1) To one ounce of 
picked isinglass, put a pint of water, boil it 
till the isinglass is melted, with a bit of cin- 
namon ; put to it three-c|uarters of a pint of 
cream, two ounces of sweet tdmonds, six 
bitter ones blanched and beaten, a bit of 
lemon-peel, sweeten it, stir it over the fire, 
let it boil, strain and let it cool, squeeze in 
tile juice of a lemon, and put into moulds; 
garnish to your fimcy. Blancmange may be 
colored green liy adding spinach-juice ; red, 
by a bit of cochineal in brandy, let it stand 
half an hour and strain it; yellow with 
saffron. 

BLANCMANGE. (2) Boil for a few 
minutes a pint and a half of new milk, widi 
an ounce of picked isinglass (if in summer, 
one ounce and a quarter), die rind of half a 
lemon peeled very thin, 'a little cinnamon, 
and a blade of mace, and two and a half 
ounces of lump sugar: blanch and pound 
eight or ten bitter, and half an ounce of 
sweet almonds very fine, with a spoonful of 
rose water, and mix them with the milk; 
strain it througli fi.'-Jawn sieve or napkin into 
"d basin, witli half a pint of good cream. 
Let it stand half an hour; pour it into 
another basin, leaving the sediment at the 
bottom, anil when nearly culd fill it into 
moulds; when wanted, put your finger round 
die mould; pull out tiie blancmange; set 
it in the centre of a dish, and garnish 
witli slices of orange. N. B. — About half a 
gill of noyeau may be substituted for the al- 
monds. 

BLANCMANGE. (3) Boil till dissolv- 
ed, in a large tea-cupful of wa^cr, three-quar- 
ters of an ounce of isinglass; when milk- 
warm, add it to a quart of rich cream, with a 
stick of cinnamon, the peel of a lemon, two or 
three laurel leaves, or a few bitter almonds ; 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; stir it 
over the fire, and let it boil for two or three 
minutes ; stiain it thi-ou^h a bit of muslin 
into a deep dish, and stir it till neaily cold, 
then pour it into an earthen-ware mould or 
shape; the following day, dip the mould into 
wnrm water for a minute or so, clap it with 
tlie hand to loosen the edge, place the glass 
or china dish over die mould, and tuin it 
out quickly upon the dish. As much cow- 



heel stock as will half fill the shape may U 
substituted for die ismglass. 

BLANCMANGE. (4) Blanch and pound 
with a little ratafia, or rose-water, two 
ounces of sweet, and six bitter almonds ; dis- 
solve three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass; 
add it, when inilk-warni, to a cjuart ol' good 
cream; half milk half cream may be used; 
mix in die almonds the peel of a small lem- 
on, and a: bit of cinnamon; sweeten it with 
pounded loaf sugar, let it stand for two or 
three hours, put it into a saucepan, stir it 
constantly, and let it boil for six or eight 
minutes ; strain it through a lawn sieve, and 
stir it till nearly cold, then pour it into a 
mould. 

BLANCMANGE. (5) Blanch and pound 
one ounce of sweet almonds with a glass of 
sherry, and a table-spoonful of jiounded loaf 
sugar; add it to tlnee-quarters of an ounce 
of isinglass dissolved in half a pint of water, 
and boil it till the flavor of the almonds bo 
extracted, stirring it all tlie time; strain it 
through a bit of thin muslin, and mix with 
it a quart of good cream ; stir it till quite 
cold, and pour it iiito a shape. 

BLANCMANGE, AMERICAN. Mix 

half a pint of cold water with two ounces of 
arrowroot, let it settle for fifteen minutes, 
pour off the water, and add a table-spoon- 
ful of laurel water, and a little sugar; sweet- 
en a quart of new milk, biil it with a litde 
cinnamun, and half the peel of a lemon ; pick 
out the cinnamon and lemon, and pour the 
boiling milk upon the arrow-root, stirring it 
all the time. Put it into a mould, and turn 
it out the following day. 

BLANCMANGE, DUTCH. Wash one 
ounce and a half of isinglass, pour a pint 
and a half of boiling water over it, let it 
stand for an hour, and then boil it for twen- 
ty minutes; strain, and when it is nearly 
cold, add the beaten yolks of six eggs, a 
pint of Lisbon wine, the peel of one and 
juice of two lemons, with a stick of cinna- 
mon, and swee^n with pounded loaf sugar; 
stir it over the fire till it begin to simmer, 
but do not allow it to boil ; pick out the 
peel and cinnamon, pour it into a basin, 
stir it till nearly cold, and put it into a 
shape. 

BLANCMANGE EGGS. Make a small 
hole at the end of four or five large eggs, 
and let out all the egg carefldly ; wash die 
shell, drain, and fill them widi iilancmange, 
place them In a deep dish filled with rice or 
barley to keep them steady, asid when quite 
cold, gently break and peel off the shell. 
Cut die peel of a lemon into delicately fine 



BRA 



24 



BRE 



shreds, lay them into a glass dish, and put 
in tlie eggs; or serve them in a glass dish 
widi a pink cream round them. 

BLACK COCK, MOOR GAME, AND 
GROUSE, Are all to be di-cssnd like par- 
tridges; the black cock will take as much 
as a pheasant, and moor game and giouse 
as the partridge. Send up with them cur- 
rant-jelly and Tried bread crumbs. 

BOILING. See directions at beginning 
of the book. 

BOLAR CAKE. See Cake. 

BRANDY PUDDING. See Pudding. 

BRAISING PAN. A deep well-tinned 
copper vessel, with two ears, the lid of which 
must close hermetically, and have a ledge 
round so that coals or hot ashes may be 
placed on the top when necessaiy. 

BRAISING. This is a method of 
dressing meat, poultrj', &.c. &c. without its 
undergoing any evaporation. It is done by 
lining a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, 
beef, or veal, upon which place whatever 
you may intend to braise, and also add 
carrots, onions, lemons, bay leaf, herbs, 
pepi)er and salt. 

BRAWN, A COLLAR OF. Wash, 
Bcra]ie, and clean very dioroughly a large pig's 
head, feet, and ears ; lay them into salt and 
water, with a little saltpetre, for three liours. 
To make the collar larger, boil two ox heels, 
with the he.ad, feet, and ears, till all the 
bones can be taken out easily, then put the 
head round the mould, and the feet and small 
pieces into the middle; put it together while 
hot, and press it with a heavy weight till it 
becomes cold. Boil for half an hour, in as 
much of the liciuor as will cover the brawn, 
one handful of salt, one ounce of pepjier, 
and one or two bay leaves. When cold, 
pour it over the brawn. 

BRAWN, MOCK. Take die blade bone 
out of die shoulder, and boil it gently two 
hom's or more, according to the age of the 
boar. When it is cold, season it very high- 
ly with pepper, Cayenne, salt, a very little 
allspice, minced onion, and thyme. Let it 
lie a night in this seasoning; the following 
day, make a savoury forcemeat of pounded 
veal, ham, beef suet, minced parsley, thyme, 
and an onion, a little lemon-peel, salt, nut- 
meg, pepper, and Cayenne; bind it with an 
egg beaten, and stutf where the bone has 
been t;dien out. Put it into a deep pan Vv'ith 
tlie broAvn side downwards, and lay under it 
twigs or small sticks, to keep it from stick- 



ing to the bottom ; pour in a bottle of beer, 
and put it into die oven. When nearly done, 
take it out and clear off all die fat, add a 
bottle of Ptladeira and the juice of a large 
lemon, return it to the oven, and bake it till 
it become as tender as a jeliv, so diat a 
straw will pierce it easily. If the boar ia 
an old one, it will recjuire to be baked six or 
seven hours. This dish is eaten hot. 

BRAWN, TO BAKE. Take raw lean 
brawn, and the same quantity of fat bacon, 
mince them small, then pound them in a 
stone mortar, with a handful of sage, season- 
ed with salt, pepper and ginger, add the 
yolks of eggs, and some vinegar, then put 
the brawn into a cold paste, lay on butter 
and bay leaves, make your pie round and 
bake it. To be eaten cold. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. See Cake. 

BREAD. (1) Put a quartern of flour into a 
large basin, with two tea-spoonfuls of salt; 
make a hole in the middle; dien put in a 
basin four table-Spoonfuls of good yeast ; stir 
in a pint of milk, lukewarm ; put it in the 
hole of die flour; stir it just to make it into 
a thin batter; dien strew a little flour over 
the toj); then put it on one side of the 
fire, and cover it over; let it stand till die 
next morning; then make it into dough; add 
half a pint more of warm milk; knead it 
for ten minutes, and then set it in a warm 
place by the fire for one hour and a half: 
then knead it again, and it is ready either 
for loaves or biicks: bake them from one 
hour and a half to two hours according to 
the size. 

BREx4D. (2) Mix into six pounds of si(\ed 
flour one ounce of salt, nearly half a ];int of 
fresh sweet yeast as it comes from the brew- 
ery, and a sufficient quantity of warmed milk 
to make the Avhcde into a stiff' dough; work- 
and knead it well upon a pa^telioard, on 
which a little flour has been strewed, for fif- 
teen or twenty minutes, then put it into a 
deep pan, cover it with a warmed towel, set 
it before the fire, and let it rise for an hour 
and a half, or perhaps two hours ; cut off a 
piece of this sponge or dough ; knead it well 
for eight or ten minutes, together with flour 
merely sufficient to keep it from adliering to 
the board ; put it into small tins, filling them 
tliree-(|uai ters full ; dent the rolls all round 
with a knile, and let them stand a few min- 
utes befoi'e putting diem into die oven. 
The remainder of the dough must then be 
worked up for loaves, and baked eidier in 
or out of a shape. 

BREAD, ALMOND. Take a pound o 
die liest almonds, slice them the round way 



BRE 



25 



BRE 



beat and sift a pound of double-refined sugar, 
and strc'.v it over the almonds as you cut 
tliejn, stii ring diem freqiieutl}' to prevent their 
sticking together ; when all the sugar is used, 
put iheni into an earthen basin, with a few 
carraway seeds, a little gum dragon (dis- 
solved in rose-water and strained), three 
grains of musk and ambergris dissolved in 
fine sugar, and the whites of two eggs beaten 
to a veiy light froth, and two spoonfuls of 
fine flour; when well uuxed lay them on 
wafers the size of macaroons; open them 
with a knife or bodkin, lest two or three 
pieces stick togedier; the quicker you lay 
them, the better they will look; put them 
into a well-heated oven, taking care they do 
not scorch ; when half baked, take them out, 
wash them witii the white of an egg beaten 
to a froth, grate a little fine sugar over diem, 
and bake them about half an hour longer. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

See Pudding. 

BREAD, CHESTNUT. Roast a hun- 
dred fine chestnuts, being careful not to 
bui'U diem ; peel them well, and pound them 
with butter and double cream; pass diem 
through a sieve ; add two eggs, and dien 
strain them again. Weigh your paste, and 
for every jraund, allow half a pound of 
powder, a little vanilla in powder, and two 
ouni:es of flour; mix these together, and 
form of the preparation as many ciiestnuts 
as it will make; lay them on a sheet of 
wafer paper, butter and dorez diem seve- 
ral times, and dien bake them in a hot oven. 

BREAD CHEESECAKES. Slice a 
large French roll very thin, pour on it some 
boiling cieam; when cold, add six or eight 
eggs, half a pound of butter melted, some 
nutmeg, a spoonful of brandy, a little sugar, 
and half a pound of currants. Put them in 
puff' paste as otiier cheesecaJies. 

BREAD, TO SERV^E WITH COF- 
FEE. Whip up the whit';s of ten eggs to 
a diick snow; add to them the yolks Ijeaten 
with eight ounces of powder-sugar, place it 
over a charcoal fire, and whip it for half an 
hour, then take it from die fire, and w^hip 
asfain until cold. Mix in eidit ounces of 
sifted flour. Have ready buttered two 
moulds lined with paper, pour the paste in- 
to them, and bake them in a moderate oven ; 
when done, take them out of the moulds and 
remove tlie paj)er; when cold, cut them in 
slices about the size of a finger. Place them 
on a plate of copper, over a charcoal fire, 
and when one side is brov/n, turn them and 
brijwn the other side. These if kept dry 
will be good for a long time. 



BREAD CRUxMBS, FRIED. Rub bread 
that has been baked two days, through an 
iron sieve or cullender ; put diem into a stew- 
pan with two ounres of buUer; place it over 
a moderate fire, and stir them with a wooden 
spoon till of a fine gold color; spread tliera 
on a sieve, and let them stand ten minutea 
to drain, tui'uing them often. 

BREAD, FRENCH. Take half a bushel 
(or six pounds) of flour, put it on the slab, 
make a hole in the centie, in which put two 
ounces of yeast ; make your dough with warm 
water, to about the consistence of brioche; 
work it up well, adding two ounces of salt, 
dissolved in a little warm water; cover, and 
set it in a warm place to rise; on diis part 
of the operation depends the quality of die 
bread. Having Jell the dough one or two 
hours, (according to the season), knead it 
again, and leave it as before, for two ho-Ts. 
In the meanwhile, heat the oven, divide the 
dough into eight ecjual parts, of which form 
as many loaves, into any shape you please; 
put them into the oven as quickly as possible. 
As soon as they are done, rub the crusts with 
a little butter, which will give it a fine yellow 
color. 

BREAD, FRENCH, OR ROLLS. 

Take half a bushel or six pounds of sifted 
flour, knead it into dough, with two quarts 
of milk, three-fiuarters of a pound of warm 
butter, half a pound of yeast, and two ounces 
of salt ; when the whole is well worked up, 
cover, and leave it to rise. In two hours 
time, form it into rolls, and lay them on 
tinned plates. Place diem in a slow oven. 
W^lien diey have been in an hour, put them 
into a very hot oven for twenty minute?. 
Rasp diem as soon as they are balced. 

BREAD FRITTERS. Boil half a pint 
of milk till reduced to half, with a little 
sugar, salt, half a spoonful of orange-flower 
water, and a little lemon-peel shred fine; 
have ready some pieces of crumb of bread, 
cut about the size of half-crowns, but diicker ; 
put them into the milk to soak a little, dien 
di-ain, flour, and fry them. Glaze diem with 
sugar, and pass the salamander over them. 

BREAD, LONDON. To make London 
bread, put a bushel of good flour which has 
been ground a mondi or six weeks, in one 
end of die trough, and make a hole in the 
middle of it. Take nine (juarts of warm 
water, and mix it widi one quart of good 
yeast; put it into die flour, and stir it we/1 
with your hands; let it remain until it rises 
as high as it will go, which will talce about 
an hour and a quarter. Watch it carefiilly 
to its ultimate height, and do not sufier it to 



BRE 



26 



BRE 



fall; then make up the dough with eight 
quarts more of warm water and one pound 
of salt; work it well with your hands, and 
then cover it over with a sacrk or other coarse 
cloth. Put the fire into the oven; heat it 
tlioroughly, and by the time it is hoi, the 
dougli will be ready. Next make the dough 
into loaves, not exceeding four or five pounds 
each, sweep out the oven clean, and put in 
the loaves. Shut the oven close, and they 
will be baked in about two hours and a half; 
then oj)en die oven, and draw the bread. In 
summer the water need not be more than 
blood warm, but in winter it must be a few 
degrees higher in heat. During a hard 
frost, however, the water should be as hot as 
the hand could bear it, though not sufficiently 
hot to scald the yeast, as that would spoil 
tlie whole batch of bread. Other quantities 
of bread are made in the same proportion, 

BREAD, PLAIN SHORT. The same 
proportions of tlour and butter must be used 
as in the receipt for short bread ; this must 
be mixed together, rolled out, but not made 
quite so thick as in the rich kind; but in die 
same form, pricked with a fork, and pinch- 
ed all round. A little sugar may be added. 

BREAD, RICE. Take a pound of rice, 
and let it simmer in two quarts of water till 
it is quite tender; when it is of a proper 
wai'intli mix it thoroughly widi four pounds 
of flour, adding yeast and salt, the same as 
for other bread; the proper quantity of yeast 
to ba used, is about four spoonfuls; knead it 
well; then set it to rise before the fire. A 
poi'tion of the flour should be reserved to 
make up the loaves. If the rice should re- 
quire more water, it must be added, as some 
rice swells more than other. 

BREAD, SPICED, COMMON. (1) 

Boil three pounds of honey in a gallon of 
water for a {|uarter of an hour; then pour it 
on the flour in the trough; mix them together 
well, until the flour will Imbibe no move li- 
quid ; wb.en a little cooled, add three ounces 
of potasii, iiifiised the night before in half a 
pint of milk, knead the whole well, putting 
to it some pounded anise. Roll out die 
I '.ij-te, and widi paste-cutters of various forms, 
cm it into little figures, lay them on a well- 
oiled tin, and bake them; when done, wash 
them over with milk. With this paste 
spiced nuts are made ; when formed, lay them 
on tins, and leave in a warm place for two 
or three days before they are baked. 

BREAD, SPICED, (2) FLEMISH. 

, The evening before you wish to make 
your spiced bread, dissolve three ounces of 
white potash in half a pint of milk, and set 
it aside. Tira next raorning put a consider^ 



able quantity of sifted flour into a trough 
make a hole in the heap, into which pour six 
pounds of clarified honey ; w hilst boiling, stir 
it well with a strong sjiatula, until the honey 
reduced to a firm paste, will imbibe no more 
flour, then spread it all over the bottom of 
the trougli, and leave it for about ten or fif- 
teen minutes; at the end of that time, if the 
paste be sufficiently cool for you to bear your 
hand on it, rub its surface with the infusion 
of potash; then let a strong person knead it. 
in the same manner as the bakers knead 
bread. Have ready a number of different- 
sized moulds of pear tree wood, on which 
are cut (pretty deep) octagons of various di- 
mensions; then cut your paste into as many 
pieces as j'ou have moulds, in the following 
proportions^ — for the mould containing a 
pound, take eighteen ounces of j)aste; for a 
half pound, fourteen ounces; a quarter of 
a pound seven ounces of paste, and so on ; 
knead each piece separately on the slab, rub 
tliein with flour to prevent their adhering, and 
then put diein into the respective moulds; 
press it down tight; in a minute or two turn 
them over, place them on a tin plate (pre- 
viously rubbed with olive oil), and with a 
soft brush take off w^hat flour may remain 
on the surface of the spiced bread, and bake 
them in a moderate oven. Whilst they are 
baking, dissolve some isinglass in a sufficient 
quantity of beer, with which, by means of 
a hair pencil, wash the outsi/fe of the spiced 
bread as soon as it is done; and then, while 
it is moist and warm, decorate it with 
blanched almonds, candied lemon and orange 
peel, cut into dice. You may, if you diink 
proper, cut these sort of sweet meats into 
very small pieces, and knead them into your 
paste at first. When they are nearly cold, 
separate the pieces with a knife. 

BREAD, SHORT. For two pounds of. 
sifted flour allow one pound of butter, salt or 
fresh ; a (juarter of a pound of candied orange 
and lemon peel, of pounded loaf sugai-, 
blanched s\\'eet almonds, and carraway com- 
fits, a (juarter of a pound each ; cut the lem- 
on, the orange peel, and almonds into small 
thin bits, and mix them with a pound and a 
half of the flour, a few of the caraway com- 
fits, and the sugar ; melt the butter, and w hen 
cool, pour it clear from the sediment into tlie 
flour, at the same time mixing it quickly. 
With the hands, form it into a large round 
of nearly an inch thick, using the remainder 
of the flour to make it up with ; cut it in- 
to four, and with the finger and thumb pinch 
each bit neatly all round the edge ; prick them 
with a fork, and strew the rest of the carra- 
way comfits over the top. Put the pieces' 
upon white paper dusted with flour, and 
tlien upon tins. Bake tliem in a moderate 
oven. 



BRO 



21 



BRO 



BREAD, TIPSY. Pare oiT the crust, 
and cut into thin round slices of four or five 
inciies, tiie crumb of a twopenny or three- 
penny roll ; spread over each bit raspberry 
or stra\vl)erry jam, and place the pli("es one 
over the other pretty high in a glass dish, 
and pour over them as much sherry, sv\'eeten- 
ed with sugar, as the bread will soak in; 
stick round the sides, and over the top, 
olanched sweet almonds, cut like straws, and 
pour a custaid round it. It may he made 
the day before, or two or three houis before 
dinner, and with the crumb of loaf bread. 

BREAD SAUCE. See Sauces. 

BRENTFORD ROLLS. Mix witli 
two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces 
of sifted sugar, fnu* ounces of butter, and 
two eggs beaten with two spoonfuls of yeast, 
and about a pint of milk ; knead the dough 
well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make 
twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them 
before the fire agrin to rise. When of a 
proper size, bake them for half an hour. 

BRIOCHE. Divide half a quartern of 
flom- into three parts, and knead into one of 
them half an ounce of 3'east and a little warm 
■watei", wrap it in a cloth and set it by, in 
summer time for a quarter of an hour, and 
in winter for a whole hour. When it has 
risen, put it to the remainder of the flour, 
with a pound and a half of butter, ten eggs, 
half a glass of water, and nearly an ounce 
of salt ; knead them together with your hand 
thorougiily, and then wrap it in a clean nan- 
kin and leave it nine or ten hours. Cut 
the paste into the size you wish to make the 
cakes, moisten, and roll them in the hand, 
flatten the top, and gild them with the 
yolk of an egg. Half an hour will be 
suliiicleni to bake the small ones; large 
cakes will require an liour and a half. 

BROILING. See directions at begin- 
ning of the book. 

BROCCOLI. Set a pan of clean cold 
water on th.e table, and a saucepan on the 
fire with plenty of water, and a handful of 
salt in it. Broccoli is prepaied by stripping 
off all the side shoots, leaving the top; peel 
off the skin of the stalk with a knife; cut it 
close off at tiie bottom, and put it into the 
pan of cold water. When the water in the 
stewpan boils, and the broccoli is ready, 
put it in ; let it boil briskly til! the stalks 
feel tender, from ten to twenty minutes ; take 
it up with a slice, that you may not break it; 
lei it drain, and serve up. If some of tke 
heads of broccoli are much bigfijer than the 
otners, put tliem on to boil first, so that they 
may get all done togedier. Obs. — It makes 



a nice supper-dish ser\'ed upon a toast, like 
asparagus. It is a very delicate vegetable, 
and you must take it up die moment it ia 
done, and send it to table hot. 

BROTH, BARLEY. Chop a leg of 
beef in pieces, boil it in three gallons of 
water, with a carrot and a crust of bread, 
till reduced to half; then strain it ofl' and 
put it into the pot again with half a pound 
of barley, four or five heads of celery cut 
small, a bnnch of sweet herbs, an onion, a 
little chopped parsley, and a few marigolds. 
Let it boil an hour. Take an old cock or 
lai-ge fowl and put it into the pot, boil till 
the broth is c|uite good. Season with salt, 
take out the onion and herbs, and serve it. 
The fowl may be omitted. 

BROTH, OF BEEF. Wash a leg or 
shin of beef very clean, crack the bone in 
two or three plages, add to it any trim- 
mings you have of ineat, game, or poultiy 
(heads, necks, gizzards or feet) and cover 
them with cold water. Watch and stir it 
up well from the bottom, and the moment it 
begins to simmer, skim it carefully. Your 
broth must be perfectly clear and limpid — 
for on this depends the goodness of the 
soups, sauces, and gravies, of which it is 
the basis. Then add some cold water to 
make the remaining scum rise, and skim 
it again. When the scum has done risin?, 
and the surface of the broth is (jtiite clear, 
put in one carrot, a head of celeiy, two 
turnips, and two onions. It should not 
have any taste of sweet herbs, spice or gar- 
lic; either of these flavors may be added 
afterward, if desired. Cover it close, set it 
by the side of the fire, and let it simmer 
very gently, so as not to waste the 1-roth, 
ibr four or five hours or more, according to 
the weight of the meat. Strain it tlnou"h 
a sieve into a clean and dry stone pan, and 
set it in the coldest place you ha\c. 

IC3^This is tiie foundation of all sorts 
of soups and sauces, brown and white. 

BROTH, CHICKEN. Take the re- 
maining parts of a chicken from which 
panada has been made, all but the lump; 
skin, and put them into the water it was 
first boiled in, with the addition of a little 
mace, onion, and a few pepper-corns, and 
simmer it. When of a good flavor, put to 
it a (juarter of an ounce of sweet almonds 
beaten with a spoonful of water; boil it 
a little while, and when cold, take off the 
fat. 

BROTH, CHICKEN PECTORAL. 

Prepare a chicken in the usual way, and 
put it into a saucepan with two pints and a 
half of water, two ounces of peai'l barkyj 



BR O 



28 



BRO 



the same of rice, and two ounces of the best 
honey; boil all together, skimming well for 
tliree houis, until it be reduced to two-thirds. 

BROTH, JELLY. Take a joint of mut- 
ton, a capon, afiilet of veal, and three quarts 
of water ; put these into an earthen pan, and 
boil them over a gentle fire till reduced to 
naif; then squeeze all together, and strain 
tlie litjuor through a napkin. 

BROTH, MUTTON. Take two pounds 
of scrag of mutton; to take die blood out, 
put it into a stewpan, and cover it with 
cold v.'ater; when the water becomes milk- 
warm, pour it off; then put it in four or five 
pints of water, widi a tea-spoonful of salt, a 
table-spoonful of best grits, and an onion; set 
it on a slow fire, and when you have taken 
all the scum off, put in two or three turnips; 
let it simmer very slowly for two hours, and 
sti'ain it through a clean sieve. 

BROTH, MUTTON, FOR THE SICK. 

Have a pound and a half of a neck or loin 
of mutton ; take off the skin and the fat, and 
put it into a saucepan ; cover it with cold 
water, (it will take about a quart to a pound 
of meat), let it simmer very gently, and 
skim it well; cover it up, and set it over a 
moderate fire, where it may stand gently 
stewing for about an hour; then strain it off. 
It should be allowed to become cold, when 
all the greasy particles will float on the sur- 
face, and becoming hard, can be easily 
taken off, and the settlings will remain at 
the bottom. N. B. — We direct the meat to 
be done no more Uian just sufficiently to be 
eaten ; so a sick man may have plenty of 
good brodi for nothing ; as by this manner 
of producing it, the meat furnishes also a 
good family meal. This is an inofl'ensive 
nourishment for sick persons, and the only 
mutton broth that should be given to conva- 
lescents, whose constitutions require replen- 
ishing with restorative aliment of easy di- 
gestion. The common way of making it 
witli roots, onions, sweet herbs, &c. &c. is 
too strong for weak stomachs. Plain broUi 
will agree with a delicate stomach, when 
the least addition of other ingredients would 
immediately offend it. 

BROTH, MEAGRE, or Soup with 
Herbs. Set on a kettle of water, put in 
two or three crusts of bread, and all sorts of 
good herbs; season with salt; put in butter, 
and a bunch of sweet heibs ; boil it for an 
hour and a half: then strain it dnough a 
sieve, or napkin. This will serve to make 
lettuce soup, asparagus soup, soup de sanie, 
&c. willi herbs. 

BROTH, MULLAGATAWNY, OR 



CURRY. Make about two quarts of strong 
veal broth, seasoned with two onions, a 
bunch of parsley, salt and pepper ; strain it, 
and have ready a chicken, cut in joints and 
skinned; put it into the broth, with a table- 
spoonful of curry-powder; boil the chicken 
till quite tender, and a little before serving, 
add the juice of a lemon, and stir in a tea- 
cupful of cream. Serve boiled rice to eat 
with this broth. 

BROTH, RICE VEAL. Wash clean 
six pounds of a knuckle of veal, and cut it 
in two, put it in a saucepan with four quarts 
of boiling water, half a pound of rice well 
washed, a little mace, white pepper, and 
salt, and a handful of chopped parsley; let 
it boil for two hours. Ser\e part of the 
meat in the tureen with the broth. The 
thick part of the knuckle may be sent up 
as a separate dish, witli parsley and butter 
poured over it. 

BROTH, WHITE. Boil a fowl, and 
when it is enough, take it up, and put it into 
a dish ; then boil your cream wiUi a blade of 
mace, and thicken it with eggs; then put in 
the mai'iow of one beef bone, and take some 
of the broth, and mingle them together ; put to 
it a spoonful of white wine, and let it thick- 
en on the fire ; then put tlie fowl hot out of 
the broth, set it on a chafing-dish of coals, 
and serve it. 

BROW^N ROUX, OR THICKENING. 

Put into a nicely tinned saucepan about a 
pound of fresh butter, melt it slowly, and 
dredge in flour till it becomes like a paste, 
carefully stirring it all the time, put it for 
a few minutes upon a quick fire, and dien 
retiu"n it to where there is less heat, and 
stir it till it assumes a light brown color, 
when it may be put into a jar. These 
tliickenings keep for sometime. 

BROWNING, Is a convenient article 
to color those soups or sauces of which it is 
supposed their deep brown complexion de- 
notes the strength and savouriness of the 
composition. Burned sugar is also a fa- 
vorite ingredient with the biewers, who use 
it under the name of " essentia bina" to col- 
oi- their beer : it is also employed by the bran- 
dy makers, in considerable quantity, to color 
brandy ; to which, besides enriching its com- 
plexion, it gives that sweetish taste, and fol- 
ness in the mouth, which custom has taught 
brandy drinkers to admire, aiid prefer to 
the finest Cognac in its genuine state. When 
employed for culinary piuposes, tliis is some* 
times made with strong gravy, or walnut 
datchup. Those who like a gout of acid 
may add a little walnut pickle^ Put hal/ 
a pound of pounded lump sugar, and a tatje* 



BUJN S 



29 



BUN S 



•rpoonflil of water, into a clean iron sauce- 
pan, set it over a slow fire, and keep stir- 
ring it witli a wooden spoon till it becomes 
a brig^ht brown color, and begins to smoke ; 
tlien add to it an oimce of salt, and dilute it 
by degiees with water, till it is tire thick- 
ness of soy; let it boil, take oft' the scum, 
and strain the liquor into bottles, which 
must lie well stopped: if you have not any 
of this by you, and you wish to darken the 
color of your sauces, pound a tea-spoonful 
of lump sugar, and put it into an iron spoon, 
wilh as much water as will dissolve it; 
hold it over a quick fire till it loecomes of a 
very dark brown color; mix it with tlie 
soup, &c. while it is hot. 

BRUNSWICK TART. See Tart. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS TO BOIL. 

Trim and wash them perfectly clean, and 
let them lie an hour in cold water. Put 
them on in boiling water, with a little salt, 
and boil them till tender. Dram oft' tlie I 
water, and serve them hot. I 

BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Chop small ! 
some boiled ^hite cabbage; season it with ! 
pepper and salt, and fry it with a little butter ; j 
pepper and broil some slices of cold boiled j 
salted beef; put the fried cabbage into a dish, | 
and lay round it the slices of broiled l>eef, j 
and serve it very hot. The beef does best i 
when miderdone. \ 

BUNS, BATH. Rub together, with ' 
the hand, one pound of fine flour and a half ^ 
a pound of butter; beat six eggs, and add \ 
them to the flour with a table spoonftil of good 
yeast. Mix them all tojrether with half a tea- ! 
cup full of milk; set it in a warm \)\i\ce for | 
an hour; mix in six ounces of sifted sugar, 
and a few caraway seed^. Mould them in- i 
to buns with a t;dile spoon on a baking plate ; ' 
throw six or eight caraway comfits on each, 
and bake tliem in a hot oven about ten min- i 
utes. These quantities should make eight- 
een buns. 

BUNS , C03IMON. Rub four ounces of 
butter into two pounds of flour, four ounces 
of sugar, a few Jamaica peppers, and a few 
carraway seeds. Put a spoonful or two of 
cream into a cup f>f yeast, and as much good 
milk as will make the above into a light 
paste; set it by the fire to rise. They will 
bake quickly on tins ; you uray add nutmeg. 

BUNS, CROSS. To the above mix- 
ture put one ounce and a half of ground all- 
spice, cinnamon and mace, mixed, and when 
half jjroved, press the form of a cross with 
a til mcmld in the centre, and finish as 
above 

3* 



BUNS, PLUM. To two pounds of the 
plain bun paste, put half a poiuid of curnints, 
a quarter of a pound of candied orange- 
peel, cut into small pieces, half a nutmeg 
grated, half an ounce of mixed spice, such 
as allspice, cinnamon, &;c. Mould them in- 
to buns^ jag them round the edges with a 
knife, and- proceed as above. 

BUNS, PLAIN. To four pounds of sift- 
ed flour put one pound of goocl moist sugar ; 
make a cavity in the centie, and stir in a 
gill of good yeast, a pint of lukewarm milk, 
with enough of the flour to make it die thick- 
ness of cream; cover it over, and let it lie 
two hours; then melt to an oil (but not hot) 
one pound of butter, stir it into tlve other in- 
gredients, with enough warm milk to make 
it a soft paste; du-ow a littte flcnir over, and 
let them lie an hour; have re;idy a bakiiig- 
platter rubbed over with butter; mould with 
the hand the dough into buns, about the 
size of a large eg§; lay them in rov.s full 
three inches apart; set them in awannplace 
for half an hour, or till they have lisen to 
double their size; bake them in a hot oven 
of a good coloi-, and wash them over with 
a brush dipped into milk when drawn from 
the oven. 

BUNS, RICHER. Put four pounds of 
fine flour into a wooden bowl; set a sponge 
of it with a gill of yeast ivnd a pint of 
warm milk; then mix with it one pountl of 
sifted sugar, one pound of oiled fresh butter, 
coriander seeds, cinnamon, and mace, a small 
quantity of each, pounded fine. Roll the 
paste into buns, set them on a baking-plate 
rubted with butter, put them in a UKjderate 
oven to ])rove ; then wash them with a paste- 
brush dipped in warm milk, and bake of a 
good color. 

BUNS, SCOTS CHRISTxMAS. Take 
four pounds of laisins stoned, two and a half 
of currants well cleaned and dried, lialf a 
pound of almonds blaiiched,ofcantlied orange 
and lemon-peel a cjuai ter of a pound each, 
cut small ; of pounded cloves, |:;epper, and 
ginger, half an ounce each, four pounds of 
flour, and twenty-two oup.ces of butter. 
Then rub the butter with the flour, till well 
mixed together; add a little warm wafer, 
and a quarter of a pint of fi'esh good yeast, 
and woik it into a liglit smooth paste; cut 
off nearly one-tiiird of the paste, to ibnn the 
sheet or case, and lay it aside; with the rest 
work up the fruit, sweetmeats, and spices; 
make it into a round form like a thick cheese. 
Roll out the sheet of|)aste, lay the bun in the 
centre, and gather it all round, closing it at 
the bottom, by wetting the edges of die paste, 
aiid cutting it so as to lie quite flat. Turn 
it up, and run a wire or small skewer llu'ough 



BUT 



30 



BUT 



from the top to the bottom every here and 
there, and prick tlie top with a fork. Dou- 
ble and Hour a sheet of gray paper, and lay 
tlie bun upon it; bind a piece round the 
sides, also doubled and floured, to keep the 
bun in a proper shape. Bake it in a mod- 
erate oven. 

BUNS, SEED. Take two pounds of 
plain bun dough, and mix in one ounce of 
caraway seeds, butter the insides of tart- 
pans, mould the dough into buns, and put 
&ne into each pan ; set them to rise in a 
warm place, and when sufficiently proved, 
ice tliem widi the white of an egg beat to a 
frotii, lay some pounded sugar over that, and 
dissolve it with water splashed from the 
icing-brush. Bake ten minutes. 

BURDWAN STEW. Cut into joints a 
cold fowl or duck, put it into a stewpan, 
with half a pint of gravy, a large wine-glass 
of ale, half a one of white wine, the juice 
of half a lemon, a tea-spoonful of soy and 
Cayenne; of mushroom catsup, lemon pickle, 
cucumber vinegar, corach escavecke, a des- 
eert-spoonful each. Heat all thoroughly be- 
fore sening. 

BUTTER BURNT. Put two ounces of 
fresh butter into a small fi-j ing-pan ; when it 
becomes a dark brown color, add to it a 
table-spoonful and a half of good viviegar, 
and a little pepper and salt. Obs. — This is 
used as sauce for boiled fish or poached 
eggs. 

BURNET VINEGAR. See Vinegar. 

BUTTER BISCUITS. See Biscuits. 

BUTTER CAKES. See Cakes. 

BUTTER, CLARIFIED. Put the butter 
in a nice, clean stewpan, over a very clear, 
slow fire ; watch it, and when it is melted, 
carefully skim off the buttermilk, &c. which 
will swim on the top; let it stand .a minute 
or two for the impurities to sink to the bot- 
tom; then pour the clear butter through a 
sieve into a clean basin, leaving the sediment 
at the bottom of the stewpan. Obs. — But- 
ter thus purified will be as sweet as marrow, 
a vej-y useful covering for otted meats, &c. 
and for frying fish equal to the finest Florence 
oil; for which purpose it is commonly used 
by Catholics, and those whose religious ten- 
ets will not allow iJiem to eat viand^ fried in 
animal oil. 

BUTTER, FRENCH MELTED. Mix, 
in a stewpau, with a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter, a table-spoonful of flour, a little 
•alt half a gill of water, half a spoonful of 



white vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Put it on the fire, stir it, and let it thicken, 
but do not allow it to boil, lest it should taste 
of the flom\ 

BUTTER, MELTED. (1) Dust a Tittle 
flour over a quaiter of a pound of butter, put 
it into a saucepan, with about a wine-glass 
of water ; stir it one way constantly till it be 
melted, and let it just boil: a round wooden 
stick, is the best thing to stir butter with in 
melting. If the butter is to be melted M'ith 
cream, use the same proportion as of water, 
but no flour ; stir it constantly, and heat it 
thoroughly, but do not let it boil. To oil 
butter, cut about a quarter of a pound into 
slices, put it into a small jar, and place it in 
a pan of boiling water. When oiled, pour 
it off clear from the sediment. 

BUTTER, MELTED, (2) Is so simple 
and easy to prepare, that it is a matter of" 
general surprise, that what is done so often, 
is so seldom done right. It is spoiled nine 
times out of ten, more from idleness than from 
ignorance, and rather because the cook won't 
than because she can't do it; which can on- 
ly be the case when housekeepers will not 
allow butter to do it with. Good melted 
butter cannot be made with mere flour and 
water; there must be a full and proper pro- 
portion of butter. As it must be always on 
the table, and is the foundation of almost all 
our sauces, we have. 

Melted butter and oysters, 

parsley, 

• anchovies. 



shrimps, 

lobsters, 

capers, &c. &c. &c. 

I have tried every way of making it ; and I 
trust, that I have written a receijrt, (3) 
which, if the cook will carefully observe, 
she will constantly succeed in giving satis- 
faction. In the quantities of the various 
sauces I have ordered, I have had in view 
the providing for a famil}' of half a dozen 
moderate people. Never pour sauce over meal 
or even put it into the dish; however well 
made, some of the company may have an 
antipathy to it; tastes are as different as 
faces: moreover, if it is sent up separate in a 
boat, it will keep hot longer, and what is left 
may be put by for anotlier time, or used for 
another purpose. 

BUTTER, MELTED. (3) Keep a pint 
stewpan ; for this purpose only. Cut two 
our.ces of butter into little bits, that it may 
melt more easily, and mix more readily; put 
it into the stewpan with a large tea-spoon- 
ful (i. e. about three drachms) of flour, 
(some prefer arrow-root, or potato staich) 



CAB 



31 



CAKE 



and two table-spoonfuls of milk. When 
ihoroughly mixed, add six table-spoonfuls 
of water; hold it over the fire, and shalie it 
round every minute (all the while the same 
way), till it just be;rins to siniiner; then let 
it stand quietly and boil up. It should be of 
the thickness of good cream. N. B. — Two 
table-spoonfuls of mushroom catchup, instead 
of the milk, will make as good mushroom 
sauce as need be, and is a superlative accom- 
paniment to either fish, llesh, or fowl. 
Obs. — Tiiis is the best way of preparing 
melted butter; milk mixes with the butter 
muiih more easily and more intimately than 
water alone can be made to do. This is 
of proper thickness to be mixed at table 
with flavouring essences, anchovy, mush- 
room, or cavice, &c. If made merely to 
pour over vegetables, add a little more milk 
to it. N. B. — If the butter oils, put a 
spoonful of cold water to it, and stir it with 
a spoon ; if it is very much oiled, it must 
be poured backwards and forwards from 
die stevvpan to the sauceboat till it is right 
ag-ain. Mem. — Melted butter made to be 
mixed with flavouring essences, catchups, 
&c. should be of the thickness of light bat- 
ter, that it may adhere to the fish, &c. 

^ BUTTER, OILED. Put two ounces of 
fresh butter into a saucepan ; set it at a dis- 
tance from the fire, so that it may melt grad- 
ually, till it comes to an oil; and pour it off 
quietly from the dregs. Obs. — This will 
supply the place of olive oil; and by some is 
preferred to it either fur salads or frying. 

BUTTER SAUCE. See Sauce. 



C. 



CABBAGE AND CHEESE SOUP, 
See Soup. 

CABBAGE, TO STEW. W^ash a cab- 
bage well, slice it as for pickling, and put it 
into a stevvpan, with half a tea-cui^ful of 
Port wine, and a bit &[ butter kneaded in 
flour, a little salt and pepper; stir it till the 
butter is melted ; cover the pan, and let it stew 
a little, but not to become tO!) soft; as it eats 
better rather crisp; add a table-spoonful of 
vinegar, give it one boil, and serve it hot. 
The wine may be omitted. 

CABBAGE, TO PICKLE, Choose two 
middling-sized, well-colored, and firm red 
cabbages, shred them very finely, first pulling 
off the outside leaves; mix with them nearly 
half a pound of salt, tie it up in a thin cloth, 
and let it hang for twelve hours ; then put it 
into small jars, and pour over it cold vinegar 



that has been boiled with a few barberries m 
it; tie the jar over closely with bladder; or 
boil, in a quart of vinegar, tlu'ec bits of gin- 
ger, half an ounce of pepper, and a quarter of 
an ounce of cloves. When cold, pour it o\er 
the red cabbage, 

CAKES. Preparatory remarks. 
The currants and raisins should be prepared 
as directed under the article headed. Pud- 
dings and Pies, and the flour dried before 
the fire on a large sheet of white paper, then 
sifted and weighed. Almonds sliould be 
blanched by pouring hot water over them, 
and, after standing some minutes, taking off 
the skin, then throwing them into rose or 
cold water. When not pounded, they should 
be cut lengthwise into thin bits. Sugar 
should be roughly pounded, rolled with a 
bottle upon white paper, and then sifted. All 
spices, after being well di'ied at the fii'e, should 
be finely pounded and sifted. Lemon and 
orange-peel must be pared \ery thin, and 
pounded with a little sugar. The butter, 
after being weighed, should be laid into cold 
water, or washed in rose water, and if salt, 
be well ^yashed in several waters. The 
yolks and whites of eggs should be separately 
and long beaten, then strained; two whisks 
should be kept exclusively tor that pur- 
pose, as the whites especially require to be 
managed with the greatest care. A horn 
spoon should be used for mixing those cakes 
which are not directed to be beaten with the 
hand. To make cakes light, salvolatile, or 
smelling salts, may be added immediately 
before putting them into the oven, allowing, 
to a sponge cake, made of one pound of flour, 
one tea-spoonful ; and two or three to a large 
plum cake. Cheese cakes, queen ciikes, 
sponge biscuits, and small sponge cakes, re- 
quire a quick oven till they have risen ; after- 
wards the heat should be more moderate. 
Plum, seed cakes, and all large kinds, must be 
well soaked, and therefore do not require a 
brisk oven. To preserve their color, a sheet of 
white paper is put over them, and after they 
have risen and become firm, they are turned 
round. To ascertain if a large cake be 
sufficiently done, a broad bladed knife is 
plunged into the centre of it, and if dry and 
clean when drawn out, the cake is baked ; 
but if anything adheres to the blade, it must 
instantly be returned to the oven, and tne 
door closed. When the oven is too hot, it 
is bettei- to lessen die fire than to open tiie 
door. 

CAKE. Take two pounds and a half of 
dried and sifted flour, the same of well clean- 
ed and dried currants, two pounds of fresh 
butter, two of finely-pounded and sifted loaf 
sugar, a nutmeg grated, a lea-spoonful of 
pounded cinnamon, one ounce of citron and 



CAKE 



32 



CAKE 



candied orange-peel, cut small, the yolks of 
sixteen, and the whites of ten eggs, beaten 
separately; then with the hand beat the 
butter to a cieam, and add the sugar, then 
die eggs by degrees, and the flour in tlie 
same way, and then the cnrranlP, sweetmeats, 
and spice, one glass of oi'ange-dower water, 
and one of brandy. Butter a tin pan, line it 
widi white paper buttered, put in the cake, 
ind bake it in a moderate oven four hours. 

CAKE, ALMOND. Blanch half a pound 
of sweet, and three ounces of bitter almonds ; 
pound them to a paste in a mortar with 
orange-flower water; add half a pound of 
sifted loaf sugar, and a little brandy; whisk 
separately, for half an houj-, the whites and 
yolks of twenty eggs, add the yolks to the 
almonds and sugar, and dien stir in the whites, 
and beat diem all well together. Butter a 
tin pan, sift bread raspings over it, put the 
cake into it, over the top of which strew sifted 
loaf sugar. Bake it in a quick oven for 
half or three-quarters of an hour. 

CAKES, ALMOND SMALL. One 

pound of buttei* beaten to a cieam, half a 
pound of finely-pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
half a pound of dried and sifted flour, and 
tlie same quantity of blanched sweet almonds 
cut into thin small bits, one well-beaten egg, 
and a little rose water, must be mixed well 
together, and with a' spoon dropped upon 
wafer paper or tins, and then baked. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (1) Take eight 
ounces of Jordan and one ounce of bitter al- 
monds, blanch and pound them very fine; 
then beat in widi the almonds the yolks of 
eight eggs, and whisk up the whites to a 
solid fnjdi. Then take eight table-spoonfuls 
of sifted sugar, five spoonfuls of fine flour, a 
small quantity of grated lemon-peel and 
pounded cinnamon, and mix all the ingre- 
dients. Rub the inside of a mould with 
fresh butter, fill it with die mixture and bake 
it of a light color. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (2) Put a gill of 
flour upon a pie-board, and make a hole 
in the middle to receive a piece of butter the 
si/.e of an egg, a little salt, a cjuarter of a 
pound of fine sugar, and six ounces of sweet 
almonds pounded very fine: knead the whole, 
and form it into a cake ; bake, and glaze it 
with sugar and a hot salamander. 

CAKE, ALI\IOND. (3) Weigh three 
eggs iii iheir slielLr;, take the same weight of 
flour, of the finest fresh bittter, and of grated 
loaf sugar. Pound with these ingredients 
l!;ree ounces of sweet aim.oiids blanched ; add 
a Ktile g.-ated lemon-peel, or orange-tiower 
water, and the whites and yolks of three 



eggs. Continue pounding till the whole 
forms a smooth paste. Butter the bottom 
of a baking-pan, and put in the cake with 
fire above and below. This cake may be 
served either hot or cold, with grated sugar 
over it. 

CAKES, ANISEED. Put in an earthen 

pan eight ounces of sugar pounded, and 
the yolks often eggs ; stir them togetner with 
a wooden spoon for half an hour. Li the 
meantime have the whites of your eggs 
whipped to a thick snow, and then pour in 
the sugar and yolks. When thoroughly 
mixed, add an ounce of good aniseed, pre- 
viously washed and dried, and ten ounces of 
flour; stir the whole gently, and then with a 
spoon lay it on white paper in cakes about 
the size of a crown-piece ; sprinkle them with 
fine sugar, and bake. Remove them from 
the paper, ^vhile hot, with a knife. 

CAKE, APPLE. Pare and coie a d 
en apples, and make them into marmalade, 
with the zeste of a lemon and a little cinna- 
mon, and pass them through a bolting; put 
them into a stewpan, Avith a spoonful of 
potato flour, half a pound of sugar, and two 
ounces of butter; dry it over the fire, and 
when cold add to it six eggs, stir them well 
in, and having buttered a mould, pour your 
preparation into it, and bake it in a slow 
oven ; when done, turn it in a dish and 
serve it. 

CAKE, ABERDEEN CRULLA. Beat 

to a cream a ([uarter of a pound of flesh butter, 
and mix with it the same quantity of pound- 
ed and sifted loaf sugar, and f jur well-beaten 
eggs; add flour till thick enough to I'ollout; 
cut the paste into oblong pieces about four 
or five inches in length ; vvidi a paste cutter,- 
divide the centre into three or four strips; 
wet the etlges, and plait one bar over the 
other, so as to meet in the centre; throw 
them into boiling lard, or clarified suet; 
when filed of a light brown, drain them 
before the fire, and serve them in a napkin, 
with or without grated loaf sugar strewed 
o\er them. 

CAKE, BANBURY. Set a sponge with 
two table-spoonfuls of thick yeast, a gill of 
warm nulk, and a pound of flour; wlien it 
has worked a little, mix with it half a pound 
of currants, washed and jjicked, half a 
pound of candied orange and lemon peel cut 
small, one ounce of spice, such as ground 
cinnamon, allspice, ginger, and grated nut- 
meg; mix the whole together %\ ith half a 
pound of honey ; roll out j;urf paste a (|uartei 
of an inch thick, cut it into rounds with a 
cutter, about four inches over, lay on each 
with a spoon a small quantity of the mixture ; 



CAKE 



33 



CAKE 



close It round with the fingers in the form 
of an oval; place the join underneath ; press 
it flat with the hand; sift sugar over it, and 
bake them on a plate a quarter of an hour. 

CAKES, BATH BREAKFAST. Rub 

into two pounds of flour half a pound of but- 
ter, and mix with it one pint of milk a little 
wanned, a quarter of a pint of fiesh yeast, 
four well-beaten eggs, and a tea-spoonful of 
salt; cover it, and let it stand before tlie lire 
to rise for tln-ee-cjuarters of an hour; make 
it into thick cakes about the size of the 
inside of a dinner plate; Lake them in a 
quick oven, then cut them into tliree, that 
the middle slice, as also the top and bottom 
may be well buttei'ed. Serve them very hot. 

CAKE, BAIRN BRACK. To three 
pounds of dried flour allow one pound o"" 
fresh butter, one pound of good brown sugar, 
two ounces of caraway seeds, eight well- 
beaten eggs, tliree table-spoonfuls of fresh 
yeast, and some grated nutmeg ; dissolve the 
butter in a pint of millv, so as to make the 
whole into a dough, not very stiff; Avork it 
well ; cover it with a clodi, and set it befoi-e 
the fire to rise; when well risen, bake it in 
a buttered tin. AV'hen it becomes dry, it 
may be toasted and eaten with butter. 

CAKES, BONNET. Boil in half a 
pint of water, for ten minutes, a bit of cin- 
namon, and of lemon-peel ; strain, and mix it 
W4th tluree table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir 
it over the fire for two or three minutes ; add 
a bit of butter the size of a walnut; when 
cold, mix in the beaten yolks of two eggs, a 
little salt and pepper ; beat it well, drop a 
dessert-spoonful of the mixture into boiling 
lard, then drain them upon the back of a 
sieve, and when served, throw over pounded 
loaf sugar. Instead of the salt and pe])per, a 
little preseive may be di'ooped ujson each, 
before the sugar is tin-own over. 

CAKE, BABA. Take the foiutli part of 
two pounds of flour, laj' it on your paste- 
board or slab, and having made a hule in 
the middle of it, put in half an ounce of 
yeast, work it up with one hand, whilst widi 
the other you pour in warm water ; make it 
into a rather soft paste, put into a wooden 
bowl, first pricking it in a few places, covei' 
it with a cloth and let it stand. When it 
has risen well, take the I'emainder of the 
fiour, and sj)read it on the first made paste ; 
mix them well togedier, adding to diem 
half an ounce of salt, six eggs, a pound of 
fresh butter, half" a pound of stoned raisins, 
two ounces of cmrants, half a glass of Mal- 
aga wine, and a little saffron in powder. 
VVork them up togedier thoroughly, loll it 
out two or tluee times, and then let it stand 



for six hours ; then having buttered a mould, 
pour in your prepmation and bake it. 

CAKE, BOLAR. One pound of flour 
dried in a slow oven, two spoonfuls of yeast, 
some almond milk, and water to "mix fui" a 
sponge; when raised, beat up three-quarters 
of a pound of clarified buttei', three eggs, and 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar, well-beat- 
en till tlie spoon comes clean away; then 
add cinnamon powder, candied orange and 
lemon. Bake in earthen basins, well but- 
tered; keep it before the fire till put in the 
oven. 

CAKE, BOLAR. When the sponge is 
beat, as for the last, instead of mixing the 
sugar, it is rolled in the sugar and cinnanioa 

CAKE, DUTCH BOLAR. Done, as 
above, without sugar ; then prick holes with 
a sharp pointed knife, and while it is hot 
pour in tJiree-quaiters of a pound of clarified 
sugar, flavored with cinnamon or orange- 
flower. Almonds and sweetmeats ai'e pie- 
viously put in the cake. Ornament your 
cake with harlequin sugar-plums. This was 
a favorite cake of Queen Charlotte. 

CAKE, BREAD. Take the quantity 
of a quartern loaf from the dough when mak- 
ing w hite bread, and knead well into it two 
ouiices of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and 
eight of currants. Waj-m the butter in a 
tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition 
of an ounce of batter, or sugar, or an egg or 
two, you may mate die cake better. A 
tea-cupfid of raw cream improves it much. 
It is best to bake it in a pan, rather dian as 
a loaf, the outside being less hard. 

CAKE, BRIDE. Take four pounds of 
fine flour well diied, fom* pounds of fresh 
butter, two pounds of loaf sugar, pounded 
and sifted fine, a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, and the same quantity of nutmegs; 
to e\ery pound of flour put eight eggs ; wash 
and pick four pounds of currants, and dry 
them before the fire; blanch a pound of 
sweet almonds, and cut diem lengdiways, 
very diin, a pound of citron, a pound of 
candied orange, a pound of candied lemon, 
and half a pint of brandy; first work the 
butter with your hand to a cream, then 
teat in your sugar a quarter of an hour; 
beat the w hites of your eggs to a very strong 
froth; mix them with your sugar and but- 
ter ; beat the yolks half an hour, at le;isC^ 
and mix them with your cake; then put in 
your flour, mace, and nutmeg; keep beating 
it till the oven is ready ; put in your brandy, 
and beat the currants and almonds lightly 
in ; tie tluee sheets of paper round the bot- 
tom of your hoops to keep it fi'om running 



CAKE 



34 



CAKE 



out; mb it well with butter, put in your 
cake, and the sweetmeats in three lays, with 
cake between every lay; after it is risen 
and ooloifvl, oovor it with paper before your 
oven is skipped up; it will take three huurs 
baking. 

CAKE, BRIE. Take some rich cheese, 
knead it with a pint and half of rtour, three 
quarters of a pound of butter, and a little 
salt; moisten it with five or six eggs beaten 
up; when it is well kneaded, let it stand 
for an hour ; then form your cake and bake 
as usual. 

CAKES, BENTON-TEA. Rub into 
a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, and 
three spoonfuls of yeast, and make into a 
paste with new milk; make into biscuits, 
and prick them with a clean fork. 

CAKES, BUTTER. Beat a dish of 
butter with your hands to a cream, add two 
pounds of sifted sugar, tlu'ee pounds of dried 
flour, and twenty-four egg^, leave out half 
the whites, and then beat all together for an 
hour; when you are going to put it in the 
oven add a cjuarter of an <junce of mace and 
a nutmeg, a little sack and brandy, seeds 
and currants, if you think proper. 

CAKE, WITHOUT BUTTER. Take 
the weigiit of three eggs in sugar, and the 
weigiit of two in floup; when the hve eggs are 
well beaten, gradually add the sugar, and 
then the floiu-, with a little grated lemon- 
peel, oi- a iiiw caraway^eeds. Bake it in 
a tin mould, in rather a c|uick oven. 

CAKES, CHESHIRE. Beat for half 
an hour the yolks of eight, and die whites 
of five eggs ; add half ;i pound of pounded 
and sifted loaf sugar, a (|iiarler of a p^ound 
of dried and sifted lluiu', and die grated 
peel of a small lemon; beat all well togeth- 
er, and Lake it in a floured tin. 

CAKES, CARAWAY. (1) Three 
quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of 
butter well rubbed into it, a cjuarter of a 
pound of sifted loaf sugar, and some caraway 
seeds; make these into a stiff jiaste widi a 
little cold water, roil it out two or tlnee 
times, cut it into round cakes, prick tliejn, 
and bake diem upon floured tins. For a 
change, currants may be substituted for the 
caraway seeds. 

CAKES, CARAWAY. (2) Jlixhalf 
a pound of sifted loaf sugar with a pound 
of flour and a cjuarter of a pound of butter, 
add some caraway seeds; make it into a 
BtifF paste, with three well-beaten eggs, and 
a little rose water; roil it out thin, cut it 



into round cakes, prick them with a fork, 
and bake dieni upon floured tins in a quick 
oven. 

CAKES, CURD CHEESE. Boil, in 
two qi;aits of cream, the well-beaten yolks 
of four, and the whites of fi^e eggs; diain 
oft' the whey gently, and mix with the curd 
grated nutmeg, pounded cinnamon, three 
table-sjioonfuls of best rose v;ater, as much 
white wine, four ounces of pounded loaf su- 
gar, the sanie quantity of butter beaten to a 
cream, and Tlf pounded biscuit. Mix all 
these ingredients well together, and stir in 
a (juarter of a pound of curiants. Bake it 
in a large tin, or in patty-pans lined with 
[)aste ; or it may be bedied in a dish previ- 
ously buttered. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (1) Take 
two pounds of fine flour, one pound and a 
half of butter, the yolks of five or six eggs, 
one pound and a half of sugar, six spoonfuls 
of white wine, tluee spoonfuls of caraway 
seeds, two nutmegs, and one pound of cm'- 
rants; Ijeat up the butter with your hand 
till it is Yei7 thin; dry the flour well ; put in 
the caraway seeds, and nutmegs, finely grat- 
ed ; afterwards put them all into your bat- 
tel', with the eggs, white wine, and rose 
water; mingle them well together; put^in 
the currants ; let your oven be pretty hot, 
and as soon as tliey ai'e colored they will be 
sufficiently done. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (2) Take half a 
pound of cleaned and dried currants, the 
sauie (juantity of dried and sifted flour, a 
c|uarter of a pound of pounded sugar, a 
(luarter of a pound of flesh butter, four 
yolks, and three whites of eggs, both well 
beaten, and a little grated nutmeg or pound- 
ed cinnamon; then beat the butter to a 
cream ; add the sugar, and then the eggs 
and the flour; beat these well for twenty 
minutes, mix in the currants and the grated 
nutmeg. Drop the cakes in a round form 
upon buttered paper, or bake them in small 
tins in a (}uick oven. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (3) Take six 
ounces of currants, the same quantity of 
(lounded loaf sugar, a little grated nutmeg, 
lialf a pound of butter, and three-quarters 
of a pound of dried and sifted flour; rub the 
Butter with the flour till they be well mixed, 
then add the other ingredients, and bind 
them widi three beaten yelks of eggs, and 
two or diree spoonfuls of rose or orange- 
flower water; roll it out, and cut it into 
round cakes with the top of a wine glass oi 
a tin. 

CAKE, COMMON. (1) Take two 



CAKE 



35 



CAKE 



quarts of flour, mix with it three-quarters 
of a pound of butter, a tea-cupful of fi-esh 
yeast, one pint of milk, nine well-beaten 
eggs, two pounds of well-cleanod currant.<, 
one pound and a half of gM)d brown sugar, 
tlie grated peel of a lemon, and one luitineg; 
a glass of brandy must be stirred in just be- 
fore it be put into a buttered tin. Bake it 
for two hours or more. 

CAKE, COMMON. (2) Rub into one 
pound of flour a quarter of a pound of 
good butter ; mix, with two well-beaten 
eggs, and a table-spoonful of fresh yeast, as 
much warm milk as will make the flour into 
a very thick batter. Let this remain near 
the fiie, covered with a cloth for an hour, 
then mix into it six ounces of good brown 
suu:ar, and nine ounces of well-cleaned and 
dried currants ; let it stand again for half 
an hour, and bake it in a buttered tin for 
an hour. 

CAKE, COJIMOX. (3) One pound and 
a half of flour, o'.ie pound of good brown su- 
gar, eigi-t weil-bcatea eggs, and one ousice 
of caraway seeds, are to be mixed together; 
then add of fresh yeast, milk, and of water, 
-one table-spoonful eacli. Let it stand a lit- 
tle time, and bake it in a floured tin. 

CAKES, COLD HARBOR. Dissolve 
one ounce of butter in as much milk warmed 
as will make four pounds of flour into a stirT 
paste; about two pints may be required; 
add half a tea-spoonful of salt, one egg 
beaten together with a table-spoonful of 
yeast; mix it all well, cover it with a 
cloth, and let it remain before the fire for 
half an hour; dien make it into small 
round balls, and bake them upon tins in a 
quick oven. 

CAKES, CREAM. (1) Put a pound of 
flour upon a pie-board ; make a hole in the 
middle, pu^in half a pint of clotted cream, 
and a little salt; mix the paste lightly, let 
it stand for half an hour, then add half a 
pound of butter ; roll it out? five times, the 
same as puft' paste, and form it into small 
cakes; gild them with the yolk of egg, and 
bake in an oven. 

CAKES, CREAM. (2) Sift some 
double-refined sugar; beat the whites of 
seven or eight eggs; shake in as many 
spoonfuls of the sugar; grate in the rind of 
a large lemon ; drop the froth on a' paper, 
laid on tin, in lumps at a distance; sift a 
good deal of sugar over them; set tliem in a 
moderate oven; the froth will rise; just 
color them; you may put raspberry jam, 
and stick two bottoms togetlier ; put tlxem 
in a cool oven to dry 



CAKES, CREAM. (3) Put into a 
stew|)an, two glasses of cream, a quarter of 
a j)ouiid of butter, the rind of a lemon, cut 
small, a (juarter of a pound of powder-sugar, 
and a pinch of salt. Set it on die fiie, and 
wiien it begins to boil, put it by the side of 
the stove; take out the lemon-peel, and add, 
by degiees, as uuicli flour as the litjuid will 
bear; kee[) stirring it coiistantly, and pLice 
it on the fire again, for five minutes, then 
pour it into a basin ; add to it, one by one, 
as niasiy eggs as will make the paste stick 
to the fingers ; put the paste on a slab, and 
make your cakes of a round form. 

CAKES, CANAPES. Roll out thrcK 
(juarters of a pound of puff paste, keeping it 
long and nan ovv ; do not let it be more tlian 
a c|uarter of an inch thick, and about three 
isK'hes wide. Cut the paste across with a 
sharp knife, in slips three-eights of an inch 
in width, and place them on the cut side, on 
a baking-plate, each two inches apart; hike 
theiu in a hot oven, and when nicely colored, 
sprinkle them with sugar, and ghi^.e them. 
When done, remove them friMii the jjlate; 
and just befoj-e they are served, mask them 
with apricot marmalade, or any other you 
may like better, *ind arrange them on your 
dish €71 couronne. 

CAKES, CURD. Take a quart of 
curds, eight eggs, leaving out four whites ; 
put in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little 
flour; mix tliese well t)getner, heat butter, 
in a frying-pan, drop tuem in, and fly like 
fritters. 

CAKES, DERBY OR SHORT. Rub 

in with the hand one pound of b-utter into 
two jx)unds of sifted flour; put one pound 
of cuiiants, one pound of good moist sugar, 
and one egg; mix all together with half 
a pint of milk: rofl it out thin, and cut them 
into round cakes with a cutter; lay them on 
a clean baking-plate, and put them iiito a 
middling-heated oven for about five minutes. 

CAKE, DIET BREAD. Boil, in half 
a pint of water, one pound and a half of 
lump sugar; have i-eady one pint of eggs, 
three parts yolks, in a pan ; pour in the su- 
gar, and whisk it quick till cold, or about 
a quarter of an hour; then stir in two 
pounds of sifted flour ; case the iiiside of 
scjuare tins wUh white paper; fill diem three 
parts full; sift a little sugar over, and bake 
it in a warm oven, and while hot remove 
them from die moulds. 

CAKE, DAUPHINE. Beat separate- 
ly tlie whites and yolks of twenty eggs; to 
the yolks add a pound of pounded and sifted 
loaf sugar, tlie grated peel of one l^mon, and 



CAKE 



36 



CAKE 



two or three table-spoou'^ils of orange-flower 
water; then stir in tlie wuites, and lightly 
mix in half a pound of dried and sifted tloui*. 
Bake it in a moderate oven. 

CAKE, FASHION. Mix a handflil of 
flour with a pint of good cream, iialf a pound 
of l)eef suet, melted and sifted, a quarter of 
a pound of powder-sugar, half a pound of 
raisins, stoned and chopped, dried flowers of 
orange, a glass of brandy, a little coriander, 
and salt ; bake it as all other cakes, about an 
houi', and glaze or garnish it. 

CAKE, FOURRES. Make a puff paste, 
form it into two equal parts the size of tlie 
dish in which you mean to place your cake, 
and the thickness of two crowns each; then 
take one of the cakes and put upon it some 
sweetmeats, leaving about an inch, as a 
border, all round; wet it wiUi water and 
place the other cake upon it, draw up tlie 
edges carefully with your fingers ; gild them 
widi the yolli of egg, and bake diem in an 
oven. 

CAKE, FRENCH. Twelve eggs, the 
yolks and whites beaten well and separately, 
one pound of pounded and* sifted loaf sugar, 
tlie grated peel of a large lemon, half a pound 
of sifted and dried floiu-, the same weight of 
sifted and dried ground rice, foiu' ounces of 
sweet, and one ofbitter almonds, pounded in 
a mortar together, with a table-spoonful of 
orange-flower water. Mix all these ingre- 
dients gradually, and beat them well. Pa- 
per the pan, and bake tlie cake for one hour. 

CAKE, FAMILY. Take rice and 
flour, of each six ounces, the yolks and 
whites of nine eggs, half a pound of lump 
sugar, pounded and sifted, and half an ounce 
of caraway seeds. Having beaten tliis one 
hour, bake it for the same time in a quick 
oven. This is a very light cake, and is ve- 
ry proper for young people and delicate 
stomachs. 

CAKES, RICH GINGERBREAD. To 

one pound of diied and sifted flour, allow 
half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, three- 
quai'ters of a pound of flesh butter washed in 
rose water, one pound of treacle, one nutmeg 
grated, tlie weight of a nutmeg of pounded 
mace, and as much of pounded cinnamon, 
one ounce of pounded ginger, one and a half 
of candied orange and lemon-peel, cut small, 
half an ounce of blanched sweet almonds, cut 
it into long thin bits, and two weli-beaten 
eggs. Melt die butter Avith the treacle, and 
when nearly cold, stir in the eggs and the 
rest of the ingredients; mix all well together, 
make it into round cakes, and bake them 
upon tins. 



CAKE, GINGERBREAD. Take two 
pounds of treacle, two and a quarter of flour5 
of brown sugar and fresh butter three-quar- 
ters of a pound each, four ounces of carawaj 
seeds, the same quantity of candied orange- 
peel cut snrall, four well-beaten eggs, and 
half an ounce of pearl ashes ; beat the butter 
to a cream, and mix it with the rest of die 
ingredients. The next day work it well up, 
and bake it in a buttered tin. 

CAKE, GLOVE. With flour make into 
a paste thick enough to roll out, the beaten 
yolks of ten eggs, five table-spoonfi.ils of rich 
sweet cream, a little sugar, and some carda- 
mons; cut it into fanciful forms with small 
tins, and dirow them into fresh boiling lard 
or butter ; when of a light brown color, diain 
them before the fire. If fried in butter, add 
a little water to tlie butter, and make it boil- 
ing hot. 

CAKES, GIRDLE. Rub three ounces 
of fresh butter into one pound of flour, with 
half a tea-spoonfid of salt ; moisten with a 
sufiiciency of sweet butter-milk to make it 
into a paste ; roll it out, and cut it into cakes 
with a cup or tumbler, and bake them upon 
a girdle. 

CAKES, HONEY. One pound and a 
half of dried and sifted flour, diree-quartera 
of a pound of honey, half a pound of finely 
pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of 
citron, and half an ounce of oi'aiige-peel cut 
small, of pounded ginger and cinnamon, three 
quarters of an ounce. Melt the sugar \vith 
the honey, and mix in the other ingredients; 
roll out the paste, and cut it into small cakes 
of any form. 

CAKES, HEART, With your hand 
work a pound of butter to a cream, then put 
to it twelve eggs, with only six of the whites 
well-beaten, a pound of dried flour, a pound 
of sifted sugar, four spoonfuls of ™od brandy, 
and a pound of currants washed and dried 
before the fire. As the pans are filled, put 
in two ounces of candied orange and citron, 
and continue beating the cake till you put it 
into the oven. This quantity will be suffi- 
cient to fill tluee dozen of middling sized 
pans. 

CAKES, IRISH SEED. Beat to a 
cream eight ounces of fiesh butter, and a 
quarter of a pint of lose water, putting in a 
table-spoonful of rose water at a time; by 
degiees, mix into it a pound of sifted loaf 
sugar, and then nine well-beaten eggs; add 
twelve ounf es of flour, and three of flour of 
rice <h ied and sifted, a quarter of a pound 
of blanched and pounded sweet or bitter al- 
monds, a tea-spoonfiil of essence of lemon^ 



CAKE 



37 



CAKE 



and one ounce of caraway seeds ; l>eat all 
these well together; bake it in a cake tin, 
which must be buttered and lined with piiy.ar, 
also buttered. It will recjuire about one liour 
and a half to bake in a quick oven. It may 
be made without the almonds or tlie esseace 
of lemon. 

CAKES, LITTLE. To a pound of flour 
dried, add a pound of lump sugar rolled veiy 
line, tlie peel of two lemons chopped small, 
and ii\ e ounces of butter ; mix them tlior- 
oiiglily; let it stand sometime before tlie fire, 
then aiid three eggs well l^eaten, the whites 
separately, pick tliem with a fork into small 
lumjis, and bake them on a tin: this quanti- 
t\ u ill make about eighty cakes. Instead 
of lemon-peel you may,, if you please, add 
sixty bitter abiionds blanclied and beaten 
with white of egg until they are quite fine. 

CAKES, xMAXOX. Form some puff 
paste iiito an under-crust and co%ei* some 
bakiug-plates w ith it; then spread all over 
them some frangipane, or marmalaiie, of 
whatever sort vou please ; add some sweet- 
meat, and tlien cover with a very thin crust; 
gild and ornament them, then put lliem in 
the oven ; when they are three p^u ts cloi>e, 
sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze. When 
thev are glazed put them lo finish baking in 
a more gentle oven, and when done take 
tliem out of the tins, and serve them either 
hot or cold. 

CAKES, MOx\TROSE. Of dried and 
sifted flour, pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
and of fi'esh butter, one pound each will be 
required, also twelve well-beaten eggs, tlu'ee 
quartei's of a pound of cleaned and dried 
currants ; beat the Ix^tter to a cream with the 
sugar ; add the eggs by degrees, and then tlie 
flour and currants, with two table-spoonfuls 
of brandy, one of rose water, and half a 
grated nutmeg; beat all well together for 
twenty or thirty minutes, when it is to be 
put into small buttered tins, lialf filling them, 
and baking them in a quick oven. The 
currants may be omitted. 

CAKES, MEAT. See Meat. 

CAKES, NU\S. Take four pounds of 
veiy fine flour, and mix with it three pounds 
of double-refined sugar, finely beat and sifted ; 
diy them by the ^n-e till your other materials 
are prepared; take four pounds of butter, 
beat it in your hands till it is veiy soft like 
cream ; beat thirty-four eggs, leave out six- 
teen whites and takeout the tre^ids from all ; 
beat the eggs and butter together till it ap- 
•ears like butter, pour in four or five 
-! coaifuls of rose or orange-flower water, and 
beat it again; tlien cake vour flour a"d sugar 



with six ounces of caraway seeds; strew il 
in by degrees, beating it up all the while, 
f.r two hours together; put in as much tinc- 
ture of cinnamon, or ambergris, as you 
l';lease; butter your hoop, and let it stand 
three hours in a moderate oven. 

CAKES, NUNS' BEADS. Pound in a 
mortar four ounces of good clieese, with a 
little salt, the beaten yolks of three eggs, and 
some crumbs of bread ; roll them as large as 
walnuts, cover them with puff paste, and fry 
them in butter a light brown color. Serve 
tJiera in a napkin. 

CAKES, 0AT3IEAL. One only should 
be made at a time, as tlie mixture dries 
(juickly. Put two or three handfuls of meal 
into a bowl, and moisten it with water 
merely sufficient to form it into a cake, 
knead it out round and round widi the hands 
upon the paste-board, stiewing meal under 
and over it; it may be made as thin as a 
wafer, or thicker, according to taste, and 
put it on a hot iron plate, called a girdle. 
Bake it till it be a ligiit brown on die under 
side, then take it off, and toast tliat side 
ljef)re the fire which was uppermost on the 
girdle. The toasW is such as is commonly 
used for heating smoothing irons, having a 
back to support tire cake- To make these 
cakes soft, they must not be toasted before 
the fire, but botli sides done quickly on the 
girdle. 

CAKE, PLUM. Three pounds of flour, 
three pomifls of currants, three-quarters of a 
pound of almonds, blanched and beat grossly, 
about half an ounce of them bitter, foiu* 
ounces of sugar, seven yolks and six whites 
of eggs, one pint of cieam, two pounds of 
butter, half a pint of good ale yeast; mix the 
eggs and the yeast togetlier, strain them; set 
the cream on tiie fire, melt the butter in it; 
stir in the almonds, and half a pint of sack, 
part of which should be put to the almonds 
while beating; mix together the flour, cur- 
rants and sugar, what nutmegs, cloves and 
mace arc liked: stir tliese to tlie o'eam: put 
in the yeast. 

CAKES, POTATO CHEESE. (1) 

Boil and peel half a pound of good potatoes, 
bruise tliem in a mortar, and when nearly 
cold drop in the yolk and white of an egg 
at intervals, until four have been added, 
beating the potatoes well all the time; (hen 
add a quarter of a pound of sifted bread 
crumbs, and put in two more eggs. Beat 
to a cream six ounces of fresh butter, with 
the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar; 
put it into the mortar, with the grated peel 
of one lemon, and mix all thoroughly. Line 
the patty-pans with paste, fill theai tliree 



CAKE 



38 



CAKE 



parts full, and bake them in a moderate | sugar over them ; they are soon baked. Thej 
o\en. I may be done in a Dutch oven. 



CAKES, POTATO CHEESE. (2) 

Pound in a mortar five ounces of potatoes 
with four of fresh butter, and the same quan- 
tity of pounded loaf sugar, the grated pee! 
and juice of half a lemon, three well-beaten 
eggs, and a table-spoonful of brandy ; mix 
all well together, and bake as betbre di- 
rected. 

CAKES, PARLIAMENT. Put into a 
sauce pan two pounds of treacle, and when 
it boils, add a quarter of a pound of butter, 
and pour it upon two pounds of Hour ; add a 
little alum, and a bit of pearlash about the 
size of a nut, and an ounce of ginger. Work 
it well with the hand till quite smooth ; let 
it stand a day and a night, then roll it out 
very thin, and cut it into oblong cakes. 

CAKE, POUND. (1) Take one pound 
of dried and sifted Hour, the same cjuantity 
of sifted loaf sugar, and of fresli butter w ash- 
ed in rose water ; the well-beaten yolks of 
twelve, and the whites of six eggs ; tiien 
with the hand beat the butter to a cream, 
by degrees add the sugar, then the eggs and 
the flour; beat it all well together Ibr an 
hour. Bake it in a tin pan buttered, or in 
small ones in a quick oven. 

CAKE, POUND. (2) Take of dried 
and sifted flour, sifted loaf sugar, fresli but- 
ter, cleaned and dried currants, one pound 
each, and twelve eggs ; then whisk the yolks 
and whites of the eggs separately, while 
another with the hand beats the butter to a 
cream ; and as the froth rises upon the eggs 
add it to, the butter, and continue so domg 
till it is all beaten in ; mix the flour and 
sugar together, and add them by degrees ; 
the last thing, mix in the currants, together 
with a glass of brandy. It will require to 
be beaten during a whole hour. Bake it in 
a buttered tin. 

CAKE, POUND. (3) To a pound of 
sifted sugar, add a pound of fresh butter, and 
mix them with the hand ten minutes; put to 
them nine yolks and five whites of eggs well- 
beaten ; whisk all well, and add a pound of 
sifted flour, a few caraway seeds, a quarter 
of a pound of candied orange-peel cut into 
slices, a (ew currants washed and picked, 
and mix all together as light as possible. 

CAKE, QUEEN. Beat one pound of 
butter to a cream, with some rose water, 
one pound of flour dried, one pound of sifted 
sugar, twelve eggs; beat all well together; 
add a few currants washed and dried ; butter 
small pans of a size lor the purpose, grate 



CAKE, ROYAL. Put a very little lemon- 
peel, shred fine, into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of sugar, a small pinch of salt, a 
piece of butter half the size of an egg, a glass 
of water, and four or five spoonfuls of flour; 
stir over the fire till the paste becomes thick, 
and begins to adhere to the stewpan ; then 
take it off, put in an egg, and stir it in the 
i paste till it is well mixed ; continue to add 
one egg at a time, till the paste softens with- 
out becoming liquid; then put in some 
dried orange flowers, and two bitter almond 
biscuits, the whole shied fine ; malce the 
paste into little cakes, about the size round 
of a half-crown ; put them on buttered paper, 
gild them with 4he j'olk of an egg beat up, 
and bake half an hour in an oven moderately 
hot. 

CAKE, RICH. To two pounds and a 
half of dried and sifted flour allow the same 
quantity of fresh butter washed with rose- 
water, two pounds of finely-pounded loaf 
sugar, tluree pounds of cleaned and dried 
currants, one nutmeg grated, half a pound 
of sweetmeats cut small, a quarter of a 
pound of blanched almonds pounded wifli a 
little rose-water, and twenty eggs, the yolks 
and whites separately beaten. I'he butter 
must be beaten with the hand till it become 
like cream ; then add the sugar, and by 
dearecs the eggs, after these the rest of the 
ingredients, mixing in at last tlie currants, 
with a tea-cupful of brandy, and nearly as 
much orange-flower water. This mixture 
nuipt be beaten together rather more than 
an hour, then put into a cakepan,whicii has 
previously been buttered and lined with but- 
tered paper ; fill it rather more than three- 
quarters full. It should be baked in a 
moderate oven for three hours, and then 
cooled gradually, by at first letting it stand 
sometime at the mouth of th.e o\'en. 

CAKE, RICE. (1) Whisk ten eggs for 
half an hour, add to them half a pound of flour 
of rice, half a pound of pounded and silted 
loaf sugar, and the grated peel of two lemons; 
mix this into half a pound of fresh butter, 
previously beaten to a cream. Bake tlie 
cake in a buttered tin. 

CAKE, RICE. (2) Take six ounces of 
ground lice, six ounces of flour, tlnee-ciuar- 
ters of a pound of fine sugar sifted, nine eggs, 
tlie yolks and whites beaten separately; mix 
all well together, grate in the rind of a lemon, 
and beat it well lialf an hour. 

CAKES , LITTLE RICE. Whisk weU 
six yolks and two whites of eggs; then with 



CAKE 



39 



CAKE 



a horn spoon beat in six ounces of finely- 
pounded loaf sugai-, add eight ounces of sift- 
ed ground rice, and two table-spoonfuls of 
orange-flower or rose water, or the grated 
peel of a lemon, and just before the mixture 
is to be put into tlie tins, stir into it six 
ounces of fresh butter melted ; dust die patty 
pans with flour, or rub theui with butter; 
let them be half filled, and bake die cakes 
in a quick o\en. 

CAKES, SI\IALL ROUT. Rub into 
one pound of dried and sifted ilour, half a 
pound of butter, six ounces of pounded and 
sifted loaf sugar, and the yolks of two well- 
beaten eggs; mix them all into a paste widi 
a little losewater; divide the quantity, put 
a few dried currants or cai il^fay seeds into 
one half; roll out tlie paste, cut it into small 
round cakes, and bake them upcjn buttered 
tins. 

CAKE RICE, A SWEET dish. Wash 
well and drain a quarter of a pound of rice. 
Boil widi a quart of fresh cream the peel of 
one lemon, and when nearly cold take it out 
and put in tlie rice ; place tlie sauce pan over 
a slow fire, and when the rice has swollen, 
add a little salt, and sweeten with j>ounded 
loaf sugiir; when die rice is quite tender, add 
tlie yolks of eight eggs, and mix in gradually 
ihe beaten whites, widi a good bit of fresh 
butter, and pour it into a mould; turn tliis 
round, Uiat die butter may equally cover 
every part of it, dieii pour out the butter, and 
gtiew over the inside a layer of grated bread ; 
with a paste brush or a slip of paper, sprinkle 
all over it some of the clarified butter, add 
more grated bread, pour in the rice, and 
bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. 
Turn it out upon a dish, and serve it with 
or without a garnishing of preserved rasp- 
beiTies, cherries, or curr.'ints. 

CAKES, SPANISH. Riib, till quite 
fine and smooth, one pound of butter with 
two pounds of flour, then add a pound of 
good brown sugar, rolled fine; mix all to- 
geUier with four well-beaten eggs; break 
the paste into small bits or knobs, and bake 
them upon floured tins. 

CAKES, SHREWSBURY. Take a 
pound of butter, and put it in a little flat 
pan, rub it till it is as fine as cream, then 
take one pound of powdered sugar, a little 
cinnamon and mace pounded, and four eggs, 
yolks and whites together ;. beat them w ith 
your hand till it is very light; then take one 
pound a.id a half of sifted flour, work it 
together, and roll it on your dresser, to what 
size you like, only very flat, let your oven be 
rather slow, and let them change dieir color, 
then take them out. 



CAKE, SPONGE. (1) Weigh ten eggs, 
and their weight in very fine sugar, and tliat 
of six in flour ; beat the yolks with the flour, 
and the whites alonc> to a very stifl" froth: 
then by degrees mix the \vlutes and die flour 
with the other ingredients, and beat them 
well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an 
hour. 

CAKE, SPONGE. (2) Take the juice 
and grated rind of a lemon, twelve eggs, 
twelve ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar, 
the same of dried and sifted flour ; then with 
a horn spoon beat the yolks of ten eggs, add 
the sugar by degrees, and beat it till it will 
stand when dropped from the spoon ; put in 
at separate times the two other eggs, yolks 
and whites ; whisk the ten whites for eight 
minutes, and mix in the lemon-juice, and 
when quite stifi", take as much as the whisk 
will lift, and put it upon the yolks and sugar, 
which must be beaten all the time; mix in 
lightly tlie floiu" and grated peel, and pour it 
all gradually over the whites ; stir it together, 
and bake it in a buttered tin, or in small 
tins ; do not more than half fill them. 

CAKES, SHORT. Dissolve half a 
pound of fiesh butter in as much milk as 
will make a pound and a half of flour into 
a paste, roll it out about a quarter of an 
inch thick, and cut it into large round cakes. 
Do diem in a fi-ying-pan, and serve them hot. 
They ai'e eaten with butter. 

CAKES, SALLY LUNN. Take one 
pint of milk quite warm, a quarter of a pint 
of thick small-beer yeast; put them into a pan 
with floiu- suflicient to make it as thick as 
batter, — cover it over, and let it stand till it 
has risen as high as it w ill, i. e. about two 
hours: add two ounces of lump sugar, dis- 
solved in a quarter of a 'pint of warm milk, 
a quarter of a pound of butter nibbed into 
your flour veiy fine ; then make your dough 
the same as for French rolls, &c. ; and let 
it stand half an hour; then make up yom- 
cakes, and put them on tins : when they have 
stood to rise, bake them in a quick oven. 
Care should be taken never to put your 
yeast to water or milk too hot, or too cold, as 
either extreme will destroy the fermentation. 
In summer it should be lul-Lewai'm, in winter 
a little warmer, and in vei-y cold weather, 
warmer still. When it has first risen, if you 
are not prepared, it will not hurt to stand au 
hour. ' 

CAKES, SUGAR. Take half a pound 
of dried flour, the same quantity of fiesh 
butter washed in rose water, and a quarter 
of a pound of sifted loaf sugar; then mix 
together the flour and sugar: rub in tlie but- 
ter, and add die yolk of an egg beaten with 



CAKE 



40 



CALF 



a table-spoonful of cream ; make it into a 
paste, roll, and cut it into small round cakes, 
which bake upon a tlouied tin. 

CAKES, TEA. With a pound of flour 
rub half a pound of butter; add the l)eaten 
yolks of two, and the white of one egg, a 
quarter of a jwund of jiounded loaf sugar, 
and a few caraway seeds; mix it to a paste 
with a little warm milk, cover it with a 
cloth, and let it startd before the fire for 
nearly an hoiu* ; roll out the paste, and cut it 
info round cakes with the top of a glass, and 
bake them upon floured tins. 

CAKE, TWELFTH. Two pounds of 
sifted flour, two pounds of sifted loaf su- 
gar, two pounds of butter, eighteen eggs, 
four pounds of currants, one half pound of 
almonds blanched and chopped, one half pound 
of citron, one pound of candied orange and 
lemon peel cut into thin slices, a large nut- 
meg grated, half an ounce of ground allspice ; 
ground cinnamon, mace, ginger, and corian- 
ders, a quarter of an ounce of each, and a 
gill of brandy. Put the butter into a stew- 
pan, in a warm place, and work it into a 
smooth cream with the hand, and mix it 
wiiljthe sugar and spice in a pan, (or on 
your paste board) for sometime; then break 
in die eggs by degrees, and beat it at least 
twenty minutes; stir in the brandy, and then 
the flour, and work it a little ; add the fruit, 
sweetmeats, and almonds, and mix all to- 
gedier lightly; have ready a hoop cased with 
paper, on a baking-plate ; put in the mixture, 
smooth it on the top with your hand, dipped 
in milk ; put the plate on another, with saw 
dust between, to prevent the bottom from 
coloring too much : bake it in a slow oven 
four hours or more, and when nearly cold, 
ice it with icinsr. Tiiis mixture would make 
a handsome cake, full twelve or iourteen 
inches over. 

CAKE, WHITE. Take of dried and 
sifted flour ,df fresh butter and of finely-pound- 
ed loaf sugar, one pound each ; five well-beaten 
eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, of candied 
orange and lemon peel, cut small, three quar- 
ters of an ounce each ; one ounce of cara- 
way seeds, half a grated nutmeg, a glass of 
brandy, and a little ruse water; then beat 
the butter to a cream, and add all the other 
ingredients to it, and at the last mix in one ta- 
ble-spoonihl of flesh yeast ; let the cake rise 
before tlie fire for half an hour. Bake it in 
a buttered tin. Instantly upon taking it 
out of the oven, with a feather, brush the 
top all over with the beaten white of an egg, 
and then sift loaf sugai- upon it. Let it 
stand at tlie mouth of the oven to harden. 

CAKES, YEAST. Take a poimd of 



flour, two pounds of currants, washed and 
picked, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter 
a quarter of a pound of Lisbon sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of citron and candied orange- 
peel cut into slices, cinnamon and mace, a 
small quantity of each pounded and sifted. 
Make a hole in the centieof the ingredients, 
put in a gill of sweet wine, a little warm 
milk, mix ail together, fill a hoop with it, 
let it remain till it rises, and bake it. 

CAKES, YORKSHIRE. Take two 
pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces 
of butter, melted in a pint of good milk, 
three spoonfiils of yeast, and two eggs ; beat 
all well together, and let it rise ; then knead 
it, and make it into cakes ; let them rise on 
tins before you bake, \vhich do in a slow 
oven. Anothe?^ort is made as above, leav- 
ing out the butter. The first is shorter, the 
last lighter. 

CAKE, BISCUIT. One pound of flour, 
five eggs well-beaten and strained, eight 
ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-flower 
water, beat the whole dioroughly, and bake 
it for one hour. 

CALF'S BRAINS, with Oysters. 
Blanch and clean the brains, then wipe them 
dry, dip them into yolks of eggs, and roll 
them in bread crumbs; (vy them in boiling 
lard till of a good color, drain them very 
dry, and servq^ with oysters, stewed either 
white or bsown. Garnish with broiled ham 
cut in small round pieces. 

CALF'S BRAINS. Cleanse two calves' 
brains, and stew them in stock with two or 
three spoonfuls of vinegar, a bunch of pars- 
ley, scallions, a clove of garlic, three 
cloves, thyme, laurel, and basil; when suffi- 
ciently stewed, cut each piece of the biaiu 
in two, dip them in a batter made of two 
handfuls of flour, diluted with a little oil, half 
a pint of white wine, and salt. Fiy them in 
lard until the batter is crisp and the brain3 
of a gold color. 

CALF'S BRAINS, with fried par- 
sley. Blanch three or four brains of 
nearly an equal size; parboil them, and 
take off" the skin ; tlien boil them in water, 
with a little salt, vinegar and butter. Serve 
them with a sauce made of a little browned 
butter, a table-spoonful of vinegar, some salt 
and pepper, and some parsley fried veiy 



CALF'S CHITTERLINGS. Cut them 
open widi scissors, wash and cleanse thera 
thoroughly, lay diem for a night into salt- 
and-water, then wash them well, parboil 
and cut them. into small pieces, diptliera iv» 



CALF 



41 



CALF 



to a thick batter, seasoned with pepper, 
salt, and a little white wine. Fry them of 
a light brown color in beef dripping ; serve 
with a fringe of fried parsley. Or, After 
being parboiled, they may be roasted, when 
they must be constantly basted with butter, 
dredged witli flour to froth tliem nicely; 
tlien served with meUed butter, and lemon 
pickle poured over thein. Or, They may 
be baked — when, after being parboiled, they 
are rubbed over with butter, and put into 
the oven on an iron frame, v\hicli is placed 
in a deep dish. This oblong frame of 
white iron, about two inches high, will be 
found useful in baking every kind of meat. 

CALF'S CHAUDRON, FRICASSEE. 

Parboil a calf's chaudron, and when cold, 
cut it in pieces about as big as walnuts; 
season them witli salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, 
mace, an onion, tarragon, and parsley, shred 
fine ; fry ihem in a Jadleful of good broth 
and fi'esh butter; make a sauce of mutton 
gravy, orange and lemon juice, eggs' yolks, 
and grated nutmeg; toss up diese ingredi- 
ents with the chaudron, then dish it and 
serve. 



CALF'S-FEET PUDDING. 
dings. 



See Pud- 



CALF'S FEET JELLY. See Jelhj. 

CALF'S FEET, POTTED. Boil the 
feet as f jr jelly, pick all the meat from tlie 
bones, add to it half a pint of gravy, a little 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg, gaiiic, a shallot 
and some shred ham ; simmer it for haU au 
hour, dip a mould into water, put in a uiy- 
er of the meat, then some neatly-cut pickled 
beet root, and some boiled minced j>arsiey, 
then a layer of meat, and so on, till the 
mould be filled; when cold, turn it out. 
Garnish with pickled eggs, beet root, and 
parsley. 

CALF'S FEET, PLAIN, cald, clean, 
and blanch some calves' feet, jil them till 
the bones will come out, thei tew them in 
a blanc. See Calf's Head ^lain. When 
done, di-aia and serve thva with parsley 
and batter. 

CALF'S HEAD, HASHED. Boil the 
head almost enough, an.l take the meat of 
the best side neatly from die bone, and lay 
it in a small dish; wash it over with tiie 
yollis of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, 
a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, all mixed together previously. 
Set the dish before the fire, and keep turn- 
ing it now and then, that all parts may be 
equally brown. In the meantime slice the 
remainder of the head, and the ti^ngue, 
4* 



(peeled); put a pint of good gra\7 into a 
pan, with an onion, a small bunch of herbs, 
(consisting of parsley, basil, savory, tarra- 
gon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme), 
a. little salt and Cayenne, a shallot, a glass 
of Sherry, and a little oyster liciuor: boil this 
I for a few minutes, and stram it upon die 
I meat, which must be sprinkled with liour. 
\ Add some fresh or pickled mushrooms, a 
few truffles and morels, and two spoonfuls of 
catchup; beat up half the brains, and put 
them to the rest, with a bit of butter and 
j flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other 
I part of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a 
I little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, 
! and an egg ; fry this in little cakes of a fine 
! gold color; dip some oysters into tlie yolli. 
of an egg, and fry the same way, also some 
good forcemeat balls, and garnish tlie dish 
I with them. 

i CALF'S HEAD SOUP, OR MOCK 
I TURTLE. See Soups. 

j CALF'S HEAD. Widi a sharp knife 
\ cut all the meat entire from the bone, cut 
out the tongue, and carefully take out die 
brains ; lay them all in cold water for two or 
three hours. Mince very small two pounds 
of lean veal, and one pound of beef suet, 
with the gi-ated crumb of a penny loaf, 
some sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt ; mix them well togeUier, and 
bind it with the yolks of four eggs beaten up; 
reserve as much of the forcemeat as will 
make twenty small balls: wash the head 
clean, wipe it dry, and put the forcemeat in- 
to the inside ; close it, and tie it firmly with 
tape ; put it into a stewpan with two quarts 
of gravy, half a pint of white wine, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it closely, and 
let it stew gently ; boil the tongue, cut it in- 
to tliin slices, mince the brains with a little 
parsley and a table-spoonful of flour, add 
some pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and 
nutmeg; beat two eggs and mix with the 
brains, drop it with a spoon in small cakes 
into a pan of boiling dripping, and fi-y 
thenr of a light brown color. Fry the force- 
meat balls, and drain them, with the cakes, 
upon the back of a sieve befoie the fire ; 
when tlie head has stewed till it be suffic- 
iently tender, put it into a dish and take off 
the tape, strain the gravy, and thicken it 
with a table-spoonful of flour of rice, and a 
little bit of butter; if not well seasoned, add 
more salt and pepper, put in the tongue, 
make it all hot, and pour it over the head. 
Garnish with the brain-cakes, forcemeat 
balls, and cut lemon. 

CALF'S HEAD, ROASTED. Wash 
and clean it well, parboil it, take out 
die bones, brains, and tongue; make force- 



CALF 



42 



CAL F 



meat sufficient for the head, and some 
calls with bread crumbs, minced suet, pars- 
ley, grated ham, and a little pounded veal, 
or cold fowl ; season with pepper, salt, grated 
nutmeg, and lemon-peel; bind it with an" 
egg, beaten up, fill the head with it, whidi 
must then be sewed up, or fastened with 
sliewers and tied. While roasting, baste it 
well with butter; beat up the brains with a 
little cream, the yolk of an egg, some minc- 
ed parsley, a little pepper and salt ; blanch 
the tongue, cut it into slices, and fry it 
O'ith the brains, f ircemeat balls, and thin 
slices of bacon. Ser^■e the head with white 
or brown thickened gravy, and place the 
tongue, forcemeat balls, and brains round it. 
Garnish with cut lemon. It will require 
one hour and a half to roast. 

CALF'S HEAD, PLAIN. Clean a 
calf's head nicely, and cut out the bone of 
the lower jaw, and of the nose, taking out 
the nose bone as close to the eyes as possi- 
ble ; wash the head well in warm water, 
and let it blanch in some clean water. Pre- 
pare a blanc, or sauce, as follows: — One 
pound of beef suet, and one pound of fat 
bacon, cut small, half a pound of butter, a 
bunch of parsley, a little thyme, two or 
three bay leaves, one or two onions, and the 
juice of a lemon ; season with salt, pepper, 
mace, cloves, and allspice; boil all this an 
hour in six pints of water, then tie up the 
head in a cloth, boil it in the sauce about 
three hours, and diain it; take out the 
tongue, skin and replace it; serve quite 
hot, with the fjllowing sauce — 'minced shal- 
lots, parsley, the brains minced, some vine- 
gar, salt, and pepper. 

CALF'S HEAD, SOUSED. Scald 
and bone a calf's head, and soak it for sev- 
en or eight hours, changing the water twice; 
dry it well. Season with salt and bruised 
garlic; roll it up, bind it very tight, and 
boil it in white wine, salt and water; when 
done, put it, with the liquor, in a pan, and 
keep it for use. Serve up either whole, or 
in slices, with oil, vinegar, and pej^per. 

CALF'S HEAD, BIGAREE. Clean 
and blanch a calf's head, boil it till the 
bones will come out easily, then bone and 
press it between two dishes, so as to give it 
an oblong form ; beat with the yolks of four 
eggs a little melted butter, pepper, and salt. 
Divide tlie head when cold, and brxish it all 
over witli the beaten eggs, and strew over it 
grated bread ; repeat this twice. With the 
grated bread, which is put over one half, a 
good (|uantity of finely-minced parsley should 
be mixed; place the head upon a dish, and 
bake it of a nice brown color. Serve it 
with a sauce of pai'sley and butter, and 



with one of good gravy, mixed with the 
brains which have been previously boiled, 
and chopped, and seasoned widi a little 

Cayenne and salt. 

CALF'S HEART, ROASTED. Fill 

the heart with the following forcemeat: a 
quarter of a pound of beef suet, chojjped 
small, grated bread, parsley, marjoramj lem- 
on-peel, pejiper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk 
of an egg. Lay a veal caul, or a sheet of 
paper on the stuthng to keep it in its place. 
Put the heart into a Dutch oven, before a 
clear fire, and turn it frequently, till thor- 
oughly roasted all round. Garnish with 
slices of lemon, and pour melted butter over 
it. 

CALF LIVER, BROILED. Slice it, 
season with peppei' and salt, and broil nice- 
ly : rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve 
hot and hot. 

CALF'S LIVER, LARDED AND 
ROASTED. Lard a fine calf's liver the 
same as a fricandeau, and let it lie for 
twentj-four hours in vinegar, with a sliced 
onion, some parsley, a little thyme, a Ijay 
leaf, some salt and pepper. Roast, and 
baste it well with butter, then glaze it with 
a light glaze, and serve it with a poivrade, 
or any other sauce. 

CALF'S LIVER, ROASTED. (1) 

Wash and wipe it ; then cut a long hole in it, 
and stuff it with crumbs of bread, chopped 
anchovy, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, 
pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg; sew 
the liver up; lard it, wrap it in a veal caul, 
and roast it. Serve with good brown gra- 
vy and currant jelly. 

CALF'S LIVER, ROASTED. (2) 
Lard a calf's liver with streaky bacon; 
roast and baste it fretiuently with its own 



CALF'S LIVER, ROASTED. (3) 

Lard a fine dlf's liver, and j)ickle it in 
vinegar, witli n onion, cut into slices, ])ars- 
ley, salt, pep. <", thyme, and a bay leaf 
When it has I 'U soaked for twenty-four 
hours, fasten it o a spit, roast and baste it 
frequently. Glaz< t with a light glaze, as 
it is naturally of a ^jlack color. Serve un- 
der it a brown poivi ode. 

CALF'S LIVER, SCOLLOPS. Par- 

boil and cut into slices a very nice calf's 
liver, and shape them into hearts. Stew 
some fine herbs, parsley, shallots, and mush- 
rooms; then add the calf's liver, and let it. 
stew over a slow fire ; when done on one 
side, turn and seaiior. it with pepper anti 



CAP 



43 



CAP 



gait; take out the liver, dredge in a little 
flour over the herbs, and add some more 
gravy; let this boil for ten minutes, then 
heat the liver in the sauce before serving it. 
Tills may be eaten at breakfast. 

CALF'S PLUCK. Wash it very clean, 
and, if liked, stuff the heart with a furce- 
meat, made of crumbs of bread, butter, and 
parsley, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
grated nutmeg. Fasten it firmly with the 
liver and lights, tying them to the skewers 
while roasting; baste it well with butter, 
and froth it the same way in which veal is 
done, and serve it with melted butter, mix- 
ed with a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, or 
vinegar poured over it. 

CAPER SAUCE. See Sauce. 

CAPILLAIRE. Take fourteen pounds 
of sugar, three pounds of coarse sugar, six 
eggs beat in with the shells, three (juarts of 
water; boil it up twice; skim it well, then 
add to it a quarter of a pint of orange-flow- 
er water; strain it through a jelly-bag, and 
put it into bottles; when cold, mix a 
spoonful or two of this sirup, as it is liked 
for sweetness in a draught of warm or cold 
water. 

CAPILOTADE ITALIAN. Cut up 

a cold roast fowl; then take a good slice 
of butter, and some shred mushrooms and 
potherbs; fry these till they are about to 
turn brown, with a tea-spoonful of flour: 
dien add to them a large glass of white 
wine. Let the whole simmer together for a 
quarter of an hour; next j)ut in the pieces 
of fowl, and heat them up for a few minutes. 
Garnish your dish with filed slices of bread ; 
and just before you serve, pour into the 
saucepan two table-spoonfuls of oil, taking 
care that it does not boil, and stir it up well 
with the sauce. 

CAPONS OR FOWLS, Must be kill- 
ed a couple of days in moderate, and mijre 
in cold weather, before they are dressed, or 
thev will eat t(«i<jh: a s^ood criterion ui' the 
ripeness of poultry f )r the spit, is the ease 
with which yr>\\ can then pull out the feathers ; 
when a fjwl is plucked, leave a few to hpl|) 
you to ascertain this. They are managed 
exactly in the same inuuner, and sent up 
ivith the same sauces as a turkey, only they 
re(|uire proportionably lass time at tiie (ire. 
A full-grown five-toed fowl, about an hour 
and a quarter. A inoderate-si/.ed one, an 
hour A chicken, from thirty to forty min- 
utes. Here, also, ])oik sausages fried are 
in general a favorite accomj-auinient, or 
turkey stuffing; see forcemeats; put in plen- 
ty of it, so as to plump out the fowl, which 



must be tied closely (both at the neck and 
rum])), to keep in the stuffing. Some cooks 
put the liver of the (owl into this forcemeat, 
and others mince it and pound it, and rub it 
up with flour and melted butter. When 
the bird is stuffed and trussed, score the 
gizzard nicelv, dip it into melted butter, let 
it drain, and then season it with Cayenne 
and salt; put it under one pinion, and the 
liver under the odier; to prevent their get- 
ting hardened or scorclied, cover them with 
double pajTer buttered. Take care thai 
your roasted poultry Ije well browned ; it is 
as indispensable that roasted poultry should 
have a rich broyvn complexion, as boiled 
poultry should have a delicate white one. 

CAPON, TO CHOOSE. If it is young, 
his spurs are short and his legs smooth ; if^ 
a true capon, a fat vein on the side of his 
breast, the comb pale, and a thick belly and 
riunp; if fresh, he will have a close hard 
vent; if stale, a loose open vent. 

CAPON, THE FRENCH WAY. Take 
a quart of white wine, season the capon 
witii salt, cloves, and whole pepper, a few 
shallots ; and then put the cajion in an earth- 
en pan ; you must take care it has not room 
to shake ; it must be covered close, and done 
over a slow charcoal fire. 

CAPON PASTY. Roast a capon, let 
it be cold, take the flesh from the bones and 
slice it, but keep the thighs and pinions 
whole. Add to the desh of the capon, four 
sweetbreads and half a pint of oysters, sea- 
son them with salt, cloves, nutmeg, and 
mace, sweet maijoram, pennyroyal, and 
thyme, minced ; lay a sheet of paper or 
paste in your j)asty-jian, and lay the thighs 
and pinions on the bottom, and strew ihein 
over with sliced onions, then put in the 
flesh of" the capon, the sweetbreads, and the 
oysters, cut in halves; over these strew a 
handful of chestnuts, boiled and blanched, 
then put butter over tlieni, close up your pan 
and bake it; when done, add gravy, good 
stock, drawn butter, anchovies, and grated 
nutmeg; garnish with slices of lemon, and 
serve. Turkey may be done in tlie same 
manner. 

CAPONS A LA TURQUE. Pick, 
and clean very nicely, two fine capons ; wash 
the inside j)erlcctly clean with warm water, 
and let them sfjak in warm water for a 
((uarter of an hour; diy them \\(dl, and put 
into them some rice which iias been boiled 
till soft in some ri(;h well-seasoned slock, 
truss and co\er them wiih layers of bacon, 
wrap them in pa])er, and roast them for an 
hour by a hanging-jack; serve them, put- 
ting all round die dish a part of die rice 



CAR 



44 



CAR 



which was prepared for the stuffing, and 
pour over the fowls a veloute sauce. One 
fine large fowl may be dressed in tliis 
manner. 

CAPSICUMS, TO PICKLE. Gather 
the pods, with the stalks on, before they turn 
red; cut a slit down the side with a pen- 
knife, and^take out all the seeds, but as lit- 
tle of the meat as possible; lay them in a 
strong brine for three days, changing it eve- 
ry day ; then take them out, lay them on a 
cloth, and lay anotlier over them till they 
are quite dry; boil vinegar enough to cover 
them, put in some mace and nutmeg beat 
small ; put the pods into a glass or jar, and 
when the liquor is cold, pour it over, then 
tie a bladder and leather over tliem. 

CARDOONS,WITH CHEESE. String 
and cut them an inch long, put them into a 
saucepan with red wine, seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, stew them till they are tender, 
put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and 
when of a pioper thickness poui- them into 
a dish, squeeze the juice of an orange into 
tlie sauce, and scrape over them some Par- 
mesan or Cheshire cheese, and then brown 
them with a cheese-iron, but not of too high 
a color. 

CARDOONS, TO DRESS. Cut them 
in pieces six inches long, and put them on a 
string ; boil till tender, have ready a piece 
of butter in a pan, flour and fiy them. They 
may also be tied in bundles, and served as 
asparagus boiled on a toast, and poui- but- 
ter over. 

CARDOONS, SPANISH. Cut them 
into lengdis of three inches, be carellil not 
to use those which are hollow and green ; 
boil them for half an hour, then put them 
into lukewarm water to cleanse them from 
their slime ; then dress them in some stock, 
with a spoonful of flour, some salt, onions, 
roots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little ver- 
juice, and a little butter ; when done, put 
tliem into a cullis with some stock; cook 
them for an hour in this sauce, and serve. 

CARROTS. Let them be weh washed 
and brushed, not scraped. An hour is 
enough for young spring carrots ; grown car- 
rots must be cut in half, and will take from 
an hour and a half to two hours and a half. 
When done, rub off" the peels with a clean 
coarse cloth, and slice them in two or four, 
according to tlieir size. The best way to 
tiy if they are done enough, is to pierce them 
with a fork. Many people are fond of cold 
carrot widi cold beef; ask if you shall cook 
enough for some to be left to send up witli 
ihe cold meat. 



CARAMEL, OR BOILED SUGAR. 

Break into a small copper or brass pan, one 
pound of refined sugai, — put in a gill of 
spring water ; — set it on a fire, and when 
it boils, skim it quite clean, and let it boil 
quick, till it comes to the degree called 
Crack, which may be known bj' dipping a 
teas])oon or skewer into the sugar, and let 
it di'op to the bottom of a pan of cold water ; 
and if it remains hard, it has attained that 
degree; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, 
and let it remain one minute longer on the 
fire, tlien set the pan into another of cold 
water: — have ready moulds of any shape, 
— rub them over with sweet oil, dip a spoon 
or fork into the sugar, and throw it over the 
mould in fine threads, till it is quite covered: 
— make a small handle of caramel, or stick 
on two or three small gum paste rings, by 
way of ornament, and place it over small 
pastiy of any description. 

CARP, BOILED. Scale and clean a 
brace of carp, reserving the liver and roe; 
take half a pint of vinegar, or a quart of 
sharp cider, add as much water as will cov- 
er the fish, a piece of horse-radish, an onion 
cut into slices, a little salt, and a iaggot of 
sweet herbs; boil the fish in this liquor, and 
make a sauce as follows: — stiain some of 
the liquor the fish has been boiled in, and 
put to it the liver minced, a pint of Port 
wine, two anchovies, two or three heads of 
shallots chopped, some salt and black pep- 
per, a little Cayenne, a table-spoonfiil of soy ; 
boil and strain it, thicken it with floiu' and 
butter, pour it over the carp hot, garnish 
with the I'oe fried, cut lemon and parsley. 

CARP, STEWED. Scale and clean 
a brace of carp, reserving the liver and 
roe ; pour over the fish in a deep pan a pint 
of vinegar, which may be elder vinegar, if 
the flavor is preferred, with a little mace, 
three cloves, some salt and Jamaica pepper, 
two onions sliced, a faggot of parsley, basil, 
thyme, and maijoram ; let them soak an 
hour, then put them in a stewpan with the 
vinegar, and other diings, the liver chopped, 
a pint of Madeira, and three pints of veal 
stock ; stew them an hour or t^\'o accord- 
ing to their size; take out the fish and put 
them over a pan of hot water to keep warm 
while the following sauce is made: — Strain 
the liquor, and add the yolks of three eggs 
beaten, half a pint of cream, a large spoon- 
ful of flour, and a quarter of a pound of 
butter, stir it constantly, and just before 
putting it over the carp, squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon. Boil or fry the roe. 
Plain boiled carp may be served with this 
sauce, and is dished in a napkin. 

CARP, FRIED. Clean and scale a 



CAU 



45 



CHA 



carp; split it up the back; flatten the back- 
bone, sprinkle yoiir fish with flour, then 
sprinkle tlie roes which have been put aside, 
put the '^^■hole into a frying-jian made very 
hot, fry to a rich color, and serve it witli 
lemon-juice. 

CARROT FRITTERS. Beat two or 

tlnee boiled caiTots to a pulp with a spoon ; 
add to tliem six eggs and a handful of flour ; 
moisten them with either cream, milk, or 
white wine, and sweeten tliem. Beat all 
together well, and fry in boiling lard. When 
of a good color, take tliem off and squeeze 
on them the juice of a Seville orange, and 
strew over fine sugar. 



CARROT PUDDING. 



See Pudding. 



CASSILE. 3Iix two table-spot.nfuls of 
potato-flour with two or tlii'ee of cream or 
good milk ; boil foi- a few minutes with a 
quart of cream or milk, the peel of a lemon 
and a bit of cinnamon ; •itir it with the flour 
and cream; sweeten, and stir it again over 
tlie fire for three or four minutes; pour it in- 
to a moiild ; turn it out when cold. 

CAULIFLOWER. Clioose those that 
are close and white, and of the middle size; 
trim off the outside leaves; cut the stalk off 
flat at the bottom ; let them lie in salt and 
water an hour before you boil tliem. Put 
them into boiling water with a handful of 
salt in it; skim it well, and let it boil slow- 
ly till done, which a small one will be in fif- 
teen, a large one in about twenty minutes ; 
t;ike it up tlie moment it is enough, a min- 
ute or two longer boiling will spoil it. 

CAULIFLOWERS OR BROCCOLI, 
PICKLED. Choose diose that are hard, 
yet sufficiently ripe, cut away tlie leaves and 
stalks. Set on a stewpan half full of water, 
salted in proportion of a quartt»- of a pound 
of salt to a qu;irt of. water; throw in tlie 
cauliflower, and let it heat gi'adually; when 
it boils take it up with a spoon full of holes, 
and spread them on a cloth to dry before 
the fire, for twenty-four hoiu's at least ; when 
quite dry, put tlieni, piece by piece, into 
jars or glass tie-overs, and cover them with 
the pickle we have directed for beet roots, 
or make a pickb by infusing three ounces 
of the curry powder for three days in a quart 
of vinegar by the side of the lii'e. A'astur- 
tiums are excellent prepared as above. 

CAULIFLOWERS, PICKLED. Cut 

the cauliflowers in pieces, and throw them 
into boiling water for a quarter of an hour; 
then lay them on clodis to drain. Put them 
m a jar w ith cloves and salt, and cover 
diein with die best vinegar. 



CAULIFLOWER SALAD. Wheii 
you have prepared and boiled the cauli- 
flowers, drain and let them cool ; cut them 
in pieces; season them with salt, pepper, 
oil and vinegar, and eat them a3 any other 
salad. 

CAUDLE. (1) Boil up half a pint of 
fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a 
large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, 
the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a 
piece of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. 

CAUDLE. (2) Make a fine smoctu 
gruel of half-grits; when boiled, strain if, 
stir it at times till cold. When wanted for 
use, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with 
some nutmeg. According to taste, you may 
add, if you please, besides the wine, i spoon- 
ful of brandy, or lemon-juice. 

CAUDLE, BROWN. Boil the gruel 
die same as for white caudle, widi six spoon- 
fuls of oatmeal, and strain it ; dien add a 
quart of good ale, not bitter ; boil it, then 
sweeten it according to yom* taste, and add 
half a pint of white wine. When you do 
not put in the white wine, let it be half ale. 

CAUDLE, COLD. Boil a quart of 
spring water; when cold, add Uie yolk of 
an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoon- 
fuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and 
one oimce of sirup of lemons. 

CECILS. Mix over the fire for a few 
minutes the following ingredients: minced 
meat of whatever kind you please, bread 
crumbs, plenty of onion, lemon-peel, nut- 
meg, parsley chopped, pepper, salt, a little 
butter, and some anchovies. When nearly 
cold, roll them up into balls about the size 
of an egg ; moisten diem with egg, strew 
bread crumbs over them, and fry them of a 
good clear color: serve tliem with made 
gi-avy. 

CELERY, TO STEW. Wash and 
clean some heads of celery, cut them into 
pieces of two or three inches long, boil 
them in veal stock till tender. To half a 
pint of cream add the well-beaten yolks of 
two eggs, a bit of lemon-peel, grated nut- 
meg, and salt, also a bit of butter; make it 
hot, stirring it constantly; strain it upon tlie 
celeiy ; heat it thoroughly, but do not let it 
boil. 

CHARLOTTE. (1) Cut a sufficient 
number of diin slices of white bread to cover 
the b<Jttom and line die sides of a baking-^ 
dish, first rubbing it thickly witli butter. 
Put diin slices of apples into the dish in 
layers, till the dish is full, sti'ewing sugar 



CHE 



46 



CHE 



jind bits of butter between. In the mean- 
time, soak as-many thin slices of bread as 
will cover the whole, in warm milk ; over 
which place a plate, and a Aveight, to keep 
the bread close upon the apples; let it bake 
slowly for diree hours. For a middling- 
sized dish, you should use half a pound of 
butter for the whole. 

CHARLOTTE. (2) This second course 
may be made of any kind of fruit you please, 
and is eaten hot. If apples are used, pare, 
core, and cut about twenty of them into 
small pieces, and put them into a stewpan 
with some water, a good piece of fresh but- 
ter, powder-sugar, pounded cinnamon, and 
grated lemon-peel, and stew till the water is 
dried up; then set them to cool in an earth- 
en ware vessel. Cut some very thin slices 
of crumb of bread, dip them in melted fresh 
butter, and lay them neatly all over tlie bot- 
tom and round the sides of the stewpan ; 
then pour in the apples, leaving a hole in 
the middle, in which put apricot marma- 
lade. Cover the whole with bread, sliced 
thin, and buttered as above. Place it in a 
hot oven, bake it an hour, and tmn it out. 

CHARLOTTE DES POMMES. Pare, 
core, and mince fourteen or fifteen French 
rennet apples ; put them into a frying-pan, 
with some pounded loaf sugar, a little pound- 
ed cinnamon, grated lemon-j^eel, and two 
ounces and a half of fresh butter ; fry them 
a quarter of an hour over a quick fire, stir- 
ring them constantly. Butter a shape of 
the size the charlotte is intended to be ; cut 
strips of bread about the width of two fin- 
gers, and long enough to reach from the 
bottom to the rim of the shape, so that the 
whole be lined with bread ; dip each bit in- 
to melted butter, and then put a layer cf 
the fried apples, and one of apricot jam or 
marmalade, and then one of bread dipped 
into butter; begin and finish with it. Bake 
It in an oven fov nearly an hour; turn it out 
to serve it. It may be boiled, and served 
with a sweet sauce. 

CHEESE, BOILED. Grate a quarter 
of a pound of good cheese, put it into a 
sauce pan, with a bit of butter the size of a 
nutmeg, and half a tea-cupful of milk, stir it 
over the fire till it boil, and then add a well- 
beaten egg; mix it all together, put it into 
a small dish, and brown it before the fire. 

CHEESE, CAKE OF. Take about the 
fourth part of a close, fat Brie cheese, pound 
and rub it througli a sieve; mix with it a 
pint and a half of fiour; lay it on the board, 
make a liole in the middle, into whicli put 
three quarters of a pound of butter, and work 
it in well ; add to it a little Gruyere cheese 



grated, and six eggs. Knead these all to- 
gether well ; mould it up, and let it stand 
for half an hour ; then roll it out, and make 
it into a cake of about three inches; mark 
it vvilli a knife on one side in chequers, and 
on the other in rays ; dcr^ez, and bake it in 
a moderate oven. 

CHEESE CREAM. Warm three hall 
pints of cream with one half pint of milk, 
or according to the same proportion, and 
put a little rennet to it ; keep it covered in 
a wai-m place till it is curdled; have a pro- 
per mould with holes, either of China or any 
other; put the ciu-ds into it to drain, about 
an hour, or less: serve with a good plain 
cream, and pounded sugar over it. 

CHEESECAKES. (1) Put two quarts 
of new milk into a stewpan, set it near the 
file, and stir in two table-spoonfuls of ren- 
net: let it stand till it is set (this will take 
about an hour) ; break it well with your 
hand, and let it reu-ain half an hour longer; 
then pour off" the whey, and put the curd into 
a colander to drain ; when quite dry, put it 
in a mortar, and pound it quite smooth ; 
then add four ounces of sugar, pounded and 
sifted, and three ounces of fresh butter; oil 
it first by putting it in a little potting-pot, 
and setting it near the fire ; stir it all well 
together: beat the yolks of four eggs in a 
basin, with a little nutmeg grated, lemon- 
peel, and a glass of brandy ; add this to the 
curd, with two ounces of currants, washed 
and picked ; stir it all well together ; have 
your tins ready lined with puft' paste about 
a quarter of an inch thick, notch them all 
round the edge, and fill each with the cur( . 
Bake them twenty minutes. When you 
have company, and want a variety, you can 
make a mould of curd and cream, by put- 
ting the curd in a mould full of holes, instead 
Oi the colander: let it stand for six hours, 
then turn it out very carefully on a dish, and 
pour over it half a pint of good cream sweet- 
ened with loaf sugai", and a little nutmeg. 
What there is left, if set in a cool place, 
will make excellent cheesecakes die next 
day. 

CHEESECAKES. (2) Put a spoonful 
of rennet into a quart of milk ; when turned, 
drain the curd throuah a coarse sieve, gent- 
ly break the curd, and lub in a quarter of 
a pound of butter, a (juarter of a pound of 
sugar, nutmeg, and two Naples biscuits 
grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the white 
of one, half an ounce of almonds, half bitter 
and half sweet, well beaten in a mortar, 
with two spoonfuls of rose water, foiu' oiuices 
of currants; put in the curd, and mix all 
together. One quart of miUi, and tluet: 
dessert spoonfuls of rice-flour, six eggs, leave 



CHE 



47 



GHE 



out three of the whites, and ciu-rants to 
your taste. 

CHEESECAKES. (3) Beat eight 
eggs well, while a quart of milk is on tlie 
fire, and when it boils, put in the eggs, and 
stir tliem till they come to a curd ; then pour 
it out, and when it is cold, put in a little 
salt, two spoonfuls of rose water, and three- 
quarters of a pound of currants well washed ; 
put it into puff paste, and bake it. If you 
use tin patties to bake in, butter them, or 
you will not be able to take them out ; but 
if you bake them in glass or china, only an 
upper crust will be necessary, as you will 
not want to take them out when you send 
them to table. 

CHEESECAKES. (4) Take one pound 
of loaf sugar pounded, six yolks, and four 
whites of eggs beaten, the juice of three fine 
lemons, the grated rind of two, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh butter ; put these in- 
gredients into a saucepan, and stir the mix- 
ture gently over a slow fire till it be of the 
consistence of honey; jioiu- it into small 
jars, and when cofd put paper dipped in 
brandy over them. It will keep good for a 
year. 

CHEESE, POUNDED. Cut a pound 
of good mellow cheese into thin bits ; add 
to it two, and if the cheese is dry, three 
ounces of fresh butter ; pound, and rub them 
well together in a mortar till it is quite 
smooth. When cheese is dry, and for those 
whose digestion is feeble, tliis is the best 
way of eating it; and spread on bread, it 
makes an excellent luncheon or supper. 
The piquance of this is sometimes increas- 
ed by pounding with it curry powder, ground 
spice, black pepper, Cayenne, and a little 
made mustard ; and some moisten it with a 
glass of Sherry. If pressed down hard in 
a jar, and covered with clarified butter, 
it will keep for several days in cool weath- 
er. 



I 



CHEESE, ROASTED. Grate three 
ounces of fat cheese, mix it with the 
oiks of two eggs, four ounces of grated 
read, and three ounces of butter ; beat the 
whole well in a mortar, with a dessert spoon- 
fil of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. 
T(jast some bread, cut it into proper jjieces; 
lay the paste, as above, thick upon tliem, 
put them into a Dutch oven covered with a 
dish, till hot througli, remove the dish, and 
le> the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot 
as possible. 

CHEESE, STEWED. Melt tlu-ee- 
quarters of an ounce of butter in a tea-cup- 
ful of cream, mix with it a quarter of a 



pound of good cheese finely grated, beat j\ 
well together; put a slice of toasted bread 
into a dish, and pour the mixture over it, 
and brown it with a salamander. 

CHEESE TOASTED, OR RABBIT. 

Cut .a slice of bread, toast it, and soak it 
in red wine, put it before the fire ; cut some 
cheese in very thin slices, and rub some but- 
ter over the bottom of a plate, lay the cheese 
upon it, and pour in two or three spoonfuls 
of white wine, and a little mustju'd; cover 
it with another plate, and set it on a chafing- 
dish of coals two or three minutes, then stir 
it till it is well mixed ; when it is mixed 
enough, lay it upon the bread, and brown it 
with a salamander. 

CHEESE TOASTED. Cut a slice of 
bread about half an inch thick ; pare ofi' tlie 
crust, and toast it very slightly on one side 
so as just to brown it, without making it 
hard or burning it. Cut a slice of good 
fat mellow cheese, a quarter of an inch 
thick, not so big as the bread by half an 
inch on each side: pare ofl'the rind, cut out 
all the specks and rotten parts, and lay it 
on the toasted bread in a cheese-toaster; 
carefully watch it that it does not burn, and 
stir it with a spoon to prevent a pellicle 
forming on the surface. Have ready good 
mustard, pepper and salt. If you observe 
the directions here given, the cheese will 
eat mellow, and will be uniformly done, 
and the bread crisp and soft, and will well 
deserve its ancient appellation of a " rare 
bit." This Receipt, as well as every other 
worth extracting, is from the Cook's Oracle. 
The Editor goes on to say. We have noth- 
ing to add to the directions given for toast- 
ing the cheese in the last receipt, except that 
in sending it up, it will save much time in 
portioning it out at table, if you have half a 
dozen smull silver or tin pans to fit into the 
cheese-toaster, and do the cheese in these: 
each person may then be helped to a sepa- 
rate pan, and it will keep the cheese much 
hotter than the usual way of eating i|; on a 
cold plate. Obs. — Ceremony seldom tri- 
umphs more comj^letely over comfuit than in 
die serving out of Uiis dish ; v/hich, to be 
presented to the palate in perfection, it is 
imperatively indispensable that it be intro- 
duced to die mouth as soon as it appears on 
the table. 

CHERRY BRANDY. (1) Pick and 

bruise eight pounds of black maroons, and dis 
same quantity of small black cherries ; let them 
stand for two months in a cask with six 
gallons of brandy, two pounds of crushed 
sugar, and a quart of sack well stirred to- 
gether. At the end of that time it may \y 
di'awn off and bottlbJ. 



CHI 



48 



CHI 



CHERRY BRANDY. (2) Choose 
fine sound morella cherries, and having 
taken off the stalks, place tliem in layers 
in glass jars; strew powder-siisar between 
each layer, and cover them ^\ ith brandy. 
As soon as the cherries have imbibed tlie 
brandy, pour in more, so as to keep them 
constantly covered. 

CHERRIES, DRIED. Take large 
cherries, not too ripe ; pick off the stalks, 
and take out the stones with a quill cut 
nearh as for a pea : to tlu-ee pounds of which 
take three pounds or pints of clarified sugar ; 
boil it to the degree of blown ; put in the 
cherries, give them a boil, and set them by 
in an earthen pan till tire next day; then 
strain tJie sirup, add more sugar, and boil 
it of a good consistence; put the cherries in, 
and boil tliem five minutes, and set tliem by 
anotlier day: repeat tlie boiling two more 
days, and when wanted, drain them some- 
time, and lay them on \\ ire sieves to diy in 
a stove, or nearly cold oven. 

CHERRY PUDDING. See Puddings. 

CHERVIL, Is principally used in soups 
and stuffing, and is generally preserved with 
other herbs as follows : take of sorrel, chervil, 
beet, purelain, and cucumbers, if in season, 
quantifies according to your liking; wasli 
Uiem well; mince and press tliem in your 
hand, to squeeze out all the water. Put 
tliem into a kettle with water, some butter 
and salt, and boil them until the water is 
entirely consumed. Then take diem out, 
and when cold, put them into pots; cover . 
them with warmed butter. When you j 
want to use these herbs, put them into some \ 
stock that has very little salt in it. If they i 
ai'e required for a farce or garnish, boil them I 
a minute or two in some butter; thicken 
with the yolks of eggs and milk; when so 
prepared, they may be served imder hard , 
eggs or broiled fish. For sauce, it must be 
chopped small, boiled in salt and water, and 
mixed w idi melted butter. { 

CHESTX UTS, Should be placed on the | 
fire in a pan \\ ith holes to roast ; -first slitting 
or cutting a notch in ilie skins, to prevent '■■ 
tlieir flying off. When done, serve them in i 
dessert on a naj^kin, as hot as possible. 
Some boil the chestnuts instead of roasting 
tliem, as tlie skins are then cleaner, but die 
nuts not quite so mealy; the better way 
is to lx)il them in plenty of water, and 
when neai'ly done, talie them out and roast 
Jiem. i 

CHICKEXS. Having picked the chick- ' 
ens, singe them well to remove all die hau-s, 
fcc, which may remain on the skin; dien 



bruise the bone close to the foot, and dl•a^T 
the strings trom the thigh. Take out die 
crop by a slit cut in the back of the neck ; 
then cut off the neck, leaving skin enough to 
turn over the back. Cut off the vent, and 
take out the inside, being careful not to break 
tlie gall; break the back-bone and the two 
bones leading to the pinions ; wipe the chick- 
en with a cloth, and put in a little pepper 
and salt. If the chicken is to be trussed for 
roasting, proceed as follows : — Turn the legs 
close down to the apron and run a skewer 
dirougli ; run another skewer in die joint of 
one wiuff through the bodv to the other w in? : 
and having washed the liver and orizzard, 
place them in die pinions. For boiling, the 
under part of the tliigh must be cut, and die 
legs placed under die apron, only letting the 
ends be seen. Be sme to preserve the breast 
very full. 

CHICKEN BROTH. See Broth. 

CHICKENS, BROILED OR GRILL- 
ED. Pick and singe them nicely, wash 
them clean, and dry them in a cloth ; cut them 
down the back, truss the legs and wings, as 
for boiling; flatten diem, and put them upon 
a cidd gridiron; when diey become a little 
dry, put them upon a plate, baste them with 
butter, and strew a little salt and pepper 
over die inside, which part is laid first upon 
the gridiron; baste diem fiequently, and let 
them broil slow ly for about half an hour. 
Serve them very hot, with melted butter 
poured over them, or plenty of stewed mush- 
rooms. The livers and gizzards may be 
broiled with them, fastened into die wings, 
or well seasoned, broiled, and served w idi 
the chickens. 

CHICKEN BAKED IN RICE. Cut 

a ciiicken into joints as for a fricassee, sea- 
son it well with pepper and salt, hiy it into a 
puddino- dish lined w ith slices of ham or ba- 
con, add a pint of veal gravy, and an onion • 
finely minced; fill up the dish with boiled 
rice well pressed and piled as high as the 
dish will hold, cover it w idi a paste of flour 
and water ; bake it one houi', and before serv- 
ing take off the paste. 

CHICKENS BOILED. (1) Put the 

chickens into a saucepan by diemselves, and 
boil a small one for fifteen, a larger one 
twenty minutes. 

CHICKENS BOILED. (2) When ihey 
are drawn and trussed, lay tlie chickens in 
skim milk for about two hours; then put 
them into cold water, cover them close, and 
set diem over a slow fire, and skim them 
well. As soon as tliey have boiled slowly. 
take tliem fiom tlie fire, and let thera remain 



CHI 



49 



CHI 



in tlie water close covered for half an hour ; 
then drain and serve with white sauce. 

CHICKEN, BROILED. Split a coujilc 
of chickens, take out the inside and back- 
bones, beat them with a wooden spoon, dip 
them in clarified butter, and broil them, the 
inside next the fire (which should be of 
charcoal), and only turn them to color them. 
When done, pour on them a sauce made as 
f()ll(nvs : — Boil some stewed mushrooms with 
beef stock and plain sauce, an equal quanti- 
ty of each, until of a proper consistence ; 
flavor it with lemon-juice and Cayenne pep- 
per. 

CHICKENS CHIRINGATE. Having 
taken off the feet, beat the breast bones of 
your chickens tlat without breaking the skin, 
flour and fry them in butter ; when of a nice 
brown take all the fat from the pan, leaving 
in the chickens, over which lay a pound of 
gravy beef cut in thin slices, another piece 
of beef also cut thin, some mace, cloves, 
pepper, an onion, a carrot, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs: pour a quart of boiling water 
over the whole, cover it quite close, and let 
it stew ; in a quarter of an hour take out 
tiie chickens, but let the gravy continue 
boiling, and when very rich strain it; then 
put it again into the pan with a little red 
wine and a few mushrooms; then put in the 
chickens, and when they are hot, dish them 
up, and pour the sauce over them; garnish 
with slices of lemon and broiled ham. 

CHICKENS CREME. (1) Parboil a 
couple of young chickens, cut them in pieces, 
and tlu'ow into warm water for half an hour ; 
then do them over the fire in a little fresh 
butter, with salt, parsley, pepper, morels, 
&c. sprinkle with flour, and dilute with a 
glass of boiling water; cover the stewpan 
close, and let it stand on hot ashes until the 
water has soaked into the chicken, tlien add 
half a pint of cream and a little butter. The 
yolks of three eggs may be put in also, but 
in that case, a small quantity of verjuice 
should be put in before the cream. 

CHICKENS CREME. (2) Stuff and 
roast your (thickens, and when you take them 
from the spit, rub them with butter, cover 
them with bread-crumbs, wrap them in 
slices of bacon, and bake them a short time; 
serve with well thickened cream-sauce. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. (1) Re- 
duce two spoonfuls of veloute or sauce tour- 
nee, and add to it the yolks of four eggs ; 
put to this the white meat of a chicken 
minced very small, and well mixed with the 
sauce, take it out, and roll it into balls about 
the size of a walnut ; roll tliem in bread- 



crumbs, giving them an elongated form, 
then dip them in some well-beaten egg, 
bread them again, and fry them of a light 
brown. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. (2) Mix 

well into some very thick bechamelle and 
some glaze the breast of a chicken, some 
tongue, truffles and mushrooms all minced 
very small ; when quite cold roll them into 
little balls about the size of a nut, and hav- 
ing beaten up three eggs throw the balls into 
tllem. Take them out quickly and roll them 
in bread-crumbs; dip them a second time 
into the eggs, and cover them again with 
bread-crumbs ; fry them as other croquettes. 
Lay fried parsley on a napkin in a dish, 
place the croquettes on, and round it, and 
serve. 

CHICKEN CURRY. Take the skin 
off, cut up a chicken, and roll each piece in 
curry-powder and flour (mixed together a 
spoonful of flour to half an ounce of curry) 
fry two or three sliced onions in butter; 
when of a light brown, put in the meat and 
fry them together till the meat becomes 
brown ; then stew them together with a lit- 
tle water for tv\o or three hoiu's. More 
water may be added if ',oo thick. 

CHICKEN CAPILOTADE. Put into 
a stewpan a little butter and flour; add 
mushrooms, parsley, and shallots cut small, 
dilute these with equal quantites of stock, and 
red or white wine. When the sauce is well 
boiled, skim it; cut a roasted fowl in pieces, 
and put it into this sauce; stew it gently 
for a quarter of an hour. Add some gherkins 
cut in thin slices. 

CHICKEN, COLD FRIED. Cut the 
chicken in quarters, and take off the skin, 
rub it with an egg beaten up, and cover it 
with grated bread se^oned with pepper, 
salt, grated ]emon-{)eel, and chopped parsley, 
fry it in butter, thicken a little brown gravy 
widi flour and butter, add a little Cayenne, 
lemon pickle, and mushroom catchup. 

CHICKENS FRICASSEED. Prepare 
and cut up two chickens ; ])ut them in a 
stewpan with some butter, parsley, a bay- 
leaf, thyme, basil, two cloves, mushrooms, 
and a slice of ham ; let them stew till scaixe- 
ly any sauce remains, then add a little flour, 
warm water, salt and peppc;r; stew it again 
and reduce the sauce. When nearly done 
put in the yolks of three eggs beaten up 
with a little cream or milk ; thicken it over 
the fire, but do not let it boil ; a small quan- 
tity of lemon-juice or vinegar may be added. 
Place the breasts and bones of the chickens 
on a dish, lay tlie legs and wings over tbeniji 



CHI 



50 



CHI 



and then pour the sauce over the whole; 
garnish with the mushrooms. Take off t!ie 
skins before you cut up the chickens if you 
wish the fricassee very white. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. Slake a bat- 
ter with four eggs, some new milk, and 
rice-flour; to this, add a pint of cream, pow- 
der-sugar, candied lemon-peel cut small, 
fresh lemon-peel grated, and the white parts 
of a roasted chicken shred small; set all 
these together on a stove, and stir well for 
sometime ; when done, take it off, roll *ut 
the mixture, cut it into fritters, and fiy 
them ; strew sugar on a dish, lay in the 
fritters, strew sugar over, and serve them 
hot. 

CHICKENS IN A MINUTE. Cut a 

chicken in pieces, and put it in a stewpan 
with a little butter; add to it some mush- 
rooms, parsley, sprinkle flour over, and 
shake thein; moisten it with stock or water, 
and M hite wine ; when it has boiled once, 
take it from the fire and put in the yolks of 
one or two eggs, and a little vinegar or 
lemon-juice. 

CHICKENS AND OYSTERS. Fill 
your chickens with young oysters cut small, 
truflles, parsley, and spices, and roast them. 
Blanch about two dozen young oysters, and 
toss them up in some melted butter, with 
chopped herbs and olive oil. When they 
have been on the fire a Cjuarter of an hour, 
add a litde white wine and half a glass of 
good stock, thicken it over the fire for an- 
other (juarter of an hour, and when the 
chickens are ready to serve, pour the sauce 
on them, and garnish the dish with oysters 
and some lemon. 

CHICKEN PANADA. Boil a chicken 
in a quart of water until nearly done; then 
skin it, cut oft' the yhite meat, and pound 
it with a little of the licjuor it was boiled in 
to a thick paste; season it with salt, nut- 
meg, and lemon-peel ; boil it up all together 
for a few minutes. 

(CHICKEN AND HAM POTTED. 

Season some pieces of chicken, with mace, 
cloves, and pe[)per, and bake them for about 
three hours in a close covered pan with 
some water; then pound them quite small, 
moistening either with melted butter, or the 
liquor they were baked in. Pound also 
some ham, and j)ut this with the chicken In 
alternate layers, in potting pans, press them 
down tight, and cover them with butter. 

CHICKEN PULLED. (1) Half roast 
a chicken or fowl, skin and pull off in small 
flakes all the white meat and the meat of the 



legs, break the bones, and boil them in a 
little water till the strength be drawn out, 
strain it, and when it becomes cold skim 
and put it into a sauce pan with a little mace, 
white pepper, and salt; add a bit of butter 
mixed with flour, and rather more than a 
quarter of a pint of cream, then put in the 
meat, and a little mushroom powder ; before 
serving, add the squeeze of a lemon. 

CHICKEN PULLED. (2) Pick all the 
white meat from the bones of a cold roasted 
fowl, cut oft" the legs, and keep the back and 
sidesmen in one. Score, and season the legs 
and back with pepper and salt, and broil 
them; warm up the white meat in some 
sauce made of the bones boiled in a litde 
vvater, and which has been strained and 
thickened with a piece of butter, mixed with 
flour, a little milk, and the yolk of an egg 
beaten up and seasoned with white pepper 
and salt ; serve the broiled back upon the 
mince, and the legs at each end. 

CHICKEN PIE. See Pie. 

CHICKEN ROASTED. See Foiols. 

CHICKENS, SCOTCH WAY. Cut 

your chickens into quarters, put them into a 
saucepan, with only just water enough to 
cover them, a bunch of parsley, some chop- 
ped parsley, and a little mace, cover them 
close down, when it boils, add six eggs 
well-beaten; when the chickens are done, 
take out the parsley, and serve them in a 
deep dish with the sauce. 

CHICKENS AND TOMATA SAUCE. 

Mix together, in a stewpan, a little butter, 
salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and grated nut- 
meg, a sulficient quantity to pul in two chick- 
ens; tie it in, and lay thin slices of lemon 
on the breast of th.e chickens, and lay them 
in a stewpan lined with thin rashers of ba- 
con; cover them with the same, and stew 
them with fire above and below for thiee 
quarters of an hour; when done, drain them 
in a clodi; untie them, and serve widi toma- 
ta sauce. 

CHINA CHILO. Mince a pint basin 
of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and 
some of the fat; put two onions, a lettuce, a 
pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of pepper, 
four spoonfuls of water, and two or three 
ounces of clarified butter, into a st.wpan 
closely covered ; simmer two hours, and serve 
in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If 
Cayenne is approved, add a little. 

CHILI, OR CAYENNE WINE. Pound 
and steep fifty fresh red Chilies, or a (juar 
ter of an oimce of Cayenne pepper, in hal 



CHO 



51 



CHO 



a pint of brandy, white wine, or claret, for 
fourteen days. This is a " bonne bouche" 
for the lovers of Cayenne, of which it takes 
up a larger jjroportion of its liavor than of 
its fire: wliich lieing instantly dilfused, it is 
a very iisofiil auxiliary to warm and finish 
soupSj sauces, &c. 

CHOCOLATE. According as you wish 
to make this beverage, either with milk or 
water, put a cup of one or other of these 
lic]uids into a chocolate-pot, with one ounce 
of cake chocolate. Some persons dissolve 
the chocolate in a little water before they put 
it into tlie milk. As soon as the milk. or 
water begins to boil, mill it. When the 
chocolate is dissolved, and liegins to bubble, 
take it oft" the fire, letting it stand near it 
for a quarter of an hour; then mill it again 
to make it frothy; afterwards serve it out 
in cups. The chocolate must not be milled, 
unless it is prepared widi weara. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. See Creams. 

CHOCOLATE FROTHED OR WHIP- 
PED. Put half a pound of chocolate to a 
glass of water over a small fire, stirring it 
with a wooden spoon until perfectly dissolv- 
ed; then take it oft' and add six yolks of 
eggs, a pint of double cream, and three 
quarters of a pound of jjowder-sugar. Pour 
tlie whole into a pan, and when cold, whip 
it up as directed. See Cream Frothed. 

CHOCOLATE WINE. Take a pint of 
Sherry, or a pint and a half of Port, four 
ounces and a half of chocolate, six ounces of 
fine sugar, and half an ounce of white starch, 
or fine fiour ; mix, dissolve, and boil all these 
together for about ten or twelve minutes. 
But if your chocolate is made with sugar, 
take double the ciuantity of chocolate, and 
half the quantity of sugar. 

CHOPS OR STEAKS. Those who 
are nice about steaks, never attempt to have 
tliem, except in weather which permits the 
meat to be hung till it is tender, and give the 
butcher some days' notice of their wish for 
tliem. If, friendly reader, you wish to enter- 
tain your moutli witli a superlative beef-steak, 
you must have the inside of the sirloiu cut 
into steaks. The next best steaks are those 
cut from the middle of a rump, thathasbeen 
killed at least four days in moderate weather, 
and much longer in cold weather, when they 
can be cut about six inches long, four inches 
wide, and half an inch thick: do not beat 
them, wiiich vidgar trick breaks the cells in 
which the gravy of the meat is contained, 
and it becomes dry and tasteless. N. B. — ' 
If your butcher sends steaks which are not 
tender, we do not insist tliat you should 



object to let him be beaten. Desire the 
butcher to cut them of even thickness; if he 
does not, divide the thicker from tlie thinner 
pieces, and give them lime accordingly. 

CHOWDER. Lay some slices cut from 
the fat part of a belly-piece of pork, in a 
deep stewpan, mix sliced onions with a 
variety of sweet herbs, and lay them on the 
pork. Bone and cut a freth cod into thin 
slices, and place them on the pork; then put 
a layer of pork, on that a layer of biscuit, 
then alternately tlie other materials until the 
pan is nearly full, season with pepper and 
salt, put in about a pint and a half of water, 
lay a paste over the Avhole, cover the stewpan 
very clo.se, and let it stand, with fire alxne 
as well as below, for four hours ; then skim 
it well, and ))ut it in a dish, pour a glass of 
j\ladeira made hot over it, also some Jamaica 
pepper, stewed mushrooms, trutltles, and 
oysters ; brown die paste slightly, and lay it 
over die whole. 

CHOWDER FOR TEN OR TWELVE. 
Take of salt pork cut in diin slices, as much 
as will make half a pint of fat, when tried, 
which will do for two good sized cod or 
haddock. Be careful not to burn the fat. 
First, put jour fat in tlie pot. Secondly, 
cut your fish in as large pieces as will go 
into the pot ; then put a layer of fish on the 
fat; pepper, salt and a few cloves, then a 
layer of the slices of pork, strewed over widi 
onions cut fine; then a layer of shipbread 
or hard crackers dipped in water; then your 
thickening. Go on again with fish, &c. Jcc. 
as above, till your pot is nearly full, then put 
in water until you can just see it, and let it 
stew slowly, so as not to break the fish. 
After coming to a boil, it will be don.e in 
twenty-five or thirty minutes. N. B. — Some 
like potatoes cut in slices, which may be in- 
troduced between each layer. Likewise 
wine or cider, as you fancy. |)C|= This 
Receipt is according to the most appro\ed 
method, practised by fishing parties in }ii)S- 
ton hai'bor. 

CHOWDER, CLAM, ^lay be made in 
the same way, substituting a sulhcient 
quantity of clams instead of cod, the heads 
or hard leatheiy part being first cut off^ 
Many prefer clam chowder, nicely cooked, 
to chowder made of cod, haddock, &c. 
The pilgriiiis to Plymouth, it is said, could 
cook this shell fish and lobsters in nearly 
fifty different ways, and even as puddings, 
pancakes, &c. 

CHOUX. Put a pint of water into a 
stewpan, with half a pound of fresh butter, 
the rinds of two lemons grated, a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and a very little salt ; 



coc 



52 



COD 



as soon as the water begins to boil, add as 
much flour as the liquor will imbibe; when 
the paste becomes very thick, keep stirring 
witli a spoon until quite done, then let it 
cool. After that, break into it a sufficient 
number of eggs to make the paste soft ; taking 
care that it be firm enough to allow you to 
woik it up with the hand ; wiien it may be 
formed according to fancy. This paste may 
be glazed and garnished either with almonds 
or pistachio nuts; when baking the choux, 
be careful to keep the oven tightly closed. 

CITRON CHEESECAKES. Boil a 
pint of cream, and when cold, mix with it 
two eggs well-beaten ; then boil them togeth- 
er until they become a curd. Beat a few 
blanched almonds in a mortar, with a little 
orange-flower water; put them to the curd, 
and add some Naples biscuits and green cit- 
ron, chopped very small. Sweeten, and bake 
in tins. 



CITRON PUDDING. 



See Puddings. 



CLARET PUFFS. Mix together, and 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, a pint of 
claret, and lather more than one of rich 
cream; let it stand a night, and then whisk 
it to a froth, which take ofif as it rises, and 
put ujjon the back of a sieve to drain ; heap 
it upon a dish, sweeten some rich cream, 
and pour it round the froth, to make it float. 

CLOVE, ESSENCE OF. Infuse a 
drachm of oil of cloves in two ounces of 
the strongest spirits of wine, apothecary's 
measure. 

CLOVE WATER. Mix a little cinna- 
mon with the cloves, or the scent will be 
too strong ; allow half a score of cloves to a 
quart of water; put in a good piece of 
sugar; let diem infuse some time over hot 
embers, or in a warm place ; then strain it 
for use. 

COBBLER. Name given to bread 
toasted on one side only. 

COCHINEAL PREPARED. Pound 
an ounce of cochineal to a very fine powder, 
pound also an ounce of cream of tartar, and 
two drachms of alum ; put these ingredients 
into a saucepan with half a pint of water ; 
when it boils take it from the fire, and let 
it cool ; pour it off into a bottle, as free from 
sediment as possible, and set it by for use. 

COCOA. Put into a saucepan one ounce 
of good cocoa and one quart of water ; co\er 
it, and when it boils, set it by the side of the 
fire to simmer for two hours. It is some- 
times made in a laiger quantity, poured 



frorp the sediment, and boiled up as it is re- 
quired. 

COCOA-NUT SWEETMEAT. (1) 

Cut the nut out of the shell, pare it carefully, 
and throw it into cold water; then grate it, 
and boil it in clarified sugar, (a pound to each 
pound of the cocoa-nut) until quite thick; 
stir it frequently to prevent its burning. 
Then pour it on a well buttered dish or mar- 
ble slab, and cut it into whatever forms you 
think proper. 

COCOA-NUT SWEETMEAT. (2) 

Proceed as above, but do not boil the sugar 
so thick by a great deal ; then stir into it 
whilst hot the yolks of six eggs; this must 
be served in jelly glasses. 

COD. A cod-fish should be firm and 
white, the gills red, and the eye lively; a 
fine fish is very tliick about the neck; if the 
flesh is at all flabby it is not good. Cod is 
in its prime during the months of October 
and November, if the weather be cold ; from 
the latter end of March to May, cod is also 
very fine. The length of time it requires 
for boiling dejiends on the size of the fish, 
whicii varies from one pound to twenty ; a 
small fish, about two or three pounds weight 
will be sufficiently boiled in a C]uarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes after the water boils. 
Prepare a cod for dressing in the following 
manner: — empty and wash it thoroughly, 
scrape off all the scales, cut open tiie bellyt, 
and wash and dry it well, rub a little salt 
inside, or lay it for an hour in strong brine. 
The simjile way of dressing it is as follows : — 
Tie up the head, and put it into a fish-kettle, 
with plenty of water and salt in it; boil it 
gently, and serve it with oyster sauce. Lay 
a napkin under the fish, and garnish with 
slices of lemon, horse-radish, &c. 

COD BAKED. (1) Soak a fine piece 
of the middle of fresh cod in melted butter, 
with parsley and sw eet herbs shred very fine ; 
let it stand over the fire fur sometime, and 
then bake it. Let it be of a good color. 

COD BAKED. (2) Choose a fine large 
cod, clean it well, and open the under part 
to the bone, and put in a stuff"ing made with 
beef suet, parsley, sweet herbs slired fine, an 
egg, and seasoned with salt, pej)per, nutmeg, 
mace and grated lemon-peel ; put this inside 
the cod, sew it up, wrap it in a buttered pa- 
per, and bake it; baste it well with melted 
butter. 

COD, TO CRIMP. Cut a fresh cod in- 
to slices or steaks ; lay them for three hours 
in salt-and-water, and a glass of vinegar: 
when they may be boiled, fried, or broiled. 



COF 



53 



COF 



COD PIE. See Pie. 

COD SOUNDS. This is the white skin 
of the belly, and is reckoned a great delica- 
cy, and may be eidier boiled, broiled, or 
fried. Pievious to dressing either way, they 
should be well soaked, washed, and boiled a 
little. 

COD SOUNDS, Boiled with Gra- 
vy. Scald them in hot water, and rub Uiem 
well with salt; blanch them, that is, take off 
the blacked dirty skin, then set them on in 
cold warer, and let diem simmer till they 
begin to be tender; take them out, flour, and 
broil them on the gridiron. In the mean- 
time, take a little good gravy, a little mus- 
tard, a little bit of butter rolled in flour, give 
it a boil, season it with pepper and salt. 
Lay the sounds in your dish, and pour the 
sauce over them. 

COD SOUNDS, BROILED. Let them 
lie in boiling water till it is nearly cold, rub 
them with salt, and pull off the black and 
dirty skin, boil them in hot water, drain, 
and dust them with flour, rub them over 
with butter, season with white pepper and 
salt, and broil them. Put a table-spoonful 
of catchup, half a one of soy, and a little Cay- 
enne, into melted butter, heat and pour it over 
them. 

COD SOUNDS, Roasted or Baked. 
Wash and clean four or five cod sounds, and 
boil them till nearly done in milk-and-watei- ; 
when cold, make a forcemeat of bread 
crumbs; a piece of butter, salt, nutmeg, 
white pepper, and some chopped oysters; 
beat up the yolks of two eggs to bind it, lay 
it over the sounds, roll them up, and fasten 
with a small skewer, baste them with melted 
butter, and roll them in finely grated bread 
crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt; put 
them on a tin in a Dutch oven, turn and 
baste them with a feather dipped in melted 
butter, and strew over bread crumbs as be- 
fore ; when done, and of a nice brown, serve 
them with oyster sauce in the dish. 

COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS, 
TO Boil. Wash it clean; tie it up, and 
dry it with a cloth. Allow in the propor- 
tion of every three measures of water, one of 
salt; when it boils take ofl^ the scum; put 
in die fish, and keep it boiling very fast for 
twenty-five or thirty minutes. Serve with 
die roe and milt parboiled, cut into slices, 
aid fried, and garnish with curled parsley 
and horse-radish. Sauces; — oyster, melted 
butter, or anchovy butter. 

COFFEE. Tlie coffbe-pot should be 
three parts full of boiling water; die coffbe 
5* 



is to be added a spoonful at a time, and well 
stirred between each; then boil gently, still 
stirring to prevent the mixture from boiling 
over as the coflee swells, and to force it into 
combination with the water, this will be ef- 
fected in a few minutes, after which, the 
most gentle boiling must be kept up during 
an hour. The cofiee must then be remcA'ed 
fiora the fire to settle, one or two spoonfuls 
of cold water thrown in assists the clarifica- 
tion, and precipitates the grounds. In about 
an hour, or as soon as the liquor has become 
clear, it is to be poured into another vessel, 
takinsf care not to disturb the sediment. 
Coflfee made in this manner will be of the 
finest flavor, and may be kept three days 
in summer, and four or five in winter ; when 
ordeied for use, it only requires heating in 
the coflee-pot, and may be served up at two 
minutes' notice. Coffee should never be 
roasted but at the precise time of its being 
used, and then it should be watched with 
the greatest care, and made of a gold color 
lather than a brown one ; above all, take care 
not to burn it, for a vei-y few grains burnt 
will be sufficient to communicate a .bitter 
and rancid taste to several pounds of cofiee. 
It is the best way to roast it in a roaster, 
(over a charcoal fire), which turns with the 
hand, as by that means it is not forgot, which 
often is the case when on a spit before the 
fire. 

COFFEE, French method of 
PREPARING. 1st. Let your coffee be dry, 
not in the least mouldy or damaged. — 2d. 
Divide the cjuantity that is to be roasted into 
two parts. — 3d. Roast the first part in a 
coffee- roaster, the handle of which must be 
kept constantly turning until the coffee be- 
comes the color of dried almonds or bread- 
raspings, and has lost one eighth of its 
weight. — 4th. Roast the second part until 
it assumes die fine brown color of chestnuts, 
and has lost one fifth of its weight. — 5th. 
Mix the two parts together, and grind them 
in a coffee mill. — 6th. Do not roast or make 
your coffee until the day it is wanted. — 7th. 
To two ounces of ground coffee, put four 
cups of cold water. Draw off this infusion, 
and put it aside. — 8th. Put to the coffee 
which remains in the biggin, three cups of 
boiling water, then drain it off and add this 
infusion to that which has been put aside. 
By this method 3'ou obtain three cups more. 
When your coffee is wanted, heat it (juickly 
in a silver coffee-pot, taking care not to let 
it boil, that the perfume may not be lost by 
undergoing any evaporation. Then pour it 
into cups, which each person may sweeten 
according to his taste. Particular care 
should be taken not to make coffee in a tin 
vessel; it slioidd be made either in a China 
vessel, or one of Delft ware, or in one of 



COL 



54 



cou 



gilver. For a long time, the tin biggins, in- 
vented by Monsieur de Belloy, were made 
use of; but some person has since improved 
upon iiis plan, by making them of silver or 
porcelain, which are found to be much better. 

COFFEE CREAM. (1) Mix three 
cups of good coffee with one pint of cream, 
and sugar according to taste; boil them to- 
gether, and reduce them about one-third ; 
observe that the coffee must be done as if it 
was for drinking alone, and settled very clear, 
before you mix it with the cream. 

COFFEE CREAM. (2) Boil a calf's 
foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly ; 
cleai' off the sediment and fat. Make a tea- 
cup of very strong coffee ; clear it with a 
bit of isinglass, to be perfectly bright; pour 
it to the jelly, and add a pint of very good 
cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is 
pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into 
the dish. It should jelly, but not be stiff. 
Observe that your coffee be fresh. 

COLLOPS. Cut some veal cutlets ; fry 
them a good brown, but not too much ; take 
some good gravy, thicken it with a little 
flour, boil it a few minutes; add Cayenne, 
catchup, truffles, morels, salt, mushrooms 
pickled, grated lemon-peel ; simmer this up, 
just heat the coUops through, add what gravy 
came from them, but do not let them boil, or 
diey will be hard; add forcemeat balls, hard 
yolk of eggs ; lay round little slices of ba- 
con, notched and toasted, and sliced lemon. 

COLLOPS, MINCED. Cut two 

pounds of lean tender beef into thin slices — 
it is best taken from oft' the rump, or round ; 
mince it very finely; brown two ounces of 
butter in a frying-pan, dredging it with a 
little flour, then add the minced meat, and 
keep beating it with a beater tiU of a nice 
brown color. Have ready some highly-sea- 
soned beef gravy, which, with the minced 
coUops, put into a saucepan, and let it stew 
half an hour ; and just before sening, put a 
table-spoonful of mushroom catchup, and, if 
liked, some green pickles. Beef suet is as 
often used as butter to fry the collops in. 

COLLOPS, RUSSIAN. Break four eggs 
into a stewpan, and mix with them two 
spoonfuls of floiu-, then half a glass of good 
cream, a spoonful of warm butter, and a 
grain of salt ; when these are well mixed to- 
gether, pour some of it into a large frying-pan, 
and fly it of a light color on both sides; 
tlien take it out, and fi-y more in the same 
way, like pancakes, until you have a dozen 
very thin, cut each in half, and trim diem 
into oblong pieces all the same size: lay on 
*ach some quenelle , minced fowl or game. 



as if for croquettes; wrap the fried battef 
round it, wetting the edges, that they may 
adliere properly, with a little of the batter, 
having reserved some for the purpose ; then 
have ready beaten, six eggs and a little salt, 
mask them widi bread-crumbs, fry diem of a 
good color, and serve them quickly. 

COLLOPS, SCOTCH. Cut veal cut- 
lets (taken from the fillet) into small thin 
pieces, and fry them in a little boiling lard 
till of a light brown color. Drain them dry, 
put them into a stewpan, add cullis, stewed 
mushrooms, some blanched truflles, morels, 
pieces of artichoke bottoms, some slices of 
throat sweetbreads, and egg balls. Let 
them simmer over a slow fire till tender, 
season to the palate, and serve them with 
rashers of broiled bacon round them. 

COLD MEAT BROILED, WITH 

Poached Eggs. The inside of a sirloin 
of beef is best for this dish, or a leg of mut- 
ton. Cut the slices of even and equal thick- 
ness, and broil and brown them carefully 
and slightly over a clear smart fire, or in a 
Dutch oven ; give those slices most fire that 
are least done ; lay them in a dish before the 
fire to keep hot, while you poach the eggs, 
and mash potatoes. 

COLORING FOR JELLIES, Cakes, 
&c. For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains 
of cochineal in the finest powder, widi a 
drachm and a half of cream of tartar, in 
half a pint of water very slowly, half an 
hour. Add, in boiling, a bit of alum the 
size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and 
some liquor poured over. For white, use 
almonds finely powdered with a little drop 
of water ; or use cream. For yellow, yolks 
of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped in die li- 
quor, and squeezed. For green, pound 
spinach-leaves, or beet-leaves, express the 
juice, and boil a tea-cupful in a saucepan 
of water, to take off the rawness. 

CONSOMME. Take eight or ten 
pounds of beef-steaks, eight old hens, two 
young ones, and four knuckles of veal ; put 
these into a large pot, and fill it with strong 
broth ; skim it well, cooling it three or four 
times to make the scum rise, after which let 
it boil gently ; put into the pot carrots, tur- 
nips, onions, and three cloves. When your 
meat is sufficiently done, pass Uie liquor 
through a fine napkin or silk sieve, that it 
may be very clear. No salt need be put in 
if strong brodi be used. 

COUGLAUFFLE, GERMAN. Take 
three pounds of flour, an ounce and a half 
of yeast, an ounce of fine salt, a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, twelve eggs, tlie yoUts of 



cou 



55 



CR A 



twelve more, two pounds of fresh butler, 
three glasses of milk, and a (juarter of a 
pound of sweet almonds. Proceed with 
these materials in the following manner: — 
put the butter (having slightly warmed half 
a pound of it), into a glazed pan, and with 
a large wooden spoon work it up for six or 
seven minutes; then put in two whole eggs, 
and stir it two minutes ; then add three yolks, 
and stir again two minutes; in this manner 
put in the whole number of eggs and yolks ; 
which will produce a kind of smooth cream. 
Then by degrees mix in two pounds of the 
flour, dissolve the yeast in a glass of warm 
milk, strain it through a napkin, stir this in 
well, with another half pound of flour; 
make a hollow in the paste, in which put 
the salt and sugar in powder; afterwards 
pour on it a glass of hot milk, and mix die 
whole together with the remainder of the 
flour; continue to work it up for some min- 
utes after the whole ingredients are put in, 
adding a small quantity of warm milk, which 
will render it smooth. Have a mould ready, 
butter it, and lay the sweet almonds, each 
cut in half, over the bottom of the mould, in 
forms, on which pour the paste carefully, 
and in small quantities, so as not \o derange 
the almonds. Place your mould in a warm, 
but not a hot place, that the cake may rise 
properly ; and when that operation has taken 
place, put it into a moderate ov'en, which 
should be kept closed; in an hour's time 
look at the Couglaujffle, and if it be flexible, 
and of a light color, let it remain thirty or 
forty minutes longer; but if it be linn and 
red it is sufficiently done; when taken from 
the mould, put it into the oven again for a 
few minutes. 

COUGLAUFFLES, SMALL. To 
make a dozen small couglauffles, take three 
quarters of a pound of flour, three drachms 
of yeast, two of salt, two whole eggs, thi-ee 
yolks, two ounces of sugar, a little cream, 
and half a pound of butter. The prepara- 
tion is made the same as the German Cou- 
glauffle. When the paste is made, divide 
it into twelve equal parts; butter a dozen 
small biscuit moulds, and fill each with your 
preparation, and let them stand: when risen 
so as to fill the moulds, put them into a 
brisk oven, and take them out as soon as 
they are of a light color. 

COIIQUES. Put into a saucepan the 
yolks of sixteen eggs, the rinds of two lem- 
ons, half an ounce of sail, and two ounces 
of sugar; on these pour a pint of boiling 
cream, stirring it quick ; set it on the fire, 
but do not let it boil, strain it through a 
bolting, and then let it cool; take two 
pounds of flour, and make a quarter of it 



into leaven with half an ounce of yeast and 
a little warm v/ater, keep it rather moist, 
and put it into a warm place to rise: in tlie 
meantime, make the remainder of the flour 
into a paste, with the cream and a fjuarter 
of a pound of butter, knead it up five or six 
times ; then put in the leaven, and knead it 
again twice; tie it up in a floured cloth, and 
set it in a warm place. In about two hours 
take it out, and cut the paste in pieces the 
size of an egg, form them to that shape, and 
lay them on a baking tin, and leave them 
for half an hour to rise, then gild and 
bake them in a hot oven ; when done, oi)en 
each on one side, take out a little of the 
crumb, in the place of which put a bit of 
butler worked up with a little salt, and 
serve them. 

COURT BOUILLON. Cut a proper 

quantity of carrots, onions, celeiy, and tur- 
nips, and put them into a saucepan with 
butter, parsley, garlic, thyme, basil, salt, a 
mignonette and cloves ; sweat them over a 
gentle fire; add white wine, vinegar or 
verjuice ; boil, and then strain it, and serve 
it with whatever you may require it for. 
It is generally used for fish. 

COURT BOUILLON for all 

SORTS OF Fresh Water Fish. Put 
some water into a fish-kettle, with a quart 
of white wine, a slice of butter, salt, pepper, 
a large bunch of parsley and young onions, a 
clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaves, and basil 
all tied together, some sliced onions and 
some caiTots ; boil the fish in this court 
bouillon, (which will serve for several times) 
and do not scale it ; when the fish will ad- 
mit of it, take care to boil it wrapped in a 
napkin, which makes it more easy to take 
out without danger of breaking. 

COW-HEEL, In the hands of a skilful 
cook, will fiirnish several good meals ; when 
boiled tender, cut it into handsome pieces, 
e^^^^ and bread-crumb them, and fry them a 
light brown ; lay them round a dish, and put 
in the middle of it sliced onions fried, or the 
accompaniments ordered for tripe. The 
liquor they were boiled in will make 
soups. 

CRACKNELS. Mix a quart of flour, 
half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs 
beaten, with four spoonfuls of rosewater, into 
a stiff paste, with cold water; then rub in a 
pound of butter, and make into a cracknel 
shape ; put them into a kettle of boiling 
water, and boil them till they swim ; then 
take them out, and put them into cold water ; 
when hardened, lay them out to dry, and 
bake them on tin plates. 



CRE 



56 



CRE 



CRACKNELS, small soft. Blanch 
half a poiiiid of sweet almonds, and pound 
them to a (ine paste, adding to them by de- 
grees six eggs ; v\'hen thorougiily pounded, 
pour on theiu a pound of powder-sugar, the 
same of butter, and the rinds of two lemons 
giated ; beat up these ingredients in tlie 
mcvtar: put a ]TOund of flour on a slab, and 
having poured tho almond paste on it, knead 
them together until they are well incoiporat- 
ed ; roll it out, and cut the cracknels into 
such forms as you may think proper, rub 
them with yolk of egg, and strew over tliem 
powder-sugar or cinnamon: then lay them 
on a buttered tin, and bake them in a mode- 
rate oven, taking great care that they do not 
burn. When done, put them into glasses, 
and if preserved in a diy place they are the 
better for keeping. 

CRAIVBERRIES, Different ways 
OF DRESSING. For pies and puddings, 
with a good deal of sugar. Stewed in a 
jar, with the same ; this way they eat well 
with bread, and are very wholesome. Thus 
done, pressed, and strained, the juice makes 
a fine drink for people in fevers. 

CREAM, ALxMOND. Blanch and 
pound to a paste, with rose water, six 
ounces of almonds, mix them with a pint 
and a half of cream which has been boiled 
with the peel of a small lemon; add two 
w^ell-beaten eggs, and stir the whole over 
the fire till it be thick, taking care not to 
allow it to boil ; sweeten it, and Avhen near- 
ly cold, stir in a table-spoonful of orange- 
flower or rose water 

CREAM, APPLE. (1) Boil twelve 
large apples in water till soft;, take oflf the 
peel, and press the pulp through a hair sieve 
upon half a pound of pounded loaf sugar; 
whip tile whites of two eggs, add them to 
the apples, and beat all together till it be- 
comes very stiff, and looks quite white. 
Serve it heaped up on a dish. 

CREAM, APPLE. (2) Peel and core 
five large apples ; boil them in a little water, 
till soft enough to press through a sieve; 
sweeten, and beat with them the whisked 
whites of five eggs. Serve it with cream 
poured round it. 

CREAM, ARROW-ROOT. Mix a ta- 
ble-spoonful of arrow-root ^vith a tea-cupful 
of cold water; let it settle, and pour the wa- 
ter off. Sweeten and boil a quart of milk 
with the peel of a lemon and some cinnamon ; 
pick tnem out, and pour it boiling upon the 
arrow-root, stirring it well and frequently 
till it be cold. Serve it in a glass or china 
dish, witli or without grated nutmeg on the 



top. It may be eaten witli any preserved 
fruit, or fruit tarts. 

CREAM, BACCHIC. Put a pint and a 
half of white wine, with some lemon-peel, 
coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and three 
ounces of sugar, into a stevvpan, and let 
them boil a quarter of an hour; then mix 
half a tea-spoonful of flour- with the yolks of 
six eggs in another stewpan, and stir in by 
degrees the other jjreviously boiled ingre- 
dients. When about half cold, sti-ain the 
whole through a sieve and put it in a dish 
in hot water, over the fire, till the cream is 
set ; lastly, take it out, and put it in a cool 
place till ready to serve. 

CREAM, BARLEY. Boil a small quan- 
tity of pearl bal-ley in milk and water, till 
tender, strain off the liquor, and put tlie 
barley into a quart of cream, to boil a little. 
Then take the whites of five eggs and the 
yolk of one, beat them with one spoonful of 
flour, and two of orange-flower water. Take 
tlie cream from the fire, mix the eggs in by 
degrees, and set it over the fire again to 
thicken. Sweeten it, and j)our into cups or 
glasses for use. 

CREAM, BURNT. Boil a pint of cream 
with the peel of a lemon, sweeten it with 
pounded loaf sugar ; beat, with the yolks of 
six, and whites of four eggs, one table-sjioon- 
fi^il of flour, the same of orange-flower water 
and of ratafia ; strain die cream, and when 
nearly cold, mix it with the eggs and other 
things ; stir it over the fire till it becomes as 
thick as a custard; put it into the dish it is 
to be served in. Boil with a little water 
some pounded loaf sugar, till it turn brown, 
but do not stir it till taken off the fire; by 
degrees pour it in figures over the top of the 
cream. It may be eaten hot or cold. 

CREAM CAKES. See Cakes. 

CREAM, CHOCOLATE. (1) Take 
a pint of milk, a gill of cream, the yolks of 
three eggs, and five ounces of powder sugar, 
mix these ingredients together, set them on 
the fire, stir it constantly, and let it boil till 
reduced to a quarter ; then add two ounces 
of grated chocolate ; and having boiled a lit- 
tle longer, strain it, and let it cool. Serve 
it cold. 

CREAM, CHOCOLATE. (2) Take 

about half a cake of chocolate, bruise it to 
pieces, put it in a stewpan with a little milk, 
and stir it over a gentle fire till it loolis 
smooth and thick ; tlien add a little more 
milk, and stir it again over the fire, con- 
tinue this till it takes the tliickness of cream ; 



CRE 



57 



CRE 



sweeten it to your palate with clarified su- 
gar; stir in a little thick cream with a very 
little isinglass, rub it through the tammy, 
and set it in the mould. 

CREAM CUSTARD. See Custard. 

CREAM FRITTERS. Mix a handful 
of flour, with three whole eggs, and the yolks 
of six, four pounded macaroons, some dried 
orange-flowers, browned in sugar, a little 
candied lemon-peel chopped very fine, half 
a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and a 
lump of sugar ; boil the whole over a gentle 
fire for a quarter of an hour, till the cream 
turns to a thick paste ; then let it cool in a 
dish well floured, shaking flour all over it. 
When cold, cut the paste into small pieces, 
roll them in your hands till they become 
round, and fry them of a good color; when 
you serve them, powder them all over with 



CREAM FROTH. Put a pint of fresh 
double cream into a stone pan, with half a 
pound of powder sugar, a pinch of gum 
di'agon, a little crisped orange-flower, and 
three drops of cedrat essence ; when the su- 
gar is dissolved, place the pan in another, in 
which is three pounds of ice beaten up with 
ealtpetre ; whip the cream in the usual man- 
ner, taking off" the froth as it rises with a 
Bkimmer, lay it gently on a sieve over a 
pan ; if the cream does not froth properly, 
add die whites of two e?2rs. This cream is 
usually served in large silver or gilt goblets, 
and should be prepared two or three hours 
before it is wanted. 

CREAM FOR FRUIT TARTS. Boil 
a stick of cinnamon, two or three [leach 
leaves, or a few bruised bitter almonds, in a 
quart of milk; strain, sweeten, and mix it, 
when cool, with three or four well-beaten 
eggs; stir it constantly over tlie fire till it 
thickens. It may be eaten widi stewed 
apples, prunes, damsons, or any other fruit. 

CREAM, IMPERIAL. Boil a quart of 
cream with the thin rind of a lemon; then 
stir it till nearly cold; have ready in a 
dish or bowl that you are to serve in, 
the juice of three lemons strained, with as 
much sugar as will sweeten the cream, which 
pour into the dish from a large teapot, hold- 
ing it high, and moving it about to mix with 
the juice. It should be made at least six 
hours before it is served, and will be still 
better if a day. 

CREAM ITALIAN. (1) Boil a pint and 
a half of milk in a stewpan, then add to it 
tile peel of a young lemon, some coriander 
seed, a bit of cinnamon, rather more than 



half a quarter of a pound of sugar, and two 
or three grains of salt; let it boil till half ia 
consumed; then let it stand to cool, and 
have ready in another stewpan a little flour, 
l^eat up with the yolks of six eggs ; stir it 
by degrees into the cream ; strain it through 
a sieve, and put it in the dish for table, 
placing the dish in some hot water over the 
fire till the cream is set. Before serving, 
brown witli a salamander. 

CREAM ITALIAN. (2) Put a gill of 
good fresh cream, two eggs, three spoonfuls 
of powder-sugar, and a little orange-flower 
water, into a pan, and whip them up togeth- 
er; and when the cream is sufficiently thick, 
put it into a deep dish, with plenty of pow- 
der-sugar; set it on hot ashes, cover it, and 
lay hot ashes on the top, which must be 
renewed until the cream is done enough; 
then let it cool, and serve it. 

CREAM, LEMON. Steep the thinly- 
pared rinds of four large lemons in a pint of 
water fur twelve hours; strain, and dissolve 
in it three-quarters of a pound of fine loaf 
sugar, add the juice of the lemons strained, 
and the well-beaten whites of seven, and the 
yolk of one egg. Boil it over a slow fire, 
stirring it constantly one way, till it is like 
a thick cream ; pour it into a glass or china 
dish. 

CREAM, ORANGE. (1) Squeeze and 
strain the juice of eleven oranges, sweeten 
it well with pounded loaf sugar, stir it over 
a slow fire till the sugar be dissolve<l, and 
take off the scum as it rises ; when cold, 
mix it with the well-beaten yolks of twelve 
eggs, to which a pint of cream has been 
added; stir it again over the fire till thick. 
Serve in a glass dish or custard-cups. 

CREAM, ORANGE. (2) Sweeten, 
with pounded loaf sugar, a quart of good 
cream; mix with it a small wine-glass of 
orange-flower water, the grated rind and 
the juice of a Seville orange; whisk it till 
({uite thick; soak some macaroons in white 
wine, and pile them in the middle of a glass 
or china dish, and heap the whipped cream 
over them as high as possible. Some hours 
after, ornament it with slices of green citron 
cut into straws, and stuck into the cream. 

CREAM, RATAFIA. In a tea-cupful 
of thin cream boil two or three large jaurel, 
or young peach leaves ; when it has boiled 
three or four minutes, strain, and mix with 
it a pint of rich sweet cream ; add three well- 
beaten whites of eggs, and sweeten it with 
pounded loaf sugar. Put it in*o a saucepan, 
and stir it gently one way ov jr a slow fire 
till it be tiiick ; pour it into a china dish. 



CRE 



58 



CRE 



and when quite cold, ornament it witli sweet- 
meats cut out like flowers; or strew over 
the top harlequin comfits. 

CREAM, RASPBERRY. (1) Mix a 

little pounded loaf sug;tr with a pint and a 
half of good cream, about a tea-cupful of 
raspberry jelly, the grated rind of one, and 
the juice of half a lemon ; beat it well to- 
gether, and, widi a syllabub mill, mill it 
slowly for half an hour, or till it be thick and 
solid. Put it into a glass dish, or serve it in 
custard glasses. 

CREAM, RASPBERRY. (2) Put six 
ounces of raspberry jam to a quart of cream, 
pulp it through a lawn sieve, mix it with the 
juice of a lemon and a little sugar, and 
whisk it till diick. Serve it in a dish or 
glasses. Strawbeny cream may be made 
in the same way. For common use, substi- 
tute good milk for tlie cream. 

CREAM, RED CURRANT. (1) Pick 
the currants from the stalks, put them into a 
jar closely covered, and stand it in a pan 
of cold water ; let it boil for two hours, strain 
the juice through a sieve, and sweeten it 
well with pounded loaf sugar. When cold, 
add a quart of cream to a pintof juice, and 
beat it with a whisk till thick. Serve in a 
deep glass dish. 

CREAM, RED CURRANT. (2) 

Squeeze three-(juarters of a pint of juice 
from red currants when full ripe, add to it 
ratlier more than a quarter of a pound of 
pounded loaf sugar, and the juice of one 
lemon ; stir it into a pint and a half of cream, 
and whisk it till quite thick. 

CREAM ROSE AT. Beat to a stiff 
froth the whites of four eggs; sweeten and 
boil a pint of good milk, drop about three 
table-spoonfuls of the froth into it, turn it 
over once or twice with the spoon, take it 
out, and put it upon the back of a lawn sieve 
placed over a large plate; I'epeat this till it 
is all done; add to the milk another half 
pint, with a little more sugar, and mix it 
with the beaten yolks of the eggs; stir it 
over the fire till thick; put it into a basin, 
and stir now and dien till nearly cold; add 
a table-spoonful of rose water, and one of 
brandy. Serve it in a glass dish, and lay 
the whites of the eggs over the top at equal 
distances. Cut citron and candied orange- 
peel into straws, and put them over the 
whites of the eggs, or strew over them color- 
ed comfits. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. Mix one 

or two table-spoonfuls of sifted flour of rice 
with a little good stock, ratlier cold than 



hot; add this to some boiling stock, and 
keep stirring till it boils ; and let it boil till 
sufficiently thick. The flour of rice may be 
made as follows: — Wash in several waters 
a pound of rice ; wipe it in a clean towel, 
and when perfectly dry poimd and sift it 
through a sieve. 

CREAM, SNOW. Take a pint of fresh 
cream, and mix with it eight spoonfuls of 
powder-sugar, the whites of two eggs, and 
a spoonful of orange-flower water, or any 
other aromatic ingredient you like better ; 
whip it, and remove the froth or snow in 
the usual way. This cream may be colored 
according to yoiu* fancy, with safiion, car- 
mine, or indigo. 

CREAM, SOLID. Squeeze the juice 
of a large lemon upon du-ee or four table- 
spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, add two 
table-spoonfuls of brandy, and one pint of 
cream; pour it from one cup into another, 
till it be sufficiently thick. 

CREAM, SPANISH. Boil, in half a 
pint of water, half an ounce of isinglass, till 
dissolved ; strain, and mix it with a quart 
of cream or good milk; if cream, not so 
much isinglass; stir it over the fire till it 
come to aboil; when a little cooled, add 
gradually the beaten yolks of six eggs, and a 
glass of white wine. Pour it into a deep 
dish, sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, stir 
it till cold, and then put it into a shape. ■ 

CREAM, STONE. Put three table- 
spoonfuls of lemon-juice, and the grated peel 
of one, some preserved apricots, or any other 
sweetmeat, into a glass or China dish. Boil 
a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a little 
water, till dissolved ; add it to a pint of cream, 
sweetened well with pounded loaf sugar; 
boil it, and stir it all the time; pour it into 
a jug, stir it now and then till milk-warm, 
then pour it over the sweetmeat round and 
round. It may be made the day before 
being served. 

CREAM, SWISS. (1) Boil the grated 
peel of a large lemon, and three-c}uaiters of 
a pound of pounded loaf sugar, in a pint of 
cream ; squeeze the juice of the lemon upon 
a table-spoonful of flour, work it well togedi- 
er, and gradually add to it the boiling cream, 
and heat it all over the fire; pour it i ito a 
basin, and when nearly cold, put it into a 
glass Of China dish, and garnish it with 
candied orange-peel, and citron cut into 
straws. This cream requires to be constant- 
ly stirred till it is put into the dish in which 
it is to be served. 

CREAM, SWISS. (2) Whisk upon 



CRO 



59 



CRU 



a hot plate, the yolks of eight eggs, half a 
pound of finely-pounded sugar, the grated 
rind of a lemon, and half a pint of light 
Frencii or Rlienish white wine, and send it 
warm to table. 

CREAM TART. See Tart. 

CREAM, WHIPPED. Sweeten, with 
pounded loaf sugar, a quart of cream, and 
add to it a lump of sugar which has been 
rubbed upon the peel of two fine lemons or 
bitter oranges; or flavor it with orange- 
flpwer water, a little essence of roses, the 
juice of ripe strawberries, or of any other 
fruit. Whisk die cream well in a large pan, 
and as the froth rises, take it off, and lay it 
upon a sieve placed over another pan, and 
retnin the cream which drains from the froth, 
till all is whisked, then heap it upon a dish, 
or pni it into glasses. Garnish with tliinly- 
pared citron, or cedrat cut into small leaves, 
or into any fanciful shape. To color the 
rose cream, or to heighten that of strawber- 
ry, a little carmine or lake may be mixed 
with the cream, which may be iced when 
made. 

CREAM, WHITE LEMON. (1) Rub, 
widi some lumps of loaf sugar, the rinds of 
six lemons, and grate off the remainder; 
squeeze and strain the juice, and add the 
grated peel and sugar, with three-t|uarters 
of a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; put to this 
a quart of rich cream, and wliisk it till very 
thick. The following day, soak five or six 
sponge biscuits in white wine, and put over 
them the cream. 

CREAM, WHITE LEMON. (2) Boil 
the thin peel of two lemons in a pint of 
cream; strain, and thicken it with the well- 
beaten yolks of three, and whi*es of four 
eggs; sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, 
stir it till nearly cold, and put it into 
glasses. 

CROaUANTE OF PASTE. Roll out 
paste, about the eighth of an inch thick ; 
rub over a plain mould with a little fresh 
butter; lay on the paste very even, and 
equally thin on both sides; pare it round the 
rim; then with a small penknife cut out 
small pieces, as fancy may direct, such as 
diamonds, stars, circles, sprigs, &c. ; or use 
a small tin cutter of any shape: let it lie to 
dry sometime, and bake it a few minutes in 
a slack oven, of a liglit color: remove it 
from the mould, and j)lace it over a tart, or 
any other dish of small pastiy. 



CROQUE. These are large pieces of 
ornamental confectionary, formed of various 
.uaterialg, as gimbleites, croquignoles, gen- 



oises, Sfc, or of oranges, cut into quarters, 
chestnuts, green nuts, &c., arranged wiUi- 
in moulds according to fancy, and cemented 
together with boiled sugar. 

CROQUETS. Pound, in a marble 
mortar, cold veal and fowl, with a little suet, 
some chopped lemon-peel, lemon Ui^mie, 
chives, and parsley. Season with nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt; mix all well togedier, and 
add the yolk of an egg well-beaten ; roll it 
into balls, and dip them into an egg beaten 
up, then sift bread crumbs over them, and 
fry them in buttei". 

CROQUETTES OF BOILED MEAT. 

Mince some boiled meat very small; add to 
it some sausage-meat, mashed potatoes, 
crumbs of bread, soaked in milk, and sweet 
herbs; make them into a paste, and form i*^, 
into little balls ; roll them in very fine rasp- 
ings, and fry them of a nice color. Serve 
them with sauce piquante. 

CROQUETS OF SWEETBREADS. 

IVIince some cold sweetbreads, which have 
been dressed, and boil them in a. sauce ve- 
loute ; when quite cold, form them into balls, 
or into rolls, about two inches long; fry and 
serve them with fried parsley in the middle. 
Or, make the croquet meat into a rissole. 
Roll out a piece of thin puft' paste, enclose 
the meat in it, brush it over with a beaten 
eg^, and strew over it grated bread ; fry it 
of a light brown color. 

CRUMPETS. (1) Make a pint of 
warm milk, a quarter of a pint of yeast broth, 
strained into a strong batter, with a sufticient 
quantity of flour; cover, and set it in a 
warm place to rise ; then add a quarter of 
a pint of warm milk, an ounce of butter 
worked up in a little flour, but only flour 
enough to prevent the batter from being too 
diin ; in a quarter of an hour have the iron 
rings ready on a plate of iron over a stove ; 
pour the batter into these rings, and bake 
them. 

CRUMPETS, OR PIKELETS. (2) 

Set a sponge as for bread, excepting tliat 
half milk and half water must be used; and 
to every half-quartern of tlour, two eggs 
must be added; beat the eggs dioroughly. 
Bake them in rings as usual. 

CRUST, FOR VENISON PASTY. 

Work into a paste with warm water, two 
pounds and a half of butter, a peck of fine 
flour, and four eggs; work it smootii, and 
to a good consistence. The paste should be 
put round the inside, but not at the bottom 
of die dish ; let the cover be tolerably thick, 
to bear tlie longj?,ontinuance in die oven. 



cue 



60 



CUL 



CRUST, RAISED. (1) Melt, in one 
pint of water, one pound of fresh lard ; weigh 
foiu" pounds of flour, put it into a basin, and 
when the water and lard is hot, with a horn 
Bpoon stir it by degiees aniungst the flour. 
When well mixed, work it with the hands 
till it is a stiff paste, when it is lit for use. 

CRUST, RAISED. (2) Put into a 
saucepan one pint and a half of water, four 
pounds of floiu-, and four ounces and a half 
of butter ; stir it till it is a thick paste, take 
it out, and add die yolks of diree or lour 
beaten eggs; work it well together, roll it 
out rather more than half an inch thick; 
cut out the top and bottom, and a long piece 
of proper dej)tli for the sides. Brush round 
die bottom widi well-beaten whites of eggs; 
set oil the sides, keeping the paste rather 
within die edge of die bottom; pinch it all 
I'ound, to make the pieces adhere, then fill 
the pie, and brush round the upper sides of 
die crust and die outer edges of the cover 
with egg ; lay on the cover, pinch it round 
neatly, and ornament it according to fancy 
with leaves, festoons, or chains of rings 
made of the paste. 

CRUST SHORT. (1) Pound, sift, 
and dry two ounces of white sugar ; then 
mix it with a pound of well dried flour, ruij- 
'bing into it, so line as not to be seen, three 
ounces of butter; then put the yolks of two 
eggs into some cream, and mix the whole 
into a smooth paste; roll it out thin, and 
bake it in a moderate oven. 

CRUST SHORT, not sweet, but 
RICH. (2) Mix into a stiflish paste, us- 
ing as little water as possible, six oun;;es of 
butler, with eight ounces of fine flour, (rub- 
bing the butter well into the floui', before 
mixing it with the water) beat it well, and 
roll it thin. This crust is proper as well as 
the above, for tarts of fresh or preserved 
fruits. Let it bake in a moderate oven. 

CUCUMBERS STEWED. Peel and 
cat cucumbers in ([uarters, take out the seeds, 
and lay them on a cloth to drain off the wa- 
ter: when they aie dry, floiu- and fry them 
in fresh butter; let the butter be quite hot 
Ufore you put in the cucumbers ; fry them 
till they are brown, then take them out with 
an egg-slice, and lay them on a sieve to 
diain the fat from them (some cooks fry 
sliced onions, or some small button onions, 
with them, till they are a delicate light 
blown coloi-, drain them from die fat, and 
then put them into a stewpan wiui as much 
gravy as will cover ti\ein) : stew slowly till 
they are tender; take out tlie cucumbe*''-' 
NvU'i a slice, diicken the gravy with fl(/v.r \ 
»V.d, k>u',ter, give it a boil ug, season it w'tli ', 



pepper and salt, and put in the cucumbers', 
as soon as they are warm, they are ready. 
The above, rubbed through a taniis, or line 
sieve, will be entitled to be called " cucum- 
ber sauce." See Cucumber Vinegar. Tliia 
is a very favorite sauce with lamb or mutton- 
cutlets, stewed rump-steaks, &c. &c.: when 
made for the latter, a diird part of sliced 
onion is sometimes fried wiUi the cucumbei . 

CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS, SLIC- 
ED. Cut full-grown cucumbers into slices 
about a quarter of an inch thick, and slice 
some onions thin; then lay them into a dish 
together, and strew salt over them; cover 
them with another dish, and let them re- 
main for twenty-four hours. Put them in- 
to a cullender to drain, then into a large jar, 
and pour over tiiem boiled vinegar, three 
successive days; the last time of boiling the 
vinegar add pepper and ginger, pour it over 
them hot, and closely cover diem when cold. 

. CUCUxMBER MANGOES. Cut a long 
narrow piece out of the sides of large Tur- 
key cucumbers, scoop out die seeds, and 
widi a part of them mix some mustard seed, 
shred garlic, and grated horse-radish; stuff 
the space as full as it will admit of, and re- 
place the piece which was cut off; bind 
them with a thread; put over them hot 
vinegar three successi\e days, and boil with 
it the last time pepper, flour of mustard, 
and some salt ; put them into jars, and pour 
over diein the boiling vinegar, and when 
cold, cover them closely. 

CULLIS. (1) To a quart of gravy, put a 
table-spoonful of thickening, or from one to 
two table-spoonfuls of Hour, according to 
the thickness you wish die gravy to be, into 
a basin, with a ladleful of the gravy; stir it 
quick; add the rest by degrees, till it is all 
well mixed ; then pour it back into a stew- 
pan, and leave it by the side of the fire to 
simmer for half an hour longer, that the 
thickening may thoroughly incorporate with 
die gravy, the stewpan being only half cov- 
ered, stirring it every now and then; a sort 
of scum will gadier on the top, which it is 
best not to take off till you are ready to 
strain it through a tamis. Take care it is 
neither of too pale nor too dark a color; if 
it is not thick enough, let it stew longer, till 
it is reduced to the desired thickness ; or 
add a bit of glaze, or portable soup to it, 
if it is too thick, you can easily diin it with 
a spoonful or two of warm broth, or water 
When your sauce is done, stir it in the ba- 
sin you put it into once or twice, wl\''e it !s 



-JU^XIS. (2) Lay over the bottom jt a 
stew,;iin as much lean veal as will co'-i*; 



CU R 



61 



CUR 



It an incb thick ; then cover the veal with 
some slices of undressed bacon (gammon is 
the best), three onions, three bay leaves, 
some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and 
three cloves. Put on the lid of the stewpan, 
and set it over a slow fire ; but when the 
juices come out, let the fire be a little quick- 
er. When the meat is of a nice brown col- 
or, fill the stewpan -with good beef broth, 
boil and skim il, then let it simmer for an 
hour; add a little water mixed with as 
much flour as will make it properly thick ; 
boil it lialf an hour, and strain it. You 
may keep this cuUis a week, 

CULLIS, A FAMILY OxNE. Roll a 
piece of butter in floui', and stir it in a stew- 
pan till the flour is of a fine yellow color. 
Then put in some thin broth : a little gravy, 
a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet 
herbs, two cloves, a little nutmeg or mace, a 
few mushrooms, pepper and salt. Let it 
slew an hour over a slow fire, tlien skim all 
the fat clean off", and strain it through a 
sieve. 

CULLIS, WHITE. Take a piece of 
veal, cut it into small bits, with some thin 
slices of ham, and two onions, each cut into 
four; moisten it with broth, seasoned with 
mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, gieen onions, 
three cloves, and so let it stew. Being 
slew(;d, take out the meat and roots with a 
skimmer, put in a few crumbs of bread, and 
let it stew softly; take the white of a fowl, 
or two chickens, and put it into a mortar; 
being well pounded, mix it in die cuUis, but 
it must not boil, and the cullis must be very 
white; but if not white enough, pound two 
dozen of sweet almonds blanched, and put it 
into the cullis; then boil a glass of milk, and 
add it to the cullis; let it be of a good fla- 
vor, and strain it ofl ; then put it into a 
small kettle, and keep it warm. It may be 
used for white loaves, crust of white bread, 
and biscuits. 

CURACOA. Put five ounces of thin- 
cut Seville orange-peel, that has been dried 
and poundi'd, or, which is still better, of 
die fresh peel of a fresh shaddock, which 
may be bt)Ught at the orange and lemon 
shops in the beginning of March, into a 
quart of the finest and cleanest rectified 
spirit; after it has been infused a fortnight, 
strain it, and add a quart of sii'up and filter. 
See the following receipt. 

CURACOA; how to make a 
QUART. To a pint of the cleanest and 
strongest rectified spirit, add two drachms 
and a half of the sweet oil of orange-peel; 
shake it up: dissolve a pound of good lump 
sugar in a pint of cold water ; make this in- 



to a clarified sirap, which add to the 
spirit: shake it up, and let it stand till the 
following day: dien line a funnel widi a 
piece of muslin, and that widi filtering- 
paper, and filter it two or three times till it 
is quite bright. This liquor is an admira- 
ble cordial ; and a tea-spoonful in a tumbler 
of water is a very refreshing summer diink, 
and a great improvement to punch. 

CURDS AND CREAM. (1) With 
about half a table-spoonful of rennet, turn 
two quarts of milk just from the cow ; drain 
ofi' the whey, and fill a mould with the curd ; 
when it has stood an hour or two, turn it 
out. Strew colored comfits over it, sweeten 
some cream, mix grated nutmeg with it, 
and pour it round the curd. 

CURDS AND CREAM. (2) Put two 
quarts of new milk into the dish in which it 
is to be served, and turn it w ith a tea-spoon- 
ful of rennet; when tlie curd has come, serve 
it with cream in a separate dish. 

CURRANTS, AND OTHER FRUIT, 
TO CANDY. Boil the fruit in clarified 
sugar as for preserving ; take it out of the 
sirup and drain it upon sieves ; sift over it 
through a lawn sieve, till quite \\ hite, pound- 
ed loaf sugar. Place them in a cool oven, 
and tiurn and dust them with sugai" till drv. 



CURRANT FRITTERS WITHOUT 
EGGS. Stir into half a pint of mild ale, 
as much flour as will make it into a thick 
batter ; add a little sugar and a few currants ; 
beat it up quickly, and with a spoon drop 
it into boiling lard. 

CURRANT MARMALADE. Take 
some ripe red currants, pick them, and 
squeeze out the juice from some of them ; put 
to it some juice of raspberries ; then put to 
this the whole currants, boil them gently; 
and when they begin to break, put in an 
equal weight of sugar boiled to candy height ; 
boil them together, mash them as they boil ; 
skim them, put in some rose water, and 
when it becomes as tliick as marmalade, put 
it into pots. 



CURRANT PUDDING. 

ding. 



See Pud- 



CURRANTS FOR TARTS. Gather 
the fruit perfectly dry, and before it be too 
ripe, pick it fi-om the stalks, and put it into 
clean, dry, wide-mouthed bottles; if the 
flavor of raspberries is approved, some may 
be added with the currants ; tie tightly over 
each bottle a piece of sound bladder previ- 
ously soaked in water ; set them into a pan 
of cold water with a little straw at the bot- 



CUR 



62 



CUR 



torn, and a little between the bottles ; put 
them on the fire, and when they begin to 
simmer, keep them in that state about three- 
quarters of an hour, l)ut they mu.st not be 
allowed to boil ; take the pan off the fire ; 
the bladders will be raised, but will fall soon 
after, and sink into the mouth of the bottles ; 
in an hour, take them out, and tie strong 
paper over each, and set them in a dry cool 
place. The bottles may be placed in a 
bottle rack with the neck downwards. 
Damsons, cherries, and gooseberries, may 
be done in this way; any sort will keep for 
a year. Cut off the stalks of the cherries, 
and top and tail the gooseberries. 

CURRANT TART. See Tarts. 

CURRIES. Cut fowls or rabbits into 
joints, and wash them clean ; put two ounces 
of butter into a stewpan : when it is melted, 
put in the meat, and two middling-sized 
onions sliced, let them be over a smart fire 
till they are of a light brown, then put in 
half a pint of broth ; let it simmer twenty 
minutes. Put in a basin one or two table- 
spoonfuls of ciuTy powder, a tea-spoonful of 
flour, and a tea-spoonful of salt; mix it 
smooth with a little cold water, put it into 
the stewpan, and shake it well about till it 
boils: let it simmei' twenty minutes longer; 
then take out the meat, and rub the ^auce 
through a tamis or sieve: add to it two ta- 
ble-sj)oonfiils of cream or milk ; give it a 
boil up; then pour it into a dish, lay the 
meat over it: send up the rice in a separate 
dish. 

CURRY. Cut a fowl into small pieces, 
skin it, and let it !)lanch in cold water for 
two hours; mince an onion very small, and 
put it into a saucepan, with two ounces of 
butter, and a large table-spoonful of flour 
of ri(;e stirred in by degrees; brown it well, 
and when just boiling, add a quart of cold 
watei", with the pieces of fowl and a large 
table-spoonful of curry powder mixed in it. 
let it bnil till the fowl be quite tender, and 
just before serving, squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon over the blade of a knife into 
it. Vinegar will answer instead of the 
juice; and if it be required very fine, in 
place of rice, thicken it with an ounce of 
sweet almonds blanched and pounded. 

CURRY BAULS for Mock Turtle, 
Veal, Poultry, Made Dishes, 8^c. Are 
made with bread-crumbs, the yolk of an 
egff boiled hard, and a bit of fresh butter 
about half as big, beaten together in a mor- 
tar, anxi seasoned with curry powder. 

CURRY, DRY. Skin and cut a fowl 
into joints, or take off small cutlets from 



the best end of a neck of veal; fiy in butter 
three or four minced onions, and drain 
them; then fiy the fowl or Aeal, and dust it 
with three tea-spoonfuls of curry powder, 
and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of Cayenne. 
Put the fried meat and onions into a stew- 
pan, with a little salt, half a pint of milk, 
and the same quantity of .water ; keep the 
pan closely covered, and let it stew till per- 
fectly tender, and ten minutes before serv- 
ing, add two tea-spoonfuls of lemon-juice. 

CURRY, FISH. After a cod-fish, had- 
dock, or mackerel has lain some hours in 
salt, cut it into pieces, and stew it in water 
suflicient to covei" it, into which a large ta- 
ble spoonful of curry powder has been mix- 
ed. Fry in a (]uarter of a pound of butter, 
a shallot and two or three onions minced, 
a little pepper and salt. When well bi'ovvn- 
ed, add it to the fish, and stew all together 
till it be C|uite tender. Sprats make a go( d 
curry, but should be stewed in less water. 

CURRY, INDIAN. Stew in two ounc- 
es of butter, for ten minutes, a teaspoonful 
of Cayenne, and one of pepper, a dessert- 
spoonful of pounded coriander seed, six 
small onions, and two heads of gurlic min- 
ced. Cut the fowl or rabbit into small 
pieces, and cover it over with the curd of 
sweet milk. Put the whole into a stewpan, 
with as much boiling water as may be de- 
sired for sauce, and let it simmer till very 
tender. 

CURRY POWDER. (1) Putdiefollow- 
ing ingredients in a cool oven all night, and 
the next morning pound them in a marble 
mortar, and rub them through a fine sieve. 
Coriander-seed, three ounces, turmeric, three 
ounces, black pepper, mustard, and ginger, 
one ounce of each, allspice and less carda- 
mons, half an oun^e of each, cumin seed, 
a quarter of an ounce. Thoroughly pound 
and mix together, and keep them in a well- 
stopped bottle. Those who are fond of 
curry sauces, may steep thi-ee ounces of the 
powder in a quait of vinegar or white wine 
for ten days, and will get a licjuor impreg- 
nated with all the flavor of the powder. 

CURRY POWDER. (2) Pound ex- 
tremely fine, in a mortar, six ounces of co- 
riander seed, three ounces of pepper, one 
ounce and a half of fennigreck seed, one 
ounce of cumin seed, three ounces of tur- 
meric, and three-quarters of an ounce of 
Cayenne; sift it through muslin, and put it 
before the fire for four or five hours, stirring 
it every now and then. Keep it in a bottle 
with a glass stopper. 

CURRY OF VEAL, FOWL, &c. Fry 



cus 



63 



cus 



sliced veal, rabbit, fowl, or sweetbreads, in<i 
good deal of butter, dusting it willi flour. 
Dust one side with curry powder; then turn 
and dust the otiier, strewing over it finely- 
minced onions, taking care not to burn thern. 
When tlie meat is of a light brown, add 
some white stock, witli a little salt ; stew it 
till tender. Before serving, skim off the fat, 
and add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice or 
vinegar. Rabbit, fowl, and sweetbreads 
should be parboiled. 

CUSTARD. (1) Sweeten a quart of thin 
cream, or good milk, whh pounded loaf 
sugar; boil it with a bit of cinnamon, and 
half the peel of a lemon; strain it, and when 
a little cooled, mix it gradually with the 
well-beaten yolks of ten eggs; stir it over a 
slow fire till it be pretty thick, pour it into a 
basin, and add a table-spoonful of rose water, 
and one of brandy; keep stirring it every 
now and then till cold, and then put it into 
glasses, cups, or a disii. It may be made 
the d;iy before it is used. 

CUSTARD. (2) Boil a pint of milk 
with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint 
of cream, and the yolks of five eggs, well 
beaten; when the milk tastes of the season- 
ing, sweeten it enough for the whole; pour 
it into the cream, stirring it well; then give 
the custard a simmer till of a proper thick- 
ness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole 
time one way; then season with a large 
spoonful of peach water, and two tea-spoon- 
fuls of brandy, or a little ratafia. If you wish 
your custards t(j be extremely rich, put no 
milk, but a quart of cream. 

CUSTARDS. (3) Take six eggs, 
leave out the whites; mix your eggs and 
sugar together with some rose water; then 
boil a pint of cream, an.d put in the eggs 
(the cream must not boil after the eggs have 
been put in). Stir them to prevent them 
from curdlinor. 

CUSTARDS, ALMOND. Blanch and 
pound fine, with half a gill of rose water, six 
ounces of sweet, and half an ounce of bitter 
alin!)nds; boil a pint of milk, as in Baked 
Custard sweeten it with two ounces and a 
half of sugar; rub the almonds through a 
fine sieve, with a pint of cream; strain the 
milk to the yolks of eight eggs, and the 
whites of three well-beaten ; stir it over a 
fire till it is of a good thickness; take it off 
the fire, and stir it till nearly cold, to prevent 
ils curdling. N. B. — The above may be 
baked in cups, or in a dish, with a rim of 
puff paste put round. 

CUSTARD, APPLE. Take thirty 
fine apples, and pierce out the cores of ten 



of them which are of an equal size; pare 
and trim them neatly, and boil them in six 
ounces of sugar till pretty firm. Peel and 
cut the remaining apples very small, and put 
them into the above sirup; shred the rind 
of an orange, and mix with them; stir the 
whole constantly to prevent their sticking 
to the pan ; when sufficiently done rub the 
marmalade through a horse-hair sieve. Pre- 
pare the crust as before mentioned, but dress 
the sides a little higher; mix two spoonfuls 
of apricot marmalade with that of your 
apples, and then putfoui- spoonfuls of it into 
the custard; place the whole apples, (hav- 
ing put apricot marmalade in the place of 
the cores), and then add the remainder of 
the apple marmalade, taking care not to 
cover the apples with it. Finish as alvjve. 
At the instant of serving it mask it with 
apple jelly, apricot or quince marmalade, 
cherry juice or verjuice. Garnish the top 
of each apple with a cherry or verjuice-berry. 
Serve this hot or cold. 

CUSTARD, APRICOT GLAZED. 

Cut twenty fine apricots in half, take out 
the stones; toss up twelve apricots in four 
ounces of powder-sugar^nd place them in 
a cream accoiding to the directions for 
apple custard; bake and glaze .as therein 
directed. Put a glass of water- and a quar- 
ter of a pound of powder -sugar with the 
rest of the fruit into a preserving-i»n ; when 
the sirup is properly reduced, take the skin 
from the apricots and arrange them in the 
custard; garnish each half apricot with a 
kernel, and when ready to serve, pour the 
sirup on it. Serve hot or cold. 

CUSTARD, BAKED. (1) Boil a 
pint of cream with mace and cinnamon; 
when cold, take f )ur eggs, leaving out two 
of the whites, a little rose and orange-flower 
water, a little white wine, nutmeg, and 
sugar to your taste ; mix them well together, 
and bake them in china cups. 

CUSTARD, BAKED. (2) Boil in a 
pint of milk, a-few coriander seeds, a little 
cinnamon and lemon-peel; sweeten with 
four ounces of loaf sugar, and niix with it a 
l)int of cold milk ; beat well eight eggs for 
ten minutes, and add the other ingredients ; 
pour it from one pan into another six or 
eight times, strain it through a sieve, and 
let it stand some time; skim off the truth 
from the fop, fill it in earthen cups, and 
bake them immediately in a hot oven, give 
them a good color; about ten minutes will 
do them. 

CUSTARD, BOILED. (1) Boil in a pint 
of milk, five minutes, lemon-peel, corianders, 
and cinnamon, a small quantity of each. 



cus 



64 



cus 



half a dozen of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded, and four ounces of loaf sugar: mix 
it with a pint of cream, the yolks of ten eggs, 
and the whites of six, well-beaten; pass it 
through a hair sieve, stir it with a whisk 
over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, re- 
move it from the fire, and continue to stir 
it till nearly cold; add two table-spoonfuls 
of brandy, fill the cups or glasses, and grate 
nutmeg over. 

CUSTARDS, BOILED. (2) Put a 
quart of new milk into a stevvpan, with the 
peel of a lemon cut very thin, a little grated 
nuimeg, a bay or laurel leaf, and a small 
stick of cinnamon ; set it over a quick fire, 
but be careful it does not boil over: when it 
boils, set it beside die fire, and simmer ten 
minutes ; break the yolks of eiglit, and the 
whites of four eggs into a basin; beat them 
well ; then pour in the milk a little at a 
time, stirring it as quick as possiljle to pre- 
vent the eggs curdHng; set it on the fire 
again, and stir it well with a wooden spoon ; 
let it have just one boil ; pass it through a 
tamis, or fine sieve: when cold add a little 
brandy, or white wine, as may be most 
agreeable to the eater's palate. Serve up 
in glasses, or cups. Custards for baking 
are prepared as above, passed through a 
fine sieve; put them into cups; grate a little 
nutmeg o\er each: bake them about fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

CUSTARD, COMMON. Boil a pint 
of milk with a bit of cinnamon and two or 
three laurel leaves; mix with one table- 
spoonful of flour, or potato flour, two and a 
half of cold milk, put it into a lawn sieve, 
and pour the boiling milk upon it ; let it 
run into a basin, mix in by degrees the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs; sweeten, and 
stir it over the fiie for a few minutes to 
thicken. 

CUSTARDS OR CREAMS, to Orna- 
ment. Whisk for one hour the whites of 
two eggs together with two table-spoonfuls 
of raspberry, or red currant sirup or jelly ; 
lay it in any form upon a custard or cream, 
piled up to imitate rock. It may be served 
in a dish with cream round it. 

CUSTARD, DURHAM. To a pint of 
cream add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, 
and about a thiid of a pint of mild strong 
ale ; sweeten, and stir it over the fire till it 
nearly boils, then pour it into a dish, in the 
bottom of which is laid thin toasted bread, 
cut into scjuare bits. 

CUSTARD OF FRESH FRUIT. 
Have ready a tin or copper mould, and line 
't completely with paste, taking care that it 



takes all the f jrm of the mould. Then take 
a sufficient quantity of apricots, peaches, 
plums, or any other fruit you please; and 
liaving taken out die stones, seeds, and stalks, 
mix the fruit up with powder-sugar; put it 
into the crust, and bake it in a hot oven. 
When ready for table, mask it with the 
sirup and kernels, blanched and cut in 
halves. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (1) Boil two 
glasses of white wine, half a pint of water, 
and two table-spoonfuls of brandy; when 
nearly cold, add the grated peel and juice 
of two lemons, with half a pound of pounded 
loaf sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of six 
eggs; stir it over a slow fire till it thickens, 
pour it into a basin, and stir now and then 
till cold; put it into a dish, or cups, with 
sifted loaf sugar over tlie top. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (2) Put the 

juice of four lemons, with three ounces of 
pounded loaf sugar, into a deep dish. Boil 
the grated peel of one lemon and two ounces 
of pounded loaf sugar in a quart of cream, 
and pour it over the juice and sugai. It 
will keep for foui' days. 

CUSTARD, ORANGE. Sweeten the 
strained juice of ten oranges with pounded 
loaf sugar, stir it over the fire till hot, take 
oft" the scuin, and when nearly cold add to it 
the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, and a pint 
of cream ; put it into a saucepan, and stir 
it over a slow fire till it thickens. Serve in 
cups or a dish. 

CUSTARD, RICE. Mix a pint of 
milk, half a pint of cream, one ounce of sjft- 
ed ground rice, five or six bitter almonds, 
blanched and pounded with two tab'e-spoon- 
fuls of rose water; sweeten with loaf sugar, 
and stir it all together till it nearly boils ; 
add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs; 
stir, and let it simmer for about a minute ; 
pour it into a dish, or sei^ve it in cups, with 
sifted loaf sugar over the top. 

CUSTARD, TURKEY. Put a pound 
and a half of good rice into cold water over 
the fire, and when it boils, take it off and 
drain it well ; then put it into a large sauce- 
pan, with twelve glasses of good milk, a 
pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which 
have been rasjjed the peels of four oranges 
or cedrats, and a grain of salt. Put the 
saucepan over a moderate fire to swell the 
rice, taking care that none of the grains 
burst; stir it a little, and when done, add 
to it two pounds of dry currants, the yolks 
of twelve eggs, and some spoonfuls of Chart' 
tilly cream ; after which mix in the twelve 
whites whipped firm. Pre])are tlie crust in 



DAM 



65 



DEV 



the usual way; bake it in a moderate oven 
two hours and a half; when ready for table, 
brown it with a salamander. 

CUSTARD, TURNING OUT. xMix 

widi the well-beaten yolks of four eggs a 
pint of new mdk, half an ounce of isinglass 
dissolved, or enough of calPs-feet stock to 
stiffen it, and two laurel leaves; sweeten 
with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over a 
slow file till it thiclvens; pour it into a 
basin, and stir it till a little cooled, then 
pour it into cups to turn out when quite cold. 
Beat tiie yolks of two eggs with a little 
cream; add it to nearly half a pound of 
brown sugar burnt; strain it through a 
sieve, and when cold pour it round the cus- 
tards. 



D. 



DAxMSONS BOTTLED. Gather them 
on a dry day before they are ripe, \\hendiey 
have just turned their color, t'ut them in 
wide-mouthed bottles, cork them close, and 
let them stand a fortnight ; then carefully 
examine them, and if any of them are 
mouldy or spotted, take them out of the bot- 
tles, and cork the rest close. Put the bot- 
tles in sand, and they will keep good till the 
spring. 

DAMSON DUMPLINGS. Make a 
good hot paste crust, roll it pretty thin, lay it 
in a basin, and put in as many damsons as 
you please. Wet the edge of the paste and 
close it up ; boil it in a cloth for an hour ; 
pour melted butter over it, grate sugar round 
the edge of the dish, and serve. 

DAMSON JELLY. See Jelly. 

DAMSON, OR OTHER PLUM 
CHEESE. Take damsons that have been 
preserved without sugar ; pass them tln-ough 
a sieve, to take out the skins and stones. 
To everv pound of pulp of fruit put half a 
pound of loaf sugai", broke small ; boil them 
together till it becomes quite stiff ; pour it 
into four common-sized dinner ])lates, rubl)ed 
with a little sweet oil ; put it into a warm 
place to diy, and when (juite firm, take it 
fromthe plate, and cut it into any shape jou 
choose. N. B. — Damson cheese is generally 
used in desserts. 

DAMSONS FOR WINTER USE. 

Gather the damsons when just ripe,;iud per- 
fectly sound ; fill a two-gallon brandy keg, 
and pour over two pounds of molasses ; close 
the keg firmly, and turn it every day. 



DEER HORNS. Beat one white, an^J 
six yolks of eggs; mix them with five table 
spoonfuls of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
the same quantity of sweet cream, ten sweet 
almonds, blanched and pounded, the grated 
peel of one lemon, and as much flour as will 
make the whole into a paste sufficiently 
thick to roll out. Then cut it with tins for 
the purpose, into the form of horns, branch- 
es, or any other shape, and throw them into 
boiling lard. 



DEVIL. (1) Score the leg of a roasted tur- 
key, goose, or fowl ; pepper and salt it well, 
broil it, and pour over it the following sauce 
made cjuite h(jt: three table-spoonfuls of gra- 
vy, one of melted butter, and one of lemon 
juice, a large wine-glass of Port wine, of 
mustard. Chili vinegar, Harvey sauce, and 
mushroom catchup, a tea-spoonfiil each ; a lit- 
tle Cayenne and pep})er. The devil may be 
served without a sauce, and be more highly 
seasoned. When this dish is to be served 
cold, the fat being carefully removed from the 
goose, it may be ornamented or covered with 
cold jelly made as follows : — Boil for five 
hours in four quarts of water the bones of the 
goose, with three nicely cleaned calf's feet, 
strain it, and when cold take off all the fat, 
and boil the jelly with some whole pe|)per, 
ginger, and salt; add two ounces of dissolv- 
ed isinglass, the juice of two lemons, and 
the beaten whites of three or four eggs; stir 
it while it is upon the fire, and allow it to 
boil about ten minutes ; then run it dirough 
a jelly-bag, and repeat this till it becomes 
quite clear. 



DEVIL. (2) The gizzard and rump, or 
legs. Sec. of a dressed turkey, capon, or 
goose, or mutton or veal kidney, scored, 
peppered, salted, and broiled, sent up for a 
relish, being made very hot, has obtained 
the name of a " devil." 

DEVONSHIRE .JUNKET. (1) Turn 
some new milk from the cow Vvith a little 
rennet ; sweeten some thick cream, add a 
little pounded cinnamon, maks it scalding 
hot, and when cold pour it over the curd, 
and put a little wine and sugar into the bot- 
tom of the dish. 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. (2) Turn 
some new milk, as for cheese cakes, in a 
wide shallow dish ; when cold, jiour over the 
top a phit of rich cream mixed with pounded 
loaf sugar, six dessert spoontids of brandy, 
and some grated nutmeg. 

DEVONSHIRE WHITE POT. Beat 
up a pint of cream with four eggs, a little 
salt, some sliced nutmeg, and a good deal oi 



6* 



DUG 



66 



DUG 



nigar; then slice very thin, almost the whole 
of the cnini of a penny loaf ; put it into a 
dish ; pour the eggs and cream to it ; a 
handful of Smyrna raisins boiled, and a 
little sweet butter : bake it. 

DIGESTER. An iron boiler, with a 
top to screw on, to prevent the steam from 
escaping. 

DRIPPINGS, TO CLARIFY. Put 

your drij)ping into a clean saucepan over a 
stove or slow fiie ; when it is just going to 
boil, skim it well, let it boil, and then let it 
stand till it is a little cooled; then pour it 
through a sieve into a pan. Obs. — Well- 
cleansed drippings, and the fat skimmings 
of the broth-pot, when fresh and sweet, will 
baste everything as well as butter except 
game and poultry, and should supply the 
place of butter for common fries, &c.; for 
which they are equal to lard, especially if 
you repeat the clarifying twice over. N. B. 
— If you keep A in a cool place, you may 
preserve it a fortnight in summer, and long- 
er in winter. When you have done frying, 
let the dripping stand a few minutes to set- 
tle, and then pour it dnough a sieve into a 
clean basin or stone pan, and it will do a 
second and a third time as well as it did 
the fiist ; only the fat you have fried fish in 
must not be used for any oUier purpose. 

DRINK, COOLING. A palatable and 
cooling drink may be made by pouring hot 
water over slices of lemon ; when cold, to 
be strained and sweetened. 

DUCK. Mind your duck is well clean- 
ed, and wiped out with a clean cloth: for the 
stuffing, take an ounce of onion and half an 
ounce of green sage ; chop them very fine, 
and mix them with two ounces, i. e. about 
a breakfast-cupful, of bread crumbs, a bit 
of butter about as big as a walnut, a very 
little black pepper and salt, and the yolk of 
an egg to bind it ; mix these thoroughly to- 
gether, and put into the duck. From half 
to three-quarters of an hour will be enough 
to roast it, according to the size: contrive 
to have the feet delicately crisp, as some 
people are very fond of them ; to do this 
nicely you must have a sharp fire. 

DUCK, TO BOIL. Make a paste, al- 
. owing half a pound of butter to a pound of 
flour. Truss a duck as for boiling ; put in- 
to the inside a little pepper and salt, one or 
two sage leaves, and a little onion finely 
minced ; enclose the duck in the paste, with 
a little jellied gravy. Boil it in a cloth, and 
serve it with btown gravy poured round it. 

DUCKS, TO CHOOSE. Their feet 



should be supple, and they should be hard 
and thick on the breast and belly. The feet 
of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to a 
dusky yellow. The feet of a wild duck are 
reddish, and smaller than the tame ; they 
should be picked dry. Ducklings should be 
scalded. 



DUCK, DRESSED IN DIFFERENT 
WAYS. Take either a large duck, or two 
ducklings, which truss like a fowl for boil- 
ing ; put it into a pot (just about large 
enough to hold the duck) with thin slices of 
bacon, a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, 
salt, onions, carrots, a head of celery sliced, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a 
bay-leaf; when done, take out the duck, 
wipe the fat off very clean, and serve with 
what sauce or ragout you choose, such as 
sweetbreads, green-peas, tuinips, chestnuts, 
olives, cucumbers, or any sort of stewed 
greens, according to the season. 

DUCKS, GEESE, DRESSED, OR 

HASHKD. Cut an onion into small dice; 
put it into a stewpan with a bit of butter; 
fry it, but do not let it get any color; put 
as much boiling water into the stewpan as 
will make sauce for the hash; thicken it 
with a little flour; cut up the duck, and put 
it into the sauce to warm; do not let it 
boil; season it with pepper and salt, and 
catchup. Divide the duck into joints; lay 
it by ready ; put the trimmings and stuffing 
into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of 
broth or water; let it boil half an hour, and 
then rub it through a sieve ; put half an 
ounce of butter into a stewpan ; as it melts, 
mix a table-spoonful of flour with it; stir it 
over the fire a few minutes, then mix the 
gravy with it by degrees ; as soon as it boils, 
take off the scum, and strain through a 
sieve into a stewpan ; put in the duck, and 
let it stew very gently for ten or fifteen min- 
utes, if the duck is rather under-roasted: if 
there is any fat, skim it off: line the dish 
you serve it up in with sippets of bread 
either fried or toasted. 

DUCK OR GOOSE FORCED. Cut 

the goose open at the back, and carefully 
take out the bones, excepting those of the 
legs and wings. Take out all the meat from 
the body, leaving the d\.in perfectly whole. 
With the meat pound three-quarters of a 
pound of lean and tender beef, add three 
handfuls of grated bread, four well-beaten 
eggs, and half a pint of rich sweet cream ; 
season with pepper, mace, and salt ; mix 
it all well together ; let it stand for half an 
hour, and then put it into the goose, which 
sew up, and make it of as natural a form as 
possible ; but take care that it be not too 
much stuffed. Boil it for half an hour in 



DUG 



67 



DUM 



Borae good stock, and then put it into a flat 
tin baking-pan, with some fresh butter over 
and under it. Bake it in an oven anotlier 
half hour, and serve it with the following 
sauce: Brown a table-spoonful of butter 
widi flour, add about a pint of the stock 
in which the goose has been boiled, three 
gi'ated onions, two table-spoonfuls of capers 
cut fine, a little lemon pickle, and a few 
small pickled onions; boil it about a quar- 
ter of an hour, and just befoie pouring it 
over the goose, stir in gradually half a pint 
of rich cream, 

DUCK, HASHED, Cut a duck in 
pieces, and flour it ; put in a stewpan some 
gravy, a little Port wine, shallots chopped 
fine, salt, pepper, and a bit of lemon ; boil 
this ; then put in the duck, toss it up, take 
out the lemon, and serve witli toasted sippets. 

DUCKS ROASTED. Season them 
with sage and onion shred, pepper and salt; 
half an hour Avill roast them. Gra\y-sauce 
or onion sauce. Always stew the sage and 
onion in a little water, as it prevents its 
eating strong, and takea ofl' the rawness of 
them. 

DUCK, TO STEW. (1) Cut one or two 
ducks into quarters; fry them a ligiit brown 
^0 butter; put them into a saucepan, with 
{ pint of gravy, a tea-cupful of Port wine, 
K)ur onions whole, jjepper and some salt, a 
<5unch of parsley, two sage leaves, a sprig 
of winter savorj', and sweet marjoram. 
Cover the pan closely, and stew them till ten- 
der; take out the herbs and pepper; skim it; 
if the sauce be not sufliciently thick, mix with 
two table-spoonfuls of it a little flour, and 
stir it into the saucepan ; bull it up, and 
garnish the dish with the four onions. 

DUCK, TO STEW. (2) Put into a duck 
some i^epper, salt, a minced onion, and one 
leaf of sage also minced; half rojist it; 
brown with two ounces of butter, a taVjle- 
spoonful of flour ; add as much weak stock 
or water as will half co^er the duck, and 
some pepper and salt; put in the duck, and 
a quart of green peas; let it slew for half 
an hour, stirring it now and then. For a 
variety, a dozen of middling-sized onions 
may be substituted for the peas, and slew- 
ed the same length of time. Cold roasted 
duck may be dressed exactly in the same 
manner; and to hash it, cut it into joints, 
and heat it thoroughly in gravy, adding a 
little soy, and a glass of Port wine. 

DUCK, WILD. These birds should be 
&t, the claws small, reddish and supple; if 
•ot fiesh, on opening the beak they will 



smell disagreeable ; the breast and rump 
should he firm and hea\'y ; the flesh of the 
hen-bird is the most delicate, though the 
cock generally fetches the highest price. 
Pick them dry, cut the wings ve»"y close to 
the body, take off the necks, draw and singe 
them, trass up the legs and skewer them ; 
and having rubbed them with their livers, 
spit, and roast them ; take them up with 
the gravy in, and serve with lemons. 

DUCK, WILD, SALMIS OF. Cut 

oft" the test parts of a couple of roasted wild 
ducks, and put the rest of the meat into a 
mortar, with six shallots, a little parsley, 
some pepper, and a bay-leaf, pound all these 
ingredients together well, and then put them 
into a saucepan with four ladlesflil of stock, 
half a glass of white wine, the same of 
broth, and a little grated nutmeg ; reduce 
these to half, strain them, and having laid 
the pieces on a dish, cover them with tlie 
abo\e : keep the whole hot, not boiling, un- 
til wanted for table. 

DUMPLINGS, HARD. Mix as for a 

paste, some flour with small beer or* water, 
and a little salt; roll tliem in balls rather 
larger than an egg; when the water boils 
put them in: half an hour will boil them; 
currants may be added ; they are good boil- 
ed with beef. They are eaten either witli 
cold or melted butter. 

DUMPLINGS, HALF-HOUR. Mmce 
finely half a pound of suet, mix it with the 
same proportion of grated bread, and a ta- 
ble-spoonfid of flour, a cjuaiter of a pound 
of currants, some sugar, a little giated lem- 
on-peel, nutmeg, and three well-beaten eggs; 
roll the mixture into round balls, tie them 
in bits of linen, and boil them for half an 
hour. Serve with melted butter and sugar 
poured over diezn- 

DUMPLINGS, NORFOLK. With a 
pint of milk, two eggs, a little salt, and 
some flour, make a batter; drop this in 
small quantities into a pot of boiling wate ; 
they will be boiled in three minutes; throw 
them into a sieve or cullender to drain. 

DUMPLING PASTE. Make a paste 
with flour, milk, salt and yeast; let it stand 
sometime in a warm place to ferment; then 
cut the paste into pieces of what size you 
please, and boil them a good while; let 
them cool; then cut each into two, and 
soak them in milk sngiir, and lemon-peel, 
about an hour, and drain and flour them fit 
for frying; or, you may dip them in oil or 
melted butter to broil, basting with tlie 
same as they were dipped in. 



EEL 



68 



EEL 



DUTCH CREAM CHEESE. Beat 
the yolks of eight, and the whites of three 
eggs, and mix them with a pint of Imtter 
milk; add this to three quarts of boiling 
milk just from the cow; let it boil up once, 
take it off the fire, cover it, and let it stand 
a little that tlie curd may form ; then put it 
into a small hair sieve, and press it with a 
weight for twenty-four houis, when it may 
be tuined out. It is eaten with cream and 



sugar. 



DUTCH FLUMMERY. (1) Boil, 
with a pint of white wine, some sugar, the 
juice of two, and the peel of one lemon, a 
stick of cinnamon, and half an ounce of dis- 
solved isinglass; strain, and mix it with the 
well-beaten yolks of seven eggs, stir it over 
the fire till it simmer, but do not allow it to 
boil; stir it till quite cold, and put it into a 
shape. 

DUTCH FLUMMERY. (2) Boil for 
ten minutes, in half a pint of white wine, and 
the same proportion of water, the juice ol 
tliree, and the peel of two lemons, rather 
more than a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 
and an ounce of isinglass dissolved; strain, 
and mix it gradually with the beaten yolks 
of five eggs ; put it again over the fire, and 
stir it for five minutes; stir it till cold, and 
put it into a shape. 



E. 



ECHAUDE'S. Lay a quartern of flour 
on a pasteboaid or slab, make a hole in the 
centre, in which put an ounce of salt, and a 
little water to dissolve it, a pound of butter, 
twenty eggs; mix the two latter well to- 
gedier, tlien the flour; work it thoiouglily 
with your hands, if it be very firm add more 
eggs. When peifectly smooth, sprinkle a 
cloth with flour, lay the paste in it, and set 
it in a cool place for ten or twelve hours. 
The next day heat about tlnee ciuarts of 
W'ater, and having cut your ]:;aste into small 
pieces, about an inch square, and having 
floured each, put them into hot but not boil- 
ing water, shake the kettle the instant after 
you have thrown them in, and as they rise, 
if they are firm to the touch, they are suf- 
ficiently done, and must be taken out of the 
saucepan, and thrown into cold water; let 
tliem remain two or three hours ; then drain, 
and leave them again for three hours or 
more, and then bake them for about twenty 
minutes. 

EELS AND SOLES, stewed Wig- 
SY's avay. Take two pounds of fine sil- 



ver eels : the best are those that are rather 
moie than a half-crown piece in circumfer- 
ence, quite^fresh, full of life, and " as brisk 
as an eel:" wash them in several different 
waters, and divide them into pieces about 
four inches long. Some cooks, dredge tliem 
with a little flour, wipe them dry, and then 
egg and crumb them, and fry them in drip- 
pi,ngs till they are brown, and lay them to 
di-y on a hair sieve. Have ready a quart 
of good beef gravy ; it must be cold when 
you put the eels into it: set them on a slow 
fire to simmer very gently for about a (]uar- 
ter of an hour, according to the size of the 
eels; watch them, that they are not done 
too much ; take them carefiilly out of the 
stewpan av ith a fish-slice, so as not to tear 
their coats, and lay them on a dish about 
two inches deep. 

EELS BAKED. Skin and clean some 
eels ; take a shallow pan, and cut the eels in 
lengths according to the depth of the ]r<m ; 
put them in, letting them stand upright in 
it ; the pan should be filled ; put in a little 
water, some salt, pepper, shallots cut small, 
some sweet herbs, and a little parsley cut 
small ; set tliem in the oven to bake ; when 
they aie done take the licjuor that comes 
from them, put it into a saucepan, and thick- 
en it w idi a piece of butter rolled in flour, 
and a little white wine. 

EELS BOILED. Small ones are pre- 
ferable. Curl and put them on in boiling 
salt-and-water, with a little vinegar. Gar- 
nish with parsley. Sauce; — parsley and 
butter. 

EELS COLLARED. Take an eel, and 
cut it (ipen ; take out the bones ; cut off' the 
head and tail ; lay the eel flat, and shred 
sage as fine as possible; mix with black 
pepper pounded, nutmeg giated, and salt; 
lay it all over the eel ; roll it up hard in a 
cloth; tie it up tight at each end; then set 
over the fire some water, with j)epper and 
salt, {ne or six cloves, thiee or four blades 
of mace, a bav-leaf or two ; boil these with 
the l)ones, head, and tail, well; then put in 
the eel, and boil it till it is tender ; then take 
it out, and boil the licjuor, and when it is 
cold, put it to the eel ; do not take off" the 
cloth till you use them. 

EELS FRIED. Cut them into pieces 
of three or four inches long, and then score 
across in two or three places ; season them 
with pepper and salt,and dust Uiem with flour, 
or dip them into an egg beat up, and sprinkle 
them with finely-grated bread cruuibs; fry 
them in fresh lard or dripping. Let them 
drain and dry upon the back of a sieve be- 
fore the file. Garnish with paisley. Sauce ; 



EEL 



69 



EGG 



melted butter, and lemon pickle. If small, 
they may be curled and fried whole. 

EEL PIE. Take eels about half a pound 
each ; cut diem into pieces thi-ee inches long, 
season them with pepper and salt, and fill 
your dish. Add a gill of ^vater or veal 
broth, cover it with paste, rub it over with a 
paste-brush dipped in yolk of egg, ornament 
it with some of the same paste, bake it an 
hour; and when done, make a hole in the 
centre, and pour in the following sauce 
through a funnel: the trimmings boiled in 
half a pint of veal stock, seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, a ta!:)le-spoonful of lemon-juice, 
and thickened with flour and water, strained 
tlirouffh a fine sieve: add it boiiins; hot. 

EELS POTTED. Bone them; season 
them well upon both sides with pepper, salt, 
a little inace, and Jamaica pepper ; let them 
lie for six hours, then cut tiiem into small 
pieces, and pack them close into a dish; 
cover them with a coarse paste and bake 
them. When quite cold, take off the paste, 
and pour over diem clarified butter. 

EEL SOUP. See Soups. 

Eels stewed, (l) Cut the eels 
into [lieces about four inches long ; take two 
onions, two shallots, a bunch of parsley, 
thyme, two bay leaves, a little mace, black 
and Jamaica pepper, a pint of good gravy, 
the same of Port wine, and the same of vin- 
egar, six anchovies bruised; let all boil to- 
gether for ten minutes; take out the eels; 
boil the sauce till reduced to a quart; strain 
and thicken it with a table-spoonful of tluur, 
mixed smooth in a little cold water. Put 
in the eels, and boil them till they are ten- 
der. Eels may also be roasted with a com- 
mon stuffing. 

EELS STEWED. (2) Cut the eels 
into pieces, season well two pounds and a 
half with salt and black pepper, put an ounce 
of butter into a stewpan with a large handful 
of sorrel, three or four sage leaves, half an 
onion cut small, a little grated lemon-peel, 
and one anchovy chopped ; put in the eels 
and pour over half a pint of water, stew 
them gently for half an hour, shaking them 
occasionally ; liefore serving, add a little 
grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. 

EELS SPITCHCOCKED. This the 
French cooks call the English way of dress- 
ing eels. Take two middling-sized silver 
eels, scour them with salt, slit them on the 
belly side, and take out the bones imd wash 
and wipe them nicely ; then cut them into 
pieces about three inches long, and wipe 
them quite dryj put two ounces of butter 



into a stewpan with a little minced parsley 
thyme, sage, pepper, and salt, and a veiy 
little chopped eschalot ; set the stewpan 
over the fire ; when the butter is melted, 
stir the ingredients together, and take it off 
the fire, mix the yolks of two eggs with them, 
and dip the eel in, a piece at a time, and 
then roll them in bread-crumbs, making as 
much stick to them as you can ; then rub 
the sridiron with a bit of suet, set it high 
o\'er a very clear fire, and broil your eels of 
a fine crisp brown. Dish them with crisp 
parsley, and send up with plain butter in a 
boat, and anchovy and butter. 

EGGS. (1) Eggs may be preserved for 
twelve months, in a sweet and palatable state 
for eating in the shell, or using for salads, by 
boiling them for one minute; and when 
wanted for use let them be boiled in the 
usual manner: the white may be a little 
tougher than a new-laid egg, but die yolk 
will show no difference. 

EGGS. (2) Pour a gallon of water 
over a pound of unslacked lime, stir it well; 
the following day, pour off the clear water 
into a jar, and put in the eggs as they are 
laid. In diis manner they will continue 
perfectly good for six montlis or more. 

There are so many different ways of 
dressing eggs, that the recipes would almost 
fill a volume ; we have, therefore, given such 
as we esteem the best, and the most adapted 
to the English taste. 

EGGS AND BACON RAGOUT. 

Boil half a dozen eggs for ten minutes ; 
throw them into cold water; peel them and 
cut them into halves; j^ound the yolks in a 
maible mortar, with about an equal quantity 
of the white meat of dressed fowl, or veal, a 
little chopped parsley, an anchovy, an escha- 
lot, a quarter of an ounce of butter, a table- 
sixionful of mushroom catchup, a little Cay- 
enne, some bread-crumbs, and a very little 
beaten mace, or allspice ; incorporate them 
well together, and fill the halves of the 
whites with this mixture; do them over 
with the yolk of an egg, and brown them in 
a Dutch o\'en, and serve them on relishing 
rashers of bacon or ham. 

EG GS AN D BREAD. Put half a hand- 
ful of bread crumbs into a saucepan, with a 
small quantity of cream, salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg, and let it stand till the bread has 
imbibed all the cream; then break ten egge 
into it, and having beaten them up together, 
fry it like an omelet. 

EGGS AND CREAM. Boil lialf a pint 
of cream till reduced to half the quantity; 
tlien add eight eggs, season them witli sail 



EGG 



70 



EGG 



and pepper, boil them togetlier, till tlie e^^s j 
are partly liard ; pass a siilamaiider o\ er tlie 
top, and serve. 

EGGS A LA TRIPE. Cut into thick 
round slices a dozen of hard-l)oiled eggs, 
and pnt diein into the following sauce: cut 
three large white onions into dice, fry thein 
white in hutter, and when nearly done, dust 
tlieni with flour, and moisten them with some 
milk and a few spoonfuls of cream; keep 
stirring with a wooden spoon, to prevent 
their burning. When the sauce is done, 
grate in a little nutmeg, season with a little 
salt and pepi)er, and put in the eggs. 

EGG BALLS. Boil four eggs for ten 
minutes, and put them into cold w ater ; when 
they are quite cold, put the yolks into a 
mortar with the yolk of a raw egg, a tea- 
spoonful of flom', same of chopped parsley, 
as much salt as will lie on a sliilling, and a 
little Ijlack pepper, or Cayenne; rub them 
well together, roll them into small balls (as 
they swell in boiling) ; boil them a couple 
of minutes. 

EGGS BOILED, to eat in the 
SHELL, OR FOR SALADS. The fresher 
laid die better: put them into boiling water; 
if you like the white just set, ai)out two 
minutes boiling is enough; anew-laid egg 
will take a little more; if you wish tlie yolk 
to be set, it will take three, and to boil it 
hard f^' a salad, ten minutes. A new-laid 
egg will re(|uire boiling longer than a stale 
one, by half a minute. 

EGGS BOURGEOISE. Spread some 
b'ltter over the bottom of a dish, cover it 
entirely with thin slices of crumb of bread, 
on that lay thin slices of cheese, then eight 
or ten eggs, season them with salt, pep.per 
and nutmeg, set the dish over a stove to cook 
gently till done. 

EGGS, BUTTERED. Beat and strain 
ten or twelve eggs ; put a piece of butter into 
a saucepan and keep turning it one way 
till melted ; put in the beaten eggfi, and stir 
them round with a silver spoon till they be- 
come quite thick. Serve them in a dish 
upon buttered toast. They may be eaten 
with fish, fowl, or sausages. 

EGGS EN SURPRISE. Take a dozen 
eggs, and make a small hole at each end of 
every egg, through which pass a straw and 
break the yolk ; then blov,' out the yolk care- 
fully. Wash the shells, and having drained, 
dry them in the open air; mix the yolk of 
an ess with a little flour to close one of the 
holes of the shells, and when dry, fill half the 
number by means of a small funnel, witli 



chocolate cream, and the remaining six with 
cofiee or orange-cream ; close the other end 
of your eggs, and put them into a saucepan 
of hot water; set them on the fire, taking 
care they <lo ncjt boil ; w hen done, remove 
the cement from the ends; dry, and serve 
them on a folded napkin. 

EGGS, FRIED. Eggs boiled hard, cut 
into slices, and fried, may be served as a 
second coiuse dish, to eat with I'oasted 
chickens. 

EGGS FRIED WITH BACON. " Lay 

some slices of fine streaked bacon (not more 
than a (juarter of an inch thick) in a (;lean 
dish, and toast them beiore the fire in a 
clieese-toaster, turning diem when the ujiper 
side is browned ; first ask those who are to 
eat the bacon, if they wish it much or little 
done, i. e. curled and crisped, or mellow 
and soft: if the latter, parboil it first. Well- 
cleansed dripping, or lard, or fiesh butter, 
are the best fats for frying eggs Be sure 
the frying-pan is quite clean ; w hen the fat 
is hot, break two or three eggs into it ; do 
not turn them, but, while they are fiying, 
keep jiourinff some of the fat over them with 
a spoon ; when tlie yolk just begins to look 
white, which it will in about a couple of 
minutes, they are done enough ; the white 
must not lose its transparency, but the yolk 
be seen blushing through it: if they are 
done nicely, they will look as white and 
delicate as if they had been poached; take 
diem up with a tin slice, drain the fiit from 
them, trim them neatly, and send them up 
with the bacon round them. 

EGGS FRIED, AND MINCED HAiM 

OR BACON. Choose some fine salt ])ork, 
strealced with a good deal of lean ; cut this 
into very Uiin slices, and afterward into 
small square pieces; throw them into a 
stewpan, and set it over a gentle fire, that 
they may lose some of their fat. When as 
much as will freely come is thus melted fioin 
them, lay diem on a warm dish. Put inlo 
a stewpan a ladle-full of melted bacon or 
lard ; set it on a stove ; jnit in about a dozen 
of the small pieces of bacon, then stoop the 
stewpan and break in an egg. Manage this 
carefiilly, and the egg will presently be done: 
it will Ije very round, and the little dice of 
bacon will stick to it all o\ev, so that it will 
make a \ei'y pretty appearance. Take care 
the yolks do not harden ; when the egg is 
thus done, lay it carefully in a warm dish, 
and do the others. 

EGG FRITTERS. Pound a dozen 
hard boiled eggs with a little cream, and a 
quarter of a pound of beef marrow ; then 
pound half a dozen macaroons, some bitter 



EGG 



71 



ELD 



aimonds, a little sugar, and lemon-peel; 
mix thesie with the pounded eggs, and ibrni 
them into fritters, dip them into a batter 
made with rtour, butter, salt, and lemon- 
peel ; fry them ia very hot lard, spriakle su- 
gar o\'er, and serve. 

EGGS FROTHED. Beat up the yolks 
of eight eggs and the whites of four (set 
aside the remaining whites) with a spoonful 
of water, some salt, sugar, and the juice of a 
lemon ; fry this, ajid then put it on a dish ; 
whip the four whites (which were set aside) 
to a fioth with sugai", and place it over the 
fried egos; bake it in a Dutch oven, or with 
a high cover fitted for the purpose. 

EGGS, GLASS. Butter a dish, and 
break into it a piece of butter nearly as large 
as an egg: add a tea-cupful of cream, and 
drop in fmr or five eggs; put upon each a 
little pepper and salt, set the dish upon a 
stove, and serve it when the eggs are firm', 
which may be in tea or fifteen minutes. 

EGG MARMALADE. (1) Bl:uich and 
pound with a little rose water, two ounces of 
sweet almonds, the same of oraiige marmalade, 
and four of citron ; add two spoonfuls of bran- 
dy , and when quite smooth, the beaten yolks of 
six and the whites of two eggs, with a little 
pounded loaf sugar; put it into a saucepan, 
and stir it till it becomes thick, then pour it 
into a shape. When quite cold, serve it, 
turned out and garnished with flowers. 

EGG MARMALADE. (2) Clarifyapaund 
of sugar, keeping it radier thick ; when cool, 
add to it the yolks of twenty eggs, which 
should be perfectly fiee from the whites, and 
well stirred, but not beaten; set these on 
the fire, stirring continually until it boils, and 
then continue to stir until sufficiently thick; 
if any scum should arise, it need not be taken 
off, as the boiling and stirring will effectually 
remove it. Oiange-flower water may be 
added, if approved. 

EGGS, TO POACH. The cook who 
wishes to display her skill in poaching, 
must endeavour to procure eggs that have 
been laid a couple of days — those that are 
quite new-laid are so milky that, take all 
the care j^ou can, your cooking of them will 
seldoin procure you the praise of being a 
prime poacher; you must have fresh eggs, 
or it is equally impossible. The beauty of 
a poached egg is for the yolk to be seen 
blushing through the white, which should 
only be just sufficiently hiirdened, to form a 
transparent veil for the egg. Have some 
boiling water in a tea-kettle; pass as much 
of it through a clean cloth as will half fill a 
stewpan; break the egg into a cup, and 



when the water boils, remove die steu-pan 
Ironi die stove, and gently slip die egg into 
it; it must stand till the white is set; then 
put it over a very moderate fire, and as soon 
as the water boils, the egg is ready; take it 
up widi a slice, and neatly round off the 
ragged edges of the wnite; send tliem up on 
bread toasted on one side only, with or with- 
out butter; or without a toast, garnished 
widi streaked bacon nicely fried, or slices 
of broiled beef or mutton, anchovies, pork 
sausages, or spuiage. The bread should be 
a little ku-ger than the egg, and about a 
quarter of an inch thick; only just give it a 
yellow color: if you toast it brown, it will 
get a bitter flavour ; or moisten it by pour- 
ing a little hot water upon it: some sprinkle 
it with a few drops of vinegar, or of essence 
of ancliovy. 

EGGS POACHED, with Sauce of 
MINCED Ha?.i. Poach the eggs as before 
dircH:ted, and take two or three slices of 
boiled ham; mince it fine with a gheikin, a 
morsel of onion, a little parsley, and pepper 
and salt ; stew all together a (juaiter of ar) 
hour • serve up your sauce about half boiling ; 
put tlie eggs in a disii, s(]ueeze over the juice 
of half a Seville orange, or lemon, and poui 
the sauce over them. 

EGG PUNCH. Take a punch-glass, 
and put into it a wiue-gla-ss of sirup of punch 
(see that article), and the yolk of an egg; 
beat them together with a spoon, and then 
fill up the glass with boiling water, stirring 
a little as you pour it in. 

EGG TOAST. Put a glass of thick 
cream, some sugar, two or tluee macaroons 
pounded, with a few almonds, a little grated 
lemon, give them a boil; then add the yolks 
of eight and whites of three eggs, beat the 
whole up over a slow fii'e; and lay on very 
thin slices of fried bread; sprinkle sugar 
over, and serve.' 

EGG WI?(E. Beat up an egg, mix with 
it a spoonful of cold water; set on tlie fire a 
glass of Avhite wine, half a glass of water, 
sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils, pour a 
little of it to the egg by degrees, till the 
whole is in, stiiring it weU ; dien return the 
whole into the saucepan, set It over a gentle 
fire, stir it one way for a minute, not longer, 
for if it boil, or the egg is stale, it will cui'dle ; 
serve with toast. You may make it as above, 
without warminjr the e<zs, and it will be 
lighter on the stomach, though not so agree- 
able to tlie palate. 

ELDER FLOWER FRPrTERS. 

They are made whilst the elder flowers aie 
in bloom; and they should marinate thre@ 



END 



72 



ESP 



or four hours in brandy, sugar, orange-flower 
water, and lemon-peel; when diained, dip 
them in a good thick batter to fry, and serve 
with rasped sugar, as in general. 

ELDER ROB. Gather tlie elderbeiries 
when quite ripe, put them into a stone jar, 
tie a bladder or paper over tlie top, and 
place the jar in a pan of water ; let it boil 
till the berries are very soft; stiain tliem 
through a coarse cloth, and to every pint of 
juice allow half a pound of good brown su- 
gar; put it into a preservmg-pan, stu" it, and 
when it boils, take off the scum, and let it 
boil for one hour. 

ELDER VINEGAR. Choose the elder- 
flowers when just blown, take away all the 
stalks, and when the flowers are about 
half dry, put them into a jar, and fill the jai" 
with vinegar, close it tight, and let it stand 
in the sun for twenty days ; then draw it off, 
press tlie flowers, and having filtered the 
whole, bottle it; take care to keep tlie bot- 
tles closely corked. 

ELDERBERRIES. Can be made to 
produce excellent wine, allowing to a ten- 
gallon cask forty pounds of fruit, forty pounds 
of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of tartar. 
When elderbeny wine is desired for a warm 
cordial, it is made in the foHowing manner : 
— Twenty-five pounds of fruit are to be boil- 
ed for an hour, in eleven gallons of water, 
sukI along willi it, tied in a piece of linen, 
one ounce of allspice, and two of ginger; 
forty pounds of sugar being put into a tub, 
the boiling li(]uor is strained over it, pressing 
the fruit quite dry ; a quarter of a pound of 
crude tartar, or ci-eam of tartar, is then 
added to the liquid. When it has stood two 
days in tlie tub, it may be remo\ed to the 
cask, treated, as for sweet wine, in the usual 
manner, and bottled in March following. 
When to be drank, a portion of it is heated 
with some sugar, two or tluee cluves, and a 
little nutmeg. 

EMPOTAGE. Put into a large sauce- 
pan, three or four pounds of beef-steaks, a 
knuckle of veal, and foiu- old hens ; moisten 
this quantity of meat with two ladlesful of 
broth; set it on a stove, and let it boil till 
properly reduced, taking care that none of 
the^meat burns, which would make the 
empotage of too high a color; fill up your 
saucepan with broth, adding carrots, turnips, 
and onions; let all tliese ingredients stand 
over the fire for tliree hours and a half; then 
strain the whole tlirough a silk sieve, that 
it may be perfectly clear. 

ENDIVE IN VELOUTE. Take off 
all the outer leaves of your endive, and having 



opened the hearts, put them into cold wafef 
to wash them. In the meanwhile heat a 
kettle of water, put in it a handful of salt, 
then throw in the endive ; keep it constantly 
under the water, to prevent their turning 
l)!ack. As soon as the endive is tender, 
drain, and tiien put it into cold water, and 
when quite cold, drain it again ; press the 
water out with your hands ; then chop it 
small, and put it into a saucepan, with some 
butter, salt, and pepper, stir it well, and 
then add five spoonfuls of veloute, the same 
of consomme; reduce it till pretty thick, and 
then put it in a dish, with filed bread round 
it. Endive may also be diessed with cream, 
in which case, put two spoonfuls of flour into 
it, and moisten it with cream. 

ENDFVTE IN GRAVY OF VEAL. 

Wash and clean thoroughly ten or twelve 
heads of fijie endive, take off the outer leaves, 
and blanch the heads in hot water ; throw 
them into cold water, and then squeeze iliem 
as dry as possible. Stew them in as much 
gravy as will cover them ; add a tea-spoon- 
ful of pounded sugar, and a little salt. When 
perfectly tender, put in a little veloute sauce, 
and serve quite hot. 

ENTREE, There is no word precisely 
equivalent to this in English. Any dish of 
butcher's meat, fowl, game, or fish, dressed 
for theirs/ course, is called an entree. 

ENTREMET. There is no word equiv- 
alent to this in English. All dishes of veg- 
etables, jellies, pastries, salad, prawns, lob- 
sters, and, in general, everything that appears 
in the second course, except tlie roast, is 
called an entremet. 

ESCHALOT WINE. Peel, mince, and 
poiuid in a mortar, three ounces of eschalots, 
and infuse them in a pint of Sherry for ten 
days ; then pour oft" the clear liquor on tliree 
ounces more eschalots, and let the wine 
stand on them ten days longer. This is 
rather the most expensive, but infinitely 
the most elegant preparation of eschalot. 
and imparts die onion flavour to soups and 
sauces, for chops, steaks, or broiled nieaf^n, 
hashes, &c. more agreeably than any : 
it does not leave any unpleasant taste in 
the mouth, or to the breath ; nor repeat, 
as almost all other preparations of garlic, 
onion, &c. do. N. B. — An ounce of scraped 
horseradish may be added to die above, and 
a little thin-cut lemon-peel. 

ESPAGNOLE. Take an old fowl, and 
about fourteen pounds of leg or shoulder of 
veal ; chop the latter into pieces, and put it, 
with very little water, into a large saucepan, 
widi two carrots, diree onions, a poimd of 



FI L 






FIS 



ham, a few peppercorns, a small quantity of 
spice, and a clove of garlic; let this ftew 
over a moderate fu'e, shaking it freqneutU^ 
till it becomes of a brown color, when yon 
may add to it a sutiicleiit quantity of iiot 
water, to come about four inches above the 
meat. Set it by tlie side of the stove to boil 
gently, skimming when necessary, till the 
meat comes from the bones; then strain it 
through a silk sieve, and set it by for use. 

ESSENCE. Take half a bottle of white 
wine, half a glass of the best vinegar, the 
juice of two lemons, three ouuoes of salt, 
half an ounce of whole pepper, a- little nut- 
meg and mace, four cloves, four bay-leaves, 
tlivine, parsley, one small clove of garlic, ten 
shallots, pounded, and an ounce of dry m.ush- 
room,-?; put all these ingredients into an 
earthen pan, over a brisk fire; when near 
boiling, lessen the fire, and let it stand 
on hot ashes for six or seven hours; then 
strain It through a coarse sieve, and after- 
wards filter it. Keep it in closely corked 
bottles: a small quantity is sufficient to fla- 
vour a dish^ 



F. 



FANCHONETTES. Put into a sauce- 
pan, two ounces of flour, three of sugar, one 
of butter, two of pounded almonds, some 
gieen lemon-peel, two yolks, and one whole 
eg'^, a little salt, and half a pint of milk; 
put these ingredients on die fire, and let them 
set like a cream; line some tartlet-tias, or 
moulds, with puff paste, fill them with the 
preparation; place the moulds on a tin, and 
bake the fanchonettes in a brisk oven ; when 
about three parts done, take them out, put 
frotlied eggs on, sprinkle sugar over, and re- 
place them in the oveii to finish tlie bal'ting. 

FAWN, Like a sucking pig, should be 
dressed almost as soon as killed. When 
very young, it is trussed, stuffed, and spit- 
ted the same way as a hare: but they are 
better eatlnar when of the size of a house 
iamb, and are then roasted in quarters; the 
hind-quarter is most esteemed. 

They must lie put down to a very quick 
fire, and either basted all the time they are 
roasting, or be covered with sheets of fat 
bacon ; when done, baste it with butter, and 
dredge It with a little salt and fioui', till 
you make a rice froth on it, 

N. B, — We advise our friends to half 
roast a fawn as soon as diey receive it, and 
then make a hash of it. 

Send up venison sauce with it. 



FILBERT ROLLS. 
7 



Having 



peeled 



h;ilf a pound of filljerts, put them into a 
presej'v I ng pan over a moderate fire, and 
stir them consUmtly with a spatula mitil 
they become equally colored of a light yel- 
low: then set them to cool. When cold, 
pound them with a little white of egg to a 
piistp; then mix theuT with half a pound of 
flour, the same of powder sugar, and the 
yolks of four or five eggs, and then finish 
the operation as directed for almond rolls. 
Froth, and tiace on the surface an ear of 
wheat, or anything else, with the point of a 
knife: take care to dry them well in die 
baking, that they may l)e crisp. Coarse 
powder sugar may also be sti^ewed ovei', be- 
fore they are put in the oven. 

FISH. JVe insert all the best remarks 

that various culinary authors have made 

on r'isH. 

There is a eeneral rule in choosing 

"... ® 

most kinds of fish ; if dieir gills are red, 

their eyes plump, and the whole fish stiff', 
they are good ; if, on the contrary, the gills 
are pale, the eyes sunk, and the fish flabby, 
iiiey are stale. The greatest ciire should 
be taken that the fish is properly cleansed 
before being diessed, but not washed be- 
yond what is aljsolutely necessary for cle;m- 
ing, as by perpetual watering, tlie flavour 
is diminished. When clean, if the fish is 
to be boiled, some salt, and a little vinegar 
should be put Into the wafer, to give it 
finaness. Care siiould be taken to boil the 
fish well, but not to let it break. Cod, 
whiting, and haddock are much better for 
being a little salted, and kept for a day. 

There is often a muddy smell and taste at- 
tached to fresh-water fish, v\liicli may be 
got rid of by soaking it, after it has been 
thoroughly cleaned in strong salt and wa- 
ter ; or, If the fish is not too large, scald it 
in tlie same ; then dry, and di^ess it. 

Care should be taken that die fisli is put into 
cold water, and allowed to do very gently, 
otlierwise the outside will break before the 
Inside is done. 

Crimp fish must be put into boiling water: 
and as soon as it boils up, a Uttle cold 
water should be put in, to check the exces- 
sive heat, and simmer it for a few minutes. 

If the fish is not taken out of the water 
the instant it Is done. It will become wool- 
ly; to ascertain when it is ready, the fish 
plate on which it is dressed may be drawn 
up, and If sufficiently done, it will leave the 
bone. To keep hot for serving, and to 
prevent it fi-om losing its color, the fish 
plate should be placed crossways over the 
fish-kettle, and a clean cloth put over die fish. 

Small fish may be either nicely fried 
plain, or done over with egg and bread 
crumbs, and then fried. Upon llie dish on 
which the fish is to be Berved, should be 



FI S 



74 



FIS 



placed a folded damask napkin, and upon 
this put the fish, with the liver and roej 
then garnish the dish with horse-radish, 
pai'sley, and lemon. Fish is a disn which 
is almost more attended to than any other. 

To fry or broil fi^i properly, after it 
is well cleaned and washed, it should be 
wrapjjed in a nice soft cloth, and when 
perfectly dry, wetted with egg, and sprink- 
led all over with very fine bread crumbs ; it 
will look still better to be done over with 
egg and crumbs a second time. Then hav- 
ing on the fire a thick-bottomed frying-pan, 
with plenty of lard or dripping, boiling hot; 
put the fish into it, and let it fry tolerably 
quick till it is done, and of a nice brown 
yellow. If it is done before it has obtained 
a nice brown color, the pan should be drawn 
to the side of the fii-e, the fish carefully 
taken up, and placed either upon a sieve 
tui'ned upwards, or on tlie under side of 
a dish, and placed before the fire to drain, 
and finish browning; if wanted particularly 
nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to 
receive the fish. Fish fried in oil obtains a 
much finer color than when done in lard or 
dripping. Butte.- should never be used, as 
it gives a bad color. Garnish your dish 
with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or with 
fried parsley. 

When fish is to be broiled, it must be 
seasoned, floured, and done on a veiy clean 
gridiron; which, when hot, should be rub- 
bed over with suet, to hinder the fish from 
sticking. It should be broiled over a vei-y 
clear fire, to prevent its tasting smoky, and 
great care must be taken not to scorch it. 

FISH. This department of the busi- 
ness of the kitchen retjuires considerable ex- 
perience, and depends more upon practice 
than any other. A vei^y few moments, more 
or less, will thoroughly spoil fish; which, to 
be aaten in perfection, must never be put 
on the table till the soup is taken off. 

So many circumstcuices operate on this 
occasion, that it is almost impossible to 
write general rules. 

There are decidedly different opinions, 
whether fish should be put into cold, tepid, 
or boiling water. 

Fish must by no means be allowed to re- 
main in the water after it is boiled; if 
therefore it should be ready before it can be 
bent to table, it must be dished, the cover 
put on, and a cloth put over it. The dish 
is then to be set across the fish-kettle. 

FLsli should be fried over a clear quick 
fire ; an<l with dripping, or hog's lard in 
preference to butter. The pan should be 
deep; and to ascertain that it is clean, a 
little fat is first fried in it, poured out, and 
the pan wiped witli a clean cloth; as much 
dripping or lard is then put in as \vi 



tirely cover the fish. When it is boiling 
hot, and begins to smoke, die fish is put in ; 
if small, they may be turned in three or four 
minutes, by sticking in a fork near tlie head 
Avith oYie hand, and with the other support- 
ing the tail with a fish-slice. When they 
are done, they should be laid before the 
fire upon an okl soft towel, and turned now 
and then till tliey ai'e dry upon botli sides ; 
or they may be put upon a large sieve, 
tuined upwards, and which is kept for tlie 
purpose, or put on tlie under side of a dish. 

The fire for broiling fish must be very 
clear, and the gridiron perfectly clean, 
which, when hot, should be nibbed with a 
bit of suet. The fish, while broiling, must 
be often turned. 

Several respectable fishmongers and ex- 
perienced cooks have assured the editor, 
that they are often in danger of losing their 
credit by fish too fresh, and especially tur- 
bot and cod, which, like meat, require a 
certain time befjre they are in the best con- 
dition to be dressed. They recommend 
them to be put into cold water, salted in 
proportion of about a quarter of a j)ound of 
salt to a gallon of water. Sea-water is 
best to boil sea-fish in. It not only saves the 
expense of salt, but the flavor is better. Let 
them boil slowly till done; the sign of which 
is, that the skin of the fish rises up, and 
the eyes turn white. 

It is tlie business of the fishmonger to 
clean them, &c. but the C£ireful cook Avill 
always wash them again. 

Gainish with slices of lemon, finely scrap- 
ed horseradish, fried oysters, smelts, whit- 
ings or strips of soles. 

The liver, roe, and chitterlings should be 
placed so that the carver may observe them, 
and invite the guest to partake of them. 

Fish, like meat, requires more cooking 
in cold than in warm weather. If it be- 
comes FROZEN, it must be thawed by the 
means we have directed for meat. 

Fish are plenty and good, and iii gi-eat 
variety, in all the towns and cities on the 
extensive coast of the United States. Some 
of the interior towns are also supplied with 
fish peculiar to the lakes and rivers of this 
country. 

All kinds of fish are best sometime before 
they begin to spawn ; and are unfit for food 
for sometime after they have spawned. 

Fish, hke animals, are fittest for the ta- 
ble when tliey are just full grown ; and what 
has teen said respectijig vegetables, applies 
equally well to fish. 

The most convenient utensil to boil fish 
in, is a turbot-ketde. This should be 
twenty-four inches long, tvveniy-two wide, 
and nine deep. It is an excellent vessel to 
boil a ham in, Sec. &c. 



en- ! N. B. — The liver of tlie fish pounded and 



FIS 



75 



FLE 



mixed with butter, with a little lemon-juice, 
&c. is an elegant and inoffensive relish to 
fish. Mushroom sauce extempore or the 
soup of mock tuitle, will make an excellent 
fish sauce. 

For liquids, you have meat gravy, lemon- 
juice, sirup of lemons, essence of anchovy, 
the various vegetable essences, mushroom 
catchup, and the whites and yolks of eggs, 
wines, and (he essence of spices. 

FISH, NEW METHOD OF DRESSING. 

Take any sort of fish you tiiink proper, be- 
ing vei^j^ careful that it is quite fresh ; clean 
it thoroughly, dry, and season it to your 
tfiste; then put it (wiUiout any moisture), 
into a j)an, which may be closely covered, 
with the exception of a small hole, to allow 
of evaporation. Put it into an oven as soon 
as the breafl is drawn, and let it stand until 
the whole is so completely dissolved, that 
the boiler are not {jerceptible. When coid, 
this mali.es a very transijarenl, well-flavored 
jelly. 

FISH CONSOMME. Take carp, tench, 
perch, eels, ])ike, and other fresh-water fish 
of die same kind; clean them well, and cut 
tiieni into pieces, as near of a size as may 
be; lay tiiem in a stewpjin, on a layer of 
sliced onions and carrots; as soon as they 
begin to sweat, put in a bit of butter, and 
leave tlieni for a quarter of an hour ; mois- 
ten them with fish broth, and let them boil 
gently for an hour; keep the pan closely 
covered; this will afford a '.ery noui-ishing 
broth. 

FISH KETCHUP. Take rather more 
than a pint of vinegar, three pints of red 
Port, two table-spoonfuls of pepper, pound- 
d very fine, plenty of shalhjts and horse- 
radish, tlie peel of half a lemon, aiid two or 
three bay-leaves, and a pound of anchovies; 
let the whole boil together until 'he ancho- 
vies are dissolved, then strain, a-^d when 
cold, put it into bottles. Two or du'ee 
spoonfuls are sufficient for a pound of 
butter. 

FISH FORCEMEAT. Take two oun- 
ces of either turbot, sole, lobster, shrimps, 
or oysters; free from skin, put it in a mor- 
tar with two ounces of fresh butter, one 
ounce of 1)reacl-crumbs, the yolk of two eggs 
boiled hard, and a little eschalot, grated 
lemon-peel, and parsley, minced very fine; 
tlien pound it well till it is thoroughly mixed 
and quite smoodi; season it with salt and 
Cayenne to your taste ; break in the yolk 
and white of one egg, rub it well together, 
and it is ready for use. Oysters parboiled 
and minced fine, and an anchovy, may be 
added- 



FISH GRAVY. (1) Cut two or three 
little fish of any kind into small pieces; put 
diem into a saucepan, with rather more 
water than will co\er them, a bit of toasted 
bread, a blade of mace, some lemon-peel, 
whole pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; 
let it simmer gently till it is rich and good ; 
brown a little bit of butter in a stewpan, 
and when it is browned, strain die gravy in- 
to it, and let it boil for a few minutes. 

FISH GRAVY. (2) Put some slices 
of onion into a stewpan, and set diem on 
the fiiT;; when they are completely dissolved, 
add a piece of butter, and some small fith, 
or pieces of carp, tench, perch, or any other 
you find convenient. As soon as they begin 
to dissolve, and give out their moisture, put 
a glassful of root broth to them, and boil 
diem for half an hour ; then add a glass of 
white wine, and a little lemon-juice, and 
boil it anodier half hour, when it may be 
pressed through a sieve, widi great force. 

FISH RECHAUFFE. (1) After pike, 
cod, skate, tiubot, soles, or any other white 
fish has been dressed, pick it from the bones 
into small bits ; add to a pound of fish, or 
in the same proportion, half a pint of good 
cream, one table-spoonful of mustard, the 
same of anchovy essence, the same of ketch- 
up, and of Harvey sauce, a little flour, some 
salt, pepper, and butter; make it all hot in 
the saucepan, then put it into die dish in 
which it is to be served up, strew crumbs 
of bread over it, and baste it with butter till 
it is a little moist, then brown it with a 
salamander, or in a Dutch oven. A wall 
of mashed potatoes round the dish is an im- 
provement. 

FISH RECHAUFFE. (2) Pick from 

the bone in large flakes about two pounds 
of cold salmon, cod fish, or soles ; melt a 
quarter of a pound of butter in half a pint of 
cream, with a little flour and salt; add the 
fish and heat it thoroughly. 

FISH SAUCE. See Sauces. 

FLEMISH WAFERS. Put into a 
deep pan half a pound of flour; strain and 
mix with it half a pint of warmed milk, and 
two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast; work the 
paste till it be soft and smooth, and plac^ it 
in a stove, or close to die fiie, to rise; then 
add the beaten yolks of six eggs, half a 
pound of fresh butter l^eaten to a cream, 
and a lump of sugar which has been rubbed 
upon the peel of a lemon, and then pounded; 
last of all, beat in lightly the well-whisked 
whites of the eggs ; again place the pan in 
a warm place, and it will rise to nearly 
double its bulk. Heat and rub the irons. 



FLU 



76 



FOR 



which should be square, with a little butter ; 
fill one side with the mixture, and close 
them ; when one side is done turn tlie oth- 
er, and wl}en of a fine color, take out the 
wafers; put them upon a plate, and whilst 
hut, sift over tliis quantity a (juarter of a 
pound of grated loaf sugar. 

FLIP. To make a quart of flip: — Put 
the ale on the fire to warm, and beat up 
three or four eggs, with four ounces of moist 
sugar, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg or 
ginger, and a quartern of good old rum or 
brandy. When the ale nearly boils put it 
into one pitcher, and the rum, eggs, &c. in- 
to another; turn it from one to another till 
it is as smooth as cream. This is called a 
Yard of Flannel. 

FLOATING ISLAND. Boil, with a 
pint of milk, a bit of cinnamon, and half the 
peel of a lemon; when almost cold, strain it, 
and mix with it the beaten white of one, and 
the yolks of three eggs; stir itover the fire till 
thick, jjour it in'to a dish, and stir it now 
and then till cold. Whisk the whites of 
two eggs, and half a pint of Guava, quince, 
or red currant jelly, till it be a very stiff". 

FLOUNDERS BOILED. (1) Put on a 
stewp.an with a sufficient quantity of water 
to cover the flounders which are to be dres- 
sed ; put in some vinegar and horse-radish ; 
when the water boils put in the fish, having 
been first well cleaned, and their fins cut oft"; 
they must not boil too fast for fear they should 
break ; when they are sufficiently done, lay 
them on a fish plate, the tails in die middle. 
Serve them with parsley and butter. 

FLOUNDERS BOILED. (2) Wash and 
clean them \vell, cut the black side of them 
the same as you do turbot, then put them in- 
to a fish-kettle, with plenty of cold water 
and a liandful of salt ; when they come to a 
boil, skim them clean, and let them stand 
by the side of the fire for five minutes, and 
they are ready. Obs. — Eaten with plain 
melted butter and a liltle salt, you have the 
sweet delicate flavor of the flounder, which 
is overpowered by any sauce. 

FLOUNDERS or PLAICE, frij^i) or 
BOILED. Flounders are perhaps the most 
difficult fish to fiy very nicely. Clean them 
well, flour them, and wipe them with a dry 
cloth to absorb all the water from them; 
flour or egg and bread-crumb them. 

FLUMMERY. Steep three large hand- 
fcls of very snrall white oatmeal a day and j 
night in cold water ; then pour it off" clear ; j 
then add as much more water, and let it 
stand another day and a night. Then 



strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil 
it till it is of the consistence of hasty pud- 
ding, keeping it well stirred all the time it 
is l)oiling. When first strained, put to it 
one large spooiitui of white sugar, and two 
of orange-tlower water. Pour it into shal- 
low dishes, and serve to eat with wine, ci- 
der, milk or cream, and sugar. 

FLUMMERY DUTCH. Boil very 
gently for half an hour, two ounces of isin- 
glass in three half pints of water ; add a pint 
of white wine, the juice of three lemons and 
the thin rind of one, and rub a few lumps 
of sugar on another to obtain the essence, 
and w ith them add as much more sugar as 
will make it sufficiently sweet; and having 
beaten up the yolks of se\en eggs, give them 
and the above, when mixed, one scald; stir 
all the time, and pour the whole into a ba- 
sin; stir it till it is half cold; then let it 
settle, and put it into a melon shape. 

FLUMMERY FRENCH. Beat an 
ounce of isinglass fine, put it into a c|uart of 
cream, and boil it gently fiir a quarter of an 
hour, keeping it stirring all the time. Then 
take it oft', sweeten it with fine powder su- 
gar, put in a spoonful of rose and another 
of orange-flower water, strain it through a 
sieve, and stir it till half cold. Put it into 
a mould or basin, and when cold, turn it in- 
to a dish, and garnish with currant jelly. 

FONDUS. Put some grated cheese into 
a basin, vvith pejiper and a little melted but- 
ter, and the yolks of eggs; stir them togeth- 
er ; Avhip the whites of the eggs to a firm 
froth, and add them, a little at a time, to 
the cheeee, stiri-ing lightly with a wooden 
spoon ; half fill as many paper cases as you 
can, and bake them, like biscuits, in a 
moderate oven. Serve them as ({uickly as 
possible after they are done. 

FORCEMEAT STUFFING. Force- 
meat is now considei'ed an indispensable 
accompaniment to most made dishes, and 
when composed with good taste, gives ad- 
ditional spirit and relish to even that " sove- 
reign of savouriness," turtle soup. 

It is also sent up in patties, and for stuf- 
fing of veal, game, poultry, &c. 

The ingredients should be so proportion- 
ed, that no one flavor predominates. 

To give the same stuffing for veal, hare, 
&c. argues a poverty of invention; with a 
little contrivance, you may make as great 
a variety as you have dishes. 

The poignancy of forcemeat should be 
proportioned to the savouriness of tlie viands^ 
to which it is intended to give an additional 
'/est. Some dishes require a very delicate- 
ly flavored forcemeat, for others, it must 



FOR 



77 



FO W 



be full and high seasoned. What would be 
piquanU- in a turkey, would be insipid with 
turtle. 

Most people have an acquired and pecu- 
liar taste in stutHngs, &c. and what exactly 
pleases one, seldom is precisely what an- 
otlier considers the most agreeable. 

Custom is all in matters of taste: it is not 
that one person is naturally fond of this or 
that, and another naturally averse to it; but 
that one is used to it, and another is not. 

The consistency of forcemeats is i-ather a 
difficult thing to manage ; they are almost 
always either too liglit or too heavy. 

Take care to pound it till perfectly smooth, 
and that ail the ingredients are thoroughly 
incorporated. 

Forcemeat-balls must not be laj'ger than 
a small nutmeg. If they are for brown 
sauce, flour and fiy them; if for white, put 
them into boiling water, and boil them for 
three minutes: the latter are by fur the most 
delicate. 

If not of sufficient stiffiiess, it falls to 
pieces, and makes soup, &c. grouty and 
very unsightly. 

Sweetbreads and tongues are the favorite 
materials for forcemeat. Forcemeat should 
be made sufficiently consistent to cut with a 
knife, but not dry or heavy. No one flavor 
should predominate greatly; according to 
what it is wanted for, a selection may be 
made from the following list, being careful 
to use the least of those articles which are 
the ionst pungent: 

Cola f.wl, or veal, scraped ham, fat ba- 
con, beef suet, crumbs of bread, parsley, 
white pepper, salt, nutmeg, yollvs and whites 
of eggs, well beaten, to bind the mixture. 

The forcemeat may be ni#.e with any 
of these articles without any striking flavor; 
therefore any of the following different ingre- 
dients may be made use of to vary the taste. 

Oysters, anchovies, tarragon, savory, pen- 
ny-royal, knotted-maijorarn, thyme, basil, 
yolks of hard eggs, cayenne, garlic, shallots, 
chives, Jamaica pepper in fine powder, or 
two or three cloves. 

To force or stuff turkeys, geese, ducks, 
&c., see under the heads of the differ-ent 
ways of dressing turkeys, geese, &c. 

FORCEMEAT. Take an equal quantity 
of lean veal scraped, and beef suet shred ; 
beat them in a marble moilar ; add pepper, 
salt, cloves, poiuided lemon- peel, and nutmeg 
grated, parsley and sweet herbs, chopped 
fine, a little shallot and young onion, a Jew 
bread-crumbs grated fiiie, and yolk of egg 
sufficient to work it liglit; roll this into 
balls with a little flour; if for white sauce, 
boil them ; if for brown sauce, fry them. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR FISH 

7* 



Soups, or Fish stewed. Beat the 
flesh and soft parts of a middling sized lob- 
ster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boil- 
ed celeiy, the yolk of a hard egg, a little 
Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, 
with two table-spoonfuls of bread-cnunbs, 
one spoonful of oyster liquor, two ounces of 
butter warmed, two eggs beaten for a long 
time; make into balls, and fiy them of a 
nice brown color in butter. 

FORCEMEAT-BALLS for Turtle, 
Mock Turtle, or Made Dishes. 
Pound some veal in a marble mortar; rub 
it through a sieve with as much of the udder 
as you have veal, or about a third of the 
quantity of butter: put some bread-cruml^s 
into a stewpan, moisten them with milk, 
add a little chopped parsley and eschalot, 
rub them well together in a mortar till they 
form a smooth paste ; put it through a sieve, 
and, when cold, pound, and mix all togeth- 
er, with the yolks of three eggs boiled hard ; 
season it with salt, pepper, and curry pow- 
der, or Cayenne ; add to it the yolks of two 
raw eggs; rub it well together, and make 
small balls: ten minutes before yoiu" soup is 
ready, put them in, 

FOWLS. When a cock is young, his 
spurs are short; take care that you are not 
deceived by their having been cut or pared, 
a trick that is often practised. If fi'esh 
tlieir vent will be close and dark. Hens 
are best, just before they begin to lay, and 
yet are full of egg; if they are old, their 
combs and lejjs are rouffh. 

All poultry should be veiy carefully pick- 
ed, every plug removed, and the hair nicely 
singed with paper. 

The cook should be careful in drawing 
poultiy of all sorts, not to break the gall- 
bag, for no washing will talve off tlie bitter 
where it has touched. 

If for roasting, black-legged fowls are 
the most moist. A good-sized fowl will 
take from three-quarters of an hour to an 
hour in roasting, a middling-sized one about 
half an hour, and a very small oiie, or chick- 
en, twenty minutes. 

Tame fowls require more roasting, and 
are lonwr in heating through than othere. 
AU sorts should be continually basted, that 
they may be served with a froth, and appear 
of a fine color. The fire must be very quick 
and clear before any fowls are put down. 
Serve with egg sauce, bread sauce, or gar- 
nished with sausages or scalded parsley. 

A large barn-door fowl, well hung, should 
be stuffed in the crop with sausage-meat, 
and served with gravy in the dish, and with 
bread sauce. 

The head should be turned under the 
wing, like a turkey. 



FO W 



78 



FO W 



For boiling, choose those that are not 
clack-legged; pick them carefully, singe, 
wash, and truss them. Flour them, and 
put tliem in boiling watei'; a good-sized 
one will be done in half an liour. 

Serve with parsley and butter; oyster, 
lemon, liver, or celery sauce. If for dinner, 
ham, tongue, or bacon, is conmionly served 
with them. 

Fowls are trussed in the same manner as 
chickens. (See Chickens). 

Chickens or fowls should be killed at 
l^ast one or two days before they are to be 
dressed. 

Turkeys (especially large ones) should 
not be dressed till they have been killed 
diree or four days at least, in cold weather 
six or eight, or they will neither look white 
nor eat tender. 

Turkeys, and large fowls, should have 
the strings or sinews of the thighs drawn 
out. 

Truss them with the legs outward, they 
are much easier carved. 

FOWL A LA HOLANDAISE. Make 
a forcemeat of grated bread, half its quantity 
of minced suet, an onion, or a few oysters, 
and some boiled parsley, season with pepper, 
salt, and grated lemon-peel, and an egg 
beaten up to bind it. Bone the breast of a 
good-sized young fowl, put in the forcemeat, 
co\er the fowl with a piece of white paper 
buttered, and roast it rather more than half 
an hour; have ready a thick batter made of 
flour, milk, and eggs, take off the paper, and 
pour some of the batter over the fowl; as 
soon as it becomes dry add more, and do 
this till it is all crusted over, and of a nice 
brown color; serve it with melted butter and 
lemun pickle, or a thickened brown gravy. 

FOWL BOILED WITH RICE. Stew 
a f )wl in some well-skiinined clear mutton 
broth, and seasoned witli onion, mace, pep- 
per, and salt. About half an hour before it 
is ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice 
well washed and soaked. Simmer till ten- 
der; then strain it from the broth, and put 
the rice on a sieve before tiie fire. Keep the 
fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and 
the rice round it without the bnjth. The 
less liquor the fowl is done with, the better. 
Serve with gravy, or parsley and butter for 
fauce. 

FOWL BR.OILED. Split diem down 
the ba(;k, well salt and pepper them; then 
oroil them. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

FOWL CAPILOTADE. Take the re- 
mains of a ready dressed fowl, and put 
them into a stewpan ; then do up some 
parsley, shallots, and Ibur mushrooms, all 



shred small, in a little butter; as soon as the 
latter becomes liquid, add four ladlefuls of 
espagnole, and two of consomme, reduce, 
and skim it ; pour it on your fowl, set it on 
the fire to simmer for a (juarter of an hour, 
before you send it to table. 

FOWL CURRY. See Curry. 

FOWLS DRESSED TO DRESS 
AGAIN. Cut tliem in quarters, beat up an 
egg or two (according to the quantity you 
dress) with a little grated nutmeg, and pep- 
per and salt, some parsley minced fine, and 
a few crumbs of bread; mix these well to- 
gether, and cover the fowl, &c. with this 
batter; broil them, or put them in a Dutch 
oven, or have ready some dripping hot in a 
pan, in which fry them a light brown color; 
thicken a little gravy with some flour, put 
a large spoonful of catchup to it, lay the 
fry in a dish, and pour the sauce round it. 
You may garnish with slices of lemon and 
toasted bread. 

Ic;;^^ Turkey, Goose, Duck, Rabbit, 
Pigeon, are all dressed same way. 

FOWL, GAME, OR RABBIT hash- 

ED. Cut them into joints, put the trim- 
mings into a stewpan with a quart of 
the broth they were boiled in, and a large 
onion cut in four; let it boil half an hour; 
strain it through a sieve: then put two table- 
spoonfuls of flour in a basin, and mix it 
well by degrees with the hot broth ; set it 
on the fire to boil up, then strain it through a 
fine sieve : wash out the stewpan, lay the poul- 
try in it, an^ pour the gravy on it (through 
a sieve) ; set it by the side of the fire to 
simmer veiy gently (it must not boil) for 
fifteen minutes; five minutes before you 
serve it up, cut the stuffing in slices, and 
put it in to warm, then take it out, and lay 
it round the edge of the dish, and put the 
poultry in the middle; carefully skim die 
fit oft' the gravy, then shake it round \Aell 
in the stewpan, and pour it to the hash. 
N. B. — You lr^ay garnish the dish with bread 
sippets lightly toasted. 

FOWL HASHED. Cut a cold roasted 
fowl into pieces as for a fricassee, put the 
trimmings into a saucepan with two or three 
shallots, a little lemon-peel, a blade of mace, 
a quarter of a pound of lean ham, and a pint 
of stock; simmer it for half an hour, strain 
it, put a bit of butter into a saucepan, and 
whe'-i melted, dredge in as much floui as will 
dry it up, stirring it all the time; then add 
the gravy, let it boil a minute, and put in the 
fowl, also a little pepper, salt, and a dust of 
sugar. Before serving, s(jueeze in a little 
lemon-juice. 



FOW 



79 



FRA 



FOWL MINCED WITH VEAL. 

Mince the white part of a cold roasted or 
boiled fowl; put it, and some thin slices of 
veal, into a saucepan, also some white stock, 
a s(|iieeze of a lemon, a few drops of shallot 
vinegar, and a dnst of sugar; simmer it for 
a short time, and serve it upon bread sippets, 
with the slices of veal laid on the mince. 

FOWL PULLED. Skin a cold chick- 
en, fowl, or turkey; take off the fillets from 
the breasts, and put them into a stewpan 
with the rest of the white meat and wings, 
side-bones, and merry-thought, with a pint 
of broth, a large blade of mace pounded, an 
eschalot minced line, the juice of half a lem- 
on, and a roll of the peel, some salt, and a 
k\v grains of cayenne; thicken it with tloiir 
and butter, and let it simmer for two or 
three minutes, till the meat is warm. In the 
meantime score the eggs and rump, powder 
them with pepper and salt, broil (hem nicely 
brown, and lay them on, or round your pulled 
chicken. Three table-spoonfuls of good 
cream, or the yolks of as many eggs, will be 
a great improvement to it. 

FOWL OR RABBIT. We can only 
recommend this method of dressing when the 
fire is not good enough for roasting. Pick 
and truss it the same as lor boiling, cut it 
open down tlie back, wipe the inside clean 
with a cloth, season it .with a little pe])per 
and salt, have a clear fire, and set the grid- 
iron at a good distance over it, lay the 
chicken on with the inside towards the fire 
(you may egg it and strew some grated 
bread over it), and broil it till it is a fine 
brown: take care the fieshy side is not burn- 
ed. , Lay it on a hot dish ; pickled mush- 
reoms, or mushroom sauce thrown over it, 
or parsley and butter, or melted butter fla- 
vored with mushroom ketchup, (iarnish it 
with slices of lemon; and the liver and giz- 
zard slit and notched, seasoned with pepper 
and salt, and broiled nicely brown, with 
some slices of lemon. 

FOWLS WITH RICE, CALLED 
PiLLACE. Boil a pint of rice in as much 
water as will cover it, with black pepper, a 
few blades of mace, and half a dozen cloves, 
tied up in a bit of cloth ; when the rice is 
tender, take out the spice ; stir in a piece 
of butter; boil a fowl and a piece of bacon; 
lay them in the dish, cover them with the 
rice: lay round the dish, and upon the rice, 
hard eggs, cut in halves, quarters, and 
lengthways, with onions, first boiled, and 
tiien filed. 

FOWLS ROASTED. Well pqjper 
«i.nd saJt the fowls before you spit them; 
roast them before a clear fiie ; ivoth them 



up when nearly done, by sprinkling thein 
over with flour and salt, and basting them 
with butter. When done, be careful in tak- 
ing out the skewers. Serve them with vei-y 
good clear gravy in the disli, and bi-ead or 



egg sauce in a boat 



FOWL ROASTED WITH CHEST- 

NUTS. Roast some chestnuts very care- 
fully, so that they may not l^e burnt, then 
take off' the skins, and peel them. Take 
about a dozen of them, cut them small, and 
bruise them in a mortar. Parboil the liver 
of a fowl; bruise it, and cut about a quarter 
of a pound of ham or bacon, and pound it. 
Then mix them all together, with a good 
(juantity of chopped parsley, sweet herbs, 
some mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When 
these are are all well mixed togetiier, put it 
into your f)wl, and roast it. The best way 
of doing this is to tie the neck, a)id hang it 
up by the legs to roast, with a string, and 
tiien baste it with butter. For sauce, take 
the rest of the chestnuts, peel and skin them, 
put them into some good gravy, with a little 
white wine; and thicken it with a piece of 
butter rolled in flour. Then pbce your fowl 
in the dish; pour in the sauce; garnish with 
lemon, and serve. 

FOWL WITH ITS OWN GRAVY. 

Ti'uss a fowl tiie same as for boiling, lard it 
quite through with bacon, ham, and p:us- 
ley ; put it in a pan with a little butter, two 
or three slices of peeled lemon, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, three cloves, sliced onions, 
cai'rots, pepper, salt, a little stock, and a 
glass of white wine; stew them gently till 
they are done ; skim and strain the sauce, 
and serve it with the fowl. 

FOAVL, WILD. The flavor of wild 
fowl is preserved better by not stuffing tliem; 
put into each, p.epper, salt, and a bit of but- 
ter. Wild fowl do not requiie so much 
diessing as tame; they should be done of a 
fine color, and nicely frothed. A rich brown 
giavy should be served in the dish, and when 
the breast is cut into slices, beliMe it is taken 
from the bone, it will be mucii imj)ro\ed by 
a squeeze of lemon, souie salt and pepper. 
If you wish to take off the fishy smell which 
these birds freciuently hu\e, put an onion, 
salt, and hot water into the dripping pan, 
and for the first ten minutes baste tiiem with 
this; then remove the pan, and keep con- 
stantly basting with batter. 

FRAISE. See Catfs Chiiterlmgs. 

FRANGIPANE. Take a saucepan, and 
put into it five spoonfuls of flour, five eggs, a 
pint of milk, an ounce of butter and a little 
salt; set it on the fire, stirring constantly 



FRE 



80 



FRl 



until it has boiled ten minutes, taking great 
care tluit it does not burn; then pour it into 
a basin, and let it cool. Take a few al- 
monds, (to every six sweet put one bitter), 
bruise them, and some macaroons, and when 
reduced to powder, mix tliem with a little 
crisped oninge-flour (also in powder), and a 
sufficient (juantity of powder-sugar to sweeten 
it: add these to the above preparation, and 
stir them in well with a wooden spoon. If 
your frangi])ane Ije too thick, add another 
egg or two, and then make whatever use of 
it you may desire. You may, if you tliink 
proper, substitute pistachios for die sweet 
almonds, in which case a little spinach es- 
sence must be added to color it, die maca- 
roons and orange-flowers omitted, and diree 
bitter almonds only used. 

FRENCH BEANS. Cut off the stalk 
end fii-st, and dien turn to the point and 
strip off die strings. If not quite fresh, have 
a bowl of spring- water, with a little salt 
dissolved in it, standing before you, and as 
tlie beans are cleaned and stringed, throw 
them in. When all are done, put them on 
the fire in bulling water, with some salt in 
it ; after thev have boiled fifteen or twenty 
minutes, take one out and taste it ; as soon 
as they are tender take diem up; tlirow 
diem into a colander or sieve to drain. To 
send u|) the beans whole is much the best 
meUiod when they are dius young, and their 
delicate flavor and color are much better 
preserved. AMien a little more grown, they 
must be cut across in two after stringing; 
and for common tables they are split, and 
divided across ; cut them idl the same length ; 
but those who are nice never have them at 
such a growdi as to require splitting. When 
diey are very IcU'ge they look pretty cut into 
lozenges. 

FRENCH BEANS, NASTURTIUMS, 

&c. When young, and most other small 
green vegetables, may be pickled the same 
way as gherkins. 

FRENCH BEANS FOR WINTER 

USE. Gather them when young, and on a 
dry day, put a layer of salt into a jar, and 
dien one of about two inches thick of beans; 
do this till the jar be nearly full ; place a 
small plate upon the top of diem, and tie a 
bladder closely over the jar; keep it in a 
cool dry place. When to be used, soak 
diem a night in cold water, and change it 
on diem repeatedly in die com'se of the day 
diey are to be diessed. Cut diem, and put 
them on in boiling water. 

FRENCH BEANS TO DRESS 
DRIED. Boil for more dian two hours, in 
two quarts of water, a pound of die seeds or 



beans of scarlet runners; fill a pint basin 
with onions peeled or sliced, brown them in 
a saucepan, with rather more than a quar- 
ter of a poiuid of fresh butter ; stir them con- 
stantly ; strain the water from the beans, 
and mix them with the onions; add a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, some salt, and a little 
gra»T. Let them stew for ten minutes, and 
stir in the beaten volks of two egfgs, and a 
table-spoonful of vinegar. Serve them hot. 

FRENCH SUPPER DISH. Pare 6ff 
the crust, and cut one or two slices of bread 
into bits of two or three inches square ; fry 
tliem in butter; put them upon a hot dish, 
and lay upon each bit some warmed preserv e, 
or stew for a few minutes, in sweet wine 
and a little sugar, some stoned bloom raisins, 
and put them upon and round the toast. 
The preser^■es may be heated by placing die 
jars in hot water by the side of the fire. 

FRIARS' CHICKEN. Put four pounds 
of a knuckle of veal into fom* quarts of wa- 
ter ; boil it gently for two hours ; strain it 
off; cut three chickens, or two young fowls 
into joints," skin them, and when the brodi 
boils put them in; season with white pepper 
and salt; let them boil a short time, and 
add a handful of parsley chopped small ; 
when the chickens are boiled tender, have 
ready six or seven well-beaten eggs; stir 
them quickly into the brodi one way, imme- 
diately before taking it off the fire. Tliis 
broth may be made entirely of veal instead 
of chickens. 

FRICANDELLANS. Mince about two 
pounds of tender lean beef, and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of fzesli suet, then pound it 
till it be as smooth as a paste, and carefiilly 
pick out all the thi-eads and sinews ; add four 
well-beaten eggs, half a pint of rich cream, 
and as much grated and sifted bread as will 
make it sufficiently consistent to form into 
rolls resembling corks, and season it with 
salt, and pepper. Boil die coiks in some 
good stock, or in boiling water. 

FRICASSEE BROWN. Take two or 
three young rabbits, cut them in pieces, and 
stew them in gravy made of beef, some v.hole 
pepper, two shallots, one or two anchovies, 
a bit of horse-radish, and a little sweet mar- 
joram powdered small. Stew the rabbits 
about a quarter of an hour, then take them 
out of the gravy, strain die liquor, fry your 
rabbits in lard or butter; add a glass of 
claret; you may fi"y some forcemeat balls, 
made with the livers of the rabbits parlwiled, 
and a little parsley shred small, some nutmeg 
grated, pepper, salt, a few bread crumbs, 
and two buttered eggs; mix these all to 
gedier, make them up into balls, d'p dieiu 



FRI 



81 



FRI 



m the yolk of egg, roll tJiem in flour, 
then fry them, and garnish your dish with 
them, witli fried parsley, and sliced lemon. 

FRICASSEE WHITE. Cut a couple 
of rahhits into pieces, and let them soak in 
warm water to cleanse them from the blood ; 
then lay them in a cloth to dry; put them 
into a stewpan with milk and water, and let 
tliem stew till they are tender, and then take 
a clean pan, and put into it half a pint of 
ci'eam, and a quarter of a pound of butter; 
ibtir them well together till tlie butter is melt- 
ed ; h.e careful to keep it constantly stirring, 
or it will be greasy; put in the rabl)its, take 
a little dried mace, a little pounded nutmeg, 
and a few mushrooms; shake them together 
foi' a few minutes, and then put it to the 
rabbits. You may add wliite wine if you 
choose. 

FRIED TOASTS. Cut the crumb of 
a twopenny loaf into round or oblong pieces, 
nearly an inch thick, and soak them for four 
or five hours in a pint of cream, mixed witli 
three well-l>eaten eggs, half a pint of white 
wine, a little grated nutn)eg, and sweetened 
with pounded loaf sug;ir. Fry them in but- 
ter, till of a light brown color, and serve 
with wine and sugar sauce. 

FRITTERS. (1) Make them of any of 
the battel's directed for pancakes, by dropping 
a small quantity into the pan, or make the 
plainer sort, and put pared apples sliced and 
cored in th.e batter, and fiy some of it with 
each slice. Cuirants or sliced lemon, as 
thin as possible, are veiy nice. 

FRITTERS. (2) Fritters should be sent 
to table served upon a folded napkin in the 
di^h. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, 
may be made into fritters. 

FRITTERS, ENGLTSH-AND- 
FRElNCH. Take a marrow puuding, and 
when nearly cold, cut it into thin shoes, and 
then cut them again into pieces two inches 
long, 1 y three-(|uarters of an inch wide, dip 
them into batter, and fry them in the usual 
manner ; when drained, glaze them with fine 
sugar, and serve them very liot. The batter 
for the abo\e friiters is made as follows: — 
Put a glass and a half of water, a grain of 
i^alt, and two ounces of fresh butter into a 
saucepan; when it boils stir in a sufficient 
(juantity of flour to make it a rather firm 
1 latter, keep it stirring three minutes, then 
pour it into another vessel. 

FRITTERS A LA DAUPHINE. 

Take a pound of brioche paste, and roll it 
out as thin as possible, to the form of a long 
square; on part of this lay small qirautities 



of apricot marmalade at intervals, slightly 
wet the paste round each piece of preserve, 
and lay over the plain part of the paste so as 
to cover the other completely, press it down 
lightly that the marmalade may not escape 
in the cooking, and cut out your fritters 
with a circular paste-cutter of two inches in 
diameter; flour them a little, and then lay 
them in rather a hot friture, when the paste 
will swell them into little balls; as soon as 
they are of a proper color take them out, 
drain them on a napkin, sprinkle them with 
fine sugai', and serve diem. 

FRITTERS A LA COTE. Soak in 
brandy some leaves and tlie young and ten- 
der shoots of the vine, dip them in a batter 
made of milk, yolks of eggs, and flour, fry 
them in boiling oil, sprinkle them with su- 
gar. Elder flowers are made into fritteis in 
the same manner. 

FRITTERS AU BLANC. Mix to- 
gether a handful of rice-flour and some milk, 
set them on the fire, stirring constantly, add 
a little cream, sugar, lemon-peel, and orange- 
flow ers; when it has become of a proper 
consistence, take it from the fire; as soon 
as it is cold, roll it into balls about the size 
of a nut, dip them in batter and fry tlieni. 

FRITTERS BLONDIN. Put some 
butter into a saucepan, and when it is melt- 
ed add to it a glass of milk, and a pinch of 
salt, keep it on the fire till it boils ; then 
mix in a sufficient quantity of flour to make 
it into a consistent paste, which will not 
stick to the fingers ; spread it on a table, 
roll it out to the thickness you may recjuire, 
cut it in round, oval, or any odier formed 
pieces you may think proper, and fry them of 
a nice color, in the best oil ; sprinkle sug^r 
o\'er, and serve tliera. 

FRITTERS, FRENCH, OF BRAN- 
DY FRUITS. Take a dozen apricots 
(or other fruits) preserved in brandy, drain, 
and cut them in half: then w rap them in w a- 
fers cut round and previously moisteneci, dip 
them in the same kind of Ixitter as that used 
for fritters JElnglish-and-French, and fiy 
tliem ; sprinkle them w ith sugar, and serve. 

FRITTERS EN SURPRISE. Take 
eight middling-sized apples, pare, and leave 
on the stalks ; cut oft" about a fourth part of 
the stalk end of each apple, and scoop out 
the inside of each piece, so as to form a sort of 
cup with a lid ; jiut them to soak for two hours 
in a glass of brandy with a little lemon-peel 
and ciimamon ; at the end of that time tixke 
them out, drain, and fill each apple with 
apricot marmalade, or frangipane; mix up 
a little flour and white of egg to cement the 



FRO 



82 



FRU 



tops of tlie apples to the other parts; dip 
them in batter and fvy them. When they 
are of a proper color, glaze and serve them. 

FRITTERS iMIGNON. Put two good 
spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, and mix 
it with the whites and volks of two egrsrs, a 
little salt, two ounces of sugar, some lemon- 
peel grated, half a tea-spoonful of milk, and 
half a tea-spoonful of cream; stir it over a 
slow fire, and, when done and well thicken- 
ed, spiead the cream upon a tioured dish, 
siiake flour over it, and, when cold, cut it 
into hits with a paste-cutter, dip each bit 
into a paste made with two spoonfuls of 
flour, a spoonful of brandy, and a little salt, 
mixed with two eggs; fi-y the fritters, and 
ser\e, glazed with sugar and a salamander. 

FRITTERS, ROYAL. Put a quart of 
new milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it 
begins to boil, pour in a pint of white wine; 
then take it oft", and let it stand five or six 
minutes, skim oft' the curd, and put it into a 
basin; beat it up well with six eggs, and 
season it with nutmeg; then beat it with a 
whisk, and add flour sufticient to give it the 
pioper consistence of batter. Put in some 
sugar and fry them quick. 

FRITTERS, SOUFFLES. Make 
some flour and beer into a batter that will 
flow a little; take a little of it out with a 
spoon, tlirow it into a fning-pan with boil- 
ing oil; the moment it rises, take it out, 
and proceed in tlie same way till all the bat- 
ter is used ; then sprinkle them with salt, 
and serve. 

FROMAGE CUIT. Cut half a pound 
of Cheshire cheese into thin bits, and pound 
it in a mortal-; add by degrees the well- 
beaten yolks of two, and the white of one 
egg, and half a pint of cream ; mix it vv ell 
together and bake it for ten or fifteen min- 
utes. 

FROST OR ICING FOR CAKES. 

Beat till vei-y light the whites of four eggs, 
and add gradually three-quarters of a pound 
of double-refined sugar, pounded and sifted 
through a lawn sieve; mix in the juice of 
half a lemon; beat it till very light and 
white; place the cake before tlie fire, pour 
o\er it the icing, and smooth over the top 
and sides widi tlie back of a spoon. 

FROTH TO PUT ON Cream, Cus- 
tard, OR Trifle. Sweeten half a pound 
of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of 
scalded fruit; [)ut to it the v.hiles of four 
eggs beaten, and Ijeat the pulp \\ ith them 
till it will stand as high as you wish, and 
being put on the cream, &c. with a spoon, 



it will take any form ; it should be rough, 
to imitate a i-ock. 

FRUIT, CANDIED. (1) It must first l)e 
preserved, then dipped in warm water, diied 
with a cloth, and strewed all over with sift- 
ed sugar, and dried in a stove or oven, turn- 
ing as occasion requires. 

FRUIT, CANDIED. (2) When tlie 
fruit is preserved, dry it in a stove till the 
sirup is quite out, dip it into sirup boiled to 
candy height, and dry it again. All dried 
and candied fruit must be kept in a very 
dry place. 

FRUIT IN JELLY. Have in readiness 
a plain mould, eitlier long or round, about 
three inches deep; dien have ready some 
mould jelly, and spread it at the bottom 
of the mould, about a quarter of an inch 
thick ; let it be cold; then put in ripe peach- 
es, grapes, or any sort of ripe fruit you 
please, preserved fruit, or China oranges 
cut into quarters, or whatever sliape you 
choose ; put in a little warm jelly, and let it 
stand till it is cold, to fasten tlie fruit in its 
place, otherwise it will rise up; then fill the 
mould up with warm jelly, let it stand till it 
is quite cold, then turn it into a dish, and 
garnish it according to your own taste. 

FRUIT, PRESERVED, RE!\IARKS 

ON USING. Preserved fruits should not be 
baked long ; those that have been preserved 
with their full proportion of sugar, require 
no bidding; the cixist should be baked in a 
tin shape, and the fruit be aftenvards added ; 
or it may be put into a small dish or tart- 
pans, and the covers be baked on a tin cut 
out according to your taste. 

FRUIT, TO PREPARE FOR BrANDY. 

Take the proposed quantity of fruit, gather- 
ed before they are perfectly ripe ; dry them 
carefully, prick and put them into cold w ater ; 
when ail in, set the vessel over a moderate 
fire, keeping the watei', however, constantly 
nearly boiling, imti! the fruit will give to tlie 
touch; then dirow them, with great care, 
into cold water again; drain away this wa- 
ter, and add fresh ; change the water tvA'ice 
more within a quarter of an hour, after 
w hich, drain them for the last time, and put 
them in bottles; if any of the fruit is die 
least broken or bi nised, it must be put aside, 
as it would spoil the rest. In the mean- 
while, take a proper quantity of sugar (as a 
pound and a half for twenty-five peaches); 
clarify and boil it to la nappe; measure, 
and put double its quantity of good brandy; 
mix and pour them into a glazed pan; let 
them stand awhile, and then pom- the mix- 
ture on the fruit. 



GAM 



83 



GAM 



FRUIT TO PREPARE FOR CHIL- 
DREN. Put apples sliced, or plums, cur- 
rants, gooseberries, &c. into a stone jar, and 
sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as necessary 
among them ; place the jar on a hot hearth, 
or in a saucepan of water, and let it remain 
till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of 
bread or rice may be stewed with the fruit, 
or the fruit may be eaten with slices of dry 
bread, or with rice, plain boiled. 



G. 



GAME. In choosing venison, the fat of 
that which is good is thick, clear, and bright; 
the clift part smooth and close. When the 
venison is perfectly fresh, it is hung in a cool 
place, and carefully wiped dry every day. 
When extreme tenderness is requii'ed fi'om 
long keeping, but without its having a high 
flavor, it is well rubbed over with powdered 
charcoal. 

The haunch is the prime joint, and when 
it is required to be roasted, it is first well 
washed in lukewarm milk-and-water, and 
then made quite dry befjre it is spitted. It 
is then covered with a sheet of well-buttered 
white paper, over which is laid a coarse 
paste of tlour-and-water, about a quarter of 
an inch thick; this is again covered with 
buttered white paper, and tied on with pack- 
thread. A substantial fire being made, the 
haunch is put down, and constantly basted 
with fresh beef dripping, till nearly done, 
when the paste is taken off, the meat well 
basted with butter, and lightly dredged with 
flour, till it froths and becomes of a fine light 
brown color. It is served with its own gra- 
vy in the dish, if there be enough of it; also 
a sauce tureen of good brown gravy, and 
one of currant jelly sauce beat up, and melt- 
ed with a little Port wine and sugar. 

A large haunch takes about four hours to 
roast. 

A neck and shoulder, when roasted, is 
managed in the same way as the haunch, 
omitting the {)aste; but it is more frequently 
used fjr soups, pasties, and collops. 

Hare. — When fresh, the body is stiff; 
and if young, the daws are smooth and 
sharp, the ears tender and easily torn. 
Hares are kept from a week to a fortnight 
for roasting; but for soup, they cannot have 
been too recently killed. 

Rabbits are chosen by the same rules as 
hares. 

Wild fowl, in general, is chosen by the 
same rules as tame poultry. The birds 
should be plump and fat, and hard in the 
vent. If the skin comes off when rubbed 
hard with the finger, they are stale. Old 
birds iniprove by keeping for sometime; 



young bir(k are best if dressed soon; and 
small birds, of all descriptions, should be 
immediately dressed. In warm weather, a 
stopper of charcoal should be put into the 
vent of all game, and a string tied tightly 
round the neck. 

To roast pheasants and partridges, they 
are picked, cleaned, and nicely singed; a 
slit is made in the back part of the neck, and 
the craw taken out, leaving on tlie head, the 
feet twisted closely to the body, the claws 
cut oft", and the head turned under the wing. 
Both sorts are roasted by the directions for 
roasting a turkey or a fowl. A pheasant is 
served with gravy in the dish; partridges 
with a gravy, or laid upon buttered toast, 
and melted butter poured round them. Bread 
sauce is served with both. A pheasant will 
require nearly an hour to roast ; partridges 
half an hour. Guinea and pea-fowl are 
roasted in the same way as pheasants. 

To roast black-cock, follow the directions 
for roasting pheasants and partridges; it 
will require an hour, and is served with gra- 
vy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce 
tureen. 

Moorfowl are roasted in the same manner, 
and require three-quarters of an hour. They 
may be served upon buttered toast, or with 
gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce 
tureen. 

To restore tainted game or poultry, pick 
it carefully, clean, and wash it, then put into 
each bird a little newly-made pounded char- 
coal, tied in a bit of muslin. Before serving, 
take out the bag, which will have a most 
offensive smell, while the bird will be left 
perfectly sweet. 

To roast wild duck. — It should be roasted 
by a quick fire, well basted with butter, and 
browned. It will refjuire nearly three-quar- 
ters of an hour, and when to be served, some 
beef gravy is [joured through the duck into 
the dish, and in a sauce tif-een some hot 
Port wine is served. The carver makes 
four cuts along the breast, it is then sprin- 
kled with salt and a little Cayenne, the juice 
of half A lemon is squeezed over it, and the 
Port wine is then poured all over. 

To roast a wild goose, the same directions 
are followpd as for wild duck, allowing 
more time to roast it, according to the size 
of the bird. 

Widgeons and teal are dressed in the 
same manner as the wild duck, and are 
roasted in ten minutes, and may be served 
upon fried bread crumbs. 

Woodcocks and snipes are roasted with- 
out being drawn ; a piece of toasted bread 
buttered is put under each bird, to catch the 
trail ; they are well basted with butter, and 
served upon the hot toast over which they 
were roasted; a rich brown gravy, or melt- 
ed butter, is poured round them. Wood 



GAM 



84 



GAT 



cocks will require half an hour, snipes and 
quails fifteen or twenty minutes to roast. 

Ortolans and green plovers are not drawn, 
and are roasted and served in the saine 
manner as woodcocks. 

To roast larks, wheatears, and other 
small birds, they are nicely picked, gutted, 
cleaned, and trussed; brushed over with 
melted butter, and rolled in grated bread, 
then spitted on a bird spit, which is fastened 
npon a larger one. They are basted with 
butter, and sprinkled with some bread 
crumbs. They will require nearly fifteen 
minutes to roast, and are served upon fried 
bread crumbs, and brown gravy in a sauce 
tureen. 

Wild pigeons may be roasted, or made 
into a pie. 

Plovers' eggs are boiled hard, and served 
in a napkin, or with green moss put round 
each in the dish. 

GAME, ESSENCE OF. Take four 
rabbits, four partridges, two pounds of veal, 
two pounds of steaks; put them into a 
stewpan, with a bottle of white wine; boil 
them until the whole is entirel}- reduced to 
a jelly ; then add to it broth, and consomme, 
(equal ()uantities of each), eight carrots, ten 
onions, three cloves, a little thyme and ba- 
sil; let the whole boil very gently, until the 
meat is quite done ; then strain it through a 
napkin. No salt need be put into it, as the 
broth and consomme are suliliciently season- 
ed to flavor the essence of game. 

GAME FRITTERS. Take any of 
those parts of cold roasted game, which can 
be cut into thin slices, dip them into good 
batter, and fi-y them in olive oil, or lard. 
Sprinkle the flitters when done, widi salt 
and spices, pounded very fine. 

GAME HASHED. See Fowl. 

GARLIC BUTTER SAUCE. Pound 
half a dozen cloves of garlic; rub them 
tiirougli a silk sie\e, with a wooden spoon ; 
put tiiis into a mortar with some butter, and 
beat it until thoroughly incorporated; then 
put this butter into any sauce you please. 

GARLIC, ESSENCE OF. Take an 
earthen skillet, place it on the fire, and put 
into it a bottle of white wine, half a glass of 
vinegar, the juice of two lemons, six clo\es 
of garlic, the same number of cloves, the 
quarter of a nutmeg, and two bay-leaves: 
when near boiling, reduce the fire, and let it 
stand on iiot ashes for seven or eight hours; 
strain it through a coarse sieve, and then 
filter it. Keep it in veiy closely corked 
bottles. A very small quantitv of this es- 
sence is requisite to impart its flavor to a dish. 



GARLIC GRAVY. Slice a pound and 
a half of veal, or beef; season it with pep- 
per and salt; put it into a stewpan, with 
two carrots split, and four cloves of garlic 
sliced, a ([uartcr of a pound of sliced ham, 
and a large spoonful of water ;* put the stew- 
pan over a genlie fire, and watch when the 
meat begins to stick to the pan ; w hen it 
does, turn it, and let it be very uell browned, 
(but take care that it is not in the least 
burnt) ; then dredge it with flour, and pour 
in a quart of broth, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
a couple of cloves bruised, and slice in a 
lemon ; set it on the fire again, then let it 
simmer gently for an hour and a half longer; 
then skim oft" the fat, and strain oft" the gra- 
vy, by pouring it through a napkin, strain- 
ing and pressing it very hard. 

GATEAU DE COMPIEGNE. Take 
three pounds of flour, two pounds of butter, 
an ounce and four drachms of yeast, an 
ounce of salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
a glass of cream, twelve yolks and twelve 
whole eggs, and five or six spoonfuls of 
whipped cream. 

With these ingredients proceed as follows: 
sift the fl(jur, of which put a fourth part on 
the slab, make a hole in the middle, put into 
it a glass of warm water and the yeast; mix 
them together as lightly, anil with as much 
despatch as possible, adding more warm 
water if necessary; when well worked up 
for some minutes, gather it together, (it 
ought to leave the slab and the hand freely) , 
put it into a saucepan ; cover it, and place 
it in a tolerably warm situation to rise. 
Take the rest of the flour, lay it on the slab 
make a hole in the middle of it, in which 
put the salt, sugar, and cream ; stir these 
together well, and then put in the eggs, one 
at a time, (break them into a basin, in case 
all should not be good) ; the eggs being put 
in, add by degrees the butter, stirring tliem 
well; then mix the flour, a little at a time, 
with the above, until the whole is formed 
into a smooth paste; more eggs must be 
added if it be too stift'; work it up a litlle, 
and then add the leaven ; work that in ; and 
lastly, put in the whipped cream. The 
whole operation being thus performed, ha\e 
ready a cylindrical fluted mould, (al)uut 
eight inches in diameter, and nine in height) ; 
butter it by means of a sponge, being care- 
ful that it is done in all parts, otherwise the 
gateau will adhere to it; place the mould 
in a moderately warm place, but where 
there is a free current of air. When the ga- 
teau has risen so as to fill the mould, and 
the surface is a little inflated, it should be 
put into the oven instantly, if not, it falls and 
becomes heavy. The oven must be of a 
moderate heat, and kept closed while the 
gateau is baking; take it out in about an 



GHE 



85 



GIN 



horn J and if it be flexible and light colored, 
replace it for thirty or forty minutes; but 
if, on the contrary, it is red, and firm to the 
touch, place a tin plate on the top, and put 
it in the oven till done; remove the mould 
with care, and the gateau is finished. If 
the mould does not come away quite so well 
as it ought, strike it gently with a spatula. 
When taken out, put it in the oven for a few 
minutes to dry. 

This gateau is sometimes varied by the 
addition of six ounces of sugared anise, and 
ihe same quantity of dry currants. 

GATEAU DE POMMES. Boil in a 
pint of water one pound and a half of loaf 
sugar till it become a rich sirup; weigh 
two pounds of apples after they have been 
peeled, cored, and cut small; boil them in 
the sirup with the grated peel and juice of a 
large lemon till they are reduced to a pulp; 
put it iiito a mould. The following day 
serve it, turned out m a glass dish, with a 
rich custard. 

GERMAN PUFFS. (1) Mix veiy well 
with two large table-spoonfuls of flour, a quar- 
ter of a pint of cream, two well-beaten eggs, 
and a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, a very 
little salt, and one ounce of butter beaten to 
a cream ; bake it in buttered cups for twen- 
ty or thirty minutes; turn them out upon a 
dish, and serve them instantly ; pour a sweet 
sauce round them. 

GERMAN PUFFS. (2) Beat to a 
cream a (juarter of a pound of fresh butter, 
blanch and pound one ounce of sweet almonds 
with a little rose water, beat five yolks and 
three whites of eggs; mix all together with 
two lai-ge table-spoonfuls of flour, and sweeten 
it with pounded loaf sugar; bake it in but- 
tered cu|os, and serve them with a sweet 
sauce. 

GHERKINS OR cucumbers- pick- 
led. Choose gherkins very green and 
straight, brush, and place a layer in a pan, 
sprinkle them with fine salt, then another lay- 
er of gherkins, which sprinkle with salt also, 
and continue this operation until you have 
used nearly a bushel of gherkins, leave them 
in the salt for twenty-four hours, which will 
draw all the water from them ; at the end 
of that time drain and place them in a jar, 
with a handful of allspice, the same of tarra- 
gon, a little balm, ten shallots, six cloves of 
garlic, two or diree long peppers, twenty 
cloves, a lemon cut in quarters, and two 
small handfuls of salt. Boil two gallons of 
tlie best vinegar, pour it over tke gherkins, 
and let them stand till the next day, when 
boil the vinegar a second time, and pour it 
on again; the following day boil the vine- 

8 



gar for the thiid and last time, pour it over 
the gheikiiis, and when (luile cold, cover tlio 
jar with a wet parchment. 

GIBLET PIE. See Pies. 

GIBLETS STEWED. Clean two sets 
of giblets, put them into a saucepan, just 
cover them with cold water, and set them oa 
the file; when they boil, take oft' the scum, 
and put in an onion, three cloves, or two blades 
of mace, a few berries of black pepper, the 
same of allspice, and half a tea-spoonful of 
salt ; cover the ste wj)an close, and let it simmer 
very gently till the giblets are quite tender: 
this will take from one hour and a half to 
two and a half, according to the age of the 
giblets; the pinions will be done first, and 
must then be taken out, and put in again'to 
warm when the gizzards aie done: watch 
them that they do not get too much done: 
take them out and thicken the sauce with 
flour and butter; let it boil half an hour, or 
till there is just enough to eat with the gib- 
lets, and then strain it through a tamis into 
a clean stewpan ; cut the giblets into mouth- 
fuls; put them into the sauce with the juice 
of half a lemon, a table-spoonful of mush- 
room ketchuj) ; pour the whole into a soup- 
dish, with sippets of bread at tlie bottom. 
Ox-tails prepared in the same way are ex- 
cellent eating. 

GINGERBREAD. Rub one pound of 
butter well into three pounds of flour; then 
add one pound of powder-sugar, one pound 
of treacle, and two ounces of ginger pounded 
and sifted very fine; one nutmeg grated very 
fine ; then warm a (juarter of a pint of cream, 
and mix all together; you may add carra- 
ways and sweetmeats if you choose ; make 
it into a stiff paste, and bake it in a slow 
oven. If cake or biscuits are kept in paper 
or a drawer, they will acquire a disagieeable 
taste. A pan and cover, or tureen, will 
preserve them long and moist; or if to be 
ciisp, laying them before the lire will make 
them so. 

GINGERBREAD, AMERICAN. See 
American. 

GINGERBREAD WITHOUT BUT- 
TER. Mix two pounds of treacle; of or- 
ange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, 
each four ounces, all thinly sliced ; one ounce 
of coriander-seeds, one ounce of caraways, 
and one ounce of beaten ginger, in as much 
paste as will make a soft paste ; lay it in 
cakes or tin plates, aJid bake it in a quick 
oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen 
vessel, and it will be good for some months. 

GINGERBREAD INDIAN. Take 



GIN 



8G 



GIN 



twelve ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh butter, one pound of 
dried flour, two ounces of pounded ginger, 
and of cloves and cinnamon a (juarter of an 
ounce each. Mix tne ginger and the spice 
with the flour; put the sugar and a small 
tea-cupful of water into a saucepan ; when 
it is dissolved, add the butter, and as soon 
as it is melted, mix it with the flour and 
other things; work it uj), and form the 
paste into cakes or nuts, and bake them 
upon tins. 

GINGERBREAD, LAFAYETTE. 

Five eggs ; half a pound of brown sugar ; half 
a pound of fresh butter ; a pint of sugai-house 
molasses ; a pound and a half of flour ; four 
table-spoonfuls of ginger; two large sticks of 
cinnamon; three dozen grains of allspice; 
three dozen of cloves ; the juice and grated 
peel of two lemons. Stir the butter and su- 
gar to a cream ; beat the eggs very well ; 
pour the molasses at once, into the butter 
and sugar. Add the ginger and other spice, 
and stir all well together. Put in the egg 
and flour alternately, stirring all the time. 
Stir the whole very hard, and put in the 
lemon at the last. When the whole is mix- 
ed, stir it till very light. Butter an earthen 
pan, or a thick tin or iron one, and put the 
gingerbread in it. Bake it in a moderate 
oven, an hour or more, according to its 
thickness. Take care that it do not burn. 
Or you may bake it in small cakes, or lit- 
tle tins. Its lightness will be much improv- 
ed by a small tea-spoonful of pearkish dis- 
solved in a lea-spoonful of vinegar, and stir- 
I'ed lightly in at the last. Too much pearl- 
ash will give it an unpleasant taste. If you 
use pearlash, you must omit the lemon, as 
its taste will be entirely destroyed by the 
pearlash. You may substitute for the lem- 
on some raisins and currants, well floured 
to prevent their sinking. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (1) Take four 
pounds of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, 
an ounce of caraway -seeds, half an ounce 
of ginger pounded and sifted, six ounces of 
fresh butter, and two ounces of candied or- 
ange-peel cut into small slices; then take a 
pound of treacle or honey, and a gill of 
cream, make them warm together; mix it, 
with all the ingredients, into a paste, and 
let it lay six hours; then roll it out, make it 
into nuts, and bake them in a moderate oven. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (2) Take 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, one 
poLUid of ti'eacle, three ounces of brown su- 
gar, four ounces of fresh butler, one ounce 
and a half of pounded and sifted ginger, of 
candied orange-peel and citron, cut small, 
ihree-quai'ters of an ounce each ; melt the 



butter with tlie treacle, and when it is about 
milk-warm, add it to the flour and other 
ingredients, and then mix all well together; 
with a spoon drop the nuts upon buttered 
tins, and bake tliem. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (3) Dis- 
solve a quarter of a pound of butter in three- 
quarters of a pound of treacle, put it into a 
pan large enough to contain the rest of the 
ingredients, and when almost cold, stir in 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, half a 
pound of coarse brown sugar, half an ounce 
of caraway seeds, three-quarters of an ounce 
of pounded ginger, and the grated peel of a 
lemon; mix all these well together, and let 
it stand till it be stiff, or till the following 
day, then make it into nuts, by pinching it 
into pieces with the finger and thumb. 
Bake them upon buttered tins in a quick 
oven. Half an ounce of coriander seeds 
may be added. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (4) Rub 
half a pound of butter into two pounds of 
flour; add one pound of coarse sugar, and 
one ounce of pounded ginger; mix all well 
togetlier with one pound and two ounces of 
treacle ; form it into nuts, or roll it out, and 
cut it into round cakes; bake them upon 
tins. 

GINGERBREAD, OATMEAL, Sift 
four pounds of oatmeal, and mix with it four 
pounds of treacle, half a pound of brown su- 
gar, the same quantity of melted butter, and 
three-c|uarters of an ounce of powdered gin- 
ger. Work it all well together, let it re- 
main for twenty-four hours, and then make 
it into cakes. 

GINGER BEER. See Beer. 

GINGER CAKES. Put four pounds of 
flour upon the dresser ; then take a copper 
saucepan, and break into it six eggs, and 
mix them well with a spoon; add one pint 
of cream to them, and beat them well; put 
the saucepan over the fire, stir till your mix- 
ture is warm ; put two pounds of butter into 
the cream and eggs, undone pound of sugar, 
and keep stirring it over a very slow tire, 
just to melt all the butler; put in four ounces 
of pounded ginger, and as soon as all the 
butter is melted, pour it all into the middle 
of the flour ; mix it as well as you |)ossibly 
can, till it becomes a fine paste; then roll it 
out with flour under it on your dresser; cut 
them to the size of the top of a tea-cup, a 
quarter of an inch in thickness; and before 
jou put them into the oven (which should be 
very hot), place three papers under them. 

GINGER IMITATION. Peel off the 



GL A 



87 



GOO 



outer coat of the tender stems of lettuce that is 
short, cut It into bits one or two inches long, 
and throw it into cold water; fo each pound 
put in a tea-spoonful of Cayenne, and a 
little sah; let it stand one or two days; al- 
low an etitial proportion of fine loaf sug-ar, 
which clarify. Soak some good ginger in 
hot water, slice it, and add it to the sugar, 
allowing one ounce and a half to the poiuid, 
and boil it for fifteen minutes; strain off the 
water from the lettuce, and pour over it 
the sirup, keeping back the ginger, with 
which tlie sirup must be boiled three times, 
and poured over the lettuce, two or three 
days intervening between each boiling; and 
at last add the strained juice of one or two 
lemons. 

GLACE, ROYAL. Put the wliite of a 
new-!aid egg into a pan, and mix with it a 
suflici-int quantity of white powder-sugar to 
make a glace or icing, neither too dry nor 
too liquid; beat it well, and add a little 
lemon-juice to whiten it. By mixing with 
tltis glace, CcU'mine, saffron, indigo, spi- 
nach-juice, &c. ; it will be either rose-col- 
ored, yellow, blue, green, &c. according to 
yoiu' taste. 

GLAZE. (1) Take the remains of 
any licjuor in which meat has been cooked, 
and strain it through a silk sieve until quite 
clear; then put it into a saucepan and re- 
duce it over a brisk fire: as soon as it is 
sulBciently done, that is, when it sticks to 
the spoon, put it into a smaller saucepan, 
and set it in the bain-marie; when wanted, 
add a small piece of fiesh butter to it, to 
correct its saltness. 

GLAZE. (2) Make a consomme with 
whatever remnants of fowls oi* meat that may 
be in the house; strain it, and then put it on 
the fire witli two or three whites of eggs 
beaten to a snow ; stir till it boils, and then 
set on the side of the stove, and jjlace fire 
on the saucepan lid ; as soon as tlie eggs are 
set, pass the glaze through a wet cloth ; re- 
duce this over a large fii;e, stirring it con- 
stantly with a wooden spoon to prevent its 
sticking; then pour it into a pot for use. 
When wanted, put a small quantity of it in- 
to a saucepan, and make it hot over a slow 
fire; and, in this state, lay it gently over 
• such articles as may requiie glazing, by 
means of a feather. 

GLAZE. (3) Desire tlie butcher to break 
the bones of a leg or a shin of beef, of ten 
pounds weight (the fresher killed the better) ; 
put it into a soup-pot (a digester is the best 
utensil for this purpose) that will well hold 
it; just cover it witli cold water, and set it 
on the fire to heat gradually till it nearly 



boils (this should be at least an hour) ; skim 
it attentively while any scum rises; pour in 
a little cold water, to throw up the scum 
diat may remain; let it come to a boil again, 
and again skim it carefully: when no more 
scum rises, and tlie broth appears clear (put 
in neither roots, nor herbs, nor salt), let it 
boil for eight or ten hours, and then stiain 
it through a hair sieve into a brown stone 
pan ; set the broth where it will cool (|uickly ; 
put the meat into a sieve, let it drain, make 
potted beef, or it will be very acceptable to 
many poor families. iVext day remove 
e^ery particle of fat from the top of it, and 
pour it through a tamis, or fine sieve, as 
(juietly as possible, into a stewpan, taking 
care not to let any of the settlings at die 
bottom of the stone pan go into tlie stewpan, 
which should be of thick copper, perfectly 
well tinned ; add a quarter of an ounce of 
whole black pepper to it; let it boil briskly, 
with the stewpan uncovered, on a quick 
fire ; if any scum rises, take it off with a 
skimmer: when it begins to thicken, and is 
reduced to about a quart, put it into a smal- 
ler stewpan ; set it over a gentler fiie, till it 
is reduced. 

GODIVEAU. Take fillet of veal or 
breasts of fowl or game, fresh pork or 
sausage meat, beef-marrow or suet, erjual 
cjuantities of each, veal sweetbreads, truf- 
fles, and mushrooms; season these articles 
with pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, all in 
powder; pound tliem all together, and 
put in (one at a time) the yolks of eggs; 
pour in also a little water, pounding con- 
tinually, until it is reduced to a sort of paste. 
3Iake a small ball of it, which boil in a 
little water to ascertain whether it be suf- 
ficiently salt; sweet herbs may be added 
when you are about to use it. The godiveau 
is used as a farce for tourtes and hot pies. 

GOOSE, TO CHOOSE. Be careful 
in choosing a goose, that the bill and feet 
are yellow, as it will be young: when old 
the feet and bill are red. AS'^hen they are 
fresh the feet are pliable; if stale they are 
dry and stiff. Green geese are in season 
from May or June, till they are tliree months 
old; they should be scalded. A stubble 
goose is good till it is five or six mondis 
old, and should be picked dry. 

GOOSE ROASTED. A stubble goose 
should be stuffed with sage and onions, 
chopped small, and mixed with pepper and 
salt ; boil the sage and onion in a little wa- 
ter before diey ai"e chopped, or mix a few 
bread crumbs with them when chopped; 
either will render them less strong. Put it 
first at a distace tom the fire, and by de- 
grees draw it nearer A slip of paper 



GOO 



88 



GRA 



should be skewered on the breast bone. 
Baste it very well. When the breast is 
rising, take off the paper, and be careful to 
serve it before the breast falls, it will be 
spoiled by coming to table flattened. Serve 
it with good gravy and apple sauce, in 
boats It will take about an hoiu' and a 
half to roast. 

GOOSE TO TRUSS. The goose must 
be first well picked and stubbed, tlien cut 
off the pinions at the first joint, and the 
feet also. Make a slit in the back of the 
neck, and take out the throat, cut off the 
neck close to the back and the skin, but 
leave enouglx to turn over the back ] make a 
slit between the vent and the rump, through 
which draw out the entrails, then wipe it 
clean. Draw the legs up, keeping them 
close to the side, then put a skewer into 
the wing, through the middle of the leg, 
body, and the leg and wing on the other 
eide ; put another skewer through the small 
of the leg, which keep close to the sidesmen ; 
run it through, and do the same on tlie oth- 
er side. Cut through the end of the vent, 
through which put the rump, to prevent the 
etuffing from falling out. 

GOOSEBERRY CREAM. Boil one 
quart of gooseberries very quick, in as much 
water as will cover diem: stir in about half 
an ounce of good butter; when they are 
soft, pulp them through a sieve; sweeten 
tlie pulp while it is hot, with sugar, then 
beat it up with the yolks of four eggs; serve 
in a dish, cups, or glasses. 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Put goose- 
berries into a stone jar, with some fine su- 
gar; put the jar either in a stove, or in a 
saucepan of water, over the fire; if in a 
stove, a large spoonful of water should be 
added to the fruit. When it is done to pulp, 
press it through a colander ; have ready a 
sufficient (juantity of new milk, and a tea- 
cupful of raw cream, boiled together, or 
you may use an egg instead of the cream ; 
leave it to get cold, then sweeten well with 
fine sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees 
with it. 

GOOSEBERRY MARMALADE. Boil 
tiiem a moment, or only scald them in boil- 
ing water, sift them through a sieve; reduce 
them over the fire to half, then mix them 
with sugar prepai-ed to the ninth degree (a 
la grande plume), half a pound of sugar to 
a pound of fruit. • 



GOOSEBERRY JAM. See Jam. 



GOOSEBERRY PASTE. 



Gather, 



when quite ripe, die rough red gooseberries ; 



top and tail them ; put them into a jar, tie 
it over with bladder, and boil it in a pot 
of water till the fruit be perfectly soft; pour i 
oflT tlie thin juice, and with a wooden spoon 
rub the gooseberries through a fine hair 
sieve ; allow rather more than half tlie 
weight of the pulp of pounded loaf sugar, 
mix it together, and boil it till it will jelly, 
which will take almost two hours ; stir, and 
skim it, then put it into a dish, and serve 
when cold, to be eaten with cream. The 
thin juice may be boiled with its weight of 
good brown sugar, and used as gooseben"y 

jelly- 

GOURDS FRIED. (1) Cut five or six 
gourds in quarters; take off the skin and 
pulp ; stew them in the same manner as foi 
table: when done, drain them quite dry; 
beat up an egg, and dip the gourds in it. 
and cover them well over with bread-crumbs ; - 
make some hog's-lard hot, and fiy them a 
nice light color ; throw a little salt and 
pepper over them, and serve up quite dry. 

GOURDS FRIED. (2) Take six oi 
eight small gourds, as near of a size as pos- 
sible ; slice them with a cucumber-slice; 
dry them in a clolh, and then fry them in 
very hot lard ; throw o\ev a little pepper and 
salt, and serve up on a napkin. Great at- 
tention is requisite to do ihese well; if the 
fat is quite hot they are done in a minute, 
and will soon spoil; if not hot enough, they 
will eat greasy and tough. 

GOURDS STEWED. Take off all 
the skin of six or eight gourds, put them in- 
to a stewpan, with water, sale, lemon-juice, 
and a bit of butter, or fat bacon, and let 
them stew gently till (]iiite tender, and serve 
up with a rich Dutch sauce, or any otlier 
sauce you please that is piquante. 

GRAPES, COMPOTE. Boil a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with half a glass of wa- 
ter, till it is reduced to a strong sirup; skim, 
and then put into it a poundof grapes, pick- 
ed from the stalks, and the seeds taken out; 
give them a boil two or three times, and 
then place them in a dessert dish: if there is 
any scum upon them, carefully wipe it off 
with white paper. 

GRAPES, PICKLED. The grapes ' 
must be at their full growth, but not ripe, 
cut them in small bunches ; put them in a 
stone jar, with vine leaves between each 
layer of grapes, till the jar is fiill; then take 
as much spring-water as Avill cover the 
grapes and the leaves ; as it heats put in as 
much salt as will make a brine sufficiently 
strong to bear an egg ; you must use half 
bay salt and half common salt; when it 



GR A 



89 



GRA 



boils, skim it ; strain it thi'ough a flannel 
bag, and let it stand to settle ; by the time it 
is cold it will be quite settled; strain it a 
sfcond time through a flannel bag; then pour 
it into the jar, upon the grapes, which must 
be well covered ; fill the jar with vine leases ; 
tlien tie it over with ^ double cloth, and set 
a plate upon it ; let it stand for two days, 
then take oft' the cloth, pour away the brine, 
and take out the leaves and the grapes, and 
lay them between two clotlis to dry ; then 
take two (juarts of vinegar, one quart of 
spring-water, and one pound of coarse sugai", 
boil it for a short time, and skim it very 
clean as it boils; let it stand till it is quite 
cold; wipe the jar very clean and dry, lay 
some fresh vine leaves at the bottom, between 
evei'y bunch of grapes, and on the top; then 
pour and strain the pickle on the grapes; 
fill the jar ; let the pickle be above the grapes ; 
tie up a thin piece of board in a flannel, lay 
it on the grapes to keep them under the 
pickle; tie them d(jwn with a bladder, and 
over that a leather. Always keep the grapes 
under the pickle. 

GRATIN. Cut half a pound of fillet of 
veal into dice, and put it into a stewpan 
with a piece of butter, a few mushrooms, 
parsley, shallots chopped small, salt, pepper, 
and spices; stir them up with a wooden 
spoon ; and when the meat has been on the 
fire about a quarter of an hour, take the 
drain oft' the butter, mince it very small, and 
put it into a mortar, with fifteen fowl or 
game livers, well washed, dried, and par- 
boiled, all the bitter parts taken out, pound 
them, adding at times as much panada as 
you have meat ; boil some calf's udder, trim, 
and remove all the skin when cold, and put 
about a third of the quantity of meat, and 
pound them together, adding, one at a time, 
three yolks, and three whole eggs ; season 
with salt, pepper, and spices; when well 
pounded, set it by in an earthen pan for 
use. 



GRAVY. 

Sauces. 



See also Cullis and 



GRAVIES, DIRECTIONS respect- 
ing. — The skirts of beef and the kidney, 
will make quite as good gravy as any other 
meat, if prepared in the same manner. 

The kidney of an ox, or the milt, makes 
excellent gravy, cut all to pieces, and pre- 
pared as other meat; and so will the shank 
end of mutton that has been dressed, if much 
gravy is not required. 

The shank-bones of mutton add gi'eatly to 
the richness of gravy; but they should be 
first well soaked, and scoui'cd clean. 

To obtain the flavor of French cookery, 
and to improve tlie taste of the gravies, tar- 
8* , 



ragon should be used ; but it must not be 
added till a short time before serving. 

GRAVY. (1) Take three pounds of beef 
steaks, two rabbits, (excepting the heads 
and breasts), a knuckle of veal, five carrots, 
six onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, a 
bunch of parsley and scallions; put all these 
into a stewpan, with two ladlesful of broth, 
and set them over a good fire to reduce; 
then cover the stove, and let the stewpan 
stand over it, until the meat Ijegins to give 
out the gravy, and adheres slightly; die jel- 
ly at the bottom of the stewpan ought to be 
nearly black, and when that is the case, 
take it from the stove, and let it stand for 
ten minutes; then fill up the stewpan with 
good broth, or water, (if tlie latter, not so 
large a quantity) ; let this simmer for three 
hours; skim and season it well. If water 
is used instead of broth, the gravy must be 
strained before it is used. Gravy may also 
be made of any pieces of ready dressed 
meat, in the following manner: cut some 
onions into shces, lay diem at the bottom of 
the stewpan, and the meat on them, with 
the same ingredients as above, and two or 
three glasses of water; then proceed in the' 
same manner as the other, until the bottom 
of the stewpan is nearly black, when add 
water according to the (juantity of meat; 
|)Ut salt if necessary, and simmer the whole 
for two hours; then strain it dwough a 
sieve. 

GRAVY. (2) Cut down into slices four 
pounds of lean beef, rub the bottom of the 
pot with butter, and put in the meat ; turn it 
frequently till it be well browned, and do it 
slowly, then add four quarts of cold water ; 
when it has boiled two hours, put in two 
dessert-spoonfuls of whole pepper, one car- 
rot, and three onions; let it stew gently for 
four* hours longer, strain it, and when it is 
required for use, take off" the fat. This gra- 
vy answers for all made dishes \\hen brown 
gra^'y sauce is used. 

GRAVY AND STUFFING FOR 
DUCKS. Boil all the giblets excepting tlie 
liver for an hour in a pint of water with a 
chopped onion, some salt and pepper; strain, 
and add a very little browning, with a tea- 
spoonful of coratch, and one of mushroom 
ketchup; for the stuffing, mince the raw 
liver with two sage leaves, a small onion, 
some pepper and salt, a bit of butter, and 
grated bread crumbs. 

Send your sauces to table as hot as pos- 
sible. 

Nathing can be more unsightly than the 
surface of a sauce in a frozen state, or gar- 
nished widi grease on the top. The best 
way to get rid of this, is to pass it ihrougk 



GRA 



90 



GRA 



a tamis or napkin previously soaked in cold 
water; the coldness of the napkin will coag- 
ulate the fat, and only suffer the pure gravy 
to pass througli: if any particles of fat re- 
main, take them off by applying filtering pa- 
per, as blotting paper is applied to writing. 
Let your sauces boil up after you put in 
wine, anchovy, or thickening, that their fla- 
vors may be well blended with the other in- 
gredients ; and keep in mind that the 
top-knot of COOKERY is, to entertain the 
mouth without offending the stomach. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES. It is of 

as much importance that the cook should 
know how to make a boat of good gravy for 
poultry, &c. as that it should be sent up of 
proper complexion, and nicely frothed. 

We shall endeavor to introduce to her all 
the materials which give flavor in sauce 
which is the essence of soup, and intended 
to contain more relish in a tea-spoonful 
than the former does in a table-spoonful. 

We hope to deserve as much praise from 
the economist as we do from the bon vivantj 
as we irave taken great pains to introduce to 
him the methods of making substitutes for 
those ingredients, which are always expen- 
sive, and often not to be had at all. Many 
of these cheap articles are as savoiy and 
as salutary as the dearer ones, and tliose who 
have large families and limited incomes, will, 
no doubt, be glad to avail themselves of 
them. 

Tlie reader may rest assured, that wheth- 
er he consults this book to diminish the ex- 
pense or increase the pleasures of hospitality, 
lie will find all the information that was to 
be obtained up to. 1832, communicated in 
the most unreserved and intelligible manner. 

A great deal of the elegance of cookeiy 
depends upon the accompaniments to each 
dish being appropriate and well adapted 
to it. 

We can assure our readers, no attention 
has been wanting on our part to render this 
department of tlie work worthy of their pe- 
rusal ; each receipt is the faitliful narrative 
of actual and repeated experiments, and has 
received the most deliberate consideration 
before it was here presented to them. It is 
given in the most circumstantial manner, 
and not in the technical and mysterious lan- 
guage former writers on these subjects seem 
to have preferred ; by which their directions 
are useless and unintelligible to all who have 
not regularly served an apprenticeship at the 
Btove. 

It will be to very little purpose that I 
have taken so much pains to teach how to 
manage roasts and boils, if a cook cannot or 
will not make the several sauces that aie 
usually sent up with them. 

We have, therefore, endeavored to gi\e 



the plainest directions how to produce, with 
the least trouble and expense possible, all 
the various compositions the English kitchen 
affords ; and hope to present such a whote- 
some and palatable variety as will suit all 
tastes and all pockets, so that a cook may 
give satisfaction in all families. The more 
combinations of this sort she is acquainted 
with, tlie better she will comprehend the 
management of every one of them. 

Let your sauces each display a decided 
character; send up your plain sauces (oys- 
ter, lobster, &c.) as pure as possible: they 
should only taste of the materials from which 
they take their name. 

The imagination of most cooks is so in- 
cessantly on the hunt for a relish, that they 
seem to think tliey cannot make sauce suffi- 
ciently savoi-y without putting into it every- 
thing that ever was eaten; and supposing 
every addition must be an improvement, they 
frequently overpower the natural flavor of 
their plain sauces, by overloading them 
with salt and spices, &c. : but, remsmber, 
these will be deteriorated by any addition, 
save only just salt enough to awaken the 
palate. 

On the contraiy, of compound sauces; 
the ingredients should be so nicely propor- 
tioned, that no one be predominant; so that 
from the equal union of tlie combined fla- 
vors such a fine mellow mixture is produced, 
whose very novelty cannot fail of being ac- 
ceptable to the persevering gourmand, if it 
has not pretensions to a permanent place at 
his table. 

An ingenious cook will form as endless a 
variety of these compositions as a musician 
with his seven notes, or a painter with his 
colors ; no part of her business ofi'ers so fair 
and frequent an opportunity- to display her 
abilities: spices, herbs, &c. are often 
very absm-dly and injudiciously jumbled to- 
getlier. 

Why have clove and allspice, or mace and 
nutmeg, in the same sauce; or marjoram, 
tliyme, and savory ; or onions, leeks, es- 
chalots, and garlic 1 one will very well sup- 
ply the place of the other, and the frugal 
cook may save something considerable by 
attending to this, to the advantage of her 
employers, and her own time and trouble. 

iCJ^ <S'ee Sauces and Cullis for 
other important particulars. 

GRAVIES, ESSENCE OF HAM 
FOR. Pick off all the bits of meat from a 
ham-bone, pound them, break the bone, and 
put all into a saucepan, together with neaily 
half a pint of water, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs ; simmer gently for sometime, stirring 
it occasionally ; then add a pint of good beef 
gravy, and some pepper, and continue to 
simmer it till it be well flavored with tha 



GRA 



91 



GRA 



herbs; strain, and keep it for impro\ Lng rich 
gravies and sauces of all descriptions. 

' GRAVY FOR BOILED MEAT, May 

be made with parings and trimmings; or 
pour from a (jiiarter to half a pint of the li- 
quor in which the meat was boiled, into the 
dish with it, and pierce the inferior part of 
the joint with a sharp skewer. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. (1) 

Most joints will affi^rd sufficient trimmings, 
&c. to make half a pint of plain gravy, which 
you may color with a few drops of lirowniiig: 
for those that do not, about half an hour be- 
fore you think the meat will be done, mix a 
salt-spoonful of salt, with a full quarter-))int 
of boiling watei'; drop this by degrees on 
the brown parts of the joint ; set a dish un- 
der to catch it (the meat will soon brown 
again); set it liy; as it cools, the fat will 
iloat on the suiface ; wlien the meat is ready, 
carejuliy remoAe the fat, and warm up the 
gravy, anrl pour it into the dish. 

The common method is, wiien the meat 
is in the disii you intend to send it up in, 
to mix half a tea-spoonful of salt in a quarter 
pint of boiling water, and to drop some of 
this over the corners and underside of the 
meat, and to pour the rest through the hole 
the spit came out of: some pierce the infe- 
rior parts of the joints with a sharp skewer. 

The following receipt was given us by a 
very good cook: — You may make good 
browning for loast meat and poultiy, by 
saving die brown bits of roast meat or broil- 
ed; cut them small, put them into a basin, 
cover them with boiling water, and put them 
away till next day ; then put it into a sauce- 
pan, let it boil two or three minutes, stiain 
it through a sieve into a basin, and put it 
away for use. When you want gravy for 
roast meat, put two table-spoonfuls into h.alf 
a pint of boiling water with a little salt: if 
for roasted veal, put three table-spoonfuls 
into Haifa pint of thin melted battel-. 

The gravy which comes down in the dish, 
the cook (if she is a good housewife) will 
preserve to enrich hashes or little made 
dishe?, &c. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. (2) 

About a quarter of an hoiu' before the meat 
is taken from the fii-e, put a common dish 
with a tea-spoonliil of salt in it under the 
meat; when it has all run into the dish, re- 
move it, baste and froth the meat, and poui' 
the gravy into the dish on which the roast is 
to be served. 

GRAVY MADE FROM BONES. 
Break into small pieces a pound of beef, 

mutton, or veal bones, if mixed together so 
much the better ; boil them in two quarts of 



water, and after it boils, let it simmer for 
nearly diree hours : boil with it a couple of 
onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt 
and pepper; strain, and keep it for making 
gravy or sauces. The bones of broiled and 
Boasted meat being scraped, washed clean, 
and boiled in less water, answer equally well 
for this pui'pose. 

GRAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT. 

(1) Slice diree onions, and fry them brown 
in a little butter ; add tliem to half a pint 
of water, and the same of beer, put in some 
peppercorns, salt, a little lemon peel, three 
cloves, a Itttle mace or pepper, a spoonful 
of walnut pickle, and one of mushioom 
ketchup, of soy and essence of anchovy a 
dessert-spoonful each, a small bunch of sweet 
herbs, and 'a quarter of a slice of biead 
toasted brown on both sides; simmer all to- 
gether in a closely covered saucepan for 
twenty minutes, then strain it for use, and 
when cold take off the fat. It will taste 
exactly like a giavy made with meat. 

GRAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT. 

(2) Knead a good deal of flour into a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, fry it in a fiy- 
ing-pan over a clear fire, stir it constantly 
with a wooden spoon till it become a nice 
brown color, taking jiaiticular care that it 
be made perfectly smooth; pour in some 
boiling water, add a little finely-minced on- 
ion, some whole pepper and. a little salt, put 
it into a small saucepan, cover it closely, 
and simmer it for a short time; strain, and 
mix with it a little mushroom ketchup, and 
Port wine. 

GRAVY OR RICH CULLIS. Cut 

into slices some lean beef, veal, and mutton, 
cover the bottom of the saucepan with the 
veal, tlien put in a few slices of salt pork, 
next a layer of beef, add a few onions sliced, 
and the red part of one or two -carrots, a 
little mace, two or three cloves, some whole 
pepper, and two or three bay-lea\'es, above 
that the mutton ; cover the pan closely, set it 
on a slow fire, and when the meat is a fine 
brown, mix quite smoodi a small quantity 
of flour in water, stir it in, and then add as 
much boiling water as will cover the meat 
well, and a little salt ; cover the pan closely, 
and let it stew an hour and a half; strain, 
and keep it for use; it will continue good for 
eight or ten days. 

GRAVY DRAWN. Put a few poimds 
of gravy-beef sliced, and a little whole 
pej^per, into ajar wiLh a cover to fit closely; 
set the jai' into a pot of cold v\a(er, and when 
it boils, add ;ig it wastes more hot water, 
and keep it boiling gently for six or seven 
hours, when the richest giavy imaginable 



GR A 



92 



H A JI 



will be obtained. It may be used in that 
state, or reduced with water. 

GRAVY. TO MAKE A PINT OF 
RICH. Brown a qirarter of a pound of 
butter, dreiiging in two table-spoonfuls of 
flour, and stirring it constantly ; add a pound 
of gravy-beef cut into small bits, and two or 
three onions chopped. When it becomes 
brown, add some whole pepper, one carrot, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, and three pints of 
water ; let it lx)il gently till reduced to cue, 
then sti-ain it. This gi-avy may Ije served 
with roasted turkey or fowl. 

GRA\T^', TO CLARIFY. Clarify gra- 
vy, drawn from beef or veal, with the beaten 
\\hites of eggs, allowing one white to a 
quart. Gi-avies and soups wliich aje to be 
clarified should be made very strong, and be 
highly seasoned. 

GRAVY AND SAUCE ingredi- 
EJ« TS. Browning lor made dishes. — Put into 
a saucepan op.e pound of good brown sugar, 
stir it constantly over a slow fire, boil it 
till it is as thick as ti-eacle, and resembles 
it in color; take the pan off the fire, stir it 
for a minute or two, and pour in vei"v slowlv 
a cjuart of boiling water, stirring constantly; 
put it again on the fiie, and boil it for a 
little ; pour it into a bowl, and when cold, 
bottle it. This browning will keep good 
for a year, and very little of it serves for 
coloring soups, gravies, or sauces. 

To clarity butter. — Put the butter cut into 
slices into a nicely-cleaned brass pan, stir it 
gently till dissolved: when it boils, draw die 
pan to the side of the fire, skim it, and let 
it boil gently a second time, and if any scum 
again rises, take it ofi"; let it settle for two 
or three minutes, and strain it gently through 
a sieve which has a piece of muslin laid 
into it. 

Fresh beef suet, picked free from skin 
and sinews, is dissolved in the same wav; 
it is then strained tluough muslin into small 
jars, and when cold, covered with bladder, 
or it may be strained into cold water; and 
the cake when cold, wiped dry, folded in 
white paper, and kept in a linen bag. 

Beef suet will keep fresh for sometime 
chopped and dredged with flour, 
arid kept in white paper bags in a cool place. 

Beef and mutton drippings ai-e clarified 
exactly in the manner butter is done, and 
each kept in a separate jar. 

To melt hog's-lard, put it into a jar plac- 
ed in a pot of water or water bath, strain it 
mto clean bladders or small jai-s, and cover 
them witli paper. Thus prepared, it w ill 
keep good a length of time, and is the best 
Uimg lor frying fish in. 

To fry parsley, wash it, pick it clean. 



i^ tineiv 



and put it into fresh cold water; take it out 
and then tlir(;w it into boiling lard or drip- 
ping, when it will instantly become crisp; 
it is then taken out with a slice. 

GRUEL. DR. KITCHENER'S. Ask 

those who are to eat it, if they like it 
thick or thin ; if the latter, mix well togeth- 
er by degrees, in a pint basin, one table- 
spoonful of oatmeal, with three of cold wa- 
ter ; if the former, use two spoonflils. 

Have ready in a stewpan, a pint of boil- 
ing water or milk ; pour this by degrees to 
the oatmeal you have mixed ; return it into 
the stewpan ; set it on the fire, and let it 
boil for five minutes ; stirring it all tlie time 
to prevent the oatmeal from burning at the 
bottom of tlie stewpan ; skim and strain it 
through a hair sieve. 

2d. To convert this into caudle, add a 
little ale, wine, or brandy, with su£rar; and 
if the b<jwels are disordered, a little nutmeg 
or ginger, gi-ated. 

Obs. — Gruel may be made \\ ith broth in- 
stead of water ; and may be flavored with 
sweet herbs, soup roots, and savory spices, 
by boiling them for a few minutes in die 
water you ai-e going to make the gruel with. 



H. 



HAM. If it is a very dry Westphalia 
ham, it must be soaked, according to its age 
and thickness, from twelve to twenty-four 
hours; for a green ham, from four to eight 
hours will be sufficient. Lukewann watei- will 
soften it much sooner than cold, when suffi- 
ciently soaked, trim it nicely on the under- 
side, and pare off all the rusty and smoked 
parts till it looks delicately clean. 

Give it plenty of water-room, and put it 
in while the w ater is cold ; let it beat very 
gradually, and let it be on the fire an hour 
and a half before it comes to a boil; let it 
be well skimmed, and keep it simmering 
verv- gently: a middling-sized ham of fifteen 
pomids will be done enough in about four or 
five hours, according to its thickness. 

If not to be cut till cold, it will cut the 
shorter and tenderer for being boiled about 
half an hour longer. In a very small family, 
where a ham will last a week or ten days, 
it is best economy not to cut it till it is cold, 
it will be infinitely more juicy. 

Pull off tlie skin carefullv, and preserve it 
as whole as possible; it will form an excel- 
lent covering to keep the ham moist; when 
you have removed the skin, rub some bread 
raspings through a hair sieve, or grate a 
crust of bread; put it into the perforated 
cover of the dredging-bor., and shake it over 



HAM 



93 



HAM 



it, or glaze it; trim the knuckle with a 
fringe of cut writing-paper. You may gar- 
nish with spinage or turnips, &c. 

To pot ham is a much more useful and 
economical way of disposing of the remains 
of the joint, tlian making essence of it. 

HAM AND EGGS. Cut some ham 
into tliin slices, and broil them on a gridiron. 
Fiy some eggs in butter. Serve it, laying 
an egg on each slice of ham. 

HAM, ESSENCE OF. Take three or 
four pounds of lean ham, cut it into pieces 
about an inch thick, and lay them in a stew- 
j»n, with slices of carrots, parsnips, and 
Un-ee or four onions ; let them stew till they 
stick to the pan, but take care they do not 
burn; then by degrees pour in some good 
veal gravy, a few fresh mushrooms cut in 
pieces, (or mushroom-powder), truffles, mor- 
els, cloves, parsley, leek, basil, and a crust 
of bread; cover it close, and simmer till 
pretty thick, then strain it off for use. 

HAM GRAVY. Take a deep sauce- 
pan, put into it a piece of fresh butter, seve- 
ral slices of ham, about six pieces of veal 
the size of a walnut, and two or three car- 
rots cut in small pieces ; set these over a 
slow fire, and let them stand till they give 
out their juices, and the ham and veal be- 
come crisp and stick; then put in a little 
stock, and let it boil ; in an hour's time add 
a glass of white wine, leave it a quarter of 
an hour, when it will be sufficiently done; 
take off every particle of fat ; strain it into 
a pan, and set it by for use. 

HAM LOAF. Soak a fine ham in cold 
water for one or two days, according to its 
age; then put it into a saucepan just big 
enough to hold it, with no more water than 
will cover it, and a pint of white wine; let 
it boil, skimming it carefully, till done. 
When cold, take out the hock and under 
bones, and the skin; pare away some of the 
fat, and trim it to an oval form as much as 
possible. Make a farce with tiie parings of 
the fat, some veal or game, and sweet herbs 
minced and pounded. Take a pan the size 
you wish to liave your loaf, lay all over the 
inside a pretty firm paste, and then (hav- 
ing cut your ham into thin slices) place al- 
ternate layers of it and the farce in the pan, 
until it ije quite full. Put a crust over the 
top, which muet unite with that in which 
tlie ham is; turn it over on a baking plate, 
flour it, and put it into a very hot oven for 
an hour and a half or two hours, according 
to its size. Serve it cold. 

HAM, MINCED, WITH FRIED EGGS. 

See Eggs. 



HAM OxMELET. Take a slice of boiled 
ham, tnince it as small as [lossible, and mix 
it wiih a dozen eggs beaten with a little veal 
gravy; fry it (keeping it of an ecjual thick- 
ness) in the usual manner. 

HAM, OR TONGUE POTTED. Cut 

a pound of the lean of cold boiled ham or 
tongue, and pound it in a mortar with a 
quarter of a pound of the fat, or w ith fresh 
butter (in the proportion of about two ounces 
to a pound), till it is a fine paste (some sea- 
son it by degrees with a little pounded mace 
or allspice) : put it close down in pots for 
that purpose, and cover it with clarified 
butter, a quarter of an inch thick ; lei it 
stand one night in a cool place. Send it 
up in the pot, or cut out in thin slices. 

HAM ROASTED WITH MADEIRA. 

Take a fine Westphalia or Bayonne ham, 
pare an;! trim it of as iDund a form as possi- 
ble, take off the end bone, and remove 
the rind from the knuckle; then lay the ham 
on a gridiron over the fire, till yon can take 
it up with ease; sf)ak it, if necessaiy, and 
put it in a pan, with slices of carrots and 
onions, thyme, bay-leaf, and coriander ; pour 
a bottle of Madeira upon it, cover it with a 
clean cloth, and close the pan as tight as 
possible, and let it remain twenty-four hours ; 
then wrap the ham in very thick paper, fas- 
ten it with paste, so that it may be com- 
pletely enclosed, tie it on a spit, and put 
it to roast for three hours; tiien make a 
small hole in the paper, and pour in, by 
means of a funnel, the Madeira wine, paste 
paper ovei- the hole, and let it roast anollier 
liour. Wlien done, take off the piqier care- 
fully, so that none of the gravy may escape, 
mix it wath some reduced espagnole, glaze 
die ham, and serve it. 

HAM TOAST. Cut some cnimb of 
bread into thin slices; then take an ecjual 
number of thin slices of ham, V)eat tlsem well 
with a rolling pin, and then soak them in 
warm water for about two hours ; tr.ke t'nem 
out, dry them well, and put them into a 
saucepan with a little bacon, a slice of veal, 
and half a glass of stock; let them bnl for 
half an hour, and tl'.en add half a glass of 
veal blond. Fry your bread to a nice col- 
or in some lard ; lay it on a dish, and on each 
piece lay a slice of the ham ; pour die sauce 
over them. Take particular care to cut 
the ham as nearly as possible the size and 
shape of tlie bread. 

HAM TO STEW. Soak the ham in 
lukewajwn w-ater for twelve hours, drain it, 
and scrape die rind ; put it into a stewpan 
with some slices of fat bacon roimd the sides, 
four quarts of weak stock, a good deal of 



HAR 



94 



HAR 



parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, six large 
onions, four carrots, a. little alL5i)ice and 
pepper, a pint of Madeira, and one of Port 
wine. Cover the ham with slices of fat ba- 
con, and put over it a sheet of white paper; 
stew it eight hours, or ten if it be a veiy 
large ham. Before serving, take off the 
rind, strain the sauce, skim it well, and 
boil it till reduced to a glaze, and pour it 
round the ham, or serve it witli any other 
sauce tliat may be preferred. 

HAM WITH MADEIRA. Soak in 
water for two hours a Bayonne, or any otlier 
fine ham, boil it for two hours, trim it quick- 
ly, and then put it into a stewpan, witli thin 
slices of veal at the bottom ; add some car- 
rots and parsley, and season with spices. 
Pour over the ham a pint of rich stock and 
a bottle of Madeira ; let it boil for two hours, 
strain and skim the fat off the sauce, 
which, with the ham, must be served quite 
hot. 

HARE. As soon as the cook receives a 
hare, she should take out the liver, &c., wipe 
it well, put in a little pepper, and hang it 
up. When wanted for dressing, cut off 
the four legs at the first joint, raise the 
skin of the back, and draw it over tlie 
hind legs ; leave the tail whole, then draw 
the skin over the back, and slip out the fom' 
legs; cut it from the neck and head; skin 
the ears, and leave them on. Clean tlie 
vent. Cut the sinews under the hind legs ; 
bring them forward; run a skewer through 
one hind leg, the body, and another hind 
leg ; do the same with the fore legs ; lay the 
head rather back ; put a skewer in at the 
moudi, through the back of tlie head and 
between the i-houlders; put in the stuffing, 
and tie it round with a string, passing it 
over the legs to keep them in tlieir places: 
the hare is then ready for roasting. See 
Hat^e Roasted. 

HARE, JUGGED. Having skinned a 
hare, cut off tlie shoulders and legs, and di- 
vide the back into three pieces ; rub them 
well with fat bacon, and put them into a 
stewpan with the trimmings, allspice, mace, 
whole pepper, a small clove of garlic, two 
bay-leaves, three onions, parsley, thyme, 
sweet marjoram, a (juart of \eal stock, and 
three gills of Port wine; simmer tlie whole 
till three parts done ; then take out the shoul- 
ders, legs, and back; put tliem into anotlier 
stewpan, stiain the liquor to them, add a 
little flour and butter, stew them till quite 
done; take off tlie fat, season with cayenne, 
salt, and lemon-juice, and serve the whole 
in a deep dish. 

HARE ROASTED. Cut the skin from 



a hare that has been \\ ell soal^ed ; put it on 
the spit and rub it well with Madeira, prick- 
ing it in various places that it may imbibe 
plenty of wine; cover it entirely with a 
paste, and roast it. When done, take away 
the paste, rub it quickly over ^vith egg, 
sprinkle bread-crumbs, and baste it gently 
with butter (still keeping it turning before 
the fire) until a crust is formed over it and 
it is of a nice brown color; dish it over 
some espagnole with Madeira wine boiled 
in it ; two or three cloves may be stuck into 
the knuckles if you think proper. 

HASHED HARE. Cut up the hare 
into pieces fit to help at table, and divide 
the jotnts of the legs and shoulders, and set 
them by ready. Put the trimmings and 
gravy you have left, with half a pint of v\'a- 
ter (there should be a pint of lifiuor), and a 
table-spoonful of currant jelly, into a clean 
stewpan, and let it boil gently for a quarter 
of an hour: then strain it through a sieve 
into a basin, and pour it back into the stew- 
pan ; now flour the hare, put it into the 
gravy, and let it simmer very gently till the 
hare is warm (about twenty minutes) ; cut 
the stuffing into slices, and put it into the 
hash to get warm, about five minutes before 
you serve it; divide the head, and lay one 
half on each side the dish. 

HARICOT BY WAY OF SOUP. 

Cut a large neck of mutton into two pieces, 
put the scrag into a stewpan with a quart 
of water, four large carrots, and turnips; 
boll it gently over a slow fire till all the 
goodness be out of the meat; then bruise 
the vegetables into the soup to thicken it. 
Fry six. onions (sliced) in butter, and put 
tlie other part of the meat to the soup, and 
stew till the latter is tender; season with 
pepper and salt, and serve it very hot in a 
tureen. 

HARICOT MUTTON. Cut the best 
end of a neck or loin of mutton, that 
has been kept till tender, into chops of 
equal thickness, one rib to each ; trim off 
some of the fat, and tlie lower end of the 
chine bone, and scrape it clean, and lay 
them in a stewpan, vvith an ounce of butter; 
set it over a smart fire ; if your fire is not 
sharp, the chops will be done befoie they 
are colored ; the intention of frying them is 
merely to give them a very light browning. 

While the chops are browning, peel and 
boil a couple of dozen of young button onions 
in about thiee pints of water for about fifteen 
or twenty minutes, set them by, and pour off 
the liquor they were boiled in into the stew- 
pan with the chops: if tliat is not sufficient 
to cover them, add as much boiling water as 
will remove the scum as it rises, and be 



HAT 



95 



HER 



careful they are not stewed too fast or too 
much ; so take out one of them with a fish- 
sHce, and try it: when they are tender, 
which will be in about an hour and a half, 
then pass tlie gravy through a sieve into a 
basin, set it in the open air that it may get 
cold, you may then easily and completely 
skim off the fat; in the meantime set the 
meat and vegetables by the fire to keep hot, 
and pour some boiling water over the button 
onions to warm them. Have about six 
ounces of carrots, and eight ounces of tur- 
nips, peeled and cut into slices, or shaped 
into balls about as big as a nutmeg; boil 
the carrots about half an hour, the turnips 
about a cjuarter of an hour, and put them on 
a sie\e to drain, and then put them round 
the dish, the last thing. 

Thicken the gravy by putting an ounce of 
butter into a stewpan; when it is melted, 
stir in as much floiu- as will stiffen it; pour 
the gravy to it by degrees, stir together till 
it boils; strain it through a fine sieve or 
tamis into a stewpan, put in the carrots and 
turnips to get waiin, and let it simmer 
gently while you dish up the meat ; lay the 
chops round a dish, put the vegetables in the 
middle, and pour the thickened gravy over. 
Some put in capers, &c. minced gherkins, 
&c. 

Rump-steaks, veal-cutlets, and beef-tails, 
make excellent dishes dressed in tlie like 
manner. 

HASH, COLD. Mince a nice white 
piece of veal, wash and core some anchovies ; 
take some pickled oysters, pickled cucum- 
bers, and a lemon; shred and mix tl.em 
with the veal, and place it in a dish ; lay 
round it slices of veal, fillets of anchovies, 
pickled cucumbers sliced, whole pickled 
oysters, mushrooms and capers; lettuces 
shred small; pour in oil and vinegar, salt 
and pepper, and serve. 

HASHES, MADE DISHES, STEWS, 
RAGOUTS, SOUPS, TO WARM. Put 

what you have left into a deep htish-dish or 
tureen; when you want it, set this in a stew- 
pan of boiling water: let it stand till the 
contents are quite warm. 

HATTERED KIT. (1) Make two 
quarts of new milk scalding hot, and pour 
it quickly upon four cjuarts of fresh-made 
butter milk, after whicli it must not be stir- 
red; let it remain till cold and fii-m, tlien 
take off' the top part, drain it in a hair sieve, 
and put it into a shape for half an hour. It 
is eaten with c^eain, served in a separate 
dish. 

HATTERED KIT. (2) Put into the 
disl) it is to be served in, one-tliird of cream 



with two-thirds of butter-milk, add a little 
pounded loaf sugar, and l^eat it well togeth- 
er. Strew over it a little pounded cin- 
namon, and let it stand for Uiree or four 
hours. 

HAWTHORN LIQUOR. The full 
blossoms of the white thoin are to be picked 
dry and clean fiom the leaves and stalks, 
and as much put into a large bottle as it will 
hold lightly without pressing down ; it is 
then to Ije filled up with French brandy, 
and allowed to stand two or three months, 
when it must be decanted off", and sweetened 
with clarified sugar, or with capillaire. 
Without the sweetening, it is an excellent 
seasoning for puddings and custards. 

HEDGEHOG TO MAKE. Blanch 
two pounds of sweet almonds, beat them to 
a paste in a mortar, moistening occasionally 
with Canary and oiange-flower water ; beat 
the yolks of twelve, and the whites of seven 
eggs with a pint of cream and some powder 
sugar; put this with the almond paste and 
half a pound of fresh butter into a saucepan, 
set it over a stove and keep it constantly 
stirring till sufficiently firm to be moulded 
into the shape of a hedgehog: stick it full 
of blanched almonds, cut lengthwise, into 
slips, and place it in a dish ; beat up the 
yolks of four eggs, put them to a pint of 
cream (sweetened to the taste) ; stir them 
over a slow fire till hot, then pour it round 
the hedgehog and let it stand: when cold, 
serve it. A good calf's-foot jelly may be 
poured round, instead of the cream, if pre- 
ferred. 

HERBS, A BUNCH OF SWEET, Is 

made up of parsley, sweet marjoram, winter 
savory, orange and lemon thyme ; the great- 
est proportion of parsley. 

HERBS, SWEET. These in cookery 
are parsley, chil)bol, rocambole, winter sa- 
voiy, thyme, bay-leaf, basil, mint, borage, 
rosemary, cress, marigold, marjoram, &c. 
The relishing herbs or Ravigotte are tar- 
ragon, garden-cress, chervil, burnet, civet, 
and green mustard. 

HERBS TO DRY, SWEET AND 
SAVORY. It is very important to those 
who are not in the constant habit of attend- 
ing the markets to know when the various 
seasons commence for purchasmg sweet 
herbs. 

All veu'etables are in the highest state 

• •in 

of perfection, and fullest of juice and flavor, 
just before they begin to flower: the firs: 
and last crop have neither the fijie flavor, 
nor the perfume of those which are gathered 
in the height of the season ; that is, when 



HER 



96 



HOG 



the greater pai-t of the crop of each species I 
is ripe. 

Take cai'e tliey are gathered on a diy 
daj', by which means they will have a bet- 
ter color wiien dried. Cleanse your Jierbs 
well from dirt and dust ; cut oft" the roots ; 
separate the bunches into smaller ones, and 
dry them by the heat of a stove, or in a 
Dutch oven before a conunon fire, in such 
quantities at a time, that the process may be 
speedily finished ; i. e. ' Kill 'era quick,' 
says a great botanist; by this means their 
flavor will be best j^reseived: there can be 
no doubt of the propriety of drying herbs, 
&c. hastily by the aid of artificial heat, 
rather than by the heat of the siui. In the 
application of artificial heat, the only cau- 
tion requisite is to avoid burning ; and of 
this a sufficient test is afforded by the pres- 
ervation of the color. The common cus- 
tom is, when they are perfectly dried to put 
them in bags, and lay them in a dry place ; 
but the best \\'ay to preserve the flavor of 
aromatic plants is to pick oft' the leaves as 
soon as they are dried, and to pound them, 
and put them through a hair sieve, and keep 
them in well-stopped bottles. The connnon 
custom is to put them into paper bags, and 
lay them on a shelf in the kitchen, exposed 
to all die fumes, steam, and smoke, &.c. : 
tlnis they soon lose their flavor. 

N. B. Herbs nicely dried are a verj- ac- 
ceptable substitute when fresh ones cannot 
be got; but, however carefully dried, the 
fla\'or and fragi'ance of the fresh herbs are 
incomparably linei'. 

HERRINGS. There are three sorts of 
herrings, fiesh, salted, and dried or red her- 
rings. They are emptied and cleaned like 
any other fish; when fresh, they are broiled, 
and served with melted butler, white sauce, 
&c. 

The salted herring s'lould be soaked in 
cold water before it is cooked ; this is also 
broiled : sometimes, however, it is cut in 
pieces, and eaten raw. 

Tlie red h.erring is split down the back, 
the head and tail are cut oft", and the fish 
br3iled like the others. 

They may also be dressed as follov.s: 
\v len they have lain in cold water a suffi- 
cient time, soak them for two hours in milk, 
then split them down the back ; then have 
ready some melted butter, in which has been 
mixed basil and bay-leaf, minced small, the 
yolks of two eggs, pepper and nutmeg ; rub 
the herrings well with tliis, bread them; 
broil them ovei' a gentle fire, and serve with 
lemon-juice. 

The best red herrings are full of roe, 
aie firm and laige, and have a yellow 
east. 

Of the fiesli herring the scales are bright 



if good, the eyes are fiill, and the gills red, 
tlie fish also should be stiff. 

HERRINGS, BOILED. Scale, and 
otherwise prepare the lierrings in the usua. 
way ; diy them well, and \\\h them over with 
a little salt and vinegar; skewer their tails 
in their moutlis, lay them on a fLsh-plate, and 
put them into boiling water; in ten or 
twelve minutes take them out, drain them, 
lay them on tlie dish, the heads towards the 
middle; serve them with melted butter and 
parsley, and garnish with horseradish. 

HERRINGS, RED. Plain broil them, 
or poui" over some beer made hot, and when 
it is cold drain and wipe them dry ; heat 
them thoroughly, and rub over a little butter, 
and sprinkle them with pepper. 

HERRINGS TO BAKE. They must 
be perfectly fresh, and well cleaned, but not 
watched ; the heads and fins cut oft', and the 
bones cut out; strew over them pepper, salt, 
and a slice of onion minced very finely, to 
each ; loll diem up tight ; pack them into a 
jai', and pour over in the proportion of a 
pint of vinegar to two of water, with half 
an ounce of \\ hole black pepper ; tie over 
the jar a piece of bladder or paper, and 
bake them in an oven for an lioiu'. Take 
oft' the cover when they are cold, and poui 
over a little cold vinegar, and tie them up. 

HERRINGS TO FRY. Scrape oft" 
tlie scales; cut off the fins; draw out the 
gut, keeping in the roes and melts; wipe 
them in a clean cloth; dredge them \vith 
-flour, and fiy them in boiling dripping; put 
diem before the fire to drain and keep hot. 
Sauces; — melted butter, and parsley and 
butter. When herruigs are to be broiled, 
they are prepared in the same manner, and 
done upon the gridiron. They must not be 
washed. 

HIPPO CR AS. Talie one ounce of 
cinnamon, two drachms of ginger, two pen- 
ny-weights of cloves, nutmeg, and galangal 
a penny-weight of each. Pound these to- 
gether well, and infuse them in a pint of red 
or white wine, and a pint of malmsey; to 
this, add a pound of the best loaf sugar. 
These proportions will malie a quart of 
tlie liquor. 

HOG'S HEAD. Put a head into some 
pickle, and when it has lain sufficiently long, 
take it out and boil it till die bones will 
come out with ease; tiien skin, bone, and 
chop the meat, whilst hot; season it with 
pepper (black and white), nutmeg, and salt, 
if necessary; laj' part of the skin at the 
Iwttom of a potting pan, press in the meat 



HUN 



97 



ICE 



cover it with the remainder of the skin, put 
on a weiglit, and Set it stand till quite cold. 
Then tuin it out. Boil the liquor it was 
dressed in with some vinegar, skim it well, 
and when cold put the head into it. 

HONEY TO CLARIFY.— M. Fou- 
que's method. Take six pounds of 
honey, a pound and diree-fjuarters of water, 
two ounces and a (juarter of pounded chalk, 
five ounces of coal, (pulverised, washed, and 
well dried), the whites of three eggs beaten 
in tiiree ounces of water, for each pound of 
honey. 

Put the honey, water, chalk, and eg^s, 
into a copper vessel, capable of holding 
alwut one-third more than the above quanti- 
ties ; let them boil for two minutes, throw 
in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and 
continue the boiling two minutes longer; 
then take the saucepan from the fire, and 
let it stand nearly a quarter of an hour, that 
tlie liquor may cool ; then take a new sieve 
(which must be well washed, or it will im- 
part a disagreeable taste), pass the honey 
dirough it, taking care to filter the first 
drops twice, as they generally carry with 
thein some portion of the coal. 

The sirup which still adlieres to the coal, 
and other materials, may be separated as 
follows: pour boiling water on them until 
they no longer retain any sweetness; then 
put these different waters together, set them 
over a lai'ge fire to evaporate, till the sirup 
only remains. This sirup contracts the fla- 
vor of barley sugar, and must not be added 
to the clarified honey. 

HORSERADISH POWDER. The 
time to make this is during November and 
December; slice it the thickness of a shil- 
ling, and lay it to dry very gradually in a 
Dutch oven (a strong heat soon evaporates 
its flavor) ; when dry enough, pound it and 
bottle it. 

HOT PICKLE. Boil, in two quarts of 
vinegar, a quarter of a pound of salt, two 
ounces of shallots or garlic, and two of gin- 
ger, one ounce of pepper, one of yellow mus- 
tard seed, and a quarter of an ounce of 
cayenne ; put into a jar that will hold four 
quarts, two ounces of allspice, and pour on 
it the hot pickle. When cold, put in any 
fi-esh-gathered vegetables or fruit, such as 
asparagus, cauliflower, French beans, radish 
pods, unrij^e apples, gooseberries, currants, 
which may be added as the opportunity of- 
fers, and, as the pickle wastes, it should be 
replenished with the same mixture. 

H-BONE OF BEEF. See Beef. 

HUNG BEEF. See Beef. 



HUNTING BEEF. See Beef. 
HUNTER'S PIE. See Irish Stew 



I. 



ICE. Sorbetieres or moulds for cream 
or fruit-ices, are made of two sorts of ma- 
terials, block-tin and pewter; of these, the 
latter is the best, the substance to be iced 
congealing more gradually in it than in the 
former; an object much to be desired, as 
when the ice is formed too quickly, it is very 
apt to be rough, and full of lumps like hail, 
especially if it be not well worked with the 
spatula ; the other utensils necessary for this 
operation, are, a deep pail, with a cork at 
the bottom, and a wooden spatula about 
nine inches long; being so far provided, fill 
the pail with pounded ice, over which spread 
four handfuls of salt ; then having filled the 
sorbetiere, or mould, with cream, &c. ; put 
on the cover, and immerse it in the centre 
of the ice-pail; taking care the ice touches 
the mould in all parts ; thro\v in two more 
handfuls of salt, and leave it a quarter of an 
hour; then take the cover from the mould, 
and with the spatula stir the contents up to- 
gether, so that those parts which touch the 
sides of the mould, and consequently congeal 
first, may be mixed with the liquid in the 
middle ; work this about for seven or eight 
minutes; cover the mould, take the pail by 
the ears, and shake it round and round for 
a quaiter of an hour ; open the mould a sec- 
ond time, and stir as before ; continue these 
operations alternately, until the cream, or 
whatever it may be, is entirely congealed, 
and perfectly smooth, and free from lumps. 
Take care to let out the water, which will 
collect at the bottom of the pail, by means 
of the cork, and press tlie ice close to the 
sorbetiere with the spatula. 

When the cream is iced, take it from the 
pail, dip the mould in warm water, but not 
to let it remain an instant; dry it quickly, 
turn it out, and serve it as soon as possible. 

All sorts of ices are finished in this man- 
ner ; the preparation of the articles of which 
they are composed, constitutes the only dif- 
ference between them. 

ICE, A VERY LARGE CAKE. Beat 
the whites of twenty fresh eggs; then, by 
degrees, beat a pound of double-refined su- 
gar, sifted through a lawn sieve; mix tliese 
well in a deep earthen pan; add orange- 
flower water, and a piece of fresh lemon- 
peel; do not use more of the orange-flower 
water than is just sutiicient to flavor it. 
Whisk it for three hours till the mixture \a 
thick and white; tlieu, with a thin broad 



ICI 



98 



IRI 



bit of" board, spread it all over the top and 
sides, and set it in a cool oven, and an hour 
will harden it. 

ICE FOR ICING (HOW to pre- 
pare). Take a few pounds of ice, break 
it almost to powder, and throw in among it 
a large handful and a half of salt ; you must 
prejjare in the coolest part of the house, that 
as little of the warm air as possible may 
come. The ice and salt being in a bucket, 
put your cream into an ice-pot, and cover it ; 
immerse it in the ice, and draw tliat round 
tlie pot, so that it may touch every part. In 
a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and 
stir it well, removing tlie parts that ice round 
the edges to the centre. If the ice-cream or 
water, l)e in a form, shut tlie bottom close, 
and mo\e the whole in the ice, as you cati- 
not use a spoon to that without danger of 
waste. There should be holes in the buck- 
et, to let the ice off as it tliaws. 

ICING FOR CAKES. For a large 
cake, beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar, 
put it into a mortar, with four spoonfiils of 
rose water, and the whites of two eggs, 
beaten and strained, whisk it well, and 
when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather 
in the icing, and cover the cake well; set it 
in the oven to harden, but do not let it re- 
main long enough to discolor. Keep the 
cake in a dry place. 

ICING FOR TARTS. Beat the yolk 
of an egg and some melted butter well toge- 
ther; wash die tarts with a feather, and 
sift sugar over as you put them into the 
oven; or beat white of egg, wash the paste, 
and sift white sugar. 

ICING, FOR TWELFTH OR BRIDE 

CAKE. Take one pound of double-refined 
sugar, pounded and sifted through a lawn 
sieve ; put into a pan (juite free from grease ; 
break in the whites of six eggs, and as much 
])owder blue as will lie on a sixpence; beat 
it well widi a spattle fijr ten minutes; then 
s([ueeze in the juice of a lemon, and beat it 
till it t)ecomes thick and transparent. Set 
the cake you intend to ice in an oven or 
warm place fi\e minutes; tlien spread over 
the top and sides with the mixture as smooth 
as possible. If for a wedding cake only, 
plain ice it; if for a twelfth cake, ornament 
it widi gum paste, or fanr-y articles of any 
description. A good twelftli cake, not bak- 
ed two much, and kept in a cool dry place, 
will retain its moisture and eat well, if 
twelve mondis old. 

ICING FOR FRUIT TARTS, PUFFS, 

OR PASTRY. Beat up in a half-pint mug 
the white of two eggs to a solid frodi ; lay 



some on the middle of the pie with a paste 
brush ; sift over plenty of pounded sugar, and 
press it down with the hand, wash out the 
brush, and splash by degrees with water till 
the sugar is dissolved, and put it in the oven 
for ten minutes, and serve it up cold. 

I3IPERIAL. Put two ounces of cream 
of tartar, and die juice and peel of two lem- 
ons, into a stone jar, pour on them seven 
(juarts of boiling water, stir, and cover close. 
When cold, sweeten it with loaf sugm', strain 
it, bottle and cork it tight. Add in bottling, 
half a pint to the whole quantity. 

INDIA PICKLE. (1) Take one pound of 
ginger, put it into a pan with salt and wa- 
ter, and let it lay all night, then scrape it, 
and cut it into thin slices; put it into a pan 
with half a pound of bay salt, and let it lay 
till ail the following ingredients are prepar- 
ed; a pound of garlic peeled, and laid in 
salt for three days, then take it out, wash it, 
then let it lay in salt for another three days, 
then take it out and let it lay in the sun for 
another, till half dry; an ounce of long pep- 
per, an ounce of capsicum, salted and laid 
in the sun for three days, a pint of black 
mustard-seed bruised, half an ounce of tur- 
meric, beat very small ; put all these ingre- 
dients together in a jar, then put in as much 
vinegar, as, when the cabbage, or whatever 
you intend to pickle, is put into it, the vine- 
gar will rise to the top of die jar. Then 
take cabbage, cauliflower, or whatever you 
choose to pickle, and cut them into small 
pieces, throw a good handful of salt over 
diem, and set them in the sun (when it is 
very hot) for three days, drain the water 
fioin them every day, and fresh salt lliem 
again, turning die leaves till they are drv, 
then put them into the pickle, being partic- 
ular that they are coinpletely covered with 
die vinegar; tie it up close, let it stand a 
fortnight, fill it again with more vinegar, 
carefiilly watch it from time to time, to fill 
it up w ith vinegar, as it \\ ill waste xavy last. 

INDIA PIClvLE. (2) One gallon of vin- 
egar, one pound of garlic, a quarter of a 
pound of long pepper split, half a pound of 
flour of mustard, one pound of ginger scrap- 
ed, and split, and two ounces of turmehic. 
AVhen you have prepared the sjiice, and put 
it into the jar, pour die vinegar boiling hot 
oAer it, and stir it everv' day for a week. 
Then put in your cabbage, cauliflower, or 
whatever you intend to pickle. 

INDIAN CURRY. See Curry. 

IRISH PUFFS. Add to five well- 
beaten yolks and two whites of eggs, a large 
table-spoonfal of flour, no! quite an ounce of 



IS I 



99 



J A M 



melted butter, and half a tea-spoonfu! of suit ; 
lx.'at it all welJ for ten iniaiites, and add half 
a pint of cream; bake it in buttered tea- 
cups; turn tlieai out, and serve tljcai with a 
sweet sauce. 

IRISH ROCK. Blanch a pound of 
sweet and an ounce of bitter almonds, pick 
out a few of the sweet almonds, and cut 
them like straw-s, and blanch them in ruse 
water; pound the rest in a mortar with a 
tal)le-spoonful of brandy, four ounces of 
pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and half a 
pound of salt butter well washed; pound 
them till tlie mass looks verj' white, and set 
it in a cool place to stiffen ; tlien dip two 
table-spoons into cold water, and with them 
form the paste, as much like an egg as pos- 
sible; place in the bottom of a glass dish, a 
small |)late or saucer turned, and lay the 
rock high up; stick ovei' it the cut ahnonds 
with green sweetmeats, and ornament widi 
a sprig of myrtle. 

IRISH STEW, OR HUNTER'S Pie. 

Take part of a neck of mutton, cut it into 
chops, season it well, put it into a stewpan, 
let it brase for half an hour, take two dozen 
of potatoes, boil them, mash them, and sea- 
son them, butter your mould, and line it with 
the potatces,put in the mutton, bake it for 
half an hour, then it will be done, cut a hole 
in the top, and add some good gravy to it. 

IRISH STEW. Take five thick mut- 
ton chops, or two pounds off the neck or 
loins, two pounds of potatoes; peel them, 
and cut them in halves; six onions, or half 
a pound of onions; peel and slice them also: 
first put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of 
your stewpan, then a couple of cliops and 
some of the onions; then again potatoes, and 
so on, till the pan is quite ilill ; a small 
spoonful of white pepper, and about one 
and a half of salt, and three gills of broth or 
gravy, and two tea-spoonfuls of mushroom 
ketchup ; cover all very close in, so as to 
prevent the steam from getting out, and let 
them stew for an hour and a half on a very 
slow fire. A small slice of ham is a great 
addition to this dish. The cook w ill be the 
best judge when it is done, as a great deal 
depends on the fire you have. Great care 
must be taken not to let it burn, and tliat it 
does not do too fast. 

ISINGLASS, TO CLARIFY. Take 
an ounce and quarter of the best isinglass, 
cut it into small pieces, and wash them sev- 
eial times in warm water. Put the isincflass 
into a preservmg pan, with five glasses of 
filterea water, set it on the fire, and, as soon 
as it boils, place it at the side of the stove, 
bo as to keep up the boiling ; take off the 



scum directly it rises ; and w hen the whole 
is reduced to three-quarters, strain it through 
a cloth into a basin f jr use. Some add, in 
clarifying isinglass, lemon-peel, to remove 
its disagreeable taste; but as good isinglass 
ought to have no flavor, and as the lemon- 
peel is certain to give a yellow tinge to that, 
it is much better left out. 

ITALIAN CHEESE. Mix wiUi near- 
ly half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the 
juice of three lemons, two table-§\xjonfuls 
of white wine, and a (juart of cream ; beat 
it with a whisk till quite thick, which may 
be in half an hour; put a bit of muslin into 
a hair sieve, and pour in the cream. In 
twelve hours turn it out, and garnish it with 
flowers. It may be put into a tin shape, 
widi holes in it. 

ITALIAN MACAROONS. Take one 
pound of Valentin or Jordan almonds, blanch- 
ed, pound them quite fine with the whites 
of tour eggs; add two pounds and a half of 
sifted loaf sugar, and rub diem well togeth- 
er with the pestle; put in by degrees about 
ten or eleven more whites, working them 
well as you put them in; but the best crite- 
rion to <jo bv in trvins their lightness is to 
bake one or two, and if you find diem heavy, 
put one or two more whites ; put the mix- 
ture into a biscuit-funnel, and lay them out 
on wafer-paper, in pieces about the size of a 
small walnut, having ready about two ounces 
of blanched and dry almonds cut into slips, 
put three or four pieces on each, and bake 
them on wires, or a baking-plate, in a slow 
oven. Obs. — Almonds should be blanched 
and dried gradually two or Uiree days be- 
fore they are used, by which means they 
will work much better, and where large 
quantities are used, it is advised to grind 
them in a mill provided for that piupose. 



J. 



JAM, APRICOT. (1) Weigh ef|ual 
quantities of pounded loaf sugar and of ap- 
ricots ; pare and cut them quite small; as 
they are done, strew over half of the sugar. 
I'he following day boil the remainder, and 
add the apricots ; stir it till it boils, take 
oft' the scum, and wlien perfectly clear, add 
part of die kernels blanched, and boil it 
two or three minutes. 

JAM, APRICOT. (2) Allow equal 
proportions of pounded loaf sugJir and of 
apricots ; pare, and cut them small ; as they 
are done, strew part of die sugar over them, 
and put the parings into cold water. Break 
the stones, blanch and pcuud the kernels* 



...^^'£.'^4 \ 



JAM 



100 



J EI. 



whirh, ■with tlie sliells and parings, boil till 
halftlie quantity of water is reduced, and 
there is a sufficiency of the liquor, when 
strained, to allow three or four table-spoon- 
fuls to a pound of apricots; put it, with the 
sugar and fruit, into a preserving pan ; mash, 
and take off the scum ; boil it c|uickly, till 
transparent. 

JAM, APRICOT, OR ANY PLUM. 

After taking auay the stones from the apri- 
cots, and cutting out any blemishes they 
may have ; put them over a slow fire, in a 
clean stewpan, with half a pint of water; 
when scalded, rub them through a hair 
sieve: to every pound of pulp put one pound 
of sifted loaf sugar ; put it into a preserving- 
pan over a brisk fire, and when it boils 
skim it well, and throw in the kernels of 
tlie apricots, and half an ounce of bitter al- 
monds, blanched ; boil it a qaarter of an 
hour fast, and stirring it all the lime; re- 
move it from the fire, and fill it into pots, 
and cover them as directed in Raspberiy 
Jam. N. B. — Green gages or plums may 
1)6 done in the same way, omitting the ker- 
nels or almonds. 

JAM, BLACK CURRANT. Gather 
your currants on a diy day, when they are 
full ripe, pick them from the stalks, wash 
tliem well in a basin, and to every pound 
of currants, put a pound of double refined 
sugar, beaten and sifted ; put them into a 
preserving pan, boil them half an hour, skim, 
and keep tliem stirring all the time: then 
put tiiem into pots: when cold, put brandy 
paper over, and tie white paper over all. 

JAM, CHERRY. Having stoned and 
boiled three pounds of fine cherries, bruise 
them, and let the juice run from them; then 
boil together half a pound of red cuirant 
juice, and half a pound of loaf sugar, put 
the cherries into these whilst they are boil- 
ing, and strew on them three-quarters of a 
pound of sifted sugar. Boil all together very 
fast for half an hour, and then put it into 
pots. When cold put on brandy papers. 

JA>I, GOOSEBERRY. Take what 
(juantity vou please of red, rough, ripe goose- 
berries; take half their quantity of lump su- 
gar; break them well, and boil them to- 
gether for half an hour, oi more if necessa- 
ry. Put it into pots, and cover with paper. 

JAM, Gooseberry, FOR Puddings. 
Allow ecjual weight of the red rough goose- 
bei'ries, and of good bi'own sugar; gather 
die fruit upon a diy day; top and tail them, 
and put a layer alternately of gooseberries 
and of sugar into a preserving pan ; shake 
it frequently, skim it well, and boil it till 



i the sirup jellies, which may be ascertained 
i by c-0(jling a little in a saucer. Black and 
I red currants may be done in this way for 
common use. 

JAM, PEACH. Gather the peaches 
when quite ripe, peel and stone them, put 
them into a preserving-pan, and mash tliem 
over the fire till hot; rub them tln-ough a 
sieve, and add to a pound of j)ulp the same 
weight of pounded loaf sugar, and half an 
ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pound- 
ed; let it boil ten or twelve minutes, stir 
and skim it well. 

JAM, IL4SPBERRY. Weigh equal 
proportions of pounded loaf sugar and of 
raspberries ; put the fruit into a |)reserving- 
pan, and with a silver spoon bruise and 
mash it well ; let boil six minutes ; add the 
sugar, and stir it well with the fruit; when 
it boils, skim it, and boil it for fifteen min- 
utes. 

JAM, STRAWBERRY. Gather the 
scarlet strawberi'ies when perfectly ripe, 
bruise them well, and add the juice of other 
strawberries; take an equal weight of lump 
sugar, pound and sift it, stu- it thoroughly 
into tlie fruit, and set it on a slow fire; boil 
it twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it 
rises ; pour it into glasses, or jais, aiid when 
cold, tie tliem down. 

JAM, WHITE OR RED CURRANT. 

Pick the fruit very nicely, and allow an 
equal quantity of finely-pounded loaf sugar; 
put a layer of each alternately into a preserv- 
ing pan, and boil for ten minutes; or they 
may be boiled the same length of time in 
sugar previously clarified and boiled candy 
high. 

JAUNE MANGE. Boil an ounce of 
isinglass in three-quarters of a pint of water 
till melted; strain it, then add the juice of 
two Seville oranges, a qviarter of a pint of 
white wine, the yolks of four eggs, beaten 
and strained; sugar according to taste; stir 
it over a gentle fire till it just boils up: when 
cold, put it into a mould, taking care, if 
there should happen to be any sediment, not 
to pour it in. 

JELLY. To a quart of the stock jelly 
put half a pound of loaf sugar pounded, a 
stick or two of cinnamon broken into small 
bits, the peel of a lemon, a p nt of currant 
wine, and one of Sliejry or Tei eriffe, and the 
beaten whites of five eggs ; put it all into a 
nicely-cleaned saucepan, stir it gently till it 
boils', and boil it- for three or four minutes. 
Pom- it into a jelly-bag, witli a basin or mug 
placed imdemeatli; run it immediately 



JEL 



101 



JEL 



through tlie hag again into another basin, 
and repeat this till it begins to drop. It 
will then be ;is transparent as possible, and 
may be put into moulds or glasses. AVhen 
all has apparently dripped, pour absjut a 
pint of boiling water into the bag, whi'-li 
will produce a little thin jelly fit to drink; 
the stand with the jelly-bag should be plac- 
ed near to the fire ; Sherry alone, or Tene- 
riffe, may be used. The jelly may be [)i!t 
into quart bottles corked tightly, which will 
make it keep good for some weeks; place 
the bottle in warm water when it is recjuir- 
ed for use. 

JELLY, ALE OR PORTER. For a 

large shape, put to the prepared stock or 
jelly, more than half a bottle of strong ale 
or porter, a pound of loaf sugar, the peel of 
one, and tlie juice of four large lemons, a 
stick of cinnamon, and the beaten whites of 
eight eggs; put it all into a saucepan, stir 
it gently ; let it boil for fifteen minutes, and 
pour it into a jelly-bag till it runs [5t;ri'ect}y 
clear. 

JELLY, APPLE, (i) Pare, core, and 
cut thirteen good apples into small bits; as 
they are cut, throw them into two cjuarts 
of cold water; boil them in this, with the 
peel of a lemon, till tlie substance is. ex- 
ti'acted, and nearly half the liquor wasted; 
drain them through a hair sieve, and to a 
pint of the liquid add one pound of loaf su- 
gar pounded, the juice of one lemon, and the 
beaten whites of one or two eggs ; put it into 
a saucepan, stir it till it boils, take off the 
scum, and let it boil till clear, and then pour 
it into a mould. 

JELLY, APPLE. (2) Pare and mince 
three dozen of juicy acid apples, put them 
into a pan, cover them witii water, and boil 
them till very soft; strain them tliiough a 
thin cloth or flannel bag; allow a p(jund of 
loaf sugar to a pint of juice; clarify and 
boil it; add the apple juice, with the grated 
peel and juice of six lemons; boil it for 
twenty minutes ; take off the scum as it rises. 

JELLY, APPLE. (3) Pare and cut 
into slices eighteen large acid apples; boil 
tlieni in as much water as will cover them; 
when quite soft, dip a coarse cloth into hot 
water, wring it dry, and strain the apples 
through it; to each pint of juice allow four- 
teen oimces of fine loaf sugar, clarify it, and 
add, with the apple juice, the peel of a large 
lemon ; boil it till it jellies, which may be in 
twenty minutes; pick out the lemon peel, 
and immediately put it into jars. 

JELLY, APRICOT. Take eighteen fine 
apricots, let them be of a nice red color, 
9* 



stone them, and cut them in pieces into some 
sirup, (usually made with twelve ounces of 
sugar, but ti>r apiiiMt jelly it should be 
rather more liijuid than for odier jellies.) 
When the fruit is done put it into a napkin, 
to express out all the juice you possii)!v can ; 
which you must add to the sirup in which 
the apricots have lieen done, and which hzia 
been previously strained through a silk sieve, 
and after having mixed with it a proper 
quantity of isinglass t) thicken it, finish the 
same as all ether jellies. 

JELLY, ARROW-ROOT. Steep for 
some hours, in two table-spoonfuls of water, 
the peel of a lemon, and three or four bitter 
almonds pounded ; strain, and mix it with 
three tabie-spoonlVils of arrow-root, tJie same 
quantity of lemon-juice, and one of brandy; 
sweeten, and stir it over the fire till (juite 
thick, and when quite cold, put it into jelly 
glasses. 

JELLY, BARBERRY. (1) Pick a 
pint of barberries, and put them into a stew- 
pan witii boiling water, cover it close and 
let it sta)id till nearly cold. Set on the fire 
some clarified suirar with a little water, 
(making a (juart together;) when it begins 
to boil, skim it well, put in the barljerries, 
let them boil an hou)"; squeeze the juice of 
three lemons diroi'gli a sieve into a basin, to 
this, pass die licjuor from the barberries, and 
then the isinglass. 

JELLY, BARBERRY. (2) Take some 
very ripe barberries (what cutantitv you 
please) and before you seed them take two 
thirds of their weight in sug-ar. Boil your 
sugar, tlien put your harl,e;ries into it, and 
give die whole a few boilings, then pass it 
througli a silk sieve into a pan, jjressing the 
barberries with a sf)oon to extract as much 
juice as possiijle from them ; diis done, put it 
again over the iire, and when you peiceive 
it begins to fjnn the scum, take it off and 
pour it into pots. 

JELLY, BREAD FOR AN INVALID. 
Cut the crum of a penny roll into thin slices, 
and toast them equally of a pale brown ; boil 
them gently in a cjuai t of water till it will 
jelly, which may be known by putting a 
little in a spoon to cool; strain it upon a 
bit of lemon-peel, and sweeten it with sugar. 
A little wine may be added. 

JELLY BROTH. See Broth. 

JELLY, CALF'S FEET. (1) Take 

four feet, slit them in* two, take away 
the fat from between the claws, wash them 
well in lukewarm water; then put them in 
a large stevvpan, and cover diem with water: 



JEL 



102 



JEL 



when the liquor boils, skim it well, and let 
it boil gently six or seven hours, that it may 
be reduced to about two quarts; then strain 
it throiigli a sieve, and skim oft' all the oily 
substance which is on the surface of the 
liquor. 

If you are not in a hurry, it is better to 
boil the calf's feet the day before you make 
the jelly; as when the liquor is cold, the 
oily part i)eing at the top, and the other be- 
ing firm, with pieces of kitchen paper appli- 
ed to it, you may remove every particle of 
the oily substance, without wasting any of 
the liquor. 

Put the litjuor in a stewpan to melt, with 
a pound of lump sugar, the peel of two lem- 
ons, the juice of six, six whites and shells of 
eggs beat together, and a bottle of Sherry or 
Madeira ; whisk the w hole together until it is 
on the boil; dien put it by the side of the 
stove, and let it sinnner a quarter of an 
hour; strain it through a jelly-bag: what is 
strained first must be poured into the bag 
again, until it is as bright and as clear as 
rock-water; then put the jelly in moulds, to 
be cold and firm : if the weather is too waim, 
it requires some ice. 

When it is wished to be very stiff, half an 
ounce of isinglass may be added when the 
wine is put in. 

It may be flavored by the juice of various 
fiuits, spices, &c. and colored with saf- 
fron, cochineal, red beet juice, spinage juice, 
claret, &c. ; and it is sometimes made with 
cherry brandy, or noyeau rouge, or Curacoa, 
or essence of punch, instead of wine. 

JELLY, CALF'S FEET. (2) Take 
the fat and bones from eight feet, and soak 
them in water for three or four hours ; 
then boil them in six quarts of water, skim- 
ming often ; when reduced to a third, strain 
and set it by to cool ; when cold, take every 
particle of fat from the top, and remove 
whatever may have settled at the bottom. 
Dissolve it in an earthen pan, adding to it 
two quarts of white wine, mace, cinnamon, 
and ginger, or not, as you please. Beat up 
the whites of twelve eggs M-ith three pounds 
of fine sugar, mix these widi tlie jelly, boil it ■ 
gently, adding the juice of two lemons, and 
then strain it for use. 

JELLY, CHERRY. Take the stones 
and stalks from two pounds of fine clear 
ripe cherries; mix them with a quarter of 
a pound of red currants, from which the 
Beeds have been extracted; express the 
juice from these fruits, filter and mix it with 
tliree-quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, 
and one ounce of ihinglass. Finish the same 
as Barberry jelly. 

JELLY OF CURRANTS, GRAPE, 



RASPBERRY, Are all made precisely 
in the same manner. When the fruit is full 
ripe, gather it on a dry day: as soon as it 
is nicely picked, put it into a jar, and cover 
it down very close. 

Set the jar in a saucepan about tiiree 
parts filled with cold water; put it on a gen- 
tle fire, and let it simmer for about half an 
hour. Take the pan fiom the fire, and pour 
the contents of the jar into a jelly-bag: pass 
the juice through a second time ; do not 
squeeze the bag. 

To each pint of juice add a pound and a 
half of very good lump sugar pounded ; when 
it is dissolved, put it into a preserving-pan; 
set it on the fire, and boil gently; stirring 
and skimming it the whole time (about thir- 
ty or forty minutes), i. e. till no more scum 
rises, and it is perfectly clear and fine: 
pour it while warm into pots; and when 
cold, cover them with paper wetted in 
brandy. 

Half a pint of this jelly, dissolved in a 
pint of brandy or vinegar, will give you ex- 
cellent currant or raspberry brandy or vine- 
gar. 

Obs. — Jellies from other fruits are made 
in the same way, and cannot be preserved 
in perfection without plenty of good sugar. 

Those who wish jelly to turn out \ery stiff, 
dissolve isinglass in a little water, strain 
through a sieve, and add it in the proportion 
of half an ounce to a pint of juice, and put 
it in with the sugar. 

The best way is the cheapest. Jellies 
made with two small a proportion of sugar, 
refjuire boiling so long; there is much more 
waste of juice and flavor by e\aporation than 
die due quantity of sugar costs ; and they 
neither look nor taste half so well. 

JELLY, DAMSON. To eight pounds 
of damsons, put eight pounds of fine sugar, 
and half a pint of water; boil them for half 
an hour over a gentle fire, till the skins 
break ; then take them off, and set them by 
for an hour; set diem on the fire again, for 
half an hour more; set them by again for 
the same time; do so the third time; while 
they stand off the fire, put a weight upon 
them to keep them under the sirup. The 
last time, you must boil them till you per- 
ceive diey are of a verj' high color in the 
part wheie the skin is broken ; then take 
them oft', set them by to cool, and when they 
are cold, drain off the sirup, and make the 
jelly in the following manner : — Boil a quan- 
tity of green apples, green gooseberries, and 
quince cores, to a mash ; then strain them 
through a hair sieve. Take an equal quan- 
tity of this jelly and the former siruj), and 
boil them over a gentle fire together till they 
jelly; skim it well, and while it is hot, put 
it into glasses or pots. 



JEL 



103 



JEL 



JELLY FOR ENTREI\IETS. Harts- 
horn, calPs feet, and isinglass, are the usual 
materials used to coagulate sweet jellies ; of 
tliese three, the latter is the best, as, when 
properly clarified, (for which see isinglass), 
it is the clearest, and has no unpleasant 
flavor. 

JELLY FRUIT. Clarify half a pound 
of sugar, but the instant before it is quite 
clear, put in a small quantity of cochineal ; 
then strain, and mix with it an ounce of 
clarified isinglass, and the juice of two lem- 
ons ; add to this the fruit of which your jel- 
ly is to be composed; stir them together 
lightly, pour the jelly into a mould quickly, 
and put the mould on ice. Observe that the 
sugar and isinglass should be no more than 
lukewarm when mixed together. These 
jellies may be made of any kind of fruit, or 
the grated rinds of lemon, oiange, or ce- 
drats. 

JELLY, GLOUCESTER. Take an 
ounce of rice, tlie same of sago, pearl-barley, 
hartshorn-shavings, and eringo root; sim- 
mer with three pints of water, til! reduced 
to one pint, strain it. When cold it will be 
a jelly; when you use it, serve dissolved in 
wine, milk, or broth. 

JELLY, GRAPE. Take out the stones, 
£hen mash the grapes with your hands, (they 
must be ripe) then squeeze them through a 
cloth to extract all the juice from them, and 
boil and finish the same as currant jelly. 
Use half a pound of sugar to each pound of 
fruit. 

JELLY, HARTSHORN. Boil half a 
pound of hartshorn shavings for three hours 
and a half in four pints and a half of water ; 
strain it through a bit of muslin, and stir in- 
to it three ounces of dissolved isinglass ; if 
large, the peel of one, if small, of two lem- 
ons, and their juice, half the peel of an or- 
ange, three parts of a tea-cupful of brandy, 
and one of white wine; sweeten with pound- 
ed loaf sugar, and when lukewarm put it 
into a saucepan with the beaten whites of 
six eggs ; stir it, and let it boil for two min- 
utes ; strain it through a jelly-bag two or 
three times till perfectly clear. 

JELLY, ORANGE. (1) Squeeze the juice 
of eight oranges and six lemons, grate the 
peel of half the fruit, and steep it in a pint 
of cold water; mix it with the juice, three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, one ounce 
and a quarter of isinglass, and the beaten 
whites of seven eggs ; put it into a sauce- 
pan, and stir it till it boils ; let it boil a few 
minutes, and strain it through a jelly-bag till 
clear; put it into a mould or glasses. 



JELLY, ORANGE. (2) Boil in a 
pint of water one ounce and a quarter of 
picked isinglass, the rind of an orange cut 
thin, a stick of cinnamon, a few corianders, 
and three ounces of loaf sugar, till the isin- 
glass is dissolved; then squeeze two Seville 
oranges or lemons, and enough oranges to 
make a pint of juice : mix all together, and 
strain it through a tamis or lawn sieve into 
a basin ; set it in a cold place for half an 
hour ; pour it into another basin free from 
sediment ; and when it begins to congeal, 
fill your moftld : when wanted, dip the 
mould into lukewarm water ; turn it out on 
a dish, and garnish with orange or lemon 
cut in slices, and placed round. N. B. — A 
k\v grains of saffron put in the water will 
add much to its appearance. 

JELLY, OX-HEEL. Slit them in two, 
and take away the fat between the claws. 
The proportion of water to each heel is 
about a quart: let it simmer gently for eight 
hours (keeping it clean skimmed); it will 
make a pint and a half of strong jelly, which 
is frequently used to make calf's feet jelly, 
or to add to mock turtle and other soups. 

JELLY, PEACH. Cut ten or twelve 
peaches in halves, take out the stones and 
peel them ; set a pint of smooth clarified su- 
gar, diluted with water, on the fire; when 
it has boiled and been skimmed, put in the 
peaches, the kernels should be broken and 
put in with them; let them boil, very gently 
for ten minute^s, then take out lijur or five 
of the halves, and lay them on a plate to be 
in readiness for garnishing tlie jelly; let 
the remainder of the peaches boil for ten 
minutes longer; while they are boiling take 
three lemons, cut off" the rind, squeeze the 
juice through a silk sieve in a basin, pass 
the liquor of tiie peaches into it, and then 
the isinglass, running it through the sieve 
two or three times, in order to mix it well ; 
fill the mould half full of jelly, and when set, 
put in the peaches and a little more jelly, 
and when that is set, fill up the mould. 
The reason why the lemons are peeled be- 
fore they are squeezed for this jelly is, that 
the oil in tiie rind would rather spoil the fla- 
vor of the jelly, than be any addition. 

JELLY, QUINCE. Quinces for jelly 
ought not to be (juite ripe, they should, how- 
ever, be of a fine yellow color ; take off the 
down which covers them, quarter, core, put 
them into a saucepan, with water enough to 
co\ er them ; set them on the fire, and when 
soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to <L-ain, 
pressing them very slightly; strain tlie li- 
(|uor, and measure it; clarify, and boil to 
casse an equal quantity of sugar; tlien take 
it off, add the liquor to it, stirring it well; 



J U I 



104 



K A V 



Hrlien mixed, put it on tlie fire, still stirring ; 
as soon as the jelly spreads over tlie spoon, 
and falls from it like treacle; take it from 
tlie fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. 

JELLY, RASPBERRY. Take two 
thirds of rasberries, and one third red cur- 
rants; pick them, press the juioe through a 
sieve into a pan, cover, and place it in a 
cellar, or any other cool place for three days ; 
at the end of that time raise the thick skin 
formed at the top, and pour the juice into 
another vessel: weigh it, an(i put it, with 
half the quantity of sugar, into a preserving 
pan, set it on the fire; a great deal of scum 
will rise at first, which must all be taken off; 
leave it on the fire for an honi' ; then pour a 
few drops on a cold plate, if it cools of the 
proper consistence for jellies, take it from 
the fire and whilst hot pour it into pots ; 
Let the jelly be quite cold before the pots are 
covered. 

JELLY, RUM. Clarify, and boil to a 
sirup, a pound of loaf sugar ; dissolve one 
ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, 
strain it through a sieve into tlie sirup when 
it is half warm, and when nearly cold, stir 
in a quart of white wine; mix it well, and 
add one or two table-spoonfuls of old Ja- 
maica rum, stir it for a few minutes, and 
pour it into a mould, or into glasses. 

JELLY, STRAWBERRY. Put some 
fresh-gathered strawberries into an earthen 
pan, bruise them with a wooden spoon, add 
a little cold water, and some finely-pounded 
loaf sugar. In an hour or two, strain it 
through a jelly-bag, and to a quart of the 
juice add one ounce of isinglass, which has 
been dissolved in half a i)intof water, well- 
skimmed, strained, and allowed to cool ; mix 
all well, and pour it into an earthen mould. 

Raspberry jelly, red currant jelly, and red 
cm-rants mixed with raspberries, may be 
made exactly in the same manner ; and the 
bright red color may be improved by mixing 
in a little camnine or lake. When this kind 
of jelly is to be made with cherries, the fruit 
should be boiled a- few minutes in clarified 
sugar, and when cold, the juice of one or two 
lemons may be added witii the isinglass. 

A little lemon juice may be added to any 
of the other jellies, in proportion to the acid- 
ity of the fruit. 

They may be iced by covering and sur- 
rounding the mould with ice, without any salt. 

JUICE The proportion of oranges 
shoiild be double that of lemons; the fruit 
being selected fiee from decay, and wiped 
dry, they are to be squeezed, and the juice 
etrained through a sieve into an earthen pan ; 
to each pint, according to the acidity of the 



fruit, a jjound and a half, or a pound and 
ihree-cjuarters, of double-refined sugar, bro- 
ken small, is to be added. It must be stirred 
and skimmed daily, till the sugar is well in- 
corporated, or as long as the scum rises; 
and when it has been a month in the pan, it 
may be boiled. 

JUICE OF FRESH FRUIT ICED. 

Press through a sieve the juice of a pint of 
pickled currants or raspberries, add to it 
four or five ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a 
little lemon juice, and a pint of cream. It 
may be whisked previous to freezing, and a 
mixture of the juice may be used. 

JULIENNE. This soup is composed 
of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, let- 
tuce, sorrel and chervil ; the roots ai e cut in 
thin slips, about an inch long, the onions are 
halved and then sliced ; the lettuce and sor- 
rel chopped small; toss up the roots in a 
little butter, when they are done, add the 
lettuces, &c. moisten them witli brotJi, and 
boil the whole over a slow fire for an hoiu' or 
more, if necessary; prepare some bread in 
the usual way, and pour the julienne over it. 

JUMBLES. Mix one pound of fine 
flour with one pound of fme powder sugar, 
make them into a light paste with whites of 
eggs well beaten ; add half a pint of cream, 
half a pound of fiesh butter, melted, and a 
pound of blanched almonds, pounded ; knead 
them all together, thoroughly, with a little 
rose water, and cut out the jumbles into 
whatever ibrms you think jnoper; and eith- 
er bake them in a gentle oven, or fiy them 
in fresh butter; serve tliem in a dish, melt 
fi'csh butter widi a spoonful of mountain, and 
strew fine sugar over the dish. 

JUSTICE'S ORANGE SIRUP FOR 

Punch or Puddings. Sqiieeze the or- 
anges, and strain the juice from the pulp 
into a large pot; boil it up \vith a pound and 
a half of fine sugar to each pint of juice; 
skim it well; let it stand till ccjld; dien 
bottle it, and cork it well. Obs. — This 
makes a fine, soft, mellow-flavored punch ; 
and, added to melted butter, is a good lelish 
to puddings. 



K. 



KAVIA. Take the hard roes of several 
sturgeon, and lay them in a tub of water; 
take away ail the fibres as you would from 
a calf's brains, then, with a A\liisk, Ije.it the 
roes ia the vvatei', shaking off from die wliisK 
whatever fibres may be adliering to it ; then 
lay the roes on sieves for a short time ; after 



KID 



105 



KIS 



which put them into fresh water again; and 
continue to whip them, and change the wa- 
ter, until the roes are perfectly cleansed and 
free from libre; lay theni on sieves to drain, 
season them well with salt and pepper; 
wrap them in a coarse cloth, tying them up 
like a ball, and let them drain thus till the 
next day, when serve them with fried bread, 
and shallots chopped small. If they are to 
be kept for sometime, put more salt to them, 

KEBOBBED VEAL. See Veal. 

KELLY'S SAUCE. See Sauce. 

KERRY BUTTER MILK. Put six 
quarts of butter-milk into a cheese cloth, 
hang it in a cool place, and let the whey 
^rip from it for two or three days; when it 
is rather thick, put it into a basin, sweeten 
it with pounded loaf sugar, and add a glass 
of brandy, or of sweet wine, and as much 
i^aspberry jam, or sirup, as will color and 
eive it an asrreeable flavor. Whisk it well 
together, and serve it m a glass dish. 

KETCHUP, ENGLISH. Peel ten 
cloves of garlic, bruise them, and put them in- 
to a quart of white wine vinegar ; take a quart 
of while Port, put it on the fire, and when it 
boils, put in twelve or fourteen anchovies, 
washed and cut in pieces; let them simmer 
in the wine till they ai'e dissolved; when 
cold, put them to the vinegar; then take 
half a pint of white wine, and put into it 
some mace, some ginger sliced, a few cloves, 
a spoonful of whole pepper bruised ; let them 
boil a little; when almost cold, slice in a 
whole nutmeg, and some lemon-peel, with 
two or three spoonfuls of horse-radish; add 
it to the rest, stop it close, and stir it once 
or twice a day. Keep it close stopped up. 

See Mushroom Ketchup. 

KEW MINCE. Cut a pound of meat 
from a leg of cold roasted mutton, and mince 
it very finely, together with six ounces of 
suet, mix with it three or four table-spoon- 
fuls of crumbs of bread, the beaten yolks of 
four eggs, one anchovy chopped, some pep- 
per and salt, and half a pint of Port wine; 
put it into a caul of veal, and bake it in a 
quick oven ; turn it out into a dish, and poui- 
6ome broun gravv over it; serve with it 
venison sauce- When a veal caul is not to 
be had, the mince may be done in a sauce- 
pan. 

KID. Kid is good eating when it is but 
thi'ee or four months old, its llesh is then 
delicate and tender, but is not used after it 
has done sucking. To be good, it ought to 
be fat and white. It is dressed in die same 
uianner as lamb or- fiiwn. 



KIDNEYS. Cut" them through the long 
way, score them, and sprinkle them over 
with a little pepjoer and salt; in order to 
broil all over alike, and to keep than from 
curling on llie gridiron, run a wire skewer 
right through them. They must be broiled 
over a clear fire, being careful to turn them 
frequently till they are done; they will take 
about ten or twelve minutes broiling, provi- 
ded they are done over a brisk fire ; or, if 
you choose, you may fiy them in butter, and 
make gravy for diem in the pan (after the 
kidneys are t^en out), by putting in a tea- 
spoonful of llour; as soon as it looks brown, 
put in a sufficient quantity of water as will 
make gravy; they will take five minutes 
longer frying than broiling. Garnish with 
fried parsley: you may improve them if you 
think proper, by chopping a few parsley 
leaves very fine, mix them with a bit of fresh 
butter, and a little pepper and salt, and then 
put some of this mixture over each kidney, 

KISSES. (1) Put the whites of eight 
eggs, and two spoonfuls of orange-flower 
water, into a China basin, and whisk till 
they become a firm froUi, then add half a 
pound of sifted sugar, stir it in widi great 
care by means of a spatula: that done, lay 
small pieces of this mixture on white paper; 
make each drop about the size of a ratafia, 
rather conical than flat; place the paper 
which contains them on a piece of wood 
about an inch thick, and put diera in a veiy 
hot oven: watch them, and as soon as you 
perceive tliey begin to look yellowish, take 
them out, and detach them from the paper 
with a knife as cautiously as possible, for 
they are veiy tender. Take a small spoon, 
and with the end of it remove the moist part, 
which is at die bottom, so as to make diem 
a litde hollow, and as you do them, lay each 
on the jiaper, the hollow side upwards ; put 
them on the wood into the oven again for a 
few minutes to dry; when done, lay them 
in boxes, and keep them in a dry and warm 
place. If they are for table, fill the hollow 
of each with a little whipped cream or rasp- 
terry jam; put tliem together by couples, 
the cream or jam inside ; place them in a 
dish, and serve them as soon as possible. 

KISSES. (2) One pound of the best loaf 
sugar, powdered and sifted. The whites of 
four eggs. Twelve drops of essence of lem- 
on. A tea-cup of currant jelly. Beat the 
whites of four esjss till they stand alone. 
Then beat in, gradually, the sugar, a tea- 
spoonful at a time. Add the essence of lem- 
on, and teat die whole veiy hard. Lay a 
wet sheet of paper on the bottom of a square 
tin pan. Drop on it, at equal distances, a 
small tea-spoonful of stiff" currant jelly. 
Widi a large spoon, pile some of the beaten 



LAM 



106 



LAM 



white of egg and sugar, on each lump of 
jelly, so as to cover it entirely. Drop on 
the mixture as evenly as possiljie, so as to 
make the kisses of a routid smooth shape. 
Set them in a cool oven, and as soon as 
they are colored, they are done. Tlien take 
tl'.eni out antl place them two b;>ttoms to- 
getiier. Lay them lightly on a sieve, and 
dry them in a cool oven, till the two bot- 
toms stick fast together, so as to form one 
ball or oval. 

KNUCKLES. See the several meats 
to which they belong. 



L. 



LAMB. The fore quarter of lamb con- 
sists of the shoulder, the neck, and the 
breast together; the hind quarter is the leg 
and loin. There are also the head and 
pluck, the fry or sweetbreads, skirts, lamb- 
stones, and liver. In choosing the fore 
quarter, the vein in the neck should be rud- 
dy, or of a bluish color. In the hind quar- 
ter, the knuckle should feel stiff, the kidney 
small, and peifectly fresh. To keep it, the 
joints should be carefully wiped every day, 
and in warm weather, sprjiikled with a lit- 
tle pepper. The fore quarter is the prime 
joint, and should be roasted and basted 
with butter; the gravy is made as for beef 
or mutton. Mint sauce is served in a sauce 
tureeji, and half a lemon is sent to table 
with it, the juice of Avhich is squeezed upon 
the ribs after the shoulder is cut off, and 
they have been sprinkled with salt. If the 
joint weighs five pounds, it will require to 
be roasted one hour; if ten pounds, one hour 
and three-quarters. The hind quarter may 
l)e roasted, or the leg of it boiled. The 
loin is then cut into steaks, fried, and serv- 
ed round it; the outside bones being cover- 
ed with a fringe of fried parsley. A dish 
of spinach is generally served with the 
lamb. 

LAMB, Is a delicate, and commonly 
considered tender meat; but those wlio talk 
of tender lamb, while they ai-e thinking of 
the age of the animal, forget that even a 
chicken must be kept a proper time afier it 
has been killed, or it will be tough picking. 
To the usual accompaniments of roasted 
meat, green mint sauce, and a salad, is com- 
monly added; and some cooks, about five 
minutes bel!>re it is done, sprinkle it with a 
little fresh gathered and finely minced i)a!-s- 
ley. Lamb, and all young nieats, ought to be 
thoroughly done; therefore do not take either 
jamb or veal off the spit till you see it drop 
white gravy. When green mint cannot be 



got, mint vinegar is an acceptable substitute 
tor it ; and ciisp paisley on a side plate, is 
an adiuirahle accoinpaniment. 

Hind- (Quarter, Of eight pounds, will 
t:d\e fiom an hour and three-(iuarters to two 
hours: baste and froth it. The les: and 
the loin of lansb, wiien little, should be 
roasted together; the former iieing lean, the 
latter fat, and the gravy is better preserved. 

Fore-Quarter, Often pounds, about two 
hours. It is a pretty general custom, when 
you take oflf the shoulder from the ribs, to 
sejueeze a Seville orange over them, and 
sprinkle them with a little pepper and salt. 
This may as well be done by the cook Ije- 
fore it comes to table; some people are not 
remarkably expert at dividing these joints 
nicely. 

Leg, Of five pounds, from an hour to an 
hour and a half. 

Shoulder, With a quick fire, an hour. 

Ribs, About an hour to an hour and a 
quarter: joint it nicely, crack the ribs across, 
and divide them from die brisket after it is 
roasted. 

Loin, An hour and a quarter. 

Neck, An hour. • qq 

Breast, Three-quarters of an hour. 

LAMB BREAST. Cut it into pieces, 
and stew it in a weak stock, with a glass 
f)f Port wine ; add pepper and salt. When 
it is perfectly tender, thicken the sauce 
w ith butter and flour. Have ready cucum- 
bers stewed in gravy, put them over the 
lamb before serving. A breast of mutton 
may be served in the same way. 

LAxMB CHOPS BROILED. Cut a 

loin or l)est end of the neck into chops, flat- 
ten them, and cut off the fat and skin ; rub 
the gridiron with a little fat, and broil them 
on a clear fire. Turn them w ith steak tongs, 
till quite done. Serve diem hot. 

LAMB CHOPS. Cut a neck or loin of 
lamb into chops; rub them over with the 
beaten yolk of an egg; dip them into grated 
bread, mixed with ])lenty of chopped ];ars- 
ley, and season with lemon-peel, pepper, 
and salt ; fry them a light brown in g(jod 
dripping; make a sauce with the trimmings, 
and thicken the sauce with butter rolled in 
flour; add a little lemon pickle and mush- 
room ketchup. Garnish with fried parsley. 
They may be served witii or without the 
gravy. 

LAMB CUTLETS. Cut the cutlets off 
the loin, into round bits; tiimoff the fat and 
skin; dip them into the beaten yolk of an 
cg^, and then into bread crumbs, mixed 
with minced parsley, grated nutmeg, and 
lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Fiy them a 



L A M 



107 



LAR 



light brovvTi in clai'ified beef suet; drain 
them on the back of a sieve Ijefore the fwe. 
Serve them witli melted butter with a Hftle 
lemon pickle in it, or a brown sauce thick- 
ened. Garnish with cut lemon. 

LAMB DRESSED WITH RICE. 
Half roast a small fore quarter of Iamb; cut 
it into steaks, season them with a little salt 
and pepper; lay them into a dish, and pour 
in a little water. Boil a poinid of rice 
witii a blade or two of mace; strain it, and 
stir in a good piece of fiesh butter, and a 
little salt, add also the greater part of the 
yolks of four egsfs beaten ; cover the lamb 
with the rice, and with a feather put over 
it the retnainder of the beaten eggs. Bake 
it in an oven till it has actjuired a light 
brown color. 

LAMB FEET. Clean, well wash, and 
blanch six lamb's feet; stew them, till they 
become tender, in some white stock, with a 
slice of lean ham, one onion, some parsley, 
thyme, two blades of mace, a little whole 
j)ei)per, and a few mushi'ooms. Before 
serving, strain the sauce ; thicken it with 
flour and butter, and half a pint of cream ; 
boil it a quarter of an hour, add the feet 
and the juice of half a small lemon. Gar- 
nish with sippets of tliin toasted bread, cut 
into a three-cornered shape. 

LAMB FRY. Fry it plain, or dip it 
in an egg well beaten on a plate, and strew 
some fine stale bread-crumbs over it; gar- 
nish with crisp parsley. 

LAMB, LEG OF, BOILED. It should 
be boiled in a cloth, that it may look as 
white as possible. Cut the loin in steaks, 
dip diem in egg, strew them over with 
brq^d-crumbs, and fry them a nice brown, 
serve them round the dish, and gainish with 
dried or fried parsley; serve with spinach 
to eat with it. 

LAMB PIE, THE GERMAN WAY. 

Cut a (]',iarter of lamb into pieces, and lard 
them with small lardons of bacon, season- 
ed with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a 
Ijay-leaf; add fat bacon pounded, small on- 
ions, nutmeg, and sweet herbs; put these 
into the pie, and let it bake fov three hours; 
whe)i baked, cut it open, skim off all the 
fdt, pour in a ragout of oysters, and serve 
hot. 

LAMB PIE, A SAVORY ONE. Cut 

the meat into pieces, and season it with 
pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, 
finely beaten. Make a good puff paste 
;rust, put the meat into it, with a few 
amb etones and sweetbreads, seasoned 



the same as the meat. Then put in some 

oysters and forcemeat balls, the yolks of 

hard eggs, and the tops of asparagus, about 

two inches long, first boiled green. Put 

j butter all over the i)ie, ])ut on the lid, and 

j lot it Ixdvc for an h(riir and a half in a tjuick 

i oven. In the tiseaiitime, take a pint of gia- 

I vy, the oyster li{|uor, a gill of red wine, and 

a little giated nutmeg. Mix all together 

with the yolks of two or three eggs, finely 

beaten, and keep stirring it the same way 

all the time. When it boils, pour it into 

the pie, put on the lid again, and serve it to 

table. 

LAMB, TO ROAST OR BOIL. A 

quarter of an hour is general Iv allowed to 
each pound of meat; a leg of lamb of five 
pounds will therefore take an hour and a 
quarter to roast or boil, the other joints in 
the same proportion ; serve either with sa- 
lad, pickles, brocoli, caulitlowers, string 
beans, pease, potatoes, or cucumbers, raw 
or ste\ved. 

LAMB SHOULDER, GRILLED. Boil 
it ; score it in chequers about an inch square, 
rub it over with the yolk of an egg, pepper 
and salt it, strew it with bread-crumbs and 
dried parsley, oi- sweet herbs, and carbo- 
nado, i. e. grill, i. e. broil it over a clear 
fire, or put it in a Dutch oven till it is a 
nice ligiit brown; send up some gravy with 
it, or make a sauce foi* it of flour and water 
well mixed together with an ounce of fresh 
butter, a table-spoonful of mushroom or 
walnut ketchup, and the juice of half a lem- 
on. See Grill sauce. Breasts of lamb 
are often done in the same way, and with 
mushroom or mutton sauce. 

LAIMB STEAKS FRIED. Fry them 
of the nicest brown; when served, throw 
over them a good quantity of crumbs of 
bread fried, and crisped -parsley. Or you 
may season them and broil them in buttered 
papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or 
without, according to taste. 

LARD, HOG'S. The lard should be 
carefully melted in a jar, put into a kettle 
of water, and boiled; run it into bladders 
that have been particularly well cleaned. 
It is best to have the bladders small, as the 
lard will keep better, for, after the air 
reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it is 
melting, put in a sprig of rosemary. This 
being a \ery useful article in frying fish, it 
should be prepared with great care. Mix- 
ed with baiter, it makes a fine crust. 

LARKS. These delicate litde birds are 
in high season in November. When they 
are thoroughly picked, gutted, and cleansed. 



LEI 



108 



LEM 



ffuss tliein ; do them over with the yolk of 
egg, and tlien roll them in bread-crumbs ; 
epit them on a lark spit, and fasten that on 
to a larger spit, ten or fifteen minivtes will 
be sufficient time to roast them in before a 
quick fire; whilst they ai'e roasting, baste 
them with fresh butter, and sp/inkle them 
with bread-crumbs till they are well cover- 
ed with them. Fry some grated bread in 
buttei", set it to drain Ijefore the fiie, that it 
may harden. Serve the crumbs in the dish 
under the larks, and garnish with slices of 
lemon. 

LAVENDER DROPS. Fill a quart 
bottle with the blossoms of lavender, and 
pour on it as much brandy as it will contain ; 
let it stand ten days, then strain it, and add 
of nutmeg bruised, cloves, mace, and cochi- 
neal, a quarter of an ounce each, and bot- 
tle it for use. In nervous cases, a little may 
be taken dropped on a bit of sugar ; and in 
the beginning of a bowel complaint, a tea- 
spoonful, taken in half a glass of pepper- 
mint water, will often prove efficacious. 

LAVENDER WATER. Put into a 
large bottle, eight ounces of tlie best recti- 
fied spirits of wine, three drachms of oil of 
lavender, one drachm of essence of amber- 
gris, and threepence-worth of musk ; cork 
it tightly, and shake it well every day, for 
a fortnight or three weeks. 

LEAVES, TO GREEN, FOR ORNA- 
MENTING FRUIT. Take small leaves 
of a pear-tree, keep them close stopped in 
a pan of verjuice and water, give tliem a 
boil in some sirup of apricots; put them be- 
tween two pieces of gUiss to diy ; smooth 
and cut them into tlie shape of apricot- 
leaves (the leaves should be procured with 
stalks) ; stick them about the apricots or 
any other preserved fruit; but the leaves 
must be cut in the shape of the leaf which 
belongs to the fruit you ornament. 

LEEKS. Leeks are most generally used 
for soups, ragouts, and other made dishes, 
they are very rarely brought to table ; in 
which case dress them as follows: — Put 
them into the stock-pot till about three parts 
done; then take them out, drain, and soak 
them in vinegar seasoned with pepper, salt, 
and cloves; diain them again, stuff the 
hearts with a. farce, dip them in batter, and 
fry them. 

LEIPZEGER PANCAKES. Beat well 
the whites of four, and the volks of eight 
fresh eggs, and add, by degrees, half a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, a pint and a 
half of sweet cream just warmed, half a 
pound of clarified fresh butter, two tahle- 



spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and a wine-glass full 
of spirits of wine ; then mix in as much sifted 
flour as will make it into a thick oatter; 
let it rise for half an hour ; roll it out thin ; 
cut it into rounds or oblong pieces, and lav 
on them jam or marmalade; double them, 
and let them stand again to rise, and fry 
them in boiling fiesh lard or butter. 

LEMONADE. To a gallon of spring 
water add some cinnamon and cloves, plen- 
ty of orange and plenty of lemon-juice, and 
a bit of tlie peel of each ; sweeten well with 
loaf sugar, and whisk it with the whites of 
six eggs, and the yolk of one; give it a boil, 
and then let it simmer for ten minutes ; then 
run it through a jelly-bag, and let it stand 
till cold, before it is drank. 

LEMONADE TRANSPARENT. The 

peel of fourteen lemons having been soaked 
in two quarts of water for two hours, their 
juice, one pound and a half of sugar, and a 
quart of white wine, aie to be added ; a 
quart of new milk, made boiling hot, is then 
to be mixed with it, and when it has stood 
an hour, it is to be strained through a jelly- 
bag till it runs clear. 

LEMON BONBONS. Take two pounds 
of the best lump sugar, clarify and boil it to 
caramel; but just before it reaches that 
point, grate the rind of a lemon and put in 
it; in the meanwhile inelt a little butter; 
skim, and pour it off clear; lake a spoonful 
of this butter, and rub it with your hand over 
a copperplate or marble slab, on vvliich poiu* 
the caramel sugar: then have a sword blade, 
take an end in each hand, and impress lines 
in the sugar about an inch apart ; then im- 
[)ress similar lines across the first, so as to 
form small cakes ; this operation should be 
performed as quickly as possible, lest the 
sugar should cool before the whole is mark- 
ed ; when however all is done, pass the 
blade carefully between the sugar and the 
slab, lay it on sheets of white paper, and 
when perfectly cold, separate the bonbons, 
and wrap each in paper ; keep them in a 
dry place. 

LEMON BRANDY. Three quarts of 
brandy being put into an earthen jar that is 
fitted with a cover, a pound and three-quar- 
ters of fine loaf sugar, the thin parings of 
six lemons, and the juice of twelve, are to 
be added ; one quart of boiling milk is to be 
poured over the mixture, wiiich must be 
stirred daily for eight days ; it is then to be 
run through a jelly-bag and bottled. 

LEMON CHEESECAKES. Boil the 
peel of two large lemons till they are quite 
tender, and then pound it well in a mortar. 



LEM 



109 



L E M 



with four or fi\e ounces of loaf siig ir, tlie ' 
yolks of six eggs, half a poiiii^ of fi-e -h but- 
ter, and a little curd beaten fine: pound and 
mix altogether, lay a rich puff paste in some 
patty-pan.-, fill them half fuli, and bake tlieai 
carefully. 

LEMON CHEESECAKES. Mix four 
ounces of sifted lump sugar, and four ounces 
of butter tugedier, and gently melt it ; then 
add the yolks of two, and the white of one 
es.S, the rind of three lemons shred fine, and 
the juice of one lemon and a half, one sa- 
vory biscuit, soate blanched almonds, pound- 
ed, three spoonfuls of brandy; mix the 
wliole well togethei-, and put it to j)aste 
made with the follosviuff inu'redients: eight 
ounces of Hour, six ounces of butter, two- 
thirds of which must be mixed with the 
Hour first; then wet it with six spoonfuls of 
water, and roll in the remainder of the but- 
ter. 

LEMON CHIPS. Take large smooth- 
rinded Malaga lenujos; race or cut off tlieir 
peel into chips with a small knife (this will 
refjuire some practice to do it properly) ; 
throw them into salt and water till next 
day; have ready a pan of boiling water, 
throw them in and boil diem tender. Drain 
them well; alter having lain sometime in 
water to coo!, put them in an earthen pan, 
pour over enough boiling clarified sugar lo 
cover them, and then let them lie two days; 
then strain the siiup, put more sugar, and 
reduce it by boiling till the sirup is quite 
thick; put in the chi[is, and simmer them a 
few minutes, and set them by for two days: 
repeat it once more ; let thera be two days 
longer, and they will be fit to candy, which 
must be done as follows: take four pints of 
clarified sugar, \\hich will be sufficient for 
six pounds of chips, boil it to the degree of 
blown (which may be known by dipping the 
skimmer into ihe suijar, and blowinif strong- 
ly through the holes of it; if little bladders 
appear, it h;is attained that degree); and 
when the chips are thoroughly drained and 
wiped on a clean clodi, put them into the 
sirup, stirring them about with the skimmer 
till you see the sugar become white; then 
take them out with two forks ; shake them 
lightly into a wire sieve, and set diem into 
a stove, or in a warm place to dry. Orange 
chi, s are done in the same way. 

LEMON ESSENCE. Rasp your lem- 
ons'all round, very thin, and for every quar- 
ter of a pound of rind, allow one pound of 
sugar; mix it well widi a large spaddle till 
you find it is all of the same color, and that 
the rind is well mixed ; put it into a stone 
jar, and press it down as hard as you can ; 
put a bladder over the paper you cover with, 
10 



and tie it over quite tight; put it by, and in 
a montlTs time it will be fit for use. 

le:uon juice to preserve. 

Squeeze, and strain a pint of iemon-juice; 
put into a China basin one poimd of doul)le- 
refiucd sugiri- finely p'oundud and .sifted, add 
the , leuKjn-juice, and stir it with a silver 
spoon till the sugar be perfectly dissolved. 
Bottle it, and cork it tightly; seal the cork, 
or tie bladder over it, and keep it in a dry 
cool place. 

LEMON MARMALADE. Allow to a 
pound of lemons eighteen ounces of fine 
loaf sugar; grate the rind of a few; cut 
them into half; squeeze and strain the juice; 
boil tlie skins in the same way as those 
of the ora!5ge skins are done; scoop out the 
pulp and white [Xirt; cut half into thin chips 
or p,aiings, and pound the other half in a 
mortar; pound the sugar, and pour over it 
the juice; stir, and let it boil for five min- 
utes; skim it; take it off the fire; put in the 
parings and the pounded skins; boil it for 
five minutes, then add the grate:l peel, and let 
it boil f>\' five minutes more ; take it off, and 
stir it til! half cold, before putting it into jars. 

LEMON iMINCE PIES. Squeeze out 
the juice fiom a large lemon ; boil the out- 
side till sufficiently tentler to beat to a mash, 
add to it three large apples chopped, and 
four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, 
four ounces of sugar; put tlie juice of the 
lemon, and add candied fruit, the same as 
for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill 
the patty-pans in the usual manner. 

LEMON-PEEL ESSENCE. Wash 

and brush clean the lemons; let them get 
perfectly dry: take a lump of loaf sugar, and 
rub them till all the yellow rind is taken up 
by the sugar: scrape off the surface of the 
sugar into a preserving pot, and press it 
hard down ; cover it very close, and it will- 
keep for sometime, 

LEMON-PEEL QUINTESSENCE. 
Best oil of lemon, one drachm, strongest 
rectified spirit, two ounces, introduced by 
degrees till the spirit kills, and completely 
mixes with the oil. This elegant prepara- 
tion possessas all the delightful fragrance and 
flavor of the freshest lemon-peel. Obs. — A 
few drops on the sugar you make punch with 
will instantly impregnate it with as much 
flavor as the troublesome and tedious meth- 
od of grating the rind, or rubbing the sugar 
on it. It will be found a superlative sub- 
stitute for fresh lemon-peel for every purpose 
that it is used for: blancmange, jellies, cus- 
tards, ice, negus, lemonade, and pies and pud- 
dings, stuffings, soups, sauces, ragouts, &^c. 



LEM 



no 



LEM 



LEMOIN'PEEL TINCTURE. A very 
easy and economical way of obtaining, and 
preserving the flavor of lemon-peel, is to fill 
a wide-mouthed pint bottle half full of bran- 
dy, or proof spirit; and when you use a 
len)on, paie the rind off veiy tliin, and put 
it into the brandy, &c.: in a fortnight it 
will impregnate the spirit with the flavor 
>ery strongly. 

LEMON PICKLE. (1) Grate off a 
little of the outer rind of two dozen of lem- 
ons, divide them into four ratlier more than 
half way down, leaving the bottom part 
w hole ; rub on them ecjually half a pound 
of finely-beaten salt, spread them upon a 
large dish, and put them into a cool oven. 
When the juice has dried up, put them into 
a stone jar, with an ounce of cloves and one 
of mace finely beaten, one ounce of nutnreg 
cat into thin slices, a quarter of an ounce of 
cayenne, and four ounces of garlic peeled, 
also half a pint of white musfard-seed bruis- 
ed and tied in a bit of muslin. Pour over 
Ihe whole two quarts of boiling vinegar, 
stop the jar closely, and let it stand for three 
months; then strain it through a hair sieve, 
pressing it well through; let it stand till the 
next day, pour off the clear, and put it into 
small bottles. Let the dregs stand covered 
some days, when it will become fine. It 
vein keep good for years. When the lem- 
ons are to be used as pickle, no straining is 
necessary. 

LEMON PICKLE. (2) Cut into quar- 
ters, and pick out all the seeds of six mid- 
dling sized lemons; put them into a jar, 
itrew over them two ounces of well beaten 
salt ; cover the jar with a cloth and plate, 
and let it stand three days ; then put to them 
cloves and a quarter of an ounce of mace 
beaten fine, one ounce of garlic or shallot, 
two of mustard-seed bruised, and one nut- 
meg sliced. IVIake a (juart of vinegar boil- 
ing hot, and pour it over the ingredients ; 
cover tlie jar, and in three or four days close 
it with a bung, and tie leather over it. It 
will be fit for use in a week, and is an im- 
provement to most sauces, ; nd particularly 
to fish sauce. 

LEMON POSSET. Squeeze the juice 
of two lemons into a China bowl, or small 
deep dish, that will hold a quart ; sweeten 
it like siiup, add a little brandy ; boil ojie 
pint of cream with a bit of orange-peel; 
take out the peel; when cold, put the ci'eam 
into a teapot, pour it to the sirup, holding 
it high. Make it the day before it is want- 
ed. 



LEMON PUDDING. See Pudding. 



LEMON RINDS MARMALADE. 

Having squeezed the juice from your lemons, 
cut out all the white part, and put the rinda 
into boiling water; as soon as they begin to 
soften, take them from the fire, and throw 
them into cold water ; then lay them on a 
sieve to drain, and make tliem into marma- 
lade, in the same manner as apricots. Or- 
ange rinds are done this way. 

LEMON SPONGE. Boil haif an ounce 
of isinglass in a pint of water till dissolved; 
strain it, and the following day add the 
juice of two lemons, and the grated pee) of 
one; rub through a hair sieve, into the isin- 
glass a good quantity of raspberry jam, that 
has stood before the fiie some time, and 
whisk it all together till like a sponge; put 
it into an earthen mouH, set it in a cold 
place for some hours, and turn it out. Any 
( ther soit of preserve may be used, and if 
made with only orange or lemon-juice, 
stveeten it with sugar, or make it with 
orange jelly which may have been left the 
day before. 

LEMON SYLLABUBS. Take a pint 
of cream, a pint of white wine, the peel of 
two lemons grated, and the juice; sugar ac- 
cording to taste; let it £tand some time; 
mill or whip it, lay the froth on a sieve; put 
the remainder into glasses, and lay on the 
froth. They should be made the day before 
they are wanted. If you should wish them 
to taste very strong of the lemon, you must 
make use of the juice of six lemons, and 
nearly a pound of sugar; they will keep 
four or five days. 

LE3IONS, SIRUP OF. Pat a pint of 
fresh lemon-juice to a pound and three- 
quarters of lump sugar; dissolve it by a 
gentle heat ; skim it till the surface is quite 
clear ; add an ounce of thin-cut lemon-peel ; 
let them simmer (very gently) together for a 
few minutes, and run it tlnough a flannel. 
When cold, bottle and coik it closely, and 
keep it in a cool place. Or, Dissolve a 
quarter of an ounce (avoiidupois) of citric, 
i. €. ciystallized lemon acid, in a pint of 
clarified sirup; flavor it with the peel, or 
dissolve the acid in equal parts of simple 
sirup, and sirup of lemon-peel. 

LEMON WATER. Put two slices of 
thinly pared lemon into a teapot, a liltle bit 
of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large 
spoonful of capillaire; pour in a pint of boil- 
ing water, and stop it close for t\\ o houn . 

LEMON CONSERVE, WHITE. Boil 

a pound of the finest sugar, take it of}' the 
file, and squeeze into it the juice of one 
lem.on at different times, stirring continually ; 



LOB 



111 



LOB 



it will make the sugar as white as milk if 
properly done ; take care not to drop any 
of the seeds into it; work it well together, 
and when it is of an erjual substance (which 
prove in the same manner as any other jelly), 
ponr it into a mould. Lemon conserve is 
made in the same manner, only that the su- 
gar must be boiled to a greater height than 
for white lemon conserve. 

LOBSTER. Buy these alive; the lob- 
ster merchants sometimes keep them till 
they are starved, before they boil them ; 
they are then watery, have not half their 
tiavor, and like other persons that die of a 
consumption, have lost the calf of their legs. 
Choose those that (as an old cook says, are 
" heavy and lively," and) are full of mo- 
tion, which is the index of their freshness. 
Those of die middle size are the best. Nev- 
er take them when tlie shell is incrusted, 
which is a sign they are old. The male 
lobster is preferred to eat, and the female 
(on account of the eggs) to make sauce of. 
The hen loljster is distinguished by having a 
broader tail than the male, and less claws. 
Set on a pot, with water suited in propor- 
tion of a table-spoonful of salt to a quart of 
water; when the water boils, put it in, and 
keep it boiling briskly from half an hour to 
an hour, according to its size; wipe all the 
scum oft' it, and rub the shell with a veiy 
little butter or sweet oil; break off" the 
great claws, crack them carefully in each 
joint, so that they may not be shattered, 
and yet come to pieces easily; cut the tail 
down the middle, and send up the body 
whole. 

LOBSTERS, to choose. The heaviest 
are considered the best. When alive, iftliey 
are quite fresh, the claws will have a strong 
motion when you put your finger on the «yes 
and press them. When you buy them ready 
boiled, try whether dieir tails a. ^ stiff" and 
pull up with a spring, otherwise .'hat part 
will be Habby. The cock-lobster may be 
distinguished from the hen by the narrow 
back part of the tail, and the two uppermost 
fins within it are stiff" and hard; but those 
of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. 
The male, though generally the smallest, has 
the highest flavor, the flesh is firsner, and 
the color wlien boiled is a deeper red. They 
come in about April, and remain in season 
till the oysters return. Hen lobsters are 
preferred for sauces, on account of their 
coral. 

{C3^ f-iohstprs are sold in Boston, al- 
ready boiled, and are always fresh and 
good. 

LOBSTER A LA ERAISE. Pound 
tlie meat of a large lobster very flne with 



two ounces of butter, and season it with 
grated nutmeg, salt, and white pepper; add 
a little grated bread, beat up two eggs, re- 
serve part to put over the meat, and with 
the rest make it up into the form of a lob- 
ster. Pound the spawn and red part, and 
spread it over il; bake it a quarter of an 
hour, and just before serving, lay over it the 
tail and body shell, with the small claws put 
underneath to resemble a lobster. 

LOBSTERS OR CRABS, buttered. 
Pick all the meat from the bodies of either, 
mince it small, put it into a saucepan with 
two or three table-spoonfuls of white wine, 
one of lemon-pickle, and three or four of 
rich gravy, a bit of butter, some salt, pep- 
jjer, and grated nutmeg; thicken it with 
the yolks of two eggs beat up, and when 
quite hot, put it into the large shells; gar- 
nish them with an edging of bread toasted. 

LOBSTER FRICASSEE. Break the 
shells, and take out the meat carefully, cut 
it and the red part, or coral, into pieces, 
adding the spawn ; thicken with flour and 
butter some white stock, with which the 
shells have bee.i boiled ; season it with 
white pepper, mace, and salt, put in the 
lobster and heat it up ; just before serving, 
add a little lemon-juice, or lemon pickle. 
Tiie stock may be made with the shells, only 
boiled in a pint of water, with some white 
pepper, salt, and a little mace, thickened 
with cream, flour, and butter. 

LOBSTER KETCHUP. Choose a 
lobster that is full of spawn, and weighing 
as nearly as possible three pounds ; pick out 
all tlie meat, and pound the led part or co- 
ral in a marble mortar; when completely 
bruised, add the meat; pound, and moisten 
it with a little sherry wine, mix with it a 
tea-spoonful of cayenne, add the rest of the 
bottle of sherry, and mix it thoroughly; put 
it into two wide-mouthed bottles, and on 
the top put a small table-spoonful of whole 
pepper, cork the bottles tightly, and tie 
them over with leather. It will keep good 
a twelve-montli, and exactly resembles fresh 
lobster sauce. Four table-spoonfuls heated 
in melted butter are sufficient for a large 
sauce-tuieen. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. (1) Pick the 
meat and red berries out of a lobster, mince 
them flnely, add grated biead, chopped pars- 
ley, and Ijutter; reason with grated nutmeg, 
wliite pepper, and salt; add a little white 
stock, cream, and a table-spoonful of vvliite 
wine, with a few chopped oysters ; heat it 
all togellier. Line the pattN-pans with puff 
paste; put into each a bit of crumb of bread, 
about an inch square, wet the edge of the 



LOB 



112 



M A C 



paste, and cover it with another bit; with 
the paste-cutter mark it all round the rim, 
and pare ofl the paste round the edge of the 
patty-|?an. WIikh Ijaked, take off tlie top, 
and will) a knife take out the bread and a 
liille of the insiile I'aste, put in the prepar- 
ed lobster, lay on the lop p^a.ste, and serve 
tiiein in a na|)kin. Another way to pre- 
pare the pasle. — Roll it out nearly half an 
inch thick, and cut it into rounds with a 
tin cutter, and, with one or two sizes less, 
mark it in the middle about half through. 
When they are baked, carefully cut out the 
inner top of the paste, and scoop out the in- 
side, so as to make room for the mince, which 
put in, and place on the top. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. (2) Prepare the 
patties as in the last receipt. Ttd\e a hen 
lobster already boiled ; pick the meat from 
the tail and claws, and chop it fine; put it 
into a stevvpan, with a little of the inside 
spawn pounded in a mortar till (]uite smooth, 
an ounce of fresh butter, half a gill of cream, 
and half a gill of veal consomme, cayenne 
pe[)per, and salt, a tea-spoonful of essence 
of anchovy, the same of lemon-juice, and a 
table-spoonful of tlour and water: stew it 
five minutes. 

LOBSTER PIE. (1) Boil the lobsters, 
and cut the meat of the tail into four bits ; take 
out the meat from the claws and bodies, 
pound it in a mortar, add the soft part of 
one lobster, and season with pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, add three table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar; melt half a pound of butter, and 
mix it with the pounded meat and the crumb 
of a slice of grated bread. Put pufl" paste 
round the edge and side of the dish ; put in 
the tail of the lobster, then a layer of oys- 
ters with their liciuor, and npxt the pounded 
meat; cover it with a puff paste, and bake 
it till the paste be done. Before serving, 
pour in some rich gravy, made of a little 
v\eak stock in which the lobster shells have 
been boiled, with an onion, pepper, and 
salt, and which has been strained and thick- 
ened with a bit of butter rolled in fiour. 

LOBSTER PIE. (2) Take out, as 
whole as possible, the meat from the tail 
and claws of two or three boiled lub.-^ters; 
cut tliem into slices, and season them with 
nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Make a force- 
meat of the soft i)art of the bodies, together 
wiUi grated bre;id, soine parsley, and one 
anchovy minced, grated lemon-peel, mace, 
salt, and pepper, the yolks of two hard- 
boilod eggs bruised, and a bit of butter; mix 
it all together with the well-beaten yolk of 
an egg, and make it up into small balls. 
Put tlie lobster into the |)ie-dish, and co\ er 
it with tlie forcemeat balls, and hard-boiled 



yolks of eggs; add more than half a ])int of 
rich white slock, a glass of white wine, and 
a table-spoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar 
Cover it with puff paste, and uake it only 
till the paste be done. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. Choose a fine 
spawny hen lobster; be sine it is liesh, pick 
out the spawn and the led coial into a mor- 
tar, add to it half an ounce of butter, pound 
it cjuite smooth, and rub it through a hair- 
sieve with the back of a wooden spoon; cut 
the meat of the lobster into sn)all scjuares, or 
pull it to pieces wiUi a fork ; put the ])otind- 
ed spawn into as much melted l)utter as you 
think will do, and stir it together till it is 
thoroughly mixed ; now put to it tiie meat 
of the lobster, and warm it on the fire ; take 
care it does not boil, which will spoil its 
complexion, and its brilliant red color will 
immediately fade. The above is a very easy 
and excellent manner of making this sauce. 
Some use strong beef or veal giavy instead 
of melted butler, adding an(;hovy, cayenne, 
ketchup, cavice, lemon-juice, or pickle, o) 
wine, &c. 

LUNCHEON FOR AN INVALID. 

Put bread crumbs and red currant, or any other 
jelly, alternately into a tumbler, and when 
nearly half full, fill it up with milk. 



M. 

MACARONI, TO MAKE. Beat four 
eggs for eight or ten minutes, strain them, 
and stir in llour till stiff' enough to \\ork into 
a paste upon a marble, or stone slab; add 
flour till it be a stiff paste, and work it well ; 
cut off a snudl bit at a time, roll it out as 
thin as jiajier, and cut it with a paste-cut- 
ter or knife into very narrow strips; twist, 
and lay them upon a clean cloth, in a dry, 
warm place; in a few hours it will be j^er- 
fectly hard; put it into a box, with white 
paper under and over it. It may be cut in- 
to small stars, or circles, to be used for soup, 
and does not require so mucli boiling as the 
Italian Macaroni. 

MACARONI. The usual mode of diess- 
irg it in England is by adding a wliite 
sauce, and Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, 
and burning it; but this makes a dish which 
is proverbially unwholesome, its bad quali- 
ties arise from the oiled and burnt cheese, 
and the half-dressed fiour and butter put into 
tile white sauce. Macaroni plain boiled, 
and some rich stock or portabie soup added 
i». 't quite hot, will be found a delici'ius'dish 
and very wholesome. Or, boil macaroni as 
directed in the receipt for the pudding, and 



M AC 



113 



M A C 



serve it quite hot in a deep tureen, and let 
each ffuest add orrated Parmesan and cold 
butter, or oiled butter served hut, and it is 
excellent; this is the most common Italian 
mode of dressing it. Macaroni witii cream, 
sugar, and cinnamon, or a little varicelli 
added to the ci earn, makes a very nice sweet 
dish. See Macaroni Pudding for the 
Boiling of it. 

3IACARONI DRESSED SWEET. 
Boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of 
milk, with a bit of lemon-peel, and a good 
bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to 
their utmost size without breaking. Lay 
tJiem on a custard-dish, and pour a custard 
over them hot. Serve cold. 

MACARONI GRATIN. Lay fried 
bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your 
macaroni in the usual way, and pour it into 
the dish; smooth it all over, and sli'ew biead- 
crumbs on it, then a pretty thick layer of 
grated Parmesan cheese ; drop a little melt- 
ed butter on it, and color it with a salaman- 
der. 

MACARONI NAPOLITAINE. Boil 
two pounds of macai'oni for half an hour, in 
salt and water; then put it into a cullender 
to drain. Take three-quarters of a pound 
of cheese grated; put a layer of mav'iaroni, 
in a deep dish or tureen, and on it a layer 
of macaroni, the cheese, and so on, alter- 
nately, till both are used up, making the 
cheese the top; pour over it some gravy, 
mell half a pound of fresh butter, and'^jut on 
the whole. Ser\'e it very hot. 

MACARONI TO SERVE. (1) Sim- 
mer it in a little sIocIn, with pounded mace 
and salt. When (j li'- teuler, take it out 
of the liquor, lay it in ;i dish, grate over it a 
good deal of cheese, tlieii over liiat jnit bi'ead 
grated vei'y fine. Warm some butter with- 
out oiling, and pouc it from a boat througn 
a little earthen cullender ail over the crums, 
then |)ut the dish in a Dutch oven to roast 
the cheese, and blown the bread of a fine 
color. The bread should be in separate 
crums, and look liglit. 

MACARONI TO SERVE. (2) Wash 
it well, and simmer it in half milk, and 
half of veal or mutton stock, till the 
macaroni is lender; then take a sjioonfwl 
of the liquor, put to it the yolk of an egg, 
beaten in a spoonful of cream; just make it 
hot to thicken, but do not let it boil; pour 
it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old 
cheese all over it, and add bits of butter; 
brown it nicely with the salamander. 

MACARONI STEWED. Boil a quar- 
10* 



ter of a pound of macaroni in beef stock, till 
nearly done ; then strain it, and add a gill 
of cream, two ounces of butter, a table spoon- 
ful of the essence of ham, three ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese, and a little cayenne 
pepper and salt ; mix them over a fire for 
five minutes, then put it on a dish, strew 
grated Paimesan cheese over it, smooth it 
over with a knife, and color it with a very 
hot salamander. 

MACARONI TIMBALE. Take some 
puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into narrow 
bands; twist each into a kind of cord, 
which place round the insides of butteied 
moulds, snail fashion ; fill each mould with 
macaroni, co\er the tops with grated bread, 
and Parmesan cheese (equal quantities of 
each) ; put the Timbales into a warm oven, 
and bake them three-(|uarters of an hour; 
then turn them on a dish, and serve. 

MACAROONS. Take a pound of sweet 
almonds blanched, and nicely pounded, add a 
little rose-water to prevent their oiling; add 
a pound of sifted sugar, then whisk the whites 
of ten eggs to a solid froth, and add to 
the abo\ e ; beat all together for some time. 
Have ready wafer paper on tin plates, drop 
the mixture over it separately, the size of a 
shilling, or smaller; sift over them a little 
sugar, and bake them. 

xMACAROONS, SWEET. Blanch a 
pound of sweet almonds, throw them into 
cold water for a few minutes, lay them in a 
napkin to dry, and leave them for twenty, 
four hours; at the end of that time, pound 
them, a handful at a time, adding occasion- 
ally some white of e^g, till the whole is re- 
duced to a fine paste ; then take two pounds 
of the best lump sugar, pound and sift it, 
then put it to the almonds, with the grated 
rinds of two lemons; beat these ingredients 
together in the mortar, adding one at a time, 
as many eggs as you find necessai-y to moist- 
en tiie paste, which should be thin, but not 
too much so, as in that case it would run ; 
your paste being ready, take out a little in a 
spoon, and lay the macaroons on sheets of 
white paper either round or oval, as you 
please; lay them at least an inch apart, be- 
cause they spread in baking, and if put near- 
er would touch. The whole of your paste 
being used, place the sheets of paper on 
tins in a moderate oven for three-quarters of 
an hour. 

This kind of cake requires great care and 
attention ; it will be well therefore to take 
notice of the following rules: 1. To mind 
that the ahnonds are perfectly dry before 
you begin to pound them. 2. Take great 
care that not a particle of the yolk is mixed 
witli tlie white of e^^, which would entirelv 



MAC 



114 



MAI 



Bpoil the color of the macaroons, and prevent 
their rising in the oven ; to avoid this, open 
each separately, and if perfectly fresh, divide 
the yolk and while witli great caie. 3. Tlie 
oven must be no more than moderately heat- 
ed, nothincr beinjj more liable to burn than 
almonds and sugar ; by the least negligence 
in this respect, tiie surface would be burned, 
whilst the inside would remain unbaked. 
The best method to obviate any mischief of 
this sort: — put two or three macaroons into 
the oven to try it; leave them in the usual 
time ; and if, when you take them out, they 
are of a clear yellow, the oven is pioperly 
heated, and the whole of the macaroons may 
then be put in. 

MACKEREL, TO CHOOSE. Their 
gills should be of a fine red, their eyes full, 
and the whole fish stiff and bright; if the 
gills are of a faint color, the fish limber and 
wrinkled, they are not fresh. 

MACKEREL BAKED. Cut off their 
heads, open tliein, and take out the roes and 
clean tliem thoroughly; rub them on the in- 
side with a little pepper and salt, put the 
roes in again, season them (with a mixture 
of powdered allspice, black pepjjer, and 
salt, well rubbed together), and lay them 
close in a baking-|)an, cover them with equal 
quantities of cold vinegar and water, tie 
them down with strong white paper doubled, 
and bake them for an hour in a slow oven. 
They will keep for a fortnight. 

MACKEREL BOILED. This fish 
loses its life as soon as it leaves the sea, and 
the fresher it is the better. Wash and clean 
theui tli(jroiighly (the fishmongers seldom do 
this sufiiciently), put them into "cold water 
with a handful (if salt in it; let them rather 
sinnner than boil; a small mackerel will be 
done enough in about a (juarter of an hour; 
when the eye starts and the tail splits, they 
are done ; do not let them stand in tlie wa- 
ter a moment after; they are so delicate 
that the heat of die water will break them. 

MACKEREL BROILED. Clean a fine 
large mackerel, wipe it on a dry cloth, and 
cut a long slit down the back ; lay it on a 
clean gridiron, over a very clear, slow fire; 
when it is done on one side, turn it ; be 
careful that it does not burn; send it up 
with fennel sauce; mix well together a 
little finely minced fennel and parsley, sea- 
soned with a little pepper and salt, a bit of 
fresh butter, and when the mackerel are 
ready for the table, put some of this into 
each fish. 

MACKEREL, THE GERMAN WAY. 
Split them down the back, and season them 



with pepper and salt; broil them, and serve 
with the following sauce; pick and wash 
some fennel, parsley, mint, thyme, and green 
onions ; but use only a small quantity of each. 
Boil them tender in a little veal stock ; then 
chop ihem up, and add to them some fresh 
butter, the liquor they were boiled in, some 
grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a 
little cayenne pepper, and salt. Let it boil, 
thicken it with fiom, and serve in a saute 
boat. 

MADE DISHES. Be careful to trim 
off all the skin, gristle, &c. that will not be 
eaten ; and shape handsomely, and of even 
thickness, the various articles which compose 
your made dishes: this is sadly neglected by 
common cooks. Only stew them till they 
are just tender, and do not stew them to 
rags; therefore, what you prepare the day 
before it is to be eaten, do not dress quite 
enough the first day. We have given re- 
ceipts for the most easy and simple way to 
make hashks, &c. Those who are well 
skilled in culinary arts can dress up things 
in this way, so as to be as agreeable as they 
were the first time they were cooked. 

MADELAINES. Take nine ounces of 
powder-sugar, eight ef flour, the yolks of 
four and six whole eggs, two spoonfiils of 
brandy, and a grain of salt ; put these into 
a saucepan, stirring continually, until the 
paste thickens; after which, stir only one 
minute; clarify ten ounces of good fveth but- 
ter, with which, butter about two and thirty 
madelaine moulds, pour the remainder of the 
butter into your preparation; set it on a 
gentle stove, stir till it begins to become li- 
([uid, take it off before it has time to get too 
hot, put a little of this into each mould, and 
bake them in a moderate oven. 

MADELAINES IN SURPRISE. 
Make them in the usual way; when cold, 
cut a thin slice from the bottom, take out 
nearly all the inside; pound four ounces 
of blanched filberts, mix them with eight 
spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, \\hi(;h 
mixture put into the madelaines, and place 
the slice taken fi'om the bottom, and serve 
them. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL, COLD. Put a 

quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan, 
widi some parsley and shallots, minced small 
salt, whole |)epper, and lemon-juice; mix 
the whole together with a wooden spoon. 
Pour die Maitre d^ Hotel cithei over, un- 
der, or into whatever meat or fish you in- 
tend to ser\'e. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL MAIGRE. Put 

into Sonne nicely melted butter a little chop- 



MAT 



115 



M 1 L 



ped parsley, salt, and lemon-jnice; one or 
two minced slialjota may be added, and heat 
it all together. 

MARCHPANE ROYAL. Take a 
pound of sweet ahnonds, blanch and throw 
them into cold water, drain and pound them, 
moistening w'th orange-flower and plain 
watei , hut take care not to put too much at 
once. Tiie alrnonds being reduced to a 
paste, put them into a preserving pan with 
half a pound of powder sugar, set the pan 
on a moderate fire to dry the paste, which 
will be sufficiently so if, when you touch it, 
it no longer sticks to your finger, then take 
it out and place it on a plate or wafer paper, 
previously sprinkled with sugar: as soon as 
it is cold cut it in pieces, which roll in your 
hand to the size of your little finger; form 
them into rings, and lay them on iron grat- 
ings, glaze and put them into a brisk oven 
to color. The above paste may also be em- 
ployed as fjllows: roll it out and cut it in 
half, spread over one piece apricot marma- 
lade, or any otlier preserve you please, cover 
It with the other piece, cut it into lozenges, 
crescents, &c., according to your fancy, lay 
them on the gratin^j as above, ^laze and co- 
lor them in a quick oven. 

MARJORAM, SWEET, TO PRE- 
SERVE. Beat up very well the white of 
an eg'y, then beat very fine and si.^t some 
double-refined sugar; take some marjoram ' 
and rub it on a glass that is quite clean, and i 
lay it in the form of the glass ; so do it with 
the egg, then sear it with the sugar on it, and 
lay it on paper to dry. 

MARMALADE. Marmalade may be 
com|)osed of almost any faiits; the best, 
however, for this pui'pose are, apricots, peach- 
es, oranges, quinces, egg-plums, apples, &c. 
They are usually made by boiling tlie fi-uit 
and sugar together to a kind of pulp, stir- 
ring them constantly whilst on the fire; it is 
kept in pots, which must not be covered till 
the marmalade is quite cold. The propor- 
tion of sugar is half a pound to each pound 
of fruit. 

rdi^ See Names of Articles, of which 
a is made. 

MARROW BONES. Chop the Iwnes 
at each end so as to stand steady, then wash 
them clean, saw them in halves, cover the 
top with a floured cloth : boil them, and serve 
witli dry toast. 

MATELOTE MEAT. Take beef, veal, 
mutton, and pork, a large slice of each, and 
a small one of leg of lamb ; cut them in small 
pieces, which put into a saucepan with equal 
quantities of stock and champaign, salt and 



spices, cover them very close, and set thera 
on hot ashes for six hours, then serve it. 

3IEAD. (1) To every gallon of water 
put fouj" pounds of honey, boil it an hour. 
Then put it into a tub with some yeast on a 
toast; cover it over. If it ferments well af- 
ter three or ibur days, drau' it off clear, and 
put it into a cask, with one lemon sliced to 
every gallon ; add a bottle of brandy to eve- 
ry ten gallons. The lind of Seville oranges 
cut verj- thin, suspended in the banel, is a 
great improvement to the flavor. It is l;est 
to wash the cask round with part of the 
brandy, before the liquor is put in. 

MEAD. (2) One part of honey is dissolv- 
ed in three parts of water, and boiled over a 
moderate fire till it is reduced to two-thirds 
of the (juantity. It is then skimmed, and 
nut into a barrel, which must be quite full; 
it is allowed to subside for three or four 
days, and then dra\>n off for use. To make 
it fi'om the combs from which honey has been 
diained, they are to be beaten in wann wa- 
ter, and after the li-riuor has subsided, it is 
to be strained. The cottagers in Scotland 
make an excellent beer by adding a litti:^ 
yeast to the strained liquor, and allowing it 
to ferment, for a few days, in a cask, and 
then bottling it. 

MEAT CAKES. Take whatever me:it, 
game, or poultry, you may clia ice to have, 
(it is the better for being under-done) ; mines 
it fine, adding a littlt' fat bacon or lm:n, or 
anchovy; season with a little pepper and 
salt ; mix the whole well togetiier, and make 
it into small cakes, about three inches in 
length, an inch and a half in v.idih,and half 
an inch thick ; fry them of a light bi'ovvn, 
and serve thc^m with go^id gravy; or put it 
into a mould, aid boil or bake it. 

I\JEAT, TO KEEP HOT. If your 
meat is done before vou are ready to spsxe, 
take it up, set the dish over a pan of boiling 
water, put a deep cover over it, so as not t ) 
touch the meat, and then put a cloth o\'ei- 
that. This way will not dry up the gravy. 

MILK COFFEE FOR BREAKFAST. 

See Coffee. 

MILK PUNCH. (1) Be-at up two 
eggs well, mix them in a quart of milk, su- 
gar, nutmeg, and lemon-pe^l to your taste; 
boil it gently, stirring it all the time till 
thick eioigh; take it off the (ire a very few 
minutes, then add to it a full (juarter of a 
pint of rum. It must be stirred all the time 
the rum is pouring in, or it will not be good 

MILK PUNCH. (2) Eight pounds of re 



MIN 



116 



MOO 



fined sugar are to be dissolved in the strain- 
ed juice of three dozen lemons, and. when 
quite settled, two gallons of brandy, and two 
gallons and a half of cold water, are to be 
added, and also the iemon-|)eel; one gallon 
of boiling milk being then poured over the 
ingredients, they are to stand closely covered 
for twenty-four hours; when, being skimmed 
and run through a very thick jelly-bag, it 
may be quickly bottled, and will be fit for 
immediate use ; but it improves by keeping. 

MINCED COLLOPS. This is a fa- 
vorite Scotch dish ; few families are with- 
out it: it keeps well, and is always ready to 
make an extra dish. Take beef, and chop 
and mince it very small ; to which add some 
salt and pepper. Put this, in its raw state, 
into small jars, and pour on the top some clar- 
ified butter. When intended for use, put the 
clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice 
some onions into the pan, and fry them. Add 
a little water to it, and then put in the minced 
meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes 
it will be fit to serve up. See Collops. 

MINCE MEAT. Two pounds of beef 
snet, picked and chopped fine ; two pounds 
of apple, pared, cored, and minced ; three 
pounds of currants, washed and picked ; one 
pound of raisins, stoned and chopped fine; 
one pound of good moist sugar; half a pound 
of citron, and one pound of candied lemon 
and orange-peel, cut into thin slices; two 
pounds of ready -dressed roast beef, free from 
skin and gristle, and chopped fine ; two nut- 
megs, grated; one ounce of salt, one of 
ground ginger, half an ounce of coriander 
seeds, half an ounce of allspice, half an ounce 
of cloves, all ground fine ; the juice of six 
lemons, and their rinds grated ; half a pint 
of brandy, and a pint of sweet wine. Mix 
the suet, apples, currants, meat-plums, and 
sweetmeats, well together in a large pan, 
and strew in the spice by degrees; mix the 
sugar, lemon-juice, wine, and brandy, and 
j-.our it to the other ingredients, and stir it 
well together ; set it by in close-covered pans 
in a cold place: when wanted, stir it up from 
the bottom, and add half a glass of brandy 
to the quantity you require. N. B. — The same 
weight of tripe is frequently substituted for 
the*meat, and sometimes the yolks of eggs 
boiled hard. Obs. — The lean side of a but- 
tock, thoroughly roasted, is generally chosen 
for mince meat. 

MINUTEN FLEISH. Cut from off a 
leg of veal some slices as thin as the blade 
of a knife, and about four inches long; sea- 
son them with pepper and salt, lay them in- 
to a deep dish, pour over them nearly half 
a pint of white wine, let it stand for three 
hours. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with 



butter, dredge each slice of the veal on both 
sides with fiour; add a little more wine, 
and as much go(jd white stock as will cover 
it, and the juice of a lemon. Cover the pan 
closely, and let it simmer five minutes, and 
serve it instantly, otherwise it will become 
hard. 

MOCK ARRACK. Dissolve two scru- 
ples of flowers of benjamin in a quart of 
good rum, and it will immediately impart 
to it the inviting fragrance of " Vauxiiall 
nectar." 

MOCK BRAWN. See Brawn. 



MOCK CAPER SAUCE. 
Caper. 



See Sauce 



MOCK GOOSE, OR LEG OF PORK 
ROASTED WITHOUT THE Skin. Parboil 
it; take off the skin, and then put it tlown 
to roast; baste it with butter, and make a 
savory powder of finely minced, or dried 
and powdered sage, ground black pepper, 
sak, and some bread-crumbs, rubbed togeth- 
er through a colander; you may add to this 
a little very finely minced onion: sprinkle it 
with this when it is almost roasted. Put 
half a pint of made gravy into the dish, and 
goose stuffing under the knuckle skin ; or 
garnish the dish with balls of it fried or 
boiled. 

MOCK ICE. Of preservetl strawber- 
ries, raspberries, and red currant jel'y, a 
table-spoonful each ; rub it through a sieve, 
with as much cream as will fill a shape; 
dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of isin- 
glass in half a pint of water; when almost 
cold, mix it well with the cream, put it into 
a shape, set it in a cool place, and turn it 
out the following day. 



MOCK TURTLE. 
Head. 



See Soup Calf's 



MOORFOWL, TO STEW. Truss 
them, keeping on their heads, but draw the 
legs within the body; mix well some salt 
and pepper with flour and a piece of butter, 
and put a small bit into each bird ; fry them 
all over of a nice brown in butter. Brown 
some butter and flour, and add to it some good 
gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and 
two cloves pounded ; boil up the sauce, put 
in the moorfovvl, and let them stew very 
slowly till tender. A little before taking 
them off" the fire, add a table-spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup. If the biids are old, 
stew them for two hours; if young ones, 
half that time. Cold roasted moorfowl arc 
dressed exactly in the same way only cut 
into joints, and stewed very gently nearly as 



MUS 



117 



M U S 



'ong. Half an hour before serving, a small 
iiea-ciipful of Port wine slionld be added. 

MUFFINS. (1) Take one pint of milk 
qnite warm, and a (|narter of a pint of tliick 
small-beer yea?t ; strain tliem into a pan, and 
add sufficient dour to make it like a batter; 
cover it over, and let it stand in a warm 
place until it has risen ; then add a quarter 
of a pint of wanii milk, and one ounce of 
butter rubbed in sonne fiour quite fine; mix 
them well together : tlien add sufficient floiu' 
to make it into dough, cover it over, and 
let it stand half an hoiu- ; then work it up 
again, and break it into small pieces: roll 
them up quite round, and cover them over 
for a fjuarter of an hour; tlien bake them. 

MUFFINS. (2) Mix two pounds of 
lour v/ith a couple of eggs, two ounces of 
jutter melted in a pint of milk, and four or 
five spoonfiils of yeast ; i)eat it thoroughly, 
and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake 
it on a hot hearth in flat cakes, and turn 
them, when done, on one side. 

MUFFLXS. (3) Take two quarts of 
warm water, two spoonfuls of yeast, three 
pounds of flour ; beat it well for half an 
hour, and Lt it stand an hour or two ; bake 
them on an iron baking-stove (rub it well 
over with mutton-suet as often as they are 
laid on); as soon as they liegin to color, 
turntliem; they will I)e sufficiently baked 
when colored on both sides. 

MULLAGATAWNY. Boil slowly in 
two (|uarts of water one pound of split peas, 
half an ounce of butter, two onions sliced, a 
little salt, cayenne, and two blades of mace. 
When the j)eas are tender, put in a large 
fowl, cut in j(jints and skinned, two quarts 
of boiling water, or stock, if ihe soup be re- 
quired veiy rich ; twenty minutes before 
serving, add a large table spoonl'l of curiy- 
powder, and the same of ground rioe. 

IC^ For Mulla^atawny Soup, see 
Soups. 

MULLED WINE. Put' into a pint of 
Port wine two or three cloves and a bit of 
cinnamon; ixnl it for a few moments; lake 
out the spice, sweeten it with loaf sugar, 
and grate in a little nutmeg. Serve with a 
slice of toasted bread, the crust pared off, 
and cut into oblong pieres. The Port wine 
is sometimes boiled with a third of its quan- 
tity of watei". 

MUSHROOMS, TO CHOOSE. The 

mushro(jms proper to be used in cookery- 
grow in tiie open i)asture land, foi' those tlsat 



grow near or under trees, are poisonous. 
The eatable mushrooms first appear very 
small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. 
They grow very rapidly, and the u|)per part 
and stalk are white. As tliey in(;rease in 
size, the under part gradually opens, and 
shows a fiinged fur of a very fine salmon co- 
lor, which continues iftore or less till the 
mushroonn has gained some ^ze, and tlien 
turns to a dark brown. These marks should 
be attended to, and likewise whether the 
skin can be easily parted from the edge 
and middle, and whether they have a pleas- 
ant smell. Those which are poisonous have 
a yellow skin, and the under part has not the 
clear flesh color of the real mushroom ; be- 
sides which, they smell rank and disagreea- 
ble, and the fur is white or yellow. 

MUSHROOM KETCHUP. If you 
love good ketchup, gentle reader, make it 
your.self, after the fallowing directions, and 
you will have a delicious relish for made- 
dishes, ragouts, soups, sauces, or hashes. 

Mushroom gravy approaches the nature 
and flavor of meat gravy, more than any xn'^e- 
taljle juice, and is the superlative su.'l)stitute 
for it: in meagre soups and extempore gra- 
vies, the chemistry of the k-itchen has yet 
contrived to agreeably awaken the palate, 
and encourage the appetit-e. 

A couple of quarts of double ketchup, 
made according to the following receipt, 
will save you some, score potmds of meat, 
besides a vast dea'. of time and trouble; as it 
will furnish, in a few minutes, as good sauce 
as can be made for either fish, flesh, or fowl 

I believe thfj following is the best way of 
extracting and preparing the essence of 
mushrooms, so as to procure and preserve 
their flavor for a considerable length of lime. 

Look out for mushrooms from the begin- 
ning of Septeniber. 

Take care tiiey are the right sort, and 
fresh gathered. Full-grown flaps are to be 
preferred : put a layer of these at the bottom 
of a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle them 
with salt; then another layer of mushrooms, 
and some more salt on them ; and so on al- 
ternately, salt and mushrooms: let them re- 
main two or three hours, by which time the 
salt w ill have penetrated the mushrooms, and 
rendered them easy to break ; then jjoimd 
them in a mortar, or mash them well \\ iih 
your hands, and let them reniain for a coiij>le 
of days, not longer, stirring them up, and 
mashing them well each day ; then pour them 
into a stone jar, and to each (juart add an 
ounce and a half of whole black pepper, and 
haH'an ounce of allspice; stop the jar very 
close, and set it in a stewpan <jf boiling wa- 
ter and keep it boiling for two hours at least. 
Take out tlie jar, and pour the juice clear 



MU S 



JIS 



iMUT 



from the settlings through a liair sieve (without 
squeezing tlie mushrooms) into a clean stew- 
pan; let it boil very gently for half an hour: 
those who are for superlative ketchup, w ill 
continue the boiling till the mush room -juice 
is reduced to half the quantity ; it may tiiea 
be called double cat-sup or dog-sup. 

There are several advantages attending 
this concentialion ; it will keep much better, 
and only half the quantity be required; so 
you can flavor sauce, &c. without thinning 
it: neidier is this an extravagant way of 
making it, lor merely the aqueous part is 
evaporated ; skim it well, and pour it into a 
clean dry jar, or jug ; covei' it close, and let 
* it stand in a coo! place till next day; then 
pour it off as gently as possible (so as not to 
disturb the settlings at the i)ottom of the 
jug,) through a tamis, or thick flannel bag, 
till it is perfectly clear; add a table-spoon- 
ful of good brandy to each pint of ketchup, 
and let it stand as before; a fresh sediment 
will be deposited, from which the ketchup is 
to be quietly poured off, and bottled in pints 
vor half pints (which have been washed with 
brafwly or spirit) : it is best to keep it in 
such (juvjntilies as are soon used. 

Take espe^nial care that it is closely cork- 
ed, and sealed down, or dipped in bottle ce- 
ment. 

If ke])t in a cool, dry place, it may be 
preserved for a long time ; but if it be badly 
corked, and kept in ei damp place, it will 
soon spoil. 

Examine it from time to time, by plac- 
ing a strong light behind, the neck of the 
botlle, and if any pellicle apjiears about it, 
boil it up again with a few peppercorns. 

MUSHROOMS TO PICKLE. Cut 

off the stalks, and wash clean, in cold wa- 
ter, some snvall button mushroo^iis ; rub them 
with a bit of flannel, then throw them into 
fresh water,, and when perfectly clean, put 
them into a saucepan with fresh cold water, 
and let them boil eight or ten minutes; strain 
off the water, lay the/hinto the folds of a 
cloth. Boil, in a (]ua'rt of vinegar, a quarter 
of an ounce of [jepper, the same of allspice, 
and two or thre^e b'ades of mace, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt; put the mushrooms into a 
j:ir, and when, the vinegar is cold, pour it, 
with the spices, over them. 

aiUSHROOMS TO STEW. For a 

good-sized dish, take a pint of white stock, 
season it with salt, pepper, and a little lemon 
pickle, thicken it with a bit of butter rolled 
in flour; cleanse and peel the mushrooms, 
sprinkle them with a very little salt, bod 
them for three or tour minutes, put them into 
the gravy when it is hot, and stew them for 
fifteen minutes. 



MUSTARD. M ix (by degrees, by rub 
bing togedier in a mortar) die best flour of 
mustard, with vinegar, white wine, or cold 
water, in which scraped horseradish has 
been boiled; rub it well together for at least 
ten minutes, till it is perfectly smoolh; it 
will keep in a stone jar closely stopped, for a 
fortnight : only put as much into the mustard- 
pot as will be used in a day or two. Obs. — 
Mustard is the best of all the stimulants that 
are employed to give energy to the digesli\e 
organs. Some opulent epicures mix it with 
Sherry or Madeira wine, or distilled or fla- 
vored vinegar, instead of horseradish water. 
The French flavor their mustard with Cham- 
paigne and other wines, or widi vinegar fla- 
vored wiUi capers, anchovies, tarragon, elder, 
basil, burnet, garlic, eschalot, or celery, 
warming it with cajenne, or the various 
spices; sweet, savory, fine herbs, ti'uffles, 
ketchup, &c. &c., and seem to consider 
mustard merely as a vehicle of flavors. 

MUSTARD IN A mNUTE. Mix 

very gradually, *and rub together in a mortar, 
an ounce of flour of mustard, with three ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of milk (cream is better), half 
'a tea -spoonful of salt, and the same of sugar; 
rub them well togetlier till (juite smooth. 
Obs. — Mustard made in this m inner is not 
at all bitter, and is therefore instantly ready 
for the table. 

MUTTON. (1) '1 he pipe that runs along 
the bone of the inside of a chine of mutton 
ought to be t:iken away ; and if it is to be 
kept any length of time, the part close round 
the tail should be rubbed v\ ith salt, previously 
cutting out the kernel. 

It is best for the butcher to take out the 

] kernel in the fat on the thick part of tlie leg, 

as that is the part most likely to become 

tainted. The chine and rib-bones should be 

wiped every day ; and the bloody part of the 

neck be cut off, in order to preserve it. The 

; brisket changes first in the breast; therefore, 

I if it is to be kept, it is best, should the 

I weather be hot, to rub it with a little salt. 

When intended for roasting, it should hang 

as long as it jvill keep, the hind quarter 

particularly; but not so long .as to become 

tainted. 

Mutton for boiling ought not to hang 
long, as it will prevent its looking of a good 
color. 

The greatest care should be taken to pre- 
serve, by paper, the fat of what is roasted. 

MUTTON. (2) As beef requires a large, 
sound fire, mutton must have a brisk and 
sharp one. If you wish to have mutton 
tender, it should be hung almost as long as 
it will keep; and then good eight-tooth, i. e. 



MUX 



119 



MUX 



four years old mutton, is as good eating as 
venison. 

The leg, haunch, and saddle will be the 
better for being hung up in a cool airy place 
for four or five days at least; in tetnpenite 
weatiier, a week ; in cold weather, ten days. 

A Leg, of eight pounds, will take about 
two hours: let it be well basted, and frothed. 

A Chine or Saddle, (i. e. the two loins) 
of ten or eleven pounds, two liours and a 
half: it is the business of the butcher to take 
off the skin and skewer it on again, to defend 
the meat from extreme heat, and preserve its 
succulence; if this is neglected, tie a sheet 
of paper over it (baste the strings you tie it 
on with directly, or they will burn): about a 
quarter of an hour before you think it will 
be done, take oft" the skin or paper, that it 
may get a pale brown color, then baste it and 
Hour it lightly to froth it. N. B. Desire 
the butcher to cut oft" the flaps and the tail 
and chump end, and trim away every part 
that has not indisputable pretensions to be 
eaten. This- will reduce a saddle of eleven 
pounds weight to about six or seven pounds. 

A Shoulder, of seven pounds, an hour and 
a half. Put the spit in close to the shank- 
bone, and run it along the blade-bone. 
N.B. The l)lade-bong is a favorite luncheon 
or supper relish, scored, peppered and salt- 
ed, and broiled, or done in a Dutch oven. 

A Loin, of mutton, from an hour and a 
half to an hour and three-cjuarters. The 
most elegant way of carving this, is to cut it 
lengthwise, as you do a saddle. N.B. Spit 
it on a skewer or lark spit, and tie that on 
the conuBon spit, and do not spoil the meat 
by running the spit tjn'ough die prime part 
of it. 

A Neck, about the same time as a loin. 
It must be carefully jointed, or it is veiy 
dirticuk to carve. The neck and breast are, 
in small families, commonly roasted together ; 
the cook will then crack the bones across the 
middle before they are put down to roast: if 
this is not done carefully, they are very 
troublesome to carve. Tell the cook, when 
she takes it from the spit, to separate them 
before she sends them to table. N. B. The 
best way to spit this is to run iron skewers 
across it, and put the spit between them. 

A Breast, an hour and a (juarter. 

MUTTON, BAKED WITH POTA- 
TOES. See Beef. 

MUTTON BREAST COLLARED. 

Bone it and take out all the gristles, 
make a forcemeat with crumbs of bread, 
chopped parsley, a little lemon thyme, and 
one anchovy minced; season with salt and 
white pepper, rulj the mutton over with an 
egg beaten up, cover it with the forcemeat, 
roil it firmly; tie it with tape, and put it on 



in boiling water. Make a good gravy of 
the bones, two onions, a bunch of parsley 
and lemon thyme, pepper and salt ; strain 
and thicken it witli a piece of butter mixed 
with flour. A little before serving, add a 
table-spoonful of vinegar and two of mush- 
room ketchup. Garnish with cut lemon or 
pickles. 

MUTTON, BREAST, ROASTED 
WITH Wine. Skin and bone a breast of 
mutton, then roll it up in a collar like a 
breast of veal. Roast it, and baste it with 
half a pint of red wine ; when you have used 
up all the wine, finish basting widi butter. 
H;ive a little good gravy in readiness, and 
when the mutton is done, set it upright in a 
dish, pom- in the gravy, prepare sweet sauce 
the same as for venison, and send it up to 
table without any garnish. 

MUTTON BROTH. Cut a neck of 
mutton into pieces, preserving a handsome 
piece to be served up in the tureen ; put all 
into a stewpan v.-idi three quarts of cold beef 
stock, or water, widi a little oatmeal mixed 
in it; some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut 
in pieces, and a small bunch of thyme and 
parsley. When it boils, skim it clean, and 
when nearly done, take out the piece you in- 
tend to serve in the tureen, and let the other 
pieces stew till tender; then have ready tur- 
nips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a 
cabbage, some parsley, all cut small, and 
some marigolds; wash them, strain the li- 
quor oft" the meat, skim it fiee from the fat, 
add it to the ingredients with the piece of 
mutton intended for the tureen, adding a lit- 
tle pearl barley. Season with salt, simmer 
all together till done, and serve with toasted 
bread on a plate. 

MUTTON CHOPS. Cut the chops 
off a loin or the best end of a neck of mutton, 
pare oft' the fat, dip them into a beaten egg, 
and strew over tiiem grated bread, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, and some finely minced 
parsley; fry them in a little butler, and lay 
them upon the back of a sieve to drain lie- 
fore the fire. Thicken about half a pint of 
gravy, add a table-spoonful of ketchup, and 
one of Port wine ; put the gravy into tiie dish, 
and lay in the chops; garnish with fried 
parsley or cut lemon. 

MUTTON CHOPS, BAKED. Cut a 

neck of mutton into neat chops, season them 
with salt and pepper, butter a dish, lay in 
the chops and pour over them a batter made 
of a quart of milk, four eggs beaten up, four 
table-spoonfuls of flour, and a little salt. An 
hour will bake them. 

MUTTON CHOPS MAINTENON. 



M U 'I 



120 



MUX 



Cut a neck of mutton into chops ; beat tliem 
flat with a rolling-pin. Bruise the yolk of 
a hard-boiled egg, and mix with it chopped 
Bweet herbs, grated bread, nutmeg, salt, and 
pepper. Cover the steaks with it, and put 
each into a piece of well-buttered paper; 
broil them over a clear fire, turning ihem of- 
ten. Seive them in the paper, or w ith a 
browned gravy. 

MUTTON CUTLETS. Cut into cut- 
lets a pound and a half of the thick part of 
a leg of mutton, and teat them ; mix with 
grated bread crumbs, some pepper, salt, and 
finely chopped paisley, lemon thyme, and 
sweet marjoiain. Rub the cutlets widi melt- 
ed butler, and cover them thickly with the 
prepared bread; fry them for ten minutes in 
butter, then put them into a saucepan with 
some good gravy thickened with flour and 
butter, and simmer them for ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

MUTTON FILLET, STEWED. Put 

a fillet of mutton or a piece of beef, weigh- 
ing about seven pounds, into a stew pan, with 
a carrot, a turnip, an onion stuck w idi two 
or three cloves, and a pint of water. Put 
round the edge of the stewpan, a rim of 
coarse paste, that the cover may be kept 
very close, and let it stew gently, three hours 
and a half; take out the meat, skim off" the 
fat, strain and thicken the gravy, have ready 
some boiled carrots and turnips cut to fancy, 
add them to the gravy, make all hot, and 
serve v.ith a garnish of sliced gherkins. 

MUTTON CUTLETS Breaded and 
Broiled. Trim and season your cutlets 
M iih pepper and salt, put them into some 
melted Initter, and when they have imbibed 
a suificient (juanlity of it, take them out, and 
cover them completely with bread crumbs; 
give tl'.e cutlets a good shape, and broil them 
over a clear fiie ; take care not to do the cut- 
lets too much, to burn die bread. 

MUTTON GRAVY FOR VENISON 

OR Hak!". . The best gravy for venison is 
that made with the triniinings of the joint: 
if diis is all used, and you have no undressed 
\enison, cut a scrag of mutton in pieces; 
broil it a little brown; then put it into a 
clean stewpan, with a tjuart of boiling wa- 
ter; cover it close, and let it simmer gently 
for an hour: now uncover the stewpan, and 
let it reduce to three-quarters of a pint ; pour 
it through a hair-sieve; take the fat ofl^, and 
send it up in a boat. It is only to be sea- 
soned with a little salt, that it may not over- 
power the natural flavor of the meat. 

MUTTON, TO HASH. Cut the meat 
into tliin slices^ trim off all the sinews, skin, 



gristle, &;c. ; put in nothing but what is to 
be eaten, lay them on a plate, ready; pre- 
pare your sauce to warm it in, put in the 
meat, and let it simmer gently til! it is thor- 
oughly warm: do not let it boil, as that wil. 
make the meat tough and h.'.i d, and it will 
be a harsh, instead of a hash. Select for 
your hash those parts of the joint that are 
least done. Hashing is a mode of cookery 
by no means suited to delicate stomachs: 
unless the meat, be considerably under-done 
the first time, a second dressing must spoil 
it, for what is done enough the fiist time, 
must be done too milch tlie second. 

MUTTON HAM, TO CURE. Cut a 

hind quarter of good mutton into the shape of 
a ham, pound one ounce of saltpetre, with 
one pound of coarse salt and a quarter of a 
pound of brown sugar, rub the ham well with 
this mixture, taking care to stuff' the hole of 
the shank well w ith salt and sugar, and let 
it lie a fortnight, rubbing it well with the 
pickle every two or three days; then take 
it out and press it with a weight for one 
day; smoke it with saw-dust for ten or fif- 
teen days, or hang it to dry in the kitchen. 
If the ham is to be boiled soon after it has 
been smoked, soak it one hour, and if it has 
been smoked any length of time it will re- 
quire to be soaked several hours. Put it on 
in cold w ater, and boil it gently two hours. 
It is eaten cold at breakfast, luncheon, or 
supper. A mutton ham is sometimes cured 
with the above quantity of salt and sugar, 
with the addition of half an ounce of pepper, 
a (juarter of an ounce of cloves, and one nut- 



MUTTON HAUNCH, LIKE VENI- 
SON. Take a fat haunch of large fine 
mutton, let it hang a week, then pound 
one ounce of black, and one ounce of Jamai- 
ca pepper, and rub them over the mutton, 
pour a l.'ottle of P(jrt wine over it, and let it 
remain in this five days, basting it freciueiU- 
ly every day with the liquor, take it out and 
hang it up iliur or five days more, or as long 
as the weather favors its keeping; \\\pe it 
tliree or four times a day v. ith a clean cl<;th. 
While it is roasting baste it w ith the licjuoj- 
it was steeped in, adding a little more Port 
wine; a quarter of an hour before taking it 
fiom the fire, baste it well with butter, and 
dredge flour over it to froth it up. Serve it 
with sauces as for venison. 

MUTTON HAUNCH. It should 
be kept as long as you can possibly keep it 
sweet by the diflierent modes; and if neces- 
saiy, wash it w ith warm milk and water, 
or vinegar, and when going to be djessed, be 
carefiil to wash it well, to prevent the out- 
side from having a bad flavor from keeping ; 



MUX 



121 



MUX 



before you put the haunch to the fire, fold it 
m a paste of coarse flour, or strong paper ; 
then set it a good distance from the fire, and 
allow pro])ortional)le time for the jiaste; do 
not take it oil', till about thirty-five or forty 
minutes before serving the mutton, and then 
baste contitiuaily ; bring the haunch nearer 
before taking off the paste, and froth it up 
in the same manner as venison. For gravy, 
take a pound and a half of loin of mutton, 
and simmer it in a pint of water till reduced 
to half, use no seasoning but salt: brown it 
with a little burnt sugar, and serve it up in 
die dish ; but there should be a good deal of 
gravy iu the meat, for though long at the fire, 
the covering and distance will prevent its 
roasting out. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. 

MUTTON LEG. (1) If your leg 
of mutton is roasted, seive with onion or 
curraiit-jelly sauc« ; if it is boiled, serve with 
caper-sauce and vegetables. In roasting or 
boiling, a (|uailer of an hour is usually allow- 
ed for each pound of meat. 

MUTTON LEG. (2) Cut off" the shank 
bone, and trim the knuckle, put it into luke- 
warm water for ten minutes, wash it clean, 
cover it with cold water, and let it simmer 
very gently, and skim it carefully. A leg 
of nine pounds will take two and a half or 
three hours, if you like it thoroughly done, 
especially in very cold weather. 

The tit-bits with an epicure are the 
"knuckle," the kernel, called the "papers 
eye," and the " gentleman's" or " cramp 
bone." 

When mutton is very large, you may di- 
vide it, and roast the fillet, i. e. the large 
end, and boil the knuckle end; you may 
also cut some fine cutlets off the thick end 
of the leg, and so have two or three good 
hot dinners. 

The liquor the mutton is boiled in, you 
may convert into good soup in five minutes, 
and Scotch barley broth. Thus managed, a 
leg of mutton is a most economical joint. 

MUTTON LEG STUFFED. Make 
a stuffing with a little beef-suet chopped, 
some parsley, thyme, marjoram, a little 
grated lemon, nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, 
and a few bread crumbs, mix all together 
with the yolk of an egg, put this under the 
skin in the thickest part of a leg of mutton 
under the flap ; then roast it, and serve it to 
table with some good gravy in the dish. 

MUTTON LEG STUFFED with 
Oysters. Make a forcemeat of beef-suet, 
chopped small, the yolks of hard boiled eggs, 
with three anchovies, a little onion, thyme, 
savory, and some oysters, a dozen or fourteen, 
11 



all cut fine, some salt, pepper, grated nut- 
meg, and crumbs of biead, mixed up with 
raw eggs; put this forcemeat under the skin 
in the thickest part of the leg of nivitton, un- 
der the flap, and at the knuckle. For sauce, 
some oyster-licjuor, a little red wine, an an- 
chovy, and some more oysters slewed, and 
served under the mutton. 

MUTTON LOIN. Roast it; some 
people think it eats much better if cut length- 
ways like a saddle. It may also be used 
for steaks, pies, or broth, only taking care 
to cut off" as much fat as possible. 

MUTTON LOIN, STEWED. Bone 
and skin the loin; stew it in a pint of 
water, turning it frequently; when the li- 
quor is half wasted, take out the loin and 
strain it, and when cold take off the fat ; 
make a rich highlv-seasoned gravy of the 
bones; strain and mix it with the li(]uorthe 
loin was stewed in; add a tea-cupful of 
Port wine, and some small mushrooms; 
thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour; 
put in the mutton, and heat it dioroughly; 
garnish with pickles. 

MUTTON NECK.. (1) This joint is 
particularly useful, as so many dishes may 
be made of it. The bone ought to be cut 
short. 

The best end of the neck may be boiled, 
and served with turnips; or if you think 
proper, it may be roasted, or dressed in 
steaks, or made into pies, or used for harrico. 

You may stew the scrags in broth; or in 
a little water, with small onions, some pep- 
percorns, and a small quantity of rice, all 
served together. 

When you wish th.at a neck which is to 

be boiled should look particularly well, saw 

'down the chine bone, strip the ribs half 

way down, and chop off' the ends of the 

bones, about four inches. 

To make the fat look particularly white, 
the skin should not be taken oft' till it is 
boiled. 

The fat belonging to the neck or loin of 
mutton, if chopped very fine, makes a most 
excellent suet-pudding, or crust for a meat 
pie. 

MUTTON NECK. (2) Put four or 
five pounds of the best end of a neck (that 
has been kept a few days) into as much cold 
soft water as will cover it, and about two 
inches over; let it simmer very slowly for 
two hours: it will look most delicate if you 
do not take off the skin till it has been boil- 
ed. 

MUTTON PASTY, to eat as nice 



Mur 



12 



M U T 



AS Venison. Take a fat loin of mutton, 
and let it hang for several days, then bone i(- 
Beat it well with a rolling pin; then rub 
en pounds of meat with a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and pour over it one glass of Port, 
and one glass of vinegar. Let it lie for five 
days and five nights; after which, wasii and 
wipe the meat \e\~y dry, and season it highly 
with Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. 
Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put 
one pound of butter, spreading it over the 
meat. Put a crust round the edge of the 
dish, and cover with a thick crust, otherwise 
it will be over-done before the meat is soak- 
ed; it must be baked in a slow oven. 

Put the bones in a pan in the oven, with 
just sufficient water to cover them, and one 
glass of Port, a snuill (juantity of pepper and 
salt; by this means you will ha\e a little rich 
g. a\y to add to the pasty when drawn. 

Sugar gives a greater shortness to meat, 
and a tetter flavor than salt, too great a 
(|iian(ity of which hardens the meat. Sugar 
is quite as great a preservative. 

MUTTOX POLPETTES. Take the 
lean of any joint of cold roasted mutton, pare 
off the skin, and mince the meat with a little 
grated bacon and calf's udder ; season with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few mushrooms and 
parsley, shred small; unite them together 
\\ ith the yolks of three eggs, and make twelve 
or fifteen balls of it, dip them in beaten egg, 
and bread them twice. Flatten these balls 
a little, and fry them in clarified butter; 
when done, drain and place them on tlit- 
dish. Serve them with tomato sauce or 
glaze. 

MUTTON, ROLLED. Bone a shoulder 
of mutton carefully, so as not to injure the 
skin, cut all the meat from the skin, mince 
it small, and season it highly with pepper, 
nutmeg, and a clove, some parsley, lemon 
thyme, sweet marjoram chopped, and a 
pounded onion, all well mixed, together with 
a well-beaten yolk of an egg; roll it up veiy 
tigh'.ly in the skin, tie it round, and Ijake it 
in an oven two or three hours, according to 
the size of the mutton. Make a gravy of the 
bones and paringS;, season with an onion, 
pepper and salt, strain and thicken it with 
tl )ur and butter; add vinegar, mushroom 
ketchup, soy, and lemon pickle, a table- 
spoonfu! of each, and a tea-cupful of Port 
wine; garnish with forcemeat balls, made 
of grated bread, and part of the mince. 

MUTTON, COLD shoulder broil- 
ed. A cold shoulder of roast mutton having 
only a little meat upon the blade bone, may 
be scored, sprinkled with pep[;er and salt, 
then broiled and served with caper sauce 



poured over it, or melted butter, in which 
should be mixed of mushroom ketchup, lemon 
pickle, and Harvey sauce, a table-spoonfu. 
each. 

MUTTON SHOULDER, BAKED. 

Lard a shoulder of mutton with streaked 
bacon, put it into an eardien stewpan pro- 
portioned to the •size of the joint of meat, 
with two or three sliced onions, a parsnip 
and carrot sliced, one clove of garlic, two 
cloves, half a bay-leaf and some basil; add 
about a quarter of a pint of ^vater or stock 
(stock is the best), some salt and pepper; 
put the meat into the sauce, and set it in an 
oven. When the meat is done, strain the 
sauce through a sieve, and skim it,s(j leezing 
the vegetables so as to make a ihickeiing f,r 
your sauce: serve die sauce with the meat. 

MUTTON SHOULDER, STEWED. 

(1) Bone a shoulder of mutton with a 
sharp knife, and fill the space with the fol- 
lowing stuffing: — grated bread, minced suet, 
parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; bind 
with the yolks of two eggs well beaten. 
Sew or fasteiQ it with small skewers; brown 
it in a frying-pan with a bit of butter. Bieak 
the bone, put it into a saucepan, with soirie 
water, an onion, pepper, salt, and a bunch 
of par.'^lcy; let it stew till the stiength be 
extracted; strain, and thicken it with butter 
rolled in flour; put it, with the mutton, and 
a glass of Port wine, into the saucepan ; cover 
it closely, and let it stew gently for two 
hours. Before serving, add two table-spoon- 
fiils of mushroom ketchup. Garnish with 
pickles. 

MUTTON SHOULDER, STEW- 
ED. (2) Bone and flatle i a shoulder 
of mutton, spiinkle over it pepper and 
salt, roll it up tightly, bind it with tape, and 
put it into a stewpan tliat w ill ju^t hold it, 
pour over it a well-seasoned gravy made with 
the bones, cover the pan closely, and let it 
stew till tender; before serving, take off il e 
tape, thicken the grav}', and garnish with 
cut pickles. 

MU FTON STEAKS, BROILED. Cut 

some mutton steaks from the loin, about 
half an inch thick, take ofi" the skin, and part 
of the fat. As soon as the gridiron is hot, 
rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks 
(place the gridiron over the fire aslant), turn 
the steaks fi equently ; when they are done, 
put them into a hot dish, rub tliem with 
a little butter; slice a shallot very thin into 
a s|)Oonful of water, and pour it on them; 
add a little ketchuji ; garnish with scraped 
horse-radish, and pickles, and send tliem up 
hot to table. 



NOU 



N. 



123 



OAT 



NAPLES CURD. Put into a quart of 
new milk a stick of cinnamon, boil it a few 
uiiiiiites, take out the cinnamon, and stir in 
eight well-beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful 
of white wine; when it boils again, strain 
it through a sieve ; l^eat die curd in a basin, 
together with about half an ounce of butter, 
two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, 
and pounded sugar sufficient to sweeten it. 
Put it into a mould for two hours before it 
is sent to table. White wine, sugar, and 
cream, may he mixed together, and poured 
round the curd; or it may be served iii a 
sauce tureen. 

NASTURTIUMS PICKLED. As soon 
as the blossoms are ofl^, gather the little 
knobs; put them into cold water widi some 
salt ; shift them once a day for three suc- 
cessive days; make a cold pickle of white 
wine A inegar, a little Avhite wine, shallot, 
peppei', cloves, mace, nutmeg, cut in quar- 
ters, and horse-radish ; and put your nastur- 
tium buds into this pickle. 

NEAT'S TONGUE Fresh, in a 
Plain Way. Lard a tongue with tolera- 
ble-sized lardons, and boil it in broUi, or in 
water, with a ^w onions and roots ; when 
it is done, fjeel it, and serve it with brodi, 
sprinkling it over with a little pepper and 
salt; it is also used without larding, and 
being boiled fresh in this manner, is consid- 
ered very good for mince-pie meat. 

NEAT'S TONGUE, Roasted, a la 
Fra-Vcaise. Boil a neat's tongue, and 
blanch it; set it by till it is cold, then cut a 
hole in the under part, and take out the 
meat, mince it with two or tlnee hard eggs, 
an a}iple, beef-suet, and bacon ; season with 
salt, beaten ginger, and sweet herbs, shred 
very fine; stuff the tongue with this force- 
meat ; then cover die end with a ^eal caul, 
lard it witn bacon, and roast it; serve with 
a sauce made of gravy, butter, and the juice 
of oranges, garnish the dish widi sliced lem- 
on-peel and barberries. 

NOUGAT. Blanch and wash a pound 
of sweet almonds, and having drained them 
well, cut each into five slips, which place in 
a gentle oven to diT; let them lie all equally 
colored of a clear yellow; in the meantime, 
put three-fjuarters of a pound of fine sugar 
into a preserving pan, set it on a stove, stir- 
ring with a wooden s[5oon until completely 
dissolved ; then take tlie almonds out of the 
oven, and whilst hot throw them into the li- 
quid sugar; mix them togettfer well. Have 
ready a mould well oiled, of any shape you 



think proper, in the interior of which place 
the slips of almonds, by means of lemon-juice, 
when the whole is covered, remove die mould 
carefully, and serve die Nougat. 

NOYAU. (1) Peaches and nectarines, 
in etjual quantities, are to be bruised, the 
stones broken, and the kernels blanched and 
bruised ; they are then to be put into a jar 
in layers, one of fruit, one of kernels, and 
one of pounded loaf sugar, and so on until 
the jai- is full; as much white brandy is 
then to be added as the jar will hold; and 
when it has stood for five or six months, it 
is to be filtered and bottled for use. 

NOYAU. (2) One pound of bitter al- 
monds, Ijlanched, is to be steeped three 
months in four quarts of large-still proof 
whisk V, or pale brandy, four pounds of loaf 
sugar are then to be clarified and added to 
die strained or filtered spirits, together with 
half a pint of pure honey. It is sometimes 
colored with a little cochineal; and may 
also be made, allowing three parts of sweet, 
and one of bitter almouds. 

NOYAU. (3) The rinds of diree large 
lemons, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
one ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded, are to be mixed into a quart of the 
best Hollands gin, tlii-ee table-spoonfuls of 
boiling milk being added. It is to be put 
into a bottle or jar, and shaken eveiy day 
for diree weeks, and then filtered through 
chamois leather or blotting paper, when it 
will be fit for use. 



O. 



OAT CAKES— are made in the same 
manner as muffins, using sifted oatmeal in- 
stead of flour, and three gallons of water in- 
stead of two: pull the dough into pieces, 
roll and finish the cakes as directed for muf- 
fins. When wanted, pull the edges apait, 
toast them nicely on bodi sides, and then 
open them completely; lay in small pieces 
of butter, until you have as much as you may 
want; close them again, set them before 
the file, and cut each in halves or quarters. 

OATMEAL PORRIDGE. Boil some 
water in a saucepan with a little salt, and 
stir oatmeal into it with a thevil ; when of 
a proper thickness, let it boil for four or 
five minutes, stirring it all die time; then 
pour it into a dish, and serve with it cream 
or milk. It is sometimes eaten widi porter 
and sugar, or ale and sugar. If made with 
milk instead of water, less meal is requisite, 
and it is then eaten with cold milk. 



OME 



124 



OME 



OLIVE ROYALS. Boil one pound of 
potatoes, and when nearly cold rub them 
perfectly smootli with four ounces of flour 
and one ounce of butter, and knead it to- 
gether till it become a paste; roll it out 
about a quarter of an inch tnick, cut it into 
rounds, and lay upon one side any sort of 
cold roasted meat cut into thin small bits, 
and seasoned with pepper and salt; put a 
very small bit of butter over it, wet the 
edges, and close the paste in the form of a 
half cii-cle. Fry them in boiling fresh drip- 
ping of a light ferown color; lay diem be- 
fore the fire, on the back of a sieve, to di-ain. 
Serve them witli or without gravy in the 
dish. For a change, mince the meat, and 
season it as before directed. The potatoes 
should be very mealy. 

OLIVES. There are thi-ee sorts, the 
Italian, Spanish, and French ; they may 
be had of various sizes and flavors, some 
prefer one sort, and some another. 

The fine salad oil is made fiom this fruit, 
for which purpose they are gathered ripe; 
for pickling they are gatliered when only 
half ripe, at the latter end of June; tliey are 
put into fresh water to soak for a couple of 
days; after this tliey are thrown into lime- 
water, in which some pearl-ashes have been 
dissolved; in this liquor they lie for six and 
tliijty liours ; they are dien put into water 
which has had bay-salt dissolved in it; this 
is the last preparation, and they are sent 
over to us in this liquor; they are naturally, 
as they grow on the tree, extremely bitter, 
and therefore all these preparations are nec- 
essai-y to biing them to their fine flavor. To 
some olives tliey add a small (juantitv of es- 
sence of spices, wliich is an oil drawn from 
cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, coriander, and 
sweet fennel-seed distilled together for that 
purpose; twelve drops are sufficient for a 
bushel of olives; some prefer them flavored 
with this essence. 

OMELETS AND VARIOUS WAYS 

OF DRESSING Eggs. There is no dish 
which may be considered as coming under 
the denomination of a made dish of the sec- 
ond order, which is so generally eaten, if 
good, as ail omelet; and no one is so often 
badly diessed: it is a very faithful assistant 
in the construction of a dinner. 

When you are taken by surprise, and wish 
to make an appearance beyond what is pro- 
vided for tlie eveiy-day dinner, a little port- 
able soup melted down, and some zest and a 
few vegetables, will make a good broth; a 
pot of stewed veal wanned up ; an omelet ; 
and some apple or lemon fritters, can all be 
got ready at ten minutes notice, and with 
the original foundation of a leg of mutton, or 
a piece of beef, will make up a very good 



dinner when company unexpectedly aiTives, 
in the country. 

The great merit of an omelet is, that it 
should not be greasy, burnt, nor too much 
done: if too much of the white of the eggs is 
left in, no art can prevent its being hard, if 
it is done: to dress the omelet, die fire 
should not be too hot, as it is an object to 
have the whole substance heated, wiUiout 
much browning tlie outside. 

One of the great errors in cooking an om- 
elet is, that it is too thin; consequently, in- 
stead of feeling full and moist in the mouth, 
the substance presented is little better than 
a piece of fried leather: to get the omelet 
thick is one of the great objects. With re- 
spect to the flavors to be introduced, these 
are infinite; that which is most common, 
however, is the best, viz. finely chopjicd 
parsley, and chives or onions, or eschalots: 
however, one made of a mixture of tarragon, 
chervil, and parsley, is a veiy delicate va- 
riety, omitting or adding the onion or chives. 
Of the meat flavors, die veal kidney is Uie 
most delicate, and is die most admired by 
the French: this should be cut in dice, and 
should be dressed (boiled) before it is added; 
in the same manner, ham and anchovies, 
shred small, or tongue, will make a very 
delicately flavored dish. 

The objection to an omelet is, that it is 
too rich, which makes it a^lvisable to eat 
but a small quantity. An addition of some 
finely mashed potatoes, about two table- 
spoonfiils, to an omelet of six eggs, will 
much lighten it. 

Omelets are often served with rich gi-a- 
vy ; but, as a general principle, no substance 
which has been fiied should be served in gra- 
vy, but accomp-anied by it, or what ought to 
eat dry and crisp, Ijecomes soddened and 
flat. 

In the compounding the gravy, great care 
should Ije taken that the flavor does not o\ er- 
come that of the omelet, a thing too little 
attended to: a fine giavy, with a flavoring 
of sweet herbs and onions, we think the best ; 
some add a few drops of tarragon vinegar; 
but this is to be done only with great care: 
gravies to omelets are in general thicken- 
ed: this should never be done with flour; 
potato starch, or arrow-root, is the best. 

Omelets should be fried in a small fry- 
ing-pan made for that purpose, with a small 
quantity of butter. The omelet's great 
merit is to be thick, so as not to taste of the 
outside; therefore use only half die number 
of whites that you do yolks of eggs: every 
care must be taken in fi") ing, even at the 
risk of not having it quite set in the middle: 
an omelet, which has so much \ogue 
abroad, is here, in general, a thin doubled- 
up piece of leather, and harder tlian soft 
leadier sometimes. The fact is, dvdt as much 



OME 



125 



ONI 



care must be bestowed on tlie frying, as 
should be taken in poaching an egg. A 
salamander is necessary to those who will 
have the top brown ; but the kitchen shovel 
may be substituted for it. 

Tlie following receipt is the basis of all 
omelets, of which you may make an end- 
less variety, by taking, instead of the pars- 
ley and eschalot, a portion of sweet herbs, 
or any of the articles used for making force- 
meats, or any of the forcemeats. 

Omelets are called by the name of what 
is added to flavor them: a ham or tongue 
omelet; an anchovy, or veal kidney ome- 
let, &c. : these are prejjared exactly in the 
same way a^j in the first receipt, leaving out 
the parsley and eschalot, and mincing the 
ham or kidney very fine, &c., and adding 
that in the place of them, and then pour over 
them all sorts of thickened gravies, sauces, 
&c. 

OMELET. (1) Five or six eggs will 
make a good-sized omelet : break them 
into a basin, and beat them well with a fork ; 
and add a salt-spoonful of salt; have ready 
chopped two drachms of onion, or ihree 
diachms of parsley, a good clove of eschalot 
minced very fine; beat it well up with the 
eggs; then take four ounces of fresh butter, 
and break half of it into large bits, and put 
it into the omelet, and the other half into 
a vei'y clean frying-pan ; when it is melted, 
pour in the omelet, and stir it with a spoon 
till it begins to set, then turn it up all round 
the edges, and when it is of a nice brown it 
is done: the safest way to take it out is to 
put a plate on the omelet, and turn the pan 
upside-down: serve it on a hot dish; it 
should never be done till just wanted. If 
maigre, grated cheese, shrimps, or oysters. 
If oysters, boil them four minutes, and take 
away the beard and gristly part ; they may 
either be put in whole, or cut in bits. 

OMELET. (2) Beard and parboil twelve 
or sixteen oysters, seasoning them with a few 
peppercorns, strain and chop them ; beat 
well six eggs; parboil and mince a little 
parsley ; mix all together, and season with a 
little nutmeg, salt, and a table-spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup; fry it lightly in three 
ounces of butter, and hold it for a minute or 
t\vo before the fire. 

OMELET. (3) Beat well and strain six 
eggs ; add them to three ounces of butter 
made hot ; mix in some grated ham, [lepper, 
salt, and nutmeg, some (chopped chives and 
parsley. Fry it of a light brown color. 

OMELET. (4) Take as many eggs as 
you think proper (according to the size of 
vour omelet) break them into a basin with 
11* 



some salt and chopped parsley; then beat 
them well, and season them according to 
taste, then have ready some onion chopped 
small ; |)Ut some butter into a frying-pan, and 
when it is hot (but not to burn) put in youi 
chopped onion, giving them two or three 
turns ; then add your eggs to it, and fry the 
whole of a nice brown, you must only fry 
one side. When done, turn it into a dish, 
the fried side uppermost, and serve. 

OMELET FRITTERS. Make two or 
three thin omelets, adding a little sweet ba- 
sil to the usual ingiedients ; cut them into 
small pieces and roll them into the form of 
olives; when cold, dip them into batter, or 
enclose them in puff paste; fry, and serve 
them with fried parsley. 

OMELET WITH KIDNEY OF 
VEAL. To eight well-teaten eggs, add a 
little salt, and part of a cold roasted kidney 
of veal, finely minced ; season with pepper, 
and a little more salt ; melt in a frying-pan 
one ounce and a half of butter, and pour in 
the omelet ; fry it gently, and keep die mid- 
dle part moist ; when done, roll it equally 
upon a knife, and serve it very hot. 

OMELET AU NATUREL. Break 
eight or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, 
salt, and a spoonful of cold water, beat tiiem 
up with a whisk; in the meantime put some 
fresh butter into a fi-jing-pan, when it is quite 
melted and nearly boiling, put in the eggs, 
&c. with a skimmer; as it is frying, take 
up the edges, that they may be properly 
done; when cooked, double it; serve very 
hot. 

ONIONS. The small round silver button 
onions, about as big as a nutmeg, make a 
veiy nice pickle. Take off dieir top coats, 
have ready a stewpan, three parts filled witli 
boiling water, into which put as many on- 
ions as will cover the top: as soon as they 
look clear, immediately take them up with 
; a spoon full of holes, and lay them on a cloth 
three times folded, and cover them with 
another till you have ready as many as you 
wish: when they are quite dry, put them into 
jars, and cover them with hot pickle, made 
by infusing an ounce of horseradish, same of 
allspice, and same of black pepper, and same 
of salt, in a quart of best white-wine vinegar, 
in a stone jar, on a trivet by the side of the 
fire f)r three days, keeping it well closed; 
when cold, bung them down tight, and cover 
them with bladder wetted witli the pickle 
and leather. 

ONIONS STEWED. The large Por- 
tugal onions are the best: take off the top- 
coats of half a dozen of these (taking care 



ONI 



126 



OR A 



not to cut off the tops or tails too near, or 
tlie onions will go to pieces), and put them 
into a stewpan broad enough to hold them 
withont laying them atop of one another, 
and just cover them with good broth. Put 
tltem over a slow fire, and let them simmer 
about two hours; when you dish them, turn 
them upside down, and pour the sauce over. 

ONIONS TO PICKLE. Peel the onions 
till they look white; boil some strong salt 
and water, and pour it over them ; let them 
stand in this twenty-four hours, keep the 
vessel closely covered to retain the steam: 
after that time wipe the onions quite dry, 
and when they are cold, pour boiling vinegar, 
with ginger and white pepper over them. 
Take care the vinegar always covers the 
onions. 

ONION SAUCE, YOUNG. Peel a 
pint of button onions, and put them in water 
till you want to put them on to boil; put 
them into a stewpan, with a quart of cold 
water; let them boil till tender; they will 
take (according to their size and age) from 
half an hour to an hour. 

ONION SAUCE. Those who like the 
full flavor of onions only cut off the strings 
and tops (without peeling off any of the 
skins), put them into salt and water, and let 
them lie an hour; then wash them, put them 
into a kettle with plenty of water, and boil 
them till they are tender: now skin them, 
pass them through a colander, and mix a 
little melted butter with them. N. B. Some 
mix the pulp of apples, or turnips, with the 
onions, others add mustard to them. 

ONIONS, TO PREPARE FOR SEA- 
SONING. Peel and mince three or four 
onions, put them into a saucepan with a lit- 
tle cold water. Let them boil till quite 
tender, and then pulp them with the liquor 
through a hair sieve, when it may be mixed 
with any made dishes or sauces. 

ONIONS YOUNG, TO PICKLE. 

Choose some of the small silver onions, put 
them on in cold water, and when it is scald- 
ing hot, take them out with an egg slice ; 
peel off the skins till they look white and 
clear; lay them into the folds of a clotli. 
Boil, in a quart of vinegar, half an ounce of 
pepper, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, the 
same of garlic, and one sliced nutmeg; put 
the onions into a jar, and pour over them 
the boiling vinegar and spices. When cold, 
tie leather over tlie jar. 

ONIONS, PLAIN BOILED. Peel 
them, and let them lie an hour in cold water, 
put them on in boiling milk and water; 



boil them till tender, and serve them with 
melted butter poured over them. 

ONIONS, ROAST. Roast them with 
the skins on in a Dutch oven, that they may 
brown equally. They are eaten with cold 
fresh butter, pepper, aiid salt. 

ONIONS STEWED. (1) Take a dozen 
of good-sized onions, peel and put tliera on 
in the following sauce: — A pint of veal stock, 
a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper, 
and salt. Stew them gently for an hour, 
and, just before serving, mix in three table- 
spoonfuls of cream. To stew them in a 
brown sauce, take the same quantity of good 
gravy. In a stewpan brown, of a light co- 
lor, a little butter and flour, add the gravy 
and onions, with a little pepper and salt, and 
stew them gently one hour. 

ONIONS STEWED. (2) Peel five or 
six large onions, put them into a Dutch oven 
or cheese-toaster to roast, turn them frequent- 
ly, and when they are well browned, put 
them I'nto a saucepan, with a bone of dressed 
or undressed meat, a slice of bacon, a little 
water, and some pepper. Cover the pan 
closely, and stew them till tender. Take 
out the bone and the bacon ; thicken the 
sauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour. 

ORANGE BISCUITS. Take the grat- 
ed rind of an orange, six fresh eggs, a 
quarter of a pound of flour, and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of powder sugar ; put these 
into a mortar, beat them to a paste, which 
put into cases, and bake like other bis- 
cuits. 

ORANGE CHEESECAKES. To be 
made in the same way, as lemon cheese- 
cakes. 

ORANGE CREAM, frothed. Make 
a pint of cream very sweet, put it over the 
fire, let it just boil, put the juice of a large 
orange into a small deep glass, having pre- 
viously steeped a bit of orange-peel for a 
short time in the juice, when the cream is 
almost cold, pour it out of a tea-pot upon 
die juice, holding it as high as possible. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. Having boiled 
the rind of a Seville orange very tender, beat 
it in a mortar to a fine paste ; put to it the 
juice of a Seville orange, a spoonful of the 
best brandy, four ounces of loaf-sugar, and 
the yolks of four e^gs ; beat them all well 
together ten minutes, then pour in by degrees 
a pint of boiling cream; keep beating it till 
cold ; ])ut it into custard glasses. Set them 
in an earthen dish of hot water; let them 
stand till they are set, then stic^K preserved 



ORA 



127 



O VE 



oran^^e, or orange chips, on the top. It may 
be served hot or cold. 

ORANGE FOOL. Take the juice of 
six oranges, six eggs well beaten, a pint of 
creain, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a little 
cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix all well togeth- 
er; stir it over a shnv fire till tiiick, tlien put 
in a small piece of butter, and keep stirring 
it till cold. 

ORANGE GINGERBREAD. Sift two 
pounds and a quarter of fine flour, and add 
to it a pound and three-quarters of treacle, 
six ounces of candied orange-peel cut small, 
three-(juarters of a pound of moist sugar, one 
ounce of ground ginger, and one ounce of 
allspice: melt to an oil three-quarters of a 
pound of butter; mix the whole well togeth- 
er, and lay it by for twelve hours ; roll it 
out with as little flour as possible, about 
half an inch thick; cut it into pieces three 
inches long and two wide; mark them in 
the form of checkers with tlie back of a 
knife; put them on a baking-plate about a 
quarter of an inch apart ; rub thein over with 
a brush dipped in the yolk of an egg beat up 
with a tea-capful of milk; bake it in a cool 
oven about a (luarter of an hour: when done, 
wash them sliglitly over again, divide the 
pieces with a knife (as in baking they will 
run togedier). 

ORANGE LIQUOR. To each orange, 
■one quart of strong spirits, and one pound 
and a quarter of loaf sugar are allowed; six 
or eight cloves are to be stuck into each or- 
ange, which, with the spirits and sugar, is 
lo be put into a jar. It must be closely cov- 
ered, and stirred occasionally in the course 
of two months ; it is then to be filtered thi'ough 
blotting paper, and bottled fur use. 

Lemon li(|uor is made in the same way, 
substituting lemons for oranges. Instead of 
mixing the sugar with the other materials in 
tlie jar, it may be made into a sirup, and 
added to the strained or filtered spirits. 
This, though more troublesome, will be found 
a better method. 

ORANGE OR LEMON-PEEL, TO 
MIX WITH STUFFING. Peel a Seville or- 
ange, or lemon, very tliin, taking oft' only the 
fine yellow rind (without any of the white); 
pound it in a mortar with a bit of lump su- 
gar; rub it well with the peel; by degrees 
add a little of the forcemeat it is to be mixed 
with: when it is well ground and blended 
with this, mix it widi the whole: there is 
no other way of incorporating it so well. 
Forcemeats, &c. are frequeiitly s[)oiled by 
the insutficient mixing of the in"-redients. 

ORANGE SIRUP, for Pu.\ch or 
Pudding- See Justice. 



ORANGEADE. (1) Squeeze the juice ; 
pour some boiling v\;iter on the peel, and 
cover it closely; boil water and sugar to a 
thin sirup, and skim it; when all are cold, 
mix the juice, the infision, and the sirup, 
witii as much water as will make a rich 
sherbet ; stiain it through a jelly-bag. 

ORANGEADE. (2) This refreshing 
beverage is made precisely in the same man- 
ner as lemonade, only substituting oranges 
for lemons. 

ORANGE PEEL RATAFIA. Put 

the peels of a dozen thick-skinned oranges 
into a gallon of brandy ; dissolve two pounds 
of sugar in die juice of the oranges, add to it 
the brandy, and having stirred them togeth- 
er well, close the vessel tightly, and le<ive i' 
for a month ; then strain it off, and bottle it 

ORGEAT. (1) Pound very fine one 
pound 'of Jordan, and one ounce of bitter, 
ylmonds, in a marble mortar, with half a gill 
of oransre-flower water to keen them from 
oiling; then mix with them one pint of 
rose and one pint of spring-water ; rub it 
through a tamis cloth or lawn sieve, till the 
almonds are quite dry, which will reduce the 
quantity to about a quart : have ready three 
pints of clarified sugar or water, and boil it 
to a crack (which may be known by dipping 
your fingers into the sugar, and then into 
cold Avater ; and if you find the SHgai" to crack 
in moving your finger, it has boiled enough.) ; 
put in the almonds; boil it one minute, and 
when cold put it into small bottles close 
corked ; a table-spoonful of which will be 
suflicient for a tumbler of water: shake the 
bottle before using. If the orgeat is for 
present use, the almonds may be pounded as 
above, and mixed with one quart of water, 
one quart of milk, a pint of capillaire or 
clarified sugar, rubbed through a tamis or 
fine sieve, and put into decanters foi" use. 

ORGEAT. (2) A quarter of a pound 
of sweet, and one ounce and a half of bitter 
almonds, are to be blanched, and thrown into 
cold water, then beaten in a marble mortar, 
and moistened occasionally with a spoonful 
of milk, to prevent their oiling; three pints 
of milk are then to be mixed gradually with 
them, and after being sweetened, boiled, 
stirred till cold, and strained, a glass of wine 
or brandy is to be added. 

OVEN, DIRECTIOxNS FOR THE. 

Be very careful to keep your oven clean, and 
tliat there are no remains of sugar or fat that 
may have run over from any thing that has 
been bailing. Puff-pastes re(|uire a mode- 
rately hui oven, but not too hot, or it will 
spoil the shape and turn it over; tart-paste, 



oxc 



12S 



O Y S 



or short crust, requires a slower oven; pe- 
tits-blioiix, one still slower; hut for raised 
pies, let it he as hot as for piiff-paste at first, 
and well closed, so that the pies may not fall. 
Therefijre, wiien you give a dinner where 
paste is necessary, endeavor to make it in 
the morning; heal your oven first for the 
pufi'-piiste, which must be haked the first; 
then let the oven go gradually down, and 
bake your ])astes in lotation, as the heat 
falls. Savoy biscuits require a cool oven, 
and, by degrees, raise the heat as the biscuits 
are baking. For souffles or light puddings, 
have a gentle oven, and contrive so as to have 
them r"ady by the time they are wanted, or 
tiiey will lall. The greatest attention should 
also be paid in heating the oven for baking 
cakes, particularly for those that are large. 
If not pretty (juick, tiie batter will not rise. 
Should you fear its catching by being too 
quick, put paper over thj; cake to prevent its 
being bui'nt. If not long enough lighted to 
have a body of heat, or if it has become 
slack, the cake will be heavy. To know 
when it is soaked, take a broad bladed 
knife that is \ery bright, and plunge it into 
the centre ; draw it instantly out, and if the 
least stickiness adheres, put the cake imme- 
diately in, and sluit up the oven. If the heat 
■was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, fresh 
fuel must be qui<;kly put in, and the cakes 
kept hot until the oven is fit to finish the 
soaking, but diis must only be done in a case 
of great emergency; for those who are era- 
ployed ought to be particularly careful that 
no mistake occur from negligence. 

OX-CHEEK STEWED. Prepare tliis 
the day before it is to be eaten ; clean it, and 
put it into soft water just warm ; let it lie 
three or four hours, then put it into cold wa- 
ter, and let it soak all night; next day wipe 
it clean, put it into a stewpan, and just cover 
it with water; skim it well when it is com- 
ing to a boil, then put iwo whole onions, 
stick two or thiee cloves into each, three 
turnips quartered, a couple of carrots sliced, 
two bay-leaves, and twenty-four corns of all- 
spice, a head of celery, and a bundle of 
sweet-herbs, pepper, and salt; to these, 
those \vho are for a " haut gout " may add 
cayenne and garlic, in such proportions as 
the palate that requires them may desire. 
Let it stew gently till perfectly tender, i. e. 
ai)out three hours; then take out the cheek, 
divide it into handsome pieces, fit to help at 
table; skim, and strain the gravy; melt an 
ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan ; stir 
into it as much fiour as it will take up; mix 
with it by degrees a pint and a half of the 
gravy; aild to it a table-spoonful of basil, 
tarragon, or elder vinegar, or the like quan- 
tity of mushioom or walnut ketchup, or cav- 
«ce, or Port wine, and give it a boil. 



OX CHEEK, TO BOIL. Wash very 
clean, half a head ; let it lie in cold wateV 
all night; break the bone in two, taking care 
not to break the fiesh. Put it on in a pot 
of boiling water, and let it l)oil from two to 
three hours; take out the bone. Seive it 
with boiled carrots and turnips, or savoys. 
The li(|uor the head has been boiled in may 
be strained and made into Scots barley bi-otii, 
or Scots kale. 

OX FEET JELLY. Put a little hot 
water over the top of the stock, pour it oflF, 
and wipe it dry with a clean cloth; put a 
quart of it into a saucepan with the beaten 
whites of five or six eggs, the juice of five 
lemons made very sweet with good brown 
sugar, a clove or two, and a little cinna- 
mon pounded; let it boil twenty minutes, 
stirring it all the time ; take it off the fire, 
and add a pint, or half a pint of white 
wine, and run it through a jelly -bag till 
clear. 

OX-TAILS STEWED. Divide them 
into joints ; wash them ; parboil them ; set 
them on to stew in just water enough to 
cover them, — and dress 'them in the same 
manner as we have directed in Stewed Gib- 
lets, for which they are an excellent substi- 
tute. 

OYSTERS. Some piscivorous gourr 
mands think that oysters are not best when 
quite fresh from their beds, and that their 
flavor is too brackish and harsh, and is much 
ameliorated by giving them a feed. 

To FEED ovsters. — Cover them with 
clean water, with a pint of salt to about two 
gallons (nothing else, no oatmeal, flour, nor 
any other trumpery); this will cleanse them 
from the mud and sand, &c. of the bed; af- 
ter they have lain in it twelve hours, change 
it for fresh salt and water, and in twelve 
hours more they will be in prime order for 
the mouth, and remain so two or three days: 
at the time of high water you may see them 
open their shells, in expectation of receiving 
their usual food. This process of feeding 
oysters is only employed when a great many 
come up together. 

Common people are indifferent about the 
manner of opening oysters, and the time of 
eating them after they are opened; nothing, 
however, is more important in the enlight- 
ened eyes of the experienced oyster-eater. 

Those who wish to enjoy this delicious 
restorative in its utmost perfection, muf t 
eat it the moment it is opened, with its owi 
gravy in the under shell ; if not eaten whi'e 
absolutely alive, its flavor and spirit are loss 

Shell-fish have long held a high rank ia 
the catalogue of easily digestible and speedi- 
ly restorati\'e foods; of these the oystor cex^ 



OYS 



129 



OYS 



tainly deserves the best character, but we 
think it has accjuired not a little more repu- 
tation for the.-e ([ualities than it deserves; a 
well-dressed chop or steak, will invigorate 
the heart in a much higher ratio; to recruit 
the animal spirits, and support strength, 
there is nothing equal to animal food; when 
Kept till properly tender, none will give so 
little trouljle to the digestive organs, and so 
much substantial excitement to the constitu- 
tion. 

OYSTER ATTELETS. Cut into small 
pieces a sweetbread and a slice or two of 
bacon, beard some large oysters, and season 
all highly uith chopped parsley, shallot, a 
little tliyme, pepper and salt. Then fasten 
them alternately upon wire skewers; put 
sifted bread crumbs over them, and broil or 
fry them of a light brown color. Take them 
off the skewers, and serve them with some 
rich gravy, to which add a little ketchup and 
lemon pickle. 

OYSTERS, BAKED. Grate a small 
loaf of stale bread. Butter a deep dish well, 
and cover the sides and bottom with bread 
crumbs. Put in half the oysters with a lic- 
tle mace and pepper. Cover them with 
crumbs and small bits of butter strewed over 
them. Then put in the remainder of the 
oysters. Reason them. Cover them as 
before with crumbs and butter. Tf the oys- 
ters are fresh pour in the liquor. If they 
are salt, substitute a little water. Bake it a 
very short time. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (1) Make a batter 
as for pancakes, seasoned with grated nut- 
meg, white pepper, and salt, and add some 
finely grated bread crumbs; dip in the oys- 
ters, and fi-y them of a light brown in beef 
dri|)ping. 

Another way is, to dip them into the white 
of an egg beat up, and roll them in finely 
grated bread crumbs, seasoned with grated 
nutmeg, pepper and salt, and fry them as 
directed. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (2) The largest 
and fiiiest oysters are to be chosen for this 
purpose; simmer them in their own licjuor 
for a couple of minutes, take them out and 
lay them on a cloth to drain, beard them and 
then (lour ihem, eg^ and bread-crumB them, 
put them into boiling fat, and fry them a 
delicate brown. Obs. — An elegant garnish 
for made dishes, slewed rump-steaks, boiled 
or frieti tish, &c.; but they are too hard and 
dry to be eaten. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (3) For frying, 
choose the largest and finest oysters. Beat 
«ome yolks of eggs, and mix with them grat- 



ed bread, and a small quantity of beater 
nutmeg and mace, and a little salt. Hav- 
ing stirred this batter well, dip your oys- 
ters into it, and fry them in lard, till they 
are of a li:iiit brown color. Take care not 
to do them too much. Serve them up hot. 
For grated bread, some substitute crackers 
pounded to a powder, and mixed witli volk 
of egg and spice. 

OYSTERS, TO KEEP AND FAT- 
TEN. Put them into water, and wash and 
clean them with a birch bioom; laying them 
with the deep shell downwards into a tub or 
broad platter, and then sprink le them over with 
salt. The following day pour over them and 
fill the vessel with clean (!old water, in which 
tliey must remain an hour, then pour it off 
again ; sprinkle them with salt, and let this 
be repeated every day. This method will 
keep them good for a fortnight. 

OYSTER KETCHUP. (1) Take 

fine fresh oysters ; wash them in tlieir own 
liquor; skim it; pound them in a marble 
mortar; to a pint of oysters add a pint of 
Sheri-j'; boil them up, and add an ounce of 
salt, two ^Irachms of pounded mace, and one 
of cayenne; let it just boil uj) again; skim 
it, and rub it through a sieve, and when cold, 
bottle it, cork it well, and seaJ it down. 

N. B. It is the best way to pound the salt 
and spices, &c. witli the oysters. 

Obs. — This composition very agreeably 
heightens the flavor of white sauces, and 
white made-dishes; and if you add a glass 
of brandy to it, it will keep good for a consi- 
derable time longer dian oysters a)e out of 
season. 

OYSTER KETCHUP. (2) Boil one 
hundred oysters with their liquor, till the 
strength be extracted from them ; strain thera 
well, and add to the liquor an ecjual quanti- 
ty of wine, one half Port and (he otiier 
Sheriy, also a quarter of an ounce of mace, 
the same of white pepper and of allspice, a 
drachm or tea-spoontiil of ginger, and six 
anchovies; boil all together about fifteen 
minutes. Put into a jar twelve shallots, die 
peel of a lemon, and a piece of horse-radish 
cut small; pour upon them the boiling li- 
quor, and when cold, bottle it, togeUier with 
the spices. 

OYSTER LOAVES. Cut off the top 
of some small French rolls, take out die 
crumb, and fry tliem brown and crisp with 
clarified butter, then fry some bread ciumbs; 
stew the recjuisite quantity of oysters, beard- 
ed and cut in two, iu their li(iuor, with a 
little white wine, some gravy, and seasoned 
with grated lemon-peel, pounded mace, pep- 
per, and salt; add a bit of butter; fill the 



OYS 



130 



OYS 



rolls with the oysters, and serve them with 
tlie fried bread crumbs in the dish. 

OYSTER PATTIES. (1) Roll out puff 
paste a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into 
squares with a knife, sheet eight or ten patty 
pans, put upon each a bit of bread the size 
of half a walnut ; roll out another layer of 
paste of the same thickness, cut it as above, 
wet the edge of the bottom paste, and put 
on the top, pare tliem round to the pan, and 
notch them about a dozen times with the 
back of the knife, rub them lightly with yolk 
of egg, bake them in a hot oven about a 
quarter of an hour:*Avhen done, take a tliin 
slice off the top, then, widi a small knife or 
spoon, take out the bread and the inside 
paste, leaving die outside quite entire; then 
parboil two dozen of large oysters, strain 
tliem from their liquor, wash, beard, and cut 
them into four, put them into a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, half 
a gill of good cream, a little grated lemon- 
peel, the oyster liquor, free from sediment, 
reduced by boiling to one half, some cayenne 
pepper, salt, and a tea-spoonful of lemon- 
juice; stir it over a fire five minutes, and 
fill the patties. 

OYSTER PATTIES. (2) Make some 
rich puff paste, and bake it in very small tin 
patty-pans. When cool, turn dieni out upon 
a large i.ish. Stew some large fresh oysters 
with a few cloves, a little mace and nutmeg, 
some yolk of egg boiled hard and grated, a 
little butter, and as much of the oyster li([Uf)r 
as will cuvei' them. Wlien they have stew- 
ed a little while, take them out of the pan, 
and set them away to cool. When (juite 
cold, lay two or three oysters in each shell 
of puff-paste. 

OYSTER PIE. Beard a quart of fine 
oysters, strain the liquor, and add diem to 
it. Cut into thin slices the kidney fat of a 
loin of veal ; season them with white pep- 
per, salt, mace, and grated lemon-peel ; lay 
them on the bottom of a pie dish, put in the 
oysters and licjuor, with a little more season- 
ing ; put over them the marrow of two bones. 
Lay a border of puff paste round the edge of 
the dish ; cover it with paste, and bake it 
nearly three-fjuartei's of an hour. 

OYSTERS, PRESERVED. Open 
the oysters carefully, so as not to cut them 
except in dividing the gristle which attaches 
the shells; put them into a mortar, and 
when you lia\e got as many as you can con- 
veniently pound at once, add about two 
drachms of salt to a dozen oysters ; pound 
them, and rub them through the back of a 
hair sieve, and put them into a mortar again, 
witli as much flour (which has been pre- 



viously thoroughly dried) as will make them 
into a paste; roll it out several times, and, 
lastly, flour it, and roll it out the thickness 
of a half-crown, and divide it into pieces 
about an inch square; lay diera in a Dutch 
oven, where they will dry so gently as not to 
get burnt: turn them every half hour, and 
when diey begin to diy, crumble them; they 
will take about four hours to dry; then 
pound them fine, sift them, and put them 
into bottles and seal them o\ er. 

N. B. Three dozen recjuired seven and a 
half ounces of dried flour to make them into 
a paste which then weighed eleven ounces; 
when dried and powdered, six and a quar- 
ter ounces. 

To make half a pint of sauce, put one 
ounce of butter into a stewpan with three 
drachms of oyster jjowder, and six table- 
spoonfuls of milk ; set it on a slow fire ; stir 
it till it boils, and season it with salt. 

This powder, if made with plump, juicy 
oysters, will abound with the flavor of the 
fish; and if closely corked, and ke|)t in a 
di-y place, will remain good fur sometime. 

This extract is a welcome succedaneura 
while oysters are out of season, and in such 
inland parts as seldom have any, is a valua- 
ble addition to die list of fish sauces: it is 
equally good with boiled fowl, or rump steak, 
and sprinkled on bread and butter makes a 
very good sandwich, and is espq^ally wor- 
thy the notice of country housekeepers, and 
as a store sauce for tlie army and navy. 

OYSTERS, TO PICKLE. Open them 
carefiilly, preserving all their litiuor; put 
them into a saucepan over the fire, stirring 
them now and then, and when the liquor 
boils take them off, skim the surface, and 
put the oysters into a bowl ; let die liquor 
settle, pour off the clear part, and put it on 
to boil, with, to three hundred oysters, half 
an ounce of whole black pepper, a little 
mace and allspice; boil it ten minutes, then 
add the oysters, and let them boil two min- 
utes ; put them into a jar, and when they 
are cold, tie a paper over it. 

OYSTER SAUCE. When your oys- 
ters are opened, take care of all the I'iquor 
and give them one boil in it. Then take 
the oysters out, and put to the licjuor three 
or four blades of mace. Add to it some 
melted butter, and some thick cream or 
rich milk. Put in your oysters and give 
them a boil. 

OYSTERSOUP. (1) Three pints otiarge 
fresh oysters. Two table- spoonfuls of but- 
ter, rolled in flour. A bunch of swei^t herbs. 
A quart of rich milk. Pepper to your taste. 
Take the liquor of three pints of oysters. 
Strain it, and set it on the fii's. Put into it. 



O i s 



131 



O YS 



pepper to yoiu* taste, two table-spoonfuls of 
butter rolled in flour, and a bunch of sweet 
marjoram and other pot-herbs. When it 
boils iiild a (|uait of rich milk — and as soon 
as it !)oils again take out the herbs, and 
put in the oysters just before you send it to 
table. 

OYSTER SOUP. (2) Boil in water die 
crumb of two twopenny rolL-^, with a few blades 
of mace, a tea-spoonful of whole white pep- 
per, and four onions cut small. Pick out 
tlie s|)ice, and rub the bread and onions 
tlnough a hair sieve, then add it to three 
quarts of well-seasoned strong veal stock. 
Rub down diree ounces of butter, with a 
table-spoonful of flour, and mix it gradually 
with half a pint of the soup, and then stir all 
well together. When it has boiled a short 
time, add witii the liquor half a hundi-ed or 
more of fine oysters, and let the wiiole sim- 
mer fir ten or fifteen minutes. If the soup 
is not quite salt enough with the liquor of 
the oysters, a little salt may be added. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (1) Put 

them, with their liquor strained, two or three 
blades of mace, a few pep|)ercorns, a little 
cayenne, and a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, kneaded with flour, into a stewpan. 
Simmei- them very gently fir half an hour, 
by no means letting them boil; pick out the 
mace and pepper; have ready, finely grated 
bread-crumbs, seasoned with ]iepper and 
salt ; put into the scaliop-sliells, or into a 
dish, alternately a layer of bread-crumbs, 
then one of oysters and part of their licjuor; 
and stick over the last layer of bread-crumbs 
a few bits of butter, and brown them in a 
Dutch oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (2) Take 
off the beards, stew them in their liquor 
strained, widi a little mace, white pepper, 
and salt. Fry in a stewpan, with a bit of 
butter, some grated bread-crumlxs, till of a 
nice brown; put them alternately with the 
oysters into a dish. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (3) A 
good way to warm up any cold fish. Stew 
the oysters slowly in their own licjuor for two 
or three minutes, take them out with a spoon, 
beard them, and skim the lifiuor, put a bit 
of butter into a stewpan ; when it is melted, 
add as much fine bread-crumbs as will dry 
it up, dien put to it the oyster liquor, and 
give it a boil up, [)ut llie oysters into scal- 
lop-sliellri ihat you have buttered, and strew- 
ed with bread-crumbs, then a layer of oys- 
ters, then of bread-crumbs, and then some 
more oysters; moisten it with die oyster li- 



quor, cover them with bread-crumbs, pal 
about half a dozen little bits of butter on the 
top of each, and brown them in a Dutch ov- 
en. Essence of anchov}', ketchup, cavtxine, 
grated lemon-peel, mace, and other spices, 
&c. are added by those who prefer pitjuance 
to the genuine flavor of the oyster. 

Cold fish may be re-dressed the same way 
N. B. Small scallop-shells, or saucers diat 
hold about half a dozen oysters, are the most 
conven ient. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (1) Stew with 
a quart of oysters, aiid their licjuor strained, 
a glass of white wine, one anchovy bruised, 
seasoned with white pepper, salt, a little 
mace, and a bunch of sweet heibs; let all 
stew gently a quarter of" an hour. Pick out 
the bunch of herbs, and add a quarter of a 
pound of fiesli butter kneaded in a large t* 
ble-spoonful of flour, and stew them ten or 
twelve minutes. Serve them garnished with 
bread-sippets and cut lemon. They may be 
stewed simply in their own licjuor, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and 
thickened with cream, flour, and butter. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (2) Open the 
oysters and strain the liquor. Put tu them 
some grated stale bread, and a little pepj)er 
and nutmeg. Throw them into the rupior, 
and add a glass of white wine. Let them 
stew but a very short time, or they will be 
hard. Have ready some slices of buttered 
toast wiUi the crust off. When the oysters 
are done, dip the toast in the liijuor, and 
lay the pieces round the sides and in the 
button! of a deep dish. Pour die 0}sters and 
liquor upon the toast and send them to ta- 
ble hot. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (3) Large oys- 
iers will do for stewing, and by some are [Me- 
ferred. Stew a couple of dozen of these in 
their own licjuor; when they are coming to a 
boil, skim well, lake them v\p and beard th.em ; 
strain die licjuor throiigh a tamis-sicve, and 
lay the oysters on a dish. Put an ounce of 
butter into a stewjian ; when it is melted, 
put to it as much flour as will dry it up, die 
licjuor of the oysters, and three table-sjioon- 
fuls of milk or cream, and a little white Jiej)- 
per and salt; to this some cooks add a little 
ketchup, or finely-chopped parsley, grated 
lemon-jieel, and juice; let it boil up for a 
coujile of minutes, till it is smoodi, then take 
it ofitlie fire, put in die oysters, and let tliem 
get warm (they must not themselves be boil- 
ed, or they will become hard) ; line the bot- 
tom and sides of a hash-dish with bread- 
sippets, and pour your oysters and sauce 
into it. 



PAN 



132 



PAN 



P. 



PALATES AND SWEETBREADS. 

Boil the palates till the l)lai;k skin can be 
Easily peeled off; parboil the sweetbreads 
with dieni ; skin and cr.t the palates into 
pieces, and if the sweetbreads are large, cut 
them in two the long way ; dust them with 
flour, and fry them of a light brown, in but- 
ter; then stew them in rather more than a 
pint of tlie liquor in which they were boiled. 
Brown a piece of butter with flour ; add 
it, with a little cayenne, salt, popper, grated 
lemon-peel, and nutmeg, and a glass of white 
wine. A little before serving, stir in a 
spoonful of vinegar, or the stjueeze of a lem- 
on. 

PANADA. (1) Boil some pieces of stale j 
bread in a sufficient quantity of cold water ' 
to cover them, with a little cinnamon, lemon- 
peel, and caraways; when the bread is (juite. 
soft, press out all the water, and beat up the 
bread with a small piece of butter, a little 
milk, and sugar to the taste; a little spu',e 

may be added. I 

I 

PANADA. (2) Set a little water on , 
the fire with a glass of white wine, some su- ' 
gar, a very little nutmeg, and lemon-peel; 
meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread: die 
moment the water boils up, put in die bread- 
crumlys (without taking it otit' the fire), and 
let it boil as fast as it can. When of a 
proper consistence, that is, when just of a 
sufficient thickness to drink, take it oft the 
fire. 

PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. Break 
three eggs in a liasin ; beat them up with a 
little nutmeg and salt; then put to them four 
ounces and a half of flour, and a little milk; 
beat it of a sinoodi batter ; then add by de- 
grees as much milk as will make it of the 
thickness of good cream: the frying-pan must 
be about the size of a pudding plate, and 
\ery clean, or they will stick; make it hot, 
and to each |)ancake put in a bit of butter 
about as big as a walnut: when it is melted, 
pour in the batter to cover the bottom of tlse 
pan ; make them the thickness of half a 
crown; fry them of a ligiit bnjwn on both 
sides. The abdve will do for apple fritters, 
by adding one spoonful more of flour ; peel 
your apples, and cut them in thick slices; 
take out the core, dip them in the batter, 
and fry them in hot lard ; put them on a 
sieve to drain ; dish them neatly, and grate 
some loaf-sugar over tliem. 



PANCAKES IN APPLES. Cut some 
apples very small, stew them with a little 
white wine, grated lemon-peel, pounded cin- 
namon, and brown sugar; mash them, and 
spread it over pancakes; roll them up, ana 
serve with sifted loaf-suijar over tliem. 

PANCAKES COMiMON. With neai. 
ly half a pound of flour, mix five well-beaten 
eggs, and then add, by degrees, a quart o' 
good miik; fry them in fresh lard, and 
serve them with pounded loaf-sugar strewed 
between each. 

PANCAKES FINE. To three table- 
spoonfuls of flour add six well-beaten eggs, 
three table-spoonfuls of while wine, tour 
ounces of melted butter nearly cold, the same 
quantity of pounded loaf-sugar, half a grated 
nutmeg, and a pint of cream ; mix it well, 
beating the batter for sometime, and pour 
it thm over the pan. 

PANCAKE, RICE. Add to three well- 
beaten eggs a pint of new milk, three table- 
spfjonfuls of boiled rice, some sugar, and a 
little pounded cinnamon; mix it all well to- 
gether, and fry it in butter; brown the up- 
per side for a minute before the fire; serve 
it, cut into four, with pounded sugar strewed 
over it. 

PANCAKE RISSOLES. Mince fine- 
ly some cold veal, season it w ith grated lem- 
on-j)ee!, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little 
lemon pickle; v\arm it up a\ ith some good 
gravy, and a small bit of butter rolled in 
flour. Have ready a batter as for pancakes, 
seasoned v\ ith a little salt and grated nutmeg. 
Fry a thin pancake, turn it, and put into 
the middle two table-spoon fills of the minced 
veal; fold it in at each side and at the ends 
in an oblong form, and fry them of a light 
brown color ; lay them ujion the back of a 
sieve to drain before the fire. Four or six 
will make a dish. They are served as a 
corner or top dish. 

PANCAKES, SCOTCH. Mix with 
six table-spoonfuls cf flour a little cream, add 
the beaten yolks of six eggs, and then mix in 
a pint of cream, the grated peel of a small 
lemon, a table-spoonful of pounded sugar, 
and a little ratafia; when the batter is very 
well beaten, and just before using, mix in 
the whites of the eggs beaten with a knife, 
to a stiff frodi. Put a little butter or lard 
into the frying-pan, make it hot, pour it out, 
and wipe the pan with a clean cloth; put in 
some butter or lard, and when hot, pour in a 
tea-cupful of the batter; shake it, and when 
firm, prick it a little with a fork, but do not 
turn it; hold it before the fire a minute to 



PAR 



133 



PAR 



brown. Serve them with pounded loaf-su- 
gar strewed over them. 

PANCAKE, THICK. Beat separate- 
ly the yolks and whites of two eggs; mix 
with tlie yolks a table-spoonful and a half of 
flour, a little sugar and white wine, half a 
pint of cream or good milk ; add the whites, 
and fry it in a broad saucepan, with butter 
or clarified suet; brown the upper side be- 
fore the fire; warm any sort of preserve, 
spread it upon one half, and turn the odier 
over it, and strew upon it pounded loaf su- 
gar. 

PANNEQUETS. Put into a pan, two 
ounces of sifted flour, four of powder-sugar, 
the same of bitter macaroons, and a spoon- 
ful of dried orange-flowers; break up all 
these articles, and mix with them tiie yolks 
often eggs, four large glasses of doul)le cream, 
and a pinch of salt. Wash the bottom of a 
frying-pan lightly with some warm clarified 
butter, then put in it a spoonful of the above 
preparation, spread it over the pan, to make 
the paste as thin as' possible; when the pan- 
nequet becomes ligluly colored, turn it over 
carefully, and do the other side; then put it 
on a tin plate, spread a little apricot marma- 
lade over, and having strewed ciuslied maca- 
roons on that, roll up the pannequet till about 
an inch in diameter; in the meantime put a 
secontl spoonful of your preparation into the 
pan, and proceed in the above manner, gar- 
nishing one pannequet whilst another is 
cooking; taking care, however, to set the 
pan over a gentle fire. When all are done, 
cut the pannequets three inches in length, 
glaze, and dish them. 

PARSLEY. To preserve parsley through 
the winter: — in May, June, or July, take 
fine fresh-gatheied sprigs; pick, and wash 
ihsm clean ; set on a stewpan half full of wa- 
ter; put a little salt in it; boil, and skim it 
clean, and then put in the parslev, and let it 
boil for a couple of minutes ; take it out, and 
lay it on a sieve belbie the fire, that it may 
be dried as quick as possible; put it by in a 
tin box, and keep it in a dry place: when 
you want it, lay it in a basin, and cover it 
with warm water a few myiutes before you 
ase it. 

PARSLEY BUTTER. Wash some 
paisley very clean, and pick it carefully leaf 
by leaf; put a tea-spoonful of salt into half 
a pint of boiling water: boil the parsley 
about ten minutes; drain it on a sieve; 
mince it quite iine, and then bruise it to a 
pulp. Tile delicacy and excellence of this 
elegant and innocent relish depends upon the 
parsley being minced very fine: put it into a 
tauce-boat, and mix with it, by degrees, 
12 



about half a pint of good melted butter, only 
do not put so much Hour to it, as the para- 
ley will add to its thickness: never pour 
parsley and butter over boiled things, but 
send it up in a boat. 

PARSLEY, CRISP. Pick and wash 
young parsley, shake it in a di-y cloth to 
drain the water from it ; spread it on a sheet 
of clean paper in a Dutch oven before the 
fire, and turn it fiequently until it is quite 
crisp. This is a much more easy way of 
preparing it than frying it, which is not sel- 
dom ill done. 

PARSNIPS, TO BOIL. Scrape and 
wash them nicely ; when large, divide them ; 
boil them in milk and water till quite tender; 
they will take nearly as long to boil as car- 
rots. They may also he mashed like tur- 
nips. 

PARTRIDGES, TO CHOOSE. When 

they are young the bill is of a dark color, 
and their legs are of a yellowish color; and 
when fresh, the vent is firm, but this part 
will look greenish when stale. The plumage 
on the breast of the hen is light, that on the 
cock is tinged with red. 

PARTRIDGES BROILED. Take 
five partridges, cut them in halves, trim and 
dip them in melted butter, and bread them 
twice ; a quarter of an hour before dinner 
broil them. 

PARTRIDGES MINCED. Take the 
fillets from eight roasted partridges, mince, 
and put them into a saucepan ; make a light 
roux, in which put the livers and lights of 
the birds, a bay-leaf, a clove, three shallots, 
and a little sage, give them a few turns, and 
then add two large glasses of stock, reduce 
the sauce to half, strain and put it to the 
mince, stirring till it is thick and smooth; 
make it hot, but not boiling; serve it over 
fried bread, and garnish your dish, with 
either poached or hard eggs. 

PARTRIDGE IN BREAD. Take a 
nice shaped loaf, of about a pound weight ; 
make a hole at one end, through which lake 
out all the crumbs, rub the crust over with 3 
little butter or lard, and set it in the oven for 
a tew minutes to diy: fill this with minced 
partridge (see that article), and put the loaf, 
bottom upwards, into a stewpan; add two 
spoonfuls of veal blond, widi any other gar- 
nish you please ; let ii remain on the fite till 
the bread is soft enough to allow a straw to 
penetrate it, then take it out and dish it with 
the sauce round. 

PARTRIDGE PIE IN A DISH. Take 



FAR 



134 



PAS 



four partridges, pick and singe them; cut 
off thviir legs at the knee; season with pep- 
per, salt, cliopped parsley, thyme, and mush- 
rooms. Put a veal steak and a slice of ham 
at the bottom of the dish ; put in the par- 
tridges with half a ])int of good consomme. 
Line the edges of the dish with puff paste, 
and cover with the same; do it over with 
egg, and let it bake for an hour. 

PARTRIDGE TO ROAST. Take 
out the entrails, and singe the partridge over 
the stove, then roll a bit of butter in pepper 
and salt, and put it into the inside of the 
bird; truss it neatly with the head turned on 
one side, keeping the breast as full as possi- 
ble; over which should be laid slices of fat 
bacon tied on with pack-thread ; before it is 
put on the spit, break the back-bone, that it 
may lay the better on the dish. A good 
sized partridge will take half an hour; when 
nearly done, take away the bacon, brown 
the partridge well ; sprinkle it with flour and 
salt, and frotii it with butter; seive it with 
water-cresses, a good gravy under it, and 
bread sauce in a boat. 

PARTRIDGE TO TRUSS. Let il be 
well picked and singed, then cut a slit in 
the back of the neck, and carefullv take the 
crop out without breaking it; then cut oft 
tlie vent, and draw out the inside; after this, 
well WNpe the inside, and dien put in a little 
pepper and salt, mixed with a bit of butter. 
Having cleansed it, proceed to truss the 
bird, by first cutting oft the pinion at tlie first 
joint, so that the feathers need not be picked 
oft" that part ; break the back-bone, and truss 
it in tlie same manner as #fowl, by pressing 
the legs close to the apron, then turn the bird 
on the breast, and run a skewer through the 
end of the pinion, the leg, the body, and the 
leg and |)inion on the other side, with the 
head fixed on the end of the skewer, and 
over the breast lay a slice of fat bacon, and 
tie it on with pack-thread. If for boiling or 
stewing, truss them the same as a fowl for 
boiling. 

PARTRIDGES TO STEW. Truss 
the partridges as fowls are done for boiling; 
[louud die livers with double the quantity of 
fat bacon and bread-crumbs boiled in milk; 
and some chopped parsley, thyme, shallots, 
and mushrooms; season widi pepper, salt, 
grated lemon-peel, and mace. Stuff" the in- 
side of the birds, tie them at both ends, and 
put them into a stewpan lined with slices of 
bacon ; add a quart of good stock, half a pint 
of white wine, two onions, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a few blades of mace ; let them 
stew gently till tender; take them out, strain 
and thicken the sauce wiUi flour and butter, 
make it hot, and pour it over the partx'idges. 



PASTE. Be very particular that your 
slab or paste table, rolling-pin and cutters 
are clean, and free from all old paste, and be 
very careful that both the flour and buttei 
are extremely good. Have a dry sie\e al 
ways in readiness, in or by the flour tub, 
so as to use none without sifting it; for. 
though it may appear pure and fine, bran, or 
small particles of old paste may have fallen 
into it; sifting is, thei-efore, always neces- 
saiy. Weigh one pound of flour, lay it in a 
circle on the slab: break one egg in the cen- 
tre, put 5 small quantity of salt, and a little 
bit of butter; mix all these together lightly, 
add a little water, mix them again, then add 
more water, and so proceed imtil it binds 
into paste; but take care that you do not 
make it too stiff', nor squeeze it much to- 
gether, till you find there is sufficient water; 
then W'ork it well together, and roll it out on 
the slab, but do not roil it too thin; work a 
pound of butter on the slab, spread it out to 
the size of the paste, with a knife cut it oft' 
altogether, and lay it on the paste; then 
double the ends of the paste together, to in- 
close die butter; then give it one turn, thus: 
roll it out till you just perceive the Ijutter 
through the paste; turn the end which is 
next to you half way over, and the other end 
over that, roll it once oi- twice with the roll- 
ing-pin; then let it stand, this is called one 
turn; then, in three minutes time, turn it 
again, and so proceed until you have given 
it six turns; then roll it out, and cut it for 
patties or any shape you please; but observe 
not to put over diem too much egg, as that 
will pre\ent their rising; as soon as they 
are l)aked, take them (jff' the sheet, lay them 
on paper, and when cold, scrape the bottoms, 
neatly cut out the insides ready for what- 
ever you mean to put into them. For bak- 
ing, see directions for the oven. 

PASTE, BEEF DRIPPING. Rub 

into one pound of flour half a [xiund of 
clarified beef dripping, till it all looks like 
flour; work it to a stiff paste with cold wa- 
ter, and roll it out two or three times. Tiiis 
paste answers very well fur common pies, but 
must be used when hot and fresh baked. 

PASTE FOR BOILED PUDDIi\(^S. 

Pick and chop very fine half a pound of beef 
suet, add to it one pound and a quartei- of 
flour, and a little salt: mix it with half a 
pint of milk or water, and beat it well witii 
the rolling-pin, to incorporate the suet with 
the flour. 

PASTE FOR CHEESECAKES. Rub 

equal quantities of flour and butter, together 
widi a little pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
make it into a paste, with warm milk, roll 
it out, and line tha pans with it. 



PAS 



135 



FAS 



PASTE, CRISP. Rub a quarter of a 
pound of flour, ado two table-spoonfuls of 
pounded loaf-sugar, and the well-beaten yolks 
of two or three egg^, work it well with a 
horn-s|ioon, and roll it out very thin, touch- 
ing it as little as possible with the hands; 
the moment bef)re putting into a (juickoven 
ruo It over with the well-beaten white of an 
egs. and sift all over the tart finely-fwuuded 
sugar. This crust may be used for any fruit 
tarts. 

PASTE FOR CROQUANTS OR 
Cut Pastry. To half a pound of fine 
flour jjut a (|uarter of a pound of sifted loaf- 
sugar ; mix it welt together with yolks of 
eggs till of a good stiffness. 

DO O 

PASTE FOR A COMMON DUM- 
PLING. Rnb into a pound of flour six 
ounces of butter, then work it into a paste 
with two well-beaten e^crs and a little water. 
This paste may be baked, a large table-spoon- 
ful of ))ounded loaf-sugar being added to it. 

PASTE FOR FAMILY PIES. Rub 

into one pound and a half of flour half a 
pound of butter, wet it with cold water sufli- 
cient to make it into a stiff paste; work it 
well, and roll it out two or three times. 

PASTE, POTATO. Mash sixteen oun- 
ces of boiled potatoes, while they are warm, 
then rub them between the hands, together 
with twelve ounces of flour; when it ig well 
mixed, and all looks like flour, add half a 
tea-spoonful of salt, and, with a little cold 
water, make it into a stiff paste; beat and 
roll it out three or four times, nraking it very 
thin the last time. Lay it over black cur- 
rant jam, raspberries, or any sort of preserve, 
ru!) the edges Avidi water, roll it up like a 
bolster pudding, and boil it in a buttered 
and floured cloth for three or f>ur hours. 
Serve it with a sweet sauce. 

PASTE, PUFF. Weigh an equal quan- 
tity of floiu" and butter, rub rather more than 
tlie half of the flour into one third of the 
butter, dien add as much cold water as will 
make it into a stiff paste; work it until the 
butter be completely mixed with the flour, 
make it round, beat it widi the rolling-pin, 
dust it, as also the rolling-pin, with flour, and 
roll it out towards the opposite side of the 
slab, or paste-board, making it of an equal 
thickness; then with the point of a knife put 
little bits of butter all over it, dust flour over 
and under it, told in the sides and roll it up, 
dust it again with flour, beat it a little, and 
roll it out, always rubbing die rolling-pMU 
wilii flour, and throwing some underneath the 
paste, to pievent its sticking to the boaid. 
K the butter is not ail easily put in at the 



second time of rolling out the paste, the 
remainder maybe put in at the third; it 
should be touched as little as possible with 
the hands. 

PASTE, PYRAMID. Make a rich 
puft' paste, roll it out a ([uarter of an inch 
thick, and cut it into five or seven pieces 
with scalloped tin paste cutters, which go 
one within another; leave the bottom and 
top ])iece entire, and cut a bit out of the 
centre of the others; bake them of a light 
brown upon buttered paper placed upon tins. 
When served, build them into a pyramid, 
laying a different preserved fruit up<n) each 
piece of paste, and on the top a wlu)le apri- 
cot, with a sprig of myrtle stuck into it, or 
green-gages, ornamented with a bunch of 
barberries. 

PASTE FOR MEAT OR SAVORY 
PIES. Sift two pounds of fine flour to one 
and a half of good salt butter, break it into 
small pieces, and wash it well in cold wa- 
ter; rub gently together the butter and flour, 
and mix it up with the yolk of three eggs, 
beat together with a spoon ; and nearly a 
pint of spring-water ; roll it out, and double 
it in folds three times, and it is ready. 

PASTE FOR RAISED PIES. Take 
foiu- pounds of flour, one pound of butter, 
and a little salt, mix these together, adding 
water, a little at a time, taking care not to 
put too much, as this paste must h^ made as 
stiff' as possible; when thoroughly mixed, 
give it two or three turns, roll it and cut it 
out to the shape^ou want for your pie. 
Sometimes the butter is melted in warm wa- 
ter, and so mixed with the flour; then it 
will not require so nuich watt?r, and the 
paste will stand better; but as you «oik 
your paste, when you find it get too cold, 
warm it a little; the first method of doing 
it is the best, if intended to be ealeti. 

PASTE, RICE. (1) Mix together half 
a pound of sifted ground nvo and a quarter 
of a pound of fresh butter, work it into a 
paste with cold water, dredge flour over the 
paste-board and rolling-pin, roll out the 
[)aste, and put over it, in little bits, aiiother 
cjuarter of a pound of butler ; fold and roll it 
out three times, strewing each time a little 
flour over and under it, as also over the 
rolling-pin. Cover die tart, and glaze it be- 
fore being baked. This paste must be eaten 
the day it is baked. 

PASTE, RICE. (2) Boil, in a pint of 
water, half a pound of good rice ; drain off the 
water, and pound the rice in a mortar, with 
a small bit of butter, and an egg beaten j 
then roll it out to cover any fruit tart 



PEA 



136 



PEA 



PASTE, RICH SHORT. Weigh 
equal (|uantities of flour, of butter, and of 
pounded and sifted loaf-sugar; rub the but- 
ter witli tlie flour, then mix in the sugar, 
and rub it togetiier till it will roll out; put 
it about half an inch thick over the tart, 
which may be of cherries, raspberries, or 
currants. 

PASTE, SHORT, FOR TARTS. 

Take one pound of flour, lay it on the slab, 
and in the centre put half a pou\id of butter, 
two eggs, a very little salt, and a little wa- 
ter, mix them lightly together, and continue 
adding more water, till you find it bind ; mix 
it on the slab a little, and give it two turns, 
it is then ready for use. 

PASTE, SUET. Rub well with half a 
pound of fiesh beef suet, chopped as finely as 
possible, dnee-quarters of a pound of flour, 
and half a tea-spoonful of salt; make it into 
a stiff paste with cold water, work it well, 
beat it with the rolling-pin, and roll it out 
two or three times. I'his paste answers for 
any kind of boiled fruit pudding. 

PASTE, SWEET. Rub into half a 
pound of flour three ounces of butter and the 
same of pounded loaf-sugar, add one beaten 
egg, and as much warm water as will make 
it into a paste; roll it Uiin for any kind of 
fruit tart, rub it over with the beaten white 
of an egg, and sift sugar over it. 

PASTE FOR STRirsGING TART- 
LETS. Mix with your hands a quarter 
of a pound of flour, an ounce of fresh butter, 
and a little cold water; "#lib it well between 
the board and your hand till it begins to 
string; cut it into small pieces, roll it out, 
and draw it into fine strings, lay them across 
your tartlets in any device you please, and 
bake them immediately. 

PATTIES FOR FRIED BREAD. Cut 

the crumb of a loaf of bread into stiuare or 
round pieces nearly three inches high, and 
cut bits the same width for tops ; mark them 
neally with a knife; fiy the bread of a light 
brown color in clarified beef-dripping or fine 
lard. Scoop out the inside crumb, take 
care not to go too near to the bottom ; fill 
them with mince meat, prepared as for pat- 
ties, with stewed oystei's, or widi sausage 
meat ; put on the tops, and serve them upon 
a na})kin. 

PATTIES, LOBSTER. See Lobsters. 

PEACHES, CHARLOTTE OF. Take 
twenty tolerably ripe jieaches, cut them in 
halves, and scald them in a light siru|); then 
drain and cut eiich half into (iiree pieces 



(lengthwise) of equal thickness ; put these 
into a pan with a quarter of a pound of pow- 
der-sugar, and half the quantity of warm 
butter ; fry them lightly, and having prepar- 
ed your Charlotte in the usual way, pour in 
the peaches and finish it (see Charlotte). 
When in the dish for table, cover it com- 
pletely with the sirup, and serve immedi- 
ately. 

PEARS BAKED. (1) Take twelve large 
baking pears ; pare and cut them into halves, 
leaving the stem about half an inch long; 
take out the core with the point of a knife, 
and place them close together in a block-tin 
saucejmn, the inside of which is quite bright, 
with the cover to fit quite close; put to them 
the rind of a lemon cut thin, with half its 
juice, a small stick of cinnamon, and twenty 
grains of allspice; cover them with spring- 
water, and allow one pound of loaf-sugar to 
a pint and a half of water: cover them up 
close, and bake them for six hours in a verj 
slow oven : they will be quite tender, and of a 
bright color. Obs. — Prepared cochineal is 
generally used for coloring the pears; but 
if the above is strictly attended to, it will be 
found to answer best. 

PEARS BAKED. (2) Take half a 
dozen fine pears, peel, cut them in halves, 
and take out the cores; put tliem into a pan 
with a little red wine, a few cloves, half a 
pound of sugar, and some water. Set them 
in a moderate oven till tender, then put them 
on a slow fire to stew gently; add grated 
lemon-peel, and more sugar if necessary. 
They will be sufBcieutly red. 

PEARS COMPOTE. Choose your 
fruit carefully, take oflT the tops, and trim 
the tails, wash and drain them well; then 
put them into a skillet with sugar, cinna- 
mon, two or three cloves, a little red wine, 
and some water. Set them on a slow fire, 
taking care to skin them. When sufficiently 
done, they will look wrinkled. Peel your 
fruit, and put it into a well glazed pipkin, 
with a glass of wine, a little cinnamon, 
sugar to the taste, and a little water ; put in 
also a pewter spoon; cover the pipkin close, 
and set it on hot ashes. When done, the 
pears will be of a fine red color. 

PEARS TO COMPOUND. T;ike a 
diizen large pears, coddle them; when ten- 
dei', take them out and lay them in cold wa- 
ter, pare and cut them in halves; take out 
the cores, put them in sirup made thus: — 
Two pounds and a half of sugar to three 
pints (if water, a little lemon-peei paicd very 
thin, boiled in them, and a little cofiliineai 
bruised aftd put into a muslin bag: covet 
them, lx)il tliem quick till they are tender 



PEA 



137 



PEP 



and of a good color; when cold, squeeze in 
the juice of two or three lemons. 

PEARS PRESERVED. Take care 
in making thi? preserve that the fruit be not 
too ripe; tliey are in a fit state as soon as 
the pips are bla('k. Set llie pears on the 
fire in a sufficient {|uantity of water to cover 
them; take them oft" when (juite soft, and 
throw them into cold water; pare them 
light!}', cut off the stalks, prick each with a 
pin sufficiently long to reach the core, and 
put them again into cold water, with a 
handful of alum; set them on the fire to boil 
until the | ears are tender, then take them out, 
and put them into cold water for the third 
time. Clarify and boil some sugar, put some 
water to it, and when it boils, add the pears, 
cover the pan, and give the whole a boil; 
skim and jiour it into an earthen pan and 
leave it. The next day, drain the sirup 
from the pears, add a little more clarified 
sugar to it, and boil it again ; pour it over 
the fruit, and leave it as before; the next 
and two successive days, proceed in the same 
way, each time increasing the degree of 
boiling, then add the pears, give the pre- 
serve a boil (covered), i-kini and pour it into 
a pan, and place it in a stove for two days, 
then drain the fruit, and put it by for use. 

PEARS STEWED. (1) Wash and prick 
some large stewing pears, and set them on 
the fire in a large stewing-i)an of water to 
scald ; when scalded, take them out, and 
put them on the fire iu a pan with a sufficient 
quantity of thin clarified sugar to cover them, 
a stick of cinnamon, a little mace, and two 
or three cloves; let them stew gently till 
they begin to soften and look lather red, 
then put in a bottle of Port wine, and let 
diem continue stewing until perfectly done, 
and look very rich and red ; then put them 
in a basin or jar, with the licjuoi' over them; 
they will be all the better for keeping four or 
five days. 

PEARS STEWED. (2) Pare, cut into 
quarters, and take out the core of six good 
baking pears; throw them as they are done j 
into water. To a pound of fruit allow a 
quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and three 
cloves; put them into a saucepan, cover 
tliem with cold water, keej) the j)an closely 
covered, and stew them gently, till red and 
tender; add, just before serving, a glass of 
Port wine. They may be eaten hot or cold, 
with cream, after dinner or at supper. 

PEAS, GREEN. Young green peas, 

well dressed, are among the most delicumis 

delicacies of the vegetable kingdom. They 

mast be young; it is etjually hidispensable 

12* 



that they be fresh gathered, and cooked as 
soon as they are shelled for they soon lose 
both their color and sweetness. After l.>eing 
shelled, wash diem, drain them in a cullen- 
der, put them on in plenty of boiling water, 
widi a tea-spoonful (jf salt, and one ol" pound- 
ed loaf sugar; boil them till they become 
tender, which, if young, will l)e in less than 
half an hour; if old, they will require more 
than an hour; drain tliem in a cullender, 
and put them immediately into a dish with 
a slice of fresh butter in it; some people 
think it an improvement to boil a small bunch 
of mint with the peas; it is then minced 
finely, and laid in small heaps at die end or 
sides of the dish. If peas are allowed to 
stand in the water after being boiled they 
lose tlieir color. 

PEAS FOR A SECOND COURSE. 

Put a quart of fine green peas, together with 
a bit of butter the size of a walnut, into as 
much warm water as will cover them, m 
which let them stand for eight or ten min- 
utes. Strain off the water, put them into a 
saucepan, cover it, stir them frequently, and 
when a little tender, add a bunch of parsley, 
and a young onion, nearly a dessert-spoonlnl 
of loaf-sugai', and an ounce of butter mixed 
with a tea-spoonful of flour; keep stirring 
them now and then till the peas be tender, 
and add, if thfey become too thick, a table- 
spoonful of hot water. Before serving, take 
out the onion and parsley. 

PEAS PUDDING. Take a pint of 
good split peas, and having washed, soak 
them well in warm water; then tie tliem in 
a clolh, put the pudding into a saucepan of 
hot water, and boil it until quite soft. When 
done, beat it up will) a little butter and salt; 
serve it with boiled pork or beef. 

PEAS POWDER. Pound together 
in a marble mortar lialf an (junce each of 
dried mint and sage, a drachm <>( celery- 
seed, and a quarter of a drachm of cayenne 
pepper; rub them through a fine sieve. This 
gives a very savorv relisii to peas souj), and 
to water gruel, which, by its lu'lj;, if the 
eater of it lias not the most lively imagina- 
tion, he may fancy he is sipping good peas 
soup. Obs. — A drachm of allspice, or black 
])epper, may be pounded with the abo\e as 
an addition, or instead of the cayenne. 

PEPPER POT. Take as much spinach 
as will fill a good sized dish, put it in a 
saucepan without any water, set it on the 
fire, and let it boil; then drain off all the li- 
([uor, cho]) the spinach very fine, and return 
it to the saucepan, with the water just drain- 
ed from it, more water, onions, three or foiu" 



PER 



138 



PIC 



potatoes, a lettuce or head of endive cut 
small, the bones of any cold roast meat, if 
you iiave them, and half a pound of bacon ; 
put the whole on (he fire, and when it has 
boiled fjr about an hour, put in a few suet 
dumplings; leave it twenty or thirty min- 
utes longer ; season it well witli cayenne, and 
serve. 

PEPPER POT IN A TUREEN. Stew 
gently in four quarts of water, till reduced to 
three, three pounds of beef, half a pound of 
lean ham, a bunch of dried thyme, two on- 
ions, two large potatoes pared and sliced ; 
then strain it through a cullender, and add 
a large fowl, cut into joints and skinned, 
half a pound of pickled pork sliced, the 
meat of one lobster minced, and some small 
suet dumplings, the size of a walnut. When 
the fowl is well boiled, add half a peck of 
spinach, that has been boiled and rubbed 
througii a cullender; season with salt and 
cayenne. It is very good without the lean 
ham and fowl. 

PERCH BOILED. Put them into cold 
water, and let them boil carefully; serve with 
melted butter and soy. 

PERCH BROILED. Scrape, gut, and 
wash them ; dry them in a cloth, dust them 
with flour, and broil them. Sauce; — melted 
butter. Or they may be broiled without 
gutting them. They may also be stewed as 
carp are done. 

PERCH WITH WINE. Having scal- 
ed and taken out the gills, put the perch into 
a stewpan, with ecjual cjuantities of stock 
and white wine, a bay-leaf, a clove of gar- 
lic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two 
cloves, and some salt. When done, take 
out the fish, strain off the liquor, the dregs 
of which mix with some butter and a little 
flour; beat these up, set them on the fire, 
stirring till quite done, adding pepper, grated 
nutmeg, and a ball of anchovy butter. Drain 
the perch well, and dish them with the above 
sauce. 

PERLINGO. Take a pound and a half 
of sifted flour, and having placed it on your 
slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into 
which put three-quarters of a pound of brown 
sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, the rind 
of two lemons grated, and ten eggs; knead 
all these ingredients together well, until you 
have a pretty firm paste ; if it should be too 
thin, add a handful more flour. Then cut 
the paste into small pieces, each of which 
roll in the palms of your hands, till they are 
the length and thickness of your finger ; take 
a round stick (about half tiie diameter of your 



paste), press this down on each of the 
pieces, so that they may be their original 
thickness on one side, and thin on the other; 
when all are thus piessed, form them into 
little crowns (the fiat side inwards, and the 
thin end uppermost), lay them on white pa- 
per, and bake them in a moderate oven ; in 
the meanwhile, make some white sugar var- 
nish or icing, and when the perliiigos are 
sufiliciently done, dip them carefiilly in (he 
varnish, one by one; then replace them in 
the oven, a minute or two, to dry. 

PERRY. Perry is a pleasant and whole- 
some li(|uor, made from the juice of pears, 
by means of fermentation, somewhat in the 
same manner as cider is made from apples. 

PETTITOES. Boil the feet, the liver, 
and the heart, of a sucking p,ig, in a little 
water, very gently, then split tlie feet, and 
cut the meat very small, and simmer it with 
a little of the water till the feet are perfectly 
tender; thicken with a bit of butter, a little 
flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little pepper 
and salt ; give it a boil up, pour it over a few 
sijjpets of bread, put the feet on the mince. 

PICKLE FOR MEAT. Six pounds 
of salt, one pound of sugar, and four ounces 
of saltpetre, boiled with ihw gallons of water, 
skimmed, and allowed to cool, forms a very 
strong pickle, which will preserve any meat 
completely immersed in it. To effect this, 
which is essential, either a heavy board or a 
flat stone must be laid upon the meat. The 
same pickle may be used repeatedly, provided 
it be boiled up occasionally witii additional 
salt to restore its strength, diminished by the 
combinati(jn of part of the salt with the 
meat, and by the dilution of the pickle by 
the juices of the meat extracted. By boiling, 
the albumen, which would cause the pickle 
to spoil, is coagulated, and rises in the form 
of scum, which must be carefully removed. 

An H-bone, of ten or twelve pounds, 
weight will require about three-quarters of a 
pound of salt, and an ounce of moist sugar, 
to be well rubbed into it. It will be ready 
in four or five days, if turned and rubbed 
every day. 

The time meat requires salting depends 
upon the weight of it, and how much salt is 
used: and if it be rubbed in with a heavy 
hand, it will be ready much sooner than if 
only lightly rubbed. 

N. B. Dry the salt, and rub it with the 
sugar in a mortar. 

Pork requires a longer time to cure (in 
proportion to its weight) than beef. A leg 
of pork should be in salt eight or ten days; 
turn it and rub it every day. 

Salt meat should be well washed before it 



PIE 



139 



PIE 



js boiled, especially if it has been in salt 
lon^, that the liquor in which the meat is 
boiled, may not lie too salt to make soup of. 
If it lias been in salt a long time, and you 
fear lliat it will be too salt, wash it well in 
cold water, and soak it in luke-warm water 
for a couple of hours. If it is very salt, 
lay it in water the night before you intend to 
dress it. 

PICKLE FOR TONGUES. To four 
gallons of water, add two pounds and a 
half of treacle, eight pounds of salt, two 
ounces of saltpetre; boil it, and skim it un- 
til clear, sprinkle salt over the tongue, and 
let it stand two days, wipe it clean before 
you put it into the pickle, which must be quite 
cold; boil the pickle, every two or three 
months, adding two or three handfuls of salt, 
skimming it well. Half the quantity is suf- 
ficient ibr two tongues. 

PICKLE FOR BEEF. Allow to four 
gallons of water two pounds of brown sugar 
and six pounds of salt, boil it about twenty 
minutes, taking off the scum as it rises ; the 
following day pour it over the meat which 
has been packed into the pickling-tub. Boil 
it every two months, adding three ounces of 
brown sugar and half a pound of common 
salt. By this means it will keep good a 
yeai". The meal must be sprinkled with 
salt, and the next day wiped dry, before 
pouring the pickle over it, with wliich it 
should always be completely covered. Vv^hh 
the addition of two ounces of saltpeti'e and 
one pound of salt, tiiis pickle answers for 
pickled pork, hams, asid tongues. Tiie 
tongues should be rubbed with common salt, 
to cleanse them, and afterwards with a little 
saltpetre, and allowed lo lie four or five days 
before they are put into the pickle. The 
meat will be ready for use in eight or ten 
days, and will keep for three months. 

PICKLES. Pickles ought to be stored 
in a dry ^ilace and the vessels most approv- 
ed of for keeping them in, are wide-mouth- 
ed glass bottles, or sti'ong stone-ware jars, 
liaving corks or bungs, which must be fitted 
in with linen, and covered with bladder or 
leather; and for. taking the pickles out and 
returning them to the jar, a small wooden 
spoon is kept. The strongest vinegar is 
used for pickling; that of cider more partic- 
ularly recommended, but sugar vinegar will 
generally Ije found sufiiciently strong. It is 
essential to the excellence and beauty of 
pickles, that they be always completely cov- 
ered with vinegar. 

See Hot Pickles, India Pickles, Onions, 
Cucumbers, fyc. ^c, ^ 

PIE, ANGLO-FRANCAIS. Take a 



deep dish, line the edge with puff paste like 
a common pie; stew a quarter of a pound 
of rice with some sugar until quite soft and 
sweet; take a pound of ripe juicy cherries, 
which pick and roll in a quarter of a pound 
of powder-sugar, and lay about a quarter of 
them at the bottom of the dish ; cover these 
with a fourth part of the rice, then the cher- 
ries again, and so on till your materials are 
used, taking care to keep the pie high in the 
middle; cover it with a layer of puff paste, 
which wash over lightly with some white of 
egg, and strew a little powder-sugar over; 
put it in a moderate oven for an hour and a 
quarter; then take it out, mask the crust 
with apricot marmalade, and a few maca- 
roons crushed. Serve it either hot or cold. 

PIE, APPLE. (1) Take eight russe- 
tings, or lemon pippin apples; pare, core, 
and cut not smaller than quarters; place 
them as close as possiI)le together into a pie- 
dish, with four cloves; rub together in a 
mortar some lemon-peel, with four ounces 
of good moist sugar, and, if agreeable, add 
some quince jam ; cover it with puff paste; 
bake it an hour and a quarter. (Generally 
eaten warm). 

PIE, APPLE. (2) Pare, quarter, and 
core the apples; cut them into thin bits. 
Put into the bottom of a pie-dish a table- 
spoonful of brown sugar, with a tea-spoon- 
fu! of grated ginger and lemon-peel, then 
j a layer of apples, and so on alternatelj', 
I till the dish is piled as full as it will hold. 
I The next day wet the rim of the dish, line 
I it with puff or tart paste, brush it with wa- 
ter, and cover it Vv'ith paste; press the edge 
all lound, notch it with a paste-cutter, and 
make a small hole with the point of a knife 
I in the middle. It may be seasoned with 
two table-spoonfuls of lemon or orange mar- 
malade, pounded cinnamon, mace, and 
cloves, in addition to the ginger and lemon- 
peel. 

PIE, APPLE WITH MUSCADEL 
RAISINS. Peel twenty renneti ng apples, 
cut them in quarters, and then cut each quar- 
ter into five or six pieces; toss them in a 
pan with four ounces of sugar in powder, 
I (over which should be grated the peel of a 
lemon), four ounces of butter lukewarm, 
and four ounces of fine muscadel plums. 
Line the edge of a deep dish with a good 
puff paste, then put in your fruit, and cover 
your dish with a good })uff paste a quarter 
of an inch in thickness, glaze with the white 
of an egg, and strew sugai- o\er it. Let it 
bake an hour in a moderate oven, and seive 
it hot. 

PIE, APRICOT. Line a dish with pufF 



PIE 



140 



PI E 



paste, and then put in eighteen fine apricots, 
(cut in halves and the stones taken out,) 
with four ounces of sugar in powder, and 
four ounces of butter lukewarm. Tlien lay 
on tlie upper crust, glaze with the white oi" 
eg^, and strew sifted sugar all over. Let it 
bake in a moderate oven to a nice light col- 
or. Serve it hot. When you wish to serve 
it cold, you must leave out the butter. 

PIE, BEEF KIDNEY. Cut some kid- 
nevs into thin slices, and place them in 
the bottom of your pie-dish, then sweet 
herbs chopped, such as parsley, thyme, shal- 
lots, uKisiuoonis, pepper, and salt; con- 
tinue this till tlie dish is full, then cover the 
whole with slices of bacon, then finish your 
pie; bake it in the f)\en; when done, take 
out the bacon, and skim off" the fat; make a 
sauce with a glass of while wine, a tolerable 
quantity of cullis, and reduce it to the con- 
sistence of a good sauce, tiien squeeze an 
orange in it. Serve your pie hot. 

PIE, BEEF-STEAK. Cut the steaks off 
a rump, or any nice piece of beef, fat and 
lean together, about half an incih thick; beat 
them a little with a rolling-pin, put over 
them some pepper, salt, and parboiled oni<5n 
minced; roll lliem uj), and pack them neatly 
into the dish, or lay the beef in slices; add 
some spoonfuls of gravy, and a tea-spoonful 
of vinegar. Cover the pie with a puff paste, 
and bake it for an hour. It is a common 
but mistaken opinion, that it is necessary 
to put stock or water into meat pies. Beef, 
mutton, veal, and pork, if not |)reviously 
dressed, will be found to yield a sufficiency 
of gravy, and the pie will be better without 
any adilitional li(|uid. N. B. — Large oys- 
ters, parboiled, bearded, and laid alternately 
,with the steaks, their liquor reduced and 
substituted instead of the ketchup and wine, 
will be a variety. 

PIE, CHICKEN. Parboil, and then 
cut up neatly two young chickens ; diy them ; 
set them over a slow fire for a few minutes; 
have ready some veal stuffing or forcemeat, 
lay it at the bottom of the dish, and |)lace in 
the chickens u|)on it, and with it some pie- 
ces of dressed liam ; cover it with paste. 
Bake it from an hour and a half to two 
hours ; when sent to table, add some good 
gravy, well seasoned, and not too thick. 
Duck pie is made in like manner, only sub- 
Btituting the duck stuffing instead of the veal. 
N. B. — The abo\e may be jiut into a raised 
French crust und baUetl; when done, take 
off tlie top, and jiul a ragout of s\veel!)read 
o the chicken. 

PIE, COD. Lay a Cme i)iece of fresh 
cod in salt for several hours, then wash it 



well, season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg and 
mace; place it in a dish, with a little but- 
ter and some good stock. Lay a crust over, 
and bake it ; when done, pour in a sauce, 
made as follows: — a spoonful of stock, a 
quarter of a pint of cream, flcau" and butter, 
giate in a little nutmeg and lemon-peel, and 
a few oysters, boil the whole once. 

PIE, COLD BEEF, VEAL, OR MUT- 
TON. Pound in a mortar some boiled po- 
tatoes; boil a cupful of milk, and while hot, 
mix it with the potatoes, and beat them till 
they become like a light paste; roll it out, 
cut it with a fiat dish, the size of a pie dish, 
so as it may be laid from ofl" it upon the 
pie; cut the meat into slices, season it witli 
pepper and salt, put half a pint of gravy, wet 
the edges of the dish, and put over it the 
paste, and bake it till the paste be sufficiently 
done. 

PIE, DEVIZES. Cut into very thin 
slices, after being dressed, cold c^lPs head, 
with some of the brains, pickled tongue, 
sweetbreads, lamb, veal, a few slices of ba- 
con, and hard-boiled eggs; put them in lay- 
ers into a pie-dish, with plenty of seasoning 
between each, of cayenne, white pepjjer, 
allspice, and salt; fill up the dish with rich 
gravy ; cover it with a flour and water paste ; 
bake it in a slow oven, and when perfectly 
cold, lake off' die crust, and turn the pie out 
upon a dish; garnish it with parsley and 
pickled eggs cut into slices. 

PIE, DUCK. Scald a couple of ducks, 
and make them very clean ; cut off the feet, 
j)inions, necks, and heads. Take out the 
gizzards, livers, and hearts; pick all clean, 
and scald them. Pick out die fiit of the in- 
side, lay a good puff-paste crust ail over the 
dish, season the ducks both inside and out, 
with peppfer and salt, and lay tliem in the 
dish, with Uie giblets at each end, properly 
seasoned. Put in as much water as w ill 
nearly fill the pie, lay on the crust, raid let it 
be well baked. 

PIES, EGG MINCE. Boil six eggs 
until diey are hard, shred them small ; slued 
double the quantity of suet; then add one 
pound of currants picked and washed, (if 
the eggs were large you must Ui'c more cur- 
rants) the peel of one lemon shred very fine, 
and the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, 
mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very small quantity 
of salt, orange, lemon, and citron candied. 
Wake a light paste for them. 

PIE, FPvENCII. Mince some cold roast 
veal together with a little ham, season it 
highly with pepper, salt, mace, and lemon- 
peel ; add a large table-spoonful of mush- 



PIE 



141 



PIE 



room ketchup, and a quarter of a hundred 
of oysters, with their licjuor, and three or 
four table-spoonfuls of rich gra\y. Line a 
dish with puff paste, put in the ingredients, 
cover the pie, and let it remain in the oven 
long enough to bake the paste. 

PIE, GIBLET. Stew the giblets in a 
little water, with an onion stuck with two or 
three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, some 
salt, and whole pepper; cut a fuw! into 
joints, skin and wash it, season it with pe[> 
per, salt, and half an onion finely minced. 
Take out the onion, herbs, and whole pep- 
per; put tlie fowl, giblets, and gravy into a 
dish, add a glass of white wine, and two ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of ntushrooui ketchup; cover 
the dish with puff paste, and bake it for ah 
hour. 

PIE, GOOSE. Prepare a very strong 
raised crust, and make tlie sides thick and 
stiff. Take the bones out of a goose, tur- 
key, and fowl, cutting each down the back ; 
season them highly with pepper, salt, mace, 
cloves, and nutmeg, all finely pounded and 
well mixed. Lay the goose upon a dish, 
with the breast skin next the dish; lay in 
the turkey, put some slices of boiled liam 
and tongue, and then the fowl; cover it with 
little bits of ham or bacon. Put it all into 
the pie, made of an oval fjrra, and the sides 
to stand an inch and a half above the meat; 
put on the top, and make a hole in the cen- 
tie of it. Brush the outside of the pie all 
over with the beaten whites of eggs, and 
bind it round with three folds of l)uttered 
paper; paste the top over in the same way, 
and when it comes out of the oven, take off 
the paper, and pour in at the toj3, through a 
funnel, a pound and a half of melted butter. 

PIES, LOBSTER. See Lobster. 

PIE, ITALIAN. Mix together some 
chopped thyme, parsley, and one or two sage 
leaves, sonje salt, white and cuvenne pep- 
per; lay into the bottom of a dish some thin 
slices of lean veal, sprinkle them with the 
seasoning, and add slices of ham, and a (e\v 
forcemeat balls; put a layer of seasoned 
veal, and of ham and forcemeat balls, till the 
dish is full, and then add the yolks of five 
hard-boiled eggs, and some good white stock ; 
cover the dish with a puff paste, and bake 
it for an hour. Befire serving, pour in, 
through a funnel at tiie centre of the crust, 
a tea-cupful of rich cream. 

PIES, MAIGRE FISH. Salt-fish pie. 
The thickest part must be chosen, and put 
in cold water to soak the night before want- 
ed; then boil it well, take it up, take away 
the bones and skin, and if it is good fish it 



will be in fine layers; set it on a fi?h-drain 
er to get cold: in the meantime, boil four 
eggs hard, peel and slice them very thin, 
the same quantity of onion sliced tliin; line 
die bottom of a pie-dish with fish forcemeat, 
or a la3er of potatoes sliced thin, then a 
layer of onions, then offish, and of eggs, and 
so on till the dish is full; season each layer 
with a little pepper, then mix a tea-spoonful 
of made mustard, the same of essence of an- 
chovy, a little mushroom ketchup, in a gill 
of water, put it in die dish, then put on the 
top an ounce of fresh butter broke in bits; 
cover it with puff paste, and bake it one 
hour. Fresh cod may be done in the same 
way, by adding a little salt. All fish for 
making pies, whether soles, flounders, her- 
rings, salmon, lobster, eels, trout, tench, &c- 
should be dressed first; this is the most 
economical way for Catholic families, 

PIES, MINCE. (1) Carefully stone and 
cut, but not too small, one pound and a half 
of bloom raisins ; cut small half a pound of 
orange-peel, mince finely half a dozen of 
middling-sized good apples, a quarter of a 
pound of sweet almonds, pounded to a paste 
with a little white wine, half a nutmeg grat- 
ed, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, one 
heiid of clove, and a little cinnamon pound- 
ed; one pound and a half of fresh beef suet, 
finely minced, one pound of good brown su 
gar; mix all these ingredients extremely 
well, and add half a pint of white wine, and 
one glass of brandy. Pack it closely into 
small stone jars, and tie them over with pa- 
per. When it is to be used, add a little more 
wine. 

PIES, MINCE. (2) Cut the root off a 
neat's tongue, rub the tongue well with salt, 
let it lie four days, wash it perfectly clean, 
and boil it till it becomes tender; skin, and 
when cold, rhop it verv finely. Mince as 
small as possible two pounds of fresh beef 
suet from the sirloin, stone and cut small two 
pounds of bloom raisins, clean nicely two 
pounds of currants, pound and sift half an 
ounce of mace and a quarter of an ounce of 
cloves, grate a large nutmeg; mix all these 
ingredients thoroughly, together with one 
pound and a half of good brown sugar. 
Pack it in jais. When it is to be used, al- 
low, for tile quantity sufficient to make 
twelve small niiace pies, five finely-minced 
apples, the grated rind and juice of a large 
lemon, and a wine-glass and a half of brandy ; 
put into each a few bits of citron and pre- 
served orange-peel. Three or four whole 
green lemons, preserved in good brown su- 
gar, and cut into thin slices, may be added 
to die mince meat. 

PIES, BRANDY, MINCE. Clean a 



PIE 



142 



PIE 



pound of currants, mince a pound of non- 
pareil apples, and one of fresh beef giiet; 
pound n pound of l,')af sugar; weigh earh 
.iriic!{; aCiei heiiig prepared; the p>eel of ivvo 
lciiiiii;s graled, and the juiee of one; a (|uar- 
Ici <yf a piiuixl of rilion, tlie same of orange- 
peet minced. I\lix all tlie&e ingredients 
well w ith a (jiiart of brandy. 

PIES, LEMO,\ MINCE. Weigh one 
pound of fine large lemons, cut them in half, 
squeeze out the juice, and pick the palp from 
the skins ; boil them in water till tender, 
and pound them in a mortar; add half a 
pound of |)ounded loaf sugai-, the same of 
nicely cleaned currants, and of fresh beef 
suet minced, a little grated nutmeg, and 
citron cut small. jMix all these ingredients 
Avell, and fill the patty-pans with rather more 
of the mince than is usually put. 

PIE, MUTTON OR VEAL. Cut into 
chops, and trim neatly, and cut away the 
greatest part of the fat of a loin, or best end 
of a neck of mutton (the former the best), 
season them, and lay tliem in a pie-dish, 
with a little water and half a gill of mush- 
room ketchup (chop|}ed onion and potatoes, 
if appioved) ; cover it with paste, bake it 
two hours; when done, lift up the crust from 
the dish with a knife, pour out all the gravy, 
let it stand, and skim it clean; add, if 
wanted, some more seasoning; make it boil, 
and pour it into the pie. Veal pie may be 
made of the brisket part of the breast; but 
must be parboiled first. 

PIE, PIGEON OR LARK. Truss 
half a dozen fine large pigeons as for stew- 
ing, season diem with j^epper and salt ; lay 
at the bottom of the dish a rump-steak of 
about a pound weight, cut into pieces and 
trinuned neatly, seasoned, and beat out with 
a chopper: on it lay the pigeons, the yolks 
of three eggs boiled hard, and a gill of broth 
or water, and over these a layer of steaks ; 
wet the edge of the dish, and cover it o\er 
with pufi" p/aste, or the [laste as directed for 
seasoned pies; wash it over with yolk of 
egg, and ornament it with leaves of paste and 
the feet of the pigeons; iiake it an hour and 
a half in a moderate-heated oven : before it 
is sent to table make an aperture in tlie lop, 
and pom- in some good gravy cjuite liot. 

PIE, RAISED PORK, ilake a rais- 
ed crust, of a good size, about linir inches 
high; take the rind and chine bone from a 
loin of poik, cut it into chop,s, beat them 
with a chopper, season them with pepper 
and salt, and (ill your pie; put on the top 
and close it, and ))inch it round the edge; 
rub it over with yolk of egg, and bake it two 
hours widi a paper over it, to prevent the 



ciust from burning. When done, pour m 
some good gravy, with a little ready-mixed 
mustard (if approved). N. B. — As the 
aljove is gencially eaten cold, it is an excel- 
lent repast for a journey, and will keep for 
several days. 

PIE, POTATO. Peel and slice your 
potatoes very thin into a pie-dish; betv\een 
each layer of potatoes put a little chopped 
onion (three-cjuarters of an ounce of onion is 
sufficient for a pound of potatoes) ; between 
each layer sprinkle a little pepper and salt ; 
put in a little waler, and cut about two 
ounces of fresh butter into little bits, and lay 
them on tlie top: cover it close with puff 
paste. It will take about an hour and a half 
to bake it. N. B. Tl:e yolks of four eggs 
(boiled hard) may be added; and when 
baked, a table-spoonful of good mushioom 
ketchup poured inthroi^h a funnel. Obs. — 
Caulifiow<;rs divided into inoulhliils, and 
button onions, seasoned with curry-powder, 
&c. make a favorite vegetable pie. 

PIES, RAISED, MUTTON OR 
PORK. Put two pounds and a half of flour 
on the paste-board ; and put on the fire, in a 
saucepan, three-i)uarters of a ])int of water, 
and half a pound of good lard ; when the 
water boils, make a hole in the middle of 
the flour, pour in the water and lard by de- 
grees, gently mixing the flour with it with 
a spoon ; and when it is well mixed, then 
knead it with your hands till it becomes stiff: 
dredge a little flour to prevent its sticking to 
the board, oryou cannot make it look smooth : 
do not roll it with the rolling-pin, but roll it 
with your hands, about the thickness of a 
(juart pot; cut it into six pieces, leaving a 
little for the covers; put one hand in the 
middle, and keep the other close on the out- 
side till you have worked it either in an o\;d 
or a round shape: have your meat ready cut, 
and seasoned with pepper and salt: if pork, 
cut in small slices; the griskin is the be^t 
for pasties: if von use mutton, cut it in very 
neat cutlets, and put them in the jjies as you 
make them; roll out the covers with the 
rolling-pin just the size of tlie pie, net it 
round the edge, put it on ihe pie, and piess 
it together with your thumb and finger, and 
then cut it all round with a ])air of scissors 
quite e^en, and pinch them inside and out, 
and bake tliem an hour and a half. 

PIE, RAISED FRENCH. Make 
about two pounds of flour into a paste ; knead 
it well, and into the shape of a ball; press 
your thumb into the centre, and work it by 
degrees into any sha|)e (<jval or round is the 
most general), till about five inches high; 
put it on a sheet of paper, and fill it with 
coarse flour or bran ; roll out a covering foi 



P IE 



143 



P IG 



it about the same thickness as the sides; ce- 
ment its sides with the yolk of egg ; cut the 
edges quite even, and pinch it round with tiie 
finger and thumb, rub yolk of egg over it with 
a paste-brush, and ornament it in any way 
fancy may direct, vvidi tiie same kind of 
paste. Bake it of a fine brown color, in a 
slow oven ; and when done, cut out the top, 
remove the tlour or bran, brush it quite 
cleauj and fill it up with a fricassee of chick- 
en, rabbit, or any other entree most conve- 
nient. Send it to table with a napkin under. 

PIE, HAM RAISED, Soak a small 
ham four or five bonis; wash and scrape it 
well; cut off the knuckle, and boil it f>r 
half an hour ; then take it up and trim it very 
neatly; take off the rind and jnit it into an 
oval stewpan, witii a pint of Madeira or 
Sherry, and enough veal stock to cover it. 
Let it stew for two hours, or till three parts 
done; take it out and set it in a cokl 
place; Uien raise a crust as in the forejoins 
receipt, large enough to receive it; put in 
the ham, and round it the veal forcemeat; 
cover and ornament; it will take about an 
hour and a half to bake in a slow oven: 
wlien done, take off the cover, glaze die top, 
and pour round the (bliowing sauce, viz. take 
the litjuor the ham was stewed in; skim it 
ivee from fiit; thicken with a little flour and 
butter mixed togedier ; a kw drops of brown- 
ing, and some cayenne pepper. 

PIE, SEA. Skin and cut into joints a 
large fowl ; wash and lay it into cold water 
for an hour; cut some salt l>eef into thin 
slices, and if it is very salt, soak it a short 
time in water; make a paste of (lour and 
butter in the proportion of half a pound of 
butter to one of flour, cut it into round pieces 
according to the size of die bottom of the 
pot in which the pie is to be stewed; rub 
widi butter the bottom of a round Tron pot, 
and lay in a layer of the beef, seasoned with 
{pepper, and finely-minced onion ; then put a 
layer of the paste, and then the fowl, highly 
seasoned with pepper, onion, and a little 
salt; add anoUier layer of paste, and pour 
in tiiree pints of cold water ; cover the pot 
<'i'.seiy, and let il stew gently for nearly four 
iiours, taking care it does not burn, which, 
if neglected, it is apt to do. It is served in 
a pudding dish, and answers well for a family 
dinner. 

PIE, SQUAB, OR DEVONSHIRE. 

Take a few good baking-apples, pare, core, 
and slice them; chop some onions very 
small; line a deep dish with paste, put in a 
layer of the apples, strew a little sugar, and 
some of the chopped onions over them; sea- 
son them, and lay lean mutton chops, also 
•easoned, mora onions, tiien the apples, &c. 



j as before, and so on till the dish is quits 
I full ; cover, and bake the pie. 

I PIE, SUUASH. One pint of sqia^h, 
stewed and strained; one pint of milk, and 
one of cream; ten eggs; half teacup of rose- 
water; (juarter pound of sugar, and one 
giated nutmeg. Bake in plates lined with 
puff paste. 

PIE, SWEETBREAD. Parboil five 
or six sweetbreads ; cut tliem into two or 
diree pieces, stew them ten or fifteen minutes 
in a little white stock, with some chopped 
shallot, a bit of butter rolled in flour, some 
salt, and white pepper, and a good many 
mushrooms. Put them into a pie-dish, with 
some asparagus tops, forcemeat balls, and 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and slices of fat 
bacon on the top; cover it, and bake it till 
the jKiste be done enough ; or it may be put 
iiito a vo!-au-vent, aiul served upon a nap- 
kin; or baked in a plate, 

PIE, VEGETABLE. Of a variety of 
vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, pota- 
toes, artichoke bottoms, cauliflower, French 
beans, peas, and small button onions, eijual 
Cjuantities of each ; half boil them in good 
broth for a short time, put them into a pie 
dish, cover it with pufi" paste, and bake it in 
a slow oven; make a gravy of a bit of veal, 
a slice of ham, pepper, salt, a bay leaf, mush- 
rooms, shallots, parsley, and an onion ; when 
it has boiled thick, strain die litiuor, and mix 
in three orfour table-spoonfuls of cream, and 
pour it into the pie before being served. The 
cream may be omitted. 

PIG, Is in prime order for the spit when 
about three weeks old. 

It loses part of its goodness every hour af- 
ter it is killed; if not (luite fresh, no art can 
make the crackling crisp. 

To be in perfection, it should be killed in 
the morning to be eaten at dinner: it re(iuires 
very careful roasting. A suckino^-pijf, like 
a young child, must not be left for an in- 
stant. 

I'he ends must have much more fire than 
the middle: for this purpose is contrived an 
iron to hang before the middle part, called a 
pig-iron. If you have not this, use a com- 
mon flat iron, or keep the fire fiercest at the 
two ends. 

For the stuffing, take of the crumb of a 
stale loaf about five ounces; rub it through a 
colander; mince fine a handful of sage (a. e. 
about two ounces), and a large onion (about 
an ounce and a half). Mix these together 
with an egg, some pepper and salt, and a bit 
of butter as big as an egg. Fill die belly of 
the pig wiUi this, and ^ew it up; lay it to 
die fire, and baete it with salad oU " ' 



lay It to 
till it in 



FIG 



144 



FIG 



quite done. Do not leave it a moment: it 
requires the most vigilant attendance. 

Roast it at a clear, brisk fire at some dis- 
tance. To gain the praise of epicurean pig- 
eaters, the crackling must be nicely crisped 
and delicately lightly browned, without be- 
ing eitlier blistered or burnt. 

A small, tliree weeks old pig will be done 
enough in about an hour and a half. 

Before you take it from tlie fiie, cut off tlie 
head, and part that and the body down the 
middle: chop the brains very fine, with some 
boiled sage leaves, and mix them with good 
veal gravy, or beef gravy, or what runs from 
the pig when you cut its head off. Send up 
a tureenful of gravy besides. Currant sauce 
is still a favorite with some of the old school. 

Lay your pig back to back in the disli, 
with one half of the head on each side, and 
the ears one at each end, which you must 
take care to make nice and crisp ; or you 
will get scolded, and deservedly, as the silly 
fellow was who bought his wife a pig with 
only one ear. 

When you cut off the pettitoes, leave the 
skin long round the ends of the legs. When 
you first lay the pig before the fire, rub it all 
over with fresh butter or salad oil : ten 
minutes after, and the skin looks dry ; 
dredge it well with flour all over, let it re- 
main on an hour, then rub it off with a soft 
cloth. 

N. B. A pig is a very troublesome subject 
to roast; most persons have them baked. 
Send a quarter of a pound of butter, and beg 
the baker to baste it well. 

PIG, BAKED. Lay your pig in a dish, 
flour it well all over, then rub it over with 
butter; butter the dish you lay it in, and put 
it into the oven. When done enough, take 
it out, and rub it over with a butter cloth ; 
then put it again into the oven till it is urj', 
then take it out and lay it in a dish; cut it 
up, take a little veal gravy, and take off the 
fdt in the dish it was baked in, and there 
will be some good gravy at the bottom ; put 
that to the veal gra\y, with a little bit of but- 
ter, rolled in flour; boil it up, and put it in 
a dish in which the pig has been laid, and 
put the brains with some sage into the belly. 
Some persons like a pig to be brought to 
table whole, in which case you are only to 
put what sauce you like into the dish. 

PIG, BARBICUED. Scald, &c., a pig, 
of about nine or ten weeks old, the same as 
for roasting; make a stuffing with a few 
sage-leaves, the liver of the pig, and two an- 
chovies boned, washed, and cut extremely 
small ; put them into a mortar, witii some 
bread-crumbs, a (juarter of a pound of butter, 
a very little cayenne pepper, and half a pint 
of Madeira wine; Ijeat tiiem to a paste, and 



sew it up m the pig; lay it at a good distanca 
before a large brisk fiie ; singe it well ; puV 
two bottles of Madeira wine into the drip- 
ping-pan, and keep basting it al! the time it 
IS roasting ; when half done, put two French 
rolls mto the drippingpan ; and if there is noi 
wine enough in the drippingpan, add more: 
when the pig is nearly done, take ttie rolla 
and sauce, and put them into a sauce|)an, 
with an anchovy cut small, a bunch of sweet 
ha'bs, and the juice of a lemon ; take up the 
pig, send it to table with an apple in its 
mouth, and a roll on each side ; then strain 
the sauce over it. 

Some barbicue a pig of six or seven weeks 
old, and stick it all over with blanched al- 
monds, and baste it in die same manner wiUi 
Madeira wine. 

PIG, TO COLLAR. Cut off the feet, 
head, and tail; bone and wash it well, and 
dry it in a cloth. Season it highly with a 
quantity of pepper and salt; roll it up firmly, 
and bind it with a piece of linen ; sew it 
tightly. Put it on in boiling water, with the 
bones, let it boil for an hour, then put it un- 
der a weight to press till it be cold, and take 
off the cloth. 

PIG'S CHEEK, TO COLLAR. Strew 
over a pig's face, and a neat's or pig's tongue, 
a little salt and saltpetre ; let it stand eight 
or nine days, then boil them with two cow- 
heels, till all be sufficiently tender to admit 
of the bones being taken out; lay upon a 
dish a piece of strong cloth, put the cheek 
upon it with the rind downwards; season it 
highly Vv'itli pepper, cloves, and a little salt; 
add the tongue and cow-heels, with more 
seasoning; roll and sew it up firmly, put it 
into a jar and boil it for two hours, dien 
press it widi a heavy weight, and when cold 
take off the cloth. The cow-heel may be 
omitted, and both cheeks used. 

PIG'S CHEEK, TO CURE. Strew 
salt over it, and let it lie two or three d:tys, 
then pour over it the following mixture when 
it is cold; half a pound of bay salt, h:df an 
ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of 
coarse brown s'jgar, one handful of common 
salt, and a penny-worth of cochineal, boiled 
in a pint of strong beer or porter; let it lie 
in the pickle a fortnight, turning it daily, 
then hang it to smoke foi' a week. When 
to be dressed, put it into lukewarm water to 
soak for a night, and in dressing it, follow 
the directions given for boiling hams. 

PIG'S FEET AND EARS PICKLED 
Wash the feet iind ears very clean, and be 
twcen every foot put a bay-leaf; when they 
are well soaked, add some cloves, mace, co 
riander-seed, and ginger; put a bottle ot 



PIG 



145 



PIG 



white wine to three pair of feet and ears, 
some bay-leaves, a buncli of sweet herbs ; 
let ihem boil gently till iheyare tender, then 
take them out of the litinor, lay them in an 
earthen pan ; when cold, take oft' the fat, 
and strain the liquor over them. They eat 
well cold, or warmed in the jelly, thickened 
with batter rolled in (lour ; or take the teet and 
ears out of the jelly, dip them in yolk of egg, 
and then in crumbs of bread, and broil them, 
or fry them in butter; lay the ears in the 
middle, and the feet round: or ragout them. 

PIG'S FEET AND EARS SOUSED. 

Clean diem, and boil them till they are ten- 
der; then split the feet, and put them and 
the ears in salt and water. When you use 
them, dry them well in a cloth, dip them in 
battel', fry them, and send iheni to tai)!e with 
molted butter in a boat. They may be eaten 
cold, and will keep a considerable time. 

PIG'S FEET, TO STEW. Clean them 
well, and boil them till they are tender. 
Brown some butter with flour, and add it to 
a (juantity of gravy or v/ater suiiicicnt to 
slew the feet in. Season with a minced 
onion, three sage leaves, salt, and black pep- 
per. Cut the Feet in two, add tliem, and 
cover the [>an closely; let them stew half an 
hour. A little before serving, mix in half 
a table-spoonfnl of lemon pickle or vinegar, 
and pick out the sage leaves. 

PIG'S HARSLET. (1) Parboil the liver 
and lights, slice and fry them along witli thin 
bits of bacon. Garnish with fiied parsley. 

PIG'S HARSLET. (2) Wash and dry 
some livers, sweetbreads, and some fat and 
lean pieces of pork, beating the latter with 
a rolling-pin to make them tender; season 
with pepper, salt, and sage, and a little onion 
shredded tine; when mixed, put all into a 
cawl, and fasten it tight with a needle and 
thread, and roast it by a jack, or by a string. 
Or, serve in slices, with parsley, for a fry. 
Serve with a sauce of Port wine and water, 
and mustard, just boiled up, and put it into 
a dish. 

PIG'S HEAD COLLARED. Very 
nicely scour the head ar.d ears ; take off the 
hair and snout, and take out the eyes and 
brain ; let it lay for one night in water; then 
drain it; salt it extremely well, with com- 
mon salt and saltpetre, and let it lie fur live 
days. Boil it sufliciently to lake out the 
bones; then lay it on a dresser, turning the 
ihick end of one side of the head towards the 
tliick end of the other, to make the roll of an 
equal size; sprinkle it well with salt and 
white pepper, and roll it with the ears; and, 
if you think proper, put Uie pig's feal rouod 
IB 



the outside, when boned, or the thin parte 
nf a couple of cow-heels. Put it into a cloth, 
bind with a broad (ape, and boil it till (|uite 
tender; then put it under a weight, and do 
not take olf the covering unlil it is qnitecol^.. 
If you wish it to be more like brawn, salt it 
longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be 
greater, and put in also some pieces oi' lean 
pork, and then cover it with cow-heel, to 
look like the horn. This may be kept either 
in or out of pickle of salt and water, boiled 
with vinegar. If likely to spoil, slice and fry 
it, either with or without batter. 

PIG'S HEAD, TO POT. Split the 
head of a small pig, take out the brains, cut 
off die ears, and let it lie in cold water (or 
one day, then boil it till all the bones come 
out; take off the skin, keeping it as whole 
as possiijle. Chop the tongue and all the 
meat while it is hot; season it highly with 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; jilace part of the 
skin at the bottom of a potting-iwn or bowl, 
Liy in the (^hopped meat, and put tlie rest of 
the skin over the top; press it down hard, 
l>!ace a sniall plate upon it, put on tliat a 
heavy weight, which must not be taken off 
till it be pei'fectly cold. Boil up part of the 
liquor with some vinegar and suit, and keep 
the head in this pickle. It may be served 
for breakfast or luncJieon, and is eaten with 
vinegar and mustard. 

PIG'S HEAD AND FEET, SOUSED. 

Clean them extremely well and boil them; 
take for sauce part of the licjuor, and add 
vinegar, lime or lemon juice, salt, cayenne, 
and pepi)er; put in, eidier cut down or 
whole, tlie head and feet ; boil all together 
fir an hour, and pour it into a deep dish. 
It is eaten cold \vith mustard and vinegar. 

PIG'S KIDNEYS, AND SKIRTS. 

Clean and wash ihem very nicely, cut the 
kidneys across, and the skirts into small 
scjuare bits; fry them a light brown iti beef 
dripping, bi'own a bit of butter the size of a 
walnut, with a little flour, and add as much 
boiling vvater as may be retjuired of gravy, 
and an onioii minced small. Add the meat, 
a little pepper, salt, and mushroom ketchup, 
and let It stew till tender. 

PIGEONS. Pigeons should be extreme- 
ly fresh ; wlien so, and in good order, they 
are plump and fat at the vent, and their feet 
pliable; but vvlien they are stale, the vent is 
open, green, and withered. Tame pigeoi^s 
are considered preferable to the wild. 

PIGEONS WHOLE, TO BROIL. 

Clean them well, cut off the wings and neck, 
leaving skinenouoh at the neck to tie; make 
a forcemeat with bread crunoba, tJiree or tcy-u 



PIG 



146 



PIK 



of the liversj one anchovy, some parsley 
minced, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; 
season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, 
bind it with the yolk of an egg beaten up, and 
pnt into each pigeon a piece the size of a large 
walnut; tie the neck and rump, rub them 
with butler, and dust them with pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg mixed ; broil them ovei- a slow 
fire ; to baste them, put them upon a [ilate, 
and w ith a feather brush them o\er with but- 
ter; broil them of a nice brown color; serve 
them with melted butter and parsley, or a 
tliickened brown gravy. 

PIGEON PIE. Chop some parsley and 
Jeraon thyme, witli a few mushrooms; stew 
these in a little butter, into which put half a 
dozen young pigeons, with pepper and salt 
in their insides, and their legs turned in ; 
stew them for a tew minutes and turn them ; 
when they begin to fry, put in sufficient C07i- 
somme to cover them, in which let them stew 
till they are well done ; take them from the 
fii'e to cool ; in the meantime make a good 
puff paste, part of which roll out, and place 
round the edge of a dish; lay the pigeons in 
with the yolks of four eggs, boiled hard, and 
pour over them half of the li(juor they were 
stewed in ; add a little pepper and salt, then 
lay on the top paste, trimming it neatly 
round, the same as you would any other pie ; 
on the top form a star of leaves, witli a hole 
in the centre ; egg it lightly over, and put it 
to bake in a moderate oven, taking care that 
it has not too much color ; when done, add 
to the liquor that remained from the pigeons, 
a little butter sauce, make it very hot, and 
pour it on the pie. Serve it hot, either for 
a remove or side dish. 

PIGEONS WITH RICE and Par- 
mesan Cheese. Pick and wash clean 
half a dozen nice pigeons, cut them into ijuar- 
ters; brown some butter with Hour, add to 
it a pint of good stock, with three grated 
onions, some pepper and salt, stew the pig- 
eons in this till tender, take them out and 
mix in the juice of one lemon, boil and strain 
the sauce over the pigeons. Boil about three- 
quarters of a pound of whole rice in a pint 
and a half of stock, with half a pound of fresh 
butter, some grated nutmeg and salt ; when 
it is tender, add two handfuls of grated Par- 
mesan cheese. Put more than half of the 
rice equally round the dish in which the pig- 
eons are placed, and cover them with what 
remains, brush it over with a well-beaten 
egg, and then strew it thickly with more 
Parmesan ; cover a flat baking-tin with salt, 
place the dish upon this, and bake it for nearly 
three-quarters of an hour in a slow oven ; it 
should be of a tine gi»ld color. 

PIGEONS, TO ROAST. Pick, clean. 



singe, and wash them well ; truss tliem with 
three feet on, and put into tliem some pepper 
and salt. While roasting, baste them with 
butter. A little before serving, dust them 
with flour, and froth them with butler. 
Roast them for half an hour. Serse them 
with parsley and butter in the dish, or make 
a gravy of the giblets, some minced parsley', 
seasoned with pepper and salt. Thicken 
with a little flour and butter; poiu" it with 
the giblets into the dish, and then put in the 
pigeons. 

PIGEONS, STEW. (1) Clean them nice- 
ly, truss them as for boiling, put into their iu- 
sidesome pepper and sail ; brown in a sauce- 
pan three ounces of butler with a table-spoon- 
ful of flour, add as much gravy or water as will 
nearly cover the pigeons, put them in with 
the livers, gizzards, and pinions, salt, and 
some minced parsley, spinach may also be 
added ; let them stew for three-quarters of 
an hour; add, a few minutes before serving, 
the yolks of four or six hard-boiled eggs. 

PIGEONS, STEW. (2) Wash and clean 
six pigeons, cut them into quarters, and put 
all their giblets with them into a stewpan, a 
piece of butter, a little water, a bit of lemon- 
peel, two blades of mace, some chopped pars- 
ley, salt, and pepper ; cover the pan closely, 
and stew them till Uiey be tender; thicken 
the sauce with the yolk of an egg beaten up 
with three table-spoonfuls of cream and a bit 
of butter dusted with flour; let them stew 
ten minutes longer before serving. 

PIKE, BAKED. Scrape the scales off 
a large pike, take out the gills, and clean it, 
without breaking the skin; stuff the lish 
with a forcemeat made of two handfuls of 
grated bread, one of linely-minced suet, some 
chopped parsley, and a little fresh butler, 
seasoned with j)epper, salt, mace, grated 
lemon-peel and a nutmeg, pounded all togeth- 
er in a mortar, with two whole eggs. Fasten 
the tail of the pike into its mouth with a 
skewer, then dip it, fust into a well-beaten 
egg, and then into grated bead, whi(;h repeat 
twice; baste it over with butter, and bake 
it in an oven. 

If two of them are to be served, make one 
of them of a green color, by mixing a quan- 
tity of finely-minced parsley with the grated 
bread. When the fish is of a fine brown 
color, cover it with paper until it is done. 
Serve with a Dutch sauce in a sauce-tureen. 

PIKE, BOILED. Wash clean, and 
take out the gills; stuff them with die follow- 
ing forcemeat : equal jjarts of chopped oys- 
ters, grated bread (numbs, beef suet, or butter, 
two anchovies, a little onion, pepper, salt,. 
I nutmeg, minced paisley, sweet marjoram, 



POl 



147 



P O R 



thyme, and savory ; an egg to bind it. Stuff 
the insides, and sew them up ; put them on 
in boiling salt-and-water, with a glass of vin- 
egar, and let them boil half an hour. Sauces ; 
— oystei', and melted butter. They may 
also be broiled. 

PILLAU, TO MAKE. Wash very 

clean two pounds of rice, stew it till per- 
fectly tender with a little water, half a 
pound of butter, some salt, whole pepper, 
cloves and mace, and keep the stewpan 
closely covered; boil two fowls and one 
pound and a half of bacon, put the bacon in 
the middle, and the fowls on each side, cov- 
ei" them all over with the rice, and garnish 
widi hard-boiled eggs and fried whole 
onions. 

PLOVERS, TO CHOOSE. Oioose 
them by the hardn-^ss of the vent, which 
shows that they are fai ; and when new, 
they are limber-footed. In other respects, 
choose them by the same marks as other 
fijwls. There are three sor-ts ; the gray, 
green, and bastard plover or lapwing, 

PLOVERS, TO DRESS. Green plov- 
ers should be dressed the same as wood- 
cocks, without drawing, and served on a 
toast. Gray plovers should be stewed. — 
Make a forceme;it with the yolks of two 
hard eggs bruised, some marrow cut fine, 
artichoke bottoms cut small,- and sweet 
herbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nut- 
meg: staff the birds, and put them into a 
samcepan, with just a sufficient quantity of 
good gravy to cover them, one glass of 
white wine, and a blade of mace; cover 
them close, and let them stew very gently 
till they are tender; then take up the plov- 
ers, lay them in a dish, keep them hot; put 
a piece of butter rolled in flour, to thicken 
the sauce, let it boil till smooth; squeeze 
into it a little lemon; skim it, u'ld pour it 
over the plovers. 

POL\T DE JOUR FRITTERS. Mix 

with two handfuls of flour a glass of sweet 
wine, a table-spoonful of brand}^, and warm 
milk, sufficient to make it into a paste; add 
the well-beaten whites of four egf^s, a little 
mmced citron, candied orange-peel or cur- 
rants; beat it well together, and drop it 
through a wide tin funnel, into boiling lard. 
Seive with pounded loaf sugar strewed over 
them. 

POIVRADE. Put into a stewpan a 
large bunch of parsley-leaves, some scalHons, 
two bay-leaves, a little thyme, a dessert- 
spoonful of fine \hite pepper, a glass of 
vinegar, and a small quantity of butter; set 
the pan on the fire, and reduce the whole 



till nearly all gone, when add two ladlefula 
of espagnole, and one of stock; reduce 
these again to tlie projier consistence, and 
strain it for use. 

PORK. Dairy-fed pork is the best; 
the flesh should look white and smooth, and 
the fat be white and fine. In preparing a 
hog for bacon, the ribs are cut, with a very 
little flesh on them, from the side, which 
has the fore and hind leg attached to it; 
the hind leg is then called a gammon of ba- 
con, but it is generally reserved for a ham. 
On each side there is a large spare rib, 
which is usually divided into two, one call- 
ed the sweet bone, the other the blade bone. 
There are also griskins, chine, or back 
bone. 

Hog's lard is tlie inner fat of the bacon 
hog. 

Porkers are not so old as hogs; they 
make excelleni pickled pork, but are cho- 
sen more particularly for roasting. 

To roast a leg, a small onion is minced 
together with three sage leaves, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and put under the 
skin at the knuckle bone ; the skin is cut 
into strips nearly ha.f an inch apart, and 
rubbed over with a bit of butter. If weigh- 
ing seven or eight pounds, it will require 
nearly three hours to roast. 

A spare rib should be roasted, is basted 
with butter, and has sage leaves dried, rub- 
bed to a powder, and mixed with salt and 
pepper, spiinkled ovei* it. 

Both a loin and neck are jointed, the 
skin scored in narrow stiips, and rubbed 
with butter. If weighing six or seven 
pounds, it will require rather more tlian two 
hours to roast. 

A griskin may be either broiled or roast- 
ed. 

A chine is stuffed here and there with 
bread crumbs, mixed with a little butter, 
and seasoned with some finely shred sage, 
parsley, and thyme, some pepper and salt. 
The skin is cut into strips and rubbed with 
butter; it is then roasted, and served with 
apple sauce, as are also the pieceding 
roasts. 

A porker's head is stuffed like a sucking 
pig, sewed firml}-, and hung on a string to 
roaiJt. 

The shoulder may be roasted, but, being 
very fat, it is generally preferred pickled. 

The breast may be made into a pie, or 
f)roiled. 

To boil hams, they should be put on in 
water, the chill taken off, and simmered for 
four or five hours, taking care not to allow 
them to boil. 

The prime season for pork is from No- 
vember to March. 

Take particular care it be done enough: 



FOR 



MS 



FOR 



other meats under-done are unpleasant, but 
pork is absolutely uneatable; the sight of it 
is cnongli to ;i[>pal tlic slKirpcsr appetite, if 
its g:avy lias tlie least tint of redness. 

Be careriil of the eraokling; if this be 
Mi)t ciisp. or if it bo Innnod, yoli will be 
Sv'okli'd. Fit'kled Pork, takes more time 
than any otiier meat. If you buy your pork 
ready salted, ask liow m;my days it lias 
been in salt; if many, it will require to be 
soaked in water for six hours before you 
dress it. When you cook it, wash and 
scrape it as clean as possible; when deli- 
cately dressed, it is a favorite dish with al- 
most everybody. Take care it does not 
boil fist; if it does, the knuckle will break 
to pieces, before the thick part of the meat 
is warm through; a leg of seven pounds 
takes three hoiu^s and a half very slow sim- 
mering. Skim your pot very carefully, and 
when you take the meat out of the boiler, 
scrape it clean. 

A leg of nice pork, nicely salted, and 
nicely boiled, is as fine a cold relish as cold 
ham; especially if, instead of cutting into 
the middle when hot, and so letting out 
its juices, y(ju cut it at the knuckle: slices 
broiled are a good luncheon, or supper. 

Mem. — Some persons who sell pork ready 
salted have a silly trick of cutting the knuc- 
kle in two; we suppose that this is done to 
save their salt; be.', it lets all the gravy out 
of the leg; and unless you boil your pork 
merely for the sake of the pot-liquoi", which 
in this case receives all the goodness and 
sti-ength of the meat, friendly reader, your 
oiacle cautions you to buy no leg of pork 
which is slit at the knuckle. 

If pork is not done enough, nothing is more 
disagreeable; if too much, it not only loses 
its color and flavor, but its substance be- 
comes soft like a jelly. 

It must never appear at table without pars- 
ni[:s ; they aie an excellent vegetable, and 
deserve to be much more popular ; or carrots, 
turni|;s,and greens, or mashed potatoes, &c. 

Obs. — Remember not to forget the mus- 
tard-pot. 

PORK, LEG, Of eight pounds, will re- 
quire about three hours : score the skins across 
in narrow stripes (some score it in dia- 
monds), about a quarter of an inch apart; 
stuff the knuckle with sage and onion, minced 
fine, and a little grated bread, seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg. 

Do not put it too near the fire : rub a little 
sweet oil on the skin with a p/aste-brusli , or 
a goose-feather: this makes the crackling 
crisper and browner than basting it with 
dripping; and it will be a better color than 
all the ^rt of cookery can make it in any 
otlier way ; and this is the best way of pre- 



venting the skin from blistering, which ia 
principally occasioned by its being put too 
near tlic fire. 

PORK SpnreRil', Usnaliv weighs about 
eight or nine pounds, and will lake iVom two 
to three hours to roast it thoroughly; not ex- 
actly according to its weight, but the thick- 
ness of the meat upon it which varies very 
much. Lay the thick end nearest to the 
fire. 

A proper bald spare rib of eight pounds 
weight (so called because almost all die meat 
is pared off), with a steady fire, will be done 
in an hour and a quarter. There is so little 
meat on a bald spare rib. that if you have a 
large, fierce fire, it will be burned before it 
is warm through. Joint it nicely, and craclf 
the ribs across as you do ribs of lamb. 

When you put it down to roast, dust c i 
some flour, and baste it ,vidi a little butter; 
dry a dozen sage leaves, and rub them through 
a hair-sieve, and ))ut them into the top of a 
dredging-box ; and about a (juarter of an hour 
before the meat is done, baste it with butter ; 
dust with the pulverized sage. 

Obs. — Make it a general rule never to 
pour gravy over any thing that is roasted; 
by so doing, the dredging, &c. is washed off, 
and it eats insipid. 

Some people carve a spare rib by cutting 
out in slices the thick pajt at the bottom of 
the bones. When this meat is cut away, 
the bones may be easily separated, and are 
esteemed very sweet picking. 

Apple sauce, mashed potatoes, and good 
mustard are indispensable. 

FORK CHEESE. Choose the head of 
a small pig which may weigh about twelve 
pounds the quarter. Sprinkle over it and 
the tongues of four pigs, a little common salt 
and a very little saltpetre. Let them lie 
four days, wash them, and tie them in a clean 
doth; boil them lui til the bones will come 
easily out of the head, take ofl' the skin as 
whole as possible, place a bowl in hot water 
and put in the head, cutting it into small 
pieces. In the bottom of a round tin, shaped 
like a small cheese, lay two strips of cloth 
across each other, they must be long enough 
to fold over the top when die shape is fiill, 
place the skin round the tiujand nearly half 
fill it with the meat, which has been highly 
seasoned with pepper, cayenne and salt; put 
in some tongue cut into slices, then the rest of 
the meat and tlie remainder of the tongue, 
draw the cloth tightly across the top; put on 
it a board or a plate that will fit into the shape, 
and place on it a heavy weight, which must 
not be taken off till it be quite cold. It is 
eaten witli vinegar and mustard, and served 
for luncheon or supper. 



PO 



149 



POT 



POTATOES. The vegetable kingdom 
affords no food more Avholesonie, more easily 
procured, easily prepared, or less expensive, 
than tlie potato : yet, although this most useful 
vegetable is dressed almost every day, in 
almost eveiT family, for one plate of potatoes 
tliat comes to table as it should come, ten are 
spoiled. 

Wash them, but do not pare or cut them, 
unless they are very large. Fill a saucepan 
half full of potatoes of equal size (or make 
them so by dividing the larger ones), put to 
them as much cold water as will cover them 
about an inch: they are sooner boiled, and 
more savoiy, than when drowned in water. 
Most boiled things are spoiled by having too 
little water, but potatoes are often spoiled by 
too much : they must merely be covered, and 
a little allowed tor waste in boiling, so that 
they may be just covered at the finish. 

Set them on a moderate fire till they boil ; 
tlren take them off, and put them by the side 
of the fire to simmer slowly till they are soft 
enough to admit a fork (place no dependence 
on the usual test of their skins' cracking, 
which, if they are boiled fast, will happen to 
some potatoes when they are not half done, and 
the insides quhe hard). Then pour the wa- 
ter ofl'(if you let the potatoes remaiji in the 
water a moment after thev are done enough, 
they will become waxy and watery), vmcover 
the saucepan, and set it at such a distance 
from the fire as will secure it from burning; 
their superfluous moisture will e\ajiorate, and 
the potatoes will be perfectly dry and mealy. 

You may afterward place a napkin, folded 
up to the size of the saucepan's diameter, 
over tlie potatoes, to keep them hot and 
mealy till wanted. 

This method of managing potatoes is in 
erery respect equal to steaming them ; and 
they are dressed in half the time. 

There is such an infinite variety of sorts 
and sizes of potatoes, diat it is impossible to 
say how long they will take doing; the best 
ivay is to try them with a fork. Modei'ate- I 
sized potatoes will generally lie done enough 
in fifteen or twenty minutes. 

POTATOES, NEW. The best way to 
clean new potatoes is to rub them with a 
coarse cloth or flannel, or scrubbing-brush. 

New potatoes are poor, watery, and insip- 
id, till they are full tv,o inches in diameter: 
they are not worth the trouble of boiling be- 
fore midsummer day. 

06s. Some cooks prepare sauces to pour 
over potatoes, made with butter, salt, and 
pepper, or gravy, or melted butter and ketch- 
up; or stew the potatoes in ale, or water 
seasoned with pepper and salt ; or bake them 
with herrings or sprats, mixed with layers 
of potatoes, seasoned with pepper, salt, sweet 
Mevbs, vinegar, and water; or cut mutton or 
13* 



beef into slices, and lay them in a stewpan, 
and on them potatoes and spices, then anoth- 
er layer of the meat alternately, pouricg in 
a little water, covering it up very close, and 
boiling it slowly. 

POTATO BALLS. Mix mashed pota- 
toes with the yolk of an egg; roll diem into 
balls; tlour them, or egg and bread-criuiib 
them ; and fry them in clean drippings, or 
brown tliem in a Dutch oven. 

POTATO BALLS RAGOUT, Are 

made by adding to a pound of potatoes a 
quarter of a pound of grated bam, or some 
sweet herbs, or chopped parsley, an onion or 
eschalot, salt, peppei", and a little giated 
nutmeg, or other spice, with the yolk of a 
couple of eggs : they are tlien to be dressed 
as Potato Balls. 

Obs. An agreeable vegetable relish, and 
a good supper -dish. 

POTATOES BOILED, t6 BROIL. 

After boiling potatoes not quite sufficiently to 
send to table, put them on a gridiron over a 
(•lear fire, and turn them frequently till they are 
of a nice brown color all over; serve them 
hot; take care they do not become too hard, 
as that spoils the flavor. 

POTATOES, CASSEROLE. Boil and 
peel some good mealy potatoes, pound them, 
and mix with them some butter, cream, and 
a little salt, put them about an inch and a 
half high upon a fiat dish, and leave an open- 
ing in the centre ; bake them of a light blown 
color, and take out as much fi-om the centre 
as will admit of a ragout, ficassee, or mac- 
aroni, being put into it. 

POTATOES, COLCANNON. Boil 

potatoes and greens, or spinage, separately; 
mash the potatoes ; squeeze the greens dry ; 
chop them quite fine and mix them w ith the 
potatoes, with a little butter, pepper, and 
salt; put it into a mould, buttering it well 
first; let it stand in a hot oven for ten min- 
utes. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. When 
boiled and peeled, allow four large mealy 
potatoes, half their weight of butter and of 
pounded loaf sugar, tw'o eggs beaten, half 
the grated peel of a lemon, and a little salt ; 
pound the potatoes in a mortar widi the 
other ingredients; beat the yolks of four 
e^g^; roll up die croquettes ; dip them into 
the beaten eggs, and roll them in sifted bread 
crumbs; in an hour, roll them again as be- 
fore, and fiy them in butter ; put them upon 
tlie back of a sieve before the fire to draia. 

POTATO EGGS. Mash perfectly 



POT 



150 



POT 



smooth six or seven boiled potatoes, add a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, thebea- 
tPti %olk of an egg, lialf an onion pounded, 
a little l>oiled minced parsley, some pepper 
and salt; make it into the form of small 
eggs or pears, roll them into u \vell-l)eaten 
egg, and then into grated bread seasonei, 
with pepper and sail ; fiy tiiem in plenty of 
lard or dripping till tliey are of a line brown 
color, lay diem befure the fire to drain; 
serve them with a fringe of fried parsley. 

POTATOES FRIED IN SLICES 
OR RIBBONS. Peel large potatoes ; slice i 
them about a quarter of an inch thick, or | 
cut them in shavinsrs round and round, as ' 
you woul i peel a lemon ; dry them w ell in a 
clean cloth, and fry them in lard or dripping. 
Take care diat your fat and fiying-pan aie | 
quite clean; put it on a quick fire, watch it, 
and as soon as the lard boils, and is still, 
put in the slices of potato, and keep moving 
them till they are crisp. Take them up, 
and lav them to drain on a sieve : send them 
up widi a very little salt sprinkled over diem. 

POTATOES FRIED WHOLE. When 
nearly boiled enough, put them into a stew- 
pan with a bit of butter, or some nice clean 
beef-drippings; shake them about often (for 
fear of burning them), till they are brown 
and crisji; drain them from the fat. Obs. — 
It will be an elegant improvement previous 
to frying or broiling the potatoes, to flour 
them and diji them in the yolk of an egg, 
and then roll them in fine-sifted bread- 
ciiunbs; they will then deserve to be called 

POTATOES FULL DRESSED. 

POTATOES RAW OR COLD, TO 
FRY. Wash, peel, and put thesii into cold 
water for one or two hours, cut them into 
slices about hall" an inch thii-k, and fry them 
a light brown in boiling clarified beef suet. 
Cold boiled potatoes, cut in slices, may be 
dune in die same manner. 

POTATO FRITTERS. Peel, and 
pound in a mortar, six mealy potatfjes, with 
a little salt, a glass uf white wine, some 
pounded sugar, rinnamon, and an ounce of I 
butter ; roll it oat with a little flour, cut 
diem the size of a wine glass, and fiy them 
in boiling clarified dripping. Serve them ; 
with sifted loaf susfar over them. 

! 

PO'x ATOES, 31ASHED. (1) When | 
your potatt)es are thoroughly boiled, drain ; 
them (juite dry, pick out every speck, fcc and | 
while hot, rub them through a colander into I 
a clean stewpan. To a [wuiui of potatoes , 
put about half an ounce of butter, and a ta- ; 
ble spoonful of milk: do not make them too : 
inpist; mix them w( 11 together. Gbs. — , 



When die potatoes are getting old and 
specky, and in frosty weadier, this is the 
best way of dressing them. You may put 
them into -shaj^s or small tea-cups; egg 
them with yolk of egg, and brown diem very 
slightly before a slow fire. 

POTATOES, MASHED. (2) Boil the 
potatoes, peel and mash diem very smf)othly; 
put for a large dish fouv ounces of butter, 
two eggs beat up in half a pint of good milk, 
and some salt ; mix them well toged.er, 
heap it upon a dish widi a table-spoon to 
give it a rough and rocky appearance, or 
put it on a dish and score it with a knife, 
dip a brush or feather into melted butter, 
and brush over the top lightly ; put it into 
a Dutch oven, and let it brown gradually 
for an hour or more. To mash potatoes in 
a plain way, mix with them two ounces of 
butter, half a pint of milk, and a little salt. 
When mashed ]jotatoes are not browned, it 
is a great improvement to add pepper, salt, 
and one onion minced as finely as possible; 
heat the potatoes in a saucepan, and serve 
them hot. 

POTATOES, ROASTED. Wash and 
dry your potatoes, (all of a size), and put 
them in a tin Dutch oven, or cheese-toaster: 
take care not to put them too near the fire, 
or diey will get burned on the outside before 
they are warmed through. Large potatoes 
will recjuire two hours to roast them. 
N. B. To save time and trouble, some 
cooks half boil diem first. This is one of 
the best opportunities die baker has to 
rival the cook. 

POTATOES ROASTED UNDER 
MEAT. Half boil large potatoes, drain the 
water from them, and ])ut them into an earth- 
en dish, or small tin pan, under meat that is 
roasting, and baste them with some of the 
dripping: when they are browned on one 
side, turn them and brown the other; send 
them up round the meat, or in a small dish. 

POTATOES SCALLOPED. Mash po- 
tatoes as directed, then butter some ni(;e 
clean scollop-shells, patty-pans, or tea-curs 
or saucers; put in your potatoes; make 
tlvem smooth at the top; cross a knife over 
them ; strew a few fine biead-crumbs on 
them: sprinkle diera with a paste-brush 
with a few dro|)s of melted butter, and then 
set them in a Dutch oven ; when they are 
browned on the top, take them carefully out 
of the shells, and brown the odier side. 

POTATO SNOW. The potatoes must 
be free from spots, and the whitest you can 
pick out ; put them on in cold water ; when 
they begin to crack, strain the water from 



POT 



151 



POU 



them, and put them into a clean stcvvpan by 
the siHe of the fire till they are quite dry, 
aud fall to pieces; rub them through a wire 
sieve on the dish they are to be sent up in, 
and do not disturb them aftei-\vaid. 

POT POURRI. Gather, when perfect- 
ly dry, a peck of roses; pick off the leaves, 
and strew over them thiee-(]uarters of a 
pound of common salt; let them remain 
two or three days, and if any fresh flowers 
are added, some more salt should be sprin- 
kled over them. Mix with the roses half a 
pound of finely-pounded bay salt, the same 
quantity of allspice, of cloves, and of brown 
BUgar, a (|uarter of a pound of ginn-benja- 
min, and two ounces of orris-root; add a 
glass of brandy, and any sort of fragrant 
flower, such as orange and lemon flowers, 
rosemary, and a great (juantity of lavender 
flowers — also white lilies: a green orange 
stuck with cloves may be added. All the 
flowers must be gathered perfectly dry. 

POTTING BEEF, VEAL, GAME, or 
POULTRY. Take three pounds of lean 
gravy beef, rub it well with an ounce of 
salt|ietre, and then ^a handful of common 
salt; let it lie in salt for a couple of days, 
rubbing it well each day; then put it into 
an earthen pan or stone jar that will just 
hold it; cover it with the skin and fat that 
you cut off", and pour in half a pint of wa- 
ter; cover it close with paste, and set it in 
a very s'ow oven for about four hours. 

when it comes from the oven, drain the 
gi'avy from it into a basin ; jiick out the gris- 
tles and the skins; mince it fine; moisten it 
with a little of the gravy you poured from 
the meat, which is a veiy strong consomme 
(but rather salt), and it will make excellent 
pease soup, or browning; pound the meat 
patiently and thoroughly in a mortar with 
some tiesii butler, till it is a fine paste (to 
make potted meat smooth there is nothing 
e<|nal to plenty of elbow-grease) ; seasoning 
it by degrees, as you aie beating it, with 
a little black pepper and allspice, or cloves 
pounded, or mace, or grated nutmeg. 

Put it in pots, press it down as close as 
possible, and cover it a quarter of an inch 
thick with clarified butter; and if yon wish 
to preseive it a long time, over tliat tie a 
bladder. Keep it in a dry place. 

You may mince a little ham or beacon, or 
an anchovy, sweet or savory herbs, or an 
eschalot, and a little tarragon, chervil, or 
burnet, &.C., and pound them with the meat, 
with a glass of wine, or some mustard, or 
forcemeat. 

It is a very agreeable and economical 
way of using the remains of game or poul- 
try, or a large joint of either roasted or 
boiled beef, veal, ham, or tongue, &tc. to 



mince it with some of the fat, or moisten 
it with a little butter, and beat it in a mor- 
tar with the seasoning, &c. 

Meat that has been boiled down for 
gravies, &c. (which has heretofore been 
considered the peiciuisite of the cat) and is 
completely drained of all its succulence, beat 
in a mortar with salt and a little ground 
black pepper and allspice, as directed in 
the foregoing receijjt, and it will make aa 
good potted beef as meat that has been 
baked till its moisture is entirely extracted, 
which it must be, or it will not keep two 
days. 

Mem. — Meat that has not been previous- 
ly salted, will not keep so long as that 
which has. 

POULTRY. In choosing a turkey, the 
young cock bird is to be preferred ; the best 
have black legs, and if young, the toes and 
bill are pliable and feel soft. A hen turkey 
is chosen by the same rules. 

Fowls with black legs are the best; if 
fresh, the vent is close and dark; if young, 
the combs are bright in the color, and the 
legs smooth — the spurs of a young cock are 
short. 

A goose, if young and fine, is plump in 
the breast, the fat white and soft, the feet 
yellow, and but few hairs upon them. 

Ducks may be chosen by the same rules, 
and are hard and thick on the breast and 
belly. 

Pigeons should be quite fresh, the breast 
plump and fat, the feet elastic, and neither 
flabby nor discolored at the vent. 

To prepare a turkey for dressing, every 
plug is carefully picked out; and in drawing 
turkeys and fowls, care must be taken not 
to break the gall bag, nor the gut which 
joins the gizzard, as it is impossible to re- 
move the bitterness of the one, or the gritti- 
ness of the other. The haiis are singed oft' 
with white paper; the leg-bone is broken 
close to the foot, and the sinews drawn on; 
— a cloth is then put over the breast, and 
the bone flattened with a lolling-pin, the 
liver and gizzard, made delicately clean, are 
fastened into each pinion. A stuifing made 
with sausage meat, adding some grated 
bread, and mixing it with die beaten yolks 
of two eggs, or a stuifing as for a fillet of 
veal, is then put into the breast, and the 
turkey, well rubbed over witli iiour, is put 
down to roast. It is basted constantly with 
butler, and when the steam draws towaids 
the fire, it is nearly done; — it is then dredg- 
ed with flour, and basted with moie butter, 
served with gravy in the dish, and garnished 
with sausages, or with forcemeat balls if 
veal stuffing is used, and bread sauce in a 
sauce tureen. 

To boil a turkey. After being nicely 



POU 



152 



PRESERVES 



cleaned, it is trussed witli the legs drawn in 
nnder the skin, stuffed with a forcemeat, as 
for veal, adding a few cliopped oysters; 
then boiled in a well-floured cloth, and serv- 
ed with oyster, white or celery sauce, poured 
over it, and also some in a sauce tureen. 
Boiled ham, tongue, or pickled pork, is eat- 
en with it. A large-sized turkey will require 
more than two hours to boil. Turkey, with 
celery sauce, is stuffed and trussed neatly, 
laid all over with slices of bacon, tied in a 
cloth, and boiled in water, with a little salt, 
butter, and K mon-juice added. It is served 
thickly covered with celery sauce. 

Turkey poults are stuffed and ruriSted in 
the same man)ier as a full-grown turkey. 
They will re(]uire rather more than an hour 
to roast. They are dressed with the heads 
twisted under the wing, as are also turkeys 
sometimes, but it seems an injudicious cus- 
tom, as the side on which the head is cannot 
be nicely browned, and in carving, the blood 
from the neck is apt to mingle with the 
gravy. 

To roast a fowl. It is picked, nicely 
cleaned, and singed; the neck is cut off 
close by the back ; the fowl is then washed, 
and if a large one, stuffed with forcemeat. 
It is trussed and dredged with flour ; and 
when put down to roast, basted well with 
butter, and frothed up. When the steam is 
observed to draw towards the fire, it is 
sufficiently done ; served with gravy in the 
dish, and biead sauce in a butter tureen. 
A good-sized fowl will require above an hour 
to roast. 

Chickens are roasted as the above, and 
served with gravy in the dish, which is 
garnished with fried eggs, and bread sauce 
in a sauce tureen ; they will require from 
half an hour to three-cjuarters to roast. 

To boil a foivl. When nicely singed, 
viashed, and trussed, it is well dredged with 
flour, and put on in boiling water, and if a 
large one, boiled nearly an hour. It is 
served with parsley and butter, white, or 
liver sauce. 

Two boiled fowls, served with a tongue 
between them, make a handsome top dish. 

Boiled chickens are improved by being 
stuffed, and will require nearly half an hour 
to boil. 

To roast a goose. After being well 
cleaned, picked, and singed, it is washed, 
made perfectly dry, and stuffed -with about 
four table-spoonfuls of grated bread, an on- 
ion finely minced, together with three sage- 
leaves, seasoned with salt and pepper, and 
mixed with a well-beaten e^g; or, the 
stuffing is made of boiled mashed potatoes, 
seasoned in the same way as the other, and 
mixed with a beaten egg. If roasted on a 
epit, each end is tied on tightly ; it is basted 
Bt first with a little bit of butter, after which 



the fat that drops from it is used. It is 
served with gravy in the dish, and apple 
sauce in a sauce tureen. A large goose will 
require an hour and a half to roast. At ta- 
ble, an opening is cut in the apron, and a 
glass of Port wine, with which is mixed a 
large tea-spoonful of made mustard, is pour- 
ed into the body of the goose. This is also 
an improvement to ducks. 

A green goose, about two or three months 
old, is seasoned with pepper and salt only, 
and jequires to be basted with butter. It 
requires about an hour to roast. 

To roast ducks. They are nicely j)icked, 
cleaned, singed, and washed, seasoned with 
pepper and salt; or stuffed, and served with 
gravy, as directed in pp. 66, 67. A duck 
may be boiled for nearly an hour, and served 
with onion sauce poured over it. 

PRESERVES, SWEETMEATS. &c. 

All sweetmeats should be j^reserved in a 
brass pan, which must be well scoured with 
sand and vinegar, washed with hot water, 
and wiped perfectly dry before it is used. 

An iron plate or stove is preferable to a 
fire for preserving on; and by boiling the 
fruit quickly, the form, color, and flavor, 
will be better preserved, and there will be 
less waste than in slow boiling. A round 
wooden stick, smaller at one end than at 
the other, in Scotland called a thevil, is 
better adapted for stirring sugar or preserves 
with than a silver spoon, which last is only 
used for skimming. That there may be no 
waste in taking off the scum, it is put through 
a fine silk sieve, or through a hair sieve, 
with a bit of muslin laid into it ; the clear 
part will run into the vessel placed below, 
and may be returned to the preserving- 
pan. 

A silver soup ladle is used for putting pre- 
serves into the jars, which should be of 
brown stone, or of white wedgewood ware. 
After the jellies or preserves are put in, they 
must not be moved till quite cold, when they 
are covered with a piece of white pajjer, cut 
so as to fit into the jar, and dipped into brandy 
or rum. They are then stored in a cool dry 
place, and should be looked at occasionally. 
If in a few weeks they be observed to fer- 
ment, the sirup should be first strained fiom 
the fruit, then boiled till it is thick, and 
again poured over the fruit, previously put 
into clean jars. 

Sugar, low in price, and consequently 
coarse in quality, is far from being cheapest 
in the end; while that which is most lefin- 
ed is always the best. White sugars should 
be chosen as shining and as close in texture 
as possible. 

The best sort of brown sugar has a bright 
and gravelly appearance. 

A jelly -bag is made of half a souare of 



PRESERVES 



153 



PRESERVES 



flannel folded by the corners, and one side j 
sewed up; the top bound with tape, and 
foiir I )ops ;vl.<o of tape sewed on, so as to j 
lianir iij)on a stand made of four bars of j 
wood, each tliirty-six inches in heiglit, fast- 
ened with f );u- bars at the lo(), eacli meas- , 
w'v.yy tea inclies, witli hooks upon the cor- j 
iiers. Twelve iaciies from the bottom four 
more bars are |)laced. A pan or basin is 
put underneath to receive tlie juice or jelly 
as it drops tluough the bag. 

To save Sugar in Preserving Cher- 
ries, Green Gages, Damsons, Currants, 
and Raspberries. Gather the d uit j.erfectly 
dry, and to a pound aliow five ounces of finely- 
pounded loafsng-ar; put a layer of fi uit into a 
wide-m.Hithed bottle or jar, and then one of 
sug-ar, till the vessel is full ; tie over it tightly 
two f lids of sound bladder, and put them into 
acoi)[)eror |ian, wilhstiaw in tiie bottom, 
and water lUi high as the necks, and let them 
simmer (ov three hours. When the water 
cools, take out the bottles, and keep them 
ia a cool diy place. 

FRUIT, WITHOUT 



PRESERVED APPLES. (2) Weigh 
equal (juantities of good brown sugar and of 
apples; peel,coie, and mince them small. Boil 
the susjar, allowing to eveiy three pounds a 
pint of water; skim it well, and boil il pretty 
tliick; then add the apples, the grated peel 
of one or two lemons, and two or three 
pieces of white ginger; boil till the apples 
fall, and look clear and yellow. This pre- 
serve will keep for yeai's. 

APPLES, GREEN COD- 



SUGAR. Take damsons when not too 
ripe; pick off the stalks, and put tliem into 
wide-moudied glass Irottles, taking care not 
to put in any l)ut what are whole, and with- 
out blemish; shake tliem well down (other- 
wise the bottles will not be half full when 
done) ; stop the buttles with new soft corks, 
not too tigiit; set them into a very slow oven 
(nearly cold) four or five hours ; the slower 
they are done the better; when they begin 
to shrink in the bottles, it is a sure sign that 
the fruit is thoroughly warm: take them 
out, and l>ef)re they are colil, drive in the 
corks tjuite tight ; set them in a bottle-rack or 
basket, with the mouth downwards, and they 
will keep sjood several years. 

Green gooseberries, morello cherries, cur- 
rants, green gages, or buUace, ii.ay Ije done 
the same way. 

Obs. — If tlie corks are good, and fit well, 
there will be no occasion for cementing 
them ; but should bungs be used, it will l)e 
necessary. 

APPLES. (1) Pare, cove. 



and (juarter s'ix pounds of good hard bak' 
ing apples; finely pound four pounds of loaf 
sugar ; put a layer of each alternately, with 
half a pound of the best white ginger, into a 
jar; let it remain eiglit-aud-tbrty houis ; infuse, 
for half that time, in a little boiling water, 
half a q'larter of a pound of cruised white 
ginger; strain and boil the liquor with the 
apples till they look clear, and the sirup rich 
and thick, which may be in about an hour. 
Take ofi" tlie scum as it rises. When to be 
eaten, pick out the whole ginger. 



LINGS. Gadier the codlings when not 
bigger than French walnuts \\ ith the stalks 
and a leaf or two on each. Put a handi'ul of 
vine leaves into a preserving-pan, tlien a la\er 
of codlings, then vine leaves, and then cod- 
lings and vine leaves alternately, until it is 
full, with vine leaves pretty thickly strewed 
on the top, and fill the pan with spring wa- 
ter; cover it close to keep in the steam, and 
set it on a slow fire till the apples l^ecome 
soft. Take them out, and pare off the 
rinds with a penknife, and then put them 
into the same water again with the vine 
leaves, but taking care th.at the water is 
become quite cold, or it will cause them 
to crack ; put in a little alum and set 
them over a slow fire till they are green, 
when, take thera out and lay them on a 
sieve to drain. Make a good sirup and 
give them a grentle boil three successive 
days; then put them m small jars witn 
brandy paper over them, and tie thera 
down tight. 

APPLES, Golden Pippins. 

Take the rind of an orange and boil it very 
tender ; lay it in cold water for three days ; 
take two dozen golden pijpins, pare, core, 
and quarter them, and boil them to a strong 
jelly, and run it through a jelly-bag till it is 
clear ; take the same cjuantity of pippins, 
pare and core them, and put three pounds 
of loaf sugar "in a preserving-pan with a 
pint and a half of spring water; let it boil ; 
skim it well and put in your pippins, with 
the orange rind cut into 'long thin slips ; 
then let them boil fast till die sugar becomes 
thick and will almost candy ; then put in a 
pint and half of pippin jelly, and boil fast 
till the jelly is clear; then sc|neeze in the 
juice of a fine lemon ; give the whole an- 
other boil, and put the pippins in pots or 
glasses with the orange-peel. 

Lemon-peel may be used instead of or- 
ange, but then it must only be boiled, and 
not soaked. 

-, APRICOTS. Pare your ap- 



ricots, and stone what you can \\liols, then 
give them a light boiling in water propor- 
tioned to the quantity of fruit, only just 
enough ; then take the weight of tlie apricots 



PRESERVES 



154 



PRESERVES 



m sugar, and take llie liquor in which tliey 
iSave boiled, and die sugar, and boil it till 
it comes to a sirup, and give them a light 
boiling, taking off the scum as it rises. 
When the simp jellies it is enough; then 
take up the apricots and cover them with 
the jelly ; put cut paper over them, and lay 
them down when cold. 

BLACK CURRANTS. Gather 



the currants upon a diy day; to every 
pound allow half a pint of red currant 
juice, and a pound and a half of finely- 
f)ounded loaf sugar. With scissors clip off 
the heads and stalks; put the juice, sugar, 
and currants into a pieserving pan; shake 
it fre((uenlly till it boils; carefiilly remove 
the fruit from the sides of the pan, and take 
off the scum as it rises ; let it boil foi' ten or 
fifteen minutes. This preserve may be eat- 
en with cream, and made into tarts. 

CHERRIES. To a pound of 



cherries allow three-c|uarters of a poinid 
of pounded loaf sugar; carefully stone them, 
and as they are done, strew part of the su- 
gar over them ; boil them fast, with the re- 
mainder of the sugar, till the fruit is clear 
and the sirup thick ; take off the scum as it 
lises. Or they may be boiled ten minutes 
in an equal quantity of sugar, which has 
been previously clarified and boiled candy 
high. Part of tlie kernels may be added. 

CUCUMBERS. Take large 



and fresh-gathered cucumbers; split them 
down and take out all the seeds; lay them 
in salt and water that will l)ear an egg, 
three days; set them on a fire with cold 
water, and a small lump of alum, and boil 
them a few minutes, or till tender; drain 
them, and pour on them a thin sirup; let 
them lie two days; boil the sirup again, and 
put it over the cucumbers; repeat it twice 
more; then have ready some fresh clarified 
sugar, boiled to a blow ; put in the cucumbers, 
simmer it five minutes; set it by till next 
<lay; boil the sirup and cucumber's again, 
and set them in glasses for use. 

CUCUMBERS, SMALL. 



Weigh equal pr'opoitious of small green cu- 
cumbers and of fine loaf sugar, clarify it; 
rub the cucumber-s with a cloth, scald them 
in hot water, and, when cold, put them into 
the sirup, with some white ginger and the 
peel of a lemon; boil them gently for ten 
minutes. The following day just let them 
boil, and I'epeat this thi'ee times, and the 
last, boil then) till tender and clear. 

DAMSONS. (1) To every pound 



nately a layer of damsons, and one of sugar 
tie diem o\'ei' with bladder or str-ong paj)er 
and put them into an oven after the bread is 
withdrawn, and let them remain till the oven 
is cold. The following day str-ain off the 
sir-up, and boil it till thick. When cold, 
put the damsons one by one into small jar's, 
and pour over diem the sirup, which must 
cover them. Tie them over with wet 
bladder. 



DAMSONS. (2) Prick them 



with a needle, and boil them with sugar 
the same proportion as in the receipt to 
pi'eserve damsons, till the sirup will jelly. 
Carefully take off all the scum. 

GREEN GAGES. Put the 



of damsons allow three-tjuarters of a pound 
of pounded loaf sugar; put into jars aker- 



plums into boiling water, pare off the skin, 
and divide them ; take an ecjual quantity of 
pounded loaf sugar, sti'ew half of it over the 
fruit; let it remain some hours, and, with 
the remainder of the sugar, put it into a 
pi'eserving pan; boil till the plums look 
quite clear, take off the scum as it rises, 
and a few minutes before taking them off 
the fire, add the kernels. 

LARGE SWEET GREEN 

Gooseberries. (1) Weigh equal pro- 
portions of sugar and of fruit; Avidi a pen- 
knife slit the gooseberries on one side, and 
take out all the seeds ; put diem into a pre- 
serving pan with cold water, scald them; 
pour off the water when cokl ; put over and 
under them vine leaves, with more cold water ; 
set them over the fire to green. Clarify the su- 
gar ; put the gooseber'ries into a deep jar, and 
pour the boiling sirup over them; in two 
days pour it off, boil, and put it over the 
fruit ; repeat this till the sirup becomes thick, 
then put diem into small jars. 

LARGE SWEET GREEN 

Gooseberries. (2) Gather the largest- 
sized gooseber'ries, and allow an equal (juan- 
tity of pounded loaf sugar' ; cut the gooseber'- 
ries in half, and take out the seeds ; wet the 
sugar with a little water, and put all together 
into a preserving pan ; carefully stir and 
scum them, and boil them till the sirup is 
clear and the fruit soft. 

GOOSEBERRIES. The tops 

and tails being I'emoved irom the gooseber'- 
ries, allow an equal quantity of finely-pounded 
loaf sugar, and put a layer of each alternate- 
ly into a large deep jai' ; pour into it as much 
dripped cur'rant juice, either red or white, as 
will dissolve the sugar, adding its weight in 
sugar; the following day put all into a pre- 
serving pan and boil it. 

GREEN PEA5«. Put into a 



PUDDINGS 



155 



PUDDINGS 



saucepan of boiling water fresh gathered 
and fresli-shelled peas, but not very young; 
as soon as they boil up, pour off the water, 
and put them upon a large dry cloth folded, 
and tlien upon another, that they may be 
perfectly dry without being bruised; let 
them lie some time before the fire, and then 
put them into small paper bags, each con- 
taining about a pint, and hang them up in 
the kitchen. Before using, soak them for 
two or three hours in water, and then boil 
them as directed for green peas, adding a 
little bit of butter, when they are put on to 
boil. 

PRESERVED JARGONELLE PEARS. 
Gather pears with stalks before they are 
quite ripe ; allow equal quantities of fine 
loaf sugar and of fruit. Pare the pears as 
thinly as possible, keeping on the stalks; 
carefully cut out the black top; as they are 
peeled put them into cold water. Put cab- 
bage leaves into the bottom of a preserving- 
pan ; lav in the pears, cover them with 
cold water and one or two cabbage leaves 
upon the top; boil them thirty minutes, and 
lay them upon a dish. To six pounds of 
sugar, allow a pound of water, boil and 
skim it; then add one ounce of while gin- 
ger, previously soaked in hot water, and 
scraped clean, add the juice and thinly par- 
ed rinds of two lemons. Boil the sirup ten 
minutes, put in the pears, and let them boil 
twenty minutes; take them out, put them 
into a bowl or deep dish, boil the sirup 
eight minutes, and when cold pour it over 
the pears; cover them with paper; in four 
days pour off the sirup, boil it eight minutes, 
and pour it over the pears when cold. In 
four days repeat this process, and do it a 
third lime; then stick a clove in each pear, 
where the black top was cut out. Put diem 
into jars, divide the ginger and lemon-peel, 
and pour on the sirup when cold. 

RED PEARS. Parboil a doz- 



en of pound pears in water; peel them. 
Clarify the same weight of fine loaf sugar 
that there is of pears ; add a pint of Port 
wine, the juice and rind of one lemon, with 
a little cociiineal, a few cU)ves, and a stick 
of cinnamon; boil the pears in this till they 
become clear and red ; take them out, boil 
up the sirup, strain, and put it over the 
pears. 

PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 

Great nicety is to be observed in prepar- 
ing every material used for boiled or baked 
puddings. 

The eggs require to be well beaten, for 
which purpose, if many are to be done, a 
whisk is used ; if tew, a three-pronged fork. 
The flour is dried and sifted. The currants 



are carefully cleaned, by putting them intd 
a cullender, and pouring warm water over 
them ; if very dirty, this is to be repeated 
two or three times, and after being dried in 
a dish before the fire, they are rubbed in a 
clean coarse cloth, all the stalks and stones 
picked out, and then a little flour dredged 
over them. The raisins are stoned with a 
small sharp-pointed knife ; it is cleansed in 
a basin of water, which also receives the 
seed. The pudding cloth must be kept es- 
pecially clean, or it will impart an unpleas- 
ant taste to anything that is boiled in it; 
and when taken off a pudding, it ought im- 
mediately to be laid in cold water, and af- 
terl^'aids well washed with soda or pearl- 
ashes in hot water. Just before being used 
for a rice, bread, or batter pudding, it 
should be dipped into hot water, wrung, 
shaken, and well dredged with flour; and 
for a plum, suet pudding, or any sort of 
fruit pudding in paste, it must be buttered 
before being floured. 

The water should boil quick when the 
pudding is put in ; and it should be moved 
about for a minute, for fear the ingredients 
should not mix. 

When the pudding is done, a pan of cold 
water shor.ld be ready, and the pudding 
dipped into it as soon as it comes out of the 
pot, which will prevent its adhering to the 
cloth. 

A bread pudding should be tied loose; 
if batter, it must be tied tight over, and a 
batter pudding should be strained through a 
coarse sieve when all is mixed. In others, 
the eggs only. If you boil the pudding in 
a basin or pan, take care that it is always 
well buttered. 

When you make your puddings without 
eggs, they must have as little milk as will 
mix, and must boil for three or four hours. 
A few spoonfuls of small beer, or one of 
yeast, is the best substitute for eggs. Your 
puddings will always be much lighter if you 
beat the yolks and whites of the eggs long 
and separately. You may, if you please, 
use snow instead of eggs, either in puddings 
or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will su|)- 
ply the place of one egg ; the snow may be 
taken up from any clean spot before it is 
wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though 
the sooner it is used the better. 

All puddings in paste are tied tightly, but 
other jHiddings loosely, in the cloth. When 
a pudding is to be boiled in a shape, a niece 
of buttered white paper is put upon tht top 
of it, before the floured cloth is tied iru 
The pan, dish, or shape, in which the pud- 
ding is to be eidier boiled or baked, must 
always be buttered before it is filled. It is 
an improvement to puddings in general to 
let them stand some time after being prepared 
either for boiling or baking. When a pud- 



PUDDINGS 



156 



PUDDINGS 



ding is to be boiled, it must be put on in a 
covered pot, in plenty of boiling water, and 
never for a moment be allowed to be off the 
boil until ready to be served. As the water 
wastes, more, and always boiling, must be 
added. A plum pudding is the better for 
being mixed the day before it is to be boiled. 
It may be useful to observe that ihis pudding 
will keep for months after it is dressed, if 
the cloth be allowed to remain upon it, and 
if, when cold, it be covered with a sheet of 
foolscap paper, and then hung up in a cool 
place. Wlien about to be used, it innst be 
put into a clean cloth, and again boiled for 
an hour; or it may be cut into slices, %nd 
broiled as wanted. If in breaking eggs a 
bad one should accidentally drop into the 
basin amongst the rest, the whole will be 
s])oiled ; and therefore they should be broken 
one by one into a tea-cup. When the 
whites only of eggs are required for a jelly, 
or other things, the yolks, if not broken, will 
keep good for three days, if the basin they 
are in be covei'ed. 

A slab of marble, stone, or slate, is pref- 
erable to wood for rolling out paste on. 
The rolling-pin, cutters, and every othei' im- 
plement used in these processes, must be 
kept particularly clean ; they should always 
be washed immediately after being used, 
and then well dried. Before usinsj butter 
for paste, it is laid fur some time into cold 
water, which is changed once or twice. 
When salt butter is used, it is well worked 
in two or three waters* If it should not be 
convenient to make the paste immediately 
before it is baked, it will not suffer from 
standing, if made early in the morning, and 
the air excluded from it, by putting tirst a 
tin cover over the pie or tartlets, and 
above that a folded table-cloth. To ascer- 
tain if the oxen be of a proper heat, a little 
bit of paste may be baked in it, before anj' 
thing else be put in. Puff paste requires 
rather a brisk oven. If too hot it binds the 
surface and prevents the steam fiom rising, 
and if too slow it becomes sodden and flat. 
Raised crusts recjuire a quick oven ; puffs 
and tartlets, which are filled with preserved 
fruit, aie sufficiently done when the paste is 
baked. When large pies have been in the 
oven lor a few minutes, a paper is put over 
them to prevent their being burned. 

PUDDING. Sweeten a pint and a half 
of cream, and boil it with the peel of a small 
lem i; cut the crumb of a twopenny roll, 
an put it into the cream, and boil it for 
eignt minutes, stirring constantly; when 
thick add a quarter of a pound of fresh but- 
ter beaten to a cream, a tea-spoonful of gra- 
ted nutmeg, and four well-beaten eggs; beat 
it all well together for Bome minutes. It 
may be baked or boiled. 



APRICOT. Take six-and- 

thirty nice fine red apricots, cut them in 
halves, and take out the stones, and roll 
them in a pan with four ounces of powdered 
sugar. Piepare your crust, line your mould 
with it, put in your apricots, and finish the 
same as in the receipt for Apple Pudding a 
la Francaise . 



ALMOND, BAKED. Steep 

four ounces of crumbs of bread sliced 
in a pint and half of cream, or grate the 
bread ; then beat half a pound of blanched 
almonds veiy fine, till diey become a paste, 
with two tea-spoonfuls of orange-fiower wa- 
ter ; beat up the yolks of eight eggs, and the 
whites of four ; mix all well together ; put in 
a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and stir 
in three or four ounces of melted butter; 
put it over the fire, and keep stirring until 
it is thick ; lay a sheet of paper at the bottom 
of a dish, and pour in the ingi-edients. To 
bake half an hour. 

ALMOND. Blanch and beat 



a pound of sweet almonds with a little 
rose-water, mix a pound of bread grated, 
a nutmeg, half a pound of butler, and the 
yolks of six eggs, boil a pint of cream, co- 
lored with a very little saffron, add it to the 
eggs and a little flour, knead it well, and 
then put in the almonds, beating it up till 
all is mixed together. Boil it for half an 
hour in a buttered cloth. 

-— A3IBER. Put a pound of 

butter into a saucepan, with three-quarters 
of a pound of powder-sugar ; when melted 
and well mixed together, add the yolks of 
fifteen eggs beaten, and as much candied or- 
ange beaten to a paste as will give color and 
flavor to it. Line the dish with paste for 
turning out, and when filled \\i\\\ the above, 
lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and 
bake in a slow oven. It may be eaten hot 
or cold. 

APPLE. (1) Weigh one 



pound and three-quarters of ajijiles, paie, 
core, and cut them into thin bits; weigh 
also ten ounces of brown sugar; make a 
suet paste, rolled thinner towards the edges 
than in the middle, and sufficiently large to 
lay into a two-quart basin, ])reviously but- 
tered; put in the apple and sugar alternate- 
ly, wet the edges of the paste, and fold it 
closely over; dredge it with flour, and tie a 
pudding cloth over the top of a basin; boil 
it for three hours. A light paste may be 
made with flour, half its quantity in bulk of 
grated bread and suet, mixing it with milk 
or water, and, instead of apples, currants, 
damsons, or any otlier fruit, may be encloa 
ed in it. 



PUDDINGS 



157 



PUDDINGS 



— APPLE. (2) Peel and core 

pix very large apples, stew them in six ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of water, with the rind of a 
lemon; when soft, i)eat them to a pulp, add 
six ounces of melted fresh butter, the same 
of good brown sugar, six well-beaten egg^i, 
half a wine-glass of brandy, and a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-juice; line a dish with a 
putT paste, and when baked, stick all over 
tlie top thin chips of candied citron and 
lemon-peel. 

APPLE. (3) Make a baiter with 



two eggs, a pint of milk, and three or four 
spoonfuls of flour; pour it into a deep dish, 
and having pared six or eight small apples, 
place them whole in the batter and bake it. 

APPLE, BOILED. Chop four 



ounces of beef suet very fine, or two ounces 
of butter, lard, or dripping ; but the suet 
makes the best and lightest crust ; put it 
Oil the paste-board, with eight ounces of 
flour, and a salt-spoonful of salt, mix it well 
togedier with your hands, Snd then put it all 
of a heap, and make a hole in the middle ; 
break one egg in it, stir it well together 
with your finger, and by degrees infuse as 
much water as will make it of a stiff paste: 
roll it out two or du'ee times, widi the roll- 
ing-pin, and then roll it large enough to re- 
ceive thirteen ounces of apples. It will look 
neater if boiled in a basin, well buttered, 
than when boiled in a pudding-cloth, well 
floured; boil it an hour and three-quaiters: 
but the surest way is to stew the ap|)les first 
in a stewpan, with a wine-glassful of water, 
and then one hour will boil it. Some people 
like it flavored with cloves and lemon-peel, 
and sweeten it with two ounces of sugar. 
Gooseberries, currants, raspbersies, and cher- 
ries, damsons, and various plums and fruits, 
are made into puddings with the same crust 
directed for apple puddings. 

APPLE, A LA FRAN- 



CAISE. To make the entremets jjroper- 
ly, it is necessary to have a mould in the 
form <jf a dome four inches deep and six in 
diameter; this mould a'ld its lid should be 
pierced all over, the same as a skimmer. 
There should be a rim round the lid of tlie 
dome that it may cover it so closely that all 
air may be excluded. 

Peel six and thirty small red apples 
and cut them into quarters; toss them in a 
stewpan with four ounces of flne sugar 
(over which must be grated the rind of an 
orange), .md four ounces of butter luke- 
warm; then place the stewpan over the 
stove, with fire on t!ie cover. When your 
apples are done, pour diem into a dish. 
Whilst they are cooling mix up three-quar- 
ters of a pound of stiff paste; then roll out 
14 



half of it to the thickness of the eighth of an 
inch. With this crust line the inside of 
your mould, which must be previously well 
buttered. Be careful that the paste lays 
(juite flat, leflving a piece all round the edge 
of the mould, then |Jut in the best quarters 
of the apples, and fill up the mould with the 
rest of the apples and their licjuor, then roll 
out the rest of the paste very thin, into two 
parts, cut in rounds. Slightly moisten the 
paste which you have left round the edge of 
the mould, and place upon it one of the 
rounds of paste, pinching the edges carefully 
together, then slightly moisten, and place 
upon it your other round })iece of paste, 
pinching the edge of this widi the others to 
make it quite close, then cover them with 
the lid of die mould well buttered. 

Now, turn your mould over into the mid- 
dle of a napkin, and tie up the corners of it 
close over the top of the dome, and put it 
into a saucepan (nine inches deep and nine 
wide) full of boiling water; and let it be 
ke|3t constantly boiling for an hour and a 
half; when it has boiled for this time, take 
it out of the saucepan, untie the napkin, 
take out the mould, remove die lid, place 
the mould on a dish, and then carefully take 
it off from the pudding; strew fine sugar all 
over your pudding, and serve it quite hot. 

ARROW-ROOT. From a quart 



of new milk take a small tea-cupful, and 
mix it with two large spoonfuls of arrow- 
root. Boil the remainder of the milk, and 
stir it amongst the arrow-root ; add, when 
nearly cold, four well-beaten yolks of eggs, 
with two ounces of pounded loaf sugar, 
and the same of fresh butter broken into 
small bits; season with grated nutmeg. Mix 
it well together, and bake it in a buttered 
dish fifteen or twenty minutes. 

AUNT MARY'S. Of bloom 



raisins stoned, currants nicely cleaned, suet 
finely minced, bread grated, apples minced, 
and brown sugar, a cjuarter of a pound of 
eacli; four weli-beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful 
of pounded ginger, half a one of salt, half a 
nutmeg grated, and one glass of brandy; 
mix all the ingredients well, and boil it in a 
cloth for two hours. Serve with a sauce of 
melted butter, a glass of wine, and sume 



BARLEY. Take a pound of 



pearl barley well washed, three quarts of 
new milk, one cjuart of cream, and half a 
pound of double refined sugar, a grated nut- 
meg, and some salt; mix them well togedier, 
then put them into a deep pan, and bake it; 
then take it out of the oven, and put into it 
six eggs well beaten, six ounces of beef mar- 
row, and a quarter of a pound of grated 



PUDDINGS 



158 



PUDDINGS 



bread ; mix all well together, then put it in- 
to another pan, bake it again, and it will be 
excellent. 

BATTER, BAKED OR BOIL- 



ED. Break tiiree eggs in a basin with 
as much salt as will lie on a sixpence; 
beat them well together, and then add four 
ounces of flour; beat it into a smooth bat- 
ter, and by degrees add half a pint of milk: 
have your saucepan ready boiling, and but- 
ter an earthen mould well, put the pudding 
in, and tie it tight over with a pudding- 
cloth, and boil it one hour and a quarter. 
Or, put it in a dish that you have well but- 
tered and bake it three-quarters of an hour. 
Currants washed and picked clean, or rai- 
sins stoned, are good in this pudding, and 
it is then called a black cap: or, add loaf 
sugar, and a little nutmeg and ginger with- 
out the fruit, — it is very good that way; 
serve it with wine sauce. 

BATTER. Take six ounces 



of fine flour, a little salt, and three eggs ; 
beat it well with a little milk, added 
by degrees till the batter become smooth; 
make it the thickness of cream ; put into 
a butteied pic-dish, and bake three-quarters 
of an hour: or into a buttered and floured 
basin, tied over light with a cloth: boil one 
and a half hour, or two hours. 

BATTER, WITHOUT 

EGGS. Mix six spoonfuls of flour with a 
small portion of a (juart of milk; and when 
smooth add the remainder of the milk, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, two tea-spoonfuls of grated 
ginger, and two of tincture of saff'ron ; stir 
all logethei- well, and boil it an hour. Fruit 
may be added or not. 

BEEF-STEAK. Get rump- 



steaks, not too thick, beat them with a chop- 
per, cut them into pieces about half the size 
of your hand, and trim off all the skin, sin- 
ews, &c. ; have I'eady an onion peeled and 
chopped fine, likewise some potatoes peeled 
and cut into slices a (juarter of an inch 
thick ; rub the inside of a basin or an oval 
plain mould with butlei, sheet it with paste 
as directed fur boiled puddings, season tiie 
steaks with pepper, salt, and a little grated 
nutmeg; put in a layer of steak, then another 
of potatoes, and so on till it is full, occasion- 
ally throwing in part of the chopped onion ; 
add to it half a gill of mushroom ketchup, a 
table-spoonful of lemon-pickle, and half a 
gill of water or veal l)rotli; roll out a top, 
and close it well to prevent the water getting 
in; linse a clean cloth in hot water, sprinkle 
a little flour over it, and tie up the pudding; 
have ready a large pot of uater boiling, 
out it in, and boil it two hours and a half; 



take it up, remove the cloth, turn it down- 
wards in a deep dish, and when wanted lake 
away the basin or mould. 

B E E F-S T E A K, B A K E D. 



Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour 
or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and 
mashed through a cullender; lay a little of 
it at the bottom of the dish ; then put in the 
steaks, prepared as above, and very well 
seasoned ; pour the remainder of the batter 
over them, and bake it. 

BISCUIT. Pour a pint 



of boiling milk over three Naples biscuits 
grated ; cover it close ; when cold add the 
yolks of four eggs, two whiles, nutmeg, a 
little brandy, half a spoonful of flour, and 
some sugar. Boil it an hour in a basin. 

BOSTON APPLE. Peel one 



dozen and a half of good apples ; take out 
the cores, cut them small, put into a stewpan 
that will just hold them, with a little water, 
a little cinnamon, two cloves, and the peel 
of a lemon; stew over a slow fire till quite 
soft, then sweeten with moist sugar, and 
pass it through a hair sieve; add to it the 
yolks o(" four eggs and one white, a quarter 
of a pound of good butter, half a nutmeg, 
the peel of a lemon grated, and the juice of 
one lemon: beat all well together; line the 
inside of a pie-dish with good puff paste; 
put in the pudding, and bake half an horn*. 

BRANDY. Line a mould with 

jai'-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, therf 
lay thin slices of French roll ; next put a lay- 
er of ratafias or macaroons, then the fruit, 
rolls, and cakes, in succession, until the 
mould be full, pouring in at times, two 
glasses of brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and 
whites separately, put to them a pint of milk 
or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, 
and the rind of half a lemon grated. Pour 
it into the mould, and when the solid has 
imbibed it all, flour a cloth, tie it tight over, 
and boil an hour; keep the mould the right 
side upwards. 

BREAD AND BUTTER. 



Cut Uiin slices of bread and butter, widiout 
the crust, lay some in the bottom of a dish, 
then put a layer of well-cleaned currants, or 
anv preserved fruit ; then more bread and 
butter, and so o)i till the dish is nearly filled; 
mix with a quart of milk four well-beaten 
eggs, three table-spoonfuls of orange-flower 
or rose water; sweeten it well with brown 
sugar, and pour it over the bread and butler, 
and let it soak for two or three hours before 
being baked. It will take nearly an hour. 
Serve with a sauce, in a sauce-tureen, made 
with a tea-cupful of currant wine, a table* 



PUDDINGS 



159 



PUDDINGS 



spoonful of brown sugar, three of water, and 
a bit of Inuter the size of a walnut, stirred till 
boiling hot. 

BREAD. (1) Cut two or three 

slices of bread rather thin, and without the 
crust, > put tliem in a dish, and pour over 
them half a pint of boiling milk ; let it stand 
till cold, and then mash the bread; lay into 
the bottom of a pudding dish a layer of pre- 
served gooseberries, then add the bread ; 
sweeten well a pint of good milk, and mix 
with it three well-beaten eggs with two ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of rose water; pour it ovev the 
bread, and bake it for an hour. Before 
Berviiig, nutmeg may be grated over the top. 

BREAD. (2) Make a pint of 



bread-crumbs; put them in a stewpan with 
as much milk as will cover them, the peel 
of a lemon, a little nutmeg grated, and a 
small piece of cinnamon ; boil about ten 
minutes ; sweeten with powdered loaf sugar ; 
take out the cinnamon, and put in four eggs; 
beat all well together, and bake half an hour, 
or boil rather more than an hour. 

PLAIN BREAD. Make five 



ounces of bread-crumbs ; put them in a ba- 
siii ; pour three-tiuarters of a pint of boili|ig 
milk over them ; put a plate over the top to 
keep in the steam ; let it stand twenty min- 
utes, then beat it up cjuite smooth with two 
ounces of sugar and a salt-spoonful of nutmeg. 
Break four eggs on a plate, leaving out one 
white; beat them well, and add them to the 
pudding. Stir it all well together, and put it 
in a mould that has been well buttered and 
floured; lie a cloth over it, and boil it one 
hour. 

BUTTER-MILK. Tuin two 



quarts of new milk with one of butter-milk ; 
drain off the whey, and mix with the curd 
the grated crumb of a twopenny roll, the 
grated peel of a lemon, nearly a whole nut- 
meg grated, half a pint of rich cream, six 
ounces of clarified butter, and the beaten 
yolks of nine, and the whites of four eggs; 
sweeten it well, and bake it with or without 
'i puft' paste, fur three-quarters of an hour. 
It may be boiled. 



CAMP. Put into a saucepan 



half a pint of water, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, add 
the peel of half a lemon or orange. Let it 
just come to a boil, take it off", and stir in a 
quarter of a pound of sifted flour; mix it 
j)er{ectly smooth, and when cold, beat in 
four well-beateij eggs. Half fill twelve yel- 
low tea-cups, and bake them in a (juick 
oven. Serve them with a sauce of wine, 
sugar, and butter, in a sauce-tureen. 



CARROT. Pound in a mortar 

the red part of two large boiled carrots ; add 
a slice of grated bread, or pounded biscuit, 
two ounces of melted butter, the same quan- 
tity of sugar, a table-spoonful of marma- 
lade, or a bit of orange-peel minced; half a 
tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and four well- 
beaten eggs; mix all well together ; bake it 
in a dish lined with puflT paste. 

CALF'S FEET. Pick all 



the meat oft" three well-boiled calf's feet; 
chop it finely, as also half a pound of fresh 
beef s jet ; grate the crumb of a penny 'oaf; 
cut like straws an ounce of orange-peel , and 
the same of citron; beat well six eggs, and 
grate a small nutmeg, inix all these ingre- 
dients well together, wilh a glass of brandy 
or rum, and boil it in a cloth nearly three 
hours. Serve with a sweet sauce. 

CHERRY, ANGLO FRAN- 



Cx^IS. Pick two pounds of fine ripe 
cherries, and mix them with a quarter of a 
pound of picked red currants, (having ex- 
tracted the seeds), and six ounces of powder 
sugar. Make your pudding as directed in 
the receipt for a{)ple pudding, with Musca 
del raisins. You may make use of rasp- 
berries instead of currants ; or mix red or 
white curranJs and raspberries. 

CHEESE. (1) Grate one 



pound of mild cheese ; beat well four eggs, 
oil one ounce of butter; mix these ingredi- 
ents together with one gill of cream, and 
two table-spoonfuls of grated and sifted 
bread, and bake it in a dish or tin lined 
witli puff" paste. 

CHEESE. (2) Grate a quarter 



of a pound of good cheese, put it into a sauce- 
pan with half a pint of good milk, and nearly 
two ounces of grated bread, and one beaten 
egg; stir it till the cheese be dissolved; put 
it into a buttered dish, and brown it in a 
Dutch oven. Serve it quite hot. 

CITRON. (1) Mix together a 



pint of cream and the yolks of six eggs; add 
to this four ounces of fine sugar, th.e same of 
citron, shred fine, two spoonfuls of flour, and 
a little nutmeg; place this mixture in a deep 
dish, bake it in a hot oven, and turn it out. 

CITRON. (2) The yolks of three 



eggs beaten, half a pint of cream, one spoon- 
fiil of flour, two ounces of citron cut thin; 
sugar to the taste; put this into large cups 
buttered ; bake them in a toleiably quick 
oven ; w hen done, turn them out of the cups, 
and serve. 

COCOA-NUT Quarter pound 



PUDDINGS 



160 



PUDDINGS 



Cocoa-nut grated : same of powdered sugar ; 
tlu'ee and half ounces butler; whites of six 
eggs ; half tea-spoon of rose-water, and lialf 
glass of wine and biandy mixed. Take the 
thin brown sUin/rom off tlie meat, and wash 
the pieces in cold water, and wipe dry. 
Grate a (juarter pound fine. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cieam, and add the liquor 
and rose-water to them. Beat the whites 
of the eggs till they stand alone, and then 
stir them into the butter and sugar; after- 
wards sprinkle in the grated nut, and stir 
hard all die time. Put puff paste into the 
bottom and sides of the dish, pour in the 
mixture, and bake in a moderate oven 
about half an hour. Grate loaf sugai- over 
it, when cold. 

COTTAGE POTATO OR 



CAKE. Peel, boil, and mash, a couple of 
pounds of potatoes: beat them up into a 
smooth batter, with about three-quarters of 
a pint of milk, two ounces of moist sugar, 
and two or three beaten eggs. Bake it 
about three-quarters of an houi^ Three 
ounces of currants or raisins may be added. 
Leave out the milk, and add three ounces of 
butter, — it will make a very nice cake. 

COTTAGE. Six ounces of 



currants, half a pound of minced suet, and 
the same quantity of grated bread, half a 
grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful of white 
wine, or rose water; mix all well together, 
with the beaten yolks of five eggs, to a stiff 
paste, and with floured hands roll it into 
twelve or thirteen small puddings in the form 
of sausages; fry them gently in butter till of 
a nice brown; roll them well in the frying- 
pan. Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed 
over them, and with a sweet sauce. They 
may be boiled. 

CRANBERRY. Stir into a 



quart of batter, made stift'er than for batter 
pudding, about a pint of cranberries, and 
boil as usual. Or, make a paste as for apple 
pudding, and put in the cranberries, with 
molastes sufficient to sweeten their acidity. 
Eaten widi sweet sauce. 

CURD, BOILED. Rub the 



curd of two gallons of milk, well drained, 
through a sieve ; then mix with it six eggs, 
a little cream, two spoonfuls of orange- 
flower water, half a nutmeg grated, three 
spoonfuls of flour, and three spoonfuls of 
biead-crumbs, half a pound of currants, and 
half a pound of raisins stoned. Let it boil 
for one hour, in a thick cloth well floured. 

CURRANT. Apoundof cur- 



fuls of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of 
ginger, a little powder sugar and a little 
salt; boil this for three hours. 

CURRANT DRY. Chop a 



pound of suet, and mix it with a pound of 
flour, half a pound of currants, (well wash- 
ed), a tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, half a 
spoonful of tincture of saflion, and a little 
salt; stir in a suliiicient quantity of water, 
to make it a proper consistence; tie it in a 
buttered cloth, and boil it for an hour; serve 
it with melted butler, white wine, and sugar. 



CUSTARD. Boil a pint of 



milk, and a quarter of a pint of good cream ; 
thicken with flour and water made perfectly 
smooth, till it is stiff enough to bear an egsr 
on It ; break m the yolks of five eggs ; sweet- 
en with powdered loaf sugar; grate in a 
little nutmeg and the peel of a lemon: add 
half a glass of good brandy; then whip the 
whites of the five eggs till (jnite stiff, and 
mix gentlj all toged)er: line a pie-dish with 
good puff paste, and bake half an hour. 
N. B. — Ground rice, potato flour, panada» 
and all puddings made fiom i»owders, are, 
or may be, prepared in the same way. 

DAMSON. Make a batter 



wit^ three well-beaten eggs, a pint of milk, 
and of flour and brown sugar four table- 
spoonfuls each; st«ne a pint of damsons, 
and mix them with the batter; boil it in a 
buttered basin for an hour and a half. 

EGG. Melt a quarter of a 



pound of butter, an;l when nearly cold, mix 
well with it tlie following ingresiients: — ten 
well-beaten yolks and two whites of eggs, 
half a pint of rich cream, half a pound of 
good brown sugar, t^vo table-spoonfuls of 
flour, a grated nutmeg, and a glass of bran- 
dy; bake it with or without aiiningof puflf 
paste. 

FRUIT SUET. Of finely 



lauts, a pound of suet, five eggs, four spoon- 



minced suet, flour, grated bread, and clean- 
ed currants, a f juarter of a pound each ; a 
tea-spoonful of ])ounded ginger, one of salt, 
two ounces of brown sugar, and a tea-cup- 
ful of milk; mix all the ingredients well to- 
gether, and boil it in a cloth for two hours. 
Serve with a si\eet sauce. 

FAMILY. Mix with a pound 



of flour half a pound of raisins stoned and 
chopped, the same quantity of minced sue', 
a little salt, and milk or water suflicient to 
make it into a stiff" batter; boil it for five 
hours. Serve with melted butter poured 
ovei- it. Two well-beaten eggs may be 
added. 



PUDDINGS 



IGl 



PUDDINGS 



GOOSEBERRY, BOILED. 

Tliis pudding is made in the same manner 
as Apple pudding. 

— INDIAN. (1) It is a good plan 



to make this pudding the night before. It 
requires a great deal of boiling, say four 
or five hours. Sifted meal and warm milk 
stirred together pretty stiff; salt and sufiii- 
cient molasses added. Boil in a stout bag, 
or tio-iitly covered pan ; let not the water 
get in, and be careful in tying to leave room 
for the meal to swell. Let the milk you use 
be warm, not scalding. You may add 
chojiped suet, which is very much liked by 
some, and likewise ginger, if preferred. If 
vou have not milk, water will answer. 

INDIAN. (2) Boil in a quart of 



good milk a tea-cupful of Indian meal, stir 
it constantly till thick, sweeten it with triju- 
cle or brown sugar, and stir in two well- 
beaten eggs, and an ounce of butter; bake 
it in a Dutch oven for half an hour. Haifa 
grated nutmeg may be added, and it may be 
made without eggs. A boiled Indian meal 
piuMing is made in the same way, and after 
being mixed with or without eggs in it, it is 
iied in a buttered and floured cloth, and boil- 
ed f )r two hours. It is eaten with cold or 
melted butter. 

JELLY. Beat to a light cream 



and oi'uament it with raisins in festoons, or 
in any other farm; line it with sponge bis- 
cuit, and fill it up with a mixture of ratafia 
and sponge biscuit, then pour a rich custard 
over the whole, and let it stand for two 
hours, a<lding more custard as it soaks into 
the biscuit. The mould being q\iite full, tie 
a cloth over it, and boil it for about an hour. 

LEMON. (1) Peel four lemons 



thin; boil them till they are tender; rub 
tiiein through a hair sieve, and preserve the 
fine pulp. Take a pound of Naples biscuits, 
a little grated nutmeg, and two ounces of 
fresh butter, and pour ov(;r them some boil- 
mg milk or cream in which a stick of cin- 
namon has been boiled. When cold, mix 
widi them the puin of the lemons, and eight 
eggs well beaten; sweeten ac(U)rding to 
taste, and if you choose, add brandy. Edge 
a dish with good puff paste, put in the mix- 
lure; garnish the top with strings of paste, 
14* 



ten ounces of fresh butter, then add by de- 
grees six well-beaten yolksof eggs, and half 
a pound of loaf sugar pounded ; stir in two 
or three table-spoonfuls of rose watei'; beat 
to a stiff froth the whites of six eggs, mix 
them in liglitly ; bake it five-and-twenty min- 
utes in a dish lined with puf!" paste. 

JENETON. Butter a mould, 



as for tartlets, and bake it in a moderately 
heated oven. 



LEMON. (2) Put half a pound 



of fresh butter with half a pound of loaf su 
gar, into a sauce|ran, and keep it stirring 
over the fire till it boils; put it into an 
earthen pan, and grate the rind of a large 
lemon into it, and let it stand till cold ; beat 
eight eggs, and squeeze the juice of the lemon 
on them; mix the sugar and butter with 
them ; put some rich puif paste at the bottom 
of a dish, then put in the preparation, and 
add bits of candied lemon-peel when jou 
have put in the preparation. Bake with 
great care. 

LEMON. (3) Boil in water, 



in a closely covered saucepan, two large 
lemons till (luite tender; take out the seeds, 
and pound the lemons to a paste ; add a 
quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
the same of fi-esh butter beaten to a cream, 
and the yolks of three well-beaten eggs; mix 
all toijether, and bake it in a tin lined with 
puif paste; take it out, strew ovei' the top 
grated loaf sugar, and serve it upon a napkin. 

MACARONI. (1) Simmer half a 



pound of macaroni in plenty of water, and a 
fable-spoonful of salt, till it is tender; but 
take care not (o have it too soft ; though ten- 
der, it should be firm, and the form entirely 
preserved, and no part beginning to melt (this 
caution will serve for the preparation of all 
macaroni). Strain the water from it; beat 
up five yolks and the whites of two eggs ; take 
half a pint of the best cream, and tlie breast 
of a fowl, and some thin slices of ham. 
Mince the breast of the fowl with the ham; 
add them with from two to three table- 
spoonfuls of iinely-grated cheese, and sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Mix all these 
with the nracaroni, and put into a jHiuding- 
mould well buttered, and then let it steam in 
a stewpan of boilitig water for about an 
hour, and serve quite hot, with rich gravy 
(as in Omelet). 

MACAROiNI. (2) Take an ounce 



or two of the pipe sort of macaroni, and 
simmer it in a pint of milk, and a bit of 
lemon-peel and cinnamon, till tender; put it 
into a dish, with milk, three eggs, but only 
one white, some sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful 
of almond-water, and half a glass of raisin 
wine; lay a nice paste round the edge of the 
dish, and put it in the oven to bake. If 
you choose you may put in a jayer of orange- 
marmalade, or raspberry-jam: in this case 
you nuist n(jt put in the almond-water or 
ratafia. 

— MARliOW. Put into a mug 



PUDDINGS 



162 



PUDDINGS 



the crumb of a pound loaf, and pour over it 
a pint and a half of Ijoiling milk; cover it 
closely for an hour; cut into small bits half 
a pound of marrow, stone and cut a quarter 
of a pound of raisins, take the same quantity 
of nicely-cleaned currants, beat well six eggs, 
a tea -spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and the 
same of nutmeg; mix all thoroughly with the 
bread and milk, sweet'^n it well with brown 
sugar, and hake it, with or without a bor- 
der of puff paste round the dish, three-quar- 
ters of an hour. It may be baked in a 
Dutch oven, and after baking it for three- 
quarters of an hour, put a tin cover over 
the top, and place the dish upon a gridiron, 
over a slow fire, and let it remain for fifteen 
minutes. 

MILLET. Wash four table- 



spoonfuls of the seed, boil it in a quart of 
milk with grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, 
and stir in, when a little cooled, an ounce of 
fresh butter ; sweeten with brown sugar, 
and add the well-beaten jolks of four, and 
the whites of two eggs, and a glass of wine 
or spirits. Bake it in a buttered dish. 

MY. Beat up the yolks and 



whites of three eggs; strain them through a 
sieve (to keep out the treddles), and gradu- 
ally add to them about a quarter pint of milk ; 
stir these well together. Rub together in a 
mortar two ounces of moist sugar and as 
much grated nutmeg as will lie on a shilling; 
stir them into the eggs and milk ; then put 
in four ounces of flour, and beat it into a 
smoodi batter ; by degrees stir into it seven 
ounces of suet (minced as fine as possible) 
and three ounces of bread crumbs. Mix all 
tiioroughly together at least half an hour be- 
fore you ))ut the pudding into the pot. Put it 
into an earthen pudding mould, that is well 
buttered. Tie a cloth over it very tight; 
put it into boiling water, and boil it three 
hours. Half a pound of raisins cut in half 
added to the above, will make a most admi- 
rable plum pudding. Grated lemon-peel is 
also fine. 

Don't let the water cease to boil : it will 
spoil the pudding. And it is always best 
tlial puddings be mixed an hour or two be- 
fore put into the pot, the ingredients get 
amalgamated, and the whole becomes richer 
and fuller of flavor. 

The above pudding may be baked in an 
oven, or under meat, as Yorkshire pudding, 
only add half pint more milk. Should it be 
above an inch and quvuter in thickness, it 
will take full two hours; and requires care- 
ful watching; for if the top gets burned, a 
bad flavor will pervade the whole pudding. 
Or, butter some tin patty-pans or saucers, 
fill them with pudding, and bake about an 
houi' in a Dutch oven. 



NASSAU. Put into a sauce- 
pan the whole yolks of eight, and the whitea 
of four eggs, half a pound of pounded loaf 
sugar, and one pound of fresh butter ; stir it 
over a slow fire for nearly half an hour; line 
a dish with thin puflT paste and lay over the 
bottom a thick layer of orange marmalade, 
and then put in the pudding. Bake it for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. 

NEW COLLEGE. Haifa pound 



of fresh beef suet, finely minced, the same of 
currants, a quarter of a pound of grated 
bread, and of pounded sweet biscuit, half a 
tea-spoonful of salt, a small nutmeg grated, 
an ounce of candied orange-peel minced; 
mix all together with two or three well- 
beaten eggs, and fry them in butter till of a 
light brown ; shake the pan, and turn them 
frequently till done enough. Serve with 
pounded loaf sugar strewed thickly over 
them. 

NEWMARKET. Put on to 



boil a pint of good milk, with half a lemon- 
peel, a little cinnamon, and a bay leaf; boil 
gently for five or ten minutes; sweeten with 
loaf sugar; break the yolks of five, and the 
whiles of three eggs, into a basin ; beat thera 
well, and add the milk: beat all well togeth- 
ei', and strain through a fine hair sieve, or 
tamis: have some bread and butter cut very 
thin ; lay a layer of it^n a pie-dish, and then 
a layer of currants, and so on till the dish is 
nearly full; then pour the custard over it, 
and bake half an hour. 

NEWCASTLE, OR CABI- 



NET. Butter a half melon mould, or quart 
basin, and stick all round with dried cher- 
ries, or fine raisins, and fill up with bread 
and butter, &;c. as in the above ; and steam 
it an hour and a half. 

NOTTINGHAM. Peel six 



good apples; take out the core with the 
point of a small knife, or an apple corer, 
if you have one ; but be sure to leave the 
apples whole; fill up where you took the 
core from with sugar; place them in a pie- 
dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, 
prepared as for batter pudding, and bake 
an hour in a moderate oven. 

OATMEAL. Sift a pound 



of oatmeal, chop three-quarters of a pound 
of suet, mince some onions, and mince all 
together ; season w ell with pepper and salt ; 
half fill the skins, and boil and dress them 
as directed in the receipt for ox-blood pud- 
dings. Some people think a little sugar an 
improvement. 

ORANGE.(l)The yoUis of six 



PUDDINGS 



163 



PUDDINGS 



Rnd the whites of three eggs, well beaten ; 
three lable-sooonfuls of orange marmalade, 
a quarter of a pound of loaf sngar pounded, 
the same of melted butter; three table-spoon- 
fuls of grated bread, and a quarter of a pint 
of cream; mix all well together, and bake 
them iu u disli lined with pulf paste. 



ORANGE. (2) Cut in half 

three large Seville oranges, sfjueeze and 
Btrain the juice; boil the skins till quite 
soft in a good deal of water, pound them in 
a mortar, and mix them with nine beaten 
yolks and four whites of eggs, nearly a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, the juice of 
the oianges, and half a pound of melted 
butter, l^ake it in a dish lined with puff 
paste for half an hour. 

PEAS. Put a quart of split 



peas to soak for two hours into warm wa- 
ter; boil them in soft water, with a bit of 
butter, till sulliciently tender to press dirough 
a sieve; pulp them, and add the beaten yolk 
of one egg, a little pepper and salt, and an 
ounce of initter. Tie it into a buttered and 
floured cloth, and put it on in boiling wa- 
ter; boil it nearly an hour. 



PLUM. (1) One pound of fresh 

beef suet, finely minced, one pound of raisins 
stoned, five table-spoonfuls of flour, five of 
brown sugar, five \^ll-beaten yolks, and 
three whites of eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt ; 
mix all the ingredients thoroughly, and boil 
it in a cloth for fjur or five hours. Serve 
with grated loaf sugaj', and melted butter 
poured over it. 

PLUM. (2) One pound of rai- 



sins, stoned and cut in half: one pound of cur- 
rants, picked, washed, and dried: one pound 
beef suet chop|)ed fine: a pound of grated 
bread, or half pound each of grated bread 
and flour: eight eggs: quarter pound of su- 
gar: salt-spoon of salt: table-spoon of cinna- 
mon and mace mixed: two grated nutmegs: 
a glass each of wine and brandy: quarter 
pound of sugar, and a pint of milk. Pre- 
pare all the day before, except the eggs, that 
you may mix them the next morning: it re- 
quir-es six hours boiling. Beat the eggs 
lightly, then put to them half the milk and 
beat together. Stir in the flour and bread; 
tlien the sugar by degrees ; then the suet and 
fruit; the fruit to be well floured to keep it 
from sinking. Stir hard. Now add the 
spice and liquor, and the remainder of tlie 
milk. If it is not thick enoug!), add more 
bread or flour ; but if there be too much 
bread or flour the pudding will be heavy. 
Wet tlie cloth in boiling water, shake it out, 
and sprinkle it with flour. Lay it iu a dish 
and pour into it the pudding Tie it tight, 



allowing room to swell. Boil six hours. 
When you turn it out, stick over the out* 
sis^e blanched almonds in slips or slips of cit- 
ron, or both. If you add grated lemon-peei 
to the other ingredients it will much improve 
the pudding. 

PLUM. (3) One poimd of the 



best raisins stoned, half a pound of <-urraiil3 
well cleaned, one pound of fi'esh beef suet 
finely minced, five table-spoonfuls of grated 
bread, three of flour, two of brown sugar, 
one tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, one of 
cinnamon, and one of salt, six well-beaten 
eggs, and three wine-glasses of rum, all to 
be mixed thoroughly together the day before 
it is to be boiled. Boil it in a cloth or 
mould for four or five hours. Serve with 
melted butter, or the following sauce: — 
Heat two or three table-spoonfids of sweet 
cream, and mix it gradually with two well- 
beatea yolks of eggs; add three table-spoon- 
fuls of white wine, brandy, or rum, and a 
table-spoonfiil of sugar; season with grated 
nutmeg, and stir it over the fire till quite 
hot; but do not allow it to boil. 

PLU3I. (4) Four ounces of 



apples finely minced, the same (quantity of 
currants cleaned and dried, and of grated 
bread, two ounces of raisins, stoned and 
minced, two of pounded loaf sugar, half a 
nutmeg grated, a little candied orange or 
lemon peel, four well-beaten eggs', one ounce 
and a half of melted butter just warm; mix 
all the ingredienis well together, and boil it 
in a butteied shape for four hours. If the 
pudding does not fill the shape, add a slice 
of the crumb of bread at the bottom. Serve 
with a sweet sauce. 

PLUM, WITHOUT EGGS. 



Haifa pound of grated bread, a quarter of a 
pound of finely-minced suet, a table-spoonful 
of flour, half a pound of currants cleaned, 
rather more than two ounces of brown sugar, 
a glass of brandy; mix all together with a 
sulficient quantity of milk to make it into a 
stiff batter; boil it in a cloth for four hours. 
It may be baked, adding half a pound of 
stoned raisins, and a little candied orange 
and lemon-peel. 

POTATO. (1) Boil three 



large mealy potatoes, >nash them very smooth- 
ly, with one ounce of butter, and two or 
three table-spoonfuls of thick cream; add 
three well-beaten eggs, a little salt, grated 
nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of brow n sugar. 
Beat all well together, and bake it in a but- 
tered (fish, f jr hall" an hou"' in a)i oven, and 
three-tjuarters of an houi- in a Dutch oven 
A few currants may be added to tlie pud- 
ding. 



PUDDINGS 



164 



PUDDINGS 



• POTATO. (2) Boil half a 

{tint of milk, anH tite s.iiiie (itiantity of cream, 
with a stick of cinnamon, and the peel of 
a lemon; strain it, and stir in gradually 
tliree tahle-spDonfiils of potato flour, mix it 
very smoothly, and add six well-beaten eggs; 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; stick all 
rouiul a buttered tin mould, dried cherries, 
or stoned rait^ins, put in the jiudding, and put 
a bit of buttered linen over the top, and then 
ihe cover of the mould ; place it in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, boil it for an hour and 
a half; take care the water does not boil 
over the mould. Serve with a sweet sauce. 

POTATO-FLOUR. Boil some 



cinnamon, lemon-peel, and sugar, in a (juart 
of milk; strain, and stir it with three table- 
spoonfuls of ])otato flour previously mixed 
smooth widi a little cold milk; stir it till it 
be nearly cold; add four well-beaten eggs, 
a glass of sweet wine, or two table-spoonfuls 
of spirits, and a little marmalade. Bake it 
in a Dutch oven. 

PRUNE. Stew a pound of 



jHunes with half a pint of Port wine, a quarter 
o("a pint of water, and a large table-spoon- 
ful of brown sugar; break the stones, and 
put the kernels with the fruit; spread it 
over a sheet of puff paste, wet the edges, and 
roll it into the form of a bolster; tie it firm- 
ly in a buttered and floured cloth, and boil 
it between two and three hours. Serve 
with sweet wine sauce. 

QUINCE. Take a sufficient 



number of ripe quinces to yield a pound of 
pulp, to which put half a pound of powder- 
sugar, cinnamon, and ginger, of each two 
drachms, pounded ; mix them well. Beat 
Uj) the yolks of eight eggs in a pint of cream, 
add the quince, &c. stir the whole together, 
flour a cloti), tie Ihe pudding in, and boil it. 

RATAFIA. Pound, with a lit- 



tle rose-water, two ounces of blanched sweet 
almonds, and half a quarter of a pound of 
ratafia cakes, add the well-beaten yolks of 
six, and ihe whites of two eggs, a pint of 
thick cream, tw) glasses of white wine, and 
one ounce of pounded loaf sugar. Bake it 
in a dish, lined with puff paste, for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

• REGENT'S. Rub an earthen- 



ware mould with butter, and cover the bot- 
tom with bloom raisins stoned; cut thin 
slices of the crumb of bread, butter, and lay 
one or two over the raisiis; upon that put 
a layer of ratafia cakes, then one of bread 
and butter, and raisins ; do this till the mould 
is nearly full, and pour over it the following 
mixtures: u pint of cream well sweetened 



with pounded loaf sugar, and mixed with 
four well-beaten yolks of eggs, a glass of 
brandy, and two table-spoonfuls of rose-wa- 
ter; let it soak one or two hours; put over 
the top a piece of writing-paper buttered, 
and tie over it a cloth. Boil it for one hour 
and a half, and serve it with wine sauce. 

GROUND RICE, RICH. (1) 



Stir into a quarter of a pound of ground 
rice, a pint and a half of new milk ; put it 
into a saucepan, and keep stirring it till it 
boils ; then add three ounces of melted but- 
ter, the same quantity of sugar, half a grated 
nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of grated lemon- 
peel; mix it very well, and when cold, add 
the well-beaten yolks of four, and the white 
of one egg, with a glass of ratafia, and half 
a one of orange-flower or rose water; bake 
it in a dish lined with puff paste for three- 
quarters of an hour. Before serving, strew 
over the top grated loaf sugar. 

GROUND RICE. (2) Mix 



till quite smooth, with a small tea-cupful of 
ground rice, a quart of good milk, stir it 
over the fire till it boils, and let it boil for 
three minutes ; put it into a basin, and when 
nearly cold, add the well-beaten yolks of 
six, and the whites of two eggs, with a tea- 
cupful of sweet wine, or a glass of spirits ; 
put it into a buttered dish, and bake it for 
thiee-quarters of an hour, or for one hour in 
a Dutch oven, in the same way as the mar- 
row pudding is done. Any sort of preserve 
may be put into the bottom of the dish, and 
a sweet sauce may be served with it. 

GROUND RICE. (3) Boil 



in a pint of milk a quarter of a pound of 
flour of rice, with two table-spoonfuls of 
rose water, and half the peel of a lemon, stir 
it till thick, take it off, and mix in a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, half a grated nut- 
meg, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the 
whites of three eggs; sweeten it with brown 
sugar, pick out the lemon-peel, and boil it 
in a buttered basin, which must be complete- 
ly filled. Serve with a sauce made with a 
glass of white wine, boiled in melted butter, 
and sweetened with brown sugar. 

RICE, BAKED OR BOIL- 



ED. Wash in cold water and pick very 
clean six ounces of rice, put it in a quart 
stewpan three parts filled with cold water, 
set it on the fire, and let it boil five minutes; 
pour away the water, and put in one quart 
of milk, a roll of lemon-peel, and a bit of 
cinnamon ; let it boil gently till the rice ia 
quite tender; it will take at least one hour 
and a quarter; be careful to stir it eveiy 
five minutes; take it off the fire, and stir in 
an ounce and a half of freslv butter, and besit 



PUDDINGS 



165 



PUDDINGS 



lip three eggs on a plate, a salt-spoonful of 
niitmeg, two ounces of sugar; put it into tlie 
pucl'lin^S and stir it till it is quite siUiKilh; 
line a pie-di^:ll big euDugli to hold it with 
puff" puste, notch it round the wlge, put in 
your ])udiling, and bake it tbree-quartcns of 
an hour: this will boa nice firm pudiiing. 

If you like it to eat more like custard, 
add one more egg, and half a pint more 
milk; it will be better a little thinner when 
boiled; one hour will boil it. If you like 
it in little puddings, butter small tea-cups, 
and either bake or boil them, half an hour 
will do either: you may vaiy the pudding 
by putting in candied lemon or oi'ange peel, 
minced \ei"y fine, or dried cherries, or tlu-ee 
ounces of cur i ants, or raisins, or apples 
minced fine. If tiie puddings are baked or 
boiled, serve them witii white wine sauce, or 
butler and sugar. 

RICE. Boil a quarter of a 



pound of rice in water till it is soft, tliea 
drain it in a sieve, and pound it in a mor- 
tar; add five well-beaten yolks of eggs, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, the same pro- 
portion of sugar, a small nutmeg, and half 
die rind of a lemon grated; work them well 
together for twent}' minutes, and add a 
pound of cleaned currants ; mix it all well 
and boil it in a pudding cloth for an hour 
and a half. Serve with wine sauce. 

RICE, WITHOUT EGGS. 



Weigh six ounces of rice, six of brown su- 
gar, and three and a half of fresh butter; 
break the butter into small bits; wash tlie 
rice in several waters ; put all into a pudding- 
dish, and fill it up with good milk ; let it 
eoak some hours. Bake it in a moderate 
oven for nearly two hours, and as the milk 
wastes, fill up the dish with more, till the 
rice be swelled and soft ; then let it brown. 



RICH. Put into a saucepan 



four ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of 
pounded loaf sugar, six of marmalade, and 
six ounces of eggs, well beaten; stir all one 
way till it be thoroughly warmed ; it must 
not be allowed to boil. Bake it in a dish 
lined with puff" paste. 



SAGO. (1) Boil five table-spoon- 



of sago in several waters (warm) ; then po' 
it into a saucepan with a pint of good milk,, 
and a little cinnamon; let it boil till thick, 
stirring frecjuently ; pour It into a j/an, and 
beat up with it half a pound of fresh butter; 
adfl to it the yolks of eight, and whites of 
four eggs, beaten separately, half a glass of 
\\ hite wine, sugar according to taste, and a 
little flour; mix all together well, and boil 
it. Serve with sweet sauce. 

SALT. Take a pint of milk, 



four dessert-spoonfuls of flour, a little suet, 
shred fine, four eggs, salt, and pounded gin- 
ger; mix first the eggs and milk, dien add 
the floiu-, &c. ; put more flour, if necessary, 
to give it consistence ; tie your pudding in 
a buttered cloUi, and boil it two hours. 



SCOTCH. Eight well-beaten 

yolks and three whites of eggs, half a pound 
of pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a ])ound 
of melted butter, the grated peel and juice 
of one lemon ; mix all together, and bake it 
in a dish lined with puft" paste; turn it out 
to serve, and strew over tlie top grated loaf 



SIPPET. Cut a small loaf into 



fills of sago, well picked and washed, in a 
quart of water, also half the peel of a lemon, 
and a stick of cinnamon; when it is radier 
thick, add half a pint of white wine, and 
sweeten it with good brown sugar; beat six 
yolks and three whites of eggs, pick out the 
lemon-peel and cinnamon, mix all well to- 
gether, and bake it in a dish with or with- 
out pufl" paste. 



extremely diin slices, and put a layer of tliem 
at tlie bottom of a dish, then a layer of mar- 
row, or beef suet, a layer of currants, and 
then a layer of bread again, kc, and so 
continue until the dish is filled; mix four 
eggs, well beaten, with a quart of cream, a 
nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, tiiid 
pour over; set it in the oven, it will take 
half an hour baking. 

SHROPSHIRE. Of fresh beef 



suet finely minced, of brown bread grated, 
and of brown sugar, one pound each, one 
nutmeg grated, a tea-cupful of "biandy, eight 
well-beaten yolks, and four whites of eggs; 
mix all well together, and boil it in a cloth 
or mould for four hours. Serve it with a 
sauce of melted butter, sugar, and two table- 
spoonfuls of brandy. 

SPRING FRUIT. Peel and 

well Avash four dozen sticks of rhubarb: put 
into a stewpan with the pudding a lemon, a 
little cinnamon, and as much moist sugar as 
will make it quite sweet; set it over a fire, 
and reduce it to a marmalade ; pass through 
a hair sieve, and proceed as directed for Uie 
Boston pudding, leaving out the lemon-juice, 
as the rhubarb will be found sutficiently acid 
of itself. 

SPEAKER'S. Stone and 



SAGO. (2) WashhalfaDound 



w^eigh three-<^juai»ters of a pound of raisins. 
Rub widi butter a plain oval mould, and 
stick upon it some of the raisins, in stripes 



PUDDINGS 



166 



PUDDINGS 



or circles. Cut some thin slices of bread 
without the crust, dry tliem awhile before 
the fire, butter, and cut them into stri|)s 
about an inch and a quarter wide ; line the 
mould with part of the bread, tiien put a 
layer of rai^Mis, and strew over a table- 
spoonful of pounded loat sugar ; add a layer 
of the bread and butter; fill the s;hape nearly 
full, putting brsad and butter on tlie top. 
Mix with a pint of good milk, the well-bea- 
ten yolks of four eggs, a table-spoonful of 
sugar, one and a half of rose-water, and a 
glass of brandy; pour this over the pudding, 
and let it soak one or two hours. Bake it 
tliree-quarters of an hour. It may be boiled 
by steam for an hour and a lialf. 



SQUASH. One good squash 



stewed and well bruised ; six laige apjiles 
stewed tender; mix them well t(,)gether; 
add seven spoonfuls ofbiead crumbs; half 
pint of milk; two spoonfuls of rose-water, 
two of wine; six eggs; one grated nutmeg; 
salt and sugar to taste. Beat all together till 
smooth, and put in a dish lined with puff 
paste. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

SUET, WIGGY'S WAY. 



Suet, a quarter of a pound ; flour, three table- 
spoonfuls; eggs, two; and a little grated 
ginger; milk, half a pint. Mince the suet 
as fine as possible, roll it wiUi the rolling- 
pin so as to mix it well with the flour; beat 
up the eggs, mix them with the milk, and 
then mix all together; wet your cloth well 
in boiling water, flour it, tie it loose, put it 
into boiling water, and boil it an hour and a 
quarter. Mrs. Glasse has it, " when you 
have made your water boil, then put your 
pudding into your pot." 

• SUET. Mix six table-spoonfuls of 



grated biead with a pound of finely-minced 
fresh beef suet, or that of a loin of mutton, 
one pound of flour, two lea-spoonfuls of salt, 
six well-beaten eggs, and nearly a pint of 
milk. Boil it in a cloth four or five hours. 
Serve it plain, or with a sweet sauce. 

APPLE SUET. Of finely minc- 



ed fiesh mutton suet, grated apples, flour, and 
brown sugar, six ounces each, half a grated 
nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of salt, and four well- 
beaten eggs, all well mixed together; boil- 
ed for two hours, and served with a sweet 
sauce. 

SUET, OR DUMPLINGS. 



Chop six ounces of suet very fine ; put it m 
a basin with six ounces of flour, two ounces 
of bread crumbs, and a tea-spoonful of salt 
stir it all well together: beat two eggs on a 
plate, add to them six table-spoonfuls of 
milk, put it by degrees into the basin, and 



stir it all well together; divide it into six 
dumplings, and tie them separate, previously 
dredging the cloth lightly with flour. Boil 
them one hour. This is very good the next 
day fried in a little butter. The above will 
make a good pudding, boiled in an earthen 
ware mould, with the addition of one more 
egg, a little more milk, and two ounces of 
suet. Boil it two hours. 

N. B. — The most economical way of mak- 
ing suet dumplings, is to boil them without a 
cloth in a pot with beef or mutton ; no eggs 
are then wanted, and the dumplings are qui(e 
as light without: roll them in flour before you 
put them into the pot ; add six ounces of 
curiants washed and picked, and you have 
currant pudding: or divided into six parts, 
currant dumplings;' a little sugar will im- 
prove them. 

SWEETMEAT. Slice thin. 



of orange, lemon-peel, and citron, an ounce 
each; lay them at the bottom of a dish, lin- 
ed with a light puff paste; mix widi half a 
pound of butter melted, tlie yolks of seven 
eggs and the whites of two, and five ounces 
of sugar ; pour diis over the sweetmeats, and 
set it in the oven; it will take radier more 
than half an hour baking. 

TANSY. Pour over a thick 



slice of the crumb of bread a quart of boiling 
milk; cover it till cold. Beat the yolks of 
four and the whites of two egg^. Pound 
some tanpy with two or three leaves of 
spinach; squeeze the juice, and put as 
much of it as will make the pudding a good 
green color, a gluss of l)ran(ly, lialf a grat- 
ed nutmeg, and four ounces of fresh butter; 
mix all the ingredients, sweeteii, and juit it 
into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till 
it be hot. Bake it in a buttered dish for 
half an hour. Bef jre serving, strew gi'ated 
loaf sugar over the top. 

TRANSPARENT. Put eight 



eggs well-beaten into a stewpan with half 
a pound of sugar, pounded fine, half a pound 
of butter, and some nutmeg grated. Set it 
on the fire, and keep constantly stirring till 
it thickens. Tiien set it into a basin to 
cool ; put a rich puff paste round the edge 
of die dish; jjour in the pudding, and bake 
it in a moderate oven. It will cut light 
and clear. Candied orange and citron may 
be added, if you think proper. 

TAPIOCA. Put four table* 



spoonfuls of tapioca into a quart of milk, 
and let it remain all night, then put a spoon- 
ful of brandy, some lemon-peel, and a little 
spice ; let them boil gently, add four eggs, 
and the whites well beaten, and a quarter 
of a pound of sugar. Bake it. 



PUDDINGS 



167 



QUA 



TREACLE. Mix together a 

pound of stoned raisins, fhree-qnarters of a 
pound of slned snet, a jKjnnd of Hour, a pint of 
nidk, a tablt'-spoonful of ireaole, grated gin- 
ger, and puiinded spice; wlien well stirred tip, 
tie it lu a floured cloth, and boil it four hours. 

WEST COUNTRY. Mix, with 



four well-beaten eggs, half a pound of apples 
finely minced, the same quantity of grated 
bread, and of well-cleaned currants, a quar- 
ter of a pound of brown sugar, and half a 
tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. This pudding 
may be either boiled or baked, and instead 
©f grated bread, four ounces of whole rice 
may be used, which must be boiled in milk, 
strained, and allowed to be cold before being 
mixed with the other ingredients. This 
puddding is boiled one liour and a half, and 
served with a sweet sauce. 

WHITE. Boil in a quart of 



milk two table-spoonfuls of rose-water ; add 
to two well-beaten eggs, three table-spoonfuls 
of Hour, and a little salt; stir it into the 
milk, and if not thick, dredge in a little 
more flour; just before it is taken off the 
fire, put in a bit of fresh butter (he size of a 
walnut. Serve it with red currant jelly up- 
on the top of it. 

WHORTLEBERRY. This 



pudding may be made both of flour and In- 
dian meal. Use a pint of milk, some mo- 
lasses, and a little salt, stirred quite stiff 
with meal, and a quart of berries mixed in 
with a spoon. Tie the bag loose, and let it 
boil three hours. When made of flour, pre- 
pare it like batter puddings, rather stiff to 
keep the berries from settling. Boil two 
hours. Tie the bag loose. 

WILTSHIRE. Mix, with three 



well-beaten eggs and a pint of milk, as jnuch 
flour as will make it a thick batter, and a 
little salt; beat it for some minutes, stir in 
gently a large tea-cupful of picked red cur- 
rants; boil it in a cloth for two hours, turn 
it out upon the dish it is to be served in, cut 
it into slices about three-quarters of an inch 
tliick. but do not separate them ; put between 
each a thin slice of butter, and some brown 
sugar, and serve it hot. 



YORKSHIRE, under roast 



MEAT. This pudding is an especially ex- 
cellent accompaniment to a sirloin of beef, 
— loin of veal, — or any fat and juicy joint. 
Six table-spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, a 
tea-spoonful of salt, and a pint of milk, so 
as to make a middhng stiff batter, a little 
stifler than you would for pancakes^ beat 
it up well, and take care it is not lumpy; 
put a dish under the meat, and let the drip- 



pings drop into it till it is quite hot and 
well greased; then ponr in tiie batter;— 
when the upper suiface is brown and set, 
turn it, that both sides nray be brown alike: 
if you wisii it to cut finn, and the pudding 
an inch thick, it will take two hours at a 
good Are. 

N. B. — The true Yorkshire pudding is 
about half an inch thick when done; but it 
is the fashion in London to make them full 
twice that thickness. 

PUFFS. (1) Roll out puff paste nearly 
a quarter of an inch thick, and, with a small 
saucer, or tin cutter of that size, cut it into 
round pieces: place upon one side raspberry 
or strawberry jam, or any sort of preserved 
fruit, or stewed apples; wet the edges, fold 
over the other side, and press it round with 
the finger and thumb. Or cut the paste into 
the form of a diamond, lay on the fruit, and 
fold over the paste, so as to give it a trian- 
gular shape. See Paste. 

PUFFS. (2) Put into a saucepan a pint 
of milk, boil slowly, and stir in flour till it 
be very thick, like paste; when cold, mix 
with it six well-beaten eggs, a table-spoon- 
ful of sugar, half a nutmeg, and the peel of 
a small lemon grated, and a table-spoonful 
of brandy ; heat it well together for fifteen 
minutes, and when (juite light, drop it from 
a dessert-spoon into a pan of boiling clarified 
suet or lard. Serve with pounded loaf sugar 
strewed over them. 

PUFFS OF PRESERVED FRUIT. 

Roll out, a quarter of an inch tliick, good 
puff paste, and cut it into pieces four inches 
square; lay a small quantity of any kind of 
jam on each, double them over, and cut them 
into square, tiiangle, or, with a tin cutter, 
half moons ; lay them with paper on a baking- 
plate; ice them, bake them about twenty 
minutes, taking care not to color the icing. 

PUNCH. See Justice's Sirup. 



Q. 



QUAILS, HUNTERS. Put the quails 
in a saucepan, with a little butter, a bay- 
leaf, sweet herbs, salt and pepper; set them 
on a fierce fire, and keep shaking them until 
they are tender, when add a dessert-spoonful 
of flour, half a glass of white wine, and a 
little stock, when this is thick, and (juite 
hot (without boiling); take it from tlie fire, 
and serve. 

QUAILS, SPANISH. Mix the juico 



QUE 



168 



QUI 



of a lemon with some butter, salt, and pep- 
per; pick, and prepare eight quails, stuff 
them well with the above mixture; tlien 
fasten the legs to the body, leaving ihe claws 
free; truss them a good'shape, and put them 
into a saucepan on slices of bacon, cover 
them also witli slices, add a gravy, moisten- 
ed witli equal portions of white wine and 
stock; set them on the fire for half an hour; 
then take them out, drain and untie tiie 
birds, place each on a piece of fried bread 
tlie size of the quail, and serve with a clear 
Spanish sauce, with the addition of a little 
glaze. 

QUAILS, HOT PIE. Make a raised 
cnist in die usual way, spread over the bottom 
of it some farce cuite mixed with the livers 
of the quails, pounded, and some sweet 
herbs; take eight quails, take out the thigh 
bones, and half dress them in a little butter 
and sweet heibs; when cold, stuff each with 
some of the above-mentioned farce, arrange 
them in the pie, fill up the intestines and the 
centre with the remainder of the farce, season 
It well, lay slices of bacon over the quails; 
wet the edges of the paste with water, cover 
the pie with a very thin crust ; do it over 
with egg, and decorate it according to fancy. 
Put it into the oven to l)ake, an hour and a 
quarter will suffice. When done, raise the 
top carefully, remove the bacon, take off all 
the fat, pour in some good gravy, and serve. 

QUAILS, ROASTED. Truss the birds, 

and stuff them with beef-suet and sweet 
herbs, both shred very small, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg; fasten them to a 
spit, and put them to the fire; baste with 
salt and water when they first begin to get 
warm; then dredge tliein with dour, and 
baste with butter. Put an anchovy, two or 
three shallots, and the juice of a Seville or- 
ange into a little rich gravy; set it on the 
fire, shake it about, and when the anchovy 
is dissolved, serve it with the quails. Gar- 
nish the dish with fried bread crumbs. These 
birds are sometimes roasted, wrajjped first in 
a slice of bacon, and then in a vine-leaf. 
They should be kept at a moderate distance 
Com t!ie fire. 

QUAILS, STEWED. Put a little 
butter worked up with Hour, and a few green 
onions into a stevvpan ; when brown, put 
in some quails, a glass of wine, the same of 
stock, parsley, some more small onions, a 
bay-leaf, anti two or three cloves; stew these ' 
till the qriails are sufficiently done. Garnish 
your dish with cock's-combs, artichoke bot- 
toms, fried bread, &c. 

QUEER'S POTAGE. Draw, wash, 
and clean dn-ee chickens, or young fowls, put 



them into a stewpan, with a btnch of parslej 
and some well-seasoned boiling veal stocky 
let it stew' fur an houi-; take out the fowls, 
and pound all die meat to a fine paste in a 
marble mortar, with the crumb of two penny 
loaves, previously soaked in the soi^), and 
the yolks of three or four hard boiled eggs; 
rub all through a sieve, and add it to the 
soup stirring it well. Put a ([uart of rich 
cream on the fire, and stir it till it boils, and 
then mix it with the soup and serve it quite 
hot. 

QUEEN OR HEART CAKES. One 

pound of sifted sugar, one pound of butter, 
eight eggs, one pound and a quarter of flour, 
two ounces of currants, and half a nutmeg 
grated. Cream the butter, and mix it well 
widi the sugar and spice, then put in half 
the eggs, and beat it ten minutes — add the 
remainder of the eggs, and work it ten min- 
utes longer — stir in the flour lightly, and the 
currants afterwards, — then take small tin 
pans of any shape (hearts the most usual), 
rub die inside of eacli with bistter, fill and 
bake them a few minutes in a hot oven, on 
a sheet of matted wire, or on a baking plate 
— when done, remove them as early. as pos- 
sible from the pans. 

QUEEN'S DROPS. Leave out four 
ounces of flour horn the last receipt, and 
add two ounces more of currants, and two 
ounces of c;indied peel, cut small — work it 
the same as in the last receipt, and when 
ready put the mixture into a biscuit funnel, 
and lay them out in drops about the size of 
half a crown, on white paper, — bake them 
in a hot oven, and when nearly cold, take 
them from the paper. 

QUINCE COMPOTE. Take six 
quinces, cut them in halves, and core them; ^ 
scald and pare them neatly. Put some clear 
sirup into a preserving-pan, ^vith the juice 
of a lemon ; when hot, add the quinces, and 
give them a boil together; drain the fruit, 
arrange it in the compotier; leave the siiup 
to thicken a little, and pour it over the 
quinces. 

QUINCE CREAIVI. l\d;e four or five 
ripe ({uinces, and roast them, but not to sof- 
ten them; pare, core, slice them thin, and 
then boil them slowly in a pint of good 
cream, with a little ginger; when tolerably 
thick, strain it, add sugar to your taste, and 
flavor it with rose-water. 

QUINCE JELLY. Quinces (or jelly 
ought not to be quite ri[ie, they should, how- 
ever, be of a fine yellow color; take oft" the 
down which covers them, quarter, core, put 
Uiera into a saucepan, with water enough 



QUI 



169 



QUI 



to cover them; set them on the fire, and 
when soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, 
pressing tiiein very sliglitiy ; strain the Hqiior, 
and measure it; clarify, and l)i)il to cause 
an e(|iial (|iiaMtity of sugar; then fake it off, 
add the hquor to it, stirring it well; when 
mixed, put it on the fire, still stiiring; as 
soon as the jf.lly spreads over the spoon, and 
falls from it like molasses; take it from 
the fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. 

QUINCES TO KEEP. Gather the 
fruit quite ripe, but perfectly sound; rub 
each carefully with a clean cloth, to remove 
tlie down ; then quarter, and put them into 
bottles, corked tight. Give them half an 
hour's boil in the bain-marie. 

QUINCE IMARMALADE. Gather 
the fruit when fully ripe, and of a fine yel- 
low; pare, quarter, and core it. Put the 
quinces into a saucepan, with a little water, 
set them on the fire until diey are quite soft; 
then take them out, and lay them on a sieve 
to drain; rub them through, weigh the 
pulp ; boil an eciual quantity of sugar to 
petit casse, then add the pulp, stir them 
together over the fire, until it will fall from 
the spoon like a jelly; the mannalade is 
then fit to be put into pots, and when cold, 
cover them close. 

QUINCES TO PICKLE. Pare and 
cut half a dozen quinces into smail pieces, 
and put them, with a gallon of water, and 
two pounds of honey, into a large sauce- 
pan; mix them together well, and set them 
on a slow fire for half an hour: strain the 
liquor into ajar; when quite cold, wipe the 
(juinces perfectly dry, and put them into it; 
cover them very close. 

QUINCES PRESERVED IN WHITE 
JELLY. Take as many quinces as you 
may require, choose them sound; pare, 
quarter, and core them, strewing powder- 
sugar over as you do them, filling up all the 
holes also with sugar ; throw in a small quan- 
tity of water, and when all are cut, add more 
water, and setthem on a fierce fire to boil 
quickly. As soon as the quinces are tender, 
and the sirup clear, add some apple-jelly, 
give the whole one boil, and then pour it 
into glasses; when cold, drain off' the sirup 
and jelly, put them into a saucepan, and 
let them boil as quick as you can ; just be- 
f^>re the jelly is taken off, put in a small 
quantity of musk, or any other ingredient 
you may wish to flavor the preserve with, 
and then t)our it in the glasses again, over 
the (juinces, and when cold cover them. 
This may also be colored red by adding a 
Bmall quantity of prepared cochineal; in 
this case, the jelly should be red too. 
15 



QUINCES THE SPANISH WAY. 

Pare and core ten pounds of quinces, put 
them into a stewpan with a pint and a lialf 
of water and tuo pounds of fine sug;n% set 
them on a slow fire, and when they begin 
to diy, moisten tliem with rose-water and 
sack, or white wine; then press the paste 
dirough a coarse sieve, add two pounds of 
sugar, a little orange-flower and rose water. 
When sufficiently done, it will come oflf 
clean, if dropped on a plate; then set it 
aside to cool. Put it into shallow pots, 
strew perfumed comfits over, and covei 
them close. 

QUINCES, SIRUP OF. Pare and 

scrape some very ripe quinces into a linen 
cloth, press out the juice, wliich put in a 
very warm place, or where it is exposed to 
the sun, until all the fecula falls to the bot- 
tom ; then strain it well, and for every 
quarter of a pound of juice, take one pound 
of sugar; mix them together, and b(')il the 
whole to perle; take it (jflT, and when the 
sirup is nearly cold, it may be bottled. 
Take care to keep the bottles well corked. 

QUINCE TART. Take some preser- 
ved quinces, make a sirup with some sugar 
and water, of which, and the preserve, take 
an equal weight, and put it into a preserving- 
pan ; boil, skim, and then put in the fruit; 
when tolerably clear, lay the (juinces in a 
tart-dish with puiT paste as usual ; cover and 
bake it ; as soon as it is done raise the top 
gently, pour in the sirup, ice it, and serve. 

QUIN'S SAUCE. See Sauce. 

QUINTESSENCE OF ANCHOVY. 

The goodness of this preparation depends 
almost entirely on having fine mellow fish, 
that have been in pickle long enough (i. e. 
about twelve months) to dissolve easily, yet 
are not at all rusty. 

Choose those that are in the state they 
come over in, not such as have been put into 
fresh pickle, mixed with red paint, which 
some add to improve the complexion of the 
fish; it has been said, that others have a 
trick of putting anchovy liquor on pickled 
sprats; you will easily discover this by wash- 
ing one of them, and tasting the flesh of it, 
which in the fine anchovy is mellow, red, 
and high-flavored, and the bone moist and 
oily. Make only as much as will soon be 
used, the fresher it is the better. 

Put ten or twelve asichovies into a mortar, 
and pound them to a pulp; put this into a 
very clean iron, or silver, or very well 
tinned saucepan ; then put a large table- 
spoonful of cold spring-water (we prefer 
good vinegar) into the mortar; shake it 
round, and pour it to the poimded anchovies. 



RABBIT 



170 



RABBIT 



set them by the side of a slow fire, very fie- 
quenlly stirring them together till they are 
melted, which (hey will lie in the course of 
five minutes. Now stir in a quarter of a 
drachm of good cayenne pepper, and let it 
remain by the side of the fire for a few min- 
utes longer; tlien, while it is warm, rub it 
through a hair sieve, with the back of a 
wooden spoon. 

Tlie essence of anchovy, is made with 
double the above quantity of water, as they 
are of opinion that it ought to be so thin as 
not to hanu about the sides of the bottle; 
when it does, tiie lai'ge surface of it is soon 
acted upon by the air, and becomes rancid 
and spoils all ihe rest of it. 

A roll of thin-cut lemon-peel infused with 
the anchovy, imparts a fine, fresh, delicate, 
aromatic flavor, which is very grateful; this 
is only recommended when you make sauce 
for immediate use; it will keep much better 
without: if you wish to acidulate it, instead 
of water make it with artificial lemon-juice. 



R. 



RABBITS. (1) Truss your rabbits short, 
lay then) in a basin of warm waler for ten 
minutes, then put them into plenty of water, 
and boil them abiHU half an hour; if large 
ones, tluee-ijuarlers; if very old, an hour: 
smotlier thein with plenty of white onion 
sauce, mince the liver, and lay it round tlie 
dish, or make liver sauce, and send it up in 
a boat. 

Obs. — Ask those you are going to make 
liver sauce for. if they like plain liver sauce, 
or liver and parsley, or liver and lemon sauce. 

N. B. — it will save much' tnaible li) th.e 
carver, if the rabbits be cut up in the kitchen 
into pieces fit to help at table, and tlie head 
di\ided, one-half laid at each end, and slices 
of lem.jn aiid the liver, chop|)ed very finelj-, 
laid on the sides of the dish. 

At all events, cut off the head before you 
send it to table, we hardly remember that 
tiie thing ever livcii if we don't seethe head, 
while it may excite ugly ideas to see it cut 
up in an attitude iiuitafive of life; besides, 
for the preservation of the liead, the poor an- 
imal sometimes suffers a slower death. 

RABBrTS. (2) If your fire is clear 
and sharp, diirty minutes will roast a young, 
and torty a full grown rabbit. When you 
lay it down, baste it with butter, and dredge 
it lightly and carefully with Hour, that you 
may have it frothy, and of a fine light brown. 
While the rabbit is roasting, boil its liver 
with some parsley ; when tender, chop them 
together, and put half the mixture into some 
melted butter, reserving the other half for 



garnish, divided into little liillocka. Cut 
off the head, and lay half on each side of 
the dish. 

Obs. — A fine, well-grown (but young) 
warren rabbit, kept sometime after it has 
been killed, and roasted with a stuffing in 
its belly, eats very like a hare, lo the nature 
of v\liicii it approaches. It is nice, nourishing 
food when young, but hard and unwholesome 
when old. 

RABBIT, BROILED. Take a couple of 
young rabbits, cut them up, and put them to 
steep for a few hours in a little oil, mixed 
with parsley, leeks, a few mushrooms, and a 
clove of garlic, all shred fine, salt and pepper; 
roll each piece of rabbit in a rasher of bacon, 
and put them, with a part of the seasoning, 
into pieces of white paper ; butter the papers 
inside; broil upon a gridiron over a very 
slow fire, and serve hot in the papers. 

RABBITS, IN A FRICASSEE. Take 
two fine white rabbits, and cut them in 
pieces, by cutting off the legs, shoulders, and 
back; blancli them in boiling water, and 
skim them for one minute; stir a few trim- 
mings of mushrooms in a stewpan over the 
fire, with a bit of butter, till it begins to fry, 
then stir in a sjioonful of Hour; mix into the 
flour, a little at a time, nearly a quart of 
good consomme, which set on the fire, and 
when it boils, put the rabbits in, and let them 
boil gently til! done, then put them into 
another stewpan, and reduce the sauce till 
nearly as thick as (laste; mix in about half 
a ])int of good boiling cream, and when it 
becomes tlie thickness of bechamelle sauce 
in general, squeeze it through the tammy 
to the ral)l)its; make it very hot, shake in a 
few mushrooms, (he yolk of an egg, and a 
little cream, then serve it to taljle. Rabbits 
may also be preserved, white or brown, in 
the same manner as chickens. 

RABBIT, MINCED. Take the re- 
mains of a roasted rabbit, cut off all the 
meat, and mince it with a little roast mutton. 
Then break the bones of the rabbit into 
sniall pieces, and put thein into a stewpan, 
with a slice (jf butter, some sb.allots, half a 
clove of garlic, thyme, a bay-leaf, and basil; 
give these a few turns over the fire, then shake 
in a little flour; moisten with a glass of red 
wine, and the same quantity of stock, and 
let it boil over a slow fire for half an hour; 
strain it off, and put in the minced meat, 
adding salt and coarse pepper; heat the 
whole, without boiling, and serve hot: gar- 
nish vvidi filed bread. 

RABBITS IN A MINUTE. Cut you? 
rabbits into pieces, wipe them perfectly dry ; 
put a ([uarter of a pound of butter into a 



RABBIT 



171 



RABBIT 



Btewpan, set it on the fire, and when wann, 
put in the rabbit witii a iittle pounded spice, 
salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; let the fire 
be l)iitfk, and as soon as the pieces are 
browned, add a little shred parsley and shal- 
lots, leave it tinee or four minutes longer on 
the fire, and then serve. Ten or fifteen min- 
utes are sufficient to cook this dish. 

RABBIT PIE. Cut a couple of young 
rabbits into quarters, and bruise a quarter 
of a pound of bacon in a mortar, with the 
livers, some pepper, salt, a little mace, pars- 
ley, cut small, and a few leaves of sweet ba- 
sil ; wlien these are all beaten fine, line your 
pie-dish with a nice crust, tisen put a layer 
of the seasoning at the bottom of the dish, 
and put in the rabbits; pound some moi'e 
bacon in a mortar, mix with it some fiesh 
butter, arid cover the rabbits with 4t, and 
over that lay thin slices of bacon; put on the 
cover, and place it in the oven ; it will be 
done in about two houi's; when baked, take 
off the cover, take out the bacon and skim 
ofi" the fat, and if there is not a sufficient 
quantity of gravy, add some rich mutton or 
veal gravy. 

RABBIT PIE, RAISED. Cut yoirr 
rabbits in pieces, and put them iirto a stew- 
pan; with a bit of fiesh butter-, lemon-juice, 
pepper, salt, parsley, thyme, siiallots, chopped 
ver'y fine, and a little pounded mace. When 
the pieces ol" rabbit ar-e about half done, lay 
them on a dish, and when cold, raise the 
crust; put light for'cemeat at the bottom; 
the rabbit upon it, and more foixemeat upon 
the top. Cover it, and put it in a moderate 
oven to bake gently ; when dnne, take off 
the cover, and add a r-agout of sweetbi'eads 
cock's combs, &c., and serve. 

RABBITS, PORTUGUESE. Cutoff 
the heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the 
backs upwards, the two legs stripped to the 
end, and trussed with a couple of skewers 
in tire same manner as chickens, the wings 
turned like the |)inions of a chicken ; lar'd 
and r'oast them with good giavy ; if they are 
intended for bujling, they should not be lard- 
ed, but be served with bacon, and greens, 
or celery sauce. 

RABBITS, POTTED. Take two or 
three young, but tiill-giown rabbits, cut them 
up, and take off the leg bones at the thigh, 
season them well with pepper', mace, cay- 
enne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine pow- 
der, and put iliem into a small pan, placing 
them as closely together as possible. Make 
the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the 
heads and carcasses, but take off th.e meat 
about the neck. Put plenty of butter, and 
let die whole bake gently. Let it lemaiii in 



the pan for two days, then put it into small 
pots, adding butter. The livers should also 
be put in. 

RABBIT PRESERVED. Having 

boned a rabbit, lard it with bacon and hain; 
season it well inside and out, roll it up, be- 
ginning with tlie legs, make it tight, and 
tie it. Put it into a stew-pan, with some 
oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; set these 
on the fire till done enough (but without 
boiling). When sufficiently cooked, take 
out the rabbit, drain, let it cool, and then 
cut it into small pieces, which put into bot- 
tles; fill them with oil and cover with wet 
bladders. When r-eciuired for table, take 
them out, cut them into fillets, and place 
on a dish with shred parsley and oil. 

RABBITS PULLED, Half boil your 
rabbits, with an onion, a little whole Jiep- 
per, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of 
lemon-peel; pull the flesh into flakes; put 
to it a little of the litjuor, a bit of butter roll- 
ed in flour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped 
parsley, and the liver boiled and bruised; 
boil this up, shaking it round, and serve. 

RABBITS, ROASTED. Truss them 
for roasting, and stuff them with the liver 
minced raw, grated bread, and ham, butter 
or suet, and chopped parsley, seasoned with 
a little lemon thyme, gi-a ted nutmeg, salt, and 
pepper, and bound with an egg beaten. Sew 
them up, and roast them beli^re a (|uick fire, 
and baste them with butter. Serve them 
with gravj', or melted butter with lemon 
pickle in it. Two will take an hour to 
roast. They may also be fricasseed or hied, 
cut into joint'^, with plenty of hied parsley, 
and served with a sauce made of the liver 
and some parsley chopjied, and mixed in 
melted butter, with a little pepper and salt, 
or made into a pie the same as chickens. 

RABBIT SOUP. Cut an old rabbit 
into pieces, put them into a quart of water; 
boil it well, take out all the bones, and beat 
the meat in a marble mortar, as for potting; 
add a little salt, mace, and white pepper', to 
your tas'e; stir it into the liquor the rabbit 
was boiled in, with the addition of a very 
little cream. 

N. B. The meat of the whole rabbit is 
too much for one cpiart; quei'y, would it 
not be enou"h for twol 

RABBITS STEWED, WITH A 

BROWN SAUCE, OR WITH A WHITE 

SAUCE. Wash and clean the rabbits well, 
let them lie for- two or three hours in cold 
water, cut them into joints, wash and dry 
them in a cloth, dust them with flour, and 
fry them of a light brown with butter, and 



RAG 



]72 



R AS 



stew them in the following sauce: Brown 
t]ii-<?p ounces of butter in a steu|.'an, \\ith a 
table-spoon I", il of tlour, a minced onion, some 
pepper and salt; add a pint of gravy and 
tlie ral)hits, stew them till they are tender, 
and a iiitie before servin<T, stir in a table- 
spoonful of kelclnip. When it is wished to 
dress with a white sauce, the rabbits are not 
fried, but stewed in while stock, which is 
seasoned with white pepper, and salt, and 
diickened with a piece of butter mixed with 
flour. A few minutes before serving, a little 
cream is added, and a table-spoonful of lemon 
pickle. 

RADISHES IN BROTH. Take some 
young radishes, pick and scald them, cut 
them into halves or quarters according to 
tlieir size, and boil them witli a slice of ba- 
con in some stock. In a little time take 
tliem out, drain, and put litem into another 
stew-pan, witii consomme, or veal gravy, 
and a bit of butter rolled in tlour. Let them 
stew gently in tliis till the}- are flavored, of 
a good color, and the sauce pretty thick ; 
then serve them. 

RAGOUT POWDER. Two ounces 
of truffles, two of dried mushrooms, the 
peel of a lemon, and the same of a Seville 
oranse graled, half a o:rated nutmeg, half an 
ounce of mace, the same of pepper, and one 
drachm of cayenne, dry them all well before 
the fire, pound ihem to a fine powder, add 
one ounce of salt, sift the powder through a 
sieve, and keep it it in a bottle for use. 

RAGOUT OF SNIPES. Pick six or 
eight snipes very nicely, but do not wash 
them; take out the inside. Roast the birds, 
and cut otFall the meat from tlie breasts, in 
thin slices ; pound the bones, legs, and 
backs, in a mortar, and put ihem into a 
stew-pan, with the juice of a lemon, a little 
flour, and some well-sea=oned gravy; boil it 
till it be thick, and well flavored with tlie 
game, then strain it. Cut iialf a pound of 
ham into thin long slices, and lieat-il in a 
little butter, with two minced shallots; put 
it, with the breasts of the snipes, into the 
strained sauce, and let it boil. Pound the 
inside, or trail, wifli a little salt, spread it 
over thin bits of toasted bread, and hold 
over it a hot salamander. Put the ragout 
upon this, and place the ham round it. 

RAGOUT OF COLD VEAL. Either 
a neck, loin, or fillet of veal, will fuinisli 
this excellent ragout with a very little expense 
or trouble. Cut the veal into handsome cut- 
lets; jiut a piece of butter or clean dripping 
mlo a fi'ying-p<an; as soon as ii is hot, dour 
and fry the veal of a light brown: take it 
out, and if you have no gravy ready, mal-Le 



some as follows: put a pint of boiling water 
into the frying-pan, give it a boil up for a 
minute, and strain it into a basin while you 
make some thickening in the following man- 
ner: put about an ounce of butler into a 
stewpan ; as soon as it melts, mix with it as 
much flour as will dry it up; stir it over the 
fire for ajfew minutes and gradually add to it 
the gravy you made in the fiying-pan; let 
them simmer together for ten minutes (till 
thoroughly incorjwrated) ; season it with pep- 
per, salt, a little mace, and a wine-glassful of 
mushroom ketchup or wine ; strain it through 
a tamis to the meat, and stew very gently 
till the meat is thoroughly warmed. If you 
have any ready boiled bacon, cut it in sUces, 
and put it into warm widi the meat. 

RAMEQUINS. Take a quarter of a 
pound of Cheshire cheese, scraped, the same 
quantity of Gloucester cheese, and beat them 
in a mortar, widi a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter, the yolks of four eggs, and the 
inside of a French roll, boiled in cream till 
soft; when all is beaten to a paste, mix it 
with the whites of the eggs, previously beat- 
en, and put the paste into small paper cases, 
made rather long than sejuare, and put them 
to bake in a Dutch oven, till of a fine brown. 
They should be served quite hot. You may, 
ifyou think projier, add a glass of white wine. 

RASPBERRY CREAM. See Cream. 

RASPBERRY DUMPLINGS. Take 
some good puff paste, roll it out, and spread 
raspberry jam over it; roll it up, and boil it 
rather more than an hour; cut it into five 
slices ; pour melted butter into the dish, grate 
sugar round, and serve. 

RASPBERRY FRITTERS. Grate 
two Naples biscuits, or die crumb of a French 
roll; put to either a pint of boiling cream. 
When this is cold, add to it the yolks of four 
eggs, well beaten ; beat ail well together 
with some laspberry juice ; drop diis in very 
small quantities, into a pan of boiling lard; 
stick them with blanched almonds, sliced. 

RASPBERRY FLUMMERY. Mix 

with half a pint of white wine vinegar one 
])ound of raspberries, or one pound of pre- 
served raspberries, let it bcnl for three or 
four minutes, stirring it constanly; strain 
it through a hair sieve; dissolve one ounce 
of isinglass in half a pint of water; mix 
with it three-fjuai ters of a pound of pounded 
sugar, add it to the strained raspberries 
stir it all well together; boil, and strain it 
through a bit of muslin, and put it into .i 
shape. Turn it out when cold. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. See Jelly 



REL 



173 



RICE 



RASPBERRY ICE. Press (he juice, 
from as many raspbenries as will yield a 
pound and a lialf; put it into a glazed pan, 
and leave it for four days. Then carefully 
raise the skin that has formed on the top of 
it, pour ort' the juice into another vessel; 
clarify a pound and a half of sugar, with a 
pint and a half of water, add the juice, and 
give them half a dozen boils; if not suffi- 
ciently red, put in a root of orkanet, which 
leave in till of the proper color; strain the 
preparation through a sieve; when cold, put 
it into the saboticre, and freeze it. See Ice. 

RASPBERRY SPONGE. Dissolve 
in a little water three-quarters of an oonce 
of isinglass, add to it three-quarters of a 
pint of cream, and the same proportion of 
new milk, neaily half a pint of laspberry 
jelly, and the juice of a lemon. Whisk it 
well one way till it becomes thick, and looks 
like sponge, then put it into an earthenware 
mould, and turn it out the neyA day. 

RASPBERRY TART. Line your 
dish with a nice puflf paste, lay in sugar 
and fruit, put bars across, and bake. 

RASPBERRY TART with cream. 
Line a patty-pan with thin puff paste, lay 
in s(jme laspberries, and stiew some very 
finely sifteti sugar over them; cover them 
with puff paste, and bake it ; « hen done, 
cut it o|)en, and put in half a pint of cream, 
in which has been previously beaten the yolks 
of two or three eggs, and sweetened with a 
little sugar; when this is added to the tart, 
return it to the oven five or six minutes. 

RED CABBAGE. Get a fine purple 
cabbage, take off the outside leaves, quaiter 
it, take out the stalk, shred the leaves into 
a colander, sprinkle them with salt, let them 
remain till the morrow, drain them diy, put 
them into a jar, and cover them v^'ith the 
pickle fur beet roots. 

RED MULLET. Scrape and wash 
them, fold them in buttered paper, lay them 
into a dish, and bake them gently. The 
li(}uor that comes from then>, boil with a 
piece of butter, dusted with fiour, a tea- 
spoonful of soy, two of essence of anchovy, 
and a little white wine. Serve the sauce in 
a butler-tureen. I'his fish is called the sea 
\vf)odcock, from being dressed with the 
inside. 

RELISH FOR CHOPS, &c. Pound 
fine an ounce of blac'k pepper, and half an 
ounce of allspice, with an ounce of salt, and 
half an ounce of scraped horsei'adish, an I 
the same of eschalots, peeled and (liuulered ; 
\n\t these ingredients into a pint of mushroom 
15* 



ketchup, or walnut pickle, and let them steep 
for a fortnight, and then strain it. 

Obs. — A tea-spoonful or two of this is 
generally an acceptable addition, mixed 
with the gravy usually sent up for chops and 
steaks, or added to thick melted butter. 

REMOULADE, INDIAN. Pound the 
yolks often hard eggs to a paste, dilute it 
with eight spoonfuls of oil, put in one at a 
time, and continue pounding all the time; 
then add about a dozen allspice, a tea-spoon- 
ful of saffron, four or five spoonfuls of vine- 
gar, salt, and pepper; amalgamate the whole 
perfectly, strain it through a bolting-cloth, 
and serve it in a sauce tureen. 'I'his sauce 
should be rather thick. 

RENNET. (1) As soon as the calf 
is killed, take out the stomach, and scour it 
inside and out with salt, after it is cleared 
of the curd always found in it. Let it drain 
for a few hours, after which sew it up with 
two large handluls of salt in it, or stretch it 
on a stick well salted; or keep it in the 
salt, wet, and soak a f)it, which will do over 
and over by fiesh water. 

RENNET. (2) Prepare (he maw tho 
same as in the above receip.t: on the follow- 
ing day, J)ut a handful of hawthorn-fops, a 
handful of sweet biiar, a handful of rose- 
leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, 
four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted mar- 
joram, and two large spoonfuls of s;ih, into 
two (juarts of fresh spring water; let them 
boil gently till the water is reduced to three 
pints, then strain it off, and when only milk 
warm, pour it on the maw. Slice a lemon, 
and add to il ; in two days, (strain it. again, 
and put into bottles. Aromatic herbs may 
be put in also; takecaie tirat it is sufficient- 
ly salt. li" the n)aw be again salted for a 
few days, a;7d dried as alxjve, it will be 
(]uite as fit for use as before; it should be 
ke|)t in a cool, dry place. A small (jirantity 
of the liquid is sufficient for turning. 

RHUBARB TART. Let the stalks be 
of a good size, take off die thin skin, and 
cut them into lengths of four or five inches; 
lay them in a dish, and put over a thin 
sirup of sugar and water; cover with another 
dish, and let it simmer slowly for an hour 
upon a hot hearth, or do thoii in a block- 
tin saucepan. As soon as cokl, make it 
into a tart; when tender, the baking the 
crust will be sufficient; or you may cut the 
stalks into little bits, the size of gooseberries, 
and make your tart the same as gooseberry 
tart. 

RICE BLANCMANGE. Put a tea- 
cupfid of whole rice into the least water 



RICE 



174 



RICE 



possible, till it almost bursts ; tlien add half 
a pint of good milk or thin cream, and lx)il 
it till it is quite a mash, stirring it the whole 
time it is on the fire, that it may not burn ; 
dip a shape in cold water, and do not diy 
it; put in the rice, and let it stand until 
quite cold, when it will come easily out of 
the shape. This dish is much approved of; 
it is eaten with cream or custaid, and pre- 
served fruits ; raspberries are liest. It should 
be made the day before it is wanteri, that it 
may get firm. This blancmange will eat 
much nicer, flavored witli spices, lemon-peel, 
&c., and sweetened with a little loaf sugar, 
add it with the milk, and take out the lemon- 
peel before you put in the mould. 

RICE, TO BOIL. Wash the rice per- 
fectly clean, and put on one pound in two 
quarts of cold water; let it boil twenty min- 
utes, strain it through a sieve, and put it be- 
fore the fire; shake it up with a fork every 
now and then, to separate the grains, and 
make it quite drj'. Serve it hot. 

RICE CASSEROLE. Take a pound 
and a half of rice, wash it dioroughly in 
several waters (warm), and then put it 
into a saucepan, at least eight inches in 
diameter; moisten it with stock, in this pro- 
portion ; if the rice lies an inch thick, let 
the stock come two inches above it, and 
four ladlefuls of fowl skimmings; place the 
saucepan on a hot stove; when the rice 
boils, set it on the side, and skim it; tlien 
put it on hot ashes, cover, and let it boil 
slowly for fifteen to twenty minutes; stir it, 
let it boil as before; in twenty or twenty- 
five minutes, stir it again; if by this time 
tlie rice is perfectly soft, take it oflT, but if 
not, add a little more liquid, and continue 
boiling until it is so; place tlie saucepan 
aslant on the side of tlie stove that the fat 
may drain away and be taken off easily. 
As soon as the rice is lukewarm, work it 
into a firm, smooth, paste, with a spatula; 
it can hardly be worked up too much, as 
even- grain of rice ought to pass under pres- 
sure (if necessaiy, add more stock, a very 
little at a time). When the paste is thus 
thoroughly worked up, form your casserole 
of it, first laying it in a heap, f^jur or five 
inches high, and seven in diameter; doit 
with the liand a.s you would a raised crust; 
make the ornaments of the outer sui face w ith 
the point of a knife, or by carrots cut for 
llie purpose, taking care tiiat tlie decorations 
be detached fiom the mass of rice, at least 
an inch; attention to this particular will 
not only add to the beauty of the form, but 
to the color also, as the raised parts will be 
lightly colored, while the ground will be 
quite white. When pro|ierly formed, mask 
the whole surface witli clarified butter, and 



place it in a hot oven for an hour and a half, 
by which time it will be of a fine clear yel- 
low. Take off the top of your casserole, 
clear away all the rice from the inside that 
does not adhere to die crust (which ought to 
be verv' thin), and mix it with bechamelle, 
espagnole, or whatever other sauce niav be 
proper, put it in again, and then fill your 
casserole, with such ragouts as your f;uicy 
may dictate ; glaze the surface of the outer 
ornaments, and serve it. \\ ater, w ith but- 
ter and salt, is frequently thought preferable 
to the stock, &c., as tlie rice is diereby 
rendered much whiter. 

RICE CASSOLETTES. The rice 
prepared as above may be put into smaller 
moulds, those called dariole moulds, and 
it should be quite cold before it is turned out, 
the mince or whatever is put inside being 
also cold ; it must be put in carefully, that 
none of it may mix with the rice, otherwise 
the cassolettes would break in the process 
of flying; for the same reason, the dripping 
must be veiy hot. Fning is the best and 
quickest method of doing them, but they may 
also be browned in the oven as the casserole 
of rice. 

RICE CHEESE. Boil an ounce of 
rice, thick as hasty pudding, in rather less 
than half a pint of milk (new) ; pour it hot 
on an ounce and a half of butter, the same 
weight of sugar, mixing it well together; let 
it st;ind till cold; then add one egg, and the 
yolk of another, and a little white wine. 

RICE CREA]M. Mix some rice flour 
with half a glass of cold milk ; then by de- 
grees, add a pint more, also cold, and put 
it with a bay-leaf into a saucepan, set it on 
a slow flre for an hour and a half, then strain 
and flavor it with orange-flower water, 
sweeten to your taste, and serve it hot. It 
should be stirred frecjuenlly whilst boiling; 
eggs may be added if you think proper. 

RICE CROQUETTES. Wash and 

scald a quarter of a pound of rice, put it 

into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon, 

shred small, a quarter of a pound of powder- 

' sugar, a pinch of salt, a little crisped orange- 

! flowers, an ounce of butter, and half a pint 

I of milk; set these on the fire, and when the 

rice is quite soft, add the yolks of four eggs, 

stir them in over the fire, but do not let them 

[ boil ; pour the preparation on a large tin or 

I slab, spread it equally; let it cool, and then 

I divide it into small equal parts; roll these 

into balls, dip them into an omelet, roll 

I them in bread-crumbs, and fiy ihem in a 

! verv hot pan. As soon as the croquettes 

. are of a nice color, drain, sprinkle them 

; with powder-sugar, eind serve tliem. 



RICE 



175 



RICE 



RICE CUPS. Sweeten a pint of milk 
with ponnded loaf sugar, and boil it with a 
stick of cinnamon; stir in sifted ground 
rice till thick; take it off the fire, and add 
the well-lieaten whites of three eggs ; stir it 
again over the fire for two or three minutes, 
then put it into tea-cnps previously dipped in 
cold water; turn them out when cold, and 
pom- round them a custard cream made with 
the yolks of the eggs; place upon the rice a 
little red currant jelly or raspberry jam. 
This dish may be served warm or cold; if 
cold, raspberry cream or custard may be 
poured round it. 

RICE CUSTARDS WITHOUT 
CREAIM. One tea-spoonfii-I of rice-Hour, 
a pint of new milk, the yolks of three eggs, 
a table-spoonful of ratafia (or two or three 
laurel leaves boiled in), sugar to your taste; 
mix the rice very smooth, and stir it with 
the eggs into the boiling milk, until thick. 
Arrow-root is better than rice. 

RICE FLUMMERY. (1) Boil a pint of 
new milk, with a bit of lemon-peel and cin- 
namon: then mix just sufiicient rice-fiour, 
with a little cold milk as will make the 
whole of a good consistence, sweeten ac- 
cording to taste, flavor with a little pound- 
ed bitter almond; boil it, taking care not to 
let it burn ; pour it into a siiape or pint ha.- 
sin, taking out the spice. When the flum- 
mery is cold, turn it into a dish, and serve 
with cream, milk, or custard, all round, or 
serve with svieet sauce in a boat. 

RICE FLUMMERY. (2) Boil in a quart 
of milk five ounces of sifted gmund rice, half 
an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded with two table-sjjoonfuls of rose- 
water; sweeten, and stir it till very tliick, 
so that the bottom of the sauce|Dan is seen, 
and then put it into a mould; when quite 
cold turn it out, stick over it sweet almonds, 
cut into straws, and pour rounil it some thick 
cream, and a little white wine and sugar 
mixed with it. 

RICE FRITTERS. Boil the rice in 
inii'.k with souse powder-sugai', mange-flower 
water, a pinch of cinnamon [)owdei", and a 
little butter; when quite soft put to it a 
liaison of yolks of eggs, pour it into a pan 
to cool. Make your preparation into bails, 
about the size <if an egg, dip them in egg, 
fry them, sprinkle them with sugar, and 
serve. 

RICE, GATEAU OF. Boil a quart 
of cream, add to it half a pound of powder- 
ftugar, and dn-ee-quarters of a pound of 
rice; when the latter is quite soft, dissolve 
in it a quaiter of a pound of butter, and 



then put in the grated rind of a lemon, let 
it cool. When (juite cold, stir in four yolks 
and four whole eggs, more if the rice be 
very thick; butter a mould lightly, put the 
rice into it, place the mould in hot ashes, so 
that it may be completely enveloped in and 
covered with them; in half an hour the ga- 
teau will be done enough; then turn it out, 
and serve. If you wish, you can make a 
souffle, by whipping the whites of six eggs; 
like other souffles, in this case it should be 
served in a silver dish. In putting the 
preparation into the mould, be careftil not 
to fill it, as the rice would swell and run 
over the edge. , 

RICE MILK. Allow an ounce of rice 
for each person, wash it thoroughly in warm 
water; set some milk on the fire, and when 
it boils, put in the rice; continue to boil it 
over a slow fiie, stiiring often for two or 
three hours; add salt or sugar according 
to taste, and cinnamon. 

RICE AND MILK. To every quart 
of good milk allow two ounces of rice; 
wash it well in several waters; put it with 
the milk into a closely-covered saucepan, 
and set it over a slow fire; when it boils 
take it oft'; let it stand till it be cold, and 
sinmier it about an hour and a quaiter be- 
f)re sending it to table; and serve it in 
a tureen. 

RICE PA i\ CAKES. Boil half a pound 
of rice in a small quantity of water, until 
quite a jelly; as soon as it is cold, mix it 
with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a little 
salt and nutmeg; make eight ounces of 
butter just warm, and stir in with the rest, 
adding to the whole as much butter as will 
make ihe batter tliir^k enough. They must 
be fried in as small a quantity of lard as 
possible. 

RICE PASTE. Rub three ounces of 
butter well, into half a pound of ground 
rice, moisten it with water, and roll it out 
with a little flour. 

RICE, PYRAMIDS OF. Boil some 
whole I'ice, make it up into the form of pyr- 
amids about dnee inches high, or press it 
into small tin frames of that, shape; take 
out part of the rice at the bottom, and fill the 
sjjace with sausage, or rich foscemeat; place 
them in a dish, take off" the frame, and pour 
round them some rich brown gravy. 

RICE SAVOURY. Carefally v\ash 
and pick some rice; set it to stew very 
gently in a little veal or rich mutton broth, 
add an onion, a blade of mace, pepper, and 
salt. When it is swelled it should not be 



R I S 



176 



ROLLS 



boiled to ma^li; put it to diy on the shallow 
end of a sieve before the tire. You may 
serve it diy, or put it in the middle of a 
dish, and pour the gravy round, havmg fijst 
healed it. 

RICE SNOW BALLS. Wash and 
pick half a pound of rice very clean, put it 
on in a saucepan u ith plenty of water; when 
it boils let it boil ten minutes, dixiin it on 
a sieve till it is quite dry, and then pare six 
apples, wfeigliing two ounces and a half each. 
Divide the rice into six parcels, in separate 
cloths, put one apple in each, tie it loose, 
and boil it one hour; serve it with sugar 
and butter, or wine sauce. 

RICE SOUP. (1) Carefully blanch 
some well picked rice, tlien drain it on a 
sieve; put about a tea-cnpfu! in the soup-pot, 
widi one head of celery, and a quart of 
consomme, and let it simmer by the side 
of tlie stove fijr three hours. If it thickens 
too much add more consomme, season vvith 
a little salt ; take out die celeiy, and send 
the soup to table. 

RICE SOUP. (2) Wash your rice 
well in warm water, changing it frequently; 
then put the rice into a saucepan, with 
some good stock ; set it on the fire, and 
leave it to swell for half an hour, but do 
not let it boil ; when die rice has imbibed 
all the stock, add a sufficient quantitv to 
cover the rice, cover, and Ixtil it slowly for 
two hours ; in the meantime broil two or 
diree slices of Ijeef, and pepi^er and salt them 
well; when of a nice dark coloi", throw i 
them into the rice soup, to which they will 
imjiart a rich flavor and a fine color. 

RICE, WHOLE IX A SHAPE. 

Wash a large tea-cupful of rice in several 
waters, put it into a saucepan with cold 
water to cover it, and when it lioils, add 
two cupfuls of rich milk, and lx)il it till it i 
becomes diy; put it into a shape, and press | 
it in well. When cold, turn it out, and I 
serve with preserved black currants, rasp- j 
berries, or any sort of fruit round it. I 

RISSOLES. (1) Cut puff paste with a ! 
round tin cutter, about three inches wide; j 
have leady some cold fowl or veal, very ' 
finely minced, and seasoned with a little | 
pounded garlic, grated lemon-peel, ]>epper, j 
salt, and mace, die juice of half a lemon, ; 
and moistened with a little good gra\y. | 
Put some of the mince upon a bit of the ! 
paste, wet the edges, and lay over it anoUi- 
er bit ; press it gently round the rim ; brush 
them all over with a well-beaten egg, and 
etrew over them sifted bread cruml:-s ; fiy 
them a light brown in boiling clarified l)eef 



dripping, and lay them upon the back of a 
sieve l:iefore the fiie to drain. Serve them 
in a napkin. The paste may l^ cut of the 
size of a large breakfast plate, then the 
mince put into the middle of it, the edges 
wet all round, and gathered up into the 
form of a pear, brushed over with egg, and 
strewed over widi bread cnmibs. Ser\ed 
in a dish garnished with fried parsley. 

RISSOLES. (2) Mince very fine K- some 
cold roasted veal, and a small bit of bacon ; 
season it with grated nutmeg and sah; 
moisten it with cream, and make it up in o 
good-sized balls; dip them into the volks 
of eggs beaten up, and then into finelv-gi;it- 
ed bread. Bake them in an oven, or fiy 
them of a light brown color in fresh dri|> 
])ing. Before serving, drain them before 
the fire on the back of a sieve. Garnish 
with fried parsley. 

ROLLS. (1) Dissolve two ounces of but- 
ler in one pint of new milk, and stir it into 
four pounds of flour, as also three table-spoon- 
fiils of ye^st, a tea -spoonful of salt, and the 
well-ljeaten whites of two eggs; cover the 
pan with a warmed towel, and set it before 
the fire to rise for half an hour, then work it 
one way for fifteen minutes; form it into 
rolls, place them upon tins, and let diem 
lise for ten minutes before putting diem into 
the oven. 

ROLLS. (2) Warm an ounce of butter in 
half a pint of milk, then add a spoonfiil and 
a hrdf of yeast of small Ijeer, and a littfesalt. 
Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and put 
in the alwve. Set it to rise for an hour; 
knead it well ; make it into seven rolls, and 
bake diem iu a quick oven. 

ROLLS, FRENCH. (1) Mix rather more 
than an ounce of coarse salt with eight 
pounds of sifted flour; mal<e a hole in the 
middle, and pour in alx)ut half a pint of 
good yeast, the well-beaten whites of four 
(^gg^, and as much new milk warmed as 
will mix it to a middling stilTuess; clap 
and work it down one way tor half an hour, 
but do not knead it; cover it with a warm- 
ed towel, and let it rise liefore the fire tor 
half an hour; take off the surface, which 
soon liecomes hard, and put it aside to be 
made into a roll; work and clap the dough, 
form it into rolls, place them upon tins, and 
let diem rise for ten minutes; bake them 
in a quick oven. 

ROLLS, FREXCH. (2) Ruboneovmce 
of butter into a pound of flour; then add to it 
one es'^ beaten, a little yeast that is not bit- 
ter, and a sufficient quantity of milk, to make 
a dou?h of moderate stiffiiess. Beat it well^ 



RO S 



177 



SAG 



but do not knead it; let it rise, and bake on 
tins. 

ROLLS, FRENCH. (3) Warm three 
spooiifiils of milk, and the same quantity of 
water, with a bit of butter the size of a wal- 
nut, put.it to two spoonfuls of thick yeast; 
put this into the middle of rather more than 
a quart of flour, mix the whole together to 
the consistence of a batter-pudding, adding 
more flour if necessary, to make it the proper 
thickness; strew a little flour over it from 
the sides, and if the weather is cold, set it at 
a little distance from the (ire; do this three 
hours before it is put into the oven ; when it 
breaks a good deal through the flour and ris- 
es, work it into a light paste with more warm 
milk and water; let it lie till within a quar- 
ter of an hour of setting into the oven, then 
work them lightly into rolls; flour a tin, and 
drop them on, handle them as little as possi- 
ble ; set them before the fire. About twenty 
minutes will he sufficient time to bake them; 
put a little salt into tlie flour. Rasp the 
rolls. 

ROLLS, SHORT, HOT, Dry before 
the fire a sufficient quantity of flour to make 
three penny-rolls, or larger if you like; add 
to it an egg well beaten, a little salt, two 
sjwonfuls of yeast, and a little warm milk ; 
make it into a light dough, let it stand by 
the fire all night, 
oven. 



Bake the rolls in a quick 



ROSE-WATER, dousle-distilled. 
The rose generally chosen for this purpose, 
is the common pale (sy^le or double) rose, 
but the white rose is best of all. Gather the 
flowers in fine weather, two hours after sun- 
rise ; take out die calix, and separate the 
leaves, pound diem in a marble mortar to a 
paste, and leave them five or six hours in the 
mortar; then put them into a large close 
cloth, and let twf) persons wring it widi all 
their strength. Having by this operation ob- 
tained f(jur pounds of juice, infuse in it an 
erjual weight of fresh rose-leaves for twenty- 
four hours; at the end of that time put the 
whole into the alembic, which place in a 
eand-barh, and distil it according to rule. 
(See Distilling). When you have collect- 
ed about an ounce of the water, unlute the 
receiver, and if that which issues from the 
Btill is as odoriferous as that which proceeded 
first, continue the operation ; but if not, col- 
lect it into another vessel, as this second 
water is only single, and must be kept sepa- 
rate fiom the first, which is the Essential 
Water. Should the second water have an 
unpleasant smell (caused by die application 
~)^ too much heat), expose it to the sun for 
a few days, covered only l)y a sheet of paper. 
The utmost care Ls necessary in distilling thus 



and all other odoriferous substances. A still 
more powerful essence than the above may be 
procured by the following method: — Gather 
as many roses as willaflbrd thirty pounds of 
leaves, pound these with four pounds of salt; 
when pounded, place the paste in a vessel in 
layers with salt between each, press them 
closely, cork them tight, leave the vessel 
twelve days, and then distil as usual. 

ROSE-WATER, SINGLE. Put four 
pounds of rose-leaves into a pan, with three 
quarts of river water, and leave it four-and- 
twenty hours; dien put it into a metal alem- 
bic, and distil from it as much odoriferous 
water as you can, being sure to stop the mo- 
ment you observe the phlegm. Take off 
die alembic, throw away its contents, and 
rinse it out well; after this, fill it to two- 
thirds with fresh-gathered rose-leaves, on 
which pour the abme drawn rose-water; 
distil this, and when jou have procured aa 
much good rose-water as it will yield, let the 
fire go out gradually. 

ROUX. Put a pound of butter into a 
saucepan, shake it about til! dissolved, when 
add a sufficient quantity of sifted flour, to 
make it the consistence of thick bouilli; 
then set it over a fierce stove, and stir it un- 
til it begins to take color, when make a good 
fire of cinders, place the roux on it, and let 
it stand to increase in color; it ought to be 
of a clear light brown. Set it by, and use it 
as occasion may require. 

ROUX, WHITE. Prepare your butter 
and flour as above, place it on a moderately 
heated stove, stirring it constantly till very 
hot; be careful that it does not take color at 
all, for the whiter it is the more desirable. 

RUSKS. To three pounds and a half 
of flour allow half a pound of butter, the 
same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, and 
five spoonfuls of yeast; mix the floi\r and 
sugar together; melt the butter in two pints 
and a half of milk, and mix it with the flour, 
then add the yeast and one beaten egg; 
work it well together; cover it, and let it 
stand for five or six hours; take it out of 
the pan, and form it into little rolls; place 
tljem upon tins, and let them rise for about 
an hour; bake them in a quick oven, and 
when they become brown, cut diem through 
the middle or into three slices; put them 
again into the oven to brown and crisji. 



SAGE GARGLE. Boil quickly in a 
pint of water, a large handful of sage leaves; 



SAL 



178 



SAL 



cover tlie pan closely, and when reduced to 
one-hiilf, strain it; when cold, mix it with 
the .siinip «]iiaiitity of ['ort wine and of vine- 
g;)!-; sw!*f!eii il \s ill) lioney, or with thrown 
su'^ar. 'Viw. dt-i-oction of sage may l)e nsed 
alone as a jjafgle, or «ith vinoi^ai' and hon- 
ey, witliont tiie Port wine; or gargle with 
vinegar and water. 

SAGO. Let it soak for an hour in cold 
water, to take oflf the earthy taste; pour 
that off", and wash it well; then add more 
water, and simmer gently until the berries 
are clear, with lemon-peel and spice. Add 
wine and suifar according to taste, and boil 
all up together. 

SAGO MILK. When well cleansed, 
Doil it slowly wilii new milkw A small 
quantity will be sufficient for a (juart of milk, 
it swells so much, and when done, it should 
be reduced to about a pint. It requires 
neither sugar nor flavoring. 

SALAD MIXTURE. Endeavor to have 
your salad herbs as fresh as possible; if you 
suspect they are not " morning gathered," 
tliey will be much refreshed by lying an hoiu* 
or two in spring water; then carefully wash 
and jiick them, and trim oft' all the worm- 
eaten, slimy, cankered, dry lea\es; and, 
after washing, let them remain awhile in 
the colander to drain: lastly, swing them 
gently in a clean napkin: when properly 
picked and cut, arrange them in tlie salad 
dish, mix the sauce in a soup-plate, and put 
it into an ingredient bottle, or pour it down 
the side of the salad dish, and don't stir it 
up till the mouths ai'e ready for it. 

If the herbs be young, fresh gathered, trim- 
med neatly, and drained dry, and the sauce- 
maker ponders patiently over the following 
directions, he cannot fail obtaining the fame 
of being a very accomplished salad-dresser. 

Boil a couple of eggs for twelve minutes, 
and put them in a basin of cold water fur a 
few minutes ; the yolks must be quite cold 
and hai'd, or they will not incorporate with 
the ingredients. Rub them through a sieve 
with a wooden spoon, and mix them u ith a 
table-spoonful of water, or fine double cream ; 
then add two table-spoonfuls of oil or melted 
butter; when these are Nvell mixed, athl, by 
degrees, a tea-spoonful of salt, or powdeied 
lump sugar, and the same of made mustard : 
when these are smoothly united, add very 
gradually three table-spoonfuls of vinegar; 
rub it with the other ingredients till tli'jr- 
oughly incorporated with them ; cut up the 
white of the egg, and garnish tlie top of the 
salad with it. Let the sauce remain at the 
bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up the 
salad till it is to be eaten: we recommend 
the eaters to l)e mindful of the dutv of masti- 



cation, widiout the due performance of 
which, all undiessed vegetables are trouble- 
some company for the principal viscera, and 
some are even dan<jerou.-lv indi^festiijle. 

SALAD, WINTER. Wash very clean 
one or two heads of endive, some heads of 
celery, some mustard and cresses; cut them 
all small, add a little shredded fed cabbage, 
some slices of boiled beet-root, an onion, if 
the flavor is not disliked; mix them together 
with salad sauce. In spring, add radishes, 
and also garnish the dish with them. 

SALINE DRAUGHT. Salt of worm- 
wood, twenty grains; lemon-juice, a table- 
spoonful; water, two table-spoonfuls; mag- 
nesia, twenty grains ; mix it in a tumbler^ 
together wiUi a little pounded sugar, and take 
two or three of these in the day. 

SALLY LUNNS. Take three quarts 
of dried flour, half a cupful of yeast, a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, melted in a sufticient 
quantity of milk to dissolve it, the yolks of 
three eggs, and a little salt: make these in- 
gredients into a light dough, let it stand be- 
fore the fire (covered), for an hour to )ise, 
and bake in a quick oven. The above may 
be made into small cakes. 

SALMON. When salmon is fresh and 
good, the gills and flesh are of a briglit red, 
the scales clear, and the whole fish is stiff". 
When just killed, there is a whiteness be- 
tween the flakes, which gives great firnmess ; 
by keeping, this melts down, and tlie fish 
becomes richer. ^ 

SALMON, BAKED. Clean and cut 
the fish into slices, put it in a dish, and make 
the following sauce: — Melt an ounce of but- 
ter, kneaded in flour, in a pint and a half 
of gi^avy, with two glasses of Port wine, two 
table-spoonfuls of ketchup, two anchovies, 
and a little cavenne. Wiien the anchovies 
are dissolved, strain and pour the sauce over 
the fish, tie a sheet of buttered paper over 
the dish, and send it to the oven. 

SALMON, BOILED. Put on a fish- 
kettle, with spring water enough to well 
cover the salmon you are going to dress, or 
the salmon will neither look nor taste well: 
(boil the liver in a separate saucepan). 
When the water boils, put in a handtul of 
salt; take ofll" die scum as soon as it rises; 
have the fish well washed; put it in, and if 
it is thick, let it boil veiy gently. Salmon 
recjuires almost as much boiling as meat; 
about a quarter of an hour to a pound of 
fish: but practice only can perfect the cook 
in dressing salmon. A quarter of a salmon 
will take almost as Ic'ig boiling as half a 



SAL 



179 



SAL 



one: you must consider the thickness, not the 
weight : ten pounds of fine fiill-giown salmon 
will be done in an hour and a quarter. Lob- 
ster Sauce. 

Obs. — The thinnest part of the fish is 
the fattest; and if you have a " grand gour- 
mand" at table, ask him if he is for thick 
or thin. 

N. B. — If you have any left, put it into 
a pie-dish, and cover it with an equal por- 
tion of vinegar and pump watei', and a little 
salt: it will be leady in three days. 

SALMON, BOILED IN WINE. Sea- 
sun wilh pepper and salt, some slices of ba- 
con, fat and lean together, a pound of veal 
cut diin, and a pound and a half of beef; put 
these into a deep stewpan, then a fine piece 
of fresh sahnon cut out of the middle, then 
pour in just as much water as will cover it, 
and let it simmer over a gentle fire till the 
salmon is almost done, then pour the water 
away, and put in two quarts of white wine, 
with an onion cut in slices, some thyme, and 
sweet marjoram, picked from the stalks; let 
them stew gently, and while they are doing, 
cut a sweedjread into thin slices, then cut the 
slices across, and slew them in a saucepan, 
with some rich gravy; when they are done 
enough, add a (juarter of a pint of essence 
of ham ; take up the salmon, lay it on a dish, 
and serve with the sweetbread, and its sauce 
poured over. 

SALMON, BOILED, Berwick re- 
ceipt. The tail of the salmon is first cut 
ofi" near and below the last fin, the fish is 
then cut up the back, keeping the bone on 
one side, and then rut*up into pieces of half 
a pound each, the blood well washed out of 
the fish in cold water, but the scales not to be 
removed ; a pickle to be made of salt and 
water, strong enough to bear an egg, and, 
when boiling, the fisii to be put in, and boil- 
ed very (juickly for fifteen minutes. During 
the boiling, the scum to be taken off carefully 
as soon as it rises. Sauces; — lobster, melt- 
ed butter, and anchovy s^uce. 

N. B. — The hardest water is preferable 
for boiling salmon. 

SALMON, BOILED, receipt by an 
Aberdeen FISHERMAN. When the wa- 
ter is hot, put salt into it, and stir it well; 
taste it ; when strong enough to force you to 
cast it from your mouth, it will do; when 
the water boils put in the fish; when it boils 
again, give twenty minutes for a salmon, and 
sixteen for a gristle. When salmon is cut 
in slices an inch thick, let them boil ten 
minutes. Serve with it a sauce tureen of 
the liquor tiie fish was boiled in. 

SALMON STEAICiS BROILED. Cut 



the steaks from the thickest parts of the fi^h 
nearly an inch thick; butter pieces of white 
paper; fold die steaks in them, and broil 
them over a slow fire for ten or twelve m inutes. 
Take off the paper; serve and garnish with 
plenty of fried parsley. Dressed in this 
way, they may be put round salmon boiled, 
in slices. Sauces; — melted butter, lobster, 
or shrimp sauce. 

SALMON, FRESH BROILED. Clean 
the salmon well, and cut it into slices about 
an inch and a half thick ; diy it thoroughly 
in a clean cloth; rub it over with sweet oil, 
or thick melted butter, and sprinkle a little 
salt over it: put your gridiron over a clear 
file, at some distance; when it is hot, wipe 
it clean ; rub it with sweet oil or lard ; lay 
the salmon on, and when it is done on one 
side, turn it gently and broil the other. An- 
chovy- sauce, &c. 

Obs. — An oven does them best. 

SALMON CAVEACH. Boil in two 
f|uarls of vinegar three heads of shallots, half 
an ounce of whole black pepper, three cloves, 
two blades of mace, and a little salt. Frv 
the fish, cut in slices, of a light brown color 
in fine oil, or clarified dripping; put them, 
when cold, into a pan, puuv over the vinegar 
and s|;ices, and put on the top eight or ten 
spooufiils of oil. Soles may be done in this 
way, only lay over them sliced onions instead 
of shallots. 

SALMON, DRIED KIPPER. Cut the 

fish up the back, and take out the bone; wipe 
it very clean with a cloth ; score it, and put a 
handful of salt on each side, and let it lie 
for three days; then hang it up to dry, and 
it will be fit for use in two days, and eats 
well with a little pepper put over it, and 
broiled. 

SALMON, DRIED, TO DRESS. Lay 

it in soak for two or three hours, then broil 
i), shaking a little pepper over it. Dried 
salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only- 
just warmed through ; egg sauce and mashed 
potatcics are usually served with it; or it 
may be boiled, especially the bit next the 
head. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (1) Cut a 

salmon into two or three pieces, put it in 
a fish-kettle, and set it on the fire with a 
sufficient quantity of water to cover it, and 
plenty of salt; as soon as it begins to boil, 
set it aside to simmer very gently until done ; 
then take it off the fire, and let it stand in 
the liquor until cold, take it out, lay die 
pieces close together in a tub to pickle, and 
over them five anchovies, a small quantity 
of pounded saltpetre, and a quarter of a 



SAL 



180 



SAL 



pint of sneet oil; being thus prepared, put 
the top of the salmon liquor into a slewpan, 
to which add the same quantity of white 
wine vinegar; put it on the fire to skim, 
and lx)i[ it for two or three minutes ; take it 
oft', and let it cool. When cold, pour it 
over the salmon and tie it down; in three 
days turn it, and in a week's time it will 
be fit for use ; this is merely in a small way ; 
a great quantity being done at once, requires 
neither oil nor anchovies. Serve garnished 
with fennel. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (2) Cut the sal- 
mon into pieces ; boil it as for eating, and lay 
it on a di"y cloth till tlie following day; boil 
two quarts of good vinegar with one of the li- 
quor the fish was boiled in, one ounce of w hole 
black pepper, half an ounce of allspice, and 
four blades of mace. Put the salmon into 
something deep, and pour over it the prepar- 
ed vinegar when cold. A little sweet oil 
put upon tlie top will make it keep a twelve- 
montli. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (3) To a quart 
of liquor the fish has lieen boiled in, put rath- 
er more than half a pint of good vinegar, and 
half an ounce of whole black pepper; boil 
it, and when it is cold pour it over the fish, 
previously laid in a deep dish. 

SALMON, PICKLED, TO DRESS. 
Soak a piece of pickled salmon all night 
in pump-water; then lay it on a fish-plate, 
and put it in a stewpan, with three spoon- 
fuls of vinegar, a little mace, some whole 
pepper in a bit of muslin, an onion, a nut- 
meg bruised, a pint of white wine, a l)unch 
of sweet herbs, some parsley, lemon-peel, 
and a quarter of a pound of butter rolled ia 
flour ; cover the stewpan very close, and let 
it simmer over a gentle fire for a quarter uf 
an hour; then take up the salmon, lay it in, 
H dish, keep it hot before the fire; let the 
sauce boil till it is of a proper consistence; 
lake out the spice, onion, and sweet herbs, 
and serve the sauce over the fish. 

SALMON, POTTED. Take off the 
head ; cut the salmon in thick slices ; w ipe it 
dry, but do not wash it ; pound half an ounce of 
nutmeg, mace, and cloves, the least part of 
cloves, half an ounce of white pepper, and 
some salt ; chop fine one onion, six bay- 
leaves, and six anchovies ; season eac'h slice ; 
put it into a pan, with very thin slices of 
butter between each layer ; bake it, when 
well done; drain off the butter, and, when 
cold, pour over some clarified bntler. 

SALMON, TO SALT. Cut the fish up 
the back, and cut out the bone ; wipe it 
clean, and sprinkle it with salt; let it Jiiy a 



night to drain oflT the liquor; wipe it dry, 
rub on it two or three ounces of pounded 
sahpetre; cut it into pieces; pack it close in 
a pot with a thick layer of salt between each 
layer of fish. If the brine does not rise in 
a few days, boil a strong one, and pour it, 
when coid, upon the salmon, which must 
always be covered with it. 

SALMON, STEW. Clean and scrape 
the fish ; cut it into slices, and stew it in a 
rich white gravy, A little before serving, 
add two table-spoonfuls of soy, one of es- 
sence of anchovy, and a little salt, some 
chopped parsley and chives. 

SALMON, SPICED. Mix togetlier, in 
the proportion of one third of salt-and- water to 
one pint of vinegar, one ounce of whole black 
pepper, and one ounce of cinnamon. Cut 
the salmon into slices, and boil it in this; 
when cold, pack it close in a pan, and pour 
over it the liquor it was boiled in, with the 
spices, so as to cover it completely; cover 
the pan closely, to exclude the air. 

SALMON, MACKEREL, SPRATS, 

HERRINGS, &c. pickled. Cut the fish 
into proper pieces ; do not take off the scales ; 
make a brine strong enough to bear an eggj 
in which Ijoil the fish ; it must be boiled in 
only just liquor enough to cover it ; do not 
overboil it. V/hen the fish is boiled, lay it 
slantingly to drain off all the liquor; when 
cold, pack it close in the kits, and fill them 
up with equal parts of the liquor the salmon 
was boiled in (having first well skimmed it), 
and l)est vinegar : let them rest for a day; 
fill up again, striking the sides of the kit with 
a cooper's adz, until the kit will receive no 
more , then liead them down as close as pos- 
sible. 

Obs. — This is in the finest condition 
when fresh. Some sprigs of fresh-gathered 
young fennel are the accompaniments. 

N. B. — The three indispensable marks 
of tlie goodness of pickled salmon are, 1st, 
The brightness of the scales, and their stick- 
ing fast to the skin; 2dly, The firmness of 
the flesh; and, 3dly, Its fine, pale-red rose 
color. Without these it is not fit to eat, 
and was either stale before it was pickled, 
or has been kept too long after. 

The above was given us as die actual 
practice of those who pickle it for the Lon- 
don market. 

N. B. — Pickled salmon warmed by steam, 
or in its pickle liquor, is a favorite dish at 



iNewca 



stle. 



SALOOP. Boil a little water, wine, 
lemon-peel, and sugar, togetlxr; then mix 
with a small quantity of tlie pow'der, pre- 
\iousiy rul)bed smooth, in a little cold water; 



S AL 



131 



SAN 



stir the whole i\'ell together, and boil for a 
few minutes. 

SALPICON. This is a mixture compo- 
sed of various articles, such as sweetbreads, 
fat livers, tongue, ham, champignons^ truf- 
fles, &c., previously dressed, cut into dice, 
and cooked in some rich sauce, and seasoned 
with pepper, salt, nutmeg, cloves, shallots, 
sweet herbs, and a little butter; take cnre 
that all the articles are sufficiently boiled be- 
fore tliev are cut up. Many things, such as 
beef-palate, fowl, cocks'-combs, indeed al- 
most any article you please, may be added to 
the above. 

SALT, Is as Plutarch calls it, sauce 
f )r sauce. 

Connnon salt is more relishing than bas- 
ket salt; it should be prepared for the table 
by drying it in a Dutch oven before the fire; 
then put it on a clean paper, and roll it witii 
a roiling pin; if you pound it in a mortar 
till it is quite fine, it will look as well as i 
basket salt, ' 

*^* Select for table-use the lumps of 
salt. 

Obs. — Your salt-box must have a close 
cover, and be kept in a dry place. 

SALT, SPICED. Take four drachms 
of grated nutmeg, the same of cloves, two 
of white peppei", two of allspice, two of 
mace, two of bay-leaf, two of basil, and 
two of thyme (diese three latter articles 
should be dried in an oven). Put these all 
into a moitar, and pound them to an impal- 
pable powder, and sift it. Take a pound 
of fine white salt, dry it thoroughly in an 
oven, or stove, pound it as fine as possiijie; 
sift, and mix with it an ounce of the above 
mentioned spices ; amalgamate them thor- 
oughly, keep the spiced salt in a tin box, 
which will shut perfectly close. Use it in 
the following proportion: four drachms to a 
pound of boned veal. 

SALTIXG MEAT. In the summer 

season, especially, meat is frequentlv spoiled 
by the cook forgetting to take out the ker- 
nels; one in the udder of a round of beef, in 
the fit in the middle of the round, those 
about the thick end of die flank, Sec: if 
these are not taken out, all the salt in the 
world will not keep the meat. 

The art of salting meat is to rub in the 
salt thoroughly and evenly into eveiy part, 
and to fill all the holes full of salt where the 
kernels were taken out, and where the butch- 
er's skewers were. 

A round of beef of 25 pounds will take a 

pound and a half of salt to be rubbed in all 

at first, and requires to be turned and rubbed 

•very dav with thf. briua; it v\ill be ready 

16 



for dressing in four or five days, if you do 
not wish it very salt. 

In summer, the sooner meat is salte.1 after 
it is killed, the better; and care must be 
taken to defend it from die flies. 

In winter, it will eat the shorter and 
tenderer, if kept a few days (according to 
the temperature of the weather) until its 
fibre has become short and tender, as these 
changes do not take place after it has been 
acted upon by the salt. 

In frosty weather, take care die meat is 
not frozen, and warm the salt in a frying- 
pan. The extremes of heat and cold are 
equally unfavorable for the process of salting. 
In the former, the meat changes before the 
salt can affect it: in the latter, it is so har- 
dened, and its juices are so congealed, that 
the salt cannot penetrate it. 

If you wish it red, rub it first with salt- 
petre, in the pro])orlion of half an ounce, and 
the like quantity of moist sugar, to a pound 
of common salt. 

You may impregnate meat witli a very 
agreeable vegetable flavor, by |x>un<ling some 
sweet herbs, and an onion with the salt. 
You mav make it still more relishing by ad- 
ding a little ZEST or savory spice. 

SALT PORK, BOILED. See Bacon. 

SAMPHIRE, TO DRY, OR PRE- 
SERVE. Take it in bunches as it grows; 
set a large deep stevvpan full of water on the 
fire; as soon as it boils, throw in a little 
salt, and put in the samphire; when it looks 
of a fins green, remove the pan directly from 
the fire, and take out the samphire with a 
folk ; lay it on sieves to drain ; when cold, 
lay it on earthen plates, strew sugar well 
over it, next day turn ihem on a sieve, and 
strew it again with sugar, keep turning dai- 
ly until it is dry; take care the stove is not 
too hot. 

SAMPHIRE, TO PICKLE. Lay some 
sam[)hire that is green in a pan, sprinkle 
over it two or three liandfuls of salt, and 
cover it with spring water, and let it lay fur 
twenty-four hours; then put it into a 'urge 
brass saucepan; throw in a handful of salt; 
cover the pan close, and set it over a very 
slow fire ; let it stand till it is quite green, 
and crisp; then take it off, for if it becomes 
soft it is spoiled; put it into a jar, cover it 
close, and when it is cold, tie it down. 

SANDWICHES FOR TRAVEL- 
LERS. Spread butter, very thinly, upon 
the upper part of a stale loaf of bread cut 
very smooth, and then cut off the slice; now 
cut off another thin slice, but spread it with 
butter on the under side, without which pre- 
eautiun the two slices of bread wUl sot fit 



SAUCES 



182 



SAUCES 



one another. Next take some cold beef, or 
liam, and cut it into very minute particles. 
Sprinkle tliese thickly over the butter, and, 
having added a little mustard, put the slices 
face to face, and press them togetlier. Last- 
ly, cut the wliole into four equal portions, 
each of wliich is to be wrapped in a sepaiate 
piece of paper. 

SANDWICHES. (1) Cut some bread 
into thin slices, pare oflf the crust, and spread 
a little butter on them ; cut them nicely into 
oblong pieces, put between each some bits 
of fowl, and then thin bits of ham, both nice- 
ly trimmed ; add a little mustard and salt. 
Any cold roasted or potted meat may be used. 
Serve them for luncheon, garnished %vith 
curled parsley. 

SANDWICHES, (2) Properly prepar- 
ed, are an elegant and convenient luncheon 
or supper, but have got out of fashion, from 
the bad manner in which they aie common- 
ly made : to cut the bread neatly with a 
sharp knife seems to be considered die only 
essential, and the lining is composed of any 
offal odds and ends, that cannot be sent to 
table in any other form. Whatever is used 
must lie carefully trimmed from every bit of 
skin, gristle, &c. and nothing introduced 
but wiiat you are absolutely certain will be 
acceptable to the mouth, 

SANDWICHES, CAKE. Cut a sponge 
cake, a few days old, as for bread sand- 
wiches, and spread strawberiy jam or cur- 
rant jelly over them. 

SAUCE. (1) Few things require more 
care than making sauces, as most of them 
should be stirred constantly, the whole atten- 
tion should be directed to them ; the better 
way therefore, is to prepare the sauces before 
cooking those articles which demand etjual 
care ; tliey may be kept hot in the bain- 
marie. 

Butter, and those sauces containing eggs, 
ought never to boil. 

The thickest stewpans should be used for 
making sauces, and wooden-spoons used 
for stirring them. 

SAUCE. (2) Mix together a pint of 
vinegai', two shallots or heads of garlic, a 
tea-spoonful of cayenne, three large table- 
spoonfuls of Indian soy or mushroom ketch- 
up, and two of walnut pickle. Let it stand 
a week, shaking it daily; strain, and bottle 
it for use. 

FOR ANY SORT OF JVIEAT. 



ANCHOVY. Pound three an- 
chovies in a mortar with a little bit of but- 
ter; rub it through a double hair sieve widj 
the back of a wooden spoon, and stir it into 
almost half a pint of melted butter ; or s!k. 
in a table-spoonful of essence of ancho'^^> 
To the above, many cooks add lemon-juia^ 
and cayenne. 

APPLE. (1) Pare, core, anff 



slice some apples; boil them in water, witK 
a bit of lemon-peel ; when tender, mash them , 
add to them a bit of butter the size of ? 
walnut, and some brown sugar. Heat, and 
serve in a sauce-tuieen. 

APPLE. (2) Pare and core 



three good-sized baking apples ; put them 
into a well-tinned pint saucepan, with two 
table-spoonfuls of cold water; cover the 
saucepan close, and set it on a trivet over a 
slow fire a couple of hours before dnmer 
(some apples will take a long time stew ing, 
others will be ready in a quarter of an hour) 
when the apples are done enough, pour off 
the water, let tliem stand a few minutes to 
get dry ; then beat them up with a fork^ 
with a bit of butter about as big as a nut- 
meg, and a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar 
N. B. — Some add lemon-peel, grated, os 
minced fine, or ijoil a bit with the apples. 

ATTELETS. Take of finelv- 



minced parsley, mushrooms, and shallots, a 
table-spoonful each ; fiy them with a little but- 
ter, and then dredge in a little fiour ; moisten 
the mixture with some good stock, season 
it with pepper and salt, and boil it till it 
begins to thicken ; then take it off die fire, 
and add the well-beaten yolks of two or 
three eggs. Stir it well all the time it is 
making. 

BEEF-GRAVY, or Broim 



Boil and strain three table-spoon lii's of gra- 
vy, two of vinegar, a blade of mace, a little 
pepper, salt, and a large' sliced onion. 



Sauce for Ragout, Game, Poultry, 
Fish, See. If you want gravy immediately, 
see Potato Soup, or Glaze. If you have 
time enough, furnish a thick and well-tinned 
stewpan with a thin slice of salt poik, or an 
ounce of butter, and a middling-sized onion; 
on this lay a pound of nice, juicy gravy 
beef, (as the object in making gravy is to 
extract the nutritious succulence < f the meat, 
it must be beaten to comminute the contain- 
ing vessels, and scored to augment the sur- 
face to the action of the water) ; cover the 
stewpan, and set it on a slow fire; when 
the meat begins to biown, turn it about, 
and let it get slightly browned (but take 
care it is not at all l)unied) : then pour in a 
pint and a half of boiling water; set the 
pan on the fiie; when it boils, carefully 
catch the scum, and then put in a crust of 
bread toasted brown (don't burn it) a 



SAUCES 



183 



SAUCES 



sprig of winter savoiy, or lemon thyme and 
parsley — a roll of tliin cut lemon-peel, a doz- 
en uerries of allspice, and a dozen of black 
pepper. Cover the stewpan close, and let 
it stew very gently for abont two hours, 
then strain it tkrough a sieve into a basin. 
Now, if you wish to thicken it, set a clean 
stewpan over a slow fire, with about an 
ounce of butter in it; when it is melted, 
dredge to it, by degrees, as much flour as 
will dry it up, stirring ihem well together; 
when thorougldy mixed, pour in a little 
gravy — stir it well together, and add the re- 
mainder by degrees; set it over the fire, let 
it simmer gently for fifteen minutes longer, 
skim off the fat, &c. as it rises; when it is 
about as tiiick as cream, squeeze it through 
a tamis or fine sieve — and yon will have a 
fine rich Brown Sauce, at a very moderate 
expense, and without mucii trouble. 

FOR BOILED BEEF. Mince 



a large onion, parboil it, and drain off the 
water; put the onion into a saucepan, with 
a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, 
some good gravy, and one ounce of butter 
dredged with a little flour. Let it boil 
nearly ten minutes, and add a spoonful of 
cut capers, which must be thoroughly heat- 
ed before the sauce is served. 



BROWN. Take a pound or 



two of steaks, two or three pounds of veal, 
some pickings of fowl, carrots, and onions, 
put all these into a saucepan with a glass 
of water, and set it on a brisk fire; when 
scarcely any moisture remains, put it on a 
slow fire, that the jelly may take color with- 
out burning; and as soon as it is brown, 
Oioisten it with stock (or water), add a 
bunch of parsley and green onions, two bay- 
Jeaves, two cloves, and some clianipignons, 
salt it well, and set it on tl'.e fire for throe 
hours, then strain; dilute a little roux with 
your liquor, and boil it an Isour o 'er a gentle 
fire, take off all the fat, and run u through 
a bolting. 

BONNE BOUCHE, FOR 



Goose, Duck, or roast Pork. Mix 
a tea-spnonful of made mustard, a salt-spoon- 
ful of salt, and a few grains of cavenne, in a 
large vvine-glasstlil of claret or Port wine; 
pour it into the goose by a slit in the apron 
just before serving up ; or, as all the com- 
j)any may not like it, stir it into a quarter 
of a pint of thick melted butter, or thicken- 
ed gravy, and send it up in a boat. A fa- 
vorite relish t'ov roast pork or geese, &c. is, 
two ounces of leaves of green sage, an ounce 
of fresh lemon-peel pared thin, same of salt, 
niinced eschalot, and half a drachm of 
cayenne pepper, ditto of citric acid, steeped 
''or a fortnight in a pint of cbret; shake it 



up well every day; let it stand a day to set- 
tle, and decant the clear licjuor ; bottle it, 
and cork it close ; a table-spoonfiil or more 
in a quarter pint of gravy, or melted butter. 



BREAD. (1) Boil, in a pint of 

water, the crumb of a French roll or of a 
slice of bread, a minced onion, and some 
whole pepper. When the onion is tender, 
drain oft" the wafer, pick out the pepper- 
corns, and rub the bread through a sieve; 
then put it into a saucepan, with a gill of 
cream, a bit of butter, and a little salt. 
Stir i'. till it boil, and serve it in' a sauce- 
tureen. 

BREAD. (2) Mix, in rather 



more than half a pint of milk or water, a 
slice of grated bread, a dessert-spoonful of 
potato flour, a small onion pounded, a bit of 
butter the size of a walnut, a few whole 
pepper corns, a little mace, and salt. Boil 
it well, pick out the spices, and mix it 
smooth. Serve quite hot. 

BREAD. (3) Put a small 



tea-(A.,/ful of bread crumbs into a stewpan, 
pour on it as much milk as it will soak up, 
and a little more; or instead of the milk, 
take the giblets, head, neck, and legs, &c. 
of the poultry, &c. and stew them, and 
moisten the bread with diis liquor; put it on 
the fire with a middling-sized onion, and a 
dozen Ijerries of pepper or allspice, or a lit- 
tle mace; let it boil, then stir it well, and 
let it sinnner till it is cjuite stiff, and then 
put to it about two table-spoonfuls of cream 
or melted butter, or a little good broth; 
take out the onion and pepper, and it is 
ready. 

Obs. — This is an excellent accompani- 
ment to game and poultry. 

FOR BOILED MEAT, Game, 



A NO Poultry. Bruise the yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs with a little water and salt; 
bone one anchovy, and mince it, a small on- 
ion, two shallots, a little parsley and tarra- 
gon, and a few capers; mix them with the 
egg, add a tal^le-spoonful of fine oil, a little 
mustard, two table-spoonfuls of lemon, and 
one of tan agon vinegar; mix all exceed- 
ingly well together, f)ut it into a sauce-tu- 
reen, and serve it with the broil; or it may 
be served wilii cold \eal. 



CAPER. To make a quarter 



of a pint, take a table-spoonful of capers, 
and two tea-spoonfuls of vinegar. 

The present fashion of cutting capers is 
to mince one-third of them very fine, and 
divide the others in half; put them into a 
quarter of a pint of melted butter, or good 
thickened gravy; stir them the same way 



SAUCES 



184 



SAUCES 



as you did the melted butter, or it will oil. 
Some lx)il, and mince fine a few leaves of 
paisley, or chervil, or tarragon, and add 
liu'se lo llie sauce; otheis the juice of liaif 
a 8e\ illi- onmge, or lemcjn. 

Keep (hp c-aper l)ottle veiy closely corked, 
and do nol use any of tlie caper lic|uoi': if 
llie caper.s are uoi well covered with it, they 
will immediately spoil ; and it is an excel- 
lent ingredient in hashes, &c. The Dutch 
use it as a fish sauce, mixing it with melted 
butter, 

CARRIER. Scrape a small 



stick of horse-radish, cut an onion or two 
in thin slices, put these into a sauce-tuieen 
will) a little vinegar and whole pepper; set 
the tureen in the diipprrng-pan under a 
shoulder of mutton u liiist roasting 5 serve 
this sauce quite hot with the meat. 

CELERY, WHITE. Pick and 



■wasii two heaiis of nice white celery; cut it 
into pieces about an inch long; stew it in a 
pint f)f water, and a tea-spvjonfiil of salt, till 
the celery is tender; roil an ounce of butter 
with a table-spoonfnl of flour; add this to 
half a pint of cream, and give it a boil up. 

CELERY PUREE, for boiled 



Turkey, Veal, Fowls, ^-c. Cut smal 
half a dozen heads of nice white celery that 
is quite clean, and two onions slicrd; put 
in a two-quart stewpan,^vith a small lump 
of butler: sweat them over a slow lire till 
quite tender, then put in two spoonfuls of 
fioin-, half a pint of water (or beef or veal 
broth), salt and pepper, and a little cream or 
milk ; boil it a (juarter of an hour, and jiass 
through a fine hair sieve with the back of a 
s}X)on. If you wish for celery sauce when 
celery is not in season, a quarter of a drachm 
of celery seed, or a little essence of celery, 
will impregnate half a pint of sauce with a 
sufficient portion of the flavor of the vege- 
table. 

CHESTNUT, FOR ROAST 



TURKEY. Scald a pound of good chest- 
nuts in hot water for five minutes, skin them, 
and stew them slowly for two hours in white 
stock, seasoned and thickened with butter 
and flour. Cut a pound of poi k saus;iges 
into bits about an inch long, dust them with 
flour, and fry them a light brown; lay them 
into the dish on which the turkey is to be 
served, and pour the chestnuts and sauce 
over tiiem. Some people prefer th.e fiied 
sausages stewed a little with the chestnuts; 
but this meJiod makes the sauce of a darker 
color. 

CURRANT, FOR VEMSON. 



nicely-cleaned currants, add three table* 
spoonfuls of grated bread, a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, four cloves, and a glassj 
of Port wine; stir it till it boil, and ser\e it 
hut. 

CURRY, Is made 1 y stirring a 



sufficient (juantity of curry powder, iiUo gra- 
vy or melted butter, or onion . auce, or onion 
gravy. The compositions of curiy powder, 
and die palates of tliose w ho eat it, vary so 
much, that we cannot recommend any spe- 
cific quantity. The cook must add it by 
degrees, tasting as she proceeds, and take 
care not to put in too much. 

DUTCH. (1) Beat up the yolks 



of six eggs, mix in a little flour, cieam,salt, 
and lemon vinegar. Strain it through a 
sieve, add a small piece of fresh butler, two 
blades of pounded mace, and a little pepper. 
Put it into a saucepan, and stir it till it 



is almost boiling. 



DUTCH. (2) Put into a stewpan 

a tea-spoonfiil of flour, four table-spoonfu's of 
elder vinegar, a (juarter of a pouiul of fiesh 
butter, the yolks of five eggs, and a little 
salt; keep stirring it over the fire, and work 
it well till thick. If it be not curdled, if 
will not require to be strained. Season 
with pepper. 

DUTCH, FOR Fish or Boil- 



ed Fowls. Mix, with two ounces of 
fiesh butler, one tea-spoonfiil of tlour, two 
table-spoonfuls of cold water, the same 
qitantity of vinegar, and one well-beaten 
egg; put it into a saucepan, and stir it over 
the fire till it be (juile hot, but do not allow 
it to boil. 

EGG. (1) This agreeable accom- 



Boil in water for a few minutes an ounce of 



painment to roasted poultry, or salted fish, 
is made by putting three eggs into boiling 
water, and boiling them for about twehe 
minutes, when they will be hard; put them 
into cold water till you want them. This 
will make the yolks firmer, and prevent 
their surface turning lilack, and you can cut 
them much neater: ,use only two of the 
whites, cut the whiles into small dice, the 
yolks into bits about a quarter of an inch 
square; put them into a sauce-boat; pour 
to them half a pint of melted butter, and 
stir them together. 

If you are for supeilative egg sauce, 
pound the yolks of a couple of eggs, and rub 
them with the melted butter to thicken it. 



N. B. 



-Some cooks garnish salt fi.sli with 



hard-boiled eggs cut in half. 



EGG. (2) Boil three or four 

eggs about a qiiartcr of an hour, put them 



SAUCES 



185 



SAUCES 



into cold water, take oflf the shells, cut three 
of the whites and four yolks into small 
pieces, mix diem with melted butter, and 
heat it well. 

ESCHALOT. Take four es- 



chalots, and make it in the same manner as 
garlic sauce. Or, you may make this sauce 
more extemporaneously by putting two table- 
spoonfuls of eschalot wine, and a sprinkling 
of pepper and salt, into (almost) half a pint 
of thick melted butter. This is an excellent 
sauce for chops or steaks; many are very 
fond of it with roasted or boiled meat, 
poulti-y, &c. 

ESCHALOT, FOR BOIL- 



ED MUTTON. This is a very frequent 
and satisfactory substitute for caper sauce. 
Mince four eschalots very fine, and put them 
into a small saucepan, with almost half a pint 
of the liquor the mutton was boiled in: let 
them boil up for five minutes; then put in a 
table-spoonful ofvinegar, a quarter tea-spoon- 
ful of pepper, a little salt, and a bit of butter 
(as l)ig as a walnut) rolled in flour; shake 
together till it boils. 

ESCAVEKE SAUCE, for 



Cold Game, Fowl, or Meat. Beat, 
in a marble mortar, the following ingredients: 
five cloves of garlic, six cloves of shal- 
lot, as much pounded ginger as will lie upon 
a sixpence, and the same of cayenne, a ta- 
ble-spoonful of coriander seed, and a little 
salt. Pour upon them, boiling hot, a pint 
of the best white wine vinegar; add the peel 
of a lemon, cut very thin. When cold, put 
the whole into a bottle, cork it tightK", and 
shake it well before using. 

FOR FISH. (1) The melted 



butter lor fish, should be thick enough to ad 
here to the fish, and, therefore, must be of the 
thickness of light batter, as it is to be dilut- 
ed with essence of anchovy, soy, mushroom 
ketchup, cayenne, or Chili vinegai', lemons 
or lemon-juice, or artificial lemon-juice, &c. 
which are expected at all well-served tables. 
Cooks, who are jealous of the reputation of 
their taste, and housekeepers who value their 
health, will prepare these articles at home: 
there are quite as many reasons why they 
should, as there are fjr the preference usually 
given to home-baked bread, and home-brew- 
ed beer. 'I'he liver of tlie fish pounded and 
mixed with parsley and butter, with a little 
ieinon-juice, &c. is an elegant and inofl"ensive 
relish to fish. 

FOR FISH. (2) Two wine-glass- 



es of Port, and two of walnut pickle, four of 
mushroom ketchup, half a dozen anchovies, 
oounded, the like number of eschalots sliced 
16* 



asd pounded, a table-spoonful of soy, and 
half a drachm of cayenne pepper; let them 
simmer gently for ten minutes ; strain it, and 
when cold, put it into bottles, well corked, 
and sealed over, it will keep for a considera- 
ble time. 

Obs. — :This is conunonly called Quin's 
sauce. 

FOR FISH. (3) A taole- 



spoonful of anchovy juice, one of soy, and 
two of mushroom ketchup, mixed in a quar- 
ter of a pound of melted butter. 

FOR FISH. (4) Three ancho- 



vies and an onion chopped, and a small bit 
of horseradish boiled in some stock, theo 
strained, and thickened with a piece of but- 
ter rolled in flour. 

FOR FISH. (5) Boil in half a 



pint of water one or two anchovies, two 
cloves, a b'ade of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, 
a few peppercorns, and two table-spoonfuls 
of Port wine ; strain and thicken it with a 
piece of butter rolled in flour. 

FOR FISH. (6) Mix well with 



two ounces of melted butter, of mushroom 
ketchup, essence of anchovies, and lemon 
pickle, a table-spoonful each, a tea-spoonful 
of soy, and a little cayenne. Boil it before 



FOR FISH. (7) Chop two dozen 



of whole anchovies, mix with them half a 
pint of anchovv liquor, two shallots cut small, 
and three pints of Port wine, one ofvinegar, 
one lemon sliced, one handful of scraped 
horseradish, and ten blades of mace, one 
nutmeg, twelve peppercorns, six cloves, all 
bruised, and one table-spoonful of flour of 
mustard. Boil these together about fifteen 
or twenty minutes; when cold, strain and 
bottle it, waxing the corks. It will keep 
good a year. A table-spoonful improves 
oyster sauce, and that quantity is sufficient 
for a sauce-tureen of melted butter. 

FOR FISH. (8) A quart of Port 



wine, half a pint of best vinegar, one pound 
of bruised anchovies, one ounce of mace and 
one of cloves, half an ounce of pepper, one 
large onion, and the peel of one lemon; boil 
ail these ingredients togedier, over a slow 
fire, til! a pint is wasted; then strain, and 
bottle it, and keep it closely stopped. 

FISH OR MEAT SAUCE, TO MAKE 
A QUART BOTTLE OF. To half a 
bottle of vinegar put one ounce of cayenne, 
two cloves of garlic, one table-spoonful of 
soy, two of walnut, and two of mushroom 
ketchup. Let it stand six days, shaking it 



SAUCES 



186 



SAUCES 



frequently, then add the remaining half of 
the bottle of vinegar; let it stand another 
week, strain, and put it into small bottles. 

WHITE, FOR FISH. Four 



anchovies chopped, two glasses of white 
wine, a large one of vinegar, an onion stuck 
with three cloves, and cut into quarters; let 
all these simmer till the anchovies dissolve; 
strain it, and add a quarter of a pound of 
butter kneaded in a table-spoonful of flour. 
When it has melted, stir in gradually, one 
way, lialf a pint of cream, taking care that 
it do not boil. When thoroughly heated, 
ser\e in a sauce-tureen. 

LIVER, FOR FISH. Boil the 



GOOSE STUFFING. Chop 

veiy fine an ounce of onion and half an ounce 
of green sage leaves ; put them into a stew- 
pan with four spoonfuls of waier; simmer 
gently for ten minutes; then put in a tea- 
spoonful of pepper and salt, and one ounce 
of fine bread crumljs; mix well together; 
then pour to it a (juarter of a pint of broth, 
or gravy, or melted butter, stir well togeth- 
er, and simmer it a few minutes longer. 

GRA.\DE. Take three or four 



liver of the fir^h, and pound it in a mortar 
with a little flour; stir it into some broth, 
or some of the liquor the fish was boiled in, 
or melted butter, parsley, and a few grains 
of cayenne, a little essence of anchovy, or 
soy, or ketchup; give it a boil up, and rub 
it through a sieve: yon may add a little lem- 
on-juice, or lemon cut in dice. 

PIXK, FOR FISH. Put into a 



pan, or wide-mouthed jar, one quart of good 
vinegar, half a pint of Port wine, half an 
ounce of cayenne, one large table-spoonful 
of walnut ketchup, two ditto of anchovy 
liquor, a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, 
and six cloves of garlic. Let it remain forty 
hours, stirring it two or three times a-day; 
run it through a flannel bag, and put it into 
half-pint bottles. 

FOR PIKE. ]Mix with a pint 



of cream a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, 
the same of soy, and two of ketchup, a 
piece of butter rolled in flour; put it into a 
sauce|ian, and stir it one way till nearly 



boiling. 



WHITE, FOR PIKE. Simmer 

till half wasted, two table-spoonfuls of white 
wine, one of vinegar, half a small onion, and 
some grated nutmeg; add a piece of butter 
rolled in flour, then a small tea-cupful of 
cream; heat it thoroughly, stirring it all the 
time, and taking care that it do not boil. 

GREEN GOOSEBERRY. Boil 



some green gooseberries in water till soft, 
and sweeten tliem with brown sugar. 

GOO.SEBERRY. Top and tail 



them close w ith a pair of scissors, and scald 
half a pint of green gooseberries; drain them 
on a hair sieve, and put them into half a 
pint of melted butter. Some add grated 
ginger and lemon-peel, and the French, min- 
fed fennel ; others send up the gooseterries 
whole or mashed, witliout any butter, &c. 



slices from the under part of a knuckle of 
veal, and put them into a large stewpan 
with two ladlefuls of consomme, set it on a 
fierce fire, taking care to skim it as much as 
possible, and with a cloth wipe away all 
that adheres to the inside of the stew [:an ; 
wiien the consomme is leduced, prick the 
slices with a knife to let out the graw; then 
set the stewpan on a slow' fiie, that the meat 
and glaze may adhere together, and as soon 
as the latter is of a clear light color, take it 
ofl", leave it covered for ten minutes, then fill 
it up with rich stock, in which is four or 
five large carvots, and three onions ; let it 
boil slowly for two hours. In the n)eantinie 
put the knuckle into a saucepan w ith four or 
five carrots, as many onions (one stuck with 
cloves), and two ladlefiils of consomme; 
set it on a brisk fire that the liquor may re- 
duce to a jelly; as soon as this jelly begins 
to take color, pom- on it the liquor from the 
other saucepan to dissolve the jelly gradual- 
ly; then make it boil. Dilute some roux 
with the above liquor, and add it to the meat 
with some champignons, a bunch of paisley, 
scallions, and two bay-leaves, skim it when 
it begins to boil, and again when the roux 
is added, put in more consomme or roux, 
according as it is too thick or too thin. 

When it has boiled an hour and a half, 
take ofl?" all the fat ; and w hen the meat is 
quite done, strain the sauce through a bol- 
ting-cloth. 



GRILL. To half a pint of gravy, 



add an ounce of fresh butter, and a table- 
spoonful of flour, pieviously well rubbed to- 
gether, the same of mushroom or walnut 
ketchup, two tea-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, 
one of made mustard, one of minced capers, 
half a one of black pepper, a quarter of a 
rmd of a lemon grated very thin, a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovies, and a little 
eschalot wine, or a very small piece of min- 
ced eschalot, and a little Chili vinegar, or a 
few' grains of cajenne; simmer together for 
a few minutes; pour a little of it over the 
giill ; and send up tJie rest in a sauce-tureeir. 

HARVEY. Chop twelve ancho- 



vies, bones and all, veiy small, with one 
ounce of cayenne pepper, six spoonfuls of 



SAUCES 



187 



SAUCES 



Boy, six ditto of good walnut pickle, three 
heads of garlic, chopped not very small, a 
quarter of an ounce of cochineal, two iieads 
of shallots, chopped not very small, one gal- 
lon of vinegar; let it stand fourteen daj's, 
stir it well, twice or thrice every day; then 
pass it through a jelly-bag, and lepeat this 
till it is perfectly clear; then bottle it, and 
tie a bladder over the cork. 

HORSERADISH, TO EAT 

WITH Hot or Cold Meat. Mix a tea- 
spoonful of mustard, a table-spoonful of vin- 
egar, and three of cream ; add a little salt, 
and as much finely-grated horseradish as 
will make the sauce the consistence of 
onion sauce. 

FOR HASHES AND MADE 



DISHES. A pint of Port wine, twehe 
anchovies chopped, a quarter of a pint of 
vinegar, as much beaten pepper as will lie 
on liaif a crown, two or three cloves, a 
blade or two of mace, a nutmeg bruised, 
one small onion minced, two bay-leaves, a 
little lemon thyme, marjoram, and parsley, 
and a piece of liorseradish about the length 
of a finger split into quarters; put all into a 
saucepan, and let it simmer till the ancho- 
vies are dissolved ; then strain it, and, when 
coll, bottle it for use. 



- FOR HASHED OR MINCED 

Take the bones of cold roast or 



VEAL 

boiled veal, dredge them well with flour, 
and put tliem into a stewpan with a pint 
and a half of broth or water, a small onion, 
a little grated or finely-minced lemon-peel, 
or the peel of a quarter of a sm.dl lemon, 
pared as thin as possible, half a tea-spoonful 
of salt, and a blade of pounded mace ; to 
thicken it, rub a table-spoonful of Hour into 
half an ounce of butter; stir it into the 
broth, and set it on the fire, and let it boil 
very gently for about half an hour ; strain 
through a lamis or sieve, and it is ready to 
put to the veal to warm up; which is to be 
done by placing the stewpan by the side of 
the fire. Squeeze in half a lemon, and cov- 
er the bottom of the dish with toasted bread 
sippets cut into triangles, and garnish the 
dish with slices of ham or bacon. 

FOR HASHES OF MUTTON 

OR BEEF. Unless you are quite sure you 
perfectly understand the palate of those you 
are working for, show thf^se who are to 
eat the hash this receipt, and beg of them to 
direct you how they wish it seasoned. 

Half the number of tiie ingredients enu- 
mei'ated will be more than enough: but as it 
is a receipt so often wanted we have given 
variety. 

Chop tlie bones and fragments of the joint. 



&c., and put them into a stewpan; cove? 
them with boiling water, six berries of 
black pepper, the same of allsj)ice, a small 
bundle of parsley, half a head of celery cut 
in pieces, and a small sprig of savory, or 
lemon thyme, or sweet marjoram ; cover up, 
and let it simmer gently for half an hour. 

Slice half an ounce of onion, and put it 
into a stewpan with an ounce of butter; fry 
it over a sharp fiie for about a couple of 
minutes, till it takes a little color; then stir 
in as much flour as will make it a stiff 
paste, and by degrees mix with it the gra\y 
you have made from t!ie bones, &c. ; let it 
boil very gently for about a quarter of an 
hour, till it is the consistence of cream; 
strain it through a tamis or sieve into a ba- 
sin; put it back into the stewpan: to season 
it, cut in a few pickled onions, or walnuts, 
or a couple of gherkins, and a table-spoosful 
of mushroom ketchup, or walnut or other 
pickle !i(|uor; or some capers, and ca|:er 
liquor; or a table-spoonful of ale; or a little 
eschalot, or tarragon vinegar; cover the bot- 
tom of the dish with sippets of bread (Uiat 
they may l^ecome savory reservoirs of gra- 
vy), which some toast and cut into triangles. 
You may garnish it with fried bread sippets, 

N. B. — To hash meat in perfection, it 
should be laid in this gravv onlv just lon» 
enough to get properly warm through. 

Obs. — If any of tiie gravy that was sent 
up witli, or ran from the joint when it was 
roasted, be left, it will be a great improve- 
ment to the hash.. 

If you wish to make mock venison, instead 
of tile onion, put in two or three cloves, a 
table-spoonful of currant jelly, and the sanre 
quantity of claret or Port wine, instead of 
the ketchup. 

You mav make a curiy hash by adding 
some curry jam. 

N. B. — A pint of Beef-gravy Sauce is an 
excellent gravy to warm up either meat or 
poultry. 

KELLY'S, FOR BOILED 



Tripe, Calf-head, or Cow-heel. 
Garlic vinegar, a table-spoonful ; of mustard, 
brown sugar, and black pepper, a tea-sposn- 
ful each; stirred into half a pint of oiled 
melted butter. 

KELLY'S PIQUANTE. Pound 



a table-spoonful of capers, and one of minced 
parsley, as fine as possible; then add the 
yolks of three hard eggs, rub them well to- 
gether with a table-spoonful of mustard; 
bone six anchovies, and pound them, rub 
them through a i)air sieve, and mix with two 
table-spoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, one of 
eschalot ditto, and a few grains of cayenne 
pepper; rub all these well together in a 
mortar, till thoroughly incorpo'ated; Uien 



SAUCES 



188 



SAUCES 



stir them into half a pint of good grivy, or 
melted butter, and put the whole through a 
sieve. 

LEMON. Pare a lemon, and 



cut it into slices twice as thick as a half- 
crown piece; divide these into dice, and put 
them into a quarter of a pint of melted but- 
ter. Some cooks mince a bit of the lemon- 
peel (pared very thin) very fine, and add it 
to the above. 

LEMON AND LIVER. Pare 



off the rind of a lemon, or of a Seville orange, 
as thin as possible, so as not to cut off any 
of the white with it; now cut off all the 
white, and cut the lemon into slices about 
as thick as a couple of half-crowns ; pick out 
the pips, and divide the slices into small 
suuares: add these, and a little of the peel 
mmced very fine to the liver, prepared as 
directed above, and put them into the melted 
butter, and warm them together; but do not 
let ihem boil. 

N. B. — The poulterers can always let you 
have fresh livers, if that of the fowl or labbit 
is not good, or not laige enough to make as 
much sauce as you wish. 

Obs. — Some cooks, instead of pounding, 
mince the liver very fine (with half as much 
bacon), and leave out the parsley; others 
add the juice of half a lemon, and some of 
the peel grated, or a tea-spoonful of tairagon 
or Chili vinegar, a table-spoonful of white 
wine, or a litUe beaten mace, or nutmeg, 
or allspice: if you wish it a little more lively 
on the palate, p>ound an eschalot, or a few 
leaves of tarragon or basil, with anchovy, or 
ketchup, or cayenne. 

LIVER AND PARSLEY, OR 



LIVER AND LEMON. Wash the liver 
(it must be perfectly fresh) of a fowl or rab- 
bit, and boil it five minutes in five table- 
spoonfuls of water; chop it fine, or pound 
or bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor 
it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve: 
wash about one-third the bulk of parsley 
leaves, put them on to boil in a little boiling 
water, with a tea-spoonful of salt in it; lay 
it on a hair sieve to drain, and mince it very 
fine; mix it with the liver, and put it into a 
quarter pint of melted butter, and warm it 
up; do not let it boil. 

•LOBSTER. (1) Bruise the body, 



add it to some thick melted butter; pull the 
flesh into small bits, and mix all together 
with some rich beef gravy; boil it up, and 
before serving add a little salt, and squeeze 
in a little lemon-juice. 



LOBSTER. (2) Pound very 



finely the spawn of a lobster, rub it through 



a sieve, mix it with a quarter of a pound 
of melted butter, then add die meat of the 
lobster cut into small bits. Make it quite 
hot, but do not allow it to boil. 

LOBSTER. See Lobster. 



FOR LOBSTER. Bruise the 

yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with the back 
of a wooden spoon, or rather pound them in 
a mortar, with a tea-spooniul of water, and 
the soft inside and the spawn of the lobster ; 
rub them quite smooth, with a tea-spoonfiu 
of made mustard, two table-spoonfuls of 
salad oil, and five of vinegar; season it with 
a very little cayenne pepper, and some salt. 

LOVE-APPLE, ACCORDING 



TO UDE. Melt in a stewpan a dozen or 
two of love-apples (which, before putting in 
the stewpan, cut in two, and squeeze the 
juice and the seeds out) ; then put two es- 
chalots, one onion, with a few bits of ham, 
a clove, a little thyme, a bay-leaf, a few 
leaves of mace, and when melted, rub them 
through a tamis. Mix a few spoonfuls of 
good Espagnole or Spanish sauce, and a 
little salt and pepper, with this puree. Boil 
it for twenty minutes, and serve up. 

MINT. (1) Pick and wash 



some green mint; add, when minced, a 
table-spoonful of the young leaves, to four 
of vinegar, and put it into a sauce-tureen, 
with a tea-spoonful of brown sugar. 

MINT. (2) Wash half a hand- 



ful of nice, young, fresh-gathered green mint 
(to this some add one-third the quantity of 
parsley) ; pick the leaves from the stalks, 
mince them very fine, and put them into a 
sauce-boat, with a tea-spoonful of moist su- 
gar, and four table-spoonfuls of vinegar. 

MOCK CAPER. Cut some 



pickled green pease, French beans, gherkins, 
or nasturtiums, into bits die size of capers ; 
put them into half a pint of melted butter, 
with two tea -spoonfuls of lemon-juice, or 



MOCK OYSTER. Put into a 



saucepan two or three chopped anchovies, a 
quarter of a pint of water, a little mace, and 
one or two cloves; let them simmer till the 
anchovies be quite dissolved. Strain it, and 
when cool, add a tea-cupful of cream ; thick- 
en it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, 
and heat it up. It may be poured over 
boiled fowls or veal. 

MOCK TOMATA. The only 



difference between this and genuine love- 
apple sauce, is the substituting the pulp of 



SAUCES 



189 



SAUCES 



apple for that of tomata, coloring it with 
tumeric, and communicating an acid flavor 
to it by vinegar. 

MUSHROOM. Pick and peel 



lialf a pint of niusliroonis (the smallei' the 
better) ; wasii them very clean, and put them 
into a saucepan, with half a pint of veal 
gravy or milk, a liltle pepper and salt, and 
an ounce of butter rubbed with a table-spoon- 
ful of flour; stir them together, and set them 
over a gentle fire, to stew slowly till tender; 
fikim and strain it. 

Obs. — It will be a great improvement to 
this, and (he two following sauces, to add to 
tlicm ihe juice of half a dozen mushrooms, 
prepared tiie day before, by sprinkling them 
with salt, the same as when you make ketch- 
up ; or add a large spoonful of good double 
mushrootn ketchup. 

See Quintessence of IMushrooms. 

MUSHROOM, FOR BOILED 



Turkey or Fowl. ^ Pick clean and 
wasli a |)int of small mushrooms, rub them 
with flannel, put them into a saucepan with a 
blade of jnace, a little salt, grated nutmeg, 
a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a pint 
of cream, keep stirring them till they lx)il, 
dien pour them round llie turkey, fowl, or 
chicken. 

WHITE ONION. The follow- 



ing is a more mild and delicate preparation: 
take half a dny.ew of the largest and whitest 
onions (the Spanish are the mildest, but 
these can onlv be had from August to De- 
ceml)er) ; peel them and cut them in half, 
and lay tliem in a pan of spring water for a 
quarter oi" an hour, and then boil for a quar- 
ter of an hour; and then, if you wish them 
to taste very mill, pour oft" that water, and 
cover diem with fresh boiling water, and let 
tliem boil till they are tender, which will 
sometimes lake three-Cjuarters of an hour 
longer. 

ONION. Boil twelve or more 

anions in water; when it boils, pour it oft", 
add more hot water, and when the onions 
aie tender, strain and mash them in a bowl, 
add a piece of butter, a little salt, and one 
or two spoonfuls of cream. Heat it before 
serving. An apple may be boiled with the 
onions. 

ONION, OR ONION GRAVl . 



Peel and slice the onions (some put in an 
e(|ual quantity of cucumber or celery) into a 
(|uait stewpan, with an ounce of butter; set 
it on a slow fire, and turn the onion al)out 
till it is very lightly browned; now gradiiallv 
stir in half an ounce of flour; add a little 
broth, and a little pepper and salt; boil up 



for a few minutes ; add a table-spoonful of 
claret, or Port wine, and same of mush- 
room ketchup, (you may sharpen it with a 
little lemon-juice or vinegar), and rub il 
through a tamis or fine sieve. Curry powder 
will convert this into excellent curry sauce. 

N. B. — If this sauce is for steaks, shred 
an ounce of onions, fry them a nice brown, 
and put them to the sauce you have rubbed 
through a tamis; or some very small, round, 
young silver button onions, peeled and boil- 
ed tender, and put in whole when your sauce 
is done, will be an acceptable addition. 

Obs. — If you have no broth, put in half a 
pint of water, and just before you give it the 
last boil up, add to it another table-spoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, or the same quantity 
of Port wine or good ale. I'he flavor of 
tliis sauce may be varied by adding tarragon 
or burnet vinegar. 

ONION. See Onion. 



ORANGE GRAVY, for wild 

Ducks, Woodcocks, Snipes, Widg- 
eon, Teal, &c. Set on a saucepan with 
half a pint of veal gravy; add to it half a 
dozen leaves of basil, a small onion, and a 
roll of orange or lemon peel, and let it boil 
up for a few minutes, and strain it off". Put 
to the clear gravy the juice of a Seville or- 
ange, or lemon, half a tea-spoonful of salt, 
the same of pepper, and a glass of red wine; 
send it up hot. Eschalot and cayenne may 
be added. This is an excellent sauce for 
all kinds of wild water-fowl. 

Gravies should always be sent up in a 
covered boat: they keep hot longer ; and it 
leaves it to the choice of the company to 
partake of them or not. 

OYSTER. See Oysters. 



PIQUANT. Put a little chop- 
ped shallot and a few spoonfuls of gravy in- 
to a saucepan; let it boil till the gravy l>e 
nearly boiled away, but not burned to the 
bottom of the saucepan ; add as much 
braise as may be requited for the sauce, 
season with pepper and stdt, boil it a few 
minutes, then add a little lemon-juice, sugar, 
and a tea-spoontul of garlic vinegar. 

N. B. — Braise is an onion stuck wi ii 
cloves, and boiled till tender in gravy and 
white wine. 



PIQUANT, for cold Meat, 



Game, Poultry, Fish, ^c. or Salads. 
Pound in a mortar the volks of two ejjgs 
that have been boiled hard with a mustard- 
spoonful of made umstard, and a little i)ep- 
per and salt ; add two table-spoonfuls of sal- 
ad oil ; mix well, and then add three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar] rub it up well till it is 



SAUCES 



190 



SAUCES 



qiiite smooth, and pass it through a taniis or 
sieve. 

06s. — To the above, some add an an- 
chovy, or a table-i^poonful of mushroom 
ketchup, or wahiut pickle, some finely-chop- 
ped parsley, grated horseradish, or young 
onions minced, or burnet, liorseradish or 
tarragon, or elder vinegar, &c., and cay- 
enne or minced pickles, capers, &c. This 
is a piquante relish for lobstei-s, crabs, cold 
fish, &c. 

SALAD OR PIQUANT, FOR 

COLD 3Ieat, Fish, &c. Pound together 
an ounce of scraped horseradish, half an 
ounce of salt, a table-spoonful of made mus- 
tard, four drachms of minced eschalots, 
half a drachm of celery seed, and half ditto 
of cayenne, adding gradually a pint of bur- 
net, or tarragon vinegar, and let it stand in 
a jar a week, and then pass it tlirough a 
sieve. 

POIVRADE, FOR COLD 



MEAT. (1) Chop finely six shallots and a 
handful of picked and washed parsley ; mix 
with it a little vinegar, mustard, cayenne 
some cold gravy, and salt. 



- POIVRADE, FOR COLD 

(2) Bruise the yolk of a hard- 



xMEAT. 

boiled egg with a little salt and mustard, 
oil, soy, chopped parsley, and chives, and 
pour it over slices of any cold meat. 

PUDDING. Mix with half a 



pint of melted butter two wine-glasses of 
sherry, and a table-spoonful of pounded 
loaf sugar ; make it quite hot, and serve in 
a sauce-tureen, witli grated nutmeg on the 
top. 

QUIN'S. (1) Haifa pint of 



mushroom pickle, the same of %\alnul pickle, 
three whole and three pounded cloves of 
garlic, six anchovies bruised, and a tea- 
spoonful of cayenne. Mix all together in a 
-.srge bottle, shake it daily for three weeks, 
then strain, and bottle it for use. 

QUIN'S. (2) One pint of 



in flour, season with salt and pepper, pu( 
It on the fire, and make it quite hot without 
boiling, stirring all the time, make a liaison 
with yolks of eggs, and serve. 

RICE. Steep a quarter of a 

pound of rice in a pint of milk, with iiision, 
pepper, &c. as in the last receipt; when 
the rice is quite tender (take out the spice)., 
rub it through a sieve into a clean stewpan^ 
if too thick, put a little milk or cream to il. 

Obs. — This is a very delicate white 
sauce; and at elegant tables is fiequently 
served instead of bread sauce. 

FOR ROAST BEEF. (1) Mix 



well together a large table-spoonful of 
finely-grated horseradish, a de.'sert-spoon- 
ful of made mustard, and half a one uf 
brown sugar, then add vinegar till it 1 e as 
thick as made mustard. Serve in a sauce 
tureen. 

FOR ftOAST BEEF. (2) Put 



into a stone jar one gill of soy, two of vine- 
gar, two of water, a good-sized stick of 
horseradish, and two sliced onions. Cover 
the jar closely, and set it into a pan of cold 
water; when it boils, let it sinmier for two 
or three hours. 

ROBART, FOR Beef Steaks 



OR Mutton Chops. Put into a saucepan 
a litde gravy, two ounces of butter dredged 
with flour, a small slice of raw ham, and 
two or three minced onions; when the on- 
ions are browned, dust in a little more 
flour, and add nearly a pint of gravy, a lit- 
tle salt and pepper, a tea-spoonful of mus- 
tard, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Boil 
j it i'ov some minutes, strain and serve it. 

SALAD. (1) Bruise the yoli 



Port wine, one of mushroom ketchup, one 
of walnut liquor, one of essence of ancho- 
vies, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne; mix 
all together, and boil it for a quarter of an 
hour. If essence of anchovies, is not to Ije 
had, boil half a pound of anchovies in a 
quart of water till reduced to a pint. Strain, 
and use it. 

REVEREND. Chop up some 



of a hard-boiled egg with a small tea-spoon- 
ful of salt, then add a dessert-spoonful of 
I mi!stard, and stir in gradually a large table- 
spoonful of olive oil, oiled butter, or cream, 
then by degrees mix in two or three table- 
( spoonfuls of vinegar; seive it in a sance- 
j tureen, or mix it with the salad. Instead 
of tlie hard egg, some persons prefer the 
sauce made with tlie yolk raw. 

SALAD. (2) Rub smooth a 



iemon-peel, and two or three pickled cu- 
cumbers; put them into a stewpan with 
two spoonfuls of cullis, a little butter tolled 



hard-boiled egg, beat well a raw egg, and 
mix them togetlier with a little water, a 
tea-spoonful of salt, one of cayenne, one of 
pepper, and one of mustard, a table-spoon- 
ful of vinegar, one of essence of ancho\ies, 
and five of rich cream. 

The artist, as he styled himself, who in- 
vented this salad sauce diove in his carriage 
to his employers, and charged them ten shil- 
lings and sixpence for each visit ' 



SAUCES 



191 



SAUCES 



SAUCES. See also Gravy, page 89. 
. SHALLOT. (1 ) Boil a few minc- 



ed shallots in a little clear gravy and nearly 
as much vinegar, add a few peppercorns and 
a liitle salt. Suain, and serve it in a sauce- 
tureen. 

SHALLOT. (2) Take two spoon- 



fuls of the litjuor the meat was boiled in, two 
spoonfuls of vinegar, two or three shallots cut 
fine, and a little salt; put diese ingredients 
into a saucepan, with a bit of butter rolled 
in flour; let it stew a little, and serve it up 
with your mutton or beef. 



SHARP, FOR VENISON. 

Put into a silver, or veiy clean and well- 
tinned saucepan, half a pint of the best 
white wine vinegar, and a quarter of a 
pound of loaf-sugar pounded: set it over the 
fire, and let it simmer gently; skim it care- 
fully; pour it through a tamis or fine sieve, 
and send it up in a basin. 

Obs, — Some people like this better than 
the sweet wine sauces. 

SHRIMP. (1) Pick some shrimps 



nicely from the shell, put them into melted 
butter, add a table-spoonful of lemon pickle 
and vinegar; heat it. 

SHRIMP. (2) Shell a pint of 



shrimps; pick them clean, wash them, and 
put them into half a pint of good melted 
butter. A pint of unshelled shrimps is about 
emiugh for four persons. 

Obs. — Some stew the heads and shells 
of die shrimps, (with or without a blade 
of bruised mace), for a cjuarter of an hour, 
and strain off the liquor to melt the butter 
with, an 1 add a little lemon-juice, cayenne, 
and essence of anchovy, or soy, cavice, 
&c. ; but the flavor of the shrimp is so deli- 
cate, diat it will be overcome by any such 
additions. 

Mem. — If your shrimps are not quite 
fresh, they will eat tough and thready, as 
other sta't; fish do. 

SORREL. (1) Pick and wash 



sorrel, well drain it from water, and then put 
it into a stewpan, well covered widi a bit of 
butter, and let it stew veiy gently o\cr a slow 
fire ; when done, put it to drain on a sieve for 
three minutes, then, wiUi a wooden spoon, 
rub it through a tammy into a dish; put it 
into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, stir- 
ring it over the fire till thorouglily mixed; 
you may add, if you choose, three spoon- 
fuls of good consomme, and when it has 
boiled for a few minutes, add to it half as 
much cream sauce as there is sorrel, and if 
necessary season with a little salt ; this is 
proper tor a fricandeau of veal or entrees 
of fish. 

SUPERLATIVE. Claret, or 



some sorrel, put it into a stewpan widi a lit- 
tle water, stir it, to prevent its burning, and 
when it is tender, drain and mince it finely; 
fry it for half an hour in a stewpan with a 
little buttfr, then dredge in a table-spoonful 
of flour, moisten it with boiling cream, and 
let it stew on a slow fire for an hour; add a 
little salt, and if too acid, a little sugar. 
Before serving, thicken with the beaten yoHis 
of four eggs. 

SORREL. (2) Pick and thor- 



oughly wash two double handfuls of young 



Port wine, and mushroom ketchup, a pint ol 
each. Haifa pint of walnut or other pickle 
liquor. Pounded anchovies, four ounces. 
Fresh lemon-peel, pared very thin, an ounce. 
Peeled and sliced eschalots, the same. 
Scraped horseradish, ditto. Allspice, and 
black pepper powdered, half an ounce each. 
Cayenne, one drachm, or curry-powder, 
three drachms. Celery-seed bruised, one 
drachm. All avoirdupois weight. Put 
these into a wide-mouthed bottle, stop it 
close, shake it up every day for a fortnight, 
and strain it (whensi^me tliink it improved 
by the addition of a quarter of a pint of soy, 
or thick browning), and you will have a 
"delicious double relish." Dr. Kitchiner 
says, this composition is one of the " chefs 
d'o-'uvre " of many exjjeriments he has made, 
for the purpose of enabling the good house- 
wives of Great Britain to prepare their own 
sauces: it is equally agreeable with fish, 
game, poultry, or ragouts, &c., and as a 
fair lady may make it herself, its relish will 
1)6 not a little augmented, by the certainly 
that all the ingredients are good and whole- 
some. 

Obs. — Under an infinity of circumstances, 
a cook maybe in want of the substances ne- 
cessary to make sauce: the above composi- 
tion of the several articles from which the 
various gravies derive their flavor, will l^e 
found a very admirable extemporaneous sub- 
stitute. By mixing a large table-spoonful 
with a quarter of a pint of thickened melted 
butter, or broth, five minutes will finish a 
boat of very relishing sauce, nearly equal to 
drawn gravy, and as likely to put youi' lin- 
gual nerves into good humor as any thing 1 
know. 

To make a boat of sauce for poultry, &c. 
put a piece of butter about as big as an egg 
into a stewpan, set it on the fire; when it 
is melted, put to it a table-spoonful of flour; 
stir it thoroughly together, and add to it 
two table-s|)oonfuls of sauce, and by degrees 
about half a pint of broth, or boiling water, 
let it simmer gently over a slow fiie for a 



SAUCES 



192 



SAUCES 



together 
brown : 



HARE. Put some currant jelly into a 
stewpan ; wlien it is melted, pour it into a 
sance-boat. 

N. B. — Many send it to table without 
melting. 

This is a more salubrious relish than 
either spire or salt, when the palate pro- 
tests against animal food unless its flavor be 
masked. Currant jelly is a good accom- 
paniment to roasted or hashed meats. 

SWEET. Put some cinnamon 



into a saucepan, with as much water as 
will cover it; set it on tlie fire, and when it 
has boiled up once or twice, add two 
spoonfuls of powder sugar, a (juarter of a pint 
of white wine, and two bay -leaves; give 
the whole one boil, and then strain it for 
table. 

TARTARE. Pound in a mor- 



tar three hard yolks of eggs ; put them into 
a basin, and add half a table-spoonful of 
made mustard, and a little pepper and salt; 
roiir to it by degrees, stirring it fast all the 
while, about two wine-glassfuls of salad oil; 
stir it together till it comes to a good thick- 
ness. 

N. B. — A little tarragon or chervil minc- 
ed very fine, and a little vinegar, may be 
added. 

TOMATA. See Tomata. 



TOURNEE. To a little white 

thickening add some stock drawn from the 
trimmings of veal, poultry, and ham; do 



few "uinutes, skim it and strain it through a ! 
sieve, and it is ready. j 

FOR STEAKS, CHOPS, OR 

CUTLETS. Take your chops out of tlie I 
frying-pan; for a pound of meat keep a ta- I 
ble-spoonful of the /iit in the pan, or put in 
about an ounce of butter; put to it as much 
flour as will make it a paste; rub it well 
over the fire till they are a little 
then add as much boiling water as 
will reduce it to the thickness of good cream, 
and a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut 
ketchup, or pickle, or browning; let it boil 
together a few minutes, and pour it through 
a sieve to the steaks, &c. 

Obs. — To the above is sometimes added 
a sliced onion, or a minced eschalot, with 
a table-spoonful of Port wine, or a little 
eschalot wine. Garnish with finely-scraped 
horseradish, or pickled walnuts, gherkins, 
&c. Some beef-eaters like chopped escha- 
lots in one saucer, and horseradish grated 
in vinegar, in another. Broiled mushrooms 
are favorite relishes to beef steaks. 

SWEET, FOR VENISON OR 



not make it too thick. Boil it slowly witi 
a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and 
some green onions; strain and skim it well, 
and use it as required. German sauce is 
made as the sauce tournee, adding the iieat- 
en yolks of two or more eggs, and is used 
for ragouts, fricassees, and any made dish 
which may require a rich white sauce. 

WHITE. Thicken half a pmt 



of cream with a little flour and butter, four 
shallots minced, a little mace and lemon- 
peel; let it boil, and a little before serving, 
add a spoonful of white wine, the well-beaten 
yolk of an egg, the scjueeze of a lemon, and 
a tea-spoonful of anchovy liquor. This sauce 
will answer for boiled fowls, or for a fricas- 
see. 

WHITE, FOR FOWLS OR 

TURKEY. Put on, in a quart of water, 
the necks of fowls, a piece of the scrag-end 
of a neck of mutton, two blades of mace, 
twelve peppercorns, one anchovy, a small 
head of celerj', a slice from off the end of a 
lemon, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover it 
closely, and let it boil till reduced to nearly 
half a pint ; strain, and put to it a quarter 
of a pound of butter dredged with floui'; let 
it boil for five minutes, and then add two 
spoonfuls of pickled mushrooms. Mix with 
a tea-cupfiil of cream, the well-beaten yolks 
of two eggs, and some grated nutmeg; stir 
this in gradually, and shake the pan over 
the fire till it is all quite hot, but do not al- 
low it to boil. 

White Italian. Peei 



some mushrooms, and throw them into a 
little water and lemon-juice, to keep them 
white. Put into a stewpan two-thiids of 
sauce tournee, and one-thiid of good veal 
stock, two table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped 
mushrooms, and half a table-spoonful of 
washed and chopp/cd shallots; let it boil till 
well flavored, and then serve it. The 
mushrooms sliould be as white as possible. 

— WHITE SHARP. Boil with 



a little tarragon, or tarragon vinegar, if the 
tarragon is not to be had, four table-spoon- 
fuls of white wine vinegar, and about twen- 
ty peppercorns; reduce this to one-fourtli, 
and add it to six table-spoonfuls of sauce- 
tournee, ar.d two of good stock ; boil and 
.strain it ; put it agai^a on the fire, and thick- 
en it with the beaten yolks of two eggs, a 
small bit of butter, a little salt and cayenne. 
Just before serving, stir in a spoonful of 
cieam. 

WHITE, FOR Boiled Fowls. 



Melt in a tea-cuptul of milk a large table- 
spoonful of butter kneaded in flour, beat ui 



SALT 



193 



S AU 



tile yolk of an egg with a tea-spoonful of 
cream, stir it iiiio tlie Imltar, and heat it 
over the fire, stirring it constantly; chop- 
per! partflev improves tliis sauce. It also 
may ije made l)y melting t!ie butter with 
water, and mixing milk with tlic egg. 

SAUCE, WINE, FOR VENISON OR 
HARE. A (]narter of a pint of claret or 
Port wine, the same quantity of plain, un- 
flavored mutton gravy, and a table-spoonful 
of ciu-rant jelly: let it just boil up, and send 
it to table in a sauce-boat. 

SAUCE, WOW WOW, FOR Stewed 
OR Bouu-Li Beef. Chop some parsley- 
leaves very fine; quarter two or tiiree pickled 
cucnml)ers5 or walnuts, and divide them into 
small squares, and set them by ready: put 
into a saucepan a bit of butter as big as an 
egg; wlien it is melted, stir to it a table- 
spoonful of fine flour, and about half a pint 
of the broth in which the beef was boiled; 
add a table-spoonful of vinegar, the like 
quantity of mushroom ketchup, or Port wine, 
or both, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard ; 
let it sinmier together till it is as thick as 
you wish it; put in the parsley and pickles 
to get warm, and pour it over the beef; or 
lather send it up in a sauce-tureen. 

Obs. — If yon think the above not sufficient- 
ly piquante, add to it some capers, or a 
minced eschalot, or one or two tea-spoonfuls 
of eschalot v\ ine, or essence of anchovy, or 
basil, elder, or tarragon, or horseradish, or 
burnel vinegar; or strew over the meat car- 
rots and turnips cut into dice, minced capers, 
walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, or 
French beans, &c. 

SAUSAGES, (1) Are composed of va- 
'rious kinds of meat, chopped exceedingly 
small, with pounded spices, and aromatic 
herbs, shred fine; these ingredients are put 
into skins, or guts (thoroughly washed), and 
tied into lengths of fi-om two to five inches. 
Some peisons add to the mixture a glass 
of Rhenish, Champagne, Madeira, or other 
wine. 

SAUSAGES, (2) Are best when quite 
fiesh made. Put a bit of butter, or dripping 
into a clean frying-pan; as soon as it is 
melted (befjre it gets hot) put in the sausa- 
ges, and shake the pan fjr a minute, and 
keep turning them (be careful not to break 
or prick them in so doing) ; fry them over a 
very slow fire till they are nicely browned 
on all sides; when they are done, lay them 
on a hair sieve, placed Defore the fire for a 
couple of minutes to drain the fat from them. 
The secret of fiying sausages is, to let them 
get hot very gradually; they then will not 
burst, if they are not stale. The eonuxioa 
17 



practice to prevent their bursting, is to pricl? 
them with a fork; Init this lets the gravy 
out. You may froth them Ijy rubbing them 
with cold fresh butter, and lightly dredge 
them with Hour, and put them in a cheese- 
toaster or Dutch men for a minute. Si)me 
over-economical cooks insist that no butler 
or lard, &:c. is required, theii' own fit 
Ijeing suhicient to fry them: we have tried 
it; the sausages were partially scorched, 
and had that piebald iippearance thiU all 
hied things have when sutiicient fat is not 
allowed. 

Obs. — Poached eggs, pease pudding, and 
masiied potatoes, are agreeable accompani- 
ments to sausages ; and sausages are as wel- 
come boiled with roasted poultry or veal, or 
boiled tripe ; so are ready-dressed German 
sausages ; and a convenient, easily digestible, 
and invigorating food for the aged, and those 
whose teeth are defective. 

N. B. — Sausages, when finely chopped, 
are adelicate" bonne bouche;" and require 
very little assistance from the teeth to render 
diem quite ready for the stomach. 

SAUSAGES. (3) Take a pound of 
the inward fat of the pig, and half a pound 
of lean pork ; pick them both from skin and 
sinews, mince them very finely, grate a large 
nutmeg, take its weight of pounded m;ice 
and cl<jves, the largest proportion mace, the 
weight of all of pepper, and twice the weight 
of the spices of salt; chop finely a few sage 
leaves and a little lemon thyme ; mix all well 
together with two large table-spoonfuls of 
grated brearl and the yolk of an egg beaten. 
It mav be put into skins, or packed into a 
jar and tied closely with bladder. When 
to be used, moisten it with the yolk of an 
egg beaten, make it up in the form of sausa 
ges, flour them, and fry them in buttei'. 

SAUSAGES, BEEF AND OYSTER. 

See Beef. 

SAUSAGES, TO MAKE. Chop to- 
gether two pounds of lean pork, and one 
i and a half of the inward fat of th.e pig, the 
crumb of a penny loaf cut into slices and 
soaked in cold water; season widi ] epj er, 
salt, grated nutmeg, lemon thyme, and a 
little sage. Mix all the ingredients well, 
and half fill the skins; boil them half an 
hour. 

SAUSAGES, BOLOGNA. Take the 
legs and shoulders of a pig, fiom which cut 
all the- lean, scrape it well, remove all the 
sinews, and rub the meat well with a. sea- 
soning made of salt, pepper, coriander, 
cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and bay-leaf. 
When properly flavored, take some bacon, 
lard, and leaf, and cut the whole into dice ; 



S A V 



194 



SCO 



mix the fat and lean together, and put it in- 
to ox-guts, tie lip the ends, and lay the 
sansages in a pan of water, with salt, and 
saltpetre; cover the pan close, and leave it. 
In a week's time take out the sausages 
and drain them. Tie them between two 
pieces of wood, hang ihera up to dry, and 
smoke. When dry, untie them, and rub 
each over with oil, and the ashes of vine- 
twigs, mixed together. Keep diem in a 
dry place. 

SAUSAGES, ROYAL. Mince small 
the meat of a partridge, a capon, or pullet, 
a piece of gammon, and other bacon, and 
a bit of leg of veal ; shred also some parsley, 
chives, truffles, and mushrooms; mix these 
all together, and season with pepper, salt, 
beaten spice, and garlic ; bind the whole 
with the yolks of six, the whites of two eggs, 
aiid a little cream; when thoroughly mixed, 
roll the preparation into thick pieces, which 
wrap in veiy thin slices of fillet of veal, well 
beaten wiUi a rolling-pin ; each sausage 
should be about the thickness of a man's 
wrist, and of proportionate length Lino an 
oval stewpan with slices of bacon and thin | 
beefsteaks, put in the sausages, cover them 
with beefsteaks and bacon, shut the stew- 
pan very close, and set it on a moderate 
fire, put hot embers on the lid, and let it 
stand ten or twelve hours, then lake it off, 
and when cold, take out the sausages care- 
fully, remove the veal, and all the fat, with 
a sharp knife cut them into slices, and serve 
cold. 

SAUSAGES, SPREADBURY'S. Cut 
from the leg or griskin one pound of nice 
lean pork, free fiom sinews and skin, mince 
it very finely : mince one pound of the best 
beef suet, mix it with the pork, and pound 
it as finely as possible in a marble mortar; 
add two large table-spoonfiils of stale bread 
rubbed through a sieve, also a good deal of 
pepper, salt, and a little finely-chopped sage, 
mix all together with the yolks of twct eggs 
beaten up. It will keep for sometime, if 
put into an earthen jar and pressed closely 
down. When it is to be used, make it into 
rolls, and as thick as common sausages, and 
thiee or four inches long; dust them with a 
httle flour; have ready a frying-pan made 
verv hot, and fry them without any ihinof 
but their own fat, till they are done quite 
through, taking care not to make them too 
dry. By breaking one of them, the cook 
will know whether they are sufficiently 
done. They may be filed in lard or fresh 
beef drijiping. 



SAVORY CABBAGE. 



See Cabbage. 



SAVOY BISCUITS. To l)e made as 



drop biscuits, omitting the caraways, and 
fjuarter of a pound of flour: put it into the 
biscuit-funnel, and lay it out about the length 
and size of yuur finger, on common slicjp 
paper; strew sugar over, and bake them in 
a hot oven ; when cold, wet the backs of the 
paper with a paste-brush and water: vvlien 
they have lain sometime, take them carefully 
ofi', and place Uiem back to back. 

SAVOYS, Are boiled in the same man- 
ner as cabbages; quarter them when you 
send them to table. 

SCOTCH BARLEY BROTH ; -a good 
and substantial dinner for sixpence per 
head. Wash three-cjuarters of a pound of 
Scotch barley in a little cold water; put it 
in a soup-pot with a shin or leg of, beef, of 
about ten pounds weight, sawed into four 
pieces (tell the butcher to do this for you) ; 
cover it well with cold water; set it on tlie 
file: when it boils skim it very clean, and 
put in two onions of about three ounces 
weight each; set it by the side of the fire to 
simmer very gently about two hours; then 
skim all the fat clean off, and put in two heads 
of celery, and a large turnip cut into small 
squares; season it with salt, and let it boil 
an hour and a half longer, and it is ready: 
take out the meat (carefully with a slice, 
and cover it up, and set it by the fire to keep 
warm), and skim the broth well before you 
put it in the lureen. 

SCOTCH BROSE. This favorite Scotch 
dish is generally made with the liquor meat 
has been boiled in. Put half a pint of oat- 
meal into a porringer with a little salt, if 
there be not enough in the broth, of which 
add as much as will mix it to die consistence 
of hasty pudding, or a little thicker; lastly,- 
take a little of the fat that swims on the 
broth, and put it on the crowdie, and eat it 
in the same way as hasty-pudding. 

Ohs. — This Scotsman's dish is easily pre- 
pared at very little expense, and is pleasant- 
tasted and nutritious. 

N. B. — For various methods of making 
and flavoring oatmeal gruel, see Gruel. 

SCOTCH BURGOO. This humble dish 
forms no contemptible article of food. It 
possesses the grand (jualities of salubrity, 
pleasantness, and cheapness. It is, in fact, 
a sort of oatmeal hasty pudding without 
milk ; much used by those patterns of com- 
bined industry, fiugality, and temperance, 
the Scottish peasantry; and this, among 
other examples of the economical Scotch, ia 
well worthy of being occasicmally adopted 
by all who have large families and small in- 
comes. It is made in the following easy and 
expeditious manner: — To a quart of oatmeal 



SCO 



195 



SHE 



add gradually two quarts of water, so that 
the whole may smoothly mix: then stirring 
il continually over the fire, boil it together for 
a quarter of an hour ; after which, tiike it up, 
iind stir in a little salt and butter, with or 
witliout ncpper. This quantity will serve a 
family of five or six persons for a moderate 
meal. 

SCOTS COLLOPS. Cut some very 
tliin slices of beef; rub with butter the bot- 
tom of an iron stewpan that has a cover to 
fit quite closely; put in the meat, some pep- 
per, and a little salt, a large onion, and an 
apple minced very small. Cover the stew- 
pan, and let it simmer till the meat is very 
tender. Serve it hot. 

SCOTCH DUMPLING. Make a paste 
with some oatmeal and butter, form it into 
a dumpling, and place a haddock's liver 
in the middle, well seasoned with pepper 
and salt; it should be boiled in a cloth, 

SCOTCH HAGGIS. Make the haggis- 
bag perfectly clean; parboil the draught; 
boil the liver very well, so as it will grate; 
diy the meal before the fire; mince die 
draught and a pretty large piece of beef veiy 
small; grate about half of the liver; mince 
plenty of the suet and some onions small ; 
mix all these materials very well together, 
with a handful or two of the dried meal; 
spread them on the table, and season them 
properly with salt and mixed spices; take 
any of the scraps ef beef that are left from 
mincing, and some of the water that boiled 
the diaught, and make about a choppin (i. e. 
a quart) of good stock of it ; then put all the 
haggis meat into the bag, and that broth In 
it; then sew up the bag; but be sure to put 
out all the wind beftjre you sew it quite close. 
If you thii>k the bag is thin, you may put 
it in a cl.)th. If it is a large haggis, it will 
take at least two hours boilinij. 

IV. B. — The above we copied verbatim 
from Mrs. Maciver, a celebrated Caledo- 
nian professor of the culinary art, who 
taught, and |)ublished a book of cookery, at 
Edinburgh, A. D. 1787. 

SCOTS KALE. Put barley on in cold 
water, and when it boils take otf the scum, 
put in any piece of fresh beef, and a little 
.ealt; let it boil three hours, liave ready a 
cullender full of kale, cut small and boil them 
till tender. Two or thiee leeks may be ad- 
ded with the greens, if the flavor is approved 
of. This broth is also made with salted 
beef, which must be put in water over night 
to soak. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD Take 
t\vo pounds of flour, dry, and sift it well ; 



then mix with it a pound of powder-sugar, 
three ounces of candied citron and orange- 
peel cut into dice, and half a pound of cara- 
way cojvifits ; put half a pound of butter into a 
saucepan, set it on the fire, and when (juito 
melted, mix it with the flour, kc. ; the paste 
being nicely made, roll it out to the thickness 
of half an inch, cut it into cakes, lay thein 
on white paper, prick and bake them; they 
should be of a pale color. 

SEA CALE, BOILED. Let it lie some- 
time ill cold water, then clean and trim it 
nicely, cutting oiT any part that may be at 
all green, and parting it as little as |jossi- 
ble. Put il on in boiling water, with a lit- 
tle salt. Let it boil half an hour; drain off 
the water. Pare the crust off a slice of 
toasted bread, lay it in the dish, pour over 
it a little melted butter, and serve the cak; 
upon it. 

SEED CAKE. Sift two and a half 
pounds of flour, widi half a pound of good 
white or loaf sugar, pounded into a pan or 
bowl; make a cavity in the centre, and pour 
in half a pint of lukewarm milk, and a ta- 
ble-spoonful of thick yeast; mix the milk 
and yeast with enough (lour to make it as 
thick as cream (this is called setting a 
sponge) ; set it by in a warm place for one 
hour ; in the meantime, melt to an oil half a 
pound of fresh butter, and add it to the other 
ingredients, with one ounce of caraway- 
seeds, and enough of milk to make it of a 
middling stiffness; line a hoop with paper, 
well rubbed over with butter; put in the 
mixture; set it sometime to prove in a sti-ve, 
or before the fire, and bake it on a plate 
about an hour, in rather a hot oven ; when 
done, rub the top over with a paste-brush 
dipped in milk. 

SHEEP'S KIDNEYS, BROILED. 
Wash and dry some nice kidneys, cut them 
in half and with a small skewer keep them 
open in imitation of two shells, season them 
with salt and pepper, and dip them into a 
little fresh melted butter. Broil first the side 
that is cut, and be careful not to let the gravy 
drop in taking them off the gridiron. Serve 
them in a hot dish, with finely-chopped pars- 
ley mixed with melted butter, the juice of a 
lemon, pepper and salt, putting a little upon 
each kidney. This is an excellent break- 
fiist for a sportsman. 

SHEEP'S LIVER. Cut it into slices; 
wash it well, and dry it in a cloth; flour 
and season it with pepper and salt, and fry 
it in butter, with a good deal of minced 
parsley and an onion; add a sufficient quan- 
tity of giavy or hot water to make a sauce, 
and let it stew a few minutes. It may be 



SHE 



196 



SHR 



fried quite plain, and when cut into slices, 
should be washed in milk and water. 

SHEEP'S MINCE. Wash the heart 
and lights very clean; boil them about half 
an hour ; mince them finely ; mix a piece of 
butter with flour, brown it in a stewpan, and 
add some of the liquor the heart and lights 
weie boiled in. Put in the mince with some 
chopped onion ; season with salt and pepper, 
i;over it closely, and let it stew half an hour. 
Before serving, add a table-spoonful of mush- 
oom ketchup. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES, BROILED. 

Having parboiled the tongues in a little 
stock, split each, give them a few turns in 
some melted bacon, strewing over them salt, 
pepper, shred parsley, and bread crumbs; 
when well covered with the latter, lay them 
on a gridiron, and broil them slowly. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES PIE. Line a 
dish with some good puff paste, and lay at 
the bottom of the dish some good forcemeat, 
made of roasted poultry, suet, parsley chop- 
ped, mushrooms, pepper and salt, and a few 
fine spices; upon this place the tongues cut 
m two, and upon them a good slice of ham, 
a little butter, and a few slices of bacon; 
put on the cover and bake it; Avhen done, 
take out the bacon and ham, skim off all the 
fat, and pour on it what sauce you please. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES ROASTED. 

Take half a dozen sheef)'s tongues, and hav- 
ing properly prepared them, lard them with 
small lardons, tie them to a skewer, wrap 
a buttered paper round, and fasten them on 
a spit, and roast them before a moderate 
fire; a little before they are done, take off 
the paper, baste the tongues with butter, 
and make them of a nice color. Serve with 
whatever sauce you may prefer. 

SHEEP'S TROTTERS STUFFED. 

Boil the feet in good stock till the bones 
will come out with ease ; fill the space left 
by them with a good fowl or chicken farce; 
dip them in lard, bread them well, and bake 
in a n)oderate oven. The space left by the 
bones is sometimes filled up with a bit of 
fried bread ; in diis case the feet are only 
previously boiled, and then served with 
cream sauce. 

SHEEP'S TROTTERS FRIED. Clean 
some sheep's trotters nicely, scald and wash 
them in hot water; stew them in that sauce 
in which calf's head plain is boiled, 
and bone them. Fry, but not till brown, 
in a little butter, some carrots, onions, a 
little parsley roots, all cut small, thyme, a 
shallot, a small bay leaf, and a clove. When 



they begin to color, moisten them with wa- 
ter and vinegar mixed in equal parts, and let 
it all stew till the vegetables are quite ten- 
der; season with pepper and salt, and strain 
it through a silk sieve over the sheep's trot- 
ters, then fry the trotters in this batter; put 
nearly four table-spoonfuls of flour into an 
eardien pan, with a little salt, a little olive 
oil, and as much good beer or water as will 
moisten the paste ; when well mixed, add 
the beaten whites of two eggs, dip the trot- 
ters into this, and fry them instantly. The 
marinade cuile, or pickle, into which the 
trotters are laid, and the paste in which they 
are fried, may be used for beef, and other 
meats. The same receipt may be followed 
exactly for calf's feet. 

SHERBET. This is a delicious bever- 
age, composed of cream, mixed with various 
articles, such as almonds, tea, pistachios, 
cofTee, chocolate, &c., and sugar, and tlien 
iced. Sherbet may also be made with the 
juice of various fruits, sweetened to the 
taste. When the iicjuid is suificiently lim- 
pid and cold, pour it into a silver, or tin 
sorbetiere, and ice it as usual. 

SHERBET, TURKISH. Wash a small 
fore quarter of veal, put it on the fire with 
nine pints of water; skim it well, and let iV 
boi! till reduced to two pints; run it through 
a sieve, and when cold, add to it a pint and 
a half of clear lemon-juice, and two pounds 
of loaf sugar which has been made into a 
sirup with a pint and a half of water, and 
cleared with the white of an egg. It is 
served in glass mugs for a dessert table, or 
offered at any other time as a refreshment. 

SHRUB. (1) One measure of lemon- 
juice is allowed to five ^f rum, and to every 
gallon of the mixture, six pounds of loaf su- 
gar, which is to be tnelted in water, and the 
whole strained Unough flannel. 

SHRUB. (2) To one part of lemon- 
juice, three of good orange are allowed, 
and, to every pint of juice, a pound and a 
half of very finely-pounded loaf sugar; these 
being well mixed, it is put into a cask, and 
one quart of the best rum added to each pint 
of the juice ; tlie whole to be shaken three 
times a-day for a fortnight, or longer, if the 
cask be large. It is then allowed to stand 
to fine for a month, or till it be sufficiently 
clear to bottle. I'he dregs may be made 
into excellent milk punch, by pouring warm, 
but not boiling, milk on them, allowing three 
parts of milk to one of dregs; after being 
well mixed, it is fit for use. 

SHRUB. (3) Put a quart of Seville 
orange-juice to a gallon of rum, with three 



S I R 



197 



SKA 



pounds of luinp sugar, and a handful of the 
peel pared extremely thin; let it stand in the 
cask tor three months, then iilter it lliroiigli 
a cloth, and bottle it. 

SHRUB. (4) Take aqnartoforange- 
jni-ce, strain it, put to it two pounds of lump 
sugar, f jur quarts and one pint of rum ; put 
half the peels of the oranges into the rum, 
and let it stand one night, then mix the rum 
with die orange-juice and sugar, put it into 
a vessel which has a spigot, shake it four or 
five times daily till the sugar be all dissolved ; 
when it is clear, which may be in about a 
fortnivdit, bottle it off for use. If the or- 
atiges are very ripe, a pound and a half of 
sugar is sufficient. i 

SHRUB, LEMON OR ORANGE. The ! 
rind of the lemons or oranges being grated j 
off, they are to be squeezed, and two pounds 
of finely-pounded loaf sugar is to be added 
to every pint of the strained juice; when the 
sugar is (juite dissolved, two pints of rum ' 
are allowed to every pint of sirup; the whole , 
is to be well mixed in a cask, and allowed 
to stand five or six weeks, and then drawn 
off. 

SHRUB, WHITE CURRANT. The 

currants are to be bruised and put into a 
bag to drip; three-quarters of a pound of 
loaf sugar is to be dissolved in two quarts 
of juice, and a quart of rum being added, it 
is to be bottled for use. 



SIRUP OF CURRANTS, RASPBER- 
RIES, OR Mulberries. Pick the fruit 
from the stalks ; squeeze the juice, and let it 
stand ten days or a fortnight, or till the fer- 
mentation ceases, which may be known by 
tile scum cracking; cai'efully take off the 
scum, and pour the juice gently into a fresh I 
vessel ; let it stand twenty-four hours, and 
again pour it off, to one pound of pounded 
loaf sugar allow thirteen ounces of the juice, ! 
put it into a pieservmg-pan, and when it be- 
gins to boil, strain it through a jelly-bag, 
and bottle it when cold. Burie pears boiled, 
in a little of the sirup, are beautiful. 

SIRUP OF ORANGE OR LEMON 
PEEL. Of fresh outer rind of Seville orange i 
or lemon peel, three ounces, apothecaries' j 
weight; boiling water a pint and a half ; in- I 
fuse them for a night in a close vessel ; then 
strain the liquor: let it stand to settle; and 
having poured it off clear from the sediment, 
dissolve in it two pounds of double-refined 
loaf sugar, and make it into a sirup with a 
gentle heat. 

Obs. — In making this sirup, if the sugar 
be dissolved in the infusion with as gentle a 
beat as possible, to ])revent the exhalation I 
17* 



of the volatile parts of the peel, this sirup 
will possess a great share pf the fine flavor 
of the orange or lemon peel. 

SIRUP, CLARIFIED. Break into bits 
two pounds (avoirdupois) of double-refined 
lump sugar, and put it into a clean stewpan 
(that is well tinned), with a pint of cold 
spring water; when the sugar is dissolved, 
set it over a moderate fire: beat about half 
the white of an egg, put it to the sugar be- 
fore it gets warm, and stir it well together. 
Watch it; and when it boils take oft the 
scum; keep it boiling till no scum lises, and 
it is perfectly clear; then run it through a 
clean napkin: put it into a close-stopped 
bottle; it will keep for months, and is an 
elegant article on the sideboard for sweet- 
ening. 

Obs. — The proportion of sugar ordered in 
the above sirup is a quarter pound more than 
that directed in the Pharmacopopia of the 
London College of Physicians. The quanti- 
ty of sugar must be as much as the liquor is 
capable of iieeping dissolved when cold, or 
it will ferment, and quickly spoil: if kept in 
a temperate degree of heat, the above pro- 
portion of sugar may be considered the basis 
of all sirups. 

SKATE, FRIED. After you have 
cleaned tlie fish, divide it into fillets; dry 
them on a clean cloth ; beat the yolk and 
white of an egg thoroughly together, dip the 
fish in this, and then in fine bread-crumbs; 
fi-y it in hot lard or drippings till it is of a 
delicate brown color; lay it on a hair sieve 
to drain; garnish with crisp parsley, and 
some like caper sauce, with an anchovy 
in it. 

SKATE, TO CRIMP. Skin the skate 
on both sides, cut it an inch and a half 
broad, and as long as the skate, roll up each 
piece and tie it with a thread; lay them for 
three hours in salt and water, and a little 
vinegar; boil them fifteen minutes in boiling 
salt and water; before serving, cut ofi the 
threads. Sauces: — shrimp, butter and an- 
chovy. When the skate are very small, diey 
are preferable broiled. 

SKATE, LARGE, DRESSED LIKE 
Veal Cutlets. Crimp, or cut the skate 
in square pieces, roll them in beaten eggs, 
and then in giated bread mixed with chop- 
ped parsley, pepper, and salt ; fry them of a 
nice brown color, and serve with a rich 
brown gravy. 

SKATE, STEWED. Skin the skate, 
cut it into square pieces, and brown it with 
butter in a tiying-pan ; make a rich sauce 
with the skin and parings, to be boiled in 



SNI 



198 



SOL 



iliree pints of watei', with an onion, some 
pepper and salt; strain and thicken it <vith 
a little butter mixed with Hour, add some 
very finely chopped parsley, and cliives; of 
hot vinegar, mushroom ketchup, and Harvey 
sauce, a table-spoonful each, and a little 
cayenne; boil it up and put it in the skate 
five minutes before serving it. 

SKATE, Is very good when in good 
season, but no fish so bad when it is other- 
wise: those persons that like it firm and diy, 
should have it crimped; but those that like 
it tender, should have it plain, and eat it 
not eailier th.an the second day, and if cold 
weather^ three or four dajs old it is better: 
it cannot be kept too long, if perfectly sweet. 
Young skate eats very fine crimped and 
fried. 

SKATE, SMALL, TO FRY. Clean, 
wash, and lay them one or two hours in vin- 
egar, or vinegar and water, with a sliced 
onion, some chopped parsley, pepper, and 
salt; drain and diy them well, dip them into 
beaten eggs, dredge tliem with fiour, and fry 
them of a fine brown color; garnish them 
with fried parsley. Sauces ; — melted butter, 
and shrimp sauce. 

SKIRRETS. Wash and scrape them, 
put them on in boiling water, and boil them 
for ten minutes ; dry them in a cullender, 
and fiy them brown in a little butter. They 
are sometimes plain boiled, aiid a little mel- 
ted butter poured over them. 

SMELTS, TO FRY. This delicate lit- 
tle fish, when perfectly fresh, must not be 
washed, but wiped with a clean cloth, and 
dredged with flour, or brushed over with a 
feather, dipped into the yolk of an egg beat- 
en, and rolled in a plate of finely -grated 
bread-cinmbs, and fried in boiling dripping, 
or fiesh laid. They vary in size, and some 
will be done sooner than otheis. When of 
a clear yellow brown, take them out careful- 
ly, and lay them before the fire upon the back 
of a sieve to drain and keep hot. Dish 
them, heads and tails alternately; garnish 
with fried parsley. Sauce — melted butter. 
They may also be broiled. 

SMELTS, ITALL4N. Boil your smelts 
with a large glass of white wine, half a glass 
of water, two spoonfuls of oil, two slices of 
lemon, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of fennel. 
When sulficiently done, make a liaison with 
yolks of eggs, and shred chervil, and serve 
your fish with its own sauce. 

SNIPES. When the snipes have been 
picked, they must be singed over a cliarcoal 
fire; in trussing them press the legs close to 



the side, and pierce the beak through them; 
tie a slice of bacon over each bird, run a long 
iron skewer through the sides, and tie ihem 
to the spit ; in the meantime cut t\\ o or three 
slices of bread, according to the number of 
the birds, fry them of a fine brown color in 
butter; put the birds to roast, and put the 
fiied bread in a dish under them, to receive 
the inside, which will drop after they have 
hung a few minutes; just before they are 
roasted sufficiently, cut oft' the bacon, that 
they may take color. Serve them on the 
dish with the bread under them, and plenty 
of good gravy. Some prefer eating them 
with butler only, considering that gravy 
takes oft from the fine flavor of the bird. 
They should be carved the same as fowls or 
pigeons, and the head should be opened, as 
some are fond of the brains. Snipes are 
generally dressed in the same manner as 
woodcocks. 

SNOW-BALLS, BOILED IN BUT- 
TER. Mix with six well-beaten eggs one 
pint and a half of sour cream, and add by 
degrees as much flour as will make the bat- 
ter thick enough for the spoon to stand in 
it; sweeten it with brown sugar, and put 
in a few cardamons; stir into this mixture 
half a pint of beer, beat it all well to- 
gether, and drop it with a dessert-spoon 
into some boiling lard, or butter. I)rain 
them upon a towel before the fire, and serve 
them in a napkin, with sugar sifted over 
diem. 

SNOW CHEESE. Sweeten, with ponn- 
ded loaf sugar, a quart of good cream ; add 
the strained juice of thi'ee lemons, and one 
ounce and a half of blanched sweet almonds 
pounded, and two table-spoonfuls of rose- 
water, and one of ratafia. Beat it with a 
whisk till thick, and put it into a shape or 
sieve with a bit of muslin laid into it, and 
in twelve hours take it out. 

SODA WATER. Tartaric acid half 
an ounce, arated soda, half an ounce. Have 
two tuniblers about one-third full of water, 
put a tea-spoonful of the soda into one glass, 
and the same of the acid into the other; 
when dissolved, mix them together, and 
drink it immediately. The two sorts of salts 
must be'l^ept in separate bottles, and should 
be bought ready powdered. 

SOLES OR OTHER FISH, TO FRY. 

An hour before you intend to dress them, 
wash them thorouglily, and wrap them in a 
clean cloth, to make them perfectly dry, or 
tlie bread-crumbs will not stick to them. 

Prepare some bread-crumbs, by rubbing 
some stale bread through a colander; or, 
if you wish tlie fish to appear very delicate 



SOL 



199 



SOL 



end highly finished, through a hair sieve; or 
use biscuit powder. 

Beat the yolk and white of an egg well 
together, on a plate, with a fork ; flour your 
fish, to al)sorb any moisture that may remain, 
and wipe it off with a clean cloth; dip them 
in the egg on both sides all over, or, what 
is better, egg them with a paste-brush ; put 
the egg on in an even degree over the whole 
fish, or the bread crumbs will not stick 
to it even, and liie uneven part will burn 
to the pan. Strew the bread crumbs all 
over the fish, so that they cover every part, 
lake up the fish by the head, and shake off 
the loose crumbs. The fish is now ready 
for the fiying-pan, into which put a quart 
ov more of fresh sweet olive oil, or clar- 
ified butter, dripping, lard, or clarified drip- 
pings; be sure that they are quite sweet 
and perfectly clean (the "fat ought to cover 
the fish): what we here order is for soles 
about ten inches long; if larger, cut th.ein 
into pieces the proper size to help at table; 
this will save much time and troulile to the 
carver: when you send them to table, lay 
them in the same form ihey were lx;fore they 
were cut, and you may strew a little curled 
pai'sley o\er them: they are much easier 
managed in the frying-pan, and reciuire less 
fat: fry the thick part a few minutes before 
you put in the tiiin, you can by this means 
only fiv the thick part enough, w ithout fry- 
ing the thin too much. Very lai-ge soles 
should be boiled, or fried in fillets. Soles 
cut in pieces, crossways, about the size of a 
gmelt, make a very pretty garnish for stewed 
fish and boiled fish. 

Sei. the frying-pan over a sharp and clear 
fire; watch it, skim it with an egg-slice, and 
when it boils, i. e. when it has done bub- 
bling, and the smoke just begins to rise from 
tlie surface, put in the fish: if the fat is not 
extremely hot, it is impossilile to fry fish 
of a good color, or to keep thera firm and 
crisp. 

The best Avay to ascertain the heat of the 
fat, is to i\j it with a bit of bread as big as 
a nut: if it is quite hot enough, the bread 
will brown immediately. Put in the fish, 
and it will be crisp and brown on the side 
next the fire, in about four or five minutes; 
to turn it, stick a two-pronged fork near the 
head, and support the tail with a fish-slice, 
and fry the other side nearly the same length 
of time. Fry one sole at a time, except the 
pan is very large, and you have plenty of fat. 

When the fisii are fried, lay them on a soft 
cloth (old table-cloths are best), near enough 
the fire to keep them warm; turn them 
every two or three minutes, till they are 
quite dry on both sides; this common cooks 
commonly neglect. It will take ten or fifteen 
minutes, if the fat you fried them in was not 
hot enough; when it is, they want very little 



drying. When soles are fried, they will 
keep very good in a dry place for three ot 
four days ; warm them by hanging them on 
the hooks in a Dutch oven, letting them heat 
very gradually, by putting it some distance 
from the fire for about twenty minutes, or in 
good gravy, as eels, Wiggy's way. 

Obs. — There are several general rules in 
this receipt which apply to all fried fish : 
we have been very paiiicular and minute in 
our directions; for, although a fried sole is 
so frequent and favorite a dish, it is very 
seldom brought to table in perfection. 

SOLES, TO BOIL. A fine, fresh, thick 
sole is almost as good eating as a turbot. 
Wash and clean it nicely; put it into a fish- 
kettle with a handful of salt, and as much 
cold water as will cover it; set it on the side 
of the fire, take off the scum as it rises, and 
let it boil gently; about five minutes (accord- 
ing to its size) will be long enough, unless 
it be very large. Send it up on a fish-drain- 
er, garnished with slices of lemon and sprigs 
of curled parsley, or nicely-fried smelts, or 
ovsters. 

Obs. — Slices of lemon are a universally 
acceptable garnish with either filed or broil- 
ed fish: a few sprigs of crisp parsley may be 
added, if you wish to make it look very 
smart ; and parsley, or fennel and butter, are 
excellent sauces, or chervil sauce, or anchovy. 

SOLES, TO DRESS MAIGRE. Put 

the fish into a stewpan, with a large onion, 
four cloves, fifteen berries of allspice, and the 
same of black pepper; just cover them with 
boiling water, set it where they will simmer 
gently for ten or twenty minutes, according 
to the size of the fish; strain off the liquor 
in another stewpan, leaving the fish to keep 
j warm till the sauce is ready. Rub together 
on a plate as much flour and butter as will 
make the sauce as thick as a double cream. 
Each pint of sauce season with a glass of 
wine, half as much mushroom ketchup, a fea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a few 
grains of cayenne; let it boil a few minutes, 
put the fish on a deep dish, strain the gravy 
over it; garnish it with sippets of bread 
toasted or fried. * 

SOLE, Carp, Trout, Perch. Eel, 
OR Flounder, to stew. When the fish 
has been propetly washed, lay it in a stew- 
pan, with half a pint of claret or Port w ine, 
and a quart of good gravy, a large onion, a 
dozen berries of black pepper, the same of 
allspice, and a few cloves, or a bit of mace: 
cover the fish-kettle close, and let it stew 
gently for ten or twenty minutes, according 
to the thickness of the fish: take the fish up, 
lay it on a hot dish, cover it up, and thicken 
the liquor it was stewed in with a little 



sou 



200 



SOUPS 



flour, and season it witli pepper, salt, essence 
of anchovy, musliroom kelclmp, and a little 
(^liili vinegar; when it has Ixiiled ten min- 
utes, strain it through a tarriis, ard pour it 
over the fish: if there is more sauce than 
the dish will hold, send the rest np in a boat. 
The ri\er trout couies into season in April, 
and continues till July; it is a delicious fish. 

SORREL, TO STFAV. Strip the leaves 
from tlie stalks, wash them well, scald them 
in b(jiliiig water in a silver saucepan, or in 
an earthern pipkin; strain and stew them in 
a little gravy till tender. Serve with hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters. 

SORREL, IN GRAVY. Mince, and 
put it into a saucepan, with butter, bacon, 
parsley, and scallions; add a glass of con- 
somme; set it over a moderate fire, and 
when (juite soft, put to it some fowl gravy, or 
veal blond. Make the sauce thick, and do 
not let it boil, cover the sorrel when served. 

SORREL OMELET. Pick, wash, and 
blanch some sorrel, cut it in pieces, and 
frj' it lightly in a little butter, with shred 
parsley and scallions; then put the sorrel 
into a sauceijan, with a little cream; season, 
and let it boil slowly; in the meantime make 
an omelet in the usual way, lay it on a dish, 
thicken the sorrel with the yolks of two eggs, 
pour it on the omelet, and serve it very hot. 

SOUFFLET, APPLE. Prepare apples 
as for baking in a pudding, put them into a 
deej) dish, and lay upon the top, about an 
incii* and a half thick, rice boiled in new 
milk with sugar; beat to a stiff froth the 
whites of two or three eggs, with a little 
sifted loaf sugar, lay it upon the rice, and 
bake it in an oven a light brown. Serve it 
instantly when done. 

SOUFFLET, RICH. Soak in white 
wine and a little brandy, sweetened with su- 
gar, some slices of sponge cake ; put them 
into a deep dish, and pour over them a rich 
custard; beat to a stiff froth the whites of 
thtee or four eggs, and with a table-spoon 
lay it ovej; the top in heaps to look rough ; 
brown it in a Dutch oven, and serve quickly. 

SOUFFLET, RICE. Soak in half a 
pint of milk, for an hour, one ounce of rice, 
and the peel of a lemon cut thin ; put it into 
a saucepan, with a little salt, and add by 
degrees a pint of new milk, and a bit of but- 
ter the size of a walnut; stir it till it boil, 
and for five minutes after. When cool, add 
the yolks of six eggs, beaten with two table- 
spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, and stir in 
the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and dress 
the soufflet in the dish like a pyramid. 



Bake it in an oven. It may be mac i with 
two table-spoonfuls of potato flour which 
mix with a little milk, and a little si/t, and 
then thicken it over the fire with more milk ; 
put a little orange-flower water, or a: ly other 
perfume ; whilst in the oven it may be glazed 
with sifted loaf sugar. 

SOUFFLET, ORANGE. Mix with a 
table-spoonful of flour a pint of cream, put 
it into a saucepan, with two spoonfuls of 
rose-water, a little cinnamon and orange- 
peel; stir it till it boil; strain and sweeten 
it, and when cold, mix in two t;ible-spoon- 
fuls of orange marmalade; beat well six 
eggs with a glass of brandy; mix all togeth- 
er; put it in a buttered shape; place it in 
a saucepan of boiling water, over a stove; 
let it boil one hour and a quarter without a 
cloth or cover over it. 

SOUPS. Every utensil employed in a 
kitchen must be kept scrupulously clean, 
and a cook ought to take especial care that 
all her saucej^ans be in good older. Brass 
pans are preferable for preserving in, and 
double block tin are the best sort in use for 
every other purpose; their covers, should be 
made to fit closely, and the tinning alv\ays 
renewed as soon as it is observed to In; 
wearing off. While new, they may be 
easily kept clean by washing them regularly 
in hot water, and rubbing on them when 
quite dry, a little whiting with leather or 
flannel. After long use, they will recjuire 
occasional scouring with fine sand ; and be- 
fore they are used, they ought always to be 
rinsed out with hot water, and wiped with 
a clean cloth. A landlady will find it good 
economy, and for her ad\antage in other 
respects, to provide plenty of stone ware and 
earliien vessels, and also common dishes for 
tlie kitchen, that the table set may not be 
used to keep cold meat on. 

In boiling soup, less water is used in a 
digester than in a common pot, as in a di- 
gester no steam can escape. 

To extract the strength from meat, long 
and slow boiling is necessary, but care must 
be taken that the pot is never off the boil. 
All soups are better fjr being made the day 
before they are to be used, and they should 
then be stiained into earthen pans. When 
soup has jellied in the pan, it should not be 
removed into another, as breaking it will 
occasion its becoming sour sooner than it 
would otherwise do; when in danger of not 
keeping, it should be boiled up. It never 
keeps long with many vegetables in it. The 
meat used for soups or broths cannot be too 
fresh. When any animal food is plain 
boiled, die licjuor, with the addition of the 
trimmings of meat and poultry, make good 
soups and giavies, as do also the bones of 



SOUPS 



201 



SOUPS 



•Dusted or broiled meat. The gravies left 
jn the dishes answer for iidslies, and the 
li(|nor in which veal lias lieen boiied, nuiy 
be in;ide into a glaze by biiiling it wi(h a 
hain l)one till reduced to a third or fourth 
part, and seasoning it with the necessary 
herbs and spices. 

In boiling weak soups, the pan should be 
uncovered that the watery particles may 
escape. Cow-heel jelly improves every 
sort of rich soup; and fur thickening, truf- 
fles, morels, and dried mushrooms, may be 
used with advantage. 

Directions are given with each of the 
f)llowing soups for thickening with flour 
and butter, cream and eggs ; after die cream 
and eggs are added, the soup must not be 
allowed to boil. 

Should brown gravy or mock turtle soup 
be spoiling, fresh-made charcoal, roughly 
pounded, tied in a little bag and boiled with 
either, will absorb the l)ad flavor and leave 
it sweet and good. The charcoal may be 
made by simply putting a bit of wood into 
the tire, and pounding the burnt part in a 
mortar. 

ASPARAGUS. This is made 



with the points of asparagus, in the same 
manner as the green pease soup is with 
pease: let half the asparagus be rubbed 
through a sieve, and the other cut in pieces 
about an inch long, and boiled till done 
enough, and sent up in the soup: to make 
two (juarts, there must be a pint of heads 
to thicken it, and half a pint cut in; take 
cai'e to preserve these green and a little 
crisp. This soup is sometimes made by 
adding the asparagus heads to common pease 
soup. 

BEEF, THICK. In eight quarts 



of water boil gently for seven hoiu's, skim- 
ming it well, a shin, or a leg of beef, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs; strain it the next day, 
take oft' die fat, a"d cut all the gristly and 
sinewy parts from the bones, add them to 
the soup with some leeks, onions, celery, 
pep[)er, salt, and ten or twelve ounces of 
Scotch barley parboiled; boil it gently for 
two or three hours.** This stock or jelly will 
keep good for weeks in cold weather. 

BEEF OR MUTTON. Boil 



very gently in a closely covered saucepan, 
four quarts of water, with two table-spoon- 
fuls of sifted bread raspings, three pounds 
of beef cut in small pieces, or die same 
quantity of mutton chops taken from the 
middle of the neck; season widi pepper 
and salt, add two tuinips, tvvo carrots, two 
onions, and one head of celery, all cut small ; 
let it stew with these ingredients four hours, 
wher it will be ready to serve. 



BEET ROOT. Boil till tender 

two roots of beet, and rub oft' the skin with 
a coarse towel, mince them finelv, as also 
two or three onions; add diis to fi\c pints 
of rich gravy soup, so as to make it rather 
thick, then stir in diree or fnir table-spoon- 
fuls of vinesrar and one of brown sujrar ; let it 
boil, and throw in some fricandellans made 
up in the form of corks, and rolled in flour 

AND BOUILLI. The best 



parts for this purpose, are the leg or shin, 
or a piece of the middle of a brisket of 
beef, of about seven or eight pounds' weiglit ; 
lay it on a fish drainer, or when yo\i take it 
up, put a slice under it, which will enable 
you to place it on the dish entire ; put it i)i- 
to a sour)pot or deep stewpan, with cold 
water enough to cover it, and a quart ovcm', 
set it on a quick Are to get the scum up, 
which remove as it rises; then put in two 
carrots, two turnips, two leeks, or two 
large onions, two heads of celery, two or 
three cloves, and a faggot of parsley and 
sweet herbs ; set the pot l)y the side of the 
fire to simmer very gendy, till the meat is 
just tender enough to eat; this will require 
about four or five hours. 

Put a large carrot, a turnip, a large onion, 
and a head or two of celery, into the soup 
whole, — take them out as soon as they aie 
done enough, lay them on a dish till they are 
cold, then cut them into small squares: — 
when the Bep:f is done, take it out careful- 
ly, — strain the Soup through a hair sieve 
into a clean stewpan, take off the fat, and 
put the vegetables that are cut into the 
soup, the flavor of which you may heighten, 
by adtling a table-spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup. 

If a Thickened Soup Is preferred, take 
four large table-spoonfuls of the clear fat 
from the top of the pot, and four spoonfiils 
of flour; mix it smooth together, then by 
degrees stir it well into the soup, which 
simmer for ten minutes longer' at least, — 
skim it well and pass it through a tamis, 
or fine sieve, and add the vegetables and 
seasoning the same as directed in the clear 
soup. 

Keep the beef hot, and send it up (as a 
remove to the soup) with finely chopped 
parsley sprinkled on the top, and a sauce- 
boat of Wow Wow sauce. 

BROWN, WITHOUT Mkat 

Put three quarts or more of water, with a 
sufticient quantity of raspings to thicken it; 
two or three onions cut across, some whole 
pepper, and a little salt; cover it close, and 
let it boil an hour and a half; take it off, 
and strain it through a sieve; fry in battel 
some celery, endive, lettuce, spinach, and 
any other herbs cut small; then take a 



SOUPS 



202 



SOUPS 



Btewpan (snfificiently large to hold all the 
ingredients,) and put in a good piece of but- 
ter, stick in a little flour, and keep stirring 
till it is colored of a nice brown ; tlien put 
in the herbs and soup; boil it till the herbs 
are tendei", and the soup of a proper consist- 
ence, then pour the soup into a tureen, and 
send to table; serve with fried bread, either 
in the soup or in a dish. 

BROWN GRAVY. (1) Take 



fifteen pounds of a leg or shin of beef, cut ofif 
the meat in bits, rub the bottom of the pot 
with butter, put in the meat, let it brown 
for nearly an hour, turning it constantly, 
break the bone and take out the marrow, 
which may be kept for a pudding, but it is 
considered better than butter to brown the 
meat with; put to it fourteen quarts of cold 
water, and die bones; when it boils, skim 
it perfectly clean, and add six good-sized 
red onions, one carrot cut in three, one 
head of celery, a good handful of whole 
black and Jamaica pepper mixed; let this 
boil very gently ten or twelve hours closely 
covered, if upon a fire, but if done upon a 
hot plate, not lo be covered ; strain it through 
a cullender, and then through a hair sieve, 
into a large pan, to be kept for use. Re- 
turn the meat and bones into the pot with 
three or four quarts of hot water ; let it l)oil 
nearly two hours, and strain it off. This 
makes good stock for gravies, stews, or 
any made dishes. 

This gra\y soup keeps perfectly good for 
three or four weeks. When it is lo be 
bojled to send to table, first boil vermicelli, 
or macaroni, in a little salt and water, till 
tender; stiain it, and add it to the soup 
just before serving. This soup is quite 
pure, and requires no clearing. It is a 
most convenient thing to have in a house in 
cold weaihei', as it is always ready for use; 
and, served with dry toast to eat with it, 
makes an acceptable luncheon. 

The trimmings of meat, giblets, and bones, 
may be boiled with the beef for this soup. 



BROWN GRAVY. (2) Cut 



down three pounds of gravy beef, and put it 
on in a stewpan with three onions cut small, 
and two ounces of butter; let it brown well, 
stirring it to prevent the onions from burn- 
ing; then add four quarts of water, one 
head of celery, of carrots and turnips two 
each, with some whole black pepper and 
salt; boil it gently for four hours ; strain it; 
and the next aay take off the fat. When 
It is heated, add some vermicelli, previously 
boiled in water, and serve it after boiling 
ten minutes. 



CALF'S HEAD, OR MOCK 

TURTLE. (1) Pai-boil a calf's head, take 



off the skin and cut it in bits about an inch 
and a half square, cut the fleshy parts in bits, 
take out the black part of the eyes, and cut 
the rest in rings, skin the tongue, and cut it 
in slices, add it all to three quaits of good 
stock, and season it with cayenne, two or 
three blades of mace, salt, the peel of half a 
lemon, and half a pint of white wine, with 
about a dozen of forcemeat balls; stew all 
this an hour and a half, rub down with a 
little cold wat^r, two table-spoonfiils of flour, 
mix well amongst it half a pint of the soup, 
aiid then stir it into the pot ; put in the 
juice of half a laige lemon, and the hard- 
boiled yolks of eight eggs; let it simmer foj 
ten minutes, and then put it all in the tureen. 

CALF'S HEAD. (2) Scald 



and clean thoroughly a calf's head with 
the skin on, boil it an liour gently in three 
quarls of water, and parboil with it some 
sweetbreads. Cut off the meat, slice and 
fry of a light brown in butter two pounds 
of gravy beef, one of veal, and one of mut- 
ton, with five onions cut small; put all into 
the liquor, adding the bones of the head 
broken; rinse the fiying-pan with two 
quarts of boiling water, and put it to the 
meat, and otlier things, with two whf)le on- 
ions, and a buncii of sweet herbs, and twice 
their quantity of parsley; the peel of one 
lemon, four cloves, a little allspice, salt, 
and black pepper, with a slice of the crumb 
of bread dried before the fire; let all this 
stew slowly for five hours, strain it, and 
when cold, take off all the fat. Cut the 
meat of the calf's head, tongue, and sweet- 
breads, in small s({uare bits, add them to 
the soup, and when it has boiled, mix very 
gradually with a large tab'.e-spoonftil of 
flour a cupful of the soup, and stir it gently 
into the pot; twenty minutes before serving, 
add a small tea-spoonful of cayenne, the 
yolks of eight or ten hard-boiled eggs, and 
the same number of forcemeat balls ; a pint 
of while wine, — Madeira is the best, — and 
just before serving, add thejuiceof a lemon. 
Forcemeat balls for this soup are made as 
follows: — Mix the brains with five table- 
spoonfuls of grated bread, the same of finely 
minced beef suet, a tea-spoonful of salt, one 
of white pepper, the gialed peel of a lemon, 
some nutmeg, and boiled parsley chopped ; 
beat the yolks and whites of two eggs, roll 
the balls the size of the yolk of an egg, and 
fry them of a light brown in boiling drip- 
ping. 

CALF'S HEAD. (3) Take as 



much as is required of not very strong veal, or 
beef stock, in v hich six onions have been 
boiled, brown a quarter of a pound of butter 
and thicken it well with flour, then add the 
stock by degrees; when it boilsj put in the 



SOUPS 



203 



SOUPS 



calPs head, cut in small pieces, and some fried 
foi-cemeLit balls; season it willi salt and 
pepper. Tlie peel of half a lemon impi-oves 
it. When it has boiled twenty minutes, 
add uvo table-spoonfuls of ketchup, three of 
essence of anchovies, and as much lemsju 
pickle as will make it a pleasant acid. To 
give the soup a good color, and to enrich the 
tiavor, may be added a large table-spoonful 
of flour, mixed peifectly smooth in a tea- 
cupful of cold water, and stirred gradually 
into the soup, after which let it boil a few 
minutes. 

CARROT. Scrape and wash 



an hour: then put in as many more leeks, 
and give it three-cjuarters of an hour longer; 
this is very good, made of good beef stock, 
and leeks put in at twice. 

CRAW FISH. This soup is 



half a dozen large carrots; peel off the red 
outside (which is the only part used for this 
soup); put it into a gallon stevvpan, with 
one head of celery, and an onion, cut Into 
thin pieces; take two quarts of bee(, veal, 
or mutton broth, or if you have any cold 
ioast beef bones (or liquor, in which mutton 
or beef has been boiled), you may make very 
good broth for this soup; when you have 
put the broth to the roots, cover the stevvpan 
close, and set it oa a slow stove for two 
hours and a halt', when the carrots will be 
soft enough (some cooks put in a tea-cupful 
of bread-crumbs) ; boil for two or three 
minutes; rub it through a tamis, or hair 
sieve, with a wooden spoon, and add as much 
broth as will make it a proper thickness, 
t. e. almost as thick as pease soup: put it 
into a clean stewpan ; make it hot; season 
it with a little salt, and send it up with 
some toasted bread, cut into pieces half an 
inch square. Some put it into the soup; 
but the Ijest way is to send it up on a plate, 
as a side dish. 

CELERY. Split half a dozen 



sometimes made with lieef, or veal broth, or 
with fish, in the fallowing manner: Take 
flounders, eels, gudgeons, &c., and set them 
on to boil in cold water; when it is pretty 
nigh boiling, skim it well; and to tluee 
quarts put in a couple of onions, and as many 
carrots cut to pieces, some parsley, a dozen 
bei-ries of black and Jamaica pepper, and 
about half a hundred craw-fish ; take off the 
small claws and shells of the tails; pound 
I them fine, and boil them with the broth 
! about an hour; strain ofi", and break \n 
some crusts of bread to thicken it, and, if 
you can get it, the spawn of a lobster ; pound 
it, and put it to the soup; let it simmer vei-) 
gently for a couple of minutes; put in your 
craw-fish to get hot, and the soup is ready. 

CRESSY. (1) Wash clean. 



heads of celeiy into slips about two inches 
long; wash them well; lay them on a hair 
sieve to drain, and put them into three quarts 
of clear gravy soup in a gallon soup-pot; set 
it by the side of the fire to stew very gently 
till the celery is tender (this will take about 
an hour). If any scum rises, take it oft; 
season with a little^alt. 

06s. — When celery cannot be procured, 
half a drachm of the seed, pounded fine, 
which may be considered as the essence of 
celery, put in a quarter of an hour before the 
soup is done, and a little sugar, will give as 
much flavor to half a gallon of soup as two 
heads of celery weighing seven ounces, or 
add a little essence of celery. 

COCKY-LEEKY. Take a 



and cut small, eight carrots, eight turnips, 
three heads of celery, and six onions; put 
them in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound 
of butter and a slice of ham, stew them 
gently for an hour, stirring them constantly: 
when they begin to brown add as much 
gravy soup as will fill the tureen; let it boil 
till the vegetables are sutficientlv tender to 
pulp with a spoon through a sieve, after 
which put it on the fire and boil it half an 
hour, skin, and season it with pepper and 
salt. This soup should be as thick as melt- 
ed butter. Two pounds of beef boiled in 
four quarts of water till reduced to three, 
will answer for die soup. 

CRESSY. (2) Slice twelve 



large onions, and fry them pretty brown in 
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; scrape 
and clean two dozen of good red carrots, 
boil them in four quarts of water till ([uite 
soft; pound them in a marble mortar, mi\ 
them with the onions and add the liriuor in 
which the carrots were boiled, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, a blade of mace, 
and tivo or three cloves ; let them all boil 
about an hour, then rub them through a hair 
sieve; put it on again to bcil rather quickly, 
till it be as thick as rich cream. Put a lit- 
tle dry boiled rice In the tureen, and pour 
the soup over it. ' If the carrots are large, 
one dozen will be found sufficient. 



scrag of mutton, or shank of veal, three 
quarts of water (or liquor in which meat has 
been boiled), and a good sized fowl, with 
two or three leeks cut in pieces about an i 
inch long, pepper and salt; boil slowly about 1 



CUCUMBER. Make some 

broth with a neck of mutton, a thick slice 
of lean bacon, an onion stuck with three 
cloves, a carrot, two turnips, some salt, and 
a bunch of sweet herbs ; strain it ; brown 
with an ounce of butter the crumb of a 



SOUPS 



204 



SOUPS 



French roll, to which put four large cucum- 
bers, and two heads of lettuce cut small ; let 
them stew a quarter of au hour, and add to 
them a quart of the broth; when it boils 
put in a pint of green pease, and as it stews, 
add ivvo quarts more of the broth. 

CURRY, OR MULLAGA- 



TAWNY. Cut four pounds of a breast of 
veal into pieces, about two inches by one; 
put the trimmings into a stewpan with two 
quarts of water, with twelve corns of black 
pepper, and the same of allspice; when it 
boils, skim it clean, and let it boil an hour 
and a half, then strain it off; while it is 
boiling, fry of a nice brown in butter the 
bits of veal and fjur onions; when they are 
done, put the broth to them ; put it on the 
fire; when it boils, skim it clean; let it 
simmer half an hour; then mix two spoon- 
fuls of curry, and the same of flour, with a 
little cold water and a tea-spoonful of salt; 
add these to the soup, and simmer it gently 
till the veal is quite tender, and it is ready; 
or bone a couple of fowls or rabbits, and 
stew them in the manner directed above for 
the veal, and you may put in a bruised esr 
chalot, and some mace and ginger, instead of 
black pepper and allspice. 

CURRY. Mince small three 



or four onions, according to their size, put 
them into a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter, dredge in some flour, and fry them 
till of a ligiit brown, taking care not to 
burn them; rub in by degrees a large table- 
spoonful and a half of curry-powder, till it 
be quite a paste; gradually stir in thiee 
quarts of gi'avy soup, mixing it well togeth- 
er; boil it gently till it be well flavored 
with the curry -powder ; strain it into anoth- 
er saucepan, and add a fowl skinned and 
cut in small pieces, dividing each joint; 
stew it slowly an hour. In half a pint of 
the soup put a large table-spoonful of tama- 
rinds, and stew them so as to separate the 
stalks and stones; strain and stir it into the 
soup with half a tea-spoonful of salt, and 
boil it for fifteen minutes before serving. 

EEL. To make a tureenful, take 



a couple of middling-sized onions, cut them 
in half, and cros^your knife over them two 
or three times; put two ounces of butter 
into a stewpan, when it is melted put in the 
onions, stir them about till they are liglilly 
browned; cut into pieces three pounds of 
eels, put them into your stewpan, and shake 
them over the fire fi>v five minutes ; then add 
three quarts of boiling water, and when they 
come to a boil, take the scum off very clean ; 
then p-jt in a quarter of an ounce of the 
green leaves (not dried) of winter savory, 
the same of lemon thvme, and twice tlio 



quantity of parsley, two drachms of allspice, 
tlie same of black pepper; cover it close, 
and let it boil gently for two hours; then 
strain it oft", and skim it very clean. To 
thicken it, put three ounces of buttei- into a 
clean stewpan; when it is melted, stir in aa 
much flour as will make it of a stiff" paste, 
then add tlie liquor by degrees; let it sinnner 
for ten minutes, and pass it through a sieve; 
then put your soup on in a clean stewpan, 
and have ready some little square pieces of 
fish fried of a nice light brown, either eels, 
soles, plaice, or skate will do; the fried 
fish should be added about ten minutes be- 
fore the soup is served up. Forcemeat balls 
are sometimes added. 



GIBLET. Clean very nicely 

two sets of giblets, parboil them. Take the 
skin off the feet; cut the gizzards in quar- 
ters, the necks in three bits, the feet, pin- 
ions, and livers, in two, the head in two 
also, first taking off the bill; boil them till 
nearly done enough in a quart of weak gravy 
soup with an onion. Have ready boiling 
some rich highly-seasoned brown gravy soup; 
add die giblets and the li(]uor they have 'been 
boiled in, with some chopped parsley; take 
out the onion, and thicken the soup with a 
bit of butter kneaded in flour. If the giblets 
are not perfectly sweet and fresh, do not add 
the weak soup they were boiled in. Half a 
pint of wine may be added a little before 
serving, but it is very good without. 

GOURD, Should be made of 

full-grown gourds, but not those that have 
hard skins; slice three or four, and put them 
in a stewpan, with two or three onions, and 
a good bit of butter; set them over a shnv 
fire till quite tender (be carefiil not to let 
them burn) ; then add two ounces of crust of 
bread, and two quarts of good consomme j 
season with salt and cayenne pepper: boil 
ten minutes, or a cjuarter of an hour; skim 
off all the fat, and pass it through a tamis; 
then make it quite hot, and serve up with 
fried bread. 

GRAVY, CLEAR. Cut half a 

pound of ham into slices, and lay them at 
the bottom of a large stewpan or stockpot, 
with two or three pounds of lean beef, and 
as much veal ; break the bones, and lay them 
on the meat; take oft" the outer skin of two 
large onions and two turnips; wash, clean, 
and cut into pieces a couple of laige carrots, 
and two heads of celery; and jnit in three 
cloves and a large blade of mace. Cover 
the stewpan close, and. set it over a smart 
fire. When the meat begins to stick to the 
bottom of tlie stewpan, turn it; and wlien 
there is a nice brown glaze at the bottom of 
the stewpan, cover the meat with hot water 



SOUPS 



205 



SOUPS 



watcli it, and when it is coining to boil put 
31 half a pint of cold water ; lake otT the 
scum; tlien put in iialf a pint more cold 
water, and skim it again, and continue to 
do .«o till no more scum rises. Now set it 
on one side of the fire to boil gently fur about 
fjur hours ; strain it through a clean tamis 
or napkin (do not SLjueeze it, or the soup 
will be thick) into a clean stone pan; let it, 
remain fill it is cold, and then remove all the 
fat. When you decant it, be careful not to 
disturb the settlings at the bottom of the 
pan. 

The broth should be of a fine amber color, 
and as clear as rock water. If it is not 
quite so bright as you wish it, put it into a 
stewpan; break two whites and shells of 
eggs into a basin; beat them well together; 
put them into the soup: set it on a quick 
/ire, and stir it with a whisk till it boils ; 
then set it on one side of the fire to settle 
for ten minutes; run it through a fine napkin 
into a basin, and it is ready. 

However, if your broth is carefully skim- 
med, &c. according to the directions above 
given, it will be clear enough without clari- 
fying; which process impaiis the flavor of 
it in a higher proportion than it improves 
its appearance. This is the basis of almost 
all gravy soups, which are called by die 
name of the vegetables that are put into them. 
Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few 
lea\es of chervil, make what is called spring 
soup, or soup sante; to this a pint of green 
pease, or asparagus pease, oi French beans 
cut into pieces, or a cabbage lettuce, are an 
imjjrovement. With rice or Scotch barJey, 
with macaroni or vermicelli, or celery cut 
into lengdis, it will be the soup usually call- 
ed by those n.iines. Or turnips scooped 
round, or young onions, will give you a clear 
turnip or onion soup; and all these vegeta- 
bles mixed together, soup G res si. The 
roots and vegetables you iise must be boiled 
first, or they will iny^regnate the soup with 
too strong a flavor. The seasonintj for all 
lliese soups is the same, viz. salt and a very 
little cayenne pepper. 

GA3IE. In the game season, it 

is easy for a cook to give a very good soup 
at a very little expense, by taking all the i- 
meat oft' the breasts of anv cold birds which 
have been left the preceding day, and pound- 
ing it in a mortar, and beating to pieces the 
legs and bones, and boiling them in some 
broth for an liour. Boil six turnips; mash 
them, and strain them through a tamis cloth 
.vith the meat that has been pounded in a 
mortar; strain jour broth, and put a little 
of it at a time into the tamis to help you to 
ftrain all of it through. Tut your soup-ket- 
tle near the fiie, but do not let it boil: when 
ready to dish your dinner, have six yolks of i 
18 



eggs mixed with half a pint of cream ; strain 
through a sieve; put your soup on the fire 
and as it is coming to boil, put in die eggs, 
and stir well with a wooden spoon : do not 
let it boil, or it will curdle. 

HARE. Cut the hare in joints 



as for a tVicassec, and put it in a stewpan, 
with a little allspice, three blades of mace, 
some salt, and whole black [jepper, a bunch 
of parsley, a sprig of lemon thyme, one of 
winter savory, four (juarts of water, a slice 
of ham, and fijur pounds of lean beef, two 
carrots, and lour onions cut down; let it 
boil till it be reduced to three quarts; sepa- 
rate the hare, and strain the soup over it, 
and add a pint of Port wine; boil it up be- 
fore serving. 

HERB. Wash and cut small 



twelve cabbage lettuces, a handful of cherxil, 
one of purslane, one of parsley, eight large 
green onions, and three handfuls of sorrel; 
when pease are in season omit half the quanti- 
ty of sorrel, and put a quart of young green 
pease; put them all into a saucepan, v.ith 
half a pound of butter and three carrots cut 
small, some salt and pepper ; let them stew 
closely covered for half an hour, shaking 
them occasionally to prevent their adhering 
to the pan ; fiy in butter six cucumbers cut 
longways in fun* pieces ; add them with four 
quarLs of hot water, half a Frencii roll, and 
a crust of bread toasted upon both sides; 
and let the whole boil till reduced to three 
quarts, then strain it through a sieve; beat 
up the yolks of four eggs widi half a pint 
of cream, and stir it gently into the soup just 
before serving. 

HERB POWDER, OR VEG- 
ETABLE RELISH. Dried parsley, win- 
ter savory, sweet marjuram, lemon thyme, 
of each two ounces ; lemon -peel, cut very 
thin, and dried, and sweet basil, an ounce 
of each. Some add to the above bay-leaves 
and celery-seed, a drachm each. Dry them 
in a warm, but not too hot Dutch oven, 
when quite dried, pound them in a nioilar, 
and pass them through a double hair sieve; 
put them in a bottle closely stopped, they 
will retain their frasrrance and flavor for 
several months. 

Obs. — This composition of the fine aro- 
matic herbs is an invaluable acc|uisition to 
the cook in those seasons or situations when 
fi'esh herbs cannot be liad ; and we prefer it 
to the ragout powder. It impregnates sauce, 
soup, &c. with as much relish, and renders 
it agreeable to the palate, and refreshes the 
gustatory nerves, without so much risk of 
offending the stomach. 

INVALID. Cut in small piece* 



SOUPS 



206 



SOUPS 



one pound of beef or mutton, or part of both ; 
boil it gently in two qnarts of water; take 
off tlie scum, and wiien reduced to a pint, 
strain it. Seiison witli a little salt, and take 
a tea-cupful at a time. 

LOBSTER. (1) Cut small a 



dozen of common-sized onions, put them into 
a stewpan witli a small bit of butter, a slice 
or two of lean ham, and a slice of lean beef; 
when llie onions are quite soft, mix gradu- 
ally with them some rich stock; let it boil, 
and strain it through a fine hair sieve, press- 
ing the pulp of the onions witli a wooden 
spoon; dien boil it well, skimming it ail the 
time. Beat the meat of a boiled cod, the 
spawn and body of a large lobster, or of two 
small ones, in a marble mortar; add grad- 
ually to it the soup, stirring it till it is as 
smooth as cream; let it boil again and scum 
it. Cut the tail and the claws of the lobster 
into pieces, and add them to the soup before 
serving it, and also some pepper, cayenne, 
white pepper, and a glass of white wine. 
Forcemeat balls may be added to oyster soup 
and lobster soup, made as directed under the 
article " Forcemeat for fish." 

LOBSTER. (2) You must 



have three fine lively young hen lobsters, 
split the tails; take out die fish, crack the 
claws, and cut the meat into mouthfids: 
take out the coral, and soft part of the body ; 
bruise part of the coral in a mortar; pick 
out the fish from the chines; beat part of it 
with the coral, and with this make forcemeat 
balls, finely-fiavored with mac-e or nutmeg, 
a little grated lemon-peel, anchovy and cay- 
enne; pound these with the yolk of an egg. 
Have three quarts of veal broth; bruise 
the small legs and the chine, and put them 
into it, to boil for twenty minutes, then 
strain it; and then to thicken it, take the 
live spawn and bruise it in a mortar with a 
little butter and flour; rub it through a sieve, 
an I add it to the soup with the meat of the 
lol.isters, and the remaining coral; let it 
siiiiiner very gently for ten minutes; do not 
lei it boil, or its fine red color will imme- 
d;a:el} fade; turn it into a tureen; add the 
juice of a good lemon, and a little essence 
ol" anchovy. 

LORRAiN. Boil in four quarts 



it with the otlier ingreditnts, and stir it al 
well into the soup ; let it boil gently for ten 



minutes before serving. 



MAIGRE, OR VEGETABLE 

GRAVY. Put into a gallon stewpan ihtee 
ounces of butter; set it over a slow fire; 
while it is melting, slice four ounces of 
onion; cut in small pieces one ttnnip, one 
carrot, and a head of celery ; put them in the 
stewpan, cover it close, let it fiy till they are 
lightly browned; this will take about twen- 
ty-five minutes: have ready, in a saucepan, 
i a pint of pease, with four quarts of water; 
I when the roots in the stewpan are quite 
j brcAvn, and the pease come to a boil, put the 
i pease and watei' to them; put it on the fire; 
when it boils, skim it clean, and put in a 
crust of bread about as big as the top of a 
twopenny loaf, twenty-four berries of all- 
spice, the same of black pe[)per, and two 
blades of mace; cover it close, let it simmer 
gently for one hour and a half; then set it 
from the fiie for ten minutes; then pour it 
off very gently (so as not to disturb the sedi- 
ment at the bottom of the stewpan) into a 
large basin ; let it stand (about two hours) 
till it is quite cle.n-: while this is doing, 
[ shred one large turnip, the red part of a 
large carrot, three ounces of onion minced, 
and one large head of celeiy cut into small 
bits; put the turnips and carrots on the fire 
in cold water, let them boil five minutes, 
then drain them on a sieve, then pour ofl the 
soup clear into a stewpan, put in the roots, 
put the soup on the fire, let it simmer gently 
till the herbs are tender (from thirty to forty 
minutes), season it with salt and a little 
cayenne, and it is ready. You may add a 
table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. You 
will have three quarts of soup, as well color- 
ed, and almost as well fiavoied, as if made 
with gravy meat. To make this it requires 
nearly five hours. To fiy the herijs recjuiies 
twenty-five minutes; to boil all together, one 
hour and a half; to settle, at the least, two 
hours ; when clear, and put on the fire again, 
half an hour more. 

MACARONL (1) Boil for dnee 



of water a knuckle of veal, one pound of 
lean beef, and one pound of mutton, a car- 
rot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a little 
lemon thyme, some salt and white pepper, 
till reduced to three, then strain the licjuor; 
pound v(;ry finely in a marble mortar, all the 
white meat of a large roasted fowl, with a 
quarter of a pound of blanched almonds, and 
the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs; boil in 
milk the crumb of a French roll, and pound 



hours veiy quickly, in five quarts of water, 
seven pounds of veal, a little salt, a dessert- 
spoonful of wh.ite pepper, and three or four 
blades of mace; strain it off, put it into a 
saucepan, and keep it hot upon a stove. 
Mix five table-spoonfuls of fiour with two 
ounces of butter, put it into an iron-tinned 
saucepan, and stir it over the fire till it be 
melted ; add half a pint of the strained stock, 
and then graduallv mix the whole together, 
and keep stirring constantly till it thickens, 
and then add two ounces and a half of mac- 
aroni, previously boiled in milk and water 
for eight minutes ; stir it again till it boil. 



SOUPS 



207 



SOUPS 



Take the pan off the stove, and nlir in by 
degrees about three-t^uarlers of a pint of rich 
Bweet cream, and jist let it boil oefore ser- 



MACARONI. (2) Make a good 

stock with a knuckle of veal, a little sweet 
niarjorani, paisley, some salt, wiiite pepper, 
three blades of mace, and two or three on- 
ions; strain and boil it. Break in small bits 
a (|narler of a pound of macaroni, and gently 
sinnner it in milk and water till it be swell- 
ed and is tender; strain it, and add it to the 
soup, which thicken with two table-spoonfuls 
of Hour, tnixe'' in half a pint of cream, and 
stirred gradually into the soup. Boil it a few 
minutes before serving. •■ 

MOCK TURTLE. Eudeavf.r 

to have the head and the broth ready for the 
soup, the "day hefove it is to be eaten. It 
will take eight hours to prepare it properly. 

h(nirs. 

(^!eanin;i and soakins; the head 1 

■J'o pirlioil it to cut up 1 

Coolini?, n«iiily 1 

Making the broth and finishing the soi;p 5 



8 
Get a calf's head with the skin on (the 
fresher the better) ; take out the brains, 
wash the head several times in cold water, 
let it soak for about an hour in spring water, 
then lay it in a stewpan, and cover it with 
cold water, and half a gallon over; as it be- 
comes warm, a great deal of scum will rise, 
which must be immediately I'emoved ; let it 
boil gently for one hour, take it up, and when 
almost cold, cut the head into pieces about 
an inch and a half by an inch and a quarter, 
and the tongue into mouthfuls, or rather 
make a side-dish of the tongue and brains. 

When the head js taken out, put in the 
stock meat, about five pounds of knuckle of 
veal, and as much beef; add to the stock all 
the trinunings and bones of the head, skim 
it well, and then cover it close, and let it 
b(nl five hours (reserve a couple of quarts of 
this to make gravy sauces) ; then strain it off, 
and let it stand till the next morning; then 
take oft" the fat, set a large stewpan on the 
fire with half a pound of good fresh butter, 
twelve ounces of onions sliced, and four oun- 
ces of green sage ; chop it a little; let these 
fry one hour ; then lub in half a pound of 
flour, and by degrees add your broth till it is 
the thickness of cream ; season it with a 
quarter of an ounce of ground allspice and 
half an ounce of black pepper ground very 
line, salt to your taste, and the rind of one 
lemon peeled very thin; let it simmer very 
gep'ly for fine hour and a half, then strain it 
through a hair sieve ; do not rub your soup 
to get it through the sieve, or it will make it 
grouty; if it does not run through easily, 



knock your wooden spoon against the Bide 
of your sieve; put it in a clean stewpan with 
the head, and season it by adding to each 
gallon of soup half a pint of wine; this should 
be Madeira, or, if you wish to darken the 
color of your soup, claret, and two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon-juice; let it simmer gently 
till die meat is tender; this may take from 
half an hour to an hour: take care it is not 
over-done ; stir it frecjiiently to prevent tlie 
meat sticking to the bottom of the stewpan, 
and when the meat is (juite tender the S(jup 
is ready. 

A head weighing twenty pounds, and ten 
pounds of stock meat, will make ten quarts 
of excellent soup, besides the two quarts of 
stock you have put by for made dishes. 

06s. — If thei e is more meat on the head 
than you wish to put in the soup, prepare it 
for a pie, and, with the addition of a calf's 
foot boiled tender, it will make an excellent 
ragout pie; season it with zest, and a little 
minced onion, put in half a tea-cupful of 
stock, cover it with puff paste, and bake it 
j one hour: when the soup conies from table, 
if there is a deal of meat and no soup, put it 
into a pie-dish, season it a little, and add 
some little stock to it; then cover it with 
paste, bake it one hour, and you have a 
good mock turtle pie. 

To season it, to each gallon of soup put 
two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, same of 
mushroom ketchup, and one of essence of 
anchovy, half a pint of wine (this should be 
Madeira, or, if you wish to darken the color 
of your soup, claret), a tea-spoonful of curry 
powder, or a cjuarter of a dracimi of cayenne, 
and the peel of a lemon pared as thin as 
possible; let it simmer five minutes more, 
take out the lemon-peel, and the soup is ready 
for the tureen. 

While the soup is doing, prepare for each 
tureen a dozen and a half of mock turtle 
forcemeat balls, and put them into the tureen. 
Brain balls, or cakes, are a very elegant ad- 
dition, and are made by boiling the brains 
for ten minutes, then putting them in cold 
water, and cutting them into pieces about as 
big as a lai'ge nutmeg; take savory, or lemon 
thyme dried and finely powdered, nutmeij 
grated, and pepper and salt, and fxjund them 
all together; beat up an egg, dip the brains 
in it, and then roll them in this mixture, and 
make as much of it as possible stick to them ; 
dip them in the egg again, and then in finely- 
grated and sifted bread-crumbs; fiy them in 
hot fat, and send them up as a side dish. 

A veal sweetbread, not too much done or 
it will break, cut into pieces the same size 
as you cut the calf's head, and put in tlie 
soup, just to get warm before it goes to table, 
is a superb " bonne boiiche;'' and pickled 
tongue, stewed till very tender, and cut into 
mouthfuls, is a favorite addition. We order 



SOUPS 



208 



SOUPS 



the meat to be cut into mouthfuls, that it 
may be eaten willi a spoon: the knife and 
fork have no business in a soup-plate. 

N. B. — In helping this sonp, the distri- 
buter of it should serve out the meat, force- 
meat, and gravy, in equal parts ; however 
ti'iding or needless this lemark may appear, 
the writer has often suffered from the want 
of such a hint being given to the soup-serv- 
er, who has sometimes sent a plate of mere 
gravy witliout meat, at others, of meat with- 
out gravy, and sometimes scarcely any thing 
but forcemeat balls. 

06s. — This is a delicious soup, within 
tlie reach of those who "eat to live;" but 
if it had been composed expressly for those 
wlio only " live to eat," I do not know how 
it could have been made more agreeable: as 
it is, the lover of good eating will " wish his 
thruata mile long, and every inch of it palate " 

MOCK MOCK TURTLE. Line 



the bottom of a stewpan that will hold five 
pints, with an ounce of nice lean bacon or 
ham, a pound and a half of lean gravy beef, 
a cow-heel, the inner rind of a cariot, a sprig 
of lemon thyme, winter savory, three times 
the (juantity of parsley, a few green leaves 
oi" sweet basil, and two eschalots; put in a 
large onion, with four cloves stuck in it, 
eighleen corns of allspice, the same of black 
pepper ; pour on these a quarter of a pint 
of cold water, cover the stewpan, and set it 
on a slow fire, to boil gently for a quarter 
of an hour; then, for fear the meat should 
catch, take oft" the cover, and watch it; and 
when it has got a good brown cx)lor, fill up 
the stewpan with boiling water, and let it 
simmer very gently for two hours: if you 
wish to have the full benefit of the meat, 
only stew it till it is just tender, cut it inte 
mouthfuls, and put it into the soup. To 
thicken it, poui' two or three table-spoonfuls 
of Hour, a ladleful of the gravy, and stir it 
(juick till it is well mixed; pour it back in- 
to the stewpan where the gravy is, and let 
it simmer gently for half an hour longer; 
skim it, and then strain it through a tamis 
into the stewpan: cut the cow-heel into 
{)ieces about an inch square, squeeze through 
a sieve the juice of a lemon, a table-spoon- 
fiil of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of 
salt, half a tea-spoonful of ground black 
pepi)er, as much grated nutmeg as will lie 
on a sixpence, and a glass of Madeira or 
Sherry wine; let it all simmer together for 
five minutes longer. Forcemeat or egg balls 
may be added if you please. 

A pound of veal cutlets, or the belly part 
of pickled j)ork, or nice double tripe cut in- 
to pieces about an inch square, and half an 
inch thick, and rounded and trimmed neat- 
ly Irom all skin, gristle, &c. and stewed till 
lliey are tender, will be a great addition. 



MOOR-FOWL. Ji may be 

made with or widiout brown gravy soup; 
when with the former, six birds are suffi- 
cient, when with moor-f '\\ I unK , Ixiil five in 
four ([uarts of water, poimd the breasts in a 
mortar and rub it through a sieve, put it 
with the legs, backs, and three more moor- 
fowl, cut down in joints, into the licjuor, 
season with a pint of Port wine, pcj lei, 
and sail, and let it btii an h)! r. \MiHn 
only six birds are used, pound the breasts 
of three or four. 



MULLAGATAWNY. (1) Put 



half a pound of fiesh butter, v. ith six large 
onions sliced, three cloves of garlic, some 
chopped parsley, and sweet marjoram, into 
a stewpan, let it slew over a slow fire till 
of a light brown color; cut in small pieces 
five pounds of lean beef, and let that stew 
till the gravy be extracted, and then put in 
three quarts of boiling water, and half a 
pound of Scotch barley, and let it simmer 
four hours very slowly; mix four table- 
spoonfuls of curry-powder with cold water, 
and add it to the stock; take out the beef, 
and rub the barley through a sieve, to thick- 
en the soup. Cut a fowl in joints, skin it, 
and put it in a stewpan with a piece of but- 
ter, and let it stew till quite tender; the 
stewpan must be kept closely covered: this 
to be added to the soup, the last thing, with 
a pint of boiling milk, and the juice of two 
lemons. Boiled rice must always be fei\ed 
with this soup. 

MULLAGATAWiNY. (2) 



Make a strong stock of the bones of roasted 
beef, mutton, and fowl ; while it is prepar- 
ing, put into a stewpan, with six ounces of 
butter, three quarts of sliced turnip, two 
quarts of carrots, and. eight large onions 
also sliced; let them stew upon the stove till 
tender ; dien add three quarts of the pre- 
pared stock, a large slice of the crumb of 
bread, and two table-spoonfuls of curry- 
powder; let them stew four or five hours; 
strain it through a tammy cloth, with 
two wooden spoons, taking care that no 
bones be left amongst the vegetables ; if too 
thick to go through, add more stock. Then 
cut a fowl in pieces, fry it in a frying-jian 
with butter, and add it to the soup; after 
it has boiled a little, draw it to the side 
] of the stove, and let it simmer, that the 
: grease may be taken off". A liiile good 
beef stock, in addition to that made of the 
i bones will be an improvement. It is sorr.e- 
, times thickened widi whole or ground rice, 
instead of bread, and ought to be made 
upon a stove. 

ONION. Boil in four quarts of 



water six pounds of a knuckle of veal, with 



SOUPS 



209 



SOUPS 



a desseri-spoonful of whole white pep{)er, 
and a few lilades of mace ; when the meat 
is so much boiled as to leave the bone, strain 
off the stock. The following day boil nine 
or ten large Spanish onions in milk and 
water, till sufficiently tender to pulp through 
a sieve; take the fat off from the top of the 
Etock, boil it up, and add the onions with 
about a (juartei- of a pound of fresh butter 
worked with two hea|)ed table-spoonfuls of 
sifted flour of rice, and a little salt; boil it 
gently for half an hour, stirring it constantly, 
and a little before serving, stir in half a pint 
of rich cream. 



OX-HEAD, Should be pre- 



pared the day before it is to be eaten, as you 
cannot cut the meat off the head into neat 
mouthfuls unless it is cold: therefore, the 
day bef ire you want tliis soup, put half an 
ox-cheek into a tub of cold v^ater to soak 
i'or a couple of hours ; then break the bon(-s 
that have not been broken at the butcher's, 
and wash it very well in warm water; put 
it into a put, and cover it with cold water; 
when it boils, skim it very clean, and then 
put in one head of celery, a coupde of carrots, 
a turnip, two large onions, two dozen ber- 
ries of black pepper, same of allspice, and 
a bundle of swfet herl)s, such as maijoram, 
lemon thyme, savoiy, and a handful of pnvs- 
ley ; cover tlie soup-pot close, and set it on a 
slow fire; take off the scum, which will rise 
when it is coming to a boil, and set it by the 
fireside to stew very gently for about three 
hours; take out the head, lay it on a dish, 
pour the soup through a fine sieve into a 
stone-ware pan, and set it and the head by 
in a cool place till the next day; then cut 
the meat into neat mouthfiils, skim and strain 
off the broth, put two quarts of it and the 
meat into a clean stewpan, let it simmer very 
gently fi)r half an hour longer, and it is 
really. If you wish it thickened, put two 
ounces of butter into a stewpan; when it is 
melted, ih-ovv in as much (lour as wdl dry it 
up; when they are all well mixed togetlier, 
and browned by degrees, pour to this your 
soup, and stir it well together; let it simmer 
fijr h df an hour longer; strain it through a 
hair sieve into a clean stewpan, and put to 
it the meat of the head ; let it stew half an 
hour longer, and season it with cayenne 
pepper, salt, and a glass of good wine, or a 
table-spoonful of brandy. If you serve it as 
soup for a dozen people, thicken one tureen, 
and send up the meat in that; and send up 
the other as a clear gravy sou[), with some 
of the cairots and turnips shredded, or cut 
into shapes. 

OX-HEEL, Blust be made the 



that have been boiled as they usually are a* 
the tripe shops. 

Cut the meat off the boiled heels into nea! 
mouthfuls, and set it by on a plate; put the 
trimmings and bones in a stewpan, with three 
(|uartsof water, and the unlxiiled heel cut into 
(juarters; fuinish a stewpan with two onions, 
and two turnips pared and sliced; |)are off 
the red part of a couple of large carrots, add 
a couple of eschalots cut in half", a bunch of 
savory or lemon thyme, and double the quan- 
tity of parsley ; set this over, or by the side 
of a slow, steady fire, and keep it closely 
covered and simmering very gently (or the 
soup liquor will evaporate) fir at least seve« 
houis: during which, take care to remove 
the fat and scuui that will rise to the surface 
of the soup, which must be kept as clean as 
possible. 

Now strain the liquor through a sieve, 
anil put two ounces of butter into a clean 
stewpa\i ; when it is melted, stir into it as 
much flour as will make it a stiff paste; add 
to it by degrees the soup liquor; give it a 
boil up; strain it through a sieve, and put 
in the peel of a leuion pared as thin as pos- 
sible, and a couple of bay-leaves, and (he 
meat of the boiled neels; let it go on sin}- 
meiing for half an hour longer, i. e. till the 
meat is tender. Put in the juice of a lemon, 
a glass of wine, and a table-spoonful of mush- 
room ketchup, and the soup is ready for the 
tureen. 

Tiiose who are disposed to make this a 
more substantial dish, may introduce a 
couple of sets of goose or duck giblets, or 
ox-tails, or a pound of veal cutlets, cut into 
mouthfuls. 

OX-TAIL. Three tails, costing 



day before it is to be eaten. Procure an '' 

oy-heel undressed, or only scalded, and two I 

18* 



about 2d. each, will make a tureen of soup 
(desire the butcher to divide tiiem at live 
joints); lay them to soak in warm water, 
while you get ready the vegetables. 

Put into a gallon stewpan eight cloves, 
two or three onions, half a drachm of all- 
spice, and the same of black pepper, and 
the tails: cover them with cold water; skim 
it carefully, when and as long as you s(« 
any scum rise ; then cover the pot as close 
as possible, and set it on the side of the 
fire to keep gently simmering till the meat 
becomes tender and will leave the bones 
easily, because it is to be eaten with a spoon, 
without the assistance of a knife or fork ; this 
will require about two hours: mind it is not 
done too muc;h: when perfectly tender, take 
out the meat and cut it off the bones, in 
neat mouthfuls; skim the broth, and strain 
it through a sieve; if you prefer a Uiicken- 
ed soup, [)ut flour and butter, as directed in 
the pieceding leceipt; or put two table- 
spoonfuls of the fat you have taken off the 
broth into a clean stewpan, with as much 



SOUPS 



210 



SOUPS 



flour as will make it into a paste ; set this 
over tiie fire, and stir them well together; 
then pour in tlie broth by degrees, stirring 
it, and mixing it with the thickening; let 
it simmer for another half hour, and when 
you have well skimmed it, and it is quite 
smooth, then strain it through a tamis into 
a clean stevvpan, put in the meat, widi a 
table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a glass 
of wine, and season it with salt. 

Obs. — If the meat is cut off the bones, 
you must have thiee tails for a tureen, some 
put an ox-cheek or tails in an earthen 
pan, with all the ingredients as above, and 
eend them to a slow oven for five or six 
hours. 

PEAS, GREEN. (1) A peck of 



peas will make you a good tureen of soup, 
In shelling them, put the old ones in one 
basin, and the young ones in another, and 
keep out a pint of them, and boil them 
separately to put into your soup when it is 
finished: put a large saucepan on the fire 
half full of water; when it boils, put the 
peas in, with a handful of salt; let them 
boil till they are done enough, i. e. from 
twenty to thirty minutes, according to their 
age and size; then drain them in a colan- 
der, and put them into a clean gallon stew- 
pan, and three quarts of plain veal or mut- 
ton broth (drawn fiom meat without any 
spices or herbs, &c. which would overpow- 
er the flavor of the soup) ; cover the stevvpan 
close, and set it over a slow fire to stew 
gently for an hour; add a tea-cupful of bread 
crumbs, and then rub it through a tamis in- 
to another stewpan ; stir it with a wooden 
spoon, and if it is too thick, add a little 
more broth: have ready boiled as for eating, 
a pint of young peas, and put them into the 
soup; season with a little salt and sugar. 

Some cooks, while this soup is going on, 
slice a couple of cucumber^ (as you would 
for eating) ; takeout the seeds; lay them 
on a cloth to drain, and then flour them, 
and fry them a light brown in a little but- 
ter ; put them into the soup the last thing 
before it goes to table. 

If the soup is not green enough, pound a 
handful of pea-hulls or spinage, and squeeze 
the juice through a cloth into the soup: some 
leaves of mint may be added, if approved. 

PEAS, GREEN. (2) Put a 



pint of old green peas into three quarts of 
water, a slice of the crumb of bread, two 
onions, a sprig of mint, some salt and pep- 
per; boil them till the peas are perfectly 
soft, then pulp them through a sieve ; have 
ready two lettuces stewed tender in butter, 
and a pint and a half of young green peas 
boiled; put them into the soup with a little 
spinach juice, and a quarter of a pint of 



the juice of the youngest pea pods, and boil 
it all together before serving. 

PEAS, GREEN, WITHOUT 



MEAT. Take a quart of green peas (keep 
out half a pint of the youngest; boil them 
separately, and put them in the soup when 
it is finished) ; put them on in boiling water; 
boil them tender, and then pour oft" the wa- 
ter, and set it by to make the soup with: put 
the peas into a mortar, and pound tiiem to 
a masli; then put them into two quarts of 
the water you boiled the peas in; stir all 
well together; let it boil up for about five 
minutes, and then rub it through a hair sieve 
or tamis. If the peas are good, it will be 
as thick and fine a vegetable soup as need 
be sent to table 

PEAS, OLD. (1) Put a pound 



and a half of split peas on in four quarts of 
water, with roast beef or mutton bones, and 
a ham bone, two heads of celery, and four 
onions, let them boil till the peas be suffi- 
ciently soft to pulp through a sieve, strain it, 
put it into the pot v\ith pepper and salt, and 
boil it nearly an hour. Two or three hand- 
fuls of spinach, well washed and cut a little, 
added when the soup is strained, is a great 
improvement ; and in the summer young 
green peas in place of the spinach. A tea- 
spoonful of celery seed, or essence of celery, 
if celery is not to be had. 

PEAS, OLD. (2) Boil in five 



quarts of water one' quart of split peas, an 
ounce of butter, four pounds of l)eef, two 
carrots, three turnips, four heads of celery, 
three onions, some salt and black pepper; 
boil them till the peas are dissolved and 
will easily pulp, put it all through a sieve, 
then put the soup over the fire with three 
ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of flour, 
and boil a small bit of lean ham in it, till it 
is time to serve; take it out before dishing, 
and have ready some celery stewed in butter, 
and fried bread cut in dice, and dried mint 
rubbed very fine, to send to table with it. 

PEAS, OLD. (3) Boil in four 



quarts of water a shank of ham, or a piece 
of bacon, and about half a pound of mutton, 
or salt beef, and a pint of split peas; boil 
all together veiT gently till the peas are 
quite soft, strain them through a hair sieve, 
and bruise them with the back of a spoon till 
all is pulped through, then boil the sou|) gent- 
ly for one hour before serving. Thin slices 
of bread toasted and cut in dice to be served 
with it, either upon a dish or in the soup; 
if in the soup, it should be fried in butter, 
and dried mint rubbed fine and sent to table 
in a small dish. It may be also made with 
fourpeiice wortli of bones, boiled for some 



SOUPS 



211 



SOUPS 



hours in four quarts of water, with a carrot, 
a head of celeiy, three onions, some pepper 
and salt, strained, and the next day the fat 
taken off, and the peas boiled in the liquor 
with a little bit of butter, till sufficiently ten- 
der to pulp through a sieve. 

PEAS, PLAIN. To a quart 



of split peas, and two heads of celery (and 
most cooks would put a large onion), put 
three quarts of broth or soft water ; let them 
simmer gently on a trivet over a slow fire 
for three hours, stirring up every quarter of 
an hour to prevent the peas burning at the 
bottom of the soup-kettle (if the water boils 
away, and the soup gets too thick, add some 
boiling water to it) ; when they are well sof- 
tened, work them through a coarse sieve, 
and then through a fine sieve or a tamis; 
wash out your stewpan, and then return the 
goup into it, and give it a boil up; take off 
any scum that comes up, and it is ready. 
Prepare fiied bread, and dried mint, as di- 
rected in Old Peas (2) and send them up 
with it on two side dishes. 

Obs. — This is an excellent family soup, 
produced with very little truuble or expense. 

PIGEON. (1) Have a strong beef 



stock, highly seasoned, and if t'ov rich soup, 
take six or eight pigeons according to their 
size, wash them clean, cut off the necks, pin- 
ions, livers and gizzards, and put them into 
the stock; quarter the pigeons and brown 
them nicely; after having strained the stock, 
put in the pigeons; let them boil till nearly 
ready, which will be in about half an hour, 
then thicken it with a little Hour, rubbed 
down in a tea-cupful of the soup, season it 
with half a grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful 
of lemon juice or of vinegar, and one of 
mushroom ketchup; let it buil a few minutes 
after all these ingredients are put in, and 
serve it with the pigeons in the tureen; a 
better thickening than fiour is to boil quite 
tender two of the pigeons, take off all the 
meat and pound it in a mortar, rub it through 
a sieve, and put it, with the cut pigeons, 
into the strained soup. To make partridge 
soup, partridges may be substituted for pig- 
eons, when only four birds will be recjuired ; 
pound the breast of one. 



PIGEOxN. (2) Take eight pig- 



eons, cut down two of the oldest, and put 
them, with the necks, pinions, livers, and 
gizzards of the odiers, into four quarts of 
water; let it boil till the substance be extrac- 
ted, and strain it; season the pigeons with 
mixed spices and salt, and truss them as for 
stewing; pick and wash clean a handful of 
parsley, chives or young onions, and a good 
deal of spinach ; chop them ; put in a fiying- 
f)an a quarter of a pound of butter, and when 



it boils, mix in a handful of bread crumbg 
keep stirring them with a knife till of a fine 
brown; boil the whole pigeons till they be- 
come tender in the stock with the herbs, and 
fried bread. If the soup be not sufficiently 
high seasoned, add more mixed spices and 
salt. 

PORTABLE. Put on, in four 



gallons of water, ten pounds of a shin of 
beef, free from fat and skin, six pounds of a 
knuckle of veal, and two fowls, break the 
bones and cut the meat into small pieces, 
season with one ounce of whole black pep- 
per, quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper, 
and the same of mace, cover the pot very 
closely, and let it simmer for twelve or four- 
teen hours, and then strain it. The follow- 
ing day, take oft' the fat, and clear the jelly 
from any sediment adhering to it; boil it 
gently upon a stove, without covering the 
saucepan, and stir it frequently till it be- 
comes very thick and in lum|)s about the pan. 
Put it into saucers about half full, and when 
cold lay the cakes upon flannel to dry before 
the file or in the sun ; keep them in a tin 
box, with white paper belween each cake. 
About an ounce weight will make a pint of 
rich soup; pour boiling water upon it with 
a little salt, and stir it till it dissolves. It 
also answers well for gravies and all brown 
sauces. 

FOR THE POOR. Wash an 



ox-head very clean ; break the bones, and 
cut the meat in pieces; put it on in diirteen 
gallons of water, and a peck and a half of 
potatoes, half a peck of turnips, the same 
quantity of onions, and some carrots ; peel and 
cut them all down. A handful of pot herbs, 
and two quarts of oatmeal ; season with 
pepper and salt. Cover the pot closely, and 
let it stew till the next morning; add as 
much hot water as may have wasted in boil- 
ing, and let it stew for some hours longer, 
when it will be fit for use. This soup will 
be found very good for a family dinner. 

QUEEN. Pound in a marble 



mortar the white meat of three cold roasted 
fowls, and half a pound of sweet almonds 
blanched ; add a little cream whilst pound- 
ing. Boil this widi four quarts of well-sea- 
soned beef stock, then strain it, and just 
before serving stir in a pint of cream. 

SANTE. (1) Peel four large 



onions, cut them small, with four white let- 
tuces, a handful of spinach, and a slice of 
grated bread. Stew all these ingredients 
for au hour in a quart of broth and a quarter 
of a pound of butter, then add three pints 
more of broth, skim off all the fat, and boil 
it a quarter of an hour, sesison with pepper 



SOUPS 



212 



SOUPS 



and salt. Before serving, add half a pint 
of good cream. A pint of green peas, ad- 
ded wiih the other vegetables, is a great im- 
provement. 

SANTE. (2) Lay six or eight 



slices of lean ham, with some beef over them, 
at the bottom of a stewpan, then some veal, 
with some partridge-legs, or moor game, or 
cliicken, salt, peppercorns, Jamaica pepper, 
three or fonr cloves, a bay-leaf, and one 
clove of garlic; let the whole stew together 
till it takes a fine brown color, then fill it np 
M'ith half water, and half good l>eef stock; 
add three heads of celery, two good turnips, 
parsley, lemon thyme, two carrots, three ' 
large onions, and a small biinclj of winter | 
savory ; when the whole is thoroughly well 
done, pass it through a lawn sieve into a ba- 
sin. Cut two good-sized turnips and three 
large leeks, into pieces, about the thickness 
of a quill, and an inch and a half long; fry 
these tof,*jlher of a nice brown color: next, 
shred two cabbage-lettuces, celery, endive, 
sorrel, and chervil; and stew them doun on 
a very slow fire with a small bit of butter. 
When done, put them in a sieve with the 
turnips; then put them into a soup-pot, and 
pour the sou|) from the basin over them ; set 
it on a stove, skim it, and as soon as it boils, 
set it on one side, and let it simmer for two 
hours very gently ; take the ciimib of a 
couple of French rolls, and cut it into round 
pieces, which brown in the oven, and put 
ttiem into the tureen, and pour the soup upon 
them. If you think proper, it may be clari- 
fied, the same as other clear soups; but the 
real Soup de Sante ought not to be daiified. 

SIMPLE. Cut small one pound 



litde green mint, stew them till tender, 
keeping them of a good green, and add them 
to the soup a quarter of an hour before serv- 
ing. If it should not be green enough, 
pound some spinach, sr^ueeze the juice 
through a cloth, put about a quarter of a 
pint into the tureen, and pour in the soup. 
This is the best method to make green peaa 
soup of a good color. 

STOVE OR SPINACH. Boil 



of carrots, one pound of turnips, half a 
pound of onions, one lettuce, a little celery, 
and a handful of" parsley; stew them for 
twenty minutes with a quarter of a pound 
of butter, some salt and pepper; then put 
them into three quarts of sto<d\, made with 
two pounds of veal, and add one quart of 
green peas, and let it stew for three hours. 
Press it through a sieve, and boil it up before 
sending it to table 

SPRING. Put on in four quarts 



of water a knuckle of veal cut down, and a 
quarter of a pound of lean ham, or a gam- 
mon of bacon; a quart of green split peas; 
cut small three or four onions, three turnips, 
a little parsley, thyme, celery, and one leek; 
stew them all together till the peas are very 
soft; take out the meat and press the re- 
mainder through a fine sieve; season the 
eoup with pepper and salt. Cut small like 
peas a bunch of the tops of asparagus, the 
hearts of two or three cabbages, cutting oft' 
e top part and the outside leaves, and a 



in two quarts of water three sliced onions. 
Pick and clean as much spinach as will 
make two large dishes, parboil and put it in 
a cullender, to let the bitter water drip from 
it ; let cold water run upon it for a minute 
or two, and then press out the water. Knead 
two ounces of fresh butter, with a table- 
spoonful and a half of flour, mix it with th(; 
spinach, which boil for fifteen minutes in tl;e 
water and onions, then put in half a pint of 
ci"eam or good milk, some salt and pepper, 
boil it for fifteen minutes more. In the 
season of green peas, a quart added with 
the spinach is a great improvement. It is 
common to boil a lamb's head and pluck 
with the soup, and send them to table in tl^e 
tureen. The soup is then called Lamb's 
Stove ; but widi the peas it is quite as good 
without. 

VEGETABLE. Pare and cut 



small one dozen of common-sized onions, 
five large yellow turnips, two heads of celeiy, 
and the red part of three large carrots; wash 
and put them in a stewpan with two ounces 
of butter, cover it closely ; and when the 
vegetables are a little soft, add to them foui 
quarts of well-seasoned gravy soup made of 
roast beef bones, and let it slew four or five 
hours; rub it thiough a tammy, put it on the 
fire, boil and skim it before serving. 

WINTER VEGETABLE. (1) 



Peel and slice six Urge onions, six potatoes, 
and four turnips; fry them in half a pound of 
butter or very fiesh dripping; toast a crust 
of bread brown and hard, put it, with two or 
three heads of celery cut small, some herbs, 
pepper, and salt, with the fi i?d vegetables, 
into five pints of water, to stew gently for 
four hours, then strain it through a sieve, 
add a little carrot and celeiy cut small, and 
some chopped parsley, one anchovy or a red 
herring, and a little cayenne; boil it till the 
vegetables are tender. 

WINTER VEGETABLE. (2) 



To every- gallon of water allow, when cut 
down small, a quart of the following vegeta- 
bles ; equal quantities of turnips, carrots, and 
potatoes, three onions, (wo heads of celery, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs ; fry them brown 
in a quarter of a pound of butter, add the 



SOUPS 



213 



SOUPS 



water with salt and pepper, and boll it till 
reduced to tinee quarts, and serve it with 
fried toasted bread. 



VENISON. Boil down in five 

quarts of water two pounds of a shank of 
veal, or fowl, and five pounds of the breast 
of venison cut small; two or three onions 
chopped, some whole white pepper and salt, 
with a quarter of a pomid of lean ham. 
Let it stew till it be completely boiled down, 
when all the strength will be extracted ; rub 
it through a sieve, thicken it with a little 
butter, kneaded in fiour, and add a pint of 
Madeira, and boil it for a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes. 

BROWN VENISON. Cut in 



small pieces six or seven pounds of the 
breast of venison, put it iu a stewpan with 
two or tliree oimces, of butter; cover it 
closely, stir it once or twice, and let it stew 
an hour. Mix four quarts of cold water 
with a pint and a half of the blood, put it 
on the fire in another stewpan, and stir it 
constantly till it boil; then add the stew to 
it with an onion minced small, and a whole 
carrot, some salt, black and Jamaica pep- 
per. If the meat be young, let it boil gent- 
ly for two hours; if old, two and a half will 
be necessary. A little before serving, take 
out the carrot and all the bones, leaving a 
little of the meat; mix in half a pint of 
Port wine, and let it boil a short time. It 
may be thickened with a little flour and 
butter. 



VERMICELLI. The day be- 



fore it is required make four quarts of good 
stock, and boil in it one carrot, one turnip, 
four onions, one or two parsley roots, three 
blades of mace, salt, and some white pepper; 
strain it, and, before using, take off all the 
lat; boil in some of the li([uor the crumb of 
three French rolls till soft enough to mash 
smooth; boil the soup and stir well in the 
mashed rolls; boil it for a quarter of an 
hour, and, belbre serving, add the volks of 
two eggs beaten with three table-spoonfuls 
of cream; l)oil in water two or three ounces 
of vermicelli for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
strain and put it into the tureen, and pour 
tlie soiip upon it. 

WHITE. (1) Boil together a 

knuckle of veal, a fowl, or two chickens 
skinned, a carrot, a turnip, an onion, some 
salt, and a little whole white pepper; take 
out the chickens when tender, cut them in 
joints, and add them to the soup when 
strained, beat up the yolks of nine eggs, mix 
them with a pint of cream and a table-spoon- 
ful of well-boiled rice; stir it gradually into 
The soup, and heat it gently before serving. 



A cow-heel that has been previously boiled, 
cut up in pieces, may be used instead of the 
chickens. 



WHITE. (2) Take a good 



knuckle of veal, or two or three short shanks, 
boil it about four hours, with some whole 
white pepper, a little mace, sail, two onions, 
and a small bit of lean ham; strain it, and 
when cold take oft' all the fat and sediment; 
beat up six yolks of eggs and mix them with 
a pint of good cream, then pour die boiling 
soup upon it by degrees, stirring it well, 
and if it is liked, add die best part of the 
gristles. 

WHITE. (3) Put on in four 

quarts of water, a knuckle of veal, six pounds 
weight, a quarter of a pound of lean ham or 
bacon, two slices of the crumb of bread, one 
ounce of blanched sweet almonds, put in 
whole ; six middling-sized onions, two heads 
of celery, some wliole white pepper, three 
blades of mace, a bunch of parsley, and a 
sprig of thyme; stew all these gently for 
eight hours, strain it, and when cold lake 
oft' all the fat; boil it, and just before serv- 
ing, take it oft' the fire, and stir in very 
giadually a pint of thick cream. 

WHITE. (4) Boil in four 

quarts of water four pounds of veal, and a 
fowl, with some whole white pepper, a little 
mace, and three middling-sized onions whole, 
and a bunch of parsley; let it boil three 
hours, strain it, and put it on again to get 
quite hot, and 'ust before serving, stir in 
gradually half a pint of cream with the yolks 
of three eggs well beaten. Do not let it boil, 
as that makes the egsrs curdle. 

WHITE. (5) Stew in three quarts 

of boiling water, till quite tender, a knuckle 
of veal, with a quarter of a pound of whole 
rice, three whole onions, a bunch of parsley, 
a little sweet marjoram, and two or three 
blades of mace, and some salt ; a little before 
the soup is strained, add two anchovies; 
strain through a hair sieve and then dnough 
a silk one, or tjunmy, put it again upon the 
fire, and stir in half a pint of rich cream, or 
a pint of milk with llie yolks of two eggs 
beat up in it; let it be hot but not boiling. 
If it is required to be richer, boil a fowl in 
the stock, with two ounces of pounded blanch- 
ed svveet almonds. 

WHITE. (6) Put on in five 



quarts of water, four pounds of a shank of 
veal, break the bone well, let it simmer till 
it be reduced nearly half; boil a tea-cupful 
of whole rice till very tender, pulp it through 
a cullender, strain the liquor, and add the 
rice, season with salt and white pepper, let 



SPA 



214 



SPI 



it simmer for nearly an hour, and add, a 
little before serving, six yolks of eggs beaten 
extremely wcW. 



SOUR K RO {;T. The best c>!bba^i^ fi)r 



In.; 



tii 



|>L!!i ii:~e !rf li;:; <!;i!in, or 



\ihiie Stias- 



bnr^b. iVHi it c{i<n:!.i uai i;e v.^al I ill it ba?; 
{■•xhiie;! soiiK' sf\ei-<' iViist; the sto; ks :iie 
then cut into lialves, and fchrcd down ;-i& flise 
as possible with a knife, or more properly 
witii a plane made in the form of a cucumber 
slice. Burn a little juniper in a cask or tub 
which is perfectly sound and clean, and put 
a little leaven into the seam round the bot- 
tom, — flour and vinegar may be substituted 
for the leaven; dien put m three or four 
handfuls of caiibage, a good sprinkling of 
salt, and a tea-spooniul of caraway seed, and 
press this hard with a wooden mallet; next 
a. id anuthei- laver of cabbage, witii salt and 
caraway see<l, as at first; and so on m the 
same maimer until the cask be full, pressing 
down each layer'tirnily as you advance. A 
good deal of water will come to the tup, of 
which a pait may be taken off. The cask 
being full, put on the head so as to press 
upon the cabbage, and place it in a warm 
cellar to ferment; when it has woiked well 
for three weeks, take off the scum which 
will have gathered on the top, and lay a 
clean cloth on the krout ; replace the head, 
and put two or three heavy stones upon it. 
The juice should always stand upon Uie top. 
Thus in a good cellar it will keep for yeais. 
When to be dressed, it is boiled for five or 
six hours in waler, or stewed with a little 
gravy, and may be also substituted for a 
crust over a beef-steak pie, when cheese is 
grated over it. 

SOUR KROUT WITH PIKE. When 
the krout is boiled, clean a large pike, 
scrape and cut it into neat pieces, dip Uiem 
into the beaten yolk of an egg, then into 
biead crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown; 
rub some butter upon a dish, and put into 
it a layer of krout, and seme grated cheese, 
then a layer of pike, and a little soin- cream ; 
then krout, and so on till the dish be full. 
On the top put some bits of butter, and 
some good broth or gravy ; strew crumbs 
of bread thickly over it, and bake it half 
an hour. 

SPANISH PUFFS. Put into a sauce- 
pan, half a pint of water and a quarter of 
a pound of butter; stir it till it boils, and 
mix in four table-spoonfuls of tiour; stir it 
well together, and add six yolks and four 
whites of eggs, two at a time; let it cool, 
and, with a dessert-spoon, drop it into boil- 
ing clarified dri|)ping or lard. 

To make ginger puffs, a tea-spoonful of 
pounded ginger may be added. 



SPARE RIB ROASTED. See Pork, 

SPICE FOR WHITE SAUCE. Pound 
two ounces of pepper, a quarter of an oimce 
of mace, g!;ite one nutmig, and the jeel of 
one lemon; mix ail together in a buttle. 

SPICE FOR GENERAL USE. One 

ouiice and a half (jf pepj.er, cinnamon, nut- 
i meg, and ginger, half an ounce each, and 
eight clo\es; pound and mix all t<jgelher in 
a bottle. A little of each kind of spice 
should be well dried, pounded, and kept 
separately in small bottles, which should be 
labelled. 

SPINACH, TO DRESS. Pick the 
spinach with great care; strip the leaves 
from the stalks, and wash it in several wa- 
ters, till perii^cily clean; boil the spinach in 
salt and water; drain it well; pound it in 
a mortar, and put it into a stewpan with a 
little butter and broth, and let it stew over 
a slow fire l^jr three-cjuarters of an hour, till 
it be very dry; then add a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter, with salt and grated 
nutmeg; work the spinach well, till it is 
thick, but take care the butler does not 
turn to oil. Garnish widi fried toasts of 
bread, which may i)e cut like cock's combs, 
or in any other form. 

SPINACH, TO BOIL. (1) Pick it very 
carefully, and wash it thoroughly two or 
three times in plenty of cold water, then put 
it on in boiling water with a little salt; let 
it boil nearly twenty minutes, put it into a 
cullender, hold it under the water cock, and 
let the water run on it for a minute; put it 
into a saucepan, beat it perfectly smooth 
with a i)eater or with a wooden spoon, add 
a bit of butter, and three table-spoonfuls of 
cream; mix it well together, and make it 
hot before serving. When dished, it is 
scored in squares widi the back of a knife. 

SPINACH, TO BOIL. (2) After 
being nicely picked and well washed, put it 
into a saucepan, with no moie water than 
adheres to it; add a little salt; cover the 
pan closely, and boil it till tender, frequent- 
ly slinking it; beat it cjuite smooth, adding 
butter and cream, and make it (juite hot. 
S])inach may be served with poached eggs, 
or fried sausages laid on it. 

When the spinach is bitter, it is prefera- 
ble to boil it in water. 

SPINACH TOASTS. Boil some spi- 
nach for a (juarter of an hour ; then squeeze 
out all die water, chop it small, and put it 
into a mottar, with tlnee or four spoonfuls 
of apple marmalade, the yolks of four hard- 
boiled, and three raw eggs, two biscuits 



S P R 



215 



STO 



soaked Jn cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt; 
pound all tliese togetlier to a paste, put it 
rnto a (\'lA^, and mix with it a tew dry cur- 
rants, and three or four spoonfuls of melted 
butter. Cut some slices of bread lialf an 
inch thick, four inches long, and two broad; 
toast them nicely, and spread the spinach, 
&c. over tlicni, to tlie thickness of half an 
inch, wash each over with white of egg; 
place the toasts on a baking-tin (well butter- 
ed) and bake them for half an hour. When 
d(jne, grate nutmeg, and stjueeze orange-juice 
over them, and serve. 

SPRATS, TO BAKE. Clean them; 
take off the heads ; |iut them into a deep 
dish, and cover them with vinegar and wa- 
ter, eijual (juantities of each. To a quart of 
ii'jtud, put half an ounce of whole black pep- 
per, a litlie allspice, two or three bay-leaves, 
some salt, and an onion. Tie paper over 
the dish, and bake them in a cool oven, or 
do tliem over a slow fire in a water bath. 
Herrings may be done in this nay. Both 
will keep good some weeks. 

SPRATS, STEWED. Wash and dry 
vour sprats, and lay them as level as you 
can in a stewpan, and between every layer 
of sprats put three peppercorns, and as many 
allspice, with a few grains of salt; barely 
cover them with vinegar, and stew them one 
hour over a slow fire; they must not boil; 
a bay-leaf is sometimes added. Herrings or 
mackerel may be stewed the same way. 

SPRATS, BROILED. Ifyouhavenot 
a sprat gridiron, get a piece of pointed iron 
wire as tiiick as [)ackthread, and as lung as 
your gridiron is broad; run this through the 
heads of your sprats, sprinkle a little flour 
and salt over them, put your gridiron over a 
clear, quick fire, turn them in about a couple 
of minutes; when the odier side is brown, 
draw out the wire, and send up the fish with 
melted butter in a cup. 

Obs. — That sprats are young herrings, is 
e\ ident by their anatomy, in which there is 
no perceptible difference. They appe;ir very 
soon after the herrings are gone, and seem 
to be the spawn just vivified. 

SPRING FRUIT— ^ Mock Goose- 
berry Sauce for Mackerel, fyc. Make a 
marmalade of three dozen sticks of rhubarb, 
sweetened with moist sugar; pass it through 
a hair sieve, and serve up in a sauce-boat. 

SPRING FRUIT TART. Prepare 
rhubaib as alxive: cut it into small pieces ■ 
into a tart-dish; sweeten with loaf-sugar 
pounded; cover it with a good short crust 
Daste; sift a Utile sugar over the top, and 



bake half an liour in a rather hot oven ; serve 

up cold. 

SPRING CREAM, or Mock Goose- 
berry Fool. Prepare a maririahide as di- 
rected for the pudding: to which add a pint 
of good thick cream; serve up in glasses, or 
in a deep dish. If wanted in a shape, dis- 
solve two ounces of isinglass in a little water; 
strain it through a tamis, and when nearly 
cold put it to the cream; pour it into a jelly 
mould, and when set, turn out into a dish, 
and serve up plain. 

SPRING FRUIT SHERBET. Boil 

six or eight sticks of rhubarb ((juite clean) 
ten minuter in a (|uart of water; strain the 
li(|Uor through a tamis into a jug, with the 
peel of a lemon cut very thin, and two table- 
spoonfuls of clarified sugar; let it stand five 
or six hours, and it is fit to drink. 

SPRUCE BEER. See Beer. 

SPROUTS AND YOUNG GREENS. 

The receipt for cabbages will answer as well 
for sprouts, only they will be boiled enough 
in fifteen or twenty minutes. 

STEAKS OR CHOPS. See Chops. 

STOCK, FOR BROWN OR WHITE 
SOUPS. Take a pound of scale, five floun- 
ders, and two pounds of eels ; cut them in 
pieces, put them into a stewpan, with as 
much water as will cover them, a little mace, 
an onion stuck with cloves, a heail of celery, 
two parsley I'oots sliced, s<jme pe[)per and 
salt, and a bunch of sweet heibs; cover 
close; strain it off for use; if it is for brown 
soup, fry the fish brown in butter, and llien 
put it to stew. 

STOCK, FOR GRAVY SOUP OR 
GRAVY. Cut a knuckle of veal into sli- 
ces, slice also a pound of lean beef, and a 
pound of the lean of gammon of bacon ; put 
these into a stewpan, with three scraped 
carrots, a couple of onions, a couple of tur- 
nips, two heads of celery, and two (juarts 
of water. Let the meat stew till (juite ten- 
der, but it must not be brown. When thus 
prepared it will serve either for soup, or 
brown or white gravy; if for brown giavy, 
it must be first colored in the usual manner. 

STOMACHIC TIN€TURE. Peruvian 
bark, bruised, one ounce and a half, orange- 
peel, do. one ounce, brandy, or proof spirit, 
one pint. Let these ingredients steep lor 
ten days, shaking the bottle every day; let 
it remain quiet two days, and then decant 
tlie clear liquor. Dose — a tea-spooaful in 



STK 



216 



STU 



a wine-glass of water, twice a day, when 
you feel languid, i. e. when the stomach is 
empty, about an hour before dinner, and in 
the evening. This agreeable aromatic tonic 
is an effective help to concoction ; and we 
are under personal obligations to it, for fre- 
quently restoring our stomach to good tem- 
per, and procuring us good appetite and good 
digestion. In low nervous affections arising 
from a languid circulation, and when the 
stomach is in a state of debility from age, 
intemperance, or other causes, this is a most 
acceptable restorative. 

N. B. — Tea made widi dried and bruised 
orange-peel, in the same way as common 
tea, and drank with milk and sugar, has 
been taken by nervous and dyspeptic per- 
sons with great benefit. Sucking a bit of 
dried orange-peel about an hour before din- 
ner, when the stomach is empty, is very 
grateful and strengthening to it. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. Put six 
ounces of strawberry jam to a pint of cream, I 
pulp it through a sieve ; add to it the juice 1 
of a lemon, whisk it fast at the edge of a i 
dish, lay the froth on a sieve, add a little [ 
more juice of lemon, and when no more froth 
will rise, put the cream into a dish, or into 
glasses; and place tlie froth upon it, well | 
drained. I 

STRAWBERRIES AND RASPBER- ' 
RIES. From either of these fruits agree- 
able wine may be obtained, by following the 
rules given for making currant wine; but it | 
will be found a cheaper and a better raeth- i 
od, to add a little sirup or juice of the fruit 
to any flavorless currant wine; when the 
fermentation begins to decline, currant wine 
may also be flavored with odoriferous flow- 
ers, such as cowslip, elder, or mignionetle. 
The quality of roughness is communicated 
by catechu and keno, chips of oak and of 
beech, and also the sloe; a small quantity 
of these, or of the flowers, is put into the 
cask when the first fermentation is over, and 
as soon as the wine has acquired the desired 
flavor, it is racked and fined. I'he flavor- 
ing articles, such as orris-root, cloves, gin- 
ger, sweet and bitter almonds, are put into 
a muslin bag, and hung in the cask foi* a 
few days, during the stage of insensible fer- 
mentation, that is, after the first fermentation 
has ceased; caie being taken to taste the 
liquor frequently, so that the flavoring mat- 
ter may be \vithdra\^i as soon as it has pro- \ 
duced the desired effect. 

STRAWBERRIES, POUNDED, for 

Strawberry Cream. Take equal 
weight of sugar and of sliawberries ; pound 
and sift the sugar, add it to the strawberries, 
and pound tlieni in a marble mortar till per- 



fectly smooth. Put It into jars, and tfa 
them over closely with paper. It wDl keep 
good for several months. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE. Take 
a basket of veiy fine strawberries, pick, and 
crush them, and then rub them through a 
sieve. Whisk the whites of eighteen eggs 
to a firm froth, to which add a pound and a 
half of powder sugar, stir them togedier as 
lightly as possible ; then mix them with the 
strawberries. Pour the w hole into a crous- 
tade, and bake it for an hour in a moderate 
oven ; \\ hen done, glaze it, and ser\e. 

STRAWBERRY TART. Pick, and 
put into a basin two quarts of the best scar- 
let strawberries, then add to tliem half a 
pint of cold thick clarified sugar, and half 
a pint of Madeira, with the juice of two or 
three lemons; mix these well togetlier, with- 
out breaking tlie strawberries, and put them 
into a puff" paste, previously baked ; be care- 
ful to keep them very cool. 

STRING BEANS. See French Beans, 

STUFFING WITHOUT MEAT. Sea- 
son a quarter of a pound of finely-minced 
beef suet, and an equal quantity of grated 
bread, with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, lem- 
on thyme, and parsley, salt, and pepper; 
mix it well together, and bind it wi^h a 
well-beaten yolk of an egg, when it may be 
used for stuthng veal and fowl. 

STUFFING FOR TURKEY OR 
FOWL. Wash a quart of oysters in their 
own liquor, strain it, and put into it the 
oysters, with a little mace, whole pepper, 
and lemon-peel; when parboiled, chop small 
a dozen and a half, add an equal weight of 
grated bread, twice the quantity of Tinely- 
minced beef suet, the yolks of three hard- 
boiled eggs, one ancliovy, a little salt, pep- 
per, nutmeg, lemon-peel, and some nnnced 
parsley; bind it with the beaten yolks of 
two eggs. For the sauce, boil witii the 
liquor of the oysters, a pint of white stock, 
half a pint of white wine, one anchovy, 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; strain it, and 
add a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in 
flour, beat it up with tlie remainder of die 
oysters. 

STUFFING FOR A HARE. Parboil 
the liver, and mince it; add an e(jual quan- 
tity of grated bread, double the quantity of. 
fat bacon chopped, a bit of butter the size 
of a walnut. Season with pepper, salt, nut- 
meg, clio|)ped lemon thyme, and parsley j 
bind \vith an egg Deateu. 

^STUFFING FOR VEAL, ROAST 



STU 



217 



sua 



Turkey, Fowl, &:c. 3Iince a quarter 
of a pound of beef snet (beef inanow is Ix^t- 
ter), the same weight of bread rrmiibs, two 
drachms of parsley leaves, a c'rachiii and a 
half of sweet marjoram or lemon thynie, and 
the siiire of grated lemon-|ieel and onion 
cho{7|)ed as fine as [)ossible, a little pepper 
and salt; pound thoroughly together with the 
ycl'rv and white of two eg§$, and secure it 
in the veal with a skewer, or sew it in with 
a bit of thread. 3Iake some of it into balls 
or sausages; (lour them, and boil, or fiy 
them, aiu! send thein up as a garnish, or in 
a side disli, with loast poultrv, veal, or cut- 
lets, &c. 

IS'. B. — This is about tiie quantity for a 
turkey poult: a veiy large turkey will take 
neai ly twice as much. To the above irKiy 
ne added an ounce of dressed liiin ; or use 
equal parts of tiie above stufiing and pork 
sausage meal jjounded well together. 

Obs. — GiKxl stuffing has always been con- 
sidered a chiel' thing in cookeiy: it has given 
immortality to 

*' Por Rurrer Fuic!er,'A-hri 'd n cenerons mind, 
Nur wo'.iid sub r.it to have his hand conliri'd, 
■But aime't at .di, — yef never roiild excel 
In any tliiag hut sCtiJfuig of his veal." 

STUFFING FOR HARE. Two oun- 
ces of beei" suet chopped fine ; three ounces 
of fine brea<l crninbs ; parslev, a draclun; 
eschalot, half a drachm ; a drachm of mar- 
j(nam, lemon thyme, or winter savory; a 
<irachra of grated lemon-peel, and (he siune 
of pep|)er and salt: mix these with the white 
and yoik of an eg^\ do not make it tliin — 
it must be of cohesive consistence: if yonr 
stufting is not stiff enougli, it will be good 
for nothing: put it in the hare, and sew it 
lip. If the liver is quite sound, you mav 
parboil it, and mince it veiy fine, atid a^id 
it to the above. 

STURGEOX, BAKED. Clean, and 
take t!ie skin from a small sturgeon ; sjjiit it 
along the belly, w ithout separating it. Lay 
it in a large baking dish, season it with 
salt, pepper, pounded sweet herbs; moisten 
with oil, lemon-juice, and a bottle of white 
wine. Put it in the oven, baste it frequent- 
ly; make it a nice color, and serve it with 
its ou 11 gravy. 

STURGEOx\, FRESH, TO BROIL. 
Cut it into cutlets; rub them with tlie yolk 
ol an Ggg beat up; strew them over M-iih 
some parsley, minced very fine, and mixed 
witli grated bread crumljs, pepper, and salt ; 
put them into pieces of white paper buttered, 
and broil them gently. Sauces; — pyster, 
melted buttei-, and anchovy. 

■»• 

STURGEON, FRESH. The best mode 
19 



of dressing this, is to have it cut in this 
slices like veal cutlets, and broiled, and rub- 
bed over with a bit of butter and a little 
|>eppei-, and served veiy hot, and eaten with 
a s(jiiee/.e of lemon-juice. Great care, how- 
ever, must Ije taken to cut off the skin be- 
fore it is broiled, as the oil in the skin, if 
burned, imparts a disgusting flavor to the 
fish. The fie,*h is very fine, and comes 
nearer to veal, perhaps, than even turtle. 
Sturgeon is fretjuently plentifiil and reason- 
able in the London sliops. We prefer this 
mode of dressing it to the more savory one 
of stewing it in rich gravy, like carp, &:c. 
which overpowers the |)eculiar flavor of the 
fish. 

STURGEON, ROASTED. Take a 
large piece of sturgecjn, or a whole small 
one, clean and skin it pro[)erly; lard it with 
eel and anchovies, and marinade it in a 
white wine marinade. Fasten it to the 
spit, and roast it, basting frecjuenliy with 
the marinade strained. Let the fish be a 
nice color, and serve with a pepper sauce. 

SUET TO KEEP FOR A TWELVE- 
MONTH. Choose the firmest part, and 
pick it free fioin skin and veins. Put it 
into a saucepan, and set it at sonie distance 
from tlie fire, in order that the suet may 
melt without fi\ing, or it will taste disagree- 
al;le. W hen it is melted, pour it into a pan 
of cold water. When it has caked quite 
hard, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, 
and then in a linen bag, and keep it in a 
dry, but not in a hot place. ^V'^hen you wish 
to use it, scrape it fine, and it will make a 
nice crust, either with or without butter. 

SUET MILK. Cut into very small 
shavings one ounce of fresh beef suet; dis- 
solve it slowly over the fire in one pint of 
milk, tuijether with a bit oi* lemon-peel and 
cinnamon; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar. 

SUET DUMPLINGS. This batter 
should be made the same as for suet pud- 
ding, (second receipt), but much thicker, let 
your cloth be wetted, shake it all over w ilh 
riour, aixl tie up in several parts of the cljth, 
as much as it w ill hold, two or three spoon- 
fuls of batter. Or you may make the batter 
as usual, and put it in tea-cups, well butter- 
ed ; tie thein in cloths, and boil an houi'. 

* 

SUGAR, TO CLARIFY. To every 

three pounds of loaf sugar, allow the beaten 
white of one egg, and a pint and a half of 
water; break the sugar small, put it into a 
nicely-cleaned brass pan, and pour the water 
over it; let it stand sometime befite it be 
put upon the fire; then add the beaten wliitea 
of the eggs ; stir it till the sugar be entirely 



SWE 



218 



SWE 



dissolved, and when it boils up, pour in a 
quarter of a pint of cold water- let it boi! 
ivp a second time; take it off the fire and let 
it settle for fifteen minutes; carefully take 
off all the scum; put it on the fire, and boil 
it till sufficiently thick, or if required, till 
candy high; in order to ascertain which, 
diop a little from a spoon into a small jar 
of cold water, and if it become quite hard^ 
it is then sufficiently done> or dip tlie thevil 
into the sugar, plunge it into cold water, 
draw off the sugar which adlieres to the 
stick, and if it be hard and snaps, the fruit 
to be preserved must be instantly p\U in and 
boiled. 



SUGAR ORNAMENTS. 

ameL 



See Car- 



SUGAR RUFFS. A pound of poumJed 
and sifted loaf sugar beaten well with the 
whites of three eggs, and flavored with oil 
of cinnamon, lemons, or orange-flovver v^a- 
ter, and baked in the same way as llie 
meringues, served in a napkin^, or used to 
garnish dishes of preserves- 

SUGAR, TO BOIL. To every pound 
of sugar allow half a pint of water; stir it 
over the fire till the sugar be entirely dissolv- 
ed; when it first boils up, pour in a little 
cold water, and when it boils a second time, 
take it off the fire ; let it settle ten n)inutes, 
carefully scum it, and boil it for half an hour 
or a little longer, and then put in the fiuit. 

SWEETBREADS, Italian Atte- 

LETS. Blanch some nice sweetbreads, and 
stew them in a well-seasoned gravy, made 
of meat and vegetables; when cold, cut 
them into pieces of nearly an inch square, 
put them into a sauce d'attelets, and let 
them cool. With silver skewers, skewer 
the sweetbreads, and a bit of ready-dressed 
calf's udder alternately ; make them all as 
much as possible of an equal size, and of a 
square form. Moisten them with the sauce, 
and cover them with grated bread, then 
dip them into four well beaten eggs, strew 
over them some more grated bread, and 
level it with a knife; fry them of a fine 
brown, and serve with an Italian sauce, 
white or brown. 

If the attelets are ready before they are 
required to be fried, strew grated bread 
over the cover of a stewpan, and lay them 
upon it. 

SWEETBREAD, TO BOIL. Parboil 
it, rub it with btitter, and broil it over a 
slow fire, turn it frecjuently, and baste it 
now and then, by putting it upon a plate 
kept warm by the fire with butter in it. 



SWEETBREADS a la Dauphink 
If for a round dish, take four large and finn 
sweetbreads. If for a long dish, three wiH 
suffice. Pare ofl" the fat and sinews, and 
blanch tliem in warm water, parboil thenij 
and when cold, lard them. Rub a stew- 
pan with fresh butter, and put into it a fev? 
sliced cairots and onions, then a laver of 
slices of fat bacon ^ place the sweetnieada 
upon the bacon, sprinkle a little salt over 
tl^m, and stew them w itii a great deal of 
fire on the top, and a very slow one be- 
neath; wljen they are nicely biovvned, cover 
tliem with a piece of buttered paper, cut 
round, and lessen the fire upon tlie top. 
They will require to stew for three-quarters 
of an hour, tlien drairr and put them into .-v 
pan with some gkize, and the bacon under- 
neath. Leave tlien> in tlwj glaze till dinnev 
time. 

SWEETBREADS FULL DRESSED, 

Parboil them, and let them get cold; then 
cut them in piexes, about fhree-cjuarters of air 
inch thick; dip them in the yolk of an egg, 
then in fine bread' ciumbs (some add spice,, 
lemon-peel, and sweet herbs) ; put some 
clean dripping, into a fiying;-pan: when i€ 
boils, put in the sweetbreads, and fry then? 
a fine biown. For garnish, crisp paisley 
•And for sauce, musiivoon> ketcluip and melted 
butter, or anclwvy saiwe, or bacon or ham- 

SWEETBREADS, SMALL CASE» 

OF Scollops of. Bkntch and parboil 
some sweetbreads, cut them int(j small scol- 
lops. Then chop separately, and finely, half 
a pint of mushrooms, a little parsley, and 
four or five shallots, add a little fat bacon, 
rasped, and a piece of fiesh butlei'r season^ 
the scollops with pepper, salt, and a little- 
mace, stew it all together over a slow firep 
when d(jne, drain ofl' the flit, place tl«; scol- 
lofis in small paper cases, wl»ich have beeit' 
fried in olive oil, cover them with plenty o£ 
finely-chopped herbs, and strew over them 
fiied bread crumbs; lay the paper cases for 
a moment into the oven, and befoie serving, 
pour into each a little rich gravy, and a little 
lemon-juice. 

SWEET HERBS. See Herbs. 

SWEETMEAT FRITTERS. Cut 

sinall any sort of candied fruit, and heat it 
with a bit of fresh butter, some good milk, 
and a little grated lemon-peel; when quite 
hot, stir in enough of Hour to make it into a 
slifl' paste, take it off the fire, and work in 
eight, or ten eggs, two at a time; when 
cold, form the fritteis, and fiy, and serve 
them with pounded loaf sugar strewed over 
them. 



S YL 



219 



TAR 



SYLLABUBS. Take the juire of a 
.arge lemon, the, peel (pared very thin), a 
glass of brandy, two of white wine, and a 
quarter of a pound of powder-sugar; put 
these ingredients into a pan, and leave tlieni; 
the next day, add a pint of thiil; cream, and 
the whites of two eggs; whip the whole 
well, and pour t!ie syllabub into glasses. 
They are the l^etter for keeping a day or 
two. If the syllabubs are not wanted quite 
so good as the above, raisin or mountain 
wine will do as well as bi-andy. 

SYLLABUB, Somersetshire. Put 
a pint of Port, and a pint of Slierry, or 
any other white wine, into a large bowl, 
sweeten it according to taste; milk the bowl 
full; in about twenty minutes' tin^e, cover 
it tolerably high witii clouted cream; grate 
nutmeg over ii; add pounded cinnamon, and 
nonpareils. 

SYLLABUB, Staffordshire. Put 
a pint of cider, a glass of brandy, sugar, and 
nutmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or 
pour warm milk from a large tea-pot some 
height into it. 

SYLLABUB. (1) One pound of ratafia 
cakes pounded and steeped in two bottles 
of Port wine, one of claret, and one of 
brandy, the grated peel and juice of two 
lemons, one large nutmeg grated, and two 
ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and 
pounded witii a little rose-water, and pound- 
ed sugar sufficient to make it sv\eet — Put 
all these ingredients, well mixed, into a 
large China bowl, or bowls of an equal si/c, 
and let the milk of a good cow be milked 
upon them; add a little rich cream and sift- 
ed loaf sugai', and cover it to keep it warm. 
It may be served out into glasses with a silver 
ladle. 

SYLLABUB. (2) A large gla*» of Madei- 
ra, one of rich sweet « ine, and half a one of 
ratafia, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
tlie grated peel of a large lemon, the juice 
of two, and a little pounded cinnamon; stir 
it all together till the sugar be dissolved, and 
add a (|uart of rich cream; whisk it well; 
lay some macaroons into the bottom of a 
dish, and pile the frothed syllabub high upon 
it. It may be kept nine or ten days, and is 
better the third and fourth than when first 
made. 

SYLLABUB, SOLID. A quarter of a 
pint of moimtain, the same of white wine, 
the grated peel of two, and juice of one 
lemon; sweeten, and add it to a quart of 
"ich cream; whisK it for an hour, and put it 
into glasses. It will keep a week in cold 
weatlier. 



SYLLABUB, COMMON. Half a pint 
of currant, the same of Port or white wine, 
half a grate<1 nutmeg, and the peel of a 
lemon; sweeten well with pounded loaf or 
good brown sugar, and mix it together in a 
China bowl, and when the sugar dissolves, 
milk upon it three or four pints of milk. 
Serve it w hen cold, 

SYLLABUB, WHIPT. (t) Mix to- 
gether half a glass of brandy, a little lemon- 
juice, and grated peel, with sugar enough to 
sweeten the whole; stir it into a pint of 
thick cream, and add the well-beaten whites 
of six eggs; wiiisk it for an hour, and put 
the frotii, as it rises, upon a sie\e to drain; 
put a little Port and sweet wine into glasses, 
and fill them up with the froth. 

SYLLABUB, WHIPT. (2) Mix with 
a pint of cream, half a pint of sweet wine, 
a glass of brandv, the juice of a lemon, gr'at- 
ed nutmeg, six ounces of sifted loaf sugar; 
nearly fill the custard-glasses with the mix- 
ture, and lay on with a ^x)on some of tlie 
whip. 



T. 



TAMIS, a coarse kind of cloth fca* strain- 
ing soups and gravies. 

TARTE, ROYAL BERLIN. Take 
half a pound of sweet almonds, and having 
blanched, pound them with six eggs, in a 
marble nioitar to a very fine paste, add to it 
a pound of broken sugar, a pound of fresh 
butter, and the grated rind of two lemorrs, 
beat it well as each ingredient is put in; 
la\' about sixteen or eigiiteen winces of sift- 
ed flour on tlie slab, place die almond paste 
on it, and knead dienr well together*. Di- 
vide this into sever'al pieces, which roll to 
the eighth of an inch in thickness : from 
these cirt fr'om twelve to sixteen crrcular 
lavers, the largest about seven inches in 
diameter, the rest, each somewhat smaller 
than the other; when all are cut, place them 
on white paper on tins, and bake them in a 
moderate oven to a clear brown, then take 
them out, and let them cool. As soon as 
cold, place the largest piece on a China 
dish, of a sutiticient size to let it lay fiat, and 
spread over it e(|ually some preserved fruit; 
cover this with the second sized layer, on 
which also t^pread pi-eser-ved fruit; then a 
third layer, and so on until all the paste is 
used, taking care to pirt each layer in its 
pr-oper order, so that the whole may for-m a 
cone, and that between every one must be 
a different kind of pr'eserve; when done, 
glaze, and ornament it as follows: cut some 



TARTS 



220 



TARTS 



candied lemon, and orange-peel into tlie 
fonn of le:ive.-i, wiiirli arrange in garlands 
nii'ui ihti last, infiiitij liere and there a 
--in ill preserved iVui* ; ulien dune, refda;;e it 
in the (.\e ) I'^r two or tinee niinntes to df^, 
and then swerve. 

TARTLETS. (1) Butter some small 
tartlet pans; line them with a nice thin 
pnfF paste, mark it neatly round the edges, 
Ij.dve them; wiien they are cold, fill them 
with cnstard, pieserve, or any sweetmeat 
yon tiiiak proper, and if you choose, pour 
CHstaid ovei'. 

TARTLETS. (2) Roll out the paste 
about a quarter of an inch thick, and lay 
upon it the top part of tlie patty-pan; cut it 
round with the paste cutter. Rub die patty- 
pans with a little butter, and line tliem with 
the paste, and place in the ndddle a little bit of 
bread, whii-h take out w hen they are baked. 
They may be filled with any preserved fruit, 
and a star or leaf of paste placed on the top. 
To m;d\e oinaments ol' paste, roll it quite 
thin, and as even as [lossible; cut it with 
tin stars, leaves, or any other form, and 
bake them a light brown color, upon ilat 
tins dusted with dour. 

TART, APPLE, CREAMED. Use 

green codlings, in preference to any odier 
apple, and proceed as in the last receipt. 
When the pie is done, cut out the whole of 
the centre, leaving the edges; when cold, 
|)Our on tlie apple some rich boiled custard, 
and |dace round it some small leaves of puft 
paste of a light color. 

TART, CHERRY. The cherries may 
be stoned, and a few red curiants added; 
sweeten vvidi loaf or brown sugar, and put 
into the bottom of the dish a small tea-cup; 
cover it with paste. 

TART, CRANBERRY. Take cran- 
berries, pick and wasli them in several wa- 
ters, put thein into a dish, with die juice of 
half a lemon, a quarter of a pound of moist 
or pounded loaf sugar, to a ([uart of cran- 
berries. Cover it with puff or tart paste 
and bake it three-quarters of an hour; if 
tart paste is used, draw it from the oven 
five minutes before it is done, and ice it, re- 
turn it to the oven, and send it to t;;ble 
cold. 

TART, CURRANT. To a quart of , 
red curranis add one pint of red ras[,-ber- | 
ries, strawberries, or cherries ; sweeten them I 
well with brown sugar; before putting in [ 
the fruit, line the side of the dish with tart i 
paste, place in it a small tea-cup, put in the 
fiuit, and cover it with paste. I 



I Four ounces of brown sugar are general 
ly allowed to a quait of fruit. 

' TART OF PRESERVED FRUIT. 
Cover a Hat dish, or tointe pan, with tmt 
paste, about an ei:^hth of an inch thick; roll 
out puff [jaste, half an inch thick, and cut it 
out in strips an inch wide; wet the tart 
paste, and lay it neatly round the |:au by 
way of a rim ; fill the centre with jam or 
marmalade of any kiml, oin;iment it with 
small leaves of ]niff paste, Ixdse it half an 
hour, and send it to table cold. 

The abo\e may be (il!"d beloie the puff 
paste is laid on, neatly strung with i)aste, 
and I lie rim put over after. 

The most general way of sending tourtes 
to table, is with a crocjuante of paste, or a 
caramel of spun sugar put over after it is 
baked. 

TARTS, PRESERVER FRUIT. Rub 

over with a little butter an oval dish, or tin 
shape, line it with paste, and fill it u itli any 
sort of preserved fruit. Roll out a bit of 
paste thin, and, with a paste cutter, cut it 
into narrow stri|is; brush with water the 
rim of the shape, and lay the bars of paste 
across and across, and then put round a 
border of paste, and mark it with the paste 
cutter. 

TARTS, RIPE FRUIT. Gooseberries, 
damsons, morello cherries, currants mixed 
with raspberries, plums, green gages, while 
jilums, &c. should be (juite fresh picked, and 
washed: lay them in the dish with tlie centre 
highest, and aliout a quarter of a pound of 
moist or loaf sugar pounded to a quart of 
fiuil (but if cjuite I'ipe they will not require 
so much) ; add a little water ; rub the edges 
of the dish with yolk of egg; cover it witii 
tart paste, about half an inch thick; press 
your thumb round the rim, and close it well; 
pare it round with a knife; make a hole in 
the sides below the rim ; bake it in a mode- 
rate-heated oven; and ten minutes before it 
is done, take it out and ice it, and return it 
to tiie oven to dry. 

TART, RHUBARB. Strip off the peel, 
and if the rhubarb is large, cut it into two 
or three strips, and then into bits about an 
inch long; sweeten well with brovMi sugar 
and cover the dish with paste. 

TART PASTE, FOR FAMILY PIES 

Rub in w ith the hand half a pound of butter 
into one pound and a quarter of tlour, mix it 
with half a pint of water, and knead it weil. 

TART PASTE, Sweet, or Short 
AND Crisped. To one pound and a (]uar 
lei' of fine flour add ten ounces of fresh butter, 



TF vr 



221 



« 



the volks of twoe^gs beaten, and three oun- ! 
ces of sifted I' »af sugar ; mix up together with j 
half a pint of new milk, and knead it well. 
N. B. — This cnist is frefjiiently iced. 

TEA CREAM. Infnse an ounce of tlie 
best green tea in half a pint of boiling milk, 
simmer it five minutes, then strain it through 
a tanuDv, pressing the leaves well. Boil a 
pint of rich cream, add to it the yolks of four 
eggs, well beaten, and a sufficient quantity 
of clarified sugar ; pour this whilst hot to the 
milk, stir them together well; put in as much 
clarified isinglass as will set it, and pour the 
cream into the mould, or glasses; place them 
on ice; when perfectly cold, turn it out of 
the mould, or serve in the glasses, 

TEAL, ROASTED. Shred a little 
lemon-peel, and mix it with a bit of butler, 
salt, pepper, and lemon-juice; stuff vour 
birds with this, cover them first with slices 
of lemon, then bacon, and lastly, buttered 
paper sprinkled v, ith salt; tie them up se- 
curely, fasten them to tlie spit, and roast 
them. When done, let the butter run out, 
remove the wrappers, and dish them. Serve 
them with a sauce made as follows: put into 
a saucepan three ladlefuls of espagnole, a 
Fpoonfu! of consomme, a bit of glaze, the 
rind of a quarter of a lemon, and a little pep- 
per; give them a boil up together, and strain 
it over the leal. 

TE.N'CH, They are a fine-flavored fresh 
water fish ; wheh good, the eyes are bright, 
the body stiff, and the outside free fi'ora slime ; 
tench should be dressed as soon as caught. 

TE-XCH, FRIED. Take a couple of 
large tench, scale and cleanse them as for 
broiling. Cut oft' the fins, split them down 
the back, take out the bones; s|>rinkle them 
with tlour and salt; squeeze a little lemon- 
juice over, and fry tliem in butter, and serve 
them dn . 

TE.NCH, ROASTED. Take oft scales, 
heads, and fins, of the tench, cleanse and di'v 
them well, then put into each a little butter, 
mixed wita sweet herbs; lay them for about i 
fi^e minutes in melted butter, witii salt, pep- 
per, and sweet herbs; wrap each fish in pa- 
per, fasten them to a spit, and roast them. 

TEWAHDIDDLE. A pint of table 
beer (or ale, if you intend it f jr a siipplement I 
to your " night cap"), a table-spoonful of 
brandy, and a tea-spoonflii of brown si>gar, 
or clarified sirup; a little grated nutmeg or 
ginger may l)e added, and a roil of verj- thin- 
cut lemon-peel. 

Obs. — Befbre our readers make anv re- 
marks on tliis composition, we beg of them 



to taste it: if the materials are good, ana 
their palate vibrates in unison with our own, 
they will find it one of the pleasantest Ijever- 
ages they ever put to their lips ; and, a^ Lord 
Ruihven says, " this is a riglit gossip's cup 
that far exceeds all the ale that ever Mother 
Bunch made in her life-time." 

THICKENL\G. Clarified butter is best 
for this purpose; but if you have none readv, 
jHit some fresh butter into a stewpan over a 
slow, clear fire; when it is melted, add fine 
flour sufficient to make it the thickness of 
paste; stir it well together with a wooden 
spoon for fifteen or twenty minutes, till it i« 
quite smooth, and the color of a guinea: this 
must be done verj- gradually and patientU"; 
if you put it over too fierce a fire to hurrv it, 
it will liecome bitter and empyreumatic: pour 
it into an earthen pan, and keep it for use. 
It will keep good a fortnight in summer, and 
longer in winter. 

A large spoonful will generally be enough 
to thicken a quart of gravy. 

Obs. — This, in the French kitchen, is 
called roux. Be particularly attentive in 
making it; if it gets any burnt sinell or 
taste, it will spoil every thing it )s put into. 
When cold, it should be thick enough to cut 
out with a knife, like a solid paste. 

It is a \er\ essential article in the kitchen, 
and is the basis of consistency in most made- 
dishes, soups, sauces, and ragouts ; if the 
gravies, &c. are too thin, add this thicken- 
ing, more or less, according to the consistence 
you would wish them to have. 

Mem. — In making thickening, the less- 
butter, and the more Hour you use, the tet- 
ter; they must l>e thoroughly worked to- 
gether, and the broth, or soup, &c. you put 
them to, added by degrees; take especial 
care to incorporate them well together, or 
your sauces, &c. will taste floury, and have 
a disgustinaf, greasy ajipearance: therefore, 
aftei" you have thickened your sauce, add to 
it some liroth, or warm water, in the pro- 
portion of two table-spoonfuls to a pint, and 
set it bv the side of the fire, to raise any fat, 
&c, that is not thoroughly incorpoiated with 
the gravy, which you must carefully remove 
as it comes to the top. This is called 
cleansing, or finishincr the sauce. 

Half an ounce of butter, and a table-spoon- 
ful of flour, are alx>ut the proportion for a 
pint of sauce to make it as thick as cream. 

N. B. — The fat skimmings off the top 
of the broth-pot are sometimes sul>stituted 
for butter ; some cooks merely tliicken their 
soups and sauces with flour. 

TIMBALE. Put a pound of flour on 
the slab, make a hole in the middle of it, 
into which pour a little water, diree or four 
spoonfuls of oil, a quarter of a pound of but- 



TO A 



222 



TOiM 



ier, the yolks of two eggs, and a pincli of 
salt; knead these ingredients th')roiiglily into 
the flour, until it becomes a tolerably firm 
paste; roll it out to nearly half an inch in 
thickness, line one large, or several small 
plain round moulds, with this paste; lei the 
moulds be well buttered, and the paste come 
about half an inch above the top of the mould ; 
fill your timbale with any farce, or ragout, 
you think proper, covei" it with a layer of 
paste, pressing the edges together; bake it, 
and when done, turn the timbale on a dish, 
make a hcjle, pour in some rich sauce or 
gravy, and serve. 

TINCTURE OF ALLSPICE. Of 

allspice bruised, three ounces, apothecaries' 
weight; brandy, a quart. Let it steep a 
fortnight, occasionally shaking it u|); then 
pour off' the clear litjuor: it is a most grateful 
addition in all cases where alls|iice is used, 
for making a bishop, or to mulled wine ex- 
tempore, or in giavies, &c. or to flavor and 
preserve potted meats. 

TIPSY CAKE. Pt)ur over a sponge 
cake, made in the form of a porcupine, as 
much white wine as it will al>sori), and stick 
it all over with blanched sweet almouels, cut 
like stiaws; or pour wine in the same man- 
ner over a thick slice of sponge cake, cover 
the toj) of it with preserved strawberries or 
raspberries, and stick cut almonds all round it. 

TOAST AND CHEESE. See Cheese. 

TOAST, WITH BUTTER. Spread 
butter over some slices of fried bread; lay 
on them sweet herbs, tossed up in melted 
butter, and serve. 

TOASTS, GENOA. Lard a French 
roll with partly anchovies, and partly ham; 
cut the roll into slices, lay on each a thin 
slice of bacon, dip them into batter, and fry 
them; drain, and serve with ravigote. 

TOASTS, GRENADA. Cut some fat 
and lean bacon into dice, give them a few 
turns over the fire with parsley, scallions, 
.«h;dlots, pepper, sail, and the yolks of three 
eggs; stir it fre(]nenily, till it fjrms a kind 
of forcemeat, spread it over slices of bread, 
cut of an equal thickness, and fry them. 

TOASTS, ITALIAN. Cut s me slices 
of bread, about half an inch in thickness, 
fiv them in sweet cil, let it be dry, and 
crisp, lay them on a dish, and spread over 
them any light good fur^^e yoti may think 
~*oper; pour ovei thein an a]>propriale 
juce and serve them. 

TOAST AND WATER. Pare the 



crust ofl' a thin slice of stale bread, toast 
it brown upon both sides, doing it equally 
and slowly, that it may harden without being 
burnt; put it into a jug, and pour upon it 
boiling water; cover the jug with a saucer, 
and set it in a cool place. 

TOASTS, SPANISH. Roll out some 
almond paste, nearly an inch thick, cut it 
into pieces, about two inches sc]uare, press 
them down with a scjuare piece of \vood, a 
little smaller than the paste, which will leai'^; 
the edges higher than the rest; bake the n, 
and when cold, pour in any prepared cream 
you please, as high as the borders; ice, and 
color them with a salamander. 

TOMATA SAUCE. Bake six tomatif 
in an oven till ciuite soft; with a tea-spoi' 
take out the pulp, add salt, cayenne, aiu' 
vinegar, till of the consistence of thick cre:>m. 

TOMATA SOUP. Wash, scrape, and 
cut small tlie red part of three large carrots, 
three heads of celery, four large onions, and 
two laige turnips, put them into a saucepan, 
with a table-spoonfiil of butter, and half a 
pound of lean new ham; let them stew very 
gently for an hour, then add three .(|uarts of 
brown gra\y soup, and some whole black 
pepper, Vvith eight or ten ripe tomatas ; let 
it boil an hour and a half, and pulp it through 
a sieve ; serve it with fried bread cut in dice- 

TOMATA SAUCE, FRENCH. Cut 

ten or a dozen tomatas into (]uarters, and 
put them into a saucepan, with four on- 
ions sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one dove, 
and a quarter of a pound of butler; set the 
sauce|)an on the fire, stirring occasionally for 
thi ee-(|uarters of an hour; strain the sauce 
through a horse-hair sieve, and serve witii 
the directed articles. 

TOMATA SAUCE, ITALIAN. T^e 

five or six onions, slice, and put them into 
a saucepan, with a little thyme, bay-leaf, 
twelve or fifteen tomatas, a bit of butter, 
salt, half a dozen allspice, a little India saf- 
fron, and a glass of stock; set them on the 
fire, taking care to stir it frequen ly, as it is 
apt to stick ; when you perceive xV.f sauce is 
tolerably tiiick, strain it like vl p irc'. 

TO ATA KETCHUP. (I) Tale i- m - 
tas when fully ripe, bake thetn in a jar till 
tender strain them, and rub them throi^ii h 
sieve. To every pound of juice, add a pint 
of Chili vinegar, an ounce of shallots, half ai' 
ounce of garlic, both sliced, a quarter of an 
ounce of salt, and a ([uarter of an ounce of 
while ]iepper, finely powdered; boil the 
whole till every ingredient is soft, rub it 
again through the sieve- To every pound 



T O M 



223 



TOiN' 



add the juice of three lemons; boil it again 
to the consistence of cream; when cold, bot- 
tle it, put a small quantity of sweet oil on 
each, tie bladdet-s over, and keep it in a dry 
place. 

I'O.MATA KETCHUP. (2) Galha- a 
peck of tomatas, pick out the stems, and 
wash iheni; put tiiem on tlte fiie without 
water ; sprinkle on a few spoonfuls of salt ; 
let them boil steadily an hour, stirring them 
frequently ; strain tliem through a colander 
and llien through a sieve ; put the iKiuid on 
the fire with half a pint of ch()p[)ed onions, 
eigiith of an ounce of niace bi'oke into small 
pieces, and if i>ot suftkiently sait,add a little 
more ; one table-spoonful of whole black 
pep|)er ; b(j!l all together until just enough 
to fill two bottles; cork it tight, 

[The seasoning may be varied to suit the 
taste. Allspice inst. ad of mace — couunon 
red pepper instead of black pepper, and less 
chopped onion. j 

TO;\fATO KETCHUP. (3) Oiw gal- 
lon skinned tomiitas, four table-spoons of 
salt, four do, black pe[)per, two do. allspice, 
eight pods red peppier, eight table-spoims of 
mustard seed. 'I'liese articles to l)e bruised 
fine and siimriered slowly in a pint of vinegar 
three hours; tlien strained througlj^a hair 
sie\e. To be stewed down to half a gallon 
of ketchup. 

TOMATAS, METHOD OF PRE- 
SERVING. (1; A sufficient quantity ofsalt 
is dissolved in springer river water to n^ake 
it strong enough to l)ear an egg; select per- 
fectly ripe tomatas, and place tliem well and 
vvithatTt pressing tlrem, in a stone or glazened 
earthet) pot, with a deep pkite in such a 
manner that it presses upon the fruit, and by 
this simi)le process toi»atas may V)e preserved 
more than a year without attention. Before 
colming them tliey should lie soaked in fresh 
water for sevei'al horns. 

T03IATAS, METHOD OF PRE- 
SERVING. (2) Gatlier them carefully 
without bruising; put tliem in a stone jar, 
and pour in strong brine, to the tup — putting 
on a light weiglit to keep them gently pressed 
down below the sirrface of the brirfe. Soak 
them in fresh water and cook them in the 
usual way, seasoning to suit the taste, as 
oghen fresh from the vine. 

TOMATA MARMALADE. GatfM?r 
^11-giown toHKitas while quite green; take 
-"Hit (he stems and stew them till soft; rub 
uiem through a sieve; put the pulp on the 
lire, seasoned highly with pepper, salt and 
powdered cloves; add some garlic, and stew 
all together till tiiick. It keeps well, and is 



excellent for sccisoning gravies. Besides tiW 
numerous modes of prcpnuing this delicious^ 
vegetable iln- the talkie, it may be stewe-i, 
after being pefled, with sugar, like cranber- 
ries a:ul goostiberrics, prodtK'ing a tart e(]iiaJ 
to either of those fruits, Tomatas make 
good pickles, | )ick led green ; to peel them, 
pour ])oiling water on them, when the skin 
wiH come ofi' easily. 

TONGUE. (I) A tongue which hrtf 
not been drie<l will letjuire very little soaK 

1 ing, but if dried, it siwuld l)e soaked i!* 
water for three or four houis; tlien ])tfl •? 

; into cold water, and let k boil gently r<i> 
teiidei'. 

TONGUE. (2) A tongue is so barci. 
Wiielher prepared by drying or pickling, tl.'ii-r 
it requires much more cooking than a lunn: 
nothing of its weight takes so long to dj-^!'.-' 
h properly, 

A tongue tl>tit has lx>en salted and drt^'ti 
siioi'.kl be put to soak (if it is old and \tiy 
hard, 24 hours besi>re it is wante:!) in plet> 
ty of water; a green one fresh from the pw- 
kle requires soaking only a few Iwurs: p=t{ 
yoiii' tongue into plenty of cold water; Irf 
it Ixi an hour gradiialiv warming; and g|^p 
it from three and a h;ilf to fnir hours' ver^ 
slow simmeriiigy accordnig to the size, &.e 

06*. — When you choose a tongue, en- 
deavor to learn how long it Iws been dried 
or pickled, p'ick out the p!.un>pest, and liiaJ 
which has tlxf snioothest skin, which de- 
notes its being young and tender. 

The roots, &c. nuike an excellent relish 
potted, or peas soup. 

TONG'IE, TO STEW. Wash it verv 
clean, aiic! rub it well with common salt and 
a little saltpetre; kji it he two (jr three days, 
and tlieiJ boil it till the b-kin will pull off. 
Put it into a s-aucepan^ with pvut of tiie li- 
quor it Ikis been ixjiled in, and a pint of 
good stock. Season with bbck and Ja- 
maica jiepper, and two or three pounded 
cloves; add a glass of white wine and a 
lable-spoonful of mush.room keK'hup, -.xnd 
one of lemon pickle; thicken the sauce wuh 
butter rolled in !k>ur, and pour it over the 
tongue. 

TONGUE, PICKLED, GLAZED. 

Boil a large tongue till it be tender, skin 
and glaze it, and serve it with mashed tur- 
nips on oixe side, and mashed carrots, or 
carrots and spinach on tlie other, 

TONGUE, POTTED. See Ham. 

TONGUES, TO SALT, Salt two 
tongues, and tuiii them e\-ery day (or four or 
five days ; then rvvb tliem with two ovmccs 



T R 



1 



r R f 



i)f common salt, one of brown sugar, and half 
an ounce of saltpetre; turn them daily, and 
in a fortnight they may be used. 

The best sort of vessel for salting them 
in is an earthen- ware pan, as wide at top 
as bottom, so that the tongues may lie in it 
long-ways. 

TRIFLE. (1) Add to a pint of rich 
cream a tea-cupful of white wine, sweeten it 
with pounded loaf sugar, whisk it well, and 
as the froth rises lay it upon a sieve placed 
over a deep dish; as it drains, pour the 
cream into the pan in which it is whisked 
till all is done ; dip some sponge biscuit, rata- 
fia cakes, or Savoy biscuit, into sweet wine 
and a little brandy; pour over them a lich 
boiled custard, and when quite cold, lay on 
the whipt cream, piled as high as possible. 
Colored comfits may be strewed over the 
top. 

TRIFLE. (2) Mix three table-spoon- 
fuls of white wine, and one of sugar, with a 
pint and a half of thick cream; whisk it, 
and take off as much froth as will heap upon 
the dish, into which lay some pieces of 
sponge cake, or some sponge biscuit, soaked 
wiih sweet wine, and covered with preserv- 
ed strawberries, or any other fruit; pile the 
froth upon this, and pour the remainder of 
the cream into the bottom of the dish ; gar- 
nish with flowers. 

TRIFLE. (3) Cover the bottom of 
the dish with Naples biscuits, and maca- 
roons, broke in halves, wet with brandy and 
white wine, poured over them; cover them 
with patches of raspberry jam; fill the dish 
with a good custard, then wiiip n^ a sylla- 
bub, drain the froth on a sieve; put it on 
the custard, and strew comfits over all. 

TRIPE. Take care to have fresh tripe; 
cleanse it well from the fat, and cut it into 
pieces about two inches broad and four long; 
put it into a stewpan, and cover it with 
milk and water, and let it boil gently till it 
is tender. 

If the tripe has been prepared as it usual- 
ly is at the tripe shops, it will be enough in 
about an hour, (this depends upon how long 
it has been previously boiled at the tripe 
sho[)) ; if entirely undressed, it will require 
two or three hours, according to the age 
and quality of it. 

Make some onion sauce in the same man- 
ner as you do for rabbits, or boil (slowly by 
themselves) some Spanish or the whitest 
common onions you can get; peel them be- 
fore you boil them ; wlien they are tender, 
which a middling-sized onion will be in 
about three-quarters of an hour, drain tliem 
in a hair sieve, take off tlie top skins till 



they look nice and white, and put them 
with the tripe into a tureen or soup-dish, 
and take off the fat if any floats on the 
smface. 

Obs. — Rashers of bacon, or fried sau- 
sages are a very good accompaniment to 
boiled tripe, cow-heels or calf's feet, see 
Kelly's sauce or parsley and butter, or ca- 
per sauce, with a little vinegar and mus- 
tard added to them, or salad mixture. 

Tripe holds the same rank among solids. 
that water gruel does among soups, and the 
foimer is desirable at dinnei-, when the lat- 
ter is welcome at supper. 

TRIPE, TO FRY. Cut it into bits 
three or four inches scjuare ; make a batter 
thicker than for pancakes, of three eggs 
beaten up with flour and milk, a little salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg; dip in the tripe, and 
fry it in butter, or fresh dripping, ol^ a ligiit 
brown color. Serve it garnished with pars- 
ley. Sauce; — melted butter with lemui; 
pickle in it. 

TRIPE PIE. Lay into the bottom of 
a dish some thinly-sliced cold or raw ham. 
then put in a layer of tripe with the jelly 
adhering to it, season with pepper and salt, 
and add a bit of butler; fill the dish in this 
mannei^ and put in a few table-tpoonliils 
of brown stock; cover the dish with pufll 
paste. A beefsteak may be substituted for 
the ham, laid into the bottom, and the dish 
filled up with tripe. 

TRIPE, TO BOIL. Clean it extreme- 
ly well, and take off the fat; let it lie a 
night in salt-and-water, again wash it well, 
and let it lie in milk-and-water for the same 
length of time; then cut it into small pieces, 
roll and tie them with thread; put them, 
with a clean-washed marrow-bone, into a 
linen bag; tie it closely, and put it in^ a 
stewpan that has a cover to fit ([uite close- 
ly, fill it u}) with water, and let it boil 
gently for six hours. Take the tripe out 
of the bag, put it into a jar, and pour over 
it the liquor in which it was boiled. When 
to be dressed, boil som.e whole small onions 
in a part of the liquor, add a little salt, then 
put in the tripe and heat it thoroughly. 

Or it may be fried in butter fricasseed, or 
stewed in a brown sauce. 

Instead of being boiled in a bag, the tripe 
may be put, with some salt and whole pep- 
per, into a stone-ware jar, which must have 
a piece of linen tied ovei' it, and a plate laid 
upon the top. The pot should always be 
kept full of boiling water, taking care that 
it do not boil into the jar. 

TRIPE, TO ROAST. Cut the tiipe 
into two oblon|r pieces, make a forcemeat 



TRO 






T U .%' 



of bread crumbs and chopped paisley, sea- 
soned with [;eppei" and t^alt; bind it with 
die vnlks of two eggs; ypread it upon the 
fat side of tlie tripe, and lay on the other j 
fat side; then roll it very ti^^liilv, and tie it ! 
w id) packtinead. Roast, and baste it with | 
butter: it will take one hour, or one hour I 
and a half. Serve it with melted butter, 
into wlii(;h put a table-spoonful of ketchup 
asid one of lemon pickle. 

TfilPE, BREADED. Cut your tripe 
into small square jiieces, and give them a 
{&\\' turns in some butter, with parsley, salt, 
and pe[-pet ; loll each bit in grated bread, 
and broil them slowly. When done, serve 
them with slice's of lemon. 

TROUT. This fish is held in great 
estimation, it is a fresh water fish, and 
when good, of a flesh color, and the spots 
uf.on if are very brigiit ; the female is con- 
sidered the best, and is known by the head 
being smaller, and the body being deeper 
than that of the male. 

TROUT, POTTED. Mix togedier 

t,lie following quantity of finely-powdered 
spices: — One ounce of cloves, half an ounce 
of Jamaica pepper, quarter of an ounce of 
black pepper, (juarter of an ounce of cay- 
enne, two nutn^egs, a little mace, and two 
lea-apoonfuls of ginger; add the weight of 
the spices, and half as much again of salt, 
and mix all thoroughly. Clean the fish, and 
cut off the heads, fins, and tails; put a, tea- 
spoonfiil ( f the mixed spices into each fish, 
a!ul lay them into a deep earthen jar, with 
the backs downwards; cover them with 
clarifie<i butter, tie a paper over the mouth 
of the jar, and bake ihem slowly tor eight 
houis. When the back bone is tender, tlve 
fish are done eM!)U"li. Take them out of 
the jar, and put thesn into a miikpan with 
the backs upwaids; cover th'^m with a 
board, and placre upon it a heavy weight. 
When perfectly (;old, remove the fish into 
flesh jars, smooth them with a knife, and 
cover llicin with clarified butter. 

TROUT, TO COLLAR. Wash them 
clean, split them down the i)ack bone, and 
dry them well in a cloth ; season them well 
with finely-pounded black pepper, salt, and 
mace; roll them tigiit, and lay them close 
into a dish; pour over an ecjual (juantity of 
vinegar and beer, with two or tliree bay- 
leaves, and some whole black pepper; tie 
over the dish a sheet of buttered paper, and 
bake them an hour. 

TROUT, TO BROIL. Cut off the fins, 
and cut the fish down the back, close to the 
bone, and split tlie liead in two. Anotlier 



way is, after they have been cut open, to 
rub a little salt o^er them; let them lie Uiree 
or lour hours, and then hang them up in the 
kitchen. They wilt be ready to broil the 
next morning for breakfast. 

TROUT, TO BOIL. Clean and gut 
them ; make the water as salt as for boil- 
ing salmon in, and when it boils put in the 
trout, and let them boil fast from fifteen 
to twenty minutes, according to their size 
Sauce; — imeltcd butter. 

TROUT, TO FRY. Cut off the fins, 
clean and gut them; dust them with fiour, 
and dip diem into the yolk of an egg beaten ; 
strew grated bread crumbs over, and fry them 
in fresh dripping; lay them upon the back 
of a sieve before the fire to drain. Sauce; 
— melted butter, with a table-spoonfiil of 
ketchup, and one of lemon pickle in it. 
When they are small, roll them in oatmeal 
before th.ey are fried. 

TRUFFLES. The truffle, like the mush- 
room, is a species of fungus common in 
France and italy; it generally grows about 
eight or ten inches below the surface of the 
ground; as it imparts a most delicious flavor, 
it is much used in cookery. Being dug out 
of the earth, it requires a great deal of wash- 
ing and brushing, before it can be applied to 
culinary puifwses ; w hen washed, the water 
should be warm, and changed fi efjuent'y. It 
loses much of its liavor when dried. 

TRUFFLE SAUCE. Mince two or 
three truffles very small, and toss them up 
iiglitly, in either oil or butter, according to 
your taste; then put to tl>em four or five la- 
dlefuls of veloute and a spoonful of con- 
somme; let it boil for about a quartef 
of an hour over a gentle fire, skim off al: 
the fat; keep your sauce hot in the bain 
marie. 

TRUFFLES TOURTE. Take twf- 
pounds of fine truffles, wash and [)ick them ; 
put them into a stewpan, with six thin slices 
of ham, a very little carrot, a sliced onion, 
a bay-leaf, sweet herbs in powder, salt, ann 
Champagne; lay rashers of !)acon over the 
whole, and stew lliem to nearly a jell\ 
When cold, put the trufiles into a crust with 
all tlie seasoning; bake the iourte, and sei\e 
as usual. 

TUNBRIDGE CAKES Rub tv^o 
ounces of butter into half a pound of dried 
flour; add a few caraway seeds, and a c|uat - 
ter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar; mi)t 
it to a stifi' paste with a little water, roll it 
out very thin, cut it into round cakes witii 
a glass or the top of a diedging box, prick 



T U R 



220 



rr R 



;hem with a fork, and bake them upon 
floured tins. 

TUNBRIDGE PUFFS. Put into a 
nicely-tinner] .saucepan a pint of milk, and 
when it boils, stir in as mucli flour as will 
make it a thick l)attei-; add three weii- 
beaten eggs, and tv\o or three dro|)s of oil 
of cinnaaifjn, or any otiicM" seasoning; dust 
a large tlat plate with tlour, with a spoon 
throw on it tlie batter, in the form of balls 
or fritteis, and (irop diem into boiling cla- 
rified diip()ing or lard. Serve them with 
pounded loaf sugar strewed over. 

The batter may be made into a pudding, 
addiuiT with the e^js an ounce of sak but- 
ter. Boil and serve it with a sweet sauce. 

TUFIBOT. Turbot, when good, should 
be thick and full, and the belly of a yellow- 
ish while or cream color. 

TURBOT, BAKED. Wash your fish 
in several wateis, dry it well, and soak it 
in melted butter, with sweet herbs, parsley, 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; in half an hour 
put the whole into a baking dish, envelope 
it com|)lelely in bread crumbs, and bake it. 

TURBOT, BREADED. Prepare a 
smnll turbot as usual, slit it across the back, 
and soak it for an hour in melted butter, 
or lemon-juice, with parsley, sweet herbs, 
salt, and pepper. Cover the fish with 
bread crumbs, and broil it; when done, 
s(|ueeze lemon, or Seville orange-juice over 
it, and serve. 

TURBOT, STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Your turbot being properly cleansed, turn 
over the skin of the under side, without cut- 
ting it off; make n farce, with some butter, 
parsley, scallions, morels, sweet herl)s, all 
shred, and united together, with yolks of 
eggs, and seasoned with pepper and salt; 
spread this all over the under part of the 
fish, cover it with the skin, and sew it up. 
Dissolve some butter in a saucepan; add to 
it when melted, the yolk of an egg, sweet 
herbs shred, salt, ami pepper; rub the fish 
all o\er with this, then bread, and bake it. 

TURBOT, TO BOIL. (1) This excellent 
fish is in season the greatest part of Uie sum- 
mer; when gootl, it is at once firm and ten- 
der, and abounds with rich gelatinous nu- 
triment. 

Being (h;i\vn, and washed clean, if it be 
quite fresh, by rubbing it liglitly with salt, 
and keeping it in a cold place, you may in 
moderate weather preserve it for a cou|)le 
of days. 

An hour or two before you dress it, soak 
it in spring water with some salt in it, then 



score the skin across the thickest f)an of 
die back, to prevent its breaking on the 
breast, which will happen from the fisb 
swelling, and cracking the skin, if this pre- 
caution be not used. Put a large handful 
of salt into a fish-kettle with coki water, 
lay your fish on a fish-strainer, [)ut it in, 
and when it is coming to a boil, skim i( 
well ; then set the kettle on the side of the 
fire, to boil as gently as possible for about 
fifteen or twenty minutes (if it boils fast, 
the fish will break to pieces); supposing it 
a middling-sized turbot, and to weigh eigiit 
or nine pounds. 

Rub a little of the inside red coral spawn 
of the lolxster through a hair sieve, with- 
out butter; and when the turbot is dished, 
sprinkle the spawn over it. Garnish the 
dish with sprigs of curled parsley, sliced 
lemon, and finely-scraped horseradish. 

If you like to send it to table in full dress, 
surround it with nicely-fried smelts, gudg- 
eons are often used for this purpose, and may 
be bought very cheap when smelts are very 
dear; lay the largest opposite the broadest 
part of the turbot, so that they may form a 
well-proportioned fringe for it; or oysters; 
or cut a sole in strips, crossways, about the 
size of a smelt ; fry them and lay. tliein 
round. Send up lobster sauce, two boats 
of it, if it is for a large party. 

Obs. — The thickest part is the favorite; 
and the carver of this fish must remember 
to ask his friends if they are fin-fanciers. 
It will save a troublesome job to the carver 
if the cook, when tiie fish is boiled, cuts the 
spine bone across the middle. 

TURBOT, TO BOIL. (2) Put into 
the tnrlxjt kettle, with the water, two large 
handfuls of salt, and a tea-cupful of vinegar; 
when it boils very fast, take off the scum; 
put in the turbot, and when it boils again 
keep it boiling fast till the turbot rises from 
the drainer; when it is sufiliciently done, 
dish and garnish it with a fringe of curled 
parsley and cut lemon. Sauces; — lobster 
and melted butter. 

Cold boiled turbot eats well with salad 
sauce. 

Turbot is generally considered best per- 
fectly fresh ; but some people prefer it kept 
for a few days, hung up by the tail in a 
cool place. 

TURBOT, GRILLED. Split the fish 
down the back, and soak it Pjr sometime, 
with melted butter, parsley, sweet herbs, 
salt, and pepper. Bread the turbot Well, 
broil, and serve it with lemon, or Seville 
orange-juice. 

TURBOT, WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Put a sliced onion, some thvme, basil, and 



TU R 



227 



TU R 



eweet herbs into a stewjjan, place a small 
turbot on these, strew similar herbs, salt, 
pepper, and a leek, cut in ])ieces over it; 
cover (he fish with equal quantities of vine- 
gar, and wliite wine; let it boil over a 
moderate fiie until sutticiently d(jne; in the 
meantime, melt a pound of butter, add to it 
a couple of l)()ued anchovies, two spoonfuls 
of capers, shred small, two or three leeks, 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, a little vinegar, water, 
and a sprinkling of flour; m.ake all these 
quite hot, stirring constantly till done; then 
dish the turbot, pour the sance over it, and 
serve. 

TURKEY, BOILED. Make a stuffmg 
of l)read, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, Icni- 
on-peel, a few oysters, or an anchovy, a bit 
of butter, some suet, and an egg; put this 
into the crop, fasten up the skin, and iwil 
the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very 
white. Have ready some oyster sauce 
made rich with butter, a little cream, and a 
spoonful of soy, and serve over the turkey, 
or you may serve over it a liver and lemon 
sauce. 

TURKEY, TURKEY POULTS, and 
OTHER Poultry. A fowl and a turkey 
require the same management at the fire, 
only the latter will take longer time. 

Many a Christmas dinner has been sjwil- 
ed by the turkey having been hung up in a 
cold larder, and becoming thoroughly fro- 
zen ; Jack Frost has ruined the reputation 
of many a turkey roaster. 

Let them be carefully picked, &c. and 
break the breast bone (to make them look 
plump), twist up a sheet of clean writing 
paper, light it, and thoroughly singe the 
turkey all over, turning it about over the 
llame. 

Turkeys, fowls, and capons have a much 
better appearance, if, instead of trussing 
them with the legs close together, and the 
feet cut off, the legs are extended on each 
side of the bird, and die toes only cut off, 
wiih a skewer through each foot, to keep 
them at a proper distance. 

Be careful, when you draw itf to preserve 
the liver, and not to break the gall-bag, as 
no washing will take off the bitter taste it 
gives, where it once touches. 

Prepare a nice, cleai', brisk fire for it. 

JIake stutiling; stuff it under the breast, 
where the craw was taken out, and make 
some into balls, and boil or fry them, and 
lay them round the dish; they are handy to 
help, and you can then reserve some of the 
inside stufliiig to eat with the cold, turkey, 
or to enrich a hash. 

TURKEY EN DAUBE. Take an old 
lurkey, truss it in the usual way; roll some 



large lardons in a mixture of salt, pepper, 
four sjjices, and sweet herbs, and then lanl 
the tiukcy with diem; lay slices of bacon 
in a braising-pan, put the turkey on them, 
with two small knuckles of veal, the feet of 
the bird, fcjur carrots, six onions, three 
cloves, two bay-leaves, thyme, a bunch of 
parsley, and young onions; cover the whole 
with bacon and a piece of buttered paper; 
dilute it with four ladlefuls of stock (or 
more if the turkey be very laige), [)ut in a 
little salt, and set the pan on the fire to boil 
slowly for three hours and a half; then take 
it off, but do ncjt take the bird out f )r at 
least half an hour. Strain off die licjuor, 
and then reduce it to a foiuth, or more if 
very thin; break an egg into another sauce- 
pan, beat it up \\ell, and then pour the li- 
quor on it, whisk them well together, and 
if It wants tlavor, add a few sweet herbs, 
parsley leaves, and a young onion or two; 
put it on the fire, stirring it violently until 
ready to boil; as soon as it has boiled up 
once or twice; set it by the side of a stove, 
put fire on the top of the saucepan, and let 
it simmer half an hour; then strain it care- 
fully through a fine cloth, and let it cool to 
serve it with the turkey. 

TURKEY, HASHED. (1) Cut up the 
remains of a roasted turkey, put it into a 
stewpan, with a glass of white wine, chop- 
ped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, truffles, 
salt and pepper, two spoonfuls of cullis, and 
a little stock; boil half an hour, and reduce 
to a thick sauce; when ready, add a pound 
of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon ; skim 
off all the fat from the sauce, and serve all 
together. 

TURKEY, HASHED. (2) Stir a 
piece of butter rolled in flour into some 
cream, and a little veal gravy, till it boils 
up; mince some cold roasted or boiled 
lurkey, but not too small; put it into the 
sauce, add grated lemon-peel, white peppei', 
pounded mace, a little mushroom ketchup or 
mushroom powder; simmer it up, and serve. 
Oysters may be added. 

TURKEY, ROASTED. It may be 
either stuliied with sausage meat, or stalling 
the same as for fillet of veal. As this makes 
a lai'ge addition to the size of the bird, take 
care that the heat of the fire is constantly to 
that part, as it frequently happens that the 
breast is not sufficiently done. A strip of 
paper should be put on the bone to prevent 
its scorching, while the other parts are 
roasting. Basie well, and froth it up. Serve 
with gravy in the disli, and bread sauce in a 
sauce tureen. A few bread crumbs, and a 
beaten egg should be added to the stutiing 
of sausage meat. 



TUR 



228 



TUR 



TURKEY, STUFFED WITH SAU- 
SAGES AND CHESTNUTS. Roust 
what ciiuiiuity of (;liestniits yoii tluuk iieces- 
siiry, |)eel them, and pound a part of them 
to nmke a farce, vvidi the liver, chopped 
paisley, sliallots, a lillle salt and |.'ep;Tt^r, a 
bit of butter, and (lie yolks of three raw 
eggs, put i\\\s farce into the crop, and stuff 
the body with the whole chestnuts, and small 
s-'ausages, (irst fried in butter till about half 
done ; cover the turkey widi slices of bacon, 
and put pa|)er over that, then roast it, and 
seive uiih a chestnut cullis. 

TURNIPS, TO DRESS YOUNG 
WHITE. Wash, peel, and boil them till 
tender in w.ater with a little salt; serve them 
with melted buller poured over them. Or, 
They may be stewed in a pint of milk thick- 
ened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and 
seasoned with salt and peppei,and served 
with the sauce. 

TURNIPS. Peel off half an inch of the 
stringy outside. Full-grown turnips will 
take about an hour and a half gentle boiling; 
if you slice them, which mist people do, they 
will be done sooner; try them with a fork; 
when tender, take them up, and lay them on 
a sieve till the water is thoroughly drained 
from them. Send them up whole; do not 
slice them. 

TURNIPS, TO Boil Yellow ok 
Largk White. W^ash, pare, and throw 
them into cold water; put them on in boiling 
water with a little salt, and boil them from 
two hours to two and a half, drain them in 
a cullender, put them into a saucepan, and 
mixing in a bit of butter, with a beater mash 
them very smo<jthly, add half a pint of milk, 
mix it well with the turnips, and make them 
quite hot before serving. If they are to be 
served plain, dish them as soon as the water 
is drained off. 

TURNIP TOPS, Are the shoots which 
grow out (in the spring) of the old turnip 
roofs. Put diem into cold water an hour 
before they are to be dressed ; the more wa- 
ter they are boiled in, the better they will 
look; if boiled in a small (]uantity of water 
they will taste bitter: when the water boils, 
put in a small handful of salt, and then your 
vegetaliles; if fresh and young, they will be 
done in about twenty minutes; drain them 
on the back of a sieve. 

TURTLE SOUP. (1) To dress a 
Turtle weighing one hundred and twenty 
pounds. Having cut off the head close to 
the shell, hang up the turtle till the next 
day, then open it, bearing the knife heavi- 
ly on the back of the animal in cutting it 



off all round; turn it on its end, that al. 
the blood and water may run out, Uien cut 
the tlesli off along the spine, sloping the knife 
towards the bones so as to avoid touthii>g 
the gall, and having also cut the flesh from 
the legs and other members, wash the whole 
well and drain it. A large vessel of boil- 
in«r water b(!in!j readv on the fire, nut in 
the breast shell, and when the plates wiij 
separate easily take tlieni out of the wafer; 
boil the back r.nd belly in water till diesofier 
parts can be taken off easily ; but befoie tiiey 
are suf!icienti\- done, as they are to ho. again 
boiled in the sauce, lay them to cool singly 
in earthen vessels diat they may not stick 
together, let the bones conliiuie to stew for 
some time, as the liquor must be used for 
moistening the sauces. 

Ail the flesh cut from the body, the (bur 
leffs and head must be stewed in the follow ing 
manner. Lay a few slices of ham on tise 
bott(jm of a large stewpan, and over the ham 
two or three knuckles of veal, then above the 
veal, the inside flesh of the turde, and that 
of the members over the whole, adding a 
large bunch of sweet herbs, such as sweet 
basil, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, a hand- 
ful of parsley, and green onions, and ^ large 
onion stu(;k with six cloves. I'hen partly 
moisten it with the water in which the sh.ell 
is boiling, and when it has stewed some 
time, moisten it again with the liquor in 
which the back and belly have been boiled. 
When the legs are tender, take them out, 
drain, and put them aside to be afterwards 
added to the sauce; and when the flesh is> 
completely done, drain it through a silk sieve, 
and mix with the Lau(;e some very thin white 
roux; tlu;!) cut all the softer parts, now 
sufflcienlly cold, into pieces about an inch 
scjuare, add them to the sauce, and let them 
simmer gently till they can be easily pierced; 
skim it well. 

'Next chop a small quantity of herbs, and 
boil them with a little sugar in four bottles 
of Madeira till reduced to two, then rub it 
through a tammy, mix it with the turtle 
sauce, and let it boil for a short time. Make 
some foiceifieal balls as follows: — Cut off' 
about a pound of meat from the fleshy part 
of a leg of veal free from sinews or fat, soak 
in milk about the same quantity of ciumbs 
of bread ; when quite soft, squeeze and put 
it into a mortar, together with the veal, a 
small (inantity of calf's udder, a little bulter, 
the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, a liltle 
cayenne, salt and sjiices ; pound the w hole 
very finely, then thicken the mixture with 
two whole eggs and the yolk of a third, throw 
a bit into boiling water, and if not sufficiently 
firm, add the jolk of another egg, and for 
variety some chopped parsley may be mixed 
with half of the forcemeat. Let the whole 
cool so that it may be formed into balls about 



TU R 



229 



VEAL 



the size of the yolk of an egg, poach tliem in 
boiling water, and add them to the turtle. 
Befoie servinjj, mix a little cayenne with 
the juice of two or three lemons, and add it 
to tiie SDiip. It is generally preferable to 
prepare the soup tiie day before it is required 
for use, and it will be best heated in a water 
bath, or (lat vessel containinij water, whicii 
is always kept very hot, but ni)t allowed to 
boil. By the same method, sauces, stews, 
and other made dishes may be kept hot. 

When the fins cf the tui tie are to be served 
as a side dish, they must be first parboiled, 
then skinned, and stewed in a little turtle 
sauce, with some Port wine, and seasoned 
with cayenne, salt, and a little lemon-juice, 
and thickened with butter and floiu'. 

Frirandeanx and Blanquettes may also be 
made of the flesli of the tuitle, in the same 
way as those of veal. 

TURTLE SOUP. (2) The day before 
you dress a turtle, chop the herbs, antl make 
the forcemeat; then, on the preceding eve- 
ning, suspend the turtle by the two hind fins 
with a cord; and put one round the neck, 
with a heavy weight attached to it to draw 
out the neck, that the head may be cut oft" 
widi more ease ; let the turtle hang ali night, 
in which time the ijlood will be well drained 
from the body. Then, early in the morning, 
having your stoves, and plenty of hot water 
in readiness, take the turtle, lay it on the 
table on its back, and with a strong pointed 
knife cut all round the under shell, (which is 
the callipee) ; there are joints at each end, 
which must be carefully found, gently sepi- 
rating it from the callipasli (which is the 
upper shell) ; be careful that in cutting out 
the gut you do not break the gall. When 
the callipee and tlie caliipash are perfectly 
separated, take out that part of the gut that 
leads from the throat; that, with the three 
hearts, put into a basin of water by ih.em- 
selves; the other interior part put away. 
l\ike the callipee, and cut off the meat 
\vhi(!h adheres to it in four quarters, laying 
it on a clean dish. Take twenty pounds of 
veal, chop it up, and set it in a large pot, as 
directed for espagnole, putting in the flesh 
of the turtle at the same time, withal! kinds 
of turtle herbs, carrots, onions, one pound and 
a half of lean ham, j)epper corns, salt, a little 
spice, and two bay leaves, leaving it to stew 
till it takes tiie color of espagnole; put the 
fins (the skin being scalded off) and hearts in, 
half an hour bef)re you fill It, with half wa- 
ter, and half beef stock ; then carefully skim 
it; put in a bunch of parsley, and let it boil 
gently, like consomme. While the turtle is 
stewing, carefully scald the head, the calli- 
pee, and all that is soft of the callipasli, at- 
tentively observing to take oft" the smallest 
particle of skin that may remain; put them 
20 



with the gut into a large pot of water to boil 
till tender ; when so, take them out, and cut 
them in squares, putting diem in a basin by 
themselves till wanted for the soup. The 
next thing is the thickening of the soup, 
vA'hicli must be pi-epared in the same manner 
as sauce tournee. The turtle bein^ well 
done, take out tiie fins and hearts, and lay iliein 
on a disii ; tiie whole of the liquor must pass 
through-a sieve into a large pan ; then, with 
a ladle, take off all the fat, put it into a ba- 
sin, dien mix in the turtle liquor (a small 
quantity at a time) with the thickening made 
the same as sauce toin^nee; but it does not 
require to, neither must it be, one twentieth 
part so thic'k ; set it over a brisk fire, and 
continue stirring till it boils; when it has 
boiled two hours, being skimmed all the 
while, scjueeze it through the tammy into 
another large stewpan, put it on the fire, and 
stir it as before, till it boils; when it has 
boiled gently for one hour, put in the calli- 
pee and caliipash, with the gut, hearts, and 
some of the best of the meat and head, all 
cut in s(juares, with the forcemeat balls and 
herbs, which you should have ready chopped 
and stewed in espagnole; (the herbs are 
parsley, lemon thyme, marjoram, basil, sa- 
vory, and a few chopped mushrooms). It 
must be carefully attended to and skimmed, 
and one hour and a half before dinner, put in 
a bottle of Marleira wine, and nearly half a 
bottle of brandy, keeping it continually boil- 
ing gently, and skimming it; then take a 
basin, put a little cayenne pepper into it, 
with the juice of six lemons squeezed through 
a sieve. When the dinner is wanted, skim 
the turtle, stir it well up, and put in a little 
salt, if necessary; then stir in tne cayenne 
and lemon-juice, and ladle it into tlie tureen. 
Tliis receipt will answer for a turtle between 
fifty and sixty pounds. 

|t:3=^ For Mock Turtle and other 
Soups, See Soups. 



TWELFTH CAKE ICING. See 



Icin, 



o ' 



VEAL. The names of the joints are as 
follows: Loin, best end — Loin, chump end 
— Fillet — Hind Knuckle — Fore knuckle — 
Neck, best end — Neck, scrag end — Blade 
bone — Breast, best end — Brisket end. 

Veal should be fine in the grain, firm, 
white, and fat, and the leg bone small. The 
finest calves have tlie smallest kidney, an-' its 
being well covered with tliick white fat, in- 
dicates good veal. Tlie fillet of a cow calf 
is to be preferred, on account of the udder. 
The prime joints are the fillet, the loin, tlw 



VEAL 



230 



VEAL 



chump end of the loin, and the best end of 
the neck. To keep it, the same directions 
may be followed, which are given fov keeping 
beef 

When the fillet is to be roasted, it should 
be wasiied, well dried, and the bone taken 
out, and the space filled witii a fine stuSiling, 
part of which should be put under tiie flap, 
then formed into a round and firmly skew- 
ered. That the fire may be clean and strong, 
it should be made up sometime before putting 
down the roast, which should at first be 
placed at some distance from it, and be fre- 
quently and well basted w ith butter. When 
about half roasted, a piece of white pajier is 
tied over the fat; a little before serving, it 
is reinoveri, the meat is then sprinkled with 
salt, dredged with flour, and well basted to 
froth it. When dished, finelv melted butter 
is poured over it, with which may or may 
not be mixed some lemon pickle or brown 
gravy. It is garnished with cut lemon. 

Veal is expected to come to table looking 
delicately clean; and it is so easily discol- 
ored, that you must lie carefiil to have clean 
water, a clean vessel, and constantly catch 
the scum as soon and as long as it rises. 
Send up bacon, fried sausages, or pickled 
pork, greens, and parsley and butter, and 
onion sauce. 

V^eal reciuires particular care to roast it a 
nice brown. Let the fire be die same as for 
beef; a sound large fire f )r a large joint, and 
a brisker for a smaller; put it at some dis- 
tance from the fire to soak thoroughly, and 
then di-aw it near to finish it brown. 

When first laid down, it is to be basted; 
baste it again occasionally. Wiien the veal 
is on the dish, pour over it half a pint of 
melted butter: if you have a little brown 
gravv bv yon, add that to the butter. WiUi 
those joints which are not stuft'ed, send up 
forcemeat in balls, or rolled into sausages, as 
garnish to the dish, or fried pork sausages; 
bacon and greens, are also always expected 
with boiled veal. 

Fillet of Veal, Of from twelve to sixteen 
j)ounds, will retinire from f)ur to five hours 
at a good fire ; niake some slufting or force- 
meat, and put it in under the flap, that there 
mav be some left to eat cold, or to season a 
hash ; brown it, and j)our good melted butter 
over it. 

Garnish with thin slices of lemon and 
cakes or balls of stufling, or duck stuffing, or 
fried pork sausages, curiy sauce, bacon and 
greens, &c. 

A bit of the brown outside is a favorite 
with the epicure in roasts. The kidney, cut 
out, sliced, and bicjiled, is a high relish, 
which some bons vivants are fond of. 

A Loin, Is the best part of the calf, and 
will take about three hours roasting. Pa- 
per the kidney fat, and tlie back: some 



cooks send it up on a toast, which is eaten 
with the kidney and the fat of this part, 
which is as delicate as any marrow. If 
there is more of it than you think \\ ill be 
eaten with the veal, before you roast it cut 
it <jut ; it will make an excellent suet pud- 
ding; take care to have your fire long 
enough to brown the ends; same accom- 
paniments as above. • 

A Shoulder, From three hours to three 
hours and a half; stuff it with the fjrce- 
meat ordered for the fillet of veal, in the 
under side. 

Neck, best end. Will take two hours; 
same accompaniments as fillet. The scrag 
part is best made into a pie, or broth. 

Breast, From an hour and a half to two 
houi's. Let the caul remain till it is almost 
done, then take it off to brown it ; baste, 
flour, and froth it. 

This makes a savory relish for a luncheon 
or supper: or, instead of roasting, boil it 
en(^ugh ; put it in a cloth between two pew- 
ter dishes, with a weight on the upper one, 
and let it remain so till cold ; tiien pare 
and trim, egg, and crumb it, and broil, or 
warm it in a Dutch oven ; serve with it 
capers, or wow wow sauce. Breast of 
nn\tton may he dressed the same way. 

VEAL ALAMODE. See Beef Ala- 
mode. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED WITH 
Green Peas. Make a quart of gravy 
with tlie scrag end; strain it; cut the rest 
of the veal into sni;',ll pieces of nearly an 
e(jual size; put it into a stewpan with die 
gravy, some jjepper, salt, mace, half an 
ounce of butter, and a (|uart nf green peas. 
Cover the pan cl<;sely, and let it steu nearly 
two hours; then put in a lettuce cut small, 
and let it stew half an hf)ur longer. A lit- 
tle befjre serving, add lialf an ounce of 
browned butter, mixed with, a little flour. 

VEAL BREAST, BROILED. Half 
roast and then score it; season it with pars- 
ley, a few finely-minced sweet heibs, a lit- 
tle pepper and salt, and broil it. IMake a. 
sauce with some gravy seasoned with onion, 
grated nutmeij, mace, s;dt, and an anchuvv ; 
boil and stiain it; thicken it with llour and 
biitler. Add some minced capers and small 
mushrooms; |:)our it cjuite hot over the veal. 
Garnish with sliced lemon. 

VEAL BREAST, COLLARED. Bone 
it, and lay over it a thick layer of force- 
meat, made with bread crumbs, chopjied 
oysters, pai"sley, and grated ham, seasoned 
with lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 
mixed with an e?g Ijeaten up. Roll and 
bind it with tape; boil it in a cloth, and put 



VEAL 



231 



VEAL 



it on in boiling water ; let it boil gently for 
three lioius. Boil tlie bones with an onion, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; 
strain and tliicken it with three tal)le-spoon- 
fiils of cream, ihs yolks of two egi^s beaten 
up, and a bit of butter mixed with flour. 
Parboil and slice the sweetbread, dip it 
into an egg, and strew over it grated bread; 
fry it with forcemeat balls. Serve the 
veal with the sauce poured over it. Gar- 
nish with the sweetbread and forcemeat 
balls. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (1) Half 
roast the veal till of a light brown, then 
stew it over a stove for two hours, in a 
rich gravy, with a shallot, three cloves, a 
blade of mace, a little walnut pickle, some 
oyster liquor, and a few small mushrooms. 
Half an hour before serving, add a little 
anchovy liquor. Garnish with cut lemon 
and curled parsley. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (2) Cut 

out the blade bone, and stuff the whole with 
a nice forcemeat; sew it up, half roast it, 
and make a quart of gravy of the bones and 
trimmings; season it with whole pepper, 
two blades of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, a 
large onion, some salt, and a bunch of pars- 
ley. Strain and thicken it with butter roll- 
ed in flour; put in the veal, and a table- 
spoonful of \inegar; let it stew nearly two 
hours. A little before serving, add a table- 
spoonful of lemon pickle, and a glass of 
white wine. Forcemeat balls may be serv- 
ed widi it. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (3) Cut 

off the short bones or gristles of a breast 
of veal; stew them in a little white stock, 
with a slice of ham, an onion stuck with 
one or two cloves, some whole pepper, a 
buncli of parsley, and a little salt. When 
tender, take out the meat, strain the stock, 
and put it on with a pint and a half of 
green peas; boil them, and add the veal, 
and let them stew for twenty minutes. 
Serve the gristles in the middle, and the 
peas round them. 

VEAL BROTH. See Broth. 

VEAL, BROWN ROLLKLOPS. Cut 

off some thin slices from a fillet of veal, and 
beat them. Take part of the fat from the 
loin and kidney : mince it finelv with a 
small l)it of veal, and six anchovies; season 
with salt, pounded ginger, and mace; put 
tt over the slices of veal, and roll them up. 
Dip them into the bealeu yolk of an egn, 
and then into grated bread; re])eat this a 
second time, and fry them of a nice brown 
iiolor in clarified beef dripping, then stew 



them in some good gravy, adding a little 
walnut pickle and half a pint of white wine. 

VEAL CAKE. Take some nice thin 
slices of veal, and season them with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg, grated ; have ready 
some hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and put a 
layer of these at the bottom of a basin 
or pan, then a layer of veal, then some slices 
of ham, over this strew marjoram, thyme, 
parsley, shred fine, bread crumbs and lemon- 
peel, chopped small; then a layer of eggs, 
veal, ham, &c. and so continue till the pan 
is filled; pour some good gravy over the 
whole, covei' the pan with coarse brown 
paper, tie it closely over, and set it t ) bake 
in a slow oven; an hour will be sufficient 
to bake it; when cold, turn it out upon a 
dish, and serve; garnish with parsley. 

VEaL cake, to be eaten cold. Pound 
in a mortar as much cold roasted lean veal 
as will fill a small mould, together with a 
slice of ham, or bacon, a piece of the crumb 
of bread soaked in cold milk, two beaten 
eggs, a small bit of butter, the same of shal- 
lot, or onion ; season with pepper and salt, 
and mix all well together; butter the mould, 
fill it, and bake it in an oven for about an 
hour; turn it out when cold, and cut it into 
slices. Garnish with pickled eggs and pars- 
ley. 

VEAL COLD. Cut some cold veal into 
thin slices, the size and thickness of a half 
crown, dip them into the yolk of an egg 
well beaten, cover them with bread crumbs, 
sweet herbs, lemon-peel shred fine, and 
grated nutmeg. Put a little fresh butter in- 
to a pan, make it quite hot, fry the veal in 
it, and when done, lay it on a dish by the 
side of the fire; make a little gravy of a 
bone of veal, shake a little flour into the 
pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little 
lemon-juice, pour it over the veal, and gai- 
nish with lemon. 

VEAL CHOPS, BREADED. Take 
six or seven handsomely cut chops, season 
them well with salt and pepfjer, and put them 
into melted butter; when suflicientlv soaked, 
put them into beaten eggs, take them out, 
and roll each separately in bread crumbs ; 
make the chops as loinid as you can witii 
your hand, and lay them on a dish; vviien 
all are breaded, broil them slowly over a 
moderate fire, that the bread may not be too 
higtiiy colored. Serve with clear gravy. 

VEAL, TO COLLAR. Bone a breast 
of veal, and beat it flat; cover the inside 
with a nice stuffing moistened with eggs; 
roll it very tightly, bind it, and bake it in an 
oven with some weak stock in the dish. 



VEAL 



232 



VEAL 



Mak« a rich gravy; strain and thicken it, 
and pour it over the veal. Serve with or 
without forcemeat balls, and garnish with 
cut lemon. It will keep for a long time in 
a pickle made with bran and water, a little 
salt, and vinegar, poured cold over it. 

VEAL CONES. Mince small one pound 
and a half of cold veal, two ounces of butter, 
and a slice of lean ham ; pound them in a 
mortar, and mix, in five table-spoonfuls of 
cream, two tea-spoonfuls of pepper, one of 
salt, and some grated lemon-peel. Make it 
up into cones about three inches high ; rub 
them over with an egg beaten up, sift grated 
bread over them, and fry them of a light 
brown color; put fried bread crumbs into 
the dish, and place the cones upon them, or 
serve them with a brown gravy instead of 
crumbs. Cold fowl, turkey, or rabbit make 
good cones. Half the ingredients will be 
sufficient for a corner dish. 

VEAL, COLD DRESSED. Mince 
finely the fat and lean of cold roast veal, 
season it with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, 
pepper, and salt; moisten it with a little 
rich white stock, and a beaten egg; butter 
a pudding, shape, put in the mince, and 
press it firmly, cover it closely, and set it 
into a pan of boiling water; let it boil an 
hour or two. Serve it with a white gravy 
thickened, or when turned out of the shape, 
rub it over the top with the beaten yolk of 
an egg; sift bread crumbs thickly over, and 
brown it in a Dutch oven; baste it with a 
little melted butter. Garnish with fried 
parsley or cut lemon. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (1) Let your cutlets 
be about half an inch thick; trim them, and 
flatten them with a cleaver; you may fry 
them in fresh butler, or good drippings ; when 
brov/n on one side, turn them and do the 
other; if the fire is very fierce, they must 
change sides oftener. The time they will 
take depends on the thickness of the cutlet 
and the heat of the fire; half an inch thick 
will take about fifteen minutes. Make some 
gravy, by putting the trimmings into a stew- 
pan with a little soft water, an onion, a roll 
of lemon-peel, a blade of mace, a spiig of 
thyme and parsley, and a bay leaf; stew 
over a slow fire an hour, then strain it; put 
an ounce of butter into a stewpan ; as soon 
as it is melted, mix with it as much flour as 
will dry it up, stir it over the fire for a few 
minutes, then add the gravy by degrees till 
it is all mixed, boil it for five minutes, 
and strain it through a tamis sieve, and put 
it to the cutlets; you may add some brown- 
ing, mushroom, or walnut ketchup, or lemon 
pickle, &c.: Or, Cut the veal into pieces 
about as big cis a crown-piece, beal them 



with a cleaver, dip them in eggs beat up 
wilh a little salt, and then in fine bread 
crumbs; fry them a light brown in boiling 
lard ; serve under them some good gravy or 
mushroom sauce, which may be made in five 
minutes. Garnish with slices of ham or 
rashers of bacon, or pork sausages. 

Veal foicemeat or stuffing, pork sausages, 
rashers of bacon, are very relishing- accom- 
paniments, fried and sent up in the form of 
balls or cakes, and laid round as a garnish 

VEAL CUTLETS. (2) Cut a neck of 
veal into cutlets, or take ihem off a leg. 
Season two well-beaten eggs with pounded 
mace, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and finely-chop- 
ped sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, and pars- 
ley ; dip the cutlets into it, sift' over them 
grated bread, and Ay them in clarified butler. 
Serve with a white sauce, forcemeat balls, 
and small mushrooms. Garnish wilh fried 
parsley. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (3) Cut a neck 
of veal into thin cutlets, and beat them; 
brown some butter with an onion and some 
parsley chopped small. Dip the cutlets into 
the butter, and then into finely grated bread, 
seasoned with pepper and salt; broil them 
of a brown color; mince the peel of half an 
orange pared very thin; add it and a grate 
of ginger to some good thickened gravy, and 
pour it hot upon the cutlets. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (4) Cut them off 
a leg, or from the thick part of a loin of 
veal; beat them a little with a rolling-pin, 
and frv them in butter of a liiiht brown. 
Take them out of the jian, pour off the but- 
ter, and strew over them grated bread, sea- 
soned with minced parsley and lemon thyme, 
grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, pepper, and 
salt. Put them into a stewpan, with a piece 
of fresh butter, and let ihem fiy slowly till of 
a good brown. Add a cjuartei' of a pint of 
good gravy, and a small tea-cupful of thick 
cream; let it be made very hot, frecjuently 
shaking the pan. Serve it garnished with 
cut lemon or forcemeat balls, nuishrooms, 
and false eggs. False eggs are made of the 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, which are 
rubbed smooth, and then made up with fresh 
butter into the form of small eggs. 

VEAL CUTLETS, VENITIAN. Cut 

into neat cutlets the best part of a neck of 
veal; trim and flatten them. Chop sepa- 
rately half a pint of mushrooms, a few shal- 
lots, and a little parsley; stew these over a 
slow fire, with a small bit ol' butter and a 
little rasped fat bacon. When done, put in 
the cutlets, and season them well widi pepper 
and salt, and let them stew over a slow fire 
till quite tender; skim off the fat, and a.(k\ 



VEAL 



233 



VEAL 



a ppoonfi',1 of sauce tournee, and tlis yolk? 
of three eggs beaten with a little cream, then 
mix in the juice of a leiiioii, and a little cay- 
enne. 

VEAL, FILLET, STEWED. Bune, 
lard, and stuff a fillet of veal ; half roast, and 
llien stew it with two quarts of white stock, 
a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle and one of 
mushroom ketchup. Befoie serving, strain 
the gravy, thicken it with butter rolled in 
flour, add a little cayenne, salt, and some 
pickled mushrooms ; heat it, and pour it over 
the veal. Have ready two or three dozen of 
forcemeat balls to put round it and upon the 
top. Garnish with cut lemoli. 

VEAL, FLORENTLNE. Take two 
veal kidne\s, and mince them with their 
fat, very small, and mix it with a few cur- 
rants, the yolks of four or five eggs, boiled 
hard, and chopped small, a pippin cut fine, 
some bread crumbs, candied leuion-j)eel, cut 
small, and season with nutmeg, cloves, salt, 
mace, a little mountain wine, and some 
orange-flower water : line the bottom of a 
dish with a nice puff paste, put in the above, 
cover it with puff paste, and set it to bake 
in a slow oven. 

VEAL FORCEMEAT. Of undressed 
lean veal (after you have scraped it cjnite 
fine, and free from skin and sinews), two 
ounces, the same quantity of beef or veal 
suet, and the same of bread crumbs ; chop 
fine two drachms of parsley, one of lemon- 
peel, one of sweet herbs, one of onion, and 
half a drachm of mace, or allspice, beaten to 
fine powder ; pound all together in a mortar ; 
break into it the yolk and white of an egg; 
rub it all up well together, and season it with 
a litde pep|)er and salt. This may be made 
more savory by the addition of cold boiled 
pickled tongue, anchovy, eschalot, cayenne 
or curry powder, &c. 

VEAL,FRICANDEATI. (1) Cut a piece 
of veal from the leg, the same in width and 
depth, and about eight inches in length. 
Make a hole in the under part, and fill it 
with forcemeat ; sew it up, lard the top and 
sides, cover it with slices of fat bacon, and 
then with white paper. Put into a sauce- 
pan some slices of undressed mutton, three 
onions and one carrot sliced, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and a quart of good stock ; put 
in the veal, cover the pan closely, and let it 
etew for three hours. Take out the veal, 
strain the gravy, and take off all the fat; 
add a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and 
three of white wine; boil it quick to a glaze; 
keep the fi icandeau over hot water and cov- 
ered, then glaze it, and serve with die rest 
90* 



of the glaze poured round it, and sorrel sauce, 
in a sauce tureen. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (2) Cut some 
slices of veal, lard them all through, and put 
them into a saucepan with some white stock, 
and a bit of ham, one onion, a little mace 
and pepper. Stew them gently an hour and 
a half; take them out, strain the gravy, and 
take off all the fat; boil it up (juickly, lay in 
the fricandeau, and stew them till the liquor 
becomes like a brown jelly ; take care they 
do not burn. Scald in boiling water three 
handfuls of sorrel, chop it, take out the meat, 
and make the sorrel hot in the sauce, and 
serve the fricandeau upon it. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (3) Chop very 
finely one pound of the lean of a loin of veal, 
and half a p(jund of the kidney fat; season 
it with pepi)er, salt, grated lemon-peel, the 
juice of one lemon, and a finely-shred an- 
chovy. Soak, in boiling milk, two rusks, 
or biscuits, and mix it all well together; 
make it into balls, with a little flour. Fry 
them of a light brown, in butter, then stew 
them in some highly-seasoned gravy, dish 
them carefully, and strain the gravy over 
iheai. Garnish with cut lemon. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (4) Take the 
round or part of the round of a fillet, fry it 
in butter, of a nice brown, with onions cnt 
in slices, and a little garlic, then set it to 
stew in some very rich gravy or cuUis: when 
tender, take it out, thicken the gravy with 
flour, add a little lemon-juice, and serve 
this sauce over the veal. 

VEAL FRITTERS. Cut the remains 
of a tender piece of veal' into small, thin, 
round pieces ; dip these into a good batter, 
and fry them in the usual way, in oil. When 
done, drain, sprinkle salt over, and serve 
them. 

VEAL, HASHED OR MINCED. To 

make a hash cut the meat into slices; — to 
prepare minced veal, mince it as fine as 
possible (do not chop it) ; put it into a stew- 
pan with a few spoonfuls of veal or mutton 
broth, or make some with the bones and 
trimmings, as ordered for veal cutlets, a little 
lemon-peel minced fine, a spoonful of milk or 
cream; thicken with butter and flour, and 
season it with salt, a table-spoonful of lemon 
pickle, or Basil wine, or a pinch of curry 
powder. 

If you have no cream, beat up the yolks 
of a couple of eggs with a little mdk: line 
the dish with sippets of lightly toasted bread. 

Minced veal makes a very pretty dish put 
into scollop shells, and bread crumbed over, 



\t:al 



234 



VEAL 



And sprinkled with a little butter, and brown- 
ed in a Dutch oven, or a cheese-toaster. 

VEAL, KEBOBBED. Cut into thin 
bits the size of ii cr'own-piecn some lean veal ; 
season them with tumeric, pejjper, and salt. 
Slice onions very thinly, and some garlic: 
put the slices of veal and onion upon a skewer, 
together will) thin hits of pickled pork. Fry 
them brown with butter, and garnish with 
plenty of fiied parsley. 

VEAL, KMJCKLE, RAGOUT. Cut 

a knuckle of veal into slices about half an 
inch thick; pepper, salt, and flour them; 
fiy them a light brown; put the trimmings 
into a stewpan, with the bone broke in sev- 
eral places; an onion sliced, a head of cele- 
ry, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two blades 
of biuised mace: pour in warm water enough 
to cover them about an inch ; cover the pot 
close, and let it stew very gently for a couple 
of houis; strain it, and then thicken it with 
flour and butler ; put in a spoonful of ketch- 
up, a glass of wine, and juice of half a lemon ; 
give it a boil up, and strain into a clean 
stew j)an ; put in the meat, make it hot, 
and serve up. 

Obs. — If celery is not to be had, use a 
carrot instead or fla\'or it with celery seed. 

VEAL KNUCKLE, STEWED WITH 
RICE. As boiled knuckle of veal cold is 
not a very favorite relish with the generality, 
cut oflf some steaks from it, which you may 
dress as in the foregoing receipt, and leave 
the knuckle no laiger than will be eaten the 
day it is dressed. Break the shank bone, 
wash it clean, and put it in a large stewpan 
with two quarts of water, an onion, two 
i)lades of mace, and a tea-spoonful of salt: 
set it on a (juick fire; when it boils, take 
off all the scum. Wash^and pick a quarter 
of a pound of rice ; put it into the stewpan 
with the meat, and let it stew very gently 
for about two hours: put the meat, &c. in a 
deep dish, and the rice round it. Send up 
bacon with it, parsnips, or greens, and finely 
minced parsley and butter. 

VEAL, KNUCKLE, SOUP. A knuckle 
of veal of six poimds, weight, will make a 
large tureen of excellent soup, and is thus 
easily prepared: cut half a |)ound of bacon 
into slices about half an inch thick, lay it at 
the bottom of a soup-kettle, or deep stewpan, 
and on this place the knuckle of veal, having 
first cho{)ped the bone in two or three places ; 
furnish it with two carrots, two turnips, a 
head of celery, two laige onions, with two 
or thrt-e cloves stuck in one of them, a dozen 
corns of black, and the satne of Jamaica 
pepper, and a good bundle of lemon thyme, 
winter savory, and parsley. Just cover the 



meat with cold water, and set it over a quick 
file till it boils; having skimmed it well, 
remove your soup-kettle to the side of the 
fire ; let it stew very gently till it is quite 
tender, i. e. about four houis ; then take out 
the bacon and veal, strain the soup, and set 
it by in a cool place till you want it, when 
you must take off the fat from the sui face of 
your litjuor, and decant it (keeping back the 
settlings at the bottom) into a clean pan. 

If you like a thickened soup, put three ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of the fat vou have taken off the 
soup into a small stewpan, and mix it with 
four table-spoonfuls of flour, pour a ladleful 
of soup to it, and mix it with the rest by de- 
grees, and boil it up till it is smooth. 

Cut the meat and gristle of the knuckle 
and the bacon into mouthfuls, and put them 
into the soup, and let them get warm. 

You may make this more savory by ad- 
ding ketchup, &c. Shin of beef may be 
dressed in the same way ; see Knuckle of 
Veal stewed with Rice. 

VEAL LEG IN SURPRISE. Lard 
the veal with slips of bacon, and a little 
lemon-peel cut very thin ; make stuffing the 
same as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it 
half a pint of oysters chopped small, and 
stuff your veal with this, and put it to stew 
with just sufficient water to cover it; let it 
stew very gently till quite tender; then take 
it up ; skim off" the fat from the liquor 
and add some lemon-juice, some mushroom 
ketchup, the crumb (jf a roll grated fine, half 
a pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit 
of butter rolled in flour; let this sauce thick 
en over the fire, and serve it over the veal ; 
garnish the dish with oysters, dipped in 
butter, and fried, and thin slices of toasted 
bacon. 

VEAL, MINCED. Cut thin slices of 
lean cold veal ; mince them very finely with 
a knife, and season with pepper, salt, grated 
lemon-peel and nutmeg; put it into a sauce- 
pan, with a little v\hite stock or water, a 
table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and a little 
mushroom powder. Simmer, but do not let 
it boil ; add a bit of butter rolled in flour, 
and a little milk or cream; put all round 
the dish thin sippets of bread cut into a 
three-cornered shape; or cover the mince 
thickly with grated bread, seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and a little butter, and brown 
it with a salamander; or serve with poached 
eggs laid upon tlie top. 

VEAL OLIVES. Cut thin slices oflf a 
fillet, -.umI flatten them with a roller; season 
them liighly with pepper, mace, salt, and 
grated lemon-peel ; put a bit of fat into each 
roll, and tie diem with a thread. Fry them 
of a liglit hinvvn, and stew them in some 



VEAL 



235 



VEAL 



white stock with two dozen of fried oysters, 
q glass of wliite wine, a table-spoonful of 
leinon pickle and some small nrnslii'ooms. 
Stew them nearly an hour; take off the 
threads before ser\ inij. 

Beef olives may be dressed in the same 
way. 

VEAL PATTIES. Mince some under- 
done veal with a little parsley, one or two 
fage leaves, a very little onion; season with 
grated lemon-peel, nntmeg, pepper, and salt; 
add some grated lean ham or tongue, moisten 
it with some good gravy, heat it up, and put 
it into the patties. 

VEAL AND HAM PATTIES. Chop 
about six ounces of ready-dressed lean veal, 
and three ounces of ham very small ; put it 
into a stewpau with an ounce of butter roll- 
ed into flour, half a gill of cream ; half a 
gill of veal stock ; a little grated nutmeg and 
lemon-peel, some cayenne pepper and salt, a 
spoonful of essence of ham and lemon-juice, 
and stir it over the fire sometime, taking 
care it does not burn. 

VEAL AND HAM PIE. Take two 
pounds of veal cutlels, cut them in middling- 
sized pieces, season with pepper and a very 
little salt ; likewise one of raw or dressed 
ham cut in slices, lay it alternately in the 
dish, and put some forced or sausage meat 
at the top, with some stewed button mush- 
rooms, and ^he yolks of three eggs boiled 
hard, and a gill of water] then proceed as 
with rump-steak pie. 

N. B. — The best end of a neck is the fine 
part iijr a pie, cut into chops, and the chine 
bone taken away. 

VEAL PIE. (1) Cut a neck of veal into 
neat steaks, season them well with white 
pepper, salt, mace, and grated nutmeg mix- 
ed; pack them closely into a dish, and put 
in half a pint of white stock ; five hard-boil- 
ed yolks of eggs may be added ; put puft' 
paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with 
the same. Lambs' tails may be made into a 
pie, with lamb chops seasoned in the same 
manner as the above. 

VEAL PIE. (2) Cut into steaks a 
loin or breast of veal, season them highly 
with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, mace, and 
a little lemon-peel mixed; lay them into 
the bottom of a dish, and then a few slices 
of sweetbreads seasoned with the spices ; 
add some oysters, forcemeat balls, and hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs, half a pint of white 
stock, a glass of white wine, and a table- 
b-poonful of lemon pickle ; put puft" paste on 
the edge of the dish, and cover with the 
same; bake it for one hour. 



VEAL PIE. (3) Chop, but not very 
small, the meat of a cold loin of veal, season 
it with n)inced parsley, pepper, salt, grated 
lemon-peel, and nutmeg; add rather more 
than half a pint of stock made with the 
bones, thickened with a bit of butter rolled 
in flour, and seasoned with a tea-spoonful 
of lemon pickle, and a table-spoonful of 
white w ine ; make a paste of the fat of the 
loin, and an equal quantity of flour, rub it 
together, and mix with it a little cold water, 
roll it out two or three times, line the sides 
of the dish, put in the meat, and cover it. 

VEAL PIE, SOLID. Stew in veal 
stock, till it be perfectly tender and like a 
jelly, a piece of a knuckle of veal, with the 
gristles adhering to it; let it cool, and then 
pull the meat and gristles into small bits; 
butter a pie dish or shape, and lay at regular 
distances some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 
and some of the white part cut into rings 
or strips; then put over some bits of the 
meat and gristle, and strew over it some 
pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg mixed, and 
a little of the gra\y, and then more eggs, 
with small bits of beet root, green pickles, 
and the red part of a carrot cut to fancy; 
add more meat seasoning, and all the gravy; 
when the shape is full, pot it into an oven 
for twenty minutes, and when quite cold 
turn it out. If rightly done, it will have a 
glazed appearance, and the variety of col- 
ors look well by candle light. 

VEAL, POTTED. Cut slices off a leg 
of veal, and season diem with pepper, pound- 
ed mace, cloves, and salt. Lay thin slices 
of fresh butter between each layer of meat 
into a potting pan or jar; cover it closely, 
and bake it with bread. When it is cold, 
pound the meat in a marble mortar, pack it 
closely into a jar, and pour clarified butter 
over it. 

VEAL, COLD, AN EXCELLENT 
RAGOUT. Either a neck, loin, or fillet of 
veal, will furnish this excellent ragout with 
a very little expense or trouble. 

Cut the veal into handsome cutlets ; put 
a piece of butter or clean dripping into a 
frying-pan ; as soon as it is hot, flour and 
fry the veal of a light brown: take it out, 
and if you have no gravy ready, make some 
as directed under sauces, or put a pial of 
boiling water into the frying-pan, give it a 
boil up for a minute, and strain it into a 
basin while you make some thickening in 
the fjllowing manner: put about an ounce 
of butter into a stewpan; as soon as it melts, 
mix with it as much flour as will dry it upj 
stir it over the fire for a few minutes, and 
gradually add to it the gravy you made in 
the frying-pan; let them simmer together 



VEAL 



236 



VEG 



for ten minutes (till thoroughly incorjmrat- 
ed) ; season it with pejjper, salt, a little 
mace, and a wine-glassful of mushroom 
ketchup or wine; strain it through a tainis 
to the meat, and stew very gently till the 
meat is thoroughly warmed. If yon have 
Jiny ready-boileJ bacon, cut it in slices, and 
I lit it in to warm with the meat. 

A EAL ROLL. Bone a small breast of 
ve il, and spread over it a rich and highly- 
seasoned forcemeat. Cut four hard-boiled 
eggs the long way into four pieces, and lay 
the:n in rows, with green pickles between 
each row. RM 'up the veal tightly, and 
•ew it; then put it into a cloth, and bind it 
with tape. Lay a slice of ham over it, and 
put it into a saucepan, together with some 
strong stock, and a little whole pepper, and 
stew it fi ir three houis. jMake a rich gra- 
vy, and boil it up with a little white wine 
and lemon-juice or lemon-pickle; poar it 
o\ er the veal ; add some egg and forcemeat 
halls, and garnish with cut green pickles. 
Tin- dish is very good when cold. 

VEAL SAUSAGES. Take equal quan- 
tities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful 
of sage, and a few anchovies. Beat all in 
a mortar, and season well with pe|)per and 
salt ; when wanted for use, roll and fry it, 
and serve either with fried sippets, or on 
slewed vegetables, or while collops. 

VEAL SEMELLES. Cut part of a 
fillet of veal into slices an inch thick, season 
them with salt and pepper, and gi' - them a 
few turns in a little butter, with a bay leaf. 
Lay at the bottom of a deep saucepan a very 
thin slice of bacon, and on il one of the 
slices of veal, and continue to lay them in 
alternately, until the whole are used, then 
add a glass of water and some bay leaves; 
close the saucepan very tight, first putting 
a sheet of paper over the meat ; stew it on 
hot ashes for four or five hours; take care 
to keep the fire up to tlie same point all the 
time 

VEAL STOCK. Cut a leg of veal and 
some lean ham into pieces, put them into 
a saucepan, with a quart of water, some 
carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celery; 
stew them down till nearly done, but do not 
\e1f0t color; then add a sufficient quantity 
of beef stock to cover the ingredients, and 
let it boil for an hour; skim otT all the fat, 
and strain it ; a little game slewed down 
■with the above will greatly improve the fla- 
vor; be particularly careful that il does not 
burn. 

VEAL SWEETBREADS ROASTED. 
Trim off llie tough part, and blanch for Uiree 



minutes in a stewpan of water, with a little 
salt, three heart sweetbreads, then take them 
out, and put them into a basin of cold water 
till cool; have an egg beat up in a dish, some 
bread ciumbs, and claiitied butter, lun a 
skewer through the sweetbreads, and fasten 
them on the spit ; egg them all over, shake 
some bread crumbs over, then sprinkle clari- 
fied butter over, and then bread crumba 
again; put them down to roast again for a 
quarter of an hour, then lake them off the 
skewer, and serve them on a dish over a little 
butter sauce, mixed with a spoonful of gravy, 
a small bit of glaze, and a squeeze of lemon- 
juice; let it be hot, but not boiling, and 
tlxjionghly well mixed before it is served 
under the sweetbreads. 

VEGETABLES. There is nothing in 
which the difference between an elegant and 
an ordinary tal)le is more seen than in the 
dressing of vegetables, more es|)ecially greens. 
They may be etn'.ally as fine at first, at one 
place as at anothei"; but their locjk and 
taste are afterward ver\- diffeient, entirely 
from the careless way in which they have 
been cooked. 

They are in greatest perfection when in 
greatest plenty, i. e. when in full season. 

By season, I do not mean those early days, 
that luxury in the buyers, and avarice in the 
sellers, force the vegetables; but that time 
of the year in which by nature and common 
culture, and the mere operation of the sun 
and climate, they are in most plenty and 
perfection. 

As to the cjuality of vegetables, the middle 
size are preferred to the largest or the small- 
est ; they are more tender, juicy, and full 
of flavor, just before they are quite fiill-grown. 
Freshness is their chief value and excellence, 
and I should as soon think of roasting an 
animal alive, as of boiling a vegetable after 
it is dead. 

The eye easily discovers if they have been 
kept too long; they soon lose their beauty in 
all respects. 

Roots, greens, salads, &c. and the various 
productions of the garden, when first gather- 
ed, are plump and firm, and have a flagrant 
freshness no ait can give them again, wi en 
thev have lost it by long keeping ; though it 
will refresh them a little to put them into 
cold sj)ring water for sometime before tliey 
are dressed. 

To boil them in soft water will presene 
the color best of such as are green ; if you 
have onlv hard water, put to it a tea-spoon- 
ful uf carbonate of potash. 

Take caie to wash and cleanse diena 
thoroughly from dust, dirt, and insects: this 
recjuires great attention. Pick oft' all the 
outside leaves, trim them nicely, and, if not 
(juite flesh gathered and have become flaccid. 



VE G 



237 



VEG 



it is absolutely necessary to restore their 
cri?pness Ijefore cooi\iiig tiiem, or they will 
he toiigli and unpleasant: lay them in a pan 
of clean water, with a handfnl of salt in it, 
fur an lionr hefure you dress them. 

They should always be boiled in a sauce- 
pan by lliemselves, and have [)icnty of water; 
if meat is b(jiled with them in the same pot, 
they will spoil the look and taste of each other. 

If you wish to have vegetables delicately 
clean, put on your |X)t, make it boil, put a 
little salt in it, and skim it perfectly clean 
bef>re you put in the greens, &;c. ; which 
should not be put in till the water boils brisk- 
ly: the (juicker they boil, the greener they 
will be. Wiien the vegetables sink, they are 
generally done enough, if the water has been 
kept constantly boiling. Take them up im- 
mediately, or they will lose their color and 
goodness. Drain the water from them 
thoroughly before you send them to table. 

This branch of cookery requires the most 
vigilant attention. 

If vegetables are a minute oi' two too long 
over the fire, they lose all their beauty and 
flavor. 

If not thoroughly boiled tender, they are 
tremendously indigestible, and much more 
troublesome during their residence in the 
stuinach, than under-done meats. 

Once fur all, take care vour vegetables 
are fresh: for as the fishmonger often suffers 
for the sins of the cook, so the cook often 
gets undeservedly blamed instead of the 
green-grocer. 

Strong-scented vegetables should be kept 
apart; leeks, or celery, laid among cauli- 
flowers, &c. will quickly spoil them. 

Succulent vegetables are best preserved in 
a cool, shady, and damp place. 

Potatoes, turnips, carrots, and similar 
roots, intended to be stored up, should never 
be cleaned from the eardi adhering to ihein, 
till they are to be dressed. 

They must be protected from the action 
of the air and frost, by laving them in heaps, 
burying them in sand or earth, &c., or cov- 
ering them with straw or mats. 

When vegetables are quite fresh gathered, 
they will not require so much boiling, by at 
least a third of the time, as when they ha\e 
been gathered tht> usual time of those that 
are brought to public markets. 

Vegetables are always best v\hen newly 
gathered, and should be brought in from the 
garden early in the morning; they uill then 
have a liagrant freshness, which they lose by 
keeping. 

They must be cleaned with the greatest 
care, the outside leaves of every descri|itiun 
of greens removed, and thev, and all utlier 
vegetables, mure particulaily when not re- 
cently gathered, sliould be laid for several 
hours iu cold water, and well shaken to 



throw out the insects. A tea-spoonful of 
salt should always be put into the water in 
which they are to l)e boiled, and if it is hard, 
a tea-spoonful of salt of tartar, or potash, 
may be added to preserve the green color of 
the vegetables. 

All vegetables should be boiled quick Iv, 
and, with the exception of spinach, in an 
open vessel, skimming them carefully. 

Kitchen greens should be kept in a cool 
and shady place. Potatoes, carrots, tnrnips, 
and beet root should be stored up, without 
being cleaned from the earth alhering to 
them, in layers of sand, or laid in heaps, and 
covered w ith earth and straw. Parsnips and 
skirrets not being injured by frost, ar-e gen- 
erally left in the grouufi, anti taken up as 
wanted. Onions are stored in a warm, dry 
place, never in a cellar; they are sometimes 
strung in bunches, and suspended from the 
roof, and, more effectually to prevent their 
growing, some people select the finest bulbs, 
and singe the roots with a hot iron. 

Herbs of all sorts should be gathered when 
in flower, ami on a dry d:iy, and being well 
cleaned from dust and diit, they are tied up 
in small bunches, and dried before the fire in 
a Dutch oven. They may then be kept in 
paper bags labelled; or rubbed to a powder, 
sifted, and put into bottles. 

VEGETABLE ESSENCES. The fla- 
vor of the various sweet and savory herbs 
may be obtained by combining their essen- 
tial oils with rectified spirit of wine, in the 
proportion of one drachm of the former to 
two ounces of the latter, or by picking the 
leaves, and la\ing them for a couple of 
hours in a warm [)lace to dry, and tlien fill- 
ing a laige-mouthed bottle with them, and 
pouring on them wine, brandy, proof spirit, 
or vinegar, and letting them steep for four- 
teen days. 

VEGETABLE MARROW, Is fit f;)r 
use when about the size of a turkev's ^'g'i^. 
After being washed clean, it is put on in 
boiling water, with a little salt, and when 
tender, it is drained from the water, cut into 
half, and served on toasted bread, over 
which some melted butter has been poured. 
Or, after being boiled in milk and water, 
they may be fricasseed as Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, or stewed like cucumbers. 

VEGETABLES STEW. Pick and 
wash very clean as much spinach as will 
make a dish; mince finely three small on- 
ions, pick and chnp two handfuls of parsley ; 
put all into a saucepan, with rather more 
than half a pint of gravy, a bit of butter 
dusted witii tluur, a little salt and pepper. 
Co\er the pan closely, stir it now and then, 
and when the spinach is tender, mash it 



VE>" 



23S 



VE>' 



BiDooth, serve it with slices of broiled ham. ' 
or with sausages. 

^'ELOITE. Take the cnttings and re- 
mains of any joints of real and fowl }-ou 
may hare in the hoiBe, of which take four 
pounds, and fxit into a large stewpan, with 
soiTie carrots, onions, parsley, scallions, 
three bay-leares, three cloves, and a ladle- 
fiil of stock ; put your stewpan on a ikare 
fire, skim it vreW. and take care that the 
meat does nc>t stick; when sufficiently re- 
duced, add as much stock as will nearly fill 
the stewpan, sah it well ; give it a boil, 
skim it, and then put it on the side of the 
fire to simmer for two hours; after which 
strain it through a tammy. Make a white 
roux, stir into it for ten miiiuies a rew 
champignons, then pour on it, a little at a 
time, the above liquor; let it boil up once, 
skim it, and set it again by die side of the 
lire for an hour and a half: take off all the 
fat, strain it again, and then ixit it by for 
tise. Take care that the telouie is not in 
the least colored, as, the whiter it is the 
better. 

MENISON . The choice of venison 
sbould be regulated bv- the appearance of 
the fet, which, when the vaiison is young, 
looks thick, clear, and close ; as it begins 
to change first to«-ards the haunches, run a 
knite into that p-art; if tainted you will 
perceive a rank smell, and it will have a 
green or blackish apqiearance. 

If you wish to preserve it, you may by 
careftil management ai>d watching, keep it 
for a fortnight by the following method: wash 
it well with milk and water ven." clean, and 
dry it perfectlv with cloths until thei"e is not 
the least damp remaining, then dust pound- 
ed ginger over every part ; this is a good 
preventive against the dy. When to be 
dressed, wash it with a little luke\varm 
water, and dry it. Pepper should also be 
added to keep iu 

VE.MSOX COLLOP5. These are 
dressed in the same mani»er as mince col- 
I<:>p5 of beef, only that, in place of the sea- 
soning of the collops of beef, they liave a 
little pepper, salt, and some Port wine. 

AXMSOX, HASHED. (1) It" you have 
enough of its own gravv left, it is preferable 
to any to warm it up in: if not, take some 
of t]»e mutton gi^vy, or the bones and trim- 
mings of the joint (after you have cut off all 
the handsome slices j-ou can to make the 
hash) ; pot tliese into some w-aier, and stew 
them gently fur an hour ; dien put some but- 
ter into a stewpan; wlien melted, put to it 
as much dour as will diy up the butter, and 
etir it well together; add to it by degrees 



the gravy yon have been making of the trim- 
mings. Bind some red currant jelK- ; give it a 
boil up; skimii; strain it thnxigh a sieve, 
and it is ready to receive tlie venison: pui it 
in, ai>d let it just get warm: if v-ou let it 
boil, it will make the meat bard. 

^T:MS0N, hashed. (2) Warm it 
in its own ginvv : if diere is ix) fat left, take 
some slices of mutton fat, set it on il)e fire 
with a little Port wine and sugar, and let it 
simmer till dr>,- ; then add it to the hash. 

VEMSOX, hashed. (3) Take some 
anchovies, boil them till tbev are dissolvtd, 
then add some oysters with their liquoi", a 
little milk, some red wine, and a little ketch- 
up: put in your venison, let it warm in this, 
but do not let it boil, and serve it with fried 
sippets, and the sauce kc. over it. 

VEMSON, MOCK. Hang up, for 
several days, a large fat loin of mutton; dien 
bone it, and take off all xire kidney fat, and 
die skin fnom the upper fat ; mix togetljer 
two ounces of brown sugai". and one ounce 
of ground black pepp)er. Rub it well into 
the mutton ; pom- over it two or thj'ee wine- 
glasses of Port wine: keep it covered with 
the skin; rub and turn it daily for five davs. 
When to be roasted, cover it with tlie skin, 
and paper it tlie same way as venison is 
done. Ser\e it with made gravy, and the 
same sauces as for venison. 

VEMSOX PASTY. (1) Cut a neck or 
breast into small steaks, rub diem over with 
a seasoning of sweet herbs, gi-ated nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt: fiy d>em slightly in butter; 
line the sides and edges of a dish with puff 
paste, lay in die speaks, and add half a pint 
of rich gravy made with the trimmings of 
the vejiison; add a glass of Port wine, and 
the juice of hall" a k^non, or tea-spoonful of 
vinegar; covei' ti^e dish with pufl paste, and 
Imke it neaily two hours ; some moi-e gravy 
mav be poured into the pie before seiTing it. 

^TiMSON PASTY. (2) Take a neck, 
shoulder, or breast of venisc^n, that has not 
hung too long; bone them, trim off all Uie 
skin, and cut it into pieces two inches square, 
and put them into a stewpan, with three 
gills of Port wine, two onions, or a few 
eschalots sliced; some pepper, salt, thi^ee 
bbdes of mace, about a dozen allspice, and 
enough veal broth to cover it; put it over a 
slow fire, and let it stew till thiee parts done ; 
put the uinimings into aiiotber saucepan, 
cover it with water, and set it on a fire. 
Take out il»e pieces you intend for the pasty, 
and put d»em into a deep dish with a little 
of their liquor, and set it by to cool; then 
add the remainder of the liquor to the bones 



VER 



239 



V [ N 



and trimmings, and boil it till the pasty is ' 
ready; tlien cover tlie pasty with paste, orna- 
ment ihe top, and Ijake it tor two hours in a 
slow oven; and before it is sent to tal)le, 
pour 'in a sauce made with the gtavy the 
venison was stewed in, strained and .-kiniaied 
free from fat; some pepper, salt, half a gill 
of Port, the jnice of Iitdf a lemon, and a little 
tiour and Uitter to tliicken it. 

VENTSON PIE OR PASTY. All 

kinds of meat intended for pies and pasties 
must be highly spiced when served hot, and 
still more highly spiced when served cold; 
but the seasoning mnst be regulated by judg- 
ment and taste. Take one or two breasts 
of venison, (according to the size you wish 
to make your pie or pasty), bone it thoiough- 
ly, beat it very flat, and lard it through and 
through with lardons, well seasoned with all 
sorts (if spices, and sweet herijs finely chop- 
ped; ndl it up as tight as possible, and tie 
it up \\ ith strong twine. Put into a stewpan 
the bones and trimmings of the venison, with 
carrots, onions, parsley, one clove of garlic, 
thyme, bay-leaf, pepper-corns, and allspice, 
and let all stew till nearly dry ; fill it up with 
equal quantities of beef or mutton braise, and 
water, which let boil very gently till done, 
then put in the roll of venison; put paper on 
the top, cover very close, and let it stew 
gently with fire over and under. When 
sufficiently done, take it oft' the fire, and let 
it stand in the liquor until nearly cold : then 
prepare a plain paste of four pounds of flour to 
one pound of butter, the same as for raised 
pie, but instead of making it stiff, mix it as 
soft as possible; lay part of this paste as 
thick as you well can round the edge of the 
dish; cut off the twine from the venison, 
skin, and lay it in the dish, and pour some 
of the gravy it has stewed in; put on the 
cover, trim it very neatly, make a hole in 
the top, do it over with egg, and bake it in 
a moderate oven for thiee or four hours ; 
reduce the remainder of the liquor it was 
stewed in, and when the pie is baked, pour 
it in; serve it cold. The pasty can scarcely 
be made too thick. 

VER:\IICELLI, queen's Blanch 
aljout a (|uarter of a pound of vermicelli in 
bo'Jing water, drain it, and throw it into 
some rich well-seasoned stock ; when tender, 
take it out of the soup, and put it into the 
tureen; tiiicken the soup widi eight well- 
beaten eggs, mixed witii half a pint of cream, 
and pour it, when quite hi»t, upon the ver- 
n)icel!i. 

VERMICELLI IN 3nLK. Boil the 
quantity of milk you may require, and put 
into it half a pound of vermiceUi peeled, and 
a sufficient quantity of sugar ; stii' it frequent- 



ly that the verniicelli may not fonn a paste 
half an hour will be long enough to boil it 
A little almond milk isiay Ije added whes 
ready for table. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING. (1) Boil 
a quarter of a pound of vermicelli with a 
little cinnamon, in a Cjuart of milk ; in the 
meantime mix a (]uarte)" of a pound «jf ii;e!t- 
ed butter with a pint of cream, anil the yolks 
of fi)ur eggs; pour in the vermicelli when 
quite soft; add a little flour and beef mar- 
row, and powder sugar to the taste ; beat all 
up for half an hour, tie it in a floured cloth, 
and boil it. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING. (2) Boil 
four ounces of vermicelli in a pint of new 
milk, until quite tender, with a stick or two 
of cinnamon. Then add half a pint of thick 
cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, and the yolks 
of four eggs, thorongldv beaten; lay the 
above in a dish and bake. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. Take as much 
good stock as you require for your tureen, 
strain, and set it on the fire, and when it 
boils, put in the vermicelli, and let it simmer 
for half an hour by a slow fire, that the Ver- 
micelli may not burst; the soup ought not to 
be very thick. Half a pound is sufficient 
for eight or ten persons. 

VINEGAR. This is an acid liquor, pre- 
pared by a second fermentation from various 
liquors, such as wine, cider, perry, beer, 
mead, skimmed milk, &c. But the most 
common method of making it, in England, 
is from malt, and the process is as follows: — 
infuse a (|uantity of malt in hot water fur an 
hour and a half, then pour it into a cooler. 
As soon as the infusion is sufficiently cold, 
put it into -deep tuns, add yeast to it, and 
leave it to ferment for four or fix e days ; after 
which put the liquor into barrels, in a room 
heated u ith stoves, so that a moderate warmth 
m;iy be kept up for six weeks, and the fer- 
mentation ccjntinue regularly. By the end 
of that time the vviiole will be completely 
soured, and mnst now be changed into other 
barrels; lay a tile on the bung-holes to keep 
out the wet, but not so close as to prevent a 
free circulation of air, and then place them 
in ihe open air for four or fi\e montlis, ac- 
cording as the weather is warm or otheiwise ; 
during die whole of this period, die fermenta- 
tion proceeds, and at tlie end, the vinegar is 
nearly done. The next operation is this: the 
vinpifar is poured into large vessels, called 
ra):etuns, to which tliet e are false bottoms cov- 
ereii wiUi rape, tiiat is, the refuse of raisins^ 
or other fruit, f'om which wine has beeo 
made; fill one of these tuns entiiely with 



VIN 



240 



VIN 



the vinegar, and another about three-fourths 
full, and every day take a poilion of the 
liquor out of the fullest barrel, and put it into 
the other, until, the vinegar is in a fit state to 
be drawn oft"; when it must be closely l^ar- 
relied. 

Vinen^ar may also be made in much sm;iller 
quantities for domestic puiposcs ; the mate- 
rials of various kinds, with the addition of 
sugar; )-aisins, currants, and ripe goose- 
berries, however, are die principal; some- 
times it is made from brown sugar, and wa- 
ter alone. J'he proportions are the same as 
those necessary for strong wine; make the 
barrel about ihree-fourdis full, add a toast 
covered vvidi yeast, put in the bung very 
loosely, and plac-e the barrel where it will 
be exposed to the sun, or, if it be winter, 
near the fire. The fermentation siiould be 
moderate and constant till the vinegar is 
complete; then draw it off clear, give it a 
boil, and when quite cold, strain and bottle 
it. 

Vinegar is obtained from wine, by mixing 
with the latter its own flowers, or ferment, 
and its tartar reduced to powder, and put 
into a vinegar or any other cask ; if tlie 
latter, it must I)e placed in a warm situation, 
full of tiie steam from vinegar; in either case 
the liquor should be stirred frequently; the 
second fermentation will speedily commence; 
it will become heated, and turn acid by de- 
grees, and in a short time the vinegar will 
be produced. 

It is commonly supposed that wine which 
has become acid, will produce excellent vin- 
egar; this, however, is a mistaken idea, fir 
the stronger and better the quality of the 
wine, the stronger and belter will be the 
vinegar. 

The French have several methods of mak- 
ing vinegar, which are subjoined. 

The vinegar makers of Orleans pour the 
wine, of which they intend to make their 
vinegar, into casks, at the bottoms of which 
are close gratings of lime twigs; these ser\e 
to clarify the wine, as the lees adhering to 
the twigs, leave the liquor peifectiy clear. 
They then procure a number of casks, each 
containing a hundred "■aiions, either new or 
which have pieviously contained vinegar; 
lliese are set uj)right, and in the top of every 
one is bored a hole, two inches in diameter, 
these are kept constantly open: the last men- 
tioned casks are called Mothers; pour into 
all of them twenty-five gallons of boiling 
vinegar; to this, in a week's time, add 
three gallons of wine, drawn from the first 
HMintioned casks ; continue to add the wine, 
at intervals of a week, until the Mothers 
are ([uite full; tiien leave them for a Cirtnight, 
and at the end ot" which period they generally 
draw off" the vinegar, taking care always to 
leave the Mothers half full, at least, and 



dien to fill diem with wine as before. Tlie 
method of proving when the vinegar is fit for 
use, is, by plunging a stave into it; if on 
taking it out, a white line is perceptible on 
the end of it, the vinegar is quite ready. 
The place where the casks are kept should 
be very airy, and in the winter lime, by 
means of stoves the temperature should be 
raised to eighteen degrees of Reaumur. 

Paris vinegar varies from the above, tind 
the process is veiy simple. A large quantity 
of wine lees is put into coarse sacks, and 
laid in tubs, which are placed one upon an- 
other to form a kind of press; by means of 
a screw, every drop of wine is gradually 
scjueezed from the lees; this operation cannot 
be performed in less time than a week. The 
wine thus extracted is put into casks; in 
the headings a hole is made, as above, which 
holes are left constantly open ; in summer 
time the casks so filled are placed in die sun, 
and, generally speaking, the vinegar is fit 



for use in a firtnight. 



In the winter, the 



fermentation will last double the time, and 
must be assisted by artificial warmth. It 
sometimes hajipens diat the liquor heats to 
so gi'eat a degree that the hand cannot be 
borne in it; in this case, the progress of 
the fermentation must be checked by adding 
more wine, until it proceeds more regularly. 
When the vinegar is made, put it into casks, 
which have the beech twigs at the bottom, 
as above mentioned; let it lemaln a fort- 
night, by which time it will be sufficiently 
fermented to draw oft" into the casks for 
keeping it. 

Another very simple method is also prac- 
ticed in France ; a few quarts are drawn 
fi'om a barrel of excellent vinegar, and an 
equal quantity of very clear white wine is 
put into the barrel, close the bung lightly, 
and keep it in a place where the heat is 
moderate and regular. In a month's time 
draw oft' the same quantity as above, and 
pour in an ecjual portion of white wine. A 
barrel of good vinegar will thus afl"(jrd a 
constant supply for a length of time without 
leaving die slightest deposit. 

A cask which has not contained vinegar 
befoi'e, should have a quart of boiling hot 
I vinegar poured into It, shaken till cold, and 
allowed to stand for some hours. 

VINEGAR, BASIL. Sweet basil is in 
full perfection about the middle of August. 
Fill a wide-moudied bottle with the fresh 
green leaves of basil (these give much finer 
and more flavor than the dried,) and cover 
them with vinegar, or wine, and let them 
steep for ten days: If yon wish a very strong 
essence, strain the licjuor, put it on ^sonie 
fiesh leaves, and let them steep fourteen days 
more. 

06s. — This is a vei") agreeable addition 



VIN 



241 



VIJS 



to sauces, soups, and to the mixture usually 
made for salads. 

It is a secret the makers of mock turtle 
may tliaiik us fur telling; a table-spoonfiil 
put in when the soup is iinished will iinpieg- 
nate a tureen of soup with the basil and acid 
flavors, at very small cost, when fresh basil 
and lemons are extravagantly dear. 

The flavor of the other sweet and savoi y 
herbs, celery, &c. may be procured, and pre- 
served in ihe same manner by infusing them 
in wine or vinegar. 

VINEGAR, AMERICAN. Boil six 

gallons of water, and add, while it is hot, 
four quarts of molasses; put it into a tub to 
cool; when milkwarm, stir in a pint of 
fresh yeast; put it into the cask, and set it 
by the fire lb r twenty-f)ur hours; then put 
it in the sun, with a bottle in the bung-hole. 
Bottle it dnee months aiterwards. 

VINEGAR, BURNET OR CUCUM- 
BER. This is made in precisely the same 
manner as directed above. The flavor of 
burnet lesembles cucuml)er so exactly, that 
when infused in vinegar, the nicest palate 
would pronounce it to be cucumber. This 
is a very favorite relish with cold meat, sal- 
ads, &c. 

VINEGAR, CAMP. Cayenne pepper, 
one draclun, ayoirdupois weight. Soy, two 
table-spoonfuls. AValnut ketchup, four ditto. 
Six anchovies chopped. A small clove of 
garlic, minced fine. Steep all for a month 
in a pint of the best vinegar, frequently shak- 
ing the bottle: strain through a tamis, and 
keep it in small bottles, corked as tightly as 
possible. 

VINEGAR, CHILI. Tliis is commonly 
made with the foreign bird pepper; but j'ou 
will obtain a much finer fiavm- from infusing 
fifty fresh red English Chilies (cut in half, or 
pounded) in a pint of the best vinegar for a 
fortnight, or a quarter of an ounce of cayenne 
pepper. Many people cannot eat fish with- 
out the addition of an acid and cayenne 
pepper: to such palates this will be an 
agreeable relish 

VINEGAR, CRESS. Dry and pound 
half an ounce of cress-seed (such as is sown 
in the garden with mustard,) pour upon it a 
quart of (he I est vinegar, let it steep ten 
days, shaking it,up every day. This is very 
strongly flavored with cress; and for salads 
and cold meats, &c. it is a great favorite 
w ith many. 

Celery vinegar is made in the same 
raannei". 

VINEGAR, ELDER FLOWER AND 
21 



TARRAGON. Fill a quart bottle with 
the floweis of elder, or the leaves of tarragon, 
when it is in flower; pour vinegar upon 
t^em, and let them infuse for a fortnight; 
then strain it through a flannel bag, and put 
it into small bottles. By the same means, 
vinegai- may be flavored with the fresh gath- 
ered leaves of any sweet herb. 

VINEGAR, GARLIC. Cut small one 
ounce and a half of garlic, bruise one nutmeg 
and three cloves, steep them -in a quart of 
vinegar for a week, shaking it daily; then 
strain and bottle it. Shallot vinegar is made 
in the same manner. 

VINEGAR, GOOSEBERRY. Gather 
yellow g(josebenies when quite ripe, crush 
and mash them well in a tub with a large 
wooden pestle ; to every two gallons of 
goosebenies, after being mashed, put two of 
water; mix them well together; let it work 
for three weeks, stirring the mass two or 
three times each day; then strain die liquor 
through a hair sieve, and put t<j every gallon 
one pound of brown sugar, one pound of 
treacle, and a table-spoonful of fiesh yeast; 
let it work for three or four days in the same 
tub, which has been well washed; then run 
it into iron-hooped casks. Let it stand 
twelve months, and bottle it for use. This 
is a very strong vinegar. 

VINEGAR, HONEY. Half a pound 
of honey must be put to a pint of wa- 
ter, and the honey well dissolved. This 
mixture is then exjjosed to the greatest heat 
of the sun, without closing wholly the bung- 
i hole of the cask, which must be merely cover- 
ed with coarse linen, to prevent the admission 
of insects. In about six weeks, the liquor 
becomes acid, and changes to a very strong 
vinegar, and of excellent quality. 

VINEGAR, HORSERADISH. Horse- 
radish is in highest perfection about Novem- 
ber. Pour a quart of best vinegar on three ' 
ounces of scraped horseradish, an ounce of 
minced eschalot, and one drachm of cay- 
enne; let it stand a week, and you will have 
an excellent relish for cold beef, salads, &c. 
costing scarcely any thing. A portion of 
black pepper and mustard, celery or cress- 
seed, may be added to the above. 

VINEGAR, RASPBERRY. The best 
way to make this, is to pour three pints of 
the best white wine vinegar on a pint and a 
half of fresh-gathered led raspl merries in a 
stone jar, or china bowl (neither glazed 
earthenware, nor any metallic vessel, must 
be used ; ) the next day strain die liquor over 
a like qiantity of fresh rasplierries; and the 
day following do tlie same. Then draiu oflf 



VOL 



242 



WAF 



Jie liquor without pressing, and pass it 
through a jelly-bag (previously Vv'etted with 
plain vinegar) into a stone jar, with a pound 
of |X)nnded lump sugar U) each pint. When 
the sugar is dissolved, stir it up, cover down 
the jar, and set it in a saucepan of water, 
and keep hoiling for an hour, taking olT the 
scum; add to each pint a glass of brandy, 
and bottle it: mixed in about eight parts of 
water, it is a veiy refreshing and delightful 
summer drink. An excellent cooling bever- 
age to assuage thirst in ardent fevers, colds, 
and inflamuiatory complaints, &c. and is 
agreeable to most palates, 

VINEGAR FOR SALADS. Take of 
tarragon, savory, chives, eschalots, three 
ounces each; a handfil of the tops of mint 
ami balm, all dry and pounded; put into a 
wide-mouthed bottle, with a gallon of best 
vinegar; cork it close, set it in the sun, and 
in a fortnight strain off, and squeeze the 
lierbs ; let it stand a day to settle, and then 
strain it throush a filtering ba<j. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (1) Cut some cold 
turkey or veal into small thin slices, season 
it with dried lemon-peel grated, pepper, 
pounded mace, and salt; add one anchovy, 
some garlic and onion pounded, also a little 
good gravy, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, 
one of white wine, and an ounce of butter 
rolled in flour; then make it (juite hot, but 
do not allow it to boil, and serve it in die 
prepared vol-au-vent. The gravy may be 
made with the bones, or a little cream, and 
the btiaten yolk of an egg may be substituted 
for the cream. \ 

VOL-AU-VENT. (2) In opening the 
oysters, separate them from the licjuor, which 
must be strained; take off the beards, and 
add to them the liquor, together with some 
white stock, a bit of butter rolled in flour, 
two or tliree blades of mace, a bit of lemon- 
peel, pepper, and salt ; simmer them for fifteen 
or twenty minutes, and a little before putting 
(hem into die vol-au-vent, pick out the lemon- 
jiecl, add a table-spoonful of white wine, and 
t'i.ce of good cream, and make it quite hot. 
'! > make oyster patties, when they are to be 
bi-arded, cut them into three or four bits, 
and prepare them in the same manner. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (3) Roll off tait paste, 
till about die eighth of an inch thick: then, 
with a tin cutter made for Uiat purpose 
(about the size of the bottom of the dish you 
intend sending to table,) cut out the shape, 
and lay it on a baking-plate with paper; 
rub it over widi yolk of egg; roll out good 
puff paste an inch thick, stamp it with the 
same cutter, and lay it on the tart paste; 
tlien take a cutter two sizes smaller and 



press it in the centre nearly through the puff 
paste; rub the top with yolk of egg, and 
bake it in a quick oven about twenty minutes, 
of a light brown color: when done, takeout 
the paste inside the centre mark, preserving 
the top, put it on a dish in a warm place, 
and when wanted, fill it with a white frica- 
see of chicken, rabbit, ragout of sweetbread, 
or any other entree you wish. 

VOLDRON. Melt eleven ounces of fresh 
butter in a brass pan, and when (]uite hot, 
add the same (|uaiitity of pounded loaf sugar, 
and eight w-ell-beaten eggs; stir constantly 
for six or eigiit minutes, and put it into a 
dish; the following day, mix with it a wine 
glass of orange-flower water; of citron, 
orange, and lcmon-|)eel, cut fine, half a 
pound; butter a pudding tlisli, and lay into 
the bottom a sheet of white paper buttered, 
then put in the voldron, and bake it for 
twenty minutes; turn it out, ornament it 
with cut citron and orange-peel, and serve 
it in a silver or glass dish. 



W. 



WAFERS. Take a pint of good cream, 
half a pound of sifted flour, half a pound of 
powder sugar, and two drachms of orange- 
flower water. Beat the cream with the 
flour, a little at a time, until both are mixed 
perfectly smooth and free from lumps, then 
add the other articles; and as much more 
cream as will make the paste nearly as thin 
as milk; make the iron hot, dip a feather in 
some melted butler, and rub the iron over 
with it ; put on the iron about a spoonful 
and a half of the paste, {)ress them a little 
gently, and place the iron on a stove; open 
the iron a little fiequently, to see if it be 
done; when one side is baked, turn the iron, 
and do the other. The wafers should only 
be lightly colored. Take thein from the 
mould carefully with a knife. 

WAFERS, GERMAN. Take seven- 
teen ounces of sifted flour, and half a pint of 
good yeast, which make into a paste, with 
as much warm milk as will make it run from 
the spoon freely, without being loo clear; 
then put it into a warm place. When it has 
risen well, add to it the yolks of fbiu'teen 
eggs well beaten, the whites whipped to a 
snow, and the grated rind of two lemons. 
The whole being well mixed, pour over it 
seventeen ounces of fresh butter melted, but 
not too hot; stir it gently with a wooden 
spoon, and jiut the preparation again into a 
warm j)lace to rise a second time; when it 
has risen sufficiently, and your pan quite hot, 
rub the latter with butler, fill it with tba 



W AL 



243 



WAL 



paste, set It over a brisk fire, and fry your 
wafe-s; make botli sides equally brown; 
wlien dune, sprinkle them with powder sugar 
(and cinnamon, if yon like), and serve them 
hot. Be carefnl in taking out die paste to 
fill the pan, not to distmb, nor to plunge the 
spoon into the prepai'ation, wheii not using 
'it; the upper part of the paste should be 
taker, olT very gently, and the spo(jn laid 
arrrss the to|) of the vessel ; if these precau- 
tion 5 be not attended to, the good appear- 
ance of the wafers will be destroyed. 

WAFERS, ITALIAN. Take eight 
eggs, fourteen ounces of powder sugar, a 
pound of Hour, six ounces of cream, the same 
of milk, an ounce of orange flowers, and the 
rind of a lemon grated. Beat the eggs with 
the sugar and flour first; then add the cream, 
nulk, and other materials, by degrees; mix 
tiicm well, and take care there are not the 
slightest lumps. Make the wafers as di- 
rected. 

WALNUTS. Make a brine of salt and 
water, in the proportion of a quarter of a 
pountl of salt to a quart of water; put the 
walnuts into this to soak for a week; or if 
you wish to sot'ten them so that they may 
be soon ready for eating, run a larding 
pin through them in half a dozen places — 
this will allow the pickle to penetrate, and 
they will be much softer, and of better fla- 
vor, and ready much sooner than if not per- 
firated: put them into a stewpan with such 
brine, and give them a gentle simmer; put 
them on a sieve to drain; then lav them on 
a fish plate, and let them stand in the air till 
diey turn black — this may take a couple of 
days; put them into glass, or ungla/.ed stone 
jais; fill diese about three parts with the 
walnuts, and fill them up with the following 
pickle. 

']'o each quart of the strongest vinegar put 
two ounces of black pep|)er, one of ginger, 
same of eschalots, same of salt, half an ounce 
of alls|)ice, and half a drachm of cayenne. 
Put these into a stone jar; cover it with a 
bladder, wetted with pickle, tie over that 
some leather, and set the jar on a trivet by 
the side of the fire for three days, shaking it 
up three times. a day, and then pour it while 
hot to die walnuts, and cover them down with 
bladder wetted with the pickle, leaUier, &c. 

WALNUTS AND BUTTERNUTS. 

Gather them for pickling when the head of 
a pin will pierce them easily; run a large 
needle through them here and there, or score 
diem on one side with a knife; lay them 
into a brine of salt-and-water for twelve 
days, changing the brine twice in that time; 
etrain, and put them into a jar, and sprinkle 
a little salt over them. Boil four quarts of 



vinegar lor a liundred walnuts, allowing to 
each quart one ounce of whole pepper, and 
one of ginger, half an ounce each of sliced 
nutmeg and whole allspice, a table-spoonful 
of mustard seed, and one of scrapetl horse- 
radish, one head of garlic, or a small onion; 
pour it boiling hot over the nuts, and put a 
])late on the jar; when cold, tie it closely 
d(nvn. After the nuts are used, the li(juor 
may be boiled, strained, and bottled, to use 
as a pickle. 

WALNUT KETCHUP. (1) Thorough- 

ly well bruise one hundred and twenty young 
walnuts; put to them three quarters of a 
pound of salt, and a quart of good wine vin- 
egar; stir them every day for a fortnight; 
then strain and squeeze the licjuor from them 
through a cloth, and set it aside; put to the 
husks half a pint of vinegar, and let it stand 
all night; then strain and squeeze them as 
before, adding the liquor which is obtained 
from them to what was put aside the preced- 
ing day, and add to it one ounce and a 
c]uarter of whole black pepper, forty cloves, 
half an ounce of nutmegs bruised, or sliced, 
half an ounce of ginger, and five drachms of 
mace, and boil it for half an hour; then 
strain it oflT from the spices, and bottle it for 
use. 

WALNUT KETCHUP. (2) Take six 
half-sieves of green walnut-shells, put them 
into a tub, mix them up well with comnion 
salt, (from two to three pounds,) let them 
stand for six days, frequently beating and 
mashing them; by this time the shells be- 
come soft and pulpy; then by banking it up 
on one side of the tub, auii at the same liuie 
by raising the tub on that side, the liquor 
will drain clear off to the other; then lake 
that liquor out: the mashing and banking- 
up may be repeated as often as licjuor is 
found. The quantity will be alKiut six 
quarts. When done, let it be simmered in 
an iron boiler as long as any scum arises; 
then bruise a quarter of a pound of ginger, a 
quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces of 
long pepper, two ounces of cloves, with the 
above ingredients; let it si nvly boil for half 
an hour; when bottled, let an equal quantity 
of the spice go into each bottle; when cork- 
ed, let the botUes be filled quite up: cork 
them fight, seal them over, and put them 
into a cool and dry place for one year before 
they are used. 

WALNUT KETCHUP, FOR FISH 
SAUCE. Take a (juart of walnut pickle, 
add to it a quarter of a pound of anchovies 
and three-quarters of a pint of red Port, and 
lot it boil till reduced to one-third; dien 
strain it, and when cold, put it into small 
bottles, and keep them closely corked. 



WEL 



244 



WHI 



WALN UT PICKLE. Put any quanti- 
ty of the outside shells or green rinds of 
ripe walnuts into a tub in which there is a 
tap-hole; sprinkle them with water, raise 
tile Inb on one side, that it may stand in a 
sloping direction, place another vessel under 
it to receive the juice as it drops from the 
trip-hole; this it will soon begin to do; and, 
when a sutiicient quantity has been obtained, 
to one gallon of this black liquor add two 
large tai)le-spoonfuls of salt, one large onion, 
a stick of horseradish, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, two bay leaves, a quarter of an ounce 
of black pepper, the same of allspice and of 
bruised ginger. Boil it slowly for twenty 
minutes; strain it, and, when cold, stir it 
and bottle it for use, putting the spice into 
the bottles. 

WALNUTS, TO PICKLE. Gather 
the nuts before the inside shell is hard, which 
may be known by trying them wilh a pin; 
lay them into salt and water nine days, 
changing the liquor every three days; then 
take them out, and dry them in the air on a 
sieve or mat; they should not touch each 
other, and they should be turned, that every 
side may become black alike; then put 
them into a jar. When half the nuts are 
in, put iu an onion, w itii about tiiirty cloves 
stuck into it. and add the rest of the nuts. 
To one hundred walnuts allow half a pint 
of mustard seed, a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, half an ounce of peppercorns, and 
sixty bay loaves; boil all the ."pice in some 
good common vinegai', and pour it boiling 
upon the nuts, observing that they are en- 
tirely covered; stop the mouth of the jar 
with a cloth, and when cold, cover it with 
bladder or leather. In ab(nit six weeks 
they will be lit for use, when they should be 
examined, and if they have absorbed the 
vinegar so much as to leave any of the nuts 
dry, more should be added, but it need not 
be boiled. 

WATER SOUCHY. Make a stock 
with three or four flounders, boiled in three 
quarts of water, two onions, and a bunch of 
parsley, till they are soft enough to pulp 
tlirougli a sieve with the licjuor they were 
boiled in ; then season it with peppei', salt, 
and some |iarsley chopped, and boil in it a 
few tlounders, with the brown skin taken 
ort", some nicely cleaned perch or tench. 
Serve in a tureen, and with slices of bread 
and butter to eat with it. 

WELSH RABBIT. Pare the crust off 
a slice of bread, toast it nicely, divide it in 
two, butter it, and lay upon each half a thin 
slice of cheese which has been toasted in a 
Dutch oven ; if, when put upon the toast, it 
»3 not sufficiently browned, hold a salaman- 



der, or hot shovel, over the top. Serve it 
very hot. 

WHEY. (1) Make a pint of milk boil; 
put to it a glass or two of white wine; put it 
on the fire till it just boils again ; then set it on 
one side till the curd has settled ; pour off 
the clear whey, and sweeten it as you like. 

Cider is often substituted for wine, or 
half the quantity of vinegar that we 1 ave 
ordered wine. When there is no fire in 
the sick room, this may be put hot into a 
bottle, and laid between the bed and mat- 
tress; it will keep warm several hours. 

WHEY. (2) Put a very small portion 
of rennet into a quart of milk, and let it 
stand by the side of the fire until turned ; 
then serve it in a dish, with sugar and a 
little nutmeg, grated, and strewed over, or 
strain the liquor carefully from the curd, 
and serve quite clear. 

WHEY, WHITE WINE. Boil a 
pint of milk, and when it rises in the pan, 
pour in one glass of sherry and one of cur- 
rant wine; let it again boil up, take it off 
the fire, and, when it has stood a few min- 
utes, remove the curd, pour off the clear 
whey, and sweeten it. 

WHIM WHAM. Sweeten a quart of 
cream, and mix with it a tea-cupful of white 
wine, and the grated peel of a lemon ; whisk 
it to a froth, v\hich drain upon the back of a 
sieve, and put part into a deep glass dish; 
cut some Naples biscuit as thin as possible, 
and put a layer lightly over the froth, and 
one of red currant jelly, then a layer of the 
fiotli, and one of the biscuit and jelly ; finish 
with the froth, and pour the remainder of the 
cream into the dish, and garnish with citron 
and candied orange-peel cut into straws. 

WHITE BEET, LEAVES. Pick and 
wash them clean, put them on in boiling 
water with a little salt, cover the saucepan, 
and boil them longer than spinach ; drain off 
the water, and beat them as spinach, with a 
bit of butter and a little salt. 

WHITINGS. In choosing whitings, lie 
careful that the skin has a silvery appear- 
ance, that the body is firm, and the fins 
stiff; these are sure proofs of its fiesh- 
ness. 

WHITINGS, ENGLISH WAY. Put 

into a saucepan two spoonfuls of oil, half a 
lemon sliced (the pips and rind taken oft), 
salt, and pepper, two glasses of white wine, 
the same of water, and let them boil nearly 
a quarter of an hour; then put the whitings 
properly cleaned, cook them in the above, 



WH I 



245 



W 00 



blanch a clove of garlic, and. beat it with 
the back of a knife, put it with parsley, 
shallots, and two glasses of champagne, into 
a stewpan ; let it boil five miinites, then add 
Bome butter, rolled in flour, salt, and pepper; 
stir it over the fire till smooth, then serve. 

WHITINGS, FRIED. (1) Take as many 
whitings as you may retjuire; cleanse, scale, 
and wipe them diT ; then run them through 
the eyes with a skewer, soak them well in 
milk; flour, and fry them of a nice color. 
Serve them on a napkin. 

WHITINGS, FRIED. (2) Skin them, 
preserve the liver, and fasten their tails to 
their mouths; dip them in egg, then in 
bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot lard, or 
split them, and fi-y them like fillets of soles. 
A three-<|uart stewpan, half full of fat, is the 
best utensil to fry whitings. They will be 
done enough in about five minutes ; but it 
will sometimes require a quarter of an hour, 
to drain the fat from them and dry them (if 
the fat you put them into was not hot enough), 
turning them now and then with a fish- 
slice. 

WHITE FISH AND SAUCE. Make 
a rich gravy with a bit of veal, the heads and 
fing of four or five haddocks, three or four 
onions, some parsley, a little cayenne, black 
pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, half 
the peel, a table-spoonful of ketchup, half a 
pint of white wine, and two quarts of water ; 
simmer them for an hour, strain, and put to 
it the meat of a lobster or crab minced, and 
forcemeat balls; thicken it with half a pint 
of cream, the yolks of three eggs beaten, and 
a pint of butter kneaded in flour. Have 
ready boiled ihree haddocks skiinied and 
without their heads, pour the sauce over 
them in a deep dish. IMake the forcemeat 
balls of a small boiled haddock finely minc- 
ed, gi"ated bread crumbs, butter, pepper, 
salt, grated nutmeg, and parsley; bind them 
with the whites of two eggs beaten, and fry 
them in fresh lard of a light brown. 

^ WHITE POT. Beat up the yoiks of 
eight, and the whites of four eggs, with two 
quarts of new milk, a little rose water, a 
nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar; cut a small roll into very thin 
slices, lay them in a dish, and pour the 
milk, &c. over them ; put a bit of butter on 
ihe top, and set it in the oven; it will take 
half an hour baking. 

WHITE ROUX, or JVhite Thickening 
for Sauces and Made Dishes. 3Ielt 
gradually, over a slow fire, a good piece of 
butter, anrl dredge in a sufficiency of flour to 
make it like a thin paste; keep stirring it 
21* 



for a quarter of an hour, and then put it lato 

a small jar to be kept for use. 

WHITE SAUCE. See Bechamel. 

WIDGEONS AND TEAL, Are dressed 
exactly as the wild duck; only that less lime 
is re(iuisite for a widgeon, and still less for 
a teal. 

WILD DUCKS. For roasting a wild 
duck, you must have a clear, brisk fiie, and 
a hot spit; it must be browned upon liie out- 
side, without being sodden within. To have 
it well frothed and full of gravy is thenicetv. 
Prepare the fire by stirring and raking it 
just before the bird is laid down, and fifteen 
or twenty minutes will do it in tiie fashion- 
al>le way; but if you like it a little more 
done, allow it a few minutes longer;, if it 13 
too much, it will lose il3 flavor, 

WINE OIADEIRA) SAUCE. Take a 
tea-spooniul of tlour, and a preserved green 
lemon, cut into dice, mix them with a glass 
of Madeira wine, and a little consomme, 
add an ounce of butter, some salt and nut- 
meg; set these on a very hot stove to boil 
for a quarter of an hour ; then take it off, 
put in a quarter of a pound of butter, set it 
again on the fire, stirring constantly till the 
butter is melted. 

WINTER HOTCH-POTCH. Take 

the best end of a neck or loin of mutton; 
cut it into neat chops ; cui f jur carrots, and 
as many turnips into slices; put on four 
quarts of water, with half the carrots and 
turnips, and a whole one of each, with a 
pound of dried green peas, which must be 
put to soak the night before; let it boil two 
hours, then take out the whole carrot and 
turnip; bruise and return them; put in tlie 
meat, and the rest of the carrot and turnip, 
some pepper and salt, and boil slowly three- 
quarters of an hour; a short time before 
serving, add an onion cut small and a head 
of celery. 

WOODCOCKS. (1) The greatest 
possible care should Ije taken, in picking of 
these birds, to handle them as little as pos- 
sible, on account of the skin being so par- 
ticularly tender, that when broken it spoils 
the beauty of the bird. When picked, cut 
o(f the })inions at the first joint, press the 
legs close to the side, through which, and 
the body, pierce the beak of the bird; then 
cross the leet, and lay a slice of bacon over 
the breast. Woodcocks and snipes may be 
dressed accordins to the same rules. 

WOODCOCKS. (2) Take a pound 
of lean beef, cut it into pieces, and put it 



woo 



246 



TEA 



mlo a saucepan, with two quarts of water, 
an onion stuck with cloves, two blades of 
mace, and some whole pepper, boil all these 
together till reduced to half; then strain it 
off into another saucepan: draw the wood- 
cocks, and lay the trail in a plate; put the 
woodcocks into the gravy, and let them boil 
in it for twelve minutes ; while they are 
boiling, mince the trail and liver very small ; 
put them into a small saucepan, with a lit- 
tle mace ; add four or five spoonfuls of the 
gravy the woodcocks are boiled in; then 
take the crumb of a stale roll, rub it fine 
into a dish placed before the fire, and put to 
the trail, in the small saucepan, half a pint 
of red port, a bit of butter, rolled in floui', 
set it on the fire, and shake it round till the 
butter is melted ; tlien put in the bread- 
crumbs, and shake the saucepan round; lay 
the woodcocks in the dish, pour the sauce 
uver them, and serve. 

WOODCOCKS. (3) Woodcocks should 
not be drawn, as the trail is by the lovers 
of " haut gout" considered a " bonne 
bouchej" truss their legs close to the body, 
and run an iron skewer through each thigh, 
close to the body, and tie them on a small 
bird spit ; put them to roast at a clear fire ; 
cut as many slices of bread as you have 
oirds, toast or fry them a delicate brown, 
and lay them in the dripping-])an under the 
birds to catch the trail; baste them with 
butter, and froth them with flour ; lay the 
toast on a hot dish, and the birds on (he 
toast ; pour some good beef gravy into the 
dish, and send some up in a boat, twenty or 
thirty minutes will roast them. Garnish 
with slices of lemon. Some epicures like 
this bird very much under-done, and direct 
that a woodcock should be just introduced 
to the cook, for her to show it the fire, and 
then send it up to table. 

WOODCOCKS IN A MINUTE. Put 

a brace of woodcocks into a fryingpan, 
with some butter, shred shallots, grated 
nutmeg, salt, and pepper; set the pan on a 
fierce fire, and fry the woodcocks lightly for 
s-even or eight minutes; then add the juice 
of two lemons, half a glass of white wine, 
and some raspings ; and leave them on the 
fire till the sauce has boiled up once ; tlien 
serve altogether. 

WOODCOCK SALMIS. Cut up the 
woodcock on the table, and put the pieces 
on a dish, which place on a stand, with a 
lamp under it ; add pepper, salt, shred shal- 
lots, nearly a glass of white wine, the juice 
of three lemons, and a bit of butter; strew 
raspings over, and boil slowly for ten min- 
utes, stirring occasionally. Use spirits of 
A'ine for your lamp- 



WOODCpCK SAUCE. Ppimd the 

bones and livers of roasted woodcock.s, and 
put them into a stewpan, with two spoon- 
fuls of cullis, and two spoonfuls of red port; 
reduce it to the consistence of a sauce, and 
then strain it; when strained, add pepper, 
salt, and the juice of two oranges. 






Y. 



YEAST. Beer yeast, which is the best 
for bread, should be sLiained through a haii 
sieve, and two or three quarts of culd spring 
water poured over it; when it has stood foi 
twenty-four hours the water should be poured 
off, the yeast will then be found at the bottom 
of the vessel, (juite thick. To preserve that 
which may he left over the baking, it should 
be put into a bottle, corked tightiv, and kept 
in a cool place. In cold weather it will 
continue good for a foitniglit, but fresh yeast 
is always preferable. When it does not ap- 
pear si\fficienlly strong, honey or brown sugar 
may be mixed with it, in the proportion of a 
tea-spoonful to half a pint. 

YEAST, BAKER'S. Boil two ounces 
of hops in four quarts of water one hour, 
adding more water as it decreases, carefully 
stirring it all the time, and taking care that 
it do not boil over; strain the licjuor, and 
mix well with it two pounds of malt; cover 
it, and let it stand for eight hours, or until it 
be milk warm, then stir in half a pint of 
good yeast; when mixed well together, let 
it work for ten hours, and then strain it 
through a hair sieve. 

YEAST, BRAN. Boil for ten minutes, 
in two quarts of water, one pint of bran, and 
a small handful of good hops; strain it 
through a sieve, and when milk warm, add 
three or four table-spoonfuls of beer yeast, 
and two of brown sugar or treacle: put it 
into a wooden stoup or jug; cover it, and 
place it before the fire to ferment. It may 
be bottled, tightly corked, and kept in a cool 
place. 

YEAST DUMPLINGS. Make a very 
light dough with yeast the same as for bread, 
but with milk instead of water, add salt; 
set it by the fire, covered up in a pan, for 
half an hour, or an hour, to rise ; in the mean 
time, set on the fire a large saucepan of hot 
water, and as soon as it boils, roll up the 
dough into small balls, and put them into the 
boiling water; keep them continually boiling 
for ten minutes, then take them out, and serve 
them immediately, with wine sauce over 
tliem. To ascertain whether they are suffi- 



YEA 



247 



ZES 



eiently boiled, stick a fork into ope, and if it 
comes out clean, it is done enough. Some 
think the best manner of eating them is by 
dividing them from the top by two forks, as 
they become heavy by their own steam, and 
eat them immediately with meat, or sugar 
and buttei-, or salt. 

YELLOW GLAZE. Make a glaze, 
with a quarter of a pound of fine sugar in 
powder, the white of an egg, to which add 
by degrees as much lemon-juice as may be 
necessary; when sufficiently beaten up, (and 
the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be), 
add to it a small quantity of infusion of saf- 
fron, strained, and the yellow rind of one or 
two lemons grated on a piece of sugar, scrap- 
ed oflT and pounded; take care, however, 
not to put too much of the latter, lest the 
glaze should be bitter. 

YEAST, TO MAKE. Boil for half an 
hour two quarts of water, thickened with 
about three spoonfuls of fine flour, and 
sweetened with nearly half a pound of blown 
sugar; when almost cold, put it into a jug, 
adding four spoonfuls of fresh yeasi ; shake 
St well together, let it stand uncovered near 
tlie fire for a day, to ferment. There will be 



a thin liquor on the top, pour this off; shake 
the remainder, and cork it up for use. To 
make a liaH peck loaf you should use a quar- 
ter of a pint of the above. 

YEAST, POTATO. Boil some good 
mealy potatoes ; peel and weigh them ; while 
hot, bruise them finely, and mix them quickly 
with boiling water, allowing one quart to 
each pound ; rub it through a hair sieve, 
then add honey or brown sugar in the pro- 
portion of one ounce to each (|uart of water; 
boil it to the consistency of batter, and when 
nearly cold, add a large table-spoonful of 
good yeast to every quart of water; cover it 
with a cloth to rise, and the following day it 
will be ready for use; keep a bottle of it, 
which may be used instead of beer yeast for 
the next making, first pouring off t\^e thin 
liquid that is on the lop. It must be made 
with fresh beer yeast every two or three 
months. Double the quantity of this, as of 
beer yeast, is required to make bread 
light. 

ZESTS. Zest (a term of art, used by 
confectioners) is the peel of oranges, lemons, 
or citrons, cut from top to bottom, in small 
slips or zests, as thin as possible. 



CONFECTIONERY. 



ALM 



ALM 



ALMONDS, BLOWN. Scaid a few al- 
monds, and pound them to about haif as fine 
as for biscuits, beat them with iemon-jnice, 
wiiites of eggs and powder-sugar; drop 
(hem on paper, about the size of ahnonds, 
and dry tliein in a stove or gentle oven^ 

ALMONDS BLOWN ROYAL. 

Choose four ounces of small thick almonds, 
and put them into an oven until they are 
slightly colored. Whilst tliey are cooling, 
mix four ounces of sugar with an egg; 
beat them up for ten minutes; add a little 
caimine to make it a fine rose color; dip 
the almonds into tnis: take them out; dis- 
engage iriem fiom the egg, so that they may 
be only just covered with it; lay them two 
and two on a sheet of strong paper three- 
quarters of an inch between each pair; 
they may also be placed in thiees to form 
the tre-foil, on which may be added a fourth. 
Bake tliem in a cool oven. 

ALMOND BUTTER. To a qirarter 
of a pound of blanched almonds, well beat, 
put some new milk and rose water; take 
a quart of thick cream, and the yolks of 
twelve eggs beat well with a little of the 
cream ; then add the rest of tlie cream ; put 
a quarter of a pint of new milk to the al- 
monds, and strain them into tlie cream till 
there is no strength left ; strain all togeth- 
er into a skillet, set it over a charcoal fire, 
and stir it till it comes to a tender curd; 
put it into a strainer, and hang it up till the 
whey is drained out; then take six ounces 
of fine sifted sugar and a little rose water, 
and beat it all into butter with a spoon. 

ALMOND BITTER CAKE. Pound 
three ounces (half bitter and half sweet) of 
almonds, put them into an earthen pan with 
six ounces of powder sugar; the same of 
sifted flour, two whole eggs, and six yolks, 
a spoonful of brandy and a giain or two of 
salt; work these up tfigelher for five min- 
utes and then add six ounces of fresh but- 
ter which is slightly warmed, work that in 
for four minutes longer. Then, having 
whipped the whites of two eggs, mix them 
into the paste. Butter a well-tinned copper 



mould or paper case, ten inches long, five 
wide, and two high; pour in your prepara- 
tion, and bake it in a cool oven. While bak- 
ing, whip the whites of two eggs, and mix 
two ounces of powder sugar w ith them, and 
cut four ounces of sweet almonds into slips 
(shortwise;) mix them also with two ounces 
of powder sugar and a spoonful of white of 
egg whipped. In three-quarters of an hour 
take out the cake, and if it be firm and well 
colored, cover it with the whipped egg and 
sugar, and on that strew the almonds ecjual- 
ly, pressing them in, that all maybe colored 
alike. This operation must be performed as 
quick as posi^.ble, and when done, turn the 
cake out and cut it in four slips (length- 
wise,) and then divide each into six parts 
lozenge-shaped; this will give you twenty- 
four cakes, which must be arranged in stars 
on your dish, six to every star. They 
may also be cut in two lengths instead of 
four, and these divided into fifteen small 
pieces, and then, with a paste-cutter, form- 
ed into crescents. The ingredients, and the 
proper (juantities for this cake are as follows: 
— six ounces of flour, the same of powder 
sugar, three ounces of sweet and bitter al- 
monds, six yolks, and two whole eggs, six 
ounces of butter, two of sugar mixed with 
the whites of two eggs whipped, tour ounces 
of cut almonds added to the sugar and eggs, 
a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. 

ALMOND CANDY. Blanch a pound 
of the best almonds, and cut them very 
thin, lengthways, put them into a pound of 
clatified sugar to crisp them, stir them over 
the fire till boiled to souffle; then take 
them off and keep stirring till the sugar is 
dry like sand: then sift it, so that the al- 
monds may be left, divide them into four 
parts to color them difierently, one part 
red, the second yellow, the third green, and 
the fourth left white as they come from the 
sugar. To color the first, soak a small 
quantity of carmine in clarified sugar, and 
Jay your almonds in it; do the same with a 
little tincture of saffron for the yellow, and 
s[)ina(h juice for the green. Place the col- 
ored almonds on a sieve in a stove; when 
drv, mix all together, adding the white 



ALM 



252 



ALM 



ones. Buil nearly as miich sui^ar as your 
mould will require to souffle, put it in, and 

Avhc I tlu- al.M.iii Is ;ire (j ;iir; liiy, giunisli (lie 
siiil'.n-e (if ilic sugir uiili (ijeai; do not, 
i)!!\v(.'vei , lay tlieiu too l!ii;-k, asid jut:t pres.s 
theiii down witli a f>rk; put tlie uiould in- 
to ;i m'.(iera(e oven for live liouis, tlieu drain 
it wtll, and in anotlier two hours it may be 
taken from the mould. 

ALMONDS CINNAMON SPANISH. 

Blanch your almonds, then with a bit of 
butter tied in a piece of cloth, rub the pan 
and brown them. Have ready some clari- 
lied sugar, with powdered cinnamon stnred 
in it, put in theahnonds, and when well cov- 
ered with the sugar and cinnamon, lay them 
separately on tins, and diy in a slow oven. 

ALMONDS TO COLOR. Almonds 
ROSE COLORED. Blanch and cut sweet 
almonds in sjiiall pieces, put them on a bak- 
inj^ pl.ite, and pour on them a little of any 
vegetable li(iuid, of an infusion of cochineal, 
or carmine; then rub them in your hands, 
to mix them well with the color; when all 
are so done, dry them in a stove or in the 
oven. 

ALMONDS VIOLET. Are done in the 
same way, the c(jloring ingredients are 
cochineal, and a little indigo dissolved in 
water, put but a small quantity of the latter 
at a time as it is very powerful. 

ALMONDS GREEN. The same pro- 
ceeding: the color is made with two hand- 
fuls of fresh spinach, well washed, drained, 
and then pounded; when very fine, press it 
thiough a napkin; let the juice drop on a 
dish, which place on a hot stove; as soon as 
it begins to boil, take it off", stirring it con- 
?*antlv, till the green curdles, then pour it 
tl'.rough a horsehair sieve, and when well 
diained strain it through a silk sieve or tam- 
my; the juice thus obtained, will give the 
almonds (which must be put in a kw at a 
time) a clear and even green color. 

ALMONDS BLUE. Dissolve a little in- 
digo in water, strain it through a cloth and 
use it as above mentioned. 

ALMONDS ORANGE COLORED. 

Mix a little liquid red, and a little infusion 
of saffron tcjgether, and proceed with the al- 
monds as usual. 

ALMONDS LEMON COLORED. 

Infuse a small quantity of saffron in nearly 
boiling water for a few minutes; strain and 
follow the above direction. 

ALMONDS CHOCOLATE COLOR- 



ED. Are dyed with chocolate dissolved in 
water and strained. 

The almonds may be cut in slips, dice. 
&('. according u> fimcy. Uljserve that the 
ciilor of your alaunds shouid l)e light anc! 
delicate; when done, place them, eitltei 
separately or mixeil together, in papei 
cases. 

ALMOND COUPEAUX. Blanch an I 
pound half a pound of sweet almonds with 
the whites of three eggs into a veiy fine 
jiaste, add to it six ounces of powdered su- 
gar and the rind of a lemon grated; when 
thoroughly mixed together, pour over it 
about four spoonfuls of orange-tlower water: 
stir up the pa.ste (which ought to be rather 
thin,) once more, and then lay it with a 
spoon on a |)late of bright copper, in an 
oval form, about three or four inches in 
length. The plate being quite full, take it 
up by both hands, and strike it steadily upon 
a table, so that the paste may be extended, 
but not much ; then bake them until they be- 
come ol" a deep yellow. Take them from 
the copper with a knife, and whilst hot jRit 
them on a wooden roller, abi>ut the thick- 
ness of an arm, and press them with your 
hand, that they may acquire the form of the 
wo(xl, and when cool place in a box, and 
keep them dry. These coupeaux are very 
brittle. 

ALMONDS CRISPED. Rub a pound 
of the best sweet almonds in a cloth to take 
oft' all the dust, and then put them, with 
a pound of sugar, half a glass of water and 
a little carmine, into a preserving pan; put 
them on the fire, and let diem remain; when 
the almonds crackle take them oft" and work 
them about iintil the sugar is detached from 
the almonds, then take away part of the su- 
gar, put the almonds on the fire again, and 
stir them lightly widi a sp;itida, (be careliil 
that the fire be not too quick;) and when 
they have taken the sugar, add that which 
had been removed, and continue to burn 
them till they have imbibed diat also. Place 
a sheet of paper on a sieve, throw your al- 
monds on it, separate those which adhere 
together, and let them cool. 

ALMOND DRAGEES. Take of the 
best and largest almonds what quantity you 
please, and having washed them in cold wa- 
ter, let them drain and dry on a sieve for 
twenty-four hours. The next day weigh 
them, and tor each pound of almonds take 
three pounds of sugar; clarify the latter and 
boil it to the degree petit li.sse; then let it 
cool a little. Have your tossing pan ready; 
on your right hand, a chafing dish to keep 
your pan containing the sirup constantly 
warm ; and on your left hand, a table with 



ALM 



253. 



ALM 



a mixture of powder and 6our (of each luilf 
a pound to a pound of alinonds). All being 
ready, put the ahnonds into the pan, and 
pour o\er them one or two large sjjoonfuU 
of the sirup, and shake thein so that all the 
almonds in;u' he welled with sirup; then 
take a handful or two of the flour and pow- 
der, and strew it over the wet almonds; 
shake them atrain, that the tlour mav adhere 
all round the ahnonds. After this, swnig 
the pan backwards and forwards, by which 
means the alinonds roll about in every direc- 
tion ; continue this motion until they become 
dry; then moisten and powder them as be- 
foie; swing the pan again, and when dry, 
refieat the process a lliird, fourth, and fifth 
time, or more, until they are of a proper 
size; then ponr over tiiem the sirup for the 
last time, witiiout the powder, and, having 
swung and dried them, take them out and 
place them on sieves in a warm place, that 
they may dry perfectly before you put them 
\)\ f )r use. 

Observe, tiiat after a few layers of tl'.e 
girnp, the superabundant {:>arts of that and 
the powder foirn a white crust at the bottom 
of tile pan; as soon as it ac(|uires any de- 
g'lee of thickness, the pan must be taken 
from the fue, the almonds carefully removed 
wilh an iron spUuki, and the crust biokeii 
of] ; when the pan has been well washed and 
dried, re[)lace the almonds and {irocee<l with 
your work. This must be strictly attended 
to, not only with this, but in making all 
kinds of sweetmeats. The sugar thus cleai-- 
ed away may be made useful for many pur- 
poses- 
Common Almond Dragees are made in 
the same manner; the only difii2rence con- 
sists in having ingredients of an inferior 
quality. 

ALMONDS (MILK OF) FANCfTON- 
NETTES. Blanch and pound eight ounces 
of sweet and one of bitter alintmds, and 
when the paste is very fine, add to it three 
glasses of nearly boiling milk, then press 
tills mixture through a napkin to draw out 
tjie milk. Put into a stewpan four yolks 
of eggs, three ounces of powder-sugar, one 
of sifie<! flour, and a grain of salt, mix them 
"i\(.'ll together, and add by degrees the al- 
mon I milk, put this on a moderate fire, stir- 
ring it constantly. Line about thirty tartlet 
moulds with thin puff paste, and put on them 
a little of the above preparation, and bake 
them in a moderate oven. When properly 
done, take diem out and let them cool. Mix 
with the whites of three hard eggs, fnir 
ounces of powder-sugar, stir it well to soften 
the egg, and make it work easily; put some 
of the remainder of your preparation on 
each of the fanchonneiies, and cover tliern 
lightly with the egg; put anme white of egg 



on the l)lade of a large knife, and witn H 
small one as ([uick as possible take off sev- 
en meringues about the size of a filbert, 
and arrange them in the form of a cnjwn on 
each funclionnette; when you have done 
five or six, cover them with ))owder-sugar 
very equally, and then Lake them in a cool 
oven. When of a reddish brown they are 
done and may be served 

ALMOND CHEESE, BITTER. Peel, 

wash, and drain, three ounces of sweet, and 
one ounce of bittei- almonds, pound them to 
a paste, moistening with two spoonfuls of 
\\-ater. Put them into an earthen j)an, with 
two glasses of nearly boiling milk, in which 
eight onnces of sugar have been dissolved ; 
let this staml an hmu', tlien strain it through 
a fine sieve, and put U^ it six diachms of 
isinglass lukewarm; place the whole in lee 
and when it begins to set, add some whipped 
cream; pour it into a mould which has been 
kept in ice, put it in ice again for half an 
hour, and tlien take ihe fromage from the 
moidd. 

ALMOND FLUMMERY, Boil three 
ounces of hartshorn in two quarts of spring 
water; let it simmer six or seven hours till 
half the water is consumed ; strain it tJnough 
a sieve; beat half a pound of almonds very 
fine, with a quantity of orange-flower water; 
mix a little of the jellv and some fine sugar 
with it ; strain it w ith the rest of the jeily, 
stilling it till it is a little more than blood 
uarni ; pour it into basins or cups, and stick 
\n tiimonds cut small. 

ALIMOND GARLANDS. Take half 
a pound of march-pane paste, the whites of 
two oi- three eggs, some powdered cinnamon 
and a little flour, knead them into a paste, 
and roll them into the form of sausages with 
your hand on the table, first strewing the 
table witii almonds minced, but not very fine ; 
so that they may adhere to the sausages, 
wliidi oiiglit to be about the size of your 
finger ; then form them into rings or gar- 
lands of what size you please, fixing the ends 
tngether w ith water : [)Iace thfm an paper, 
and bake them in a (iiiick oven until they are 
of a clear brown color. 

ALMOND LITTLE CAKE, BITTER. 

Pound six drachms of bitter almonds, strain 
them through a sieve, and mix them in an 
earthen vessel, with nearly the white of an 
egg, and six ounces of sugar, stir these with 
a silver spoon for a lew minutes. Take 
three-(]nai lets of a pound of puff paste, roll 
it to the thickness of a (jiuuter of an inch, 
and cut out of it thirty o\a! cakes two inches 
and a half long by two and a quarter wide 
poiQted at tl)« eous ; puf, on e*ch a quarter 



ALM 



254 



ALM 



of a spoonful of the almond glaze, and with 
the blade of a knife spread it equally over 
the surface for about the eighth of an inch, 
and then let them stand for half an hour 
before you put tliem into the oven, which 
must l)e moderate. If you bake them imme- 
diately after putting on the glaze, it wrinkles 
and shrivels up, which spoils their appear- 
ance, as they ought to be quite smooth and 
even ; the cakes also requiie considerable 
care in the baking ; they should be slightly 
colored on the top and the lower part red- 
dish. 

ALMOND GENOESE, BITTER. 

Blanch two ounces four drachms of sweet, 
and two ounces and a half of bitter almonds, 
pound them to a paste and then put them 
into the following preparation : blanch and 
pound four ounces of sweet almonds, and 
when perfectly smooth, mix them in an earth- 
en pan with six ounces of flour, the same of 
powder-sugar, six yolks and two whole eggs, 
a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. 
Stir the whole for six minutes, then add six 
ounces of butter slightly warmed but not 
melted ; work the butter well into the paste 
for four or five minutes. Butter two moulds, 
or paper cases, about nine or ten inches 
square, pour in your preparation, smooth it 
with the blade of a knife and then put them 
to bake in a moderate oven, first strewing 
on them four ounces of sweet almonds minced 
and mixed v\ ith two ounces of powder-sugar, 
and a little white of egg. When done, cut 
them into all possible forms, then replace 
them in the oven to dry ; when brittle, take 
them out, let them cool, and decorate diem 
to your fancy. 

ALMOND, GRILLAGE. Blanch 
half a pound of almonds, cut them into four 
or five slips, lengthways, pralinez them 
with three-eighths of a pound of sugar, sand 
them when they begin to crackle ; then put 
them on the fire again till they are well mixed 
together and form a mass, which put on 
wafer-paper lightly oiled, lay it flat, strew 
over it cinnamon, sugar, plain or white 
nonpareils, and then cut it in pieces. 

ALMOND KNOTS. Take two pounds 
of almonds, and blanch them in hot water ; 
beat them in a mortar, to a very fine paste, 
with rose water, be careful to keep them fiom 
oiling. Take a pound of double-refined su- 
gar, sifted through a lawn sieve, leave out 
some to make up the knots, put tiie rest in 
a pan upon the fire, till it is scalding hot, at 
tlie same time have the almonds scalding 
hot in anotiier pan ; then mix chem together 
with the whites of three eggs beaten to froth, 
and let it stand until it is <-uld ; then roil it 
with some of t!ie sugar left out tor that 



purpose, and lay them in platters of papei 
They will not roll into shape, therefore lay 
them as well as may be, and bake tliem in 
a slow oven. 

ALMOND MILK. Take six ounces of 
sweet almonds, and a pint of milk, four 
drachms of orange-flower water, and five 
ounces of sugar. Blanch and pound the 
almonds to a very smooth paste, moistening 
them occasionally with a few diops of milk ; 
when your paste crumbles, put it in the milk 
and mix them well, and boil it till reduced 
to half, then let it boil up once more ; let 
it cool and serve. 

ALMOND MIRLITONS. Blanch an 
ounce of sweet, and the same of bitter al- 
monds, and dry them in an oven ; when cold, 
pound them with a little white of egg to 
prevent their oiling ; then put them into an 
earthen pan with two ounces of bitter maca- 
roons, five ounces of powder-sugar, four whole 
eggs, and a grain of salt ; when these are 
well mixed together, add two ounces of butter, 
lukewarm. Make a proper quantity of purt 
paste, roll it out thin, and cut it into thirty 
round pieces about two inches and three- 
quarters in diameter, and put each of these 
into a tartlet mould buttered ; put the mirii- 
tons on this, and when all are equally full, 
cover them with powder sugar sifted over 
them through a tammy ; as soon as that is 
dissolved strew more (but not such fine) pow- 
der sugar over, and bake them in a moderate 
oven. Serve either hot or cold. 

ALMOND MONCEAUX. Take half 
a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into thin 
slips (lengthways) and roast them on an iron 
until they are of a deep yellow color, inclin- 
ing to brown ; beat up the whites of six or 
eight eggs with a spoon in an earthen pan. 
Pour over the almonds a pound of sugar finely 
powdered, four ounces of candied orange peel, 
the siime of candied lemon-peel, also cut into 
thin slips, half a spoonful of jwwdered cimia- 
mon, and six or eight cloves pounded ; mix 
these ingredients well in the pan, and place 
it on paper in little heaps of a pyramidal 
form, and bake them in a well-healed oven. 

ALMOND PASTE. Blanch two pounds 
of sweet almonds, and soak them in cold 
water for twelve hours, then dry them in a 
napkin, and pound a quarter of them to a 
very fine paste with a little water and lenioji- 
juice, pass them through a sieve, and then 
l«)und the remainder (half a pound at a time.) 
When all are done, mix them u ith a pound 
of sifted sugar ; place them over a gentle fire, 
stirring it conlinu;illy, until die paste will 
flow from the spoon ; then pour it into a 
moitar, and when it becomes lukevvann, 



ALM 



loo 



ALM 



pound it again with an ounce of gum-dragon 
previously dissolved in a gla&s of water and 
strained, (he juice of two ieiaon^:, and a 
pound of sifted sugai'. As soon as your paste 
is of the proper consistence, take it out and 
lay it on the slab, sprinkled first w ith sugar ; 
divide your paste into three parts, and color 
each part according to j-our ftincy. The 
coloring or d}es are made of the same 
materials as are used for almonds. 

ALMOx^D PASTE to keep six, or 
even twelve months. Blanch and pound 
a pound of sweet almonds, moistened occa- 
sionally widi water, to prevent their oiling; 
when well beaten, add half a pound of fine 
powdeied sugar, and mix the whole into a 
paste to use when you have occasion. When 
wanted, mix a [)iece about the size of an egg 
M ith three gills of water, and strain it through 
a iiaj)kin. 

ALIMONU PRALINES, (dried, pre- 
served or burnt.) A pound of tlie l)est 
almonds must be washed in cold water ; 
when thoroughly dry, put them into a pre- 
serving pan with a pound of sugar and a pint 
and a half of water, keep them on the fire, 
stirring (heai continually, miti! they crackle 
and fly about, and the sugar begins to color, 
stir them about gently to gather the sugar, 
and lea\e them in the pan to dry about two 
hours, in a stove or any ujoderate heat. 

ALMONDS, RED CRISPED. Pre- 
pare them as above until they have taken 
the sugar and are ready to be .taken off tiie 
(ire, put the almonds upon a sieve with a 
dish under, take the sugar that drops, and 
put it into the same pan, adding a little 
fresh ; refine it till it comes to the twelftli 
degree au casse, then take cochineal, color 
suhicient to tinge the .-ilmonds, and put them 
therein ; give them a few turns over the fire 
in the sugar, and finish as at first. 

ALMOND SWEETMEATS (YEL- 
LOW.) i31anch a pound of sweet almonds, 
wash them in cold water, and v.hen quite dry, 
pound them wiUi a sufficient (juantity of yolks 
of eggs, into a fine but rather stiff paste : 
add to them a pound of powdered sugar and 
the rinds of two lemons giated ; knead the 
paste well with your hands, first sprinkling 
the table with sugar. Form the paste into 
what figures you please, such as fieur-de-lis, 
trefoil, &;c. each being about the size and 
weight of a macaroon. Place them on white 
paper and on an iron plate, fry them in a mo- 
derately hot stove. If they are of a deep 
yellow, they are sufficiently dnue. — These 
sweetmeats may be still further ornamented 
in the following manner: — Boil some sugar 
in orangs-tlower water to the degrect called 



grunde phime, iinil as soon as the sweeN 
meats are taken from the stove or oven, wash 
them over w ith a ligiit brusli dipped in the 
simj) ; tliis will give tlteni a delicious per- 
fume, and they may then be called d la 
glace. When cold, take them fnmi the 
paper and put theui into glasses for the table. 

ALMONDS, ROCK OF ALICAN- 
TE, SPANISH. Clarify honey, and 
stir into it as many blanched almonds as 
you can entangle. Leave it to cool. This 
makes a pretty crystaline ornament for the 
dessert ; it is also called Rock of Gibraltar. 

ALMOND WAFERS. Take a pound 
of sweet almonds, blanch and pound them, 
add a pound of powder-sugar, a pinch of 
orange-ilowers pralinte, put them into a 
basin, and moisten them with a sufficient 
quantity of whites of eggs to enable you to 
spread the paste on wafer paper with the 
blade of a knife (the wafer paper must be 
ruUied with virgin wax and sweet oil) ; lay 
the preparation on as thin as possible ; chop 
some sweet almonds very small, mix diem 
witi) sugar, and strew them over the wafers 
and put them into a hot oven ; when about 
half baked, take them out and cut them in 
scjuares -, replace them a minute in (he oven, 
lake theni out again, and press them on a 
stick to give them the proper form ; as soon 
as they are cold, put tliem on a sieve. Just 
before they are served they should be slightly 
warmed. 

ALMOND COMPOTE, GREEN, 

Take the peel very carefully from your al- 
monds, and put them with water on the fire 
till they are tender ; tlien take them off and 
add a little more water ; when nearly cold 
put them on the fire again, but do not let 
them boil ; as soon as you find the head of 
a pin will penetrate easily, they are then 
sufficiently done, and may be thrown into 
cold water; and when the fruit is (juite cold, 
drain them. In the meantime put some 
clarified sugar on the fire, and when it boils 
put in the almonds ; boil ihem in the sugar 
about twenty times, tl>en remo\e them, and 
let the almonds stand to take the sugai- : in 
about two hours' time put them on the fire 
again, and boil them up a dozen times ; after 
which, take Uiem off, skim, and let them 
cool. When quite cool drain and put the 
fruit in a compotier. If the sugar should 
not be sutiiiciently done, boil as much more 
as you may think necessary ; scjueeze in the 
juice of an orange, boil it once again, and 
when nearly cold strain it through a cloth 
into the compotier over the almonds. 

ALMOND NONPAREILS, GREEN. 
Draiu some greea almonds tliat have beeo 



ANG 



256 



ANG 



preserved in brandy ; dip them one by one 
in sugar prepared au casse, and roll them 
in white, or any other colored nonpareils, 
and dry them in a stove, or gentle oven. 

ALMOND (GREEN) PRESERVED. 

Put some water into a saucepari, with two 
handfuls of bran, and when it has boiled up 
twice, throw in some green almonds ; let 
them boil up once, then Like them out with 
a skimmer, and rub them well in your hands 
to take off the down ; as you do this, throw 
them into cold water ; then boil tiiem in 
water till, on pricking them, a pin easily 
enters and they shrink : then clarify some 
sugar, a pound to a pound of fruit ; boil up 
the sirup four or five successive days, morn- 
ing and evening, without the fruit, which 
you leave to drain upon a sieve ; lastly, put 
the fruit into a pan, and when rather more 
than lukewarm, pour the sirup over it ; when 
they look very green they ale sufficiently 
done. 

ANDAYE BRANDY. An ounce of 
bruised aniseed, an ounce of bruised corian- 
der seed, two ounces of powdered Florence 
iris, the zestes of two oranges ; put tliem 
with three quarts of distilled brandy into the 
alembic bain-marie ; dissolve two pounds 
and a half of sugar in two pints and a half 
of clear river water, add them to the distilled 
liqueur, pass the whole through a strainer, 
and put into bottles. 

ANGELICA CAKES. Take four oun- 
ces of angelica powder, and two pounds of 
fine sugar. Beat up the white of an egg 
with a little sifted sugar, until it is of the con- 
sistence of cream cheese ; dissolve the sugar 
in a skillet and skim it ; when it has boiled 
a little, throw in the angelica, and boil the 
sugar to petit casse, then take it from the 
fire, put in half a spoonful of the beaten egg, 
and stir it (juickly until the sugar rises, then 
stop, and when it has fallen again, stir till 
it rises a second time ; it may now te pour- 
ed into moulds or paper cases, well oiled and 
spi inkled with sifted sugar. 

ANGELICA (ESSENCE of) JELLY. 
Having washed and well dried two ounces of 
angelica-roots ; cut them in pieces and throw 
them into boiling sirup, (three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar,) with an ounce of bruised 
angelica seeds ; cover the mixture close, and 
when cold, add to it half a glass of kirsch- 
wasser, and pass it through a tammy ; then 
filter, and afterwar(js put to it an ounce of 
isiiTglass : stir it liglitly with a silver spoon; 
pound ten pounds of ice, and put it into a 
large sieve or pan, place your ino+dd in tlie 
middle of the ice, taking care that it touches 
the ice in every part ; pour the jeily into the 



mould, cover it with a saucepan lid, put ice 
on that, and let it stand for three hours; after 
that time have ready a saucepan large enough 
to take in the mould easily ; fill it with water 
so warm that you can scarcely Ijear your hand 
in it; plunge the mould in so as to allow the 
water to pass over the whole, but as quickly 
as possible, and then turn the jelly into your 
dish for table. This last operation should 
be performed with great agility. Observe, 
in making tl^ese kind of jellies, that no tinned 
or pewter vessels or spoons should be used, 
as they impart a violet tinge to your jellies, 
which ought to be of the color of the ingre- 
dients employed, as for instance the above 
should be a clear light green color. 

ANGELICA LIQUEUR. Wash, 
scrape, and cut in small pieces, twelve ounces 
of fresh, or half the quantity of Bohemian 
angelica roots, and infuse them for a week 
in six pints of brandy and one of water, with 
a drachm of mace, two drachms of cinnamon, 
and twelve cloves ; at the end of that tune 
distil it, then dissolve three pounds of sugar 
in tliree pints of water ; mix it with the 
liqueur, strain it through a jelly-bag, or fil- 
ter it through ptvper. Observe, that the best 
brandy for liqueurs is that which is made 
at Montpelier, as it yields more in distilla- 
tion than the Cogiiiac. Take notice also 
that the first drops which fall from the alem- 
bic after it is placed on the stove, must not 
be mixed with the litjueur. A glass should, 
theiefore, be placed under the n)outh of the 
alembic to receive them, and when about a 
quarter of it is filled you may remove it, and 
place your bottles or matrass. The phlegm, 
as these droppings are called, are good for 
nothing. 

ANGELICA PASTE. Take young and 
pithy angelica stalks, boil them till tender, 
drain and press all the water out ; beat them 
in a mortar to a pa^te', and rub it through a 
sieve. Next day dry it over the fire, and to 
every pound of paste put a pound of powder- 
sugar. When the paste is hot add the sugar, 
stirring it till thoroughly mixed, over a gentle 
fire. Drop it on plates, dust a little sugar 
over them, and dry them in a stove. 

ANGELICA PRESERVED. Take the 
stalks of angelica when of a g.jod size, I)ut 
l)efore they have run to seed ; clear off the 
leaves, and as you cut the stalks into proper 
lengths throw them into water, and boil them 
till the stalks are soft ; take them from the 
fire, and put them into cold water ; take ofi 
the skin, and again put them into cold water ; 
then drain and put them into an earthen pan, 
and pour over a sutficient quantity of clarified 
sugar to float the angelica. In twentv-four 
hours boil the sugar tea or a dozen times, 



ANI 



257 



ANI 



and when lukewarm pour it over the stalks. 
Proceed in the same way for four succeeding 
days ; after whicli, drain the stalks, and in 
the meanwliile boil the sugar (adding more, 
if necessary) to the degree gi^ande perle ; 
put the angelica to this, cover it close, and 
let it boil five or six times. Take it from 
the fire, scum, and put it by in pots. 

ANGELICA PRESERVED DRY. 

Proceed as for the liquid, until you have 
poured the sugar au grand perle over the 
angelica ; leave it for a day in tiie sug-ar, 
then drain and dry it on slates, or iron plates, 
in a stove. 

ANGELICA RATAFIA. Take six 
pints of brandy, a pint of river water, three 
pounds of sugar, two ounces of fresh gathered 
angelica- roots, t|^ same quantity of angelica 
seed ; mace and clove, a drachm of each. 
Wash and dry the roots well, cut them in 
slices, and put them, wit!i the seeds and 
spices bruised, into the brandy, to infuse fin- 
twenty days ; then strain it, and having ad- 
ded to it the sugar dissolved in river «ater, 
filler and bottle your ratafia. 

ANGELICA RATAFIA. Strip the an- 
gelica stalks of their leaves, and cut diem 
into small pieces, which put into die best 
brandv and water, in tlie proportion of four 
lilies of brandy and two of water to one 
pound of angelica, and four pounds of sugar 
to the same ciuantity ; add cloves and cinna- 
mon ; let it stand six weeks, then filter and 
bottle it. 

ANGELICA WATER. Wash eight 
handfuls of angelica leaves, cut, and lay them 
on a table to dry. When (juite dry, put 
them in an earthen pot with a gallon of strong 
wine lees. Let it stand twenty-four hours, 
stir it twice in that time, then -ut it into a 
warm still or alembic ; draw oft i.'to bottles, 
covered with paper pricked in holefe, and let 
diem stand thus two or three days. Sweeten 
it, and when it is settled, bottle, and stop it 
close. 

ANISEED, OIL OF. Is made like ani- 
seed water, the only difference is, that an 
additional pound of sugar is necessary to 
m;i^e the sirup. 

ANISE PETIT PAINS. Put two 

glasses of water and two ounces of fresh but- 
ter into a stewpan, and when the li(|uid boils 
take it from the fire, and mix with it six 
ounces of sifted flour; amalgamate it thor- 
oughly, so that it may be quite free from 
lumps ; then dry it over the fire. Take it 
out of the saucepan, and add to it two eggs, 
and two ounces of po\» der-sugar ; mix tiiem 



well in, and then put in two more eggs and 
the zeste of a lemon minced fine : when 
these are also well incorporated, add another 
egg or two, if the paste (which should l)e ra- 
ther firm,) will bear them. Sprinkle your 
paste slab with flour, cut the paste into 
pieces, e^ich the size of a walnut; roll these 
with as little flour as possible, to about three 
inches long, and as you roll them place them 
on a baking-tin, two inches apart; dorez 
and bake them in a tolerably warm oven till 
they are firm. Then cuT some anise into 
fillets, boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to 
casse, and the moment it reaches that de- 
gree set it by the side of the fire that the 
sugar may not lose its whiteness; dip the 
top and one side of each petit pain in the 
sugar as quick as possible, and as you take 
diem out, strew die anise over them lightly. 
Red anise is also used foi- tliese petit 
pains. 

ANISEED RATAFIA. To make a 
quart of this li(|ueur, boil a pound of sugar 
with a demisetier of water, until the sugar 
is (|uite clear; then heat another demisetier 
of water, and put in it tliree ounces of anise ; 
take it from die fire before it boils; let it 
stand a (|narter of an hour, and then pour it 
widi three pints of brandy into the sugar; 
mix all well together, and then pour into a 
vessel, which must be closed tight, and 
placed in the sun. Let it stand three weeks, 
and then bottle it. 

ANISEED WATER. Choose eight 
oiince-s of new green anise, sift it well to 
free it from the dust, and then infuse in six 
pints of brandy, with the zestes of three 
lemony, and half an ounce of cinnamon ; in 
a week's time distil it over a moderate fire, 
put a pint of water into the alembic; take 
care to collect the phlegm before you draw 
off" the aniseed water. Dissolve three pounds 
of sugar in three pints of water. As die 
anise contains an acid salt, which renders 
this liqueur milky, the following proceeding 
is necej-sary: — Reserve a pint of the water 
fiom that in which you dissolved the sugar, 
and mix with the white of three or four 
eggs, well whipped, and while the sirup is 
hot put to it this egg-water and the aniseed 
water; stir it over the fire until the whole 
is hot without boiling; then put it into a 
glass jar, cork it well, and let it stand; the 
next day bottle and filter it. 

ANISETTE DE BORDEAUX. Take 
two ounces of green aniseed, half a pound 
of aniseed, two ounces of coriander, and the 
same of fennel seeds. Bruise, and put them, 
with sixteen pints of brandy, into an alem- 
bic bain-marie. Then dissolve thirteen 
pounds of sugar in two quai'ts of river water. 



APP 



25S 



APR 



which must be put to your liqueur when dis- 
tiUed. Filter and bottle it. 

APPT.E FRITTERS. Turn twelve 
si)i:ill ;(j)|)les, cut them i'lto iv.ilves, an.l l)oil 
tliciii in i^imp, llien leave tliem to {-no!. 
WliRti tliey are coM, make an extreuseiy 
ihia ciiist wit!) brioche i)aste. Make a 
fritter f<>v eacli half a|)i)le. then fry tlietn and 
finish tiie same as F'ritters d la Dauphine. 

Pears cut into quarters are made in the 
same manner as the above. 

APPLES AND ALMONDS Little 
Cakes. Proceed the same as above till 
the marinalade is spread over tlie under- 
crnst, then (Mver it with almonds cut in fil- 
lets, press them in iiijhtly; mask them with 
powder-sngar and bake in a moderate oven. 
As soon as cold, cut your gateaux accord- 
ing to your fancy, either round, oblong, lo- 
zenge, or crescent-shaped. 

APPLE MARMALADE, Little 
Cakes. Make a marmalade of twenty-four 
appjps in the usual way, with a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, and a cjuarter of a pot of 
apricots, and the zeste of a lemon, sin-ed 
fine. Make your paste, and proceed as di- 
rected for Pellts Gateaux glaces of apricots. 
Sprinkle them (when marked) with powder- 
sugar. Bake them in a moderate oven and 
finish them. 

APPLE PETIT GATEAUX WITH 

Pistachios. Make an under-crust of tiie 
same size and thickness as directed for peiits 
gateaux glacts of apricots, and cover it 
with apple marmalade; when baked, mash 
the a|)ples with a little apricot marmalade, 
and strew over a quarter of a pound of pis- 
tachio nuts cut in small pieces, and then put 
it in the oven again for a few minutes to dry 
the apricots. When cold cut them into the 
usual forms. 

APPLES AND PISTACHIOS. Pre- 
pare and toss up a dozen apples for this 
gateau with apples and raisins, with the ad- 
dition of two oimces of sugar, and instead 
of the zeste of an orange, grate that of a 
lemon, and put three ounces of pistachio nuts 
blanched, in the place of the raisins. Pro- 
ceed in the same manner as directed in that 
recipe, strewing on the dome of the guteau 
pistachio and sugar, each nut cut into six 
pieces; and when the crown is put round 
the band, place a pistachio nut in the mid- 
dle of each meringue, bake it of a light 
Solor in a slow oven, and serve it hot. 

APPLE MERINGUEES. Put some 
iipple niarmaladti on a dish, in a pyramid: 



whip the whites of two eggs to a froth, mix 
with them two spoonfuls of powder-sugar 
and a little lemon-peel chopped extremely 
small; decii>ate your apples with this prep- 
aration, gla/.e them with sugar, and color 
thein in tiie oven. 

APPLE MERINGUE. Uiy :\ timbale 
paste in a tart p.an, egg and prick it all over, 
and bake it; lay in it a puree of apples, and 
finish with white of egg, as for a la Turtjue; 
serve it hot. 

APPLES PUREE. Peel and core a 
dozen or more good baking apples ; set them 
over the fire to stew with .some clarified 
sugar and a small bit of lemon-peel; when 
soft, stir tliem well with a wooden spoon, 
and put in a spoonful of apricot jam; stir it 
at times till the jam is inixe^ and the apples 
thicken, then rub the whole through a 
tammy. 

APPLES, SOUFFLE PARISIEN. 

Make a marmalade of three dozen apj)les, 
half a pound of powder-sugar, the peel of a 
lemon, and a glass of water; dry it as much 
as you possibly can, for on that the good ap- 
peaia)ice of the souffle parisien chietly 
depentls; then put it into a large stewpan. 
Whip the whites of fifteen eggs to a strong 
fioth, with a pound of powder-sugar. Mix 
a quarter of this at first, with the apple mar- 
malade, then stir the whole together, and 
pour it into a crousiade prepaied as usual. 
(See SotJFFLE.) Bake it for an hour in a 
moderate oven. Serve it as soon as possi- 
ble after taking it from the oven. Glaze it 
with powder-sugar. 

APPLE SIRUP. Take six apples, 
pare and cut them into small pieces; put 
them into a matrass with three-quarters of 
a pound of sugar and two glasses of water ; 
slop it close and place it in a bain marie, 
and leave it abo«3t two hours, letting the 
water be boiling; move the matrass fre- 
quently without taking it out of the water; 
this must be done carefully lest it should 
break on being exposed to the cold air; 
when done put out the fire, and let the mat- 
rass cool before you take it out. When the 
simp is nearly cold, fiavor it with lemon- 
juice, and add a spoonfitl of spirits of lemon 
or cinnamon, orange-flower water, or what- 
eve«' else you may choose. If any dregs 
should arise, let it stand for some hours 
longer, and then gently pour the sirup into 
bottles. Great care must be taken to pre- 
vent its being muddy. 

APRICOTS BOTTLED. Press the 
quantity of ripe apricots you may require 



APR 



259 



APR 



through a horse-hair sieve ; put the pvilp into 
bottles, cork tliein very close, and tie them 
over; place these bottles upright in a large 
saucepan, with hay between to prevent their 
touching; put the saucepan on the fire, and 
fill it with water. When the water is near 
boiling, take it off and let it stand till the 
bottles are cold; then put them in a cellar, 
without touching each other, until wanted, 
when thej' \\ ill be found as good to use as 
fresh fruit. The apricots may also be pre- 
served whole by the same means. 

APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Choose 
your apricots when quite ripe, let them 1)6 
free from spots, rub them carefully with a 
linen cloth, to take off the down. Weigh 
your fruit, and to each pound put a quarter 
of a pound of sugar. Clarify it, and boil it 
to the degree tgrand perle, then put iu the 
apricots: boil them three or four times, tak- 
ing care to turn tiiem frequently, that they 
may take the sugar in all parts. Take them 
off the fire, and put them one by one into 
glass bottles; the sirup being by this time 
nearly cold, pour the brandy (three demise- 
tiers to eiich pound) into it by degrees, stir- 
ring constantly to mix it well with the sirup. 
When thoroughly incorporated, pour it into 
the bottles, the fiuit at first will float; but 
when the brandy and sugar have soaked in 
they will sink to tlie bottom; they are then 
fit to eat. 

APRICOT COMPOTE, GREEN. 

Green apricots are done exactly the same as 
green almonds. See Almonds. 

APRICOT COMPOTE. Peel, cut, 
and take the stones from your fruit, and put 
them on the fire in a little water, and when 
they rise they are sufficiently done, and may 
be taken out, cooled, and drained. Then 
put them into a little clarified sugar and give 
them tiiree or four boilings; skim them well, 
and then put your fiuit aside; boil the sugar 
alone four or five times more, and pour it 
over the apricots. When cold place them 
iri^the compotier. 

APRICOT CONSERVE. Take half- 
ripe apricots, peel and cut them into thin 
slices, dry them over a gentle fire ; to four 
ounces of fruit put one pound of sugar, boil- 
ed to tlie degree la plume forte; when the 
sugar is nearly cold put in ilie fruit, taking 
tare to &."':• it well with a spoon, that they 
may be wall incorporated. 

APRICOTS PARISIEN. Take five 
dozen very fine apricots, cut them in half, 
and put them, a few at a time, over the fire, 
with half a pound of sugar and four glasses 
©f' water; as soon as vou find tlie peel will 

22^ 



come off easily, take them out and draia 
them, and put fresh apricots into the sirup, 
and proceed the same until all are pealed, 
then reduce the sirup to the usual consis- 
tence. Put a pound of rice, half a pound 
of butter, the same of sugar, on which grate 
the zestes of four lemons, a little salt, eight 
or nine glasses of milk, and three-quarters 
of a pound of raisins, into a saucepan, and 
when it boils take it from the fire and put it 
on hot cinders, stirring it occasionally for 
an hour, when, if the rice be quite soft, mix 
the volks often es^s with it. 

APRICOTS IN JELLY. Pare and 

stone your apricots, scald them a little, lay 
them in a pan, and cover them with clari- 
fied sugar; next day drain the sirup, and 
boil it smooth, then add the apricots and 
boil together; the following day make a 
jelly with codlings, boiling some apricots 
among them, to give a better flavor. When 
the jelly is done put in the other fruit with 
the sirup, and boil altogether, skim it well 
and put it in glasses. 

APRICOT MARMALADE. Peel the 
apricots, and take out the stones ; to each 
pound of fruit put thi'ee-<|uarters of a pound 
of clarified sugar, boil it to the degree gros 
boulet, then put in the apricots, boil both tO' 
geiher: when it flows readily it may be put 
into pots. 

APRICOT RATAFIA. Peel and cut 
into pieces as many ripe apricots as you 
may require, and boil them in while wine 
(about a pint to four dozen;) strain and 
mix it with an equal quantity of brandy; 
put the whole into a jar, with the kernels 
bruised, add a quarter of a pound of sugar 
to each pint. Let it infuse for three weeks, 
then filter and bottle it. 

APRICOT SW^EETMEAT, whole 
AND DRY. Choose fine firm apricots, make 
a little opening at the top to take out the 
stone, put them into cold water, then blanch 
them over the fire; when theyljegin to boil, 
take out those which are soft, throw them 
into cold water, and drain them. In the 
meantime, prepare some clarified sugar to 
petit lisse. When it boils put in the apri- 
cots, and boil up a few times together. The 
next day separate the sugar fiom the fruit, 
boil d la nappe, and then pour it over the 
apricots again ; the following day boil the su- 
gar petit perle, then add the fniit, and boil 
together; the fourth day drain tliem; and, 
having placed them on iron plates, sprinkle 
them with sugar before you put tliem into 
the stove to dry; when dry, place in boxes 
in layers, placing a sheet of paper betweea 
each layer. 



BAR 



260 



BAR 



B. 



BADIINE, INDIAN. Take a pound 
of starred anise, pound and infuse it in six 
quarts of good brandy for a week, wlien 
add to it a pint and a Iialf of water, and 
distil it. Dissolve seven pounds and a 
half of sugar in seven pints of water, and 
add it to the distilled liqueur. Stir it well, 
strain and bottle it. This is also called 
Badiane Cream. Some persons color it 
Avith a little cochineal, it is then called Oil 
of Badiane. 

BALM WINE. Boil twenty pounds of 
lump sugar in four gallons and a half of 
water gently for an hour, and put it in a 
tub to cool. Bruise two pounds of the 
tops of green balm, and put them into a 
barrel with a little new yeast, and when 
the sirup is nearly cold pour it on the 
balm. Stir it well together, and lei it 
stand twenty-four hours, slirrjng frequently ; 
bring it up, and wlien it has stood for six 
weeks, bottle it. Put a lump of sugar into 
each bottle ; cork it tight. The longer it 
is kept the better it will be. 

BALSAM, SIRUP OF. Put an ounce 
of balsam of tolu into a quart of spring wa- 
ter, and boil them two hours ; add a pound 
of white pounded sugar-candy, and boil it 
half an hour longer. Take out the bal- 
sam, and strain the sirup twice; when cold, 
bottle it. 

BARBADOES CREAM. Take the 
zests of tbree (ine cedrats, two di-aclnns of 
cinnamon, and two of mace, and put them 
into three quarts of brandy ; close the ves- 
sel hermetically, and let it infuse for a 
week, then distil it in an alembic. Dis- 
solve over the fire three pounds of sugar in 
a (|uart of pure river water, add to it half a 
pound of orange-flower water, work the 
mixture, and filter it through a straining 
bag into bottles for use. 

BARBADOES WATER. Take the 
outer rind of eight large florentine citrons, 
naif an ounce of bruised cinnamon, and a 
gallon of recti%d spiiit; distil in the bain 
marie; dissolve two pounds of sugar in a 
quart of water ; mix it with the distilled 
li(|uor ; filter and bottle it fur use. 

BARBADOES WATER AMBER- 
COLORED. Infuse the yellow rind of 
six bergamots, half an ounce of cinnamon, 
and two drachms of cloves bruised, for six 



days in a gallon of rectified spirit; then 

add a drachm of saffron, and let the whole 
stand six days longer. Dissolve two pounds 
of sugar in a cjuart of water, add it to the 
infusion, and filter for use. 

BARBERRY T3ISCUITS. Press the 

juice tiirough a sieve fioia tvyfo pounds of 
barberries, and mix with it five pounds of 
sifted sugar ; whisk the whites of four eggs 
and add tliem to tlie fruit; j)repare some 
square paper cases, fill them with the jam, 
make them quite smooth, lay them oj 
sieves, and put them into a stove, and lei 
them remain six or eight days. Wliei 
perfectly dry, take away the papers : keep 
them in a dry place. 

BARBERRIES, TO CANDY. Take 
the barberries out of the preserve, and 
wash of!' the sirup in warm water ; tlieii 
sift over them some fine sugar, and set 
them in an oven, often moving them, ana 
strewing sugar upon them until they are drj'. 

BARBERRY DROPS. Cut off the 

black tops, and roast the fruit before the 
fire till soft enough to pulp with a silvei 
spoon through a sieve into a china basin, 
then set the basin in a saucepan of watei 
the size of the top of the basin, and stir 
the barberries till they become thick. 
When colli, put to every pint, a pound and 
a half nf the best sugar pounded as fine as 
possible. Beat the fruit and sugar together 
for two hours and a half (or more fur a 
large quantity), then drop it on sheets of 
while tliick |)aper. if, when you drop, it 
runs, there is not sugar enough, and it will 
look rough if you put too much. 

BARBERRY ICE. Put some barber- 
ries into a pan without water, set it over 
a gentle fire, stirring them constantly; 
when waim, pass them through a sieve, 
into a pan, add to the liquor clarified sugar ; 
if too thi( k, put a little water, but no lem- 
on-juice, as the barberries are sufficiently 
acid without; then put it into the sabotiere 
to congeal. 

BARBERRY ICE CREAM. Put a 

large spoonful of barberry jam into a pint 
of cream ; add the juice of a lemon and a 
little cochineal; stir it well, and finish as 
directed, see Ice. 

BARBERRY ICE WATER. Mix one 

spoonfiil of barberry jam with the juice of 
a lemon, a pint of water, and a little coch- 
ineal; pass it through a sieve and freeze it 
take care that it is thick and smooth be- 
fore you put in moulds. 



BAR 



261 



DER 



BARBERRY MARCHPANE. Take 
three pounds of sweet almonds, two pounds 
and a half of sugar, and a pound of l)ar- 
ISenies ; jwund the almonds to a paste, mix 
them with tlie sugar boiled to petit boule, 
and then add tlie juice of the harhenies 
strained; stir them together well, and place 
them on hot ashes, stirring them continual- 
ly until the paste is formed; then put it on 
a table s[)rinkled with sugar and let it cool ; 
spread it out about the thickness of a crown 
piece, cut it into various forms, place then) 
on sheets of paper, and bake them in a 
moderate oven and glaze them. You may 
use any other fruit you think proper. 

BARBERRY PASTILE. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum dragon in a glass of 
water, strain It in a cloth or bag, and put 
it into a mortar, with a spoonftd of bar- 
berry marmalade ; mix it well, and add as 
niuci) powder-sugar as will make it into a 
malle.ible paste; you may also put in a lit- 
tle cochineal dissolved; form it into what 
shapes you please.' 

BARBERRIES PRESERVED IN 
Bunches. Choose those barbeiries which 
have the largest seeds, which may be ex- 
tracted carefully with the nib of a pen. 
Weigh your fruit, and mix it with an 
equal weight of sugar boiled to petit boule; 
boil them together two or three times, and 
skim it. Set it aside in an earthen vessel 
until the next day, when it may be put in 
pots and covered. 

BARBERRY WAFERS. Press out 
fhe juice from as many barbcnies as you 
may recjuire, and mix it with powder-su- 
gar, and the white of one egg, anrl stir it 
up with a wooden or silver spoon, to a 
fine paste. Lay a sheet of wafer jDaper on 
a baking plate, and spread your paste over 
it very thin with a knife; cut it into twelve 
pieces, and put them round a stick (the 
paste upwards) in a hot stove to curl; when 
half curled, take them off carefully, and set 
them up endways in a sieve; let them stand 
for a whole day in a hot stove. 

BARBERRY WATER. Put two large 
spoonfuls of barberry jam, the juice of two 
lemons and a gill of sirup in a basin, and 
dilute it with water; add a little cochineal, 
and if not rich enough, more sirup; strain 
it through a fine sieve. 

BARLEY SUGAR. Clarify two pounds 
of sugar, and boil it to caramel height, in 
a deep copper vessel with a lip ; pour it in 
straight lines about an inch thick, on a 
marble slab previously rubbed with butter. 
Whilst hot, take each end of the strips of 



sugar and twist it; when cold cut it into 
proper lengths and ]n\t them by in glasses. 
Tlu^' must be kept in a dry place. 

BARLEY SUGAR DROPS. Proceed 
as u>v barley sugar. Have ready a large 
sheet of vvhite paper, covered with a smooth 
layer of sifted'^su-^ar. Potu' out the boiled 
sugar in drops the size of a shilling; when 
cold, fold them separately in paper, a few 
drops of the essence of ginger or lemon will 
improve the flavor. 

BARLEY SIRUP. Make of a pound of 
barley three quarts of barley water; strain 
out the barley, and put to the water a hand- 
ful of scabious, lormenlil, hyssop, agrimony, 
horeliound, maiden hair, sanicle, betons, 
burage, buglose, rosemary, marigolds, sage, 
violets and cowslips, of each a pint, when 
[)Icked ; a pound of raisins stoned, half 
a pound of tigs cut, a (|uarter of a pound of 
dates stoned; half a p(nn)d of green licjuor- 
icc, caraway, fennel and isniseed, of each 
one ounce, hartslioin, ivy, elecampane 
roots, of eacii an ounce; the roots of fen- 
nel, asparagus, couchgrass, polipodium, 
and oak parsley, of each a han;lful : clean, 
bruise the seeils, slice the roots, anil put all 
into the barley water, C(jver close, and 
boil gently for twelve houis ; then strain 
and press out the juice, and let it stand 
twenty-four hours; when clear, add to it 
rose water and hyi"J^')p, half a pint of each, 
and a pint of clarilied juice of C(;ltsfoot, a 
drachm of safrron, ihiee pints of (he best 
honey, and as many pounds of sugar as 
(|uarts of liquor, boil this an hour and a 
half, keeping it clean scummed, then bot- 
tle it, Cork it well, and put by for use. 

BARLEY WATER. Put a quarter 
of a po\M)d of pearl-bai Un' into two (juarls 
of water, let it boil, skim it very clean, 
boil half away, and strain it otf. Sweeten 
according to taste, and put in two glasses 
of white wine, or some lemon-juice. Drink 
it warm. 

BERGAMOr DROPS. Mix the juice 
of four or (ive lemons, and some sifted su- 
gar, with a wooden spoon; add to this 
twenty dfops of essence of bergamot ; mix 
it well in, and having sliried it over the 
fire three or four minutes, drop it about 
the size of a sixpence on writing j)aper, 
and let them stand till cold. 

BERGAMOT WAFERS. Squeeze 
six lemons into a basin, and mix some 
sifted sugar, essence of bergamot, and the 
white of an egg, with the juice; beat 
them together till very white ; if it becomes 
too thick, add the juice of another lemon j 



BIS 



262 



BIS 



rpread voiir paste., and dry them as bar- 
berry wafers. 

BERGAMOT WATER. To tha'rinds 
of lliree lierg:imots, put a gallon of proof 
Fpiril, and two quarts of water; draw off 
Dne gallon by the bain marie, and sweeten 
with sugar. 

BERGAMOT WATER. Take three 
gills of sirup, the juice of six lemons, and 
when diluted sufficiently with water, add 
a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot. 
Strain it through a fine sieve for use. 

BERGAMOT WATER ICE. Stir 
together the juice of three lemons, two gills 
of sirup, half a pint of w-ater, and half a 
tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot, strain 
and freeze it. 

BETONY, CONSERVE OF. Take 
a pound of hetony, three pounds of loaf su- 
gar, beat them in a stone mortar; boil the 
sugar with two quarts of betony water to 
the thickness of a sirup, then mix them to- 
getiier by little and little, over a gentle 
fire, make it into a conserve, and keep it in 
glasses. 

BISCUITS. Lay the rind of a lemon 
in boiling water, till it be tender; take half 
a pound of sweet almonds, and l)lanch them 
in cold water, and two ounces of gum-drag- 
on, which soak in fair water; then pound 
the almonds, putting in as you pound, the 
whites of two eggs beaten hollow; pound 
the lemon in a stone mortar by itself, and 
put the gum and the lemon into the almonds, 
and mix tiiem well together; then beat a 
pound of fine sugar in a mortar with the al- 
monds, gum and lemon, and afterwards add 
two pounds more of fine sugar, stirring it 
with a spoon, then roll it up in little rolls, 
and lay them upon white papers, and set 
them in the oven. 

BISCUITS IN CASES. Prepare 
your mixture the same as for spoon biscuits, 
and fill some little round or srjuare cases 
with it. Tl)en with the rolling pin crush 
some fine sugar, but not to a powder, and 
gtrew it over your biscuits, which place on 
a cop|>er plate, and when the sugar begins 
to dissolve put them in a gentle oven, at the 
mouth of which put a shovel full of burning 
coals to crystallize the sugar; and when that 
assumes the appearance of little pearls, re- 
move the coals and close the oven. These 
oiscuits will require from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes baking. , 

BISCUITS ICED Beat up the white 
of eight, and the volks of six eggs, with a 



pound of fine nowdered sugar, for two hours 
Have ready foiutcen ounces of well-dried 
sifted flour ; when the oven is ready and 
your plates buttered, mix the flour as quick 
as possible witli the eggs, &c., and lay the 
biscuits on the plates ; you may add a little 
musk and ambergris. Bake in a (]uick oven 

BISCUIT, ITALIAN. Bake a biscuit, 
made like Iced biscuit, in a plain, round 
mould ; cut it across, in slices an inch 
thick; pour on each slice a spoonful* of true 
maraschino, and when they have imbibed 
this, place them in their proper form, and 
mask the whole, either with white of egg and 
sugar, as biscuit with sweetmeats, or with 
apricot marmalade, on which strew pounded 
macaroons. 

BISCUITS OF ITALIAN WATER. 

Whisk up six eggs, and an equal weight of 
powder-sugar, for half an hour. Take six 
more eggs and their weight of flour, and mix 
all togethei", and lay this mixture on paper, in 
cakes the eigiith of an inch thick, and about 
two inches diameter ; lay them (juite flat, 
and do not let them touch. The oven shcnild 
be hot; five minutes will bake them. When 
cold, wet the under side of tlie paper, and 
they will then remove easily. 

BISCUITS, JUDGES. Break six 
eggs into a basin, and whisk them well 
f(jr five minutes, add half a pound of pow- 
der-sugar, and whisk again for ten minutes 
longer; put some caraway-seeds and half 
a pound of dry sifled flour; mix them all 
together with a wooden spoon. Drop them 
on paper about the size of a crown-piece, 
and thick in the middle ; sift sugar over, 
and bake them in a brick oven. Take 
them off" the paper while hot. 

BISCUITS, LIGHT. Take fen eggs, 
put the yolks of five in a pan with a few 
crisped orange-flowers, the peel of a green 
lemon, both shred fine, and three-quarters 
of a pound of fine sugar ; beat the whole 
together till the sugar is dissolved and well 
mixed with the eggs. Beat tlie ten whites 
to a froth, and add to the sugar, stir in 
lightly, and by degrees, six ounces of flo<ir, 
put them into buttered moulds, powdering 
them with fine sugar, and bake them in a 
moderate oven, 

BISCUITS, MANQUES. Put into an 
earthen pan half a pound of powder-sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter 
of a pound of butter, the same of pounded 
almonds, a little salt, and some orange- 
flower water, six yolks, and two whole 
eggs ; beat up these ingredients well ; whip 
the six whites, and mix them gradually 



BIS 



263 



BIS 



with the above preparation ; make a paper 
case, butter and pour in it your biscuit 
paste and bake it. Meanwhile cut some 
ahnonds into either dice or slips, mix them 
with some powder-sugar and white of e,i^g ; 
when the biscuit manques is about three 
parts done, dorez and cover it with this 
latter mixture ; then replace it in the oven 
and finish baking. As soon as it is done, 
take it out and cut it into whatever forms 
vour fancy nrav dictate. 

BISCUITS, MARBLED, Make twen- 
ty-four eggs, a pound of powder-sugar, and 
three-(]'iarters of a pound of dried and sifted 
(lour, into a biscuit paste, as directed for 
Spoon Biscuits; then beat four ounces 
of dissolved chocolate in an earthen pan, 
and add to it a third of the paste; when it 
is well mixed, divide it in half, and to one 
half mix a fjuarter of the hiscuit-paste, which 
will tinge that portion a light chocolate c(j1- 
or. After this, mix together some vegeta- 
ble red and infusion of salfron to color half 
the remaining paste orange; then divide 
that again, and mix the last quarter with 
half the oiange-color, thus your paste will 
be coloied with two shades of chocolate 
and two of orange. 

Make two |)aper cases, each eight inch- 
es square and three high, pour into one of 
these a large spoonful of the chocolate- 
paste, and when it has spread over the bot- 
tom of the case, pour in one of the orange- 
colored, on which another of the chocolate, 
and so on, alternately, until the case is half 
full ; then sprinkle it with flour, and put it 
into a slow oven for three-quarteis of an 
hour. Put the remainder of your biscuit- 
paste (both colors) into a pan and stir them 
together with a spoon till the whole is 
veined, or clouded with the two colors; pour 
it into the other case-, sprinkle it with ilour 
and bake like tlie former; whei. quite cold, 
cut them into slices about two int.'ies tlii( k, 
halfof vvliich should be broken, and the other 
half cut in pieces of an equal size, lay them 
on a baking-plate, and dry them in the oven. 
These are generally used to make the rocks 
in ornamental pastry, anil may be colored 
with the usual materials, according to your 
fancy. 

BISCUITS, MARCHPANE. Beat a 
pound of sweet almonds to a very fine 
paste, moisten them with water, then put 
ihem and a pound of powder-sugar into a 
saucepan, over a clear but not fierce char- 
coal fire, stirring constantly, till the paste 
leaves adhere together; put it on a fii>ured 
slab, and work it well with your hands fur 
some time, then roll snrall pieces of it about 
three inches long and half the thickness of - 
your little finger, join the ends of each and 



make them into round rings, lav them on a 
sieve in a dry warm place for two or three 
days. When wanted, mix some powder- 
sugar witii the whites of eisht ejj^s, and 
i)eal them wilu a wooden spoon in each 
hand ; add a cup of orange-flower water. 
Put your rings into this icing, and cover 
them completely ; lay them on a sheet of 
paper and bake in a slow oven until the 
icing sets and they begin to change color. 
Do not remove them from the paper till cold . 

BISCUITS, MILLEFRUIT. Take 
preserved orange and lemon-peel, a quar- 
ter of a pound of each, six ounces of angel- 
ica, the same of sweet, and one ounce of 
bitter almonds; cut all the above ingredients 
into pieces half an inch long and a quarter 
wide. Make an icing with white of eggs, 
sugar and orange-flower water ; put the al- 
monds, &c. into this, and having paper on 
your l.'aking-tin, lay the cakes on it, of 
whatever size you please; then with a hair 
pencil touch them here and there with a 
little cochineal. Bake them, but not in too 
hot an oven. 

BISCUITS, MONKEY. Take the 
weight of six eggs in powder-sugar, and 
mix it with the yolks and a little pounded 
cinnamon; whisk the whites to a firm froth, 
and stir them lightly into the yolks; add 
four whole eggs, and their ^^ eight of dry 
sifted fiour, mix them well together; take 
this mixture in a spoon, and lay it in about 
the size of a half-crown piece on paper, 
join two together with the spoon, and when 
your paper is full, sprinkle powder-sugar 
over and bake them; a few minutes will do 
them. Remove them from the paper v\hile 
hot and put the tv\o undersides together. 

BISCUITS, PRINCESS AMELIA. 

Put the whites of twelve egsis into an earth- 
en pan, whisk them to a thick snow, and 
add to them eight ounces of doul)le refined 
sugar, pounded ami sifted; having mixed 
them, put in three ounces of flour, and three 
of powder-sugar sifted, the grated rind of 
one or two lemons ar.d half a coffee cup of 
orange-flower water, stir them well with a 
wooden spoon, but take care not to sjwil the 
snow: drop them on paper of a laiger size 
than the sweet biscuits, and bake them to 
a clear brown in a moderate oven. Take 
them fiom the paper while hot. 

BISCUITS, SAVOY. ^Vhip twelve 
whites of eggs to a snow; beat the yolks 
with a pound and a ciuai ter of ])owder-sugar, 
mix them togethei', with three-tiuarlers of a 
po'und of fiour and the grated rind of a lem- 
on, into a paste, rub your mould with melted 
butter, and bake it. 



BIS 



264 



BIS 



BISCUITS, LARGE SAVOY. Take 

fiftv-six e^g?, fDur pounds of sugar, die zes- 
tes.of fonr oranges, a pound and thiee-quar- 
teis of potatoe-Hour sifted ; and make your 
biscuit as follow s: grate the zestes of die 
oranges on a |)iece of sugar, and as soon as 
it becomes colored, scrape it off, and grate 
again until all the zeste is done, then dry 
die sugar perfectly, crush and sift it. 

Break your eggs one by one, (taking care 
that all are perfectly fresh ; ) put tiie yolks 
and whites into separate vessels; mix half 
your sugar widi liie former, stirring it in 
with a spatula until perfectly smooth, dien 
add the remainder, and work it well for 
twenty minutes. Whip the whites till quite 
firm, putting in a small ((uantity of pounded 
alum; when sufficiently whipped, which 
may be known by little points rising when 
the whisk is taken out; mix a little with 
die yolks; still, however, keeping die whites 
stirring; then pour the yolks on them very 
gently mixing diem together as you pour, 
with the wiiisk: sift over the whole a pound 
of potatoe-flour, stirring the mixture all the 
time; when ready to put into the mould, 
your paste should be \ery smooth, and some- 
what of the consistence of treacle. Butter 
die mould, and put in a few spoonfuls of 
your paste at first, to prevent any globules 
of air appearing on the top when baked; 
pour in die remainder carefully. Cover a 
l)aking-plate with hot ashes, lay die mould 
in the midst of them, and place it in a mod- 
erate oven ; keep it open for an li(jur, that 
the biscuit may be watched, and if it takes 
color too quickly, cover it with paper. In 
diree liours lime take it from the oven, and 
if it Ije of a good color, and firm, turn it on 
a baking-tin, tie round it a band of double 
pa|ier, and re[)lace it in the oven for a quar- 
ter of an hour to dry. 

IBID, WITH ALMONDS. The in- 
gredients for this biscuit are the same as 
above, with the addition of four eggs, and 
half a pound of bitter almonds: blanch the 
almonds, then wash, drain, and dry them in 
a napkin; pound them with whites of eggs 
in the usual way, to a fine paste, pass it 
through a sieve, and then mix it with the 
additional eggs; add this to die sugar and 
yolks, aiid proceed as above. 

BISCUITS, SPICE. Take three 
pounds of Hour, three pounds of almonds, cut 
in half, tlnee ounces of cinnam(jn and mace 
pounded, and one pound of powder-sugar; 
mix them all together on your slab; boil 
ihree pounds of Lisbon sugar with some wa- 
ter; make the al)ov<; ingredients into a paste 
widi this, and roll it to the size of a large 
rolling-pin; lay it on a sheet of paper, flat 
it down a little with your hand, keeping it 



higher in the middle than at the ends; put 
it into a very h(jt oven; when done, take it 
out, and while hot, cut it across, in slices an 
eighth of an inch thick, and dry them. 

BISCUITS, FIXE SPOXGE. Brei.k 
twelve eggs, separate the yolks and whites; 
to the former put three quarters of a pound 
of powder-sugar, stir them well with a wood- 
en spoon, till it lises in large bladders; 
whisk the whites to a very firm froth, and 
then mix them very lightly widi the^yolks 
and sugar, and when incorporated, add ten 
ounces of fine dried and sifted fl(3ur. Stir 
them all together well, and pour the mix- 
ture into well-buttered tin moulds, sift sugar 
over, and bake them in a moderate oven. 
Take them from die tins while hot. 

BISCUITS, SPOON. Break four eggs, 
put the yolks and whites into separate 
basins; add to the former a quarter of a 
pound of powder-sugar; having grated on 
it the zesie of a lemon, mix these together 
well with a spatula for ten minutes; dien 
whip the whiles to a froth, and put about 
half of them to the y(;Iks, and when that is 
well mixed in, add the lest; stir it very 
lightly, and lay them with a spoon on paper, 
make them about three inches long, and the 
breadth of a finger. Glaze them with pow- 
der-sugar, and place them on baking tins, 
add, as the sugar dissolves, and they shine, 
put the biscuits into a moderate oven, w liich 
must be kept open for seven or eight minutes 
then cl(jse it until your biscuits are of a pro- 
per color. When cold, detiich litem from 
the paper with a thin knife-blade, and lay 
them by, in couples, the glazed sides out- 
wards, till wanted 

BISCUITS, SWEET. Take half a 
pound of fine pounded sugar, and sift it 
through a tammy. Put the whites of twelve 
eggs int(j a preserving-pan, and the yolks 
into an eartiieuware tureen ; whip the w lutes 
to a snow, and then carefully pour on it the 
yolks and sugar ; stir them gently ; place 
your pan over a chafing-dish; continue 
whipping the whole for a full half hour, and 
then, if the drop which falls from the whisk 
lays a little while without spreading, take it 
from the fire, and whisk again till it is cold; 
then atid half a pound of fine sifted flour, stir 
it in gently with a wooden spoon. Drop 
them on pajier, sift sugar over, and bake 
them in a warm oven until of a deep yellow; 
take them from the papers while warm; 
bake them ae soon as possible after they ate 
dropt on paper. 

BISCUITS, SWEETxMEAT. Cm 

some Naples Ijiscuits into pieces about an 
inch thick, and an inch and a half squaie. 



BLA 



265 



BOU 



and just crisp thein in the oven. Make some 
icing witli whites of eggs, sugar, and orange- 
flower water; dip one side of tiie biscuit 
into it ; cut some preserved lemon and 
orange-peel and angelica into small pieces; 
strew them over the biscuits, and dry the 
icing in the oven. 

BISCUITS, TOAD-IN-A-HOLE. 
Beat a pound of sweet, and an ounce and a 
half of bitter almonds to a fine smooth paste, 
moisten with water, and mix the paste, 
which should not be too thin, with a pound 
and a quarter of white sugar. Lay a sheet 
of writing-paper on your baking-plate, and 
wafer-paper on that ; lay the biscuits about 
the size of a half-crown piece; put a diied 
cherry in the middle of each ; sift sugar over 
and bake them in a niodeiate oven. When 
done, cut the wafer-paper round, but do not 
take it away. 

BLACKBERIIY WINE. Put full ripe 
blackbeiries into a large vessel with a cock 
in it, pour on as much boiling water as 
will co\er them, and as soon as the heat 
will permit, bruise them well with the hand 
till all the berries are broken; cover them, 
and in al)oul three or lour days, when the ber- 
ries rise to the top, draw off the clear part 
into another vessel; add to eveiy ten (juarts 
of die li(|Uor one pound of sugar, stir it well 
in, and let it stand a week or ten days to 
work. Draw it off through ajelly-bag. Sleep 
four ounces of isinglass in a pint of sweet 
wine for twelve hours, then boil it slowly 
till dissolved, put it in a gallon of the black- 
V)erry juice, boil them togedier and then 
put al' logether ; let it stand a few days, and 
bottle 

BLAXC-MANGE, DUTCH. Put a 

|)int of cleared calf's-(bot jelly into a stew- 
pan ; mix with it the yolks of six eggs, set 
it over a fire, and uldsk till it begins to 
boil; then set the pan in cold water, and stir 
the mixture till nearly cold, to prevent it 
finm ciu'dliiig, and whtin it begins to thicken 
fill the moulds. 

BLANC-MANGE, FRENCH. Blanch 
one pound of sweet, and a score of bitter 
almonds: drain them on a sieve, and after- 
wards dry them, by rubbing them in a nap- 
Lin; pound them in a mortar, continually 
moistening them with half a tea-spoonful of 
water at a time, to prevent their oiling. 
When ihey are pounded as fine as possible, 
take them out of the mortar, and put them 
into a pan; then with a silver spoon, beat 
up your almonds gradually, with live glasses 
of (iltered water; afier this, spread a napkin 
over an oval dish, and put your almonds 
upon it; dien gather up tlw corners of your 



napkin, and wring it very tight, to press ovi 
all the milk from the almonds; then jjut 
into this milk, twelve ounces of crystallized 
sugar, broken into small pieces; when the 
sugar is dissolved, pass the whole through a 
napkin; and then add to it one ounce of 
clarified isinglass, rather warmer than luke- 
warm; and when the whole is well incorpo- 
rated together, pour it into your mould. 
Your mould should be previously put into 
ten pounds of pounded ice ; w hen your blanc- 
mange is ready to serve, (which will Ije in 
two hours after it has been put into the 
mould,) you must take it out of the mould 
according to the rule prescribed in Violet 
Jelly. 

BLANC-MANGE W^ITH FRUIT. 

Boil an ounce and a half of isinglass, and 
when ciuite dissolved, strain it. Let it cool 
for half an hour, skim, and pour it free from 
sediment into another pan ; then whisk with 
it a tabIe-sp(jonful of cedrat, and half a 
pound of currant jelly, strawberry, or rasp- 
berry jam ; and when it begins to jelly, fill 
the moulds. 

BLANC-MAN(jE, without either 
Isinglass or Icing. Prepare your 
almonds in the s;nne manner as in the re- 
ceipt f(>r Blanc-mange u la Francaise, but 
only using hall the cjuantity specified in that 
receipt, and likewise leaving out the isinglass. 
Then put into a pan the whiles of four eggs, 
and whip them till they begin to whiten, 
then add your blanc-mange, and place your 
pan over hot ashes, and continue to whip 
your prepaiation until the egg is thoroughly 
mixed with the almonds, and the whole be- 
gins to turn to a thick cream; and when it 
is of a pro|)er consistence, pour into little 
cups, and serve it eidier hot or cold. 

When you wish to serve this entremet 
in little cups, an;l of any fiavor you p>lease, 
you must only make use of two-thirds of the 
quantity of almonds, named in the receipt 
for Blanc-mange French. 

BOUCHEES DE dames. Mix with 
six eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
three ounces of potato-flour, a little sail, 
and a pinch of dried orange-tlowers : beat 
them together well, and havmg buttered a 
tin, lay your paste on it, and bake it in a 
gentle oven for a i|uarter of an hour; when 
done, cut it in pieces, about the size of a 
crown piece, and glaze them, mask them 
according to your pleasure, and diy them 
in the oven. 

, BOUCHEES PETITES, GLACEES. 

Roll some puff paste to alxjut the eighth of 
an inch in thickness, and with a plain round 
paste-cutter, of two inches diameter, cut out 



BOU 



266 



BUT 



as many cakes as you may require; tlien 
with a smaller cutter, take out the midille 
of iialf the nuiub{;r, so as to make lings of 
theu! ; moisten the edges of the f(;rmer, ami 
lay the rings on them; wet them also as 
you lay them down, sjjrinkle them lightly 
with powder sugar, and bake them in a 
biisk oven. Tlicse bouchees require great 
attention in baking, as the sugar is apt to 
dissolve and color too quickly ; when done, 
they should be of a reddish tinge. Fill 
them with sweatmeats, preserves, or whip- 
pei^ cream, according to fancy. 

BOUCHEES DE MONSIEUR. Pound 
a stick of vanilla with two ounces of pow- 
der-sugar, and then sift it; mix with it 
seven additional ounces of dry powder-su- 
gar, and half a pound of sifted flour; add to 
this the whites of four eggs, whipped firm, 
and work them together till the paste is 
very smooth and soft. Ileat two copper- 
plates, rub them over with wax, and then 
wipe them; when cold, lay the paste with 
a knife, in pieces about the size of a filbert, 
shaded quite round, leave three-quarters of 
an inch space between each ; when the 
plates are full, put them on stools in an oven, 
so that they can receive no heat from below, 
then put a stove with hot coals on the top 
of the oven, and let them remain in this 
state for twenty-four hours ; then put them 
for fifteen or twenty minutes into a mode- 
rate oven. Take them from the plates 
whilst hot, and as soon as cold, finish them 
in the same way as bouchees de dames; 
glaze them with chocolate, a la rose, with 
pistachios, orange, cedrat, &c. &c. They 
may also be masked with sugar, pistachios, 
currants, &c. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, MERIN- 
GUES AUX-PISTACHES. Makrithem 
the same as above, strew sugar over with- 
out wetting the rings, and bake them to a 
liirht color in a moderate oven. Then mix 
a (jiiarter of a pound of powder-sugar with 
three wiiitcs of eggs, well whi|)ped, and 
mask the bouchees lightly with it, and 
glaze them with sugar; having ready a 
quarter of a pound of pistachio-nuts blanch- 
ed, and each cut across sloping; place these 
pieces round the edge of the bouchees like 
a cmwn; and each piece of the pistachios 
being fslaced on the cut side, they stand out 
from the edge of the bouchee: this process 
being finished, put them in the oven again a 
few minutes, to color the egg; and in the 
meantime stir up the white of egg which 
remains, and make with it half as many 
meringuees as you have bouchees, sprin- 
kle them witii sugar, and color both sides 
of them in a slow oven ; and when the bou- 
chees are ready for table, fill them with 



whipped cream, with pistachios, and covei 
each with half a meringue. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, PERLEES. 

Your bouchees being made and baked as 
a!)ove, whip the whites of two eggs to a 
firm fr(jth, and mix them with four spoon- 
fuls of sifted sugar, and when very sin(jolh, 
mask your bouchees with it: then take 
some white of egg, and with the point of a 
knife, drop them in pearls about the size of 
a grape-stone, round each bouchee, half an 
inch apart, sprinkle them lightly with sugar, 
and dry the egg in the oven, taking care 
tney do not lose their whiteness. 

\Vhen cold, place between each pearl a 
smaller one of red-currant jelly. Fill your 
bouchees with apricot marmalade, apple- 
jelly, &c. ; if, however, the jelly, or what- 
ever else you may use, be of a red color, 
your intermediate pearls should be composed 
of light-colored preserve, such as apricot 
marmalade, &c. These should be pearled 
a few at a time only. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, PRALI- 
NEES. Having prepared the bouchees ns 
usual, dorez and bake them in a moderate 
oven ; when they are of the proper color, 
mask them with whites of eggs mixed with 
sugar, and almonds minced very small; re- 
place them in the oven a minute or two, 
and then strew red, or any other colored 
sugar on them, but not so thick as to cover 
the almonds entirely. Fill the bouchees 
as usual. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, a la 
Reine. The same as above, only the 
paste must be cut thicker, and before you 
dorez, let them stand a few minutes. Bake 
in a brisk oven. 

BUCKTHORN, SIRUP OF. (1) Gath- 
er the berries in the heat of the day, and set 
in an earthen vessel in the oven; s(|ueeze out 
the juice, and for each peck of berries put 
two pounds of white sugar, and boil them 
together a (luarter of an hour; let it cool, 
and then bottle it. 

BUCKTHORN, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 
three quarts of the juice of clarified buck- 
thorn berries, and four pounds of brown 
sugar; make them into a sirup over a gentle 
fire, and while warm, mix with it a drachm 
of tlie distilled oil of cloves, dissolved on a 
lump of sugar. The true buckthorn may be 
known by the number of its seeds, having 
fi>ur, the alder buckthorn has only two, and 
the cherry buckthorn one seed. The for- 
mer is to be used. 

BUTTER, BLACK. Three pounds of 



CAN 



267 



CAP 



truit, currants, gooseberries, raspberries, 
and clierries, to a pound of coarse sugar, 
boiled till (juite tliick. It must waste to 
half the quantity. 



c. 



CAKES MADE OF FLOWERS. Boil 
double refined sugar to a candy height, and 
strew in your flowers and let them boil 
once up; then, with your hand, lightly 
strew in a little double refined sugar sifted, 
and put it directly into little pans made of 
card, and pricked full of holes at the bot- 
tom; you must set the pans on a cushion, 
and when they are cold, take them out. 

CAKES, HONEYCOMB. Boil your 
sugar to a candy height ; tlien put in your 
flowers, which must be cut; have little pa- 
pers with four corners ready ; drop some of 
your candy on the papers, take tliem off 
when ready, and if they are rightly done, 
they will look full of holes like honeycombs. 

CAKES, LIQUORICE. Take hyssop 
and red rose water, of each half a pint, half 
a pound of green licjnorice, the outside 
scraped ofl', and then beat with a pestle; 
put to it half a pound of aniseeds, and steep 
it all night in the water; boil it with a 
gentle fire till the taste is well out of the 
liquorice ; stiain it, put to it three pounds 
of liquorice powder, and set it on a gentle 
fire till it is come to the tliickness of cream; 
take it off, and put to it half a pound of 
white sugar candy seeied very fine; beat 
this well together for at least three hours, 
and never suffer it to stand still; as you 
beat it, vou must strew in doui)le-refined 
sugar finely seered, at least three pounds ; 
half an hour before it is finished, put in half 
a spoonful of gum dragon, steeped in or- 
ange-flower water: when it is very white 
then it is beat enough; roll it up with white 
sugar; and if you want it perfumed, put in 
a pastil or two. 

CANDYING. Fruit intended for can- 
dying must be first preserved, and dried in 
a stove befoie the fire, that none of the sir- 
up may remain in it. Sugar intended for 
the use of candying must he thus prepared: 
put into a tossing-pan a pound of sugar, 
with half a pint of water, and set it over a 
very clear fire. Take off the scum as it 
rises; boil it till it looks clear and fine, and 
:ake out a little in a silver spoon. When 
it ife cold, if it will draw a thread from 
/our spoon, it is boiled enough for any kind 
)f sweetmeat. Then boil your simp, and 
when it begins to candy round the edge of 

23 



your pan, it is candy height. It is a grea*, 
mistake to put any kind of sweetmeat into 
too tliick a sirup, especially at the first, aa 
it vvithers the fruit, and both the beauty and 
flavor are thereby destroyed. 

CANDY FLOWERS. Take the 
best treble-refined sugar, break it into 
lumps, and dip it piece by piece into water ; 
put diem into a vessel of silver, and melt 
them over the fire; when it just boils, 
strain it, and set it on the fire again, and 
let it boil till it draws in hairs, which you 
may perceive by holding up your spoon; 
then put in the flowers, and set them in cups 
or glasses. When it is of a hard candy, 
break it in lumps, and lay it as high as you 
please. Dry it in a stove, or in the sun, 
and it will look like sugar-candy. 

CANDY, ALL SORTS OF FRUIT. 
When finished in the sirup, put a layer into 
a new sauce, and di[) it suddenly into hot 
water, to take off the sirup that hangs about 
it; put it on a napkin before the fire to 
drain, and then do some more on the sieve. 
Have ready-sifted double-refined sugar, 
which sift over the fruit on all sides, till 
quite white. Set it on the shallow end of 
the sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and turn 
it two or three times. It must not be cold 
till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be 
beautiful. 

CANELLONS. Make a stiff paste, 
with a little melted butter, a spoonful or 
two of water, some rasped lemon-peel, an 
egg, a quarter of a pound of flour, and half 
that quantity of sugar ; roll it very thin; 
make a little cane of caid-paper, butter it 
well on the outside, and wrap it in some of 
the paste; bake it a few minutes; take out 
the card, and fill the paste with currant jel- 
ly, or any other jelly or sweetmeat you 
please. 

CANNELLONS MERINGUES. Whip 
the whites of two eggs, and having mixed 
tiiem widi two spoonfuls of powder-sugar, 
then mask the cannellons; when baked, 
crush a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, 
and roll the cannellons in it; replace them 
a few minutes in the oven, and then finish. 
The masking of these cannellons may be 
varied according to taste, with pistaciiios, 
dried currants, &c. the former cut in pigces, 
the latter well washed, dried and mixed 
with an etjual quantity of sugar. 

CAPILLAIRE, SIRUP OF. The 

capillaiie of Canada, akhough tliat of Mont- 
peiier is equally good, is a very odorife- 
rous vegetable, light and agreeable, but so 
extremely volatile, that the greatest pai't of 



CAR 



268 



CAR 



h is dissipated during the preparation of 
the sirup. To preserve then the odour of 
the capillaire, when your sirup is sufficient- 
ly done, pour it, whilst boiling, upon some 
fresh capillaire coarsely chopped up; then 
cover your vessel, and let it stand until it 
is quite cold, then pass it through a bolting- 
cloth to separate it from the leaves of the 
capillaire. 

Take one ounce of the capillaire from 
Carrada; put it into a glazed pan, pour upon 
It four pints of boiling water, leave it to in- 
fuse for twelve hours over some warm ashes ; 
strain it and let it run into a vessel, it will 
give you a strong tincture of capillaire; 
melt in tiiis tincture four pounds of sugar, 
put- tlie whole into a preserving-pan, and 
put it on the fire, and clarify it with the 
white of an egg, continue the cooking; when 
your sirup is perle, put some fresh capil- 
laire, chopped, into a pan, and pour your 
sirup, whilst boiling, upon it; cover your 
pan carefully, and let it cool ; when your 
sirup is cold, you may flavor it if you please. 
Put it into bottles, and cork them hermeti- 
cally. 

CAPILLAIRE, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 
some good capillaire, chop it up, not very 
small, put it upon a sieve; pour upon it 
some boiling water, and then let it infuse 
for ten hours in a vessel well covered ; strain 
this infusion, and put into it some sugar 
boiled au casse; clarify this siruj) with the 
whites of eggs whipped; skim it till it is 
very clear ; when it rises, take it oft' the 
fire, and leave it to cool, then put it into 
bottles. 

Viard and Beauvilliers, whose receipts 
are nearly the same, boil their capillaire for 
a quarter of an hour in river-water; after 
having passed this boiling through a sieve, 
they put into it some powder-sugar, and 
clarify their sirup with water, or a whole 
egg beaten up; then skim it, and when it is 
very clear and has boiled au lisse, they 
take it oft' the fire, and put into it some 
orange-flower water, and strain it through 
a na[ikin or straining-bag, leaving it to 
cool before putting it into bottles. 

For three pints and a half of sirup, you 
must use two good ounces of capillaiie, four 
pints of water, and four pounds of sugar, 
powder-sugar is the best, as it prevents sir- 
ups from candying. 

CARAMEL. Break into a small copper 
or brass pan one pound of refined sugar; 
put in a gill of spring-water ; set it on a 
fire; when it boils skim it quite clean, and 
let it boil quick, till it comes to the degree 
called crack; which may l)e known by dip- 
ping a tea-spoon or skewer into the sugar, 
and letting it diop to the bottom of a pan 



of cold water; and if it remains hard, it has 
attained that degree : squeeze in the juice 
of half a lemon, and let it remain one min- 
ute longer on the fire; then set the pan into 
another of cold water : have ready moulds 
of any shape; rub them over with sweet 
oil ; dip a spoon or fork into the sugar, and 
throw it over the mould in fine threads, till 
it is quite covered: make a small handle of 
caramel, or stick on two or three small gum 
paste rings, by way of ornament, and place 
it over small pastry of any description. 

CARAMEL CONSERVE. Clarify the 
quantity of sugar you may require, and boil 
h to caramel ; have ready some cases of 
double paper; pour in your sugar to the 
thickness of half an inch, and tiace on its 
surface the forms you wish it to have ; when 
cold, break it according to tho.se marks. 
This conserve may be colored and flavored 
according to the fancy. 

CARAMEL COVER FOR SWEET- 
MEATS. Dissolve eight ounces of double- 
refined sugar in three or four spoonfuls of 
water, and three or four drops of lemon- 
juice; then put it into a copper untinned 
skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the 
handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a 
pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar from 
the spoon into it, and so on till you have all 
tlie sugai-. Take a bit out of the water, 
and if it snaps and is brittle when cold, it is 
done enough ; but only let it be three parts 
cold, then pour the water from the sugar, 
and having a copper mould oiled well, run 
the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, 
and when cold you may put it on the di.sh it 
is to co\er ; but if, on trial, the sugar is not 
brittle, pour oft' the water, and return it in- 
to the skillet, and boil it again. It sh^iuld 
look thick like treacle, but of a bright light 
gold color. It makes a most elegant cover. 

CARDAMUM COMFITS. Procure 
your cardaniums at the chemists, and they 
will be in a shell; put them into the oven to 
dry the skins, and they will break; pick all 
the seeds from them, put the seeds into a 
large comfit-pan, and have a fire under the 
same as for others; mix your gum, starch, 
and sirup, and finish them the sameEis cara- 
way comfits. 

CARAWAY CAKE. Diy a quarter 
of a peck of fine flour in an oven; rub a 
pound and a half of fresh butter in it, till it 
is crumbled so small that none of it is to be 
seen; then take six spoonfuls of rose water, 
half a pint of canary, half a pint of cream, 
and three-(|uarters of a pint of new ale yeast, 
an 1 :he whites of two, and yolk.s of four 
eggs; mix all tliese well together, let it lie 



CAS 



269 



CH A 



before the fire, and when you make it up 
put in a pound and a hail of Naples biscuits, 
and three-quarters of a pound of caraway- 
comfits. Bake it. 

CARAWAY COIVIFITS. Take some 
fine caiaway seeds, sift all the dust from 
them, and iiave a large copper preserving- 
pan, about two feet wide, and with two 
handles and two pieces of iron made as a 
ring on each side; then you must have a 
pulley fixed to the beam, and a cord with a 
hook to each end, so as to fix it at each 
side of the pan to let it sling; then have 
some fine starch as white as you can get, 
and just soften it, boil some sirup a quarter 
of an hour, and mix it with the starch; 
take some gum arabic, put it into some 
water, then put that into another pan, and 
make it just warm; have an iron-pot with 
charcoal fire under the large pan, but not 
too hot, only just to keep the pan warm ; 
have a large tub to put your pot of fire at 
bottom, *md your large pan must be on the 
top; put the caraway seeds into your pan; 
add a large ladleful of gum arabic, rub them 
with your hands until you find they are all 
dr}, then put a ladleful of starch and sirup, 
and do the same over your pan of fire, until 
you find they are all diy; put the gum only 
three or four times to them at first, then the 
starch and sugar, but boil your sirup more 
as you find they come to coat with it, and 
not so much starch; when you have dried 
them seven or eight times, put them into 
your sieve; put them into the stove, do 
them the next day, and so, successively, for 
six or seven days. 

CARAWAY DRACEES. Take any 
quantity of caraway seeds you think proper, 
put them into a preserving-pan, and when 
quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a little 
at a time, stirring it occasionally, till of tiie 
size you wish; then proceed as directed for 
Almond Dragees. 

CASSIA CANDIED. Pound a little 
musk and ambeigris with as much of the 
powder of cassia as will lie on two shil- 
lings. Having pounded them well together, 
take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and 
as much water as will wet it, and boil it to 
a candy height, then put in your powder 
and mix well together. Butter some pew- 
ter saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. 

CASSIA RATAFIA OF. Take a 
pound of cassia, half a pound of bitter 
cherries, a Cjuarler of a pound of cassia 
leaves, and half a diachiii of cinnamon; 
bruise the two first, cut up the leaves, and 
pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredi- 
ents in three quarts of brandy for three 



weeks. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a 
quart of water, and mix with the liqueur, 
and let it stand some time longer, then 
strain and bottle it. Cork it up close. 

CEDRATS, BLANCMANGE OF 

Grate the rind of a cedrat upon some sugar 
in the usual way, until six ounces of sugar 
have been used ; blanch and pound a pound 
of sweet almonds, moistening them with 
water; when perfectly smooth, dilute thein 
with five glasses of water put in by degrees ; 
then pour them in a na|)kin, and squeezing 
it, express the milk of almonds from them; 
divide this into two equal parts, with one 
of which mix the six ounces of sugar willi 
the cedrat, and with the other portion, mix 
the same quantity of plain sugar; as su(;n 
as both are dissolved, strain them, and put 
in each half an ounce of isinglass: your 
mould being placed in ice, pour into it the 
white blancmange to three-cjuarters of an 
inch in depth ; as soon as that is set, pour 
in an equal quantity of the other, which 
ought to be of a clear yellow ; when that 
also is set, pour in some white, and so on 
alternately, till the mould is full. Turn out 
the blancmange as directed in Blancmange. 
French, * 

- CEDRAT, CONSERVE OF. Grate 
the rind of a cedrat all round, until the juice 
is ready to ooze out; this must be done by 
rubbing it against a large piece of sugar, 
(about a pound;) remove the surface of 
this sugar, to which the grated rind adheres, 
with a knife, and squeeze to it half the juice 
of the cedrat. Dissolve the remainder of 
the sugar to the degree grande plume, 
then take it from the fire, and when it has 
stood a little while, put in your cedrat, stir- 
ring it with a spoon, until a sort of ice 
forms on the top; you may then pour your 
conserve into moulds. Be careful not to 
put it in too hot. 

CEDRAT ZESTES, JELLY OF. 

Take three-quarters of a pound of lump su- 
gar, grate on it the zestes of two cedrats, 
and, as the sugar becomes colored, scrape 
it ofi'with a knife, and grate again, and so 
on until all the zeste is gone; dissolve the 
scraped sugar in two glasses of water, and, 
with the juice of four lemons, pass it through 
a jelly bag. Clarify the remainder of the 
sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a 
small preserving pan; boil it to caramel 
height, to color the jelly; mix this, tlie 
fruit, the sirup, and an ounce of isinglass 
together, and finish in the usual way. 

CIIANTILLY BASKET. Dip some 
ratafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to 
caramel height; place theni romid the iiv» 



CHE 



270 



CHE 



eide of a dish ; then cut more ratafia cakes 
into squares, dip them also into sugar, and 
pile them corner-ways on the row, and so 
on for two or three stories high. Line the 
inside with wafer-paper, and fill it with 
gponge biscuit, sweetmeats, blanched al- 
monds, or some made cream; put trifle 
over that, and garnish the froth with rose- 
leaves, colored comfits, or caramel sugar 
thrown lightly over the top. 

CHERRIES IN BRANDY. Choose 
the finest and ripest cherries, leave on half 
the stalks, and put them into very cold wa- 
ter. In about half an hour take them out, 
and drain them on a sieve; Aveigh them, 
and to every pound of fruit, allow a quarter 
of a pound of sugar; when you have clarified 
and boiled it to grand perle, put in the 
fruit, boil them up two or three times, stir- 
ring them gently with a skimmer; then take 
them from the fire carefully, and put the 
cherries into bottles or glass jars ; when 
filled, add to each twelve cloves and half an 
ounce of cinnamon tied in a linen bag. Put 
to the sugar, when nearly cold, brandy (in 
the pioportion of a pint and a half to a 
pound of fruit) ; mix them together well, 
and pour them on the cherries. In two 
months time taste them, and if sufiiciently 
flavored, take out the cloves and cinnamon. 
Cover the jars or bottles close. 

CHERRIES, TO CANDY. The fruit 
must be gathered before it is ripe; prick 
and stone them; boil clarified sugar, and 
pdur it over them. 

CHERRY ICE. Take the stones and 
stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, 
bruise, and set them on the fire with a little 
water, and half a pound of sugar. When 
they have boiled, pass them through a hair 
sieve into an earthen pan. Pound a handful 
of the kernels, put them in a basin with the 
juice of two lemons. Add to the chei ries a 
pound of sugar au petit lisse, and strain on 
them the leinon-jiiioe and kernels ; mix the 
whole together, and put it in a sabotiere, 
with pounded ice. Work the cherries up 
with it well, until it has set, then place it in 
glasses. 

CHERRY ICE CREAM. Take half a 
pound of preserved cherries, pound them, 
Btones and all; put them into a basin, with 
one gill of sirup, the juice of a lemon, and a 
pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it according to custom. 

CHERRY MARMALADE. Choose 
the ripest, largest, l)est red colored cherries, 
you can meet with, and take of them double 
the weight of the sugar you intend to use ; 



stone and tail; and then put them on a 
gentle fire, and keep stirring them till re- 
duced to half. Clarify and boil your sugar 
to petit casse, then add the fruit to it, and 
stir it until you can see the bottom of the 
pan ; the marmalade is then sufficiently done, 
and may be put into pots. 

CHERRY MARCHPANE. Take three 
pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half 
of sugar, and a pound of cherries ; pound 
the almonds to a paste, and mix it with the 
sugar, boiled to petit houle; then having 
stoned, well bruised, and squeezed out the 
juice of the cherries, add it to the rest, stir 
it well, place it on hot ashes, stirring con- 
stantly until the paste is properly done; 
then finish it in the usual way, (See 
Marchpane.) Strawberries, raspber- 
ries, currants, or any other fruit may be 
used in the same way. 

CHERRY RATAFIA. Crush ten 
pounds of cherries, and put them ii^to a jar 
with a quart of brandy ; cover the jar close, 
and infuse the cherries for five or six days; 
at the end of that time put the fruit into a. 
cloth, and press the juice out through. Boil 
five pounds of fine currants, with three pounds 
of sugar, and press out the juice as you did 
that of the cherries; mix the two juices, 
measure them, and for every pint allow a 
pint of brandy. Add a pound of the kernels 
of the cherry-stones, half a pound of corian- 
der, a little mace, some cloves and cinna- 
mon, all well pounded, put them into a jar, 
and pour the li(iiwjr over them ; cover it 
close and let it infuse for six weeks, after 
which, pass the whole through a jelly-bag, 
and bottle it; cork it carefully. 

CHERRIES, SIRUP OF. The best 
cherries for this pui|,iose are the black sour 
ones ; take out the stones and express the 
juice into an earthen pan, where it must 
stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours 
to clear: at the end of that time pour the 
juice gently into a pan, and add to it, for 
each pound of juice, two pounds of crushed 
sugar, and two drachms of cinnamon, pre- 
viously infused in a glass of water, wrap the 
cinnamon in a piece of linen, and put it with 
the water into your pan; boil all together 
for half an hour, skimming it carefully. 
When sufficiently done take out the cinna- 
mon ; strain the sirup till quite clear, and 
when cold bottle it. 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (1) 

Roast chestnuts as for the table ; take oflf 
the skins ; dip each in the whites of egga 
beaten, and then roll them in powder-sugar; 
lay tliem separately on paper to dry, in a 
moderate oven ; they may be cut into dif- 



CHE 



271 



CHO 



ferent foims if ynti think proper, and glazed 1 boiled a little while, strani it, put it into 
either white or brown. a dish, or glass for table, and let it cool. 



CHESTlXUTS in caramel. (2) 

Cut some osier rods or reeds into pieces 
about two or three inches long, and on the 
point of each put a roasted and skinned 
chestnut. Take a piece of very fresh but- 
ter, (about the size of a nut), and rub it 
with the palm of the hand, on an iron plate 
or marble slab, taking care to rub every 
part well. Then having boiled some clari- 
fied sugar to caramel height; take a piece 
of the osier, witii a cliestmit on the end, in 
each hand, and dip them in the sugar, twist- 
ing ihein round repeatedly, that the sugar 
mav adhere eciually about the chestnut till 
it begins to cool, then lav them on the but- 
tered slab, and dip in two more, proceed- 
ing as above; when all are done and cold, 
take out the osier twigs, and wrap each 
chestnut in paper, with a device if you 
think proper. These chestnuts make a de- 
licious sweetmeat, but they should be eaten 
the day on which they are made. 

CHESTNUT C03IP0TE. (1) Take 
the outer skin from about a hundred 
chestnuts, and then put them into a sauce- 
pan with water, a lemon cut in pieces, and 
three handfuls of bran ; put them on the fire 
and blanch them: as soon as a pin will go 
into them easily, they are sufficiently done ; 
iTjb^oft' the second skin, and throw them 
into cold water, with the juice of a lemon. 
Clarify and boil a pound and a half of sugar 
to petit lisse, and having drained your 
chesiiiuts, put them into the sugar with the 
juice of a lemon, the quarter of a glass of 
orange-flower water; put these on the fire 
for a short time, but not to let them boil : 
then take them off and set them by. The 
next day drain the chestnuts, and boil up 
the sirup four times; then add more sugar, 
and having boiled it to souffle, put in the 
chestnuts; blanch them instantly afterwards, 
and put them into compotiers. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (2) Roast 
your chestnuts as for the dessert, and 
when they are peeled and skinned, put them 
into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and half a glass of water ; let 
them simmer for a quarter of an hour; 
squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and when 
ready to serve, strew powder-sugar over 
tliem. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. (1) Pound 
twenty-five roasted chestnuts in a mortar, 
with a little milk : tlien put the paste so made 
into a stewpan, with the yolks of two eggs, 
half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, and 
four ounces of powder-sugar; wlien it has 

23* 



CHESTNUT CREAM. (2) Roast, and 
then pound a quarter of a hundred of chest- 
nuts, with a small quantity of milk ; to this 
add the yolks of two eggs, a pint of milk, 
a cjuarter of a pound of powder-sugai , and 
al)out an ounce of butter. Boil these to- 
gether for some minutes, then strain it, and 
set it by to cool. 

CHESTNUT CUSTARD. Take three 
pounds of well roasted chestnuts, removing 
such parts as were colored by the fire, and 
pound them with a pound of fresh butter; 
when a smooth paste, add three-quarters of 
a pound of powder-sugar, the yolks of 
twelve eggs, a pinch of salt, and a few 
spoonfuls of whipped cream, the whites 
whipped firm, and finish the custard as di- 
rected. 

CHESTNUT PASTE. Make a mar- 
malade by boiling chestnuts in water, and 
rubbing them through a sieve, then pound 
them, and to three-quarters of a pound of 
this, add a f(uarter of a pound of any other 
fruit marmalade; mix them well up with an 
e(]ual weight of sugar boiled to grand 
plume; put it into your moulds and bake it 
as cherry, or any other paste. 

CHINESE TEMPLE. Having boiled 
an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half 
an ounce of butter, and a little water, set it 
by till cold, and then add to it an egg well 
beaten. With this, make four ounces of 
flour into a very stiff" paste ; roll it out a3 
thin as possible, and lay it in a set of tins 
the form of a temple, and bake them in a 
slow oven. When cold, take the paste 
from the tins, and join each piece together 
according to the propei- forms, with isin- 
glass and water. The lower part, of 
course, ought to be stronger than the top, 
in order that it may sustain the weight of 
the whole. The pieces also must be cut 
as exact as possible to the shape of the 
tins. 

CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. Take a 
pound of chocolate finely grated, and a 
pound and a half of the best sugar, finely 
sifted; soak some gum-dragon in orange- 
flower water, and work them into what 
form you please ; the paste must be stiflT; 
dry them in a stove. You may write de- 
vices on papei', roll them up, and put tliera 
in the middle. 

CHOCOLATE BONBONS. Put a 

quarter of a pound of chocolate over a fire, 
to dissolve it; and having boiled two pound* 



CHO 



272 



CHO 



of sugar to forte perle, put a spoonful or 
two into the chocolate; stir it till it forms a 
thin paste, and then pour it on the su;t;)i-, 
an;i boil bolh together to caramel. In the 
meantime melt a little butter, skim, and 
pour it off clear into a basin ; take a spoon- 
ful of it, and rub it with your hand over a 
marble slab or table: on this pour the choco- 
late and sugar ; then take two en.ds of a 
sword-blade, (one in each hand), and press 
lines an inch apart all down it ; cross Ihem 
in like manner, so as to mark the sugar in 
small scjuares all over ; doing it as quick as 
possible, lest the sugar should cool before 
you have done ; then pass the sword-blade 
between the marble and the sugar ; lay un- 
der the latter sheets of paper ; and when 
cold, break it into pieces according to the 
marks, and wrap each square in paper. 

CHOCOLATE COMFITS. Take two 
ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a 
little warm water over the fire ; when it is 
dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it 
upon a pound of masse pain or sweet 
paste, to which add some cinnamon or va- 
nilla at discretion ; mix the whole well to- 
gether ; tlien spread it over some wafer 
shapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
If the paste does not appear deep colored 
enough, you may color it with bolus Ar- 
menicum. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (1) Dis- 
solve two ounces of good chocolate in a 
little water, put it into a skillet jvith half a 
pound of sugar boiled to perle ; keep the 
sugar stirring, and when it boils put the 
conserve into moulds. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (2) Dis- 
solve a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late in a small quantity of clarified sugar; 
boil a pound of sugar to the premiere 
plume, put your chocolate into it, stirring 
it well to mix it; serve it whilst it is warm. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. Take one 
pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a 
pewter sheet or plate, and |>ut it in the 
oven just to warm the chocolate ; then put 
it into a co})per stewpan, with three- 
((uartcrs of a pound of powdered sugar ; 
mix it well over the fire, take it off, and 
roll it in pieces the size of small marbles, 
put them on white paper, and when they 
are all on, take the sheet of paper by each 
corner, and lift it up and down so that the 
paper may touch the table each time, and 
by that means you will see the drops come 
quite fat, aljout the size of a sixpence ; put 
Bome sugar nonpareils over them, and cover 
all that ai-e on the paper, then shake them 
off, and you will see all the chocolate drops | 



are covered with the sugar nonpareils; let 
them stand till cold, and they will come off 
well, and then put them in a box papered. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (1) 

Take any quantity of chocolate, melt it over 
the fire in a small pan ; when melted jjoar 
it into that in which you are to make youi* 
cream ; break your yolks of eggs into it, 
(four eggs to every pint of cream) add some 
pounded loaf sugar to it, keep stirring con- 
tinually; then add your cream by little and 
little, stirring and turning it till the whole 
is mixed properly together; then set your 
pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a 
wooden spoon till you see your composition 
is near boiling, tlien take it off innnediate- 
ly, for, from the moment you set your com- 
position over the fire till that it offers to 
lx)il, it has sufficient time to incorporate 
well and thicken sufficiently, without need 
of boiling; and should you let it boil, you 
would lisk the turning your cream into 
whey, on account of the yolks of eggs, which 
would do too much. Take great care 
likewise your cream is fresh and sweet, 
for otherwise as soon as it is warm it will 
turn to curds and whey; therefore, be care- 
ful, stir it continually, from the time you 
set it on the fire till you take it off; then 
put it in the sabotiere to make it congeal 
after the usual manner. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (2) 

Dissolve the chocolate in a little water on 
a slow fire; when properly done, mix it 
with a pint of cream, three yolks of new 
laid eggs, and about half a pound of sugar. 

CHOCOLATE ICE WATER. Take 
three ounces of chocolate, warm it, and 
mix with it half a gill of sirup, and half a 
pint of water; mix it well, and freeze it 
thick. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. Put 

a quarter of a pound of chocolate on a tin- 
plate over a coal fire, and when it is dis- 
solved pour it on a plate; put to it a spoon- 
ful or two of sweet almond paste, made as 
for macaroons, stir it in well, and then pour 
it upon tlie remainder of tlie almond paste, 
in which you have mixed a tea-spoonful of 
powdered cinnamon or vanilla, or both: 
beat them together well in a mortar, lay 
them on paper, and bake them for three- 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT AMOUR. 

For f)ur bottles of brandy, take one pound 
of the best chocolate, cut in small bits; a 
little salt, two cloves, and a little cinna- 
mon ; you must infuse all in the brandy, with 
two bottles and half a pint of water, with 



CIN 



273 



CIN 



whites of eggs, and filter it through the pa- 
per. You must be careful not to take more 
than two bottles from every four, except 
from the cinnamon, from wliich }ou are to 
take as much as you can get. 

CHOCOLATE PASTILS. Take a 
little choc(jlate, which put in a pan over the 
fire to melt it; stir it with a spoon; when 
it is melted, take half a pound of loaf su- 
gar, pounded in a mortar and sifted, which 
dissolve in a little clear water. When that 
is done, put in your chocolate; if you find 
the paste too thick, add a little water, 
enough to bring it to that degree of liquidity 
that you may take it up on a knife; then 
take half a sheet of paper, and co\er it with 
little round and flat drops, which we call 
pastils, of the size of a sixpence; let them 
dry naturally in a cuplx)ard; and when dry, 
take them oft' from the paper, and put them 
in boxes. 

CHOCOLATE PASTIL PASTE. 

Melt half an ounce of gum-dragon in a little 
water till it is quite dissolved and thick; 
sift it through a linen cloth, pound it in a 
mortar with a quarter-part of whites of 
eggs, a chocolate cake bruised, and half a 
j)ound of fine powder-sugar, mixed by de- 
grees, and adding either more or less sugar, 
according as the paste is malleable; it must 
be pretty firm ; form it into what flowers or 
designs you please, as shells, lozenges, any 
kind of corn or beans, &c. 

CHOCOLATE PETIT PAINS. These 
are made in the same way as Petits Pains 
a la Duchesse (see that article), but with- 
out the dorure. When cold fill them with 
a cream patissiere, mixed with two ounces 
of vanilla chocolate, and sweetened with 
sugar, flavored with vanilla; then put three 
ounces of sifted sugar, the same of choco- 
late, and half the white of an egg into a 
pan; stir these ingredients with a silver 
spoon until you have a smooth transpaient 
glaze, with which mask the top and sides 
of the petits pains, spreading it equally 
with the blade of a knife. 

CHOCOLATE SWEETMEATS. 

Take two ounces of chocolate, and break it 
into a little warm water, put it on the fire, 
and when quite dissolved, mix it with a 
pound of marchpane paste, to which may be 
added vanilla or cinnamon; stir it up well, 
and then spread it on wafer-paper in what 
forms you please, and bake them in a mod- 
erate oven. If the sweetmeats be not sufii- 
riently dark colored, add a little bol-ammo- 
niac. 



half a dozen eggs with three table-spoonfuls 
of rose water; add to it a pound of sifted 
sugar, a dessert-spoonful of powdered cinna- 
mon, and a sufficient quantity of flour to 
make it into a paste; roll it out thin, and 
cut it into whatever forms your fancy may 
dictate, place them on paper, and bake 
them. When done, remove them from the 
paper. Keep them dry. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (1) Soak cin- 
namon in water for foiu- and twenty hours, 
and then cut it into pieces about an inch 
long ; piepare some sugar to grand lisse, 
and give the cinnamon a boil in it; drain 
and dry it in a stove to the proper consis- 
tence; then put it in the moulds with sugar 
boiled to souffle, and when half cold, dry 
it. Before the candy is removed from the 
moulds, they should be laid on one side for 
some time. Keep them in paper in a dry 
place. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (2) Cut 
some cinnamon info small sticks of about an 
inch or an inch and a half long; then put 
them into thin sugar, and boil them as it 
were in a sirup^ Then take ofT the pan, 
and set it by for five or six hours to soak, 
take them out and lay them on a wire-grate, 
dry them thoroughly in the stove; after- 
wards put them in order in tin moulds 
upon little grates made for the purpose, and 
set into the moulds, so that there may be 
three rows set one above another, separated 
by those*grates. In the meantime, boil su- 
gar till it is blown, and pour it into your 
mould, so that some of it may lie upon the 
uppermost grate; then set them in the stove 
with a covered fire, and let them stand all 
night ; the next morning take notice whether 
tlie cinnamon be well coagulated ; turn the 
mould upside do%vn, and set it in the stove 
agajn, with a plate underneath; and when it 
is thoroughly drained, take out your slicks 
of cinnamon, loosening them, by little and 
little, gently ; then lay them upon a sieve, 
set in the stove, and dry them thoroughly. 

CINNAMON, CONSERVE OF. 

Bruise four drachms of cinnamon, dilute it 
with a little clarified sugar, or sirup of mal- 
lows; boil two pounds of sugar to petit 
casse, throw in the cinnamon, stir it well, 
and then take it from the fire, and. when the 
sugar begins to whiten, pour the conserve 
into cases or moulds, and dry it as usual. 

CINNAMON, DRAGEES OR SU- 
GARED. Soak a quarter of a pound of 
the best cinnamon in sticks, for twelve hours 
in water to soften it ; at the end of that time. 



cut it into slips, lay diem on a sieve in a 
CINNAMON CAKES. Whisk up | warm place for some days. When quite 



CIN 



274 



CIT 



nard and dry, boil some fine sugar to the 
degree grand perle; have ready a quantity 
of fine powder, and proceed in tlie same 
manner as in doing Almond Drageca, 
until the cinnamon slicks are of the proper 
t!iici<ness; those which are to be twisted or 
curled, shoul.i not be so thick as the others. 
Be ecjnaily particular in removing tlie sugar, 
that cakes on the bottom of the pan, as in 
making Almond Dragees. 

CINNAMON DRAGEES, COMMON. 

Infuse a quai ter of a pound of gum-dragon, 
in as much water as will cover it; the next 
day jrjf tlie infusion into a mortar, and stir 
it well with a pestle, and the longer it is 
stirred the winter it becomes ; in rather 
more tiian a quarter of an hour, add to it 
the caked sugar wliicli was removed from 
the |3reserving-pan, and wliich must be well 
pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder- 
sugar, a spoonful (jf cinnamon powder, and 
by degrees two or three poimds of flour; 
moisten the whole occasionally with water; 
when the paste is of a proper consistence, 
place it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it 
well for a short time, roll it out in sheets, 
not thicker than the eighth of an inch, and 
then cut it into slips of the same size as the 
cinnamon (see above,) put them on paper 
or a sieve in a warm place for some days. 
Then boil some conunon sugar to perle, 
and sugar the slips of paste as above direct- 
ed; instead of the tine powder, flour is suffi- 
cient, until the last two layers, when the 
powder may be used to give them Vvhiteness. 
When of the requisite size, lay them on 
sieves to dry. In a few days theie may be 
curled, and colored, which is done in the 
same mannei- as coriander seeds. Observe, 
fine sugared cinnamon is always white. 

CINNAMON, ESSENCE OF. This 
is made bv infusing oil of cinnamon in 
higlily rectified spirits of wine, in the pro- 
portion of half a drachm of the former to an 
ounce of the latter. 

CINNAMON PASTILS. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of 
water, and strain it through a lawn sieve 
into a mortar, and add to it a tea-spoontul 
of powdered cinnamon, and a sutificient 
quantity of sifted sugar to make the paste of 
a proper consistence; form into such figures 
as you may fancy, and dry them in a stove. 
Keep them in a dry place. 

CINNAMON SWEETMEATS. Take 
a pound of marchpane paste, and dilute 
it with as many whites of esres as will 
make it spread easily with a knife; add to 
this, a spoonful or two of prepared bole-am- 
noniac, which will give it a fine red tinge, 



and half an ounce of cinnamon-powder. 
When all these ingredients are well mixed, 
cut some wafer-paper into such forms as you 
may think proper, and lay on them the paste 
about the thickness of the eighth of an inch; 
place them on paper, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. When done, they may be 
finished in the following manner: — Boil 
some sugar in orange-flower water, to la 
plume, and as you take the sweetmeats from 
the oven; dip a hair-pencil into the sirup, 
and brush them over; this dries almost im- 
mediately, and considerably improves the 
look of them. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. Pound and 
sift six ounces of sugar, and put it with an 
equal quantity of melted fresh butler, the 
same of flour, half an ounce of powdered 
cinnamon, and a small egg; stir these up in 
an earthenware vessel, with a sufficient 
quantity of milk to make it into a thin, but 
not too clear, paste. Make an iron plale 
quite hot, rub it well with butler, then lay 
on it a spoonful of the paste; fry it, and 
when brown on both sides, roll it, still over 
the hot iron, round a small stick; do this 
until all the paste is used. 

CINNAMONUM. Take a quarter of 
a pound of ciimamon, two drachms of mace, 
and one ounce of stick-liquorice ; bruise 
them well, and then put them into three 
quarts of the best brandy; let the infusion 
stand for some days before you distil it; 
dissolve four pounds of sugar in three pints 
and a half of water; mix this sirup with the 
liqueur, and then strain them. This is 
sometimes called Oil of Cinnamon. 

CITRON, CANDIED. Pare the citrons 
very thin and narrow, and throw them into 
water; these are called faggots; then cut 
the citron into slices of any thickness you 
think proper ; take out the inner part with 
great care, so as to leave only the white 
ring, and put them with the faggots into 
boiling water; when tender, drain them. 
Boil a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar 
to souffle; then put in the rings, and boil 
them together. Take it from the fire, and 
when a little cool, rub the sugar against the 
side of the pre erving-pan with the back of 
a spoon ; as soon as it becomes white, take 
out the rings with a fork very caiefully, one 
by one, and lay them on a wire-grate to 
drain: boil and proceed with the faggots in 
a similar way; when taken out, cut them 
into proper lengths with a pair of scissors, 
and lay them also on the wire to drain. 

CITRON PASTE. Cut ofl^" the ends 
of the citrons, take out the middle, with all 
the seeds; boil theui in some water; and 



CIT 



275 



COF 



when quite tender, take them from the fire, 
and tlirow them into cold water a moment; 
then, liaviiig pressed them in a doth to j^et 
the water out, pound and sift tliem. To 
every quarter of a pound of this marmalade 
put half a pound of clarified sugar; simmer 
them together, stirring constantly until well 
mixed ; then put them into moulds, and place 
them in a stove to dry. 

CITRON WHITE PRESERVED, 

Lay some white citrons, cut into pieces, in 
salt and water for four or five hours; then, 
having washed them in cold water, boil 
them; when tender, drain, and lay them 
into as much clarified sugar as will cover 
them. The next day drain off the sirup, 
and boil it; when quite smooth and cold, 
pour it on the citrons; let them stand twen- 
ty-four hours; then boil the sirup again, 
and put in the citrons. The third day, 
boij both together, and put them into moulds 
to candy. 

CITRON PRESERVED LIQUID. 

Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, 
so that the inside may take the sugar as 
well as the outside, and put them over the 
fire in some water; whenever they are near 
boiling, put cold water to them. As soon 
as the citrons rise to the top, take them out, 
and throw them into cold water. They 
must then be put on the tire again, in the 
same water, and boiled gently until tender; 
then take them out, and put them in cold 
water. After this, boil them seven or eight 
times in clarified sugar; pour the whole 
into an earthen pan, and let it stand. The 
next day drain the fruit, and boil up the 
sirup twenty or thirty times; add a little 
more sugar, and pour it over the citrons ; 
do this for three successive days, increasing 
the degree to which you boil the sugar daily, 
so that at the last boiling the degree may 
be au perle. The fruit may then be put 
into pots. 

To preserve them dry, they must be done 
exactly the same; only, instead of putting 
the fruit into pots, they should be dried on 
sieves in a stove. With the remaining su- 
gar the citrons may be glazed. 

CITRON RATAFIA. Pare seven or 
eight citrons very thin; cut the peel into 
small pieces, and put thein into a jar, with 
three pints of brandy, and let them infuse 
for three weeks; then add to this a pound 
of «iig;M% boiled in half a pint of water, and I 
Avell j-kiniiiied; let it stand twelve or fifteen ■ 
days longer, when it may be bottled. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (1) Put into I 
A china bowl alternate layers of fine powder- 
sugar, and citron, pared, and cut in very ' 



thin slices, and let them stand till the next 
day; then strain off the sirup, and clarify "it 
over a gentle fire. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (2) Put the 

rinds of three citrons into an eaithen ves- 
sel, and strain on them the juice; to this 
put a little water; pour the mixture into a 
basin in which is four pounds of clarified 
sugar, boiled to fort boulet. Place tiiis 
basin in a large saucepan, half filled with 
water, over the lire ; stir the contents of 
the basin frequently; and when the sugar is 
entirely dissolved, and the sirup quite cIl-u-, 
take the saucepan from the fire, and let it 
cool. As soon as it is cold it may be bot- 
tled. 

CITRONNELLE RATAFIA. For 

two quarts of the best brandy, take the 
zestes or rinds of a dozen fine sound lem- 
ons, two drachms of bruised cinnamon, an 
ounce of coriander, and two pounds of su- 
gar, dissolved in a pint and a half of water; 
infuse the whole for a month, then strain 
and bottle it. 

CLOVES, OIL OF. This is made in 
the same manner as cinnamonum ; the c|uanti- 
ties are, an ounce of cloves to three quarts 
of brandy, and four pounds of sugar dis- 
solved in four pints of water. 

CLOVE PASTILS. Are made like 
those of cinnamon. The proportions are 
six cloves to half an ounce of gum-dragon. 

CLOVES, SIRUP OF. Put a quarter 
of a pound of cloves, and a (juart of boiling 
water into a stewpan, cover it close, and 
boil them gently for half an hour; drain the 
cloves, and to a pint of the liquor put two 
pounds of sugar ; beat up two eggs in a little 
cold water, add them to the above, and sim- 
mer the whole till it becomes a strong sirup. 
When cold, bottle it. 

COFFEE BONBONS. Take about a 
pint of cofiee made with water; put in it a 
pound of loaf-sugar; set it on the fire and 
boil it to a high degree ; then add a fiill pint 
of double cream, and let it boil again, keep- 
ing continually stirring till it comes to cara- 
mel height; to know when it is come to 
that point, you must have a basin of water 
by you; dip your finger in it, and put it 
quickly in your sugar, then in the water 
again, to remove the sugar, which will have 
stuck to it; take a bit of it in your teeth; 
if it is haid in its crackling, take it off, it 
is sufficiently done; pour it upon a tin plate, 
which must be rubbed before with a little 
butter, or it will stick to the plate; then 
spread it with a rolling pin ; (observe, the 



CON 



276 



CRE 



■polling pin must likewise be rubbed with 
butter, for fear it should stick;) when it is 
warm, you may cut it into little squares, lo- 
zenges, or any other shaped pastilles, and 
draw a few strokes over them with a knife. 

COFFEE CONSERVES. Clarify and 
boil to the first degree a pound of sugar; 
take the sugar off the fire, and put into it 
one cup of coffee ; stir it about until it comes 
to the sixth degree, that the conserve may 
take the sugar and dry. 

COFFEE EGGS. Make some good 
strong coffee ; let it rest to clear as usual, 
and sweeten it with sugar according to dis- 
cretion; beat up six yolks of eggs, with 
about four cups of cofifee, and sift it; pour 
this into little moulds in the form of eggs, or 
of any other, (do not fill them quite,) and 
bake in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or 
with a brazing-pan ; cover between two 
fires. They are made after this manner, in 
the shape of any fruits or birds, if you have 
proper moulds, either of copper or china, 
&c. 

COLTSFOOT, SIRUP OF. Take of 
colti^foot six ounces, maidenhair two ounces, 
hyssop one ounce, liquorice-root one ounce; 
boil ihem in two quarts of spring water till 
one fourth is consumed; then strain it, and 
put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder- 
sugar ; clarify it with the whites of eggs, 
and boil it till it is nearly as thick as 
honey. 

CONSERVES, DRIED. For all sorts 
of conserves, the sugar should be prepared 
to the ninth degree, according to the quan- 
tity wanted ; they are all made much after 
the same manner, the only difference being 
in the quantity of fruits proposed. Con- 
serves are nude with all sorts of sweetmeat 
marmalade, sifted in a sieve, and soaked 
pretty dry over a slow fire ; use about half 
a pound of the sugar thus prepared, to a 
quarter of a pound of sweetmeat marmalade; 
take the sutjar off the fire to work thein 
well together ; warm the whole for a mo- 
ment, and pour it into paper cases made for 
the purpose; when it is cool it may be cut 
into cakes of what size you please. 

CONSERVE OF FOUR FRUITS. 

Take strawberries, currants, cherries, and 
raspljerries, of each a quarter of a pound, 
and three pounds of sugar. Bruise your 
fruit, and having strained off the juice, put 
It in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring 
It till reduced to half. Dissolve the sugar, 
ekim, and boil ij to casse; take it from the 
fire while you put in the juice, then put it 
OQ again, and give it one boil, take it off. 



and keep stirring till the sugar bubbles, whsn 
the conserve may be poured into moulds. 

CONSERVES, HARD IN MOULDS. 

These are made in the same manner as 
other conserves, except that they are com- 
posed of sugar, and distilled aromatic wa- 
ter; and may be colored like pastils. 

CORIANDER DRAGEES. Take any 
quantity of coriander seeds, put them in the 
tossing-pan over the fire, and let them warm ; 
when they aie warm throw in about half a 
glass of vinegar, stir them well till they are 
dry; have clarified sugar, which boil in an- 
other pan ; then when the corianders are 
dry, add a little gum to them, and do the 
same again till they are dry, and continue 
so doing till you see the corianders are cov- 
ered to the size you want to have them ; 
when that is done, take the corianders out 
from the pan, wash them well, and put them 
in again, and stir them well till they are all 
warm ; then take your claiified sugar, which 
you have previously boiled to the first de- 
gree; when tiiis is done, put it in an instru- 
ment of copper, made on jjurpose for the 
operation, and at the bottom of which there 
is a little hole; hang it up by a packthread 
string, that the sugar may fall from about a 
yard height into the pan where tiie corian- 
ders are; while the sugar falls into your pan 
keep stirring well ytnir dragees till you see 
they are well pearled over, or rough and 
grainy ; when they are sufficiently so, take 
them out, and place them in the stove to 
finish drying. 

CORIANDER SUGARED. These 
seeds are sugared in the same manner as 
sugared almonds. 

CREAM, BAIN-MARIE. Mix up 

whatever ingredient of which the cream 
is to be made, with eggs and sugar ; for the 
proportions, see the res|)ective articles; 
strain them through a fine sieve, and pour 
the preparation into a mould lightly buttered 
within side. Put this mould into a large 
saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of boil- 
ing water to reach within an inch of the 
mould ; place the saucepan on hot ashes, 
cover it, and place hot coals on the lid; 
renew the fire underneath occasionally, so 
as to keep the water at the same tempeia- 
ture, that is, nearly, but never quite, boil- 
ing for an hour and a half; then, if the 
cream is properly set, which may be known 
by touching it with your finger, and observ- 
ing whether it may be easily detached fiom 
the mould, take it from the bain-marie and 
let it stand ; when no more than lukewarm, 
turn it out on your dish. 

It sometimes happens, unavoidably , tliat 



CRE 



277 



CRO 



bubbles arise on the surface of the cream ; 
in such a case, boil a glass of cream, and 
add to it, bv degrees, three yolks of eggs; 
stir it constantly with a wooden spoon; mix 
three ounces of fine sugar witii it, and con- 
tinue stirring it over the fire, till of a proper 
consistence, and on the point of boiling, 
then take it off and strain it. When the 
cream is ready for table, cover it complete- 
ly with the last made cream, which will 
hide its defects. 

CREAM BISCUITS. Break six eggs, 
separate the yolks and whites, beat the 
former with six ounces of powder-sugar, 
and the same of flour ; whisk the whites, 
and then mix them together ; add to it 
Avhi]iped cream, in proportion to the sugar 
and tlour, stir it carefully, pour this into 
moulds or paper cases, and bake. 

CREAM CARAMEL. Put a pint of 
milk and half a pint of cream, with a bit 
of cinnamon, some coriander-seeds, and 
the peel of a young lemon, into a saucepan, 
and boil tliem for a quarter of an hour; 
then take it off the fire; and boil a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with half a glass of wa- 
ter, until it becomes of a nice dark color; 
take it off the fire, and mix with the cream ; 
then put it on the fire again, until the sugar 
and cream are well mixed together; then 
place a saucepan, w ith some hot water in 
it, over hot ashes ; take a disli, in which 
you intend serving, and pour into it your 
cream, then place it in the saucepan; put 
on die lid of the saucepan, with fire above, 
and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve 
hot. 

CREAM, SNOW. Put to a quart of 
cream the whites of three eggs well heaten, 
four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to vour 
taste, and a bit of lemon-peel ; whip it to a 
froth; remove die peel, and serve in a dish. 

CREAM OF ANY PRESERVED 
FRUIT. Take half a pound of the pulp 
of any preserved fruit, put it in a large pan, 
put to it the whites of two or three eggs, beat 
together well for an hour; take it off with 
a spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish, or 
glass salver, with other creams, or put it 
in the middle of a basin. Raspberries will 
not do this way. 

CREAM RHENISH. Put over the 
fire a pint of Rhenish wine, a stick of cin- 
namon, and half a poimd of sugar; while 
this is boiling, take seven yolks and whites 
of eggs, jjeat them well together with a 
whisk, till your wine is half driven in them, 
and y(jur eggs to a sirup; stiike it very fast 
with tlie whisk, till it comes to such thick- 



) 



ness that you may lift it on the point of a 
knife, but be sure not to let it curdle; add 
to it the juice of a lemon, and oraiige-tlovver 
water; pour it into your disli; garnish it 
with citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. 

CREAM, ROYAL ICES. Take any 
quantity of cream, add to it yolks of eggs in 
proi)ortion (that is, four yolks of ei(;rs to \ 
e\ev\ pint of cream) put a little half pound- / 
ed coriander, cinnamon, orange or lemon- 
peel; add some pounded lump sugar, and 
set it on the fire till it nearly boils; then 
pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. 

CREAM, WHITE SHERBET. Put 

the yolks of six eggs, and a dessert spoon- 
ful of orange-flower water or crisped orange 
flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, 
and boil it up once in a covered saucepan; 
then pass it through a sieve, add to it three- 
quarters of a pound of powder-sugar, and 
as soon as it is perfectly dissolved, pour the 
whole into a sorbetiere, which place in an 
ice pail, and proceed to cool it as directed. 
See Sherbet. v, „- 

CREAM SNOW. Mix a quart of 
cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten 
it with sugar and rose water, and strain 
them; then beat up the cream with a bundle 
of reeds tied together, or with a whisk; 
and as the snow rises take it up with a 
spoon in the cullender, that the liquid part 
may run out: when you have taken off as 
much of the snow as you please, boil the 
rest of the cream, with a stick of cinnamon, 
some cloves, and a little bruised ginger; 
boil it till it is thick; strain it, and when 
it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your 
snow upon it. 

CREAM, CARAMEL WHIPPED. 

Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and 
when it has acquired the proper reddish, 
yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass 
of boiling water, over hot ashes; after 
which, it must be reduced to a rather thick 
sirup. When cold, mix it with the whip- 
ped cream in the usual way. See Whip- 
ped Cream. 

CROQUETTES OF DESTREES. 

Use the best puff paste; roll it pretty thin, 
and cut it into different shapes, as fancy 
leads; bake it, and dress each piece upon 
a dish, in a handsome manner; rub lliem 
with a little caramel, to make them stick 
as you place them ; then put some currant 
jelly all over the top, and make what flow- 
er or design you please, with nonpareils of 
different colors, round it. 

CROQUETTES OF PARIS. Take 



CUR 



27S 



CUR 



n stick of vanilla, pound it with two 
ounces of sugar, and sift both through a 
silk sieve; mix it with seven ounces of 
sugar, well dried and pounded, and half 
a pound of fine sifted flour ; then stir in the 
whites of four eggs, v.hipped firm, and 
work the whole together for some minutes. 

Heat two large baking-plates of copper, 
rub them over lightly with virgin wax; when 
they are cold, take a spoonful of the prepa- 
ration, and lay it on the plate the same as 
the spoon-biscuits, taking care to lay them 
three-quarters of an inch apart ; when both 
plates are full, place them on stools, in the 
oven or stove ; close the top, and lay embers 
over it, so that the croquettes may be as far 
removed from the fire as possible ; let them 
remain in this state all night; the next 
morning put them into a moderate oven, and 
bake them fifteen or twenty minutes; they 
should then quit the plate easily, and be of 
a clear reddish c(ilor; remove tiiem from 
the plates whilst hot. The croquettes 
may be flavored according to your fancy. 

CURACAO. This is a species of bitter 
or wild orange, of which the rind is dried, 
and may be had at the druggists. To make 
the liqueur called by this name, wash a 
pound of curacao several times in warm 
water; then, having well drained, put them 
into a vessel with four quarts of biandy, and 
one of water; let it stand closely covered 
for a fortnight, shaking it frequently; distil 
it after that in the usual way, and drain the 
curacao on a sieve. Sweeten it with five 
pounds and a half of sugar, dissolved in 
three pints of water, mix it with the spirit 
and then filter it. 

CURDS AND WHEY. Take a num- 
ber of the rough coals that line the gizzards 
'of turkevs and fowls; clean them from the 
pebbles they contain, rn!> them well with 
salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a 
more tender and delicate curd than common 
rennet. When to be used, break off some 
bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling 
water; in eight or nine hours use the liquor 
as you do other rennet. 

CURRANT CAKES. Pick and wash 
the currants, eidier white or red ; to two 
quarts of currants, put one pint of water; 
when boiled, run the juice through a jelly 
bag, do not press the bag; to one quart of 
juice put three puinids of sugar; boil up the 
juice, and strew in the sugar; pour it into 
glasses, dry it in a stove till it will turn out, 
then dry the cakes on plates. 

CURRANTS, CONSERVE OF. 

Take the seeds from two pounds of red cur- 
rants, and put them on the fire in a silver 



pan, to dry them; then press them through 
a sieve, and put them again on the fire, stir« 
ring constantly until you can see the bottom 
of the pan; then, having dissolved and boil- 
ed three pounds of sugar to casse, pour it on 
the fruit, stirring continually; in a short 
time take it off, stirring it as before until it 
bubbles; then pour it into moulds. 

CURRANT ICES. (1) Boil two pounds 
of red currants a moment with a quarter of 
a pound of raspberries; rub them through a 
sieve, adding a pint of water, and then the 
sugar, which must be very well dissolved 
before icing. 

CURRANT ICES. (2) Pick some cur- 
rants from their stalks, and squeeze them 
through a sieve; then take clarified sugar, 
boil it to a very high degree, add it to your 
currant juice, and, if you choose, squeeze in 
the juice of four lemons, .it will make it 
more mellow; strain iheni duough the sieve 
a second time, put them in the icing pot, and 
finish the same as all other ices. 

CURRANT ICE CREAM. Take one 
large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, 
put it into a basin, with half a gill of sirup, 
squeeze in one lemon and a half; add a pint 
of cream and a little cochineal, then pass it 
through a sieve, and freeze it according to 
custom. 

CURRANT WATER ICE. Take a 
large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put 
it into a basin, and add to it the juice of 
two lemons, half a gill of sirup, and a pint 
of water: then freeze it rich. 

CURRANT JELLY FRAMBOISEE. 

Take seven pounds of fine ripe red currants, 
three of white, and two of white raspber- 
ries, press llieui through a very close horse- 
hair sieve; pour the juice on nine pounds 
of double-refined, sugar, broken in small 
pieces, place the whole on a brisk fire, tak- 
ing care to remove the scum as soon as it 
appears. When tiie boilings follow each 
other very quickly, take out the skimmer, 
(which should be of copper) stir it, and let 
the jelly fall from it; on quitting the skim- 
mer it ought to fall like treacle. If it does 
so, it is sufficiently dune. This jelly should 
be rose-colored; by making it entirely of 
red currants and red raspberries, the color 
of tile jelly will be red. 

CURRANT PASTE. Pick and take 
the seeds from ten pounds of fine red cur- 
rants, crush them, and having pressed out 
the juice, strain it through a silk sieve. 
Clarify and boil to casse an equal quantity 
of sugar, pour tlve currant juice on it, set the 



BRA 



279 



DRA 



whole over a gentle fire, stirring constantly 
until it becomes of a proper consistence, 
which may be known l)y observing when tlie 
bottom of thf pan can be seen clearly; take 
it off from the fire as soon as that is the 
case, and pour tlie paste into tin moulds, 
which must be f)laced on slates, or copper 
plates: smooth tlie tops will) the blade of a 
knife, sprinkle sifted sugar over, and place 
them in a stove, where they must remain till 
next day ; when the paste should be turned 
in the moulds; sprinkle sifted sugar over 
them again, and set them in tlie stove a 
second night; on the following day remove 
them from the moulds, lay it in boxes, with 
white paper between each layer, and keep 
theui in a dry place. A sixth part of the 
quantity of raspberries added to the ciurants, 
would greatly improve the flavor of this 
paste. 

CURRANT PASTILS. Take half a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar on a plate, then 
a quantity of currants, which scjueeze through 
a sieve; when that is done, adii the juice to 
the sugar, till it makes a paste as clear and 
thick as you think proper. 

CURRANT SHRUB. To five pints of 
currant juice, either red or white, one pound 
and a half of loaf sugar; when dissolved, 
put to it one gallon of rum or brandy ; clear 
It through a flannel bag. 

CURRANT SIRUP. Put five or six 
pounds of red, two of white currants, and 
two bottles of raspberries, into a sieve; crush 
them, and press the juice through it into a 
pan, and place it in a cellar to ferment; in a 
week's lime, pass the juice through a strain- 
ing bag, and having clarified, and boiled to 
fort souffle four pounds of sugar, put the 
juice to it, and boil them together once; 
skim, and take it horn the fire. It is ne- 
cessary that the currant juice should ferment, 
to prevent its becoming a jelly in the bottles. 



D. 



DRAGBES, COMMON. The paste for 
these dragees is made in the same manner 
as f jr the better sort, but the materials difi'er 
a little: thus to a quarter of a pound of the 
gum, take either equal quantities of sugar 
and powder, or one-third of the former to 
two-thirds of the latter. Wlien these and 
■he gum are well mixed, roll out the paste 
until it is as thin as the back of a knife- 
blade; then take a paste-cutter, sh;i|)ed like 
a sugar-loaf, with the top taken off, with the 
largest end of which, cut as many pieces of 
tUe paste as will about two-thirds fill the 

24 



cutter; press these through the smaller end 
into paper cases; set them in a warm place 
for several days. These kind of dragees 
may, if liked, be sugared in the same man- 
ner as almonds. 

DRAGEES EN PASTILLAGE. These 
dragees are made of the same materials as 
the superfine dragees; the only difference 
consists in their forms, which resemble the 
bonbons: to make them, it is necessary to 
have a number of wooden moulds, (pear- 
tree wood is the best), on which must be 
stamped small squares, with various devices 
engraved on them. Cut your paste into 
small pieces; pi ess each piece on a mould; 
take off all the super-abundant paste; then 
dip your finger in water, and with it remove 
the paste from the mould ; dry tiiem in cases 
like the other dragees. 

DRAGEES, SUPERFINE. Put a 

quarter of a pound of tlie best gum-dragon 
into a pan, with a pint of cold water, cover, 
and let it stand for twenty-four hours; therf 
take a strong close cloth, about two feet 
long, and put a part of your guin into it; 
fold it three times, so as to envelope the gum ; 
then wring the cloth, by which means the 
purest gum will be forced through ; scrape 
it oft carefiilly with a knife, and then proceed 
in the same way, until all the gum be strain- 
ed ; put it into a marble mortar, and stir it 
about with a pestle for half an hour; then 
add to it a pound of double-refined sifted 
sugar; mix them together well, until it be- 
comes a stiff' paste; divide this into five 
parts, four of which must be tinged as fol- 
lows: red, blue, yellow, and green, (the fifth 
left white), with the usual coloring materials. 
Before, however, they are colored, add to 
each piece, a pound and a half of double- 
refined sugar, sifted, dipping the paste in 
water occasionally, to enable it to receive 
the additional quantity of sugar. When you 
mix in the coloring materials, add also a 
corresponding perfume: as, to the red, rose- 
water, and a lew drops of essence of roses; 
to the blue, oil of violets; to the yellow, es- 
sence of cedar; to the green, essence of 
bergamot; and with the white, mix a little 
orange-flower water, and some drops of es- 
sence i){ Neroli. 

Your paste being thus prepared, form it 
of whatever little ornaments you please, such 
as eggs, balls, turni|)s, (adding gieen leaves 
to these), &c. of tlie nhite; of the yellow, 
apricots, pears, carrots, &.c. ; plums, &c. 
of the blue; and so on; rolling them in your 
hands to smooth them, and make them all 
quite small; to those which imitate fruits, 
add tails and tops, cut fiom cherry-stalks, 
and stuck on whilst the paste is damp; and 
with a hair-peucil, dipped in powdered cin- 



EGG 



280 



FIL 



nabar, tinge the pears, apples, and apricots, 
siiglilly brealliiag (Jii them to nioi^stea the 
surface. Wlien all are done, put theui into 
paper case.s, and set tlieni ii) a warm place 
for several days, to dry. 



E. 



EGGS CARAMEL. Take the yolks 
of a dozen hard egg-<, bruise theui in a sauce- 
pan, with .'jome powder-sugar, three almond 
biscuits, and half a glass of cream; make 
these into a paste, of which foi-m little eggs, 
dijj them in caramel sugar, and brown them. 

EGGS DUCHESSE. Boil a pint and 
a half of cream with some sugar, orange- 
flower, candied lemon-peel, marchpane, and 
burnt almonds, all chop|)ed small or bruised; 
\vhi|5 lip the whites of eight eggs well, and 
then lake two or tinee spoonfuls of them at 
a time, and |)oach them in tiie cream ; drain, 
•and lay them on a dish, so as to resemble 
eggs |)oacl!ed without the yolks. When all 
the whites are thus used, put the cream on 
the fire, and reduce it, and as the dish is 
Bent to table, add the yolks to the cream, 
and pour the sauce gently over the eggs. 

EGGS FILAGRAMME. Take a pint 
of white wine, half a pound of fine powder- 
sugar, and make it into a clear sirup with 
the white of an egg', beat up well eight 
eggs, and pour them through a colander 
into the sirup; a very short time is sufficient 
to cook them. Serve either hot or cold. 

EGGS OF SNOW. Break ten eggs, 
and having separated the yolks and whites, 
vhip the latter as for bis('uits; then add 
two spoonfuls of powder-sugai', and a little 
dried orange-flower in powder. Pour a 
quart of milk, six ounces of powder-sugar, 
and a little orange-flower, into a saucepan, 
and "when it boils put into it, a dessert-spoon- 
ful at a time, of the white of egg; poach die 
latter, and then set them on a sieve to drain, 
'['hen beat up the yolks, and mix them with 
li.iir the milk, put it on the fire, and stir it 
With a wooden-spoon till it begins to thick- 
en; tlien take it off, lay the poacihed eggs in 
a dish, and cover them with the yolks and 
milk. 

EGGS, WHITE OF. To make a dish 
of these, take the whites of twelve eggs, 
beat them up with four s[)oonfuls of rose-wa- 
ter, some lemon-peel grated, and a little 
nutmeg; sweeten them with sugar, mix 
them well, and boil them in four bladders; 
lie them in the shape of an egg, and boil 
them hard; they will take half an hour; 



lay them in a dish; when cold, mix half a 
pint of' thick cream, a gill of mountain, and 
the juice of half an orange all together; 
sweeten it with fine sugar, and serve it over 



the ejfijs 



FILIiERT BISCUITS. Take some 
Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them in a mor 
tar to break their shells; pick all the sheik 
from them clean, pound them in a mortal 
very fine, and mix whites of eggs with tlieai , 
take care they do not oil ; mix three pounds 
of powdered-sugar, with die nuts and whites 
of eggs, to a proper thickness ; let your oven 
be of a inodciiile heat, then with thespaddle 
and knite, drop small pieces, about half as 
big as a nutmeg; put two or three sheets of 
paper under them, let them bake of a fine 
brown, and all ;dike; and let them be cold 
before you take them off the papier. 

FILBERT CANNELLONS. Bum 

and pound six ounces of filberts, moist- 
ening them with white of egg; when wed 
pounded, add a quarter of a pound of 
fine pouniled sugar, and half the white of an 
egg; dry this paste a little, and then press 
it througii a syringe, cutting the cannellons 
about four inches in length; make the fri- 
ture rjuile hot, dip the cannellons in baiter, 
and fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, 
and glaze them with a salamander. Take 
particular care to keep the cannellons per- 
fectly straight. 

FILBERT BURNT, ICE CREAM. 

Roast some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, 
and pound them a little with some cream; 
put four eggs into a stewpan, with one pint 
of cream and two gills of sirup; boil it till it 
becomes thick, pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it; then mix the filbei ts with it be- 
fore you put it into your moulds. 

FILBERT MACAROONS. Take a 
pound of filberts, and put a quarter of them 
into a preserving-pan (immediately after you 
have taken them from the shells,) over a 
moderate fire; stir them continually wiih a 
silver spoon, until they are colored, and the 
skin begins to peel off; then take them out ; 
rub oft" the skin entirely, and when quite 
cold, pound them with a little white of egg: 
proceed in the same manner with the re- 
maining three-quarters; and when all are 
thus pounded separately, put the whole to- 
gether into the mortar, with a pound of 
sugar, and the whites of two eggs, and beat 
them for ten minutes; after which, add two 
pounds more of sifted sugar, previously beat« 



GOO 



281 



ORE 



en up with six whites of eggs; slir all tlici-e 
tngedier well for five or six minntes, wlieii 
the pre|}uratinn ?lioiild ix' Piiliicipntl} firm, to 
prevent its s|,irea(iii)g wlieii laid; if, how- 
ever, il he too fiiiii, arid to it more white of 
egg. When you liave pi'cjceeded so fir, wet 
the palms of yonr hands, and roll a spoonful 
of the preparation to llie size and form of a 
nutmeg; when all done, dip yonr hands in 
water, and pass them gently over the maca- 
roons, which will make their surface smooth 
and shining; put them into a nearly cold 
oven; close it tigiit, and let them remain in 
it for tlnee-quariers of an hour. Lav the 
macaroons at least an inch apart, and as 
round as possible. 

FLOWERS IN SUGAR. Clarify su- 
gar to a caramel height, which may be 
known by dipping in a tink, and if it throws 
the sugar as line as thi'eads, put in the flow- 
ers. Have ready some tea-cups, with the 
insides rubberl with sweet oil; put into each 
cup four table-sfK)onfuls of the sugar and 
flowers, and when cold turn them out of the 
cups, and serve them to table piled one upon 
another. 

FRUIT BISCUITS. To the pulp of 
any scalded fruit, put an equal quantity of 
sugar sifted, beat it two hours; then put it 
into little white paper f)rms; dry them in a 
cool oven, turn tiiem the next day, and in 
two or three days box them. 

FRUIT, PRESERVED, BISCUITS 

OF. 'l\ike dried preserved fruits, such as 
apricots, verjuice, grapes, plums, oranges, 
and a little orange-Hower marmalade; 
poinid them together, and sift in a sieve; 
then mix it with yolks of new laid eggs, anti 
fine powder-sugar, until it comes to a supple 
paste, not too li(|uid; then bake them on 
paper in a moderate oven. 



G. 



GIMGER, CA\!)IED. Put an ounce 
of ginger, grated fine, and a pound of sifted 
sugar into a preserving-pan with as much 
water as will dissohe if. Stii- them well 
together over a slow fire, till the sugar be- 
gins to boil; then add aiiodier pound, stir- 
riiiij constant Iv till it ihickens. Take it 
from the fire, drop il on earthen dishes, set 
them in a warm place to dry, and they will 
be hard and briilie and look widte. 

GOOSEBERRY CAKES. Break the 
gooseberries, press out the juice, and strain 
it through a nnislin; to one pint of juice a 
pound of sugar; boil un the juice; strew m 



the sugar: stir it well; simmer il well tR^ 
the sugar is melted; pour it into glasses: 
dry it in a stovj; till it will turn out, then 
dry the cakes on plates. 

GOOSEBERRIES, GREEN, COM- 
POTE OF. Give them a little cut on one 
side to squeeze out the seeds, and put them 
in hot water to scald, till they rise to the 
top; then put cold water to them, adding a 
little salt, to bring them to their natural 
gieen ; simmer them in clarified sugar, and 
let tiiem remain in sometime to imbibe the 
sweet; take them out, and put them in the 
compotier ; reduce the sirup to a good con- 
sistence, and pour it over the fruit. This 
is for green gooseberries; but if you make 
use of presei'ved ones, warm them in their 
own sirup and a little water, and serve it 
either hot or cold. These will not keep 
long, particularly if they have been warmed 
again: if exposed to the air any time, they 
will lose their color. 

GRAPE ICE. Take ripe grapes, pick 
them from their stalks, pass them through 
a sieve; mix some sugar with the juice of 
four lemons squeezed upon it; pass the 
whole together a second time throuffh a 
sieve, then freeze it. 

GRAPES RATAFIA. Take some 
fine muscadine grapes, pick them from the 
stalks; bruise and press them, so as to ex- 
tract all their juice ; then dissolve .some su- 
gar in ihegiape juice, adding to it biandy 
and cinnamon ; lei the whole infuse far a 
fortnight ; then strain it thi-ough a filtermg 
bag, and bottle it off. The pro[)er propor- 
tions are one pint of brandy, and ten ounces 
of sugar to one pint of grape jtdce. 

GREEN-GAGES TO CANDY. When 
finished in the sirup, (see i^reen-guges to 
preserve,) jnit a layer into a new sieve, 
and flip it suddenly into hot water, to take 
off the sirup that hangs about it; then put 
it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and 
then do some more on the sieve. Have 
ready some sifted double-refined sugar, silt 
this all over every part of the fruit, till it is 
perfectly while. Set it on the shallow end 
f)f sieves in a liglitly warm oven, and turn 
it two or three tunes. It must not be cold 
till dry. Watch it carefully. 

GREEN GAGES TO PRESERVE. 

You must choose the largest, when ihey be- 
gin to soften; s[)lit without paring them, and 
having previously weighed an equal (|uanti- 
ty of sugar, strew a part of it over them; 
blanch the kernels with a small sharp knde; 
next day, f,our the sirup lioni the fruit, and 
boil it with the other sugar, very gently, for 



JUN 



282 



LEM 



six or eight minutes; skim, and add the 
pliiitis and kernels. Simmer till clear, 
taking off :iny scum that rises; |)ut the fruit 
single into small pots, and pour the sirup 
and kernels upon it. 

GUM PASTE. Put a pound of gum- 
dragon in a basin, with warm water enough 
to cover one inch above the gum; set this in 
a warm closet fjr four and twenty hours ; 
have a new tammy ready laid over a dish ; 
spread it on it, and squeeze through as 
much as you can at first ; then open the 
tammy, spread the gum out again, and then 
squeeze it; repeat this till the whole is 
through; then lay it on the slab, work il 
well with your hand, put in nearly all the 
juice of one lemon, and a pound of the best 
double refined powder-sugar, by degrees, as 
you work it; but before you have put in the 
whole of the sugar, begin (o add some of 
the best starch powder; blend them thor- 
oughly together, till the paste begins to 
take an impression; then roll it in a cloth, 
and let it stand in a damp place for a week 
or ten days, (it is the better for keeping), 
work it with p(nvder, and it will cut and 
mould to any shape you please, and when 
you want it to harden, set it in a dry place; 
if you wish to color it, to make it red, use 
cochineal or carmine ; for blue or violet 
color, use indigo ; for yellow, saffron ; for 
green, the juice of beet leaves, scalded over 
the tire, the thick part mix with the paste. 
When you put in colors, be careful to blend 
them well, and be particular that the color 
is good. 



H. 



HARTSHORN CREAM. Boil a quar- 
ter of a pound of iiartshorn-shavings in three 
pints of water; when reduced to half a pint, 
strain il through a jelly-bag ; put it to a 
pint of cream and a (juarter of a pound of 
powder-sugar, and give them one boil to- 
gether; then put il into cups or glasses, and 
let them stand till cold, when turn them out 
on a dish; stick some sliced blanched al- 
monds on the top of each. White wine 
and sugar is usually eaten with them. 



J. 



JUNIPER BERRIES, ICES OF. In- 
fuse some juni|)er beriies in warm water, 
or take about a handful of the berries, and 
boil them a moment with a pint of water, 
half a pound of sugar, and a bit of cinna- 
mon, and sift them through a sieve with ex- 
pression, and finish the same as all others. 



JUNIPER RATAFIA. Take three 
ounces of juniper berries, anise, corian- 
der, cinnamon, and cloves, of each eight- 
een grains; bruise all these ingredients, and 
infuse them, for a month, in three pints of 
brandy; then strain it, add three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar dissolved in half a pint 
of water, stir thein together, pass the whole 
through a jelly-bag, and bottle it; keep it 
well corked. 



LEMON BRANDY. Put the peel of 
two lemons into a bottle of brandy, let it 
stand for four and twenty hours, then strain 
it; boil two ounces of loaf sugar in a quar- 
ter of a pint of water; then skim, and let it 
stand till cold; when cold, mix it with the 
brandy. 

LEMON CAKES. Quarter as many 
lemons as you think proper, they must have 
good rinds, and boil them in two or three 
waters, till they are tender, and have lost 
their bitterness; then skin them, and put 
them in a napkin to fry; with a knife take 
all the skins and seeds out of the pulp, shred 
the peels fine, put them to the pulp, weigh 
them, and put rather more than their weight 
of fine sugar into a tossing-pan, with just 
sufficient water to dissolve the sugar; boil 
it till it becomes perfectly dissolved, and 
then by degrees put in the peel and pulps; 
stir them well bePjre you set them on the 
fire, boil it very gently till it looks clear and 
thick, and then put it into flat-bottomed 
glasses; set them in a stove, and keep them 
in a continual and moderate heat, and turn 
them out upon glasses, as soon as they are 
candied. 

LEMON COMPOTE. Cut them in 
small pieces, and boil them in water till 
they are tender, then change them into cold 
water; then make a sirup with a glass of 
water, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
and put in the fruit; let it simmer gently 
over a slow fire for half an hour, and serve 
cold. 

LEMON CONSERVE. Grate the rind 
of a lemon on a piece of sugai* (about a 
pound,) scrape off the surface of the sugar 
as the lemon adheres to it, until you have 
rasped the whole of the rind ; squeeze half 
the juice on the scraped sugar, and then 
boil the rest to la grande plume; take it 
from the fii'e when at this degree, and let it 
stand a little; stir in the lemon gently, and 
when it forms a sort of glace on the top of 
the sugar, pom the conserve into moulds ; 



LExM 



283 



LEM 



being careful, however, that it is not too 
hot. 

LEMON DROPS. Grate three large 
lemons, with a large piece of double refined 
sugar; tlien scrape the sugar into a plate, 
add half a tea-spoonful of flour; mix well 
together, and beat it into a light paste, with 
the white of an egg. Drop it upon white 
paper, put them on a tin-plate, and set theui 
in a moderate oven. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. Take the juice 
of three or four lemons, and grate the peel 
of one lemon; add two gills of sirup, and 
one pint of cream ; mix it all together, pass 
it through a sieve, and freeze it. 

LEMONS TO KEEP FOR PUD- 
DINGS. When you squeeze the fruit, 
throw the outside in water, without the 
pulp ; let them lemain in the same a fort- 
night, adding no more ; boil them in the 
same till tender ; strain it from them, and 
when they are nearly dry, throw them into 
any jar of candy you may have remaining 
from old sweetmeats; or, if you have noi>e, 
boil a small quantity of sirup, of common 
loaf sugar and water, and pour over them ; 
in a week or ten days, boil them gently in 
it till they look clear; and that they may 
be covered with it in the jar, you may cut 
each half of the fruit in two, and they will 
occupy a smaller space. 

LEMON PASTILS. Take half a pound 
of pounded loaf sugar, sifted as fine as pos- 
sible; put it in a plate, take three or four 
lemons, and scjueeze their juice over the su- 
gar; mix it well with a spoon, till you make 
it rather a thickish paste, so that you can 
take it upon a knife; then take half a sheet 
of pajjer, and cover it with little round and 
flat drops, about the size of a sixpenre, place 
them in a stove with a slow fire till they are 
quite dry, then take them off from the paper ; 
you may use, if you please, some of the peel 
grated, but not chipped; for, as it is a melt- 
ing pastil, some of the bits would remain in 
the mouth. 

LEMON PEEL CANDIED. Take 
some thick-rinded lemons, pare off the yel- 
low |)eel, and throw it into l>oiling water till 
soft, when it must be put into cold water. 
Clarify some fine sugar, and biil it au petit 
lisse, and having drained the lemon-peel, 
pour on it the sirup (whilst hot) ; the next 
day boil the sirup again, and return it to the 
peel; tlie third and fourth days proceed in 
the same manner, adding a small (]uantity of 
clarified sugar; the last time the sirup is 
boiled, as soon as it lises to perle, put in 
the peel, cover and boil the whole togetiier 

24* 



once, and when cold, drain and dry them !□ 
a sto\e. 

LEMON PEEL, TO CANDY. Take 
some lemon-peels, and clean them well hoin 
the pulp, and lei theui lay two days in sail 
and water; then scald and drain them rlry, 
then boil them in a thin sirup till they look 
(julte clear. After which, take them out, 
and have ready a thick sirup made with fine 
loaf sugar; put them into it, and sinuner 
them till the sugar-candies about the pan and 
peels. Then lay them separately on a hair 
sieve to drain, strew silled sugar over them, 
and set them to dry in a slow oven. 

LEMON PEEL, CARAMEL. Take 
some veiy dry preset ved lemon-peel, and 
cut it into several small square pieces; put 
these pieces e;ich oti the point of little sticks 
for this purpose, and di|) them into caramel 
sugar as directed. See chestnuts au car- 
amel. 

LESION PEEL SIRUP OF. Take 
five ounces of fiesh lemon-peel, put it into a 
glass cucurbite, which has been gradually 
heated ; pour on them two pounds of nearly 
boiling water; close the vessel very tight, 
and place it on hot ashes for twehe hours; 
after which, let the infusion run out gently 
without i)iessing the peel ; add two pounds 
of powder-sugar, and ilien boil the whole to 
grand perle, when about half cold, put in 
a few drops of spirit of lemon. 

LEMON SWEETMEATS. Take a 
pound of marchpane paste, and mix it with 
as Uiany yolks of eggs as will enable you to 
spread the paste with a knife; add to it a 
sufficient ()uantity of grated lemon-peel to 
impart the flavor reijuired. The whole 
being well mixed, cut sonie sheets of wafer 
paper into such figures as your fancy may 
dictate, and spread the paste over them, 
about a quarter of an inch in thickness; 
place them on pa|>er, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. If you wish to glaze your 
sweetmeats, boil some sugar with orangs- 
ilower water to la plume, and when they 
aie taken out of the oven, wash them over 
with the sirup, which dries almost immedi- 
ately. 

LEMONS, SIRUP OF. Squeeze as 
manv lemons as will yield about three-(]uar- 
ters of a pound of juice, taking particular 
care that the peel of every lemon is perfectly 
sound, and that they are none of them in the 
least degree bitter. Set your juice in the 
cellar for four davs. and then filler it through 
blotting-paper. Break a pound and a half 
of double-refined sugar into pieces about aa 
inch square ; put them into a gallon matrass. 



MAC 



284 



MAR 



pour the lemon-juice over it, close the mat- 
rass with paper, and place it in a bain ma- 
rie until tile sugar is entirely dissolved; then 
extinguish your fire, and let the matrass cool 
gradually; when cold, add two spoonfuls of 
spirit of lemons, then bottle it, keep it well 
corked. 

LEMON WAFERS. Squeeze the juice 
of six lemons into a basin; pound and sift 
some d(juble-refined sugar, and mix it with 
the lemon-juice ; put the white of one egg 
with it, and mix the whole well together 
with a wooden spoon, to make it of a good 
consistence ; take some sheets of wafer-pa- 
per, and put one sheet of it on a pewter 
sheet or tin plate; put on it a spoonful of 
the preparation, and spread it all over the 
paper with a knife ; cut it into twelve pieces, 
and put them across a stick in a hot stove, 
with that side the paste is on uppermost, 
and you will find they will curl; when they 
are half curled, take them oft" very carefully 
and put them up, endways, in a sieve, that 
they may stand up ; let them be in the hot 
stove one day, and you will find they will be 
all culled, and then they are done 

" LIQUORICE PASTE. Scrape and 
bruise a quarter of a pound of liquorice-root, 
and boil it in a little water till it is much 
reduced ; let it stand to settle, and pour it 
clear ofi^, and dissolve in it half an ounce 
of gum-dragon : when thoroughly dissolved, 
sift it in a linen bag, and mix sugar with it 
till it is brought to the consistence of a paste ; 
then cut it into what flowers or designs you 
think proper. 



M. 



MACAROONS, SPICED. Take a 
pound of sweet almonds, and two pounds of 
sifted sugar; make your paste as usual, to 
which add a spoonful of powdered cinnamon, 
six or eight cloves, also pounded, some pre- 
served lemon and orange-peel (of eac'h a 
spoonful,) chopped small, and the grated 
rind of two lemons; mix them all together 
in the mortar, and then lay your macaroons 
as usual, and bake them with equal care. 

MACEDOINE OF FRUIT. The 
macedoine is an ornamental dish, composed 
of transparent jelly, with various fruits en- 
closed in it; for this purpose it should be 
done as follows: Have a dome-shaped mould 
six inches and a half in diameter, and four 
in height, the sides fluted ; the smaller mould 
must be of a similar form, but only four inch- 
es and a half in diameter, and two and three- 
quarters high ; to this latter have four han- 
dles, bent at the end, to hang it exactly in 



the centre of the larger mould. Prepare a 
strawhei ly transparent jelly, place the larger 
mould as straight as possible in pounded ice, 
hang the small one in it, and pour the jelly 
into the former; whilst it is congealing, 
pick about twenty fine white strawberries, 
the same number of very red ones, the same 
of white raspberries, a dozen bunches of red, 
and the same of white currants; wash all 
these well, but touch them as little as possi- 
ble, that they may not lose their freshness : 
when the jelly is perfectly set, pour some 
hot water into the small mould which will 
enable you to remove it with ease; raise it 
with great care, so that t!ie space may be 
found without the slightest flaw; then place 
on the jelly (in the centre of this space) two 
bunches of white currants, surround these 
with a ring of white strawberries, and the 
latter with a crown or ring of white rasp- 
berries ; |)our over very carefully two or 
three spoonfuls of the jelly, and when that is 
congealed, proceed in the satiie way with 
the red currants, strawberries, and raspber- 
ries, then the jelly, and so on alternately, 
until all the fruit is used ; fill the mould with 
jelly; as soon as the whole is congealed, dip 
your mould into a large saucepan of hot 
water, and then turn it into a dish instantly. 
The macedoine may be garnished in this 
manner with any kind of fruit you think 
proper. It may also be filled with two jel- 
lies as follows: white lemon jelly in the 
large mould, and finished with the same 
jelly, tinged with either rose-color or yellow ; 
indeed the moulds may be varied in any way 
your fancy may dictate. 

MALLOWS, SIRUP OF. Take half 
a pound of mallows root, and having scrap- 
ed and washed it well, cut it into small 
pieces, which set on the fiie with three pints 
of water ; when sufiiciently boiled, the wa- 
ter will be glutinous, strain oft" the decoction, 
and pour into it four pounds of sugar ; clari- 
fy it in the same manner as capillaiie; boil 
it to Hsse, run it through a jelly-bag, and 
when cold, bottle it. 

MARASCHINO. Take sixteen pounds 
of fine sharp cherries, stone and take off" 
the stalks; put them into five quarts of 
brandy to infiise, covered close for three 
days, then distil the infusion ; distil also a 
pound of cherry-leaves in six quarts of filter- 
ed liver water, from which you will obtain 
about a gallon; dissolve in this four pounds 
and a half of fine sugar; add it to the li- 
queur, with two pints and a half of kirschen- 
wasser, an ounce and four drachms of spi . its 
of rose, the same of orange-flowers, and 
three drachms of spirits of jessamin' ; mix 
them altogether, run it through a jelly-bag, 
and bottle it; cork them well. 



MAR 



285 



MEL 



MARASCHINO, CONSERVE OF. 

Pound iiiid sift some of (lie best lump suct.-ii-, 
mix it in a cliina basin with spirit of niaias- 
cliino, until it is of the consistence of pastjl 
paste; then put it into a skillet o\er the fire, 
and heat it s^ntiy, stirring it constantly (but 
without letting it boil,) til! very liquid, when 
It inhy be p<jured info funnel-shaped tin 
moulds ; put these moulds on iron plates, 
and dry the conserve in a stove. 

MARASCHINO ICE CREAM. Take 
two quarts of cream, twelve eggs, a pound 
of double-refined sugar, and three glasses 
of true maraschino; put the cream on to 
boil, and in the meantime whisk the whites 
of the eggs to a firm snow, then pour in 
eight yolks, and the sugar pounded and 
sifted, stir them together lightly, and then 
add by degress the boiling cream, whipping 
continually; set it on the fire, and do not 
cease whipping until it has boiled up three 
or four times ; pour it ihiough a sieve into 
a basin, stirring a little kj enable it to run 
moie freely ; v, hen cold put it into the sor- 
betiere with the maraschino; cover it in- 
stantly, and ice it as usual. 

MARCHPANE. Take four pounds of 
sweet almonds, throw them into boiling 
water, let them lay till the skin loosens, 
then put them into cold water, after a few 
minutes blanch and throw them again into 
cold water to wash them thoroughly. When 
dry, pound them (a handful at a time) to a 
very fine paste, moistening each handful 
with two spoonfuls of water; the whole 
quantity of almonds being pounded, put the 
paste into a large preserving pan, witli four 
pounds of the best lump sugar finely pound- 
ed and sifted ; set the pan on a coal fire, 
stir and work them up togetlier with a 
large wooden spatula, rather sharp at the 
bottom: be very careful that none of the 
paste adheres to the pan; the consequence 
of sucli, neglect would be, that the march- 
pane would be spotted with yellow, and 
would 9i))e\l unpleasantly. Whilst working 
it up, the paste, which when put in was 
tolerably firm, will become rather liquid, 
and a great deal of vapor may be observed; 
the first is caused by the sugar dissolved by 
the heat and moisture, the second by the 
evaporation of the water. Continue to stir 
and work it up in this manner without 
ceasing for two liours, and if at the end of 
that time, jou can touch the paste without 
its adhering to your fingers, it is sufliciently 
dried; in which case remove it all to one 
side of the pan, clean the bottom and side 
of the other, sprinkle it well with tlour, then 
put the paste to that pait, clean and sprin- 
kle that side also; then take the pan by 
both ears and move it round and round, so 



that the paste may all unite together; as 
soon as it has done so, put it into a sheet of 
paper, or, if you want to use it immediate- 
ly, on a well Houred table. This paste, if 
the almonds be well pounded and then thor- 
oughly dried, will keep good for six months; 
if these two precautions are not properly 
attended to, it w ill become sour in ten days, 

MARIGOLDS, CONSERVE OF. Take 
four ounces of marigold-flowers, conseive of 
hyacinth and hermes, of each four drachrns, 
the powder of pearl two ounces, and as 
much sirup of citron as will make tl>em into 
a conserve, mixing and bruising them to- 
gether with refined sugar. 

MARJORAM CONSERVE. Take 

the tops and tendcrest part of sweet marjo- 
ram, bruise it well in a wooden mortar or 
bowl; take double its weight of fine sugar, 
boil it with marjoram-water till it is as 
thick as sirup, then put in your l)eaten mar- 
joram. 

MARSEILLES, OR GINGER. Take 

a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, 
and i;oil it to fo7^t souffle, add to it an 
ounce of ginger in powder, remove the pan 
from the fire, and with a round stick (like 
a plain round rule) slir the sugar, inclining 
the stick towards the sides of the p^n, then 
with a spoon take the sugar that sticks to 
the edges and put it amongst the liquid, then 
work it up again with the stick, remove the 
solid sugar as before, and repeat this opera- 
tion four times, when it will have become tole- 
rably thick and firm ; pour it into paper cases, 
about half an inch thick, and with a fork 
tiace on its suiface, whilst warm, lozenges 
of what size you please; afterwards, with 
the point of a knife, mark some of these 
deeper than the others; when quite cold, 
take them out of the papers, and separate 
them, where the lines are deepest. The 
Marseilles, if pjeseived in a warm or dry 
place, w ill keep good for a long time. 

MARSEILLES SPICED. Take a 
pound and a half of fine sugar, boil it to 
casse] take a quarter of preserved orange- 
peel, the same of candied lemon-peel, (or, 
if you like it better, two ounces of blanched 
pistachio nuts), cut them into dice, and put 
them with half an ounce of cloves, the same 
of cinnamon (both pounded) into the sugar, 
stir them in gently, continue to boil your 
sirup to forte plume; then beat it up, pour 
it into cases, and finish as the Marseilles. 

MELONS, TO PRESERVE LIKE 
CIN^jER. Half a pound of ginger to one 
pound of melon; scrape the ginger, and 
save the scrapings ; pour a quart of boiling 



MlxN 






MYR 



water on the ginger, let it stand two d;iys: ; 

sc^ld the meiijii (with the scrapings of the 

ginger in the water), taking care not to j 

make it too soft: cut it into small pieces j 

resembling ginger; then prepare a sirnp, 

half a pound of sugar to a pint of water; t 

boil the ginger in it; when cold, put in the 

melon, and set it ovei- the fire fur a short 

time, but not t ) boil ; let the sirup, with 

the einger, be boiled every day for a fort- 

1 1 *ii 

night, but not poured upon the melon till 

nearly cold; then boil a rich sirup to keep 

it in. 

N. B. Carrot is equally good with melon. 

MERINGUES. (1) Whisk the whiles of 
nine eggs to a solid froth; then add the rind 
of six lemons, grated extremely fine, and a 
spoonful of sifted sugar; after which, lay a 
sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a 
spoon drop the mixture in little lumps, 
separately upon it, sift sugar over, and put 
them to bake in a moderately heated oven, 
taking care that they are done of a nice 
color. Then put raspberry, apricot, or any 
other kind of jam between two of these bot- 
toms, add them together, and lay them in 
a warm place, or before the fire to dry. 

MERINGUES. (2) Take the whites 
of twelve eggs, six ounces of the best lump 
sugar, pounded and sifted, and half a pound 
of pistachios; blanch and beat the latter in 
a moitar, with a little white of egg, to a 
v«ry fine paste. Whisk the whites of eggs 
lo a snow, then add the sugar, and pista- 
chio paste, mix them well, but very lightly, 
and when they are thorougldy incorporated, 
put some sheets of paper on tin plates, lay 
your preparation on the [)a|)er, with a spoon, 
lay the meringues, at least an inch apart; 
spiinkle sifted sugar over them, and put 
them into a moderate oven or stove ; when 
done, detach them gently from the paper 
with a knife, and place them on a sieve in 
a dry place. Just l)ef)re they are sent to 
table, fill each with a little whipped cream, 
to which add a small quantity of either 
orange-fiower, ruse, or vanilla water. 

MILK PUNCH. Pare six oranges, and 
six lemons, as thin as you possibly can, 
grate tliem after with sugar lo obtain the 
flavor. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum 
ar biandy, stopped close for four and twenty 
hours. Sciueeze the tinit on two pounds of 
sugar, add four ()uarts of water to it, and 
one (]nart of new milk, bulling hot; stir the 
rum into the above, and lun it thronwJi a 
jelly-bag until it is {jiiite clear: bottle and 
cork it close immcdiatelv. 

ISIINT, DISTILLED LIQUEUR OF. 

TjJve two hancll'uiri of licsh ;'atiiered irarden 



mint, and infuse it f;)r some days in a gallon 
an 1 a half of brandy, and a quart of water ; 
then distil it as usual. Dissolve three 
[jr)und3 and a half of sugar in seven pints of 
water, aiix the sirnji with the liqueur, and 
run the whole through a jelly bag. 

MINT WATER. Take four pounds of 
dried mint, two gallons and a half of pi^oof 
spirits, and three gallons of water; distil 
them, and sweeten the water with a pound 
and a half of sugar. 

MIRLITONS. Put into a pan two 
jolks, and two whole eggs, four ounces of 
powder-sugar, three ounces of sweet maca- 
roons crushed, half an ounce of crisped 
orange-flowers in powder, and a grain of 
salt; stir these together a minute, then add 
two ounces of melted butter; whip the two 
whites very firm, and put them also to the 
preparation. Line thirty tartlet moulds with 
puff-paste, into each of which pour an equal 
quantity of the above; cover them with 
sifted sugar, and when that is dissolved, 
strew over a little sugar, a la grele; and 
put them into a moderate oven : serve either 
hot or cold. 

MULBERRIES, SIRUP OF. Take 

as many nuilbei'ries as will yield three pints 
of juice, which put into a preserving pan 
with three pints of water; boil until this 
quantity is reduced to one pint; then lay the 
fruit on a sieve to drain. Clarify three 
pounds of sugar, boil it to houille; then add 
the midberry -juice; give them one boil, and 
skim them. Pour the sirup into a pan, and 
let it stand; when cold, bottle it. 

MUSK, TO PREPARE FOR LI- 
QUEURS. Take two grains of musk and 
a cjuarter of a pound of sugar, pound them 
in a mortar and m:x them well; keep it in 
a closely stopped bottle. The (juantity re- 
quired of this is one pinch to four or five 
cjuarts of liqueur. A;nbcrgris is prepared 
in a similar manner, !)ut bei.^g less powerful 
than the musk, four grains 's the proportion 
to a quarter of a pound of sugar. 

MYRTLE, OIL OF. P.-t two ounces 
of peach leaves, and the half o^ a nutmeg, 
bruised, into six (|nnrts of brandy; distil 
fiom this in a bain mcrie aleml)ic your li- 
qiieiu', in wliich, infuse half a pound of myr- 
tle flowers for four tlays. Dissolve five 
ponn Is ofsiigar in three (juarts (jf pure river 
water ; the moment it liegins to boil, take it 
from the fire, and let it cool; take the myr- 
tle flowers from the licjueur, and put in the 
sn;^ar : mix liiem well, (-olor it with tinctur* 
of saffron, sti-iin and bottle it. 



NUT 



287 



ORA 



N. 



NONPAREIL. Poppy seeds siigaredjan 
the manner directed under the articles Su- 
gared Seeds, are called Nonpareils; 
thev are tinged of different colors, by the in- 
troduction of the various coloring materials 
into the sugar with which they are cov- 
ered. 

NOUGAT. Blanch and wash a pound 
of sweet almonds, and having drained them" 
well, cut each into five slips, which place in 
a gentle oven to dry; let them be all ecjually 
colored of a clear yellow; in the meantime, 
put three-quarters of a poimd of fine sugar 
into a preserving pan, set it on a stove, 
stirring with a wooden spoon until com- 
pletely dissolved; then take the almonds out 
of the oven, and whilst hot throw them into 
the li(juid sugar; mix them together well. 
Have ready a mould well oiled, of any sha|^ 
you think proper, in the interior of which 
place the sli[)s of almonds, by means of lem- 
on-juice, when the whole is covered, remove 
the mould carefully, and serve the Nougat. 

NOYAU, ENGLISH. Two gallons of 
gin, two pounds of bitter almonds, one pound 
of sweet almonds, both teaten to a fine paste ; 
six pounds of lump sugar, pounded (some of 
it with the almonds.) Let these stand ten 
days in the gin, then filter it through blotting 
paper, and bottle it. 

NUT BONBONS. " Boil a |x)und of 
Spanish nut^ ; when they are well boiled, 
rub oft' their skin with a napkin, if some 
stick too hard, pare it oflF with a knife; 
grate your nuts veiy fine on a sheet of pa- 
per ; then take a pound of powdered sugar 
to a pound of nuts, put it in a pan over a 
slow fire; when your sugar is all melted 
(you must stir it constantly with a wooden 
spoon) put your nuts in, and work them well 
till all is well mixed, and pour it upon a tin 
pUte; then spreiid it with a rolling pin, this 
must be done very quickly, as it cools very 
fast; when it is cold, cut it into what form 
you please ; you must take care the sugar is 
not loo much melted, for it is very apt to 
soften when the nuts are added to it. 

NTTTS PRALINED. Take a pound 
of Spanish nuts, take them out of their 
shells, and put them into a pan, with a 
pound of loaf sugar, and a littlt? water; let 
them K)il till they l)egin t(j spaikle; then 
take tliem off tiie fire, and stir them well 
with a wooden spoon, till you perceive the 
sugar turns gravelly; then set them again 



over a slow fire, to dissolve the sugar; keep 
stirring, that the sugar may stick to the nuts, 
and when you see them turn reddish, and 
are well covered with sugar, take them ofl^, 
pour them into a sieve, cover them with a 
clean cloth, and put them into a stove; this 
will preserve their gloss. 

NUTMEGS TO CANDY. Take a 
pound and a half of double refined sugar, 
half a quarter of a pint of damask rose-wa- 
ter, and a very little gum arabic; boil these 
to a candy height ; let your imtmegs be first 
soa4\ed in water; then put them into an 
earthen pan, pour your candy to them, keep 
them very close covered, set them in a warm 
place for about three weeks, and they will 
be of a rock candy. 



O. 



OIL OF JUPITER. Take three quarts 
of spirits of wine, flavored with essential oil 
of lemon, the same quantity flavored with 
spirit of cedrat; make a sirup with seven 
pounds of sugar, a gallon of water, and two 
ijottles of Scubac ; mix the whole together, 
and by stirring, it will become thick ; to 
clarify it, take the whites of two eggs in 
about a pint of the liqueur, and afterwards 
put it to the whole; stir it; then put it into 
a still in the bain marie moderately heated ; 
let it remain for twelve hours ; filter the pro- 
duce of your distillation, and bottle it. 

OIL OF VENUS. Reduce the follow- 
ing articles to an impalpable powder: — an 
ounce of skirret seeds, an ounce of caraway 
seeds, an ounce of anise seeds, a drachm 
and a half of mace, and the rind of an or- 
ange ; infiise these for five days in a gallon 
of brandy, then distil from it in a bain ma- 
rie, two quarts of liqueur; dissolve over 
the fire four pounds of sugar in two quarts 
of pure water; when cold, mix it with the 
distilled liqueur, and color it of a clear yel- 
low, with a little tincture of saffron ; filter 
and bottle it; seal the corks. 

ORANGES IN BRANDY. Choose 
the oranges very round and smoodi, pare, 
prick them in the middle, and put them into 
cold water; then blanch them in boiling 
water; when they are tender, throw them 
again into cold wafer; in a short time give 
them se\en or eight boils in sugar, a la pe- 
tite nappe, skim, and let them stand till 
next day, when the same process must be 
gone through; ^kim them again, then put 
them into bottles, pour over ihem equal 
quantities of sirup and water; take care tx» 
cork them well. 



ORA 



288 



ORA 



ORANGE, COIMPOTE. Cut them 
m small pieces, and boil them in wa- 
ter \intil tliey are tender, tiien change tliem 
'nto cold water; next make a sirup with 
-)ne gla*s ol water and foiw ounces of sngar, 
and put in the fruit; let it dimmer gently 
over a slow fire for half an iioiir ; serve cold. 

ORANGE, CROQUE EN BOri- 
CHES OF. Pare a dozen fine oranges, 
and divifle each into twelve pieces, ail of 
the same size; scrape off every particle of 
tiie white, without breaking the thin skin 
which contains the juice ; when all are done, 
dip each piece into some sugar boiled to 
casse (and lightly colored,) and place them 
in a plain mould of six inches diameter, and 
five in height; the first row inclined one way, 
the second the I'everse way, and so on ; lay 
them at the bottom in a star. As soon as 
the mould is fiill, turn it out, and serve it 
with all possible expedition, as the moistnie 
of the fruit dissolves the sugar so rapidly, 
that ihe croque en bouche is liable to fall 
to pieces. 

ORANGE CAKES. Divide the or- 
anges in half, take out the seeds, and put 
the pulp and juice into a basin; boil the 
rinds in a saucepan of water, closely cover- 
ed ; when verv tender take them out, anrl 
dry them upon a cloth; allow to a pound of 
orange rinds, two of pounded loaf sugar; 
pound the rinds in a mortar; add by degrees 
the sugar, and then the juice and pulp; mix 
it tlioronghly till ihick and yellow; drop it 
upon tins in small cakes, and di'y them un- 
der garden glasses, or in a cool oven. If 
it be too thick to drop, let it stand a night. 

ORANGE SHERBET. Dissolve a 
pound and half of sugar in a quart of very 
pure water; take nine fine oianges and two 
lemons; wipe them well with a napkin, and 
having grated the most fragrant rinds, squeeze 
on them the juice of these fruits; sweeten 
this juice with the above sirup, run the w h(jle 
through a close hair sieve, and finish in 
the usual way. (See Sherbet.) 

ORANGE SHRUB. Put ten pounds 
of crushed sugar to two gallons of water, 
and boil it until the sugar be dissolved ; skim 
it well, and put it into a tub; when ouite 
cold, pour it into a barrel; add three (iiiarts 
of Jamaica rum, and six cjuarts of orange- 
juice (take care there are no pips.) Beat 
up the white of an egg, mix it with the 
shrub, and let it stand for a week; then 
draw it oti'aiul bottle it. 

ORANGE SUGAR. Rasp on a piece 
of sngar the rinds of the best oranges, but 
so lightly that not a particle of the white is 



mixed with it; scrape off the surface of the 
sngar as it becomes coloreii, and continue 
this operation until you have as much sn^ar 
as you recinire; then lay it in a stove, oi- at 
the month of the oven to dry ; when it is 
perfisctly so, i)ass it through a very fine 
sieve. Lemons and cedral^may be grated, 
and the sugar dried in the same manner. 

ORANGES, GREEN. Scrape out the 
insides of the oianges (juite clean, then let 
them lie for three davs in cold water, change- 
ing the water daiK, then boil them very 
slowly till the water is bitter; then put 
tliem into other boiling water, set them by; 
repeating this daily till all the bitterness is 
extracted: make a rich sirup of the last 
water they are boiled in, with Lisbon sugar; 
when cold, put them in; the next day boil 
them in the sirup; repeat this till they aie 
green and tender; cover with brandy-paper. 

ORANGE, WATER ICE. Take off 
the lind of two Seville oranges, very fine 
and thin ; s(]ueeze the juice into a basin 
with one lemon; add half a pint of sirup, 
and half a pint of water; pass them through 
a sieve, and freeze them rich. 

ORANGE-FLOWER CONSERVE. 

Boil half a pound of clarified sugar to gTa«de 
plume, take it from the fire, and pour into 
it a dessert spoonfid of orange-fiower water; 
stir them together well, set the mixture on 
the fire, and when warm, pour it into shal- 
low paper-cases; let it cool, and then cut it 
into cakes of any form you |)lease. 

ORANGE-FLOWER PASTILS. Pul- 
verise a good pinch of dried orange-fiowers ; 
pound them with gum-dragon, previously 
dissolved in one glass of plain, and the 
same quantity of or:inge-flower water; add 
a sufficient proportion of powder-sugar, to 
make the paste of the rec[uisite consistence, 
which form according to your taste into 
cones, lozenges, &c. 

ORANGE-FLOWER PRALINES. 

Take a pound of very fresh white orange- 
flowers, pick, and throw them into cold 
water; clarify, and boil two pounds of sugar 
to souffle, then put in the flowers; stir 
tliem with a spaltda, until your sugar re- 
gains tile degree of souffle; take tiie pan 
from the lire, and ccjntiuiie stiri'ing till the 
sugar is separated from the flowers, and Ihj- 
comes a [)owder; set it in a stove to diy, 
then set the whole on a sieve, that the sugar 
may run through and lea\e the flowers, 
which put into bottles. If preserved in a 
dry place they will keep for twelve inonUis. 

ORANGE-FLOWERS SIRUP. Chx- 



ORG 



2S9 



ORG 



ify and boil four pounds of sugar to perle, 
then add three-<niaiters of a pound of fresli 
orange-flowers picked, and boil them once; 
then take the pan from the fire, and let it 
stand for two hours, after which, replace it 
on the fire; when it has had about a dozen 
boilings, pour it through a sieve into anoth- 
er saucepan, boil the sirup to lisse, and 
put it aside; when quite cold, botlle it. 
The flowers may be usefl as follows: put 
them into powder-sugar, with which rub 
them well witii your hands, till quite dry, 
then sift and put them in a stove. 

ORANGE-FLOWER WATER. Put 

into a si ill ten pounds of fresh gathered or- 
ange-flowers, and six C}uarts of pure river 
water; take paiiicular care to close up all 
tlie apertures of the still perfectly, and set it 
on a moderate fire, that the eijullition may 
not be too strong; be particular in cooling 
it frcquenlly, or, at least, whenever the wa- 
ter in the boiler becomes too warnj, change 
it, and put in fresh; much de|)ends on the 
aticiitiun paid to this |)art of the operation. 
From the above rpianiity, three (|uarts of 
may be drawn. 



orange-flower water 



ORANGE-FLO W E R DOUBLE i 
Watkr. Draw four quarts of oiange- 
flower water from six quarts distilled as 
above; put to this water the same quantity 
of fresh flowers, distil it in the same manner, 
and it will yield five pints. 

ORANGE PEEL TO CANDY. Take 
some orange peel, and let it soak in seve- 
ral waters till it has lost its bitterness, then 
lx)il it in a solution of double-refined su- 
gar in water, till it becomes tender and 
transparent. 

ORANGE PEEL TO PRESERVE. 

Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, 
put the peel in strong salt and spring water, 
to soak for three days, repeat this three 
times, then put them on a sieve to dry; 
take one pound of loaf sugar, add to it one 
tjuart of spring water, boil it, skim it until 
quite clear; let the peels simmer until they 
are Cjuite transparent ; dry them before the 
fire; take loaf-sugar, with just sufficient 
water to dissolve it| whilst the sugar is 
boiling, put in the peels, stirring continually 
until all the sugar is candied round them, 
then put them to dry either before the fire 
or in an oven, and when perfectly dried, 
put them by for use. 

ORGEAT. Blanch a pound of sweet, 
and twenty-four bitter aJmonds ; pound them 
to an exceedingly fine paste, adding water 



occasionally to |)revent their oiling; mix a 
gallon of water, two pounds of sngnr and 
orange-flower water, with tiiis paste; beat 
them together for some time; then strain it 
two or three times through a jellv-bag, stir- 
ring it with a spatula, and serve it in de- 
canters. 

ORGEAT PASTE. Pound the almonds 
with a little orange-flower water to a fine 
paste, and then work up with it an equal 
weight of powiler-sugar. This paste will 
keep a long while, and by dissolving a small 
portion of it in water, and straining it, or- 
geat may be prepared very quickly. An 
ounce of the paste is sufficient for half a 
pint of water. 

ORGEAT SIRUP. Take a pound and 
a half of sweet, and half a pound of bitter 
almonds, throw them into boiling water, and 
leave them till the skins can be removed 
with east;, then thinw them into cold water 
for a minute before you blaiuli them, after 
which, they must ngain be put into cold 
water; then po;uul them, a few at a time, 
in a maible mortar, adding occasionally 
some water to prevent their oiling; when 
all are i)e;iten to a very fine pp.ste, dilute this 
with the greater part of a quart of water, 
(of which reserve six ounces); put the 
paste into a strong ckjth ; squeeze and wring 
out all the milk from the almonds, put the 
latter into the mortar, and pound them 
again, adding by degrees the remainder of 
the water, and then squeeze these also in a 
cloth; pour the whole of this milk into a 
matrass, large enough to contain, at least, 
one-third more licjuid, add to it two pounds 
of lump-sugar, and a pint of orange-flower 
water ; cork the matrass tight, and set it 
on a 6am marie; when the sugar is com- 
pletely dissolved, (which should be accelera- 
ted by shaking the matrass occasionally), les- 
sen the fire by degrees, and as sf)on as the 
vessel is (|uite cold, put the sirup into bottles. 

If you should have no matrass, you may 
make your sirup in the following manner: 
boil die above mentioned cjnantity of sugar 
io forte plume ^ then add the milk of al- 
monds, and as soon as it has boiled up twice, 
take it from the fire; when cold, flavor i( 
with a pint of orange-flower water. 

Or this sirup may be made in a still more 
simple way, as thus: put the milk of al- 
monds into some pounded sugar, without 
being clarified or boiled previously; when 
the sirup begins to boil, add about a coffee- 
cupful of orange-flower water, and after it 
has boiled up two or three times, take it 
from the fire; let it get quite cold before 
you botlle it. Keep it web corked 



PAS 



290 



PEA 



P. 



PARFAIT AMOUR. Take four ver>- 
fine fresli cedrats, paie ihem veiy thin, and 
infuse tlieui with hah' an ounre of line cinna- 
mon, and four ounces of coriander, in three 
gallons of strong bi'andy, and a quart of wa- 
ter, for a week or ten days, when distil it 
in the bain marhe; tliis quantity of brandy, 
if good, will yield two gallons and half a 
pint of spirit. Dissolve three pounds and a 
half of sucfai' in seven pints of river water, 
color it with cochineal, then add it to tlie 
spirit, filter, and bottle it. 

PASTILLES. To make these articles, 
it is necessaiT to have a small cop|)er stew- 
pan that will hold abtnit a pint, rather deep 
tlian wide, witli a pointed lip on die right 
side, and a tolerably long handle, also two 
pieces of wood, one about eighteen inches 
Ions, and lour in diameler, called the hois 
a tab ell er, the other about half the lengdi, 
one inch in diameter, and the lower end, 
pointed so that it will exactly fit the lip of 
the pan ; this is called the bois a egoutter; 
six. or eight tin plates about tlie size of a 
sheet of letter-paper. 

For the be?t pastilles, take a pound of 
double-refined sugar reduced to an impalpa- 
ble powder; sift it through a tammy on a 
sheet of white paper, put four or five spoon- 
fuls of this sugar into your pan, pour on it a 
little orange-dower water, and beat it well 
widi tlie larger stick, imtil die preparation 
is sufiiciently thin to run from the stick 
■without bein? clear; if it be so, more sugar 
must be added. Put the pan over a chafing- 
dish filled with live coals, and let it stand 
(stirring constantly) till itbeiils; then take 
it oft the chafing-dish, add two more spoon- 
fuls of sugar, work it up well, scrape away 
whatever sugar adheres to the stick, set it 
aside, and take die smaller stick in your 
riglu hand, hold the pan in your left (slant- 
ing) over one of the tin-plates; the sugar 
will, by these means, flow to the lip, then 
strike the point of die stick into the lip of 
the pan, which action will separate the 
liquid, so that each time the stick strikes 
the lip a single drop of the preparation will 
fall on the tin; a little practice will be ne- 
cessaiT before this operation can lie perform- 
ed neatly. As soon as all your sugar, Sec. 
is used, replenish the pan and proceed as 
above directed, until you have as many 
pastilles as you may require. When cold 
and hard, remove them from the tins with 
your hand, and keep them in boxes in a 
dn place. You may, if you pleast, color 
the pastilles, taking care to perfume them 
with a corresponding^ odour. 



PASTILLES, COMMON. These ara 

made in the same manner as tlie best sort^ 
the difference consists in the materials, 
(which are a quarter of a pound of powder 
to three-quarters of a pound of sugar) and 
the perfumes are omitted. 

PASTILLAGES. Put two onnces of 
well-washed gum drajjon into an earthen 
pan, with as much clear Iwt water as will 
cover it, lay a sheet of pa{>er to keep out 
the dust, and let it stand twenty-four hours; 
then squeeze it through a coarse cloth into 
a marble mortar, and add to it as much 
starch and sugiir (both in powder) as t!ie 
gum water will contain; pound these ingre- 
dients well, and strain iheai through a tammj 
into a pan which keep covered with a damp 
cloth. This pastillage is used to form the 
ornamental [jaris of pastrv and confection- 
ai'y, such as temples, baskets, Sec, and may 
be tinged of the requisite shades, by mix- 
ing with it any of die coloring materia Is r 

PEACHES I\ A COMPOTE. Cut 

your j)eaches in half, lake out the stones, 
jieel them, then set them on the fire in a 
sugar-pan, with a sufficient quantity of thick 
clarified sugar to cover them, and let them 
simmer in this gently till done; then take, 
them out in a basin, put in the kernels to 
the sugar, and let it boil until tolerably thick; 
put in the juice of two or three lemons, and 
pour the sirup over the peaches; serve tliem 
ia H dee|) hot dish. 



PEARS I.\ BRANDY. Take some 
heurre pears, not too ripe, put them into a 
saucepan with a sufficient quantity of water 
to cover them, set diem on the fire, and let 
them simmer, but not boil, until the pears 
will yield to the pressure of your finger; 
then clumge them into cold water; piu-e 
them with the greatest care, so that not a 
single spot may remain ; prick, and put them 
again on the fire in fresh water and the juice 
of a lemon; let them boil vei-y fast. As 
soon as the pears are soft enough for the 
bead of a pin to penetrate them easily, take 
them out carefully with a skimmer, and lay 
them in cold water. In die meantime, hav- 
ing boiled your sug;ir to lisse, pour the 
boiling sirup on the pears, (previouslv 
draine<l from the water,) and leave diem. 
The next day drain off the sirup, boil it to 
la nappe, then put in tlie jiears, give them 
a boil also; proceed in the same manner ou 
the third day, after which, drain the fruit, 
and put it into bi.tdes. Boil up the sirup a 
few more times, let it cool, and then pour 
on it some brandy, (three-fouiths of the 
quantity of the sirup;) run the mixture 
lluough a bag, put it to die pears, and cork 
the bottles well. 



I i\ 



P I s 



291 



P L U 



PEARS CANDIED. Are done like 
apricots. 

PEARS, COMPOTE OF. Take some 
good sized pears, cut them in halves, and 
put them into boiling water; when soft, 
change them into cold water, in which 
squeeze a little lemon-juice. Boil some 
clarified sugrar, drain the fruit well from the 
water, and then put them mto the sirup; 
boil together until the pears are sufficiently 
done; skim, and place them in the compo- 
tier. A little Burgundy wine and prepared 
cochineal will give the compote a red color. 

PEAR MARMALADE. Take six 
pounds of small pears and four pounds of 
sugar; put the pears into a saucepan with 
a little water, set it on the fire; when the 
fruit is soft, take them out, paie, (juarter, 
and core them; as yo'i do this, throw each 
piece into cold water, in another saucepan, 
and when all ere done, set them on the (ire. 
As soon as they are sufficiently soft, rub 
them througii a sieve, and having in the 
meantime clarified and boiled the sugar to 
petit lisse, pour the sirup to the pulp, set it 
on the fire, and stir them together until the 
marmalade is of the proper consistence; 
tiien take it off, put it into pots, and when 
cold, tie them down. 

PERSICA. Cut about one hundred 
peach leaves, put them into a wide-mouthed 
bottle, pour on them a quart of the best 
brandy, cork it close; in three weeks strain 
it off, and put to it an equal quantity of ca- 
pillaire. It is good in custards, puddings, 
and as a liqueur. 

PINE APPLE CHIPS. Pare and 
trim a pine-apple, divide, and slice each 
half into pieces a quarter of an inch thick ; 
lake half the weight of die fruit in powder- 
sugar: lay the slices in a basin, with sugar 
strewed between; let it stand till the sugar 
be tlissolved, then set it on a moderate fire 
to simmer till the chips be quite clear, when 
set it by. The next day remove all the 
sirup from the slices, place them on glasses, 
and dry them in a gentle oven. 

PINE APPLE IN A COMPOTE. 

Turn off die rind of a pine, cut it in slices, 
but not too thin; have some sugar on the 
fire in a sugar-pan, into which put the slices 
of pine, and let them boil gently till the sirup 
is tolerably Uiick, then take out the pine, 
and lay it on a dish; mix with the sugar, 
the juice of a couple of lemons, and |)oui it 
over the pine. 

PISTACHIO MARCHPANE. Put a 
pound and a half of pistachios into a mortaj-, 

2| 



pound them, moistening with white of egg, 
to a very fine paste; in the meantime clari- 
fy the same quantity of sugar, boil it to petit 
boule; then take the pan from the fire, put 
in the pistachios, stir them together well, 
replace the pan on hot ashes, continually 
stirring, till the paste is of a proper consis 
tence, then puur it on a slab well sprinkled 
vvidi sugar; as soon as it is cold, cut it into 
whatever forms your fancy may dictate. 

PLUMS, IN BRANDY. Take twelve 
pounds of fine magnum bonum plums, and 
three pounds of sugar; the fruit should be 
turned in color, but not ri|«3; prick, and put 
them into a saucepan witJi cold water, set 
them on the fire; when the water boils and 
the plums rise, take them out carefiilly with 
a skimmer and |)ut them into a pati of cold 
water; clarify and boil the sugar to petit 
lisse, put the plums to it, aim give them a 
boil; the two succeeding days, drain off 
and boil the sirup, first alone, and after- 
wards with the fruit; the third day drain 
the plums, and put them into bottles; then 
boil the sirup to la nappe, and when cold, 
add to it three-fourths of its quantity of the 
l)est brandy, stir it well, straiii and pour the 
mixture over the plums. Cork the bottles 
tiglit. Green-gage plums are done like 
apricots. (See Apricots in Brandy.) 

PLUMS CANDIED. Choose your 
fruit of a nice shape and good size; cut 
them in halves, lay them on a large shallow 
dish, stiew powder-sugar over, and put 
them into a moderate oven, tightly closed; 
in half an hour's time, take them out, and 
place the plums one by one on glass plates 
to dry. 

PLUMS, CLEAR CAKES OF. Fill 
ajar with the white pe:u- plums, .set it in a 
saucepan of boiling water on the fire ; when 
sufficiently done, let the clear juice run 
from it, and to every pint of it, add an e(]ual 
quantity of sugar, boiled to candy height; 
put the juice to the sirup, set it on the fire, 
and keep stirring it till the whole is quite 
hot, but not boiling; dien pour it into glass- 
es, and dry the cakes in a stove. 

PLUMS, MAR3IALADE OF. Take 
six pounds of plums, and four pounds of 
sugar; stone, and put the fruit into a cul- 
lender, beat it through with a wooden pestle 
into a preserving-pan, which set on the fire, 
to dry die pulp, stirring it constantly. In 
the meantime, clarify and boil the sugar to 
petit casse, then mix it with the fruit (still 
on the fire,) stir it till the whole is of the 
consistence of jelly, then take it off, and 
pour the marmalade into pots. 

If the pluma are not quite ripe, tiiey must 



POM 



292 



POU 



be bulled once or twice before tliey are 
pressed through the cullender. Some of 
tlie kernels may be added, if approved; 
they should be pounded before putting in the 
marmalade. 

PLUMS PRESERVED, DRY. Gath- 
er the plums when full grown and just turn- 
ing color, pi ick and put them into a saucepan 
of cold water, set them on the fire until the 
water is on the point of boiling; then take 
them out, drain and boil them well in some 
clarified sugar, let them settle, and then boil 
them again ; if they shrink and will not take 
the sugar, prick them as they lay in the pan, 
and then give them another boil, s.vim and 
set them by : the next day, add some more 
sugar, boiled to souffle, to the fruit, and 
sirup, then do them together; place them 
in a stove till next day, when drain the 
plums from the sirup, sprinkle a little pow- 
der-sugar over, and dry them in a stove. 

PLUMS, PRESERVED LIQUID. 

Gather the plums green, firm, and when the 
stone may be extracted with ease, cut the 
stalks close, and prick the fruit in several 
places, especially round the stalk; then 
place them in a saucepan of water over the 
fire, and as soon as the water is ready to 
boil, take the saucepan from the fire; in 
four-and-twenty hours, replace the plums in 
the same water on a gentle fire, with a small 
quantity of verjuice to preserve their color. 
Keep ihe water hot, without allowing it to 
boil, for three hours, stirring it occasional- 
ly ; when the fruit is perfectly green, increase 
tJie heat till the plums rise to the surface, 
when they must be taken out and thrown 
into cold water, which change frequently till 
the plums are perfectly cold, then drain 
them. Put the fiuit in some siigar boiled to 
la nappe, boil them up a few times, adding 
a litlle water; skim, and then pour the 
whole into a pan ; the next two days, drain 
off the sirup, and increase the degree of 
boiling each day; the third and fourth davs, 
boil the fruit with the sirup, keeping them 
covered, and increasing the degree, until the 
last time, it reaches to perle. Put 'the 
preserve into pots, and place them for two 
days in a stove. 

The same fruit may be preserved dry 
also. The operation is the same, but the 
sirup is drained off, and die plums laid on 
tin plates before they are put into the stove. 

POMEGRANATE CLEAR CAKES. 

Pare some good boiling apples, an;l put diem 
into a saucepan with as much water as will 
, cover them, set them on the fire, an I when 
jierfectly soft, press die pulp through a sieve, 
and then strain it. Boil this jelly with the 



juice of two or three pomegranates, that of 
one orange, and one lemon, and the rind of 
each grated; strain it again, and to every 
pound of jelly add a pound and a quarter 
of fine sugar, boiled till it cracks, color it 
with cochineal; pour it into glasses (taking 
off the scum before it becomes cold). Set 
them in a stove, and when the top is dry, 
turn them out, and put them ro dry again ; 
then cut them into whatever forms you 
please, put them into (he stove or oven lo 
harden, then lay them on sieves, and when 
thoroughly dry, place them in boxes widi 
paper between. As they are apt to become 
moist, they should be looked at fre(]uently. 

POMEGRANATE JELLY, TRANS- 
PARENT. Take the seeds from five 
very fine pomegranates, from which extract 
the juice by pressing it hard through a 
horse-hair sieve; filter this juice and mix it 
with some siruj) tinged of a rose color, wilii 
a little cochineal; add the isinglass to tiiis, 
and linish as usiral. (See Jelly Fruit.) 

POMEGRANATE SIRUP. Take 
five very ripe large pomegranates, extract 
the seeds (which must be very red); crush, 
and put them into a skillet, with half a 
jiint of water; set them on the fire till soft, 
and then sf|ueeze the juice through a new 
coarse cloth; clarify a pound and half of 
sugar, and boil it to souffle, then add Uve 
juice, boil tlnun together to the usual con., 
sistence of sirups. It must not be bottled 
until quite cold. This number of pome- 
granates will yield a quart of sirup. 

POUPELIN. Put into a saucepan four 
glasses of water, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, the zeste of a lemon, and a pinch 
of fine salt; set it on the fire, and as soon 
as it begins to boil, take it off, and put in 
as much sifted fiour as will make a paste 
the consistence of choux, then replace it 
on the fire, and keep stirring till it dries; 
make a similar mixture, and when that 
also is dry, put both into a mortar, with 
half a pound of powder sugar, an ounce of 
orange-fiowers, and two eggs at a time, un- 
til five and twenty or diirty are used, by 
which time the paste will be of the proper 
consistence, then pour it into a lightly but- 
tered tin; put it into a moderate oven, and 
leave it. In three hours' time, if the 
poupelin is of a nice gold color, fake it 
out, cut off die to|), and with a spoon re- 
move all the inside, then set it in the 
oven to dry. When cold, spread all over 
the interior apricot marmalade, on wiiich 
strew swee* macaroons crushed, then turn 
it on a dish, and serve. 



RAS 



293 



ROS 



Q 



QUINCE CAKES. Pare and core 
liair a dozen quinces, l)oil tliem till quite 
8oft; tiien rub tiie pulp tliroiigli a sieve, and 
strain it; mix this with liaif a pint of sirup 
of quincfjs, and tiie same of sirup ot l)ailjer- 
ries, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar; 
l)oil tlie whole to casse, and then pour it 
into small shalbw moulds, of any shape 
yon please ; let them cool a little, and then 
dry them in a stove. 

QUINCE CAKES TRANSPARENT. 

Take a (jnart of sirup of fiuinces, anil half a 
pint uf the siru|) of barberiies; set them on 
a gentle fire, boi and skim them well; then 
add tHo pounds and a half of fine sugar, 
keep stirring until it reaches candy height; 
then take it off, and when nearly cold, lay 
it, in any form you please, on tin plates. 
Dry them in a stove. 



R. 



RASPBERRY CAKES. Gather some 
raspberries l)efore they are quite ripe, pick, 
and lav them in a stove to dry; then beat 
them in a mortar. Take a pound and 
quarter of fine sugar, clarify and boil it to 
casse; then weigh half a pound of raspber- 
ries, dried as above; throw them into the 
sirup, with half a spoonful of white of egg, 
beaten in cream; stir it carefully, give it a 
boil, and pour it in moulds or paper cases. 

RASPBERRIES OF MARCHPANE. 
Take a pound of marchpane, the juice of 
four lemons, a quarter of a pound of rasp- 
berry jelly, and a little cochineal; mix these 
together with a strong wooden spotula; then 
add two handfuls of flour, and some powder 
sugar; when well worked up, roll them into 
pieces about the size of a finger, cut these 
into dice, roll each into a ball, pinch the 
top into a point, so as to resemble the form 
of a raspberry: then put them one by one 
into paper cases, which place in a dry 
waim place, for eight or ten days. At the 
end of that time, put a portion of sirup of 
raspberries, a little cochineal, and a small 
quantity of powder-sugar into a pan; mix 
them together with a spoon, and then tlirow 
into it, a couple of handftils of the raspber- 
ries; take the pan in both hands, and shake 
it about, so that the raspberries may be 
e(jually covered with the red sirup; then 
put sugar a la grele on a laige sheet of 
paper, spread it out a little, and while the 
raspberries are wet with he sinap, tlirow 



them into the sugar; then take the four 
corners of the paper, shake it about well, 
by which means the sugar will adhere to 
the raspberries in all parts, and give them 
a perfect resemblance to the real (ruit; lake 
them out carefully one by one, lay them on 
paper, and put them in a warm pia<;e for 
some dajs. These artificial raspl>fcrries are 
of a pleasant flavor, and will keep several 
years. 

RASPBERRY MARMALADE. Take 
double the weight of ras|;l;eiTies to that of 
sugar. Rub the fruit through a sieve, and 
put the pulp into a saucepan ; set it on the 
fire, and stir till it is reduced to half ; then 
pour on tlu! sugar, previously clarified and 
boiled to petit boule, stir it well in, put it 
on the fire, give it a i'ew boils, and then 
pour it into pots. 

RASPBERRIES PRESERVED. Take 
five or six pounds of red, but not too ripe 
raspberries, pick, and put them into a pre- 
serving pan, with an equal weight of clari- 
fied sugar, boiled to petit boulej when 
they have boiled up about a dozen times, 
skim, and pour the whole into a pan till die 
next day, then drain the fruit, and put it 
into jars; put to the sirup about two gkiss- 
es of cherry juice, previously strained; boil 
the sugar to la nappe, and then pour it 
over the raspberries; add al'terwards, aijout 
a spoonful of currant jelly to each pot, and 
when cold, lay on brandy papers, and tie 
them down. 

RATAFIA OF FOUR FRUITS. Takd 
ten pounds of very ripe cherries, two pounds 
and a half of raspberries, five pounds and a 
half of red and two pounds of black cur- 
rants; pick, and mix these fruits together, 
press the juice from them, measure it, and 
for every quart of juice, take half a pound 
of sugar, and an equal quantity of brandy; 
dissolve the sugar in the juice, then put in 
the brandy, a drachm of mace, and two 
drachms of cloves. Let the whole stand 
some time, filter, and bottle it. Keep them 
well corked. 

ROSES, CAN DIED. Crisp two hand- 
fuls of rose-leaves in some clarified sugar, 
boil them to fort souffle, then take the pan 
from the fire, pour it on a sieve, let the sir- 
up run from the leaves, rubbing the laUer in 
your hands, then dry them in a stove Boil 
your sugar again to souffle, adding a little 
carmine to color it, have a proper mould 
ready, pour the sugar into it, and put the 
flowers on it, push them down lightly with 
a fork, that they may be completely cover- 
ed with the sugar; place the mould in a 
moderate stove or oven for ^ve days, then 



SEE 



294 



STR 



drain off the sirup; lay a sheet of paper on 
the ta!)le, and turn the can.iy (iuickly out 
of the iiioiild. 

ROSES, CONSERVE OF. Boil half 
a puiiii I of sii^;ir ti) fort soujfle, poitr into 
thi»: sinip the \^t»x. doiihle-distiiled ro^e 
water; hoil it again to fort perte, mix 
witli it a little prepare(1 c;ochineal or c;ir- 
niine to cnlur it, and pour your conserve 
into moulds. 

ROSE RED DROPS. Take a small 

quantity of red bastard saffron, and a little 
calcined alum, boil these in some water until 
it is snfticiently tinged for your purpose; 
then filter or strain it through a very close 
linen cloth; put five or six s|)oonfuls of sift- 
ed sugar into the pan, dilute it with the 
colored water, work it well with the bois a 
tabeller, and set it over a chafing-dish ; when 
it begins to boil, add two moie spoonfuls 
of sugar, and having worked it well, per- 
fume it with some drops of essence of roses, 
and finish as directed. (See Orange-flow- 
er Drops.) 

ROSSOLS. Take three-quarters of a 
pound of |)icked orange-fiiwers, a pound 
of musk ntses, six drachms of cinnamon, 
and two of cloves (both bruised); put them 
into a cucurbite with three gallons of pme 
water; on distilling this, it will yield a gal- 
lon and a half, in which dissolve twelve 
pounds of fine sugar broken up; add to it 
an equal (|uantity of spirit of jessamine, col- 
or it crimson with cochineal, filter and bot- 
tle it. 



S. 



SEEDS, SUGARED. These are done 
in the same maimer as sugared almonds. 
The seeds most generally used for this pur- 
pose are anise, cummin, and fennel. 

The best method of proceeding is as fol- 
lows: place a small preserving-pan over a 
charcoal fire, on the side of which have a 
chafing di.-h, on Aviiich keep a pan with a 
quanlity of sugar boiled to lisse; (this su- 
gar should be kept (juite hot, but not boil- 
ing) ; on the other side have some fine pow- 
der. When so far prepared, put your seeds 
into the |)an, and as soon as they l:egin to 
heat, pour over them a large sjMJonful or 
two of the sirup; stir them about, that all 
may l>e thoroughly saturated with it; then 
sprinkle over it a handful or two of powder, 
Btill sh. iking the pan to make the .«eeds 
equally white. ^Vhen dry, pour on some 
more siiup, then the ponder, and continue 
tliis alternately until vour seed.^ aie suf- 



ficiently large; then lay them on a sieve, 
keep I hem in a warm place for some days 
alter wiiich put them into glass bottles. 

SOUFFLE FRANCAIS. 3Iake a 
croustade eleven inches in diameter, and 
tiu'ee and three-quarters in height; put 
round it three sheets of buttered paper, and 
bake it. 

Take twelve glasses of boiling milk, in 
which infuse whatever ingredients you may 
think proper, such as vanilla, coffee, orange- 
flowers, &CC. (the propoitions w ill l>e found 
under the different articles). In the mean- 
lime, wash a pound of rice thoroughly in 
warm water, then put it into a saucepan 
of cold water, and when it has boiled a few 
minutes, strain the rice, and put it with 
your infusion into another saucepan, and 
set it again on the fire; as soon as it boils, 
place the sauce{.an on hot ashes, that the 
rice may burst gradually; in three-quarters 
of an hour, add a pound of powder-sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of fresh butler, 
and a pinch of sail, stir them well in; put 
fresh hot ashes under the saucepan, that the 
rice may be kept constantly simmering for 
an liDur, by which time it ought to be j^er- 
fecllv soft, and shnul.l be rubbed ihrongh a 
bolting-cloth (inickly, Wken puree; |;uiihis 
into another saucepan over h(jt ashes, to 
keep it warm, 'lake sixteen eggs, sepa- 
rate the yrilks and whites, beat the f)rmer 
well, and whisk the latter till neaily firm; 
then mix the yolks with the rice (taking 
off the ashes); the preparation ought to be 
of the same consistence as a cream palis- 
siere; add, at first, a quarter, and after- 
waids the whole of the whites; stir them in 
as lightly as for biscuit paste; the whole Ije- 
ing ihorouijhiy amalgamated, pour it into 
the croustade, and place it in a moderate 
oven for two hours and a half; when d(jne, 
cover a baking tin with red cinders, on 
which place the souffle the moment it is 
taken out of the oven; this prevents its 
falling, whilst you mask it with pinvder- 
sugar, and glaze with the salamander; car- 
ry it into the dining-room on a tin, have a 
dish readv with a napkin folded on it; 
place the souffle on the dish, and let it be 
served immediately. Remember that a 
souffle caimot be served too quickly. 

STRAWBERRY, C03IP0TE OF. 

This is made in the same manner as Rasp- 
berries, only that the strawberries do not 
require being mixed with any other f:uit. 

STRAWBERRY CONSERVE. Take 

some very ripe fresh strawberries, pick, and 
crush thein through a tammy. For every 
dessert spoonful of juice, allow six ounces 
of sugar; boil this to fort perle, take it 



SUG 



295 



SUG 



off the fire, and pour in the juice ; stir them 
together with a silver spoon, until the con- 
serve begins to whiten and dry, then put it 
into moulds or paper cases. If the conserve 
be too white, add a little carmine to the 
sirup. 

STRAWBERRY MARCHPANE. 

Take two pounds of sweet almonds, two 
pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of 
picked strawberries. Beat the almonds to 
a (\t)e paste, and mix them with the sugar 
(boiled to p^tit boule;) crush, and strain 
the juice of the fruit, which add to the al- 
mond paste and sirup ; stir the mixture well, 
set it on hot ashes, and continue stirring until 
the paste is sufficientlj' done; this may be 
proved by laying a piece on the back of your 
hand ; if it may be removed without its 
sticking, it is enough ; when cold, spread it 
over a slab, and cut it of any size and shape 
you think proper. 

SUGAR, TO CLARIFY. Take four 
pounds of sugar, and break it into pieces; 
put into a [)reserving-pan the white of an 
e^g, and a glass of pure spring water; mix 
them well with a whisk, add another glass, 
still whipping, until two quarts of water 
have been put in ; when the pan is full of 
froth, throw in the sugar, and set it cai the 
fire, being careful to skim it eveiy time the 
scum lises, which will be the case as the 
sugar boils up. After a few boilings, the 
sugar will rise so high as to run over the 
edges of the pan, to prevent wiiich, throw 
on it a little cold water; this will lower it 
instantly, and give time for the skimming, 
for the scum should never be taken off whilst 
die sugar is bubbling; the cold water stills 
it, and that is the moment to skim it. Re- 
peat this opetation carefully three or four 
times, when a whitish light scum only will 
rise; then take the pan off, lay a napkin, 
slightly wetted, over a basin, and pour the 
sugar through it. 

The scum thus taken ofl^, put into a china 
basin ; and when the sugar is clarified, wash 
the pan and the skimmer with a glass of 
water, which put to the scum, and set it 
aside for more common purposes. 

SUGAR, Different Degrees of Pre- 
paring. The various purposes to whicli 
sugar is applied, require it to be in different 
states; these are called degrees, and are 
thirteen in number, called as (ollows: 

Petit Lisse, or First Degree. Re- 
place the clarified sugar in the preserving- 
pan, to boil gently, take a drop of it on the 
thumb, touch it with the fore-finger; if, on 
opening them, it draws to a fine thread, and 
in breaking, forms two drops on each finger, 
it is at the right point. 



Lisse, Second Degree. A little more 
boiling brin:,rs it to this point; when the 
thread will draw further hefnre it breaks. 

Petit Perle, Third Degree. At this 
point the thread may be drawn as far as the 
span will open, without breaking. 

Grand Perle, Fourth Degree. On 
still increasing the boiling, little raised balls 
are formed on the surface of the sugar. 

Petit Queue de Cochon, Fifth Degree. 
Take up some of the sugar on a skinnner, 
and drop it on the rest, when it should form 
a slanting streak on the surface. Boil it a 
little longer, and it will reach the 

Grande Queue de Cochon, or Sixth 
Degree. The stieak or tail is now larger. 

Sotiffle, Seventh Degree. Take out a 
skinnncrful of the sugar, blow through it, 
and small sparks of siigar will fly from it. 

Petit-Plume, Eighth Degree. The 
same proof as above; the sparks should be 
larger a.d stronger. 

Grande Plume, Ninth Degree. Take 
the sugar in the skinmier, as before, give it 
a shake, and if the sparks aie large, and 
adhere together on rising, it is at the right 
point. 

Petit Boulet, Tenth Degree. Dip , 
30ur fingers in cold water, and then into / 
the sugar instantly, and again into the wa- 
ter, when the sugar will roll into a ball, 
which will be supple when cold. 

Gros Boulet, Eleventh Degree. At 
this point, the ball or bullet will be harder 
when cold th;m at the last. 

Casse, Twelfth Degree. Prove aa 
above; the bullet should crumble between 
the fingers, and on biting, will stick to the 
teeth; at the next point. 

Caramel, Thirteenth Degree, It 
should snap clean. This point is very diffi- 
cult to attain, for in increasing the height, 
the sugar is apt to burn ; it is better there- 
fore to try the proof very frequently. 

Another caramel is frequently used by the 
confectioner, and is of a deep color; it is 
made by putting a little water to the sugar, 
and boiling it without skimming, or other- 
wise touching the sugar, till of the right 
color, then take it off and use immediately. 

If, on preparing the sugar, you happen to 
miss the right point, add a little cold water, 
and boil once more. 

Observations. — The skimmer should 
never be left in the pieserving-pan after the 
sugar is clarified", nor after the scum is re- 
moved. 

Be very careful not to stir t?r disturb the 
sugar, as that would cause its diminution. 

In boiling the sugar (particularly the two 
last degrees), the sitgar is continually rising 
and filling; and on falling, leaves marks on 
the sides of the pati, which the heat of the 
fire would soon burn, and thereby spoil the. 



TRl 



296 



VAN 



whole of the pngar; to avoid this, have by 
the side of you a pan of colli water, and a 
Bpt)nge, with vviiich wipe tlie sides of tlie 
pan carefully, tlie iiistar.t after the sugar has 
fallen. 

SUGAR LIKE SNOW. Blanch a 
quarter of a pouni of bitter ahnonds, pound 
thein to a very fine paste in a marble mor- 
tar, with the whites of four eg<rs; when 
perfectly smooth, add a pound of the best 
lump sugar (in powder), and five or six 
more whites of eggs; stir all together well, 
until of such consistence that it may be 
Kneaded without adhering to the hands. 
Divide this preparation into two parts, one 
of which, tinge of a red rol(jr, either with 
bolus armena, or cochineal, and perfume it 
with essential oil of roses or bergamot; 
leave the other portion of paste white, but 
flavor it as f illows: — grate the rind of two 
fine sound lemons on a small piece of sugar, 
scrape otf the suiface, and when pounded in 
a small mortar, work it into the uncolored 
portion of sugar-paste, then roll it out to about 
half an inch in tlii(;kness (having previously 
sprinkled the slab with powder-sugar.) cut 
it with a tin-paste cutter about two inches 
diameter; arrange ihein on white paper, 
which place on a baking tin, and put them 
into a moderate oven f)r about three-quar- 
ters of an hour; proceed in the same manner 
with the colored paste. When cold, detach 
them from the paper. 

SUGAR PASTE. Take a pound of 
flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, a little salt, one 
egg; mix all together with a little water. 
This paste may be used fur any second- 
course dish. 



T. 



TABLET OF PATIENCE. Take 
eight eggs, and whip the whites to a firm 
snow ; in the meantime have the yolks 
beaten up with six ounces of powder-sugar ; 
(both these operations should be performed 
for at least half an hour); then mix the two 
together, add six ounces of sifted Hour, and 
when well incorporated, pour in half a pint 
of rose or orange-fiower water; stir the 
whole together fur some time. Have ready 
some tin |)lates, well rubbed with butter; 
take a funnel that has three or four tubes, 
fill it widi the paste, and push out your 
tablets; when the tin plates are full, put 
them into a pretty warm oven. When done, 
take them fioni the tins whilst hot. 

TRIFLE. (1) Sweeten three pints of 



cream ; add to it half a pint of mountain wine, 
grate in the rind of a lemon, squeeze in the 
juice, and grate in half a nutmeg ; whisk this 
up, lay the froth on a large sieve, and the sieve 
over a dish that has ratafia cakes, maca- 
roons, sweet almonds, blanched and pound- 
ed, citron, and candied orange-peel, cut into 
small pieces, some currant jelly, and rasp- 
beriy jam in it, that the liquor may run 
upon them ; when they are soaked, lay them 
in the dish you intend to serve in, put on the 
froth as high as possible, well drained; 
strew over nonpareils, and stick on little 
slices of citron, orange, or lemon-peel. 

TRIFLE. (2) Lay some macaroons 
and ratafia drops over the bottom of your 
dish, and soak them well with raisin wine, 
when soaked, pour on them a very rich cold 
custard. It must stand two or three inches 
thi(;k; on that put a layer ol" raspberry jam, 
and cover the whole with a very high whip 
made the preceding day, of rich cream, the 
whites of two eggs, well beaten, sugar, lem- 
on-peel, and raisin wine, well beat with a 
whisk. It is best to make it the day before 
it is wanted, being more solid and better 
tasted. 

TRIFLE. (3) Put halfa pound of maca- 
roons into a dish, pour over them some white 
wine, and a pint of custard over that, make 
a whip, and put on it; garnish according to 
your fancy. 



V. 



VANILLA CREAM. Take two 
drachms of vanilla, a (juart of milk, the 
yolks of three eggs, five ounces of sugar, and 
a pint of cream; beat up the eggs well with 
the milk, and then add the other ingredients; 
set the whole on a moderate fire, ami stir it 
constantly uitli a wooden sp(«)n, till the 
cream will adhere to it; then strain, and 
serve it cold. 

VAiNILLA CREAM, BOLTED. 
Take as much cream as wiH fiil the mould 
you intend to use, ai)(i boil it up a few 
times, with the proport'OKUlo (|;"antilies of 
vanilla and sugar; then let it cool, iMid if 
the mould will contain a ()uarr, K-<ix twelve 
yolks and three whole eofgs with tho cream, 
and run it five times thrcjugh a bolting doth 
Butter the mould, pour the cream into it, 
and place it in the bai i marie, but noC too 
hot; when the cream is set, which you may 
know by touching it gently with your finger, 
turn it on a dish; take the remaintlev of 
the cream, stir it over the fire >ike white 



VER 



297 



VIO 



sauce, and as soon as it sticks to the s|)oon 1 used in French cookery, but very rarely put 
(which must be of wood), lake it off, stir it ] ' 
an instant, and then pour it over the other I 
cream, and serve cokl. 



into English dishes. 



VANILLA CREAM WHIPPED. Put 

a pincli of gnin-(hagini into a pint of cream, 
add a small quantity of orange-ilower water, 
powder-sugar to the taste, and a little milk, 
in which some vanilla has been boiled, and 
the milk strained; whip these ingredients 
with a whisk, until the whole is sufficiently 
frothed ; then lay it carefully on a dish, in a 
pyramidal fonn, and serve it. 

VANILLA CREAM ICE. Whisk the 
whites of twelve eggs to a firm froth in a 
preserving pan, pour on tliem the yolks of 
eight, and a pound of sifted sugar, whip the 
wlioie well with a whisk, and pour in by de- 
grees twi) (juaits of boiling cream; continue 
to whip it for son)e little lime, and then put 
it on the fire, with half an ounce of vanilla 
bruised; still whipping, when it has boiled 
up three or four times, strain it, and freeze 
as usual. (See Ice.) 

VANILLA CREAM LIQUEUR. 

Dissolve over the fire two pounds ten ounces 
of broken sugar, in three pints of purifieii 
river water; when it has boiled up once, 
pour it into a jar, on tl-.ree drachms of va- 
nilla, cut in pieces, and half a grain of amber. 
When quite cold, add three pints of good 
brandy, cover the vessel, and when it has 
infused six days, color it with a little pre- 
pared cochineal; filter, and bottle the li- 
queur. Cork the bottles tight, and seal the 
corks. 

VANILLA STICKS. Take some 
marchpane paste, a (juarter of a poinid of 
chocolate, and the same of vanilla; mix 
these well into llie paste, and then form it 
hito sticks, like the vanilla in its original 
form; lay them on a sheet of paper, and 
bake in a slow oven. 

VERDE. Infuse the rind of three lem- 
ons and four oianges in two quarts of rum 
or branily, for four-and-twenly hours, close- 
ly stopped ; then s()ueeze the juice through 
a strainer; if the fruit is good, there will be 
half a Jjint, and if there is not so much, make 
it that; add to it a pound and a quarter of 
sugar, pour to it three quarts of water, and 
keep stirring till all ihe sugar is dissolved; 
Avhen it is dissolved, stir in the peel and 
spirits, and then one pint of cold new milk; 
pass it thiough a bag till clear; bottle it. 
It will keep good for twelve months. 



Vi.?.JUlCE. (1) Verjuice is the young, 
anripe, an>_ sour grape; it is frequently 



VERJUICE. (2) Take some crab 
apples when the kernels turn black, lay thera 
in a heap to sweat ; then pick ihem from 
the stalks and rottenness, beat them to a 
mash, and press the juice through a bag of 
coarse hair cloth into a clean vessel; it will 
be fit for use in a month's time. If inten- 
ded for white pickles, distil it in a cold still. 
It may be put into sauces when lemon ia 
wanting. 

VESPETRO. Take half a pound of 
each of the following seeds: angelica, cori- 
ander, fennel, and caraway, the rinds of * 
foui- leinons, and as many oranges, infuse all 
these in two gallons and a half of the best 
brandy, close the vessi^l iiermetit-ally. In 
five days time, distil it in the bain marte 
alembic, and diaa' from the iibove (juaniily 
five quarts of liqueur. Dissolve seven 
pounds of sugar in a gallon of |)ure river 
water ; add iliis sirup to the liqueur, filler^ 
and bottle it. 

VIOLETS CANDIED. Pick oflT tlie 
green stalks from some double violets ; boil 
some sugar to souffle J put in the violets, 
and keep them in tdl tiie sugar again boils 
to souffle; then rub the sugar against the 
sides of the |)an until it is while; stir all 
together till the sugar leaves t!te violets, and 
then sift and dry them. 

VIOLETS TO ROCK CANDY. 

Pick the leaves oft' the violets; then boil 
some of the best, and finest sugar to souffle, 
pour it into a candying-pan made of tin, in 
the form of a dripping-pan, about three inches 
deep; then strew the violet leases as thick 
as possible on the top, and put it into a hot 
stove, in which let it remain for ten days; 
when it is hard candied, l)reak a hole in one 
corner of it, and drain ctY all the sirup; 
break it out, and place it in heaps upon a 
tin to dry in a stove. 

VIOLETS, CONSERVE OF. Take 
a quarter of a pound of early vi(;!ets, picked ; 
bruise them m a mortar; boil two pounds 
of sugar to casse, take it off, p>ut in the pulp, 
and mix them together over the fire, and 
when the sugar l)ubbles u[), pour the conserve 
into the moulds. 

VIOLET DROPS. (1) Take a cer- 
tain (juantity of sirup of violets, v\hicli mix 
willi an ecjual p.oition of vvater; use tills 
mixture, and make your drops ))recisely as 
directed. You may, if you please, perfume 
it widi oil of violets, but that is not neces- 
sary, as the sirup, imparts sufficient odour 



VI o 



2:8 



WOR 



VIOLET DROPS. (2) Take the 
juice of six lemons, mix with it some finely 

sifted powdered sugar, and two spoonfuls 
of essence of violets, and color it of a fine 
blue color; mix the whole well together, 
and dr\- it over the fire, the same as ail oth- 
ers, and drop them oft' a knife on paper, the 
usual size of drops; let them stand till cold, 
be careful that your mixtiu-e is not too thin; 
when the drops aie cold, put them into pa- 
pered boxes. 

VIOLETS, MARMALADE OF. Take 
three pounds of violets, and fjur pounds of 
sugar, put the former into a mortar and 
bruise them to a pnl[); in the meantime boil 
die sugar to souffle, then add the flowers; 
stir them together, add two pounds of apple 
marmalade, and when it has boiled vp a 
few times, put the marmalade into pots. 

VIOLETS, SIRUP OF. Pound verj- 
lightly in a marble mortar, and with a 
wooden [)estle, one pound of picked violets; 
warm graduallv a glass, or earthenware ves- 
.el with a small opening, into which put the ; 
pounded flowers, and pour over them two 
pounds of Ixiiling water; close die vessel 
hermetically, and place it on hot ashes, re- 
newing them when necessary, lo keep up an 



equal tempei^ature for twelve hours ; after 
that time pass the whole through a close 
cloth, squeezing it well ; let it stand for half 
an hour; then pour it off \ery carefully, that 
all the sediment may remain at the l>otlora; 
weigh it, and the above quantities will have 
yielded seventeen ounces; put into a matrass 
two pounds of crushed sugar with the infu- 
sion, cl(jse the matrass tight, and set it in 
the bain marie, over a moderate fire ; shake 
it occasionally to accelerate the dissolution 
of the sugar, and when perfectly dissolved, 
let tlie fire go out and the matrass cool g"rad- 
ually. When cold, pour the sirup into 
bottles. 



W. 

WORMWOOD CREME LIQUEUR. 
Distil in the bain-marie the zests of two 
oranges, and half a pound of tVesli gathered 
wormwood tops, in a gallon of brandy, 
which will produce nearly half the quantity 
of liqueur. Dissolve four pounds of sugar 
in as many pints of filtered river w ater ; mix 
this sirup with the liqueur j run it tnrough 
a jelly-bag, and bottle it. 



ICp^Many receipts for Confectionery may be found in the first 
part of this Book 



EXPLANATION 



Of some of the Terms made use of in ike foregoing Pages. 

Atelets — Small silver skewers. 

Baba — A Fiench sweet yeast cake. 

Bain-JMarie — See the won! in its place. 

Bouquet — A bunch of parsley and scallions tied up to put in soups, &c. 

Bouquet garni, or Assaisonne — The same, with the addition of cloves and aromatic 

heil)s. 
Bourguignote — A ragout of truffles. 
Braise — See word in its place. 
Brioche — A French yeast cake. 

Buissou — A whimsical method of dressing up pastrj', &c. 
Capilolade — A common hash of poultry. 
Caramel, see page 295. 
Casse, see page, 295. 
Civet — A hash of game or wild fowl. 

Compiegne — A French .sweet yeasl cake, with fruit, &c. &c. 
Compote — A fine mixed ragout to garnish white poultry, &c. ; also a method of stewing 

fiuit with sirup for desserts. 
Compoticr — A dish amongst the dessert service appropriated to the use of the compote. 
Couronne To serve. any prescribed articles on a dish in the form of a crown. 
Court or short (to stew) — To reduce a sauce very thick. 
Crcustade — Bread baked in a mould, and scooped out to contain minces, -fee. 
Croutons — Bread cut in various shapes, and fried lightly in butter or oil. 
Uorez — To wash pastry, &c. \\ itii yolk of egg well l^aten. 
Doivire — Volks of eggs beaten well. 
Entrees — Are dishes served at the commencement, or during the first course of the 

dinner. 
Entremets — Small ornamental dishes, served in the second and third courses. 
Farce, stuffing. 

Financiere — An expensive, highly-flavored, mixed ragout. 
Flan — A Frencli custard. 
Glaze, (to fall to a) — To reduce sauces till they become a jelly, and adhere to the 

meat. 
Glaze — Is usually made from reduced consomme, or juices from the bottoms of braised 

white meats: it should be preserved in jelly-pots. 
Glaze, Glace, or lee — Is compo;^ed of white of egg beaten with powder-sugar 
Godiceau — A common veal forcemeat. 
Grand Plume, see page 295. 
Grand Perle, see page 295. 
Grand Queue de Cochou, see page 295. 
Gros Boulet, see page 295. 

Gras (au) — This signifies that the article specified is dressed with meat gravy. 
Gratm — A layer of some particular articl-i is spread over a silver, or any other dish that 

will liear (ho fire, and placed on a stove or hot ashes until it burns to it. 
Hors d^ceuvre — A small dish, served during the first course. 
Hateli'ts — The same ;is Atelets. 
Lard — To stick bacon, or other specified articles, into poultry, meat, &c. ; it is done by 

means of a larding-pin, one end of which is pointed, the other square, and hollow; 

the lardon is put into this hollow, the point is then inserted into the meat, and on Ije- 

ing drawn out, leaves the lardon standing uj) in its proper place. 
Lardons — The pieces into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of 

larding meat, &c. &c. 
Lardi)ig-pan — An utensil by means of which meat, &c. is larded. 
TAaison — A finish with yolks of eggs and cream, for ragouts and sauces. 



SOO COOKERY TERMS EXPLAINED. 

Lisse, see page 295. 

Madeleines — Cakes made of the same composition as pound-cakes. 

jyjaigre — Soups, &c. dressed without meat. 

Marinade — A prepared pickle for meat, fish, &c. 

Mask — To cover completely. 

Nouilles — All Italian paste, resembling macaroni; it is flat, instead of being in pipes. 

Panada — Bread soaked in milk, used principally for quenelles and fine farces. 

Passer — To fry lightly. 

Pate — A raised crust pie. 

Petit Eoulet, see page 295. 

Petit Lisse, see page 295. 

Petit Perle, see |)age 295. 

Petit Plume, see page 295. 

Petit Queue de Cochon, see page 295. 

Poele — A liglu braise for white meats. The difference between this and the braise is, 
that in the former the meat, or wliatever it may be, need not be so much done as in 
the latter. 

Potage — Another term for soup. 

Puree — Any meat, fish, oi" otiier article, boiled to a pulp, and rubbed through a sieve. 

Quenelles — A fine firce; it is generally poached when used. 

Salmi — A higlily seasoned hash. 

S'autcr — To fry very lightly. 

Sabotiere, or Sorbetiere — A pewter or tin vessel, in which are placed the moulds con- 
taining the snb:-tance to be frozen. 

Souffle, see page 295. 

Tammy — A silk sieve. 

Tourner, or Turn— To stir a sauce; also to pare and cut roots, vegetables, and fruits, 
neatly. 

Tourti--\ pulT-paste pie. 

Vanner — To take up sauce, or other litjuid, hi a spoon, and turn it over quickly 



SEVENTY-FIVE 



RECEIPTS 



FOR 



PASTRY, CAKES, AND SWEETMEATS 



BY MISS LESLIE, OF PHILADELPH.A 



PREFACE. 



The following Receipts for Pastry, Cakes, and Sweetmeats, 
are original, and have been used by the author and many of her 
friends with uniform success. They are drawn up in a style so 
plain and minute, as to be perfectly intelligible to servants, and 
persons of the most moderate capacity. All the ingredients, with 
their proper quantities, are enumerated in a list at the head of each 
receipt, a plan which will greatly facihtate the business of orocur- 
ing and preparing the requisite articles. 

There is frequently much difficulty in following directions in 
English and French Cookery Books, not only from their want of 
explicitness, but from the difference in the fuel, fire-places, and 
cooking utensils, generally used in Europe and America; and 
many of the European receipts are so complicated and laborious, 
that our female cooks are afraid to undertake the arduous task of 
making any thing from them. 

The receipts in this iitlie dook are, m every sense of the word, 
American; but the writer flatters herself that (if exactly follow- 
ed) the articles produced from them will not be found inferior to 
any of a similar description made in the European manner. Ex- 
perience has proved, that pastry, cakes, Stc. prepared precisely 
according to these direction'* will not fail to be excellent: but* 
where economy is expedient, a puvtiuw oi ine seasoning, that is, 
the spice, wine, brandy, rose-water, essence of lemon, &c, may 
be omitted without any essential deviation of flavor, or difference 
of appearance; retaining, however, the given proportions of eggs, 
butter, sugar, and flour. 

But if done at home, aiid by a person that can be trusted, it 
will be proved, on trial, that any of these articles may be made in 
the best and most liberal manner at 07ie half of the cost of the 
same articles supplied by a confectioner. And they will be found 
particularly useful to families that live in the country or in small 
towns, where nothing of the kind is to be purchased. 



PASTRY. 



PRELIMINARY REMARKS 

In making pastry or cakes, it is best to begin by weighing out 
the ingredients, sifting the flour, pounding and sifting the sugar 
and spice, washing the butter, and preparing the fruit. 

Sugar can be powdered by pounding it in a large mortar, or by 
roUing it on a paste-board with a rolhng-pin. It sliould ue made 
very flne and always sifted. 

All sorts of spice should be pounded in a mortar, except nutmeg, 
which it is better to grate. If spice is wanted in large quantities, 
it may be ground in a mill. 

The butter should always be fresh and very good. Wash it in 
cold water before you use it, and then make it up with your hands 
into hard lumps, squeezing the water well out. 

If the butter and sugar are to be stirred together, always do 
that before the eggs are beaten, as (unless they are kept too warm) 
the butter and sugar will not be injured by standing awhile. For 
stirring them, nothing is so convenient as a round hickory stick 
about a foot and a half long, and somewhat flattened at one end. 

The eggs should not be beaten till after all the other ingredients 
are ready, as they will fall very soon. If the whites and yolks are 
to be beaten separately, do the whites first, as they will stand 
longer. 

Eggs should be beaten in a broad shallow pan, spreading wide 
at the top, Buttfer and sugar should be stirred in a deep pan with 
straight sides. 

Break every egg by itself, in a saucer, before you put it into the 
pan, that in case there should be any bad ones, they may not spoil 
the others. 

Eggs are beaten most expeditiously with rods. A small quantity 
of white of egg may be beaten with a knife, or a three-pronged 
fork. 



There can be no positive rules as to the exact time of baking 
each article. Skill in baking is the result of practice, attention, 
and experience. Much, of course, depends on the state of the 
fire, and on the size of the things to be baked, and something on 
the thickness of the pans or dishes. 

If you bake in a stove, put some bricks in the oven part to set 
the pans or plates on, and to temper the heat at the bottom. Large 
sheets of iron, without sides, will be found very useful for small 
cakes, and to put under the pans or plates, 

96 



PASTRY. 



PUFF PASTE. 

Half a pound and two ounces of sifted flour. 
Half pound of best fresh butter, washed. 
A little cold water. 

This will make puff-paste for two Pud- 
dings, or for one soup-plate Pie, or 
for four small Shells. 

Weigh half a pound and two ounces of 
flour, and sift it through a hair-sieve into 
a large deep dish. Take out about one 
fourth of the flour, and lay it aside on one 
corner of your paste-board, to roll and 
sprinkle with. 

Wash, in cold water, half a pound of 
the best fresh butter. S(jueeze it hard with 
your hands, and make it up into a round 
lump. Divide' it in four equal parts; lay 
them on one side of your paste-board, and 
have ' eady a glass of cold water. 

Cjt one of the four pieces of butter into 
the pan of flour. Cut it as small as possi- 
ble. Wet it gradually with a very little 
water (too much water will make ii tough) 
and mix it well with the point of a large 
case-knife. Do not touch it with your 
hands. When the dough gets into a lump, 
sprinkle on the middle of the board some 
of the flour that you laid aside, and lay the 
dough upon it, turning it out of the pan 
with the knife. 

Rub the rolling-pin with flour, and sprin- 
kle a little on the lump of paste. Roll it 
out thin, (|uickly, and evenly, pressing on 
the rolling-pin very lightly. Then take 
the second of the four pieces of butter, and, 
with the point of your knife, slick it in 
little bits at equal distances all over the 
sheet of paste. Sprinkle on some flour, 
and fold up the dough. Flour the paste- 
board and rolling-pin again ; throw a little 
flour on the paste and roll it out a second 
time. Stick the third piece of butter all 
over it in little bits. Throw on some flour, 
fold up the paste, sprinkle a little more 
-flour on the dough, and on the rolling-pin, 
^•' and roll it out a third time, always pressing 
/ on it lightly Stick it over with the fuurth 
I and last piece of butter. Throw on a little 

more flour, fold up the paste and then roll 
it out in a large round sheet. Cut oft' the 
sides, so as to make the sheet of a square 
form, and lay the slips of dough upon the 
square sheet. Fold it up with the small 
pieces of trimmings, in the inside. Score 
or notch it a little with the knife; lay it 
on a plate and set it away in a cool place, 
but not where it can freeze, as that will 
make it heavy. 

Having made the paste, prepare and mix 



your pudding or pie. When the mixture 
is finished, bring out your paste, flour the 
board and rolling-pin, and roll it out with 
a short quick stroke, and pressing the rol- 
ling-pin rather harder than while you were 
putting the butter in. If the paste rises in 
blisters, it will be light, unless spoiled in 
baking. 

Then cut the sheet in half, fold up each 
piece and roll them out once more, separ- 
ately, in round sheets tlie size of your plate 
Press on rather harder, but not too hard 
Roll the sheets thinnest in the middle and 
thickest at the edges. If intended for pud- 
dings, lay them in buttered soup-plates, and 
trim them evenly round the edges. If the 
edges do not appear thick enough, you may 
take the trimmings, put them all together, 
roll them out, and having cm them in slips 
the breadth of the rim of ihe plate, lay 
them all round to make the paste thicker 
at the edges, joining them nicely and even- 
ly, as every patch or crack will appear dis- 
tinctly when baked. Notch the rim hand- 
somely with a very sharp knife. Fill the 
dish with the mixture of the pudding, and 
bake it in a moderate oven. The paste 
should be of a light brown color. If the 
oven is too slow, it will be soft and clammy ; 
if too quick, it will not have time to rise 
as high as it ought to do. 

In making the best puflT-paste, try to avoid 
using more tlour to sprinkle and roll with, 
than the small portion which you have laid 
aside for that pmpose at the beginning. 
If you make the dough too soft at first, by 
using too nuich water, it will be sticky, and 
reciuire moie flour, and will e\entually be 
tough when baked. Do not ])ut your hands 
to it, as their warmth will injure it. Use 
the knife instead. Always roll from you 
rather than to you, and press ligluly on the 
rolling-pin, except at the last. 

It is difficult to make pufi'-paste in the 
summer, unless in a cellai', or very cool 
room, and on a marble table. The butter 
should, if possible, be washed the night 
before, and kept covered with ice till you 
use it next day. The water should have 
ice in it, and the butter should be iced as it 
sets on the paste-board. After the paste is 
mixed, it should be put in a covered dish, 
and set in cold water till you are ready to 
give it the last rolling. 

With all these precautions to prevent its 
being heavy, it will not rise as well, or be 
in an}' respect as good as in cold weather. 

The handsomest w ay of ornamenting the 
edge of a pie or pudding is to cut the rim 
in large sc[uare notcl>es, and then fold over 
triangularly one corner of every notch. 



PIES AND TARTS 



COMMON PASTE FOR PIES. 

A pound and a half of sifted flour. 

riiiee quarters of a pound of butter, washed. 

This will make one large pie or two small 
ones. 

Sift the flour into a pan. Cut the butter 
into two equal parts. Cut one half of the 
butter into the flour, and cut it up as small 
as possible. Mix it well with the flour, 
wetting it gradually with a little cold 
water. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board, 
take the lump of paste out of the pan, 
fluur your rolling-pin, and roll out the paste 
into a large sheet. Then stick it over with 
the remaining half of the butter in small 
pieces, and laid at equal distances. Throw 
on a little flour, fold up the sheet of paste. 



flour it slightly, and roll it out again. 
Then fold it up, and cut it in half or in 
four, according to the size of your pies. 
Roll it out into round sheets the size of 
your pie-plates, pressing rather harder on 
the rolling-pin. 

Butter your pie-plates, lay on your under 
crust, and trim the edge. Fill the dish 
with the ingredients of which the pie is 
composed, and lay on the lid, in which you 
must prick some holes, or cut a small slit 
in tiie top. Crimp the edges with a shaip 
knife. 

Heap up the ingredients so that the pie 
will be highest in the middle. 

Some think it makes common paste more 
crisp and light, to beat it hard on both sides 
with the i*olling-pin, after you give it the 
first rolling, when all the butter is in. 

If the butter is very freb'.i, you may mix 
with the flour a salt-spoonful of salt 



M^tfl^MM^tMM^^«>^«AA 



PIES AND TARTS. 



MINCE PIES. 

Two pounds of boiled beef's heart, or fresh 
tongue, or lean fresh beef— chopped when 
cold. 

Two pounds of beef suet, chopped fine. 

Four pounds of pippin apples, chopped. 

Two pounds of raisins, stoned and chopped. 

Two pounds of currants, picked, washed, 
and dried. 

Two pounds of powdered sugar. 

One quart of white wine. 

One quart of brandy. 

One wine-glass of rose-water. 

Two grated nutmegs. 

Half an ounce of cinnamon ^ 

A quarter of an ounce of cloves > powdered. 

A {[uarter of an ounce of mace ' 

A tea-spoonful of salt. 

Two large oranges. 

Half a pound of citron, cut in slips. 

Parboil a beef's heart, or a fresh tongue. 
After you have taken oft" the skin and fat, 
weightwo pounds. When it is cold, chop 
it very fine. Take the inside of the suet; 
weio'Ii two pounds, and chop it as fine as 
possible. Mix the meat and suet together, 
adding the salt. Pare, core, and chop the 
apples, and then stone and cliop the raisins. 
Having prepared the currants, add them to 
the other fruit, and mix the fruit widi the 
meat iiid suet. Put in the sugar and spice, 
and the grated peel and juice of the oranges. 
Wet the whole with the rose water and 
liquor, and mix all well together. 



Do not |)ut in the citron till you are fill- 
ing the pies: then lay it on the top. 

Make the paste, allowing for each pie, 
half a pound of butter and three quarters 
of a pound of sifted flour. Make it in the 
same manner as puff-paste, but it will not 
be quite so rich. Lay a sheet of paste all 
over a soup-plate. Fill it with mince-meat, 
laying slips of citron on the top. Roll out 
a sheet of paste, for the lid of the pie. 
Put it on, and crimp the edges with a knife. 
Prick holes in the lid. 

Bake the pies half an hour in a brisk 
oven. — 

Keep your mince meat in a jar tightly 
covered. Set it in a dry, cool place, and 
occasionally add more brandy to it. 

Instead of tlie heart or tongue, you may, 
if you choose, use part of a round of fresh 
beef. 



OYSTER PIE. 

A hundred large fresh oysters, or more if 

small. 
The yolks of six eggs boiled hard. 
A large slice of stale-bread, grated. 
A tea-spoonful of salt. 
A table-spoonful of pepper. 
A table-spoonful of mixed spice, nutmeg, 

mace and cinnamon. 

Take a large round dish, butter it, and 
spread a rich paste over the sides, and 
round tiie ed?e. buf not at the bottom. 



6 



PIES AND TARTS. 



Salt oystera will not do for pies. They 
should be fresh, and as large and fine as 
possible. 

Drain off part of the liquor from the 
oysters. Put them into a pan, and season 
them with pepper, salt and spice. Stir 
them well with the seasoning. Have ready 
the yolks of eggs, chopped fine, and the 
grated bread. Pour the oysters (with as 
much of their liquor as you please) into 
the dish that has the paste in it. Strew 
over them the chopped egg and grated 
bread. 

Roll out the lid of the pie, and put it on, 
crimping the edges handsomely. 

Take a small sheet of paste, cut it into 
a square and roll it up. Cut it with a 
sharp knife into the form of a double tulip. 

Make a slit in the centre of the upper 
crust, and stick the tulip in it. 

Cut out eight large leaves of paste, and 
lay them on the lid. 

Bake the pie in a quick oven. 

If you think the oysters will be too much 
done by baking them in the crust, you can 
substitute for them, pieces of bread, to keep 
up the lid of the pie. 

Put the oysters with their liquor and the 
seasoning, chopped egg, grated bread, &c. 
into a pan. Cover them closely, and let 
them just come to a boil, taking them off 
the fire, and stirring them frecjuently. 

When the crust is baked, take the lid 
neatly off (loosening it round the edge with 
a knife) take out the pieces of bread, and 
put in the oysters. Lay the lid on again 
very carefully. 

For oyster patties, the oysters are pre- 
pared in the same manner. 

They may be chopped if you choose. 
They must be put in small shells of puff- 
paste. 



OYSTER PATTIES. 

Make some rich puff-paste, and bake it 
in very small tin patty pans. When cool, 
turn them out upon a large disli. 

Stew some large fresh oysters with a few 
cloves, a little mace and nutmeg, some yolk 
of egg boiled hard and grated, a little but- 
ter, and as much of the oyster liquor as 
will cover them. When they have stewed 
a little while, take them out of the pan, 
and set them away to cool. When quite 
cold, lay two or three oysters in each shell 
of puff-paste. 






FRUIT PIES. 

Fruit pies for family use, are generally 
made with common paste, allowing three 



quarters of a pound of butter to a pound 
and a half of flour. 

Peaches and plums, for pies, should be 
cut in half, and the stones taken out. 
Cherries also should be stoned, and red 
cherries only should be used for pies. 

Apples should be cut into very thin slices, 
and are much improved by a little lemon- 
peel. Sweet apples are not good for pies, 
as they are very insipid when baked, and 
seldom get thoroughly done. If green 
apples are used, they should first be slewed 
in as little water as possible, and made 
very sweet. 

Apples, stewed previous to baking, should 
not be done till they break, but only till 
they are tender. They should tiien be 
drained in a cullender, and chopped fine 
with a knife or the edge of a spoon. 

In making pies of juicy fruit, it is a good 
way to set a small tea-cup on the bottom 
crust, and lay the fruit all round it. The 
juice will collect under the cup, and not 
run out at the edges or lop of the pie. 
The fruit should be mixed with a sufficient 
quantity of sugar, and piled up in the mid- 
dle, so as to make the pie highest in the 
centre. The upper crust should be pricked 
with a fork, or have a slit cut in the middle. 
The edges should be nicely crimped with a 
knife. 

Dried peaches, dried apples, and cran- 
berries should be stewed with a very little 
water, and allowed to get cjuite cold befure 
they are put into the pie. If slewed fruit 
is put in warm, it will make the paste heavy. 

If your pies are made in the form of 
shells, or without lids, the fruil should al- 
ways be stewed first, or it will not be suf- 
ficiently done, as the shells (which should 
be of pufF-paste) must not bake so long as 
covered jjies. 

Shells intended fur sweetmeats, must be 
baked empty, and the fruit put into them 
before they go to table. 

Fruit pies with lids, should have loaf- 
sugar grated over them. If they have 
been baked the day before, they should be 
warmed in the stove, or near the fire, be- 
fore tiiey are sent to table, to soften the 
crust, and make them taste fresh. 

Raspberry and apple-pies are much im- 
proved by taking off the lid, and pouring 
in a little cream, just before they go to ta- 
ble. Replace the lid very carefully. 



PINE-APPLE TART. 

One large pine-apple, or two small onea 
Half a pound of powdered white sugar, 
Half a pint of cream. 

Pare your pine-apple, cut it in small 
pieces, and leave out the core. Mix th« 



PUDDINGS. 



pine-apple with the sugar, and set it away 
in a cove-red disli till sufficient juice is 
drawn out to stew the fruit in. 

Make and bake two shells of puff-paste 
in soup-plates. 

Stew the pine-apple in the sugar and 
juice till quite soft ; then mash it to a mar- 
malade with the back of a spoon, and set 
it away to cool. 

When the shells are baked and cool, 
mix the pine-apple with half a pint of 
cream, and fill the shells with it. Grate 
loaf-sugar over the top. 

These tarts are very fine. ^ 

If your pine-apple is not of the largest 
size, one will not be sufficient for two 
tarts. 



PEACH TART. 

Take ripe juicy free-stone peaches, pare 
them, and cut them into small pieces; of 
course leave out the stones, half of which 
must be cracked, and the kernels blanched 
and mixed with the peaches. Mix in a 
Bufficienl quantity of sugar to make them 
very sweet, and set the peaches away till 
the sugar draws out the juice. Then 
stew them (without water) till quite soft'. 
Take them out, mash them with the back 
of a spoon, and set them away to cool. 

Have ready some shells of fine puff-paste, 
baked of a light brown. When cool, put 
the peaches into the shells; having first 
mixed the stewed fruit with some cream. 
Grate white sugar over them. 

You may substitute for the kernels a 
handful of fresh peach-leaves, stewed with 
the fruit and then taken out. The kernels 
or leaves will greatly improve the flavor of 
the peaches. 



Peach-leaves may be kept fresh in water 
for two or three days. 



BEEF-STEAK PIE. 

Butter a deep dish, and spread a sheet 
of paste all over the bottom, sides, and 
edge. 

Cut away from your beef-steak all the 
bone, fat, gristle, and skin. Cut the lean 
in small thin pieces, about as large, gener- 
ally, as the palm of your hand. Beat the 
meat well with the rolling-pin, to make it 
juicy and tender. If you put in the fat, it 
will make the gravy too greasy and strong, 
as it cannot be skimmed. 

Put a layer of meat over the bottom-crust 
of your dish, and season it to your taste, 
with pepper, salt, and, if you choose, a 
little nutmeg. A small quantity of mush- 
room ketchup is an improvement; so also, 
is a little minced onion. 

Have ready some cold boiled potatoes 
sliced thin. Spread over the meat a layer 
of potatoes, and a small piece of butter; 
then another layer of meat, seasoned, and 
then a layer of potatoes, and so on till the 
dish is full and heaped up in the middle, 
having a layer of meat on the top. Pour 
in a little water. 

Cover the pie with a sheet of paste, and 
trim the edges. Notch it handsomely with 
a knife; and, if you choose, make a tulip 
of paste, and slick it in the middle of the 
lid, and lay leaves of paste round it. 

Fresh oysters will greatly improve a 
beef-steak pie. So also will mushrooms. 

Any meat pie may be made in a similar 
manner. 



PUDDINGS. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of raisins, stoned and cut in 

half. 
One p«und of currants, picked, washed and 

dried. 
One pound of beef suet chopped fine. 
One pound of grated stale bread, or, half a 

pound of flour and half a pound of bread. 
Eight eggs. 
One pound of sugar. 
A glass of brandy. 
A pint of milk. 
A glass of wine. 



2tJ 



Two nutmess, grated. 

A table-spoonful of mixed cinnamon and 

mace. 
A salt-spoonful of salt. 

You must prepare all your ingredients 
the day before (except beating the eggs) 
that in the morning you may have nothing 
to do but to mix them, as the pudding will- 
require six hours to boil. 

Beat the eggs very light, then put to them 
half the milk and beat both together. Stir 
in gradually the flour and grated bread. 
Next add the sugar by degrees. Tbeo the 



8 



PUDDINGS. 



Buet and fruit alternately. The fruit must 
be well sprinkled with flour, lest it sink to 
the bottom. Stir very hard. Then add 
the spice and liquor, and lastly the remain- 
der of the milk. Stir the whole mixture 
very well together. If it is not thick 
enough, add a little more grated bread or 
flour. If there is too much bread or flour, 
the pudding will be hard and heavy. 

Dip your pndding-cloth, in boiling water, 
shake it out and sprinkle it slightly with 
flour. Lay it in a pan and pour the mix- 
ture into the cloth. Tie it up carefully, 
allowing room for the pudding to swell. 

Boil it six hours, and turn it carefully 
out of the cloth. 

Before you send it to table, have ready 
some blanched sweet almonds cut in slips, 
or some slips of citron, or both. Stick 
them all over the oulside of the pudding. 

Eat it with wine, or with a sauce made 
of drawn butter, wine and nutmeg. 

The pudding will be improved if you add 
to the other ingredients, the grated rind of 
a large lemon or orange. 



LEMON PUDDING. 

One small lemon, with a smooth thin rind. 
Three eggs. 

A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
A quarter poimd of fresh butter — washed. 
A table-spoonful of white wine and brandy, 

mixed. 
A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

Five ounces of sifted flour, and a quarter 
of a pound of fresh butter for the paste. 

Grate the yellow part of the rind of a 
small fresh lemon. Then cut the lemon in 
half, and squeeze the juice into ihe plate 
that contains the grated rind, carefhlly tak- 
ing out all the seeds. Mix the juice and 
rind together. 

Put a quarter of a pound of powdered 
white sugar into a deep earthen pan, and 
cut up in it a quarter of a pound of the 
best fiesh butter. If the weather is very 
cold, set the pan near the lire, for a few 
minutes, to soften the butter, but do not 
allow it to melt or it will be heavy. Stir 
the butter and sugar together, witli a stick 
or wooden spoon, till it is perfectly light 
and of the consistence of cream. 

Put the eggs in a shallow broad pan, and 
beat thein with an egg-beater or rods, till 
they are quite smooth, and as thick as a 
boiled custard. Then stir the eggs, grad- 
ually, into the pan of butter and sugar. 
Add the liquor- and rose-water by degrees, 
and then stir in, gradually, the juice and 
grated rind of the lemon. Stir the whole 
very hard, after all tlie ingredients are in. 



Have ready a pulf-paste made of five 
ounces of sifted flour, and a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter. The paste must be 
made with as little water as possible. Roll 
it out in a circular sheet, thin in the centre, 
and thicker towards the edges, and just 
large enough to cover the bottom, sides, 
and edges of a soup-plate. Butter the 
soup-plate very well, and lay the paste in 
it, making it neat and even round the broad 
edge of the plate. With a sharp knife, 
trim off" the superfluous dough, and notch 
the edges. Put in the mixture with a 



s||oon, and bake the pudding about half an 
nmir, in a moderate oven. It should be 
baked of a very light brown. If the oven 
is too hot, the paste will not have time to 
rise well. If too cold, it will be clammy. 
When the pudding is cool, grate loaf sugar 
over it. 

Before using lemons for any purpose, 
always roll them awhile with your hand on 
a table. This will cause them to yield a 
larger quantity of juice. 



ALMOND PUDDING. 

Half a pound of sweet almonds, which will 

be reduced to a quarter of a pound, when 

shelled and blanched. 
An ounce of blanched bitter almonds or 

peach-kernels. 
The whites only, of six eggs. 
A quarter of a pound of butter. 
A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
A table-spoonful of mixed brandy, wine, 

and rose-water. 

Shell half a pound of sweet almonds, 
and pour scalding water over them, which 
will make the skins peal off". As they get 
cool, pour more boiling water, till the al- 
monds are all blanched. Blanch also the 
bitter almonds. As you blanch the almonds, 
throw them into a bowl of cold water. 
Then take them out, one by one, wipe them 
dry in a clean towel, and lay them on a 
plate. Pound them one at a time to a fine 
paste, in a marble mortar, adding, as you 
pound them, a few drops of rose-water to 
prevent their oiling. Pound the bitter and 
sweet almonds alternately, that they may 
be well mixed. They must be made per- 
fectly fine and smooth, and are the better 
for being prepared the day before they are 
wanted Tor the pudding. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, and 
add to it, gradually, the liquor. 

Beat the whites of six eggs till they stand 
alone. Stir the almonds and white of eggs, 
alternately, into the butter and sugar; and 
then stir the whole well together. 

Have ready a pufi"-paste sufficient for a 
soup-plate. Butter the plate, lay on the 



PUDDINGS. 



paste, trim and notch it. Then put in the 
mixture. 

Bake it about half an hour in ,a moder- 
ate oven. 

Grate loaf-sugar over it. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

One large orange, of a deep color, and 

smooth thin rind. 
One lime. 

A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
A quarter of a pound of fresh butter. 
Three eggs. 

A table-t^poonful of mixed wine and brandy. 
A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

Grate the yellow rind of the orange and 
lime, and squeeze the juice into a saucer or 
soup-plate, taking out all the seeds. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. 

Beat the eggs as light as possible, and 
then stir them by degrees into the pan of 
butter and sugar. Add, gradually, the li- 
quor and rose-water, and then by degrees, 
the orange and lime. Stir all well to- 
gether. 

Have ready a sheet of puff-paste made 
of five ounces of sifted flour, and a quarter 
of a pound of fresh butter. Lay the paste 
in a buttered soup-plate. Trim and notch 
the edges, and then put in the mixture. 
Bake it about half an hour, in a moderate 
oven. Grate loaf-sugar over it, before you 
send it to table. 



COCOA-NUT PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of cocoa-nut, grated. 
A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
Three ounces and a half of fresh butter. 
The whites only of six eggs. 
A table-spoonful of wine and brandy mixed. 
Half a tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

Break up a cocoa-nut, and take the thin 
brown skin carefully off, with a knife. 
Wash all the pieces in cold water, and 
then wipe them dry, with a clean towel, 
^r Weigh a quarter of a pound of cocoa-nut, 
and grate it very fine, into a soup-plate. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, and 
add the liquor and rose-water gradually to 
them. 

Beat the whites only, of six eggs, till 
they stand alone on the rods ; and then stir 
the beaten white of egg, graduallv, into 
the butter and sugar. Afierwards, sprinkle 
in, by degrees, the grated cocoa-nut, stirring 
hard all the time. Then stir all very well 
at the last. 

Have ready a puflf-paste, sufficient to 



cover the bottom, sides, and edges of a 
soup-plate. Put in the mixture, and bake 
it in a moderate oven, about half an 
hour. 

Grate loaf-sugar over it, when cool. 






SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of boiled sweet potato. 
Three eggs. 

A quarter pound of powdered white sugai* 
A quarter of a pound of fresh butter. 
A glass of mixed wine and brandy. 
A half-glass of rose-water. 
A tea-spoonful of mixed spice, nutmeg, 
mace and cinnamon. 

Pound the spice, allowing a smaller pro- 
portion of mace than of nutmeg and cin- 
namon. 

Boil and peal some sweet potatoes, and 
when they are cold, weigh a quarter of a 
pound. Mash the sweet potato very 
smooth, and rub it through a sieve. Stir 
the sugar and butter to a cream. 

Beat the eggs very light, and stir them 
into the butter and sugar, alternately with 
the sweet potato. Add by degrees the li- 
quor, rose-water and spice. Stir all vei'y 
hard together. 

Spread puff-paste on a soup-plate. Put 
in the mixture, and bake it about half an 
hour in a moderate oven. 

Grate sugar over it. 



PUMPKIN PUDDING. 

Half a pound of stewed pumpkin. 

Three eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or a 

pint of cream. 
A quarter pound of powdered white sugar 
Half a glass of wine and brandy mixed. 
Half a glass of rose-water. 
A tea-spoonful of mixed spice, nutmeg, 

mace and cinnamon. 

Stew some pumpkin with as little water 
as possible. Drain it in a cullender, and 
press it till dry. When cold, weigh half a 
pound, and pass it through a sieve. Pre- 
pare the spice. Stir together the sugar, 
and butter, or cream, till they are perfectly 
light. Add to them, gradually, the spice 
and liquor. 

Beat three eggs very light, and stir them 
into tlie butter and sugar alternately with 
the pumpkin. 

Cover a soup-plate with puff-paste, and 
put in the mixture. Bake it in a moder* 
ate oven about half an hour. 

Grate sugar over it, when cool 



10 



PUDDINGS. 



Instead of the butter, you may boil a pint 
of milk or cream, and when cold, stir into 
it in turn the sugar, eggs, and pumpkin. 



GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 

A pint of stewed gooseberries, with all their 

juice. 
A (|uarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 
Two ounces of fresh butter. 
Two ounces of grated bread. 
Three eggs. 

Stew the gooseberries till quite soft. 
When tliey are cold, mash them fine with 
the back of a spoon, and stir into them two 
ounces of sugar. Take two ounces more 
of sugar, and stir it to a cream with two 
ounces of butter. 

Grate very fine, as much stale bread as 
will weigh two ounces. 

Beat three eggs, and stir them into the 
butter and sugar, in turn with the goose- 
berries and bread. 

Lay puff-paste in a soup-plate. Put in 
the mixture, and bake it half an hour. 

Do not grate sugar over it. 



BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

A pint of stewed apples. 

Half a pint of creaui, or two ounces of butter. 

A ([uarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

A nutmeg, graied. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel. 

Stew your apple in as little water as pos- 
sible, and not long enough for the pieces to 
break and lose their shape. Put them in 
a cullender to drain, and mash them with 
the back of a spoon. If stewed too long, 
and in too much water, they will lose their 
ilavor. When cold, mix with them the 
nutmeg, rose-water, and lemon-peel, and 
two ounces of sugar. Stir tlie other two 
ounces of sugar, with the butter or cream, 
and then mix it giadually with the apple. 

Bake it in puff-paste, in a soup-dish, 
about half an hour in a moderate oven. 

Do not sugar the top. 



the eggs very light, and add them by de- 
grees to the milk and flour. Put in tlie 
salt, and stir the whole well together. 

Take a very thick pudding-cloth. Dip 
it in boiling water, and flour it. Pour into 
it the mixture and tie it up, leaving room 
for it to swell. Boil it hard, one hour, and 
keep it in the pot, till it is time to send it 
to table. Serve it up with wine-sauce. 

A square cloth, which when tied up will 
make the pudding of a round form, is bet- 
ter than a bag. 

Apple Batter Pudding is made by pour- 
ing the batter over a dish of pippins, pared, 
cored, and sweetened, either whole or cut 
in pieces. Bake it, and eat it with butter 
and sugar. 



BATTER PUDDING. 

Six eggs 

One pound of sifted flour. 

One ([uart of milk. 

A salt-spoonful of salt. 

Stir the flour, gradually, into the milk, 
carefully dissolving all the lumps. Beat 



INDIAN PUDDING. 

A pound of beef-suet, chopped very fine. 

A piut of molasses. 

A pint of rich milk. 

Four eggs. 

A large tea-spoonful of powdered nutmeg 

and cinnamon. 
A little grated or chipped lemon-peel. 
Indian meal sufficient to make a thick batter. 

Warm the milk and molasses, and stir 
them together. Beat the eggs, and stir 
them gradually into the milk and molasses, 
in turn with" the suet and Indian meal. 
Add the spice and lemon-peel, and stir all 
very hard together Take care not to put 
too much Indian meal, or the pudding will 
be heavy and solid. 

Dip the cloth in boiling water. Shake 
it out, and flour it slightly. Pour the mix- 
4.uve into it, and tie it up, leaving room for 
the pudding to swell. Boil it three hours. 
Serve it up hot, and eat it with sauce made 
of drawn butter, wine and nutmeg. 

When cold, it is very good cut in slices 
and fried. 



BREAD PUDDING. 

A quarter pound of grated stale bread. 
A quart of milk, boiled with two or three 

sticks of cinnamon, slightly broken 
Eight eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of sugar. 
A little grated lemon-peel. 
Two ounces of butter. 

Boil the milk with the cinnamon, strain 
it, and set it away till quite cold. Mix 
the butter and sugar. 

Grate as much crumb of stale-bread as 
will weigh a quarter of a poundt Beat 



PUDDINGS. 



n 



the eggs, and when the milk is cold, stir 
them into it, in turn with the bread and 
sugar. Add the lemon-peel, and if you 
choose a table-spoonful of rose-water. 

Bake it in a buttered dish, and grate 
nutmeg over it when done. Do not send 
it to table hot. Baked puddings should 
never be eaten till they have become cold, 
or at least cool. 



RICE PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of rice. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of sugar. 

A pint and a .lalf of milk, or cream and 
milk. 

Six essfs. 

A lea-spoonful of mixed spice, mace, nut- 
meg and cinnamon. 

A half wine-glass of rose-water. 

Wash the rice. Boil it till very soft. 
Drain it, and set it away to get cold. Put 
the butter and sugar together in a pan, and 
stir them till very liglit. Add to them the 
spice and rose-water. Beat the eggs very 
light, and stir them, gradually, into the 
milk. Then stir the eggs and milk into 
the butter and sugar, alternately with the 
rice. 

Bake it and grate nutmeg over the top. 

Cui rants or raisins, floured, and stirred 
in at the last, will greatly improve it. 

It should be eaten cold, or quite cool. 



GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

Take five table-spoonfuls of ground rice 
and boil it in a quart of new milk, with a 
grated nutmeg or a tea-spoonful of pow- 
dered cinnamon, stirring it all the time. 
When it has boiled, pour it into a pan and 
stir in a quarter of a pound of butter, and 
a quarter ui' a pound of powdered sugar, a 
nutmeg and half a pint of cream. Set it 
away to get cold. Then beat eight eggs, 
omitting the whites of four. Have ready 
a half pound of dried currants well cleaned, 
and sprinkled with flour; stir them into 
the mixture alternately with the beaten egg. 
Add half a glass of rose-water, or half a 
glass of mixed wine and brandy. Butter 
a deep dish, put in the unxture, and bake 
it of a pale brown. Or you may bake it 
in saucers. 



CHICKEN PUDDING. 

Cut up a pair of young chickens, and 
seaaoo them with pepper and salt and a 



little mace and nutmeg. Put them into a 
pot with two large spoonfuls of butter, and 
water enough to cover them. Stew thera 
gently^ and when aboui half cooked, take 
them out and set them away to cool. Pour 
off the gravy, and reserve it to be served 
up separately. 

In the meantime, make a batter as if 
for a pudding, of a pound of sifted flour 
stirred gradually into a quart of milk, six 
eggs well beaten and added by degrees to 
the mixture, and a very little salt. Put a 
layer of chicken in the bottom of a deep 
dish, and pour over it some of the baiter; 
then another layer of chicken, and then 
some more batter; and so on till the dish 
is full, having a cover of batter at the top. 
Bake it till it is brown. Then bieak an 
egg into the gravy which you have set 
away, give it a boil, and send it to table in 
a sauce-boat to eat with the pudding. 



^t^^0i^\f\^ 



BOSTON PUDDING. 

Make a good common paste with a pound 
and a half of flour, and three quai leis of 
a pound of butter.* When you roll it out 
the last time, cut off the edges, till you get 
the sheet of paste of an even square shape. 

Have ready some fruit sweetened to your 
taste. If cranberries, gooseberries, dried 
peaches, or damsons, they should be stew- 
ed, and made very sweet. If apples, they 
should be stewed in a very little water, 
drained, and seasoned with nutmeg, rose- 
w^ater and lemon. If currants, raspberries, 
or blackberries, they should be mashed with 
sugar, and put into the pudding raw. 

Spread the fruit very thick, all over the 
sheet of paste, (whicli nmsl not be rolled 
out too thin.) When it is covered all over 
with the fruit, roll it up, and close the 
dough at both ends, and down the last side. 
Tie the pudding in a cloth and boil it. 

Eat it w ith sugar. It must not be taken 
out of the pot till just before it is brought 
to table. 



FRITTERS. 

Seven eggs. 

Half a pint of milk. 

A salt-spoonful of salt. 

Suthcient flour to make a thick batter. 

Beat the egg^ well and stir them gradu- 
ally into the milk. Add the salt, and stir 



* Or three quarters of a pound of beef-suet, 
chopped very line. Mix the suet at once with 
the tiour, knead it with cold water into a stiff 
dough, and then roll it out into a large tbia 
sheet. Fold it up au.^ r"" it again. 



19 



CUSTARDS, CURDS, AND CREAMS. 



in flour enough to make a thick batter. 
They must set an hour to rise. 

Fry them in lard, and serve them up hot. 

Eat them witli wine and sugar. 

They are improved by stirring in a ta- 
6le-spoonful of yeast. 

These are excellent with the addition of 
cold stewed apple, stirred into the mixture, 
in which case use less flour. 

Oyster Fritters are made by putting a 
large oyster in the middle of each fritter, 
while frying. They are very fine. 



A CHEESE-CAKE. 

Four eggs. 

Half a |)int of milk. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

Two ounces of grated bread. 

A table-spoonful of mixed brandy and wine. 

A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of mace, cinnamon, and 

nutmeg, mixed. 
A quarter of a pound of currants. 

Pick the currants very clean. Wash 
tliem through a colander, wipe them in a 
towel, and tlien dry them on a dish before 
the tire. 

When dry take out a few to scatter over 
tlie top of the cheese-cake, lay tliem aside. 



and sprinkle the remainder of the currants 
with the flour. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. 
Grate the bread, and prepare the spice. 
Beat the eggs veiy light. 

Boil the milk. When it comes to a boil, 
add to it half the beaten egg, and boil both 
together till it becomes a curd, stirring it 
frequently with a knife. Then throw the 
grated bread on the curd, and stir all toge- 
ther. Then take the milk, egg, and bread 
off^ the fire, and stir it, gradually, into the 
butter and sugar. Next, stir in the re- 
maining half of the egg. 

Add, by degrees, the liquor and spice. 

Lastly, stir in, gradually, the currants. 

Have ready a puff'-paste, which should 
be made before you prepare the cheese-cake, 
as the mixture will become heavy by stand- 
ing. Before you put it into the ovenj scat- 
ter the remainder of the currants over tlie 
top- 
Bake it half an hour in rather a quick 
oven. 

Do not sugar tlie top. 

You may bake it either in a soup-plate, 
or in two small tin patty-pans, which, for 
cheese-cakes, should be of a square shape. 
If baked in square patty-pans leave at each 
side a flap of paste in the shape of a half- 
circle. Cut hnig slils in these flaps and 
turn them over, so that ihey will rest on 
tlie top of the n)ixlure. 

You can, if you choose, add to the cur- 
rants a few raisins stoned, and cut in half. 



CUSTARDS, CURDS, AND CREAMS. 



FINE CUSTARDS. 

A quart of milk or cream. 
The yolks only, of sixteen eggs. 
Six ounces of powdered white sugar. 
Half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in small 

pieces. 
A large handful of peach-leaves, or half an 

ounce of peach-kernels or bitter almonds, 

broken in pieces. 
A table-spoonful of rose-water. 
A nutmeg. 



Boil in the milk the cinnamon and the 

f)eacii-leaves, or peach-kernels. When it 
las boiled, set it away to get cold. As 
soon as it is cold, strain it through a sieve, 
to clear it from the cinnamon, peach-leaves, 



&c. and stir into it, gradually, the sugar, 
spice, and rose-water. 

Beat the yolks of sixteen eggs very light, 
and stir them by degiees into the milk, 
wl^ich must be quite cold or the eggs will 
make it curdle. Put the custards into cups, 
and set them in a baking-pan, half filled 
with watei'. When baked, grate some nut- 
meg over each, and ice them. Make tlie 
icing of the whites of eight eggs, a large 
tea-spoonful of powdered loaf-sugar, and 
six drops of essence of lemon, beaten all 
together till it stands alone. Pile up some 
of the icing on the top of each custard, 
heaping it high. Put a spot of red nonpa- 
reils on the middle of the pile of icing. 

m — ^ 

If the weather be damp, or the eggs not 
new-laid, more than eight whites will b© 
required for the icing. 



CUSTARDS, CURDS, AND CREAMS. 



13 



PLAIN CUSTARDS. 



A quart of rich milk. 



Eight eggs 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

A handful of peach-leaves, or half an ounce 

of peach-kernels, broken in pieces. 
A nutmeg. 

Boil the peach-leaves or kernels in the 
milk, and set it away to cool. When cold, 
strain out the leaves or kernels, and stir in 
the sugar. Beat the eggs very light, and 
stir them gradually into the milk, when it 
is quite cold. Bake it in cups, or in a 
laige white dish. 

When cool, grate nutmeg'over tlie top. 



COLD CUSTARDS. 

A quart of new milk, and a half a pint of 

cream, mixed. 
A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
A large glass of wliite wine, in which an 

inch of washed rennet has been soaked. 
A nutmeg. 

Mix together the milk, cream, and su- 
gar. Stir the wine into it, and pour the 
mixture into your custard-cups. Set them 
in a warm place near the lire, till they be- 
come a firm curd. Then set them on ice, 
or in ii very cold place. Grate nutmeg over 
tliera. 



ALMOND CUSTARD. 

One pint of cream. 
One pint of rich milk. 
Half a pound of slielled sweet almonds. 
Two cuiices of shelled bitter almonds. 
Four table-spoonfuls of rose-water. 
A quarter of a pound of white sugar. 
The yolks of eight eggs. 
A little oil of lemon. 

Blanch the almonds and pound them to 
a paste, mixing the rose-water gradually 
■with them. Powder the sugar, and beat 
the yolk of egg till very light. jMix the 
cieam and milk together, and stir into it 
gradually the sugar, the pounded almonds, 
and the beaten yolk of egg. Then stir the 
whole very hard. Put the mixture into a 
skillet or sauce-pan, and set it in a heated 
stove, or on a charcoal furnace. Stir it 
one way till it becomes thick, but take it 
oft" the fire beftre it has been lung enough 
to curdle. Set it away to get cold. Take 
half Ute whiles of the eggs, and beat them 
to a stiif froth, adding a little powdered 
sugar, and a few drops of oil of lemon 



(the latter in proportion to its strength.) 
Put the custard into a glass dish or bowl, 
and heap the frothed white of egg upon it. 
You may ornament the top with nonpareils 
or sugar-sand. 

Or you may put it in small cups, piling 
some froth on each. 



RICE CUSTARDS. 

Half a pound of rice. 

Half a pound of raisins or currants. 

Eight yolks of eggs or six whole eggs. 

Six ounces of powdered sugar. 

A quart of rich milk. 

A handful of peach-leaves, or half an ounce 

of peach-kernels, broken in pieces- 
Half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in pieces 

Boil the rice with the raisins or currants, 
which must first be floured. Butter some 
cups or a mould, and when the rice is quite 
soft, drain it, and put it into them. Set it 
away to get cold. 

Beat the egffs well. Boil the milk with 
the cinnamon and peach-leaves, or kernels. 
As soon as it has come to a boil, take it 
off and strain it throudi a sieve. Then 
set it again on the fire, stir mto it alter- 
nately, tiie egg and sugar, taking it off" fre- 
quently and stirring it hard, lest it become 
a curd. Take care not to boil it too long, 
or it will be lumpy and lose its flavor. 
When done, set it away to cool. Turn out 
the rice from the cups or mould, into a 
deep dish. Pour some of the boiled cus- 
tard over it, and send up the remainder of 
the custard in a sauce-boat. 

You may, if vou choose, ornament the 
lumps of rice, (after the custard is poured 
round thein) by making a stiff froth of 
white of egg ("beaten till it stands alone) 
and a few drops of essence of lemon, with 
a verv litle powdered loaf-sugar. Heap 
the froth on the lop of each lump of rice. 



CURDS AND WHEY. 

Take a small piece of rennet about two 
inches scjuare. Wash it very clean in cold 
water, t:) get all the sail oif, and wipe it 
dry. Put it in a tea-cup, and pour on it 
just enough of lukewarm water to cover it. 
Let it set ail night, or for several hours. 
'I'hen take out the rennet, and stir the 
water in which it was soaked, into a (juart 
of milk, which should be in a broad 
dish. 

Set the miliv in a warm place, till It be- 
comes a firm curd. As soon as the curd 
is completely made, set it io a cool place 



14 



CUSTARDS, CURDS, AND CREAMS. 



or on ice (if in summer) for two or three 
■ours before you want to use it. 

Eat it with wine, sugar, and nutmeg. 



The whey, drained from the curd, is an 
excellent drink for invalids. 



A TRIFLE. 

A quart of cream. 

A quarter pound of loaf-sugar, powdered. 

Half a pint of white wine ) .1 

Half a gill of brandy 5 

Eight niaccaroons, or more if von choose. 

Four small sponge-cakes or Naples biscuit. 

Two ounces of blanched sweet almonds, 

pounded in a mortar. 
One ounce of blanched bitter almonds or 

peach-kernels. 
The juice and grated peel of two lemons. 
A nutmeg, grated. 
A glass of noyau. 
A pint of rich baked custard, made of the 

yolks of eggs. 



Pound the sweet and bitter almonds to a 
smooth paste, adding a little rose-water as 
you pound thein. 

Grate the yellow peels of the lemons, 
and squeeze the juice into a saucer. 

Break the sponge cake and maccaroons 
into small pieces, mix them with the al- 
monds, and lay them in the bottom of a 
large glass bowl. Grate a nutmeg over 
thein, and the juice and peel of the lemons. 
Add the wine and brandy, and let the mix- 
ture remain uniouclied, till the cakes are 
dissolved in the liquor. Then stir it a 
little. 

Mix the cream and sugar with a glass 
of noyau, and beat it with a whisk or rods, 
till it stands alone. 

As the froth rises, take it off with a 
spoon, and lay it on a sieve (with a large 
dish under it) to drain. The cream, that 
drains into the dish, nuist be poured back 
into the pan with the rest, and beaten over 
again. When the cream is finished, set it 
in a cool place. 

When the custard is cold, pour it into 
the glass bowl upon the dissolved cakes, 
&c. and when the cream is ready, fill up 
the bowl with it, heaping it high in the 
middle. You may ornament it with non- 
pareils. 

If you choose, you can put in, between 
tlie custard and the frothed cream, a layer 
of fruit Jelly, or small fruit preserved. 



WHIPT CREAM. 

A quart of cream. 

The whites of four eggs. 

Half a pint of white wine. 

A (juarter pound of powdered loaf-sugar. 

Ten drops of strong essence of lemon, of 

two lemons cut in thin slices, or tlie Juico 

of a large lemon. 

Mix together, in abroad pan, all the in- 
gredients, unless you use slices of lemon, 
and then they must be laid at intervals 
among the froth, as you heap it in the 
bowl. 

Witli a whisk or rods, beat the creara 
to a strong froth. Have beside your pan 
a sieve (bottom upwards) with a large dish 
under it. As the froth rises, take it light- 
ly off with a spoon, and lay it on the sieve 
to drain. When the top of the sieve is 
full, transfer the froth to a large glass or 
china bowl. Continue to do this till the 
bowl is full. 

The cream which has dropped through 
the sieve into the dish, must be poured into 
the pan, and beaten over again. When 
all the cream is converted into froth, ))ile 
it up in the bowl, making it highest in the 
middle. 

If you choose, you may ornament it with 
red and green nonpareils. 

If you put it in glasses, lay a little jelly 
in the bottom of each glass, and pile the 
cream on it. 

Keep it in a cool place till you want to 
use it. 



ICE CREAM. 

A quart of rich cream, boiled and set 
away till cold. 

Half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar. 

The juice of two large lemons, or a pint 
of strawberries or raspberries; or an 
ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded in a mortar with rose-water. 

Put the cream into a broad pan. Then 
stir in the sugar by degrees, and when all 
is well mixed, strain it through a sieve. 

Put it into a tin that has a close cover, 
and set it in a tub. Fill the tub with ice 
broken into very small pieces, and strew 
among the ice a large quantity of salt, tak- 
ing care that none of the salt gets into the 
cream. Scrape the cream down with a 
spoon as it freezes round the edges of the 
tin. While the cream is freezing, stir in 
gradually the lemon-juice, or the juice of a 
pint of mashed strawberries or rasp ber- 
ries. When it is all frozen, dip the tin in 
lukewarm water; lake out the cream, and 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



15 



fill your glasses; but not till a few minutes 
before you want to use it, as it will very 
soon melt. 

You may heighten the color of the red 
fruit, by a little cochineal. 

If you wish to have it in moulds, put the 
cream into them as soon as it has frozen in 
the tin. Set the moulds in a tub of ice 
and salt. Just before you want to use tlie 
cream, take the moulds out of the tub, 
wipe or wash the salt carefully from the 
outside, dip the moulds in lukewarm water, 
and turn out the cream. 

You may flavor a quart of ice-cream 
with two ounces of sweet almonds and one 
ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
beaten in a mortar with a little rose-water 
to a smooth paste. Stir in the almonds 
gradually while the cream is freezing. 



ANOTHER KIND OF ICE-CREAM. 

A pint and a half of rich cream. 

A quart and a half-pint of morning's milk. 

One pound of loaf-sugar. 

Two esjijs. 

One table-spoonful of flour. 

Two lemons. 

Or half a Vanilla bean, split into small 

pieces. 
Or two ounces of sweet almonds and one 

ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 

split into pieces. 

Take half of the milk and put in the 
ingredient that is to flavor it, either the 
vanilla, the almonds, or the grated rind of 
the lemons. Boil it, stirring in gradually 
the sugar. 



Having beaten the eggs well, add to them 
cwo table-spoonfuls of cold milk, and pour 
them into the boiling milk. Let them sim- 
mer two or three minutes, stirring them all 
the time. Then take the mixture off^ the 
fire and strain it through book-muslin into 
a pan. Add the cream and the remainder 
of the milk, and put the whole into the tin 
freezer, which must be set in a tub filled 
with ice, among which must be scattered a 
great deal of salt. 

Squeeze the juice from the two lemons 
and stir it into tlie cream, by degrees, 
while it is freezing. 

When It is all frozen, turn it out, first 
dipi)ing the tin for a moment in warm water. 

If you wish to flavor it with strawberry 
or raspberry juice, that, like the lemon- 
juice, must be stirred gradually in while 
the cream is freezing. 

In places where cream is not abundant, 
this receipt (though inferior in richness) 
will be found more economical than the 
preceding one. It is, however, less easy 
and expeditious. 



FLOATING ISLAND. 

Six whites of eggs. 

Six large table-spoonfuls of jelly. 

A pint of cream, sweetened with loaf-sugar. 

Put the jelly and white of egg into a 
pan, and beat it together with a whisk, till 
it becomes a stiff" frodi and stands alone. 

Have ready the creain, in a broad shal- 
low dish. Just before you send it to table, 
pile up the froth in the centre of the 
cream. 



<»»W.<^^»^*l^^t»>»<^L^^^ 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 



In making cakes, it is particularly necessary that the eggs should 
be well beaten. They are not sufficiently light till the surface 
looks smooth and level, and till they get so thick as to be of the 
consistence of boiled custard. 

White of egg should always be beaten till it become a heap of 
stiff froth, without any liquid at the bottom; and till it hangs from 
the rods or fork without dropping. 

Eo-gs become light soonest when new-laid, and when beaten 
near the fire, or in warm dry weather. 

Butter and sugar should be stirred till it looks like thick cream, 
and till it stands up in the pan. 

27 



16 CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD 

It should be kept cool. If too warm, it will make the cakes 
heavy. 

Large cakes should be baked in tin or earthen pans, with straight 
sides, that are as nearly perpendicular as possible. They cut into 
handsomer slices, and if they are to be iced, it will be found very 
inconvenient to put on the icing, if the cake slopes in towards 
the bottom. 

Before you ice a cake, dredge it all over with flour, and then 
wipe the flour off*. This will enable you to spread on the icing 
more evenly. 

Before you cut an iced cake, cut the icing by itself with a small 
sharp penknife. The large knife with which you divide the cake, 
will crack and break the icing. 

Large Gingerbread, as it burns very easily, may be baked in an 
earthen pan. So also may Black Cake or Pound Cake. Tin 
pans or moulds, with a hollow tube in the middle, are best for 
cakes. 

If large cakes are baked in tin pans, the bottom and sides should 
be covered with sheets of paper, before the mixture is put in 
The paper mu«t be well buttered. 

Sponge cakes, and Almond cakes should be baked in pans that 
are as thin as possible. 

If the cakes should get burnt, scrape them with a knife or grat- 
er, as soon as they are cool. 

Always be careful to butter your pans well. Should the cakes 
stick, they cannot be got out without breaking. 

For queen-cakes, Stc. the small tins of a round or oval shape 
are most convenient. Fill them but little more than half. 

After the mixture is completed, set it in a cool place till all the 
cakes are baked. 

In rolling out cakes made of dough, use as little flour as possi- 
ble. When you lay them in the pans, do not place them too close 
together, lest they run into each other. 

When you are cutting them out, dip the cutter frequently in 
flour, to prevent its sticking. 

If cakes are not properly baked they will have heavy streaks 
through them, and the bottoms will be uneven and misshapen. 

It is always safest to have large cakes done in a baker's oven. 



QUEEN CAKE. 

One pound of powdered white sugar. 
One pound of fresh hutter — washed. 
Fourteen ounces of sifted flour. 



Pound the spice to a fine powder, in a 
marble mortar, and sift it well. 

Put the sugar into a deep earthen pan,, 
and cut the butter into it. Stir them to- 
gether, till verv light. 



Ten eggs. i Beat the eggs in a broad shallow pan, 

One wine-glass of wine and brandy, mixed, till ti)ey are perfectly smooth and thick. 

Half a glass of rose-water, or twelve drops Stir into the butter and sugar a little of 

of essence of lenioii. the beaten egg, and tiien a little floui', and 

One tea-spoonful of mace and ciiuiamon, so on alternately, a little egg and a little 

mixed. fiour, till the whole is in; continuing all 

One nutmeg, beaten or grated. Uie time to beat the eggs, and gtirriiij the 



CAKES, NUTS, ASD GINGERBREAD. 



17 



mixture very hard. Add by degrees, the 
spice, and then the licjuor, a little at a 
time. Finally, put in ihe rose-water, or 
essence of leinoii. Stir the whole very hard 
at tiip last. 

Take about two dozen little tins, or 
more, if you have room Ibr thein in the 
oven. Rub tliem very well with fiesh but- 
ter. With a spoon, put some of the mix- 
ture in each tin, but do not fill them to the 
top as the cakes will rise high in baking. 
Bake them in a quick oven, about a quar- 
ter of an hoiu". When tliey are done, tliey 
w ill shrink a little tVoiu the sides of the tins. 

Before you fill the tins again, scrape 
the:n well with a knife, and wash or wipe 
them clean. 

If the cakes are scorched by too hot a 
fire, do not scrape off the burnt parts till 
they have gnnvn coUl. 

i\luke a'l icing with the whites of three 
eggs, beaten till it stands alone, and twen- 
ty-four tea-spoonfuls of the best. loaf-sugar, 
powdered, and beaten gradually into the 
white of ejj2' Flavor it with a tea-spoon- 
ful of rose-water or eight drops of essence 
of lemon, stirred in at the last. Spread 
it evenly with a broad knife, over the top 
of each queen-cake, ornamenting them, 
(while the icing is quite wet) with red 
and green nonpareils, or fine sugar-sand, 
dropped on, carefully, with the thumb and 
finger. 

When the cakes are iced, set them in a 
warm place to dry; but not too near the 
fire, as that will cause the icing to crack. 

You may color icing of a fine pink, by 
mixing with ii a few drops of rKpiiil cochi- 
neal, which is prepared by boiling very 
slowly in an earthen or china vessel twenty 
grains of cochineal powder, twenty grains 
of cream of tartar, and twenty grains of 
powdered alum, all dissolved in a gill of 
soft water, and boiled till reduced to one 
half. Strain it and cork it up in a small 
phial. Pink icing siiouid be ornmented 
with wiiite noiipareils. 

In buying essence or oil of lemon, en- 
deavor to get that wiiich is while, it beiiig 
much the strongest a:)d best. When it 
looks greenish, it is generally very weak, 
so that when used, a doable or treble quan- 
tity is necessary. 



ALMOND CAKE. 

Two ounces of blanched bitter almonds, 

pounded very fine. 
Seven ounces of tlonr, sifted and dried. 
Ten eggs. 

One pound loaf-sugar, powdered and sifted. 
'J\vo table-spoonfuls of rose-water. 

Take two ounces of shelled bitter al- 
fionds, or peach-kernels. Scald them in 



hot water, and as you peel them, throw 
them into a bowl of cold water, then wipe 
them dry, and pound them one by one in a 
mortar, till they are quite fine and smooth. 

Break ten eggs, putting the yolks in one 
pan and the whites in another. Beat them 
separately as light as possible, the whites 
first, and then the yolks. 

Add the sugar, gradually, to the yolks, 
beating it in very hard. Then by degrees, 
beat in the almonds, and then add the rose- 
water. 

Stir half the whites of the eggs into the 
yolks and sugar. Divide the Hour into 
two equal parts, and stir in one half, slowly 
and lightly, till it bubbles on the top. 
Then the other half of the white of egg, 
and then the remainder of the flour very 
lightly. 

Butter a large square tin pan, or one 
made of paste-board which will be better. 
Put in the mixture, and set immediately in 
a quick oven, which must be rather hotter 
at the bottom than at the top. Bake it 
according to the thickness. If you allow 
the oven to get slack, the cake will be 
spoiled. 

Make an icing with the whites of three 
eggs, twenty-four tea-spoonfuls of loaf-su- 
gar, and eight drops of essence of lemon. 

When the cake is cool, mark it in small 
squares with a knife. Cover it with icing, 
and ornament it while wet, with nonpareils 
dropped on in borders, round e.ich scjnare 
of the cake. When the icing is dry, cut 
the cake in squares, cutting through the 
icing very carefully with a penknife. Or 
you may cut it in sfjuares first, and then 
ice and ornament each square separately. 

Eat it while fresh. 



POUND CAKE. 

One pound of flour, sifted. 

One pound of white sugar, powdered and 
sifted. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

Ten eggs. 

Half a glass of wine \ 

Half a glass of brandy > mixed. 

Half a glass of rose-water' 

Twelve drops of essence of lemon. 

A lable-spooni'ul of mixed mace and cin- 
namon. 

A nutmeg, powdered. 

Pound the spice and sift it. There 
should be twice as much cinnamon as mace. 
Mix the cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg to- 
gether. 

Sift the flour in a broad pan, or wooden 
bowl. Sift the powdered sugar into a 
large deep pan, and cut the butter into it, 
in small pieces. If «he weather is very 



18 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



cold, and the butter hard, set the pan near 
the lire (or a few minutes; hut if tlie butter 
is too warm, the cake will be heavy. Stir 
tlie butter aiui sugar together, with a wood- 
en stick, till they are very light, and white, 
and look like cream. 

Beat the eggs in a broad shallow pan 
with a wooden egg-l)eater or wiiisk. They 
must be beaten till they are thick and 
sm!)oth, and of the consistence of boiled 
custard. 

Pour the liquor and rose-water, gradual- 
ly, into the butter and sugar, stirring all 
tiie time. Add, by degrees, the essence 
of lem:)u and spice. 

S[ir the egg and Hour alternately into the 
butter and sugar, a handful of tlour, and 
abjut two spoonfuls of the egg (which you 
must continue to beat all the time,) and 
when all is in, stir the whole mixture very 
hard, for near ten minutes. 

Butter a large tin [jan, or a cake mould 
with an open tube rising from the middle. 
Put the mixture into it as evenly as possi- 
ble. Bake it in a moderate oven, for two, 
or three, or four hours, in proportion to its 
thickness, and to the heat of the fire. 

When you think it is nearly done, thrust 
a twig or wooden skewer into it, down to 
the bottom. If the stick comes out clean 
and dry, the cake is almost baked. When 
quite done, it will shriiik from the sides of 
the pan, and cease making^ a noise. Then 
withdraw the coals (if baked in a dutch 
oven) take off iba lid, and let the cake 
remain in the oven to cool gradually. 

You may ice it either warm or cold. 
Before yon put the icing on a large cake, 
dredge the cake all over with dour, and 
then wipe the flour off; this will make the 
icing stick on better — If you have suflicient 
time, the appearance of tiie cake will be 
much improved by icing it twice. Put on 
the first icing soon after the cake is taken 
out of the oven, and the second the next 
day when the first is perfectly dry. While 
(lie last icing is wet, ornament it with co- 
lored sugar-sand or nonpareils. 



SPOx\GE CAKE. 

Twelve eggs. 

Ten ounces sifted flour, dried near the fire. 
A pound of loaf sugar, powdered and sifted. 
Twelve drops of essence of lemon. 
A grated nutmeg. 

A lea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon and 
mace, mixed. 

Beat the eggs as light as possible. Eggs 
for sponge or almond cakes require more 
beating than for any other purpose. Beal 
the sugar, by degrees, into the eggs. Beat 
yery hard, and continue to beat some time 
after the sugar is all in. 



No sort of sugar but loaf, will make light 
sponge-cake. Stir in, gradually, the spice 
and essence of leiiion. Tlien, by degrees, 
put in the flour, a little at a time, slining 
round the mixture very slowly with a knife.' 
If the flour is stirred in too hard, the cake 
will be tougli. It must be tlone ligiuly and 
gently, so that the top of the mixture will 
be covered with bubbles. As soon as tlie 
flour is all in, begin to bake it, as setting 
will injure it. 

Put it in small tins, well buttered, or in 
one large tin pan. The tiiinner the pans, 
the better for sponge-cake. Fill tlie small 
tins about half full. Grate loaf-sugar over 
the top of each, before you set them in the 
oven. 

Sponge-cake requires a very quick oven, 
particularly at the bottom. It siiould be 
baked as fast as possible, or it will be tough 
and heavy, however light it may iiave been 
before it went into the oven. It is of all 
cakes the most liable to be spoiled in bak- 
ing. When taken out of tiie tins, the cakes 
should be spread on a sieve to cool. If 
baked in one large cake, it should be iced. 

A large cake of twelve eggs, should be 
baked at least an hour in a quick oven. 

For small cakes, ten minutes is generally 
sufficient. If they get very much out of 
shape in baking, it is a sign that the oven 
is loo slow. 

Some think that sponge-cakes and al- 
mond cakes are lighter, when the yolks and 
whites of the eggs are beaten in separate 
pans, and mixed gently together before the 
sugar is beaten into them. 

If done separately from the yolks, the 
whites should be beaten till they stand alone 

Sponge-cake is best the day it is baked. 



BLACK CAKE, OR PLUM CAKE. 

One pound of flour sifted. 

One pound of fresh butler. 

One pound of powdered white sugar. 

Twelve eggs. 

l^wo pountis of the best raisins. 

Two pounds uf currants. 

Two table-spoonfuls of mixed spice, mace 

and cinnamon. 
Two nutmegs powdered. 
A large glass of wine 
A large glass of brandy 
Half a glass of lose- water 
A pound of citron. 



mixed together. 



Pick the currants very clean, and wash 
them, draining them through a colander. 
Wipe them in a towel. Spread them out 
on a large dish, and set them near the fire, 
or in the hot sun to dry, placing the dish 
kii a slanting position. Having stoned the 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



19 



raisins, cut lliem in half, nnd when all are 
done, sprinkle them well with sifted flour, 
to prevent their sinking to the bottom of 
the cake. When the cnrrants are dry, 
sprinkle them also with flour. 

Pound the spice, allowing twice as much 
cinnamon as mace. Sift it, and mix the 
mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon together. 
Mix also the liquor and rose-water in a 
tumbler or cup. Cut the citron in slips. 
Sift the flour into a broad dish. Sift the 
sugar into a deep earthen pan, and cut the 
butler into it. Warm it near the fire, if 
the weadier is too cold for it to mix 
easily. Stir the butter and sugar to a 
cream. 

Beat the eggs as light as possible. Stir 
them into tiie butter and sugar, alternately 
with the flour. Stir very hard. Add 
gialually the spice and liquor. Stir the 
raisins and currants alternately into the 



mixture. 



taking 
Stir 



care that they are well 
the whole as hard as possi- 



fioured. 

ble, for ten minutes after the ingredients 

are in. 

Cover the bottom and sides of a large 
tin or earthen pan, with sheets of white 
pa|)er well Initterefl, and put into it some 
of tlie mixture. Then spread on it some 
of the citron, which must not be cut too 
small. Next put a layer of tiie mixture, 
and then a layer of citron, and so on till 
it is all in, having a layer of the mixture 
at the top. 

This cake is always best baked in a 
baker's oven, and will require four or five 
hours, in proportion to its thickness. 

After tills cake is done, it will be the 
better for withdrawing the fire (if baked 
in an iron oven) and letting it stay in the 
oven all night, or till it gets quite cold. 

Ice itj next day. 



FRENCH ALMOND CAKE. 

Six ounces of shelled sweet almonds. 
Three ounces of shelled bitter almonds, or 

peach-kernels. 
Three ounces sifted flour, dried near the fire. 
Fourteen eggs. 

One pound of powdered loaf-sugar. 
Twelve drops of essence of lemon. 

Blanr;h the almonds, by scalding them in 
hot water. Put them in a bowl of cold 
water, and wipe them dry, when you take 
tiiein out. Pound them, one at a time, in 
a UKjrtar, till they are perfectly sinootii. 
Mix the sweet and bitter almonds together. 
Prepare them, if possible, the day before 
the cake is made. While pounding tlie 



almonds, pour in occasionally 
water 



little 



rose- 



It makes them much lighter. 



Put the whites and yolks :;f the eggs, 
into separate pans. Beat the whites till 
they stand alone, and then the yolks till 
they are very thick. 

Put the sugar, gradually, to the yolks, 
beating it in very hard. Add, by degrees, 
the almonds, still beating very hard. Then 
put in the essence of lemon. Next, beat 
in, gradually, the whites of the eggs, con- 
tinuing to beat for some time after they 
are all in. Lastly, stir in the flour, as 
slowly and lightly, as possible. 

Butter a large tin mould or pan. Put 
the cake in and bake it in a very quick 
oven, an hour or more according to ita 
thickness. 

The oven must on no account be hotter 
at the top, than at the bottom. 

When dime, set it on a sieve to cool. 

Ice it, and ornament it with nonpareils. 

These almond cakes are generally baked 
in a turban-shaped mould, and the nonpa- 
reils put on, in spots or sprigs. 

This cake eats best the day it is baked. 

A pound of almonds in the shells (if the 
shells are soft and thin,) will generally 
yield half a pound when shelled. Hard, 
thick-shelled almonds, seldom yield much 
more than a quarter of a pound, and should 
therefore never be bought for cakes or pud- 
dings. 

Bitter almonds and peach-kernels can 
always be purchased with the shells off". 

Families should always save their peach- 
kernels, as they can be used in cakes, pud- 
dings and custards. 



27* 



MACAROONS. 

Half a pound of shelled sweet almonds. 

A quarter pound of shelled bitter almonds 

The whites of three eggs. 

Twenty-four large tea-spoonfuls of powder- 
ed loaf-sugar. 

A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

A large tea-spoonful of mixed spice, nut 
meg, mace and cinnamon. 

Blanch and pound your almonds, beat 
them very smooth, and mix tlie sweet and 
bitter togetlier; do them, if yon can, the 
day before you make the macaroons. 
Pound and sift your spice. Beat the 
wiiites of three eggs till they stand alone; 
add to them, very gradually, the powdered 
sugar, a spoonful at a time, beat it in very 
haid, and put in, by degrees, the rose-water 
and spice. Then stir in, gradually, the 
almonds. The mixture must be. like a soft 
dough; if too thick, it will be heavy; if 
too thin, it will run out of shape. If you 
find your almonds not sufficient, prepare a 



20 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



few more, and stir them in. When it is 
all well mixed and stirred, put some flour 
in the palm of your hand, and taking up a 
lump of the mixture with a knife, roll it on 
your hand with the flour into a small round 
ball; have ready an iron or tin pan, but- 
tered, and lay tiie macaroons in it, as you 
make them up. Place them about two 
inches apart, in case of their spreading. 
Bake them about eight or ten minutes in a 
moderate oven ; they should be baked of a 
pale brown color. If too much baked, 
they will lose their flavor; if too little, 
they will be heavy. Let the top of the 
oven be hotter than the bottom. They 
should rise high in the middle, and crack 
on the surface. You may, if you choose, 
put a larger proportion of spice. 

Cocoa-nut cakes may be made in a similar 
manner, substituting for the pounded al- 
monds half a pound of (inely grated cocoa- 
nut. They must be made into small round 
balls with a little flour laid on the palm of 
the hand, and baked a few minutes. They 
are very fine. 



APEES. 

A pound of flour, sifted. 

Half a pound of butter. 

Half a glass of wine, and a table-spoonful of 

rose-water, mixed. 
Haifa pound of powdered white sugar. 
A nutmeg, grated. 
A tea-spoonful of beaten cinnamon and 

mace. 
Three table-spoonfuls of carraway seeds. 



Sift the flour into a broad pan, and cut 
up the butter in it. Add the carraways, 
sugar, and spice, and pour in the liquor 
by degrees, mixing ii well with a knife: 
and add enough of cold water to make 
it a stiff dough. Spread some flour on 
your pasteboard, take out the dough, and 
knead it very well with your, hands. Cut 
it into small pieces, and knead each sepa- 
rately, then put them all together, and 
knead the whole in one lump. Roll it out 
in a sheet about a quarter of an inch thick. 
Cut it out in round cakes, with the edge of 
a tumbler, or a tin of that size. Butter an 
iron pan, and lay the cakes in it, not too 
close together. Bake them a few minutes 
in a moderate oven, till they are veiy 
slightly colored, but not brown. If too 
much baked, they will entirely lose their 
flavor Do not roll them out too thin. 

The top of the oven should be hotter 
than the bottom, or the cakes will lose their 
chape. 



JUMBLES. 

Three eggs. 

Half a pound of flour, sifted. 

Half a pound of butter. 

Half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

A nutmeg, grated. 

A tea-spoonful of mixed mace and cinnamon. 

Stir the sugar and butter to a cream 
Beat the eggs very light. Throw them, 
all at once, into th^ pan of flour. Put in, 
at once, the butter and sugar, and then add 
the spice and rose-water. If you have no 
lose-water, substitute six or seven drops 
of strong essence of lemon, or more if the 
essence is weak. Stir the whole very hard, 
with a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board, 
and flour your hands well. Take up with 
your knife, a portion of the dough, and lay 
it on the board. Roll it lightly with your 
hands, into long thin rolls, which must be 
cut into equal lengths, curled up into rings, 
and laid gently into an iron or tin pan, 
buttered, not too close to each other, as 
they spread in baking. Bake them in a 
quick oven about five minutes, and grate 
loaf-sugar over them when cool. 

The top of the oven may be nearly red 
hot, otherwise the jumbles will run into 
each other, and become flat and shapeless. 



KISSES. 

One pound of the best loaf-sugar, powdered 

and sifted. 
The whites of four eggs. 
Twelve drops of essence of lemon. 
A tea-cup of currant jelly. 

Beat the whites of four eggs till they 
stand alone. Then beat in, gradually, the 
sugar, a tea-spoonful at a time. Add the 
essence of lemon, and beat the whole very 
hard. 

Lay a wet sheet of papei on the bottom 
of a scjuare tin pan. Drop on it, at ec|ual 
distances, a small tea-spoonful of stiff cur- 
rant jelly. It is better to put a little of the 
beaten white of egg and sugar at first »in- 
der the currant jelly. With a large spoon, 
pile some of the beaten white of egg and 
sugar, on each lump of jelly, so as to cover 
it entirely. Drop on the mixture, as even- 
ly as possible, so as to make the kisses of 
a round smooth shape. 

Set them in a cool oven, and as soon as 
they are colored, they are done. Then 
take them out and place them two bottoms 
together. Lay them lightly on a sieve, 
and dry them in a cool oven, till the two 
bottoms stick fast together, so as to form 
one ball or oval. 



VJAlVJiiO, uurNo, 



J\r\iJ Vjrli\\jrJi,I^J01ti:iAlJ. 



',£1 



RUSK. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

A quarter of a pound of fresh butter. 

One pound of flour, sifted. 

One egg. 

Three wine-glasses of milk. 

A wine-glass and a lialf of the best yeast. 

A table-spoonfal of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

Sift your flour into a pan. Cut up the 
butter in the milk, and warm them a little, 
so as to soften the butter, but not to melt it 
entirely. Beat your egg; pour the milk 
and butter into your pan of flour, then the 
egg, then the rose-water and spice, and 
lastly the yeast. Stir all well together 
with a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board: 
lay the dough on it, and knead it well. 
Then divide it into small pieces of an equal 
size, and knead each piece into a little 
(hick round cake. Butter an iron pan, 
lay the cakes in it, and set them in a warm 
place to rise. Prick the tops with a fork. 
When they are quite light, bake them in a 
moderate oven. 

Rusk should be eaten fresh. 



SPANISH BUxNS. 

Four eggs. 

Three quarters of a pound of flour, sifted. 
Half a pound of powdered white sugar. 
Two wine-glasses and a half of rich milk. 
Six ounces of fresh butter. 
A wine-glass and a half of the best yeast. 
A table-spoonful of rose-water. 
A grated nutmeg. 

A large tea-spoonful of [mwdered mace 
and cinnamon. 

Sift half a pound of flour into a broad 
pan, and sift a quarter of a pound, separ- 
ately, into a deep plate, and set it aside. 
Put the milk into a soup-plate, cut up the 
butter, and set it on the stove or near tiis 
fire to warm, but do nut let it get too hot. 
When the butter is very soft, stir it all 
through the milk with a knife, and set it 
away to cool, lieat tiie eggs very light, 
and mix the milk and butter with them, all 
at once; then pour all into the pan of flour. 
Put in the s|)ice, and the rose-water, or if 
you prefer it, eight drops of essence of 
lemon. Add the yeast, of which an in- 
creased quantity will be necessary, if it is 
not very strong and fresh. Stir the whole 
very hard, with a knife. Add the sugar 
gradually. If the sugar is not stirred in 
slowly, a little at a time, the buns will be 
leavy. Then, by degrees, sprinkle in the 
-^maining quarter of a pound of flour. 



Stir all well together; butter a square iron 
pan, and put in the n)ixture. Cover it 
with a cloth, and set it near the fire to rise. 
It will probably not be light in less than 
five hours. When it is risen very high, 
and is covered with bubbles, bake it in a 
moderate oven, about a quarter of an hour 
or more in proportion to its tliickness. 

When it is quite cool, cut it in squares, 
and grate loaf-sugar over tiiem. Tiiis 
quantity will make twelve or fifteen buns. 

They are best the day they are baked. 

You may, if you choose, bake them sep- 
arately, in small square tins, adding to the 
batter half a pound of currants or chopped 
raisins, well floured, and stirred in at the 
last. 

In making buns, stir the yeast well l:)efore 
you put it in, liaving first poured oft' the 
beer or thin part from the top. If your 
yeast is not good, do not attempt to make 
buns with it, as they will never be light. 

Buns may be made in a plainer way, with 
the following ingredients, mixed in the 
above manner. 

Half a pound of flour, sifted into a pan. 
A quarter pound of flour, sifted in a plate, 

and set aside to sprinkle in at the last. 
Three _eggs, well beaten. 
A quarter of a pound of powdered sr.gar. 
Three wine-glasses of milk. 
A wine-glass and a half of the best yeast. 
A large tea-spoonful of powdered ciuna 

mon. 
A quarter of a pound of butter, cut up 

and warmed in the milk. 

All buns should be eaten quite fresh. 



NEW-YORK CUP CAKE. 

Four egg?. 

Four cu^s of sifted flour. 

Three cups of powdered white sugar. 

Otie cup of butter. 

One cup of rich inilk. 

One glass of white wine. 

A grated nutmeg. 

A tea-spoonful of cinnamon Ijeaten. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash. 

The cups should hold about a half-pint. 

Warm the milk and cut up the butter in 
it, keeping it by the fire till the butter is 
melted. Prepare the spice, and sift the 
flour. Beat the eggs very light, and stir 
them into the milk in turn with the flour. 
Add the spice, and wine, and lastly the 
pearl-ash, having melted it in a little vine- 
gar. Stir all very hard. 

Butter some small tins, fill them half-full 



CD 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



with the mixture, and bake them in a 
moderate oven of equal heat throughout. 



INDIAN POUND CAKE. 

Eight egijs. 

Oiic; pun oi" powdered sugar. 

One |.iiil cf iiuliiui uieal, ailted, and half a 

piiii of wlieai tl.jur. 
Half a pounJ of butter. 
One nutmeg, grated, — and a tea-spoonful 

of cinnauiun. 
Half a glass of mixed wine and brandy. 

Stir ilie butter and susrar to a cream. 



Beat the 



very lisjlit. Siir the meal 



an. I eggs, alieniateiy, into the butler and 
sugar. A, Id the spice and litpior. Stir 
all well. Butter a tin pan, put in the mix- 
ture, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
This cake should be eaten while fresh. 



GINGER CUP CAKE. 

Five eggs. 

Two large tea-cups full of molasses. 

The sa.ne of b. own sugar rolled fine. 

The same of fresh butter. 

One cup of lich milk. 

Five caps of tiour, sifted. 

Haifa cup of powdered allspice and cloves. 

Half a Clip of ginger. 

A small lea-spoonl'ul of pearl-ash melted in 



Cut up the butter in the milk, and warm 
them slightly. VV^arm also the molasses, 
and stir it into the milk ami butter: then 
stir in, gradually, the sugar, and set it 
away to get cool. 

Beat the eggs very light, and stir them 
into the mixtu.e alternately with the flour. 
Adil the ginger and other spice, with the 
pearl-ash, and stir the whole very haid. 

Butter small tins, nearly fill them with 
the mixtuie, and bake the cakes in a mod- 
erate oven. 



BUTTER BISCUITS. 

Half a pound of butter. 
Two pouuils of fluur, sifted. 
Half a pint of milk, or cold water. 
A salt-spoonful of salt. 

Cut up the butter in the flour, and put 
the salt to it. Wet it to a stiti" dough with 
the milk or water. Mix it well with a knife. 

'J'hiow some flour 0:1 the paite-board, 
lake die dough out of the pan, and knead 
it very well. 



Roll it out into a large thick eheet, and 
beat it very hard on both sides witli the 
rolling-pin. Beat it a long time. 

Cut it out with a tin, or cup, into small 
round thick cakes. Beat each cake on 
both sides, with the rolling-pin. Prick 
them with a fork. Put them in buttered 
pans, and bake them of a light brown in a 
slow oven. 



LOAF CAKE. 

Two pounds of sifted flour, setting aside 
half a pound to sprinkle in at the last. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

One pound of powdered sugar. 

Four eggs. 

One pound raisins, stoned, and cut in half. 

One pound of currants, washed and dried. 

Half a pint of milk. 

Half a glass of wine. 

Half a glass of brandy 

A table-spoonful of mixed spice, mace, nut- 
meg and (•iniaiiion. 

Half a pint of the best brewer's yeast; or 
more, if the yeast is not very st» ong. 

Cut up the butter in the milk, and warm 
it till the butter is quite soft; then stir it 
together, and set it away to cool. It must 
not be made too warm. Aftei' you have 
beaten the esss, mix them with the butter 
and milk, and stir the whole into the pan 
of flour. Add the spice and liquor, and 
stir in the sugar gradually. Having poured 
off" the thin part from the top, stir the 
yeast, and pour it into the mixture. Then 
sprinkle in the remainder of the flour. 

Have ready the fruit, which must be well 
floured, stir it gradually into the mixtuie. 
Butter a large tin pan, and put the cake 
into it. Cover it, ami set it in a warm 
place for five or six hours to rise. ^Vhen 
quite light, bake it in a moderate oven. 

Tliis cake is best the day it is baked. 



SUGAR BISCUITS. 

Three pounds of flour, sifted. 

One pound of butter. 

A i;ound and a half of powdered sugar. 

Half a pint of milk. 

Two table-spoonfuls of brandy. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash dissolved 

in water. 
Four table-spoonfuls of carraway seeds. 

Cut the butter into the flour. Add the 
sugar and carraway seeds. Pour in the 
brandy, and then the milk. Lastly, put in 
die pearl-ash. Stir all well widi & knife. 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



d3 



and mix it thoroughly, till it becomes a 
lump of dough. 

Flour your paste-board, and lay the 
dough on it. Knead it very well. Divide 
it into eight or tea pieces, and knead each 
piece separately. Then put them all to- 
gether, and knead theux very well in one 
lump. 

Cut the dough in half, and roll it out into 
sheets, about half an inch thick. Beat the 
sheets of dough very hard, on both sides, 
with the rolling-pin. Cut them out into 
round cakes with the edge of a tumbler. 
Butter iron pans, and lay tite cakes in them. 
Bake tiiem of a very pale brown. If done 
too much, they will lose their taste. 

Let the oven be hotter at the top than at 
the bottom. 

These cakes kept in a stone jar, closely 
covered from the air, will continue perfect- 
ly good for several months. 



GINGERBREAD NUTS. 

Two pounds and a half of flour, sifted. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

One (piart of sugar-house molasses. 

Two oun('es of ginger, or more, if it is 

not very strong. 
Twelve dozen grains of allspice, \ powder- 
Six dozen cl<jves, > ed and 
Half an ounce of cinnamon, * sifted. 
A half tea-s])nonful of pearl-ash or sal 

seratus, dissolved in a little vinegar. 

Cut up the butter in the flour, and mix 
it with the ginger and otlier spice. Wet 
the whole with the molasses, and stir all 
well together with a knife. Then add the 
dissolved pearl-ash or sal seratus. 

Throw some flour on your paste-board, 
take the dough (a large handful at a time) 
and knead it in separate cakes. Then put 
all together, and knead it very hard for a 
long lime, in one large lump. Cut the 
lump in" half, roll it out in two even sheets, 
about half an inch thick, and cut it out in 
little cakes, with a very small tin, about 
the size of a cent. Lay them in buttered 
pans, and bake them in a moderate oven, 
taking care they do not scorch, as ginger- 
bread is more liable to burn than any other 
cake. 

The oven should be hottest at top. 

You may, if you choose, shape the gin- 
gerbread nuts, by putting flour in your 
hand, taking a verj^ small piece of the 
doufh, and rolling it into a little I'ound 
ball. 

If the molasses is thin, or the Aveather 
warm, they will require additional flour. 

G ingerbread nuts are best when a week 
old. 



MILK BISCUITS. 

Two pounds of flour, siftod. 
Half a pound of butter. 
Two eggs. 

Six wine-glasses of milk. 
Two wine-glasses of the best brewer's yeast, 
or three of good home-made yeast. 

Cut the butter into the milk, and warm 
it slightly on the top of the stove, or near 
the fire. Sift the flour into a pan, and 
pour the milk and butter into it. Beat the 
eggs, and pour them in also. Lastly the 
yeast. Mix all well together with a knife. 

Flour your paste-board, put the lump of 
dough on it, and knead it very hard. Then 
cut the dough in small pieces, and knead 
them into round balls. Stick the tops of 
them with a fork. 

Lay them in buttered pans and set thera 
to rise. They will probably be light in an 
hour. When they are quite light, put 
them in a moderate oven and bake them. 

They are best when quite fresh. 



COMMON GINGERBREAD. 

A pint of molasses. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

Two pounds and a half of flour, sifted. 

A pint of milk. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash, or 

if it is strong. 
A tea-cup full of ginger. 

Cut the butter into the flour. Add the 
ginger. 

Having dissolved the pearl-ash in a little 
vinegar, stir it with the milk and molasses 
alternately into the other ingredients. Stir 
it very hard for a long time, till it is quite 
light. 

Put some flour on your paste-board, take 
out small portions of the dough, and make 
it with your hand into long rolls. Then 
curl up the rolls into round cakes, or twist 
two rolls together, or lay them in straight 
lengths or sticks side by side, and touching 
each other. Put them carefully in buttered 
pans, and bake them in a moderate oven, 
not hot enough to burn them. If they 
should get scorched, scrape off with a 
knife, or grater, all the burnt parts, before 
you put the cakes away. 

You can, if you choose, cut out the 
dough with tins, in the shape of hearts, 
circles, ovals, &c. or you may bake it 
all in one, and cut it in squares when 
cold. 

If the mixture appears to be too thin, 
add, gradually, a little moro sifted flour. 



24 



CAI'IES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



LAFAYETTE GINGERBREAD. 

Five esf^?. 

H.ilf i» |).)ii!i(i of l)iTi\\'!i pnjfiir. 

Hair a p'niii I ()(' fiti.-ii Ijiiller. 

A pint of sii^rar-lioiu-ii; iiioiaH.ses. 

A |)()iiii:l iv\A a hall" of H.)iir. 

J*'()jr lalile-spooiifiil.s of gilder. 

Two lariie sticlv;; ol' cinnaaiun, •> , i 

,,., ,'' . /• II • f powdered 

1 liiee dazeii iirains ol allspice, / ' , ■,.. . 
rp, , ° ,• I *^ 'Sand silted. 

1 liree dozen ol cloves, ■' 

Tlio juice and grated peel of two large 

lemons. 

A little pearl-ash or sal teratus. 

Stir tile Ijiitter and sugar to a cream. 
Beat llie eggs very well. Pour the molas- 
ses, at once, into the butter and sugar. 
Add the ginger and other spice, and stir 
all well tdgetiicr. 

Fni in the egg and flour alternately, stir- 
ring all the time. Stir the whole very hard, 
and put in the leinon at the last. When 
the whole is mixed, stir it till very light. 

Butter an earthen pan, or a thick tin or 
iron one, and put the gingerbread in it. 
Bake it in a moderate oven, an hour or 
more, according to its thickness. Take 
care that it do not burn. 

Or you may bake it in small cakes, or 
little tins. 

Its lightness will be much improved by a 
small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash dissolved in 
a lea-spoonful of vinegar, and stirred lightly 
in at the last. If the pearl-ash is strong, half 
a tca-sj)oonful will be suhicient, or less even 
will do. It is better to stir the pearl-ash 
in, a little at a time, and you can tell by 
the taste of the mixture, when there is 
enough. Too much pearl-ash, will give it 
an unpleasant taste. 

If you use pearl-ash, you must omit the 
lemon, as its taste will be entirely destroy- 
ed by the pearl-ash. You may substitute 
for the lemon, some raisins and currants, 
well tluured to prevent their sinking. 

'J'liis is the finest of all gingerbread, but 
should not be kept long, as in a few days 
it becomes very hard and stale. It is best 
the day it is baked. 



NEW-YEAR'S CAKE. 

Seven pounds of flour, sifted. 
Half a pound of butter. 
Half a pound of lard. 

Two pounds and a half of white Havanna 
sugar. 



Having sifted the flour, spread the sugar 
on the paste-board, a little at a time, and 
crush it to powder by rolling it with the 



rolling-pin. Then mix it with the flour. 
Cut up in the flour the butler and the lard, 
and mix it well by rubbing it in with your 
hands. Add by degieps enough of cold 
watei' to make a stiff dutgh. Then knead 
tiie (lough very hard, till it no longer slicks 
to your liaiids. Cover it, set it away for 
an hour or two, and then knwid it again 
i.i tlie same manner. You may repeat the 
kneading several times. Then cut it into 
pieces, roll out each piece into a sheet half 
an inch thick. Cut it into large flat cakes 
wilh a tin cutter. You may stamp ea(di 
cake with a "wootlen print, by way of or- 
namenting the surface. 

Sprinkle with flour some large flat tm 
or iron pans, lay the cakes in them and 
bake them of a pale brown, in an oven of 
equal heat throughout. 

These cakes require more and harder 
kneading than any others, therefore it is 
best to have them kneaded by a man, or a 
very strong woman. 

They are greatly improved by the addi- 
tion of some canaway seeds worked into 
the dough. 



A DOVER CAKE. 

Half a pint of milk. 

A half tea-spoonful of pearl-ash, dissolved 

in a little vinegar. 
One pound of sifted flour. 
One pound of powdered white sugar. 
Half a pound of butter. 
Six eggs. 

One glass of brandy. 
Half a glass of rose-water. 
One grated nuttneg. 
A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

Dissolve the pearl-ash in vinegar. Stir 
the sugar and butler to a cream, and add 
to it gradually, the spice and liquor. Beat 
the eggs very light, and stir them into the 
butter and sugar, alternately, with the flour. 
Add, gradually, the milk, and stir the 
whole very hard. 

Butter a large tin pan, and put in the 
mixture. Bake it two hours or more, in a 
moderate oTen. If not thick, an hour or 
an hour and a half will be sufficient. 

Wrap it in a thick cloth, and keep it 
from the air, and it will continue moist and 
fresh for two weeks. The pearl-ash will 
give it a dark color. 

It will be much improved by a pound of 
raisins, stoned and cut in half, and a pound 
of currants, well washed and dried. 

Flour the fruit well, and stir it in at the 
last. 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



25 



CRULLERS. 

Half a pound of butler. 

Three (|iiarlers of a pound of powdered 

while sugar. 
Six eggs, or seven if they are small. 
Two pounds of flour, sifted. 
A grated nutmeg. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. • 
A tdble-spoonful of rose-water. 

Cut the butter into the flour, add the 
sugar and spice, and mix tliem well to- 
gether. 

Beat the eggs, and pour them into the 
pan of flour, &c. Add the rose-water, and 
mix the wliole into a dough. If the eggs 
and rose-water are not found sufficient to 
wet it, add a very little cold water. Mix 
the dough very well with a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board, 
take the dough out of the pan, and knead 
it very well. Cut it into small pieces, and 
knead each separately. Put all the pieces 
together, and knead the whole in one lump. 
Roll it out into a large square sheet, about 
half an inch thick. Take a jagging-iron, 
or, if you have not one, a sharp knife; run 
it along the sheet, and cut the dough into 
long narrow slips. Twist them up in va- 
rious fjrnis. Have ready an iron pan 
with melted lard. Lay the crullers lightly 
in It, and fry them of a light brown, turn- 
ing them with a knife and fork, so as not 
to break them, and taking care that both 
sides are equally done. 

When sutiiciently fried, spread them on 
a large dish to cool, and grate loaf-sugar 
over them. 

Crullers may be made in a plainer way, 
with the best brown sugar, (rolled very 
fine,) and without spice or ruse-water. 

I'hey can be fried, or ratiier boiled, in a 
deep iron pot. They shjuld be done in a 
large quantity of lard, and taken out with 
a tkimmer that has holes in it, and held on 
the skimmer till the lard drains from them. 
If for family use, they can be made an inch 
thick. They will keep several days, and 
be as good as when fresh. 



WAFFLES. 

Six eggs. 

A pint of milk. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter pound of powdered v.hite sugar. 

A pound and a half of flour, sifted. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

Warm the milk slightly. Cut up the 
butter in it and stir it a little. Beat the 
eggs well, and pour Ui^m into the butter 



and milk. Sprinkle in half the flour, 
gradually. Stir in ihe sugar, by degrees, 
and add the spice. Stir in, gradually, the 
remainder of the flour, so that it becomes 
a tiiick batter. 

Heat your waffle-iron ; then grease it 
well, and pour in some of the batter. Shut 
the iron tight, and bake the waflle on both 
sides, by turning the iron. 

As the waffles are baked, spread them 
out separately on a clean napkin. When 
enough are done for a plate-full, lay them 
on a plate in two piles, buttering them, 
and sprinkling each with beaten cinnamon. 



DOUGH-NUTS. 

Three pounds of sifted flour. 

A pound of powdered sugar. 

Three quarters of a pound of butter. 

Four eggs. 

Half a large tea-cup full of best brewer's 

yeast. 
A pint and a half of milk. 
A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 
A grated nutmeg. 
A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

Cut up the butter in the flour. Add the 
sugar, spice, and rose-water. Beat the 
eggs very light, and pour them into the 
mixture. Add the yeast, (half a tea-cup 
or two wine-glasses full,) and then stir in 
the milk by degrees, so as to make it a soft 
dough. Cover it, and set it to rise. 

When quite light, cut it in diamonds 
with a jagging-iron or a sharp knife, and 
fry them in laid. Grate loaf-sugar over 
them when done. 



SOFT MUFFINS. 

Five eggs. 

A quart of milk. 

Two ounces of butter. 

A t^'a-spoonful of salt. 

Two large table-spoonfuls of brewer's yeast 

or foiu" of home-made yeast. 
Enough of sifted flour to make a stifl" batter. 

Warm the milk and butter together, and 
add to them the salt. Beat the eggs very 
light and stir them into the milk and but- 
ter. Then stir in the y'^ast, and lastly, 
suflicient flour to urake a thick batter. 

Cover the mixture, and set it to rise, in 
a warm place, about three hours. 

W^lien it is quite light, »^rease your bak- 
ing-iron, and your mnffin rings. Set the 
rings on the iron, and pour the batter into 
them. Bake them a light brown. When 
you split tjjein to put on tl4« butter* do actf 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



cut them with a knife, but pull them open 
with your hands. Cutting them while hot 
will make them heavy. 



INDIAN BATTER CAKES. 

A quart of sifted Indian meal, \ 

A handful of wheat flour sifted, > mixed. 

Three eggs, well beaten, ^ 

Two table-spoonfuls of fresh brewer's yeast, 

or four of home-made yeast. 
A tea-spoonful of salt. 
A quart of milk. 

Make the milk quite warm, and then 
put into it the yeast and salt, stirring them 
well. Beat the eggs, and stir them into 
the mixture. Then, gradually, stir in the 
flour and Indian meal. 

Cover the batter, and set it to rise four 
or five hours. Or if the weather is cold, 
and you want the cakes for breakfast, you 
may mix the batter late the night before. 

Should you find it sour in the morning, 
dissolve a small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash 
in as much water as will cover it, and stir 
it into the batter, letting it set afterwards 
at least half an hour. This will take off 
the acid. 

Grease your baking-iron, and pour on 
it a ladle-full of the batter. When brown 
on one side, turn the cake on the other. 

Indian batter cakes n»ay be made in a 
plain and expeditious way, by putting three 
pints of cold water or cold milk into a 
pan, and gradually sifting into it (stirring 
all the time) a quart of Indian meal mixed 
with half a pint of wheat-flour, and a small 
spoonful of salt. Stir it very hard, and it 
may be baked immediately, as it is not ne- 
cessary to set it to rise. 



FLANNEL CAKES OR CRUMPETS 

Two pounds of flour, sifted. 

Four eggs. 

Three table-spoonfuls of the best brewer*a 

yeast, or four and a half of home-made 

yeast. 
A pint of milk. 

Mix a tea-spoonful of salt Avith the flour, 
and set the pan before the fire. Then warm 
the milk, and stir into it the flour, so aa 
to make a stiff" batter. Beat the eggs very 
light, and stir them into the yeast. Add 
the eggs and yeast to the batter, and lieat 
all well together. If it is too stiff", add a 
little n)ore warm milk. 

Cover the pan closely and set it to rise 
near the fire. Bake it, when quite light. 

Have your baking-iion hot. Grease it, 
and pour on a ladle-full of batter. Let it 
bake slowly, and when done on one side, 
turn it on l?lie other. 

Butter the cakes, cut them across, and 
send them to table hot. 



CREAM CAKES. 

A quart of cream. 

Four eggs. 

Sifted flour sufficient for a thick batter. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash, or a 

larger one of sal-seratus. 
A small tea-spoonful of salt. 

Beat four eggs till very light, and stir 
them by degrees into a quart of cream. 
Add, gradually, enough of sifted ilour to 
make a thick baltL'r. Put in the salt. 
Dissolve the pearl-ash in as much vinegar 
as will cover it, and stir it in at the last. 

Bake the mixture in niullin-rings. Send 
the cakes to table (juite hot. Pull them 
open, and butter them. 

For these cakes sour cream is better than 
sweet. 



ROLLS. 

Three pints of flour, sifted. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of salt. 

Four table-spoonfuls of the best brewer's 

yeast, or six of home-made yeast, 
A pint of luke-vvarm water. 
Half a pint more of warm water, and a 

little more flour to mix in before the 

kneading. 

Mix the salt with the flour, and make a 
deep hole in the middle. Stir the warm 
water into the yeast, and pour it into the 
hole in the flour. Stir it with a spoon just 
enough to make a thin batter, and sprinkle 
some flour oxer the top. Cover the pan, 
and set it in a warm place for sexeral hours. 

When it is light, add half a pint more 
of luke-vvarm water; and make it, with a 
little more flour, into a dough. Knead it 
very well fur ten niinutes. Then divide it 
into small pieces, and knead each separate- 
ly. Make them into round cakes or rolls. 
Cover them, and set them to rise about an 
hour and a half. 

Bake them, and when done, let them re- 
main in the oven, without the lid, for about 
ten minutes. 



RICE CAKES FOR BREAKFAST. 

Put half a pound of rice in soak over 
night. Early in the morning boil it very 
soft, drain it from the water, mix with it 
a quarter of a pound of butler and set it 



SWEETMEATS AND JELLIES. 



87 



away to cool. When it is cold, stir it into 
a quart of milk, and add a very little salt. 
Beat six eggs, and sift half a pint of flour. 
Stir the egg and flour alternately into the 
rice and milk. Having beaten the vviiole 
very well, bake it on the griddle in cakes 
about the size of a small dessert-plate. 
Butter them, and send them to table hot. 



JELLY CAKE. 

Stir together till very light, half a pound 
of fresh butter and half a pound of pow- 
dered white sugar. Beat twelve eggs very 
liglit, and stir them into the butter and su- 
gar, alternately with a pound of sifted flour. 
Add a beaten nutmeg, and half a wine- 
glass of rose-water. Have ready a flat 



circular plate of tin, which must be laid 
on your griddle, or in the oven of your 
stove, and well greased with butter. Pour 
on it a large ladle-full of the batter, and 
bake, it as you would a buck-wheat cake, 
taking care to have it of a good shape. 
It will not require turning. Bake as many 
of these cakes as you want, laying each on 
a separate plate. Then spread jelly or 
marmalade all over the top of each cake, 
and lay another upon it. Spread that also 
with jelly, and so on till you have a pile 
of five or six, looking like one large thick 
cake. Trim the edge nicely with a pen- 
knife, and cover the top with powdered 
sugar. Or you may ice it; putting on the 
nonpareils or sugar-sand in such a manner 
as to mark out the cake in triangular di- 
visions. When it is to be eaten, cut it in 
tliree-cornered slices as you would a pie. 



#< fV >^l»^»V^« V ^^ 



SWEETMEATS AND JELLIES. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 



In preparing sugar for sweetmeats, let it be entirely dissolved, 
before you put it on the fire. If you dissolve it in water, allow 
about half a pint of water to a pound of sugar. 

If you boil the sugar before you add the fruit to it, it will be 
improved in clearness by passing it through a flannel bag. Skim 
off the brown scum, all the time it is boiling. 

If sweetmeats are boiled too long, they lose their flavor and 
become of a dark color. 

If boiled too short a time, they will not keep well. 

You may ascertain when jelly is done, by dropping a .small 
spoonful into a glass of water. 

If it spreads and mixes with the water, it requires more boiling. 
If it sinks in a lump to the bottom, it is sufficiently done. This 
trial must be made after the jelly is cold. 

Raspberry jelly requires more boiling than any other sort. 
Black currant jelly less. 

Keep your sweetmeats in glass jars, or in those of white queen's 
ware. 

28 



23 



SWEET3IEATS AND JELLIES. 



BLANCMANGE. 

Four calf's feet. 

A pint and a half of thick cream.* 

Half a pound of loaf-sugar, broken up. 

A glass of wine. 

Half a glass of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of mace, beaten and sifted. 

Get four calf 's-feet; if possible some 
that have been scalded, and not skinned. 
Scrape, and clean them well, and boil them 
in three quarts of water till all the meat 
drops off the bone. Drain tiie liquid 
through a colander or sieve, and skim it 
well. Let it stand till next morning to 
congeal. Then clean it well from the sed- 
iment, and put it into a tin or bell-metal 
kettle. Stir into it, the cream, sugar, and 
mace. Boil it hard for five minutes, stir- 
ring it several times. Then strain it 
through a linen cloth or napkin into a 
large bowl, and add the wine and rose- 
water. 

Set it in a cool place for three or four 
hours, stirring it very frec|uently with a 
spoon, to prevent the cream from separat- 
ing from the jelly. The more it is stirred 
the better. Stir it till it is cool. 

Wash your moulds, wipe tliem dry, and 
then wet them with cold water. When the 
blancmange becomes very thick, (that is, 
in three or four hours, if the weather is not 
too damp) put it into your moulds. 

When it has set in them till it is quite 
firm, loosen it carefully all round with a 
knife, and turn it out on glass or china 
plates. 

If you wish to make it witli almonds, 
take an ounce of blanched bitter almonds, 
and two ounces of sweet. Beat them in a 
mortar to a fine paste, pouring in occasion- 
ally a little rose-water. When the mixture 
is readv to boil, add the almonds to it grad- 
ually, stirring them well in. Or you may 
stir them in, while it is cooling in the 
bowl. 

If it inclines to stick to the moulds, set 
them an instant in hot water. It will th.en 
turn out easily. 

If you choose to make it without calf's 
feet, you can substitute an ounce of the best 
and clearest isinglass (or, if in summer, an 
ounce and a quarter) boiled with the other 
ingredients. If made witli isinglass, you 
must use two ounces of sweet, and an ounce 
of bitter almonds, with the addition of the 
grated rind of a large lemon, and a large 
stick of cinnamon, broken up, a glass of 
wine, and half a glass of rose-water. These 



* Blancmange is greatly improved by boiling 
in the cream an ounce of bitter almonds brok- 
en in pieces, or a handful of peach-leaves. 



ingredients must be all mixed together, with 
a quart of cream, and boiled hard for five 
minutes. The mixture must then be strain- 
ed through a napkin, into a large bowl. 
Set it in a cool place, and stir it frequently 
till nearly cold. It must then be put into 
the moulds. 

You may substitute for the almonds, 
half a gill of noyau, in which case, omit 
the wine. 



CALF'S-FEET JELLY. 

« 

Eight calf's feet. 

Three quarts of water. 

A pint of white wine. 

Three lemons. 

The whiles of six eggs. 

Half an ounce of cinnamon. 

Half pound loaf-sugar, broken into lumps. 

Endea\or to procure calf's-feet, that 
have been nicely scalded, but not skinned, 
as the skin being left on, makes the jelly 
much firmer. 

The day Ijefore you want to use the jelly, 
boil the eight calf's-feet in three quarts of 
water, till the meat drops from the bone- 
When sufficiently done, put it into a colan- 
der or sieve, and let the liquid, drain from 
the meat, into a broad pau or dish. Skim 
off the fat. Let the jelly stand till next 
day, and then carefully scrape off the sedi- 
ment from the buttom. It will be a firm 
jelly, if too much water has not been used, 
and if it has boiled long enough. If it is 
not firm at first, it will not become so af- 
terwards when boiled w ith the other ingre- 
dients. There should on no account be 
more than three quarts of water. 

Early next morning, put the jelly into a 
tin kettle, or covered tin pan; set it on the 
fire, and melt it a little. Take it oft", and 
season it with the cinnamon slightly broken, 
a pint of Madeira wine, three lemons cut 
in thin slices, and half a pound of loaf- 
sugar, broken up. 

If you wish it high-colored, add tv.o ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of French brandy. Mix all 
well together. Beat, slightly, the whites 
of six eggs (saving the egg-shell) and stir 
the whites into the jelly. Break up the 
egg-shells into very small pieces, and throw 
them in also. Stir the whole very well 
together. 

Set it on the fire, and boil it hard five 
minutes, but do not stir it, as that will pre- 
vent its clearing. Have ready a large 
white flannel bag, tlie top wide, and the 
bottom tapering to a point. 

Tie the bag to the backs of two chairs, 
or to the legs of a table, and set a white 
dish or a mould under it. 

After the jelly has boiled five minutet. 



SWEETMEATS. 



29 



pour it hot into the bag, and let it drip 
through into tlie dish. Do not squeeze the 
bag, as that will make the jelly dull and 
cloudy. 

If it is not clear the first time it passes 
through the bag, empty o:it all the ingre- 
dients, wash the bag, suspend it again, put 
another white dish under it, pour the jelly 
back into the bag, and let it drip through 
again. Repeat this six or eiglit times, or 
till it is clear, putting a clean dish under it 
every time. If it does not drip freely, 
move the bag into a warmer place. 

When the jelly has all dripped through 
the bag, and is clear, set, it in a cool place 
to congeal. It wiil sometimes congeal im- 
mediately, and sometimes not for several 
no;ns, particularly if the weather is warm 
and damp. If the weather is very cold you 
must take care not to let it freeze. When 
it is quite firm, which perhaps it will not 
be till evening, fill your glasses with it, 
piling it up very high. If you make it in 
a mould, you must either set the mould un- 
der the bag while it is dripping, or pour 
it from the dish into the mould while it is 
liquid. When it is perfectly congealed, 
dip the mould for an instant in boiling water 
to loosen the jelly. Turn it out on a glass 
dish. 

This quantity of ingredients will make 
a quart of jelly when finished. In cool 
weather it may be made a day or two before 
it is wanted. 

You nray increase the seasoning, (that is, 
the wine, lemon, and cinnamon,) according 
to.your taste, but less than the above pro- 
portion will not be sufficient to flavor the 
jelly. 

Ice jelly is made m the same mamier, 
only not so stiff. Four calves-feet will be 
gutiticient. Freeze it as you would ice- 
ci'eam, and serve it up in glasses. 



APPLE JELLY. 

Take the best pippin, or bell-flower ap- 
ples. No others will make good jelly. 
Pare, core, and quarter them. Lay them 
in a preserving kettle, and put to them as 
much water only, as will covei- them, and 
as much lemon-peel as you choose. Boil 
them till they are soft, but not till they 
break. Drain off" the water through a co- 
lander, and mash the apples with the back 
of a spoon. Put them into a jelly-bag, set 
a deep dish or pan under it, and squeeze out 
the juice. 

To every pint of juice, allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar, broken up, and the juice of 
iwo lemons. Put the apple-juice, the su- 
gar, and the lemon-juice, into the preserv- 
ing kettle. Boil it twenty minutes, skim- 
.fling it well. Take it immediately from 



the kettle, and pour it warm into your 
glasses, but not so hot as to break them. 
\Vhen cold, cover each glass with white 
paper dipped in brandy, and tie it down 
tight with another paper. Keep them in a 
cool place. 

Quince Jelly is made in the same man- 
ner, but do not pare the quinces. Quarter 
them only. 



RED CURRANT JELLY. 

Wash your currants, drain them, and 
pick them from the stalks. Mash them 
with the back of a spoon. Put them in a 
jelly-bag, and squeeze it till all the juice is 
pressed out. 

To every pint of juice, allow a pound of 
the best loaf-sugar. Put the juice and the 
sugar into your kettle, and boil them twen- 
ty minutes, skimming all the while. Pour 
it warm into your glasses, and when cold, 
tie it up with brandy paper. Jellies should 
never be allowed to get cold in the kettle. 
If boiled too long, they will lose their fla- 
vor, and become of a dark color. 

Strawberry, raspberry, blackberry, and 
grape jelly may be made in the same man- 
ner, and witli the same proportion of loaf- 



Red currant jelly may also be made in a 
vei-y simple manner, by putting the currants 
whole into the kettle, with the sugar; al- 
lowing a pound of sugar to a pound of cur- 
rants. Boil them together twenty minutes, 
skimming carefully. Then pour them into 
a sieve, with a pan under it. Let them 
drain thi-ough the sieve into the pan, press- 
ing them down with the back of a spoon. 

Take the jelly, while warm, out of the 
pan, and put it into your glasses. Tie it 
up with brandy paper when cold. 

This jelly is best made of an equal quan- 
tity of red and white currants. 



BLACK CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick the currants from the stalks, wash 
and drain them. Mash them soft with a 
spoon, put them in a bag, and squeeze out 
the juice. To each pint of juice, allow 
three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar. 
Put the juice and sugar into a preserving 
kettle, and boil them about ten minutes, 
skimming them well. Take it immediate- 
ly out of the kettle. Put it warm into 
your glasses. Tie it up with bi'andy paper. 

The juice of black currants is so very 
thick, that it requires less sugar and less 
boiling than any other jelly. 



30 



SWEETMEATS. 



GOOSEBERRY JELLY. 

Cut the gooseberries in half, (they must 
be giceii) and put thein in a jar closely 
covered. Set tlie jar in an oven, or pot 
filled with bailing water. Keep the water 
boiling round the jar lill the gooseberries 
are soft, take them out, mash them with a 
si;oun, and put lliem into a jelly-bag to 
drain. When all the juice is squeezed out, 
measure it, and to a pint of juice, allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Put the juice and 
sugar into the preserving kettle, and boil 
them twenty minutes, skimming carefully. 
Put the jelly warm into your glasses. Tie 
iliem up with brandy paper. 

Cranberry jelly is made in the same 
manner. 



GRAPE JELLY. 

Pick the grapes from the stems, wash 
and drain them. Mash them with a spoon. 
Put them in the preserving kettle, and cov- 
er them closely with a large plate. Boil 
them ten minutes. Then pour them into 
your jelly bag, and squeeze out the juice. 

Allow a pint of juice to a pound of sugar. 
Put the sugar and juice into your kettle, 
and boil them twenty minutes, skimming 
them well. 

Fill your glasses while the jelly is warm, 
and tie them up with brandy papers. 



PEACH JELLY. 

Wipe the wool off your peaches, (which 
should be free-stones and not too ripe) and 
cut them in quarters. Crack the stones, 
and break the kernels small. 

Put tlie peaches and the kernels into a 
covered jar, set them in boiling water, and 
let them boil till they are soft. 

Strain them through a jelly-bag, till all 
the juice is squeezed out. Allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar to a pint of juice. Put tlie 
sugar and juice into a preserving kettle, 
and boil them twenty minutes, skimming 
carefully. 

Put the jelly warm into your glasses, and 
when cold, tie them up with brandy paper. 

Plum, and green-gage jelly may be made 
in the same manner, with the kernels, 
which greatly improve the riavor. 



PRESERVED QUINCES. 

Pare and core your quinces, carefully 
taking out the parts that are knotty and 



defective. Cut them into quarters, or into 
round slices. Put them into a preserving 
kettle, and cover them with the parings 
and a very little water. Lay a large plate 
over them to keep in the steam, and boil 
them till they are tender. 

Take out the quinces, and strain the 
liquor through a bag. 'I'o every pint of 
liquor, allow a pound of loaf-sugar. Boil 
the juice and sugar together, about ten 
minutes, skimming it well. Then put in 
tlie quinces, and boil them gently twenty 
minutes. When the sugar seems to have 
completely penetrated them, take them out, 
put them in a glass jar, and pour the juice 
over them warm. Tie them up, when cold, 
with brandy paper. 

In preserving fruit that is boiled first 
without tlie sugar, it is generally better 
(after the first boiling) to let it .stand til! 
next day before you put the sugar to it. 



PRESERVED PIPPINS. 

Pare and core some of the largest and 
finest pippins. Put them in your preserv- 
ing kettle,* with some lemon-peel, and all 
the apple-parings. Add a very little water, 
and cover them closely. Boil them till 
they are tender, taking care tliey do not 
burn. Take out the apples, and spread 
them on a large dish to cool. Pour the 
liquor into a bag, and strain it well. Put 
it into your kettle with a pound of loiff- 
sugar to each pint of juice, and add lemon 
juice to your taste. Boil it five minutes, 
skimming it well. Then put in the whole 
apples, and boil tliem slowly half an hour, 
or till they are quite soft and clear. Put 
them with the juice, into your jars, and 
when quite cold, tie them up with brandy 
paper. 

Preserved apples are only intended for 
present use, as they will not keep long. 

Pears may be done in the same way, 
either whole or cut in half. They may be 
liavored either with lemon or cinnamon, 
or both. The pears for preserving should 
be green. 



PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Take the largest and finest free-stone 
peaches, before they are too ripe. Pare 

* The use of brass or bell metal kettles is 
now almost entirelv superseded by the enam- 
elled kettles of iron lined with china, called 
preserving kettles ; brass and bell-metal hav 
ing always been objectionable on account of 
the verdigris which collects in them. 



SWEETMEATS 



31 



them, and cut them in halves or in quarters. 
Crack the stones, and take out the kernels, 
and break them in pieces. Put the peach- 
es, with the parings and kernels, into your 
preserving kettle, with a very little water. 
Boil them till they are tender. Take out 
the peaclies and spread them on a large 
dish to cool. Strain the liquor through a 
bag or sieve. Next day, measure the juice, 
and to each pint allow a pound of loaf- 
sugar. Put the juice and sugar into die 
kettle with the peaches, and boil them 
slowly half an hour, or till they are quite 
suft, skimming all the time. Take the 
peaches out, put them into your jars, and 
pour the warm liquor over them. When 
cold, tie them up with brandy paper. 

If boiled too long, they will look dull, 
and be of a dark color.* 

If you do not wish the juice to be very 
thick) do not put it on to boil with the 
sugar, but first boil the sugar atone, with 
only as much water as will dissolve it, 
aud skim it well. Let the sugar, in all 
cases, be entirely melted before it goes on 
the fire. Having boiled the sugar and 
water, and skimmed it to a clear sirup, 
then put in your juice and fruit together,, 
and boil them till completely penetrated 
with the sugar. 



ANOTHER WAY OF PRESERVING 
PEACHES. 

Take large juicy ripe free-stone peaches, 
pare them and cut them in quarters. Crack 
half the scones, and blanch the kernels in 
scalding water. Weigh the peaches, and 
to each pound allow a pound of loaf-sugar. 
Mix ihein with the kernels, lay them in a 
deep dish, or tureen, and mix with them 
also the sugar. Cover them and let them 
set all night. 

In the morning put the peaches and su- 
gar with the kernels into a preserving ket- 
tle, and boil them till soft and clear; skim- 
ming them carefully. Use no water, as 
tha juice that has been drawn out while 
they lay in the sugar will be sufficient. 

When cold, put them in jai's and tie 
them up with brandy-paper, leaving the 
kernels among them. 

Green gages and plums may be done in 
this manner when quite ripe, using also 
half the kernels. 



* To preserve peaches whole, pare them 
and thrust out the stones with a skewer. 
Then proceed as above, only blanch the ker- 
nels and keep them whole. When the peach- 
es are done, stick a kernel into the hole of 
every peach, before you put them into the jars. 
Large fruit will keep best in broad shallow 
etone pots. 



28 



PRESERVED CRAB APPLES 

Wash your fruit. Cover the bottom of 
your preserving kettle with grape leaves. 
Put in the apples. Hang them over the 
fire, with a very little water, and cover 
them closely. Do not allow them to boil, 
but let them simmer gently till they are yel- 
low. Take them out, and spread them on 
a large dish to cool. Pare and core them. 
Put them again into the kettle, with fresh 
vine-leaves under and over them, and a 
very little water. Hang them over the 
fire till they are green. Do not let them 
boil. 

Take them out, weigh them, and allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar to a pound of crab- 
apples. Put to the sugar just water enough 
to dissolve it. When it is all melted, put 
it on the fire, and boil and skim it. Then 
put in your fruit, and boil the apples till 
they are quite clear and soft. Put them 
in jars, and pour the warm liquor over 
them. When cold, tie them up with bran- 
dy paper. 



PRESERVED PLUMS. 

Cut your plums in half, (they must not 
be quite ripe,) and take out the stones. 
Weigh the plums, and allow a pound of 
loaf-sugar to a pound of fruit. Crack the 
stones, take out the kernels and break them 
in pieces. Boil the plums and kernels very 
slowly for about fifteen minutes, in as little 
water as possible. Then spread them on 
a large dish to cool, and strain the liquor. 

Next day make your sirup. Melt the 
sugar in as little water as will suffice to 
dissolve it, (about a gill of water to a 
pound of sugar) and boil it a few minutes, 
skimming it till quite clear. Then put in 
your plums with the liquor, and boil them 
fifteen minutes. Put them in jars, pour 
the juice over them warm,»and tie them 
up, when cold, with brandy paper. 

Plums for common use, are very good done 
in molasses. Put your plums into an earthen 
vessel that holds a gallon, having first slit 
each plum widi a knife. To three quarts 
of plums put a pint of molasses. Cover 
them and set them on hot coals in the 
chimney corner. Let them stew for twelve 
hours or more, occasionally stirring them, 
and renewing the coals. Next day put 
them up in jars. Done in this manner 
they will keep till the next spring. 

~' Sirups may be improved in clearness, 
by adding to the dissolved sugar and water, 
some white of egg very well beaten, allow- 
ing the white of one egg to two pounds of 
sugar. Boil it very hard, (adding the 
egg-shells) and skim it well, that it may 
be quite clear before you put in your fruit. 



33 



SWEETMEATS. 



PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

We:< h the strawberries after vou have 
picked off the sterns. To each pound of 
fruit allow a pound of loaf-sug^ar, which 
must Vje powdered. Strew half of the su- 
gar over the strawberries, and let them 
stand in a cold place two or three hours- 
Then put them in a preserving kettle over 
a slow fire, and by degrees strew on the 
rest of the sugar. Boil tliem fifteen or 
twenty minutes, and skim them well. 

Put them in wide-mouthei bottles, and 
when cold, seal the corks. 

If you wisii to do them whole, take them 
carefully out of the sirup, (one at a time) 
wiiile boiling. Spread them to cool on 
large dishes, not letting the strawberries 
touch each other, and w hen cool, return 
them to the sirup, and b<jil them a little 
longer. Repeat this several times. 

Keep the bottles in dry sand, in a place 
that is cool and not damp. 

Gooseberries, cuirants, raspberries, cher- 
ries and grapes may be done in the same 
manner. The stones must be taken from 
the cherries (which should be raorellas, or 
the largest and best red cherries;) and the 
seeds should be extracted from the grapes 
with the sharp point of a penknife. Goose- 
berries, grapes, and cherries, require long- 
er boiling than strawberries, raspberries or 
curi-ants. 



PRESERVED CRANBERRIES. 

Wash your cranberries, weigh them, and 
to each pound allow a pound of loaf-sugar. 
Dissolve the sugar in a vei-}- little water, 
(about a gill of water to a pound of sugar) 
and set it on the tire in a preserving kettle. 
Boil it nearly ten minutes, skimming it 
wtll. Then put in your cranberries, and 
boil them slo« ly, till they are quite soft, 
and of a fine colour. 

Put them warm into your jars or glasses, 
and tie them up with brandy paper, wlien 
cold. 

All sons of sweetmeats keep better in 
glasses, than in stone or earthen jars. 
When opened f^r use, tliey should be tied 
up again immediately, as exposure to the 
air spoils them. 

Common glass tumblers are very conve- 
nient for jellies, and preserved small fruit. 
White jars are better than stone or earth- 
en, for large fruit. 



PRESERVED PUMPKIN. 

Cut slices from a fine high-colored pump- 

itin, and cut the slices into chips about the 

clfness of a dollar. The chips should 



be of an equal size, six inches in length, 
and an inch broad. Weigh them, and al- 
low to each pound of pumpkin chips, a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Have ready a suffi- 
cient number of fine lemons, pare off the 
vellow rind, and lay it aside. Cut tlie 
lemons in half, and squeeze the juice into 
a bowl. Allow a gill of juice to each poimd 
of pumpkin. 

Put the pumpkin into abroad pan laying 
the sugar among it. Pour the lemon-juice 
over it. Cover the pan, and let the pump- 
kin chips, sugar and lemon-juice, set all 
niaht. 

Early in the morning put the whole into 
a preserving pan, and boil all together 
(skimming it well) till tlie pumpkin he- 
comes clear and crisp, but not till it breaks. 
It should have the appearance of lemon- 
candv. You may if you choose, put some 
lemon-peel with it, cut in very small pieces. 

Half an hour's boiling (or a little more) 
is generally sufficient. 

When it is done, take out the pumpkin, 

spread it on a large dish, and strain the 

sirup through a bag. Put tlie pumpkin 

; into your jars or glasses, pour the sirup 

over it, and tie it up with brandy pajier. 

If properly done, this is a very fine 
sweetmeat. Tlse taste of the pumpkin 
v\ ill be lost in that of the lemon and si gar, 
and the sji"up is particularly pleasant. It 
is eaten without cream, like preserved 
ginger. It may be laid on puff-paste shells, 
after they are baked. 



RASPBERRY JAM. 

Allow a pound of sugar to a poOnd of 
fruit. Mash the raspl^erries and put them 
with the sugar into your preserving-kettle. 
Boil it slowly for an hour, skimming it 
well. Tie it up with brandy paper. 

All jams are made in the same manner. 



PRESER^TD PIXE-APPLE. 

Pare vour pine-apples, and cut thera in 
thick slices taking out the c^re. Weigh 
the slices and to each pound allow a |>cund 
of loaf-sugar. Di:^solve the sugar in a very 
small quantity of water, stir it, and set it 
over the fire in a preserving-kettle. Boil 
it ten minutes, skimming it well. Then 
put in it the pine-apjJe slices, and boil 
them till they are dear and soft, but not 
till thev break. About half an hour (or 
perhaps less time) will suffice. Let them 
cool in a large dish or pan, before you put 
them into vour jars, which you must do 
carefully, lest they break. Pour the sirup 
over them. Tie them up with brandy paper. 



SWEETMEATS. 



33 



ANOTHER WAY OF PRESERVING 
PINE-APPLES. 

Having pared your pine-apples, slice 
them and take out tiie core from the mid- 
dle of eacli slice, leaving a round hole. 
To each pound of pine-afjpie allow a pocnd 
of loaf-sugar. Mix half the sugar with 
the pine-apple, and let them lie in it all 
night, or for several hours, to extract the 
juice. Then mix them with the remaining 
half of the sugar, and put the whole into a 
preserving-kettle. Boil it till they are 
clear and tender, but not till the slices 
break. Skim it well. Set it away to 
cool, and then put it into large glass-jars 
tied up with brandy-paper. 



^»*»*MS^** 



MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two quarts of West India Molasses. 
One pound of brown sugar. 
The juire of two large lemons, or a tea- 
spoonful of strong essence of lemon. 

Mix together the molasses and sugar — 
taking care to use West India Molasses, 
which for this purpose is much the best. 

Put the mixture into a preserving-kettle, 
and boil it for three hours over a moderate 
fire. When it is thoroughly done, it will 
of itself cease boiling. If suthcienily boil- 
ed, it will be crisp and brittle when cold. 
If not boiled enough, it will never congeal, 



but will be tough and ropy: and must be 

boi'ed over again. 

While boiling, stir it frequently, and 
take care that it does not burn. After it 
has boiled about two hours and a half, stir 
in the lemon-juice or the essence of lemon. 
It will be improved by adding the yellow 
rind of the lemon, grated so fine as not to 
be visible when boiled. If the lemon is 
put in too soon, all the taste will be boiled 
out. 

When it is quite done, butter a squore 
tin pan and pour the mixture into it to c.iot, 

If you prefer it with ground nu!?, oadt 
a quart of them, and then shell auv. anch 
them. Stir the ground-nuis into th^^ :i..x- 
ture, a few minutes before you take ii viotn 
the fire. Stir them in gradually. In the 
same manner you may make it with al- 
monds. The almonds must be blanched, 
cut in pieces and stirred in raw, when the 
molasses and sugar have just done boiling. 

If you wish to make it yellow, take some 
out of the tin pan while it is yet warm, and 
pull it out into a thick string between the 
thumb and fore-finger of both hands. Ex- 
tend your arms widely as you pull the candy 
back and forwards. By repeating this for 
a long time it will gradually become of a 
light yellow color, and of a spongy consist- 
ence. When it is quite yellow, roll it into 
sticks; twist tvv'o sticks together, and cut 
them off smoothly at both ends. Or, you 
may variegate it by twisting together a 
stick that is quite yellow and one that, not 
having been so much pulled, still remains 
brown. 



OYSTERS. 



SPICED OYSTERS. 

Two hundred large fresh oysters. 

Four table-spooiifiils of strong vinegar. 

A nutmeg, grated. 

Three dozen of cloves, whole. 

Eight blades of mace, whole. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of salt if the oysters are 

fresh . 
Two tea-spoonfuls of whole allspice. 
As much cayenne pepper as will lie on the 

point of a knife. 

Put the oysters, with their liquor, into 
a large earthen pitcher. Add to them the 
vinegar and all the other Ingredients. Stir 
all well together. Set iheni in the stove, 
or over a slow fire, keeping them covered. 
Take them off the fire several times, and 
stir them to the Viottom. As soon as they 
boil completely they are sufficiently done; 
if they boil too long they will be hard. 

Pour them directly out of the pitcher 



into a pan, and set them away to cool. 
They must not be ealen till quite cold, or 
indeed till next day. 

If you wish to keep them a week, put a 
smaller quantity of spice, or they w ill taste 
too much of it by setting so long. Let 
them be well covered. 

Oysters in the shell may be kept all win- 
ter bv laying them in a heap in the cellar, 
with the concave side upwards to hold in 
th.e liquor. Sprinkle them every day with 
strong salt and water, and then with Indian 
meal. Cover them with matting or an 
old carpet. 



STEWED OYSTERS. 

Open the oysters and strain the liquor. 
Put to the licjuor some grated stale bread, 
and a little pepper and nutmeg, adding a 
glass of white wine. Boil the liquor with 
these ingredients, and then pour it scalding 



34 



OYSTERS. 



hot over the dish of raw oysters. This 
will cook iheni sufficiently. 

Have ready some slices of buttered toast 
with the crust cut off. When the oysters 
are done, dip the toast in the liquor, and 
lay the pieces round the sides and in the 
bottom of a deep dish. Pour the oysters 
and liquor upon the toast, and send them 
to lable hot. 



OYSTER SOUP. 

Three pints of large fresh oysters. 

Two table-spoonfuls of butter, rolled in 

flour. 
A bunch of sweet herbs. 
A saucer full of chopped celery. 
A quart of rich milk. 
Pepper to your taste. 

Take the liquor of three pints of oysters. 
Strain it, and set it on the fire. Put into 
it, pepper to your taste, two table-spoonfuls 
of butter rolled iu flour, and a bunch of 
sweet marjoram and other pot-herbs, vvitli 
a saucer full of chopped celery. When it 
boils, add a quart of rich milk — and as 
soon as it boils again, take out the herbs, 
and put in the oysters just before you send 
it to table. Boiling them in the soup will 
shrivel them and destroy their taste. Leave 
in the celery. Toast several slices of bread. 
Cut them into small squares, and put them 
into the soup before it goes to table. 



ANOTHER WAY OF STEWING 
OYSTERS. 

Strain all the liquor from the oysters, 
and thicken the liquor with stale bread 
grated (which is much better than flour) 
some whole pepper, and some nrtace. Grate 
some nutmeg into it. Boil the liquor with- 
out i.he oysters, — adding a piece of butter 
rolled in flour. 

Lay a slice of buttered toast in the bot- 
tom of a deep dish, and surround the sides 
with small slices cut into three corner or 
pointed pieces. All the crust must be cut 
off from the toast. 

Put the raw oysters into the dish of toast, 
and when the liquor has boiled hard, pour 
it scalding hot over them. Cover the dish 
closely, and let it set for five minutes or 
more, before you send it to table. This 
will cook the oysters sufficiently, will swell 
them to a larger size, and cause them to 
retain more of their flavor than when stew- 
ed in the liquor. 

Take care not to make it too thick with 
the grated bi-ead. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

For frying, choose the largest and finest 
oysters. Beat some yolks of eggs, and 
mix with ihem grated bread, and a small 
quantity of beaten nutmeg and mace and a 
little salt. Having stirred this batter well, 
dip your oysters into it, and fry them in 
lard, till they are of a light brown color. 
Take care not to do them too much. Serve 
them up hot. 

For grated bread, some substitute crack- 
ers pounded to a powder, and mixed with 
yolk of egg and spice. 



BAKED OR SCOLLOPED OYSTERS. 

Grate a small loaf of stale-bread. But- 
ter a deep disli well, and cover the sides 
and bottom with bread crums. Put in 
half the oysters with a little mace and pep- 
per. Cover them with crums and small 
bits of butter strewed over them. Then 
put in the remainder of the oysters. Sea- 
son them. Cover them as before Vvith 
crums and butter. If the oysters are 
fresh, pour in a little of the liquor. If 
they are salt, substitute a little water. 
Bake them a very short time. You may 
cook them in the small scolloped dishes 
made for the purpose. 



OYSTER-SAUCE. 

When your oysters are opened, take care 
of all the liquor, and give them one boil 
in it. Then take the oysters out, and put 
to the liquor three or four blades of mace. 
Add to it some melted butter, and some 
thick cream or rich milk. Put in your 
oysters and give them a boil. As soon as 
they come to a boil, take them off the fire. 



«^^^^tf^^ 



PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Four hundred large fresh oysters. 

A pint of vinegar. 

Eight spoonfuls of salt. 

A pint of white wine. 

Six table-spoonfuls of whole black pepper. 

Eight blades of mace. 

Strain the liquor of the oysters and boil 
it. Then pour it hot over the oysters, and 
let them lie in it about ten minutes. Then 
take them out, and cover them. Boil the 
liquor vvith the salt, pepper, mace, vinegar 
and wine. When cold, put the oysters in 
a close jar, and pour the liquor over them. 
Cover the jar very tight, and the Dysters 
will keep a long time. 

If the oysters are salt, put no salt to the 
liquor. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



36 



TERRAPINS. 

Having boiled your terrapins for ten 
minutes, take them out of tiie water and 
pull off tlie outer shell. Then boil them 
iigain, till the claws become tender. 

Afterwards take them out of the inner 
shell, and be careful not to break the gall, 
which must be taken from the liver and 
thrown away: likewise throw away the 
spongy part; all the rest being fit to eat. 

Cut the terrapins into small pieces, put 
them into a stew-pan, with a little salt, 
cayenne pepper, and some butter. After 
they have stewed a few minutes in the but- 
ter, pour in a very small quantity of water, 
in the proportion of a wine-glass- full to 
each terrapin. 

When they have stewed about ten min- 
utes, add some butter rolled in flour, and 
a glass of white wine to each terrapin, and 
let them stew five minutes longer. Then 
take them from the fire. 

Have ready some beaten yolk of egg 
(allowing one yolk for two terrapins) stir 
it in, cover the pan tightly, let it set for 
five or six minutes, then put it into a tur- 
een or deep dish and send it to table. 



A-LA-MODE BEEF. 

A round of fresh beef weighing from eight- 
een to twenty pounds. 

A pound of the fat of bacon or corned pork. 

The marrow from the 1 

bone of the beef, , , , 

A quarter of a pound ^chopped together. 

of beef-suet, J 

• Two bundles of pot herbs, parsley, thyme, 
small onions, &c. chopped fine. 

Two large bunches of ^ sufficient when 
sweet marjoram, f powdered to make 

Two bunches of sweet | four table-spoon- 
basil, J fuls of each. 

Two larcje nutmegs, > ■ . 

TT ir ° i- I > beaten to a povv- 

Half an ounce ol cloves, ( , '^ 

TT ,,. f ) der. 

Halt an ounce or mace. 

One table-spoonful of salt. 

One taljle-spoonful of pepper. 

Two glasses of Madeira wine. 

If your a-la-mode beef is to be eaten 
cold, prepare it three days before it is 
wanted. 

Take out the bone. Fasten up the open- 
ing with skewers, and tie the meat all 
round with tape. Rub it all over on both 
sides willi salt. A large round of beef 
will be more tender than a small one. 

Cliop the marrow and suet together. 

Pound the spice. Chop the pot-herbs very 

V fine. Pick the sweet marjoram and sweet 

basil clean from the stalks, and rub the 

leaves to a powder. You must have at 

ast four table-spoonfuls of each. Add the 



pepper and salt, and mix well together all 
the ingredients that compose the seasoning. 

Cut the fat of the bacon or pork into 
pieces about a quarter of an inch thick 
and two inches long. With a sharp knife 
make deep incisions all over the round of 
beef and very near each other. Put first 
a little of the seasoning into each hole, 
then a slip of the bacon pressed down hard 
and covered with more seasoning. Pour 
a little wine into each hole. 

When you have thus stuffed the upper 
side of the beef, turn it over and stuff in 
the same manner the under side. If the 
round is very large, you will require a 
larger quantitj' of seasoning. 

Put it in a deep baking dish, pour over 
it some wine, cover it, and let it set till 
next morning. It will be much the better 
for lying all night in the seasoning. 

Next day put a little water in the dish, 
set it in a covered oven, and bake or stew 
it gently for twelve hours at least, or more 
if it is a large round. It will be much 
improved by stewing it in lard. Let it re- 
main all night in the oven. 

If it is to be eaten hot at dinner, put it 
in to stew the evening before, and let it 
cook till dinner-time next day. Stir some 
wine and a beaten egg into the gravy. 

If brought to table cold, cover it all over 
with green parsley, and stick a large bunch 
of something green in the centre. 

What is left will make an excellent hash 
the next day. 



pounded 
fine. 



A BONED TURKEY. 

A large turkey. 

Three sixpenny loaves of stale bread. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

Four e'^s^. 

One bunch of pot-herbs, parsley, thyme, 

and little onions. 
Two bmiches of sweet marjoram. 
Two bunches of sweet basil. 
Two nutmegs. 
Half an ounce of cloves.^ 
A quarter of an ounce of mace, 
A table-spoonful of salt. 
A table-spoonful of pepper. 

Skewers, tape, needle, and coarse thread 
,vill be wanted. 

Grate the bread, and put the crusts in 
water to soften. Then break them up 
small into the pan of crumbled bread. Cut 
up a pound of butter in the pan of bread. 
Rub the herbs to powder, and have two 
table-spoonfuls of sweet marjoram and two 
of sweet basil, or more of each if the tur- 
key is very large. Chop the pot-heibs, 
and pound the spice. Then add the salt 
and pepper, and mix ail the ingredients 
well together. Beat slightly four eggs, and 



36 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



mix them with tlie seasoning and bread 
criims. 

After the Inrkey is drawn, take a sharp 
knife and, beginning at tlie wings, care- 
fully separate the flesh from the bone, scrap- 
ing it down as you go; and avoid tearing 
or breaking the skin. Next, loosen the 
flesh from the breast and back, and then 
from tlie tliiglis. It requires great care 
and patience to do it nicely. When all the 
flesh is thus loosened, take the turkey by 
the neck, give it a pull, and die skeleton 
will come out entire from the flesh, as 
easily as you draw your hand outof a glove. 
The flesh will then be a shapeless mass. 
^^ ilh a needle and thread mend or sew up 
any holes diat may be found in the skin. 

T*ke up a handful of the seasoning, 
squeeze it hard and proceed to stuft' the 
turkey with it, beginning at the wings, 
next to the body, and then the thighs. 

If you stuff" it properly, it will a?ain 
assume its natural shape. Stuff' it very 
hard. When all the stuffing is in, sew up 
the breast, and skewer the turkey into its 
proper form, so that it will look as if it had 
not Vjeen boned. 

Tie it round with tape and bake il three 
hours or more. 31ake a gravy of the gib- 
lets chopped, and enrich it with some wine 
and an pg^. 

If the turkey is to be eaten cold, drop 
spoonfuls of red currant jelly all over it, 
and in the dish round it. 

A large fowl may be boned and stufi"ed 
in the same manner. 



ter, and bake it two hours. If eaten hot, 
put an egg and some wine into the gravj 
When cold, cut it down into round slices 



COLLARED PORK. 

A leg of fresh pork, not large. 

Two table-spoonfuls oi powdered sage. 

Two t;ible-spoonfuls of ^ 

sweet marjoram, , , 

One table-spoonful of [ Po^'^ered. 

sweet basil, J 

A quarter of an ounce of mace, j 
Half an ounce of cloves, > powdered. 

Two nutmegs, ^ 

A bunch of pol-herbs, chopped small. 
A sixpenny loaf of stale bread, grated. 
Half a pound of butter, cut into the bread. 
1 WO eofT^. 

A table-spoonful of salt. 

A table-spoonful of black pepper. 

Grate the bread, and havin^ softened 
the crust in water, mix it with the crmns. 
Prepare all ihe other ingredients, and mix 
them well with the grated bread a^nd egg. 

Take the bone out of a leg of pork, and 
rub the meat well on both sides with salt. 
Spread the seasoning thick all over the 
meat. Then roll it up very tightly and tie 
it round with tape. 

Put it into a deep dish with a little wa- 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two large cold fowls, either boiled or 

roasted. 
The yolks of nine hard-boiled eggs. 
Half a pint of sweet oil. 
Half a pint of vinegar. 
A gill of mixed mustard. 
A small tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper. 
A small tea-spoonful of salt. 
Two large heads, or four small ones, of 

fine celery. 

Cut the meat of the fowls from the bones, 
in pieces not exceeding an inch in size. 

Cut the white part of the celery into 
pieces about an inch long. Mix the'chick- 
en and celery well together. Cover them 
and set tliem away. 

^^ ith the back of a wooden spoon, mash 
the yolks of eggs till they are a perfectly 
smooth paste. Mix them with the oil", 
vinegar, mustard, cayenne, and salt. Stir 
them for a long time, till they are thor- 
oughly mixed and quite smooth.' The long- 
er they are stirred the better. When this 
dressing is sufficiently mixed, cover it, and 
set it away. 

Five minutes before the salad is to be 
eaten pour the dressing over the chicken 
and celery, and mix all well together. If 
the dressing is put on long before it is 
wanted, the salad will be tough and hard. 

This salad is very excellent made of cold 
turkey instead of chicken. 



LOBSTER SALAD. 

Take two large boiled lobsters. Extract 
all the meat from the shell, and cut it up 
into very small pieces. 

For lobster salad, you must have lettuce 
instead of celerj-. Cut up the lettuce as 
small as possible. 

3Iake a dressing as for a chicken-salad, 
with the yolks of nine hard-boiled eggs, 
half a pint of sweet oil, half a pint of vin- 
egar, a gill of mustard, a tea-'spoonful of 
cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix 
all well together with a wooden spoon. 

A few miiuites before it is to be eaten, 
pour the dressing over the lobster and let 
iuce, and mix it very well. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Take a quart of fresh mushrooms. Peel 
them and cut off^ the steins. Seasou diem 
widi pepper and salt. Put them in a 
sauce-pan or skillet, with a lump of fresh 
butter the size of an egg, and sufficient 
cream or rich milk to cover them. Put on 
the lid of the pan, and stew the mushroonia 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



37 



about a quarter of an hour, keeping them 
well covered or the flavor will evaporate. 

When you take them off I he fire, have 
ready one or two beaten eggs. Stir the 
^oa^ gradually into the stew, and send it 
to table in a covered dish. 



TOMATA KETCHUP. 

Slice the tomatas. Put them in layers 
into a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle every 
layer with salt. Let them stand in this 
state for twelve hours. Then put them 
over the fire in a preserving-kettle, and 
simmer them till they are quite soft. Pour 
them into a thin linen bag, and squeeze the 
juice from them. Season the liquor to 
your taste, with grated horse-radish, a little 
garlic, some mace, and a few cloves. Boil 
it well with these ingredients — and, when 
cold, bottle it for use. 



sugar into a large preserving-kettle, and 
pour the juice on it. When it is all meltedj 
set it on tlie fire, and boil it to a diin jelly. 
When cold, to every quart of juice allow a 
quart of brandy. Stir them well together, 
and bottle it for use. It will be ready at 
once. 



PEACH CORDIAL. 

Take a peck of cling-stone peaches? 
such as come late in the season, and are 
very juicy. Pare them, and cut them from 
the stones. Crack about half the stones 
and save the kernels. Leave the remaind- 
er of tiie stones whole, and mix them with 
the cut peaches; add also the kernels. 
Put the whole into a wide-moutiied demi- 
john, and pour on tliem two gallons of 
double-rectified whisky. Add three pounds 
of rock-sugar candy. Cork it tigiitly, and 
set it away for three months : then "bottle 
it, and it will be fit for use. It will be im- 
proved in clearness by covering ihe bottom 
of a sieve with blotting-paper (secured with 
pins) and straining the cordial through it. 



CHERRY BOUNCE. 

Take a peck of morella cherries, and a 
peck of black hearts. Stone tiie morellaa 
and crack the stones. Put all the cherries 
and the cracked stones into a demi-john. 
with three pounds of loaf-sugar sligluly 
pounded or beaten. Pour in two gallons 
of double-rectified whisky. Cork the de- 
mi-john, and in six months the cherry- 
bounce will be fit to pour off and bottle for 
use; but the older it is, the better. 



RASPBERRY CORDIAL. 

To eacii quart of raspberries allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Mash the raspberries 
and strew the sugar over them, having first 
pounded it slightly, or cracked it witli the 
rolling-pin. Let the raspberries and sugar 
set till next day, keeping them well cover- 
ed, then put them in a tiiin linen bag and 
squeeze out the juice with your hands. 
To every pint of juice allow"' a quart of 
double-rectified whisky. Cork it well, 
and set it away for use. It will be ready 
in a few days. 

Raspberry Vinegar (which, mixed with 
water, is a pleasant and cooling beverao-e 
in warm weather) is made exactly in the 
same manner as the cordial, only substitut- 
ing the best white vinegar for the whisky. 



GINGER BEER. 

Put into a kettle, two ounces of powder- 
ed ginger, (or more if it is not very strong,) 
half an ounce of ci-eam of tartar, two large 
lemons cut in slices, two pounds of broken 
loaf-sugar, and one gallon of soft water 
Simmer them over a slow fire for half an 
hour. When the liquor is nearly cold, stir 
into it a large table-spoonful of the best 
yeast. After it has fermented, bottle it for 
use. 



BLACKBERRY CORDIAL, 

Take the ripest blackberries. Mash 
ihsm, put diera in a linen bag and squeeze 
out the juice. To every quart of juice al- 
low a pound o*" beaten loaf-sugar. Put tlie 



YEAST. 

Have ready two quarts of boiling water; 
put into it a large handful of hops, and let 
them boil twenty minutes. Sift into a pan 
a pound and a half of flour. Strain the 
liquor from the hops, and pour half of it 
over the flour. Let the other half of the 
liquid stand till it is cool, and then pour it 
gradually into the pan of flour, mixing it 
well. Stir into it a large tea-cup fulf of 
good yeast, (brewer's yeast if you can get 
it.) Put it immediately into bottles, and 
cork it tigiitly. It will be fit for use in an 
hour. It will be much improved and keep 
longer, by putting into each bottle a tea- 
spoonful of pearl-ash. 



COLOURING FOR ICING, &c. 

To make a red coloring for icing. 
Take twenty grains of cochineal powder, 
twenty grains of cream of tartar, and twen- 
ty grains of powdered alum. Put them 
into a gill of cold soft water and boil it, 
very slowly till reduced to one half. Strain 
it tlu-ough thin muslin, and corkit up for 
use. A very small quantity of this mixtiu-e 
will color icing of a beautiful pink. With 
pink icing, white nonpareils should be used 



NEW AND INTERESTING 

fduks for 'I^Dirag l^u^, 



PUBLISHED BY 



c. s. fra:n^cis and company, 

252 BROADWAY, NEW YORK. 



Peter tlie Whaler ; 

His early Life and Adventures in the Arctic Eegions, and other 
parts of the World. By W. H. G. Kingston. 1 vol. with illustra- 
tions. Cloth, 75 cents ; extra gilt, $1 00. 

A new book of stirring Adventures " before the mast." 

Merry Tales for Little Folk ; 

A New Collection of Legends and Fairy Tales ; free from all ex- 
ceptionable matter ; most of which have never been published in 
this country. 1 vol. with numerous pictures. Cloth, 75 cents: 
extra gilt, $1 00. 

The Affectionate Brothers : 

A Domestic Tale. By Mrs. Hofland. 1 vol. Cloth, 37^ cents. 

The Whisperer; 

A Story for the Young. Bj Mrs. S. C. HaU. 1 vol. Goth, 874 
cents. 

True Stories from Ancient History. 

By a Mother. From the Creation to the Death of Charlemagne. 
1 vol. with engravings, 62^ cents. 

True Stories from Modern History. 

By a Mother. Chronologically arranged from the death of Charle- 
magne to the present time, with engravings. 1 vol. 12mo., 75 cents. 

Eight and Wrong ; or, the Story of Rosa and 
Agnes. 

By the author of " True Stories from History," " Claudine," 
" Always Happy," &c. Cloth, 371 cents. 

Home Tales. 

By Mrs. Hofland. Including " The Affectionate Brothers ;" " The 
Sisters ;" and the " Blind Farmer." 1 vol. with engravings by Orr 
from designs by WaUin. Cloth, 75 cents ; extra gilt, $1 00. 

The Evening Book 

Of Pleasant and -TJseful Eeading; with 50 illustrations. 1 voL 
Cloth, 75 cents ; extra gilt, $1 00. 

xiii 



PUBLISHED BY C. S. FRANCIS & CO., NEW YORK. 







m ^ 




,^ THE INOi^ 




§]| Wmm |. §. Kingston, ^sq. 



AUTHOR OF 



PETER THE WHALER, 



ETC 



WITH ILLUSTRATIOXS BY JO EX AB SOLON. 
Price, 75 cents. Extra gilt, $1. 



PUBLISHED BY C. S. FRANCIS AND CO., NEW YORK. 

■■ ' ' ■ ■ " ■-.■■■ ■ -■-■■■■ ' ■ , . ■■ . I ■< 

The Sisters ; 

A Domestic Tale. By Mrs. Hofland. 1 vol. Clotli, 37i cents. 

The Blind Farmer and his Family. 

By Mrs. Hofland. Clotli, 37i cents. 

Evenings at Home; 

Or, the Juvenile Budget Opened : By Dr. Aiken and Mrs. Barbauld. 
Kewlj revised and corrected, and illustrated with fine engravings. 
1 vol. 75 cents. 

Swiss Family Kobinson. 

Part Second. Being the continuation and completion of this inter- 
esting work. 1 vol. 63 cents. 

Eai'ly Lessons. 

By Maria Edgeworth. A new uniform edition, including Harry 
and Lucy ; Frank ; Eosamond ; with the Sequels to each work. 
Complete in 5 thick vols., with illustrations. Cloth, $3 75. Each 
work may also be had separately. 

The Summer Day Book 

Of Pleasant and Useful Eeading. Containing Sketches of Natural 
History : Personal Adventures ; Scenes of Foreign Travel ; Infor- 
mation on Popular Science ; and other subjects suited to interest 
and improve the mind. 50 engravings. Cloth, 75 cents ; extra 
gilt, $1 00. 

Happy Hours ; 

Or, Home Story JBook. By Mary Cherwell, with fine illustrations. 
50 cents. 

Instinct of Animals. 

Stories about the Instinct of Animals, their Characters and Habits. 
By Thomas Bingley, with designs by Landseer. 50 cents. 

Cobwebs to catch Flies ; 

Or, Dialogues in short sentences. A new edition, revised and 
illustrated. 25 cents. 

The Daisy ; 

Or, Cautionary Stories in Verse. A new edition with additional 
poems. 25 cents. Colored pictures, 371 cents. 

The Cowslip ; 

Or, More Cautionary Stories in Verse. By the author of "The 
Daisy. 25 cents. Colored, 37i cents. 

Grandmamma's Pockets; - 

A Title for Young People. By Mrs. S. C. Hall. 37i cents. 

xiv 



PUBLISHED BY C. S. FRANCIS & CO., NEW VORK. 




A new Collection of the 

BEST LEGENDS AND FAIRY TALES 

FOB YOUNG PEOPLE, 

FREE FROM ALL EXCEPTIONABLE MATTER. 

With 50 engravings, 75 cents. 
•,* Most of the stories have neveo- before been published in this country, 

?7 



PUBLISHED BY C. S. FRANCIS & CO., NEW YORK. 



Hans Andersen's Story Book. 

With a Memoir of the Author, by Mary Ilowitt. 1 thick vol. Il- 
lustrated. 75 cents ; extra gilt, $1 00. 

Wonderful Tales from Denmark. 

By Hans Christian Andersen. A new Translation. 1 thick vol. 
Illustrated. 75 cents ; extra gilt, $1 00. 

[These two volumes contain a complete collection of Andersen's Storie* 
far Young People.^ 

Gift Book of Stories and Poems. 

For Children. By Caroline Gilman. 75 cents ; extra gilt, $1 00, 

Domestic Tales. 

By Mrs. Hofland. Being the Histories of the Officer's, the Mer- 
chant's, and the Clergyman's "Widows, and their young Families. 
75 cents ; extra gilt, $1 00. 

Mary Howitt's Story Book. 

"With a Portrait of the Author, and Illustrations. 1 thick vol. 
75 cents ; extra gilt, $1 00. 

Tales of Domestic Life. 

By Mrs. S. C. Hall. Cloth, 75 cents ; extra gilt, $1 00. 

Stories by a Mother : 

Containing — Eight and "Wrong ; or, The Story of Eosa and Agnes ; 
and Claudine ; or, Humility the Basis of ail the Virtues. By the 
Author of " Always Happy," " True Stories from History," etc. 75 
cents ; extra gilt, $1 00. 

Boys' Own Book Extended : 

Containing the Boy's Own Book, Paul Preston's Book of Gymnas- 
tics, and Parlor Magic ; forming a complete Encyclopedia of Sports 
. for Youth. Cloth, $1 25. 

The Turtle Dove of Carmel, 

And other Stories. By Mary Howitt. 87i cents. 

How to Win Love ; 

Or, Ehoda's Lesson. A Story for the Young. 87i cents. 

The Merchant's Daughter, 

And other Tales. By Mrs. S. C. Hall. 37^ cents. 

Elements of Morality. 

Being Stories for Children. Translated from the German of Sal* 
man. V7ith Illustrations. 50 otints. 

XV 



PUBLISHED BY C. S. FRANCIS .k CO., NEW YORS. 



THE LIFE km EARLY ASVEIffiJR 




■'^'^9 J 



FtJBLISHED BY C. S. FRANCIS <fe CO., NEW YORK. 





HIS EARLY LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

IN THE ARCTIC REG-IONS AND OTHER PARTS OF 
THE WORLD. 

WITH ILL USTBA TIONS. 



CONTENTS OF THE CHAPTERS. 

Chap. I.— An Account of my Family and Early Life.— 1 'neglect the Precepts oi 
my Fatber, and listen to an Evil Counsellor. 

Chaf. II.— Why I went to Sea.— I suffer in consequence of acting npon iho 
Advice of an Evil Counsellor. — I find that it is easier to make a False Step than 
to retrace it. 

Chap. III. — I visit Liverpool, and gain some insight into the Ways of the 
World. — Am introduced to the Master of the Black Swan. 

Chap. IV. — I go on board the Black Swan, and offer to make myself useful ; 
but my Services are not appreciated. — I meet Silas Flint, and make the Acquaint- 
ance of some Emigrants.— 1 discover that there are others worse off than myself. 

Chap. V.— My Grsi experience of a Sea Life. — The embai'kation of Emigrants 
for North America. — The First Mate reminds me that I offered to make myself use- 
fill. — Description of a North American Emigrant Ship. — We sail, and I go aloft 
fur the first time. — Dick Derrick's advice and instruction. 

Chap. VI.— FUut shows he has not forgotten me. — My first introduction to Ice, 
of which I arawfetined to see much more. — A Foundering Ship. 

Chap. VII.— I claim my Rights but do not get them acknowledged. — Am treat- 
ed as a Mutineer. — A Friend in Need.— I discover that there are other things to 
be guai-ded against besides Rocks, and Shoals, and Icebergs. — A Ship on Fire. 

Chap. VIII.— Consequences of the Want of Discipline.- Our Captain deserts 
U8. — Many trust themselves on rafts. — Courage and Coolness of our Second Mate. 

Chap. IX.— I obtain a Proof that the Gentle and Humane are generally brave 
in the Hour of Danger.— A true Sailor will not desert his Ship till the last.— 
Silas tempts me to go away on the Raft.— Aid comes when Hope has almost de- 
parted.— A few are saved, but a bitter Disappointment awaits the rest.— A storm 
comes on, and we lose sight of the Mary's Light. 

Chap. X.— We once more see the Mary.— Our Hopes of Preservation are again 
disappointed.— The Fire is extinguished by its more powerful Rival. 

Chap. XL— Captain Dean and his Daughter a contrast to Captain Swales and 
Mr. Stovin.— I am taken ill, and gently nursed.— We reach a Port at last.— A De- 
scription of Quebec. — A conversation between Mary Dean and me. 

Chap. XII.— I agree to sail with Captain Dean.— An old Friend re-appears.— 
He persuades me to accompany him up the Country.— I visit the Lakes. 

Chap. XIII.— Return to Quebec— A bitter Disappointment.— Search in vain 
for my Friends. — lourney through the W^estern States.— New Orleans.- Captain 
Hawk of the Foam.— A Slaver.— Captain Searl of the Susannah. 

Chap. XIV.— Sail for the Havana.— Captain Hawk keeps his Promise.- A Sui^ 
pi-ise.- 1 jind that a Romantic Pirate and a Real Pirate are very different Persons, 
— Am taken Prisoner. — And lose sight of the Susannah. 

Chap. XV".— Life on board the Rover.— Indulge in the pleasing reflection thai 
I mav possiblv hang as a Pirate.— I try to escape.— We chase.— We catch a Tar- 
tar.— Mark Antony tries to induce me to turn Pirate.— We are chased.— A con 
riderable difference in tho sensation. 

m 



PUBLISHED BY C. S. FRANCIS & CO., NEW YUKK. 

Peter the Whaler. 

CONTENTS. — Continued. 
Ohaps. XVI., XVII., and XVIII.— Adventures among the Pirates. 

Chap. XIX. — Sail in the Pocahontas for the North Seas. — An account of ao 
American Man-of-War. — I become acquainted with Andrew Thompson. — He de- 
scribes Labrador to me. — The History of Princess Pocahontas, — A Man over- 
board. — How to behave in the Water. 

Chap. XX. — Again Terence falls from aloft, and is saved. — We reach the North 
Sea. — The Birds of those Regions. — I am at the Helm. — The Ship strikes an Ice- 
berg.— Goes down.— The Marines firing on the Crew.— A few alone escape. 

Chap. XXL — A Night on an Iceberg. — Andrew bids us trust in Providence. — 
Morning dawns. — Beautiful appearance of the Iceberg. — We find Food. — A Sig- 
nal fixed on the top of the Berg. — Lose our Flint and Steel. — A novel Burning- 
Glass.— A Raft formed.— Some Treasures collected.— No Help arrives. 

Chap. XXII. — Introduces a Second Day. — I dream of Home. — A Sail in sight, 
which disappears. — An Iceberg in motion. — We try our Raft.— We are not 
seen. — A Breeze springs up. — The Iceberg capsizes. 

Chap. XXIIL— The Whale Ship. — I join her. — Description of a Whaler. — 
Her Boats, Harpoons, and other Gear.— The Crow's-Nest. — All ready for Fishing. 
— Reach a Field of Ice. — Narrow Escape. 

Chap. XXIV.— A Visit from Father Neptune.— I am made free of the Arctic 
Regions.—" A Fall, a Fall !"— Our First Fish.— Tom thinks the Ship is sinking.— 
Tow our Prize alongside. 

Chap. XXV. — We secure our Fish.— How to carve a Whale.— A Greenland 
Shark. — Arctic Birds.— A South-Sea Whaler.— A Bear in a Boat. 

Chap. XXVI. — Joined by other Ships. — Land seen. — Cape Flyaway. — Danish 
Colonies.— Visited by Esquimaux.— We land.— Begin to struggle with the Ice.— 
Fishing on the Ice.— Tumble in.— Made fast to an Iceberg.— Cut ^-ough a Field 
of Ice. — Preparations for a Nip. 

Chap. XXVII. — The Nip come. — A Ship nipped. — Go to her aid.— Rescue our 
Countrymen. — Forecastle Yarns about Shipwrecks and Whale-Catching. — The 
Nip takes off and we are free. — A Beautiful Scene. 

Chap. XXVIIL— Pond's Bay.— A run of Whales.— More Fishing.— Sea Unicorns. 
—A fast Fish. — Leave the Bay. — An Account of some Arctic Expeditions, sent 
in search of Sir John Fianklin and his brave Companions. 

Chap. XXIX. — Summer drawing to an end. — Homeward Voyage. — A Calm. — 
Ominous Signs. — Left on the Ice. — Our Ship disappears.— A Snow Storm. — The 
Whale and Boat lost.— We retreat from the Sea.— Build a Hut.— A Visitor, who 
proves in the end a welcome one. — We keep watch. — We are in a bad Plight. 

Chap. XXX. — I try to encourage my Companions. — We cook our Breakfast. — 
Set up a Signal.— One Ship heaves in sight.— The Floe separates.— The last Ship 
appears. — We cross the Channel. — Erect another Hut. — Catch two Unicorns. 

Chap. XXXI. — Our Journey continued.— A Wreck discovered.— We find 
Treasures on board. — Look out for a Spot to land. — Fix on a Spot, and build a 
Hut.— Go back to the Ship, to fetch more Stores.— Find Visitors on boaa-d the 
Ship.— More Bear's Flesh.— Return to the Bay. 

Chaps. XXXIL, XXXIIL, XXXIV.— Adventures among the Esquimaux. 

Chap. XXXV.— What Cold is.— An Arctic Night.— An Aurora Borealis.— Es- 
quimaux hunting Walrus on the Ice.— Seal Catching.— How we employed our 
Time.— Propose to build a Vessel.— Andrew instructs us.— Daylight returns. 

Chap. XXXVL— We begin our Vessel.— The Esquimaux regret to lose us.— 
Andrew urges us not to work on a Sunday.— Capability of the Esquimaux for 
receiving the Truths of Christianity.— We complete our Vessel.— Provision and 
Btore her.— Our Vessel destroyed. — A Ship in the Clouds.— Farewell to the Es- 
quimaux.— Voyage.— Wreck.-^Reach my Father's Home a Beggar.— No one at 
Home. — Meet Captain Dean. — Return once more to my Family. 

70 



PUBLISHED BY C. S. FRANCIS (fe CO., NEW YOllK. 



Book of Entertainment 

Of Curiosities and Wouders in Nature, Art, and Mind, dra\»Tl 
from the most authentic sources, and carefully revised. TTilrd Se- 
ries. Illustrated by more than 80 Engravings. $1 00 ; extra gUt, 
$1 25. 

The Story of Stories ; 

Or, Fun for the Little Ones. Being Eambles in the Fairyland of It- 
aly : containing the most popular Fahry T^vles of the 16th and 17th 
centuries, written in Italy ; tne original stories and wild conceptions 
on which the plots of numerous dramas, romantic legends, and best 
tales of many authors have been formed. With Illustrationa by 
Cruikshank. Cloth, 88 cents. 

A Cliristmas Greeting. 

Thirteen new Stories. From the Danish of Hans Christian Ander- 
sen. With Engravings. 37a cents. 

A Danisli Story Book. 

By Hans Christian Andersen. With Engravings. 37i cents. 

A Picture Book without Pictures. 

And other Stories from the Danish of Hans Cliristian Andersen, 
Translated by Mary Howitt, with a Memou* of the Author. 37^ cents. 

The Story^ Teller. 

Tales from the Danish. By Hans Christian Andersen. With Illus- 
trations. 37^ cents. 

Little EUie, 

And other Tales. By Hans Christian Andersen. 

The Ugly Duck, 

And other Tales. By Hans Christian Andersen. 37| cents. 

The Officer's Widow, 

And her Young Family. By Mrs. Hofland. 37^ cents. 

The Clergyman's Widow, 

And her Young Family. By Mrs. Hofland. 37i cents. 

The Merchant's Widow, 

And her Family. By Mrs. Hofland. 37i cents 

Fireside Tales. 

By Mary Howitt. 87i cents. 

The Christmas Tree. 

A Be ok of Stories. By Mary Howitt. S7i oont? 



PUBLISHED BY C. S. FRANCIS <fc CO., NEW YORK. 



Stories of Old Daniel ; 

Or, Tales of Wonder and Delight ; containing Narratives introduo- 
tory to History and Travels. 50 cents. 

Tales from Shakspeare. 

For the Use of Young Persons. By Charles and Mary Lamb. 
With 40 Engravings. |1 00. 

Tales of Elustrious Oliildren. 

Historical Stories. By Agnes Strickland. With Engravings. 50 cents. 

Kose Marian, 

And the Flower Fairies. Translated by L. Maria Child. With Il- 
lustrations. 25 cents. 

Bible Cartoons. 

Illustrations of Scripture History. From Designs by John Frank- 
lin. Containing 16 Engravings of Scenes from the tives of Adam, 
Noah, Abraham, Joseph, and Moses, with descriptions in the words 
of the Bible. 1 vol., 4to. 75 cents. 

Ellen the Teacher. 

A Tale for Youth. By Mrs. Hofland. 

The Scottish Orphans. 

A Moral Tale founded on an Historical Fact. By Mrs. Blackford, 
author of " Arthur Monteith," " Eskdale Herd Boyj!" etc. (In press.) 

The Good Grandmother 

And her OiFspring. By Mrs. Hofland. (In press.) 

Keeper's Travels 

In Search of his Master. Keprinted from the original edition. (In 
press.) 

The Book of Entertainment 

Of Curiosities and Wonders in Nature, Art, and Mind. Drawn 
from the most authentic sources, and carefully revised. Fourth Se- 
ries. With 80 Engravings. $1 00 ; extra gilt, $1 25. 

The Barbadoes' Girl. 

A Tale for Young People. By Mrs. Hofland. (In press.) 

The Swan's Egg. 

By Mrs. S. C. Hall. (In press.) 

Orlandino. 

A new Story. By Maria Edgeworth. (In press.) 

xvii 



PUBLISHED BY C. S. FRANCIS & CO., KEW YORfi. 

Mark Seawortli ; 

A Tale of the Indian Ocean. By William H. G. Kingston, Esq., 
author of " Peter the Whaler," &c. With illustrations by John 
Absolon. Cloth, 75 cents ; extra gilt, $1. 

Travels of Eolando ; 

Or, A Tour Round the World. Translated by Miss Aiken. Newly 
revised and corrected. With eight beautiful illustrations by Wil» 
liam Harvey. Cloth, $1 ; extra gilt, $1.25. 

Canadian Crusoes. 

A Tale of the Rice Lake Plains. By Catharine Parr Trail, au- 
thoress of " The Backwoods of Canada," &c. Edited by Agnes 
Strickland. Illustrated by Harvey. Cloth, 75 cents ; extra gilt, $1. 

The Swiss Family Robinson ; 

Or, Adventures in a Desert Island. A new edition, in one volume, 
revised and corrected. With eight illustrations by Gilbert. 

Moral Tales. 

By Mrs. Hofland. Including The Barbadoes Girl, The Good 
Grandmother, and Ellen the Teacher. With engravings. Cloth, 
75 cents; extra gilt, $1. 

Mrs. Leicester's School. 

The Histories of Several Young Ladies, related by themselves. 
By Charles and Mary Lamb. A new edivion, revised. 37 J cents. 

Book of Songs, 

For My Little Brothers and Little Sisters. Mostly translated 
from the German. With numerous engravings. 37| cents. 

Sister Mary's Stories 

About Animals. With thirty-three engravings, 62| cents. With 
the engravings handsomely colored, 87| cents. 

The Nursery Gift ; 

Or, a Book of Books for the Little Ones. With 120 engravings, 
75 cents. Colored engravings, |1. 

Hints for Happy Hours ; 

Or, Amusement for all Ages. A new book of game§, puzzles, and 
home entertainment. 62^ cents. 



PUBLISHED BY C. S. FRANCIS & CO., NEW-YORK. 



THE ARABIAN NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS 

OR, THE THOUSAND AiND ONE NIGHTS. A new Editiou'. 
carefully revised and coi-rected ; with au Explanatory and Histo- 
rical Introduction ; and many additions, amendments, and illus- 
trative Notes. Illustrated with numerous Engravings. 3 vols. 

" The best edition of this most popular of ' story books ' ever published in thia 
country." — Tribune. 

" Lord Byron, to the end of his days, declared that no dish ^ras so palatable to 
him as the homely one of bacon and greens — and why? because he had eaten of it in 
his youth, and the days of his youth came back with the savory gusto of the food 
that had pleased his fresh and eager taste. If the Arabian Nights had no other 
claim, we might set up a similar one for this new edition of so old a friend ; but the 
delight with which new readers seize upon the fascinating tissue, is no whitless than 
that which enchains a circle of Arabs as they sit round their fire in the desert, for- 
getting the toils and hardships of the day in the splendid creations of Oriental 
fancy. Stories of Genii and Afrites, enchanted horses^ and women whose beauty 
causes the beholder to faint away, are as easy to believe as ever, and possess a power 
over the imagination which will last as long as human nature. The present edition 
is of the translation of Kev. Edward Forster, with various notes and amendments 
from Lane and others, and an explanatory and historical introduction, in which are 
embodied many curious and interesting particulars. We ought further to mention, 
that the good taste of the translator and editors, has prompted them to alter certain 
passages which, without adding to the value of the work in any ones estimation, 
were considefcd as blemishes by the refined reader of the present day. The work is 
elegantly doro. and we doubt not will prove highly acceptable, as supplying a want 
long felt here." — Inquirer. 

" This is a most beautiful edition of a work, which has given perhaps as much 
pleasure, as any that ever was penned. We shall never forget the joy, 
mingled with wonder, with which we pored over its pages in our boyhood ; and 
though some persons object to such reading for children, we do not, because we are 
not conscious of ever having received the least injury from it ourselves. We are 
fearful that the proscription of such works, and the substitution of those of a more 
practical character for young people, would be somewhat injurious to the finer and 
more imaginative portion of the mind. A blending of the two classes seems to us 
better than a prohibition of either. The present edition is admirably adapted for 
young eyes, the t3'pe being large and clear, and the text illustrated by plates." — Sat. 
Post. 

" A convenient and handsome edition of this most popular specimen of romantic 
fiction has long been a desideratum. There are very expensive English illustrated 
'Arabian Nights,' and very cheap, badly printed American ones; but any between 
the two, combining economy with elegance, were not obtainable until the present 
issue. The publishers have met a decided want, and in a very judicious style. It is 
a translation by Kev. Edward Forster ; there is a valuable explanatory and histo- 
rical introduction, by G. M. Bussey — the whole revised, and additions, and illustra- 
tive notes, adopted from Lane's excellent work. The volumes are embellished with 
twenty large engravings, from designs by De Moraine, and many small wood cuts. 
It is very neatly printed, and sold at the low rate of three shillings a part." — Home 
Journal. 

" Messrs. Francis & Co. have commenced the republication of this famous 
story-book, which can hardly fail to secure as general favor at the present day, as 
former editions have met with from former generations. In addition to the attrac- 
tion of the book itself — and who that has once read the ' delightful stories,' which the 
Princess Shehrazade 'so well knew,' but retains most agreeable reminiscences of 
them — there is, in the present edition, an elaborate explanatory and historical in- 
troduction, together with numerous illustrations, both large and small, which add 
not a little to the etfeet of the story. For Young America — that portion at least 
which is so far free from the influence of modern ' progress ' as to take delight in 
what delighted their fathers and grandfathers before them — no publication of the 
present day will have greater eharm.^ than this new edition of the world-famous 
Arabian Nights' Entertainments." — N. Y. Gazette. 

11 



< 



I 



<^\J W\ 



/ 




W«1 

71** 



k 


ft 




1 ■ 



