Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 




600086701 



«aiH 



HEL80H8* HOITSEHOLD LIBSASY* 



MODERN COOKERY 



NIL80V8' EOVSEHOLD LIBBABY. 



MODERN COOKEET 



NBL80N8' HOUSEHOLD LIBRARY. 



Just Fublislied, Foolscap 8vo. 

THE 

NEW HOUSEHOLD RECEIPT-BOOK: 

COMTAIKING 

MAXDIS, DIRECTIONS, AND SPECIFICS, 

VOB PBOMOTDT O 
nSAL/IH, OOMFOBT, AND IMPEOVEMENT IN THE H0138EHOIJ). 

33$ Mt»* S^zxdilj fgaU. 



VELSOVS' HOirSSEOLS IIBBABT. 



MODERN 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY: 



A NEW WOBK FOB 



PRIVATE FAMILIES; 



QOSTXCSiVSQ 



% (frwt ^ariitii nf ialiialiU %mv^i', 



WITH 



DIRECTIONS FOR THE PREPARATION OF FOOD FOR INVALIDS, 
AND FOR CHILDREN, &o. &o. 



BYALADY. 



%ssxCSinxi\ 

T. NELSON AND SONS, PATERNOSTER ROW 
AND EDINBURGH. 

UDGOCUY. 



^^Z", c , Jss^ , 



MODERN COOKERY. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR SOUPS AND STOCK. 



SOUPS. 

The perfection of soup is, that it should have no par- 
ticnlar flavonr; this can only be secured by careful 
proportion of the several ingredients. 

The kettles in which the soups are made should 
be well tinned, and kept particularly clean, by being 
washed in hot water and rubbed dry before they are 
put away; otherwise they will have a musty smell, 
which will give a disagreeable taste to all things 
afterwards cooked in them. If they are not kept 
well tinned also, the taste as well as the colour of 
the soup will be liable to be affected by the iron; 
and if the soup-kettle be made of copper and the 
tinning not quite perfect, everything cooked in it 
will be in a greater or less degree poisonous, as every- 
thing which is sweet, salt, or sour, extracts verdigris 
from copper. 

Lean, juicy, fresh-killed meat, is best for soup; 
stale-meat will make it iU-flaYOured', axi&.iaXTii<^aX*v^ 

A 



2 GENERAL DIBEGTIONS FOR SOUPS AND STOCK. 

very wasteful. An econoraical cook will save, as 
ingredients for sonp, the liquor in which meat has 
been boiled; for example, leg of pork liquor may be 
easily madq into peas' soup; and calf s head liquor, 
and knuckle, be made the base or stock of white 
soup. The trimmings of undressed meat and game 
will be useful to enrich soups; and the bones of 
dressed or undressed meat assist to make a good 
stock. Ham gives fine flavour as well as the bone 
of a dressed ham, taking care to allow for its salt- 
ness. 

Soft water should alvHiy^ be used for making soup, 
unless it be oi green peas, in which case hard water 
better preserves its colour; and it is a good general 
rule to apportion a quart of water to a pound of 
meat, that is to say, fle^ without bone ; but rich 
soups may have a smaller quantity of water. 

The water in the soup-kettle, when first put on, 
should not be allowed to boil for at least half an 
hour, else the water will not penetrate, but harden 
die meat, and keep in the impurities which, in slow 
heating, will rise as scum. Long and slow boiling, 
for at least four or six hours, is necessary to extract 
the strength from meat; but the pot should never be 
off the boil from the time it commences. The fat 
should be taken off aa it rises. If| however, as is 
generally thought desirable, the soup should be pre- 
pared the day before it is wanted, the fat can be 
removed when cold, in a cake; and the soup attains 
tBore oomiBiQnet without losing the flavour; but it 



OENERAL DIBECTIONB FOR 80T7P8 AMD STOCK. 3 

need not be seasoned till wanted, and then slowly 
heated till boiling. 

When put away to cool, the soup should be 
poured into a freshly scalded, and thoroughly dried 
earthen pan; and, when to be kept for some days, 
occasionally simmered for a few minutes over the 
fire, to prevent its becoming mouldy; in rewarming 
soup be careful not to pour in the sediment 

Spices should be put whole into soups; allspice is 
one of the best, though it is not so highly esteemed 
as it deserves. 

Seville orange-juice has a finer and milder acid than 
l^mon-juice; but both should be used with caution. 

Siveet herbsj for soups or broths, consist of knotted 
marjoram, ihyme^ and parsley — ^a sprig of each tied 
together. Tarragon is also used in soups. 

The older and drier onions are, the stronger their 
flavour; in dry seasons, also, they are very strong: 
the qjiantity should be proportioned accordingly. 

Although celery may generally be obtained for 
soap throughout the year, it may be useful to know, 
that dried celery-seed is an excellent substitute. It is 
so strongly flavoured^ that a dram of whole seed will 
enrich half a gallon of soup as much as will two 
heads of celery. 

Mushrooms are much used, and when they cannot 
be obtained fresh, mushroom ketchup will answer 
the purpose, but it should be used very sparingly, as 
nothing is more difficult to remove than the over- 
flavouring oi 'ketchup. 



4 GENERAL DIBECTIOKg FOB SOUPS AND STOCK. 

A piece of batter, in proportion to the liqnid, 
mixed with flour, and added to the sonp, when boil- 
ing, will enrich and thicken it. Arrow-root, or the 
£sirina or flour of potatoe, is &r better for the 
thickening of sonps than wheaten flour. 

The finer flavouring articles, as ketchup, spices, 
wines, juice, &c., should not be added till the soup 
is nearly done. 

A good proportion of wine is, a gill to three quarts 
of soup; this is as much as can be used without the 
vinous flavour predominating, which is never the case 
in well made soups. Wine should be added late in 
the making, as it evaporates very quickly in boiling. 

Be caatious of over-seasoning soups, with pepper, 
salt, spices, or herbs, for it is a fault' that can seldom 
be remedied; any provision over-salted is spoiled. 
A tea-spoonful of sugar is a good addition in flavour- 
ing soups. 

Vermicelli is added to, soups in the proportion of 
a quarter of a pound for a tureen of soup for eight 
persons; it should be broken, then blanched in hot 
water, and is better if stewed in broth before it is 
put into the soup. 

If soups are too weak do not cover them in boil- 
ing, that the watery particles may evaporate; but if 
strong, cover the soup-kettle close. If they want fla- 
vour, most of the prepared sauces will give it to meat- 
soups, and anchovy with walnut ketchup and soy, 
will add to those of fish, but must be used sparingly. 

I£ colouring be wanted, a piece of bread toasted as 



GENERAL DIBECTIOKS FOB SOUPS AND STOCK. 5 

brown as possible — ^but not blackened — and put into 
soup to simmer for a short time before its going to 
be senred, will generally be found sufficient. Burnt 
onions will materially assist in giving a fine brown 
colour to soup, and also improve the flavour; or burnt 
sugar, the usual browning, may be used. 

To clarify soup, put into it, when first set on, the 
whites of one or two eggs beaten to a stiff froth; 
skim the pot constantly, and the liquor will be clear 
when strained. Soak the napkin in cold water 
before you strain hot soup through it, as the cold 
will harden the fat and only allow the clear soup to 
pass through. Clarifying destroys somewhat of the 
savour of the soup, which ought, • therefore, to be 
more highly seasoned. 

It is very usual to put force-meat balls, of various 
sorts, into many different soups, for the purpose of 
improving their flavour and appearance. 

There is sometimes great prejudice against the 
use of particular sorts of seasoning and spices. 
Garlic is amongst these; and many a dish is de- 
prived of its finest flavour for want of a moderate 
use of it. 

Tomatoes would also be found a great improve- 
ment in many kinds of soup. If onions are too 
strong, boil a turnip with them, and it will render 
them mild. 

In stirring soup, do it always with a wooden spoon. 

By a tureen of soup is generally meant three 
quarts. 



6 GENESAL DIBECnOHS FOE 80UP8 AND 8T0CK. 

Soup-Herb Powder^ or Vegetable Relish, h an 
excellent article to keep on hand; it may always be 
used wh^i fresh heuAis cannot be had. Make it in 
the following manner. Take dried parsley, winter 
savoury, sweet marjoram, lemon-thyme — of each two 
ounces; lemon peel, cat very thin and dried^ and 
sweet basil — one ounce each. Dry these ingredients 
in a warm (not hot) oven, or by the fire, till yon can 
pound them fine in a mortar, and pass the powder 
through a hair-sieve. Pot this powder in a clean 
dry bottle, and keep it closely corked. The fra- 
grance will be retained many months. It is an 
economical and delicious flavouring. 



STOCK. 

The basis of all well-made soups is composed of 
what English cooks call ^^ Stock," or broth, made 
from all sorts of meat, bones, and the remains of 
poultry or game; all of which may be put together 
and stewed down in the '^ Stock-pot;" the contents 
of which are, by the French, termed Consomme. 

This is phiefly used for the preparation of brown 
or gravy soups : that intended for white soups being 
rather differently compounded, though made in 
nearly the same manner. 



BBOWF STOCK. 
Put ten pounds of shin of beef, six pounds of 
knuckle of veal, and some sheep's trotters or a cow- 
^ee/, in a closely covered stew-pan, to draw out the 



GENEBAL DIRECTIONS FOR SOUPS AND STOCK. .7 

gravy very gently, and allow it nearly to dry in 
nntil it becomes brown. Then ponr in sufficient 
boiling water to entirely cover the meat, and let it 
boil up, skimming it frequently; seasoning it with 
whole peppQrs and salt, roots, herbs, and vegetables 
of any kind. That being done^ let it boil gently 
five or six hours, pour the broth from off the meat, 
and let it stand during the night to cool. The fol- 
lowing morning take off the scum and fat, and put it 
away in a stone jar for further use. 

Or: Put into a stew-pan a piece of beef, a piece 
of veal, an old fowl, some slices of ham or bacon, and 
all the trimmings of meat that can be obtained; add 
to these materials, where such things are abundant^ 
partridge, grouse, or other game, which may not be 
sufficiently young and tender for the spit. Put a 
little water to it, just enough to cover half the meaty 
and stew very gently over a slow fire or steatti 
apparatus. When the top piece is done through, 
cover the meat with boiling water or broth; season 
with spices and vegetables, and stew all together for 
eight or ten hours in an uncovered stew-pan; skim 
off the £sit, and strain the liquor through a fine 
sieve, or woollen tamis^ known by cooks as a 
" tammy." 

Brown stock may be made from an ox-cheek, ox« 
tail, brisket, flank, or shin of beef; which wiU^ either 
together or separately, make a strong jelly, if stewed 
down with a piece of ham or lean bacon, in the pro- 
portion of half a pound to every Beven ^\xiv^ <£. 



8 GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOE SOUPS AND STOCK. 

meat ; but the shin of beef a26ne will afford a stronger 
and better flavour. 

This stock may also be reduced to a glaze by boil- 
ing the skimmed liquor as fast as possible in a newly 
tinned stew-pan, until it becomes of the desired con- 
sistence, and of a good brown colour — taking care, 
at the same time, to prevent it from burning. 



WHITE STOCK. 
Take scrag or knuckle of veal, ox-heel, or calf's- 
head, together with an old fowl, and the trimmings 
of any white poultry or game which can be had, and 
lean ham in the proportion of one pound to every 
fourteen pounds of meat. Cut it all into pieces (add 
three or four t^nroastcd onions and heads of celery, 
with a few blades of mace ; but neither carrots, pep- 
per, nor spice of any kind but mace) ; put it into the 
stock-pot, with just water enough to cover it ; let it 
boil, and add three onions. and a few blades of mace ; 
let it boil for five hours, and it is then fit for use. 



TEAL GSAYT. 
When all the meat has been taken from a knuckle 
of veal, divide the bones, and lay them in a stew- 
pot, with a pound of scrag of a neck, an ounce of 
lean bacon, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, a bit 
of lemon-peel, and a dessert-spoonful of pepper ; add 
as much water as will cover them. Boil and skim 
it; stop the pot down close, and let it simmer as 
slowly as possible three hours. Strain off, and let 



SOUPS. 9 

it stand till cold ; then skim it, and take the jelly 
from the sediment. Pound some mace fine, and boil 
it with two spoonfuls of water, and add to the gravy. 
If cream is to be put to it, do not add the salt until 
the gravy comes off the fire. 



SOUPS. 



KOCE-TUSTLE SOUP. 

Take a calf's head which has been scalded, and 
quite fresh; place it in a pot which will just hold it, 
and cover with cold water. Let it boil for half an 
hour; then cool in cold water. Take a sharp knife; 
make a cut down the forehead, and remove the scalp, 
keeping close to the skull. Scrape off the rough 
cuticle inside the cheek, and cut in pieces an inch 
square. Tear open the jawbones, and take out the 
tongue and palate; both of which flay. Cut the 
tongue in thin slices. Lay open the ears, and take 
away the skin which is inside. Put the whole into 
a stew-pan, with as much stock or water as will 
just cover, and boil till tender. Melt one pound 
of fresh butter in a stew-pan; pare and cut down 
in very thin slices six large onions, and fry in the 
butter, taking care not to bum. Wheu teudj^T^ ^^\ 



10 80UPS. 

a pound and a half of flour, with a few spri^ of 
sweet basil, marjoram, and thyme; which stir care- 
fully with a square wooden spattle until the flour is 
slightly coloured. Pull the pot aside; add a ladleful 
of hot stock, and mix till smooth. When as much 
stock has been added as will make it to the consist- 
ence of cream, strain the whole through a fine hair 
search, add the pieces of head, and set it on the 
fire. When coming through, carefully remove all 
the scum as it rises on the top. Afler a few minutes, 
add two wine glasses of mushroom ketchup, and one 
of essence of anchovies ; season with Cayenne pepper 
and salt to taste; finish with a quarter bottle of 
Sherry. Twelve or fourteen quarts will be produced 
from the above : if less is required, only use half a 
head. 



TUBTIE SOUP. 

Hang up the turtle by the hind fins, cut off the 
he^, and allow it to drain. 

Cut off the fore fins, and separate the callipash 
{upper shell) from the callipee (under shell), begin- 
ning at the hind fins. Cut off the fat which adheres 
to the callipash, and to the lean meat of the callipee. 
Then cut off the hind fins. Take off the lean meat 
from the callipee and from the fins ; cut it into pieces 
two inches square, and put it into a stew-pan. The 
callipash, callipee, and fins, must be held in scalding 
(but not boiling) water a few minutes, which will 
cause the sheti to part easily. 



S0UP8. 11 

Cut the callipash and oallipee into pieces about six 
inches square ; which put into a stock-pot, with some 
light veal stock. Let it boil until the meat is ten- 
der, and then take it out into cold water. Free the 
meat from the bones, and cut it into pieces an inch 
square. Return the bones into the stock, and let it 
boil gently for two hours. Strain it off; and it is 
then fit for use. 

Cut the fins across into pieces about an indi wide, 
and boil them in stock with an onion, two or three 
cloves, a faggot of parsley and thyme, and a sprig of 
sweet basil and marjoram. When tender, take them 
out, and add this stock to the other. 

Take the lean meat; put it into a stew-pan, with a 
pint of Madeira, four table-spoonfuls of chopped green 
shallot, two lemons sliced, a bunch of thyme, marjo- 
ram, and savory (about two table- spoonfuls each when 
chopped), one and a half table-spoonfuls of sweet basil 
(chopped), and four table-spoonfuls of parsley. Pound 
together a nutmeg, one dozen allspice, one blade of 
mace, five or six cloves, and one table-spoonful of 
pepper and of salt. Mix the whole together with 
as much curry powder as will lie on a shilling. Put 
about two- thirds of this to the lean meat, with half a 
pound of fresh butter and one quart stock. Let the 
whole be gently sweated until the meat is done. 

Take a large knuckle of ham; cut it into very 
small dice ; put it into a stew-pan, with four large 
onions sliced, six bay-leaves, three blades of mace^ 
one dozen all^ipice, and three quarteTS oi a ^^xnA <iA 



1 2 SOUPS. 

batter ; and let it sweat until the onions are melted. 
Shred a small bmich of basil, a large one of thyme, 
savory, and marjoram ; throw these into the onions, 
and keep them as green as possible: when sweated 
sufficiently, add flour according to your judgment suf- 
ficient to thicken the soup. Add, by degrees, the stock 
in which the callipash and callipee were boiled, and 
the seasoning stock from the lean meat. Boil for 
an hour; rub through a tammy; and add salt, Cay- 
enne, and lemon juice, to palate. Then put in the 
meat. Let it all boil gently about half an hour; and 
if more wine be required, it must be boiled before 
being added to the soup. This is for a turtle of 
from forty to fifty pounds. It ^should, however, be 
recollected that the animal is of various weights — 
from a chicken-turtle of forty pounds to some hun- 
dred-weights ; and the condiments must be appor- 
tioned accordingly. It should invariably be made 
the day before it is wanted. 

Forcemeat for Turtle. — One pound of fine fresh 
suet, one pound of ready-dressed veal or chicken 
chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little shallot or 
onion, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, 
parsley, and lemon-thyme finely shred. Beat as many 
fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make 
the above ingredients into a moist paste ; roll into 
small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them 
in just as it boils up. When of a light brown, take 
them out, and drain them before the fire. 

^a^ made tbia way are remarkably light; but 



SOUPS. 13 

being greasy, some people prefer tbem with less suet 
and eggs. They may therefore be made thus : Chop 
up the materials with a little white pepper and salt, 
a sage leaf or two scalded and finely chopped, and 
the yolk of an egg ; make them into small cakes or 
fritters, and fry them. 



HULLIGATAWVT. 
Cut up two knuckles of veal, weighing ten or 
twelve pounds, into very small ■ pieces ; and half a 
pound of lean ham, in slices. Just cover the meat 
with cold water ; set it on the fire, and take off the 
scum as it rises. Then add two carrots and one 
turnip. Boil for three hours ; strain through a fine 
search ; add two or three quarts of boiling water to 
the strained meat, and boil one hour longer. Strain, 
and add to the first stock. Cut up two tender chickens 
into nice pieces ; wash them carefully, and remove 
the lungs. Boil them with a little of the stock till 
tender. Pare six large onions ; cut them in halves ; 
and shred, with a sharp knife, very fine. Melt six 
ounces of fresh butter ; add the onions, and fry till 
lightly coloured and tender; add nine ounces of flour 
and stir for a few minutes ; add a good table-spoon- 
ful of curry powder, and reduce gradually to the con- 
sistence of cream. Strain, and add the chickens ; 
set on the fire ; season with salt and a little sugar ; 
skim off the grease ; and serve. 



14 



Wash dnee jomig eamUs, and eoft Ifae thidL pot 
iolo ineli kaigtbg. BoQ tbem fire minotes, and eool 
in water. With a sharp knife pare off the akin; 
then eot zoond the carrot, taking off the red part 
like a ribbon, leading the yellow eofe ; then cat into 
ahreds. Slice two tnmipa thin ; and, with a drcolar 
cotter, half an inch in diameter, cot as many as pos- 
inble : a slice may be eot into dice. Take a head of 
canliflower, and separate into small flowerette, and 
half a pint of shelled gre^i peas. Boil two quarts 
of water, with a spoonful of salt Throw in the Tege* 
tables, and, when tender, strain them. Add the whole 
to feur quarts of clear stock. Season with salt, pep- 
per, and a tea>spoonful of sugar; and boil a few 
minutes. If approved of^ a few button onions and 
shred lettuce may be added — also parboiled. 



EASE 80UP« 
Spread half a pound of fresh butter over the bottom 
of a large stew-pan ; lay over a few slices of ham. 
Cut all the flesh in mouthfuls from a hare. Lay the 
carcass (which has been previously broken in pieces 
with a chopper) in the pot ; with one carrot, one tur- 
nip, six large onions, one head of celery, all cut up 
in slices. Add one gill of water. Cover up close. 
Allow to fry, on the stove or fire, until the bottom of 
the pot is covered with a glaze. Care must be taken 
that the fire is not too strong, to prevent catching at 
ihe bottom. Put the small pieces of hare in another 



SOUPS. 15 

stew-pan^ which has been battered slightlj. Cover 
up, and allow to stew till they are done.. Have six 
quarts of stock boiling ; which add to the large pot 
Boil for two hours, and strain. Add the whole toge< 
ther, and set on the fire. Mix three table-spoonfhls 
of arrowroot in a bowl with a little cold water ; when 
dissolved^ add to the soup, with a spoonful of red cur- 
rant jelly and four glasses of Port wine. Cayenne 
and salt to taste. And serve, after boiling a few 
minutes and skimming welL 



HABE SOUP. 

Another Way. 

Skin and paunch a hare. Cut up in convenient 
pieces, without separating the meat from the bones. 
Feel three large onions; cut them in halves, and 
mince fine. Do the same with a head of celery. 
Grate a carrot fine. Put the whole in a large stew- 
pan, cover with six quarts of stock, and boil tiU 
tender. Put six ounces of butter to melt, add nine 
ounces of flour, stir over the fire for a few minutes, 
and reduce with the soup. Add the whole together, 
and season as before. 



CLEAB HABE SOUP. 
Cut a large hare into pieces, and put it, together 
with a scrag or knuckle of veal, and a cow-heel, into 
a ketde, with five or six quarts of water, herbs, onions, 
&c., and a little mace; stew it over a slow fire for two 
hoonu or until the gravj is good; then Isikft o\)\.^<^ 



16 SOUPS. 

back and legs, cut the meat off, returning the bones, 
and stewing the whole until the meat is nearly dis- 
solved. Then strain off the gravy, put a glass, of 
wine to every quart of soup, and send it to table with 
the meat cut into small pieces, and warmed with the 
wine, which will take about ten or fifteen minutes. 
Soup may be made in much the same way of either 
rabhit or fawn, only not stewing them so long. 



PBENCH HABE SOUP. 
Skin and wash perfectly clean two young hares, cut 
them into small pieces, and put them into a stew- 
pan, with two or three glasses of Port wine, two 
onions stuck with two cloves each, a bunch of pars- 
ley, a bay leaf ; of thyme, sweet basil, andmaijoram, 
two sprigs each, and a few blades of mace; let the 
whole simmer upon a stove for an hour. Add as much 
boiling broth as will entirely cover the meat, let it 
simmer till it be soft enough to pulp through a sieve,, 
then strain it, and soak the crumb of a small loaf in 
the strained liquor; separate the bones from the meat, 
pound the meat in a mortar, and rub it, along with the 
liquor, through a sieve; season with pepper and salt, 
and heat the soup thoroughly, but do not let it boil. 



.WHITE SOUP. 

To make four quarts : cut up six pounds of a 

knuckle of veal into small pieces, break the bones 

with the chopper: throw the whole into a basin of 

tepiA water for a few minutes, to blanch. Put the 



SOUPS. 17 

veal in a large stew-pan, with a few slices of lean 
ham, and just cover with cold water ; bring it to the 
boil, and skim ; add one carrot, one turnip, four 
onions, and a blade of mace; after boiling two hours, 
strain ; add a little more boiling water to the strained 
meat, and boil an hour, strain, and add the two quan- 
tities together; let it stand a quarter of an hour, then 
remove the grease from the surface, melt four ounces 
of sweet butter, and add six ounces of fine flour ; mix, 
stir a few minutes, and add a ladleful of stock, by 
degrees, to a proper consistence ; boil, and skim care- 
fully ; then add one quart of very sweet cream. Boil 
a minute after; season with white pepper, a small 
lump of sugar, and salt ; strain through a tammy 
cloth or very fine hair search; and serve. 



WHITE SOUP. 

Another Way. 

Take a good knuckle of veal, or two or three 
short shanks; boil it in four quarts' of water about 
four hours, with some whole white pepper, a little 
mace, salt, two onions^ and a small piece of lean ham ; 
strain it, and when cold take off all the fat and sedi- 
ment; beat up six yolks of eggs, and mix them with 
a pint of cream; then pour the boiling soup upon it. 
Boil the cream before putting it in the soup.. 



GREEN PEA SOUP, 
Boil three quarts of stock, and add a good bunch of 
parsley^ a few sprigs of green mint, ml^i In^o cpaxXA 



18 SOUPS. 

of peas; when tender, strain, and mash the peas tDl 
every one is crushed; reduce gradually with the stock 
strained from them; melt two ounces of butter, and 
add a table-spoonful of flour; mix, and stir over the 
fire a minute, and reduce to a nice consistence; season 
with salt, pepper, and a little sugar. 



GSEEH PEA S0X7P. 

Another Way, 

May be made with or without meaj;. For the 
former, boil three pints of peas, with mint, in spring 
water; rub them through a sieve,' put to them three 
quarts of brown gravy soup, and boil together ; then 
add about half a pint of whole boiled peas ; season, and^ 
if not green enough, add spinach juice. Or, if the 
gravy be not made, boil with the first peas a ham 
bone, or veal, or beef bones, and trimmings to make 
the stock. 

To make this soup without meat, put the peas, 
with some butter, two onions, seasoning, and a pint 
of water, into a stew-pan. Stew till the pea^ can be 
passed through a sieve; which being done, add to 
the liquor, and pulp more water, half a pint of young 
peas, a few fine lettuce-leaves, and some mint shred 
finely; and stew all together till sofb. Thicken with 
butter and flour, if requisite. 

In either of the above cases, the pea- shells, if very 
young, may be boiled and pulped with the first parcel 
of peas. 



80UPS. 19 

PORTABLE SOXTP, 

As Made in a Celebrated Estdbliahment 

One hundred and fifty pounds of legs of best ox 
beef; it is cat up very small, and the bones are 
broken and laid at the bottom of -a large stock-pot; 
the meat is just covered with cold water, and allowed 
to come to the boil slowly, that the albumen may 
be disengaged, thereby rendering the stock clearer. 
After being skimmed carefully, the pot is drawn 
aside, and allowed to simmer steadily for six hours; 
the stock is then drawn off into large, flat, tinned, 
iron dishes four inches deep. The meat in the pot 
is again covered with boiling water, and is again 
drawn off (by the tap which is at the bottom of the 
pot, there being also a strainer inside) in two hours. 
Next morning the grease is removed from the sur- 
&ce, care being necessary not to disturb the sedi- 
ment at the bottom of each dish. If the soup is 
wanted particularly clear, the first stock only is 
used, the second being employed for making glaze 
for tongues, hams, &c., the process being the same. 
When the whole is emptied into the pot, it is brought 
to boil and skimmed carefully, and reduced rapidly 
on a strong fire ; when reduced one- sixth part, the 
contents are removed into a smaller pot, and re- 
duced to six quarts, jieasoned with Cayenne pepper 
only; strain through a tammy cloth into tins an inch 
deep ; when cold, it is cut out with cutters^ or ^11^ 
into akdns or pota* A much smaller quaaVity \&&'^ 



20 SOUPS. 

be made, and is invaluable in the kitchen, being 
used for sauces, soups, dressed dishes, &c. 



BBOWF SOUP. 

Cut up twelve pounds of leg of beef; butter the 
bottom of a large stew-pan with four ounces of sweet 
butter ; lay a few onions sliced over it, two carrots, 
one turnip, and one head of celery ; lay the lean part of 
the beef on these, and then the bones. Add one gill 
of water, and cover up very close ; allow to fry on a 
gentle fire, shaking the pot occasionally to prevent 
burning ; a quarter of an hour after, draw aside, and 
allow it to reduce till the bottom is covered with a 
brown glaze; fill up with cold water and a little 
salt, and take off the scum as it rises to the top ; 
boil three hours, and strain through a fine sieve — one 
of lawn or muslin is best. Allow the stock to stand 
a few minutes till it clears; pour off without disturb- 
ing the sediment, into a stew-pan, set it on the fire, 
skim carefiilly, and season with salt and pepper to 
taste. 

The meat which remains may be made into a 
second stock, to be used for a thickened soup or any 
other purpose. 



BBOWir SOUP. 

Asmo^Bi/er way^ more simple and generally adopted. 

Cut up the beef into small pieces, and add a small 

knuckle of veal, with half a pound of lean ham ; just 

cover with cpld water, allow it to come to the boil, 



SOUPS. 21 

'skim carefully, set aside and just simmer (if allowed 
to boil quick, the soup will not be clear) ; add two 
carrots, two turnips, six onions, a sprig of basil and 
marjoram; in four hours strain through a muslin 
sieve, and finish as before. 

It is always better to allow the stock to stand a 
night, the sediment will then be at the bottom of the 
basin. A little salt causes the scum to rise; if too 
pale, add a little browning. 



VEAL SOUP. 
Skin four pounds of a knuckle of veal; break it 
and cut it small; put it into a stew-pan with two 
gallons of water; when it boils, skim it, and let it 
simmer till reduced to two quarts ; strain, and season 
it with white pepper, salt, a little mace, a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and thicken it with a large 
table- spoonful of flour kneaded with an ounce of butter. 



CnSBT SOUP. 

Season two quarts of strong veal broth with two 
onions, a bunch of parsley, salt, and pepper; strain it, 
and have ready a chicken, cut in joints and skinned; 
put it in the broth with a table- spoonful of curry 
powder; boil the chicken till quite tender. A little 
before serving, add the juice of a lemon and a tea- 
cupfiil of boiling cream. Serve boiled rice to eat 
with this soup. 

N,B, Always boil cream before putting it in soup 
or gravy. 



22 

KAEHWD 80UP. 
Cot same mutton cutlets finran tbe neck; trim and 
fry them to a light brown; stew in Innown gravy 
sonp till tender. Have ready some carrots, turnips, 
celery, and onions; firy them in batter for some time, 
and clear the soap firran the £it; then add the v^e- 
tables, colour, and thicken it with batter and floor; 
season, and add to it a little Port wine and ketchup. 
If the gravy be ready, the soup will require no more 
time to prepare than may be necessary to render the 
chops and vegetables tender, and is an excellent 
family dish. I£ wished to be made more highly 
flavoured, put in a little curry powder. 



COTTAGE SOUPS. 

Take two pounds of lean beef, and cut into small 
pieces, with a quarter of a pound of bacon, two pounds 
of mealy potatoes, three ounces of rice, carrots, tur- 
nips, onions sliced, and cabbage. Fry the meat, cab- 
bage, and onions, in butter or dripping, the latter 
being the most savoury; and put them into a gallon 
of water, to stew gently over a slow fire for three 
hours, putting in tbe carrots at the same time, but 
the turnips and rice only time enough to allow of 
their being well done; and mashing the potatoes, 
which should be then passed through a cullender; 
and season only with pepper and salt, and keep the 
vessel closely covered. It will make five pints of 
excellent soup. 

Or— To any quantity or kind of broth, add what- 



60UP8. 25 

ever vegetables may be in season, and stew them 
gently till quite tender. Then strain the sonp; 
thicken it with flour and water, to be mixed gradu- 
ally while simmering; and, when that is done and 
seasoned to your taste, return the vegetables to the 
soup, and let it simmer for an hour. 



CLEAK GRAVT SOUP. 

Take solid lean beef, in the proportion of one 
pound of meat and two ounces of ham to one pint 
of water; cover the meat with cold water, and let it 
simmer by the fire for at least three hours, during 
which time it should not be allowed to boil, but, 
when coming to that point, check it with cold water, 
and skim it. As the gravy will then be drawn, 
throw in three quarts of warm water, along with a 
quarter of an ounce each of black pepper, allspice, 
and salt, as well as a bundle of sweet herbs, a few 
cloves, two onions, two or three carrots and turnips, 
(the latter an hour afterwards), together with two 
heads of celery; allow the whole to boil slowly, skim- 
ming it carefully, until the meat is done to rags and 
the vegetables become tender. Then strain it through 
a napkin, without squeezing it. Boil the vegetables 
to be served in the soup separately, a {qw hours 
before dinner, in a portion of the broth, and add 
them to the soup. When soup is sufficiently boiled 
on the first day, all that it requires on the second is, 
to be made thoroughly hot 

This soup should be of a clear axnbet ^loYovn^ V\^- 



24 SOUPS. 

out any artificial browning; but if wanted of a deep 
colour, a burnt onion will suffice. 

This soup is, in fact, the foundation of all gravy 
soups, which are called after the names of the ingre- 
dients put in them; that is, vermicelli, macaroni, 
rice, barley, &c. 



MACASOKI SOUPS. 
Take a quart of gravy soup; break two ounces of 
Naples macaroni into pieces of little more than an 
inch long, putting them, by degrees, into a small por- 
tion of the boiling soup, to prevent them from stick- 
ing together; and let them boil until quite tender, 
but not soft or pulpy — from fifteen to twenty minutes 
if quite fresh, but nearly half an hour if at all stale. 
Vermicelli is used in the same manner. They will 
improve the consistence of the soup if the quantity 
above stated be added; but it is useless, and does 
not look well, to see, as at some tables, only a few 
strings of it floating in the tureen. 



YEBMIGELLI SOUP. 

Follow the same method as above, substituting 
vermicelli for macaroni. Three minutes will be 
enough to do it. Four ounces will be enough for four 
quarts. 



ITAIiIAH PASTE SOUP. 

As above. 



SOUPS. 25 

WHITE MACASONI SOUP. 
Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in a quart 
of water ten minutes ; strain, and throw it into a quart 
of white stock, and let it simmer twenty minutes ; 
strain and cut into inch lengths, add the macaroni 
to three quarts of white soup, hoil for a minute, and 
serve. 



SICE SOUP. 
Take white stock, season it, and either whole rice 
boiled till very tender, or the flour of rice, may be used ; 
half a pound will be sufficient for two quarts of broth. 



ONION SOUP (Plain). 
Simmer turnips and carrots for two hours, in weak 
mutton broth; strain it, and add six onions, sliced and 
fried ; simmer three hours, skim, and serve. 



EICH ONION SOUP. 
Put into a stew-pan twelve onions, one turnip, a 
head of celery sliced, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
and a quart of white gravy ; stew till tender ; add 
another quart of gravy, pulp the vegetables, and boil 
with the soup, strained, for half an hour, stirring it 
constantly; and, just before serving, stir in half a 
pint of boiling cream, and about eighteen button 
onions nicely peeled, and boiled soft in milk and 
water; season with salt. Spanish onions only are 
sometimes used ; and the soup may be thickened^ if 
requisite^ with lice Bonr worked witli bultex. • 



26 SOUPS. 

GAXBOT SOUP. 

Take six or eight full-grown carrots, of the red 
sort ; scrape them clean, and rasp only the outer rmd, 
or soft red part ; and if you have a single ripe tomato, 
add it, sliced, to the raspings,, but use no other vege- 
table except onions. While this is doing, the broth 
of any kind of fresh meat which has been got ready 
should be heated and seasoned with a couple of onions 
fried in butter, but without pepper or any other kind 
of seasoning, except a small quantity of mace and 
a little salt. When all is ready, put the raspings 
into two quarts of the skimmed broth, cover the stew- 
pan close, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for 
two or three hours, by which time the raspings will 
have become soft enough to be pulped through a fine 
sieve : after which the soup should be boiled until it 
is as smooth as jelly, for any curdy appearance will 
spoil it. 

Thus all the roots, and most of such vegetables as 
can be easily made into purees, and combined with 
any sort of broth, will, in this manner, make excellent 
soups of different denominations, though all founded 
upon the same meat- stock. The gravy of beef is 
always preferred for savoury soups, and that of veal 
or fowls for the more delicate white soups; to which 
from half a pint to a pint of cream, or, if that cannot 
be had, the same quantity of milk and the yolks of 
two raw eggs, should be added for every two quarts 
of soup; remembering, however, that the latter will 
J3ot impart the richness of cream. 



SOUPS. 27 

VENISOir SOUP. 
Take four pounds of freshly-killed venison cat off 
from the bones, and one pound of ham in small slices. 
Add an onion minced, and black pepper to your taste. 
Put in only as much water as will cover it, and stew it 
gently for an hour, keeping the pot closely covered. 
Skim it well, and pour in a quart of boiling water. 
Add a head of celery cut small, and three blades of 
mace. Boil it gently two and a half hours; then put 
in a quarter of a pound of butter, cut small and rolled 
in flour, and half a pint of Port or Madeira. Let it 
boil a quarter of an hour longer, and send it to the 
table with the meat in it. 



FBIAB'S CHICEiar. 
Take three quarts of water, and put into it three or 
four pounds of a knuckle of veal; stew gently till all 
the goodness is out of the meat; skim the fat off, and 
strain the broth through a sieve. Then take a chicken, 
or a full-grown young fowl, dissect it into pieces, and 
put it into the broth, which should be made hot, and 
seasoned only with salt and parsley. Let it simmer 
for nearly another hour ; beat the whites and yolks 
of three or four eggs thoroughly, and mix them effec- 
tually with the soup just before serving, taking care 
to stir them all one way. Rabbits may be substi- 
tuted for fowls. 



PIGEON SOUP. 
Make a strong heef stock, higUy BeaaoueiSL^ %s^ M 



28 SOUPS. 

for brown soup; take six or eight pigeons, according ' 
to their size, wash them clean, cut off the necks, 
pinions, livers, and gizzards, and put them into the 
stock; quarter the pigeons and brown them nicely; 
after having strained the stock, put in the pigeons; 
let them boil till nearly ready, which will be in about 
half an hour; then thicken it with a little flour, 
rubbed down in a tea-cupful of the soup ; season it 
with half a grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful of lemon- 
juice or of vinegar, and one of mushroom ketchup; 
let it boil a few minutes after all these ingredients are 
put in, and serve it with the pigeons in the tureen. 
A better thickening than flour, is to boil quite tender 
two of the pigeons, take off all the meat and pound 
it in a mortar, rub it through a sieve, and put it, 
with the cut pigeons, into the strained soup. 

To make partridge soup, partridges may be sub- 
stituted for pigeons, when only four birds will be re- 
quired; pound the breast of one. 



LOBSTEB SOTJP. 
Cut small a dozen common- sized onions, put them 
into a stew-pan with a small bit of butter, a slice or 
two of lean ham, and a slice of loan beef; when the 
onions are quite soft, mix gradually with them some 
rich stock; let it boil, and strain it through a fi|ie 
hair sieve, pressing the pulp of the onions with a 
wooden spoon; then boil it well, skimming it all the 
|tme« Be^t the meat of a boiled haddock, the spawn 
L large lobster, or of two small ones, in 




a marble mortar; add gradoalh' to it Ike SMp« sdr- 
ring it till it is as smoodi as cream; let it bafl a^ms 
andscmnit Cut thetaQand tbedawsof tkeklHaer 
into pieces, and add them to tlie scmp before mtiig 
it, and also some pepper. Cayenne, vbite pefiper. aad 
a glass of white wine. 

Forcemeat balls may be added to oyster samp aad 
lobster sonp, made as directed mider ^F^ 
for Fish." 



Procore two live hen lobsters of a good sise: throw 
them into boiling water, and boQ half an homn break 
them open over a badn, and catch ererr drop of 
juice. Keep the otRal or spawn lepante, eat the 
meat into small pieces, and rob the eon! in a mcvtar 
very smooth, with two ounces of butter: take fovr 
quarts of white stock, thickened; withoot cream: add 
the whole together, and seastm with Cayame. a tea- 
spoonfbl of essence of anchories, and the same of 
ketchnp. Boll for a minote or twa pas throi^ a 
sieve, and serve. If p re fe rred smooth, the meat nnst 
be pounded in a uKntar. 



BEL 80VF. 
Take three pounds of small eds, and skiB them; 
bone one or two, cut them in verj small pieeea. aad 
fry them veiy lightly in a stew-paa wilb a bit oC 
butter and a spng aiptrdey. Put to the 



30 SOUPS. 

three quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades 
of mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch 
of sweet herbs; cover them close, and stew till the 
fish breaks from the bones; then strain it off, pound 
it to a paste, and pass it through a sieve. Toast 
some bread, cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it 
boiling. Add the scollops of eel, and serve. The 
soup will be as rich as if made of meat. A quarter 
of a pint of cream or milk, with a tea-spoonful of 
flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great improvement. 

To every pound of eels add a quart of water, and 
let the whole boil till half of the liquor is wasted. 
The soup of conger eels is also said to be good, but 
the fish has not the richness of the fresh water eel, 
and can only be recommended by its cheapness. 



OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Take three ox tails, and with an old knife and 
mallet cut them in pieces an inch in length. Soak 
in tepid water for an hour, then place them in a 
stew-pan, and cover with four quarts of good stoek; 
add two carrots, two turnips, four onions, and one 
head of celery; boil slowly till tender — ^they will 
take from two to three hours ; strain them, the stock 
ought to be clear; have prepared some carrot and 
turnip, as for vegetable soup, with some leaves of 
parsley; add the whole together, and season with 
pepper and a small lump of sugar; boil a few minutes,^ 
Mud serve. 



SOUPS. 31 

» 

dlBLET SOUP. 
Procure three sets of giblets ; clean and trim them 
well, cut into nice pieces, and soak in tepid water for 
an hour; after that, throw them into boiling water 
for a few minutes, and strain; put them in a stew- 
pan, and cover with about five quarts of rich stock, 
two carrots, two turnips, six onions, and a few sprigs 
of basil, maijoram, and thyme. Boil tender, pick 
out the pieces, and strain. Melt four ounces of 
butter, and mix with six ounces of fiour; stir on the 
fire till of a light colour; reduce with the soup, 
strained. Add the pieces, and boil on the comer of 
a stove. Skim off any grease that rises ; season 
with salt and pepper, and three glasses of Sherry. 



OTSTEB SOUP. 

Take half a hundred of large oysters, set them on 
the fire in their own juice, and boil a minute; strain 
them, and take away the beards, and pick away any 
shell that may be about them. 

Take four quarts of white stock, thickened as for 
white soup, but without the cream ; to this add the 
liquor and beards of the oysters, a little salt, Cayenne 
pepper, a blade of mace; boil and skim carefully, 
strain over the oysters, add a pint of very sweet 
cream, and serve. 



HOTCH-POTCH. 

* 

Cut two or three pounds of neck of mutton into 
small pieces^ and fry slightly; put it mto «i s^jerw- 



32 B0UF8. 

• 

pan with four quarts of cold water and a little salt; 
set on .the fire, and allow it to simmer gently, skim- 
ming well ; add two carrots, two turnips, two onions, 
three lettuces, all cut small and well washed, with a 
pint of shelled peas. One hour and a half will be 
enough to boiL 



COCE-A-LEEKIE SOUP. 

Singe, draw, and cut up two fowls into nice pieces; 
trim two or three bunches of fine winter leeks, use the 
white part only, cut into halves, each half into two, 
blanch them five minutes in boiling water, having 
previously washed them well ; add the pieces of fowl, 
with the leeks, to four quarts of gravy stock; set on 
the fire, and simmer for about two hours, or till tender. 
If too thick, add a little more stock; season, and 
serve. 



SCOTCH UUTTOir BSOTH. 

' Put a quarter of a pound of best pearl barley to 
soak in cold water for two or three hours ; pare two 
carrots, two turnips, three onions, and one head of 
celery ; cut up a neck of mutton into cutlets pare 
away the fat and skin, and put the whole trimmings 
and vegetables into a stew-pan, with four quarts of 
water or stock ; simmer for three hours. While this 
is doing, prepare two carrots, two turnips, one onion, 
one leek, cut into small pieces ; parboil the barley, 
strain the stock, and add the whole together, and 



boil till the barley and meat ar6 tender; seiusoB) and 
server 



CABBAGE SOtrP. 
Shred a large whitB cabbage very fine, and throw 
it into water and wash wdl ; cut a carrot, a turnip, 
and a head of celery into dice ; put two pounds of 
well-streaked bacon into a stew-pan, with three quarts 
of water and a pint of shelled gre^i peas ; boil two 
or three hours, skim off all the fat, season with 
p^per, salt, and a small lump of sugar, and serve. 



JULIENKE SOUP. 
Turn a few pieces of nice carroty as described for 
vegetable soup, cut into shreds ; also a turnip, the 
white part of a leek, and a head of celery. Put an 
ounce of sweet butter into a small stew-pan, a little 
salt, and a salt- spoonful of sugar, and fry on the 
stove till of a nice brown ; take two quarts of clear 
first stock, add the vegetables, and set on the fire ; 
when it boils, add a shredded cabbage lettuce ; boil 
a few minutes ; season, and serve. 



GAME SOUP. 
Procure a brace of grouse which are not too old, 
and roast them ; pick all the meat from the bones, 
which pound in a mortar; chop the bones small, 
and set on the fire with three or four pints of stock, 
a carrot, an onion, a head of celery, and boil for 
two hours, closely corered ; strain, and mix. \«n5ik ^^ 



34 SOUPS. 



pounded meat ; melt two ounces of butter, mix three 
of flour, and stir over the fire a minute ; reduce with 
the stock, and add a glass of Sherry or Port ; strain, 
set on the fire, boil a minute, and serve. 



OBEEV SPLIT FEA8 SOUP. 
Cover two pounds of best green split peas with 
cold water ; let stand all night, strain them, and put 
into a pot with a ham bone, two carrots, two turnips, 
four onions, one head celery, and three quarts of 
good second stook ; set on the fire and simmer two 
or three hours, and add a sprig of mint while boiling. 
When the peas are tender, break them with the back 
of a large wooden spoon, and press through a search 
or tammy ; if too thick, add a little stock, set on the 
fire, and season with pepper and a little sugar. Will 
be much improved by adding some juice of spinach; 
it will then be quite green. 



8AUCE8. 35 



SAUCES. 



UTTBODTJCTOBT BEMABES. 
The difference between good and bad cookery can 
scarcely be more strikingly shown than in the man- 
ner in which Sauces are prepared and served. If 
well made, appropriate to the dishes they accom- 
pany, and sent to table with them as hot as possible, 
they not only give a heightened relish to a dinner, 
but they prove that both skill and taste have been 
exerted in its arrangements. When coarsely and 
carelessly prepared, on the contrary, as they too often 
are, they greatly discredit the cook, and are any- 
thing but acceptable to the eaters. Melted butter, 
the most common of all — the ^^one sauce^* of Eng- 
land and America, which excites the raillery of 
foreigners — is frequently found to be such an intole- 
rable compound, either oiled or lumpy, or composed 
principally of flour and water, that it says but little 
for the state of cookery amongst us. We trust that 
the receipts in the present chapter are so clearly 
given, that, if strictly followed, they will materially 
assist the learner in preparing tolerably palatable 
sauees at the least. 



38 SAUCES. 

CUBBIE SAUCE. 
Pare a carrot, an onion, and half a head of young 
celery; cut all into shreds, and put into a stewpan, 
with two ounces of butter, a spoonful of flour, and 
a spoonful of curry powder ; mix together, and add 
a pint of good stock, with a little piece of glaze (if 
handy) ; boil a quarter of an hour, strain, and finish 
as before. 



LOBSTER SAUCE. 
Boil a hen-lobster twenty minutes; break it to 
pieces with great care, and pick all the meat from 
the shell, which cut into small dice ; rub the spawn 
in a mortar, with an ounce of butter, quite smooth ; 
prepare a pint of very fine melted butter, and dissolve 
the spawn into it Add the meat^ with two spoon- 
fuls of thick cream, one spoonful of anchovie essence, 
a little salt, and Cayenne pepper ; do not boiL 



CSEAMSAUCK 
Take a tablespoonful of white roux, a little minced ; 
put it into a small stewpan, with half a pint of very 
rich cream and half a pint of white stock ; stir on 
the fire till it comes to the boil, and season with 
white pepper and a little salt. 



SORREL SAUCE. 
Wash well a few handfuls of sorrel; put into a 
stewpan, with a spoonful or two of water; keep stir- 
«ngi to prevent its burning. When melted, drain it 



SAUCES. 39 

well ; mince on the table very fine. Put back into 
the pan, with a little butter, and fry till quite dry. 
Add a pint of strong brown stock, with a spoonful 
of brown roux. Dissolve on the fire ; and, when it 
has boiled a few minutes, pass through a tammy; 
add a little glaze and a piece of sugar. If too thick, 
dilute with a little gravy. 



GHESKnr SAUcir. 

Cut six good- sized gherkins into thin slices ; put 
them to half a pint of sharp brown sauce ; set on 
the fire, boil, and serve. 



MELTED BUTTEB. 

Although it may be presumed that every cook who 
understands her business, knows how to melt butter,' 
it is yet constantly brought to table either too thick 
or too thin, and not unfrequently filled with lumps 
of flour, or in a state of oil ; and requires more care 
in the management than is generally thought neces- 
sary. 

The excellence of melted butter greatly depends 
upon the pains taken to blend it with the flour be- 
fore it is put upon the fire, the best plan of doing 
which is to rub them together with a knife on a 
wooden trencher. 



SAUCES POB BOAST BEEF OB HXTTTOlf. 
Grate horseradish on a bread-grater into a basin^ 
then add two tahleavoonfvik of cream, mt\x a. \v\X\i^ 



34 SOUPS. 

pounded meat ; melt two ounces of butter, mix three 
of flour, and stir over the fire a minute ; reduce with 
the stock, and add a glass of Sherry or Port ; strain, 
set on the fire, boil a minute, and serve. 



GfiEEH SPLIT PEAS SOUP. 
Cover two pounds of best green split peas with 
cold water ; let stand all night, strain them, and put 
into a pot with a ham bone, two carrots, two turnips, 
four onions, one head celery, and three quarts of 
good second stook ; set on the fire and simmer two 
or three hours, and add a sprig of mint while boiling. 
When tihe peas are tender, break tliem with the back 
of a large wooden spoon, and press through a search 
or tammy ; if too thick, add a little stock, set on the 
fire, and season with pepper and a little sugar. Will 
be much improved by adding some juice of spinach ; 
it will then be quite green. 



BU^ ^rwt s> 



sk. A» 




JT or 



ii 



IK. <ifanr 



«L 



i 



34 SOUPS. 

pounded meat ; melt two ounces of butter, mix three 
of flour, and stir over the flre a minute ; reduce with 
the stock, and add a glass of Sheny or Port ; strain, 
set on the fire, boil a minute, and serve. 



GfiEEH SPLIT FEA8 SOUP. 
Cover two pounds of best green split peas with 
cold water ; let stand all night, strain them, and put 
into a pot with a ham bone, two carrots, two turnips, 
four onions, one head celery, and three quarts of 
good second stook ; set on the fire and simmer two 
or three hours, and add a sprig of mint while boiling. 
When tihe peas are tender, break tliem with the back 
of a large wooden spoon, and press through a search 
or tammy ; if too thick, add a little stock, set on the 
fire, and season with pepper and a little sugar. Will 
be much improved by adding some juice of spinach; 
it will then be quite green. 



8AUGE8. 35 



SAUCES. 



SfTBODUCTOBT BEMABES. 
The difference between good and bad cookery can 
scarcely be more strikingly shown than in the man- 
ner in which Sauces are prepared and served. If 
well made, appropriate to the dishes they accom- 
pany, and sent to table with them as hot as possible, 
they not only give a heightened relish to a dinner, 
but they prove that both skill and taste have been 
exerted in its arrangements. When coarsely and 
carelessly prepared, on the contrary, as they too often 
are, they greatly discredit the cook, and are any- 
thing but acceptable to the eaters. Melted butter, 
the most common of all — the ^^one sauce^* of Eng- 
land and America, which excites the raillery of 
foreigners — is frequently found to be such an intole- 
rable compound, either oiled or lumpy, or composed 
principally of flour and water, that it says but little 
for the state of cookery amongst us. We trust that 
the receipts in the present chapter are so clearly 
given, that, if strictly followed, they will materially 
assist the learner in preparing tolerably palatable 
sauces at the least. 



38 SAUCES. 

CUBBIE SAUCE. 
Pare a carrot, an onion, and half a head of yoting 
celery; cut all into shreds, and pat into a stewpan, 
with two ounces of hutter, a spoonful of flour, and 
a spoonful of curry powder ; mix together, and add 
a pint of good stock, with a little piece of glaze (if 
handy) ; hoil a quarter of an hour, strain, and finish 
as before. 



lOBSTEB SAUCK 
Boil a hen-lobster twenty minutes; break it to 
pieces with great care, and pick all the meat from 
the shell, which cut into small dice ; rub the spawn 
in a mortar, with an ounce of butter, quite smooth; 
prepare a pint of very fine melted butter, and dissolve 
the spawn into it. Add the meat, with two spoon- 
fuls of thick cream, one spoonful of anchovie essence, 
a little salt, and Cayenne pepper ; do not boil. 



CSEAM SAUCK 
Take a tablespoonful of white roux, a little minced ; 
put it into a small stewpan, with half a pint of very 
rich cream and half a pint of white stock ; stir on 
the fire till it comes to the boil, and season with 
white pepper and a little salt. 



SOBBELSAUCS. 
Wash well a few handfuls of sorrel; put into a 
stewpan, with a spoonful or two of water ; keep stir- 
ring, to prevent its burning. When melted^ drain it 



SAUCES. 39 

weH ; minoe on the UUe Teiy Sue. Pot faad^ into 
the pan, with a little batter, and fity till quite dry. 
Add a pint of strmg brown stock, with a spoonfol 
of brown raux. IKsdolve on the Sie^ and, when it 
has boiled a few minotes, pass through a tammy; 
add a little glaze and a |»eoe of sogar. If too thidc, 
dilute with a little graTj. 



6HSSXDI SAUCE. 
Cut rax good-sized gherkins into thin slices ; pot 
them to half a pint of sharp brown sanee ; set on 
the fire, boil, and serre. 



WKLTKD hUTTMJL 

Although it may be presumed that ereiy eook who 
miderstands her business, knows how to mdt hotter, 
it is yet constantly brooght to table either too thick 
or too thin, and not nnfreqoently filled with lamps 
of floor, or in a state of oil ; and reqoires more care 
in the management dian is geoeraUy thooght neces- 
sary. 

The excellenoe of melted hotter greatly depends 
opon the pains taken to blend it with the floor be- 
fore it is pot opon the fire, the best plan of doing 
which is to rob them together with a knife on a 
wooden trencher. 



SAUCES 10R BOAST BEEP OB MUnUI. 
Grate horseradish on a bread-grater into a basiii^ 
then add two tablesoooafuis of eream^ mVh a. ^\3i2^ 



34 SOUPS. 

pounded meat ; melt two ounces of butter, mix tbf ee 
of flour, and stir over the fire a minute ; reduce with 
the stock, and add a glass of Sherry or Port ; strain, 
set on the fire, boil a minute, and serve. 



GfiEEH SPLIT PEAS SOUP. 
Cover two pounds of best green split peas with 
cold water ; let stand all night, strain them, and put 
into a pot with a ham bone, two carrots, two turnips, 
four onions, one head celery, and three quarts of 
good second stook ; set on the fire and simmer two 
or three hours, and add a sprig of mint while boiling. 
When tihe peas are tender, break lliem with the back 
of a large wooden spoon, and press through a search 
or tammy ; if too thick, add a little stock, set on the 
fire, and season with pepper and a little sugar. Will 
be much improved by adding some juice of spinach; 
it will then be quite green. 



SAUCES. 35 



SAUCES. 



nrrSODUCTOBT UEIffAKKS. 
The difference between good and bad cookery can 
scarcely be more strikingly shown than in the man* 
ner in which Sauces are prepared and served. If 
well made, appropriate to the dishes they accom- 
pany, and sent to table with them as hot as possible, 
they not only give a heightened relish to a dinner, 
but they prove that both skill and taste have been 
exerted in its arrangements. When coarsely and 
carelessly prepared, on the contrary, as they too often 
are, they greatly discredit the cook, and are any- 
thing but acceptable to the eaters. Melted butter, 
the most common of all — the ^^one sauce^* of Eng- 
land and America, which excites the raillery of 
foreigners — is frequently found to be such an intole- 
rable compound, either oiled or lumpy, or composed 
principally of flour and water, that it says but little 
for the state of cookery amongst us. We trust that 
the receipts in the present chapter are so clearly 
given, that, if strictly followed, they will materially 
assist the learner in preparing tolerably palatable 
sauces at the least. 



38 SAUCES. 

CUSRIE SAUCE. 
Pare a carrot, an onion, and half a head of young 
celery; cut all into shreds, and put into a stewpan, 
with two ounces of butter, a spoonful of flour, and 
a spoonful of curry powder ; mix together, and add 
a pint of good stock, with a little piece of glaze (if 
handy) ; boil a quarter of an hour, strain, and finish 
as before. 



LOBSTES SAUCE. 
Boil a hen-lobster twenty minutes; break it to 
pieces with great care, and pick all the meat from 
the shell, which cut into small dice ; rub the spawn 
in a mortar, with an ounce of butter, quite smooth ; 
prepare a pint of very fine melted butter, and dissolve 
the spawn into it. Add the meat, with two spoon- 
fuls of thick cream, one spoonful of anchovie essence, 
a little salt, and Cayenne pepper ; do not boil. 



CBEAK SAUCE. 
Take a tablespoouful of white roux, a little minced; 
put it into a small stewpan, with half a pint of very 
rich cream and half a pint of white stock ; stir on 
the fire till it comes to the boil, and season with 
white pepper and a little salt. 



SOBBEL SAUCE. 
"Wash well a few handfuls of sorrel; put into a 
stewpan, with a spoonful or two of water ; keep stir- 
riDg, to prevent its burning. When melted, drain it 



SACCB8. 39 

well ; minoe on the table veiy fine. Pot back into 
the pan, with a little butter, and firy till quite dry. 
Add a pint of strong brown stock, with a spoonfol 
of brown roox. Dissolve cm the fire ; and, when it 
has boiled a few minutes, pass through a tammy; 
add a little glaze and a piece of sugar. If too thick, 
dilute with a little gravy. 



GHitKHiw SAUCE. 
Cut six good-sized gherkins into thin slices ; put 
them to half a pint of sharp brown sauce ; set on 
the fire, boil, and serve. 



XELTED BUTTJUL 

Although it may be presumed that every cook who 
understands her business, knows how to melt butter, 
it is yet constantly brought to table either too thick 
or too thin, and not unfrequently filled with lumps 
of flour, or in a state of oil ; and requires more care 
in the management than is generally thought neces- 
sary. 

The excellence of melted batter greatly depends 
upon the pains taken to blend it with the flour be- 
foro it is put upon the fire, the best plan of doing 
which is to rub them together with a knife on a 
wooden trencher. 



SAUCES FOB SOiLST BEEF OB MUTTOS. 
Grate horseradish on a bread-grater into a basin^ 
then add two tahleaxyoonfuls of cream, mt\i a \\\)0l<& 



40 8AUqE£|. 

mustard and salt, and mix them well together; tiiea 
add fom: tablespoonfuls of best vinegar, and mix the 
whole thoroughly. The vinegar and cream are both 
to be cold. This is a very fine sauce ; it may be 
served Ui a small tureen. 

Or : Scrape the horseradish thin and chop it small, 
or grate it, which is better ; then warm it in melted 
butter, adding a spoonful of mushroom ketchup and 
one of walnut, or the vinegar from walnut pickle. 

Or: Scrape very fine or grate the horseradish; 
add a little made mustard, and two spoonfuls of 
pounded white sugar to four of vinegar; mix the 
whole well together, and place it under the meat, 
when neaHy done, to catch the gravy which drops 
from it while roasting. This sauce should be very 
thick. 



VEBT GOOD EGG SAUCE. 

Boil four fresh eggs for quite fifteen minutes ; then 
lay them into plenty of fresh water, and let them 
remain until they are perfectly cold. /Break the 
shells by rolling them on a table, take them off, 
separate the whites from the yolks, and divide all of 
the latter into quarter-inch dice ; mince two of the 
whites only, tolerably small, mix them lightly, and 
stir them into the third of a pint of rich melted 
butter, or of white sauce ; serve the whole as hot as 
possible. 

Four eggs, boiled fifteen minutes, and left till cold. 
The yolks of all and the whites of two ; the third of 



SAUOfiS. il 

a pint of good melted bntter or white sauoe, and salt 
as needed. 



COMMOS EGG SAUCE. 

Boil a couple of eggs hard, and when they are 
quite cold, cut the whites and the yolks separately ; 
mix them well, put them into a very hot tureen, and 
pour boiling to them a quarter of a pint of melted but- 
ter ; stir, and serve the sauce immediately. 

Two whole eggs, and a quarter of a pint of melted 
butter. 



BECHAMEL. 
This is a fine French white sauce, now very much 
served at good tables. It may be made in various 
ways, and more or less expensively ; but it should 
always be thick, smooth, and rich, though delicate 
in flavour. The most ready mode of preparing it, is 
to take an equal proportion of very strong pale veal 
gruvy, and of good cream (a pint of each, for example), 
and then, by rapid boiling over a very clear fire, to 
reduce the gravy nearly half; next, to mix with part 
of the cream a tablespoonful of fine dry flour, to pour 
it to the remainder, when it boils, and to k(^ep the 
whole stirred for five minutes or more, over ja slow 
fire ; for if placed upon a fierce one it would be liable 
to bum ; then to add the gravy, to stir and mix the 
sauce perfectly, and to simmer it for a few minutes 
longer. All the flavour should be given by the 
gravy, in which French cooks boi\ a \iaii<^fei\. ^i 



42 SAUCES. 

mnslirooins, a few green onions, and some branches 
of parsley, before it is reduced ; but a good b^ha- 
mel may be made without them, with a strong con- 
somm6e. 

One pint of strong pale veal gravy (flavoured with 
mushrooms or not), reduced half. One pint of rich 
cream, and one tablespoonful of flour; boil five 
minutes. With gravy four or five minutes. 



COMMOS BECHAMEL. 
Cut half a pound of veal and a slice of lean ham 
into small dice, and stew them in butter, with vege- 
tables, as directed in the foregoing receipt ; stir in 
the same proportion of flour, then add the milk, and 
let the sauce boil very gently for an hour. It 
should not be allowed to thicken too much before it 
is strained. 



ASFASAGUS SAUCE, FOB LAHB CHOPS* 
Cut the green tender points of some young aspa- 
ragus into half inch lengths, wash them well, drain, 
and throw them into plenty of boiling salt and v^aten 
When they are quite tender, which may be in from 
ten to fifteen minutes, turn them into a hot strainer 
and drain the water thoroughly from them. Put 
them, at the instant of serving, into half a pint of 
thickened veal gravy, mixed with the yolks of a 
couple of eggs, and well seasoned with salt and 
Cayenne or white pepper ; or, into an equal quantity 
oigood. melted butter : add to this last a squeeze of 



SAUCES. 43 

lemon juice. The asparagus will becom; jellow if 
reboiled, or if left long in the sauce before it is served. 
Half a pint of asparagus points, boiled ten or fif- 
teen minutes — longer if not quite tender. Half a pint 
of thickened veal gravy ; and the yolks of two eggs. 



PABSLET AHD BUTTEB. 
Pick and wash clean a large bunch of parsley; tie 
it up, and boil it for a few minutes in water; drain 
and chop it. very finely; add to it some melted butter, 
and make it quite hot. It is better to be made thick 
with parsley. 



FEHVEL SAUCE. 

Proceed as for parsley and butter. 

The first h used for the various purposes of fish, 
poultry, and firesh boiled meats; fennel mostly for 
mackerel. 



CELEBT SAUCE. 
Wash and pare a bunch of celery; cut it into 
pieces, and boil it gently until it is tender; add half 
a pint of cream, and a small piece of butter rolled in 
flour: now boil it gently. This is a good sauce for 
fowls of all kinds, either roasted or boiled. 



MINT SAUCE. 
Soak a bunch of young mint until all the gravel 
is removed from it; strip the stalks and chop up the 
leaves^ then mix them with vinegar ani "^(ywdket^ 



44 SAUCES. 

white sugar. The sugar should be well melted 
before the sauce is senred. It is generally eaten 
with roast lamb, and imparts to it a delicious fla- 
vour. 

The usual proportions of this sauce are — three 
tablespoonfuls of young mint minced, two table- 
spoonfuls of pounded sugar, and six tablespoonfuls 
of yinegar. The proportions can be altered to suit 
the taste: it is generally served too liquid, and not 
sweet enough. It is eaten with roast lamb. 



OmOS SAUCE FOB STEAKS. 
Slice and fry brown, in very little butter, two 
onions; put them into a gill of brown sauce, and 
season with Cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon juice. 



TOTJHG GNIGS SAUCE 
Peel thirty button onions, all of a size, and boil 
them till tender; then put them into half a pint of 
melted butter, made with milk instead of water, and 
season with salt. 



OinOlf SAUCE. 

Peel and slice six middle-sized omons; boil them 
till very soft, when rub them through a sieve; put 
them into a saucepan with three ounces of butter, 
simmer five minutes, add a tablespoonful of flour, 
half a teaspoonfal of salt, and half a pint of cream 
or good milk, and stir till it boils. 

This sauce may be made milder, by first scalding 



SAUCES. 45 

liie onions, and then putting tfaem into cold water; 
or by boiling the onions in two waters. 



FkSKCS HAimS D'HOTEL, OB STXWASD'S SAUCE. ' 
Add to half a pint of rich, pale veal gravy, well 
thickened with the white roux^ a good seasoning of 
pepper, salt, minced parsley, and lemon juice; or 
make the thickening with a small tablespoonful of 
flour, and a couple of ounces of butter; keep these 
stirred constantly over a very gentle fire from ten to 
fifibeen minutes, then pour to them the gravy, boiling, 
in small portions, mixing the whole well as it is 
added, and letting it boil up between each; for 
unless this be done, the butter will be likely to float 
upon the surface. Simmer the sauce for a few 
minutes, and skim it well, then add salt should it be 
needed, a tolerable seasoning of pepper or of Cayenne, 
in fine powder, from two to three teaspoonfuls of 
minced parsley, and the strained juice of a small 
lemon. For some dishes, this sauce is thickened 
with the yolks of eggs, about four to the pint. The 
French work into their sauces generally a small bit 
of fresh butter, just before they are taken from the 
fire, to give them mellowness: this is done usually 
for the Maitre d'Hotel. 



BBEAD SAUCE. 
Pour quite boiling on half a pint of the finest 
bread crumbs, an equal measure of new milk; cover 
them ciosely with a plate, and let the savie^ teoi^Ti 



46 SAUCES. 

for twenty or thirty minutes ; pat it then into a deli- 
cately clean saucepan, with a small saltspoonful of 
salt, half as much pounded mace, a little Cayenne, 
and about an ounce of fresh butter; keep it stirred 
constantly over a clear fire for a few minutes, then 
mix with it a couple of spoonfuls of good cream, give 
it a boil, and serve it immediately. When cream is 
not to be had, an additional spoonful or two of milk 
must be used; and as the sauce ought to be perfectly 
smooth, it is better to shake the crumbs through a 
cullender before the milk is poured to them; they 
should be of stale bread, and very lightly grated. 
As some will absorb more liquid than others, the 
cook must increase a little the above proportion, 
should it be needed. Equal parts of milk and of 
thin cream make an excellent bread sauce: more 
butter can be used to enrich it when it is liked. 

Bread crumbs and new milk, each half a pint (or 
any other measure) ; soaked twenty to thirty minutes, 
or more. Salt, a small saltspoonful; mace, half as 
much ; a little Cayenne ; butter, one ounce ; boiled four 
to five minutes. Two to four spoonfuls of good cream 
(or milk) : one minute. 

Or: Bread crumbs, half a pint; milk and cream, 
each a quarter of a pint; and fix)m two to four spoon- 
fuls of either in addition. 

Observe, — ^Very pale, strong veal gravy, is some- 
times poured on the bread crumbs instead of milk. 



SAUCES. 47 

WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Cut off the stems closely from half a pint of small 
button mushrooms; clean them with a little salt and 
a bit of flannel, and throw them into cold water, 
slightly salted, as they are done ; drain them well, 
or dry them in a sofb cloth, and throw them into half 
a pint of boiling bechamel, or of white sauce made 
with very fresh milk, or thin cream, thickened with 
a tablespoonfiil of flour, and two ounces of butter. 
Simmer the mushrooms from ten to twenty minutes, 
or until they are quite tender, and dish the sauce, 
which should be properly seasoned with salt, mace, 
and Cayenne. 

Mushrooms, half a pint; white sauce, half a pint; 
seasoning of salt, mace, and Cayenne: ten minutes. 



BBOWN MUSHBOOM SAUCE. 
Very small flaps, peeled and freed entirely from 
the fur, will answer for this sauce. Leave them 
whole, or quarter them, and stew them tender in 
some rich brown gravy; give a full seasoning of 
mace and Cayenne, add thickening, and salt if needed, 
and a tablespoonful of good mushroom ketchup. 



TOMATO SAUCE. 
Melt four tomatos in a stewpan, stirring with a 
spoon ; take out the pips, and rub through a sieve ; 
cut an onion, a little celery, a piece of carrot, and 
an ounce of lean ham, into small dice ; stew, with an 
ounce of batter^ till tender; add a spoonfui oi &o\xx^ 



48 8AUGE8. 

a little sugar, P^PP^^) ^^ salt] moisten witb half 
a pint of strong stock, add the tomatos, boil a few 
minutes, and strain; put back into the pan^ and 
simmer a few minutes ; skim, and serve. 



COXXOV TOMATO 6AUCK 

Tomatoes at^ so juicy when ripe, that they require 
but little liquid to reduce them to a proper consist- 
ency for sauce; and they vary so exceedingly in size 
and quality that it is difficult to give precise direc- 
tions for the exact quantity which is needed for them^ 
Take of£ the stalks, halve the tomatoes, and gently 
squeeze out the seeds and watery pulp; then stew 
them softly with a few spoonfuls of gravy or of 
strong broth until they are quite melted. Press the 
whole through a hair sieve, and heat it afresh with a 
little additional gtsity, should it foe too thick, and 
some Cayenne and salt. Serve it very hot. 

Fine ripe tomatoes, six or eight; gravy or strong 
broth, four tablespoonfuls; half to three quarters of 
an hoar, or longer if needed. Salt and Cayenne suf- 
ficient to season the sauce, and two or three spoonfuls 
more of gravy if required. 

Observe. — For a large tureen of this sauce, increase 
the proportions; and should it be at first too liquid, 
reduce it by quick boilings When neither gravy nor 
broth is at hand, the tomatoes may be stewed per- 
fectly tender, but very gently, in a couple of ounces 
of butter, with some Cayenne and salt only, or with 
ihe addition of a very little finely minced onion; then 



SAUCES, 49^ 



rubbed tbroagb a sieve, and beated, and served witb* 
out any addition, or witb only tbat of a teaspoonful 
of vinegar. 



CAPES SAUCE. 
Stir into one-tbird of a pint of good melted butter 
from tbree to seven dessert-spoonfuls of capers ; add 
a little of tbe vinegar, and disb tbe sauce as soon as 
it boils. Keep it stirred after tbe capers are added. 
Part of tbem may be minced, and a little Cbili vine* 
gar substituted for tbeir o\ini. Pickled nasturtiums 
make a very good sauce. For a large joint increase 
tbe quantity of butter to balf a pint. To be served 
witb boiled mutton. 



TABRAGON SAUCE. 
Put two or tbree tablespoonfuls of tarragon vine- 
gar into a stewpan, witb a small piece of lean bam, 
and a sliced shalot; set it over a slow fire, and in a 
few minutes add balf a pint of wbite gravy; simmer, 
skim, and pass tbrougb a fine sieve; and, just before 
serving, put in a little chopped tarragon and chervil; 
add lemon juice, and season witb Cayenne pepper. 



SAUCE FOR DUCELnrOS. 
Take young green onions or chives; chop them 
very small, then put them into some thick melted 
butter, witb pepper, salt, and a spoonful of lemon 
pickle; stir it well together, and, when very hot, 
put it into the disb with the duc^LS upon it. %\vn\i&A. 



50 9AnC£8. 

the flavour of the onions be thought too strong, they 
may be scalded previously. 



WHITE SAUCE FOB BOILED CHICKEJHS. 
Put into a stewpan the trimmings of the chickens, 
with a small piece of the scrag of veal, two blades of 
mace, some whole white pepper, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, some lemon peel, and a pint and a half of 
water; simmer to three-quarters: strain, and thicken 
with butter and flour, and boil up; then add a tea- 
cupful of cream, simmer, but do not boil : season witb 
salt, and add a little lemon juice. 



GOOD OTSTEB SAUCE. 
At the moment they are wanted for use, open 
three dozen of fine pl«mp oystjprs; save carefully 
and strain their liquor, rinse them separately in it, 
put them into a very clean saucepan, strain the 
liquor again, and pour it to them ; heat them slowly, 
and keep them from one to two minutes at the sim- 
mering point, without allowing them to boily as that 
will render them Lard. Lift them out and beard 
them neatly; add to the liquor three ounces of butter, 
smoothly mixed with a large dessert- spoonful of flour; 
stir these without ceasing until they boil, and are 
perfectly mixed; then add to them gradually a quar- 
ter of a pint, or rather more, of new milk, or of thin 
cream, (or equal parts of both,) and continue the 
stirring until the sauce boils again; add a little salt, 
should it be needed, and a small quantity of Cayenne 



SI 

in the fiaert powder; put im tke opsbBn, nati. keep 
the saooepaa bj tke sdeof tkefire, wadLlhe whoLt 
m ihontaghty htiL and b^int to Mntr, ^en 
the flaoee into a well healed tareen, and tend it 
mediately to taUe. 

Small ]^mnp ojatefi, three donen; bnttec, three 
omice; floor, cme lai^ deaiot-ipoanfid; the ojater 
liqoor; milk orcream, fidl^iarter of apint; alitde 
salt and Ci^i 



Brown lightly, in an ooace and a half of batta^ a 
tablespoonfal of minced esehaloU, or three of omonf ; 
add a teaspoonfbl of floor when they are partially 
done; pour to them half a pint of gnry, or of good 
broth, and when it bdla, add three dulies, a bay 
lea^ and a very small bonch of tl^rme. Let these 
simmer for twenty minntes; take oat the thyme and 
bay leai^ add a high seasoning of Uaek pepper, and 
half a win^^assfbl ci the best Yin^;ar. A qpartet 
of a teaspocmM of Cayenne may be sobstituted for 
theehili< 



H0BSESAIII8H a^F CF- 
Stew an onion in a little fish stock mitil it will 
pulp ; add a teaspoonM ci grated horseradish, and 
<me or two spoonfuls of essence of anchovies. Beat 
all together over a fire, thicken it with a little batter, 
and finish with a spoonfol ci lemon ^ekle, or lemon 
jnice. Vinegar may be sabsdtoied, in m\aAi eaaft.'^ 



52 SAUCES. 

must be mixed with the horseradish, and boiled with 
it; while the lemon or lemon pickle, being of a more 
delicate flavour should only be warmed. 

Or:, Scrape the horseradish thin, and chop it 
small, or grate it, which is better; warm it in melted 
butter, adding a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 
one of walnut, or the vinegar from walnut pickle. 



SAUCE FIQUAITTE FOB BOILED BEEF. 
Brown in a pan a little butter and flour, add to it 
half a pint of the soup from the beef, one carrot, two 
onions, and one clove of garlic chopped fine. Let it 
stew for about fifteen minutes. Then add a pickled 
cucumber chopped fine, and a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar. Let the whole stew for a few minutes, and pour 
it over the beef when «erve4. 



FOB FBESH WATEB FISH. 
Take two large anchovies, half of an onion, finely 
chopped, one spoonful of vinegar, and four of sherry 
or ginger wine: boil it together, thicken it with 
flour, and add four spoonfuls of cream or melted 
butter, in which latter case, the flour may be omit- 
ted. 



FOB ALL SOBTS OF FISH. 
Take a spoonful of vinegar, one of Indian soy, the 
same of mushroom ketchup and Harvey's sauce, with 
a little Cayenne. Add three large spoonfuls of melted 
butter; stir all well, and heat it over the fire. 



8AUCE& 53 

Or: Pot equal quantities of water and vinegar 
into a saucepan, and thicken it with the .yolk of an 
egg to every four spoonfuls of the water and vinegar. 
Make it quite hot, but do not boil it ; stir it or shake 
the pan all the time ; season it to your liking, and 
add a spoonful of the liquid to every three of melted 
butter. 



BICH DITTCH FISH SAUCE. 
Put two ounces of butter, with two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, into a quarter of a pint of water or gravy ; 
simmer and stir, adding half a teacupful of cream 
beaten with the yolks of four eggs, and three table- 
spoonfuls of horseradish vinegar ; warm, but do not 
boil together, add salt and the juice of half a lemon, 
and strain through a sieve. 



jUrCHOYT SAITCK 
Season melted butter with essence of anchovies, 
and a little lemon juice. Or, pick, but do not wash, 
two or three anchovies, beat them to a paste, with 
fresh butter, pass the paste through a sieve, add flour, 
and proceed as for melted butter. 



STEWED APPLE SAUCE. 
Pare and core apples, put them into a preserve-pot, 
cover up, and set it on a hot hearth, or in a sauce- 
pan of water, to boil ; when the apples are soft, mix 
them to a pulp with a small piece of butter^ and 
sweeten with brown sugar. This is a m\w^\ife\X«t 



54 iBAUOES. 

method tban tlie common one of boiling tlie apples 
with water. A little grated lemon peel is sometimes 
added. 



GOOSEBiaEOtT SAUCE. 
Cat the stalks and tops from half to a whole pint 
of quite young gooseberries, wash them well, just 
cover them with cold water and boil them very gently 
indeed until they are tender ; drain them well, and 
mix with them a small quantity of melted butter 
made with rather less flour than usual. Some eaters 
prefer the mashed gooseberries without any addition; 
others like that of a little ginger. The best way of 
making this sauce is to turn the gooseberries into a 
hair sieve to drain, then to press them through it 
with a wooden spoon, and to stir them in a clean 
stewpan or saucepan over the fire, with from a half 
to a whole teaspoonful of sugar, just to soften their 
extreme acidity, and a bit of fresh butter about the 
size of a walnut. When the fruit is not passed 
through the sieve it is an improvement to seed it. 



SWEET FUDDING SAUCE. 
Boil together for fifteen minutes, the thin rind of 
half a small lemon, an ounce and a half of fine sugar, 
and a wine-glassful of water; then take out the lemon 
peel, and mix very smoothly an ounce of butter with 
rather more than half a teaspoonful of flour, stir 
them round in the sauce until it has boiled one 
minute^ next add a wine-glassM and a half of 



SAi;c£& 55 

fiherry or Madeira, or two-thirds of that quantity and 
a quarter of a glass of brandy : when quite hot, serve 
the sauce. 

Port wine sauce is made in the same way, with 
the addition of a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice, 
some grated nutmeg, and a little more sugar: orange 
rind and juice may be used to give it flavour when 
preferred to lemon. , 

Rind half a lemon ; sugar, one and a half ounce ; 
water, one wine-glassful: fifteen minutes. Butter, 
one ounce ; flour, large half teaspoonful : one minute. 
Wine, one and a half wine-glassful ; or, one of wine, 
and a quarter of a glass of brandy. 



coMMOir FUDDnre sauce. 

Sweeten a quarter of a pint of good melted butter 
with an ounce and a half of sugar, and add to it 
gradually a couple of glasses of wine ; stir it until it 
is at the point of boiling, and serve it immediately. 
Lemon grate, or nutmeg, can be added at pleasure. 



A BELICIOUS GEBXAK FUDDDTG SAITCE. 
Dissolve in half a pint of sherry, or of Madeira, 
finom three to four ounces oC fine sugar, but do not 
allow the wine to boil ; stir it hot to the well beaten 
yolks of six fresh eggs, and mill the sauce over a 
gentle fire until it is well thickened and highly 
frothed; pour it over a plum, or any other kind of 
sweet boiled pudding, of which it much improves the 
appearance. Half the quantity wii\\\)e «oS&CL\&'GL\.i<cst 



56 

one of modente size. A small madiine, resembling 
a cfaocoUte millf is used in Gennanv for finothing 
this sauce; but a couple of silver forks^ ftstened 
logetber at the handles, will senre for the purpose, 
on an emergency. We recommend the addition of a 
dessert-spoonfiil of strained lemon joice to the sherry, 
or Madeira wine. 

For large podding, sherry or Madeira, half a pint; 
fine sugar, three to four ounce ; yolks of eggs, eix ; 
lemon juice, (if added), one dessert-spoonfoL 

Observt. — In the above receipts, the wine and 
brandy may be omitted, and more sugar and lemon 
juice added, if the strict temperance principle is con- 
sidered to extend to food. 



XELTED BUTTER. 

Take four ounces of butter, put it into a small 
stewpan, and if hard, soften a little ; add two table* 
spoonfuls of flour, mix both into a paste, and add 
one pint of new milk ; stir on the fire with a spattle 
till on the point of boiling ; take it off, add an ounce 
more butter, and season wTth salt and pepper. 

N,B, — The above is the most useful of all English 
sauces; and is used for fish in various forms, for 
vegetables, and, omitting salt and pepper, with ad- 
dition of sugar and a little wine, makes an excellent 
sauce for puddings. 



ABBOWBOOT SAUCE. 
Put two wine-glassfuls of water into a stewpan, 



FISH* S7 

with one of port wine, and one of sherry or brandy^ 
the juice of a lemon, and two ounces of sugar. Mix 
one tablespoonful of arrowroot with a glass of cold 
water in a cup, pour it into the B,tewpan, and boil. 
Pour over the pudding ; and if too thick, add a glasd 
of water* 



PISH. 

IHTBODtJCnOirr 

The cook should be well acquainted with the signs 
of freshness and good condition in fish, as many of 
them are most unwholesome articles of food when 
stale, or out of season. The eyes should be bright, 
the gUls of a fine clear red, the body stiff, the flesh 
firm, yet elastic to the touch, and the smell not dis- 
agreeable. When all these marks are reversed, and 
the eyes are sunken, the gills very dark in hue, the 
flesh itself flabby and of offensive odour, it is bad, 
and should be avoided. The chloride of soda will, 
it is true, restore it to a tolerably eatable state,* if it 
be not very much overkept, but it will never re- 
semble in quality fish that is fresh from the water. 
A good turbot is thick and full fleshed, and the 



^ We hATO known this applied very saccessltilly to salmon, vrliicb from 
some hoars keeping in snltry weather, had acquired a a\ig|l[\X ^<&^«,^ ^1 
taint, of wliicb no trace remained after It was dressed. 



58 FISH. 

under side is of a pale cream colour, or yellowish 
white ; when this is of a bluish tint, and the fish is 
thin and soft, it should be rejected. 

ThQ best salmon and codfish are known by a small 
head| very thick shoulders, and a sipall tail. The 
scales of the former should be bright, and its flesh of 
a fine red colour ; to be eaten in perfection, it should 
be dressed as soon as it is caught, before the curd 
(or white substance which lies between the flakes of 
flesh) has melted, and rendered the fish oily. In 
that state it is really crimpy but continues so only for 
a very few hours. 

The flesh of cod fish should be white and clear 
before it is boiled, whiter still after it is boiled, and 
firm though tender, sweet and mild in flavour, and 
separated easily into large flakes. Many persons' 
consider it rather improved than otherwise by having 
a little salt rubbed along the inside of the backbone, 
and letting it lie from twenty -four to forty-eight 
hours before it is dressed. It is sometimes served 
crimp like salmon, and must the^ be sliced as soon 
as it is dead, or within the shortest possible time 
afterwards. 

Herrings, mackerel, and whitings, lose their fresh- 
ness so rapidly, that unless newly caught, they are 
quite uneatable. The herring may, it is said, be. 
deprived of the strong, rank smell which it emits 
when broiled or fried, by stripping off the skin, 
under which lies the oil that causes the disagreeable 
odour. The wbiting is a .peculiarly pure flavoured 



FISH. 59 

and delicate fiali ; and acceptable generally to invalids, 
from being very light of digestion. 

Eels should be alive and brisk in movement when 
they are purchased ; but the " horrid barbarity," as 
it is truly designated, of skinning and dividing them 
while they are so, is without excuse, as they are 
easily destroyed "by piercing the spinal marrow 
close to the back part of the skull, with a sharp 
pointed knife or skewer. If this be done in the 
right place, all motion will instantly cease." We 
qnote Dr. Kitchener's assertion on this subject ; but 
we know that the mode of destruction which he re- 
commends is commonly practised by the London 
fishmongers. Boiling water, also, will immediately 
canse vitality to cease; and is perhaps the most 
humane and ready method of destroying the fish. 

Lobsters, prawns, and shrimps, are rery stiff when 
freshly boiled, and the tails turn strongly inwards ; 
when these relax, and the fish are soft and watery, 
they are stale ; and the smell will detect their being 
80 instantly, even if no other symptoms of it be re- 
marked. If bought alive, lobsters should be chosen 
by their weight and " liveliness:" The hen lobster 
is preferred for sauce and soups, on account of the 
coral ; but the flesh of the male is generally consi- 
dered of finer flavour for eating. The vivacity of 
their leaps will show when prawns and shrimps are 
frBsb from the sea. 

Oysters should close forcibly on the knife whem 
thejr are opened; if the shells are apart eyekt ^oX^NJX^ 



60 FISH. 

they are losing their condition, and when they re^ 
main far open the fish are dead, and fit only to be 
thrown away. Small plump natives are preferable 
to the larger and coarser kinds. 

Preparatory to the dressing, the fish should be 
carefully gutted, and afterwards cleaned thoroughly 
by the cook, from all appearances of blood, particu- 
larly scraping the blood that lodges about the back- 
bone, and cutting the fish open for some distance 
below the vent. If, however, the fishmonger does 
not clean it, fish is seldom very nicely done, for 
common cooks are apt not to slit the fish low enough^ 
by which, and not thoroughly washing the blood, 
&c., from the bone, a very disgusting mass is left 
within, and mistaken for liver; but fishmongers 
generally wash it beyond what is necessary for 
cleaning, and by perpetual watering diminish the 
flavour. It should, in fact, be handled as littb as 
possible, and never left in the water a moment after 
it is washed. In washing it, the best way is to hold 
the fish firmly by the head with your left hand, and 
Fcrape off the scales or slime ; wash it once in clean 
cold water, and either dry it with a towel, or hang 
it up and leave it to drain. 

Some kinds, as whiting, bass, cod, and haddock, 
eat firmer if salt b« put into their gills, and they h% 
hung up a few hours before dressing. 

Fish are either boiled, fried, or broiled. Salt 
may be added to the water in which all kinds of fish 
sre boUed^ and the flavour of sea-fiah is much im- 



FISH« 6t 

proved by boiling in sea water. Fish should boil 
gently, or rather simmer after it has once boiled up, 
and the water should be constantly skimmed. 

Instead of dissolving salt in the water in which 
fish are to be boiled, some cooks prefer to steep the 
fish in salt and water from five to ten minutes, before 
putting it in the kettle to cook ; the necessity of 
using salt in boiling fish is thus avoided ; less scum 
rises, so that the lid has not to be taken off so oflen 
to skim it, and the fish comes to table not only nicer, 
but with a better appearance. 

To render boiled fish firm, put a small bit of salt- 
petre with the salt in the water in which it is boiled ; 
a quarter of an ounce will be sufficient for a gallon. 

To determine when fish is sufficiently boiled, draw 
it up upon the fish-plate, and if the thickest part of 
the fish can be easily divided from the bone with a 
knife, the fish will be done, and should be at once 
taken from the water, or it will lose its flavour and 
firmness. 

By most cooks it is considered better to put all 
fish on in boiling than in cold water. 

An oval pan is best adapted to frying fish. Olive 
oil is best to fry in, but dripping or lard is commonly 
used. It should boil before the fish is put in it, and 
be kept gently boiling until the fish is of a yellow- 
ish brown colour, when it should be taken out and 
drained. 

To broil fish, have a clear but not fierce fire. Dry 
the fish in a cloth; ;season it with pepper aiidi %^\>^ 



62 FISH. 

and flour it ; then put it on a gridiron, baying first 
rubbed the heated bars with suet, otherwise the fish 
will stiek to them and be broken. It should be 
often turned in broiling. 

In the dressing of flat fish as cutlets^ the fillets 
should be lifled from the bones, and the spine which 
runs through the centre of the round sorts should be 
extn^ted. 

The stewing of fish^ and dressing it in fillets and 
cutlets, requires coneriderably more care in the cook- 
ery, as well as cost in the ingredients, than either of 
the previous modes ; and as a peliminary to the 
operation, a gravy should be got ready, to be made- 
in the following manner : — ^Take out all the bones, 
cut off the heads and tails, and, if this should not be 
sufficient, add an eel, or any small common fish ; stew 
them with an onion, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs; 
strain it, and thicken it to the consistence of cream, 
flavouring with a slight addition of wine, or any other 
sauce. The French employ the commonest sort of 
their wine as a marinade^ or sauce, both for the boil- 
ing and stewing of fish. 

Marinade — is commonly used in France for the 
purpose of boiling fish, which imbibes from it a more 
pleasant flavour than it naturally possesses ; and has 
been so generally adopted by English professed cooks, 
that we here insert the receipt : — Cut up two carrots, 
three onions, six shalots, a single clove of garlic^ 
Und put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, 
a bunch of parsley, and a bundle of sweet herbs ; fry 



FISH. €3 

the whole for a few minutes ; then add, very gra- 
dually, two bottles of any light wine or of cider. Put 
in a handful of salt, two dozen of pepper-corns, the 
aamt quantity of allspice, and a couple of cloves. 
Simmer the whole together for an hour and a half, 
strain the liquor, and put it by for use. 

This marinade, if carefully strained after the fish 
has been taken out, will serve several times for the 
same purpose, adding a little water each time. Fish 
dressed in it should simmer very gently, or rather 
stew than boil, as it affords to mackerel, fresh her- 
rings, perch, roach, and any of the smaU river fish, 
the advantage of dissolving, or so thoroughly soften- 
ing their bones, as to render them more agreeable 
in eating. For large fish, they should be cut inlo 
steaks before being marinaded. Instead of the wine 
or cider, a quart of table-beer, a glass of soy, one of 
essence of anchovies, and one of ketchup, may be 
used ; or a pint of vinegar and these sauces, fennel, 
chives, thyme, and bay leaves, may be added with 
the wine, cider, &c. Or, choose a kettle that will 
suit the size of the fish, into which put two parts 
water, one of light (not sweet) white wine, a good 
piece of butter, some stewed onions and carrots, pep- 
per, salt, two or three cloves, and a good bunch of 
sweet herbs ; simmer fifteen minutes, let it become 
cold, and then boil the fish therein. Serve with an- 
chovy sauce and a squeeze of lemon. 

Fresh-water Fish are equally nutritious with those 
of the sea; they are much lighter as food, audi \k<^x^lQ!t% 



-i 



61 FISH. 

easier of digestion ; they are, however, more watery, 
and it is requisite to use salt, in order to extract the 
watery particles. Every sort of fresh-water fish 
ought, therefore, as soon as killed and cleaned, to 
have salt well rubbed inside and outside, and should 
be allowed so to remain for some time before it is 
cooked, when it should be well washed out with pure 
spring water, and wiped thoroughly dry with a clean 
cloth. 

If bred in ponds, it ofben acquires a muddy smell 
and taste ; to take off which, soaking in strong salt 
and water, or, if of a size to bear it, scalding in the 
same, will have the proper effect 

To preserve fish fresh — boil three quarts of water 
and a pint of vinegar, in which, when boiling, put 
the fish, and scald it for two minutes. Then hang 
up the fish in a cool place, and it will keep for two 
or three days, and dress as well as if fresh caught. 

If the fish should happen to freeze, they should be 
placed in cold water without salt, for an hour or so, 
to thaw them. 

Fish is usually garnished with horseradish, sliced 
lemon, or fried parsley ; and the roe, melt, and liver. 
When served up, it should not be covered. 

Fish kettles have always a perforated false bottom, 
with handles affixed, called a fish-strainer, so that it 
is very easy to take up fish when done, without 
breaking it. When dished up, it must be slid off 
this fish-strainer on to a fish-plate, which fits the 
dish you serve it up in, on which fishplate a nice 



FISH. 65 

clean white napkin is sometimes pot to lay the fish 
on, to ahsorb all the moisture. 

Some people do not approve of a napkin to lay fish 
on ; in which case, of course, you must only slide 
the fish off the strainer on to the fish-plate, which 
yon put into a dish that it fits, and serve it up. 

Should it happen that the fish is done before it is 
wanted, or that the Csimily is not ready to sit down, 
the best way will be to wrap a wet napkin round the 
fish, and placing it very carefully on the tin strainer, 
suspend it in the fish-kettle, over so much of the 
boiling water as will keep it hot, but not touch it 
It will thus be kept ready to serve up when wanted ; 
but it will not be near so nice as if it had been sent 
up to table the moment it was cooked. 

Melted butter to be served with the fish, should be 
made thicker than when intended for any other pur- 
pose, as it is usually thinned at table by one or other 
of the sauces taken with fish. 



TO BOIL COD FDSH. 
When this fish is large, the head and shoulders 
are sufficient for a handsome dish, and they contain 
all the choicer portion of it, though not so much sub- 
stantial eating, as the middle of the body, which, in 
consequence, is generally preferred to them by the 
frugal housekeeper. Wash the fish, and cleanse the 
inside, and the back bone in particular, with the most 
scrupulous care; lay it into the fish-kettle and cover 
it well with cold water mixed with five ounceift oil «idN^* 

E 



66 ' FISH. 

to the gallon, aud about a quarter of an ounce of 
saltpetre to the whole. Place it over a moderate 
fire, clear off the scum perfectly, and let the fish boil 
gently until it is done. Drain it well,* and dish it 
carefully upon a very hot napkin, with the liver and 
the roe as a garnish. To these are usually added 
tufts of lightly scraped horseradish round the edge. 
Serve well-made oyster sauce and plain melted but- 
ter with it; or anchovy sauce when oysters cannot 
be procured. Moderate size, from twenty to thirty 
minutes ; large, from thirty to forty-five minutes to 
boil. 



SLICES OF COD FISH FBIED. 

Cut the middle or tail of the fish into slices nearly 
an inch thick, season them with salt and white 
pepper or Cayenne, flour them well, and fry them of 
a clear equal brown on both sides ; drain them on a 
sieve before the fire, and serve them on a well-heated 
napkin, with plenty of crisped parsley round them. 
Or, dip them into beaten egg, and then into fine 
crumbs mixed with a seasoning of salt and pepper 
(some cooks add one of minced herbs also), before 
they are fried. Send melted butter and anchovy 
sauce to table with them. From eight to twelve 
minutes to fry. 

Observe. — This is a much better way of dressing 



* Tliis shonld be done by settiiig fhe flah-plate across fhe ketUe for a 
minute or twa 



V 



FISH. ^7 

the thin part of the fish than boiling it, and as it is 
generally cheap, it makes thns an economical, as 
well as a very good dish : if the slices are lifted from 
the frying-pan into a good curried gravy, and left 
in it by the side of the fire for a few minutes before 
they are sent to table, they will be found excel- 
lent — would be quite spoiled if they, are boiled with 
the fish. Garnish the dish with slices of hard-boiled 
eggs, and serve with egg sauce. 



OOFS HEAD AHD SHOULDERS 
Will eat much finer by having a little salt rubbed 
down the bone, and along the thick part, even if to 
be eaten the same day. 

Tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water suf- 
ficient to cover it ; throw in a handful of salt. Great 
care must be taken to serve it without the smallest 
speck of black or scum. Garnish with a large 
quantity of double parsley, lemon, horseradish, and 
the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if approved. 
If with smelts, be careful that no water hangs about 
the fish; or the beauty of the smelts will be taken 
off, as well as their flavour. 

Serve with plenty of oyster or shrimp sauce, and 
anchovy and butter. 



OOD SOUHDS BOILED. 
Soak them in warm water half an hour, then 
scrape and clean; and if to be dressed white^ IkaI 
them in milk and water; when tender, aexNe A!Ki<^iii 



68 

in a napkiii, with egg sauce. The salt must not be 
mnch soaked out, unless for fricassee. 



CUBSIE OF GOD. 
Should he made of sliced cod, that has either been 
crimped or sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fry it 
of a fine brown with onions; and stew it with a good 
white gravy, a little cnny powder, a bit of butter and 
flour, three or four spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and 
Cayenne, if the powder be not hot enough,' 



10 BBESS SALT GOB. 
Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then 
lay it all night in water, with a glass of vinegar. 
Boil it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish; 
peur over it parsnips boiled, beaten in a mortar, and 
then boiled up with cream and a large piece of 
butter rubbed with a bit of flour. It may be served 
as above with egg sauce instead of the parsnip, and 
the root sent up whole ; or the fish may be boiled 
and sent up without flaking, and sauces as above. 



TO DBESS SALT COD. 

Another way. 
Soak the fish till the salt is taken out, put it in 
cold water, the moment it begins to boil take it off 
the fire, and keep it in the water till tender. For 
sauce, take six ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of 
flour, a few spoonfuls of water with salt and pepper; 
put on the fire^ stir tUl on the point of boiling; take 



FISH^ 69 

it off, and stir till quite smooth, add a little chopped 
parsley, and, if at hand, a little thick cream. Take 
the bones from the fish, and put it to the sauce, and 
serve. 



TO DBESS SALT FDSH. 

Soak it in cold water, according to its saltness ; 
the only method of ascertaining which, is to taste 
one of the flakes of the fish. That fish which is 
hard and dry will require twenty-four hours' soak- 
ing, in two or three waters, to the last of which add 
a wine-glassful of vinegar. But less time will suf- 
fice for a barrelled cod, and still less for the split 
fish. Put the fish on in cold water, and let it sim- 
mer, but not actually boil, else it will be tough and 
thready. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, the yolks 
cut in quarters, and serve with egg sauce, parsnips, 
or beet-root. 

Or: Lay the piece you mean to dress all night in 
water, with a glass of vinegar; boil it enough, then 
break it into flakes on the dish ; warm it up with 
cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a bit 
of flour, and serve it as above with egg sauce. 



TO KEEP TUBBOT. 
If necessary, turbot will keep for two or three 
days, and be in as high perfection as at first, if 
lightly rubbed over with salt, and carefully hung in 
a cold place. 



70 nsHi 

TO BOH TUSBOT. 

The turbot-kettle most be of a proper size, and in 
the nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient 
to cover it completely, throw a handful of salt and 
a glass of vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil ; 
be very careful that there fall no blacks ; but skim 
it well, and preserve the beauty of the colour. 

Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of 
curled parsley, lemon, and horseradish.. 

The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy 
butter, and plain butter, served plentifully in sepa- 
rate tureens. 



SALMON PLAIET BOILED. 
Pat on the fish-kettle with enough spring water 
to cover the salmon. When the water boils, put in 
a handfiil of salt, then the fish on a drainer; this will 
throw the pot off the boil. When it does boil, draw 
aside, and allow it to simmer slowly. A salmon of 
ten or twelve pounds will take about three quarters 
of an hour; lifl it out of the water as soon as it is 
ready, dish on a napkin, and serve with lobster 
sauce, or melted butter in a boat, with a few sprigs 
of parsley. 



TO FBT SALMON. 

Salmon cutlets should be cut from a piece of a 

split salmon ; cut them without bone about half an 

inch thick, and rub them over with egg well beaten; 

season with pepper and salt, dip them in chopped 



71 

herbs and bread crumbs, fry ibsm as jo« would a 
veal cutlet; -^erve with Indian-pickle sanee. 

Or: Cut pieces half an inch thick; season them, and 
put them in paper, and broil until hot throi^ : serre 
with lemon only. This is nsuall j eatoi aft fareakfiisL 

Or : As in the Hebrew fsishion, slice the salmon, 
and cover it with salt for two honrs; then dry it, and 
brash it over with yolk of egg&. Fiy it in oil, and 
serve it cold with salad. Any small peoes of safanon 
may be dressed with salad, or with salad sanee. 



TO SRQIL SAIXOV. 
Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper 
and salt; lay each slice in half a sheet of white 
paper, well buttered, twist the eaads ci the paper, and 
bn»l the slices over, a slow fire six or eight minntes. 
Serve in the paper with anchovy sanee. 



TO DSTSALMin^ 
Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. 
Rub the whole with common salt after scaling it; 
let it hang twenty-four hours to drain. Pound three 
or four ounces of saltpetre, according to the size of 
the fish, two ounces of bay salt, and two ounces of 
coarse sugar; rub these, when mixed well, into the 
salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days, 
then rub it well with common salt, and in twenty- 
four hours more it will be fit to dry ; wipe it well after 
draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney^ or in 
a dry place; keeping it open mth two smaiSl ^iAas^. 



72 FISH. 

Dried salmon is eaten broils in paper, and only 
just warmed through; egg sauce and mashed pota- 
toes with it; or it may be boiled^ espeeiallj the bit 
next the head. 



TO FICKLE SALMOV. 
After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and 
divide into such pieces as you choose, lay it in the 
kettle to fill the bottom, and as much water as will 
cover it; to three quarts put a pint of vinegar, a 
handful of salt, twelve bay leaves, six blades of mace, 
and a quarter of an ounce of black pepper. When 
the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a 
clean cloth, then put more salmon into the kettle, 
and pour the liquor upon it, and so on till all is done. 
After this, if the pickle be not smartly flavoured 
with the vinegar and salt, add more, and boil it 
quick three quarters of an hour. When all is cold, 
pack the fish in something deep, and let there be 
enough of pickle to plentifully cover. Preserve it 
from the air. The liquor must be drained from the 
fish, and occasionally boiled and skimmed. 



TO BOIL UACEEBEL. 
They should be carefully cleaned both inside and 
out : then washed in vinegar and water, and left to 
hang a little to dry before being put into the fish- 
kettle. A handful of salt should be put into the 
water, which should be at first cold, and only allowed 
to boil gently from fifteen to twenty minutes, though 



FISH. ^ 73 

some prefer having the water boiling hot. The fish 
should be watched about that time, aa ^'when the 
eye starts, and- the tail splits, they are done, and 
should be immediately taken up; if left in the water 
they will break." 

The most customary sauce is that of fennel, which 
has partly superseded the gooseberry, but parsley 
and butter is still in use. 



TO BOIL UACEEBEL. 

Another way. 

Mackerel may be boiled in a marinade made as 
follows: Take, with some weak broth, two table- 
spoonfals of vinegar, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few 
small onions, or a large one stuck with a clove, 
pepper, and salt; boil these together an hour; then 
boil the fish in this gravy: take them out when 
ready, strain the liquor, and thicken it; make it 
green with chopped parsley and fennel ; add a tea- 
spoonful of any kind of fish sauce, and send it to 
table. 



TO BBOIL MACKEREL. 

Clean and split them open; wipe dry; lay them 
on a clean gridiron, rubbed with suet, over a very 
clear slow fire; turn; season with pepper, salt, and 
a little butter; fine-minced parsley is also used. 

Trout and perch are broiled in the same way. 



74 FISH. 



Cut off the heads and tafla, open them, and cfeu 
them well; mh them with pepper and aah, put them 
into a deep dish, with a little mace, one or two haj 
leaves, and some whole black pepper; then poar 
over them eqoal quantities of eold vin^ar and 
water, tie the dish over with stnmg paper, (not 
brown), and bake for an hoar in a slow oven. Or, 
the mackerel may be seasoned as before, battered 
and baked in a dish with batter, withoat the vin^ar 
and water, and eaten with fennel or parsley and 
batter. 



PICKLED MACKEREL, OR GAYEACS. 

Clean six large mackerel, cat them, split or whole, 
into fbar or five pieces, leaving oat the heads and 
tails. Then mix an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, 
a little mace, (both finely powdered) and a handful 
of salt; rub the pieces of fish with this powder, and 
fry them brown iu oil; when cold, put them into a 
jar, and fill it up with vinegar. Mackerel may thus 
be kept good for several months, especially if oil be 
poured upon the vinegar. 



TO BOIL HADDOCK. 
They are in season from June till January, and 
their condition may be tested in the same manner as 
cod; but they should be immediately gutted, much 
below the vent, and carefully cleaned, to prevent the 
rancidity which would otherwise be occasioned to 



FISH. <d 

ibwr flayour by the oilmess €^ the liver, if h be 
allowed to remain in the body. The gills and eyes 
should also be taken oat, and a Tery little salt put 
into the body, which should be hong up for a short 
tune to dry. Th^ average weight rarely exceeds 
four to five pounds, but the lai^er they are the better 
they will generally be found, their firmness being 
the greatest merit in their quality, and depending 
much upon their size. The fish is very delieate in 
flavour, and is most usually left unskinned; plainfy 
boiledy very fost, for about fifteen minutes, or twenty 
minutes if it be large. It may be served with pars- 
ley and butter, or oyster sauce. 



TO FRY 

If of a very small size, they may be turned round 
with their tails run through their jaws; but this 
cannot be done when they are large; they are in 
that case either cut in slices or filleted, and fried 
with crumbs of bread and egg. 



TO BAKE HADDOCK, ftc 

The scales should be scraped off, but the tail and 
head must not be removed, though the spinal bone 
should be taken out, and the body stuffed with any 
approved forcemeat 

The Scottish mode of Baking is: Take two good- 
sized haddocks, clean, and wipe them well in a 
cloth, but do not wash them ; keep the breasts s& 
whde as possible. Strew salt over tiieni) wA \a:^ 



76 FISH. 

them on a board for several hours; then wipe the 
salt from them, cut off the heads and fins, cut the 
skin through down the back, and take it off neatly, 
being careful to keep the fish whole. Beat up the 
yolks of three eggs, dip each in the egg, have ready 
some bread crumbs, mixed with pepper, salt, and 
chopped parsley; roll the fish in the crumbs, and 
stuff the heads and breasts with oysters chopped, but 
not too small, and bread crumbs blended with an 
egg. Butter a dish, lay the fish upon it, stick pieces 
of butter upon each, and bake them. For saiice^ 
take a pint of veal gravy, the same quantity of 
cream, mix two tablespoonfuls of flour in a little of 
the cream, cold, and boil till smooth; add a blade 
of mace, a little nutmeg, salt, and an onion. When 
about to dish, take out the onion, add a wine-glass- 
ful of wine with the yolk of an egg well beaten. Lay 
the heads of the fish at each end, and garnish with 
lemon. 



TO BOIL WHITINGS. 

(French Receipt.) 

Having scraped, cleaned, and wiped them, lay 
them on a fish-plate, and put them into water at the 
point of boiling; throw in a handful of salt, two bay 
leaves, and plenty of parsley, well washed; and tied 
together; let the fish just simmer from five to ten 
minutes, and watch them closely that they may not 
be over done. Serve parsley and butter with them, 
Aod use in making it the liquor in which the whitr 



FISH. 77 

ings have been boiled. Just dmmered from five to 
ten minutes. 



BAKED wmmrGS, a la fravgaisk 

Proceed with these exactly as with baked soles, 
or, ponr a little clarified butter into a deep dish, and 
strew it rather thickly with finely-minoed mush- 
rooms, mixed with a teaspoonful of parsley, and 
(when the flavour is liked, and considered appropri- 
ate) with an eschalot or two, or the white part of a 
few green onions, also chopped very smalL On these 
place the fish, after they have been scaled, emptied, 
thoroughly washed, and wiped dry: season them well 
with salt, and white pepper, or Cayenne; sprinkle 
more of the herbs upon them ; pour gently from one 
to two glasses of light white wine into the dish, 
cover the whitings with a thick layer of fine crumbs 
of bread, sprinkle these plentifully with darified 
butter, and bake the fish from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Send a cut lemon only to table with them. 
When the wine is not liked, a few spoonfuls of pale 
veal gravy can be used instead; or a larger quan- 
tity of clarified butter, with a tablespoonful of water, 
a teaspoonful of lemon pickle and of mushroom 
ketchup, and a few -drops of soy. Fifteen to twenty 
minutes. 



TO BOH STUBGSOV. 
Having cleaned a sturgeon weU, boil it in as much 
liquor as will just eover it; add two or t\iie&\aV& ^l 



78 FISH. 

lemon peel, some whole pepper, a stick of horse- 
radish, and a pint of vinegar, to every half gallon of 
water. 

When done, garnish the dish with fried oysters, 
sliced lemon, and horseradish, and serve it up with 
melted butter, with cavear dissolved in it; or with 
anchovy sance; and with the body of a crab in the 
butter, and a little lemon juice. 

To roast sturgeon, place it on a lark spit, which 
fasten on a large spit; baste it continually with 
butter, and serve with a good gravy and some lemon 
juice. 



TO BOAST STUBOEOV. 
Put a good- sized piece in a large cradle-spit (five 
or six pounds will make a handsome dish for the 
head of the table) ; stufif it with forcemeat; keep it 
at the fire for two or three hours, but remove the 
skin ; cover it with crumbs of bread, and brown it 
with the salamander; baste it constantly with butter, 
and serve with a good brown gravy, an anchovy, a 
squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of 
sherry boiled up, and poured into the dish. 



TO BOIL hahbut. 
Take a small halibut, or what you require from a 
large fish. Put it into the fish kettle, with the back 
of the fish undermost, cover it with cold water, in 
which a handful of salt, and a bit of saltpetre the size 
oia hazel mit^ have been dissolved. When it begins 



to boQ, skim it cnc&DT, 
tin it- B done. F 
nearty thirty mimitrs, to baQ 
with horaendiah 
melted hotter. 




Thewwdfiki, whether applied to ^k 
game, or butdier 8 

either (or of eertaiB poitiaBS «£ it . raised 
the hones in a handsome formL asd Prided 

« 

as the manner in whidi it is to he 
require. It is an elegant mode of dieaumg 
kinds elfish, andercn those mkatk are not ^ 
highly esteemed, afiitd a ezcelk^ &ii 
prepared. The fish, to he fiDeied nh 
should be large; the flesh may ^kb be fiiideidovm 
the middle of the hadL, next, iqianled horn the 
fins, and with a very sharp knife raised dean fino 
the bones.* When thns p tep ai e d . the fillets may he 
divided, trimmed ii^ a good ferm, egged, eotered 
with fine crombs, fried in the usual way. and semed 
with the same sanees as the whole fish: or eadi 
fillet may be rolled i^ in its entire ksgth, if Terr 
small, or after being onee divided, if large, and 
fiistened with a slight twine, or a short thin skewer; 
then egged, cnimbed, and firied in plenty of hoiliDg 

• A celebrated Vnodh Gook gHes the faikrviBg 
ttnefDlets:— "^Taketbea «p by 
bones and the flesh, tiien 
TTCttj hard OB tb« telte Ifegr vlll 




80 FISH. 

lard; or merely well floured, and fried from eigbt to 
ten minntes. When the fish are not very large, they 
are sometimes boned without being parted in the 
middle, and each side is rolled from the tail to the 
head, after being first spread with bntter, a few bread 
crmnbs, and a high seasoning of mace and Cayenne; 
or with ponnded lobster mixed with a large portion 
of the coral, and the same seasoning, and proportion 
of bntter; then laid into a dish, well covered with 
crombs of bread and clarified batter, and baked from 
twelve to sixteen minutes, or until the crumbs are 
coloured to a fine brown, in a moderate oven. 

The fillets may likewise be cut into small strips 
or squares of uniform size, lightly dredged with 
pepper or Cayenne, salt, and flour, and fried in 
butter over a brisk fire; then well drained, and 
sauced with a good bechamel, flavoured with a tea- 
spoonful of minced parsley. 



LOBSTEB CUTLETS. 
Procure a large hen lobster alive, boil half an 
hour, break up in pieces, saving all the juice and 
pith; rub the coral smooth with an ounce of butter, 
pick all the meat from the shell, put an ounce of 
butter in a stewpan, with an ounce and a half of 
flour ; moisten with a few spoonfuls of strong stock, 
season with pepper and salt; beat up four yolks of 
eggs, stir into the sauce in pan, just stir till it 
thickens. Add the meat of the lobster and coral, 
leaving a little of the juice and coral to make a 



81 

* 
sauce. Pour tbe contents of the psn into a disb to 

cool. Strew a few bread cmmbs on tbe bsand, roQ 

out the lobster meat, and cut ovt twdre cotkti, 

X with a pear-shaped cotter ; glaze with yolk of e§g^ 

and cover with bread crombs. Hare some dripping 

very hot, immerse the cutlets in it, fry of a good 

colour, and not too brown. Cramish with 

fried parsley, serve with lobster 

the remainder of the lobster. 



TORT TROUT. 
Clean and dry them thorooghly in a doth^ fry 
them plain in hot batter ; or beat the white of ^goo 
a plate, dip the trout in the egg and then in very fine 
bread crumbs, which have been mbbed thioogb a 
sieve — ^biscuit-powder is better. Fry them till of a 
delicate brown ; it takes but a few minutes, if tbe 
trout be smalL Serve with crisp parsley and plain 
melted butter. 



TOBQILTB0DT. 
They should be wiped dry with a coarse towel, 
rubbed from head to taO, and boiled whole, patting 
them into cold water, mixed with a small quantity 
of vinegar, into which should be also put some scraped 
horseradish ; let them boil gradually £or about twenty 
or thirty minutes, according to size, and take care 
not to break the skin. Serve with plain mdted 
butter. 



82 FISH. 

STEWED CAXP. 
Scale and clean, take care of the roe, &c., lay the 
fish in a stewpan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, 
eight cloves, a dessert-spoonful of Jamaica pe^^r, 
the same of black, a fourth part of the quimtity of 
gravy or port, (cider may do) ; simmer close covered j 
when nearly done add two anchovies chopped fine, 
a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, and some fine 
walnut ketchup, a bit of butter rolled in flour, shake 
it, and let the gravy boil a few minutes. Serve 
with sippets of fried bread, the roe fried, and a good 
deal of horseradish and lemon. 



BASED CASF. 
Clean a large carp; put a stuffing as for soles, 
dressed in the Portuguese way. Sew it up; brush 
it all over with yolk of egg^ and put plenty of 
erumbs ; then drop oiled butter to baste them ; place 
the carp in a deep earthen dish, a pint of stock (or, 
if fast-day, fish stock), a few sliced onions, some bay 
leaves, a faggot of herbs, (such as basil, thyme, pars- 
ley, and both sorts of marjoram) half a pint of port 
wine, and six anchovies. Cover over the pan, and bake 
it an hour. Let it be done before it is wanted. Pour 
the liquor from it, and keep the fish hot while you 
heat up the liquor with a good piece of butter rolled 
in flour, a teaspoonful of mustard, a little Cayenne, 
and a spoonful of soy. Serve the fish on the dish, 
garnished with lemon, and parsley, and horseradish, 
and pat the gravy into the sauce tureen. 



FISH. 83 



FESCH AVD TEHGE. 

Pat them into cold water, boil them earefollj, and 

serve with melted batter and soy. Perch are a most 

delicate fish. They may be either fried or stewed, 

bat in stewing they do not preserve so good a flavoor. 



80LES-T0 FKT OR BOIL. 

If boiled, they mast be served with great care to 
look perfectly white, and should be moch covered 
with parsley. 

If fried, dip in egg, and cover them with fine 
crumbs of bread; set on a firying-pan thai is jost 
large enoagh, and pat into it a large qoantity of 
fresh lard or dripping ; boil it, and immediately slip 
the fish into it ; do them of a fine brown. 

Soles that have been fried eat good cold with ml, 
vinegar, salt, and mastard. 



TOBOILFERCE. 

First wipe or wash off the slime, then scrape off 
the scales, which adheres rather tenacioasly to this 
fish ; empty and clean the insides perfectly, take out 
the gills, cat off the fins, and lay the perch into equal 
parts of cold and of boiling water, salted as lor 
mackerel : from eight to ten minutes will boil them 
unless they are very large. Dish them on a napkin, 
garnish them with curled parsley, and serve melted 
butter with them, or Mditre d! Hotel aauce maigre. 

Very good French cooks put them at oiio^ VoXa 
boiling water, and keep them over a bnak &te ^^t 



84 

about fifteen minutes. They dress tihem also without 
taking off the scales or fins until they are ready to 
serve, when they strip the whole of the skin off care- 
fiilly, and stick the red fins into the middle of the 
hacks : the fish are then covered with the Steward's 
sance, thickened with eggs. In warm water, eight 
to ten minntes ; in boiling, twelve to fifteen minutes. 



TO FKT FEBCH OR TEHCH. 
Scale and clean them perfectly; dry them well, 
flour and fry them in boiling lard. Serve plenty of 
fried parsley round them. 



SPITCHOOCK EEIS« 

Take one or two large eels, leave the skin on, cut 
them into pieces of three inches long, open them on 
the belly side, and clean them nicely: wipe them 
dry, and then wet them with a beaten egg, and strew 
over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a 
very little sage, and a bit of mace pounded fine and 
mixed with the seasoning. Eub the gridiron with a 
bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. 

Serve with anchovy and batter for sauce. 



fBIEDEELS. 
If small, they should be curled round and fried, being 
first dipped into egg and crumbs of bread. 



BOILED EELS. 

» 

The small ones are best*, do tbem in a small 



85 



quantity of water, with a good deal of pazder, wtich 
sboiild be served np with them and the fiqaor. 
Serve chopped pankj and butter far 



Bone a large eel, but don't akin it: mix pepper, 
salt, mace, all-spioe, and a dove or two^ in the fiaeit 
powder, and rab over the whole inside; nXi it t^^ 
and bind with a eoaise tape. Boil in salt and w^tfer 
till enon^ thai add vinegar, and when eold ke^ 
the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in 
slices. Chopped sage, parslej, and a little ikpme ; 
knotted marjoram, and savomj, mixed with te 
spices, greatly improve the taste. 



Let them be robbed with salt innde and oat, and 
lie two hoars to give them some firmnesa. Up them 
into eggs ; cover with crombs, and fry them. 



Stew two or three floonders, some ptnkj ]fBawt» 
and roots, thirty pepper-corns, and a quart of water, 
till the fish are bmled to peees ; palp them thioo^ 
a sieve. Set over the fire the pulped fish, the liqaor 
that boiled them, some pereh, tendi, or fiounders, 
and some fresh leaves and roots of parsley; maaer 
all till done enough, thai serve in a ieep £ih. 
Slices of bread and batter are to be seni to tdAe, Xfi 
eat with the aoachy. 



86 



YEGETABLES. 



TO BBE8S YESEIABLE8. 

Vegetables should be firesh gathered, and washed 
quite clean; when not recently gathered, they should 
be put into cold spring water sometime before they 
are dressed. When firesh gathered they will not 
require so much boiling, by a third of the time, as 
when they have been gathered the usual time those 
in our markets have. 

Shake the vegetables carefully to get out the in- 
sects; and take off the outside leaves. 

To restore frostbitten vegetables, lay them in cold 
water an hour before boiling, and put a piece of salt- 
petre in the saucepan when set on the fire. 

Soft water is best for boiling vegetables; but if 
only hard water can be obtained, a very small bit of 
soda or carbonate of ammonia wHl soften it and im- 
prove the appearance of the vegetables. Pearl-ash 
should never be used, as it imparts an unpleasant 
flavour, as will soda also if not cautiously used. 

All vegetables (except carrots) should be boiled 
by themselves, and in plenty of water. Salt should 
be used with green vegetables ; and the water should 
be skimmed before they are put in. Fast boiling in 
an uncovered saucepan will preserve their colour. 



VEGETABLES. 87 

When they sink ^ey are done and should be taken 
out and drained, else they will lose their colour, 
crispness, and flavour. 

Green vegetables, generally, will require from 
twenty minutes to half an hour, flEist boiling; but 
their age, freshness, and the season in which they 
were grown, require some variation of time. They 
should almost invariably be put on in boiling water. 

Vegetables are very nutritious and wholesome, 
when thoroughly boiled; but are very indigestible 
when not sufficiently dressed. The principal points 
in cooking them are, to boil them so soft as to be 
easy of digestion, and sufficiently to get rid of any 
rankness without losing their grateful flavour. 



TO BOIL H£W POTATOES. 
These are never good imless freshly dug. Take 
them of equal size, and rub off the skins with a 
brush, or a very coarse cloth, wash them clean, and 
put them, without salt, into boiling, or at least quite 
hot water; boil softly, and when they are tender 
enough to serve, pour off the water entirely, strew 
some fine salt over the potatoes, give them a shake, 
and let them stand by the &re in the saucepan for a 
minute, then dish and serve them immediately. 
Some cooks throw in a small slice of fresh butter 
with the salt, and toss them gently in it afier it is 
dissolved. This is a good mode, but the more usual 
one is to send melted butter to table with them^ Oit 
to pour white sance over them when they ax^ "scrj 



88 YEGETABLES. 

young, and served early in the neason, as a side or 
comer dish. 

Very small, ten to fifteen minutes: moderate sized, 
fifteen to twenty minutes. 



HASHED POIATOES. 
Boil them perfectly tender quite through, poor 
off the water, and steam them very dry; peel them 
quickly, take out every speck, and, while they are 
still hot, press the potatoes through an earthen cul- 
lender, or bruise them to a smooth mash with a 
strong wooden fork, or spoon, but never pound 
them in a mortar, as that will reduce them to a close 
heavy paste. Let them be enUrely free from lumps, 
for nothing can be more indicative of carelessness or 
want of skill on the part of the cook, than mashed 
potatoes sent to the table full of lumps. Melt in a 
clean saucepan a slice of good butter, with a few 
spoonfuls of milk, or better still, of cream; put in 
the potatoes after having sprinkled some fine salt 
upon them, and stir the whole over a gentle fire 
with a wooden spoon, until the ingredients are well 
mixed, and the whole is very hot. It may then 
be served directly; or heaped high in a dish, \e£t 
rough on the surface, and browned before the fire; 
or it may be pressed into a well buttered mould of 
handsome form, which has been strewed with the 
finest bread crumbs, and shaken free of the loose 
ones, then turned out, and browned in an oven. 



VEGETABLES. 89 

10 BOIL TUSHIP8. 

Pare entirely from them the stringy rind, and 
either split the tnmips once or leave them whole; 
throw them into boiling water slightly salted, and 
keep them closely covered from smoke and dust till 
they are tender. When small and young they will he 
done in from fifteen to twenty minutes ; at their full 
growth they will require from three-quarters to a full 
hour, or more, of gentle boiling. After they become 
old and woolly, they are not worth dressing in any 
way. When boiled in their skins and pared after- 
wards, they are said to be of better flavour and much 
less watery than when cooked in the usual way. 

Young turnips, fifteen to twenty minutes: full- 
grown, three-quarters to one hour, or more. 



TUBHIPS nr WHITE SAUCE. 

fEiUrtmetsJ. 

When no scoop for the purpose is at hand, cut 
some small finely-grained turnips into quarters, and 
pare them into balls, or into the shape of plums or 
pears of equal size; arrange them evenly in a broad 
stewpan or saucepan, and cover them nearly with 
good veal broth, throw in a tittle salt, and a morsel 
of sugar, and boil them rather quickly until they are 
quite tender, but unbroken; lift them out, draining 
them well from the broth; dish, and pour over them 
some thick white sauce. As an economy, a cup of 
cream, and a teaspoonful of arrowroot may be added 
to the broth in which the turnips have sie^f^iL) V> 



90 VEGETABLES. 

make the sauce; and when it boila, a small slice of 
butter may be stirred and well worked into it should 
it not be sufficiently rich without* 



TUBSIPS STEWED nr BUTTER. 

CGoodJ. 

This is an excellent way of dressing the vegetable 
when it is mild and finely grained; but its flavour 
otherwise is too strong to be agreeable. After they 
have been washed, wiped quite dry, and pared, slice 
the turnips nearly half an inch thick, and divide 
them into dice. Just dissolve an ounce of butter for 
each half-po^nd of the turnips, put them in as flat as 
they can be, and stew them very gently indeed, from 
three-quarters of an hour to a full hour. Add a 
seasoning of salt and white pepper when they are 
half done. When thus prepared, they may be dished 
over fried or nicely broiled mutton cutlets, or served 
by themselves. 

For a small dish : turnips, one pound and a half; 
butter, three ounces; seasoning of white pepper ; salt, 
half a teaspoonful, or more : three-quarters to one 
hour. Large dish: turnips, two pounds; butter, four 
ounces. 



TO BOIL BEETS. 

Wash the roots delicately clean, but neither scrape 

nor cut them, as not a fibre even should be trimmed 

away, until after they are dressed. Throw them into 

boiling water, and according to their size boil them 



VEGETABLES. 91 

from one hour and a half to two hours and a half. 
Pare and serve them whole, or thickly sliced, and send 
melted butter to table with them. Beet-root is often 
mixed with winter salads ; and it makes a pickle of 
beautiful colour; but one of the most usual modes of 
serving it at the present day is, with the cheese, cold 
and merely pared and sliced, after having been 
boiled or baked. 

Boiled, one hour and a half to two hours and a 
half; baked, two hours and a half to three hours and 
a half. 

Observe, — This root must not be probed with a 
fork like other vegetables, to ascertain if it be done 
or not; but the cook must endeavour, by attention, 
to learn the time required for it. After it is lifted 
out, the thickest part may be pressed with the 
fingers, to which it will yield, if it be sufficiently 
boiled. 



TO BOIL CAEBOTS. 
Wash the mould from them, and scrape the skin 
off lightly with the edge of a sharp knife, or, should 
this be objected to, pare them as thin and as equally as 
possible ; in either case free them from all blemishes, 
and should they be very large, split them across the 
tops, a few inches down ; rinse them well, and throw 
them into plenty of boiling water with some salt in 
it The skin of very young carrots may be rubbed 
off like that of new potatoes, and from twenty to 
thirty minutes will then be sufficient to boW )i\i'Wft.\ 



92 VEGETABLES. 

but at their full growth they will require from one 
and a half to two hours. It was formerly the custom 
to tie them in a doth, and to wipe the skin from them 
with it after they were dressed; and old-£Eehioned 
cooks still use one to remove it ; but all vegetables 
should be served with the least possible delay. 
Melted butter should accompany boiled caurrots. 



TO BOIL GBEEV FEAS. 
Boil them very fast in plenty of water with the 
lid off the stewpan ; the water should be moderately 
salted. They are unfit for eating when they become 
hard and yellowish, but when growing rather old a 
very small quantity of carbonate of ammonia put 
into the water, with two or three lumps of loaf-sugar, 
will greatly improve them. The old English method 
of putting a sprig of mint, or a little parsley, is still 
a good practice, and ought to be continued unless 
specially forbidden, or the mint may be chopped and 
put round the dish. A few bits of raw butter should 
also be put into the peas when boiled, and a dust of 
pepper and salt thrown over them if they be com- 
pletely ripe ; but if quite young, neither butter, sali, 
nor pepper, should be added to them, but a tea- 
spoonful of pounded white sugar. When growing to 
maturity the pods are of different ages, and young 
and old peas should not be boiled together; sift them, 
therefore, from each other, and put the old ones into 
the water some minutes sooner than the young : they 
require from fifteen to twenty minutes boiling. 



VEGETABLES. 93 

TO BOIL GBEEV FEASL 

AmoAerwag. 

Having sbelled them, put a teaspoonfbl of white 
sugar and some salt into the water, and when it hoOa, 
pat in the peas, with a small hunch of mint ; hoQ 
twenty minutes, or untQ they are done ; then drain 
them in a cullender ; put a piece of butter into the 
dish with the peas ; stir them about, and serve. 

A peck of pe^ will require a gallon of water to 
boQ them in. 



TO STEW GBEEV FEAS. 

Put into a stewpan a quart of peas, one onion, 
two ounces of butter, a sprig of mint, a teaspoonM 
of white sugar, and two tablespoonfnls of gravy; 
stew till soft, when take out the onion and mint, and 
thicken with flour and butter. A lettuce is some- 
times stewed with them. 

Peas dressed together should be as nearly one 
size as possible, else some only will be properly done. 
To ensure this, the peas should be passed through a 
coarse sieve. 



SFUT-FEAS Fmrnnra 

Take any quantity, say one pint of yellow split 
peas ; allow them to remain in water the whole night 
before you wish to use them ; after which take them 
out and put them into a cloth so loose as to allow the 
peas to swell ; boil them for four hours, or until the) 
are qmte tender, then mb them throag\i a ^xSissD&sx^ 



94 YEGETABLES. 

80 as to render them perfectly smooth ; add to the 
pulp a lump of butter and some salt After being 
well mixed pet the peas again into a cloth, tie tightly, 
and boil for about half an hour. Pour over it melted 
butter. 

A richer pudding may be made if two well-beatea 
^gs are added along with the butter. It is served 
with boiled pork. 



TO BOIL WIHB80R EEAHS. 

When young, freshly gathered, and well dressed, 
these beans, even with many persons accustomed to 
a luxurious table, are a favourite accompaniment to 
a dish of streaked bacon, or delicate pickled pork. 
Shell them only just before they are wanted, then 
wash, drain, and throw them into boiling water, 
salted as for peas. When they are quite tender, pour 
them into a hot cullender, drain them thoroughly, and 
send them to table quickly, with a tureen of parsley 
and butter, or with plain melted butter, when it is 
preferred. A boiled cheek of bacon, trimmed free of 
any blackened parts, may be dished over the beans, 
upon occasion. 

From twenty to thirty minutes ; less when very 
young. 

Observe, — ^Wben the skin of the beans appear 
wrinkled, they will generally be found sufficiently 
tender to serve, but they should be tasted to ascertain 
that they are so. 



VEGETABLES. 95 

TO SOIL GABBA6B AIB ttftKUHL 

A fall-grown cabbage, quartered, will rBqmre an 
hour's boiling; a yonng <me balf tbat time. Greess 
will require abont twenty minutes quick boilii^. In 
both cases, salt should be pot into the water. 

Savoys should be boiled whole, and quart em l 
before serving. 

It has been recommended to boQ cabbages in two 
waters ; that is, when they are half done to poor off 
the water, and add finesh boiling water. 

Be carefiil to press the greens as diy as possifale. 



TO BOIL GAULIFL0WEB8L 
Choose those that are dose and white, cut off the 
green leaves, and look carefully that there are no 
caterpillars about the stalk; soak an boor in eold 
water, with a handful of salt in it ; then IkmI tlwm in 
milk and water, and take care to skim the saoeepan, 
that not the least foulness may &11 on the flower. 
It must be served very white, and rather crimp. 



8PIVACH. 

(ERtremeJU)^ FnmeihJiecapL 

Pick the spinach leaf by leaf £rom the stems, and 
wash it in abundance of spring wata-, changing it 
several times; then shake it in a dry cloth held by 
the four comers, or drain it on a large sieve. Throw 
it into sufficient well salted boiling water to allow it 
to float £reely, and keep it pressed down with & 
skimmer that it may be equally done. ITtoi c|^\i& 



96 YEGETABI4ES. 

young it will be tender in from eight to ten minntea, 
but to ascertain if it be so, take a leaf and squeeze it 
between the fingers. If to be dressed in the French 
mode, drain, and then throw it directly into plenty 
of fresh water, and when it is cool form it into balls 
and press the moisture thoroughly from it with the 
hands. Next, chop it extremely fine upon a dean 
trencher ; put two ounces (for a large dish) of butter 
into a stewpan or bright thick saucepan, lay the 
spinach on it, and keep it stirred over a gentle fire 
for ten minutes, or until it appears dry ; dredge in a 
spoonful of .flour, and turn the spinach as it is added; 
pour to it gradually a few spoonfuls of very rich veal 
gravy, or, if preferred, of good boiling cream, (with 
the last of these a dessert- spoonful or more of pounded 
sugar may be added for a second-course dish, when 
the true French mode of dressing the vegetable is 
liked). Stew briskly until the whole is well ab-. 
sorbed; dish, and serve the spinach very hot, with 
small, pale fried sippets round it, or with leaves of 
puff paste fresh from the oven, or well dried after 
having been fried. For ornament the sippets may 
be fancifully shaped with a tin cutter. A proper 
seasoning of salt must not be omitted in this or any 
other preparation of the spinach. 



SPIKACH. 

(Common English modej 

Boil the spinach very green in plenty of water, 
draiB; and then press the moisture from it between 



TEGETABLE&' 97 



two trenchers; chop it smaU, pot it into a 
sanoepan, with a slice of fresh batter, and sdr the 
whole until well mixed and Tcnr hot. Smoodi it in 
a dish, mark it in dice, and send it quiddT to taUe. 



TO fftEW GEUKT. 

Wash the heads, and strip off their outer leares; 
either halve or leave them whole, according to dKir 
size, and cot them into lengths of four indieL Pit 
them into a stewpan with a cup oi broch or wvak 
white gravy ; stew till tender ; then add two ^oon- 
fols of cream, a little flom*, and hatter^ seasoned with 
pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little poonded whi:e 
sugar ; and simmer all together. 

Or: Parboil it, cot it into quarters, fiy it. and 
serve it on a napkin, or with beef grmiy. 

Celery is a great improvement to all sovps and 
gravies, and much nsed as a white sanee, ettiier 
alone or with oysters. 



TO BOIL anon flaiv. 

Peel them and soak them an iMrar in cM water; 
put them into boiling milk and water, bcol them till 
tender, and serve with melted batter. Or, boil the 
onions in two waters. 



TO BOIL A8PAJU0D8L 
Scrape dean the stalks, and throw them into eoid 
water; tie them in bundles of aboot twenty eadi, 
with tape, and cot the stalks even. Pot tfaem into 

G 



98 VEQETABLES. 

boiling water, with a handful of salt, and boil half 
an hour, or until they are tender at the stalk. Hav- 
ing toasted a round of bread, dip it into the water in 
which the asparagus was boiled, lay them upon the 
toast, the white ends outwards each way ; and serve 
with melted butter. 



TO BOIL ASPARAGUS. 

Another way. 

This is a convenient mode of dressing tisparagus, 
when it is too small and green to make a good 
appearance plainly boiled. Cut the points so fax 
only as they are perfectly tender, in bits of equal 
size, not more than the third of an inch in length; 
wash them very clean, and throw them into plenty 
of boiling water, with the usual quantity of salt and 
a morsel of soda. When they are tolerably tender, 
which will be in from ten to twelve minutes, drain 
them well, and spread them on a clean cloth; fold it 
over them, wipe them gently, and when they are quite 
dry put them into a clean stewpan with a good slice 
of butter, which should be just dissolved before the 
asparagus is added; stew them in this over a brisk 
fire, shaking them often, for eight or ten minutes ; 
dredge in about a small teaspoonful of flour, and 
add half that quantity of white sugar ; then pour in 
boiling water to nearly cover the asparagus, and boil 
it rapidly until but little liquid remains ; stir in the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, heap the asparagus high 



VEGETABLBS. 99 

in a dish, and serve it very hot. The sauce should 
adhere entirdy to the vegetable. 



KITSHBOOHS. 

Cooks should be perfectly acquainted with the 
difSsrent sorts of things called by this name by igno- 
rant people, as the death of many persons has been 
occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous kinds.* 

The eatable mushrooms at first appear very small 
and of a round form on a little stalk. They grow 
very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. 
As the size increases, the under part gradually opens, 
and shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon colour, 
which continues more or less till the mushroom has 
gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. 
These marks should be attended to, and likewise 
whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges 
and middle. Those that have a white or yellow fur 
should be carefully avoided, though many of them 
have the ^ame smell, but not so strong, as the right 
sort. 



TO STEW MUSHBOOHS. 
The large buttons are best for this purpose, and 
the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the 
buttons with salt and a bit of flannel ; cut out the 



* We do not beliere that mushrooms are natritiye; every one knows 
tbe7 are often dangeroosly indigestible; therefore the rational epicure 
will be content with extracting the flavoor from thenif whidi is obtained 
In the utmost perfection in good mushroom ketchup. ->2>r. KUchiner. 



100 VEQETABLES. 

far, and take off the skin from the others; put them 
into a Btewpan with a little lemon joice, pepper, 
salt, and a small piece of fresh batter, and let the 
whole simmer slowly till done; then put a small bit 
of butter and flour, with two spoonfuls of cream; 
give them one boil, and senre with sippets of bread. 



TO STEW XXTSHSOOMS. 

An easy foay. 

Cut off that part of the stem that grows under 
ground, wash them carefully, and take the skin from 
the top. Put them into a stewpan with some salt 
but no water; stew them till tender, and thicken 
with a tablespoonful of butter, mixed with one of 
browned flour. 



TO BBOIL KITSHBOOHS. 
The largest are the best. Have a clear cinder 
Are ; make the gridiron hot, and rub the bars with 
suet to prevent the mushrooms from sticking; place 
them also on the gridiron with their stalks upwards; 
sprinkle them slightly with salt, and a good shake of 
pepper, and serve them on a hot dish, with a little 
cold butter under and over them. When they begin 
to steam they are sufficiently done. 



101 



BEEF. 



TO CHOOflB 

If yotmg and fireshly killed, the lean of ox-beef 
will be gmootbl J grained, and of a fine, beallby, 
carnation red, the &t rather white than yeDow, and 
the snet white and firm. Heifer beef is more doBdy 
grained, and rather less bright of colour, the bones 
are considerably smaller, and the fiit of a parer 
white. 

In choice and well-fed bee^ the lean will be fiyond 
intergrained with fai : y^gry lean meat is always of 
an inferior qnality. 

The ribs, the sirloin, and the romp, are the proper 
joints for roasting. The ronnd, or buttock, the 
edge-bone, the second round, or moose-buttock, the 
shin, the brisket, the shoulder, or leg of mutton 
piece, and the dod, may be boiled or stewed. The 
neck is generally used for soup or g^vy; and the 
thin fiank for collaring. The best steaks are cut 
fix)m the middle of the rump ; the next best from the 
veiny piece, or firom the chuck-rib. The inside of 
the sirloin, commonly used for the purpose in France, 
makes by far the most delicate steaks: but though 
exceedingly tender, they are considered by epicures 
to be wanting in flavour. 

The finest part of the sirloin is the chump-end, 



109 

whsAcoBOxas & kr^erpoitioBof fliefilkt: oftiM 
ribs, the BLkidle ones are those 
bj experieneed 



■3 the next is broi^t in, it should be 
viped drx sad essained, and the fiy-blowii porta^ if 
anir. shovild be cot off. This dtoold be attended to 
daflv. else, when dressed, the outer slices are liable 
to haTe a mnsty flaTonr. 



.^1 if at 



Of BEEF 10 XQAST. 

The sizloin is nsoally hung a few days to make it 
eat short and tender, therefore, before you dress it, 
joa should wash the meat in cold water, wipe it with 
a clean cloth ; when yon have made it nice and dean, 
hang it carefully down to the fire, so that it may 
turn round evenly; a piece of writing-paper, well 
buttered, must be tied on with a string, or skewered 
on with very small skewers, over the £at side, till the 
meat is about three parts done, to prevent the fiit 
from burning. A good durable fire having been 
made up, the meat should be so hung down that the 
thickest part of the joint will get the strongest part 
of the fire, but not too near at first, or it will get 
scorched on the outside before it is warmed through. 
Put into the dripping-pan a pint of water, or clean 
dripping, and begin to baste the meat immediately 
it is wanned, and continue to baste it every quarter 
of an hovuTf till about half an hour before it is done. 



BEEF. 103 

Then take the meat back firom the fire; clean oat mil 
grit that has ^en into the dripping-pan ; take off 
the paper that covered the hi; stir the fire, if neces- 
sary, that it may bnm fierce and dear; baste the 
meat well ; sprinkle a little salt all over the joint, 
and dredge it well with flour. Put it to the fire 
again, and let it roast till it is done, and the ootside 
is nicely browned and frothed; observing not to 
baste it for a full quarter of an hour after flooring it. 
A sirloin weighing ten ponnds, that has been 
kept a proper time, wiH take two honrB and a half 
to roast Rather more time must be allowed in cold 
than in hot weather. Abont twenty mimites to the 
pound is a safe rale. 



BIBS OF BEEF. 
Ribs of beef should also be kept hanging a few 
days to become short and tender, therefore wipe and 
make it nice and clean before you hang it to the fire, 
as directed for the sirloin; there are sometimes two 
and sometimes three ribs to a joint ; and it most be 
cooked the same way as the sirloin; only they are 
best done, and eat nicest, if they are hung to roast 
the thick part upwards, at first, till they are full half 
done, or rather longer; but take care to hang it so 
that the thick part gets the most of the fire; and 
be sure to tie well buttered paper over the fat port, 
as directed for the sirloin. Less time, .however, 
will be required for roasting the ribs than the sir- 
loin, because the joint ia thinner. ¥rom i!kit^\»»!t% 



104 BEEF. 

to three hours and a half^ may be allowed for ribs of 
beef weighing fifteen or sixteen pounds ; giving a 
little more time if a thick joint, and a little less if a 
thin one. When the joint is a little more than half 
done, you must hang it the other way upwards, 
baste it, sprinkle it with salt, and dredge it very 
slightly with flour; but sprinkle it with salt, and 
dredge it well again with flour, about half an hour 
before you take it up, first taking off the paper which 
covers the fett, as directed for the sirloin. 



BUKP OF BEEF. 
This is one of the most juicy of all the joints of 
beef^ but is more frequently stewed than roasted. As 
it is generally too large to serve whole, cut as much 
from the chump- end to roast as will make a hand- 
some dish. Manage it as the sirloin. When boned 
and rolled into the form of a fillet of veal, it requires 
more time. 



OBAYT SAUCE FOB BOAST BEEF. 

When beef is of a good quality, and roasted with 
care, the gravy which flows from it is the best sauce 
for the meat. Clear it of the fat and sediment, add 
a little salt, and if too thin, a dust of browned flour, 
and boil it up. To the gravy of veal, a little butter 
may be added. 

Pickles or grated horseradish should always be 
served with roast beef — ^with ketchup and mustard 
in the castor. The vegetables most in feivour are 



BEEF. 105 

potatoes, plain, boiled, or mashed — turnips, beets, and 
boiled spinach. 



TO bqast:a fillet of beef. 

Raise the fillet from the inside of the sirloin, or 
from part of it, with a sharp knife ; leave the hi on, 
trim off the skin, lard it through, or all over, or roast 
it qnite plain; baste it with bntter, and send it very 
hot to table, with tomato sance, or sance piqnant, 
or eschalot sance, in a tureen. It is sometimes served 
with brown gravy or currant jelly: it should then be 
garnished with forcemeat balls. If not very large, 
an hour and a quarter will roast it well with a brisk 
fire. 

Observe. The remainder of the joint may be boned, 
rolled, and roasted or braised; or made into meat 
cakes; or served as a miniature round of heeL 



STEWED BUKP OF BEEF. 
Take a rump of bee^ bone it, tie it up with string, 
take a pot that will just hold it, and co^er the bottom 
of the pot with a few slices of bacon; put as much 
water as will nearly cover the meat, with a carrot, 
turnip, four onions, a head of celery, a spoonful of 
salt, and a blade of mace. Cover up the pot, and 
simmer between three and four hours; lift out the 
meat, and strain the stock, put the meat bade into 
the pot with a little of the stock to keep it warm, 
reduce a sufficient quantity of the stock to glaze th& 
rump; to the remaindest add as mmdi TO'tnL«&'^r^ 



106 

thicken it, boil and skim carefully, dress the beef 
upon a dish, pour the sauce round, serve with some 
carrots, turnips, cut in shapes, and a few button 
onions. 



SOIL OF BltATSKP BEEF. 
Procure a nice piece of rib of beef of about fifteen 
pounds, remove the chin-bone neatly, with the ribs, 
lay a few strips of fat bacon across the fillet — then 
roll up the beef — and bind it round with a piece of 
broad tape, place it in the braising-pan, with the 
bones and trimmings; put two or three ounces of 
butter into the pan, with a little salt, cover up very 
close, and place over a slow fire for twenty minutes, 
turning it round and shaking every few minutes; 
then add as much stock, or if none, water, as will 
not quite cover the beef, having previously added 
three carrots, four onions, three heads of celery, a 
few sprigs of parsley, and a few leaves of basil or 
thyme; cover up the pan, and allow it to stew very 
slow about four hours, more or leas according to the 
tenderness of the meat. Take out the beef, remove 
the tape, and trim it; skim off the fat from the liquor 
in the pan, remove the vegetables, &c., with a roux, 
or a little butter rolled in flour, make a nice sauce 
with a portion of the liquor, reduce the rest into glaze, 
with which glaze the beef, have some nice carrots 
and turnips cut into neat shapes and boiled, with a 
little stock; place them round the beef, pour the 
sance roand, and serve. 



107 

BOmrD OF SALT BEEP. 
If ihe loand has been long in salty aOow it to soak 
for an hour in water, then pot it on the fire with 
plenty of oM water, and when beginning to boil, 
draw aside and simmer dll ready; three boon will 
be enongh for a ronnd of foorteen or fifteen poonds ; 
one of thirty pounds, will take aboot five hoarB; 
take the pot off the fire, allow the ronnd to lie in the 
water it was boiled in till cold. Reraore the string, 
trim, and if required may be glazed. 



FBESE. OX TOEOTE ERATBEBl 
Procure a large tongue, put it in a pot of tepid 
water to soak for a few hours, then dean it weD, 
and put it cm the fire with cold wat^, allow it to 
bcnl for ten minutes, take it off the fire and dirow 
into cold water; with a sharp Imile pare the root 
neatly, give it a neat shape by tying with a string; 
place the tongue in a stewpan that wiU just hold it; 
lay a few carrots, turnips, and onions around it, and 
nearly cover with stock, and simmer for three hours, 
or less; flay the tongue, reduce the liquor, with 
which glaze it; serve with a sharp brown sauce, 
with a few nice turned roots in it 



BEEFTOECHIS, 
If it has been dried and smoked before it is dressed, 
it should be soaked over night, but if <mly pickled, a 
few hours will be sufficient Put it in a pot of ocM 
water over a slow fire for an hour oc two^XxSoc^ Vl 



J OK 

roim* t<. Iwii. Tue: x i -crasf .^Knir nor jttm 
tiin*< mil! !i Lair't ."c ii'C?4 zoorniio^ *o iis 3zs; 
a «iYrta II ■ w i jci ■ i : ! i at-. ^ TT»:cii^ i 'Tiih i ^sbpwbi 
1ak« tin KJiii. c£ c2a1 usin^ e^rns^ -nirmmii is 
rifc*- witi I. paT>er fHl 



1 ai:- inir* or- piiiat**: ti' lisi "^^ T7iii -sik ani 
I.' ■ 11: nn i: iram trai?* f-7r tm nr Uitki iuim an 
•ij.vT'rTr't "hsmr' iJi*. "Tsier tut zitsn. Ji i iiuwpiiu 
,-^^vr- v.-i:: iraic: brier t^ tit wii t^ti akaof 

■'"■ '^' iotn t-\. iii'*^ d' e^sa^ c£ ITofa i liisaB 
: •-'.:*. 71" i::- TMLiai*-- 1/ ii onL stpr irr uwnn 

■ •- '. i::^ — :i] ifaiirr lak* zitsn. nn; int inaii 

■ *■■ - -■■. TTRji T»: '■*'»- v-.l: t rstifT a: mu ass, rrafij" 

' : •: <^i.-. ii .. .^:^ ;.;^ *x:' iJli Tnuai*? IHU ± -VOlBl 



~'^"' --^v-r^ v>,'£ ^►•v^ ,•::- ::.v rear foaes: 



BEEF. 109 

BUMP STEAX, STEWED. 
Procure a thick romp steak, melt a few ounces of 
butter in a stewpan, lay in the steak, fry over the 
fire till lightly browned ; dredge a spoonful of flour 
over it, give a few turns over the fire till the flour b 
done. Pour a pint of common stock over it, season 
with a little pepper. Salt a small piece of sugar, 
stew half an hour longer; a glass of wine will be an 
improvement. Serve. 



FILLETS OF BEEF. 
Cut a few slices of beef from under the rump; beat 
them with the cutlet bat, pare neatly round, broil 
them over the fire, sprinkle a little pepper and salt 
over them, when ready, serve with sauce piquant. 



FILLETS OF BEEF. 

Another way. 

Take a few slices of beef, half an inch in thickness 
and about three or four inches square; beat them 
with the chopper, and pare off the comers ; melt an 
ounce or two of butter in a frying-pan, lay in the 
pieces, season with pepper and salt ; when done, dish 
the pieces neatly with a little brown saucej in which 
are a few gherkins chopped fine. 



A FBICA]Sn)EAU OF BEEF. 
Take a nice bit of lean beef; lard it with bacon 
seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, andall-sple^ 
Put it into a stewpan with a pint of broth, a ^^i^ ol 



J 



1 10 BEEF. 

white wine, a bundle of parsley^ all sorts of sweet 
herbs, a clove of garlic, a shalot or two, four doves, 
pepper, and salt. When the meat is become tender, 
cover it close: skim the sauce well, and strain it; -set 
it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a 
glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the 
meat on sorrel sauce. 



TO STEW A BUMF OF BEEF. 
Half roast it ; then put it into a large pot with 
three pints of water, one of small. beer, one of port 
wine, some salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, 
two of ketchup, a bunch of sweet herbs of various 
kinds (such as bumet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, 
basil, savoury, pennyroyal, marjoram, knotted mar- 
joram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cloves, 
and Cayenne ; cover it close, and simmer till quite 
tender : two or three hours will do it. When done 
lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and 
cover it close. Skim the gravy; put in a few pickled 
mushrooms, truffles, morels, and oysters if agreeable, 
but it is very good without ; thicken the gravy with 
flour and butter, and heat it with the above, and pour 
over the beef. Forcemeat balls of veal, anchovies, 
bacon, suet, herbs, spice, bread, and eggs, to bind, 
are a great improvement. 



TO STEW A KUUF OF BEEF. 

Another way. 

Wash it with care, and season it well with pepper. 



BEEF. Ill 

Bait, ground all-spce, mace, and cloves; then tie it 
up, and pot into a pot, upon twigs or wooden skewers, 
to prevent the meat &om sticking ; add to it three 
large onions sliced, two turnips, three carrots, a 
shalot, some celery, and a handful of sweet herhs. 
Cover the meat with hoiling water, add beef or 
mutt(Hi shank-bones, and simmer the whole till tender 
for about four hours. Then strain the gravy, take 
off the fat, and add from half a pint to a pint of port 
wine or sherry, or the juice of a fresh lemon^ and a 
tablespoonfnl of mushroom ketchup; thicken it, sim- 
mer for half an hour, and then pour it over the beef. 
Garnish with carrots and turnips. 



TO PRESS BEEF. 

Salt a bit of brisket, thin part of the flank, or the 
tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre five days, then 
boil it gently till extremely tender : put it under 
a great weight or in a cheese press, till perfectly 
cold. 

It eats excellently cold, and for sandwiches. 



TO OOLLAB BEEF. 
Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow 
beef^ but not too fat; lay it into a dish with salt and 
saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week, and 
keep it cool. Then take out every bone and gristle, 
remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick 
with the following seasoning cut small : a large hand- 
ful of parsley, the same of sage, some \\i^Taa^ TDkax- 



112 BEEF. 

joram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, and all-spioe. 
Roll the meat up as tight as possihle, and bind it, 
then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth 
must be put round before the tape. Put the beef 
under a good weight while hot, without undoing it : 
the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal 
rolled in with the beef, looks and eats very welL 



BEEF STEAKS 

Should be cut from a rump that has hung a few days.- 
Broil them over a very clear or charcoal fire : put 
into the dish a little minced shalot, and a tablespoon- 
ful of ketchup ; and rub a bit of butter on the steak 
the moment of serving. It should be turned often, 
that the gravy may not be drawn out on either side. 

This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh 
done, that it is not in perfection if served with any- 
thing else. Pepper and salt should be added when 
taking it off the fire. 



BEEF STEAKS AITD 07STEB SAUCE. 
Strain off the liquor from the oysters, and throw 
them into cold water to take off the grit, while you 
simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lemon peel; 
then put the oysters in, stew them a few minutes, and 
a little cream if you have it, and some'butter rubbed 
in a bit of flour ; let them boil up once ; and have 
rump steaks, well seasoned and broiled, ready for 
throwing the oyster sauce over the moment you are 
to serve. 



BEEF. 113 

BEEF GOLLOP. 
Cut thin slices of beef from the ramp, or any other 
tender part, and divide them into pieces three inches 
long ; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour 
them. Fry the collops quick iii butter two minutes; 
then lay them into a small stewpan, and cover them 
with a pint of gravy; add a bit of butter rubbed in 
flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shalot shred as fine 
as possible, half a walnut, four small pickled cucum- 
bers, and a teaspoonfiil of capers cut smalL Take 
care that it does not boil ; and serve the stew in a 
very hot covered dish. 



FSICASSEE OF GOLD ROiST BEEF. 
Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful 
of parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and 
put all together, into a stewpan, with a piece of butter 
and «ome strong broth ; season with salt and pepper, 
and simmer very gently a quarter of an hour ; then 
mix into it the yolks of two eggs, a glass of port 
wine, and a spoonful of vinegar ; stir it quick, rub 
the dish with shalot, and turn the fricassee into it. 



TO DBESS COLD BEEF THAT HAS NOT BEEN DONE 
ENOUGH, CALLED BEEF OLIVES. 

Cut slices half an inch thick, and four inches 

square; lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, 

shalot, a little suet, or fat, peppet, and salt. Roll 

them, and fasten with a small skewer; put them mt^ 

a stewpan with some gravy made D{,t\i^\)el^-\^tk!^^ 



114 BEEF. 

0^ the gravy of the meat, and a spoonful or two of 
water, and stew them till tender. Fresh meat will do. 



TO XOrCE BEEF. 
Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the 
fiat ; put it into a small stewpan, with some onion or 
shalot (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, 
and salt ; boil it till the onion is quite soft ; then pat 
some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the minoe. 
Do not let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets 
of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first 
mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it; if shalot- 
vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion 
nor the raw shalot. 



TO HASH BEEF. 

Do it the same as in the last receipt; only the meat 
is to be in slices, and you may add a spoonful of 
walnut-liquor or ketchup. 

Observe that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces, 
that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed 
a second time, should be only simmered ; and this last 
only hot through. 



BEEF A-LA-YIHOBETTE. 
Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches 
thick, and a little fat; stew it in half a pint of water, 
a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an 
onion, and a bay leaf; season it with three cloves 
pounded, and pepper, till the liquor is nearly wasted 



' BEEF. 115 

away, tarning it once. When cold, serve it Strain 
off the gravy, and mix it with a little vinegar for 
sauce. 



STEWED OX CHEEK, FLATET. 

Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is 
to. be eaten ; put it into a stewpot that will cover 
close, with three quarts of water; simmer it^ after it 
has first boiled up and been well skimmed. In two 
hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three tur- 
nips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and 
four ounces of all-spice. Skim it often ; when ihe 
meat is tender, take it out ; let the soup get cold, 
take off the cake of fat, and serve the soup separate 
or with the meat. 

It should be of a fine brown : which may be done 
by burnt sugar; or by frying some onions quite 
brown with flour, and simmering them with it. This 
last way improves the flavour of all soups and gravies 
of the brown kind. 

If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they 
may be taken out, and a small roll be toasted, or 
bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, 
and should always be served. Where it is not to be 
got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, 
boiled-in, and strained off. 



insoTOir OF beef. 

Cut a few slices from a piece of cold braised h&^\ 
trim them neatly; place in a frying-paxL^ mVk «b i«^ 



IIG 9BEF. 

spoonfols o£ good stock; when hot, season with a 
little salt and pepper; dish, and serve with gherkin 
sauce poured over. 



OZSHXHETS. 
Take a fiesh ox kidney, of a nice light colour, 
cut it into neat slices, not too thin, put them into a 
frying-pan, with a little butter made very hot, give 
a few turns over the fire, when done enough, dredge 
a little flour over them ; moisten with a glass of wine, 
and a little stock if convenient, or water; season with 
salt and pepper; do not boil more than three or four 
minutes, or they will get hard. 



OX CHEEK. 
Procure a fresh ox cheek, take the bones from it, 
lay it in cold water an hour or two; put the cheek 
in a stewpan with a carrot, two onions, a piece of 
celery, and a little parsley; moisten with a little 
stock, and allow it to braise very slowly for about 
two hours ; take it up and press flat; when cold, pare 
and trim neatly, and cut into neat square pieces; 
reduce the liquor to a glaze, throw the pieces into it, 
dish in circle, with a nice well seasoned white sauce 
in centre* 



EEEF OLIVES. 
Cut eight slices from a rump, or hook- bone of beef, 
two inches broad, and six inches loug ; flatten them, 
'read some veal forcemeat on each, if no forces 




BEEF. 1 17 

meat is at hand, mince a little suet, bread crmnbs, ae 
onion, parsley, pepper, salt, mix altogether, with an 
egg; lay a little of this preparation on each, roll up 
neatly and tie with a thread ; put them into a stew- 
pan, with a piece of carrot, turnip, a clove, half a 
blade of mace; scarcely cover with stock, or water; 
stew them very slow, when tender take out the olives, 
and make a sauce with the liquor, by adding a small 
piece of roux, or a little butter rolled in flour; sea- 
son rather high; take the thread ^m the olives, and 
pour the sauce over, and serve. 



TO SOAST BEEF HEAET. 
Wash it well, and clean all the blood carefully 
from the pipes; parboil it ten or fifteen minutes in 
boiling water; drip the water from it; put in a stuf- 
fing which has been made of bread crumbs, minced 
suet or butter, sweet marjoram, lemon, thyme, and 
parsley, seasoned with ^ salt, pepper, and nutmeg. 
Put it down to roast, while hot baste it well with 
butter, froth it up, and serve it with melted butter 
and vinegar; or with gravy in the dish, and currant 
jelly in a sauce tureen. To roast, allow twenty 
minutes to a pound. 



TO 9EESS THE DTSIDE OF A GOLD SIBLOIH OF BEEF. 

Cut off the meat, with a little of the £Eit, into strips 

three inches long and half an inch thick; season 

with pepper and salt, dredge them with flour, and 

fry them brown in butter; then simmet lihiBEii Va i 



118 BEEF. 

rich brown gravy; add of mushroom ketchup, oniony 
and shalot yinegar, a tablespoonful each. Garnished 
with fried parsley. 



BAKED BEEE. 

A rump of twenty to twenty-five pounds weight 
Take two ounces each of pepper and all-spice, one 
ounce of pounded cloves, and the same quantity of 
mace ; rub this all over the joint, which should be 
hung up for a fortnight or three weeks, according to 
the weather — taking care to keep it dry, and occa- 
sionally to renew the seasoning. When ready for 
baking, wash off the spice with port wine or warm 
vinegar and water, and lard the rump throughout, by 
inserting large lardoons in different parts of the meat 
Then put a large quantity of suet, shred fine, both 
under and over it, and cover it with coarse flour and 
water paste, between which and the suet you may 
put a few bay leaves or some sweet herbs. If eaten 
hot, the dough, bay leaves, and suet, must all be 
taken off, the joint basted, sprinkled with a litde 
salt and flour, over which a salamander should be 
passed, and served up with strong gravy or brown 
sauce. If cold, leave on the dough till wanted. 

It should be baked in a moderately-heated oven, 
and will take according to the size, from six to eight 
hours' baking. 



SAYOUBT XOrCED COLLOPS. 
Make a little brown thickening with about an 



BEEF. 119 

ounce and a half of batter, and a dessert-spoonful of 
flour ; when it begins to be coloured, shake lightly 
into it a large teaspoonful of finely shred parsley or 
mixed savoury herbc^ two-thirds as much of salt, and 
half the quantity of pepper. Keep these stirred 
over a gentle fire until the thickening is of a deep 
yellow brown; then add a pound of rump steak, 
finely minced, and keep it well separated with a fork 
until it is quite hot ; next pour to it gradually half a 
cupful of boiling water, and stew the coUops very 
gently for ten minutes. Before they are served, stir 
to them a little ketchup, Chili vinegar, or lemon 
juice: a small quantity of minced onion, eschalot, or 
a particle of garlic, may be added at first to the 
thickening when the flavour is not objected to. 



BOUILLL 
The rump of beef is best for this purpose, as the 
meat is to be served up in a separate dish, and will 
make a finely flavoured sort of soup. Take as much 
of it as may be thought necessary; but for a small 
party, say from four to six pounds, along with two 
or three large roasted onions, in one of which some 
doves may be stuck, and a moderate quantity of 
whole pepper, with a bunch of sweet herbs; to which 
an anchovy may be added: put it in a stewpan, 
covered with rather more than a pint of cold water 
to every pound of meat; and let it simmer by the side 
of the fire fur four or five hours, or until it has become 
quite tender; then take out the herbA ^xift. ^most^^ 



120 BEEF. 

and add carrots, turnips, and celerj, eitiber cut into* 
small squares or sliced, and let the whole boil until 
sufficiently stewed, and ready for the table. 

The soup should then be strained off, and served 
separately, leaving only so much as may be neces- 
sary for making sauce for the vegetables. The sauce 
should be a little thickened, and seasoned to the 
palate; if a clove of garlic, or a teaspoonful of gai Je 
and Chili vinegar, be added, it will improve the 
flavour. In Ireland it is not uncommon to send np 
the bouilli smothered in onion sauce, the other vege- 
tables being either not used, or brought up in the 
soup; in France it is very usual to dress cabbage 
and sausages as an accompaniment to the bouilli; 
but, in England, it is more customary to serve it up 
with the vegetable sauce as above stated. Cucum- 
bers cut into dice and stewed, with a spoonful of 
Chili vinegar added, are served at most of the Ger- 
man hotels. The meat, if gently stewed until quite 
tender, without being boUed to rags, will be found 
excellent, and the whole an admirable dish. 



TO BSOU BEEP STEAKS. 
The steaks should be from half to three-quarters 
of an inch thick, equally sliced, and freshly cut from 
the middle of a well kept, finely grained, and tender 
rump of beef. They should be neatly trimmed, and 
once or twice divided, if very large. The fire muot 
be strong and clear. The bars of the gridiron should 
be thin, and not very close together. When they 



BEEF. 121 

are thoroughly heated, without being aufficiently 
burning to scorch the meat, wipe and rub them with 
fresh mutton suet; next pepper the steaks slightly, 
but never season them with salt before they, are 
dressed ; lay them on the gridiron, and when done 
on one side, turn them on the other, being careful to 
catch, in the dish in which they are to be sent to 
table, any gravy which may threaten to drain from 
them when they are moved. Let them be served 
the instant they are taken from the fire, and have 
ready at the moment, dish, cover, and plates, as hot 
as they can be* From eight to ten minutes will be 
sufficient to broil steaks for the generality of eaters, 
and more than enough for those who like them but 
partially done. 

Genuine amateurs seldom take prepared sauce or 
g^vy with their steaks, as they consider the natural 
juices of the meat sufficient. When any accompani- 
ment to them is desired, a small quantity of choice 
mushroom ketchup may be warmed iit the dish that 
is heated to receive them; and which, when the not 
very refined flavour of a raw eschalot is liked, as it 
is by some eaters, may previously be rubbed with 
One, of which the large end has been cut off. A thin 
sli^e or two of "fresh butter is sometimes laid under 
the steaks, where it soon melts and nflngles with the 
gravy which flows from them. The appropiarate 
tureen sauces for broiled beef steaks are onion, 
tomato, oyster, eschalot, hot horseradish, and brown 
cucumber, or mushroom sauce. 



122 BEEF. 

Observe^ 1. — ^We have departed a little in this 
receipt from our previous instmctions for broOing, 
by recommending that the steals should be turned 
but once, instead of '' often/' as all great authorities 
on the subject direct. By trying each method, our 
readers will be able to decide for themselves upim 
the preferable one: we can only say, that we have 
never eaten steaks so excellent as those which have 
been dressed exactly in accordance with the receipt 
we have just given, and we have taken infinite pains 
to ascertain the really best mode of preparing this 
very feivourite dish, which so constantly makes its 
appearance both carelessly cooked and ill served, 
especially at private tables. 

ObservCj 2. — It is a good plan to throw a few bits 
of charcoal on the fire some minutes before the steaks 
are laid down, as they give forth a strong heat with- 
out any smoke. 



TO BOIL TBIFE. 
Put it into hot milk and water, an equal quantity 
of each; milk may be entirely omitted, or that used 
in which it may have been soaked; let it boil until 
quite tender, for two or three hours. Boil several 
large onions in two waters, so as to diminish their 
flavour ; if Spanish onions can be got, they should 
be preferred. When quite tender, slice the onions 
into small flakes, but leave them in that state, and 
do not mash them into smooth sauce; put the onions 
into a casserole with milk and butter, so as to make 



YEAL. 12S 



a delicate white sanoe, and season it only with a little 
salt, or a slight grating of nntm^; then pot the 
tripe, hot firom the pot, into a deep dish, and smother 
it entirely with the sanoe. It is nsnaQy eaten with 
pepper and mustard, at the discretion of the gnesta. 
Oyster saace «s sometimes used, and much aj^yrored. 



TO RT TBIFE FRKVIOUBLT OOQKEDl 
Cut it into bits three or four inches square ; make 
a batter thicker than for pancakes, of three ^gs 
beaten up with flour and milk, a little salt, pepper, 
and nutmeg; dip in the tripe, and fry it in butter, 
or fresh dripping, of a light brown colour. Senre it 
garnished with parsley. /Sstio^— mdted butter with 
leepion pickle in it. 



VEAL. 



TO CHOOSE TEAL. 

Veal should be fieit, finely grained, white, firm, and 
not oyergrown: for when very large it is apt to be 
coarse and tough. It is more difficult to keep than 
any other meat, except pork, and should nerer be 
allowed to acquire the slightest taint before it is 
dressed, as any approach to putridity renders it 
equally unwholesome and ofiensiye to i]h&\Aa\/^ ^Y>^<^ 



124 VEAL. 

fillet, the loin, the shoulder, and the best end of the 
neck, are the parts generally selected for roasting; 
the breast and knuckle are more usually stewed or 
boiled. The udder, or firm white fat of the fillet, is 
much used by French cooks instead of butter, espe- 
cially in the composition of their forcemeats: for 
these, it is first well boiled, then left until quite cold, 
and afterwards thoroughly pounded before it is mixed 
with the other ingredient^. The head and feet of the 
calf are valuable articles of foodj both for the nutri* 
ment which the gelatinous parts of them afford, and 
for the great variety of modes in which they may be 
dressed. The kidneys, with the rich fat that sutt 
rounds thera, and the sweetbreads especially, are well 
knonn delicacies ; the liver and the heart also f^ti 
very good eating; and no meat is so generally useful 
for rich soups and gravies as veal. 

Veal^ more than any other meat, requires to be 
wiped with a clean cloth every morning. The kernel 
should be taken out of the thick fat of the leg, and 
the udder slightly sprinkled with salt. Cut out the 
pipe from along the chine- bone of the loin, remove the 
kernel from under the inside fat, and sprinkle the 
chine- bone with salt. The pipe and chine-bonfe should 
be cut out from the neck, and the inside of the ribs 
rubbed with salt. From the breast, cut off the loose 
inside fat, and piece of skirt The shoulder is rarely 
kept above a day or two. 



TEAL. 125 

BOAST LOnr 01* VEAL. 

It is not usual to stuff a loin of veal, but we greatly 
recommend the practice, as an infinite improvement 
to the joint Make the same forcemeat as for the 
fillet ; and insert it between the skin and the flesh 
just over the ends of the bones. Skewer down the 
flap, place the joint at a moderate distance from a 
sound fire, keep it constantly basted, and be especially 
careful not to allow the kidney fat to bum: to prevent 
this, and to ensure the good appearance of the joint, 
a buttered paper is often fastened round the loin, and 
removed about half an hour before it is taken from 
the fire. It is the fashion in some counties to serve 
egg sauce and brown gravy with roast loin, or breast 
of veal. 

The cook will scarcely need to be told that she 
must separate the skin from the flank, with a sharp 
knife, quite from the end, to the place where the 
forcemeat is to be put, and then skewer the whole 
very securely. When the veal is not papered, 
dredge it well with flour soon after it is laid to the 
fire. Two hours to two hours and a half. 



PTTiTiET OF VEAL STEWED. 
Take a fillet of veal, remove the bone in the mid- 
dle without spoiling the shape, fill up the space in 
the centre with a plain stuffing, and pass a trussing- 
needle with a piece of twine through it several times, 
to keep it in shape; place the fillet in a stewpan, 
with a few slices of bacon under it, aad ON^T\d:^ ^ 



126 TEAL. 

few pieces of turnip and carrot, with a few onions, a 
blade of mace, two cloves, and a little salt ; moisten 
with water or stock till the meat is nearly covered, 
and let the pot stew very slowly.- A fillet weighing 
nine or ten pounds will take about three hoars. 
When ready, take up the meat, and take away the 
string; strain the ^iquor, and reduce a portion to 
glaze the fillet, if any is left : make a sauce piquant, 
and serve. 



BOLABB 07 VEAL. 
Procure a loin of veal, cut it quite square, ahd bone 
it, taking care not to cut the skin ; lay it flat on the 
table, and with a mallet or cutlet-bat flatten it till 
nearly of an equal thickness ; a few thin slices may 
be cut from the fillet, or thick part, and laid where 
it is very thin. Make a forcemeat with the lean 
part of the meat, spread it all over equally, then roll 
up as tight as possible, and sew it with a trussing- 
needle and string; slightly butter a cloth, lay the 
roll in it, and bind it up with a piece of tape. Put 
it into a pot, with all the trimmings, a few pieces of 
carrot, turnip, and a few onions; just cover with 
stock or water, and boil very slow for two hours; 
glaze, and serve, with a white sharp sauce. 



CALF'S HEAD. 
Prepare a calf's head, as before directed for mock 
turtle soup, but cutting it in pieces three inches square, 
keeping the tongue, ears, and palate whole. Stew 



VEAL. 127 

tbem in a litde white stock till tender, taking care not 
to do them too much; the tongae Will take longer 
than the odier parts. When ready, dress the pieces 
on the dish in a circle — ^the tongue, glazed, in the 
middle, with the ears and palate; sauce over with 
b^hamel, or piquant, or any other relishing sauce. 

Calves' heads may be boned, and stuffisd with veal 
forcemeat, or the cheeks kept whole. 

Necks, breasts, and loins of veal, may be roasted, 
braised, or stewed. The breast of veal should be 
stuffed With veal forcemeat, or the plain stuffing. 



GALENTIHE 01* VEAL. 
Procure a loin of veal, from ten to sixteen pounds, 
bone it, without cutting the outer skin, and level it 
by cutting off the veal next the back-bone. Beat it 
all over with a wooden mallet till quite equal; if 
properly cut by the butcher, it should be perfectly 
square; strew a little -pepper and salt over it, and 
allow it to lie on the table till ready for it. Make a 
rich veal forcemeat, as previously directed, of the 
cuttings from the loin; boil eight eggs twelve 
minutes, and cool them in water ; wash twelve gher- 
kins, and cut each into two, or four if large; cut 
some strips of ham, half an inch square, and six or 
eight inches long — ^about twelve pieces will be re- 
quired. Cut the eggs in four, lengthways ; spread 
the forcemeat all over, half an inch thick, then lay 
a row of eggs, then a row of gherkins, and the same 
of ham, altematelj; till the forcemeat va ckw^t^^ 



128 yEAL. 

then roll the veal up, keeping as much as possihle 
the various articles in their places. Have a long 
trussing-needle with a piece of small twine, to sew 
ap the end ; have a large kitchen napkin laid on the 
tahle, spread a little batter over it, lay the roll in it, 
and tyirn it round in the napkin; have a piece of 
tape, an inch broad, and four yards long, tie it round 
the veal, and pin it at both ends. Put it in a pot 
that will just hold it, and put all the bones and trim- 
mings with it ; cover with cold water, and sinmier 
slowly, — ^if a large loin of sixteen pounds, two hours 
and a half to three hours. When done, take it 6at 
of the pot, lay it in a dish, put a board on the top of 
it, and press with a weight of eight or ten pounds. 
Next morning strip off the cloth, have a pan of glaze 
ready, and glaze it all over with a brush. The 
galentine may be dished in a variety of ways; it 
may be cut in two, lengthways — one half kept whole, 
the other cut in thin slices, and dished in crown, or 
circle, or laid flat. If kept full size, have some very 
strong aspic, or savoury jelly, half an inch thick ; 
cut in bars an inch broad, lay them an inch apart, 
then chop a little of the jelly very fine, and lay be- 
tween the bars; cut some small leaves from the 
whites of hard eggs, the same from gherkins and 
beet- root, and form a wreath on the bars ; lay some 
diamonds of jelly round the edge of the dish, and lay 
the roll in the middle, with chopt jelly all round. 
This is a most magnificent dish, and used as the 
principal one for a supper-table. 



VEAL. 129 

KDrCED TEAL. 
Ottt cold veal as fine as possible, but do not chop 
it ; pat to it a very little lemdn peel shred, two grates 
of nutmeg, some salt, and fom* or five spoonfuls of 
either a little weak broth, milk, or water; simmer 
these gently with the meat, but take care not to let 
it boil ; and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put 
nppets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-cornerod 
shape, round the dish. 



TO POT YEAL. 

Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or you 
may do it as follows : — 

Seaa(m a large slice of the fillet he^ore it is dressed, 
with some mace, pepper-corns, and two or three 
eloves ; lay it close into a potting-pan that will but 
juat hold it, fill it up with water, and bake it three 
hours; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and 
add salt to taste ; put a little gravy that was baked 
to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon ; otherwise only 
a little butter just melted. When done, cover it over 
with butter. 



CUTLETS MAISTESQfS. 
Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, 
beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both . 
sides with egg] dip them into a seasoning of bread 
crmnbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper^ 

salt; and a little nutmeg grated* {h.eii ig\x\tV\\!&TfiL vc&x^ 

I 



130 YEAL. 



papers folded orer, and broil them ; and have in a 
boat melted butter, with a little mnshroooi ketehnp. 



CUTLETS KAIHTEH0V. 

Another Wojf, 

Prepare as above, and fry them ; lay them into a 
dish, and keep them hot ; dredge a little flour, and 
put a piece of butter into the pan ; brown it, then pour 
a little boiling water into it, and boil quick. Season 
with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour over them. 



TEAL 00LL0F8. 
Cut long thin coUops; beat them well, and lay 
on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and 
spread forcemeat on that, high seasoned, and also a 
little garlic and Cayenne. RoU them up tight, about 
the size of two fingers, but not more than two or 
three inches long ; put a very small skewer to feuten 
each firmly ; rub egg over ; fry of a fine brown and 
pour a rich brown gravy over them. 



TO DRESS OOLLOPS QUICK. 
Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, 
and in small bits. Throw the skin and any odd bits 
of the veal into a little water, with a dust of pepper 
and salt; set them on the fire while you beat the 
collops ; and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, 
bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first 
wet them in egg. Then put a bit of butter into a 
£yring'paBf and give the coUops a very quick fry; 



131 

for as they are so Hdn, two minutea will do diem oa 
both sides ; put them into a hot dish befiire the fiie; 
then strain and thicken the gravr, gire it a boQ in 
the firying-pan, and poor it over the edlops. A little 
ketchnp is an improvement. 



TEAL OUTEBL 

Cot long thin collops; heat them; Imj on 
thin slices of £ai bacm, and orer these a bjer of 
forcemeat seasoned high, with some shred shalot and 
Cayenne. Boll them tight, ahoot the size of two 
fingers, hot not more than two or three indies long; 
fiisten them roond with a small skewer, rob egg over 
them, and fry them of a light brown. 

Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some mnsh- 
rooms, pickled or fresh. Gramish with balls fried. 



TO COLLAR GALPS HEAB. 
Scald the skin off a fine head, clean it niody, and 
take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to re- 
move the bones ; then have ready a good quantity of 
chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pep- 
per, mixed well ; season it high with these ; lay the 
parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick 
slices of fine ham, or a beautiful-coloured tongue 
skinned, and then the yolks of six nice yellow eggs 
stuck here and there about. Boll the head quite 
dose, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it^ and 
then lay a weight on it A doth must be put under 
the iap^ as for other collars. 



132 VfliLL. 

8T1WJU) LOnr 07 TEAL. 
Take part of a loin of yeal, the chump-end will do ; 
pot into a large, thick, well-tinned iron saucepan, or 
into a stewpan, about a couple of ounces of butter, 
and shake it over a moderate fire, until it begins to 
brown ; flour the veal well all over, lay it into the 
saucepan^ and when it is of a fine, equal light brown, 
pour gradually in yeal broth, gravy, or bmHng water, 
to nearly half its depth ; add a little salt, one or two 
sliced carrots, a small onion, or more when the Aa- 
Your is much liked, and a bunch of parsley ; stew the 
veal very softly for an hour or rather mOre ; then 
turn it, and let it stew fi)r nearly or quite another 
hour, or longer should it not appear perfectly done. 
As none of our receipts have been tried with large, 
coarse veal, the cooking must be regulated by that 
circumstance, and longer time allowed should the 
meat be of more than middling size. Dish the joint ; 
skim all the fat firom the gravy, and strain it over the 
meat ; or keep the joint hot while it is rajHdly re- 
duced to a richer consistency. This is merely a. plain 
£unily stew. 



FSICAlfDEAU 01* VEAL. 
To make the fricandeau of veal well, the proper 
cut must be got from a fillet of veaL Open the fillet 
without cutting through the flesh ; the natural divi- 
sion will indicate the part which is required — the 
thidk fiUet, or cushion-piece. With a sharp knife 
ibe skin, and flAttem Ytvtk the cutLet-bat; 




have m pieee of fim £U 
haif sqaaie, eat dam to die nod in tihrn fliee^ 
out cutting tliroi^ entirelf ; diei &nm ^ 
from the lieel to the point, cutting iMr iMtaUr , in 
pieces to fit th^ kiding-^needle^ en^ beng an iack 
and a half long. Wken ^ toI is laided. bj a 
slice or two of fiit baoon on ^ bottDas of a ift e npan 
that will just hold the Tcal^ put il in, and hj a few 
pieces of carrot, an onion or two^ a few ipiiffl sf 
parsley, a blade of mace, and a few leaies of baal; 
moisten with broth or walei^ taking care nol to 
the larding; sinmier Tery slowfy 
half hoorsy basting it fr e qu c n lh' ; a 
lor doing it r^nlarijr. When re 
serre with soird sanee. The liqaor in which the 
frieandean was braised win make an exBcSeat 



Are jost small fricandeaoB of Tealy being made £r«B 
small slices of fiDet, cot in the same war, and kided; 
about eight to a dish : lednee their liquor, and j^axe 
them with it; serve with sonel, piqaanly uanato^ or 
any other sauce. 



Take three or fear heart sweeUnods; ArowdMn 
into a basin of t^id water fer two hoars; the water 
may be dianged; when quite whiter Uaadb Aam m 
Ixnling water two minntes, and pare away amy mmtw 
that may be about them; then stewikna m^^^iAit 



134 VEAL. 

broth, with some vegetables, about half an nour. 
When tender, they may be glazed or not, and serve 
with a white sauce ; if glazed, pour the sauce roxmd 
them. 



SWEETBBEASS. 

ulfiot&er Way. 

Prepare as above ; then dip the sweetbreads in a 
beat up eggj and throw them into crumbs ; have a 
pan of hot dripping, in which fry them of a fine yel- 
low colour. Serve on toasted bread, with melted but- 
ter, or any other that may be approved. 



SCOLLOPS 07 SWEETBREAD. 
Prepare as before. Cut into scollops as large as 
possible ; melt a little butter in a frying-pan, put in 
the scollops, and fry them ; then drain off the butter, 
put a little glaze in the pan, stir the sweetbreads in 
the glaze, and serve with green peas in the centre. 



VEAL CUTLETS. 
Cut six chops from a neck of veal, trim them, and 
lay them in the bottom of a stewpan, with all the 
trimmings, a few pieces of carrot, two or three onions, 
a bunch of parsley, and a blade of mace ; moisten with 
a pint of water or stock, and stew very gently for 
three quarters of an hour ; take up the cutlets, lay 
them between two dishes, and put a weight on to 
press them flat. While they are cooling, make a 
Bauce with the liquor lefb in the pan^ thus— chop a 



TEAL. 135 

large onion very small, poor three spoonfols of yine- 
gar into a small stewpan, add the onion, and boil 
down to one half; then add a small piece of ixniz, or 
a small piece of butter rolled in floor, poor in the 
liquor from the cutlets, boil a few minutes, and take 
off the grease ; chop four small gherkins and add to 
the sauce ; then season with a little Cayenne pepper, 
a little salt, and a small lump of sugar. Take the 
cutlets, pare them neatly, egg and bread crumb than, 
and fry with a little butter — being thicker than mut- 
ton cutlets, they will take a little longer ; drain on a 
napkin to absorb the g^rease ; dish, and serve. 



TBAL CUTLETS. 

Another Wdjf. 

Prepare six chops as before, from the neck ; trim 
them, dip them in egg, and bread crumb them as be- 
fore; serve with the same sauce, or a sharp white 
sauce. 



TEAL CUTLETS. 

Another way. 

Cutlets should be cut from the fillet, but chops are 
taken from the loin. Some persons have deprecated 
the practice of beating meat, but it is essentially ne- 
cessary in veal cutlets, which otherwise, especially if 
merely fried, are very indigestible. They should be 
cut about a quarter or half an inch in thickness, and 
well beaten ; they will then, when fried, taste like 
sweetbreads, be quite as tender, and n^eaacVij ^ t\S(i% 



136 TEAL. 



LOO TEAL. 

Egg them over, dip them in bread cnmibs and 
savoury herbs ; fry, and serve with mashroom sauce 



and fried baoon. 



CALF'S CHEEK. 
Stew half a calf's cheek in a litde stock, or water, 
till tender, and pat in 'press between two dishes; 
when cold, cut it into neat square pieces; have m 
nice white sauce prepared, put the pieces into it, and 
when warmed through, dish them in a circle, one 
against another, sauce in the middle, and serve. 



CBOQUETTES OF VEAL. 
Take three quarters of a pound of fiUet of veal, and 
cut it in very small dice, with a quarter of a pound 
of lean ham, also cut fine ; mince a little parsley and 
an onion, and add to the veal ; put an ounce of batter 
in the bottom of a small stewpan, lay the veal and 
ham in it, cover up close, and allow to sweat on the 
fire for a few minutes, stirring occasionally; when 
done enough, take it off the fire. Put an ounce of 
butter in a small stewpan, with an ounce of fiour ; 
moisten with two or three spoonfuls of stock, and add 
a small piece of glaze, if at hand ; stir in two or three 
beat yolks of eggs, and a little pepper and salt ; add 
the meat, mix all together, and empty out on a dish 
to cooL When cool, form into small pyramids, glaze 
with yolks of eggs, cover with bread crumbs, and 
fry in a pan of hot dripping ; dish with fried parsley, 
and serve. 



TEAL. 137 

BISSOLES 

Are made with the same preparation. KoU out a 
piece of pufif-paste, not too light, into a sheet ; cut out 
with a plain cutter, four inches in diameter, and place 
a little of the meat in the centre ; fold over the paste, 
and press it all round ; glaze with egg^ throw into 
hot dripping, and fry them of a fine yellow colour ; 
serve with green fried parsley. 

Croquettes «.d rissoles may be made of any kind 
of meat which has been left from a previous dinner. 



CALF'S UVEB. 
Take a nice calf's liver, very white ; immerse it 
in a basin of tepid water, that all the blood may be 
absorbed ; lay on a cloth, dry it, cut into slices, and. 
dredge with flour ; melt a little butter in a frying- 
pan, and when hot, place the pieces of liver, which 
have been neatly trimmed, all round the pan, and 
fry J turning them two or three times ; take out the 
liver, mince an onion and a little parsley, and throw 
into the pan ; fry a little, add a little flour, and stir 
well till of a good colour ; moisten with a little broth, 
a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, the juice of a 
lemon, a litde sugar, Cayenne, and salt. Dish the 
liver, pour the sauce over, and serve. 



CUBBT OF VEAL. 
Take off a few slices from a fillet of veal, beat them 
with the cutlet-bat, and trim them neatly — one pound 
will be enough. Melt an ounce of boAtec \ ^V^^tlX^Am^ 



138 MUTTON. 

ammge die veal in the frying-pan, and fry till nearly 
done ; take up the yeal, add an ounce more batter, 
shred four onions into rings, as thin as it is possible 
to cut them, and fry till soft and of a good oolonr, 
without burning ; then add a spoonfril of flour, and a 
good teaspoonful of curry powder, give it a few turns 
on the fire, and moisten with either water or a little 
plain broth — one pint will be sufficient; strain the 
same, add the yeal to it, and simmer in a stewpan 
for a few minutes ; take off the grease, add m little 
salt, a small piece of sugar, and serve. 



MUTTON: 

TO CHOOSE HUl'IOV. 

The best mutton is small-boned, plump, finely grained, 
and short-legged ; the lean of a dark, rather than of 
a bright hue, and the fat white and clear — ^when this 
is yellow, the meat is rank, and of bad quality. 
Mutton is not considered by experienced judges to be 
in perfection until it is nearly or quite five years old ; 
but to avoid the additional expense of feeding the 
animal so long, it is commonly brought into the 
market at three years old. The leg and the loin are 
the superior joints; and the preference would pro- 
hahly be given more frequently to the latter, but for 



IfUTTOV. 139 

the saperabnndaiioe of its ht, which renders it a not 
very economical dish. The haunch consists of the 
1^ and the part of the loin adjoining it ; the saddle, 
of the two loins together, or the undivided b<ick of 
the sheep. These last are always roasted ; and are 
served usually at good tables, or for company dinners, 
instead of the smaller joints. The shoulder, dressed 
in the ordinary way, is not very highly esteemed, 
but when boned, rolled, and filled with forcemeat, it 
is of more presentable appearance, and to many tastes, 
&r better eating ; though some persons prefer it in 
its natural form, accompanied by stewed onions. It 
is occasionally boiled or stewed, and covered with 
rich onion sauce. The neck is sometiines roasted, 
but it is more generally boiled ; the scrag, or that 
part of it which joins the head, is seldom used for any 
other purpose than making broth, and should be 
taken off before the joint is dressed. Cutlets from 
the thick end of the loin are commonly preferred to 
any others, but they are frequently taken likewise 
from the best end of the neck (sometimes called the 
hade-ribs) and from the middle of the leg. Mutton 
kidneys are dressed in various ways, and are excel- 
lent in many. The trotters and the head of a sheep 
may be converted into very good dishes, but they are 
ficarcely worth the trouble that is required to render 
them palatable. The loin and the leg are occasionally 
cored and smoked like hams or bacon. 

The leg spoils sooner than any other joint of mut- 
ton ; to prevent which, take out the kenksX ttookS^ 



140 MUTTOV. 

iatf and fill up its place with salt. The neck will 
keep well, if the pipe he cut out from along the 
chine-hone. Take out the kernel horn the shoulder. 
Cut the skirt out of the hreast. Lamb should he 
managed as mutton. Veal and lamh, it may h^w 
he ohserved, spoil sooner than other meat 



HAUVCH OF XUTTOVl SQA8TED. 

It will require to he kept for some time, and most 
therefore he well washed with vinegar, wiped eyeiy 
day, and, if necessary, ruhhed with pounded p^ptf 
and ginger. 

Cut off the knuckle rather close to the joint of the 
leg; nick the cramp-hone, and that will allow the 
cushion or thick part of the leg to draw up and he 
more plump ; trim off the thick skin at the flank, and 
round off the comer of the fat, so as to make the joint 
appear neat Cover the fat with oiled paper, which 
should he taken off a quarter of an hour hefore you 
think it will he done; then dredge the meat very 
lightly with flour, and sprinkle it freely with sak; 
serve it up with currant jelly, and a sauce of port 
wine, spice, and gravy ; a piece of fringed paper 
heing tied neatly round the shank-hone. To roast 
a haunch of fourteen or sixteen pounds will take from 
three hours to three hours and a half ; or even a little 
more if the weather be very cold, or if required to be 
" very well done." 



MUTTOM. 141 

. ID BOAST A SADDLE OF KUTTGS. 

A saddle, i, e. the two loins, being broad, requires 
a higb and strong fire ; and, if weighing eleven or 
twelve pounds, two hours and a half roasting. The 
skin should be taken off^ and loosely skewered on 
again ; or, if this be not done, the fat should be 
covered with paper, tied on with buttered string. 
Twenty minutes before the joint is done, take off the 
skin or paper, baste, flour, and froth it. Serve with 
gravy and jelly, as haunch of mutton. 

A saddle of mutton is an elegant joint, when well 
trimmed by cutting off the flaps, tail, and chump-end, 
which will reduce a saddle of eleven pounds to seven 
pounds' weight. 



TO BOiUIT A LODT OF MUTTOV. 
The flesh of the loin of mutton is superior to that 
of the leg, when roasted ; but to the fi-ugal house- 
keeper this consideration is usually overbalanced by 
the great weight of fat attached to it ; this, however, 
when economy is more considered than appearance, 
may be pared off and melted down for various kitchen 
uses, or finely chopped, and substituted for suet in 
making hot pie or pudding crust. When thus re- 
duced in size, the mutton will be soon roasted. If it 
is to be dressed in the usual way, the butcher should 
be desired to take off the skin ; care should be taken 
to preserve the fat from being ever so slightly burned ; 
it should be managed, indeed, in the same Qiaimer as 
the saddle^ in every respect, and carved sl^o \xi ^^ 



142 MUTTOK. 

same way, that is to say, the meat should be cot out 
in slices the whole length of the backbone, and dose 
to it 

Without the fat, one hour to one hour and a half; 
with, one hour and a quarter to one hour and three 
quarters. 



TO BOAST A SHOXTLDES OF XUTTOV. 
Flour it well, and baste it constantly with its own 
dripping ; do not place it close enough to the fire for 
the &t to be in the slightest degree burned, or even 
too deeply browned. An hour and a half will roast 
it, if it be of moderate size. Stewed onions are often 
sent to table with it. A shoulder of mutton is some- 
times boiled, and smothered with onion sauce. 



SUPEBIOB BECEIPT FOB BOAST LEG OF KUTTOV. 

Cover the joint well with cold water, bring it gra- 
dually to boil, and let it simmer gently for half an 
hour ; then lift it out, put it immediately on to the 
spit, and roast it from one hour and a quarter to one 
hour and a hal^ according to its weight. This mode 
of dressing the joint renders it remarkably juicy and 
tender ; but there must be no delay in putting it on 
the spit after it is lifted from the water ; it may be 
garnished with roast tomatoes. 



LEG OF MIJTTOIT BBAISED. 
Take a very small leg of mutton, cut off the 
knuckle, and trim it nicely*, ViaAi xoSiS^t \t>*^ then put 



MUTToir. 143 

it into a stewpan with the knuckle-bone broken, the 
trimmings, a few slices of fkt bacon or two onnoes of 
batter, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bundle of 
sweet herbs. Shake the stewpan over the fire until 
there is gravy enough from the meat and the trim- 
mings to stew the mutton, and take care to turn itin 
the braise. When very tender, take it up, remove 
the fat from the gravy, strain it, and boil it quickly 
until it is reduced to a glaze ; pour it over the mut- 
ton, and serve it up with a pur^ of vegetables be- 
neath. 



LEG OF MU^TOH' BOILED. 

Let the joint be kept until it is tender, but not so 
long as for roasting, as mutton for boiling will not 
look of a good colour if it has hung long. 

To prepare a leg of mutton for boiling, trim it as 
for roasting; soak it for a couple of hours in cold 
water ; then put only water enough to cover it, and 
let it boil gently for three hours if of the largest size, 
and, if smaller, according to its weight Some cooks 
boil it in a cloth; but if the water be afterwards 
wanted for soup, that should not be done, as it would 
be no longer fit for that purpose : some salt and an 
onion put into it is feur better. When nearly ready, 
take it from the fire, and, keeping the pot well 
covered, let it remain in the steam for ten or fifteen 
minutes. It is sent to table with caper sauce and 
mashed turnips. 




Jte 

fMJM l^ffOaar, the ieng wffl leqidre raO^'^ai 
irt««ri0]|^ Hum iht 0iha put to make it tender. H 
<«I/ riijj^ktljr Miltod ^ two or time days, the fit 
wai be 00 rniieh improred as to become finn and 
Appear clarified; and the mode which we recommend 
&r Attmmfi; the joiot is thns : — 

IM\ the neck reiy gently mitil it is nearly done 
•immniit ; then, twenty minutes or half an hour before 
'Mtrvin^, cover it thickly with bread crumbs and 
«wi«,ftt herbs chopped, with a little drawn butter 
or the yolk of an egg, and put it into a dutch oven 
iMiforo the fire. By this process the meat will taste 
much bettor than if merely roasted or boiled; the 



MUTTON. 145 

dryness attendant upon roasting will be removed, and 
the disagreeable greasiness which boiled meat — 
matton especially — exhibits, will utterly disappear. 
Too much cannot be said in favour of this method of 
dressing the neck and breast of mutton, for the liquor 
they have been boiled in, if stewed with peas, will 
make a very good soup. 



MXJTTOSr CUTLETS. 
Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into cutlets 
half an inch thick, and chop each bone short ; flatten 
and trim them, scraping the end of the bone quite 
dean ; brush them with egg, and cover them with 
crumbs, herbs, and seasoning, and fry them in hot 
&t; serve them with tomato or any other piquant 
saooe. 



TO DSESS COTELETTES DE KOUTOIT A LA FOLOHAISE. 
Remove all the fat, put the meat into a covered 
stewpan, with a carrot and a turnip sliced, two onions, 
a bundle of sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and 
enough broth to moisten the whole ; let it stew very 
gently until the meat is perfectly done, then take it 
out, strain the gravy, put it over a brisk fire, and re- 
duce it to a glaze ; then cover the cutlets with the 
glaze, and serve them up with tomato sauce or a 
vegetable pur6e of any kind. 



XUTTOV CUTLETS, BBEAB-CBUMBED. 

Take a neck of mutton, saw oS t\i^ (^ly^A^xi^ 



Itf 




Prepare the cotleu as bdbre^ widioat cnmilM^ 
•eascffi with salt and pepper, lar them in the pan, 
and hj them a light hrown eoloor, pour off die grease, 
add a few spoonfiils of brown sauce, ammer i>r a 
roinate or two, and senre. 



TO BROIL MUTTOV CUTLEXS. 

These may be taken from the loin, or the best end 
of the neck, but the former are generally preferred. 
Trim off a portion of the&t, or the whole of it, un^ 
it be liked; pepper the cutlets, heat the gridiron, rub 
it with a bit of the mutton suet, broil them oyer a 
brisk fire, and turn them often until they are done : 
this, for the generality of eaters, will be in about 
eight minutes if they are not more than half an inch 
thick, which they should not be. French cooks season 
them with pepper and salt, and give them a light 
coating of dissolved butter or oi oVV^ Wot^ ^«y «» 



MUTTON. lAl 

laid to the fire, and we have found the cutlets so 
managed extremely good. 

Lightly broiled, seven or eight minutes. Well 
done, ten minutes. 

Observe. — A cold M^itre d'Hotel sauce may be 
laid under the cutlets when they are dished ; or they . 
may be served quite dry, or with brown gravy ; or 
when none is at hand, with good melted butter sea- 
soned with mushroom ketchup, Cayenne, and Chili 
vinegar, or lemon juice. 



TO DBESS HATJVCH OF MUTTOV. 
Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet by the 
different modes : let it be washed with warm milk 
and water, or vinegar, if necessary ; but when to be 

• 

dressed, observe to wash it well, lest the outside 
should have a bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste 
of coarse flour on strong paper, and fold the haunch 
in : set it at a great distance from the fire, and allow 
proportionable time for the paste ; do not take it off 
till about thirty-five or forty minutes before serving, 
and then baste it continually. Bring the haunch 
nearer to the fire before you take off the paste, and 
froth it up as you would venison. 

A gravy must be made of a pound and a half of 
loin of old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to 
hal^ and no seasoning but salt : brown it with a little 
burnt sugar and send it up in the dish; but there 
should be a good deal of gravy in the meat; fot 
thoii|^2i long at the fire, the didtance «ii^ cks^^toi^ 



148 LAMB. 

will prevent its roastuig out. Serve with 
jelly sauce. 



HASSIOO. 
Take off wme of the fat, and cut the middle or best 
end of the neck into rather thin steaks; floor and fiy 
them in their own &t of a fine light brown, but not 
enough for eating. Then put them into a dish while 
you fry the carrots, turnips, and onions ; the carrots 
and turnips in dice, the onions sliced: but they 
must only be warmed, not browned, or you need 
not fry them. Then lay the steaks at the bottcnu 
of a stewpan, the vegetables over them, and poor 
as much boiling water as Tvill just cover than; 
give one boil, skim well, and then set the pan 
on the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender. 
In three or four hours skim them ; and add pepper, 
salt, and a spoonful of ketchup. 



IAMB. 



LAMB TO CHOOSE. 

Lamb is a delicate and tender meat ; but it requires 
to be kept a few days, when the weather will permit, 
and should be thoroughly cooked to be healthful 
Never take lamb or veal from the spit till the gravy 
that drops iB white. 



149 

The f(»e-qiuiiier of kmb ocmiirtB of the shouldery 
the neck, and the hreast together; the hind-qaaiier 
18 the 1^ and loin. There are alao the head and 
pluck, the fry, sweethreada, skirts, and Erer. 

In choosing the foie-qnarter, the vein in the neck 
should he mddy, or of a hlinsh eolonr. In the hind- 
quarter, the knnckle shoold feel sdf^ the kidney 
small, and perfectly fresh. To keep it the joints 
shoold he carefrdly wiped every day, and in warm 
weather, sprinkled with a little salL 

The fere-qnarter is the prime joint, and if weigh- 
ing ten pounds, will require ahont two hoars roaating. 
In serving, remove the shoulder from the ribs, pot 
between them a lump of butter, spiiokle with pepper 
and salt, lemon or Seville orange juice ; and when 
the butter is melted, take oS the shoulder, and put it 
into another dish. A hind-quarter, of eight pounds 
will require from one hour and three-quarters to two 
hours roasting. 

A leg of lamb, of six pounds, will require an hour 
and a half roasting. 

A shoulder of lamb, an hour. 

Eibs, from an hour to an hour and a' quarter. 

Loin, of feur pounds, an hour. 

Neck, of three pounds, three quarters of an hour. 

Breast, three-quarters of an hour. 

The gravy for Ismb is made as for beef and mutton; 
it is served with mint sauce ; and a joint, to be eaten 
cold, should be sprinkled witli chopped parsley when 
taken up. 



150 



The hind-qiurter of lamb hsuIIt wcigfo from 
seren to ten pounds : this size will take about tvo 
boon to roast it Hare a brisk fiie^ 

It most be yery frequently basted while roasting, 
and sprinkled with a little salt, and dredged all over 
with floor, about half an boor befave it is dme. 



fOBE^KUABXER OF LAMB. 

A fore-quarter of lamb is cooked the same way, 
but takes rather less time, if the same weight, than 
the hind-qnarter ; because it is a thinner jmnt : <Hie 
of nine pounds onght to be allowed two boors. 



LEGOFLAXB. 

A leg of lamb of four pounds' weight will take 
about an hour and a quarter ; if five pounds, nearly 
an hour and a half; a shoulder of four pounds, will 
be roasted in an hour, or a very few minutes over. 



BIBS OF LAHB. 

Ribs of lamb are thin, and require great care 
to do gently at first, and brisker as it is finishing ; 
sprinkle it with a little salt, and dredge it slightly 
with flour about twenty minutes before it is done. 
It will take an hour, or longer, according to thick- 
ness. Gravy for this and other joints of roast lamb 
18 made as directed elsewbere. 



LAMB. 151 

LOnr, HECK. AHD BSEA8T OF LAXB. 
A loin of lamb will be roasted in about an boor 
and a quarter ; a neck in an bour ; and a breast in 
tbree quarters of an bour. Do not forget to salt and 
flour tbese joints about twenty minutes before tbey 
are done. 



GASHISH ASD 7EGETABLES FOB BOAST LAXB. 

All joints of roast lamb may be gamisbed witb 
double parsley, and served up witb either asparagus 
and new patatoes, spring spinach and new potatoes, 
green peas and new potatoes, or with cauliflowers or 
French beans and potatoes : and never forget to send 
up mint sauce. 

Observe, — The following will be found an excellent 
receipt for mint sauce: With three heaped table- 
spoonfuls of finely-chopped young mint, mix two of 
pounded and sifted sugar, and six of the best vinegar; 
stir it until the sugar is dissolved. 



TO BOHE A aUABTEB OF LAXB. 
Take the fore-quarter, remove the shoulder, and 
take out the bone ; stuff it with fine forcemeat, and 
skewer it in a handsome shape. Braise it with two 
ounces of butter, add a teacupful of water, stirring 
the braise until the gravy is drawn. Then cut the 
brisket into pieces, and stew them in white gravy ; 
thicken it with cream and eggs so that it shall be 
very white ; cut the long bones into chops and fry 
them ; thicken the gravy of the \)m^e^ ^di \/^ VV 



152 LAMB. 

haricots, minced truffles, or anything else, of vege- 
table in season. Place the shoulder in the centre of 
a dish with its own sauce, lay the brisket coyered 
with white sauce rotind it, and place the fried chops 
at the edge. 



A LOnr OF LAMB. 
Cut a loin of lamb into steaks, pare off the skin 
and part of the fat, fry it in butter a pale brown, pour 
away the fat, and put in boiling water enough to 
cover the meat, a little pepper and salt, a little nut- 
meg, half a pint of green peas, cover it down, and let 
it stew gently for hah an hour. 



TO STEW A BBEAST OF, LAMB. 
Cut it into pieces, season them with pepper and 
salt, and stew them in weak gravy: when tender, 
thicken the sauce, and add a glass of white wine. 
Cucumbers, sliced and stewed in gravy, may be 
served with the lamb, the same being poured over it 
Or, the lamb may be served in a dish of stewed 
mushrooms. 



TO BOIL A LEG OF LAMB. 

This is considered a delicate joint in the very first 
families. It should be put into a pot with cold water 
just enough to cover it, and very carefully skimmed 
so long as the least appearance of scum rises. 

This joint should not be suffered to boil fast, for 
OB ita being gently boiled, dei^ud^ «X\ \U ^ooidneas^ 



LAMB. 158 

and the delicate white appearance it should have when 
served up. 

A leg of four or five pounds weight, will take ahout 
one hour and a half, reckoning from the time it comes 
to a boil. 

A boiled leg of lamb may be served up with 
either green peas, or cauliflower, or young French 
beans, asparagus, or spinach, and potatoes, which for 
lamb should always be of a small size. 

Parsley and butter for the joint, and plain melted 
butter for the vegetables, are the proper sauces for 
boiled lamb. 



LAMB CHOPS. 
Take a loin of lamb, cut chops from it half an inch 
thick, retaining the kidney in its place; dip them 
into egg and bread crumbs, fry and serve with fried 
parsley. 



BLAKQX7ETTE FAGlTEAtT. WHITE FBICASSEE 

OF LAMB. 

Cut the best part of the breast of small lamb into 
square pieces of two inches each: wash, dry, and 
flour them. Having boiled four ounce of butter, one 
of fat bacon, and some parsley, ten minutes, put the 
meat to it: add the juice of half a lemon, an onion 
cut small, pepper and salt. Simmer it two hours ; 
then add the yolks of two eggs, shake the pan over 
the fire two minutes, and serve. 



154 LAMB. 

LAMB'S BWEETBBEAIMi. * 

Blanch theni) and put them into cold water. Then 
put them into a stewpan, with a ladleful of broth, 
some pepper and salt, a small hunch of button onions, 
and a blade of mace : stir in a bit of butter and 
flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready the yolks 
of two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with a 
little minced parsley and a few grates of nutmeg. 
Put in some boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. 
Do not let it boil after the cream is in; but make it 
hot, and stir it well all the time. Take great care 
it does not curdle. French beans or peas may be 
added, but they should be very young. - 



LAMBS' FBT. 
This is the sweetbreads, skirts, and a portion of 
the liver. Flour, and season it, and fry plain ; or, 
dip the fry in egg, and strew crumbs over it before 
frying; serve fried parsley with it, and either of the 
sauces directed for cutlets. Pork and venison fries 
are similarly dressed. 



A DISH OF LAMB. 

Take the best end oi a neck of lamb, cut it into 
steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the 
steaks almost round, ^gg, and strew with crumbs, 
herbs, and seasoning ; fry them of the finest brown; 
mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, 
5U2d put them into the middle of the dish raised high. 



VENISON. 155 

Then place the edge of one Bteak on another with the 
small bone upward, all round the potatoes. 

Pies of the different meats are directed mider the 
general head of Savoury Pies, 



VENISON. 



TO GHOOSIi YEHISOV. 
The fat should be clear, bright, and thick; and if 
the cleft of the haunch be smooth and close, it is 
young; but if the cleft is close and tough, it is old. 
To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow 
knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know 
by the scent. Few people like it when it has much 
of the haut-goUt; but it bears keeping better than any 
sort of meat, and if eaten fresh killed it is not so good 
as mutton. Observe the neck of a fore-quarter ; if 
the vein be bluish, it is fresh; if it have a green or 
yellow cast, it is stale. In the hind- quarter, if there 
is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is 
limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes be sunk, the 
head is not fresh. The haunch is the finest joint. 
The kernel in the fat, as in the leg of mutton, should 
be taken out ; the part should then be wiped dry, 
and ground pepper and ginger rubbed on the inside, 
to keep the flies from it. The neck is the next best 
jcaniy and merely requires wiping dry m\Xi «k ^^"ew:^ 



156 VENISON. 

dotli. The shoulder and hreast are mosdy used in 
two or three days for pasties; hut sometimes the 
shoulder is roasted as the haunch. 



TO BOAST A HAUVGH OF YEHISQF. 

Cut off the knuckle, trim the flap, and remove the 
thick skin on the flank ; nick the joint at the cramp- 
hone. Split it, ruh it over with hutter, sprinkle 
well with salt, cover it with a sheet of vefy thin 
paper, then with a paste of flour and water, and 
again with paper ; tie it up well with a stout string 
laced across it ; haste it all the time it is roasting. 
Let it cook ahout four or five hours. A quarter of 
an hour hefore serving it, remove the paste, throw a 
handful of salt on it, dredge it with flour and haste 
with a little fresh huttter. 

The gravy should he made as follows : cut two or 
three pounds of the scrag, or the lean of a loin of old 
mutton, hrown it on a gridiron, and put it into a 
saucepan with a quart of water ; cover it closely, and 
simmer for an hour; then uncover it, and stew the 
gravy to a pint; season onli/ with salt, and colour 
hrown, and strain. 

Another, hut much more expensive gravy, is made 
with a pint of port wine, a pint of strong mutton 
gravy, as ahove, and a tahlespoonful of currant jelly; 
let these merely hoil up. Or much less wine and 
more jelly may he used. Seasoned heef gravy is 
sometimes preferred to mutton gravy. 

// the plain gravy only is c>h.Q&^ cold currant 



VENISON. 157 

jelly Blionid be served in a side dish, or boat. Vege- 
tables — French beans and potatoes. 

Venison should be served in a metal dish, with a 
lamp beneath it, else it will soon grow cold. 



HECK Am) SHOULDEB OF YEHISON. 

Roast, as the haunch, but with the paste laid on 
thinner, from two to three hours; and serve as the 
haunch. A neck is best spitted by putting three 
skewers through it, and then passing the spit between 
the skewers and the bones; the top of the ribs should 
be cut out, and the flap doubled under, as in a neck 
of mutton for boiling. 

Breast of venison may be dressed as above, or 
baked with mutton gravy, and, when cold, cut up and 
made into pasty. 

Venison, like all wild meats, requires less cooking 
than tame. 



TO STEW A SHOULDES OF VEKISON. 
Let the meat hang till you judge proper to dress 
it ; then take out the bone, beat the meat with a rol- 
ling-pin, lay some slices of mutton-fat, that have lain 
a few hours in a little port wine, among it, sprinkle 
a little pepper and all- spice over it in fine powder, 
roll it up tight, and tie it. Set it in a stewpan that 
will only just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy, 
not strong, half a pint of port wine, and some pepper 
and all-spice. Simmer it close covered, and as close 
as you can, for three or four hours. 'WYiesi q^\\» 



158 FORK. 

tender, take off the tape, set the meat on a' dish, 
and strain the gravy over i^ Serve with cnrrani- 
jelly sauce. 

This is the best way to dress the joint, unless it is 
very ht, and then it should be roasted. The bone 
should be stewed with it 



BBSA8T OF VJUfiSOV. 
Do it as the shoulder, or make it into a small 
pasty. 



HARHKD YEHISOH' 
Should be wanned with its own gravy, or some 
without seasoning, as before; and only warmed 
through, not boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some 
slices of mutton fat, set it on the fire with a little 
port wine and sugar, simmer till dry; then put to 
the hash, and it will eat as well as the £Bit of the 
venison. 



PORK. 

TO CHOOSE POBE. 

This meat is so proverbially, and we believe even 
dangerously unwholesome when ill fed, or in any 
degree diseased, that its quality should be closely 
examined before it is purchased. When not home- 
fatted, it should be bougb.^ \i ^%^\\A&^ ^i «c^\s\a re- 



PORK. 159 

spectable ^Etrmer, or miller, unless the batcher who 
supplies it can be perfectly relied on. Both the hi 
and lean should be very white, and the latter finely 
grained; the rind should be thin, smooth, and oool 
to the touch ; if it be clammy, the pork is stale, and 
should be at once rejected; it ought also to be 
scrupulously avoided when the fat, instead of being 
quite dear of all blemish, is full of small kernels, 
which are indicative ot disease. 

The manner of cutting up the pork varies in dif- 
ferent counties, and also according to the purposes 
for which it is intended. The legs are either made 
into hams, or slightly salted for a few days and 
boiled; they are also sometimes roasted, when the 
pork is not large nor coarse, with a savoury force- 
meat inserted between the skin and flesh of the 
knuckle. 

The part of the shoulder called the hand, is also 
occasionally pickled in the same way as hams and 
bacon, or it may be salted and boiled, but it is too 
sinewy for roasting. After these and the head have 
been taken oS, the remainder, without further divi- 
sion than being split down the back, may be con- 
verted into whole sides or flitches, as they are usually 
called, of bacon; but when the meat is large, and 
required in part for various other purposes, a chine 
may be taken out, and the fat pared off the bones of 
the ribs and loins for bacon; the thin part of the 
body converted into pickled pork, and the ribs and 
other hones roasted, or made into pies ot s«Qfi»^^< 



160 FOBK. 

The feet, which are generally salted down for imme- 
diate use, are excellent if laid for two or three weeks 
into the same pickle as the hams, then well covered 
with cold water, and slowly boiled until tender. 

The loins of young and delicate pork are roasted 
with the skin on; and this is scored in regular stripes 
of about a quarter of an inch wide, with the point of 
a sharp knife, before the joints are laid to the fire, x 
The skin of the leg also is just cut through in the 
same manner. This is done to prevent its blistering, 
and to render it more easy to carve, as the skin {or 
crackling) becomes so crisp and hard in the cookiugi 
that it is otherwise sometimes difficult to divide it 

To be at any time fit for table, pork must be per- 
fectly sweet, and thoroughly cooked; great attention 
also should be given to it when it is in pickle, for if 
any part of it be long exposed to the air, without 
being turned into, or well and frequently basted with 
the brine, it will often become tainted during the 
process of curing it. 



TO BOAST A LEO OF POBS. 
Cut a slit near the knuckle, and fill the space with 
sage and onion, chopped fine, and seasoned with 
pepper and salt, with or without bread crumbs. Rub 
sweet oil on the skin, to prevent it blistering, and 
make the crackling crisp ; and the outer rind may be 
scored with lines, about half an inch apart. If the leg 
weigh seven or eight pounds, it will require from two 
hnnra^tl ^ half to three liouT^' xo^i&tiii^ before a strong 




FORK. 161 

fire. Serve with apple sanoe and potatoes; fiiiich 
are likewise eaten with all joints of roasted pnk. 

If the stuffing be liked mild, scald the onions 
before chopping them. 

K pork is not staffed, yon may serve it up with 
sage and onion saooe, as well as apple sanee, which 
should always accompany roast porik, whetba* it is 
stoffed or not; and also with mnstard. 

Roast leg of pork most always be served up with 
plenty of nicely boiled potatoes. 



TO BOAST A SPASE-BIB OF FQBX. 

A spare-rib of eight or nine pomids weight will 
require from two to three hours roasting; though 
the time depends more upon the thickness than the 
wdght : if it be very thin, it will be done in half the 
above time. On putting it down, baste it with a 
litde butter ; and, about twenty minutes before it is 
done, dry a few sage leaves, rub them to powder, 
mix salt and pepper with them, and sprinkle over 
the pork. 

The grishin may be roasted as above : if of seven 
or eight pounds weight, it will require an hour and 
a half. 



TO BBOIL OB JKI PQBX CDTLET8. 
Gut them about half an indi thick fi:om a delicate 
loin of pork, trim them into neat form, and take off 
part of the fiit, or the whole of it when it is not 
liked; dred^ a Utile pepper or Cayexme u^on Vltos^ 



ica 

aad bcoil diem ov«r aekar aad modenle fire 6m 
fifteen to eighteea mimrtw, sprinkle a little fine alt 
■pen them just bcfiire tlMj are dished. Theymay 
be dipped into egg and then inlo bread enrndv mixBi 
with minced sage, then finished in the nsoal way. 
When fried, fionr them weD, and season them widi 
salt and pepper first. Serve them with gnvjjnads 
in the pan, or with sanoe Robert. 



10 UOILCft RTFQEBX COTLBXBi 



Cot the bone out of pork ehopa, ai^ trim off part 
of the hi, firj them delieatelj, and drain them; then 
simmer them a few minutes in a stewpan with tomato 
sanoe, made as follows: — Chop a shalot very fine; 
pot it into a small stewpan, with a little vinegar, 
simmer, and add some t<miato saoce, with brown 
gravy, to taste : dish the chops with the sauce in the 
middle, and round them. Or, the cadets may be 
fined with bread crumbs, and served upon tomato 
sauce. 



10 BOn. A LEG OF FOBX. 
Pickled pork takes more time to boil than other 
meat. If you buy your pork ready salted, ask how 
many days it has been in salt; if many, it will re- 
quire to be soaked in water before you dress it 
When yon cook it, wash and scrape it as clean as 
possible; when delicately dressed, it is a favourite 
dish mtb almost eveTy\)ody. Tik<^ caro it does not 



PORK. 163 

boil hat ; if it does, the knuckle will break to pieces 
before the thick part of the meat is warm throngh ; 
a leg of seven pomids takes three hoars and a half 
very slow simmering. Skim your pot very carefolly, 
and do not allow any scmn to settle on the meat 
The proper vegetables are parsnips, potatoes, turnips, 
or carrots. Some like cabbage; but it is a strong, 
rank vegetable, and does not agree with a delicate 
stomach. It should not be given to children. 



TO 8GAID A SnCEDTCh-Fia. 
The moment the pig is killed, put it into cold 
water for a few minutes; then rub it over with a 
little resin, beaten extremely small, and put it into 
a pail of scalding water half a minute ; take it out, 
lay it on a table, and pull off the hair as quickly as 
possible: if any part does not come off, put it on 
again. When quite clean, wash it with warm water, 
and then in two or three cold waters, that no flavour 
of the resin may remain. Take off the feet at the 
first joint: make a slit down the belly and take out 
the entrails; put the liver, heart, and lights, to the 
fleet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it 
thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it £rom 
the air. 



TO HAKE STUTFOrO fOS A SUCKZVCh-Fn. 
Chop fine or crumble two dozen good- sized dean 
sage leaves, four ounces of stale crumb of bt^a^ 
grated, and one ounce of butter, broVea VottA ^ffiftS 



164 FOBK. 

pieces; mix them well together with a teaspoooM 
of pepper, and half as much salt; pat all into the 
belly of the pig, and sew it np. 



TO HAKE STUTFOra lOB A SUGKOTCk-Eiaw 

Another wajf. 

Chop fine or cromble two dozen good-sized clean 
sage leaves, and mix them with half a small salt- 
spoonful of Cayenne pepper, half a teaspoonfbl of 
pepper, and half a teaspoonfiil of salt ; then cat fimr 
slices of cromb of bread and batter, aboat four inches 
long, two wide, and a quarter of an inch thick; roll 
the bread and batter in the herbs and seasoning, and 
pat them into the pig, and sew it up. 



TO BAKE A SlTCKnrCh-BIO. 

A socking-pig is one of the few things which is 
rather nicer baked than roasted. Yon mast dean 
and stuff it, and prepare it exactly the same as for 
roasting, except that you must mix the yolk of a 
raw tg^ with the tablespoonful of salad-oil, and rub 
it well all over the pig; cover the ears with well 
buttered paper; allow two or three ounces of batter 
to baste it with. For a baked pig, yoa must make 
gravy, and sauce, and send it to table in everything 
the same as directed for roast pi^. 

It takes about two hoars to bake* 



TO CHOOSE HAX. 

Stick a sharp knife nn&es ilbi^ ^xmib^ vsA «lfio u^ 



POBK. 165 

to the knuckle. If it comes out with a pleasant 
-smell, the ham is good; bat do not buy it if the 
knife has a bad scent. Hams short in the hock are 
best ; nor should long-legged pigs be chosen for any 
purpose. 

If the rind be thin, the fat firm and of a reddish 
tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering 
to the bone, you may conclude it is good and not old. 
If there are yellow streaks in it, it is rusty. 

All hams require soaking and scraping before 
they are dressed, to make them clean and tender. 
An old dry ham should be laid to steep in cold 
water about twenty-four hours; though half that 
time may be enough for a small ham, or one that is 
not very dry. When the ham has steeped long 
enough, take it out of the water, cut off all the 
ragged, rusty, or decayed parts, from the sides and 
under part, and make it perfectly clean all over, by 
a nice and careful scraping. Put it into a pot with 
enough cold water completely to cover it about two 
inches, but not more, and let it be heated slowly, so 
that it may be an hour and a half to two hours before 
it begins to boil. It must be well skimmed so long 
as any scum will rise, and then covered close down 
and kept simmering very gently till it is done. 
FnHn four to five hours gently boiling will in general 
be enough for a ham that weighs fifteen or sixteen 
pounds, reckoning from the time it comes to a boil, 
but allowances must be made for the thickness or 
thinness of the ham, and for the time Vt \idL% \^^'q^ 



166 FORK. 

kept If the ham h thin, yon must allow raiher less 
time. 

When the ham is done, the skin should be eare- 
folly peeled ofi^ without breaking, if possible, as it 
will serve to cover the ham, and keep it moist, when 
it is put by. As soon as you have pulled off the 
skin, coat the top of the ham over with brown rasp- 
ings, by rasping over it a little of the crust firom the 
bottom side of a loaf. Then trim and wipe the 
knuckle, and wrap round it a piece of writing paper, 
fringed, to hold it by in carving.^ 

The dish may be garnished with either thin slices 
of turnips or carrots, or slices of lemon. 

If the ham is not to be cut till it is cold, it should 
be allowed to boil gently half an hour longer than if 
it is intended to be cut while hot. 



TO BASE A HAM. 

Unless when too salt, from not being sufficiently 
soaked, a ham (particularly a young and fresh one) 
eats much better baked than boiled, and remains 
longer good. The safer plan is to lay it into plenty 
of cold water over night. The following day soak it 
for an hour or more in warm water, wash it delicately 
clean, trim smoothly off all rusty parts, and lay it 
with the rind downwards into a coarse paste rolled 
to about an inch thick; moisten the edges, draw, 
pinch them together, and fold them over on the 
upper side of the ham, taking care to close them so 
that DO T&YY can escape. Send it to a well-heated. 



POSE. 1G7 

but not a fierce oven. A very small ham will 
require three hours baking, and a large one five. 
The crust and the skin must be removed while it is 
hot. When part only of a ham is dressed, this mode 
is better far than boiling it. 



FORK SAUSAOES. 

Chop, first separately, and then together, one 
pound and a quarter of veal, perfectly free from fat; 
skin, and sinew, an equal weight of lean pork, and 
of the inside fat of the pig. Mix well, and strew 
over the meat an ounce and a quarter of salt, half an 
ounce of pepper, one nutmeg grated, and a large tea- 
spoonful of pounded mace. Turn, and chop the 
sausages until they are equally seasoned throughout, 
and tolerably fine ; press them into a clean pan, and 
keep them in a very cool place. Form them, when 
wanted for table, into cakes something less than an 
inch thick, flour and fry them for about ten minutes 
in a little butter. 

Lean of veal and pork, of each, one pound four 
ounces; fat of pork, one pound four ounces; salt one 
ounce and a quarter; pepper, half an ounce; one 
nutmeg ; and one large teaspoonful of mace. Fried, 
in cakes, ten minutes. 



TO DBISS FIG'S FEET ASL EABS. 
Boil them, fresh or salted, three hours, or till 
tender, when take out the large bones ; glaje them, 
and cover them with fried bread CTUinb%^ wcA ««sn^ 



168 PORK. 

npon tomato sauce; or, melted batter tliinned with 
mustard and vinegar. 



TO STEW FIGS' JfJUfiT. 

Clean and split them, and boil them tender ; then 
put them into a stewpan with a little gravy or 
water, a shred onion, sage leaves, salt, some whole 
black pepper, and all-spice; stew for half an hour; 
then strain the gravy, thicken it with butter and 
flour, add a tablespoonful of lemon pickle, or vine- 
gar, and serve with the feet 



TO BOAST A LEG OF FOBS. 

Another way. 

Choose a small leg of fine young pork; cut a slit 
in the knuckle with a sharp knife, and fill the space 
with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and 
salt ; when half done, score the skin in slices, but 
do not cut deeper than the outer rind. 

Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat 
with it. 



TO BOIL A LEG OF FOBS. 

Salt it eight or ten days ; when it is to be dressed, 

weigh it; let it lie half an hour in cold water, to make 

it white ; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, 

and half an hour over, from the time it boils up; 

^^m it as soon as it boils, and frequently after. 

^^ water enough. Save some of it to make peas- 

\ Some broil it in a very nice cloth^ floured ; 



POULTKY. 169 

which gives a very delicate look. It shoiild be 
small, and of a fine grain. 

Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. 



FORK STEAKS. 
Cut them from a loin or neck, and of middling 
thicknesp; pepper and broil them, turning them 
often; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of 
butter over, and serve the moment they are taken off 
the fire, a few at a time. 



POULTRY. 



TO CHOOSE POULTBT. 
Young, plump, well-fed, but not over-fatted, poultry 
is the best. The skin of fowls and turkeys should 
be clear, white, and finely grained,, the breasts broad 
and fuU-fleshed, the legs smooth, the toes pliable and 
easily broken when bent back; the birds should also 
be heavy in proportion to their size. This applies 
equally to geese and ducks, of which the breasts like- 
wise should be very plump, and the feet yellow and 
flexible: when these are red and hard, the bills of the 
same colour, and the skin full of hairs, and extremely 
coarse, the birds are old. 
White-legged fowh and chickens s\io\]l!3L\ifecay3«eoL 



170 POULTBY. 

for boiling, because their appearance is the most deli- 
cate when dressed; but the dark-legged ones often 
prove more juicy and of better flavour when roastedr 
and their colour then is immateriaL 

Every precaution should be taken to prevent poultry 
from becoming ever so slightly tainted before it is 
cooked ; but unless the weather be exceedingly sultry, 
it should not be quite freshly killed:* pigeons only 
are the better for being so, and are thought to lose 
their flavour by hanging even a day or two. Tur- 
keys, as we have stated in our receipts for them, are 
very tough and poor eating if not sufficiently long 
kept. A goose also, in winter, should hang some 
days before it is dressed; and fowls, likewise, will be 
improved by it. 

All kinds of poultry should be thoroughly cooked, 
though without being overdone, for nothing in general 
can more effectually destroy the appetite than the taste 
and appearance of their flesh when brought to table 
half roasted or boiled. 



' TRUSSma FOWLS. 

Remove immediately the crops of fowls and pigeons, 
but do not draw and truss them till wanted for dress- 
ing, else they are apt to dry. 

Having picked poultry, remove the crop and wind- 



* If, firom acddental drcnmstances, it should tecome apparently unfit 

for table, it may be restored to an eatable state by the same means as 

fish; it should not, however, be purchased at any time when it exhibits 

a /irreeniah tint on any part of the skin, as this indicates its being already 

tude. 



POULTRY. 171 

pipe of all birds by opening the skin in front of the 
throat, and pulling each separately, first from the 
beak or bill, and then from the stomach. For draw- 
ing poultry, make a slit with a sharp knife, at which 
slip in the fingers, get fast hold of the gizzard, and 
draw it carefuUy forward, with the intestines; but, if 
the liver remains, again slip in the finger, and take 
out the heart, which wiU bring the liver with it. Be 
careful not to break the gall-bladder, else it will 
cause a bitterness which no washing can remove. 

Having thus cleared the inside of a fowl, select 
such of the internal parts as are to be used. Remove 
the gall-bladder from the liver, slit the narrow side 
of the gizzard, and, turning it inside out, remove the 
hard bag, and trim round the gizzard; but do not cut 
the skin by which it is joined in the middle. The 
throat should be cut off about two joints from its 
commencement, leaving skin enough to turn over the 
back. Make a slit in the apron or skin of the belly, 
and tuck the rump through it. 

Fowls for roasting are trussed as follows: Extend 
the legs on each side of the bird ; only cut off the 
toes, and run a skewer through each foot, to keep 
them at a proper distance ; in some cases, the feet 
should be scalded, and the outside scaly skin taken 
off. Make a small slit in the skinny part of each 
pinion; through one thrust the liver, and through 
the other the gizzard; turn the top of the pinion over 
the back, and run a skewer through the first joint of 
one wing throvgh the body to the otliex mxi^. ^ ^^ 



172 POULTRY. 

boUingj the under part of the thigh must be cut o^ 
and the stamp tacked into a slit made on each sideoi 
the bellv. 

Before dressing, singe off the hairs of the fowl with 
a piece of white paper, and dredge it lightly with floor. 
The head of a capon is sometimes twisted onder the 
wing. 

The French adopt the following method to make 
old poultry eat tender: Let the bird soak in cold 
water for twenty-four hours, with a handful or two 
of wood-ashes ; pick off the feathers, and let it hang 
for another twenty-four hours; truss it, and let it 
boil for a quarter of an hour in a little veal-broth; 
take it out, lard and roast it; when nearly done, baste 
it with very hot butter. By observing these direc- 
tions, you will impart to an old bird all the delicate 
flavour of a young chicken 



POELEE TO BOU.POWLS IS, 
Cut into large dice two pounds of lean veal, and 
two pounds of Tat bacon, cured without saltpetre, two 
large carrots, and two onions ; to these add half a 
pound of fresh butter ; put the whole ifito a stewpan, 
and stir it with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire, 
until the veal is very white, and the bacon is partially 
melted ; then pour to them three pints of clear boiling 
broth or water, throw in four cloves, a small bunch or 
two of thyme or parsley, a bay leaf^ and a few corns 
of white pepper ; boil these gently for an hour and a 
ialff then strain the poeUe i\iTow^\i ^ ^tl<& ^l^ve^ and 



POULTRY. 173 

set it by in a cool place. Use it instead of water for 
boiling the various kinds of poultry ; it will answer 
for several in succession, and will remain good for 
many days. Some cooks order a pound of butter in 
addition to the bacon, and others substitute beef suet 
in part for this last 



TO SOAST A TUBEET 

Prepare a stuffing of pork sausage meat, one beaten 
egg, and a few crumbs of bread; or, if sausages are 
to be served with the turkey, stuffing as for fillet of 
veal : in either, a little shred shalot is an improve- 
ment Stuff the bird under the breast, dredge it with 
flour, and put it down to a clear brisk fire, at a mode- 
rate distance the first half-hour, but afterwards nearer ; 
baste with butter; and when the turkey is plumped 
up, and the steam draws towards the fire, it will be 
nearly done; then dredge it lightly with flour, and 
baste it with a little more butter, first melted in the 
basting-ladle. Serve with gravy in the dish, and 
bread-sauce in a tureen. It may be garnished with 
sausages, or with fried forcemeat, if veal-stuffing be 
used. Sometimes the gizzard and liver are dipped 
into the yolk of an eggj sprinkled with salt and 
Cayenne, and then put under the pinions, before the 
bird is put to the fire. Chestnuts, stewed in gravy, 
are likewise eaten with turkey. 

A very large turkey will require three hours 
roasting ; one of eight or ten pounds, two hours ; 
and a small one, an hour and a hxHL 



174 POULTRY 

Roasted chestnuts, grated or sliced, and gieea 
tmffles, sliced, are excellent additicms to the stuffing 
for turkeys. 



' TO ''DEVIL" TUBXET. 
Mix a little salt, black pepper, and Cayenne, and 
sprinkle the mixture over the gizzard, rump, and 
drumstick, of a dressed turkey; broil them, and serve 
very hot with this sauce: mix with some of the gravy 
out of the dish, a little made mustard, acxne butter 
and flour, a spoonful of lemon juice, and the same d 
soy : boil up the whole. 



TO BOHE A TUSEET OB FOWL. 
Cut through the skin down the pentre of the back, 
and raise the flesh carefully on either side with the 
point of a sharp knife, until the sockets of the wings 
and thighs are reached. With the point of the knife 
detach the joints, and, till a little practice has been 
gained, it will perhaps be better to bone these joints, 
by passing the knife carefully bdiween the bone and 
flesh, and pulling out the bone, before prooeeding 
further; but after they are once detached from it, the 
whole of the body may be easily separated from the 
flesh, and taken out entire; only the neck-bones and 
merry-thought will then remain to be removed, and 
they can be easily cut away. It is usual to leave the 
pinions unboned, in order to give more easily its 
natural form to the fowl when it is dressed. The 
bird tbna prepared^ mav be xesiAved to its original 



POULTRY. 175 

form by fiUiag the legs and wings with forcemeat, 
and the body with the livers of two or three fowls, if 
they can be procured, mixed with alternate layers of 
parboiled tongue, freed from the rind, fine sausage- 
meat, or veal forcemeat, or thin slices of the nicest 
bacon, or aught else of good flavour which will give 
a marbled appearance to the iowl when it is carved, 
and then be sewn up and trussed as usual; or the 
legs and wings may be drawn inside the body, and 
the bird being first flattened on a table, may be 
covered with sausage-meat, and the various other 
ingredients we have named, so placed that it shall 
be of equal thickness in every part; then tightly 
rolled, bound firmly together with a fillet of broad 
tape,- wrapped in a thin pudding-cloth, closely tied 
at both ends, and dressed as follows: Put it into a 
bralsing-pan, stewpan, or thick iron saucepan, bright 
in the inside, and fitted as nearly as may be to its size; 
add all' the chicken-bones, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
two carrots, two bay leaves, a large blade of mace, 
twenty-four white pepper-corns, and any trimmings 
or bones of undressed veal which may be at hand; 
cover the whole with good veal broth, add salt, if 
needed, and stew very softly from an hour and a 
quarter to an hour and a half; let it cool in the 
liquor in which it was stewed; and afber it is lifted 
out, boil down the gravy to a jelly, and strain it; let 
it become cold, clear off the fat, and serve it cut into 
large dicei or roughed and laid round the fowl, which 
is to* be served cold. If restored to lU totisLi vc^Vft»^ 



176 . POULTRY. 

of being rolled, it most be stewed gently for an honr, 
and may then be sent to table hot, covered with mush- 
room or any other good sauce that may be preferred; 
or it may be left until the following day, and served 
garnished with the jelly, which should be firm, and 
very clear and well-flavoured ; the liquor in which 
the calf's foot has been boiled down, added to the 
broth, will give it the necessary degree of consistency. 
French cooks add three or four onions to these pre- 
parations of poultry (the last of which is called a 
gcdantine), but these our taste would l^bd us to reject 

Rolled, one hour and a quarter to one hour and a 
half; galantine, one hour. 

Observe. — A couple of fowls, boned and rolled, 
make an excellent pie. 



TO BOAST A GOOSE. 

After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled 
out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well 
washed and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, 
sage, pepper, and salt Fasten it tight at the 
neck and rump, and then roast. Put it first at a 
distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. 
A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast- 
bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is ris- 
ing, take off the paper ; and be carefal to serve it be- 
fore the breast falls, or it will be spoiled by coming 
flatted to table. Let a good gravy be sent in the disL 

Gravy and apple-sauce. Gooseberry-sauce for a 
green goo6e. ' 



POULTRY. 177 

TQ STEW A QOOBE. 

Tro89 the goose as for boiling, cover it with bacon, 
and tie it np; cover the saucepan with bacon; pnt 
in a sprinkle of sweet herbs, a carrot cut in dice, and 
two bay leaves; lay in the goose and giblets; cover 
with bacon; moisten with as much stock as will cover 
the goose; let it boil; cover with buttered paper and 
a dose cover, and set it on a hot hearth, with fire 
over it: give it an hour and a hal£ Serve it with 
onion or apple sauce. 

Observe, — Both geese and ducks, if old, are better 
to be parboiled before they are roasted. Put them 
on in just si^cient water to boil them; keep the 
vessel close covered; let a tough goose simmer two 
hours, then dry and wipe it clean; stuff and roast, 
basting it at first with a little bacon fat or butter. 



TO BOAST DTTCES. 

Ducks may be roasted as soon as killed. Keep a 
clear bright fire. Let them be done of a light brown ; 
but, if wild, they should not be much roasted, or the 
flavour will be spoiled. They take about an hour to 
roast, and should be well basted. The livers and 
gizzard are parboiled, chopped fine, and thrown into 
the gravy. 

Canvas back ducks are roasted in half an hour; 
they should always be served with currant jelly. For 
tame ducks apple sauce is more appropriate. 
A duckling will require proportionally more roasting. 



178 FOULTBT. 

TO STEW DTTCKS. 

Staff and half roast a duck; then put into a stew- 
pan, with a shred onion, some hlack pepper, and salt, 
a little mint, sage, winter savory, and marjoram, 
chopped smaU, ^Tabout a pint ofLf gravy S 
mer ahout twenty minutes, and then skim it, and take 
oat the herhs. Add a qaart of green peas, lightly 
boiled, and simmer half an hour longer. Thicken 
with a little batter and flour, if requisite, and serve 
the duck and peas in one dish. A glass or two of 
port wine, or the juice of half a lemon with a little 
sugar, will much improve this dish. 

Cabbage, boiled, well drained, shred, and fried in 
butter, may also be stewed with ducks, instead of 
the peas, as above. 



TO STEW DUCES, 

Another way. 

Half roast a duck; put it into a stewpan with a 
pint of beef gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut 
small, pepper and salt, and a small bit of onion shred 
as fine as possible. Simmer a quarter of an hour 
and skim dean: then add near a quart of green 
peas. Cover close, and simmer near half an hour 
longer. Put in a piece of butter and a little flour, 
and give it one boil ; then serve in one dish. 



TO I STEW DUCES. 

Anoiher vsay, 

Tfvm and singe a yo\uig du^;^^ y^ \1 m a small 



POULTRY. 179 

^tewpan, with a slice of £sit bacon under it and 
another above it, add a pint of broth, and stew very 
gently three quarters of an hour. Cut four turnips 
into neat shapes, fry in butter till a good colour, mix a 
Httle flour, and moisten with the broth from the duck; 
season with salt, pepper, and a bunch of parsley; 
when the turnips are done take them out and put them 
in another stewpan; strain the sauce over them, add 
the duck, and boil a few minutes : add a small piece 
of sugar, and serve. 



TO STEW CHICEEirS IS HASTE. 
Take fresh killed chickens, clean, cut them in 
pieces and scald them in hot water without giving 
them time to cool: fry them in butter with sweet 
herbs chopped, white pepper, and salt, then add some 
boiling water and flour; stew them until the sauce is 
reduced : strain and add to the sauce a tablespoonfiil of 
cream, the yolk of an egg beaten, squeeze a little 
lemon juice over the chickens, and serve them up. 
This dish will be useful when it is requisite to add to 
ike dinner at a short notice; and if the chickens do 
not grow cool| they will be tender. 



TO BBAISE CHICEEKS. ' 
Bone them and fill them with forcemeat; lay the 
bones, and any other poultry trimmings, into a stew- 
pan, and the chickens on them ; put to them a few 
onions, a faggot of herbs, three blades of mace, a pint 
of stocky and a glaaa or two of sherry*^ coN^t ^^ 



180 POULTRY. 

chickens with slices of bacon, and then white paper; 
cover the whole close, and pat them on a slow stove 
for two hours ; then take them up, strain the 
braise, and skim off the fisit carefdlly: set it on to 
boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chickens over 
with it with a brush. 

Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Be- 
fore glazing, put the chicken into an oven for a few 
minutes, to give a little colour. 



; FRICASSEE OF CHICEEES. 
Cut in pieces two chickens, and lay them in warm 
water to drain out the blood; then lay them in a 
clean cloth to dry; put them in a stewpan with milk 
and water; stew them till they are tender; take 
them out and strain the liquor ; put them over the 
fire again with half a pint of the liquor, half a pint 
of cream or milk, the yolks of two eggs, half a nut- 
meg, a glass of white wine, and a piece of butter 
rolled in flour: stir all together in one way for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, till they are thoroughly 
cooked. 



FRICASSEE OF CHICEEES. 

AnoOier vxcg. 

Take two small' chickens, draw, and singe them 
well, cut up into neat pieces, wash them in tepid 
water, drain them, put two ounces of butter into a 
stewpan, with a few small onions, add the chickens, 
and firv them till firm ; dredge a little flour over them, 



POULTEY. 181 

and moisten with a little water; boil them very slowly 
for half an hour; take out the pieces, and reduce the 
sauce; beat four yolks of eggs, add a little cream and 
a little salt to them, then mix with the sauce, add the 
chickens, let it come to the boil, and no more; serve. 



FRICASSEE OF CHICKEVS. 

Another Way. 

Boil rather more than hal^ in a small quantity of 
water ; let them cool — ^then cut up, and put to simmer 
in a little gravy made of the liquor they were boiled 
in, and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, and 
lemon ped, some white pepper, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs ; when quite tender, keep them hot while yon 
thicken the sauce in the following manner : Strain it 
oSf and put it back into the saucepan with a little 
salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of flour and butter ; 
give it one boil ; and when you are going to serve, 
beat up the yolk of an egg, add half a pint of cceam, 
and stir them over the fire, but do not let it boiL It 
will be quite as good without the egg. 

The gravy may be made (without any other meat) 
of the necks, feet, small wing-bones, gizzard, and 
Hvers; which are called the trimmings of the fowls. 



CHICKEN CUEBT. 

Cut up a chicken into neat pieces, wash in a basin 

of water, blanch them a minute in boiling water, 

cool, and trim the pieces; shred four onions very 

thin; as many object to the flavour of onions, throw 



191 

ihem into bofliiig water fortwo mhmtea, stnintlieni, 
pot the wliole into a stcmMi i with one pint o£ stock, 
and dnuner till tender; take oat the diidcen and 
strain the liqnor, pot an oimee o£ hotter in the pan, 
add as much floor as will make into a paste, stir a 
minote or two, add a teaspoonfol of cony powder, 
moisten with the gravy of chicken, when qoite smoolii 
add the chicken; hoQ a few minutes, season with salt 
and a small lamp of sogar: a glass of sheny is an 
improvement. 



, BOHED FOWLS. 
White l^ged ponltiy should always be selected 
for boiling, as they are of better colour when dressed 
than any others. Trass them firmly and neatly, witii 
the legs drawn into the bodies, and the wings twisted 
over the backs; let them be well covered with water, 
which should be hot, but not boiling, when they are 
put in. A full sized fowl will require about three 
quarters of an hour from the time of its beginning to 
simmer; but youn|; chickens not more than fixnn 
twenty to twenty-five minutes; they should be very 
gently boiled, and the scum should be removed with 
great care as it gathers on the surfiEU^ of the water. 
Either of the following sauces may be sent to table 
with them: parsley and butter, bechamel, English 
white sauce, oyster, celery, or white mushroom sauce. 
The fowls are often dished with small tufts of deli- 
cately boiled cauliflower placed round them; or with 
young vegetable marrow, scarcely larger than an ^^^^ 



POULTRY. 183 

merely pared and halved after it is dressed; white 
sauce mnst be served with both of these. The livers 
and gizzards are not, at the present day, usually 
served in the wings of boiled fowls. When they are 
not so, the livers may be simmered for four or five 
minutes, then pressed to a smooth paste by a wooden 
spoon, and mixed very gradually with the sauce, 
which should not boil after they are added. 

Full-sized fowl, three quarters of an hour; young 
chickens, twenty to twenty-five minutes. 



BOILED POWLS WITH OYSTERS. 
Take a young fowl, fill the inside with oysters, put 
it into a jar, and plunge the jar in a kettle or sauce- 
pan of water. Boil it for one hour and a half. There 
will be a quantity of gravy from the juices of the fowl 
and the oysters in the jar; make it into a white sauce, 
with the addition of egg, cream, or a little flour and 
butter; add oysters to it, or serve it up plain with the 
fowl. The gravy that comes from a fowl dressed in 
this manner will be a stiff jelly the next day ; the 
fowl will be very white and tender, and of an exceed- 
ingly fine flavour — advantages not attainable in or-^ 
dinary boiling — while the dish loses nothing of its* 
delicacy and simplicity. 



TO BOIL POWL WITH BICE. 
Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton- 
broth well skimmed, and seasoned with onion, mace, 
pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it is 



184 POULTBY. 

ready, pat in a quarter of a pint of rice well wadied 
and soaked ; simmer till tender, then strain it from 
the hroth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire; 
keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of the dish, 
and the rice round it without the broth; the broth 
will be very nice to eat as such, but the less liquor 
the fowl is done with the better ; gravy, or parsley 
and butter, for sauce. 



TO BOABT FQfWLS OR GAFOVB. 
Fowls, capons, and chickens, are roasted and served 
as turkeys, with the addition of egg sauce; but they 
require proportionally less time at the fire, and are 
seldom stuffed. A full grown fowl will require about 
three quarters of an hour; a capon, an hour and a 
quarter; and a chicken, from thirty to forty minutes. 
A large fowl may be stuffed as a turkey. 



TO BBOU L POWL. 
Split the fowl down the back; season it very weU 
with pepper, and put it on the gridiron with the inner 
part next the fire, which must be very clear. Hold 
the gridiron at a considerable distance from the fire, 
and allow the fowl to remain until it is nearly half 
done; then turn it, taking great care that it does not 
bum. Broil it of a fine brown, and serve it up 
with stewed mushrooms, or a sauce with pickled 
mushrooms. A duck may be broiled in the same 
way. If thd fowl is very large, half roast it, then cut 
it into four quarters, and finish it on the gridiron. It 



POULTRY. 185 

will take from half an hoar to three quarters of an 
hour to cook. 



TO BBAISE AFOWL. 

Half roast it, then divide it into joints and peees 
proper to help at table, and put it into a stewpan, 
with one pint and a half of broth, or as much water, 
with any trimmings of meat you have, one large 
onion with cloves stuck in it, twelve berries of all- 
i^ice, the same of black pepper, and a roU of lemon 
peel ; when it boils, skim it very clean;* let it sim- 
mer very gently for about an hour and a quarter, if 
a duck or fowl — ^longer if a larger bird ; then strain 
off the liquor, and leave the ducks by the fire to 
keep hot; skim the fat off; put into a clean stew- 
pan two ounces of butter; when it is hot stir in as 
muich flour as will make it of a stiff paste ; add the 
liquor by degrees ; let it boil up; put in a glass of 
port wine, and a little lemon juice, and simmer it ten 
minutes; put the ducks, &c., into the dish, and 
strain the sauce through a fine sieve over them. 

Garnish with sippets of toasted or fried bread. 

Observe, — If the poultry is only half roasted, and 
stewed only till just nicely tender, this will be 
an acceptable bonne bouche to those who are fond of 
made dishes. The flavour may be varied by adding 
ketchup, curry powder, or any of the flavoured 
vinegars. 

This is an easily prepared side dish, especially 
when yon have a large dinner to dress ; and coming 



Id6 

to table leadj cured sires a dad o£ tone and 
trouble; it is t bet c fiii e an exeeDe&t waj of semng 
pooknr, &eu far a large paitr. 



▲ SKS WAT 10 SISSB ▲ WWL lUB A SKAIL SISE. 
Bane, singe, and wash a yoang fowl ; make a foiee- 
BMat of f JOT oanees of Teal, two oimoes of scraped 
lean of bam, two oanees of fiit bacon, two hard yolks 
of eggs, a few sweet herbs cln^iped, two ounces of 
beef soet, a teaspoonM of lemon peel minced qinte 
fine^ an andioTT, sdt, pepper, and a very little 
Carenne ; heat all in a mortar, with a teaci^fal of 
GTombs, and the yolks and whites ci three eggs; 
stuff the inside of the fowl, and draw the 1^ and 
wings inwards, tie the neck and romp dose ; stew 
the fowl in a white gravy : when it is done throagh 
and tender, add a large cnpfol of cream, and a bit of 
butter and floor ; give it one boil, and serve : the 
last thing, add the squeeze of a lemon. ' 



XAOODTS OV PCfDLIST, GAME, FIGEQVS, SABEETS, te. 
Is tf' pot meat into a stewpan, covered with fot bacon, 
then sdd six or eight onions, a foggot of herbs, carrots 
if to be brown, celery, any bones, or trimmings of 
meat or fowls, and some stock (which you will find 
among Soups and Gravies,) The bacon must be 
covered with a paper, and the lid of the pan must be 
pot down close ; set it on a slow stove, and according 
to what it is, it will require two or three hours ; the 
meat is then to be taken oat, and the gravy verv 



PIGBOXS. 187 

nicely skunmed, and set on to boil very qmdk tOl it 
is thick; the meat is to be kept hot, md, if boded, 
pot into the oven for a few miimtes ; and then pot 
the jelly over it, which is called glazing, and is vemoSl 
for ham, tongue, and many made dishes ; white wine 
is added to some glazing ; the glaze should be of a 
beantifbl clear yeEow Imnm, and it is best to pot it 
on with a nice brush. 



TUBXET, OR lOfWL, Dl JIUT. 
Bone the bird, and fill it with feroemeat, in wlndi 
are mnshrooms ; lard it with fat baeon, and tie it 
np ; stew it in strong graiy, till a skewer maj be 
passed through it easily : when cold, take off the ^ 
and serve with a savoory jelly roimd it. 



PIGEONS. 



TO STEW PIOEQn. 
Wash and clean six pigeons, cot them into quar- 
ters, and pnt all their giblets with them into a steW' 
pan, a piece of batter, a little water, a bit of lemon 
peel, two blades of mace, some chopped parsl^, salt, 
and pepper; cover the pan closely, and stew them 
till they are tender; thicken the sauce with the yolk 
of an ^'g'g beaten up with three tablespoonftds of 
cream and a bit of batter dusted with floor; let tbem 



1» 



semng. xins is aa 
cxBcflcDt ad eoaooHucil vst of ^!wJf™g tifBOL 



Tros the legs of iomr yoang pigeons inside; pot 
ikem in a stewpan with two onnees of batter, and fry 
tiQofa nice light ooloar; dredge a litde floor on them, 
and giTe a few tarns otct the fire, till the rawness is 
taken from the floor; moisten with a pint of stock, or 
water; add a bonch of paisley, with a few small 
onions, and a little peeper and salt; ammer for half 
an hoar, skimming well; add half a glass of sherry; 
take oot the pigecms, redooe the saooe, strun over 
the pigeons, and serve. 



10 STEW PIOBQHS. 

AnoAerwajf. 

Take care that they are fresh, and carefiilly 
cropped, drawn, and washed; then soak them half 
an hom*. In the meantime cut a hard white cabbage 
in slices (as if for pickling) into water; drain it, and 
then boil it in milk and water ; drain it again, and 
lay some of it at the bottom of a stewpan. Pot the 
{Hgeons upon it, bnt first season them well with pep- 
per and salt; and cover them with the remainder of 
the cabbi^e. Add a little broth, and stew gently 
till the pigeons are tender; then put among them 
two or three spoonfnls of ci^eam, and a piece of 
butter and floor for thickening. After a boil or two, 



PIGEONS. 189 

serve the birds in the middle, and the cabbage placed 
around them. 



TO STEW FI0EOVS. 

Another ioay. 

Stew the birds in a good brown gravy, either 
stuffed or not; and seasoned high with spice and 
mushrooms fresh, or a little ketchup. 



TO BOAST FIGEOlfS. 
Scald some parsley, chop it with the livers, mix 
them with a piece of fresh butter, season with pep- 
per and salt; put a portion inside each pigeon; 
cover the breast with a slice of bacon fat; roast 
them ; serve with parsley and butter in the dish. 



TO B£OIL PIGEONS. 
After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and salt 
them, and broil them very nicely ; pour over them 
either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted btitter, 
and serve as hot as possible. 



PIGEONS 

May be dressed in so many ways, that they are 
very useful. The good flavour of them depends very 
much on their being cropped and drawn as soon as 
killed. No other bird requires so much washing. 

Pigeons left from dinner the day before may be 
stewed, or made into a pie; in either case, care must 
be taken not to overdo them, which will make them 



190 GAME AND SMALL BIBDS. 

stringy. They need only be heated up in gairj 
made ready; and forcemeat balls may be fried ad 
added, instead of putting a stuffing into them. H 
for a pie, let beef- steaks be stewed in a litde water, 
and put cold under them, and cover each pigeon 
with a piece of fai bacon, to keep them moist 
Season as usual, and put eggs. 



GAME AND SMALL BIRDS. 

When game seems to be spoiled, it may often be 
made fit for eating by nicely cleaning it, and wash- 
ing with vinegar and water. If there is danger of 
birds not keeping, draw, crop, and pick them; then 
wash them in two or three waters, and rub them with 
salt; plunge them, one by one, into a saucepan of 
boiling water, drawing them up and down by the 
legs, that the water may pass through thenu Let 
them stay in five or six minutes ; then hang them 
up in a cool place. When drained, pepper and salt 
the inside well. By this method the most delicate 
birds may be preserved. Before roasting, wash them 
well* But, as a rule, no game should be washed, for 
^1^ half the game that is sent to table is spoiled ,by 
^iM£ saturated in water. 

1% iftasing game be careful to keep a dear fire. 
^ jl bo done of a bng\xt lotoiwi^ Wt not much 



aABCE AKD SMALL BIRDS. 191 

roasted, or the fine fiavonr will be destroyed. It re- 
quires to be continually basted, and to be sent up 
beautifully frothed. Wild-fowl take a much shorter 
time than domestic poultry. 

The following will give, pretty nearly, the time 
required for roasting the several birds : — ^Wild-ducks, 
quarter of an hour; widgeons, the same; pheasants, 
half an hour; grouse, quarter of an hour ; quails, ten 
minutes; woodcocks, twenty minutes; partridges, from 
twenty to twenty-five minutes. A hare or rabbit will 
take an hour ; the hind part requires most heat, and 
that should be attended to, as it commonly happens 
that the thick part of the thigh is underdone, as well 
as the shoulders. The blood stagnated round the 
neck and shoulders is not easily removed : to do this, 
put those parts into a pan of lukewarm water, and 
prick them with a skewer ; before dressing, rub and 
squeeze it out 

To take off the fishy taste which wild-^owl some- 
times have, put an onion, salt, and hot water into 
the dripping-pan, and baste them for the first ten 
minutes with this; then take away the pan, and 
baste constantly with butter. 



. TO BOAST WOODCOCKS OB SHIFE8. 
Handle them as little and as lightly as possible, 
and pluck off the feathers gently; for if this be 
violently done the skin of the birds will be broken* 
Do not draw thenij but after having wiped ihem with 
clean sofi chihSf truss them wiih. t^\ii^ xxnAmt ^Qb% 




■::. i IE r ly 




£r T 

j'-ji^ ixfun. trjn. iir cnr'iiiur-'nBi. sfinnlL x onv 

r. Tiie-* -zjhiijl IP* :ni* xzsks^ irr ' 
uij: -.11* --tl bij'.iLii ':»i fgrsiif to 



10 IQAST wno mrdBb 

V'M rrju^t pluck, draw, singe, and dean the inside 
*4 iUtMi:^ iht taunt m directed far pooltry. To roast 
iUt,tu profierly, jou miut hang them down to a hriak, 
iiUiHrf bright fire, and haate them with hotter, as the 



GAME AND SMALL BDUW. 193 

« nicely browned snd finodied, and jet 



die flesh be juicy and foil of gn^. Thej will take 
about twenty to thirty-five minntea to nmA, aeeotd- 
ing as the fiimfly like them more or kaa done, wUdi 
yon must inquire. Sore i^ with aaoee made thai : 
Half a teacnpfnl of port wine, the same of good meat 
gravy, a small onion sliced, a little Cayenne pepper 
and salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of maee; sim- 
mer them for ten minutes; then pot in a little bit of 
hotter and flour, give it all one boil, strain it, and 
poor it through the birds. 

Or you may serve them up withoot making gruvjf 
by only mixing the gravy which drops from ibtm 
with half a teacupful of boiling water, and a little 
pepper and salt, and straining it into the ^sh. 



SAUCS Km WILD-HnfL. 

Put into a saucepan half a pnt of gravy, a few 
leaves of basil, a small onion or shalot, and a small 
piece of lemon peel; boil a few minutes, and strain 
off; then add the juice of half a lemon, or Seville 
orange, or a glass of port wine; and season with salt 
and Cayenne, or black pepper. This is a fine saoee 
for all kinds of wild-fowL 

An onion, or shalot, chopped fine, and warmed in 
plain brown gravy, is a readier sauce than the 
above. 



TO BOAST PABTBID6EB. 

Let the birds hang as long as tihey can yynvSA:} 
If i 



1S4 CASE AXD SKIII. 

be kept wxcBos becamiK o&Bsive; pick tbem cm- 
fiiQT. drm'ir. ftnd sin^ ibemz mipt the inate 
tkoroogMj with m deui cLxii: trus them with Ac 
head trznied under the ving and the legs drmwi 
close together or croond. Floor thexn when fink 
hud to the fire, mzid haste them plentifaWy widi 
butter. Serve them with bread same, and good 
bnywn gnrv. A littie of this last shoold be poured 
orer them. 

In preparing them for the spit, remove the crop 
throogh a slit cut in the bad^ of the neck; dip the 
cUwB ck»se; hold the l^s in boiling water for t 
minute that thev mav be easily skinned. 



WtOTrilCD PASTXIDGS. 

(Frtndk lUeeift.J 

After having prepared the bird with great nicety, 
divided aod flattened it, season it with salt, and pep- 
per, or Cayenne, dip it into clarified butter, and then 
into very fine bread cnimbs, and take care that every 
part shall be equally covered: if wanted of particn- 
larly good appearance, dip it a second time into the 
batter and cmmbs. Place it over a very clear fire, 
and broil it gently from twenty to thirty minutes. 
Send it to table with brown mushroom sauoe, or 
some Espagnole. 



TO BOAST WILD TiOtEOSS. 
Pigeons, when stuffed, require some green pars- 
ley to be chopped very fine with the liver and a bit 



GAME AND SMALL BIRDS. 195 

of batter, seasoned with a little pepper and salt; or 
tliey maj be staffed with the same as a fillet of veaL 
Fill the belly of each bird with either of these com- . 
positions. They will roast in aboat twenty or thirty 
numites. . Serve with parsley and batter, in a disbr 
under them, with some in a boat. Garnish with 
crisp parsley, fried bread crambs, bread saace or 
gravy. 

Wild Pigeons may be stewed, &c., by the receipts 
for Pigeons, 



JUGOED EABE. 
Cat ap a hare into pieces, pat a qaarter of a pound 
of batter in a stewpan, with half a poand of fat 
bacon, set the pan on the fire, and stir roand antil 
the hare is quite firm; add a bunch of parsley, a 
blade of mace, a few leaves of basil, with six ounces 
of flour; when well mixed, moisten with stock or 
water till covered; boil, and remove all the scum as 
it rises ; wlien the hare is tender, take it out, strain 
the sauce, put it back into the pan with the hare, 
season with pepper and salt, and two glasses of port 
wine or sherry. 



CIVET OF EABE. 
Cut all the meat from the hare in. nice pieces, 
beginning at the back in a strait line; with a sharp 
knife detach the fillet on both sides, then the fillets 
from the legs; take a chopper and break all the 
bones very small, or pound them in a mortar, put 



Ihem mtoa stevpaa, widi tkreepiatsof sto^ or if 
b al handy waier vill do; cat ax good-daed 
iato sliredsy a cami ia slieQi| a baadtofpitlB- 
lejy and a iew 9pn^ of buQ; pot dw pan on llie 
fire, and wken boifing^ eorer up tiglit §at an Imndt; 
tinhkf add a fitde moie boQing waier to theboneBi 
and botl a iew ninntes, that all the flaroiir may be 
exhausted ; strain, and add to the fiisL Whiletfais 
is doing, fry the fillets of hare inaijoaiterofapoiiDd 
of hotter, when firm, mix in six oonces of floofy 
moisten wilh the saoce from the hemes, hoSL, and 
skim carelblly; season with Ci^renne, salt, a tea- 
spoonfril of red currant jelly, and two glasses of port 
wine; when the hare is qvite tender, pile the pieces 
in the middle of the dish, poor the saoce otoTi and 
senre. 



mCASSEE OF SABBIT. 
Cot op a young rabbit into nice [neces, wash them 
well, shred and blanch fonr onions, pnt them into a 
stewpan with the rabbit, add a blade of mace, a 
bunch of parsley, and a slice of ham, cover the 
whole with water, and sinmier for half an hour; take 
out the rabbit, and strain the sauce; put two ounces 
of butter in the pan, with a spoonful of flour, give a 
few turns on the fire, and reduce with the sauce; 
add the rabbit, boil and skim well; add a little 
cream, with two or three yolks^ let the sauce thicken 
but not boil ; serve. 



BAISED PIES. 197 

CUSBT OF BABBITS. 
Cut up a young rabbit into convenient pieces, cut 
four onions into very small dice, put two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan, add the rabbits, with the onions, 
and a slice of ham, put over a sharp fire, and fry till 
of a nice colour ; add a spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful 
and a half of curry powder; when well mixed, moisten 
with a pint or little more of stock, simmer a quarter 
of an hour, skim off the grease, season, and serve. 



RAISED PIES. 

Raised Pies may be made of any kind of flesh, fish, 
fruit, or poultry, if baked in a wall of paste instead 
of a baking'dish; but they are generally eaten cold, 
and made so large and savoury as to remain a long 
time before being consumed, for which reason they 
also bear the name of '^ standing pies." In making 
them the cook should always take care to have a 
good stock that will jelly, made from the bones and 
trimmings, to fill up the pie when it comes from the 
oven, and also that when cold there may be enough 
jelly. For want of this precaution pies become dry 
before they can be eaten. The materials are of 
course frequently varied, but the mode of preparation 
is so nearly the same as not to require the recltel o.! 
more than a few prominent receipts* 



198 RAISED PIES. 

BAISED FIIL 

To make tMs entreS an oval pie monld is requiiied, 
wUeh opens with a hinge, one about four inches 
diameter, by six inches in length, and five inches 
deep. Open the monld, and grease it all over with 
clarified batter, nding a soft brush for the purpose. 

Take half a pound of fresh butter, and rub it into 
one pound of flour, with four yolks of eggs, and t 
little water, make it into a stiff paste, roll it out into 
a sheet, and cut it into two stripes half an inch thicik, 
line the inside of the mould with them, fastening the 
ends with yolk of egg; roll out a piece for the 
bottom, which fasten well, to prevent the gravy 
issuing through. Cut up a few slices of fillet of veal, 
a few slices of ham, flatten with the bat, and strew a 
little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt over them ; 
boil four eggs ten minutes, cut them wheti cold into 
rings ; lay the meat and eggs into the mould alter- 
nately, cover the pie with the parings of paste left, 
bake on a sheet in a sharp oven one hour and a half; 
when ready, take it out of the mould, pour about 
half a pint of strong gravy. Well seasoned, into the 
pie, and serve. 

The directions given above, apply to raised pies of 
every description. 



SAISEB FIGEOlf FIE. 
Line a mould as above. Take three pigeons, 
draw, and singe them ; cut in halves, as the bones 
are apt to protrude throug^x l\i& vi.<i<&*& ^t the ^ie ; it 



BAISED PIES. 199 

is better to bone the pigeons; this requires a little 
experience and time, the pie will be all the better if 
it is done, if not, line the inside of the pie with a very 
thin slice of rump steak, wash the pigeons in a little 
water, push the thigh bone through the side ; if the 
pigeons are old, it is better to fry or broil them a 
little, if they are young this need not be done; 
season the steak and pigeons with pepper and salt, 
a little chopped parsley, and four eggs ; cover, and 
bake as before, add some gravy, and serve. 
. Both of these pies are equally good cold. 



RABBIT FIE. 

Line a mould as above. Bone the legs of a rabbit, 

take the fillets of the back, season the pieces well, 

spread a little veal forcemeat round the inside of the pan, 

nlace the rabbit neatly in, cover, and finish as before. 



VEinSOlf PASTY. 

Prepare a mould as before. Cut up a piece of 
venison in slices or stripes, season with pepper ismd 
salt, line the inside of the crust with a few slices of 
£&t bacon, or veal forcemeat, finish as before. While 
baking, make a gravy with any bones or parings 
left; thicken with a little piece of butter and flour, 
and season high with pepper and salt; add a tea- 
spoonful of red currant jelly, and one glass of port 
wine, pour into the pie, and serve. 

Raised pies of partridge, grouse, pheasant, and 
chicken, are made in the same way. 



200 RAISED PIES. 

RAISED STAHBnra FEB, GOLD. 
Put four ounces of butter in a stewpan, with about 
a pint and a half of water, when boiling, pour on the 
flour, and mix with a spoon, and then into a very 
stiff paste ; roll out into a long band, cut a strip five 
inches deep, twenty-four or thirty inches long, also a 
piece into an oval shape half an inch thick, wet the 
edge of it, and cut a strip half an inch deep off the 
band, lay it on the edge of the bottom which was 
wetted, wet the outside of this again, and then raise 
up the band and lay it round the bottom; fasten with 
yolk; give it a neat shape by pressing out the inside 
of the bottom, turn over the lip like a vase, pinch 
the edge at the bottom and at the top with the 
fingers, fill the crust with bran, and let it stand; 
while the leaves are being made with which the sides 
of the crust may be ornamented, cut some diamonds 
out of a thin sheet of the paste, notch with the back of 
a knife, wet the side of the crust with yolks of eggs, 
and stick them on ; let the crust stand all night, and 
bake next day in a cold oven ; an hour will "bake it; 
empty out the bran, and when cold, fill with any 
preparation. 



HEAT P0£ STAKDINO FIE. 
Cut up four pounds of fillet of veal into thin slices; 
also one pound and a half of ham ; put a little clari- 
fied butter in a frying-pan, when hot, lay the veal in, 
and fry them a nice colour; then fry the ham, lay 
the pieces on a cloth to drain off the butter. Put two 



VOL-AU-VENTS. 201 

quarts of dear gravy, or first stock in a stewpan, add 
the yeal and ham, tie up a bunch of parsley, with a 
few leaves of basil, and a blade of mace, inside of it; 
boil the whole a quarter of an hour, skim very care- 
fully, put this away to cool ; when set, fill into the 
crust; mince some bright savoury jelly, and lay over 
the meat; garnish with some green parsley. 

This elegant dish is chiefly used at marriage 
breakfasts or suppers. As the crust is never ate, it 
may be filled several times, and may be made much 
smaller or larger if desired, and may be filled with 
pigeons, chickens, or any kind of game. 



VOL-AU-VENTS 



A VOIrAXr-TENT 

Is a large kind of patty. Roll out puff paste from an 
inch to an inch and a half thick; cut it to suit the 
shape of the dish it is to be served on; in cutting it 
make the knife hot in water. Cut another piece not 
quite so large for the cover; mark the cover an inch 
from the edge, and brush it over with the yolk of 
egg; bake it in a quick oven. When it appears 
sufficiently browned, take off the top, clean out the 
soft paste, return it to the oven for a few minutes to 
dry; dish it on a napkin. 



202 VOL-AU-VENTg. 

Care most be taken in taking out tlie soft part not 
to break the oatside. 

It may be filled with ragoiit of sweetbread, fncassee 
of chicken, lobster, or oysters, bat is never made of 
a large size. 



VOL-ATJ-YEVT OF 07STEBS.' 
Blanch fifty large oysters in their own jnice; lift 
them out of the pan with a fork, that the pieces of 
shell may be left at the bottom ; beard the oysters, 
and strain the juice on them; put two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan ; add three ounces of flour, sdr a 
little, dilute with a few spoonfuls of stock, add a gill 
and a half of cream, season with a little white pepper, 
salt, and a little chopped parsley; add the oysters 
and juice, bring to the boil, and fill into the Vol-au- 
vent case, this sauce should be rather thick. 



VOIrAU-TENT OF VEAL AKD HAM. 
Procure a nice piece of fillet of veal; cut across 
the grain into pieces the size of a shilling, three 
quarters of a pound will be enough, also a quarter 
of a pound of fine ham: mince a small onion, and 
a little parsley, put an ounce of butter in a small 
stewpan, put in the veal and ham, cover up close 
with the lid, when the meat has simmered in its own 
juice for a quarter of an hour, dredge a little flour 
into the pan, moisten with a spoonful or two of stock, 
and a gill of cream, season with white pepoer, and fill 
into the case. See Pasty. 



PIES. 203 

VOL-AXT-YiarT OF LOBSTER. 
Boil a hen lobster twenty minutes, break it up; 
save all the juice and pith; cut the meat into large 
dice, rub the dpawn or coral, with an ounce of butter, 
till quite smooth ; put two oimces of butter in a stew* 
pan, with two ounces of flour, and a little parsley ; 
dilute with a little stock, and a spoonful of cream ; 
add the meat and spawn, a teaspoonful of ketchup, 
and one of anchovies ; just boil and fill into the case. 



PATTIES OF ABOVE. 
Fill six pat6 cases with any of the foregoing 
preparations, with the exception of the meat being 
cut much smaller. 



PIES. 



VEAL AJSTD HAM PIE.* 
Cut up the veal in slices, and flatten with the bat ; 
lay a small piece of ham on each slice of veal ; mince 
some parsley very fine; mix with pepper if the ham 
£3 saltish, less salt will do in seasoning ; roll up the 
veal neatly, place the rolls in the dish, cut four hard- 
boiled eggs in rings, lay them on the top, add a small 
ladleful of stock ; dust a little flour in the dish^ and 
cover with puff paste : bake in a ahati^ ovetL, 



S04 



M : 1 1 H 4-1 



Empty, and smge three chickens, cot them mio 
joints, wash them in tepid water, strain, and lay on a 
doth to dry. Cut a few slices of ham, which lay in 
the dish alternately with the chickens ; season with 
white pepper and salt. Cot foor eggs in rings, lay 
them on the tqp, add a ladkfbl of cold stock, dost a 
little floor in the dish, and cover with puff paste; 
hake two hours. 



BUBcnon imt xAzm piss. 

Before yon pot anything to bake, be snre the 
oven is quite clean, for if the jnice or gravy of any- 
thing which is baking should boil over into the 
oven, or anything dirty has been in the oven, it 
will give a disagreeable taste to whatever is baked 
in it. A cook should therefore be careful to sweep 
and clean her oven carefully out with a damp cloth, 
before she lights her fire, or before it is too hot to do 
so, and let it dry before she closes the door tight 
All pies must be attended to while cooking, to see 
that the juice does not boil over, for if it does, it will 
make a steam in the oven, which will spoil your 
crust, by making it heavy, and make the pie appear 
to be done, before it is well warmed. After it has 
been in the oven about half an hour, at furthest, it 
must be looked to, and turned, or it may be spoiled, 
by burning at one part and not cooking at another. 

If you should find the juice of a pie run over, you 
moBt take out your pie, tsab^ \^<& cxxisA. ^ one end^ 



PIE8. 205 



mnd pour out some of the juice, which save, and pour 
again into the pie when it is done, if there is room, 
and if not, send it up with the pie in a hoat, or sauce- 
tureen. 



BEEF STEAK FIE. 

Choose steak that has heen long hung, cut it into 
moderately-sized pieces, and trim off all skin or 
sinews ; season them with pepper, salt, and minced 
shalot or onion, and lay them in the dish : put crust 
on the ledge and an inch helow, cover with thick 
crust, and hake it ahout two hours. A teacupful of 
gravy or water may be put into the dish before the 
pie is baked, or some good gravy poured into it after 
it is taken from the oven. 

A tablespoonful or two of mushroom ketchup, or 
a flap mushroom, added to the steak, will greatly 
enrich this pie. 



BEEF STEAK AJSTD OTSTER FQL 
Prepare the steaks as above, and put layers of 
them and of oysters. Stew the liquor and beards 
of the latter with a bit of lemon peel, mace, and a 
tablespoonful of walnut ketchup. When the pie is 
baked, boil with the above three spoonfuls of cream 
and one ounce of butter rubbed in flour ; to which, 
however, many people object as injuring the savouri- 
ness of the pie ; in which case, should any addition 
be required, a few spoonfuls of beef gravy and port 
wine will answer the purpose. Straaa \l, vndi yarox 



206 

it into the dish : for a small ^e a dozen of oysten 
nill be sufficient, and the pie may be baked in a 
ooople of hours. 



VBAL FI& 
Cat into steaks a l<Hn or breast of veal, season 
them highly with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, maoe, 
and a little lemon peel, mixed ; lay them into the 
bottom of a dish, and then a few slices of sweet- 
breads seasoned with the spices ; add some oystm^ 
forcemeat balls, and hard-boiled yolks of eggs, half 
a pint of white stock, and a tablespoonfbl of lemon 
pickle ; pnt puff paste on the edge of the dish, and 
cover with the same ; bake it for one hour. 



RAISED FOBK FQL 

Make a raised crust from three to four inches 
high ; pare off the rind, and remove tne bone from 
a loin of pork, cut it into chops, flatten them, and 
season them with chopped or powdered sage, black 
pepper, and salt, and pack them closely into the 
crust ; then pnt on the top, and pinch the edge ; 
brush the crust with yolk of egg, and bake two hours 
in a slow oven ; when done, remove the lid, pour off 
the fat, and add some seasoned gravy. 

Or: The pork may be put into a dish, covered 
with crust, and baked. 

Or : The pork may be cut into dice and seasoned. 

When a bog is killed, this pie may be made of 
the trimmings; but l\ieTe ^\iOMld be no bone, as 



PIES. 207 

the meat must be packed closely, fat and lean alter- 
nately. 



SEA FIE. 

Skin and cut into joints a large fpwl ; wash and 
lay it into cold water for an hour ; cut some salt beef 
into thin slices, and if it is very salt, soak it a short 
time in water ; make a paste of flour and butter in 
the proportion of half a pound of butter* to one pound 
of flour, cut it into round pieces according to the size of 
the bottom of the pot in which the pie is to be stewed ; 
rub with butter the bottom of a round iron pot, and 
lay in a layer of the beef, seasoned with pepper, and 
finely-minced onion ; then put a layer of the paste, 
and then the fowl, highly seasoned with pepper, 
onion, and a little salt; add another layer of paste, 
and pour in three pints of cold water ; cover the pot 
closely, and let it stew gently for nearly four hours, 
taking care it does not burn, which, if neglected, it 
is apt to do. It is served in a pudding- dish, and 
answers well for a family dinner. 



PABTBIDGE PIE A LA FBAVCAISE. 

Take six partridges, trussed as for boiled chickens, 
and season them with the above seasoning. Take also 
two pounds of veal and one pound of fat bacon ; cut 
these into small bits, and put them into a stewpan 
' with half a pound of butter, together with some shaloU^ 
parsley, and thyme, stewing them uutiX c^\\&\fcxs^ssc 



208 PIE8. 

Strain and poond fhe meat in a mortar till nads 
perfectly smooth. 

The pie-crust being raised, put in the partridges 
with the above-mentioned forcemeat over them, and 
orer that lay some thin slices of bacon. Cover the 
pie with a thick lid, and be sure to close it weD, to 
prevent any portion of the gravy from oozing oat. 

This size of pie will require three hoars' baking, 
but care must be taken not to put it into the oven 
till the fierce heat be gone ofil 



PABTBIDOE FQL 
Another Waif. 

Lay a veal cutlet in the bottom of the dbh : line 
the inside of the birds with fat bacon, season them 
well and place them with the breast downwards; 
fill the dish with good gravy, and add forcemeat 
balls, with a few button mushrooms fireshly gathered. 

Pies of this sort may be made nearly in the same 
manner of every species of game ; but the mixture 
of the brown and white meats is not desirable, as the 
former have a peculiar flavour which ought to be 
maintained, and is weakened by the admixture of 
the latter : also hare and venison, though each form- 
ing admirable pasties separately, yet spoil each other 
when put together. 



TESHSOS VAffTT, 
Cut a neck or breast into small steaks, rub them 
over with a seasomng oi swe«^\ie;t\^> ^nju^nntmeg, 



PIES. 209 

pepper, and salt ; fry them slightly in butter ; line 
the sides and edges of a dish with puff paste, lay in 
the steaks, and add half a pint of rich gravy made 
with the trimmings of the venison ; add a glass of 
port wine, and the juice of half a lemon, or a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar ; cover the dish with puff paste, 
and bake it nearly two hours; some more gravy 
may be poured into the pie before serving it. 



JELLT P0£ HEAT 0£ SAISED PIES. 
Take a quart of veal gravy, dissolve two ounces 
of isinglass in a little of it ; add the remainder with 
one- quarter pint of Tarragon vinegar; boil all together 
for a quarter of an hour. Clarify it with the whites 
of six eggs, then pass it through a bag* 



HODESN POTATO PA8T7 

An excellent Family Dis^ 

A tin mould, with a perforated moveable top, and a 
small valve to allow the escape of the steam, must be 
bad for this pasty, which is an excellent family dish, 
and may be varied in numberless ways. Arrange at 
the bottom of the mould from two to three pounds of 
mutton cutlets, freed, according to the taste, from all, 
or from the greater portion of the fat, then washed, 
lightly dredged on both sides with flour, and 
seasoned with salt and pepper, or Cayenne. Pour to 
them sufficient broth or water to make the gravy, 
and add to it at pleasure a tablespoonful of mush- 
room ketchup or of Harvey's sauee. TLv?^ x^a^^ 
o 



tu 




Nr aualied, with iboot an 
flf baxsex, md a ^oobIUL cr two of milk or 
10 wck j iiwii l, ss mtMmj good potatoes as will 
ID ibe paST of qaite diree inches thick ; 
the umU, and arrange these 
Hr i^KB k. leaving ^tem a little longh on the 
die paaiT ina M oder a te oven fiom 
ofanknrtoan hoar and a qoarler, 
a po u n ffiL g » itt aie tad ita co m t entB . Pin a fiidded 

tiie Bonid hefcre it is serred, 
Ttmdr a hoi £sh to leedve the cover, which 
helped off mil after the pasty is on the 



Oneicn.«rTealaBd«jsteri; deacate poifc diops 
wsh a snawMngcf gjge and a little parhoiledoiiioii, 
<r aa eaciiaks cr two finehr minced ; partridges or 
rablB» woohr earred, mixed with small mushrooms, 
«ni moKacKii wiih a fink good stock, will all give 
exKKLjeBX ranecaes of thb dish, which mar be made 
Hkimsif with highhr seasoBed slices of salmon fineed 
iKaa ^ skin, sfviskled wiih fine heihs or inter- 
wsxii wi^ daimps: dazified himer, rich Teal sto^ 
«r g«^ whse wine, maj be poured to them to form 
the gnTT« To thicken this, a little flour shoold he 
<dit4p(^ ifiei^ ^ &h befcve it ts laid into the moold. 
i^her kiadiw j«eh as cod. ma^erel in fillets, salt fish 
^pf^msittshr bept ax the point cf boiling until three 
pans dMKw ih<« polked into flakes, and pot into the 
WKdLl with hanl eggs sliced, a fittle cream, floor, 
httller, OsTeuMi) ani aMdkovy-essence, and baked 



m 



with nMwIied parsnips on the top^) wiU all 
well fiir this pastj. Yeal, when used hr it, Aauli 
be well beaten first: sweetbsead% dieed, may be 
laid in with it. 

For a pasty of modente size^ two pounds^ or two 
pounds and a half of meat, and from three to fimr of 
potatoes will be sufficient; a quarter of a pint of mUk 
or eream, two small teaqioonfaltcf sally and fat one 
to two oonces of bnttcr ninst be minrf np with tiwse 
last 



Throw the maearoni in boiHng water wi& 
salt in it ; let it haTe plenty of room and be wdl 
eovered with water; boQ twentj-fire minnlea ; drain 
it in a cnllepder; then pot it into a de^ dish in 
alternate layers of macaroni and grated dbeese ; lay 
cm the top slioes of 6esh butter; poor crer it milk 
and cream enough to eoter die wholes and plaeethe 
dish in an oren where it ean eoA at the top and 
bottom equally . In fifteen or twenty ntiantes it will 
be done. Serve it np immediately* Too mneh firs 
win make it dry. 



Take one qoart^ of a pound of maearsniy boil it 
in water till tender ; thicken half a pint of ndk with 
floor and a small bit of hotter; add two taUe^oon* 
fids of cream, half a teaspooofbl of mnstaid, a fittle 
white pqiper, salt, and Cayenne. &6r Vnto iikQ»>&sM 



2U 



SpCVUB CK 


gnoafl cteeR: lioil all tngrihrr a isv 


simaK: «a£ Ae jiiMmiimi; aahe^Ii quitB hot, idl 


KfT^ T^ 


» liie xBode aacptad aifc Ab beat taUeiB 


Pis ia:f 




OC biRJSStET'V 


acar, vioi an caDe cf batter, and a linB 


imjs: W3^ 


VB^B-. SEndn; malce one pint and a liaif 


j€ aseiaeii Vsaer, Irak sx eggs in m basiiiy adit 


^ oe FVfct craBL sad vUsk a minute; aeuoawift 




aatl Tidsc pe|iper; strevr fimr ounooB Oi 


y ifinl pK? 


m'liia thtXJif en tne diy maearmiy anz 


dW vsiote 


n^tibu. pat it inte a bavdered dSA, 


f^cidkLe soi 


ne dhMse en die (op, and bake in a simp 


<Hrw. 





R^ bait a pxEBd of butter into one poimd of floor, 
aid a linW sah witb safiSdent water to form a sfiSsh 
pa$«e« knead tbe paste welL roll oat into a sbeet half 
an ineb thick, fine a roond bottomed bowl, haying 
preTKHBlT sfigbdy greased it with a little batter; 
pare off the paste roond tbe edge of the bowl, knead 
op tbe parings into a round form for the cover. Cut 
into slioeB about two poonds of ramp steak, season 
with pepper and salt, dost a Htde floor over the steak, 
and lay it in the bowl; add a few slices of potatoes 
in the middle, coyer with steak, and put the lid on ; 
haying wetted the edge, press it down with the fingers, 



PUDDINGS. 213 

tie the bowl in a napkin, and immerse in a pan of boil- 
ing water for two hours. 



EABBIT FUDDINa. 

Line as before, a bowl that will contain two rabbits, 
cut them up in pieces — taking care to break off any 
sharp points of bone — ^wash them well, and drain the 
pieces on a cloth; season with chopped parsley, pep- 
per, salt, and an onion minced fine; add a few slices 
of ham or bacon; boil as before. 

Meat puddings of veal, mutton, pork, &c., are 
made in the same manner. If preferred, the paste 
may be made with beef suet, finely chopped, instead 
of butter. 



PUDDINGS. 



GENERAL DIBECTIOVS P0£ MAKDTG FUDDIEOS. 
Many of the directions for making pastry apply 
also to the preparation of puddings. 

The freshness of all ingredients of puddings is of 
much importance ; as fresh ground flour, pure milk, 
new laid or sweet eggs, fresh suet, and fresh butter, 
or washed salt butter. 

Suet makes light pudding crust: beef suet is best, 
next mutton, and then veal. Beef marrow is some- 
times substituted for suet in puddings, ^\&s^ V\» tel^^ 



214 puddings; 

enriches* Dripping may also be used for common 
crust; bnt neither dripping nor bntter will make 
crost so light as suet. 

Dried fruits for puddings shoold be carefulljpicked, 
and sometimes washed. Currants may be plumped 
out, by pouring boiling water upon them; they should 
be dried on a sieve or cloth before the fire. It is a 
good plan to pick them, in large quantitiea, upon a 
tinned sheet, as, in rubbing them on it, any stone or 
grit may be detected by its noise. 

Raisins should be stoned with dean liaads; if done 
with a knife point, much of the pulp is liable to be 
removed with the stones. The best raisins for pud- 
dingy are the large, rich kinds; the sultana kind, 
free from stones, is neither so well flavoured nor 
luscious. Raisins should generally be once cut, not 
chopped small, for puddings. 

Candied peels, as citron, lemon, and orange, should 
be cut small, but not minced. 

Fresh firuits should be picked free from stalks, and 
wiped if required. 

Rice, sago, tapioca, &c., should be soaked half 
an hour, and well washed and picked, before they 
are mixed into puddings; and mustiness should be 
guarded against. 



TO CLEAV CUBSAKTS P0£ FUDDHTOS OB CAKES. 

Put them into a cullender, strew a handful of flour 
over them, and rub them with the hands to separate 
the lamps, and to detach the «ts]lka\ work them round 



PUDDINGS* 215 

in the cnllender, and shake it well, when the small 
stalks and stones will fall throngh it. Next pour 
plenty of cold water over the currants, drain and 
spread them on a soft cloth, press it over them to 
absorb the moisture, and then lay them on a very 
dean oven-tin, or a large dish, and dry them very 
gradually (or they will becoce hard), either in a cool 
oven, or before the fire, taking care in the latter case 
that they are not placed sufficiently near it for the 
ashes to fall amongst them. When they are per- 
iecdy dryj clear them entirely from the remaining 
stalks, and from evert/ stone that may be amongst 
them. The best mode of detecting these, is to lay 
the fruit at the far end of a large white dish, or sheet 
of paper, and to pass, it lightly and in very small 
portions, with the fingers, towards one's sel^ examin- 
ing it closely as this is done. 



TO HIX BATTEB EOS FUDDIirGS. 
Put the flour and salt into a bowl, and stir them 
together; whisk the eggs thoroughly, strain them 
through a fine hair sieve, and add them very ffra- 
dually to the flour ; for if too much liquid be poured 
to it at once it will be full of lumps, and it is easy, 
with care, to keep the batter perfectly smooth. Beat 
it well and lightly, with the back of a strong wooden 
spoon, imd after the eggs are added, thin it with milk 
to ja proper consistency. The whites of the eggs 
beaten separately to a solid froth, and stirred gently 
into the mixture the instant before \t \& \a!^ \r^ Sjst 



216 PUDDINGS. 

boiling, or before it is put into the oven to be baked, 
will render it remarkably light When firuit is added 
to the batter, it mnst be made thicker than when it is 
served plain, or it will sink to the bottom of the pud- 
ding. Batter should never stick to the knife when it 
is sent to table ; it will do this both when a sufficient 
nmnber of eggs are not mixed with it, and when it is 
not enough cooked. About four eggs to the half 
pound of flour will make it firm enough to cut smoothly. 

Do not break many eggs into a bowl together, 
for, if there be one bad one it will spoil those pre- 
viously in the bowl; but break them one at a time 
into a basin, beat all together with a whisk or fork, 
and strain through a sieve, when the whites of eggs 
only are required, the yolks, if not broken, will keep 
good for two or three days, if they be covered up. 

Warmed butter will not oil if mixed with a little 
milk or wine. Salt improves the flavour of every 
pudding mixture, even if it be sweet: a pinch of salt 
wiU improve a plum pudding. 

Batter pudding, to be made very light, should only 
have the whites of eggs in it, and milk enough to 
makQ it the thickness of a custard : a pudding made 
with a pint of milk requires an hour's boiling. 

Puddings are better for being mixed some time 
before boiling or baking, if they be well stirred 
before they are tied up or put into the dish: it is, 
however, advisable to add the eggs only just before. 



PUDDINGS. 217 

'PLUM FTTDDDTG. 
Six onnces of saet, chopped fine; six ounces of 
Malaga raisins, stoned; eight ounces of currants, 
nicely washed and picked; three ounces of bread 
crumbs ; three ounces of flour ; three eggs ; sixth of 
a nutmeg ; a small blade of mace ; same quantity of 
cinnamon, pounded as fine as possible ; half a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; half a pint of milk, or rather less ; 
four ounces of sugar ; to which may be added one 
ounce of candied lemon, and half an ounce of dtron. 
Beat the eggs and spice well together ; mix the milk 
with them by degrees, then the rest of the ingredi- 
ents; dip a fine close linen cloth in boiling water, 
and put it into a hair sieve ; flour it a little, pour in 
the mixture, and tie it up close ; put it into a sauce- 
pan containing six quarts of boiling water ; keep a 
kettle of boiling water along side of it, and fill up 
your pot as it wastes ; be sure to keep it boiling four 
hours at least. 



FLUM PUDDDrG. 

Another way. 

Mince one pound of beef suet, add to it half a 
pound of flour, six ounces of bread crumbs, three 
quarters of a pound of sultana raisins, three quar- 
ters of a pound of washed and dried currants, six 
onnces of orange peel, three quarters of a pound of 
brown sugar, half an ounce of nutmeg, cassia, and 
ginger, mixed, six eggs, and a gill of milk ; mix i\v^ 
whole together. Butter a mould, ^\xc m^ «sA\^^ 



218 PUDDINGS. 



four hours ; or bntter a cloth, dust some flonr on it, 
place it in a bowl, put the padding in the cloth, and 
tie it; boil as before. Serve with an arrowroot aaoeei 
with an extra glass of brandy in it. 



SHALL LIQHT PLUH FUDDDTO. 
Put half a pint of fine bread cmmbs into a basin, 
and poor on them a quarter of a pint of boiling milk ; 
put a plate over, and let them soak for half an hour; 
then mix with them half a pint of suet chopped ex- 
tremely small, rather more of stoned raisins, three 
teaspoonfuls of sugar, one of flour, three egg^ a tiny 
pinch of salt, and sufiBcient grated lemon peel or 
nutmeg to flavour it lightly. Tie the pudding in a 
well floured cloth, and boil it for two hours. 



PLUM FUBDHSTQ LIGHT AVD WHOLESOME. 
With three ounces of the crambs of a stale loa^ 
finely grated and soaked in a quarter-pint of boiling 
milk, mix six ounces of suet minced very small, one 
ounce of dry bread crumbs, ten ounces of stoned 
raisins, a little salt, the grated rind of a china-orange, 
and three eggs, leaving out one white. Bdil the 
pudding for two hours, and serve it with very sweet 
sauce ; put no sugar in it. 



COTTAGE GH&ISTMAS PUDmEOw 
A pound and a quarter of flour, fourteen ounces of 
suet, a pound and a quarter of stoned raisins, four 
ounces of currantSi five oi wig;ox^ di o^^rter of a pound 



PUDDINGS. 219 

potatoes smoothly mashed, half a nntmeg, a quarter of 
a teaspoonM of ginger, the s|ime of salt, and of cloves 
in powder; mix these ingredients thoroughly ; add 
four well-beaten eggs with a quarter of a pint of milk ; 
tie the pudding in a well -floured cloth, and boil it 
for four hours. 

. Qne pound and a quarter of flour ; fourteen ounces 
of suet; twenty ounces of stoned raisins ; four ounces 
of currants ; five ounces of sugar ; quarter of a pound 
of potatoes; half a nutmeg; ginger, salt, cloves, a 
quarter of a teaspoonful each ; four eggs ; half a pint 
of milk : four hours. 



SPOV QE-CAKE FTTDDnTG. 
Melt some butter, and rub with it the mould, in 
which the pudding is to be made ; rub it very evenly 
wi|^ a feather or brush. Sift on the butter some 
pom^ed sugar, and take, care that all parts of the 
moold are equally covered with it so as to look white. 
Stone some raisins and currants, and put them ac- 
cording to fancy in the carvings of the mould. Take 
some sponge-cake, the staler the better, cut it up in 
small pieces, and fill the mould lightly with it, mix- 
ing through it currants and raisins rubbed in flour. 
Beat separately the whites and yolks of four eggs, 
mjxing with the yolks four tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 
pour on them one pint and a half of cold milk, and 
pour thiit over the sponge-cake. It should fill the 
mould entirely ; grate the peel of one lemon in the 
custard. Set the mould in a saucepan oi cjc^<\^«^^ \ 



220 FUDDINGS. 

let the water cover one-third of the mould, and place 
it over the fire ; when the water begins to boil, set 
it on one side the fire so that the costard will cod: 
slowly, or it will torn. When nearly done, put it 
again over the fire, but do not let it brown. It will 
bake in a quarter of an hour. 

To make a sauce for it, beat the yolks of two eggs 
in half a pint of new milk, and sugar to your taste; 
strain it through a cloth or sieve, and flavour it widi 
rose-water, bitter almonds, or anything that is pre- 
ferred. Turn the pudding into a dish, and pour the 
sauce round it 



CABorET FiTDDnra. 

Take an oval, plain pudding mould with a flat 
bottom, butter it with clarified butter, take a few 
dried cherries, or raisins, and arrange them round 
the bottom of the mould ; then take an old shilling 
sponge-cake, or some small ones, cut the sponge-cake 
in slices, and lay over the cherries till the mould is 
full; a few raisins and currants, with a little orange 
peel, may be strewed between the slices of cake; 
make one pint of custard without being boiled, add a 
glass of brandy, cover the cake with it tUl the mould 
is nearly full, put a piece of buttered paper over it, 
and place the mould in a stewpan in which the water 
will come half-way up the side of it ; when the water 
is boiling, put in the pudding ; steam slowly three 
quarters of an hour; dish,, and pour some hot custard 
over it 



PUDDINGS. 221 

SWISS FTTDDDTG, HEW. 
Break six eggs in a basin ; beat them for a minnte ; 
add half a pound of sugar, half a pound of minced 
apples, half a pound of minced suet, half a pound of 
bread crumbs, half a pound of sultana raisins, a 
little ginger, nutmeg, and orange peel, with a wine 
glassful of ale. Bake in a papered and buttered 
mould ; boil till firm enough to turn out ; pour over 
an arrowroot sauce. 



CUSTASD FUDDHTG. 

Prepare a custard as before, but with the addition 
of four yolks of eggs to the pint of milk ; do not boil 
after the eggs are added: pour into a buttered mould, 
and steam as before. 

Or: Pour the custard into a pudding dish, with a 
border of puff paste, and bake in the oven. 



PBESEBVED GDTGES FTTDDnTG. 
Take six ounces of butter, put it into a stewpan ; 
mdt it, and add six ounces of sifted flour. Stir over 
the fire ; have a pint and a half of milk made hot ; 
add the milk to the butter and flour gradually : beat 
six eggs, and add them, with half a pound of preserved 
ginger cut in thin slices, and four ounces of sugar; 
pour into a mould as before, and steam about an hour 
and a half. Serve with a custard sauce. 



HABBOW FTTDDDTG. 

Take six ounces of beef marrow, mm<c»3L) ^<^^sx 




IsfmifiDeaf oln 



uRf^SshmMii k will look 



teter if the &k ii boidmi vi& MSB Inwn of poK 
pMUL BiikekalfalOTrmmdBp 



GntefourleBioosoBapeeeof loaf Bogar; waaipb 
off ibe rind with a knife; take fe«r oombi of ^OBge- 
cdoe, two oonees of latifia biaeait^ half m -poaad ol 
fogiTy nx eggs, and a little caasia and nntmeg ; mix 
the whole together with a whisk fer a few mimitas 
border a dith with paste, and bake fer half an hoar. 



Take two ponods of minced applca,.OBe pound of 
mineed soet, one pound of sugar, one ponnd of atoned 
raisinsy minced, two glasses of brandy, a tosDpbaAfel 
of lAace, one of nutmeg, and one of ginger; mix all 
together, and eover with apeoe of poff -paste, iucdy 
canred on the top and dusted with sogar ; babe lathtf 
more than an hour. 



YSBinCELLI PUBDnrG. 
Wash three ounces of vermicelli ; boil it for fifteen 
minutes in a pint of milk, with a bit of cinnamon and 
lemon peeL Wben ne&Y\y cicAiOLt^kQiVLttke cinnamon 



PUDDINGS. 223 

and peel, sweeten it, and add the well-beaten yolks 
of six eggs, and the whites of two. Mix it well, and 
bake it in a battered dish for half an hoar. 

It maj be boiled for one hoar and a half, and 
Berved with a sweet sauce. 



A FLAnr SICE puDDnra. 

Wash well and pick eight oances of rice, and put it 
into a deep dish, with two quarts of milk; add to this 
two ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, and a little 
cinnamon or nutmeg, ground; mix them well to- 
gether, and bake in a very slow oven. It will take 
about two hours. 



SICE FUDDDTG, BAXEB OB BOILED. 
Wash in cold water and pick very cl^an six ounces 
of rice; boil it in one quart of milk, with a bit of 
cinnamon, very gently, till it is quite tender ;' it will 
take about an hour; be careful and stir it often. 
Take it from the fire^^piek out'the dlinamon, and stir 
in a teacupful of sugar, hf^ a cupM of butter, three 
^gs well beaten, and a little powdered nutmeg: stir it 
till it is quite smooth. ^ You can line a pie-dii^hwith 
puff paste, or bake it in a buttered dish, which is 
better. About three-quarters of an hour will bake it 



A GOOD BOn^O) BICE FUDDIBO. 
Swell gradually, and boil until quite 8(^ and thick, 
four oances and a half oi Whole rice, in one pint and & 
half of new milk; sweeten them witYi itom \)Q.t^^ \k^ 



234 PUDDINGS. 

four ounoes of sugar, broken small, and stir to them, 
while they are still quite hot, the grated rind of haU 
a large lemon, four or five bitter almonds, pounded 
to a paste, and four large well- whisked eggs; let the 
mixture cool, and then pour it into a thickly-buttered 
basin, or mould, which should be quite full; tie a 
buttered paper and a floured doth over it, and boil 
the pudding exactly an hour; let it stand for two or 
three minutes before it is turned out, and serve it 
with sweet sauce, fruit syrup, or a compote of fresh 
fruit An ounce and a half of candied orange riod 
will improve it much, and a couple of ounoes of butter 
may be added to enrich it, when the receipt without 
in considered too simple. 

Four ounces and a half of whole rice, one pint and 
a half of new milk, three or four ounces of sugar, a 
few grains of salt, four to six bitter almonds, rind of 
half a lemon, and four eggs: boiled one hour. 



AV EASTEB FTTDDnTG. 
To four ounces of fresh rice flour, add by slow 
degrees half a pint of cold new milk, being careful to 
keep the mixture £ree from lumps. Pour it into a 
pint of boiling milk, and stir it without intermission 
over a very dear and gentle fire for three or fear 
minutes; then throw in two ounces of fresh butter, and 
two of pounded sugar, and continue the boiling fer 
eight or ten minutes longer. Let the rice cool down, 
and give it an occasional stir, to prevent the surfeoe 
from hardening. ^WVien \\» \i^ ^Uy^ for fifteen or 



PUDDINGS. 225 

twenty minntes, pour to it a gill of cold milk, and 
stir well into it a few grains of salt, the grated rind 
of a large sound lemon, five full sized, or six small 
eggs, properly cleared and well whisked, first by 
themselves and then with two additional ounces of 
pounded sugar. Beat up these ingredients thoroughly 
together, pour them into a deep dish which has been 
rubbed with butter, and in which about a tablespoon- 
fnl should be left liquified, that it may rise to the 
surface of the pudding: strew lightly upon it four 
ounces of clean, dry currants, and bake it gently from 
three-quarters to a full hour. 



BBEAD FUDDnr 0. 
Sweeten a pint of new milk with three ounces of 
fine sugar, throw in a few grains of salt, and pour it 
boiling on half a pound of fine and lightly-grated 
bread crumbs ; add an ounce of firesh butter, and 
cover them with a plate ; let them remain for half an 
hour or more, and then stir to them four large well- 
whisked eggs, and a flavouring of nutmeg, or of 
lemon rind; pour the mixture into a thickly buttered 
mould or basin, which holds a pint and a half, and 
which ought to be quite full; tie a paper and a cloth 
tightly over, and boil the pudding exactly an hour 
and ten minutes. This is quite a plain receipt, but 
by omitting two ounces of the bread, and adding more 
batter, one egg, a small glass of brandy, the grated 
rind of a lemon, and as much sugar as will sweeten 
the whole* richly; a very exceUeat '9\x<3Ld^<|^ ^9r^\^ 



oesBge ped alio has a good effect 

iSad Hambr imo h: and Uf a pound of ear- 

Si geaen&T esmaadend a fimher imp r ove meot 

Oae pnt of wfew Bdik. ^ree oonees of sugar, a 

giaoK of ak. kalf a pound of bread emmbs, 

§ont eggs Ave, if Tcnr wbuULj ; nntmeg or lemoii 

pleaiore: one boor and ten ■rinntfat, 

OrrOnepiasof nuDu axoaneeaof breadcmmbs, 

two xo tbree <ma<frt of boner, four onnfle» of sugar, 

ave cggSL a anall glassfid of bnoidT, and one lemoa 

Fvtber aiMiii oB ^ al eboioe: candied peel, one 

andabalf: carrama, balf a pound. 



To balf a pound of stale brown bread, finely and 
ligbtlr grated, add an equal weigbt of saet, cbopt»ed 
small, and of curranu cleaned and dried, witb balf a 
sahspoonfol of salt, tbree oonees of sugar, tbe tbird 
of a small nutmeg grated, two ounces of candled peel, 
fire well beaten eggs, and a glass of brandy. ItGz 
tbese ingredients tborougbly, and boil tbe pudding in 
a dotb for tbree bours and a balf. Send wine saooe 
to table witb it. Tbe grated rind of a large lemon 
may be added witb good effect. 

Brown bread, suet, and currants, eadi eigbt ounces ; 
tbree ounces of sugar, two ounces of candied peel, 
third of a sakspoonful of salt, half of a small nut- 
meg, five ^gs, and one wine-glassM of brandy; 
tbzee bours and a balf. 



PUDDINGS. 227 

PLAIN BSEAD FTTDDDTQ. 
ir a quart of boiling milk over four ounces of 
crumbs, cover it till cold, and mix with three 
beaten eggs, a tea cup of sugar, and half the 
»f a grated lemon, or a little pounded cinnamon; 
it in a buttered dish, and serve with sweet 



BBEAB ASD BUTTEB FTTDDDTG. 
tter a quart dish, and lay in it slices of thin 
and butter, strewing in a few currants ; then 
bur eggs in a basin, add four ounces of sugar, 
. nutmeg, grated, and stir in a pint of milk; fill 
e dish, and bake three-quarters of an hour, 
de French roll, cut in slices and buttered, is 
lor to household bread and butter for this pud- 



GOMHOV BATT£B FUDDDTG. 
%t four eggs thoroughly, mix with them half a 
>f milk, and pass them through a sieve, add 
by degrees to half a pound of flour, and when the 
' is perfectly smooth, thin it with another half 
f milk. Shake out a wet pudding-cloth, flour 
1, pour the batter in, leave it room to swell, tie 
nrely, and put it immediately into plenty of &st 
g water. An hour and ten minutes will boil it. 
it to table the instant it is dished, with wine 
, a hot compote of fruit, or raspberry vm<&^i^ \ 
ast makes a delicious puddmg Ba\usi&. \^\^^^% 



228 PUDDINGS. 

the liquid be added very gradnally to the flonr, and 
the mixture be well stirred and beaten as each por- 
tion is poured to it, the batter will not be smooth : to 
render it very light, a portion of the whites of the 
eggs, or the whole of them, should be whisked to a 
froth and stirred into it just before it is put into the 
doth. 

Half a pound of flour ; four eggs ; three-quarters 
of a teaspoonful of salt ; and one pint of milk. One 
hour and ten minutes. 

Observe, — ^Modern taste is in favour of puddings 
boiled in moulds ; but as we have already stated, they 
are seldom or never so light as those which are tied 
in cloths only. Where appearance is the first con- 
sideration, we would recommend the use of the mould, 
of course. 



BATTEB FUDDnr & 

Anodier Way, 

Mix the yolks of three eggs smoothly with three 
heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, thin the batter with 
new milk until it is of the consistency of cream, 
whisk the whites of eggs apart, stir them into the 
batter, and boil the pudding in a floured cloth or 
buttered basin for an hour. Before it is served, cat 
the top quickly into large dice, halve through the 
pudding, pour over it a small jarful of fine currant, 
raspberry, or strawberry jelly, and send it to table 
without delay. . 

Three tablespoonfola o( floxn \ three eggs ; half a 



PUDDINGS. 229 

teaspoonf al of salt ; from a half to a whole pint of 
milk : one hour. 

Observe, — ^For a very large pudding, double the 
quantitj of ingredients and the time of boiling will 
be required. 



BATTER TSUIT FUDDnTG. 
Butter thickly a basin which holds a pint and a 
hal^ and fill it nearly to the brim with good boiling 
apples pared, cored, and quartered ; pour over them 
a batter made with four tablespoonfuls of flour, two 
large or three small eggs, and half a pint of milk. 
Tie a buttered and floured cloth over the basin, which 
ought to be quite full, and boil the pudding for an 
hour and a quarter. Turn it into a hot dish when 
donOi and strew sugar thickly over it : this, if added 
to the batter at first, renders it heavy. Morella 
cherries make a very superior pudding of this kind ; 
and green gooseberries, damsons, and various oiiier 
fruits, answer for it extremely well: the time of 
boiling it must be varied according to their quaUty 
and its size. 



BAEED BATTEB FUDDDTCk 
Beat separately yolks and whites of three eggs ; 
mix three tablespoonfuls of flour with half a pint of 
milk, a small piece of butter, and some salt ; stir in 
the eggs. Bake in a quick oven, and eat with any 
Bweet sauce. 



230 FUDDINOS. 

SWEET »ACABaEI:PUIIllDre 
Boil six ounces of macaroni in plain bcnling water; 
hetA six eggs in a basin, add fi>nr ovmces of sugar, 
poor in a pint and a half of milk, mix the wliok 
together, and bake in the oven. 



iH:*e '"' 



AFFLE 

Fill a small pudding-dish half fall of stewed or 
preserved apples, or any other add finit. Beat the 
whites of six ^gs to a very stiff firoth, and mix ia 
one tablespoonful of sugar to each egg. Piletheegg 
(m the fruit, and bake it in a slow oven frt>m one to 
two hours. It can be eaten cold or hot 



CUSTABD FUDDnrG. 
Mix with one tablespoonfbl of flonr a pint of cream, 
or new milk, three eggs^ a spoonful of rose water, 
and one ounce of fresh butter broken in small bits*; 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and add a Httle 
grated nutmeg. Bake it in a buttered dish for half 
an hour. Before serving, you can strew over it 
pounded loaf sugar, and stick over it thin cut bits of 
citron, if you wish ii to look very rich. 



OMELETTES. 231 



OMELETTES, &c. 



SWEET OMELETTES. 
Break six eggs, and whisk thenr, add a spoonful 
of sugar to them, put three ounces of butter in a 
deep frying-pan, do not make it very hot, put the 
eggs in the pan, and keep turning them gently till 
set ; pull aside, and put a spoonful of kind of jam in 
centre of the omelette, fold neatly over, and glaze 
wiih sugar on top. 



SAVOUBT OKEIiETTE. 
Take a slice of ham, cut it down in small dice, 
put it into a pan, and fry with a little butter ; put 
three ounces of butter in the frying-pan, beat six 
eggs till light, pour them into the pan, and stir care- 
fully till set ; pull the pan aside, put the ham in the 
middle of the eggs, fold over the edge so as to enclose 
the ham; when slightly coloured on one side, turn 
over in the dish, and serve with a little gravy. 



OMELETTE WITH PINE HERBS. 
Break six eggs in a bowl, add a little chopped 
parsley, a small onion finely minced, a little salt and 
pepper, beat all well together, melt two ounces of 
butter as before, pour in the eggs, and stir with a 
spoon; when it begins to set gjivft \\. »i AksJ&a^^^^ 



c^ nift a tmAkm du^ torn over into 
pbiA or wiik gnvj. 
KT be Bide im great Tmriety, dther 
TVer take tbeir name aooordlDg 
as bam, kidneya, oysters, 




be small and rather 
latker roonded, than with an 



of best Carolina rioe, pat it in 
fix- fire Miamfft^ then pot it in a stew- 
bait a pooad of sugar, a quarter of a pound 
^ Vaovr. coie quart of mOk. and a little salt; simmer 
1^ wMe ahiMS ihree-quarters of an hour: when the 
im » seaier. work ibe whole with a wooden spoon; 
aU ^ xvfts of ten eggs and a few drops of essence 
^f kaML Wbi^ up ten whites of eggs very light, 
BIX ^ wbok together Terr Hghtlj; hare a deep tin 
iiuiit pus a bonior of pi^per about four inches deep 
louskl ^ amli poor it in, bake three quarters of 
aa Wwr. and semft. 



80mu Ot POIAIOES. 
S<w^ out the iasade of a doien very mealy pota- 
lOMk mix tbem with half a jant of boiling cream, and 
tbnw ovacea of sn^gar, a quarter of a pound of batter, 
and a HtUe salt; add the yolks of four eggs, beat up 
ifto whites of ax\«iy sdS,axidm\s.very gently with 



SALADS. 233 

the potatoes; poor the preparation into the soup dish; 
the oven must not be too hot ; when baked dost on 
the top with powdered sugar, and serve instantly, as 
the souffle begins to fall soon. 



SOUPFLE OE BBEAD. 
Take half a pint of milk, haK a pint of very sweet 
cream, mix, and boil, and throw over the interior of 
three penny French rolls; when soft, rub through a 
sieve, and follow the same directions as given above; 
flavour with lemon or orange-flower. 



SALADS. 



SALAD. 
The herbs and vegetables for a salad cannot be too 
freshly gathered; they should be carefully cleared 
from insects, and washed with scrupulous nicety; 
they are better when not prepared till near the time 
of sending them to table, and should not be sauced 
until the instant before they are served. Tender 
lettuces, of which the outer leaves should be stripped 
away, mustard and cress, young radishes, and occa- 
sionally chives, or small green onions (when the 
taste of a party is in favour of these last), are the 
usual ingredients of summer salads. Half grown 
cucumbers sliced thin, and mixed with them^ ax^ «k 
favourite addition with many per&oiiB. In ^u^^asA 




keHiSv vkidk are CKfirninl ift asf tiaecf 

drened Tcgclaliie^ will Hffty ttkds thniiigk Ab 
winter. Cwcamber Tinegar is an agmaUe additioii 
totheae. 

In jamflMT udads tiie mil tare nnmi not be poured 
npon the lettuce or vegetaUes nsed in the salad, hot 
be left at the bottotn, to be stirred up when wanted, 
as thus preserving the crtqpness of the lettnoe. 

In whUer taXads^ howerer, the reverse of this pro- 
ceeding most be adi^pted, as thus: The salad of endive, 
celery, beet, and other roots being cat ready hx 
dressing, then poor the mixtoie iqpon the ingredients, 
and stir them well up, so that every portion may 
receive its benefit 

In doing this, it should likewise be recollected 
that the spoon and fork should always be of wood, 
and of sufficient size to stir up the vegetables in large 
quantities. 



SALAD DSESsnre. 
For a salad of moietala m^^^\sKA^«c^ smoothly 



SiJLADS. 235 

the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, with a small tea- 
spoonfiil of unmade mustard, half as much sugar in 
fine powder, and a saltspoonful of salt ; mix gradu- 
ally with these a small cup of cream, or the same 
quantity of very pure oil, and two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar. More salt and acid can be added at plea- 
sure ; but the latter usually predominates too much 
in English salads. A few drops of Cayenne vinegar ' 
will improve this receipt. 

Two hard yolks of eggs ; one small teaspoonfol of 
unmade mustard; half as much sugar; one salt- 
spoonful of salt ; a small cupful of cream or oil ; and 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 



aALAB SAUGS. 
Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rub them 
siliooth in a small mortar ; add a raw yolk, with a 
teaspoonfal of dry mustard, and rub quite smooth; 
moisten at intervals with a few spoonfuls of salad oil 
and French vinegar ; add a little salt and pepper. 

FBEBfCH aALAB SAUCE. 
Melt a little savoury jelly in a bowl, and when 
cold, whisk up into a white £roth ; add by degrees a 
spoonful of salad oil and vinegar ; if ice is at hand, 
it will be more speedily made by setting the bowl on 
the top of it; when it has become quite white and 
smooth, season with a little salt and pepper. This 
sauce must be used for masking over the article \i \% 
to be served wHhf as lobsters, chickeoB) goock!^. 



236 PANCAKES AND FBITTEE8. 



PANCAKES AND FRITTEB8. 



OBSEBYATIONS. 

Although egg fonns the chief foundation of all 
pancakes, they are yet made in yarions ways accord- 
ing to different tastes and countries. 

The common sort are composed of a light batter, 
made of eggs, flour, and milk, fried in hot dripping 
or lard, only half the whites of the eggs being gene- 
rally used; but salt, or nutmeg, and ginger, may be 
added, and sugar and lemon should be served to eat 
with them. Or, when eggs are scarce, make the 
batter with flour and small beer, ginger, &c; or 
clean snow, with flour, and a very little milk, will 
serve as well as eggs. 



PANCAKES. 
Put half a pound of sifted flour in a basin, with 
eight eggs, mix them very smooth, add one pint of 
milk ; put an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, when 
hot add a couple of spoonfuls of the mixture, when 
brown on the one side, turn over on the other, pro- 
ceed till the whole is used; roll them up, and strew 
some pounded sugar on the top, and serve. 



TBENCH PAKCAEES. 

Beat separately the "yoVka &Tv^77\]i\/&<& ^1 ^^n^tl^^^; 



CUSTARDS AND CBEAMS. 237 

beat with the yolk four tablespoonfuls of pounded loaf 
sugar, the same quantity of flour, one pint of cream 
or milk, the grated peel and juice of one lemon, and 
two tablespoonfuls of rose water; add the beaten 
whites the last thing. Allow three tablespoonfuls to 
each pancake. 



APPLE FBITTEBS. 
Make a batter with three eggs, five ounces of flour, 
and a little salt and nutmeg grated; beat the batter 
smooth, then add, by degrees, as much milk as will 
make it like stiff cream — ^peel your apples, and cut 
them in thick slices; take out the core, dip them in 
the batter, and fry them in hot lard; put them on a 
sieve to drain; dish them neatly, and grate some loaf 
sugar over them. 



CUSTARDS AND CREAMS. 



CUSTABD. 

Boil one pint of milk, with a stick of cassia, and 
the skin of a lemon, beat four eggs in a bowl, with 
two ounces of sugar, pour the milk on them; put the 
mixture in a pan, set it on the fire, and stir with a 
whisk; when on the point of ebullition, take off the 
pan, and stir for a few minutes, till {h&\iea\i \& olii. 



238 CUSTABDS AJ^D CREAMS. 

SICE CU8XASD. 

Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel and cinnamon; 
mix a pint of cream and the yolks of eight eggs, 
well beaten; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, 
strain it, and sweeten it enough for the whole; pour 
it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the cus- 
tard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Do not let 
it boil; stir the whole time one way. 

Or : Boil a pint of cream with some mace, cinna- 
mon, and a little lemon peel: strain it, and when cold 
add to it the yolks of fomr eggs and whites of two, a 
little orange-flower water, and sugar to your taste. 
A little nutmeg and two spoonfuls of sweet wine may 
be added, if approved. Mix well, and bake in cups. 



LEMON CBEAM. 

Take a pint of cream, add the zest of a lemon 
rubbed on sugar ; whip it well ; add sugar and lemon 
juice to palate. Have half an ounce of isinglass dis- 
solved and cool ; when the cream is thick, which it 
will be when the lemon juice is added, pour in the 
isinglass, and immediately mould it A smaller 
quantity of isinglass may suffice, but that depends on 
the thickness of the cream. 

Other flavours may be used, as orange, almond^ 
maraschino. 

Or : Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the 
yolks of two eggs well beaten, four ounce of fine 
sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon; boil it up, then 
^ir it till almost cold*, ^^xxt the ^uice of a lemon in a 



GUSTABDS AND CREAMS. 239 

dish or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring it 
till qnite cold. 



SASFBESBT CREAM. 
Pat six ounces of raspberry jam to a quart of 
cream, pulp it through a lawn or hair sieve, mix it 
with the juice of a lemon and a little sugar, and 
whisk it till thick. Serve it in a dish or glasses. 



STRAWBERRY CREAX. 
Pulp six ounces of strawberry jam with a pint of 
cream through a sieve, add to it the juice of a lemon, 
whisk it fast at the edge of a dish, lay the froth on a 
sieve, add a little more juice of lemon, and when no 
more froth will rise put the cream into a dish, or into 
glasses, and place the froth upon it, well drained. 



CREME A LA YAHILLE. 
Boil one ounce of isinglass in a pint of milk for 
ten minutes, taking care it does not stick to the 
bottom of the stewpan. Put into it half a stick of 
vanilla; cover it down, and let it stand till nearly 
cold. Beat up the yolks of five eggs, mix into them 
six ounces of pounded sugar, put these into a stew- 
pan ; take the vanilla out of the milk, which add to 
the eggs, mix them well, and stir the custard over 
the fire till it thickens, but do not let it boil. Strain 
it into a bowl; when nearly cold add a glass of 
nqyeau or maraschino ; keep stirring it, and when on 
the point of setting add three quartets oi «l '^VdX* q^ 



340 CVSTAMDB 

CTCHK wdl whipped; mix h well, mod pour it into a 
iBosU: set h nptmiat tQl wmted, wbendipitfiva 
boo wum water, w^ it diy, and tarn over 
a&k 

lUf is a Terr fine cream for a Charlotie Rnsse; 
ImidKre Aoold be a litde more isingiaiw added, and 
a gias of faran^ iHtead of liie noyean. 

Orz Boil half a stick of Tanilla in a qoarter ci 
a pint of Bew milk mitil it kas a Tcry high flavour; 
kaiv leadr a jcUt of oae oonee of isinglass to a qnar- 
ler of a pint of water, wkick mix witk the milk, and 
ottepiat and a ffusttr of fine cream; sweeten with 
fine s^gar, mad whsp uadl qmte tkk^; then poor 
iaEto tke monld wmd set it in a eooL plaoeL 



CMEMEAn ■AXABQUnr. 
Prepare a cream as tke Crhne d la VamBe^ add- 
ing a q[Qarter oonoe mofe isinglass, and substituting 
marasdiino for Tanill&. 



line tke bottom of a plain roimd mould with 
SaTOT btscnits, placing tkem dose together in a star 
or some deriee ; line tke sides, placing the biseints 
edgewajs, to make tkem form a oompaet wall; put 
the moold npon ioe ; haxe ready a Creme cm Moras- 
qrnu^ adding a glass of Ivandy. Fill the moold as 
it stands on tke ioe, and leave it till the time of serv- 
ing, when torn it over upon tke dish and take off the 
mould. 



XCE CREAMS. 241 



ICE CREAMS. 



8TSAWBESR7 ICE GSEAK. 

EnDceUent. 

Pass a pint of picked strawberries through a sieve 
with a wooden spoon, add four ounces of powdered 
sugar, and a pint of cream, and freeze. 



CTTRRAHT ICE CBEAX. 
Put one large spoonful and a h^ of currant jelly 
into a biisin with half a gill of syrup, squeeze in one 
lemon and a hal^ add a pint of cream and a little 
cochineal, then pass it through a sieve, and finish in 
the general way. 



OnrGEB CBEAH ICE. 
Make half a pint of good custard, boiling an ounce 
of the best ground ginger, sweeten it, add half a pint 
of cream, a little lemon juice, put into it when half 
frozen two ounces of preserved ginger cut in small 
dice ; go on as for former ices. 



OSAVGE WATEB ICE. 
Take as many oranges as will be necessary, cut 
them in halves, and press the juice from them ; take 
the pulp carefully from the rind, and put it in a bowl, 
poor a little boiling water on it, stir \l wc^^ «i\A^Nx^v(^ 



242 ICE CREAM8. 

it throogh a sieve ; mix this with the orange 
and stir in as much sugar as will make a ridi 
K the oranges are fine, rub some of the sugar 
peel to extract the essence. Freeze it like ioe-c 



CUXBIHT FBE8E WATER ICX. 
Pass through a sieve a pint of currants, thf 
to them four ounces of powdered sugar, and oi 
of water ; stnun it and freeze it rich. 



RTBKRTATf ICE FUDDIVQ. 

Boil two pints of milk, with a stick of cat 
blade of mace, and the skin of a lemon pare 
thin ; take the pan off the fire, cover up with i 
and let it stand a quarter of an hour. Mei 
beat twelve eggs in a basin with a whisk ; ac 
ounces of sugar ; take the spice out of the mil 
pour on the eggs ; mix well, set on the fire, ai 
constantly round the bottom of the pan ; the tA 
it boils take the pan off the fire, and throw in 
pint of double cream ; do not cease stirring th' 
ding, or it will unavoidably curdle ; add a gla 
a half of Cognac brandy. 

Break a pail of ice in pieces, add four pou 
salt, and mix well ; put a pewter freezing-can 
empty pail, and surround it with ice ; put th< 
ding, when cold, into the can, and turn it very r 
with the finger and thumb ; when the puddii 
heres to the sides of the can, scrape off with a i 
or Bpoon. Wben iiiQ paMm^ W^ W^me sti 



JELLIES. 243 

it into a mould, cover it up with a lid, having put 
two plies of paper between ; bury the mould in the 
ice; when wanted, take a- basin of cold water and 
wash off the salt, take off the cover, turn it out on a 
dish, and serve. 

This process is applicable to every kind of ice 



JELLIES. 



OBSEBYATIOHS. 
It is a complaint amongst even experienced house- 
keepers that they cannot feel a certainty of having 
jelly clear ; but by strictly attending to the following 
method for making calf s-foot jelly, they can scarcely 
£ul to have it beautifully bright. 

Feet for all jellies are boiled so long by the people 
who sell them that they are less nutritious: they 
should be procured from the butcher and only scalded 
to take off the hair. . The liquor will require greater 
care in removing the fat; but the jelly will be far 
stronger. A little isinglass, half an ounce to a quart 
of stock, may be used to secure the firmness, particu- 
larly in summer. In peeling lemons, care should 
be taken not to cut below the colour, as by so doing 
a great deal of the flavour of the essential oil is lost, 
and the white part gives a disagreeable flavoxis. TVl^ 
stock should be measured wben ael \o ^eX> <:x^^ ^^ 



2U 

the exact quantity cannot be measored vkea k is 
iet 
Jelly is equally good made of eow-lieel aio^ 



CAI1F8 1001 JBUX. 
The stock for this must be made the day befive. 
Cut up six neat's feet in shreds, wash them and pii 
them in a pot ; cover with water, and boil six boon; 
strain into a flat dish ; when cold, remove Uie oil 
from the surfkoe, and wash with wann water. Beit 
ten eggs into a basin, add the rind and juice of tea 
lemons, tour sticks of cassia, four blades of maoe, and 
a few cloves; beat all together; put the stodc to 
melt in a large stewpan, and when melted add the 
other articles ; stir constantly till boiling ; then add 
as much sugar as will sweeten it (about a pound and 
a quarter will be enough), and half a bottle of sherry ; 
pour into a flannel bag and pour back till dear ; fill 
into moulds or glasses. 



OBJJSQE JSLL7. 
Take ten oranges ; pare two of them as thin as 
possible without any of the white pith, and squeeze 
them in a bowl ; take out the pips ; put five ounces 
of sugar in a small stewpan, with a few spoonfuls of 
water; boil and skim; add the oranges, with one 
ounce of best isinglass ; let it come through to the 
boil, carefully removing the scum as it rises ; strain 
tbrongb a fine muslin alev^ Mx^^YoXa ^ iJws:^, 



JELLIES. 245 

The addition of a few spoonfuls of calf *8 foot jelly 
will improve it much. 



YBXSCR WINE JELLY. 
Prepare as before ; omit the spices ; flavour with 
any kind of wine that is preferred. 



UQUEUB JELLY. 
The same as above; use two glasses of noyeau 
maresquino, or curacoa to each shape ; add a few 
drops of prepared cochineal. 



BLAHC KAKOE. 

Boil one ounce of isinglass, three ounces of sweet 
and six bitter almonds, well pounded in a quart of 
milk; let it boil until the isinglass is dissolved; 
then sweeten it, stir it until nearly cold, and put it 
into the mould. 

Or: To a pint of new milk and as much cream, 
add one ounce and a half of the best isinglass, a large 
handful of sweet and bitter almonds, pounded in a 
mortar and moistened with water, three ounces of 
fine sugar, and two bay or peach leaves. Boil the 
whole until the isinglass is dissolved, then stain it 
into a basin, let it stand until it is cold, turn it out 
and take off the sediment, warm it up again, flavour 
it with a little orange-flour water, stir it until it is 
nearly cold, and then put it into the mould. 

Observe to wash the isinglass in coVi ^«\«t Xi^lw^ 



246 JBLLIE8. 

it is pat to the milk, and soak the moulds in eoU 
water some boars before they are used. 



BLAHC XAHCa. 

AsMikeT Waff. 

To one ounce of isinglass, put a pint of water, 

boil it till the isinglass is melted, with a bit of dii- 

namon; pat to it three-quarters of a pint of cream, 

two ounces of sweet almonds, six bitter ones, blanched 

and beaten, a bit of lemon peel, sweeten it, stir it 

over the fire, let it boil, strain and let it cool, squeeze 

in the juice of a lemon, and put into moulds ; garnish 

to your £uicy. 



DIHHEB TBIFLK 
Stick a few rows of ratafia biscuit with barley- 
sugar round a crystal dish; take a pint of double 
cream, add three spoonfuls of sugar, the juice of one 
lemon, one glass of brandy — one and a half pint of 
water ; with a whisk beat from side to side of the 
basin ; lift the froth with a skimmer, and lay it in 
a hair sieve until no more will rise. Allow it to 
stand half an hour; lay a few slices of sponge-cake 
in the bottom of the dish, and a few ratafias, pour 
over three or four glasses of sherry, just before 
filling in the cream, add a couple of spoonfuls of 
raspberry jam. 



PA8TBY. 247 



PASTRY. 



OBSEBVATIOlfS. 
The art of making paste requires a good xnemory, 
practice, and dexterity ; for, it is principally from 
the method of mixing the various ingredients of 
which it is composed, that paste acquires its good or 
bad qualities. 

Before making paste, wash the hands in hot water; 
touch the paste as little as possible, and roll it but 
little ; the less the better. If paste be mudi wetted 
it will be tough. 

A marble slab is better than a board to make 
paste on; both, together with the rolling-pin, cutters, 
and tins, should be kept very clean ; as the least 
dust or hard paste left on either will spoil the wholes 

The coolest part of the house and of the day 
should be chosen for the process during warm 
weather. 

Flour for the finest paste should be dried and sifted, 
as should pounded white sugar. 

Butter should be added to paste in very small 
pieces, unless otherwise directed. 

If fresh butter be not used, break salt butter into 
pieces, wash it well in spring water, to cleanse it 
from salt, squeeze it carefully, and dry it upon a soft 
cloth. Fresh butter should also be well worked to 
get out the buttermilk. 



248 

Afier the botier has been preBsed and worlm 
with a wooden knife on the paste board, press it 
li^thr with a dean, soft eloth, to absorb the 
tare. If good fresh batter is used, it will n 
TCfT little if any woiidng. 

Lard is sometimes used instead of butter, bi 
MTing is of rery trifling importanee, when it if 
sidered that althon^ lard wlQ make paste lig 
win neither be of so good ec^oor or flavour as 
made with butter. 

In hot weather the butter should be brokei 
pieees^ and pot into spring water, or into ioe ; 
OQ no aeeoimt, pot the paste into ice, else the 1 
in it will harden, and in baking, melt, and sef 
finom the paste. 

The same thing happens in winter, whei 
butter has not been sufficiently worked, and the 
is rather soft ; for, though the season be ikvon 
to the making of paste, care must be taken to 
the butter sufficiently. 

In winter, paste should be made very firm 
cause the butter is then so ; in summer, the 
should be made soft, as the butter is then the si 

It is important to work up paste lightly and 
dually into an uniform body — no strength 
pressure being used. 

It is necessary to lightly flour both sides of f 
when roll it, in order to prevent its turning gre 
baking ; but, if much flour be sprinkled on it, 
paste will not be clear. 



PASTRY. 249 

Attention to the rolling out is most important to 
make light puff-paste ; if it be too light, it may be 
rolled ont once or twice more than directed ; as the 
folding mainly causes it to rise high and even. 

To ensure lightness, paste should be set in the 
oven as soon after it is made as possible ; on this 
account, the paste should not be begun to be made 
till the oven is half heated, which somedmes occu- 
pies an hour. K paste be left twenty minutes or 
more befi>re it is baked, it will become dull and 
heavy. 

Paste should be light, without being greasy ; and 
baked of a fine colour, without being burnt; there- 
fore, to ensure good baking, requires attention. 

Puff paste requires a brisk oven ; a moderate one 
will best bake pies and tarts, puddings and biscuits. 
R^;nlat]on of heat, according to circumstances, is the 
main point in baking. 

If the oven be too hot, the paste, besides being 
burned, will not rise well ; and if it be too slack, the 
paste will be soddened, not rise, and want colour. 
Raised pies require the quickest oven. 

When fruit pies are baked in iron ovens, the 
syrup is apt to boil out of them ; to prevent this, set 
a few thin bricks on the bottom of the oven before it 
is heated ; but this will not be requisite, if the oven 
have a stone bottom. 



feuhleiage, ok fdte tbeh ce futf fastk 

This, when made by a good ETendi c»(^ v& ^^ 



250 PASTKT. 

pcrfeetioa of lidi l%lii crnali and wDl rise 
•foi fiom one to ax indieB in heigbt; bul 
fa c ike M, whlioaft dofobty neeessaiy ta aeooi 
thak. In nnnmer it is a great adTantaee to h 
at liand, and to haiden the butter oyer it befo 
wed; the paate also in tlie intervalB of roll 
ia pt of cd bj being laid on an oTen-leaf ev«r a 
nontaining it Take an eqnal weight of good 
finee ham the eoarae salt wbich is found in aoa 
wbieb is disadTantageoos for this paste, and 
diT, sifted floor ; to each pound ci these allc 
joDcB of a couple of eggs, and a small teaspoo 
salL Break a few small bits of the bntte 
lightly into the floor, pot the salt into the < 
and poor on it sufficient water to dissolve it ( 
not quite understand why the doing this sho 
better than mixing it with the floor, as in 
pastes, but soch is the mediod always porso 
it) ; add a little more water to the eggs, moisi 
floor gradoally, and make it into a very smooth 
rather lithe in sommer, and never exceedtn^h 
tboogh the opposite fimlt, in an extreme, 
render the crost onmanageable. Press, in 
thin doth, all the moisture finom the remain 
the hotter, and form it into a ball, hot in doin 
be carefol not to soften it too moch. Should i 
an unfit state for pastry, from the heat of the W€ 
pot it into a basin, and set the basin in a ] 
water mixed with plenty of salt and saltpetre 
Jet it remain in a ooo\ plac^ ioT «si ViQ\ix if t^. 



PASTBY. 251 

before it is used. When it is ready (and the pacte 
should never be commenced nntil it be so), roll the 
crust out sqoare,* and of snfficient size to enclose 
the batter, flatten this a little upon it in the centre, 
and then fold the crust well over it, and roll it oat 
thin as lightly as possible, after having dredged the 
board and paste-roller with a little floor: this is 
called giving it one turn. Then fold it in three, 
give it another torn, and set it aside where it will 
be very cool, for a few minutes ; give it two more 
tarns in the same way, rolling it each time very 
lightly, but of equal thickness, and to the full length 
that it will reach, taking always especial care that 
the butter shall not break through the paste. Let it 
again be set aside to become cold ; and after it has 
been twice more rolled and folded in three, give it a 
half-turn, by folding it once only, and it will be 
ready for use. 

Equal weight of the finest flour and good butter; 
to each pound of these, the yolks of two eggs, and a 
small saltspoonful of salt : six and a half turns to 
be given to the paste. 



GOOD PU7F PASTE. 
Take one pound of flour, sift \i ; one pound of 
butter, and divide it into four equal parts ; weigh one 
quarter pound of flour to dust with. Rub one of the 



• The leamer wOl perhaps find it eader to fold the paate neorelf 
rmmd It in the form a' a dumpling, nntil a little exped«L.CA\AA \MtsGk ««.> 
quired. 



qml a s of batter into the pound of floor, and mix 
ip wkk a TeiT little toj eold water ; nil oat three 
liiji , addb^ eadi time a qoarter of butter, and 
Jwuiiig eadi time with floor. When yoo cot off 
from the large loQ of doogh a pieee for one pie, iril 
oat the pieee too cot off tot thin, and dost it with 
floor, doable it in Mds and roll it the thickness of 



TBET UBBS FASKB. 
Mix the floor and water together, roll the paste 
oat, and lar bits of hotter opon it. Then beat op 
the white of an egg, and brosh it all over the paste 
before it is folded ; repeat this when rolling oot, and 
addii^ the hotter each time till the whole of the 
white of ^g is osed. It will make the paste very 
flaky. 



JfJUUCU PASTE. 
Weigh ten oonces of hotter, half fresh, the other 
salt, also one pound of floor, rob the butter in the 
flour till quite smooth and fine ; add a few spoonfbls 
of water, draw in the flour, and form into a stiffish 
paste, knead it well, and use as required ; it is the 
best paste for lining dishes, making the bottom of 
Yol-au-vent pat6 cases, and covering all fruit tarts. 



FKEVCH SOUFFLE TABT. 
Line a tart-dish with French paste. (See Peutrif.) 
Then lay a border o£ pxiS ^«a\/& TQwsvd \t^ bake in the 



PASTRY. 253 

oven, afterwards fill it with stewed apples, or any 
kind of jam. Beat up ten whites of eggs to a strong 
froth, mix in very lightly eight ounces of fine sifted 
loaf-sugar, spread in the form of a dome, and bake 
in a coldish oven ; take a piece of writing-paper, 
twist it in the form of a cone, put a little of the 
whites, which should have been left for the purpose, 
cut a little piece of the point off the cone, then 
with the finger and thumb make any design fancy 
may direct; put back into the oven, and bake a few 
minutes ; garnish with jellies of different colours, 
and serve. 

This truly elegant dish will repay all the labour 
bestowed on it. 



rSEHGH.lOtBJDraUE TABTS. 
Roll out a piece of French paste as above, and 
bake ; lay a little jam in the bottom of each ; then 
beat up four whites of eggs very sti£^ and mix in 
eight ounces of sugar ; twist a piece of paper in the 
form of a cone, as before directed for soufl^ tarts, put 
the meringue in this, cut a little piece off the point, 
and press out the sugar into the paste over the jam, 
in the form of a dome ; stick a few sliced almonds on 
them, and bake in a cold ov^n. 



SWISS CSEAM TABT, HEW. 
Prepare a bordered dish as before, fill with apples, 
take ten yolks, one pint of cream, four ounces q€ 
sn^ar, two ounces of bruised Tala&a VvetfmX.^ Vh^ 




CE tMnBTy mke tii6 tibofB iiigredieiitB into 
kviObeidC wbieh is wmnted, iddagluB 
tr; what cold, tspnad it over the apj^; 
a Moas^ m fiv the mnAk tart, but widi 
vfckoicf eggs, and lialf a pound of sugar spread 
otrcr ^ eastaid ; we the eooe on the topbefim 
k l e ^ a iiet no preMrve» on thet<y ; hakeooa 
iaaeold 



IMD GUBEAXD TAXt. 



Borier a Aik as befixe, fin with apples, nuLke a 
betM cward. and eorer over the apples ; lay sons 
flsall AoBonds cf TOT thin puff paste, if not vwj 
%hc ther wiQ sink in the cnstud ; garnish on the 
pa$se vith jeHr. and serre. 



B^ out a pieee of poff paste, which is not too light, 
iaco a siipnre sheet and cut it into pieces four inches 
jqaanf : make a preparation thus : — ^Weigh two ounces 
«if jcnNind riee. two oonees ci floor, four ounces of 
«^^« fi>ar Yolks of e^g^ one pint of milk, with the 
^ratinsT c/ a lemon ; mix the sngar and floor with 
the nee and the Tolks, and dilute with the milk; 
pot on the fire in a stewpan, stir until it turns into a 
thick paste, torn it out into a dish, and when cool, 
pat a spoonful into each ni the pieces of paste ; wet 
the comers, and fM into a square shape, laying one 
corner on the other; dust a little sugar on the top, 
and bake in a sharp o\en. 



PASTRY. 255 

ALMOHB TABT8. 
Pound half a pound of almondB in a mortar, with 
half a pound of sugar ; when fine, add six yolks of 
eggd, and rub well with the pestle till the almonds 
and sugar form a paste ; add the grating of a lemon. 
More or less of this paste may be made at a time ; 
it keeps well if covered up. When used, roll out a 
piece of puff paste which has been left — or give a few 
turns to a light piece, to make a little heavy — ^into 
pieces five inches by three inches ; roll out a piece 
of almond paste in the form of a sausage, cut it into 
lengths rather shorter than the paste, place a piece 
on each, and fold up ; glaze on the top with yolk of 
eggj and bake in a sharp oven ; dust sugar on them 
when done. 



FSAKGIPABE TAST. 
Sheet a tart-tin with puff paste, pour into it some 
of the following cream : — Beat well four eggs, add to 
them a pint of cream, four spoonfuls of flour, and 
some loaf sugar; put them into a stewpan, and 
rasp in, with a lump of sugar, the peel of a lemon ; 
simmer the whole, constantly stirring it, on a slow fire, 
for about five minutes ; then stir in two dozen sweet 
and bitter almonds, previously beaten to a paste, with 
a few drops of water. Having filled the tart with 
this cream, bake it, and sifb over it fine loaf sugar. 



FBTJIT PIES AST) TASTS. 

Gooseberries^ cun'ants, cherries, taA^\^Tn&^^'^x)ssi% 




wmddamaoDBf are used 
Chanes are mixed with 
or both; and cunrantB witli 
p rop o r ti on of aogar is one 
tt> a ^part of firm!, or noi quite so mudi to 
^frwL Lvr the hmi in the dish, highest 
m ^ miMkt, wkk ^ ngar between it, add a 
fink wiaec vet ^ edge of the dish with water, 
cfficr i( with parte ahost half an inch thick, dose it, 
pare is^ make a hole in ^ middle, and bake in t 



as qdnees, reqoiie stewing befive 




Ane alvaTs » called when made of a small size 
and noc covered with a crast ; nor should pieseryed 
ficwit of any kind be pnt under crust The paste is 
made mS cnoogh to siqqport the contents, being cut 
ihin« pot into patsr pans, and crimped at the edges. 
The frmt is then fireqpmtlr ornamented with small 
strips of paste laid orer it crosswise, which are 
mnde thus : — ^Mix a quarter of a pound of flour, one 
ounce of fresh butter, and a little cold water ; rub it 
well between the board and your hand till it begins 
to string ; cut it into small pieces, roll it out, and 
draw it into fine strings ; then lay them in any way 
you please across your tartlets, and bake immedi- 
ately. 
The iam of Tasobernes, cnxtsnta^ or any other 



PASTRY. 257 

fruits, as well as the marmalade of apricot, quince, 
and apple, may be made into tartlets ; and when 
baked in a quick oven may be filled up with raw 
costard or whipped cream. 



YKESCR PASTE TASTLETS. 
Roll out a piece of French paste thin, prickle it 
all over, and cut out as many pieces as are required, 
with a cutter two inches and a half in diameter ; lay 
them in pans, and bake in a hot oven ; fill with any 
kind of preserve, or lay a little white or red jelly at 
the bottom, and a few green gooseberries above, or 
cherries, strawberries, &c. 



ICnrCE PIES. 

Mince half a pound of suet very fine, one pound 
and a half of apples, one pound of washed cur- 
rants, half a pound of sultana raisins, half a pound 
of moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of orange and 
citron peel, one ounce of mace, nutmeg, ginger, 
and cassia, in equal proportions, mix the whole to- 
gether, with two glasses of brandy, and two of 
sherry. Line a dish, fill in the meat, cover with 
a puff paste cover neatly carved ; bake in a sharp 
oven till the paste is done. 

Two pounds of meat is enough for a good sized 
pie. 



AFPLE PIE, ENOUSE. 

Pare, oore^ and cot into quaTtera^ d^V> ox V^spl 





good kiB^ ippla ; and Isy thoK ai 
KToaoB. m a pie-diflh, spnnkfii^ 
tke appfei fov doresy fiiiir omiees of mcui 
kaHtlfee peel of a finedi lemon grated, witk t 
i^« e! ii e cfclfee Iodoq jaiee; and a little nutmeg. Add 
aab&espaiQBfidof ale. or vater; eorer it with puff 
aiai fm h in the oren. It will take about an 
aftl a qwarter to bake it : bat yon mnst see to 
k ikas k do» not bom, and keep yonr oven of a 



Apfiks of a pleasant sour, and fidlj ripe, make tbe 
less pieiw Pare. core, and slice them, line a deep 
bccxiend dish wi:h paste, lay in the apples, stewing 
in sngar to the taste, and a little grated lemon peel 
or exanamon : cover them with the paste, and bake 
dMB ia a moderate oren about forty minutes. 

When ap{4es are green, stew them with a Teiy 
filtle water before making yoor pie. Green fimitre* 
qnires double the quantity ni sugar. 

Gooseberries and green currants are made in the 
came manner. 



SHUBASB FIB8. 

Take the tender stalks of the rhubarb, strip off the 

skin, and cut the stalks into thin slices. Line deep 

plates with pie crust, then put in the rhubarb, with 

a thick layer of sugar to each layer of rhubarb— 

a little gnited lemon ;pei^\i!i\iCQi^e& iSzA ^. Cover 



PASTRY. 25^ 

{he pies with a crust ; press it down tight round the 
edge of the plate, and prick the crust with a fork, so 
that the crust will not burst while baking, and let 
out the juices of the pie. Rhubarb pies should be 
baked about an hour, in a slow oven ; it will not do 
to bake them quick. Some cooks stew the rhubarb 
before making it into pies, but it is not so good as 
when used without stewing. 



TO GLAZE OB ICE PASTST. 

The fine yellow glaze appropriate to meat pies is 
given with beaten yolk of egg, which should be laid 
on with a paste brush, or a small bunch of feathers : 
if a lighter colour be wished for, whisk the whole of 
the egg together or mix a little milk with the yolk. 

The best mode of icing fruit-tarts before they are 
sent to the oven is, to moisten the paste with cold 
water, to sift sugar thickly upon it, and to press it 
lightly on with the hand ; but when a whiter icing is 
preferred, the pastry must be drawn from the oven 
when nearly baked, and brushed with white of egg, 
whisked to a froth, then well covered with the sifted 
sugar, and sprinkled with a few drops of water be- 
fore it is put in again: this glazing answers also 
very well, though it takes a slight colour, if used 
before the pastry is baked. 



ICED APBICOT FASTBY. 
Roll out a piece of half puff paste thin^ and abQ\]i 
twelve inches square ; roll out anotliet ^^ii^^ Vk<^ ^f^iKov^ 



260 PA8TRT. 

size ; spread some apricot jam over the first piece of 
paste, then lay the other over it, press down the 
edges, and probe with a fork; bake in a hot oven; 
then lay a flat dish or tin on the paste, to make it 
smooth. When cold, ice it all over with icing, very 
thin ; cut with a sharp knife into neat pieces, an inch 
broad and three or four long, and dry in the oven. 



icnra. 

Put half a pound of fine powdered sugar into a 
bowl, add two whites of eggs, and beat with a spoon; 
add a few drops of vinegar, or lemon juice ; when 
white and stiff, use as directed. 



PAVCHOHETTES. 
Roll out a piece of puff paste thin, and cut out with 
a cutter a round shape, two and a half inches in 
diameter ; line some patty pans, and press with the 
finger, — or lay a small round knob, previously baked, 
in the middle of the paste, and bake; put a little 
preserve of any kind in the centre when baked. 
Beat up four whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add four 
ounces of sugar, and mix lightly ; lay a little of this 
preparation on each tartlet, and smooth it on the top 
and round the sides ; dust a little sugar, and bake in 
a cold oven ; then form some rings with the paper 
cone, and bake again for a minute. Garnish with 
jelly of various colours. 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 261 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 



SE£I> CAKE. 
Proportions: sugar, three pounds; butter, three 
pounds ; flour, six pounds ; orange peel, six pounds ; 
ahnonds, one pound; eggs, four and a half dozens; 
seeds, two ounces ; sultana raisins, six pounds. Beat 
the butter (whieb should be half fresh and half salt) 
with the hand till white and smooth ; add the sugar, 
and continue to beat till light ; add three or four eggs 
alternately with a little flour, till the whole is used 
up ; mix in the fruit and the reminder of the flour 
lightly ; fill into tin hoops^ and bake in a solid oven. 
One-third of the above may be made. A cake of 
three pounds will take about two hours. 



PLUM CAKE. 
The above proportions, with the addition of four 
pounds of currants. 



FOUND CAKES. 
Sugar, two pounds; butter, two pounds; flour, 
two and a half pounds ; eggs, twenty-f^ur ; seeds, a 
quarter of an ounce. Beat as before. 



FOUND CAKES. 

Anoihfer Way. 

Beat to cream one pound of "button veA.^^"^ *^ 



363 CAKE8 AND BIBOUITS. 

smoothly with one pound of sifted loaf sugar, and 
nine well beaten eggs ; and mix in lightly one pound 
of flour, half a nutmeg grated, and a little pounded 
cinnamon or mace ; beat together half an hour, and 
bake about one hour in a brisk oven. 

Candied lemon peel cut thin, and blanched and 
chopped sweet almonds, are sometimes added; and 
half a pound of currants wiU make the cake much 
richer. 

Half the above proportions will make a moderately 
sized cake. 



FAMUT POUVD CAEX. 
Beat to a cream half a pound of butter, add ome 
pound of dried flour, half a pound of powdered loaf 
sugar, half a pound of dried currants, or caraWay- 
seeds, four well beaten eggs, and half a pint of milk ; 
beat well together, and bake with care. 



SPOKaX CAKE. 
Beat one pound of sugar in a basin with the yolks, 
of fourteen eggs ; then whisk up the whites ; add the 
half of the whites to the yolks and sugar, and then 
mix in the flour lightly, with the remainder of the 
whites. When well mixed in, flU into a hoop, and 
bake in a solid oyen. 



QJJIEJES CASE. 
Beat one pound of butter with one pound of sugar 
ti^ light; add twelve egga \>Y i^a^c^^x wm^ Y^^oaad 



CAKES AHD BISCUITS. 263 

and a quarter of flour, with half a pound of currants, 
and a lemon-grating ; bake in small pans^ in a solid 
oven. 



dUEEir CAKE. 

Another Way. 

Mix one pound of dried flour, the same of silted 
sugar, and of washed currants. Wash one pound of 
butter in rose-water, beat it wdl, then mix with it 
eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and 
put in the dry ingredients by degrees; beat the 
whole an hour ; butter little tins, tea-cups, oi* saucers, 
filling them only half fall. Sifb a little fine sugar 
over, just as you put them into the oven. 

Or: Beat eight ounces of butter, and mix with 
two well beaten eggs strained ; mix eight ounces of 
dried flour with the same of lump-sugar and the 
grated rind of a lemon ; then add the whole together,- 
and beat a full half hour with a silver spoon. Butter 
small pattypans, half fill, and bake twenty minutes 
in a quick oven. 

The same materials made into a paste, then it>lled 
out into small round cakes, and baked, make very 
nice tea-cakes. 



PBTJIT CAKE. 
Take one pound of butter and one pound of sugar, 
and beat them together with the yolks of eight eggs ; 
beat the whites separately ; mix with thea^ otsa «sA 
a, half^jHHu Jo of flour, a tea-cupM ot cc^ikbe^ ^I'^rvate-^ 



2G4 CAKES Ain> BISCUITS. 

gkasftd of brandy and one of wine, one nntm^i one 
teaspoonful of maoe, one teaspoonful of doves, two 
teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one saltspoonful of salt, 
three-quarters of a pound of raisins stoned, three- 
quarters of a pound of currants, half a pound of cit- 
ron; mix with flour two teasooonfuls of Bablntt's 
yeast powder. 



Take one pound of butter beaten to a cream, three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar sifted and dried, nine 
eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, a quar- 
ter of a pound of almonds blanched and sliced, one 
pound and a quarter of currants picked and dried, 
and the same weight of flour also dried. When the 
butter has been worked with the hand to a cream, 
gift in the sugar, which should be quite hot ; when 
mixed, pour in the yolks of eggs, then add the whites ; 
work it half an hour, then add the flour by degrees; 
when thoroughly mixed, add a very small teacupful 
of brandy. The currants and almonds, with quarter 
of a pound of lemon or citron peel, should be added 
just before the cakes are placed in the oven, which 
should be hot. The cake should be beaten an hour; 
the hand should be kept moving the same way, and 
not taken out. 



BAKBUBT CAKES. 
First, mix well together a pound of currants, 
cle&Ded with gr^t mcety sxA ^^^*^ ^o^uuXKst-^Ri^ 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 265 

of beef-suet, finely minced; three ounces each of 
' candied orange and lemon rind, shred small ; a few 
grains of salt ; a full quarter-ounce of pounded cin- 
namon and nutmeg mixed ; and four ounces of maca- 
roons or ratafias rolled to powder. Next, make a 
light paste with fourteen ounces of butter to the 
pound of flour ; give it an extra turn or two to pre- 
vent its rising too much in the oven ; roll out one 
half in a very thin square, and spread the mixed 
fruit and spice equally upon it ; moisten the edges, 
lay on the remaining half of the paste, rolled equally 
thin, press the edges securely together, mark the 
whole with the back of a knife in regular divisions of 
two inches wide and three in length ; bake the pastry 
in a well-heated oven from twenty-fire to thirty 
minutes, and divide it into cakes while it is still 
warm. They may be served as a second-course dish, 
either hot or cold, and may be glazed at pleasure. 

Currants, one pound ; beef-suet, for oimces ; can- 
died orange and lemon rind, each three ounces ; salt, 
small pinch; mixed spices, quarter of an oimce; 
macaroons or ratafias, four ounces : baked twenty-five 
to thirty minutes. 

SCOTCH CAEEr 
Stir to a cream a pound of sugar, and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of butter — put in the juice and grated 
rind of a lemon, and a wine glass of brandy. Sepa- 
rate the whites and yolks of nine eggs, beat them t<^ 
a froth and stir them into the cake * then aBA'Ob y^'qo^^ 



of aftel ioar, and, jnii befare it is put im die edo- 



I flfoe pound of batter into two pounds of afid 
'j add one pownd of cuiiaMii, one poond of good 
fogar, and tvo beaten eggs mixed wiili balf t 
pint of milk: ; irark tbewki^ into ft paste, roll it oat 
tbinlT, enL it into cakes, and bake them abont fife 



8A¥0T CAKB. 

Break ten tcij fresh ^gs into ft pan, with OM 
poond of sified loaf sugar; set the pan in wans 
water, and whisk Teiy briskly far n quarter of as 
hour, or mitil the batter is qoite thiek and warn; 
take it out of the water and whisk mitQ cold ; stir in 
as Hghtlj as possible, to mix it th<Ht>aghl7, one 
poond of floor ; flavour with essence of lemon, or tiie 
rind of a lemon robbed on sogar; poor it into a 
mould and bake. 

Prepare the mould as follows : — ^Melt a little teesh 
batter, take off the scorn, and pour it cff the.dr^; 
let it cool, and with a braah rub it well, so that it 
looks creamy, into all pcnnts of the mould, and dust 
it with sogar and flour, mixed in equal quantities, 
sufficient to adhere to the batter. 

The same preparation is used for sponge-cakes 
when baked in a moold 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 267 

JELLT, OB VIEVKA CAKE. 

One pound of flour, the same quantity of butter 
and of sifted loaf sugar, and the yolks of fourteen 
eggs, — ^the whole to be beaten together for three- 
quarters of an hour ; then beat the whites of the eggs 
to a froth ; mix the greater part by degrees to the 
paste, and keep beating till the whole is soft and 
light. Cut pieces of paper the size and shape of the 
dish to be used, spread the paste upon them not quite 
one inch thick, put it into the oven, and let it bake, 
but not enough to be brown ; then spread each with 
iam made of fruit, and a little jelly, and pile one 
upon the other. Let it remain until quite cold, and, 
some hours afterwards, add a fresh quantity of sugar 
to the whites of eggs ; pour it over the top, and orna- 
ment it with preserved orange and lemon chips, 
coloured sugar-plums, &c., and let it stand in a cool 
oven to dry. 

Or: — Take four layers of fine sponge-cake, not 
quite one inch thick ; or the sponge-mixing may be 
baked at once in a round shape, about six or eight 
inches in diameter, and afterwards divided into slices. 
Put between each layer of cake one of preserves, each 
of a different sort, with strawberries at the top ; and 
cover the whole cake, top and sides, with a thick 
icing of sugar, similar to that used in bride-cake, 
tinted red, and flavoured with essence of lemon, rose, 
or vanilla. The icing must be dried ; but the cake 
must not be again put into the oven. 



2G8 CAKES AKD Biscum. 

SHBJBWttHUJLT GAXB. 
Butter, ahalf pocmd; sogir, a half pound; floor, one 
pound ; and two eggs. Rub the butter into the floor 
lightly with the hand ; put the sugar in the oentn^ 
break the eggs on the sugar, and mix them together: 
then draw in the flour, and make the whole into ft 
dough ; roll out and cut with a small cutter, an inch 
in diameter, lay out on iron tins, and bake in a hot 
oven. 



cnnrAXOv ob lekos cakes. 

Bub six ounces of good butter into a pound of fine 
dry flour, and work it lightly into crumbs, then add 
three-quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, a dessert- 
spoonful of pounded cinnamon, (or half as much when 
only a slight flavour is liked), and make these ingre- 
dients into a firm paste with three eggs, or four, if 
needed. Roll it, not very thin, and cut out the cakes 
with a tin shape. Bake them in a very gentle oven 
from fifteen to twenty minutes, or longer, should tli^ 
not be done quite through. As soon as they are cold, 
put them into a clean and dry tin canist^, a precau- 
tion which should be observed with all small suga^ 
cakes, which ought also to be loosened from the oveo- 
tins while they are still warm. 

Flour, one pound; butter, six ounces; sugar, three 
quarters of a pound ; cinnamon, one dessert-spoonfbl 
(more or less, to the taste); eggs, three or four. 

OUerve. — ^Lemon cakes can be made by this re- 
ceiptf by subsdtoling lot €bfe <^&xAS!x<(sf^ \k<& rasi^ 



CAKES AND BISCX7ITS. 269 

or grated rinds of two lemons, and the strained juice 
of one, when its acidity is not objected to. More 
butter, and more or less sugar, can be used at wiU, 
both for these and for the cinnamon cakes. 



SHOBT BEEAD. 
Flour, four pounds ; sugar, three-quarters of a pound ; 
butter, two pounds. The butter must be half firesh^ 
and half salt; wash the salt i^ cold water, then knead 
the butter in the sugar, when well mixed draw in thO' 
flour ; this requires a little exertion, but by rubbing 
with the hands will soon form a smooth dough ; roll 
out into cakes and prickle on the top. Strew a few 
caraways on them, and bake in a solid oven. 



aoTGEB beead; 

Flour, six pounds; butter, one pound and a half; 
moist sugar, one pound and a half; treacle, three 
pounds; orange peel, one pound and a half; ginger, 
three ounces ; soda, half an ounce ; pearl-ashes, 
one ounce. Mix the butter with the flour ; put the 
sugar in the centre; pour the treacle on the sugar; 
pound the ashes, and melt with a spoonful of water, 
and strain on the treacle the soda also; mix the 
treacle well with the sugar, draw in the flour, then 
the peel and spice, roll out into small cakes, and bake 
in a cold oven. 

The above will make very good nuts, 



270 CAKES ASD BUCDIIB. 



in *% tf.n 



Beat to a very floM froth tlie whites of six htJk 
eggt, and have ready to mix with them half a pooid 
of the best sugar, well dried and sifted. Lay soim 
squares or long strips of writing paper closely i^od t 
board, which ought to be an inch thick to prevent tlie 
mering^nes from receiving any ooloor from the bottom 
of the oven. When all is ready fisr them, stir tke 
sugar to the beaten eggs, and with a table or dessot- 
spoon lay the mixture on the paper in the form of a 
half egg ; sift sugar quickly over, blow off aU ihst 
does not adhere, and set the meringues immediate^ 
into a moderate oven : the process must be ezpedi- 
tious, or the sugar melting will cause the meringoss 
to spread, instead of retaining their shape. Whoi 
they are coloured a light brown, and are firm to the 
touch, draw them out, raise them from the paper, 
and press back the insides with a teaspoon, or scoop 
them out, so as to leave space enough to admit some 
whipped cream or preserve, with which they are to 
be filled, when cold, before they are served. Pot 
them again into the oven to dry gently ; and when 
they are ready for table fasten them together in the 
shape of a whole egg, and pile them lightly on a 
napkin. 

Whites of fresh eggs, six ; sutea sugar, half a 
pound. 

Observe. — Four ounces of pounded almonds may be 
mixed with the eggs and sugar for these cakes, and 
any flavour added to t\iQi^ «!(. ^\Q^dje!vx£^. I£ well made; 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 271 

thiey are remarkably good and elegant in appearance. 
They must be fastened together with a little white of 



QUEEN'S DROPS. 

Sugar, one pound ; flour, one pound ; butter, one 
pound; eggs, fifibeen; and currants, a quarter-pound. 
Beat up the same as above. Have a bag made of 
ehamois leather, or of cotton jane, with a funnel- 
shaped piece of tin, having an orifice the diameter 
of a sixpence, tied to the bag by the wide end ; drop 
with the bag on paper the size of a halfpenny, and 
bake in a sharp oven. 

The drops may be flavoured with the grating of a 
lemon. 



JELLIES, JAMS, Jfca 



A FEW GEKESAL BULES AVB DIBECTIOVS FOB 

FBESEBVnra. 

1. Let everything used for the purpose be deli- 
cately clean and dr^; bottles especially so. 

2. Never place a preserving pan/af upon the fir e^ 
as this will render the preserve liable to hum tOj as 
at is called ; that is to say, to adhere closely to the 
metal, and then to bum ; it should rest always on a 
brevet, or on the lowered bar of tiheV^iu^^t^^*^* 



273 JELLIES, JAKS, ETa 

3. After the sugar is added to them, stir tlio 
preserves gently at first, and more quickly towards 
the end, without qmtting them nntil they are done; 
this pre6antion will always prevent the chance of 
their being spoiled. 

4. All preserves should be perfectly deared from 
the scum as it rises. 

5. Fruit which is to be preserved in syrup must 
first be blanched or boiled gently, until it is suffi- 
ciently softened to absorb the sugar ; and a thin syrop 
must be poured on it at first, or it will shrivel instead 
of remaining plump, and becoming dear. Thus, if 
its weight of sugar is to be allowed, and boiled to ft 
syrup with a pint of water to the pound, only half 
the weight must be taken at first, and this must not 
be boiled with the water more than fifteen or twenty 
minutes at the commencement of the process ; a pait 
of the remaining sugar must be added every time the 
syrup is reboiled, unless it should be otherwise di- 
rected in the receipt. 

6. To preserve both the true flavour and the colour 
of fruit in jams and jellies, boil them rapidly until 
they are well reduced, before the sugar is added, and 
quickly afterwards, but do not allow them to become 
so much thickened that the sugar will not dissolve in 
in them easily, and throw up its scum. In some 
seasons, the juice is so much richer than in others, 
that this effect takes place almost before one is aware 
of it ; but the drop which adheres to the skimmer, 
when it is held up, will show the state it has reached.- 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 273 

7. Never use tin, iron, or pewter spoons, or skim- 
mers for preserves, as they will convert the colour of 
red fruit into a dingy purple, and impart, besides, a 
very unpleasant flavour. 

8. When cheap jams or jellies are required, make 
them at once with loaf sugar, but use that which is 
weU refined always, for preserves in general ; it is a 
false economy to purchase an inferior kind, as there 
is great waste from it in the quantity of scum which 
it throws up. 

9« Pans of copper or bell-metal are the proper 
utensils for preserving fruit : when used, they must 
be scoured bright with sand. Tinned pans turn and 
destroy the colour of the fruit that is put into thenu 
There is now a new sort of stewpan made of iron 
coated with earthenware, which is very nice for pre- 
serving. 



TO CLASIFT SUaAS. 

Take the finest kind, break it into large Itunps, and 

put it into a preserving-pan. If for syrup, add a 

pint of C0I4 water to each pound ; if for candying, a 

couple of wine-glassfuls to the pound will be sufficient. 

Beat the white of an egg, add it to the water, mix it 

well, and pour it over the sugar ; one egg is enough 

for twelve pounds of sugar, if it is fine, or two if it 

is coarse. When the sugar is nearly melted, stir it 

well, and put it over a gentle fire; do not stir it after 

the scum begins to rise ; let it boil five minutes, then 

take it off the fire, let it stand a minute or two, then 
s 



:fr4 jnxm^ jam% xto. 



ibtxniBcvefidljoff; put the pan again on the 
in. atti wibia ^ ^T^ begins to boil throw in a 
Besfe «qII wa&er. which shoold be kept back £»r the 
fvrpuiw : bixl ctU the scum riaes, draw it off the fiie, 
atti^an it *s be&re: lepeat this till quite clear; it 
» ihea nc iSLht we. It is by kHig boiling that the 
tBfecqu Afgreet are a cqa if ed which the oonfoctioiier 



A mipb B«hod deantfymgy is to lay some fridts 
&qai rrnip tBCi> a dean sieve ; to dip it quickly into 
Wa waCMT. aal chca p«l ^ finiit into a fine dothi to 
ifewa: «ft <Hner it refined sn^gar, and dry on sieves in 
a vNifenee <»vie^ 

A J«^ fi}«il»eii alam diswJhred in water, and 
f«ft ixK> the ^yroEp cl* pt e ae r vcs ^ with a fall qoantity 
^^ »^:v; will jvH3!eciaMs prevent thdr candying. 

TVe cqlIv :<<cnK cf storing preserves, is to ezelndo 
^ air rrvox thecL and to set them in a dry place, 
ik'^ pi^iactsu: ;he f<^^ on each other. 

All trai:$iv?r pff^siening shoold be gathered in dry 
wyafther : b«i a$ thk is not always practicable, modi 
UkVttvvflLKMKe may Ik obviased by boiling the fruit 
ix' f<ltiie$ and jams kng before the sngar is added. 
l^r jv^ dsMQ^ the watery panicles will evaporate, and 
tW pw i wrr^ will b( belter fiavoored, by the sugar 
no< Wui;c tv.v loQff on the fire. 



TO FiEssifiE shawbkibies or RASFBEBBIBS^ 

101 riKIMS 01 ICES, WITHOUT BQILDTO. Jl 

Let the frnii be gathered in the middle of a warm 



\ 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 275 

day, in very dry weather ; strip it from the stalks 
directly, weigb it, torn it into a bowl or deep pan, 
and braise it gently ; mix with an equal weight of 
fine dry sifted sugar, and put it immediately into 
small, wide-necked bottles ; cork these firmly with- 
out delay, and tie bladder over the tops. Keep them, 
in a cool place, or the fruit will ferment. The mix- 
ture should be stirred softly, and only just sufficiently 
to blend the sugar and the fruit. The bottles must 
be perfectly dry, and the bladders, after having been 
cleaned in the usual way, and allowed to become 
nearly so, should be moistened with a little spirits on 
the side which is to he next to the cork. 



TO FBESEBVE STRAWBEBSIE8. 
To two pounds of fine large strawberries, add two 
pounds of powdered sugar, and put them in a pre^ 
flerving-kettle, over a slow fire, till the sugar is 
melted; then boil them precisely twenty minutes, 
as hst as possible ; have ready a number of smaH 
jars, and put the fruit in boiling hot. Cork and seal 
the jars immediately, and keep them through the 
summer in a cold dry cellar. The jars must be 
heated before the hot fruit is poured in, otherwise 
they will break. 



TO PSESEBYE DAMSQFS. 
To every pound of damsons allow three-quarters of 
a pound of powdered sugar ; put into jars or well- 
glazed earthen pots, alternately a layer of damsons 



: tie itiOB^ P>pcr or doth otw the 
Kt fhem im the om after tho bread is 
kf ^kcM ftaad tm the orat is eoid. The 
^MT somm off the sri^ «■! boil it till thick; 
k if eoU. p«t the dmnwuw into small jan or 
poor ofcr the ayn^ vbieh ahoold cover 
tie a vet bhMer or Strang doth ofer 



FUk ani pri^ all the plums; pot them into a 

fKwcrnap-paoa vkh eoU water e«mgh to cover them. 

Let then reaaain on the fire mtil the water simmers 

wdl : tlm take oC aad allow than to stand mitfl 

half c«U. patting the pfanns to drain. To every 

poaad c£ pfanns allow one ponnd of sugar, which 

■nst be boiled in the water firom which the plimifl 

kav« ben taken : lee it boil Terr fiist until the symp 

drop* shoct Iran the spoooy skimming caiefbllj all 

the time. When the sugar is suffidentlj boiled pot 

in the fdums, and allow them to boil until the sugar 

coren the pan with large bubUes. Then pour the 

wbde into a pan, and let them remain until the 

loUowing dav. Drain the sjrup firom the plums as 

dry as possible, boil it up quickly, and pour it over 

the plums : then set them by ; do this a third and a 

Iborth time. On the fifth day, when the syrup is 

boiled, put the jdums into it, and let them bdl for a 

lew minutes ; then put than into jars. Should the 

greengages be over ripe, it vrill be better to make 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC* 277' 

jam of them, using three-fourths of a pomid of sugar 
to one pound of fruit Warm the jars before putting 
the sweetmeats in, and be careful not to boil the sugar 
to a candy. 



TO PBESESYE PINE APPLES. 
Slice the pine-apples rather thinner to preserve 
than to eat — and take one pound of loaf sugar to one 
pound of fruit ; powder the sugar, and place in the^ 
kettle alternately a layer of pine-apple and a layer 
of fruit To each pound of fruit put three table-' 
spoonfrils of water. Let it remain over a slow fire 
until the sugar is all melted; then boil it slowly 
until the fruit looks clear; take out the fruit piece by 
piece, and lay them on a dish, until the syrup is 
boiled nearly to a jelly. Put the fruit in jars, and 
pour on the syrup hot. After putting on brandy: 
papers, cover the jars with paper and paste it on, 
which secures their keeping, and preserves the flavour 
of the pine-apple. 



APPLES PSESEBYEB WHOLE. 
Make a syrup of loaf sugar — allowing a pound of 
pleasant sour apples to a pound of sugar. Be very 
particular in skimming it until it is quite cleer. The 
apples should be pared very nicely and their cores 
extracted, with an instrument made for the purpose, 
before they are weighed. Boil the apples in as much 
water as will cover them until they become soft, but. 
take care that they do not commence to break.- 



S78 JEUJBSf JAXB, ETC 

Thote ^al eook fiirt showU be removed <m a stniiitt 
VBtil tikey axe all teader. Sqoeeae tlie jnioe of one 
Isge lemoQ fiv eveiy pound of loaf sogar. Pare off 
Ike lemoa peel if posnble without breaking it — boil 
tke juice and the peel in the same water that has 
boQed the apples. Poor in the symp as soon as tiie 
l em o n peel is tender, and boil it ten minutes, or till 
it is a strong srmp. The apples which have been 
cooling on a dish shoold then be gently pat in jars 
ani the hot STrnp poured on them. Henpthejan 
and do not <^en them for a fiirtnight. 



Weigh eqnal quantities of good brown sogar and 
of i|^iles; peel, eofe, and minoe them smalL Boil 
the sogar, allowing to ereiy three poonds a pint of 
water; skim it well, and boil it pretty thick; then 
add the a[^les, the grated peel of one or two lemons, 
and two or three pieces of white ginger; boil till the 
i^ples fadl, and look clear and yellow. 

Observe, — ^If a Tery nice preserve is wanted, use loaf 
sqgar, then the apples will look delicately white. 



CRAB APPLES. 
Hake a symp, allowing the same weight of sugar 
as apples. Let it cool, then put in the apples, a few 
at once, so that they will not crowd, and break to 
pieces. Boil than till they begin to break, then take 
ihem out of the kettle. ^fioV^VSt^^^ ^yro^ W'V^Qoarse 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 279 

of three or four days, and turn it while hot on to the 
apples. This continue to do at intervals of two or 
three days, till the apples appear to be thoroughly 
preserved. 



TO PBESEBVE PEAB8. . 
Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup, 
let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer ; 
and simmer again, and repeat this till they are clear; 
then drain and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a 
very little time. They may be kept in syrup, and 
dried as wanted, which makes them more moist and 
rioh. 



TO BAEE FEAB& 
Wipe some large sound iron pears, arrange them 
on a dish with the stalk end upwards, put them into 
the oven after the bread is drawn, and let them re- 
main all night If well baked they will be excellent, 
▼ery sweet, and juicy, and much finer in flavour than 
those which are stewed or baked with sugar. The 
bon Chretien pear also is delicious baked thus. 



TO STEW PEAS8. 
Pare and halve or quarter large pears, according 
to their size ; throw them into water, as the skin is 
taken off, before they are divided, to prevent their 
turning black. Pack them round a block-tin stew* 
pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make 
them pretty sweet, and add lemon. "^^Q^ «i» €^qn^ ^^ 



1$;^ JELLIEfli JAMBy ETa 

t«Q^ aad some all-spiee cracked; just cover them m£ik 
«aler» and add a HtUe red wine. Cover them doae 
aad rtev three or four hours ; when tender, take 
ihem ouu and strain the liquor over them. 



10 nUBEEfl A MKLOV WHOLK 
Scrape off the thin oatside akin, make a hole in 
the to|^ take ovt the seeds ; then throw the melon 
into water* and after it has remained twelve hours 
lake it oat and pot it into a preserving-pan with a 
large piece of loaf-sugar and as much water as will 
cover it : then cover the pan closely, and let it remam 
lor an hour on a very slow fire. Repeat this process 
three time:!; on three successive days, taking care not 
ti> allow it u> hoil : make a thin syrup, drain the melon 
eareifully out of the liquor, and put it into the syrup, 
set it o>*er a i^low fire, cloeely covered for half an hoar 
every day fi>r three ensuing days, on the last day hoil- 
ing the syrup until it is very rich, with the rind of one, 
and the juice of two lemons. To improve the flavor 
of a melon, take it when nearly ripe, cut out so 
much of the large end as to permit the scooping out 
of the seeds ; then fill up the hollow with water and 
sugar, or white wine ; dose the top, put the melon 
in a net exposed to the sun for as many days as it 
remains good. A trater^melon will thus acquire a 
fine flavour ; but a miMir-melon requires no improve- 
ment. 

Or: Take a melon, cut it into pieces as for eating, 
trim off the outer nnd, ft^y dsi^V^ ^^^ ^Vikfine 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 28 1 

BUgar, and twelve hours after put it in a preserving- 
pan with sufficient syrup to cover it ; boil it gently 
until tender, repeat the boiling for three successive 
days, when the syrup should be thick. 



SASFBEBSy JAMS. 

Take equal weights of fruit and moist sugar, put 
them on the fire together ; keep stirring and break- 
ing the fruit till the sugar melts, then boil till it 
will jelly on a plate. 

Though simple, this will be found a very good 
receipt 

Or: Take equal weight of fruit and roughly-' 
pounded loaf sugar ; bruise the fruit with the back* 
of a spoon, and boil them together for half an hour ; 
if a little more juice is wanted, add the juice of cur- 
rants drawn as for jelly. 



STSAWBEBBT JAM. 
AUow equal weights of pounded loaf sugar and 
of strawberries ; mash them in the preserving-pan, 
and mix the sugar well with it ; stir, scum, and boil 
it for twenty minutes. 



BLACK CURBAKT JAM. 
Allow equal weight of clipt currants and of 
pounded loaf sugar ; bruise and mash' the fruit in a 
preserving-pan over the fire ; add the sugar ] stir it 
frequency ; when it boils, skixzSi and let it \^q\!l Ssst 
ten minutesr. 



iS2 JEUIE8| JAMBy BTC, 

WHm OK BID GUBKOrr JAX. 
Pick the finui Tery nieelj, and allow an equal 
qaamitT of finely pounded loaf sugar; pot a layer ci 
eMk altenalely into a pieaemng pan, and boO lor 
len minutes; or they may be boiled the same length 
of time in mgar {Hreriimsly clarified and boiled candy- 
Wight 



nn ABPU JAX. 

Pure and wrigh the pine-apples, and grate thai 
down on a large grater. To one pound of firint pot 
thiw qwftf ri of a pound <rf powdered sugar; pot it 
OTor the fiie^ aad iHien it ecmies to a Ixnl, stir till 
done. BoQ il half an hour or more till dear ; pot 
it in jarSk and oorer it carefully. 



iFBioar JAX. 

Take twenty pounds of ripe apricots, take the 
noned from them, put the aprieots in a flat-bottomed 
pan. wiih one pnt of water, and stir with a large 
spattle on a good fire; when the apricots are melted 
down quite smooth add twenty pounds of loaf sugar; 
boil ten minutes, have the kernels of the apricots 
Uandied. throw them into the jam, and pot ; cover 
irith paper wet in brandy, and tie up. 

Gremgage jam b made precisely in the same 



ORABU XAEXALADE, 

Take twenty '^oan^ oi \»adust ^T^si^^g^ «nt the 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 283 

skins into quarters, without cutting through the- 
orange, pull off the quarters, and with a very sharp 
knife cut them into five shreds, as thin as paper, tie 
them up in a cloth, and boil them two hours, changing 
the water frequently; let them drain, cut through 
the oranges, and press them through a wicker, or 
splinter sieve ; when quite dry, put the refuse on the 
fire with three quarts of water, when boiling allow 
to stand half an hour or more, press again through 
the sieve, weigh the whole and add one pound and a 
quarter of sugar, boil a quarter of an hour and pot. 

The marmalade will be better with fewer shreds in 
it, say one half. 

Damson plum jam is made the same way, and 
indeed all plum jams, as directed for apricot and 
greengage jams. 



BLACK CUSRANT JELLT. 
Bruise one gallon of currants, weighing twenty 
pounds, till nearly every berry is broken, add six 
quarts of water, put them on the fire, and when they 
boil run them through a coarse linen bag, or one 
made of a finer kind of canvass ; to every pound of 
juice, add a pound of sugar ; boil ten minutes, scum 
carefully, and pot 



BED CUBBAFT JBCUC. 
Press the currants through a wicker sieve, this 
will save the trouble of picking from the Btalk&^ -^^o^ 
them on the £re, bring to the boi\ «a&. T\ui Vhxt^TV^ 



SS4 JFIMlta, JAlISy ETC. 

Ike Ims; to ererr pomid ci juice add one pound of 
loaf iogar; boQ ten miniites, scumming carefdllj. 



SfSlWBEKET JSLLT. 

This, when mede with fine fall-flavoured scarlet 

rtrawbeiries, is a tctt delicious preserve, and is by 

many preferred to guava jelly, which it greatly re- 

aemhles. Stalk the fruit, hruise it very slightly, and 

stir it for a few minutes over a gentle fire ; strain it 

without pressure, weigh and hoil it quickly for twenty 

minutes in a German enamelled stewpan, or preserr- 

ing-pan, if possihle, that the colour may not he injured; 

take it frxmi the fire, and stir into it twelve ounces of 

sugar to the pound of juice ; when this is dissolved, 

hoil it again quickly for twenty minutes, clear it 

perfectly firom scorn, and pour it into jars or glasses. 

The preserve will he firmer, and require less hoiling 

if one-fourth of red or white currant juice he mixed 

with that of the strawherries, hut the flavour will not 

then he quite so perfect A superior jelly to this is 

made hy taking an equal weight of juice and sugar, 

and by boiling the latter to candy-height, before the 

juice (which should previously be boiled five minutes) 

is added to it ; and when they have been stirred 

together off the fire until this is entirely dissolved, 

boiling the whole quickly from ten to twenty 

minutes ; the time required varying very much from 

the diflierence which is found in the quality of the 

fruit. 

Fruit, simmeted t6\He to ^^^ xKossto^. ^\«^ <3£ 



COMPOTES OP PRUIT. 285 

strawberries, four pounds ; twenty minates. Sugar, 
ihree pounds ; twenty minutes. Or, juice of straw- 
berries, four pounds ; five minutes. Sugar, boiled 
to candy-height, four pounds ; ten to twenty minutes. 



APPLE JELLY. 

ft 

Pare, core, and cut small, any good baking apples, 
say nine pounds in weight, put them into a stewpan 
with three pints of water, boil them gently, stirring 
ihem till the liquid can be passed through a jelly- 
twg ; then to each pint add three-quarters of a pound 
of powdered loaf sugar, set it on the fire, boil it fifteen 
minutes, skimming it, when it will jelly ; but if it be 
overboiled, it will resemble treacle. 



COMPOTES OF FRUIT. 

We would particularly invite the attention of the 
reader to these wholesome and agreeable preparations 
of fruit, which are much less served at table gene- 
rally, than they deserve to be. We have found them 
often peculiarly acceptable to persons of delicate 
habit, who were forbidden to partake of pastry in any 
form; and accompanied by a dish of boiled rice, they 
are preferable for children, as well as for \iL\«\\ii%^\^ 
either taris or paddings. 



2$6 COMPOTES OP FRUIT. 

(XnOOIB OF SFBOrS FEUIT— BHUBABB. 

Take a pound of the sUlks, after they are pared| 
aad cat them into short lengths; have ready a qup- 
ter-pint of water bwled gently for ten minutes with 
five oonces of sugar, or with six, should the friut be 
very acid; put it in and simmer it for about ten 
minutes. Some kinds will be tender in rather less 
time, some will require more. 

Obsenx. — Good sugar in lumps should be used 
generaUy for these dishes, and when they are in- 
tended for dessert, the syrup should be enriched wiik 
an additional ounce or two. Lisbon sugar will aa- 
swer for them yery well on ordinary occasions, but 
that which b refined will render them much more 
delicate. 



OOKFOTE OF GBEEB CUBBABTS 
Spring water half a pint; sugar, five ounces; 
boiled together ten minutes. One pint of green ca^ 
rants stripped from the stalks; simmered three to five 
minutes. 



COXFOTE OF GBEEB GOOSEBEBBIESk 
This is an excellent compote if made with fine 
sugar, and very good with any kind. Break five 
ounces into small lumps and pour on them half a pint 
of water; boil these gently for ten minutes, and clear 
ofif all the scum; then add to them a pint of fresh 
gooseberries, freed from the tops and stalks, washed 
and well drained. Simmer them gently from eight 



COHFOTES OF FRUIT. 287 

to ten minutes, and serve them hot or cold. Increase 
the quantity for a large dish. 



COMPOTE OF GSEiar AFBIOOTS. 
Wipe the down from a pound of quite young apri* 
cots, ' and stew them very gently for nearly twenty 
minutes in syrup made with eight ounces of sugar 
and three-quarters of a pint of water boiled together 
the usual time. 



COMPOTE OF BED CUBBAITTS 
A quarter-pint of water and five ounces of sugar: 
ten minutes. One pint of ready picked currants to 
be just simmered in the syrup from five to six minutes. 
This receipt will serve equally for raspberries, or for 
a compote of the two fruits mixed together. Either 
of them will be found an admirable accompaniment 
to batter, custard, bread, ground rice, and various 
other kinds of puddings, as well as to whole rice 
plainly boiled. 



COMPOTE OF CHERRIES. 
Simmer five ounces of sugar with half a pint of 
water for ten minutes: throw into the syrup a pound 
of cherries weighed after they are stalked, and let 
them stew gently for twenty minutes ; it is a great 
improvement to stone the fruit, but a larger quantity 
will then be required for a dish. 



268 COMPOTES OF FRurr. 

OOMFOTE OF KOBELIA fmnillTIW. 
Boil together for fifteen minutes, five onnoes of 
sugar with half a pint of water ; add a pound and a 
quarter of ripe Morella cherries, and simmer them 
very softly from five to seven minutes ; this is a de- 
licious compote. 



COMPOTE OF DAH80V& 
Four ounces of sugar and half a pint of water, to 
be boiled for ten minutes ; one pound of damsons to 
be added, and simmered gently from ten to twelve 
minutes. 



COXPOTE OF THE XAGECT BOEUK, OB OTHER 

LASOE PLUHS. 
Boil six ounces of sugar with half a pint of water 
the usual time; take the stalks from a pound of 
plums, and simmer them very softly for twenty 
minutes. Increase the proportion of sugar if needed, 
and regulate the time as may be necessary for the 
dififerent varieties of fruit. 



COMPOTE OF PEACHES. 
Pare half a dozen ripe peaches, and stew them veiy 
softly from eighteen to twenty minutes, keeping them 
ofien turned in a light syrup, made with five ounces 
of sugar, and half a pint of water boiled together for 
ten minutes. Dish the fruit ; reduce the syrup by 
quick boiling, pour it over the peaches, and serve 
them hot for a second coxns.^ ^v^^ ^t ^^l<;s( dessert 



tlQUEUBS AND SUMlfER BEVERAGES. 289 

They should be quite ripe, and will be found delicious 
dressed thus. A little lemon juice may be added to 
the syrup, and the blanched kernels of two or three 
peach or apricot stones. 

Sugar, five ounces; water, half a pint : ten minutes. 
Peaches, six: eighteen to twenty minutes. 

Observe. — Nectarines, without being pared^ may be 
dressed in the same manner. 



IIUUUERS AND SUMMER BEVERAGES. 



GHEBBT BSANDT. 
Take fifty pounds of geans, cover them with rec- 
tified spirits four days; strain ofi^ and add one 
half of the quantity used at first, let it stand for two 
days; strain, and add this liquor to the first: cover 
the geans with one- third of the last spirit, in water; 
let it stand three days: bruise the fruit, and strain- itf 
measure the whole, but keep the last separate. For 
every gallon add three-quarters of a pound of sugar ; 
mix with the separate liquor; when dissolved add 
the whole together, cask it, bung tightly, and it will 
be ready for use in a few weeks. 



FBENCH GnrOES BEEB. 
Bruise one pound and a half of Jamaica ginger^ add 

to it half a pound stick of cassia^ one oxmci^ oi ^\is^ 

r 



290 UQUEUS8 AND BUMMEE BETEKAOES. 

mace, and one of doves, cover with boiling water, and 
cover up close for an boor. Strain off and add more 
boiling water, keep at the boiHng for an boor, stnon. 
Dissolve ten pounds of brown sngar in nine gal- 
lons of water, which indodes the liqiior strained off 
the spice, beat with a whisk rax whites of eggs, add 
the juice of twelve lemims, the rhind of which should 
be boiled with the spice, wh^i the wfac^ is mixed, 
add one ounce of tartaric add, four odnces and a half 
of cream of tartar; cask up, and bung tightly; it 
will be ready in ten days for bottling, and in a wed^ 
for drinking. 



0IHGEB BEER. 
Bruise twelve ounces of Jamaica ginger, boH with 
four gallons and a half of water, for a quarter of an 
hour; dissolve in the strained water five pounds of 
loaf sugar, beat up four whites of eggs, add the jdoe 
of four lemons, half an ounce of tartaric add, and 
two ounces of cream of tartar, mix the whole together 
and cask up ; will be ready to bottle in three days. 



MILK Finf GH. 
Pare the skins of nine dozen of lemons very thin, 
let them infuse in three bottles of rum, squeeze the 
lemons, boil twenty pounds of sugar in a pan, with 
eight and a half gallons of wator, mix the juice and 
syrup, grate fourteen nutmegs very fine, and add with 
seventeen bottles of rum and ten bottles of whisky; 
have three gallonB oi «77^\iTii\^T£^<^^:A!L^Sai<^hot( 



LIQUEUB8 AND 8UMMEB BEV£RAa£8. 291 

mix the whole together, and run it through jelly 
bags till clear; bottle when cold and keep in a cold 
place. 



RA8FBEBBT VnTEGAB. 
Put the rasps in earthen jars, and cover with white 
vinegar for three days ; skiun and add one pound of 
loaf sugar to every pound of juice ; set on the fire ; 
take off the scum as it rises, boil a few minutes, and 
bottle when cold. 



SODA WATEB 
Rarely contains any soda, it being merely com- 
mon water charged with fixed air. It is often drunk 
to neutralize acid in the stomach, in which case 
fifteen or twenty grains of carbonate of soda, finely 
powdered, should be put into a large glass, and the 
contents of a bottle of soda water poured on it 



8EIDLITZ FOWDEBS. 
These form a cooling and effervescent aperient, 
and correct acidity of stomach. To make half a 
dozen powders, mix twelve drams of powdered Epsom 
salts with twelve scruples of carbonate of soda pow- 
dered, and divide into six parts, in blue papers. 
Divide also into six parts, in white papers, four 
drams of tartaric acid in fine powder. Mix in two 
glasses. 



292 LIQUEURS AND SUMMER BEVERAGES. 

LEXCOTABS.: 

Three lemons to a pint of water, makes strong 
lemonade ; sweeten to yonr taste. 

This is the best beverage for social parties ; cool, 
refreshing, pleasant, and salubrious. 



OBAVGEADE. 
BoU and press the juice from the oranges in the 
same way as from lemons. It requires less sugar 
than lemonade. The water must be pure and cold, 
and then there can be nothing more delicious tiian 
these two kinds of drink. 



OSGEAT. 

Blanch one pound of sweet and one ounce of 
bitter almonds, and pound them in a marble mortar, 
with water enough to prevent oiling ; then mix with 
them one pint of spring water and a quarter of a 
pint of rose or orange-flower water ; rub through a 
lawn sieve, and to the liquor add two pounds of loaf- 
sugar; boil together, and skim, and when cold, 
bottle it For use, shake the bottle, and pour a 
tablespoonful into a tumbler of cold water. 



LEMOK SYRUP. 

Boil two pounds of loaf or crushed sugar with two 

pints of water ; skim it till dear ; then add the juice 

of eight good lemons. The juice should not be 

strained till the syrup is done. Boil in the juice for 

Bbont ten minutes ilhe imd. oi ^tc^ V^TsyEsc^^. Let it 



LIQUEURS AND SUMMER BEVERAGES. 293 

boil fifteen or twenty minutes. Strain and bottle it 
This quantity will fill two claret bottles. 



EXCELLEITT FOBTABLE LEKOKADE. 
Rasp with a quarter-pound of sugar, the rind of a 
very fine juicy lemon, reduce it to powder, and pour 
on it the strained juice of the fruit. Press the mix- 
ture into a jar, and when wanted for use dissolve a 
tablespoonful of it in a glass of water. It will keep 
a considerable time. If too sweet for the taste of the 
drinker, a very small portion of nitric add may be 
added when it is taken. 



BATAITA. 
Blanch two ounces of peach and apricot kernels, 
bruise and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up 
with brandy. Dissolve half a pound of white sugar- 
candy in a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy 
after it has stood a month on the kernels, and they 
are strained off; then filter through paper, and 
bottle for use. The distilled leaves of peaches and 
nectarines, when the trees are cut in the spring, are 
an excellent substitute for ratafia in puddings. 



KOTEAU. 
The real liqueur under this name is made in the 
island of Martinique, upon a foundation of French 
brandy, with a species of berry grown in the island, 
and sweetened with syrup. It requires age to ^l^^ 
it the Bavonr of the berry, and even 'va ^"^ "^ ^^ 



dM UqUSUKS AND SUMHER BEYERAQBS. 

lafics is fiur from beiiig cheap. The foDowiag 
receipts howeTer^ are good imitations. 

Blandi three oances of hitter and the same qnan- 
tilT of sweet ahwrndsi and hniise them in a mortar ; 
a(U tfaem^ with the rind of two lemons, to one quart 
of English gin« wluch must he kept in a moderate 
keftt &r three days and nights. Shake the hottib 
Aiee or lour tuBMs a-day^ thou add fourteen ounces of 
kaf^«egar dissolTed in half a pint of hoiling watffi, 
a»d ki it stand one day and night longer, shakiiig 
the bottk frequently ; then strain it, and filter it 
afterwards in Uotting-paper such as the chemists 
we : bottle it> and it wiU be fit to drink in six months, 
but will improve Inr keeping for a year. 

Or : To one quart of English gin, or, what is 
better^ of y W Ftmck brandy^ put three ounces of 
bitter almonds, blanched and cut into pieces, and the 
rind of three lemons. L^ it stand three days hef(»:e 
the fire» shaking the bottle two or three times a-day ; 
then add one pound of good loaf-sugar, or half a pint 
of syrup ; let it dissolve, shaking it frequently during 
the di^ or two which it will take; then filter it 
through blotting-paper. 



Km JU£EP (MM AHSBICAH BECEIPT). 
Strip the tender leaves of mint into a tumbler, and 
add to them as much wine, brandy, or any other 
spirit, as you wish to take. Put some pounded ice 
into a second tumbler; pour this on the mint and 
brandy, aod continuA to '^giorax ^^ Tsos^ns^ €com one 



PBEPABATIONS OF FOOD FOB INVAUDS. 295 

tambler to the other until tlie whole is sufficiently 
impregnated with the flavour of the mint, which is 
extracted by the particles of the ice coming into 
brisk contact when changed from one vessel to the 
other. Now place the glass in a larger one, con- 
taining pounded ice : on taking it out of which it 
will be covered with frost-work. 



ifuxiLEi) wnm 

Add to one quart of wine one pint of water, ana 
one tablespoonful of allspice ; boil them together a 
few minutes ; beat up six ^gs with sugar to your 
taste ; pour the boiling wine on the eggs, stirring it 
all the time. Be careful not to pour the eggs into 
the wine, or they will curdle. 



PREPARATIONS OF FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 



GEITESAL OBSEBVATIOKS. 

One of the loveliest accomplishments of a lady is 
to understand how to make the invalid in her family 
comfortable. Food prepared by the kind hand of a 
wife, mother, sister, friend, has a sweeter relish than 
the mere ingredients can give, and a restorative 
power which money cannot purchase. These re- 
ceipts will enable the watchful attendant to vary the 
&od^ as choice or symptoms may xe^a&fix ^T;::^^!iN&T^. 



396 FSEPARATIONS OF FOOD FOB INVALIDg. 

Jellies and meat broths, together with the varions 
kinds of farinaceous food, are the lightest on the 
stomach, as well as, generally, the most nutritioiis 
for an invalid. Milk preparations are useful when 
the lungs are weak. Food that the stomach can 
digest without distressing the patient, is the kind that 
gives actual strength. 



TO KAKS GRUEL. 

Mix a dessert-spoonful of fine oatmeal or patent 
groats, in two of cold water, add a pint of boiling 
water, and boil it ten minutes, keeping it stirred. 

OUr : Boil a quarter of a pint of gproats in a quart 
of water for about two hours, and strain through a 
sieve. 

Stir into the gruel a small piece of buttor, and 
some sugar, nutmeg, or ginger grated : or if it be not 
sweetened, add a small pinch of salt. 



IHDIAH MEAL OBUEL. 
Sift the Indian meal through a fine sieve; wet 
two spoonfuls of this meal with cold water, ^nd beat 
it till there are no lumps ; then stir it into a pint 
and a half of boiling water, and let it boil half an 
hour, stirring it all the time. Season it as liked 
best 



BABLET OBUEL. 
Wash four ounces of pearl-barley ; boil it in two 
quarts oivraiex wit\i a stic^V oidTiXi«ssiQTL^\!!&!Lx^>i<!fid 



PREPARATIONS OP FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 297 

to a quart ; strain and return it into the saucepan 
with sugar and three-fourths of a pint of port wine ; 
or the same quantity of milk. Heat up, and use as 
wanted. 



FL0T7B CAUDLE. 
Mix smoothly, a tablespoonfal of flour with a gill 
of water ; set on the fire in a saucepan a gill of new 
milk, sweeten it, and when it boils, add the flour and 
water ; simmer and stir them together for a quarter 
of an hour. 



WHITE CAUDLE. 

Make the gruel as above, strain through a sieve, 
and stir it till cold. When to be used, sweeten it 
to taste, grate in some nutmeg, and add a little 
white wine: a little lemon peel, or juice, is some- 
times added. 

The yolk of an eggj well beaten, may likewise be 
stirred in when the gruel is boiling. 



BICE CAUDLE. 
This may be made with water or milk ; when it 
boils, add some ground rice, previously mixed 
smoothly with a little cold water; boil till thick 
enough, when sweeten it, and grate in nutmeg, or 
add a little powdered cinnamon. 



ABBOWBOOT. 
It 13 very necessary to be caretui not \a ^\» ^^ 



298 PREPARATIONS OF FOOD FOB INVALIDS* 

counterfeit sort ; if genuine, it is very nourislimg^ 
especially for persons with weak bowels. Pot iato 
a saucepan half a pint of water, a glass of sheny 
or a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg, and fine 
sugar ; boil up once, then mix it by degrees into a 
dessert- spoonful of arrowroot, previously rubbed 
smooth with two spoonfuls of cold water. 

Or : Mix a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with 9, 
little cold water, have ready boiling water in % 
kettle, pour it upon the arrowroot until it bectHnes 
quite clear, keeping it stirred all the time ; add % 
little sugar. Where milk may be taken, it is very 
delicious made in the same way with milk instead of 
water, a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot, and half a 
pint of milk ; add a small bit of lemon peel. 



TAPIOCA. 
Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to 
wash it two or three times ; then soak it in fresh 
water five or six hours, and simmer it in the same 
until it becomes quite clear ; then put lemon juice, 
wine, and sugar. The peel should have been boiled 
in it. It thickens very much. 



SAGO. 

Cleanse it by first soaking it an hour in cold 

water, and then washing it in fresh water. To a 

teacupful add a quart of water and a bit of lemon 

peel, simmer it till the berries are clear, season it 

with wine and spieO) an^di \xy^ \\. i^ ^i^ V^^ther. 



PHEPARATIONS OP FOOD FOB INVALIDS. 299 

The sago may be boildd with milk instead of water 
till reduced to one-half^ and served without seasoning. 



SAGO MILE. 
Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly and wholly 
with new milk. It swells so much, that a small 
quantity will be suffijcient for a quart, and when done 
it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no 
sugar or flavouring. 



GSOUHD BICE lOLK. 
Boil one spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down 
smooth, with one pint and a half of milk, a bit of 
dnnamon, lemon peel and nutmeg. Sweeten when 
nearly done. 



BESTORATIVE lOLK. 
BoU a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a pint of 
new mOk tiU reduced to half, and sweeten. 



SUET lOLK. 
Cut one ounce of mutton or veal suet into shavings, 
and warm it slowly over the fire in a pint of milk, 
adding a little grated lemon peel, cinnamon and loaf- 
sugar* 



lUTATIOK OF ASSES' lOLK. 
Boil together equal quantities of new milk and. 
water, add one ounce of candied eringo-root: sweetAw 
with white sugar-candy, and strain. 



300 PREPARATIONS OF FOOD FOB INYAUDS. 

Or: Stir into a gill each of milk and boiling 
water a well-beaten egg, and sweeten with white 
sngar-candy. 



BABLETIOLK. 
Boil half a pound of washed pearl barley in one 
qnart of milk and half a pint of water, and sweeten: 
boil it again, and drink it when almost cold. 



BAKED MILK 
Is much recommended for consumptions. The 
milk should be put into a moderately-warm oveo, 
and be left in it all night. 



GALFS FEET AKD MILK, 
Put into a jar two calf's feet with a little lemon 
peel, cinnamon, or mace, and equal quantities of milk 
and water to cover them : tie over closely, and set in 
a slack oven for about three hours ; when cold, take 
off the fat, and sweeten and warm as required. 



SHEEFS TBOTTESS. 
Simmer six sheep's trotters, two blades of maoe, 
a little cinnamon, lemon peel, a few hartshorn shav- 
ings, and a little isinglass, in two quarts of water, 
to one ; when cold, take off the fet, and give nearly 
half a pint twice a day, warming with it a little new 
milk. 



1»REPARATI0NS OP FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 301 

isnrGLASs. 

Boil one ounce of isinglass shayings, forty Jamaica 
peppers, and a bit of brown cnist of bread in a quart 
of water, to a pint, and strain it 

Tbis makes a pleasant jelly to keep in tbe bouse ; 
of wbicb a large spoonful may be taken in wine and 
water, milk, tea, soup, or any way most agreeable. 



GLOUCESTEB TELLY, 

Boil in two quarts of water, till reduced to one 
quart, the following ingredients : hartshorn shavings, 
isinglass, ivory shavings, barley and rice, one ounce 
of each. 

When this jelly, which is light and very nourish- 
ing, is to be taken, a few tablespoonfuls of it must be 
dissolved in a little milk, together with a bit of 
cinnamon, lemon peel,, and sugar. It will be very 
good without the seasoning. 



BBEAD JELLT. 
Cut the crumb of a penny roll into thin slices, and 
toast them equally of a pale brown ; boil them gently 
in a quart of water till it will jelly, which may be 
known by putting a little in a spoon to cool; strain 
it upon a bit of lemon peel, and sweeten it with sugar. 
A litUe wine may be added. 



BICE JELLT. 
Boil half a pound of Carolina rice and a small 
piece of cinnamon in two quarta ot ^^\«t i<^x ^w^ 



30i rULPAEATIONS OF FOOD FOB INTALIDB. 

kiwr ; p«sd it through a siere, and when cold it will 
Iw a fina jdly, which, when warmed in milk and 
«iiteteiied, will ha very nntritious ; add one pint of 
milk to the rice, in the sieve, hcnl it for a short time, 
stirring it constantly; strain it, and it will resemUe 
ikkk milk, if eaten warm. 



STRSHGTHEHnra JELLT. 
Simmer in two quarts of sofft water, one ounce of 
pearl barley* one ounce of sago, one ounce of rioe^ 
a»i oae ounce of eringo-root, till reduced to one 
^uart; take a leaeupfnl in milk, morning, noon, 
and nighu 



HXHP SEED JELLT. 
Bruise hemp seetls, boil them in water, and strain; 
aflerwanU> simmer the liquor until it is of the thick- 
ne&» of gruel. 



TAFIOCl JELLT. 
Wash the tapioca, soak it for three hours in cold 
water, in which simmer it till dissolved, with a piece 
of thin lemon peel ; then sweeten, add white or red 
wine, and take out the peel before using. 



TO KAKS PAHADA OT FIVE MIBir 

Set a little water on the fire with a glass of white 

wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon 

peel ; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The 

moment the iiuzlux^\x»i\& \r^^ Y«&^\ii%V(. ^etolL on the 



PREPARATIOKS OF FOOD FOB INVALIDS. 303 

fire, put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. 
When of a proper thickness just to drink, take it off. 
Or : Put to the water a bit of lemon peel, mix the 
crumbs in, and, when nearly boiled enough, put some 
lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all the in- 
gredients, for, if any be added after, the panada wiU 
break and not jelly. 



CHICKEH FAVADA. 

Boil a chicken till about three parts ready in a 
quart of water ; take off the skin, cut the white meat 
off when cold, and put into a marble mortar : pound 
it to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled 
in, season with salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the least 
bit of lemon peel. Boil gently for a few minutes to 
the consistency you like ; it should be such as you 
can drink, though tolerably thick. 

This conveys great nourishment in a small compass. 



SIPPETS, 

When the stomach will not receive meat, are very 
nutritioiis, and prepared in this simple manner : 

On an extremely hot plate put two or three sippets 
(small square pieces) of bread, and pour over them 
some gravy, from beef^ mutton, or veal, with which 
no butter has been mixed. Sprinkle a little salt 
over. 



BROTHS 07 BEEF, XUTTOV, JOSJ) VEAL. 

Put two pounds of lean beef, one :]^\xi^oi«^x»:^<i^ 



304 FBEPABATIONS OF FOOD FOB INVAIJD& 

Teal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and 
ten pepper-corns, into a nice tin saucepan, with five 
quarts of water ; simmer to three quarts, and dear 
off the £Bit when cold. Add one onion, if approved. 

Soup or broth made of different meats is more 
supporting, as well as better flavoured. 

To remove the fat, take it off when cold, as dean 
as possible, and if there be still any remaining, lay 
a bit of dean blotting-paper on the broth when in 
the basin, and it will take up every partide. Or if 
the broth is wanted before there is time to let it get 
cold, put a piece of cork up the narrow end of a 
funnd, pour the broth into it, let it stand for a few 
minutes, and the fat will rise to the top: remove the 
cork, and draw off in a basin as much of the broth as 
is wanted, which will be perfectly free from ht 



FOB'A QUICK HADE BSOTH. 
Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, 
take off the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small 
tin saucepan that has a cover, with three-fourths of 
a pint of water, the meat being first beaten and cut in 
thin bits ; put a bit of thyme and parsley, and if 
approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quickly ; 
skim it ; take off the cover if likely to be too weak, 
else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole 
process. 



GALFS FEETBBOTH. 
Boil two calf's {eei^ t^io civ\xi<(^^ ^1 ^^aK^^ «3DLd two 



PBEPABATIONS OF FOOD FOR INVALIDS. S05 

of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, two or three 
blades of mace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little 
salt, in three quarts of water, to three pints ; strain 
and take off the £eit 



CAlCKEiar BBOTH 
May be made of any yomig fowl which is after- 
wards to be brought to table ; but the best sort is 
to be procured from an old cock or hen, which is to 
be stewed down to rags, with a couple of onions, 
seasoned with salt and a little whole pepper ; skim 
and strain it 



GEICEEir BSOTH. 

A Weaker Kind. 

After taking off the skin and rump, put the 
body and legs of a fowl, from the white meat of which 
chicken panada has been made, into the water it was 
boiled in, with one blade of mace, one slice of onion, 
and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer till the broth 
be of a pleasant flavour. 



BEEF TEA. 

Cut half a pound of lean fresh beef into slices, lay 
it in a dish and pour over it a pint of boiling water ; 
cover the dish and let it stand half an hour by the 
fire, then just bail it up, pour it off clear, and salt it 
a very little. 

Veal Tea is made in the same way^ and CKickeif^ 

Tea also, 
u 



306 FBEPARATIONS OF FOOD FOK IXTAIID3, 



To Drmk CM, 

Take one pound of lean bee^ dear it from ereiy 
particle of skin, £Bit, or sinew, rasp or divide it into 
very small pieces ; then pnt it into a jar, and poor 
a qoart of boiling water upon it ; plunge the jar 
into a kettle of boiling water, 1^ it stand by the 
side of the fire, bat not near enough to simmer, and 
allow it to grow cold. Then strain the beef tea 
through a muslin sieve, and, if the patient be veiy 
delicate, filter it through blotting-paper. 

This tea is to be taken when cold, and wiU renudn 
upon the stomach when other nourishment £uls ; it 
may be given to infiints. 



EGOS. 

An egg broken into a cup of tea or beaten and 
mixed with a basin of milk, makes a break&st more 
supporting than tea alone. 

An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten 
separately, with a little wine put to each, will afibrd 
two very wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than 
when taken together. 

Eggs very little boiled, or poached, taken in small 
quantity, convey much nourishment ; the yolk only, 
when dressed, should be eaten by invalids. 



STEW FOB PEBSOirS IS WEAK HEALTH. 
Cut veal into slices, and put them into an earthen 
jar, with sUced tuxmij^^ «sv^ ^\\ViN& ^aS^.^^ <!Qver 



PREPARATIONS OP FOOD FOB INVALIDS. . 307 

closely, set the jar up to the neck in boiling water, 
and stew till the meat is tender. 



TO STEW FABTBIDQES FOR THE SICE. 

Half stew one or two partridges ; cut them up ; 
take out some of the largest bones ; put them in a 
chafing-dish, with the liquor they were stewed in, 
with a little salt, mace, and lemon zest ; when cooked, 
send it in the same dish to table. 

All sorts of poultry and game ard delicate in this 
way of dressing, and most nutritive and proper for 
patients that require nourishment. 



FUDDmaS FOB nrVALIDS. 
Whatever farinaceous substance is selected for a 
pudding should be boiled quite tender in milk, and 
of a good thickness, so that the eggs may just set it, 
and give it firmness enough to stand without break- 
ing, when turned out of the mould. These puddings 
for invalids cannot be made too delicate; they 
should be well steamed for about an hour, or a quarter 
more, according to the size ; and whether the pudding 
be steamed or baked, it should never be taken from 
the stewpan or oven until within two or three minutes 
before it is sent to table. 



BSOWV BBEAO 
Is recommended to invalids for its containin^bt«xv^ 
which possesses a resinous, puTgalive "gt^^"^ \ ^"^ 



SC6 niPAKATWSIS OF F009 FOK OTYAIIDS. 



is fMfWfj is geaenUj ooonftencted by ihe bread 
■aoB too fine. 
Okmt It. — ^FVesk bread ahould never be given to 



S«a on ^ fire, in a saneepan, a pint of milk; 
boiki pov im as m«di wbite wine, foreign or 
as win tm it and make it clear ; boilit 
aBdet&Q^cardbas settled, wben poor 
«ff ike wkcT, «U kalf as mnck boiling water, and 
it 



INk inik> kaifiBg milk as mnch alnm, cider, lemon 
jpHceL or liMgar, as will turn it, and make it dear ; 
Aea piMDr it q£^ add some boi water, and sweeten. 



Rifl tw^ ovares of tamarinds in two pints of milk, 
«iid strum : ^ds is an excellent drink in fevers. 



lUSR* OE TWO kuk west. 

Orn^^bM c^ fit^sb bntter-milk is allowed to two- 
ibii^ v>f sw^^rt mQk ; pot tbe milk into a sancepan, 
and nMik» il boiling bot^ andtben ponr in tbe butter- 
milK and g^milv sdr it roond die edges of tbe pan; 
Wl it OMM to a boil^ take it off tbe fire, let it s^e, 
and stnwi off tbft wbey « 



PREPA&ATIONS OF F0(»> FOR INTALIDS. 309 

Sour milk may be substitated for butter-milk. An 
excellent drink in a fever^ 



VHTEGAE. AHD LEKOV WBEt. 
Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lemon 
juice as will make a small quantity quite clear, 
dilute with hot water to an agreeable acid, add a bit 
or two of sugar. This is less heating than if made 
of wine, imd if only to excite perspiration answers as 
well. 



itnsrcHEov fob ah ihyaud. 

Put bread crumbs and red currant, or any oth^ 
jelly, alternately into a tumbler, and when nearly 
half full, iill it up with milk. 



BUtTEB KILK-GOOD FOB 00H8UMFT1VE PAVIENt& 
Take the milk from the cow into a small chum ; 
in about ten minutes begin churning, and continue 
till the flakes of butter swim about pretty thick, and 
the milk is discharged of all the greasy particles, 
and appears thin and blue. Strain it through a sieve, 
and drink it frequently. 

It should form the whole of the patient's drink; the 
food should be biscuits and rusks, ripe and dried fruits 
of various kinds, when a decline is apprehended. 



BAltSB AHD DBIEB FBUlTIk 
fiaisins in particular, make exodXeoi^ vaY^RSc^^'t 
invaiidOf with bisciiits or common ctkki^ 



310 DRINKS. 

BUTTEB miiK. 
Althoagh generally preferred .when made from 
sweet cream, is liked better by some when soar, and 
is considered more wholesome in that state, as being 
lighter on the stomach. 



DRINKS. 

A SOFT and fine draught for those who are weak and 
have a cough may be made thus : — Beat a fresh-laid 
egg, and mix it with one-fourth of a pint of new milk 
warmed, a large spoonful of syrup, or loaf sugar, the 
same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg scraped. Do 
not warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first 
and last thing. 

A very agreeable draught is made by putting into 
a tumbler of fresh cold water a tablespoonful of syrup 
from preserves, and the same of good vinegar. 

Tamarinds, currants, fresh or in jelly, or scalded 
currants or cranberries, make excellent drinks, with 
a little sugar or not, as may be agreeable. 



A SEFRESHDra DBnTE JS A FEVEB. 

Put a little tea- sage, two sprigs of balm, and a 

little wood-sorrel, into a stone jug, having first washed 

and dried them; peel thin a small lemon, and clear 

from the whit^ ; slice it, mv9l ^wt «»\s& ^I^^Qoa ^^w^\b.% 



DRINKS. -311 

then pour in three pints of boiling water, sweeten 
and cover it close. 

Perhaps no drink, however, is more refreshing in 
such a case than weak green tea, into which lemon 
juice is infused instead of milk. It may be drunk 
either cold or hot, but the latter is the best mode. 



TOAST AHD WATEB. 
Toast slowly a thin piece of bread, till extremely 
brown and hard, but not the least black ; then plunge 
it into a jug of cold.water, and cover it over an hour 
before used. This is of particular use in weak bowels. 
It should be of a fine brown colour. 



B ABLET WATER. 
One ounce of pearl barley, half an ounce of white 
sugar, and the rind of a lemon, put into a jug. Pour 
upon it one quart of boiling water, and let it stand 
for eight or ten hours; then strain off the liquor, 
adding a slice of lemon if desirable. This infusion 
makes a most delicious and nutritious beverage, and 
will be grateful to persons who cannot drink the 
horrid decoction usually given. It is an admirable 
basis for lemonade, negus, or weak punch, a glass of 
rum being the proportion for a quart. 



BABLET WATEB, WITH HOISTET. 
Add the juice and rind of a lemon to one table- 
spoonful of honey, and two teacupfuU oi Wt^k^^ y^"^ 
into a jug, and pour a quart of boiAin^ ^^Vcc^oj^V^. 



312 



of pail fauieT, ax hnnps of kai- 



Uf a loBOB, aad CBaagh of wngla^M to dear 
II Poor troqaxruof boflio^spriB^vilerontliese 
iHgiplS ega, and let it sund vntfl cold. 



Kasoire sx dndiBsof driedcnbonaleof sodain 
m qvnt book of wtter, and Ibar aad a half dndnns 
flf tntane add in anodier boide of tlie same aie; 
nai a viae-^aefitL £nom eadi bottle, and tfaroir 
at tibe amtt umtt iato a fanableiv when it will 
inme&sdr c&rresoe: it sbonld be dnmk in tins 
state. Tbis is a good soda water, and yery dieap. 
If ten dn[^ of tbe mmiated tinehire of iron be pre- 
tiobIt put into tbe tumbler a most excellent and 
agreeable tonic mineral water is produced, wbidi 
sxrengtheB? the tone of tbe digestive organs in a vary 



dXAX OF XASXAS. 



When to be taken either medicinally, or as a cool- 
ing diink. may be mixed in the proportion of a 
heaped tea^oonfal to a pint of water, which has, 
when hot been poured npcm the thin peel of half a 
lemon, and allowed to stand till quite cold. Sweeten 
with honey or sqgar. 



AFFIX WAZKK. 

Cat three or tsm ^Mx^ «gi^^ VbXa ^Sc«si&^\N&w*^&s^ 



DEINKS. 313 

into a jug, and poor a quart of boiling water over 
them ; cover the jug. When quite cold, strain and 
sweeten it, and add a little lemon juice. 



oooLnra DBnrK. 

A palatable and cooling drink may be made by 
pouring hot water over slices o^ lemon ; when cold, 
to be strained and sweetened. 



BALK, Mnrr, ahd othes teas. 

These are simple infusions, the strength of which 
can only be regulated by the taste. They are made 
by patting either the firesh or the dried plants into 
boiling water in a covered vessel, which should be 
placed near the fire for an hour. The young shoots 
both of bairn and of mint are to be preferred, on ac- 
count of their strong aromatic qualities. These in- 
fusions may be drunk freely in feverish and in various 
other complaints, in which diluents are recommended. 
Mint tea, made with the fresh leaves, is useful in 
allaying nausea and vomiting. 



WHOLESOKE BEVERAOE. 
Boil a pint of sweet milk, add a teaspoonful of 
curry powder, and sugar to your taste. Drunk 
wano, it will be found a grateful beverage for those 
of weak bowels, who may require to go abroad on 
cold morning before breid^t. 



314 COOCEKT FOK 



COOKEBT FOB CHIIDREN. 



It is of great cnnwqfn ce to ^ the times of iak- 
a^ find, as veQ as to regnlite the ^piantity given to 
a dhiU. The Bo^er shoold penonall j attend to 
these anv^eaieats : it is her proTinoe. 

There u great dai^erthat aninfimt ander three 
of 1^ win he OTer-ied, if it he left to the dis- 
of the BiBse. These persons, generaUj, to 
map the scrensing of a ehild, whether it proceed 
fivta pain, cfossneas, or repktkm (as it often does), 
ther give h something to eat— often that which is 
Terr ir jurioiis, to tempt the i^^Ktite ; if it will only 
eat and :^op erring, they do not care ft>r the fatnre 
inconroiienee which this hahit of indnlgenoe may 
bring on the chQd and its mother. 

Arrange, as earlr as possible, the r^iilar times of 

giving food to Tonr children, according to their age 

and constitntion. Yoong inftmts require food every 

two hours when awake : after three months old they 

may go three hours ; then cautiously lengthen the 

time as the child can bear it But remember that 

all temperaments are not alike. Some of the same 

age may require more food than others. One role, 

however, will apply to all — never give a child fiwd 

to amuse and keep it quiet when it is not hungry, or 

to reward it for being g^i^A. Xqutelv^ %&T^<jRsallY 



COOKERY FOB CHILDREN. 315 

hope to extinguish a fire hy pouring on oil, as to 
cure a peevish temper or curb a violent one by pam- 
pering the appetite for luxuries in diet ; and all the 
traits of goodness you thus seek to foster will, in the 
end, prove as deceptive as the mirage of green fields 
and cool lakes to the traveller in the hot sands of the . 
desert. 

" My children have very peculiar constitutions," 
said an anxious mother — "they are so subject to 
fevers I If they take the least cold, or even have a 
fall, they are sure to be attacked by fever." The 
family lived high ; and those young children had'.a 
seat at the table, and were helped to the best and 
richest of everything ; and their luncheon was cake ' 
and confectionary. 

It was suggested to the mother that if she would 
adopt a different diet for those children, give them 
bread and milk morning and evening, and a plain 
dinner of bread, meat, and vegetables, their liability 
to fever would be much lessened. 

" My children do not love milk, and won't touch 
plain food," was the answer, with a sort of trium- 
phant smile, as though this cramming of her children 
with good things, till the blood of the poor little 
creatures was almost in a state of inflammation, was 
a high credit to her good housekeeping. 

But do not err on the other hand, and, for fear 
your child should be over-fed, allow it insufficient 
nourishment. There is not in our cowvtrj tokm^ 
reason to fear that such will be the caae*, \>DLft ^wv^«t 



316 O00KEK7 F0B CWaJXEK. 

is vsDall J on the side of excess ; still we niiist iMt 
forget thmt the efifecU from a system of slow starv(»- 
tioa are, if not so soddenlj £Bital as that of repfedoB, 
more terrible, because it reduces the inteUectnal as 
veil as the physical nature of man, till he is hardly 
efa^ to the bnitea. 

In many parts of civilized and Christian £ii»)pe^ 
the maas of the people snfier firom being over-worked 
and acader-fed; few may die of absolute starvatiofi^ 
hut their term of life is much shortened, and their 
■nfal and inteUectnal powers dwarfed or prostraiei 

^rnder an impoverished diet," says Dr. Confie^ 
*^die sMval and intdlectoal capacity is deterioniM 
a$ cieitainly as the bodQy;" and he adverts to tiA 
wirk-hoase and charitable iiistitation system of weak 
w«p$ and low v^etable diet, and to the known £iet8, 
that children bronght np on soch fere are nsoally 
feeble^ pvny^ >^d diseased in body, and are at be^ 
but moderate in capacity. 

The rational conrde seems to be, to feed infests, 
till about three years old, chiefly with milk and mild 
ferinacK^oiis vegetable preparations ; a large portioa 
<if $wn1 bmd. Hght, well-baked, and coldj should b^ 
giwft them; after that period, to propord<m their 
jMlid feed to the amount of exerdse they are al^ to 
take. Children idio play abroad in the open aii^ 
will Tvqnii^ more hearty noiiridiment,---more meat, 
than th«m who aie kept confined in the house ^ 
tfrhool-nwau From th^a^ of tenor twelve to six* 



C.OQ]^EBY ?0R CHILDREN. 31 7 

the exercises (of boys especially) most violent, a 
sufficiency of plain nourishing food should be given ; 
there is little danger of their taking too much, if it 
be of the right kind and properly cooked. But do 
not allow them to eat hot bread, or use any kind of 
Btimulating drinks. 



fOOD FOR A TOUira JSIAST. 
Take of fresh cow's milk one table spoonful, and 
mix with two tablespoonfuls of hot water ; sweeten 
with loaf sugar as much as may be agreeable. This 
quantity is sufficient for once feeding a new-bom in- 
4MPLt ; and the same quantity may be given every two 
or three hours — ^not oftener — till the mother's breast 
affi)rds the natural nourishment. 



^ISICXSHED IDJJL FOR HTFAITTS WHEN SIX 

KOHTHS OLD. 

Take one pint of milk, and one pint of water ; boil 
it, and add one tablespoonful of flour. 

Dissolve the flour first in half a teacupful of water ; 
it must be strained in gradually, and boiled hard for 
twenty minutes. As the child grows older, one-third 
wnter. If properly made, it is the most nutritious, 
and at the same time the most delicate food, that can 
be given to young children. 



KILE 
Fresh from- the cow with a very little loaf su^t^ 
is good and safe food for young ehal&x^ii. ^x^\ol 



318 COOKERY FOR CHILDREN. 

three years old to seven, pure milk, into which is 
crumbled stale bread, is the best break£sLst and supper 
for a child. 



FOB A CHILD'S LUVCHEOir. 
Good sweet butter, with stale bread, is one of the 
most nutritious, at the same time the most wholesome 
articles of food, that can be given children after thej 
are weaned. 



BBOTH 
Made of lamb or chicken, with stale bread toasted, 
and broken in, is safe and healthy for the dinners of 
children when first weaned. 



MILE POSRIDOE. 

Stir four tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, smoothly, into 
a quart of milk, then stir it quickly into a quart of 
boiling water, and boil up a few minutes till it is 
thickened: sweeten with sugar. 

Observe. — Oatmeal, where it agrees with the 
stomach, is much better for children, being a fine 
opener as well as cleanser ; fine flour in every shape 
is the reverse. Where biscuit powder is in use, let 
it be made at home ; this, at all events, will prevent 
them getting the sweepings of the baker's counters, 
boxes, and baskets.* 

* AU the left bread in the norseiy, hard ends of stale loaves, Ac, onght 
to be dried in the OTen or acreen, and reduced to powder io the mortar. 



COOKERY FOR CHILDREN. 319 

MEATS lOB CmLDBEB' 

Mutton, lamb, and poultry, are the best. Birds, 
and the white meat of fowls, are the most deli- 
cate food of this kind that can be given. These 
meats should be slowly cooked, and no gravy, if made 
rich with butter, should be eaten by a young child. 
Never give children hard, tough, half worked meats, 
of any kind. 



VEGETABLES FOB GHILDBEV, EGGS, kc 
Their rice ought to be cooked in no more water than 
is necessary to swell it; their apples roasted, or 
stewed with no more water than is necessary to steam 
them, their vegetables so well cooked as to make 
them require little butter, and less digestion ; their 
eggs boiled slow and soft. The boiling of their milk 
ought to be directed by the state of their bowels ; if 
flatulent or bilious, a very little curry powder may be 
given in their vegetables with good effect — such as 
turmeric and the warm seeds (not hot peppers) are 
particularly useful in such cases. 



POTATOES AHD PEAS 

Potatoes, particularly some kinds, are not easily 
digested by children ; but this is easily remedied by 
mashing them very fine, and seasoning them with 
sugar and a little milk. 

When peas are dressed for children, let them be 
seasoned with mint and sugar, ^rloicl;! yn!!X\si^ ^^ 



3i0 COOKEBT FOB CHBUBES. 

tlie flatokDcy.* Xeicr giro Ibem wegMtAoB less 
stewed than would pulp tluoii^ a coDeoder. 



FU1UIIJG8 m PAVCAXEB lOE CHIUIBEV. 
Sugar and egg^ browned befine the fiie or dsc^ped 
as fritters into a hot filing-pan, withootfi^ will make 
tliema nourishing meaL 



BKS FUmnVG, WIXU JfUUlX. 
In a pint of new milk pot two large spoonfiols of 
rice well washed : then add''two apples, pared and 
quartered, or a few currants or raisins. Simmer 
slowly till the rice is very soft, then add one egg, 
beaten, to bind it Serve with cream and sugar or 
molasses. 



HASTY FUDDnrO 
Made of Indian meal, and eaten in milk or w£ii 
mollasses, is nutritious and healthful food. 



TO PBEPASE FRUIT FOBl CHILDSEK 
A far more wholesome way than in pies or pud- 
dings, is to put apples sliced, or plums, currants, 
gooseberries, &c., into a stone jar ; and sprinkle 
among them as much Lisbon sugar as necessary. 
Set the jar in an oven or on a hearth, with a tea- 
cupful of water to prevent the fruit from burning; 
or put the jar into a saucepan of water till its con- 

* If they are old, let fhem "be -yxiV^c^ «a l\\e skins are perfectly indi- 
gestible \3j children^soi -weak itorcvaxdcA. 



jCookeby fob childben. 321 

tents be perfectly done. Slices of bread or some rice 
may be pnt into the jar, to eat with the fruit. 



BICE AKD APPLES. 
Core as many nice apples as will fill the dish ; 
boil them in light syrup ; prepare a quarter of a 
pound of rice in milk, with sugar, and salt ; put 
some of the rice in the dish, and put in the apples, 
and fill up the intervals with rice, and bake it in the 
oven till it is a fine colour. 



A inCE APPLE CAKE FOB CKTTiDBEN. 
Grate some stale bread, and slice about double the 
quantity of apples ; butter a mould, and line it with 
sugar paste, and strew in some crumbs, mixed with 
a little sugar ; then lay in apples, with a few bits of 
butter over them, and so continue till the dish is full ; 
cover it with crumbs, or prepared rice ; season with 
cinnamon and sugar. Bake it well. 



FRUITS FOR CTTTTiDBEN. 
That fruits are naturally healthy in their season, 
if rightly taken, no one, who believes that the Creator 
is a kind and beneficent Being, can doubt. And yet 
the use of summer fruits appears often to cause most 
fatal diseases, especially in children. Why is this? 
Because we do not conform to the natural laws in 
using this kind of diet. These laws are very simple 
and easy to understand. Let the fruit b^ xv^^ ^Y^ssgl 
yon eat it; and eat it when you req)pat^ io^. 

X 



333 OOOKSST FOK CHILDREN. 

Ncvr, newrly one balf of the summer fruits used are 
eaten in an unripe or decaying state ; more than half 
sold in tlie cities are in this condition. And this 
unkealUiT fruit b often taken when no fruit is needed 
after the ftill dinner, or fixr pastime in the evening. 
It B given to children to amuse them or stop thar 
erring^ when they are <rften sufiering from repletiim. 
Is it a ironda' that ftnits make people and children 
ai^ under s«di cireumstances ?*^ 

In the eoantiy, ftrdts in their season usually form 
part of the morning and evening meal of children, 
with bread and milk — fresh gathered fruits — and 
tkey seldom prove injurious, eaten in this manner. 

Fndts.thal have seeds are much healthier than the 
4&vi^ fruits, except perhaps peaches. But all fruits are 
bect«»r« for very young children, if baked or cocked in 
;SKwne manner, and eaten with bread. The French, who 
are n h«althftd people, always eat bread with raw fraii 

Apples and winter pears are very excellent food 
Rw children, indeed for almost any person in health; 
but be$t when eaten at break£ist or dinner. If taken 
late in the evening, fruit often proves iirjurioiis. 
The old saying that apjdes are goid in the mammg, 
sUictr of noon, amd lead at nightj is pretty near the 
tr«th« Bodi a^^ples and pears are oftien good and 
nutritioQS when baked or stewed, for those delicate 
eotts^tutioBS that cannot bear raw fruiL 



* TW iMOT i eT Akmim wmaag diOdien is often canaed by flieir esBflg 



GOOKEBY FOB CHILDBEN. 323 

Mncli of the fruit gathered when unripe, might be 
rendered fit for food by preserving in sugar. 

Bipe Currants are excellent for children. Mash 
the fruit, sprinkle with sugar, and with good bread 
let them eat of this fruit freely. 



BLACEBERBT JAM. 
Gather the fruit in dry weather ; allow half a 
pound of good brown sugar to every pound of firuit ; 
boil the whole together gently for an hour, or till the 
blBfikberries are soft, stirring and mashing them well. 
Preserve it like any other jam, and it will be found 
very useful in families, particularly for children — 
regulating their bowels, and enabling you to dis- 
pense with cathartics. It may be spread on bread, 
or on puddings instead of butter; and even when 
the blackberries are bought, it is cheaper than butter. 
In the country, every family should preserve, at 
least, a half peck of blackberries. 



TO MAZE SENV A AlH) MANHA PALATABLE. 
Take half an ounce, when mixed, senna and 
manna ; put it in half a pint of boiling water ; when 
the strength is abstracted, pour into the liquid from 
a pound of prunes and two large tablepoonfuls of 
West India moksses. Stew slowly iratil the liquid is 
nearly absorbed. When cold k can be eateit with 
bread and butter, without deteoting the manna, and 
i6 excellect for costive ehildren. 



824 CUBING M£ATSy POTTING, AND COLLABING. 



CURING JIEATS, POTTING, AND COLLABING. 



GEKESAL DIBECTIOlSrS. 
Meat intended for salting should hang a &w days, 
till its fibres become short and tender, instead ot 
being salted as soon as it comes from the market ; 
though, in very hot weather, it may be requisite to 
salt as soon as possible ; beginning by wiping dry, 
taking out the kernels and pipes, and filling the 
holes with salt. 

Beef and pork, after being examined and wiped, 
should be sprinkled with water and hung to drain a 
few hours after, before they are rubbed with salt; 
this cleanses the meat from blood, and improves its 
delicacy. The salt should be rubbed in evenly; 
first, half the quantity of salt, and, after a day or two, 
the remainder. The meat should be turned every 
day, kept covered with the pickle, and rubbed daily, 
if wanted soon. The brine will serve for more than 
one parcel of meat, if it be boiled up, skimmed, and 
used cold. 

In salting beef, the brisket and flat ribs should be 
jointed, so as to let in the salt, which should also he 
crabbed well into each piece ; the meat should then 
ihQ:pat down tightly in the salt -bin, the prime pieces 
$i the bottom, and,<}Overed with salt; the coarse 
being at the \fs^^ \a \)e u^^ ^^t. 




CURING MEATS, POTTING, AND COLLARING. 325 

Bay-salt gives a sweeter flavour than any other 
kind. Sugar makes the meat mellow and rich, and 
is sometimes used to rub meat before salting. In 
frosty weather, warm the salt, to ensure its pene- 
trating the meat. 

Remember, that unless meat be quite fresh, it can- 
not be kept by salting. Neither will salt recover 
stale meat ; for, if it be in the least tainted before it 
is put into the pickle, it will be entirely spoiled in 
one hot day. 

In frosty weather, take care the meat is not frozen, 
and warm the salt in a frying-pan. The extremes 
of heat and cold are equally unfavourable for the 
process of salting. In the former, the meat changes 
before the salt can affect it ; in the latter, it is so 
hardened, and its juices are so congealed, that the 
salt cannot penetrate it. 

If you wish it red, rub it first with saltpetre, in 
the proportion of half an ounce, and the like quan- 
tity of moist sugar, to a pound of common salt. 

In summer, canvass covers should be placed over 
salting-tubs to admit air and exclude flies, which are 
more destructive to salt than fresh meat. 

As our book is designed for country as well as city 
fdmiUes, we will give several receipts for curing 
meats, making brine, &c., which are chiefly important 
to the former. 



nCKLE PCS BEEF, POS^ ln« 
To four gallons of pump- water aMi «v^V '^-'oa^ 



326 CUUXO MEATS, FOTTIHGi AKD COLLABINO. 

and a balf of Musoovado sugar or treacle^ two oonees 
of sal^wtre, and six pounds of baj or common salt 
Boil the whole, and remove all the scum that rises; 
then take off the liquor, and, when eold, poor it over 
the meat, so as to cover it This pickle is fine hi 
emring hams, tongoes, and hee^ finr drying ; which, 
vpon heing taken out of the pidde, cleaned and 
dried, should he pot into paper hags, and hmig npin 
a warm place. 

Another jnckle is : six omices salt and fonr ounces 
sogar to a quart of water, and <me quarter of an 
ounce of saltpetre ; to he hoiled and skimmed. 

A round of beel^ of twenty-five pounds, will take 
a pound and a half of salt to he ruhhed in at odm^ 
and requires to he rubbed and turned daily: it will 
he ready, but not very salt, in four or five days ; if 
to be eaten cold, it will be finer flavoured, and keep 
better, for being a week in the brine. 

An aitch-bone, of a dozen pounds' weight, will 
require three-quarters of a pound of salt, mixed with 
one ounce of coarse sugar, to be well rubbed into it 
for four or five days. 



PICKLE EQB BEEF. 
Allow to four gallons of water two pounds of 
brown sugar, six pounds of salt, and four ounces of 
saltpetre; boil it about twenty minutes, taking off 
the scum as it rises ; the following day pour it over 
the meat which has been packed into the pickling- 
tab* Pour off this Ynme, \x>V\. «si<^ ^Seaxi^ \^ €<%^ 



CURING MEATS, POTTING, AND COLLABING. 327 

two months, adding three ounces of brown sugar and 
half a pound of common salt By this means it will 
keep good a year. The meat must be sprinkled with 
salt, and the next day wiped dry, before pouring the 
pickle over it; with which it should always be com- 
pletely covered. 



AM SZCELLEirr PICKLE FOB HAHS, TOISTGUES, &e. 
Take one gallon of water, one pound and a half of 
salt, one pound of brown sugar or molasses, one ounce 
of allspice, and one ounce of saltpetre ; scald, skim, 
and let it cooL Eub the meat with salt, and let it 
lie two days ; then pour the pickle over it. Let the 
hams remain from a fortnight to a month in this 
pickle, according to their size, turning them every 
day. 

Care must be taken to secure bacon and hams from 
the fly. The best method is, to put them in coarse 
calico or canvass bags; paper is apt to break in 
damp weather. Always keep smoked meat in a dark 
place. 



TO SALT BEEF. 
To six pounds of common salt, add twelve ounces 
of brown sugar, six ounces of saltpetre, some bruised 
bay leaves, thyme, winter savoury, and sweet mar* 
joram, with a few cloves and blades of mace; with 
this mixture rub the piece of beef for a few minutes 
every day for six days running, after whlck \fiLKt^ 
tarn it over in the brine once a-&ay tot «i\3L ^^^. ^ 



SiS CnXXG MEATS, POTTING, AND COLLABINO. 

tlie beef is thin it 'will be ready for use. A round 
will take a fortnight longer. This receipt is suitable 
ior ercrv kind of salted meat 



TO SALT BEEF. 

To £Mur gallons of water, add six pounds of salt, 
otte poond of sugar, four ounces of saltpetre; boil 
tlds mixtme; and skim; when cold, immerse the 
Bomu to be preserred, and press with a weight; it is 
esaential that the meat be covered. The same pickle 
nay be used repeatedly, provided it be boiled np occa- 
»imally with additional salt to restore its strength, 
dimintsbed by the combination of part of the salt 
with the meat and by the dilation of the pickle by 
the juice? of the meat extracted. 

By boiling, the albumen, which would cause the 
pickle to spoil, is coagulated, and rises in the form 
of seam> which must be carefully removed. 



TO SALT BEEF BED. 
Choocse a piece of beef with as little bone as you 
can ^ihe flank is the best}, sprinkle it, and let it drain 
a day ; then rub it with common salt, a small pro- 
portion of saltpetre, bay salt, and a little coarse 
sugar ; you may add a few grains of cochineal, all 
in fine powder. Rub the pickle every day into the 
meat for a week, then only turn it 

It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen, 
draiii it ftom the p\ck\^\ %xi^\e;^\\.\^ ^ccl^^^^*^^ 



CURING MEATS, POTTING, AND COLLARING. 329 

OYen's mouth when heated with wood, or send it to 
a smoke-house. A few days will smoke it. It is 
extremely good eaten fresh from the pickle, boiled 
tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated, then 
cat a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and, 
while hot, put it under a press. When cold, fold it 
in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place 
two or three months, ready for serving on bread and 
butter. 



WELSH BEEF. 
Bub two ounces of saltpetre into a round of beef ; 
let it remain an hour, then season it with pepper, 
salt, and a fourth portion of allspice ; allow the beef 
to stand in the brine for fifteen days, turning it fre- 
quently. Work it well with pickle ; put it into an 
earthen vessel, with a quantity of beef suet over and 
under it ; cover it with a coarse paste and bake it, 
allowing it to remain in the oven for six or eight 
ho^rs. Pour off the gravy, and let the beef stand 
till cold. It will keep for two months in winter, and 
will be found useful amid the Christmas fare in the 
country* 



THE DUTCH WAY TO SALT BEEF. 
Take a lean piece of beef, rub it well with treacle 
or brown sugar, anil turn it often. In three days 
wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre 
beaten fine ; rub these well in, and turn. It e^^rj ^wj 
for a fortnight RoU it tight in a coat^^ Ao^^ «sA 



330 CURIKQ HEATS, POTTUfO, AND COLLASDEG. 



preat it under a beavy weigbt ; hang to dij in 
ranoke, bat turn it upside down every daj. Boil k 
in pump-water, and press it : it will grate wcut lato 
shivers, and makes a good break£eut dish. 

To twelve pounds of beef the proportion of 
salt is one pound. 



TO 8ALT BED TOE DnBDIATE USX, AID TO IAD 

nrTo SOUP. 

Take the thin flank or brisket, cut it into pieees 
of the size you wish for your fiunily — from three to 
seven pounds. Rub the pieees thoroughly with diy 
salt; then lay them in a tub, and cover it doee. 
Turn the pieces every day ; and, in a week, it will 
be excellent boiled with vegetables, or made into 
plain peas soup. It will last six weeks in thb 
way. 

Mutton may be salted in the same manner. 



BEEF TOlSrOUES. 
These may be cured by any of the receipts which 
we have already given for pickling beef^ or for hams 
and bacon. Some persons prefer them cured with 
salt and saltpetre only, and dried naturally in a cool 
and airy room. For such of our readers as like them 
highly and richly flavoured, we give our own method 
of having them prepared, which is this : Rub over 
the tongue a handful of fine salt, and let it drain 
until the following day; then, should it weigh from 
seven to eight pouud^, xckvaL V^otoksl'^k^^ ^-^^^ ^xo^sa of 



CUBINa MEATS, POTTING, AND COLLABING. 331 

saltpetre, two ounces of the coarsest sugar, and half 
an ounce of black pepper ; when the tongue has been 
well rubbed with these, add three ounces of bruised 
juniper berries ; and when it has lain two days, eight 
ounces of bay salt dried and pounded; at the end of 
three days more, pour on it half a pound of treacle, 
and let it remain in the pickle a fortnight after this; 
then hang it to drain, fold it in brown paper, and 
send it to be smoked over a wood fire for two or three 
weeks. Should the peculiar flavour of the juniper 
berries prevail too much, or be disapproved, they may 
be in part, or altogether omitted ; and six ounces of 
sugar may be rubbed into the tongue in the first 
instance when it is liked better than treacle. 

Tongue, seven to eight pounds; saltpetre, one 
ounce; black pepper, half an ounce; sugar, two 
ounces; juniper berries, three ounces: two days. 
Bay salt, eight ounces : three days. Treacle, half a 
pound : fourteen days. 

Observe. — Before the tongue is salted, the gullet, 
which has an unsightly appearance, should be trim- 
med away : it is indeed usual to take the root off en- 
tirely, but some families prefer it left on for the sake 
of the fat. 



BEEP TOlSrOXJES. 

A Suffolk Receipt. 

For each very large tongue, mix with half a pound 
of salt two ounces of saltpetre and three-<\aAx^t% ^1 
8 pound of the coaraest sugar ; rub tbe t(m^<^^ ^^^ ^ 



S33 CntDCQ MEATS, POTTING, AND COLLABINGI. 



tliem im tlie pdde for fire weeks, wlien 
IT vill be fit to be dressed, or to be smoked. 
CNit Ui^ toB^ve; salt, balf apoand; sugar, tbree- 

ii a pound; saltpetre, two ounces: five 



TO SUSS lEXF TQVGUE8. 
finesh from the pickle they reqmre no 
tker should have remained in it much 
W^'vid the «s«al time, or hare been cured with a 
«MC« thtta commoii pn^MNrtion of salt; but when they 
havY Vm« 8»olxd and hung for some time, they 
s^wi W laid for two or three hours in cold, and as 
K«eh kfl^er in tepid water, before they are dressed: 
it eJk:nvoielT drr, ten or twelve hours must be allowed 
Kk wie^em them, and they should always be brought 
lYTT $lowlv to boiL Two or three carrots and a 
Urce bondi of savonr herbs, added after the scum is 
v<<<a:^ v«^ will improve them. They should be sim- 
CMC^ until ther are extremely tender, when the 
$iia will j*wl from them easily. A highly-dried 
tvvxjra^ will ttsoaUy require from three and a half to 
ilMsr hocKT^* K>iling : an unsmoked one, about an hour 
k^ : and for one which has not been salted at all, a 
$hs>rter time wiU suffice. 



Stnre lEXF. 

Kub the be^ well with salt and saltpetre, in the 
two trasftes t£ ^>:^r9qc^ v^^^ae^^s^^Rs^s^ 



CUAINa MEATS, POTTING, AND COLLARING. 333 

of salt to fifty pounds of beef. Put the beef into a 
cask or tub; place a board over it, and weights upon 
that ; leave it so for about a fortnight ; then take it 
out, and hang it in the kitchen to dry, which will 
generally take about three weeks. Some persons 
leave it for a longer time in the tub, which they 
merely cover, without the weight ; but the above is 
the better way. 



CHEAP HUITG BEEP. 
Take the fleshy part of a leg of beef, salt it three 
days ; then put it into a clean pan, and rub it with 
this mixture daily for a week : Four ounces of coarse 
sugar, one ounce of ground allspice, and one ounce 
of powdered saltpetre ; next drain the bee^ wrap it 
in brown paper, hang it in a chimney to dry, and in 
a month it will be fit to dress. 



CUBIKG PORK. 
The pork being kiUed, several points require atten- 
tion : first, the chitterlings must be cleaned, and all 
the fat taken off; they are then to be soaked for two 
or three days in four or six waters, and the fat may 
be melted for softening shoes, &c. ; the inside fat, or 
flare, of pork, must be melted for lard as soon as pos- 
sible, without salt, if for pastry. The souse should 
-be salted for two or three days, and then boiled till 
tender ; or fried or broiled, after being boiled. The 
sides for bacon must be wiped, rubbed at t\v& V^xis^ 
and spruzkied with salt, to extract ti[x<&\A»cA\ ^^ 



diceks, and spue-ribsy should be siiidlarij 
nhad. On tJ» tluid 6sj after poik is IdUed, h 
sar be r^fukrly saHed, tabs or pans being placed 
to reeeiTe the brine, wbich is nsefiil for dunes sod 
loBgnes. Deoember and Janoaij are die best montln 
fv prqiaring bacon, astbefinostisnotthen fooseyeR; 
The hog is made into baeon, or piekled. 



TO SALT PAT FOBX. 
Pad^ it down tightly in the barrel, eadi layer ci 
pock eorered with dean coarse salt ; then make a 
strong brine with two gallons of water and as much 
coarse salt as will dissolve in it; bml and skim; kt 
it stand till it is perfectly cold, and then ponr it to 
the meat till that is covered. Pork is best without 
sugar or saltpetre, provided it be always kept covered 
with this strong brine. 



BAOQF. 

The wieAod of ewring Mtdines Bacon, to mtidk adadrtd for Ut 

^ne flavour. 

Cat off the hams and head of a pig, if a large one; 
take out the chine and leave in the spare-rib, as they 
will keep in the gravy, and prevent the bacon from 
rusting. Salt it first with common salt, and let it 
lie for a day on a table, that the blood may run from 
it ; then make a biine with a pint of bay salt, one- 
quarter peck of common salt, about one-quarter pound 
of juniper berries, and some bay leaves, with as much 
water as will, wben Vil;i^ AsnsL^ i& xsi'^t^^ ^iiQb^«e the 



CUBING MEATS, POTTING, AND COLLABING. 335 

bacon; when the salt is dissolyed, and when quite 
cold, if a new-laid egg will swim id* it, the brine may 
be put on the bacon, which, after a week, must be 
rubbed with the following mixture : — Half pound of 
saltpetre, two ounces of sal-prunella, and one pound 
of coarse sugar ; after remaining four weeks, it may 
be hung up in a chimney where wood is burned; 
shavings, with sawdust and a small quantity of tur^ 
may be added to the fire at times. 



WESTPHALIA HAMS 

Are prepared in November and March. The Ger- 
mans place them in deep tubs, which they cover with 
layers of salt and saltpetre, and a few laurel leaves. 
They are left four or five days in this state, and then 
are completely covered with strong brine. At the 
end of three weeks, they are taken out, and soaked 
twelve hours in clear spring water; they are then 
hung for three weeks in smoke, produced from the 
branches of jumper plants. 

Another method is to rub the leg intended for a 
ham with half a pound of coarse sugar, and to lay it 
aside £:>r a night. In the morning, it is rubbed with 
an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of common salt, 
mixed. It i8 then tamed daUy for three weeks, and 
afterwards dried in wood and turf-smoke. When 
boiled, a pint of oak sawdust is directed to be put 
into the pot or boiler- 

Observe^ — ^Dried meats, hams, &c.) should b& \u^ 
in a cold but not iamp {4aiQe« 




^kaMk those wkidi 
wUdi 



Take Ae Ihms m nam as te pork is adBaea&j 
oU li Ve cas af^ tab them wdl widi eoauiioii salt, 

f^knt dars to dram ; throw awsy 

of haau oi ftook fifteen to 

together two ounces of 

of coane aa^ar, aad a pound of 

ty part with these, 
) 4b^ piddiag-pagas widt Ae nad down* 
keep them Ibr three da3r8 well oorered 
wick ihe sahaadsa^ar: then poar orer them a bottk 
«f $tai iit^*r. and torn them in the hrine, and 
haiae them wiih h dailv for a month; drain them 
wsSL rcb them wi^ bran, and let them be hnng for 
n Dcaik hish in a chimneT over a wood fire to be 




Hjxs. of from fifteen to eighteen poonds eacb, 
ra«: 6» drain, three days;. Common salt and coarse 
si^sr. each, one poond; saltpetre, two oimces: three 
da^T^ Yiaesar. one bottle: (me monUi. To be 



Rnb a pieee of lean fleshy bee^ abont three poonds 
in weighty with an oimioe of saltpetre powdered, and 
aAtfwaida with two <»■««& <:llw^x-, Y*''^^'^ ^^^^ 



CURING MEATS, POTTING, AND COLLARING. 337 

or salting-tray, and let it lie two days, basting it 
with the brine, and robbing it into it each day. Then 
pat the meat into an earthenware jar, jnst large 
enongh to hold it, together with all the skin and 
gristle of the joint, first trimmed firom it: add about 
a pint of water, put some stijQP paste over the top of 
the jar, and place it in a slow oven to bake for four 
honrs. When it is done, pour off the gravy, (which 
save to use for enriching sauces or gravies,) take out 
the gristle and the skin; then cut the meat small, 
and beat it in a mortar, adding occasionally a litlle 
of the gravy, a little fresh butter, and finely pow- 
dered allspice, cloves, and pepper, enough to season 
it. The more you beat and rub the meat, the better, 
as it wiU require so much less butter or gravy, which 
will assist it to keep the longer; but when potted 
beef is wanted for present use, the addition of gravy 
and butter will improve its taste and appearance. 
When it is intended for keeping, put it into small 
earthenware pots, or into tin cans, press it down hard, 
pour on the top clarified butter to the thickness of a 
quarter of an inch, and tie over it a piece of damp 
bladder. 

To make potted meat more savoury, you may beat 
up with it the flesh of an anchovy or two, or a little 
minced tongue, or minced ham or bacon; or mush- 
room powder, curry powder, a few shalots, or sweet 
herbs of any kind, the flavour of whichever may be 
most agreeable. 

Meat that has been stewed tomakfi^rv?7^\cv*d^ 



tncramup iiL ntwinlfmr t^ 
^ad^ or oxrfiDHgne is node m tke 
oaly varying cbe ii ■iiiiiiij^ i to sst 
if :fae 



^ sobLi js air abler ^o^ Itt then be 
tiaa&fir if tfaegixvybe Ie& ib^ tbemett 
vol as kara Uf » iPcIL Scae de Aesli ofthe 




aad dKB pood it 

vick abas OBfr^biid of its wo^ d 

r wwmmg feaiv i^ the meal should 

•if AprapereoiLssa&Qe wifiboat tbefbllqiitn- 

saauBi k vim sus;» aacey aad Cajenne onlj) 

ai2i uiCK is small portioas andl the meat is 

\actij ixTomnd wick bach the last: proceed 

ri m wrsk ocber potted meats. 



moTKBBD ¥asan whqlb. 

Bcae, iTKii and pack them into a deep pan, with 
pepper, saix, and a little fine powder of thyme, or 
aar nraet berb that may be agreeable, and a doTe 
of gaiiie braised and rubbed into the salt, and spices; 
eorer with badier; bake them well covered. While 
tbey are yei wann, pot them into the pots they are 
to be presented in; these pots ought to have close 
covers; press them well down, and lay a weight 
imoa them; whea ccAd. ^^ ^^^^^ ^l^^\ra^i«!t 



PICKLES. 339 

were baked in over them. If mushTooms can be 
had, pack them with the pigeons, or staff them wit^ 
them. 

All birds that are potted should be boned, as thej 
cut with less waste, and keep better. 



PICKLES. 



BULES TO BE OBSBBYED WITH FICKLE8. 
Avoid as much as possible the use of metal vessels 
in preparing them. Acids dissolve the lead that is 
in the tinning of saucepans, and corrode eopper and 
brass; consequently, if kept in such for any length 
of time, they become highly poisonous. When it is 
necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar on a 
stove. 

Use also wooden spoons and forks. 

See that the pickles are always completely covered 
with vinegar; and if any symptoms appear of their 
becoming mouldy, boil the vinegar again, adding a 
little more spice. It is a good rule to have two- 
thirds of the jar filled with pickles and one-third 
with vinegar ; keep them also close stopped, as expo- 
sure to the air makes the pickle soft. 

In greening pickles, keep them closely covered, so 
that none of the steam of the vinegai m^\iv^^<b^ 
are boiled be allowed to evaporate*) axAX^^ ^€s&. 



or il win take vmmj tbor 



■hH fHBlitT of afant viH make them 
» wEtA wH EftA ihatu 
TW Mk«vi^ is a gooi general pnqportioii of 
ier : — ^T* cadk ^aait of liaegai pot half an ofonce 
pcffer, ttfi anae of ginger and all- 
of ■nntara seeo, widi four sliaktSi 




leqaired to keep ao long as 
tte Tim^ar need not be 
Waal; il dwMy ki w ei e i, be almost invari- 
aUr warai Anvk a acre mm dm aortidea to be 
fiettBi. ne jv iknld be eofered fate a time, say 
a flafee or board, bat not tied orer, so as to 
Ike 

for pirkliDg is July and 




Ki Kii 1^4*: 



#ir /kS^fmm, die small long sort are the best for 
fweklb^. Let tkem be fresh gathered ; poD off the 
bksMflHL bnt d» not nib them; pour oyer them a 
jcrang brine «f sah and water boiling hot, ooTer them 
€l««u md let tkem stand all night The next day 
stir tbem gendr to take off the sand, drain them on 
a sieve, anddrr Aemoaaeloth; makeajHcklewith 
the best oder Tinegar, ginger, pq>per (long and 
nHmd\ end mltfle fjiixVV^ \Vhen the fickle bml^ 
tkiow in the cocoanVec^ ^^^^ Vy»9Bi^«si^Ti»^^*^»^ 



PICKLES. 341 

boil as qtiickly as possible for three or four minutes; 
put them into a jar with the vinegar, and cover them 
doselj ; when cold, put in a sprig of diU, the seed 
downward. They will be exceedingly crisp and 
green done in this manner; but if they do not appear 
to be of a fine colour, boil up the pickle the next day, 
and pour it boiling on the cucumbers. 



TO FICKLE GEESSnrS OB SKALL dTCUMBERS. 

Choose nice young ones, spread them on dishes, 
salt them, and let lie a week, with a small bit of 
alum; then drain them, and, putting them in a jar, 
pour boiling vinegar over them. Set them near the 
fire, covered with plenty of vine leaves ; if they do 
not become a tolerably good green, pour the vinegar 
into another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and when 
it becomes too hot to bear your hand, but still not to 
boil, pour it over them again, covering with fresh 
leaves ; and thus do till they are of as good a colour 
as you wish. As an additional reason for preparing 
them at home, it is indeed well known that die very 
fine green pickles are made so by the dealers using 
brass or bell metal vessels, which, when vinegar is 
put into them,^become highly poisonous. 

If spicesbe not mixed among the pickle^ put into the 
kettle in a thin muslin bag allspice, mace, and mus- 
tard-seed, to every quart of vinegar in the proportion 
of rather less than half an ounce each of the former 
to one ounce of the seed. 



842 PICKLES. 

10 XAIB THB CELEBRATED PICKLE CAIJUBD 

POEX-XELIA. 

Put a layer of white oak leaves and black comiit 
Veaves at the bottom of an oak cask ; then pat a layer 
of cocnmbera ; strew some horseradish, garlic, race- 
ginger, whole pepper, allspice, and doves, then a 
layer of leaves, cacmnbers, spice, &c., &c., and bo 
on until the cask is falL Add half a gallon of good 
cider vinegar, and fill the cask up with salt and 
water strong enough to bear an egg. 



KAveoss. 

Although any melon may be nsed before it is quite 
ripe, yet there is a particular sort for this purpose^ 
which the gardeners know, and should be mangoed 
soon after they are gathered. Cut a small piece out 
of one end, through that take out the seeds, and mix 
with them mustard seed and shred garlic ; stuff the 
melon as full as the space will allow, and replace the 
cut piece. Bind it up with pack-thread. To allow 
for wasting, boil a good quantity of vinegar, 'Xnth 
pepper, salt, ginger, and any of the sweet spices; 
then pour it boiling hot over the mangoes during 
four successive days ; and on the last, put flour of 
mustard and scraped horseradish into the vinegar, 
just as it boils up. Stop close. Observe that there 
be plenty of vinegar, as pickles are spoiled if not 
well covered. Large cucumbers, called " green tur- 
ley," prepared in the same way, are excellent, and 
are sooner fit to )aft ^aXfcTv. 



PICKLES. 343 

MANGOES. 

Ano^^er Way, 

Musk melons should be picked for mangoes, when 
they are green and hard. They should be cut open 
after they have been in salt water ten days, the 
inside scraped out clean, and filled with mustard- 
seed, allspice, horseradish, small onions, &c., and 
sewed up again. Scalding vinegar poured upon them. 



TO FICKLE WALNT7TS. 
The walnuts for this pickle must be gathered while 
a pin can pierce them easily, for when once the shell 
can be felt, they have ceased to be in a proper state 
for it. Make sufficient brine to cover them well, with 
six ounces of salt to the gallon *of water; take off the 
. scum, which will rise to the surface as the salt dis- 
solves, throw in the walnuts, and stir them night and 
morning; change the brine every three days, and if 
they are wanted for immediate eating, leave them in 
it for twelve days ; otherwise, drain them from it in 
nine days, spread them on dishes, and let them 
remain exposed to the air until they become black; 
this will be in twelve hours or less. Make a pickle 
for them with something more than half a gallon of 
vinegar to the hundred, a teaspoonful of salt, two 
ounces of black pepper, three ounces of bruised ginger, 
a drachm of mace, and from a quarter to half an ounce 
of cloves (of which some may be stuck into three or 
four small onions), and four ounces of mustard seed. 
Boil the whole o{ these together for aiKiut ^N^TDMSQ^fc»»% 



M4 ncKLSB. 

hKt^ ife walaate tmij in a stone jar or jan, and 
l^r it Ml ihcm as il is taken from the fire. Wbea 
il* f«ekle B quia cold, ooTer the jar securely, and 
aawa ii in a dry plaee. Keep the walnuts alwi^ 
wA «oT«r«| witk the vinegar, and boil that which ii 
atMi^ikena. 

WafaMitk ene hundred; in brine made with twelve 
tMBMtt «f aah to two quarts of water, and charged 
twiw w W3te» nine or twelve days. Vinegar, fall 
hdbTfalkn; $alt,enetaaspoonfal; whole black pepper, 
t«i» mboh: ginger, three ooncea; mace, one drachm; 
tltH«kf«Ht«rtohalfano«Me; small onions, four to 
cul: iMMiaid Med» lour oonees : five minutes. 



TO ncKLi nsn. 

Watth il^ bat do not cut off any of the rootlets; 
btid er lake il tender, peel it, or rub off the outside 
wtdi a ciMurw dolh« cut it into slices, put them into 
a ^iar« widi coU boiled vinegar, black pepper, and 
ginyr> This is one of the most ornamental pickles 
Wmghl ti> taUe. 



TO nCEIl QIIIUIB. 
Clio«Me all of a siae, peel them, and pour on them 
boiling salt and water: cover them up, and, when 
cokL drain the onions^ and put th^n into jars and 
bottlee; lor wAtito or «t%wr, fill up with hot distilled 
vinegar; lor Iroini, white wine vinegar; in eidier 
ease, adding ginger, two or three blades of maoe, 
and whole p«ppw« 



PICKLES. 345 

The onions are sometimes put into milk and water 
immediately after they are peeled, to preserve their 
colour. 

Another method, by which crispness is insured, is 
to soak the onions in brine for three or four days, 
then drain them, and pour on them cold boiled vinegar 
with spice. 



TO FICEXE T0KAT0E8. 

Wash the tomatoes ; puncture them slightly with 
a pointed stick about the size of a straw. Then fill 
a jar with alternate layers of tomatoes and salt ; let 
them stand for eight or ten days. Then to each 
gallon of tomatoes add two bottles of powdered mus- 
tard ; four ounces of ground ginger ; four ounces of 
pepper, slightly bruised ; one ounce of doves ; and 
twelve onions sliced. Put these ingredients in layers 
through the tomatoes, and cover the whole with 
stnmg vinegar. 



TO FICKLE KUSHBOOXS. 
. Select the smallest buttons, rub them with flannel 
and salt, removing any red inside, and rejecting such 
as are black underneath. As they are cleaned, throw 
them into cold water to keep their colour ; then put 
them into a stewpan with some salt, over a slow fire, 
until they are dry, when cover them with distilled 
vinegar, and warm; put them into wide-mouthed 
bottles, with a blade or two of mace in each, and 
when quite cold, cork and cement. 



346 FICKLBS. 

TO PICXLE SED AHB WHITE CAEllAffR 
Choose the purple red cabbage, take aff the ootsade 
leayes, quarter them, cot out the stalk, shred the 
cabbage into a cullender or small basket, and sprinkle 
it with common salt ; let the cabbage remain a day 
or two, when drain it, put it into jars, and fill ixp 
with boiling vinegar, the usual quantity of ginger 
and black pepper, and a few grains of cochineal, 
powdered, or a few slices of beet-root. 

Or: If the boiled vinegar be poured over the 
cabbage, it will better insure its crispness ; thoo^h 
the cabbage wiU not keep so long as when pckkd 
with boiling vinegar. 

WTnte Cabbage may also be pickled as above, with 
the addition of a little turmeric powder. 



TO FICKLE KASTUKTIUMS. 
Choose them young, and soak them twelve hoars 
in brine ; drain and pour on them boiling vinegar, 
with whole black pepper and allspice. They are 
sometimes used as economical substitutes for capers ; 
and the flowers and young seeds are used in salads. 



TO FICELE OBEEK FEFFEB8. 
The peppers must be pickled when half ripe, and 
the smallest ones chosen. Make a small hole at the 
top and another at the bottom of the pepper, and ex- 
tract the core and seeds. A penknife should be used 
in performing this operation. Simmer the peppers 
for a whole day m ft«\\. «dA.'??%X&x w«t ^^^t^ mode- 



PICKLES. 347 



rate fire ; stir them every once and awhile, that those 
at the bottom may not bum. Leave them over night 
to cool, and the next morning lay them gently into 
a jar, sprinkle a small quantity of mustard over them^ 
and fiU up the jar with cold vinegar. 



LEMON PICEXE. 
Peel six large lemons ; cut them in quarters, lay 
them on a dish, and strew over them half a pound of 
salt, turning them every day for a week. Then put 
them into a stone jar ; add six large cloves of garlic, 
two ounces of horseradish shred very thin ; of cloves, 
mace, nutmeg, and Cayenne, each a quarter of an 
ounce ; two ounces of mustard-seeds, bruised and tied 
up in a bit of thin muslin ; and two quarts of the best 
vinegar. Cover the jar, and set it in a pan of boil- 
ing water ; let it boil ten minutes, then set it in the 
oven, or anywhere that it may simmer gently, for two 
hours. Keep the jar closely covered, stirring it 
every day for six weeks ; and when settled, strain it 
and bottle for use. Another quart of vinegar may 
be added to the ingredients, and boiled up, which 
will make a very good pickle for common purposes, 
or the lemon may be added to any mixed pickles. 



348 



TIKEGAB-IAKING. 

It will be eoonomical to make Yinegar at hooM^ as ik 
is an article of great profit, and tlie ingredientB an 
Tery cheap ; or, in some cases would be thiownavaf 
if not so employed. Such are the findts finom lAoA 
wine has been made. 

Vinegar-making requires great attention, eKpoaaOj 
to the casks used for it ; they should not remain enqit^ 
to grow musty ; and a cask that has not befixe oon- 
tained vinegar, should have boiling vinegar ponved 
into it, and be allowed to stand some hours. 

Ropiness in vinegar should not discourage the 
maker; it is not a defect in the domestic process 
only, but is incidental to all vinegar made by fermen- 
tation ; though less likely to occur in wine-vin^;ar, 
which is the purest kind. 



CIDEB VniEOAS. 
Fill nearly a cask with cider, set it in a warm 
situation, with the bung-hole loosely covered over; 
the cider will then begin to sour, and in six months 
will become vinegar. It should then be racked ofi^ 
and kept either in bottles or casks, taking care to 
decant it when it gets thick or mothery. Should the 
vinegar prove weak, it may be strengthened by the 
addition of small quau^li^^ oi «xsl<^^« Older that has 



YINEGAB-MAKING. 349 

not kept well, and has soured, will be the most eco- 
nomical and convenient for conversion into vinegar ; 
the change will also be effected in a shorter space of 
time. 



STTGAB YDTEeAB. 

To every gallon of water put two pounds of coarse 
brown sugar. Boil and skim this. Put it to cool 
in a clean tub ; when about lukewarm, add a slice of 
bread soaked in fresh yeast. Barrel it in a week, 
and set it in the sun in summer, or by the fire in 
winter for six months, without stopping the bung- 
hole; but cover it with thin canvass or an inverted 
botde to keep out the flies. 

Observe. — If vinegar of extra quality is wanted, 
use common loaf sugar. 



PTBOUOHEOTTS ACID. 

This add is applicable to all the purposed for 
which vinegar is employed, and, if diluted with 
water will form vinegar of any strength. One pint 
of the acid, and six pints and a half of water, will form 
the strongest pickling vinegar. One pint of the 
add, and nine pinte of water, are equal to the excd- 
lent pickling vinegar, which is proper for pickling 
most kinds of vegetables, for salads, table, or culinary 
and £Ganily uses. In diluting the add with water, 
it is only necessary to stir both well together. 

This acid, also, if applied to meat, fish, or game^ 
will completely remove must, taint, ot ViMse^veoX. v^- 



3;3l> TCECGAS-MAKINO. 



It is used in tlie same manner as brine 
fe iaEBCKZif raw or cooked meats. 



10 

Ex^ve a vessel of vinegar to the cold of a very 
£wCT xi^ : next monning ice will be found in it, 
wVi^ if thawed, will become pare water. The 
^vvH^ar being freed from so much water, will conse- 
yerlr, be more add than before ; and the vinegar 
mr ti«$ be fronn again and again, nntH it beoomes 



C% l^vr cvBKs c£ voong and freshly-scraped b(Nr8e- 
raB<& icccr a qiars of boiling vinegar, and cover it 
5;«wx Mfif hr : i: will be ready for nse in three or four 
^]rjv bis: oav remain for weeks, or months, before 
tiie Ti»^:ar t< pKKired o£ An oonoe of minced es- 
c&akc xttv V ^nhstimied for one of the horseradish 
if i^ £avc«r is liked. 



Hah" £11 a K>nle with the gre^i leaves of sweet 
lttf& £11 it ap with vinegar, coik it, and let it stand 
ikw a i«aagbt : then strain it. and bottle it for use. 



tASBAfiOV TUSOAS 
Is made bv jn fajgiag the leaves of tarragon, in the 
same manner as directed for basil vinegar. 



THE STORE-CLOSET. 351 

PEFFEB VDVEeAB. 
Take six large red peppers, slit them up, and boil 
them in three pints of strong vinegar. Boil them 
down to one quart. Strain and bottle it for use. It 
will keep for years. 



FLAYOTJBEB YINEaABS. 
These are a cheap and agreeable addition to sauces, 
hashes, &c. Infuse one hundred red chilies, fresh 
gathered, into a quart of good vinegar; let them 
stand ten days, shaking the bottle every day. A 
half ounce of Cayenne will answer the same purpose. 
This is good in melted butter for fish sauce, &c 



THE STORE-CLOSET. 



SAXrCES. 
A WELL-SELECTED stock of thcsc will always prove a 
convenient resource for giving colour and flavour to 
soups, gravies, and made dishes ; but unless the con- 
sumption be considerable, they should not be over 
abundantly provided, as few of them are improved 
by age, and many are altogether spoiled by long 
keeping, especially if they be not perfectly secured 
from the air by sound corking, or if stored where 
there is the slightest degree of damp. To preveiit 
loss, they should be examined at B\iOT\, \\\\«r?^^^«»SL 



1ft ^ fini afpeftianee of mould or fennentation, sndi 
aft v31 bear te p t oc i aft shoold be reboiled, and pat, 
a^un qvhe eold, into desii bottles ; m precaa- 
AcB tsfccalEty needful fi>r mnshroom ketchup 
it bas beoi made in a wet season. This, with 
wiIbbi kefedrapi, Harre^s sauee, eavioe, lemon pickle, 
Cbifi. eueamber, aad eacbakt vin^ar, will be all 
Aal is cnmwwlr needed fior Cunily use, but there is 
at Ae pujmi da j an extensiTe choice of these stores 



■llfEUAL flAUCBS. 
of te foDowin^ win be found good : — 

1. Half an ounee eacb of blade pepper and pounded 
albpice. one ounee of salt, half an ounce of minced 
sbaloC one pint of mushroom ketchup, a tablespoonfiil 
of poft wine, and a teaspoonful of Chili vinegar. Set 
the bottle hr twentr-fbur hours in a heat of about 

m 

ninety degrees of Fahrenheit; let it stand for a week, 
tbcn strain it off and bottle it A spoonful mixed 
witb grarr is excellent for cutl^s. 

2. A wine glass eacb of mushroom and walnut 
ketdiup. port wine, lemon pickle, and ChiU vinegar, 
witb half a glass of essence of anchovy. Put all to- 
gctber into a bottle, and shake it well; it will be 
ready for immediate use, and greatly improve any 
sauce that needs pungency. 

3. Instead of anchovy, put the same quantity of 
eoy^ either witb or without shalot or garlic vinegar 

in liea of lemon picWe. 




THE STORE-CLOSET. 353 

4. Mix two spoonfuls of Indian soy with half a 
pint of vinegar, half quarter ounce of Cayenne pep- 
per, and a small quantity of garlic. Let the whole 
stand for some time in bottle. It will be found an 
excellent relish for fish or cold meat. 



TOMATO KETCHUP. 

Excellent. 

Boil one bushel of tomatoes until tney are soft; 
squeeze them through a fine wire sieve, and add half 
a gallon of vinegar; one pint and a half of salt; two 
ounces of cloves; quarter pound of allspice; three 
ounces of Cayenne pepper; three tablespoonfuls of 
black pepper, five heads of garlic, skinned and sepa- 
rated. 

Mix these together and boil about three hours, or 
until reduced one half. Then bottle without straining. 

It you want half the quantity, take half of the 
above. 



MUSHBOOH KETCHUP. 
Take the large flaps of mushrooms gathered dry, 
and bruize them; put some at the bottom of an 
earthen pan; strew salt over them, then put on an- 
other layer of mushrooms, then salt, and so on till you 
have done. Let them stand a day or two, stirring 
them every day. Strain the liquor through a flannel 
bag, and to every gallon of liquor add one quart of 
red wine, and half an ounce of mace^ half «xi orasss^^ 

of doves, half an ounce of allspice, YnfflcL«tXW5ft ^"t V«^^ 
z 






«f atgnger; if ma/L ntt enoi^ add a litde mofre; 
Wl k tin amt qoait is wasted; strain it into a pan, 
lel it get cold. PonritfiramtfaeaettlingSy botde 
ittigliL 



Take omt toadi e d wafamts when a pin may be 
iiTHft Armgli tbon; beat tbon in a mortar and pass 
ihnM\gli a flannd bag; add to tbe jnioe three 
labkupoffiiU cf salt, and as much Tin^ar as will 
gire ^em a shaipnessL Bol it in a bell-metal pan; 
skim it wefl; pat qnaiter of an oimee each of mace^ 
Afftm, ami ■ ■l m i.'g% and a little whole pqpper, all 
beat tugUbtf. When it b of the odoor of daret^ 
it is d«ma enough. When cold, bottle it, and it will 
lutfcr 



Feeiy very thinhr, six lemons, take off the white, 
and cm the polp into slices, taking out the seeds. 
Pot the peel and polp into a jar, sprinkling between 
them two ounces of bay-salt; coyer the jar, and let 
it stand three days; then boil in a quart of vinegar 
six doves^ three Uades of maoe, two or three shalots, 
and two oonoes of braised mnstard-seed; pour it 
boOing OTer the lemons in the jar. and when cold 
tie over; in a month, strain, and bottle the liquor, 
and the lemons may be eaten as pickle. The above 
is a osefbl sanoe, especially for veal cutlets, and 
jDiDoed veaL 



THE STORE-CLOSET. 35d 

Qimrs sAircE. 

Mix a quarter of a pint of walnut ketchup with half 
a pint of water, half a glass of soy, and a quarter of a 
pint of port or raisin wine; add six anchovies, beaten 
to a paste, or a gill of essence, six sliced shalots, and 
a quarter of an ounce of chilies; simmer all slowly 
for half an hour, then let the mixture stand a few 
days, when it may be strained and bottled for use. 

This and other store sauces can only be refined by 
passing them through a flannel or felt bag. 



TO PBEPABB MUSTABD FOB THE DIKHEB TABLE. 

Mix an ounce of the best flour of mustard with a 
teaspoonM of salt ; when they are well blended to- 
gether, add eight teaspoonfuls of cold water, a little at 
a time, and stir and rub it well together with a wooden 
spoon till it is quite smooth ; the more pains taken in 
stirring and rubbing the better the mustard will be. 
Mustard is best if made only an hour before it is 
wanted; and it will get dry and spoil in a few hours, 
if left uncovered. 

Scraped horseradish may be boiled in the water 
used to mix mustard; and Cayenne pepper, and other 
pungent additions, are sometimes made to mustard. 
Milk is used by some, and vinegar by others, instead 
of water, and sugar instead of salt, in mixing mus- 
tard; but we think these by no means improvements. 



UirSHBOOH POWDEB, 
PeeJ large, fleshy, button muBhxoom^^ wA q?q^ ^ 



356' THE 8T0SE-CL08ET. 

the steins ; spread them on plates, and dry them in a 
slow oven. When thoronghlj dry, pound them with 
a little Cayenne and mace ; hottle and keep the pow- 
der in a dry place. A teaspoonfol of this powder 
will give the mushroom flavour to a tureen of soup, 
or to sauce for poultry, hashes, &c. 



POWDER OF FIHE EEBB8 FOB rULYOUBIBra SOUPff 
AVB SAirOES, WEEK FBESH HEBB8 CAHHOT BE 
OBTADTED. 

Take dried parsley two ounces ; of lemon-thyme, 
summer savory, sweet marjoram, and basil, one ounce 
each; dried lemon peel, one ounce; these must be 
dried thoroughly, pounded fine, the powder mixed, 
sifted, and bottled. You can add celery seeds if liked. 



H0S8EBADISH POWDER. 

In the beginning of winter, slice horseradish, anddry 
it slowly before the fire. When dry, pound and botUe. 



MIXED SPICES AND SEASOHIKOS. 

Dry and pound fine one ounce of black pepper ; of 
nutmeg, ginger, and cinnamon half an ounce each, and 
a dozen cloves. Mix the whole together and bottle 
tightly : use for flavouring forcemeats and gravies. 



SEASONINGS FOR WHITE SAUCE, FRICASSEES, AND 

RAOOITTS. 

White pepper, iwxtme^, mace, and lemon peel — 

equal quantities poMiid.eSL\o%,efOa&T. 



OF DINNEB PARTIES AND CABYINO. 357 



OP DINNER PARTIES AND CARVINQ 



XAHAGEMEHT OF A DDTHEB. 

As a dinner affords the best proof of the manage- 
ment of a household, a few hints upon the subject 
may be useful to the heads of families. 

The comfort of dinner-guests depends much upon 
the proper regulation of the temperature of the din- 
ing-room. In hot weather, this may be effected by 
ventilation and blinds. In winter, there is little 
difficulty to accomplish this with a bright blazing 
fire, and due care. 

In fomilies where a dinner is seldom given, it is 
better to hire a cook to assist in dressing the dinner, 
than to engage an uninformed person. 

In sdecting dinners, you should provide for the 
party such dishes as they are not most used to, and 
those articles which you are most in the way of pro- 
curing of superior quality. 

Large dinner parties, as fourteen or sixteen in 
number, are rarely so satisfactory to the entertainer 
or the guests as small parties of six or eight persons. 
The latter, especially, are pleasant numbers. 

Everything that unites elegance with comfort, 
should be attended to, but elegance ought to give 
way at all times to comfort. Two ot tVmfe <\<^^^ 
make the table look much 'han&fiO'msx \ «s^^ '^ "^^ 



858 OF DINKEB PARTIES AND CABYINa. 

astonislimg how meagre, to an eye accustomed to 
that style, a table with only one appears ; bat this 
may be easily obviated, if the cloth is not removed 
daring the service, by having a stoat coarse one 
onder it, or a scarlet cloth ander a fine thin damask, 
gives it an imperceptible glow ; but, if sach is used, 
the doth must not be taken off, as nothing can look 
well in removing but linen. A scarlet cloth, fitted 
to the table, and laid between the table-cloths, pre- 
serves the polish, as well as adds to the appearance. 

Finger Glasses^ half filled with water, should be 
got ready to be set upon the table with the dessert 

Bread should never be cut less than one inch and 
a half for dinner. 

To ensure a well-dressed dinner, provide enough, 
and beware of the common practice of having too 
much. The table had better appear rather bare than 
crowded with dishes not wanted, or such as will be- 
come cold before they are partaken off. This prac- 
tice of overloading tables is not only extravagant but 
troublesome. The smaller the dinner, when suf- 
ficient, the better will be the chance of its being well 
cooked. 

Vegetables^ in abundance and well dressed, are 
important in a dinner ; and it is a good plan to 
serve a fresh supply with each dish, to ensure them 
hot. In France, more attention is paid to the dress- 
ing of vegetables than in England ; and the French, 
consequently, produce these cheap luxuries in high 
perfection. 



OF DINNER PARTIES AND CARYING. 359 

Before a dish is placed upon the table, its sauces 
and vegetables should be set in their proper places. 

Between the serving of each dish should be a 
short interval, which will not only be pleasant to the 
guests, but will give time to the cook and attendants. 

There should be a reserve of sauces as well as of 
vegetables ; for nothing lessens the enjoyment of a 
dinner so much as a short supply of these adjuncts. 

A chief point to be attended to for a comfortable 
dinner is, to have what you want, and when you 
want it. It is vexatious to wait for first one thing 
and then another, and to receive these little addi- 
tions, when what they belong to is half or entirely 
finished. 

One or more sets of cruets, according to the size 
of the party, should be placed upon table ; the cruets 
should contain such articles as are continually wanted, 
and special attention should be paid to the freshness 
of their contents, as of fish sauces. 

Much money is often unnecessarily expended in 
pastry and desserts. A few kinds of ripe fruit, in 
season, and not forced, are sufficient; though the 
morning is the best time for eating fruit. 

Wines should vary with the seasons ; light wines 
are best in summer; in winter, generous wines are 
preferred. White wine is drunk with white meats, 
and red with brown meats. Light wines are suitable 
to light dishes, and stronger wines to more sub- 
stantial dishes. In summer, wine and water, cooled 
by a piece of ice being put into it, Va ^^.Xxxxxkc^ % ^'^-^ 



360 0F DmSEB PAKTIBS AKD CASTING. 



alflo a bottle of loed water (the best beverage) and 
bottled porter iced. 

Wine is often set npcm the table befiire it is wanted, 
iat show; so that it loses its proper temperature 
before it ip required to be drunk. 

Do not press {)ersons to eat more than appears 
agreeable to them, nor insist upon their tasting any 
pazticolar dish. 

It is a good custom to send coffee into the dining- 
room before the gentlemen leave the table. The 
hour for sending in the caSee should be previously 
appointed, so that the bell need not be rang for it 
Two or three hours are a proper interval between the 
dinner hour and coffee. 

Servants who wait at table shonld wear dean 
white linen gloves. 

There are a fow points of the etiquette of a dinner- 
party, which it may be useful to particularize. 

The members of the party having assembled, the 
master or mistress of the house should point out 
which lady each visitor is to take into the dining- 
room, the married having precedence of the single. 

The lady of the house should take the head of the 
table, and be supported by the two gentlemen of the 
most consideration, who should assist her to carve. 
The gentleman of the house should take the bottom 
of the table, and on each side of him should be seated 
the two ladies whose age or station gives them pre- 
cedence. 

As well-bred peo]^\e axrvM^ «& ^Ts^ns^tnAlIy as they 



OF DINNER PARTIES AND CARVING. 361 

can to the appointed hour, the dinner should not be 
kept waiting after that time. 

In serving soup, one ladleM to each plate is 
sufficient. 

A knife applied to fish is likely to spoil #he deli- 
cacy of its flavour ; so that a slice only should be 
used in helping fish. 

Do not pour sauce over meat or vegetables, but a 
little on one side. 

In helping at table, never employ a knife where 
you can use a spoon. 

In giving dinners, avoid ostentation, which will 
not only be very expensive, but will make your 
guests uncomfortable. Again, it is not merely the 
expense, but the trouble and fuss of dinner-giving on 
the extravagant system, that checks the extended 
practice of giving dinners, and imposes a restraint 
upon sociable enjoyment. 



MS OH CABYDia. 



ON CARVING. 

One of ■ the most important acqnisitions in the 
routine of daily life is the ability to cazre well, and 
not only well bat elegantly. It is true that the 
modes now adopted of sending meats, &c., to table 
are hsi banishing the necessity for promiscaoas car7- 
ing from the el^antly served boards of the wealthy ; 
bat in the circles of middle life, where the refine- 
ments of cookery are not adopted, the utility of a skill 
in the ase of a carving knife is snfficiently obvious. 

Moreover, the art of carving is a very requisite 
branch of domestic management; it not only belongs 
to the honours of the tdblt, but is important in an 
economical point of view ; for a joint of meat ill 
carved, will not serve so many persons as it would if 
it were properly carved. 

Ladies ought especially to make carving a study ; 
at their own houses they grace the table, and should 
be enabled to perform the task allotted to them with 
sufficient skill to prevent remark, or the calling forth 
of eager proffers of assistance from good-natured 
visitors near, who probably would not present any 
better claim to a neat performance. 

In the first place, whatever is to be carved shoold 
be set in a dish sufficiently large for turning it if 
necessary ; but the dish itself should not be moved 
from its podtion, w\n!(^ ^Qi\]\dL\^^ «a ^<:ydj^ Whte the 



ON GARYIMa^ 363 

carver as only to leave room for the plates. The 
carving-knife should be light, sharp, well-tempered, 
and of a size proportioned to the joint, strength 
being less required than address in the manner of 
using it Large solid joints, such as ham, fillet of 
veal, and salt beef^ cannot be cut too thin; but 
mutton, roast pork, and the other joints of veal should 
never be served in very slender slices. 

There are certain choice cuts, or delicacies, with 
which a good carver is acquainted ; among them are 
the sounds of cod-fish, the thin or fat of salmon, the 
thick and fins of turbot ; the fat of venison, lamb, 
and veal kidney, the pope's eye in a leg of mutton, 
the ribs and neck of a pig ; the breast and wings of 
a fowl, the legs and back of a hare, and its ears 
being by some persons considered a great delicacy ; 
the breast and thighs (without the drumsticks,) of 
turkey and goose, the wings and breast of game, and 
the legs and breast of ducks. 

Fish should be helped with a silver slice or trowel, 
care being taken not to break the handsome flaky 
pieces ; a portion of the liver and roe should be served 
to each person. 

Much of the enjoyment of the party will depend 
on the stuffing, gravies, sauces, &c., being fairly ap- 
portioned to each plate. 

By aid of the following instructions, occasional 
practice, and by closely observing " good carvers," 
the learner may soon become proficient in this im- 
portant branch of the honours oi ti[x<^Va)^^. 



■ vttk a mhrr tiowd, or a kaife 
for te F^poK (m EngimTi]^); 

W lakcB tosmid breikng 



to ^ boM^ m dtt 
ItoSLndasWvas 3 (»e Engnr- 
«f fiih s;ii« a pieee of dtt 
Ae badiL-booe and 
be fi^ii br pasn^ tiie sliee under 
A :fev eboice pans are ia aad about the 
laie m& part abc^ tbe jaw-bone, and the 
t»be takea oat with a spooo. 




AnE ml «tei-€TaiMid fi^ sboald be cot length- 
vi^iEL atnt axe acews: u a niuai of tbe thick and thin 



Mrre^^eeai — baa tbe bead k wortUeaa. 



Are enaBMlr sored ^ bead to taO, and a sliee 



ON CABYING* 865 

SIBLOnr OP BEEP. 

The under part of the sirloin should be first served, 
and carved, as indicated in the Engvaving, across the 
bone. In carving the upper part, the same direc- 
tions should be followed as for the ribs, carving 
either side, or in the centre, from a to b, and help^ 
ing the fat from d. 



EIBS OF BEEP. 
The best manner of carving this joint is to cut across 
the bone, commencing in the centre, and serving fat 
from A, as marked in the Engraving of the sirloin. 
Another way is to carve the slices from a to c, com- 
mencing either ii^ the centre of the joint or at the 
sides. When the bones are removed, and the meat 
formed into a fillet, it should be carved as a round of 
bee£ 



A BOUHD CBT7TT0CE] OB ATTCH BOVE OP BEEP. 

Is usually boiled, and requires no print to point 
out how it should be carved. A thick slice should be 
cut off all round the buttock, that your friends may be 
helped to the juicy and prime part of it. The outside 
thus cut off, thin slices may then be cut from the top; 
but as it is a dish that is frequently brought to table 
cold a second day, it should always be cut handsome 
and even. When a slice all round would be considered 
too much, the half^ or a third, may be given with a 
thin slice of fat. On one side there is a part whiter 
than ordinary, hy some csiLled &<& ^^YliXi^ xceosg^^^ 



Jm mmt places a batto^ is genenllj divided, and 
part sold separate, as a delicac7; but it is 
sa tke meat being coarse and dry; 
izker eoloared partS| thoogb apparently 
gnam, are of a looser texture, more 
£dQcr «f graTTt and better flaToored; and 
«f f&d^wsbiBg palates ever piefer them. 



be cat ia tkia, saioodi slioes, with a little 
cflttiag also a thin sliee £rom the stuff- 
ily vbieb lias viikia the flapi The brown outside 
i» week fiked br SQBse pefsoBs. 



THI HUST OF TSAL. 
Sep arate the ribs £rom the briskel| cutting firom 
A a> »: these small bones, whidi are the sweetest, 
a»i awKtlr dHfesen, Ton will cot as at d d d, and 
cwrre: the kmg nbs are divided as at c c c (see £n- 
gnriiE^\ and having ascertained the preference of the 
(WTKicL help aceoidingiy: at good tables the scrag is 
aoc :<ern^L but i$ foond, when properly cooked, a 
v«Tgvvd SI 



LonraFTSAL. 

Thb joint is sent to table served as a sirloin of 
Kee£ Having tnined it over, cot ont the kindney 
and the hu return it to its proper position, and 
tarre it as in the neck of veal, finom b to a; help 
with it a sBoe of Vadnex uA ^sk. "YVi^ ^^^^^sss^ U 



ON CABVING, 367 

usually placed upon a dry toast when removed from 
the joint. « 



SHOULDEB OF VEAL 
Is sent to table with the under part placed upper- 
most. Help it as a shoulder of mutton, beginning at 
the knuckle end. 



CALF'S HEAD. 
There is much more meat to be obtained from a 
calf s head by carving it one way than another. 
CaiVe from a to b, cutting quite down to the bone 
(see Engraving). At the fleshy part of the neck end 
you will find the throat sweetbread, which you can 
help a slice of with the other part ; you will remove 
the eye with the point of the knife and divide it in 
half^ helping those to it who profess a preference for 
it ; there are some tasty, gelatinous pieces around it, 
which are palatable. Remove the jaw-bone, and then 
you will meet with some fine-flavoured lean; the 
palate, which is under the head, is by some thought 
a dainty, and should be proffered when carving. 



LEG OF MUTTOir. 
The under or thickest part of the leg should be 
placed uppermost, and carved in slices moderately 
thin. Many persons have a taste for the knuckle, 
and this question should be asked, and if preferred, 
should be assisted. When cold, the back of the leg 
should be placed uppermost, aiidt\i\]& Cr^x^^^ 



3CS OS CAKTIXCL 

▲ wmwiiigE ov warm 

A&rdi a TvietY of cuts, fid and lemn, and should be 
Ul in ^ £sli bade i^pormost. The leaner parts 
:ife«U be cat stzaigbi to the bone, finun 1 to 2; the 
aMtt ddirala sliees, howerer, may be cot on each 
lada «r ^ Uafe^bone, 3 to 4 ; the finest fiit lies at 5 
^•K E i^iaiia g), and should be cot in thin slkses. 
TW «aier side afods manj niee cots of fiit and 
lean iasenadxed. The most tender of the lean is 
the bladfr-hone, and is called the <^8ter-ciit 



A. 8AUU OV MUnUI. 
Cat ■ ode iat dr thid: slices, longwise, finom tiie 
cul a» ^ ead. on eadi side the badL-bone; if the^ 
W ICO Ions; diride them: cot hX firom the sides or 



MASMCR OF Mumnr 

S&k»Sl he carred as Tenkcw. 



UttM OF MUITUI. 
C^ tbe vtnt? in:o chops, and serve them sqia- 
rcifvT: cr <ct slietes the whole length of the loin; or 
rui ^ ksiJe akm^ the diine-bone, and then slice it, 
t^ M and kan together. 



OP MUITUI. 

It shsMiId K^ pi e p ai e d fi>r table as follows : — Got 
«drthe:s<fag: haxip the chine-bone carefoUj sawn o£^ 
«»1 also the to<^ ^ Oift V»:^\KnK& v^AmrI <»ie ii 



,'1 '/^i'fk 



.« 



! 

V 



•A 



■*; 



•i! 



i 




SIRIOIN 0> BEEF- 





..i?^ 



■■■.W'''?^Y^^:'^^^^-:':^;ir^^ 






ROAST TURKT. 




y 







C) 



(-. 



BOILED TURKEY. 



i V- 



.>c 







ON CARVING. 369 

and a half), and the thin part tamed under; carve in 
the direction of the bones. 



THE SCSA6 OF MTJTTOIT, 
When roasted, is very frequently separated from the 
ribs of the neck, and in that case the meat and bones 
may be helped together. 



A LEG OF LAMB 
Is carved as a leg of mutton. A leg of mutton or 
lamb, roasted or boiled, should be laid in the dish 
back downwards. 



A FOSE-aUASTEB OF LAMB. 
Cut round the shoulder in the direction of 1, 2, 
and 3; then lift up the shoulder, and squeeze between 
it and the ribs the juice of half a lemon, with a slice 
of butter, some pepper and salt; replace the shoulder, 
and presently remove it to another dish, to be cut as 
a shoulder of mutton. Then separate the neck from 
the ribs, in the line from 3 to 4 (see Engraving), and 
serve according to choice. A ruffle of white paper 
should be placed round the shank of the shoulder, for 
the convenience of lifting it while seasoning, &c. 



POBE. 

The leg when sent to table should be placed with 

the back uppermost, and the crackling be removed; 

if sufficiently baked, this maybe done with ease; the 

meat should be served in tlom ^viea <sq!l wstofss^ ^^'^ 
2a 



370 ON CARYIKa. 

leg, ihe crackling being served with it or not, accord- 
ing to taste ; the loins are cut into the pieces as scored 
by the batcher. 



BOILED TOFQTJE. 
Carve across the tongue, but do not cut through ; 
keep the slices rather thin, and help the fat from 
underneath. 



It is served as placed in the Engraving, and should 
come to table ornamented. Carve from a to b, cut- 
ting thin slices out slantingly, to give a wedge-Uke 
appearance. Those who prefer the hock carve at d, 
in the same direction as from a to b, then carve from 
D to c, in thin slices, as indicated in the Engrav- 
ing. 



sucEnra pia. 

The cook should send a roast pig to table as dis- 
played in the Engraving, garnished with head and 
ears ; carve the joints in the direction shown by the 
lines in the Engraving, then divide the ribs ; serve 
with plenty of sauce ; should one of the joints be too 
much, it may be separated; bread sauce and stufi&ng 
should accompany it. 



The carving of both winged game and poultry 
requires more dfe\ie«ic^ oiVwA^«si.\\jMs«fe^m hitting 



ON CABVING. 371 

the joints, than the catting of large pieces of meat ; 
and to be neatly done, requires considerable practice. 



HAUITGH OE VEHISOF. 

Have the joint lengthwise before yoo, the knuckle 
being the furthest point. Cut from a to b, but be 
careful not to let out the gravy; then cut along the 
whole length from a down to d (see Engraving). 
The knife should slope in making the first cut, and 
then the whole of the gravy will be received in the 
well. The greater part of the fat, which is the 
favourite portion, will be found on the left side, and 
care must be taken to serve some with each slice. 



SOAST TUSEET. 
Cut long slices from each side of the breast down 
to the ribs, beginning at a b from the wing to the 
breast-bone. If the party be so large as to render 
it necessary, the legs may then be removed, and the 
thighs divided from the drumsticks, which are only 
served in cases of necessity, as being rather tough ; 
but the pinions of the wing are very savoury, and the 
white part of the wing is preferred by many to the 
flesh of the breast. The joint of the pinion may be 
found a little below b, and the wing may then be 
easily removed without touching the leg. The car- 
cass is very seldom dissected, but the body is fre- 
quently filled with either truffles, mushrooms^ or 
other matter; in which case an. o^mti^ \s!i»s5v»\«^ 



372 ON CABviNa. 

made into it, by catting a circular incision through 
the apron, at c. (See Engraving.) 



BOILi!D TUSEET 
Is carved in the same way as the roast, the only 
difference being in the trussing ; the legs in the 
boiled being drawn into the body, and in the roast 
skewered. (See Engraving.) 



TXrSEET POULTS 
Are carved and helped in the same way as phea- 
sants ; the staffing of the grown birds being asoally 
omitted. 



A aOOSE. 
Place the neck end towards you, cut the breast into 
slices, and serve them as cut. If the legs be required, 
turn the goose upon the side, put the fork into the 
small end of the bone in the leg, press it to the body, 
pass the knife in at 4, turn the leg back, and it will 
easily come off. Next remove the wing on the same 
side, by putting the fork into the small end of the 
pinion, pressing it to the body, dividing the joint at 
4, and taking it off in the direction of 3 ; then turn 
over the goose, and take off the other leg and wing. 
Remove the merrythought as from the fowl, and cut 
off the side-bones as by the wing, and the lower side- 
bones. Divide the breast from the back, and the back 
itself as of a fowl. Next to the breast, the thigh and the 
fleshy portion, oi l\ie mw^ ^^^ i^'^ Q»NJxv\ft.^^sx?va.. ^ the 



ON CARVING. 373 

goose be not entirely cut np, the apron, 1, 2, should 
be removed to get at the stuffing. (See Engraving.) 



A DUCK 
Should be cut up as a goose. 



ROAST FOWL. 

Slip the knife between the leg and body, and cut 
to the bone ; then, with the fork, turn the leg back, 
and the joint will give way if the bird is not old. 
Take the wing off in the direction of A to b, only 
dividing the joint with your knife. When the four 
quarters are thus removed, take off the merrythought 
from c, and the neck-bones ; these last, by putting 
in the knife at d, and pressing it, will break off from 
the part that sticks to the breast. The next thing 
is to divide the breast from the carcass, by cutting 
through the tender ribs close to the breast, quite 
down to the tail. Then lay the back upward s, put 
your knife into the bone half-way from the neck to 
the rump, and, on raising the lower end, it will 
separate readily. Turn the rump from you, take off 
the two sidesmen, and the whole will be done. To 
separate the thigh from the drumstick of the leg, 
insert the knife into the joint as represented in the 
Engraving. It requires practice to hit the joint at 
the first trial. The breast and wings are considered 
the best parts. 

If the bird be a capon, or lar^^a wv^ t^^aXft^^ ^^ 



874 ON CABYINa. 

breast may be cut into slices in the same way as a 
pheasant. 

The difference in the carving of boiled and roast 
fowls consists only in the breast of the latter being 
always served whole, and the thigh-bone being gene- 
rally preferred to the wing. 



A PABTBIDGE 
Is to be cat up as a fowl : take off the wings in 
the lines 1, 2, and the merrythought in that of 3, 4 
(see Engraving). Partridges may likevdse be cot 
in hal£ The prime parts are the breast and wings, 
the tip of the latter being the greatest delicacy. 



PIGEONS 
May be cut in hal^ the lower half being usually 
most esteemed. In helping a pigeon-pie, if the birds 
be not previously divided, take them out separately 
on a plate, and cut each asunder. 



THE TEA-TABU!. 375 



THE TEA-TABLE. 

** Now stir the fire and close the Bhatten fiwt, 
Let fall the curtains, wheel the so& round; 
And while the bubbling and loud hissing nm 
Throws up a steamy column, and the cups, 
That cheer, but not inebriate, wait on each, 
So let us welcome peaceftil evening in.** 

The tea-table is in most families a delightful relaxa- 
tion, it is prepared with no trouble and little expense, 
and the only time, perhaps, a father can spare to have 
his family once a-day collected about him, where he 
may see the different dispositions of his children, and 
draw a knowledge of the general management of his 
family. 

It is a great pity that the tea-table, as a magnet 
for social re-unions, is now, in our cities, so nearly 
obsolete. In Paris it has been partially introduced 
within the last few years ; — ^but the pleasantest society 
there is in the evening, where they give nothing at 
all, where the ladies all work, and the gentlemen, 
if they do not play, walk about and converse with 
them. 

An evening spent thus in agreeable conversation, 
with well-informed and pleasant people^ is & d&Vv^^- 
fal relaxation to men engaged iiiekU^co^%\XL^\^£c^s^'^ 



SC OK «X-T 




If kfia wdd add to this French 

tke eomfcrt <^ a cup of 

the fins and formality 

parties — the pleasures 

fiieiids would be im- 

tke extnragant expenses, 

M avoMMo. 



BILLS OF FARE FOR DINNER, 



DIKKEB POB EIGHT. (JAHTTABT.) 

Vermicelle Soup. 

Fried Whitings. 

Roast Leg of Mutton. (2 Removes.) 

Stewed Sweetbreads. (2 Entries.) 

Roast Wild Duck. 

Cheese Cakes. Mince Pies. 

Spunge Jelly. 



Fresh Ox Tongue. 
Cnrrie of Rabbits. 



DIKKEB POB EIQHTEEir. (JAKUABY.) 

Mock Turtle. (2 So\ips.) Clear Ox Tail. 

FiUets of Haddocks. (2 Fishes.) 

Chicken Fie. (2 Removes.) 

Lobster Cutlets. (4 Entries.) 

Fricassee of Fowl. 



Slices of Cod, boiled. 
Roast Pheasant. 
Fillets of Beef. 
Veal Cutlets. 



Snipes. 
Soufle of Potatoes. 
Calfs Foot. 
Apricot JeUj Tartlets. 
Pancakes. 



Second Oovrst. 

(2 Roasts.) 

(2 Removes.) 

(6 Dishes.) 



Partridge. 

Ice Pudding. 

Spinach. 

Fried Potatoes. 



liesuQii C»t«assv. 



378 



HUB or PABB FOR UMHBB. 



Egg Smoe. 

Fiicandeni of Y eaL 



Roast Gi^oo. 



Apple Soofle. 



Blamange. 



BmnSR FOB TWELVE. (FEBBUABY.) 



White MaearoiiL 
Lobster Cutlets. 

Greoadins of Yeid. 
Chicken 



Ginger Padding. 

KojeMi Jelly. 

Cr«ftm MerbgaoA. 



2 Soaps.) 



Saddle of Matton. 



Italian Paste. 
Broiled Herrings. 

Ox Kidney. 
CalTs Cheek. 



Stami Cowne, 

Roast Pheasant 

(2 RemoYes.) 

(4 Dishes.) 



Bread Soofle. 

Braised Celery. 

\<5RftL k^^^t Paste. 



BILLS OF FARE FOB DINNER. 



379 



Boast Beef. 
Stewed Pigeons. 



DINNEB FOB EIGHT. (MABCH.) 

Oyster Sonp. 

Slices of Salmon. 

Lobster Sauce. 

(2 BemoYcs.) 

(2 Entr^. 



Sweet Omelette with 
Apricots. 



Second Course, 
Boast Partridges. 

Bice Pudding. 



Boiled Turkey. 
Curried Chickens. 



Macaroni 
with Parmesan. 



DIKKEB FOB TWEKTY. (MABCH.) 

Vermicelli. (2 Soups.) Mulligatawny. 



Turbot, Lobster 
Sauce. 

Calf's Head. 



Stewed Pigeons. 
Ox Palates. 



(2 Fishes.) Cod's Shoulders, Oyster 

Sauce. 



(2 BemoYCS.) 
(4 Entries.) 



(2 Vegetables.) 



Boast of Beef. 

Mutton Cutlets. 
Croquettes of Chicken. 



Siberian Pudding. 

Trifle. 
Pine Apple Cream. 
Asparagus. 



Second Cowae. 

Boast Wild Ducks. 

(2 Bemores.) 

(6 Dishes.) 

SaUad. 



Swiss Tart 

Apricot Pastry. 

Orange Jelly. 



'Etc!ii<(Stk.^&«»s&. 



380 



BILLS OF FARE FOB DINNER. 



BIKKEB FOB TWELVE. (AFBIL.) 



Lobster. 

Fried Soles. 

Braised FiUet of Veal. 

Pork Cutlets. 
Tomato Sauce. 



(2 Sonps.) 



(2 Entr^.) 



Spring. 
Boiled Mackerel. 
Boast Leg of Mutton. 

Fricassee of Spring. 
Chickens. 



Wine Jelly. 
Seakale. 



Second Coune, 
Boast Ducklings. 

Ginger Pudding. 



Brocoli, with White 

Sauce. 

Cheesecakes. 



DnrNEB FOB EIOHT. (HAY.) 

Spring Soup. 

Broiled Salmon. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. 



Stewed Pigeons. 



Brocoli. 



JeUy. 



Boast Chicken, and 
Broiled Ham. 

2 Potatoes. 

Rice Pudding. 

Sallad. 



Veal Cutlets. 



Mashed Turnips. 



Custards. 



BILLS OF FABE FOR DINNER. 



381 



DIKKEB POB TWELVE. (MAY.) 

Julienne. Mock Turtle. 

Boiled Turbot. Fried Whitings. 

Roast Quarter of Lamb. 

Haricot of Muttton. New Potatoes. 

Boiled Chickens. Ham, or Tongue. 

Seakale with Sauce. Cutlets of Pork. 
Stewed Ducks with Green Peas. 





Second Cotirse. 




Cheesecakes. 


Cabinet Pudding. 


Jelly. 


Cream. 


Trifle. 


Tart. 




Apple Soufle. 


•-■ 


DIKKEB POB EIGHT. 


(JTJKE.) 




Hodge Podge. 






Boiled Salmon. 






Roast Ducks. 


• 


Green Peas. 




New Potatoes. 


Fricassee of Chickens. 




Mutton Cutlets. 


New Potatoes. 


Boiled Tiftmb. 

Caper Sauce. 

Custard Pudding. 


Brocoli. 


Apple Fritters. 


Gooseberry Tart. 


Sweet Omelette. 







pyJAii) Fikd Whitiiigs. 



Cmied CiiidEeos. 

Boflcd Tongue. 
Mrtton Cutlets. 



White Toinips. 



Italiaii Creutf 

Gateia. 

JeDj. 



OHLT.) 



F^?ci0^A^ Artichokes. 

£ CMEWfiSi. Cmried Sweetbreads. 

New Potatoes. 
EoKt Chikdm with Ham. 



Apple Fritters. 
J**^* Custard. 



BILLS OF FARE FOB DINNEB. 



383 



BmEB FOB TWELVE. (JULY.) 





Hodge Podge. 






Mulligatawny. 




bot, White Sauce. 


Boiled Salmon. 




Roast Beef. 




Calf 8 Head. 




Mashed Turnips. 


Iloast Ducks. 




Boiled Mutton. 


Green Peas. 


Stewed Fillet of Veal. 
Cabinet Padding. 


Mutton Cutlets. 


JeUy. 




Custard. 


Cheesecakes. 


Strawbemes. 
Hot Currant Tart. 

* 


JeUy. 



BIKKEB FOB TEN. (AUGUST.) 

Green Pea Soup. 

Trout. 
Roast Chickens. 



Stewed Pigeons. 

Veal Pie. 
French Beans. 



Cauliflower. 

Ox Tongue. 

Fillets ofBee& 



Boiled Lamb. 
Caper Sauce. 



Custards. 



Second Service. 

Macaroni. 

Crab Sallad. 

Lemon Pud^xi|^. 



Pine- Apple Fritters. 



OTFAKB 



DmnSR FOB TEV. (OCTOBER.) 



Friar « Chkken. Cottage Soup. 

FOkts of Halibut Broiled Troat. 

Solard of VeaL grazed. Braised Fresh Ox 

Saaoe Tomato. Tongue. 

Cauliflower. Potatoes. 

Bump Steak Stewed. Broiled Pigeons. 

Artichokes. Mashed White Cahhage. 

TermioeDi Padding. 

Lemon Cheesecakes. Apple Meringne. 

Stewed Pears. Cherry Tartlets. 



BILLS OF FABE FOR DINNER. 338 



DIHirEB FOB SIX. (KOVEMBER.) 

God*s Head and Shoulders. 

Oyster Saaoe. 

Civet of Hare. 

Chicken Yol-an-vent. Veal and Ham Patties. 

Macaroni. 
Custards in Glasses. Jellies in Glasses. 

Damson Tart. 



2b 



INDEX. 



K 



80UP& 



B«rr 









FcrtaMe Sn^ — As 



- 1 

. 1 

. < 

. < 

. 8 
, 8 
, f 
If 
U 
14 
14 
U 

1« 
1« 
17 
17 
IS 

19 
M 




Fiiaz^ CSnckai 

Rgeoa Sfp.....^. 

LobflterSoop 

LotMter Sotq» — Artorhw 

EdScnp 

Ox-TbQ Soap 

GOAet Scmp 

OraterSoop. 
Hoicb-]\)tcli . 



y 



Cock ■ lHr«f SoBp.^ 
Sootch MhUob Bxxitli. 
GiMMKeeSoapL 



SI 

a 

SI 

s> 
s> 




JNDEX. 



'387 



SAUCES— Continued, 



Very good Egg Sauce 40 

Common Egg Sauce. 41 

BechameL 41 

Common Bechamel 42 

Asparagus Sauce, for Lamb Chops 42 

Parsley and Butter 43 

Fennel Sauce 43 

Celery Sauce. 43 

Mint Sauce.. 43 

Onion Sauce for Steaics. 44 

Young Onion Sauce 44 

Onion Sauce 44 

French Maitre d'Hotel, or Stew- 
ard's Sauce 45 

Bread Sauce 45 

White Mushroom Sauce. 47 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 47 

Tomato Sauce 47 

Common Tomato Sauce 48 

Caper Sauce. 49 



Pago 

Tarragon Sauce..... .- 49 

Sauce for Ducklings 49 

White Sauce for Boiled Chick- 
ens. 50 

Good Oyster Sauce. 50 

Sauce Piquante 51 

Horseradish Sauce 51 

Sauce Piquante for Boiled Bee£. 52 

For Fresh-water Fish....^ 52 

For all sorts of Fish...f..s 52 

Rich Dutch Fish Sauce.. 58 

Anchovy Sauce ,.., 53 

Stewed Apple Sauce 53 

Gooseberry Sauce 54 

Sweet Pudding Sauce 54 

Common Pudding Sauce. 55 

A Delicious German Pudding 

Sauce 55 

Melted Butter 69 

Arrowroot Sauce 56 



FISH. 



Introduction 57 

To Boll Cod Fish 65 

Slices of Cod Fish Fried 66 

Cod's Head and Shouldera 67 

Cod Sounds Boiled 67 

Currle of Cod. 68 

To Dress Salt Cod 68 

To Dress Salt Cod — Another 

way 68 

To Dress Salt Fish. 69 

ToEeepTurbot 69 

To BoilTurbot 70 

Salmon Plain-boUed. 70 

To Fry Salmon 70 

To Broil Salmon. 71 

To Dry Salmon.. 71 

To Pickle Salmon..., 72 

To Boil Mackerel 72 

To Boil Mackerel — Another 

way 73 

To Bron Mackerel 73 

To Bake Mackerel 74 

Pickled MadEerel, or Caveach... 74 

To Boa Haddock. 74 

To Fijr Haddock 75 



To Bake Haddock, Ac..j»p„j. 75 

To Boil Whitings— French Re- 
ceipt 76 

Baked Whithigs, a la Fran- 

caise. 77 

To Boil Sturgeon ', 77 

To Roast Sturgeon 78 

Tb Boil Halibut 78 

Fillets or Halibut, Black Fish, 

Bass, &c 79 

Lobster Cutlets 80 

To Fry Trout 81 

To BoU Trout 81 

Stewed Carp 82 

Baked Carp. 82 

Perch and Tench 88 

Soles— To Fry or Boil 88 

To BoU Perch 83 

To Fry Perch or Tench 84 

Spitchoock Eels. 84 

Fried Eels. 84 

Boiled Eels 84 

Collared Eeel ^ 

YVoTUkden ^*> 



SM 



1NDSX. 



TIGETABLES. 



1% Biril Nev FvteK 


i..«^^.^»... 


86 

87 


1% Baft TtBnilpiL.«>~»— «««.««»««.».»» 
Ttev%» te WUto Smee— <Ett- 


88 
89 


Tte«|p»Stev«d iB Butler (Good) 

Tb Bril Grectt Fbm. 

1% Bril Qrrai Pwi^-AMOMr 


89 
90 
90 
91 
9t 



I^SNvGrctB 



T^Bril 



94 



To B<^ Cabbage and Greens^... 95 

To B<^ Cauliflowers 99 

Spinach — (Entremets) — Frencdi 

Recdpt .' 9S 

Spinach — (Common Ens^iah 

Mode) 96 

To Stew Celery^ 97 

To Boa Onions Plain 97 

To BoQ Asparagoa. 97 

ToBonAqMragafr— Anotherway 96 

Mnshrooma ^ 99 

To Stew Mnahrooma. 99 

To Stew Mnshiooms— An Ea^y 

Way» „..100 

To Broil Mnshrooms .100 



BEEF. 




!«%•«•«•••«• 



101 
109 
IQH 
103 
104 
104 
105 
Slewed Ramp of Beef 10ft 



Strloin of Beef to Roast 

Rtte of Beef .. 

Ramp of Beef 

QraTy Saace Ibr Roast Beef.. 

TO Rottst a FSUet of Beef 



»••••«•«•«*«%*»%**««•« 



«•*«•%*•• 



»%*••••»«•« 



RoU or Braised Beet.. 
RooadofSalt Beef.... 
Fresh Ox Toogne Braised 

Palates of Beef— EntieesL......... 

Scolk^ of Ox Toogoe............ 

Romp Steak, Stew«d 

Fmets of Beet 

A Frkaadeaa of BeeC............ 

TO Stew a Rump of Beef ..^ 

To Stew a Romp of Beef— An- 
osner way. .....«.«••»< 

lO XrcSS x*OQr>«.«.>.. .«..«*••••.< 

To CoUar Beef. .^,...,,. 

Beef Steaks. 



»%%«%*•••••*•* 



106 
107 
107 
107 
lOS 
108 
109 
109 
109 
110 

110 
111 
lU 
119 



Beef Sleeks and Oyster Sance... US 

Beef CoDop. 118 

Fiteaasee of Cold Roast Beef.... 113 
To Dress Cold Beef that has not 
been d(me enough, called Beef 

OhTes.. .-. 118 

To Mince Beet. 114 

To Hash Beef 114 

Beef a la Yingrette 114 

Stewed Ox Cheek, Plain 115 

Mirotonof Beef 115 

Ox Kidneys.. 116 

Ox Cheek. 116 

Beef Olives ^ 116 

To Roast Beef Heart... 117 

To Dress the Inside of a Cold 

Sirloin of Beef 117 

Baked Beet.. 118 

Savoury Minced CoUops 118 

To Broil Beef Steaks.. UO 

To Bon Tripe 183 

TO Fry Tripe Previously (}ooked 1S8 



V*EAL. 



«••••••••••«•••• 



To Choose Veal.. 

Roast Loin of YeaL. 

FlUet of VeiJ, Mewed 

Rolard of VeaV. ■ .»—%««»«.»«» 



1S3 I Cialfs Head.... 

\^ \(^«l«BJdxv«QfYeal 



•••••••••••«•••••«•• 



1S6 
127 
199 



INDEX 



389 



V£AL~Cbn(«rt«ed: 



Page 
Cufiets Maintenon. » 129 

CatletsMaintenoii, Another way 130 

Veal CoUops 130 

To Dress Collops quick. 130 

Veal OUves 131 

To Collar Calf s Head 131 

Stewed Loin of Veal...„ 132 

FricandeauofVeal 132 

GrenadinsofVeal 133 

Sweetbreads ^ 133 



Page 

Sweetbreads— Another way..... 134 

Scollops of Sweetbread. 134 

Veal Cutlets 134 

Veal Cutlets— Another way..... 135 
Veal Cutlets — ^Another way..... 135 

Calf s Cheek 136 

Croquettes of Veal 136 

Rissoles 137 

Calfs Uver 137 

Curry of Veal 137 



MUTTON. 



Tb Choose Mutton 138 

Haunch of Mutton Roasted. 140 

To Roast a Saddle of Mutton.... 141 

To Roast a Loin of Mutton 141 

To Roast a Shoulder of Mut- 
ton.. 142 

Superior Receipt for Roast Leg 

of Mutton 142 

Leg of Mutton Braised. 142 

Leg of Mutton Boiled 143 



Neck of Mutton 144 

Mutton Cutlets 145 

To Dress Cotelettes de Mouton 

a la Polonaise 145 

Mutton Cutlets, Bread-Crumbed 145 

Mutton Cutlets, plain 146 

To Broil Mutton Cutlets— En- 
tree 146 

To Dress Haunch of Mutton.... 147 
Harrico „ 148 



LAMB. 



Lamb to Choose 

To Roast Lamb. 

Fore-quarter of Lamb 

Leg of Lamb 

Ribs of Lamb 

Loin, Neck, and Breast of Lamb 
Garnish and Vegetables for 

Roast Lamb 

To Bone a Quarter of Lamb..... 



148 
150 
150 
150 
150 
151 

161 
151 



A Loin of Lamb ».... 15? 

To Stew a Breast of Lamb 152 

To Boil a Leg of Lamb............ 152 

Lamb Chops 153 

Blanquette D'Agneau. White 

FricasseofLamb 153 

Lambs* Sweetbreads; 154 

Lambs' Fry 154 

A Dish of Lamb 154 



VENISON. 



To Choose Venison 155 

To Roast a Haunch of Venison. 156 
Neck and Shoulder of Venison. 157 



To Stew a Shoulder of Venison. 157 

Breast of Venison 158 

Hashed Venison.. „ ....„ 158 



PORK. 



To Choose Pork 158 

To Roast a Leg of Pork. 160 

To Roast a Spare-rib of Pork... 161 
To BroU or Fry Pork Cutlets... 161 



To Broa or Fry Pork Cutlets— 

Another way 162 

To BoW &lA% Ql^oeiu x«i. 

I To Sca\A a %^asaBS3i%--^\% — ^^ 



d90 



IKDEX. 



To Make StnlBng fi>r a Saddng- 

plg..« « 163 

To Make Staffing ft>r a Sucking- 
pig— Another way ~ ^ 164 

To Bake a Sucking-pig.. .„..„... 164 

To Choose Ham 164 

To Bake a Ham 166 



PORK— CtMMiMfedL 



Pa«« 



Pork Saasages..^.. 167 

To Dreas Pigs* Feet and Ears... 167 

To Stew Pigs' Feet « ^.. 168 

To Roast a Leg of Pork— 

Another way 168 

To Boil a Leg of Pork 168 

Pork Steaks 169 



POULTRY. 



To Choose Poultry 169 

Trussing Fowls 170 

Poelee to Boil Fowls in. 173 

To Roast a Turkey..... 173 

To " DevU" Turkey 174 

To Bone a Turiiey or Fowl 174 

To Roast a Goose. 176 

* To Stew a Goose ~ 177 

To Roast Ducks. 177 

To Stew Ducks 178 

To Stew Ducks — Another 

way. 178 

To Stew Ducks— Another way. 178 

To Stew Chickens in Haste 179 

To Braize Chickens 179 

Fricassee of Chickens 180 



Fricassee of Chickens— Another 

way 180 

Fricassee of Chickens— Another 

way 181 

Chicken Curry 181 

Boiled Fowls 183 

Boiled Fowls with Oysters 183 

To Boil Fowl with Rice 183 

To Roast Fowls or Capons 184 

To BroQ a Fowl 184 

To Braise a Fowl 185 

A nice way to Dress a Fowl for 

a small Dish 186 

Ragouts of Poultry, Game, 

Pigeons, Rabbits, Ac 186 

Turkey, or Fowl, in Jelly. 187 



PIGEONS. 



To Stew Pigeons « 187 

To Stew Pigeons— Another way 188 
To Stew Pigeons — Another 
way. 188 



To Stew Pigeons— Another way 189 

To Roast Pigeons 189 

To Broil Pigeons 189 

Pigeons » 189 



GAME AND SMALL BIRDS. 



To Roast Woodcocks or Snipes. 191 

To Roast Wild Ducks 192 

Sauce for Wild-Fowl 193 

To Roast Partridges 193 

Broiled Partridge — French Re- 
ceipt 194 



To Roast Wild Pigeons 194 

Jugged Hare 195 

Civet of Hare 195 

Fricassee of Rabbit 196 

CuiTy of Rabbits 197 



RAISED PIES. 



Raised Pie 198 

Raised Pigeon Pie « \%% 

Babbit Pie V^^ 



\' 



Venison Pasty „ 199 

'Raiae^^\Mtv«iiaw^'5Sft^C,Ql<i 200 



INDEX. 



391 



VOL-AU-VENT& 



P«ga 

A Vol-au-vent « 201 

Vol-au-vent of Oysters 202 

Yol-aa-yent of Veal and Ham.. 202 



Vol-aa-Yent of Lobster.......^. 

Patties of Aboye..^..^ 



FagK 
. 208 
. 208 



PIES. 



Veal and Ham Pie. 208 

Chicken Pie 204 

Directions for Baking Pies 204 

Beefsteak Pie 205 

Beef Steak and Oyster Pie 205 

Veal Pie 206 

Raised Pork Pie.... 206 

SeaPie 207 

Partridge Pie a ia Francaise.... 207 
Partridge Pi&— Another way... 208 



Venison Pasty.... » 206 

Jelly for Meat or Raised 

Pies 209 

Modem Potato Pasty— An ex- 
cellent Family Dish 209 

Macaroni Milanese 211 

Macaroni a ritalienne. 211 

Macaroni 212 

Beef Steak Padding 212 

Rabbit Paddhig 218 



PUDDINGS. 



General Directions for making 

Paddings 218 

To Clean Currants for Paddings 

or Cakes 214 

To Mix Batter for Paddings..... 215 

Plam Padding 217 

Plom Padding— Another way.. 217 

SmaU Light Plam Padding 218 

Flam Padding light and whole- 
some 218 

Cottage Christmas Pudding..... 218 

Sponge-cake Padding. 219 

Cabinet Puddhig 220 

Swiss Padding, New 221 

Custard Padding „ 221 

Preserved Ginger Padding 221 

Marrow Padding. 221 

Lemon Padding 222 



Marrow Pasty 222 

Vermicelli Padding 222 

A Plain Rice Padding 228 

Rice Padding, Baked or BoUed 223 
A Good Boiled Rice Padding... 228 

An Easter Padding 224 

Bread Padding. 225 

Brown Bread Padding 226 

Plain Bread Padding 227 

Bread and Batter Pudding...... 227 

Common Batter Pudding........ 227 

Batter Pudding— Another way 228 

Batter Fruit Pudding.... 229 

Baked Batter Padding. 229 

Sweet Macaroni Padding. 230 

Apple Meringues »... 230 

Custard Pudding — Another 
way 280 



OMELETTES, &c. 



Sweet' Omelettes 231 

Savoury Omdette 281 

Omelette with Fine Herbs 231 



Rice Souffle.... 882 

Souffle of Potatoes 232 

Souffle of Bread. 238 



SALLADS. 

\ 



Salad 238 \ Salad SaxLCffi 'J^^ 

Sdldd DreaaiDg.,^ 234 1 rreacliSaSkBA^«nR&**< 



nt 



CTSZAKD6 ASD CKEAMSL 




ICK CKEAXS. 




JKLLIKS. 




PASTKT. 



fnH ITMB^J-g^ JT git g^ 









Tira. 



..^.^^ 155 

Ttats. SS5 

256 

557 

S$7 

Affitne, Ea^Bah 2S7 

Ap^ Ffe. Anoisui S58 

PSes SS8 




:«X3 






Ticv. 



T* Giiae or Ice Paatzy- 



r«ns. 



CAEES ASD BBCmS. 










INDEX. 



393 



CAKES AND BISCUTrS-Cton^tiedL 



Page 
Ciimam(m or Lemon Cakes.^... 268 

Short Bread.... .. ...... 269 

Ginger Bread.................„....... 269 



Meringnea. 
Qaeen's Dropa 



••••••• ••••■• ••• •••••••••••••••••••• 



270 
271 



JELLIES, JAMS, Ac 



A few General Rules and Direc- 
tions for Preserving 271 

To Clarify Sugar 278 

To Preserve Strawberries or 
Raspberries for Creams or 

Ices, without boiling. 274 

To Preserve Strawberries. 275 

To Preserve Damsons 275 

To Preserve Greengages 276 

To Preserve Pine Apples 277 

Apples Preserved Whole 277 

PreservedAppIes— Another way 278 

Crab Apples 278 

To Preserve Pears. 279 



To Bake Pears 279 

To Stew Pears. 279 

To Preserve a Melon Whole..... 280 

Raspberry Jams. 281 

Strawberry Jam 281 

Black Currant Jam 281 

White or Red Currant Jam. 282 

Phie Apple Jam 282 

Apricot Jam. 282 

Orange Marmalade 282 

Black Currant Jelly 288 

Red Currant Jelly 288 

Strawberry Jelly. 284 

Apple Jelly. 285 



COMPOTES OF FRUIT. 



Compote of Spring Fruit— Rhu- 
barb 286 

Compote of Green Currants 286 

Comi>ote of Green Gooseberries 286 

Compote 01 Green Apricots. 287 

Compote of Red Currants. 287 



Compote of Cherries 287 

Comx>ote of Morella Cherries... 288 

Comi>ote of Damsons 288 

Compote of the Magnum Bo- 

num, or other large Plums... 288 
Compote of Peaches 288 



LIQUEURS AND SUMMER BEVERAGES. 



Cherry Brandy. 289 

French Ginger Beer 289 

Ginger Beer. 290 

Hllk Punch 290 

Raspberry Yhiegar 291 

Soda Water 291 

Sddlitz Powders 291 

Lemonade.. 292 

Orangeade 292 



Orgeat 292 

Lemon Syrup 292 

Excellent Portable Lemonade.. 298 

Ratafia 298 

Noyeau. 293 

Mint Julep (an American re- 
ceipt) 294 

Mulled Wine 295 



PREPARATIONS OF FOOD FOR INVALIDa 

General Observations 295 I Flour Caudle. 297 

To make Gruel 296 White Caudle *K^ 

Indian Meal Grnel 296 \ RlceCau«\ft.. "J^ 

Barley QrueL 296 I Arrowroot ^^ 



894 



1NDBX« 



TiVlOca ^^.,.,. 398 

8ago »8 

fliM^> Milk 299 

Onrand Rice Milk 399 

BMUMraUve Milk 399 

Soet Milk. 399 

ImiUdon of Aases* Milk. 399 



PREPARATIONS OF FOOD FOR ISVAUDS-Ckmibtuei 

For A Quick Made Broth... JKH 

CalTs Feet Broth. 804 

Chicken Broth.. 805 

Chicken Broth— « weaker Und 80S 

Beef Tea 80S 

Beef Tean-to drink cold. ».. 806 

Eggs 8M 

Stew ft>r Persons in Wetk 

Health 806 

To Stew Partridges for iheSidc 807 

Puddings for Invalids. 807 

Brown Bread....^....................,,,. 807 

Wine Whey~« t08 

Plain Whey 806 

Tamarind Whey..................^.....^ 308 

Irish, or Two Milk Whey. 
Vinegar and Lemon Whey 
Luncheon for an Invalid........^... 

Butter Milk — good for Con> 

sumptiye Patients...^............. 

Baked and Dried Fruits....... 

Butter Milk 310 



800 
800 
800 
800 
801 
801 



Barley Milk.. 

Baked Milk. 

CalTs Feet and Milk... 

Sheep's Trotters. 

Isinglasa ', 

Qlonceater Jelly... 

Bread JeUy 801 

Bice Jelly 801 

Strengthening Jelly 803 

Hemp Seed Jelly 803 

Tapioca Jelly 803 

Tto make Panada in Five Minutes 303 

Chicken Panada.. 808 

Sippets., 803 

Brothdof Beef; Mutton, andVeal 808 



DRINKS. 



A refreshing Drink in a Fe- 

yer. 310 

Toast and Water 311 

Barley Water 811 

Barley Water, with Honey. 311 

Barley Water, with Isinglasa... 812 



•••••• ••«••••••••«••• 



Soda Water.. 
Cream of Tartar. 

Ai^e Water ..... .. 

Cooling Drink....... ...... 

Balm, Mint, and other Teas... 
Wholesome Beverage ............. 



81S 
313 
813 
818 
313 
318 



COOKERY FOR CHILDREN. 



Food for a Young Infant 817 

Thickened Milk for Infants when 

Six Months old 317 

Milk 317 

For a Child's Luncheon 318 

Broth 318 

Milk Porridge 318 

Meats for Children 319 

Vegetables for Children, Eggs, 

Ac 819 

Potatoes and Peas ^19 



Puddings and Pancakes tor 

Children 320 

Rice Pudding, with Fruit 320 

Hasty Pudding 320 

To prepare Fruit for Children... 820 

Rice and Apples 321 

A nice Apple Cake for Children 321 

Fruits for Children. 321 

Blackberry Jam 323 

To make Senna and Manna 
Palatable 323 



INDEXt 



895 



CfUBING MEATS, POTTING, AND COLLARING. 



F»ge 
Ctenorsl DireclIon8.....»......M...M.. 824 

Fickle ibr Beef; Pork, &c. 325 

Pickle for Beef. 826 

An excellent Pickle for Uams, 

Tongues, Ac 827 

To Salt Beef 327 

To Salt Beef— Another way. 328 

To Salt Beef Red 328 

Welsh Beef 329 

The Dntch way to Salt Beef. 329 

To Salt Beef for Immediate Use, 

and to make into Soup. 330 

Beef Tongues .............................. 830* 



BeefTongues— a Suffolk receipt 881 

To Dress Beef Tongues ^ 333 

Hung Beef— the Derrynane re- 
ceipt ..... . 333 

Cheap Hung Beef 338 

Curing Pork . 838 

To Salt Fat Pork 884 

Bacon 834 

Westphalia Hams. »... 335 

Hams superior to Westphalia... 386 

Potted Beet..., . 836 

Potted Chicken or Partridge.... 888 
To Pot Boned Pigeons whole.... 838 



PICKLES. 



Rules to he observed with 

Pickles 889 

Cucumbers 840 

To Pickle Gherkins or Small 

Cucumbers 341 

To make the celebrated Pickle 

called Poke-Melia. 342 

Mangoes 342 

Mangoes— Another way. 343 

To Piokle Walnuts 843 



••■••«•«•»•••••«••••••• 



••••••••••••• 



• ••■•••••4« • • •< 



344 
344 
845 
845 

346 
846 
To Pickle Green Peppers........... 846 



To Pickle Beets 

To Pickle Onions..., 

To Pickle Tomatoes........ 

To Pickle Mushrooms.... 

To Pickle Red and White Cab- 
bage.......................................... 

To Pickle Nasturtium&...»., 



Lemon Hckla 



•■•••••••••••■•••••« •••••*••' 



.. 847 



VINEGAR-MAKING. 



Cider Vinegar. 848 

Sugar Vinegar. 849 

Pyroligneous Acid. 349 

To Strengthen Vinegar.. 350 

Horseradish Vinegar. 350 



Basil Vinegar 850 

Tarragon Vinegar 851 

Pepper Vinegar.. 851 

flavoured Vinegars 851 



THE STORE-CLOSET. 



Sauces 851 

Universal Sauces 352 

Tomato KetchuiH-ezcellent..... 858 

If uahroom Ketchup. 353 

Walnut Ketchup 854 

Lemon Pickle 854 

Quin*s Sauce 855 

To Prepare Mustard for the 
Dinner TaUe..^ 855 



Mushroom Powder 855 

Powder of Fine Herbs for Flar> 
vouring Soui>s and Sauces, 
when Fresh Herbs cannot 

be obtained 856 

Horseradish Powder ................. 856 

Mixed Spices and Seasonings... 856 
Seasonings for White Sauce, 
FrlcaaBe«^ ^aA^jaJCsoSu^ ■> ^^^ 



B96 



INDEX* 



QNGABYINa 



••••••••■•••••••••••■•••••••••••••a WrX 

Ood*8 Head and Shoolden....... S64 

SaliiMHi^...........................^.. 864 

Haddock 864 

SixloinofBeef 865 

BibeofBeef. 866 

A Round (Buttock) or Altdi 

BoojB of Beef ^., 865 

Fillet of Veal 866 

The Breast of VeaL. 866 

LoinofVeaL. 866 

Shoulder of Veal„ 867 

Calf 8 Head. 867 

Leg of Mutton. 867 

A Shoulder of Mutton. 868 

A Saddle of Mutton........ .. 868 

A Haunch of Mutton.. 868 

Loin of Mutton...... .. 868 



Neck of Mutton ••••••••••••OTM***** 868 

Hie Scrag of Mutton............... 869 

A Leg of Lamh..................„.. 360 

A Fore-qnaiter of Lamb.......... 869 

Poik. ........ 869 

Boiled Tongoc 870 

Ham.... 870 

Sacking Pig.. 370 

Haanch of Veniaon ................ 871 

Boast TniiLey........................ 371 

Boiled Tuikey ........... ...... 878 

Turkey Poults... 378 

A 6oo8e»............... 878 

ADuck.. 878 

Boast Fowl ..................... 878 

A Partridgeu. 874 

Pigeons.. ., 874 



ThS TEA.-TABLB 



•••••••••••••••••I 



.... 878 



BILLS OF 

Dinner for Eight, (January).... 
Dinner for Eij^teen, (January) 
Dinner for Eight, (February)... 
Dinner for Twelve, (February). 

Dinner for Eight, (March) 

Dinner for Twenty, (March).... 

Dinner for Twelve, (April).. 

Dinner for Eight, (May) 

Dinner for Twelve, (May) 



FABE FOR DINNER. 



377 
377 
878 
878 
379 
879 
380 
880 
881 



Dinner for Eight, (June) ........ 881 

Dinner for Twenty, (July) 883 

Dinner for Six, (July„ 388 

Dinner for Twelve (July).. 388 

Dinner for Ten, (August) 388 

Dinner for Six, (September).... 384 

Dinner for Ten, (October) ....... 864 

Dinner for Six (NovBml>er)...... 3S5 



'KDVSWSBXXB. \ YBXSrSXD 'KT T. 'S&\ARi& feXA «(»&. 



1854. 




NEW 

Illustrated Works. 

BOOKS FOH PEE3ENTS. BOOKS FOR THE lOUSa. 



■o. uuket-Fluw. B]i the KeT. Dr. TwsEDii. F0olK»p8Ta,<:loUi,piic«!i> 
Gilt 1t*T», M. M. Xofxeo aitn, It, 

TBE PATHWAYS AND ABIDING PLACES OP OUR LORDl A Tour 
thmaKti the I.iad of Promlia. Sf the Oev, Or. WiiHwuaBl Foolt- 
ttp Bro, pilce 8t. Sd. Gilt Isma, 4>. Bd. Uorocco BItn, 71, U. 



• aoi7. PoolBip Bvo, cloth, ptlc» li 



ASD lOBB, bOXDOX ASD EDIXBUBOH. 



fl 



KUSSU. POLAXD. SIBEKIA, AHD dRCASSIA. Fool«. 

GOt leBTeik 4s. €d. Maroeeo eztis, Sk 

AT SCHOOL. B^ the Rxr. Jonr Todd. D.IX, aatbor 

8i«^ doO, pciee Sa. GOt ksfe^ 




JvcbSs libniy, eoosUGng of flnw 



vi& the above^ priee 1% 



T"J 



Umr m IMEllBI MD THE FIRESIDE. 

SrOKT: flc. Ike Orpkml' WraBg^ Aninterestinf nev 
Fiilin 8i«b fcice Is. Cd. OoCh. Sfe. GOt ksfo^ 



'VWK BBRISB CABCEET CrUS: lives of A0 Pmesait MinistxT—Loid 



tm€ FiTaiitf—. Lord Jotai ir»win. Mr. GbdaKme, Ac. iBC 

price Is. Cd. Kas«j bound in fiuiej 



ASXA LEX : cr.lkftXiideB. Tke Wife. Tbe XoUms. Bj T. & Astotb, 
Aasiiiir :f -^Bsbs Sccccsl* At. Pfeper tasnb, vitik besntifta fifOf 
tail Tl^accae. ;cKt Is. CA Nesflj boond in fencj dotli, Ss. 



"THE VTDC WIX>E WOKLZX Foolscap Sfo, wifli Ftootisideee and Vl9> 



bonnfiiL vitk neat pieuwisl corer, pciee la. 6d. Kestiy 
X-Qa2 i2 aacr <ax^ 2s. 



1*^ £ACE EOWJLED: cr, Ite FnnSr at G3en Lima. Foolscap 8to, pqier 
-T ViMciA. vi:^ pLjS :nal ecrov Frootiapseoe and \lgnette, price Is. 6d. 



(.1 



REIV^£M5 AXP EER-^EMERS. Br H. R Stajtox, Eacj. With Portrtit 
cf Jct^uv Hrxs. Esi}, ILP. Foolacsp 8to, paper boards, price li 
Xm^ bccsd L= it^xr ck<2&, la. €i 

THE XATFLOWEB. Br Hauuxt Bnonx Srown. Foolscap 8ro, paper 
K>&7dik vitii Froctispieee and Vignette, price la. Neatly bound in 

fSlVT CMTSh. 1&, Cd. 

I'XCLE TV*>r5 CABK. By H. R Srom. Foobcap Sro. paper boards, 
v-.t:: Fnxitispteee sad Yignene, price la Neatly bound in fukcj 

I TI<^^* SCENES. Bt T. S. Asrinra. Foolscap 8to, iritb fiincy paper 
-ll toanis. price Is. Needy bound in fancy doth, la. 6d. 

/ T IFK OF VLLUKGIOS, ^^Wlx \jw^ 'S.toxv^'mrv'* celebrated Oratioii. 
/ "Li Foolscap %TPv 'S«9CX 'bQ«rd&, "vVti^ Tras&Kcv(A \^>akx«Sassi^ ^\sev<atk \v 
N<f*tly bound in faxkc; tikttiv, \v W- 



T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



INTERE&TINB NEW WORKS. 

THE NORTHERN COASTS OF AMERICA AND THE HUDSON'S BAT 
TERRITORIES. A Narratiye of Discoverjr and Adventure. Post 8vo, 
handsomely bound in doth, 4s. 6d. Gilt leaves, 5i. Morocco elegant, lis. 6d. 

VOTAGES ROUND THE WORLD, from the death of Captain Cook to the 
present time. Post 8vo, neatly bound in doth, price 4s. 6d. Gilt 
leaves, 5s. Morocco elegant, lis. 6d. 

EXPLORING EXPEDITIONS TO THE PACinC AND THE SOUTH 
SEAS, under the English, French, and American Governments. With 
Sted Engravings. By J. Jbmkinb, Esq. Post Svo, handsomdy bound in 
doth, price 4s. 6d. Gilt leaves, 5s. Morocco degant, lis. 6d. 

MEMOIRS OF THE COURT OF PRUSSIA. Beantifhlly Illustrated. 
Translated from the German. Crown 8vo, handsomdy bound in doth, 
price 6s. Gilt leaves, 7s. Morocco elegant, llSi 6d. 

THE BOOK OF FABLES; illustrated by Stories from Real Lif& With 
Twenty Engravings. Foolscap 8vo, beautifiilly bound in fancy doth, 
price 2& 6d. Gilt leaves, 8s. Morocco degant, 7a. 

DREAM LIFE. By Ik Marvel, author of ^^Asveries of a Badidor.** 
Foolscap 8vo, beautifully bound in fimey doth, price 3s. Gilt leaves, 
2a 6d. Morocco degant, 68. 

HISTORY OF THE PURITANS IN ENGLAND, AND THE PILGRIM 
FATHERS. By. the Rbt. Psofsssob Stowsll and Db. D. Wilsov, 
F.SJL Soot Post 8yo, doth, Ss. 6d. Gilt leaves, 4s. 6d. Mor. extra, 11a 6d. 

Rums OF SACRED AND HISTORIC LANDS. Babylon—Nhieveh— 
Palestine— Egypt— India— Central America— Italy, Ac Ac, induding a 
Narrative of the Recent Discoveries at Ninevdi, Ac Foolscap 8vo, hand- 
somdy bound in doth, price 8s. 6d. Gilt leaves, 4& 6d. Morocco degant, 7a 6d. 

npHE MECHANISM OF THE HEAVENa By Profkssor Olhsted, LL.D. 
^ Post 8vo, with twenty-fbur Views of Lord Roflse*8 discoveries, Ac., and 
seventy Wood Engravings, price 5a Gilt leaves, 6& Mor. degant, 11a 6d. 

npHE DIVINE ARCHITECT ; or. The Wonders of Creation. By the Rev. 
^ J. M. Wilson. Post 8yo, doth, price 4s. 6d. Gilt edges, 5a Morocco 
extra or antique, 11a 6d. 

A FRICA— THE AFRICAN CONTINENT. A Narrative of Discovery and 
-^ Adventure^ By Huoh Musrat, Esq. Post 8vo, doth, price 5a Gilt 
edges, 6a Morocco eitra or antique, 11a 6d. 

THE PREACHER AND THE EJNG; or, Bonrdalone In the Cmxt ol 
■'■ Louis XIV. A Historical Tale by l* "Bxiw^^wsiTOu '^twsfio.NRA.^Kwa^'^^ 
J7iirfeen£h f!rench Edition. Foolacapavo.^^otXv^ca^^*^ QN&.s*v%<8^«»- 
Morocco extra or antique, 7a 6d. 



EDIIBUIBH OABINET LIBRARY. 

Vew and Enlarged Editions. 

nISTORT OF ARABIA AND ITS PEOPLE. B7 Db. Cricbtov. Folk 
8vo, hAiidioinely bound In doth, and beuitifally Ulostrated, pcfee M. 
out Imtm, 6c Morofioo degant, lU. <d. 

• 

HISTORY OF BRITISH INDIA. By Hugh Mcsrat, F.R.S.E. WItb 
N«rretiTe of the Affglian War, The Conquest of Scinde and Gwalior, The 
War In the Pn^Janlx With Portrait of Sir Cbarlea Napier. Port 8vo, 
prioa Ic GQt leaTeii te Morocco degant, 11a. M. 

POLYNESIA t or, the Idand World of the Sooth Sea and the Padfle Bj 
X the Right ReT. Bishop Russell, of St John's College, Oxford. Post 
Svo, with beaotiftil Sted Frontispieoe and Vignette, price 4a. 6d. Gilt leareii 
Ic Morocco degant, lis. 6d. 

CIRCUMNAVIGATION OF THE GLOBE— Narratives of KariUme Dit- 
coTcry and Adrentore. Poet Bvo, with fine Steel Frontiqi>ieoe and 
Vignette, price 4a. 6d. Gilt leares, 6& Morocco degant, lis. 6d. 

nISTORT OF EGYPT: HER TEMPLES AND MONUMENTi By the 
Rer. Bishop Rcbskll. With a Narrative of all the Recent Dlacoveriei 
in Hieroglyphlca. Post Svo, handsomely bonnd in cloth, and beautifally 
Uloatrated, price 4s. 6d. Gilt leaves, 5a Morocco elegant, 11a. 6d. 

DISCONCERT AND ADVENTURE IN THE POLAR SEAS AND RE- 
GIONS By SiE John Lksub, Ac With Steel Portrait of Sir Jolin 
Franklin, and a Narrative of all the Recent ExpeditionaL Post Svo, price 
4s. 6d. Gilt leares, 6a Morocco elegant, 11a 6d. 

TRAVELS AND RESEARCHES OF ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT. 
With a KarratiTe of his most Recent Researches, including his Cele- 
brated J umey to the Ural Moantains, Exploration of the Altaian Ranee, 
and the Caspian Sea, ftc Ac Price 4a. 6d. Gilt leaveit, 5aL Morocco ele- 
gant. li9L 6d. 

PALFISTINE : or, THE HOLY LAND. By the Right Rev. Bishop Ritssbli, 
ol St. John's Ci^llege, Oxford. With a narrative of the VisiU and Re- 
aearoh«« of recent Trarellers, inclndinf? an Accoant of the late American 
Ex^HMlition to the Dead Sea and the River Jordan, Ac Ac With Engrav- 
ings, post i^-o, price 4flL 6d. Gilt leaves, 5a. Morocco elegant, 11a. 6d. 

LIKE OF SIR WALTER RALEIGH. By P. FaASRR Tttlkr, F.sq. PCst 
8vi\ doth* pxtee 4a. ^ QV!iX^eKv«^ ^v Mv^toeco elegant, IIsl 6d. 

T IFK OF HEKRT TB^HOKTO. Ui ^.Yi^^n.'Vt^cit,^ ^4^V 



/ 



T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



HEW ILLUSTRATED WORKS FOR PRESENTS, ftc 

THE SWISS FABIILT ROBINSOK. Beantiftilly Illastrated. Foolscap Sro, 
doth, price Ss. 6d. Gilt leaves, 4a 6d. Morocco degant, 78. 6d. 

STORIES FROM SWITZERLAND AND THE TYROL. Beautiftaiy Illiw- 
trated. Foolscap 8vo, cloth, price 3& 6cl. QUt leaves, 4s. 6d. Morocco 
elegant, 7& 6d. 

THE ROMANCE OF NATURAL HISTORY. By a Wsbbrb. BeauUftilly 
lUostrated. Foolscap 8vo, doth, price 8s. 6d. Gilt leaves, 48. 6d. 
Morocco degant, 78. 6d. 

THE ISLAND HOME; or, THE YOUNG CASTAWAY& By Ghristophks 
RoMAUNT, Esq. BeaatifoUy Illustrated. Foolscap 8vo, doth, price 8s. 6d. 
Gilt leaves^ 4a 6d. Morocco elegant, 7a 6d. 

PICTURES OF TRAVEL AND ADVENTURE. Beantiftilly Hlnstrated. 
Foolscap Svo, doth, 8a 6d. Gilt leavea 4a 6d. Morocco degant, 7a 6d. 

EOBINSON CRUSOEL BeantlAil edition, large type, foolscap Svo, with 
fine Engravings £rom designs by Gilbert, price 8a 8d. Gilt leaves, 
4a 6d. Morocco degant, 7a 6d. 

THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS Foolscap Svo, beantlftiny Ulostrated, price 
8a 6d. Gilt leaves, ia 6d. Morocco degant, 7a 6d. 

GRACE HOWARD, AND THE FAMILY AT GLEN LUNA. By Amy 
LoTHROP. Fine Edition. Foolscap Svo, beantiftilly bound in doth, 
with Frontispiece, price 8a 6d. Gilt leavea price 4a 6d. Morocco degant, 
7a 6d. 

MAURICE GRAY, AND OTHER STORIE& A Book for Boya Foolscap 
Svo, beautifully illustrated, price 8a 6d. Gilt leaves, 4a 6d. Morocco 
degant, 7a 6d. 

AMY ROSE, AND OTHER STORIE& A Book for Girla Foolscap Svo, 
beautinilly illustrated, price 8a 6d. Gilt leaves, 4a 6d. Morocco 
degant, 7a 6d. 

THE SEASONS OF THE YEAR; or, The Hand of God as Manifested in His 
Worka With two beautiful Steel Engravings from designs by Birket 
FosTBB, Esct Price 8a 6d. Gilt leaves, 4a 6d. Morocco degant, 7a 6d. 

rpCLE TOM*S CABIN. Beautiftd edition, large type. With Life of Mbsl 
vl Stowb. Post Svo, handsomely bound, price 8a 6d. 
Samb Edition. Splendidly illustrated, and richly gilt, adapted for a Present 
Book. Price 5a Morocco elegant, 11a 6d. 

THE WIDE WIDE WORLD. By EiUixwLtu'^i.iwi.'Kna.. 'T«sA'««!fi6«s^ 
Foolscap «vo, beautiftilly bound in c\o«i, l|^\Xl'8T«v^a"S^«R»«A''^^sc^'*5«K 
price 8a. 6d, Cloth extra, richly ^t,pTVcate. "ttsswRsa ^^^P®^"^^^ 



6 T. MBUBOS AMD 80R8, LOUDON AND BDINBUBOH. 



BOOKS FOR THE FAMILT LIBRABT. 

HOHS— « Book Ibr Tonng Ladiat. Foolacftp Sro, with beaatfftil Frontis- 
pieee and Vignette, doth, 3a. GUt leayea, 3a. 6d. Morocco elegant, 6i. 

SEED-TIME AKD HARVEST: or, Sow WeU and Reap WeO. A Book for 
the Young: By the Rer. W. K. Tweedik, D.D., Tolbooth Free QPraith, 
Edlnborgh. Fcp. 8ro, doth, 2fl. Gilt leaves, 3a. 6d. Morocco elegant^ ii. 

KIND WORDS AWAKEN KIND ECHOES. Foolacap 8vo^ doth, price Sa 
GQt leavea, .3a. 6d. Morocco degant, 6a. 

MINISTER AND PEOPLE : or, LIghta and Shadows in the Pastor's life. A 
Tale. With Pre&ce by the Rer. Dr. Massis, London. Foolacap 8t«^ 
doth, price 3a. Gilt leavea, 3a. 6d. Morocco degant, 6a. 

THE CHRISTIAN MISSIONARY.— Inddenta in the Life of the Re?. Dr. 
Jndaon, Miaaicmary to Bnnnah. Fodac^) Syo, price Sa Gilt ^evnt, 
9a. 6d. Morocco degant, 6a. 

LIFE OF SARAH B. JUDSON. By Fahht FouencB. Foolacap 8to^ pilee 
3a. Gilt leayea, 3a. 6d. Morocco degant, 6a. 

THE YOUNG LADrS COMPANION. By H. NxwooiCB. Foolacap 8to, 
price 3a. Gilt learea, 3a. 6d. Morocco degant, 6a. 

THE HAND OF GOD IN HISTORY. By the Rer. Holus Rbad^ Fod- 
Bcap Svo, doth, price 3a. Gilt leaves, 3a 6d. Morocco degant, 7a 

THE PLANETARY AND STELLAR WORLDS; on, THE DISCOVERIES 
OF MODERN ASTRONOMY. With nnmeroiis Tdescopic View& Fool- 
scap Svo, price 3a Gilt leavea, 3& 6d. Morocco degant, 7s. 

SUCCESS IN LIFE. A Book for Young Men. Foolscap Svo, with Beauti- 
fol Engraved Title. Elegantly bound in doth, price 8s. Gilt leavea, 
8a. 6d. Morocco degant, 7s. 

MEMORIALS OF EARLY GENIUS, AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE 
PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE. With Engravings. Foolscap Svo, 
doth, price 3a Cloth extra, richly gilt, 8& 6d. Morocco elegant, 7s. 

OLIVER CROMWELL. By Dr. D. WnsoN, F.S.A., Scot With Engravinga. 
Foolscap Svo, handsomely bound in doth, price 38. Cloth extra, ridily 
gilt, 8a 6d. Morocco degant, 7a 

MEMORIALS OF THE DAWN OF THE REFORMATION IN EUROPE. 
With Engravings. Foolscap Svo, handsomdy bound in doth, price 3a 
Cloth extra, rldily gilt, ^ ^ Hqitoqco degant, 7a 

rBANCE AND HER BEL\(ilOT3^ TOSJlQ^l-. ^W«b. ^aM8«3c«k *«. v^ 
Martyrs and Ketormct*. YoolwsKe %^o^ Ximv^sotv^i >s«sa&. >a^ esss^ 
price Ha. Cloth extra, rtOiiy m. »^ ^ ^^*~«^ ^\^^Viv 



T. NELSON AND BONB, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



CABINET EDITIONS OF THE POETS, 

THE LIFE AND POETICAL WORKS OF THOMAS CAMPBELL, 18mo. 
doth, with beautiful Steel £ugraving& Price 2& 6d. Gilt leaves, Ss 
Morocco elegant, 6& 

COWPER'S POETICAL WORKS. With beantifiil Steel Engrayings, 18mo, 
doth, price 38. 6cL Gilt leaves, 8s. Morocco degant, 6s. 

LONGFELLOWS POETICAL WORK& With beautiful Sted Engravings, 
18mo, doth, frice 2s. 6d. Gilt leaves, 8s. Morocco degant, 6s. 

Also in Laxge Type, suitable fbr Handsome Gift-BookS| &c. 

COWPER'S POETICAL WORKS. Beautifully printed in foolscap 8vo, with 
fine Sted Engravings, 4s. 6d. Gilt leaves, 6s. Morocco elegant, 10s. 

MILTON'S POETICAL WORK& Foolscap 8vo, with fine Sted Engravings, 
price 4fl. 6d. Gilt leaves, 5& Morocco degant, 10s. 

POETICAL WORKS AND REMAINS OF HENRT KIRKE WHITK With 
beauttftil Sted Engravinga Foolscap 8vo, doth, price 4s. 6cL Gilt 
leaves, St. Morocco degant, lOa. 

THE BOOK OF ENGLISH POETRY. With fine Sted Engravinga Price 
4s. 6d. Gilt leaves, 5s. Morocco degant, 10s. 

THE POETICAL WORKS OF CAMPBELL AND KIRKE WHITK Beaati- 
ftilly illnstrated and handsomely bound in doth. Foolscap 8vo, ]^rice 
4SL 6d. Gilt leaves, 5s. Morocoo degant, 10s. 



/ 



FIRESIDE LIBRARY OF TALES, ftc. 

MiBB K'Intosh's Works. 

CONQUEST AND SELF-CONQUEST; or, Which makes the Hero? Fod- 
8c^ 8vo, doth, price 2s. Gilt leaves, 2s. 6d. Morocco elegant, 68. 

PRAISE AND PRINCIPLE; or. For What Shall I Live? Foolscap 8vo, 
doth, price 2s. Gilt leaves, 2s. 6d. Morocco elegant, 6s. 

i@" Conquest and Sdf-Conquest, and Praise and Prlndple,2 vols, in 1, 
doth plain, price 8a. 6d. Gilt leaves, 4& 6d. 

GRACE ELLIOT; or. To Seem and to Ba Fcotocap 8vo, doth, price 2s. 
Gilt leaves, 2& 6d. Morocco degant, 68. 

ANNIE DONALDSON; or, Evenings at Donaldson Manor. Foolscap 8vo, 
doth, price 2a. Gilt leaves, 2s. 6d. Morocco elegant, 68. 

^" Grace Elliot, and Annie Donaldson, 3 vols, in 1, doth plain, 
price 8a. 6d. Gilt leaves, 4s. 

mALES FOB ALL SEASONS. By¥wKKT¥oBMre«a. ^ti^'»«»s>Vi^^«Sa^ 
•^ price » out leaves, 2b. 6d. Morocco €L<&tS^\^ ^^^ 



8 T. nmuom abtd sons, lobdon and bdinbuboh. 

BOOKS FOR 80H00L PRIZES, fte. 

SrLKVDIDLT HXUBTBJLTBD. 

ypolioap 8vo. haakdaomeHj bound in dotlw 2a. 64. 

COotti extra, riolily gilt, 3s. 6d. 

Moroeoo elegant, 7b. 

qCENES OF MODERN TRAVEL AND ADVENTURlC With Engnvinsi 

pERILS AND ADVENTURES ON THE DEEP. With Engrmyinga. 

SCENES FROM THE BISTORT OF THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH. With 
EngntTlnga. 

TNCIDBNTS OF MISSIONARY ENTERPRISE. Witb EngraTlngai 
nTORIES FROM EUROPEAN BISTORT. With Engravinga 
T AST DATS OF EMINENT CHRISTIAN& With Frontispieee. 

NATURAL BISTORT OF BEASTS, BIRDS, FISBES, A& With On« 
HoBdred EngnTingiL 



BOOKS FOR 80H00L PRIZES, fte. umo. 

TBE WHALE AND ITS CAFTORSL By Cbibtsb. ISmo, doth plain, 
price la. 6d. Cloth, gilt leavea, 3a. 

BIOGRAPHY OF SELF-TAUGHT MEN. ISmo, cloth plain, price U 6d. 
Cloth, gUt learea, 28. 

TVANGERS OF THE DEEP. With Engrayinga, ISmo, doth, gUt leavea, 

SCENES OF TRAVEL AND ADVENTURE IN CENTRAL AFRICA. 
With Engrayinga, 18mo, doth, gilt leayea, 3a 

LIFE OF NAPOLEON AND HISTORY OF FRANCE TO THE DEATH 
OF LOUIS PHILIPPE. With Engrayhiga, ISmo, doth plain, price 
la. 6d. Cloth, gilt leaves, 3a 

MRS. SIGOURNEY*S POETICAL WORKSL With Sted Portrait. ISmo, 
doth, gilt leaves, 2a 

GOLDSMITH'S POETICAL WORKS, AND VICAR OF WAKEFIEUX 
With Engravings, ISmo, doth, gUtleavea, 2a. 

BOOK OF USEFUL AND ORNAMENTAL KNTTTINO AND NETTING 
WORK. Square 16mo, c\ol\\, ^\\. \«v(«^ Y«\Rfe ^v^ 'wVllk. Ulnstrationa 

"DOOK OF CROCHETI W0B.1S. aq!aaar^\*ta«^<asAJs^^\.\%ws<Mwvev^%w^A^ 
■^ With UIuBtrationa. 



T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 9 



SUPERIOR PRESENT BOOKS, 

Foolscap BvOf olotb extra, rlobly sUt, 3b. 6d. 
Morocco eleffant, 78. 

WAYSIDE FLOtV^RS. Tales and Pencilings by FANirr Fossstsb, (Mb8. 
Jddsom.) Foolscap 8ya With two beantiftil illoiniuated Platat. 

rS SOUVENIR. A Gift for all Seasons. Containing Tales, Poetry, «nd 
Mnslc. With two beantlAil illmninated Plates. 

THE KEEPSAKE: A Fireside Companion of Tales, Sketches, and Poetry. 
With two beantifal illuminated Plates. 

EVENINOS AT DERLET MANOR. Pendlinga and Sketches of the 
English Poets^ and their Fayourite Scenes. 

mHE GIFT BOOK OF BIOGRAPHY FOR YOUNG LADIE& By Mns 
J- Kkhduck and Mbs. Mabia L. Child. With Engravinga 

BEAUTIES OF MODERN BRITISH POETRY. Systematically uranged 
by D. GBAirr, Esq., with fine Steel Frontispiece. 

BEAUTIES OF MODERN SACRED POETRY. SystematieaUy arranged, 
with Prefisce; by W. M'Combis, Esq., Author of ** Hours of Tbonght** 



/ 



DAILY TEXT BOOKS, ftC. 

GREEN PASTURES: or. Daily Food for the Lord*s Flock. By the Rer. 
Jambs Smith. 82mo, cloth gilt, price Is. Morocco, 3s. 

STILL WATERS: or, Refreshment for the Lord's Flock at Erentidei By 
the Rer. Jambs Smith. 82mo, gilt, price Is. Morocco, 3s. 

THE CHRISTIAN'S DAILY BREAD. A Text Book of Scripture Truth and 
Promises, for erery day in the year. Square 48ma Roan plain, price 6d. 
RoangUt,9d. With tuck, 1& 

BIBLE READINGS ; or. The Christian's Dally Monitor, by the Rer. Jambs 
Smith. Square 48mOb Roan plain, 6d. Roan gilt, 9d. With tuck, la. 

ACHAPLET OF FLOWERS, comprising a Scripture Text, with a Gem ot 
Thought illustrating its meaning, tor every day in the year. Square 
iSma Roan pUUn, price 6d. Roan gilt, 9d. With tuck. Is. 

COMPANION BY THE WAY, FOR A CHRISTIAN PILGRIM. Square 
48ma Roan plain, price 6d. Roan gilt, 9d. With tuck. Is. 

THE SHEPHERD OF ISRAEL; or, **Faithftil ts He that calleth yoo.'* 
Square 48mOb Roan plain, price 6d. Roan gilt, 9d. With tnck^ la. 

r!E FAJTHFUL PROMISES. a(piKCtt4fem». 'BiwajL'^JiJbSm'^etfsfeVi. ^*»*«. 
gat, 90, With tuck, Itt. 



10 T. 1IBL80V AMD BOSB, LOHDON AND BDINBURGH. 



VALUABLE RELISI0U8 WORKS. 

GLAD TIDIKQ8) or, Hie Gospel of Peace— A Series of Dailj Readings far 
ChrbtUa Diseiplesw By the Bev. Dr. Twbbdxb, autbor of ** Seed Time 
•ndHenrest,** Ac. F^ Svo^ doth, Ss. 6d. Gilt leayes, 8s. Moroeoo elegaat, 7» 

DAILT BIBLE READINGS FOR THE LOED*S HOUSEHOLD. By the 
Rer. Jaxss Smith, 18mo, cloth gilt, 28. Mor. plain, Ss. 6d. Mor. extra, fi» 

THE BOOK OF FAMSLT WORSHIP AND HELPS TO DEVOTIGN. 
By the Rer. W. B. Clabx. Foolscap 8to, doth, price 2a. Gilt leaveai 
is. 6d. Horoeoo antique, 6a. 6d. 

THE CONGREGATIONAL TUNE BOOK, Containing upwards of 370 of 
the most admired Psslm and Hymn Tones, Chaunts, iK. arranged fbr 
fimr Toices, by Adax Wright, Esq^ Organist of Rev. J. Angell James* 
Ghapd, Birmtngham. Cloth, price Sa. 6d. Half morocco, 6s. 

ELIJAH THE TISHBITK New and degant edition. Foolscap Sre, doth, 
price 2s. Gilt leares, 2sl 6d. Morocco degant, 7s. 

EUSHA. By Krumxaohbb, with Preface by Bioxsrstkto. Foolacap 8tq^ 
doth, price 2aL Gilt leaves, 2sl 6d. Morocco degant, 7s. 

BOGATSKTS GOLDEN TREASURY. Foolscap 8vo, doth, price 2& Gilt 
leaves, 2& 6d. Morocco degant, 78. 

FAMILY PICTURES FROM THE BIBLE. 18mo, doth, price Is. 6d. Gilt 
leaves, 2& 

THE WORLD TO COME. By Isaac Watts. ISmo^ doth, price la. 6d. 
Gilt leaves, 2a. 

JENKS' FAMILY AND PRIVATE DEVOTIONa ISmo, doth, price 
18. 6d. Gilt leaves, 28. 

ASLEEP IN JESUS; or, Words of Consolation for Bereaved Parents. 
ISmo, doth, gilt edges, la 6d. 

CHRISTIAN BIOGRAPHY— Lives of Bimyan, Hall, and Henry. By the 
Rev. Dr. Jaxbs HAXiLTOir. ISmo, doth, gilt leaves, la 6d. 

BARROWS (DR. ISAAC) WHOLE WORKS, 8 volnmes 8vo. With Life, 
by the Rev. Jambs Hamilton, D.D., London. Cloth, price 23a 

BISHOP HALL'S CONTEMPLATIONS. With Life, by the Rev. Jamu 
Hamilton, D.D., London. One handsome volume 8vo, price 7a 6d. 

BISHOP HORNFS COMMENTARY ON THE PSALMS. One yolome 8vo 
price 6a 

LEIGHTON*S (ARCHBISHOP) WHOLE WORK& With Life. Complete 
in one volume ftvo, pt\fiA 1%. C&. 

jXL volume 8vo, pirlce 10a. 6^ 



T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. IL 



BOOKS OF TRAVEL, BIOGRAPHY, ftb 

CHINA : Sketches of the Conntiy, Religion, and Cnatoms of the Chineaa 
ninstrated. Royal 82mo, doth, price la. Sd. Cloth gilt, Is. 6d. 

THE ARCTIC REGIONS Royal 82mo, doth, price la. Sd. Cloth gat, 
la.6d. 

THE ISLAND WORLD OF THE PACIFia By Chkkyxb. Royal 82mo, 
doth, price la. 8d. Cloth gilt, la. 6d. 

WATT3* 1SCRIPTURE HISTORY, CompleCft Royal 82mo, doth, price 
la.8d. Cloth gUt, la. 6d. 

THE TOUNG LADrS FRIEND. Royal 82mo, doth, price la. 3d. Cloth 
got, 1& 6d. 

THE GIRL'S BOOK. By Mbs. Siooubnkt. Royal 83mo, doth, price 
laSd. Cloth gUt, Is. 6d. 

THE BOT*S BOOK. By MRa. Sioovbnxt. Royal 82mo, doth, price 1& 8d. 
Cloth gilt, la. 6d. 

STEPHEN'S TRAVELS IN THE HOLT LAND. Royal 83mo, doth, price 
l8.8d. Cloth gilt, la. 6d. 

THE BOOK OF NATURAL HISTORT. Royal 82m^ doth, price la. 8d. 
Cloth gilt, la. Gd. 

THE BOOK OF ENTERTAINING AND INSTRUCmTB ANECDOTE. 
Royal 82mo, doth, price la. 8d. Cloth gilt, 1& 6d. 

T^VENINGS AT HOME. Royal 82mo, doth, price la. 8d. Cloth gilt, la. 6d. 

CURIOSITIES AND WONDERS OF NATURE AND ART. Royal 82mo, 
doth, price la. Sd. Cloth gilt, la. 6d. 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Royal 82mo, doth, price 1& Sd. 
Cloth gUt, la. 6d. 

MILTONS POETICAL WORKS. Paradise Lost and Regained. Royal 
82mo, doth, price la. Sd. Cloth gilt, la. 6d. 

LONGFELLOW'S POETICAL WORKS. With Sted Portrait Royal 
82mo, doth, price la. 8d. Cloth gilt, la. 6d. 

HISTORT OF SANDFORD AND MERTON. Royal SMo, doth, price 
laSd. Cloth gilti 1& 6d. 

FOXE'S BOOK OF MARTTRa Royal 82mo, doth, price la. 8d. Ooth 
gUt,la.6d. 

KIRKE WHITE'S POETICAL WORKSL THth Life l>y Southxt. Boyal 
82mo, doth, price la. 8d. Cloth gilt, Is. 6d. 



11 



riHEEVBRV MEMORIALS OF A. TO\nH»\S\* QSBSSS5^J\42S.- ^%«t^ ^. 
i^ 82mo,dotbttsica la. Mu Ooth «!Qt» \a. Mu ^ 



IS 



T. HBLSON AHD 80H8, LOVDOH AHD BDIHBUBOH. 



NELSORSr BRITISH LIBRARY, IN 0LA8SIHE0 V0LUIIE8. 

GLEANINGS OF SACBED PHILOSOPHY. Foolscap Sro^ doth, price 
l&6d. Gilt leaToa, 3a. 

LIVES OF ILLUSTRIOUS KEN. Foolscap Sro, doth, price la 6d. QOt 
leaves, 3s. 

rLES FOR ALL READERa Foolscap Sto, doth, price 1a 6d. GOt 
leaTCS, 38. 

STORIES FROM CHURCH BISTORT. Footoeap Sro, doth, price Is. 6d. 
out leaTes, Sa 

STORIES OF MISSIONARY ENTERPRISE. Foolsci^ Sro, doth, prke 
la6d. GatleaTes,3a 



ELE8ART GIFT BOOKS. 

"" 18mo, with Tine mnminated Fnmtifiieces and Vignettes. 

THE CORONAL. TUes and Pendlinga By Mb& Lb H. Siooubmkt. ISmo^ 
doth, gilt leares, price 3a Morocco degant, 6b. 

THE GEM ; or, FIRESIDE TALE& ISmo, doth, price 3a Morocco ele- 
gant, 5a 

CLARA'S AMUSEMENTS. Br Mbs. Ansa Bachx. Umo, doth, price 2b, 
Morocco degant, 6a 



Rosral 32ino, gilt leaves^ is. 6d, Mor. extra, 3s. ad. 



The Forget-Me-Not 

A Parting Gift 

Gift of LoTe and Friendship. 

Songs of Home and Happinesa 

Emblems and Poetry of Flowera 

Spring Wild Flowera 

Eiyah the Tishbite. 

The Olney Hsmina. 

Bogatsky's Golden Treasmy. 

The Lady of the Lake. 



Marmion. By Sir Walter Scott 
Paul and Virginia, and the Exiles 

of Siberia. 
Thomson's Seasons, and the Castle of 

Indolence. 
The Qneen*s Wake. By the Ettrick 

Shepherd. 
The Harp of Jndah. 
Annals of the Poor. 
Stories and Sketchea By Todd. 



THE JEWEL GIFT BOOKS. 

aamo, oloth gilt, 18. Clotb extra, gUt, la. 6d. 

The Farewell Gift 
The Remembrancer. 
The Poetry oi Ro^eta. 



I 



The Keepsake. ■ 
The Forget-Me-Not 



LANGUAGE, POEriKY, A35\> S^STTOA'ESt O^ -^UST^^^Ml*. ^»s«BRK^^dSS^ N 
extra Kilt, with l5eaut\Wi\\ium\xv^\^eA15t«o!e«^\«»*.^^ 



T. NBLBON AND SONS, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 13 

THE ROYAL JUVENILE LIBRARY, 
GloUi plain, prtoe 28. 6d. OUt leavo8> 38, 

SPLENDIDLT ILLUSTRATED. 

THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON. With Eight EngraTings from Destgna 
hj DiOXXS, GiLBBRT, Ac 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. With Eight Engrayings from 
Designs by Gilbbbt. 

THE HAPPT HOLIDAT& With Eight Engravings from Designs by & 
FOSTSB. 

HISTORT OF SANDFORD AND MERTON. With Eight Engravings from 
Designs by Ghabbt and Fostsb. 



NEW SERIES OF VOLUMES FOR THE Y0UH8. 

Foolscap 8vo,i X«arge Type. 

SUMMER DATS; or, The Cousins. With beantifol Frontispiece and 
Vignette. Cloth, price Is. 6d. Gilt leaves^ 28. 

HOME PRINCIPLES IN BOTHOOD. With beauUful Frontispiece and 
Vignette. Cloth, price Is. 6d. Gilt leaves, 3s. 

HAROLD AND LEWIS, AND OTHER STORIEa With beantiftd Frontis- 
piece and Vignette. Cloth, price la 6d. Gilt leaves, 28. 

THE CHILDREN AND THE ROBIN, AND OTHER STORIE& With 
beautiful Frontispiece and Vignette. Cloth, price la 6d. Gilt leaves, Ss- 

STORY OF THE MORETON FAMILY. With elegant Frontispiece and 
Vignette, cloth, price la 6d. Gilt leaves, 2a 

PEBBLES FROM THE SEA-SHORE. With elegant Frontispiece and 
Vignette, dotli, price la 6d. Gilt leaves, 2a 

ErVERBANK; or, The aiflFord Family. With elegant Frontispiece and 
Vignette. Cloth, price la 6d. Gilt leaves, 2sl 



THE HOLIDAY GIFT FOR BOYS— consisting of Five Volumes of Stories 
in a Handsome Case, price la 6d. 

THE HOLIDAY GIFT FOR GTRlS-OWiA*flai|i<A"fV^^^^$sa»^^'«** 
in • Handsome Gaae, price la. 64L 



14 ' T. vmuaom amd bovs, lohdov avd bdivbubgb. 



BOOKS FOR THE TOURB* 

Wltli Fine Fromttspleoes and vlgmeUwL 

rZ GREAT SECRET; or, How to bo Hapfyjr. Neatlj bonnd In doth, 
prioo 18. Got leatw, la. 6d. 

rB COUSINS; or. Lore One Another. Neatly tMMmd in doth, price U 
Gflt leeree, la. 6d. 

ALLEN LUCAS; or, Tootfaftil Deddon. Neatly bonnd in doth, price U. 
Gilt leatee, U M. 

CHARLES LINN ; or. How to Obeenre the Golden Bnle. Neatly bonnd in 
doth, price la. Got learea, U 6d. 

THE GOLDEN RULE; or. Do to Others as yon wonid have Others do to 
Too. Neatly bonnd in doth, price la. Gilt leavea, lai 6d. 

rB BASKET OF FLOWERS; or. Piety and Tmth Triumphant Neatly 
bonnd in doth, price la. Gilt learea, la 6d. 

LITTLE ROBINSON OF PARIS ; or, Hie TYinrnph of Industry. By Luor 
Lavdov. Neatly bonnd in doth, price la. Gilt leaves, la 6d. 

THE STORY BOOK OF WONDERS IN NATURE AND ART. By Blsa 
Shbrwood. Neatly bonnd in doth, price la. GUt leaves, la 6d. 

THE BOrS OWN BOOK OF STORIES FROM HISTORY. NeaUy bonnd 
in doth, price la Gilt leaves, la 6d. 

THE TRIAL OF SKILL; or, VThich is the Best Story? Neatly bonnd in 
doth, price la Gilt leaves, la 6d. 

TALES FOR THE YOUNG. By Miss Embubt. Neatly bound in dotb, 
price la Gilt leaves, la 6d. 

ANNALS OF THE POOR. By LaoH Ricbmomd. Neatly bonnd in doth, 
price la Gilt leaves, la 6d. 

SCRIPTURE ILLUSTRATED. With Intboductiok by Todd. Neatly 
bound in doth, price la Gilt leaves, Is 6d. 



SABBATH LIBRARY FOR UHLE READERS. 

Prtoe Sizpenoe eacli« wltb beantUtal gilt oover. 

Life of DanleL "By ^ta. "RooVict. \ KTkRR&wv«& ot tlie Bible. 

Life of David. By Mta. UooVlcc. \ T\^ft\i»5c^^a^MD^^\^^^^^8R 

Todd's Lectures to CYiWAveu. \ t^^^^«c^ ^t^^n. 



T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON AND EDINBURGH. 



15 



HOME LIBRARY FOR Unii READERS. 

Price 6d. eaolif wltb beantUtal gUt cover. Or 9(L eao&f 

fancy clotli, gUt leaves. 



Jessie Graham ; or, Friends Dear, bat 

Tmth Dearer. 
Slind Alice; or, Do Right, if you 

wish to be Happy. 
Grace and Clara ; or, Be Just as well 

as Generous. 
Florence Amot; or, Is She Generous? 
Ellen Leslie; or, The Beward ofSelf- 

ControL 
Stories for Little Readers. Adorned 

with Pictures First Serie& 
Stories for Little Readers. Adorned 

with Pictures Second Serie& 
Love Token for Children. 
A Kiss for a Blow ; or. Stories of Love 

and Kindness in the Young. 
Little Clara. 
Harry Bum& 



Snnshine and Shade; or, Tbe Den- 
ham Family. 
Sister Mary's Stories. 
Story of the Walter Family. 
Tlie Mother's Story, Ac. 
The Well- Spent Hour. 
Ellen CarroL 
Cousin Clara. 
Mary Ross. 

The Little Poetry Book. 
The Faithftd Dog, Ac 
The Play Hour, Ac 
James Thornton. 
Harry Sanford. 
Wild Flowers. 
Harry Edwards. '. 

Stories for the Young: First Series. 
Stories for the Young. Second Series 



SABBATH STORIES FOR LITTLE READERS. 

Price One FartMng each. 

The Golden Key. 
The Way to be Happy. 
Story of Theodore. 



Harriet and Edward, Ac 
The Almond Blossom, Ac 
James Simpson, &c 



Little CharlesL 
The Broken Flower. 
Sarah Williams. 



And a variety ol others. 
Price One BjaJfpeamj eacli. 

The Kind Little Boy, Ac 
Edith and Charles, Ac 
Stories on the Lord's Prayer. 
And a variety of others. 

Price One Penny each. 

The Children and the Dove. Who Directs our Stepsf 

Little Frank and his Letter. The Lark's Nest 

Sailor Boy and his Bible. Lucy Roberta. 

And a variety of othera 

Price Twopence each. 

Robert, Margaret, and Maria, I Tlie Morning Walk, Sec 

Robert EUIai I The Hq\V^^%\ ^x, feJ*<NaiiC^tssa& 

honesty the Best Policy. \ 3«a« ^ooXX. 

And a variety ot o\\i«c%. 



16 



T. nUOS IHD lOHB, LOHDOS AHD EDimUROB. 



SABBATH 8T0BIE8 FOR LITTLE READERS. 

Priflt Threepence each. 

With Fkootitpleoe and Picture Goror. 
TIM Arttmr Fkmny. I Harj Eyang. 

The Little Felmlista | Alfred Somerrffla. 

And a Tuletj of othen. 

Srice Fdvrpenee each, 
with Frontiipiece andBeentiAil Gilt Corer. 



Sarah and LanriL 
Boee and LonlML 
Bobert and EmUj 



wnUam Bartleit 
Ellen Morrison. 
Alfred Singleton. 
And a variety of otber^ 



Price Sixpence each. 
With Frontlapleee and Beautiful (Hit Corer. 

Helen ICanrieei I Ellen Hart 

The Hendenon Family. | Helen and her Conaln. 

And a Tarlety of ofher^ 



Jnst Ready, a series of beanUfol 
PICTURE REWARD CARDS, 

Each containing a Hymn and a neat Engraving. 
Price 2d., 8d., 4d., and 6d. per dozen. 



HEW PIOTURE BOOKS FOR CHILDREN. 

TTNCLE TOM'S PICTURE BOOK. In verse. Dedicated, by pennisslon, to 
D Uer Grace the Dnchese of Satherland. Small Quarta prtoe 6d. 

A mort plMkifng and happy adaptation of the leading Inddenu In Mrs. Stowed liitiimallng, 
work to the undentandlng and taitea of the youngeit readera. It la admirablf flttod to pcwo 
• faToorite tn the nanery Ubrarj, and no highor reoommendatlon can be needed liar it than 
thia, that the poenu whioh oonatltato Iti chM ftatoiw aro horn the pen of the gined pootew, 
Mi« France! Brownei 

SIMPLE HANS, AND OTHER FUNNY PICTURES AND STORIEa 
Numerous Engravings. Small Quarto, price 6d. 



This la one of the mnet bamorooi books ever publlihed for the nnnery, while at iho 
time U is still more oalcalated Ibr Inatmctlon and anoaement, and cannot fkll to benefit* 
while It delight! iti Tovng readen. The nnmeroos lirelj fllostrationa aro deaigned with a 
■peeial Tiew to the taaiea oi «ihV\dT«n; «n& iiViS\a xibw) vm Va&\. nti e^ltlt, they are just inch ai 
ft olerer child might b« lappcMd %o wmcmm. 



\ 



