Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



7 l WWw*W " W € 






■1 




HEALTH, DISEASE, 



LONGEVITY, 



CONSIDERED IN RELATION TO DIB*; REGIMEN, 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF HYGIENE. 



LIONEL JOHN BEALB, M.E.C.S 




LONDON: 
SAMUEL HIGHLEY, 32, FLEET STREET. 

1854. 



/■T/ . JL, Jf 




LONDON : 
T. E. Metcalf, Printer, 63, Snow Hill. 



PKEFACE. 



Hygiene, or the Art of Preventing Disease, 
has of late years attracted attention, as of 
equal, if not of more importance than the 
art of curing disease. Both branches of the 
science of medicine, require the attention of 
the medical practitioner, but the former is 
that which most deserves the attention of 
the public, because the means of preventing 
disease are more intelligible, of more practi- 
cal application, and not liable to do the mis- 
chief which too often results from the treat- 
ment of disease, unless based on an intimate 
knowledge of the subject. The laws of 
health in relation to the prevention of disease, 
may be learned and applied by all : perhaps, 
when the subject is more appreciated, it may 
become, as it ought to be, a branch of public 



IV PREFACE. 

education; in some degree, however, public 
attention has been drawn to the subject, and 
very great good has resulted. 

My work on the " Laws of Health" has, I am 
told, been of some service in helping to dif- 
fuse a knowledge of Hygiene ; and I trust 
the present, being calculated for wider circu- 
lation, may still further extend information 
on this subject, one of the most important to 
which civilized man can direct his attention ; 
for health of mind is so connected with health 
of body, that in a definition of the word 
" health/' we must include both. An opinion 
is too generally held and acted upon, that 
disease is so certainly the lot of man, that to 
be free from it is the exception, and not the 
rule. This is a mischievous opinion, for it 
induces that negligence of the means of pre- 
venting disease which are within the reach 
of all. That health depends on the will of 
the individual, is much more nearly the rule ; 
and its possession is more within our own 
management than we are always willing to 
admit. That a highly civilized and refined 
condition of society throws impediments in 



PREFACE. V 

the way of preserving health is unquestion- 
able; and an unreasonable indulgence in the 
pleasures of social life is assuredly incompa- 
tible with sound health. 

That a large enjoyment of the more rational 
of these pleasures may be indulged, and the 
health still preserved by those who will take 
the trouble of learning how to do so, is equally 
clear. An acquaintance with that, which 
truly constitutes health of mind and body, and 
the real art of enjoying existence, is known to 
very few, and most men struggle through life 
without ever learning how to preserve it. The 
pleasures of human life are exclusively neither 
corporeal nor mental, but a due combination 
of both, and the wise exercise of all the facul- 
ties constitutes health and happiness : to pur- 
sue one class alone must be at the expense of 
the other. By over-application to mental pur- 
suits, we prevent the proper development and 
health of the body ; and by over-employment 
of the bodily powers, we destroy all desire for 
those of the mind : true wisdom consists in the 
employment and exercise of both, and there is 
no surer way of preserving health than by an 



VI PREFACE. 

alternation of the labour, or rather what 
ought to be the pleasures, of mind and body. 

The first thing to be done in our search 
after health, both of mind and body, is to 
learn in what it really consists, and the powers 
we possess of so managing and regulating our- 
selves in relation to the circumstances in which 
we are placed as to realize as large a portion 
of happiness as possible ; for the search after 
health is the search after happiness; and a 
perfect knowledge of the whole subject may 
almost be said to constitute philosophy or the 
search after wisdom. 



12, Wilton Place, 

July \1th, 1854. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Introduction ...... 1 



PART I. 

On the Organs and Functions of Digestion, Nu- 
trition, Secretion, and Excretion 



PART II. 

On the Foundation op a Good Constitution, 

and the Renovation of an Impaired One . 71 



PART III. 
On Longevity . . . . . .1(54 



2 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

influence on health, and are under our in- 
dividual control. The arrangements, venti- 
lation, and warming of our residences; the 
prevention of exhalations from drains, &c, of 
all moisture or damp at the basement of our 
houses, of all accumulations of dirt or rubbish. 
Gases of fever, and other illness, have been 
frequently caused by vegetable and animal 
remains allowed to putrefy in cellars. Domestic 
Hygiene applies to all the laws of health, as 
regards personal cleanliness, washing, bathing, 
clothingfair, exercise, and diet. In a weU-regS 
lated State, all circumstances applying to Fublic 
Hygiene, should be duly guarded, and every 
district should have its officer of health. In a 
well-regulated family, Domestic Hygiene should 
be equally attended to; every head of a family 
should be sufficiently acquainted with the sub* 
ject as to perceive at once when the laws of 
health were infringed. At present the public 
mind is not fully awake to the importance of 
this subject, but the periodical visitation of 
cholera has directed attention to the means of 
its prevention, because this is avowedly a dis- 
ease but little amenable to medical treatment 



4 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

If Public Hygiene in all its parts was looked 
after by the Board of Health and local officers 
of health in every district of the kingdom, and 
if Domestic Hygiene was applied in every 
family, the benefits to the community would 
be incalculable : in another generation the whole 
race would be improved. Who can doubt but 
that the superior forms, figures, and faces of 
the higher classes of society result from a cer- 
tain attention to Hygiene, in the superior con- 
struction of their habitations, in the advantages 
of air, exercise, and clothing, with that refine- 
ment and cultivation of the mental and moral 
powers so necessary to a sound condition of 
the human constitution as a whole. That in 
all the classes of society much improvement in 
the general health has resulted from the atten- 
tion directed to the subject during the last 
twenty or thirty years is unquestionable — the 
physical powers and condition of our people has 
been greatly improved ; but much yet remains 
to be done before the human race shall exhibit 
those advantages from a due attention to the 
subject, as is shewn in the improvements of the 
races of our horses and cattle. We have for 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 5 

years applied the laws of Hygiene for the 
benefit of our animals, and it only remains to 
apply them to our whole human population, to 
derive equal advantages in the health and 
vigour of the physical powers of man, as the 
diffusion of a small amount of general educa- 
tion has a little improved the mental powers. 
With the evidence of the good results of a dif- 
fusion of some knowledge, both of physical and 
moral education, we have only to stimulate a 
still further extension of both, as a certain 
means of increasing individual happiness and 
national greatness. 



6 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 



PART I. 

QX THIS ORGANS AND FUNCTIONS OF DIGESTION, NUTRITION, 
SECRETION, AND EXCRETION. 

When we are about to perform a journey into 
an unknown country, we study a map; so, in 
considering the human constitution in health 
and disease, it is necessary to know something 
of the bearings of its various functions, and in 
particular those which are principally concerned 
in the preservation of health, and the preven- 
tion of disease. We shall trace our food through 
the organs of digestion, noting the various 
changes it undergoes to make it fit for nutri- 
tion; when, after having fulfilled its purposes 
in the support of the organism, its relics become 
the objects of various secretions, to be cast out 
of the body. 

In thus attempting to shew how food is con- 
verted into blood, we must necessarily touch 
upon all the important organs and functions of 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 7 

animal life; and in so doing, we shall be led 
to make some observations on those organs and 
functions which are principally concerned in 
the preservation of health. 

The first process towards converting food into 
blood is mastication: — we thus not only divide 
our food into very minute particles by the 
grinding action of the teeth, but we gradually 
mix it with that secretion of the glands around 
the mouth, — viz., the saliva^ which renders it 
more adapted for the action of the juices of the 
stomach. In the stomach the food is mixed 
with the gastric juice, the action of which ren- 
ders it more soluble and in a state fit for ab- 
sorption by the vessels which carry it into the 
blood. The roots of plants absorb and imbibe 
from the soil the necessary nourishment for 
their growth and maintenance ; in like manner 
the absorbing vessels of the stomach and intes- 
tines may be compared with those of the roots 
of plants, and the food to the soil from which 
the nutriment is extracted. 

The stomach is internally coated with a very 
delicate membrane, somewhat similar, but of a 
nature much more complicated than that which 



8 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

lines the mouth and throat. In its healthy con- 
dition the stomach transmits no sensation : we 
ought not by any feeling to be aware of its 
existence; but any disturbance in its natural 
condition, from improper quality or quantity of 
food, is immediately perceived: to feel that 
we have a stomach is certain evidence of its 
derangement. As by its healthy action the sto- 
mach provides the elements of blood, and gene- 
rates nourishment, health, and vigour, both to 
mind, and body, so, in its deranged condition, it 
is the primary source — the mother of most dis- 
eases. When our stomach is in good order and 
our digestion sound, we are in the best condition 
to resist all external causes of disease. Infec- 
tious poisons act most readily on those whose 
digestive powers are weak or depraved ; we can 
best resist the causes of ordinary colds, and, 
perhaps, we never even catch cold, when the 
stomach is quite in good order. Besides the 
great variety of dyspeptic, bilious, nervous, and 
and other complaints, which may be directly 
traced to their source in disturbance of the 
stomach ; indirectly it may lay the foundation 
of disease by not supplying the blood with 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 9 

those plastic elements best calculated for the 
nutrition of our various organs, and the system 
generally is more open to attacks of disease. 
It is easy to understand that as health must 
depend on a sound condition of the blood, and 
as the stomach is the prime elaborator of that 
fluid which is to become blood, if this primary 
action is deranged and an unsound chyle gene- 
rated, this, in its confluence with the blood, must 
carry into the circulation the germs of disease. 
IfcLe that more frequent disorder, of sto- 
mach arise from quantity rather than quality of 
food; various kinds of indigestion are produced 
by the unnecessary quantity which most people 
take; for there are very few who limit them- 
selves to the amount of food which nature really 
requires. Bad quality of food produces diseases 
of the blood, as well as disorders of the diges- 
tive organs, by the depraved juices supplied to 
the organs of nutrition. If we would prevent 
disease we should take care of our stomach. 
Supply it only with what is really necessary, 
and we shall suffer very little from disorder of 
any kind. The health of that fluid destined to 
nourish every part of the body, the various 



10 health; and disease. 

organs, the muscles, the nerves, and brain, is 
mainly dependant on the healthy action of the 
stomach, in separating from our food only those 
parts which are essential to the well-nourish- 
ment of the whole system. The entire consti- 
tution — the skin, the brain and nerves, the lungs 
and heart, the blood-vessels, the absorbents, the 
digestive organs themselves, and every atom of 
our organism, are dependant on the soundness 
of the primary process of assimilation, or that 
conversion of dead matter into vital tissue, 
which begins in the stomach. 

When we reflect on the wonderful change 
that must take place in the conversion of a 
mutton chop and a slice of bread into blood, 
nerve, muscle and bone, we are lost in admi- 
ration at the facility with which such processes 
go on in a state of health for seventy or eighty 
years. The stomach may be considered the 
caldron in which are brewed the various fluids 
which nourish the body, and repair the wear 
and tear of the solid parts of our frame ; for 
every muscular action, and probably every 
mental exertion, wear away some particles of 
muscle and brain, so that a constant rebuilding 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 11 

is always going on in every part. In order that 
healthy matter should be concocted, we should 
supply the caldron only with such solids and 
liquids as are by their nature fit for the pro- 
duction of sound and healthy materials for the 
repair of our constantly-wasting structures. 
The agents of these repairs are the blood ves- 
sels ; the material by which they are effected is 
the blood. The blood cannot be in good con- 
dition if the stomach is not so ; hence the 
necessity of great care in the management of 
this organ by all who would enjoy health. 
There are many other conditions necessary for 
sound health, which we shall touch upon in 
their turn ; but the stomach is the primary 
source of most of the evils which tend first to 
disordered action, and then to disease. 

In that condition of society when men are 
the whole day in the open air, where their 
wants are few, and where the climate is such 
that they require but little protection either 
from houses or from clothes, and where the 
soil produces the necessaries of life with the 
expenditure of very little labour of mind or 
body ; in such a happy or unhappy state, it 



12 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

matters little what is received into the stomach 
— it digests almost anything. So, in a higher 
degree of civilisation, those who are employed 
in agriculture, and almost constantly breathing 
a wholesome atmosphere, who exert but mode- 
rate bodily labour, and little or none of mental, 
it matters not what such people take as food, 
they can, as they say, away with anything. 
But the inhabitants of towns, struggling 
through life with every possible impediment ; 
worn out in body and wasted in mind by 
unceasing exertions — to this class it is vitally 
important how they treat their stomachs. Sub- 
ject as they must necessarily be to hot rooms, 
offices, factories, and many other deteriorating 
influences on the health, both of mind and 
body, if they would only take in moderation 
what they know to agree with them, they 
might avert many of the evils to which their 
health is subjected. By great care in diet, and 
by being very much in the open air, the in- 
habitants of towns may preserve their health 
even to a greater degree then some habitants of 
a healthy country, who altogether despise and 
neglect the rules of diet. People who will 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 13 

shut themselves in a house from Sunday to 
Sunday, and who will eat and drink twice as 
much as is required, will have bad health 
whether they live in town or country. 

According to our present knowledge there 
are in nature fifty-five elements, from various 
combinations of which, all substances, whether 
belonging to the mineral, the vegetable, or the 
animal kingdoms, are formed. No element 
has yet been found in any living body which 
does not exist in inorganic matter. The ele- 
mentary substances found in the human body 
are oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, 
sulphur, phosphorus, silicon, fluorine, potas- 
sium, sodium, calcium, magnesium, iron, man- 
ganese, aluminium, copper, and a few others in 
various animals. The first four may be con- 
sidered essential elements ; of the others, some 
are constantly found, others only incidentally. 
Sulphur, phosphorus, iron, and the salts of 
potassium and sodium, are always found. 
Every known organic substance is composed 
of at least three of the elements. This is essen- 
tial to the very existence of organic matter, 
and, by the addition of one or more of the 



14 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

other elements, the peculiarities of the various 
organic substances are induced. In the inor- 
ganic world most substances are formed of 
only two elements — as the atmospheric air, of 
oxygen and nitrogen — water, of oxygen and 
hydrogen — lime, of oxygen and calcium — soda, 
of oxygen and sodium. In the vegetable 
world we find most frequently three of the 
elementa Starch, gum, sugar, are composed 
of varying proportions of oxygen, hydrogen, 
and carbon. In the animal substances there 
are generally four or five elements ; albumen, 
fibrine, gelatine, being compounds of oxygen, 
hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen, with a small 

q L4Wu, 

These four elements (oxygen, hydrogen, car- 
bon, and nitrogen) preponderate in the com- 
position of all vegetable and animal matter. 
They differ from all the rest, not only by their 
quantity but by their peculiarities. If vege- 
table or animal substances are exposed to a 
high temperature, the largest part is dissipated 
into the atmosphere, while the rest cannot be 
volatilised, and is no longer affected by heat, 
all these elements, with the exception of some 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 15 

oxygen, are carried off. For example, bone 
contains carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, 
phosphorus, and calcium. The three former and 
some oxygen are present in bone in the form 
of gelatine ; the rest of the oxygen, with the 
phosphorus and calcium, in the form of phos- 
phate of lime. When the bone is burnt the 
whole of the gelatine disappears, leaving only 
phosphate of lime. The burnt bone may still 
retain its shape, but its weight has been di* 
minished by the Combustion of its gelatine. 

All vegetable and animal matter submitted 
to combustion have their elements changed; 
their carbon is converted into carbonic acid by 
its union with oxygen, their hydrogen into 
water ; their nitrogen escapes as such, and the 
ash contains the rest of the elements. Decay 
and putrefaction are processes similar to burn- 
ing, and the ultimate changes are the same in 
their results. The elements entering into the 
composition of vegetables and animals have 
been divided into those which are destroyed 
by a red heat, and those which remain un- 
changed at a very high temperature; or, or- 
ganic and inorganic constituents. By burning, 



16 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

the former are resolved into gases, which afford 
nourishment to living plants and animals : 
while the latter return again to the soil, and 
in their turn are again appropriated by the 
roots of vegetables. It is shewn by agricul- 
tural chemistry that the growing plant derives 
its fixed elements from the saline consituents 
of the soil, its carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, 
and oxygen, from the atmosphere, and, in its 
decomposition, returns the same elements to 
their respective originals. A similar process 
takes place in animals. Both the atmospheric 
and saline elements combine with each other 
to form a great variety of compounds, which 
are known as " the proximate constituents of 
plants and animals "—albumen, fibrine, gela- 
tine, starch, sugar, vegetable and animal fats; 
the great number of acids occurring in animals 
and vegetables, coloring matters, essential 
oil, and resins, are among the endless variety 
of proximate constituents that are formed by 
the atmospheric elements. The inorganic or 
earthy elements are associated in other com- 
pounds, as sulphates, chlorides, and phosphates 
of potass, soda, and lime, &c, which are left 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 17 

in the ashes of animal and vegetable substances 
after burning. 

The natural organic compounds are also ar- 
ranged in two classes — the nitrogenous and the 
non-nitrogenous principles. The non-nitrogen- 
ous, including starch, gum, oils, fat, &a, which 
are compounds of oxygen, hydrogen, and car- 
bon ; the nitrogenous include albumen, fibrine, 
caseine of milk, and gluten of corn, and are 
composed of oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, and 
nitrogen. 

Albumen and its allied substances, gelatine 
and fibrine, are among the most important 
constituents of the animal body, being in the 
greatest quantity in the blood, and in all the 
fluids which contribute to nutrition. A sub- 
stance very nearly allied to fibrine is the essen- 
tial constituent of flesh or muscular fibre; 
albumen again enters largely into the com- 
position of nervous matter. The ova of all 
animals are in great part composed of albumen, 
of which the white of egg is the type. Milk, 
besides the caseine or cheesy substance, contains 
a large quantity of albumen, so that Nature 
has thus provided albumen for the stipport of 



18 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

the young, both before and after their birth. 
The fats are important principles in the animal 
economy; and the vegetable products,' starch 
and sugar, are closely allied to them.. Recent 
investigations have detected sugar in almost 
all the fluids subservient to nutrition. Sugar 
and fat also enter into the composition of milk ; 
and, in all cases, starch is converted into sugar 
in the digestive process. 

AU substances necessary for the food of man 
may be divided into four classes : — 

J. The aqueous — water, composed of oxygen 
and hydrogen. 

2. The oleaginous and saccharine, composed 
of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon. 

3. The albuminous, composed of oxygen, hy- 
drogen, carbon, and nitrogen, with sulphur, and 
in some cases with phosphorus. 

4. The saline. 

The second class is also called the respiratory 
and non-nitrogeneous ; the third class is also 
called the plastic and nitrogeneous; and a fifth 
class might be added, the gaseous — since atmos- 
pheric air and the gases it contains, play most 
important parts in the nutrition, as well as the 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 19 

degeneration and decomposition of the animal 
body. 

Water is absolutely necessary to all animated 
structures. Four-fifths of the blood consists of 
water ; and so much of this fluid enters into the 
structure of all parts of the body, that the dried 
mummies of TenerifFe, the Guanches, weigh 
only 71bs. Water is the medium by which all 
plastic changes are carried on, by holding in 
solution the nutritive parts of our food ; and 
it has been proved that persons deprived of 
food do not starve so soon if they have a supply 
of water. Water is also essential for the re- 
moval of our worn-out tissues, the particles of 
which must be held in solution before they can 
be ejected from the system. Fatty and sac-> 
charine food is consumed in the production 
of animal heat ; what is superfluous for present 
use being stored up in fat cells. The albu- 
minous substances go to the support of the 
muscular and nervous systems, and the tissues 
composing the various organs of the animal 
body. The saline and earthy elements of our 
food are required for the more solid parts »f 
our jrame, the bones* 



20 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

The proper object of taking food is to supply 
materials for the repair of the waste which 
results from the active exercise of the organs, 
especially of the nervous and muscular systems; 
to replace the continual decay which is always 
going on in all parts, and to iutroduce sub- 
stances necessary for the production of animal 
heat. When animals are deprived of a suffi- 
cient quantity of wholesome food, degeneration 
takes place, and a long continuance of such 
privations, from generation to generation, will 
deteriorate a whole province, or even a nation. 
This is exemplified in some of the natives of 
the western parts of Ireland, in the miserable 
Bosjesmans of the Cape, the Australians, &c. 
In a less degree, insufficient or improper food, 
lays the foundation of various diseases in the 
organs of nutrition : in the glandular system, 
producing various forms of scrofula : in the 
bones, producing rickets and deformities, &c. 
But, on the other hand, equally unhealthy con- 
ditions of a different kind are produced by an 
over supply of food In healthy animals a 
superabundance of food engenders fat, which 
is stored up for future use, Animals likely to 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 21 

suffer from deficiency of food in winter become 
fat, very remarkable in those which hybernate ; 
they require little or no materials for the repair 
of the nervous and muscular tissues, the func- 
tions of which are totally suspended ; but their 
respiration and animal heat must be kept up, 
and for this purpose the fat is gradually ab- 
sorbed, so that before the end of winter such 
animals become lean. 

The quantity of food required by the same 
person will differ under the different circum- 
stances of sex, age, season of the year, amount 
of mental, nervous, and muscular exertions, 
&c. The average quantity for an adult is from 
SOoz. to 36oz. of dry aliment ; but half this 
quantity of good food will maintain a person 
in good health, unless his work is very great. 
The relative value of different alimentary sub- 
stances depend on their respective amounts of 
solid materials. All vegetables contain much 
water, and must be eaten in large quantities 
to supply the requisite nutriment. The process 
of nutrition may be said to begin in plants, 
by the absorption of elements from inorganic 
matter, and thus food is prepared for animals. 



52 HEALTH AND DISEASE 

Vegetables produce two kinds of nutritive ali- 
ment — one consisting of oxygen, hydrogen, 
and carbon ; and the other of these elements, 
with the addition of nitrogen. Of the first 
kind, we may here mention starch, sugar, and 
oil, which supply materials for animal heat; 
and of the last, corn and leguminous seeds, 
peas, beans, &c, which, containing nitrogen, 
are essential to replace the waste of the animal 
tissues ; because, of vegetable substances, these 
alone contain the principles, in any quantity, 
from which the albuminous solids and fluids 
of animals can be furnished. Potatoes, rice, 
&c, must be eaten in very large quantities to 
supply the requisite nutriment, and people so 
fed must be inferior to those races which pro- 
vide themselveswith the proper food of man — 
corn and animal flesh. Nothing can be more 
beautiful than the relations which the physi- 
ological systems of vegetables and animals ex- 
hibit in their mutual dependencies, and their 
mutual subservience each to the welfare of the 
other. Carbon is most important to vegetables, 
oxygen most important to animals ; the first 
is excreted by animals, the last by vegetables. 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 23 

The higher classes of vegetables which minister 
to the wants of man, can only be produced in 
sufficient quantity by resupplying the earth 
with those principles which, having renovated 
the wastes of the animal economy, are again 
committed to the eftrth, taken up by the roots 
of wheat, &c, and again elaborated into food 
proper for the highest classes of animals. How 
beautiful is this circulation of materials, re- 
quired for successive generations both of vege- 
tables and of animals ; how clear is the design, 
and how admirable the adaptation. 

The four classes of materials subservient to 
the food of man, in due combination, constitute 
the blood. Proper food must contain a due 
proportion of these matters, and that diet is 
the most suitable in which they are all com- 
bined ; deficiency or excess in the various 
principles of our aliment is attended with cor- 
responding evils to the healthy action of our 
organs. If nitrogenous aliments are not in 
sufficient quantity to repair the waste of the 
muscular and nervous tissues, they will de- 
crease in vital power; and if the non-nitro- 
genous principles be insufficient, we shall not 



24 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

retain a due amount of animal heat ; the 
substauces which furnish the former being 
albumen and gluten, the largest quantity of 
these being in the lean of meat and in corn ; 
those which furnish the greatest amount of the 
latter are oil, fat, starch, and sugar. 

Nature has pointed out the proportions of 
the various principles of our food, in the 
composition of milk, in which are combined 
the various elements necessary for the nutri- 
tion of animal tissues, the production of animal 
heat, a due supply of watery fluid, and the 
requisite quantities of saline and earthy mat- 
ters. In this especial food for the young, 
Nature has combined albuminous, oily, and sac- 
chorine matter; the caseine is albuminous, the 
butter a modification of oily fat, and the sugar 
of milk does not materially differ from ordinary 
sugar, while we also find in milk a due amount 
of earthy principles to furnish the solids of 
animals. It is remarkable how exactly habit 
accords with the chemical and physiological 
facts in relation to the wants of the system, and 
the means of supplying them. Good wheaten 
bread contains more nearly than any substance 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 25 

in common use the proportions of plastic and 
of heat giving materials to repair the waste 
of animal tissues, and to support combustion, 
which are required under the conditions of life 
in the temperate climates of the earth. In cold 
weather we require and have a desire for more 
fatty matter; and the more we employ our 
muscular system the greater is the demand 
and the necessity for such food as will supply 
the waste. In rice and potatoes the farinaceous 
and saccharine components exist in such large 
proportions, that we require a considerable 
quantity of such kind of aliment to extract a 
sufficiency of nutritive particles ; but if we mix 
with such a diet a small quantity of animal 
food, the same combination takes place as exists 
in bread. The colder the climate the greater is 
the desire for fat, to maintain the heat of the 
body by its combustion with oxygen. The 
Esquimaux are said to devour several pounds 
of blubber at a meal; while, in hot climates, 
there is but little inclination for oily matter. 

Health cannot be long sustained on any one 
alimentary principle: neither pure albumen or 
fibrine, gelatine or gum, sugar or starch, oil or 



26 HEALTH AND DISEASE, 

fat, alone, can give nourishment for any length 
of time. Numerous experiments on this subject 
have been made ; and it has been found that 
animals, after a time, become so disgusted with 
being limited to any one article, that they 
prefer starvation to such food. Added to or- 
ganic compounds, there must be certain inor- 
ganic substances taken with our food in order 
to preserve health. Common salt is necessary 
to digestion, giving its acid to assist the ope- 
rations of the stomach, and its soda to form an 
important constituent of bile. Salt is found in 
the blood, and may aid in preventing decom- 
position in the organic compounds. Phosphorus 
is found in some quantity in nervous matter, 
and also in the bones, and sulphur in several of 
the tissues of animals. Lime exists in the bones 
and teeth, and iron is required for the red cor- 
puscles of the blood. All these inorganic mate- 
rials should be taken into the body combined 
with various articles of food ; and, if in deficient 
quantity, the animal suffers if they are not 
otherwise supplied. Salt exists in the flesh 
tod fluids of animals, in milk and in eggs, but 
not much in vegetable matter; and this is the 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 27 

reason why cattle thrive so much better when 
it is artificially supplied. Most animal sub- 
stances contain phosphorus, and it is found in 
many vegetables as a phosphate of lime, mag. 
nesia, or soda. Phosphate of lime occurs in the 
seeds of all the grasses, and largely in combi- 
nation with caselTin milk Sulphur is ob- 
tained both from animal and vegetable food in 
flesh, eggs, milk, and many vegetables, as well 
as in the water we drink, which generally con- 
tains sulphate of lime. Phosphate and car- 
bonate of lime are both found in the ashes of 
grapes, and phosphate of lime is very abundant 
in corn; hence the value of this salt as a ma- 
nure. The same law applies to the soil of the 
earth as to the economy of the animal; what- 
ever is taken away, used, or consumed, must 
be again restored, if we would maintain health 
and strength. This law is exemplified in the 
eggs of the common fowl. Deprive a hen of the 
means of obtaining chalk or lime, and her eggs 
will be soft, their inverting membrane not 
having its interstices filled, as they should be, 
with a layer of carbonate of lime. 
To form blood and to supply materials for 



28 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

animal heat, are the principle objects of the 
process of digestion ; to effect the first we re- 
quire aliments which contain nitrogen ; to effect 
the latter they must contain hydrogen and 
carbon. The digestion of these two classes of 
food is different; they maintain a separate con- 
dition throughout the animal system, and when 
used up, their relics or debris are separated from 
the blood, and ejected from the system by dif- 
ferent organs. Those articles of food which admit ' 
of conversion into the albumen or fibrine of the 
blood, and of being subsequently assimilated 
through the medium of the blood by the tissues 
of our organs, have been called plastic or nitro- 
genous; and those which constitute materials 
for animal heat are consumed in the body, and 
effect the changes which take place in the res* 
piratory organs, have been called calorifacient, 
respiratory, or non-nitrogenous. In the first 
clafes are flesh, corn, the seeds of leguminous 
plants; in the second are fat, oil, starch, sugar. 
Albuminous matters are digested and rendered 
soluble in the stomach by the gastric juice; 
fat is not digested or absorbed until the food 
has passed out of the stomach, and has been 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 29 

converted into a kind of emulsion by other 
fluids than those supplied by the stomach. 
The first commencement of digestion begins in 
the mouth, by the minute division of our food 
and its admixture with saliva, "which fluid 
assists in the transformation of starch, from its 
naturally insoluble state to- a condition more 
fit for absorption as sugar. Starch is entirely 
a product of the vegetable kingdom, and exists 
in large quantity in wheat, rice, potatoes, &c. 
Starch is by many processes, both in and out of 
the body, converted into sugar; one thousand 
parts of barley contain forty-six parts of sugar, 
while one thousand of malt contain one hundred 
and fifty-four of sugar; shewing, that in the 
process of malting starch is converted into sugar. 
If we add yeast to a solution of sugar, the 
latter will be separated into carbonic acid gas 
and alcohol. Sugar in the animal system is 
converted into fat. Bees eat sugar and form 
wax ; and negroes are observed always to get 
fat in the sugar-making season. All starchy, 
saccharine, and fatty food, by admixture with 
oxygen, after a species of combustion and the 
generation of heat, is converted into carbonic 



30 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

acid gas. The same amount of heat must be 
produced as if they were burnt out of the 
body. In twenty-four hours we excrete from 
fceven to fourteen ounces of carbon, formed from 
ptarch and fat ; and if a sufficient amount of 
these ingredients is not taken in the food the 
accumulated fat of the body is first consumed, 
and afterwards the muscles and other tissues 
are disintegrated, and carried to the lungs to 
support respiration. 

All animals require a receptacle for their 
food, which in the lowest creatures is of a 
very simple nature, the digestive sac being in 
some equally capable of absorbing food on its 
inner or its outer coat, as in the Hydra or 
fresh-water Polype. The gastric juice for the 
solution of food is secreted from the walls of 
the stomach ; and these creatures being tran- 
sparent, the process may be watched. The 
arms seize the prey, and convey it to the 
mouth ; after being a short time in the stomach 
a film collects, on it, and it is gradually re- 
duced to a fluid state, while any indigestible 
portions are rejected by the same aperture by 
which they entered. As the digestive appa- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 31 

ratus increases in complexity, an organ like 
the gizzard of birds is added for the tritu- 
ration of the food, which is then subjected to 
the Action of bile, in addition to the gastric 
fluid. As we ascend the animal scale we find 
an increase in the digestive apparatus, but 
essentially it is the same in all. There is near 
the entrance of the stomach a grinding appa- 
ratus for the mechanical reduction of the food, 
either in form of a gizzard or of teeth, ex- 
cept in such animals as receive their food in 
a liquid or soft state, so as to be readily acted 
on by the digestive fluids. In some animals 
the food is first received into a mere bag or 
preliminary stomach, from which it is again 
returned to the grinding apparatus, as in Ru- 
minants chewing the cud. 

When the food is very soluble by the gastric 
juice, a simple bag constitutes the stomach ; 
but when from its nature, long maceration is 
necessary, we find a more complicated appa- 
ratus ; this is illustrated by the stomachs of 
herbivorous, granivorous, and carnivorous ani- 
mals ; grass-eaters having a more complicated 
stomach than corn-e*te?s, and these than flesh- 



32 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

eaters, while the stomach of man is interme- 
diate, shewing his nature to be omnivorous. 
The length of the intestines also bears reference 
to the kind of food In the lion it is three 
times the length of the body ; in the sheep 
twenty-eight times, and in man, six. In 
the carnivora the teeth are mere dividing in- 
struments like scissors, the action of their jaws 
only permitting this movement ; in herbivora 
the teeth are rough, and of large surface, while 
the jaws are so connected as to admit of much 
lateral movement for the purpose of grinding 
tough vegetable substances. In man we find 
intermediate conditions, both as regards the 
teeth and the articulation of the jaws. From 
his whole apparatus of digestion we should in- 
fer that man was intended to live on a mixed 
diet of flesh, and of such vegetable substances 
as require moderate crushing or grinding; 
this primary process is, however, of great im- 
portance; and unless we triturate our food 
sufficiently, and thus mix it with a sufficient 
quantity of saliva, we impose more work on 
our stomach, and may thus engender some 
amount of indigestion. . 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 33 

Gastric fluid is not secreted when the stomach 
is empty, but on the introduction of food, or 
other foreign substances, the mucus membrane, 
previously quite pale, becomes turged and red- 
dened by the influx of a large quantity of 
blood, the glands begin to secrete, and an acid 
fluid is poured out. Much valuable informal 
tion relative to the action of the stomach was 
obtained by Dr. Beaumont, who had a patient, 
Alexis St. Martin, with a permanent external 
opening into his stomach, the result of a gun- 
shot wound. Through this opening substances 
could be passed into the stomach, and again 
taken out, and the gastric fluid could be re- 
moved The introduction of a thermometer, 
which always stood at 100°, stimulated the 
inner coat of the stomach to secrete gastric 
fluid, The gastric juice is a clear, inodorous 
liquid, rather salt, and very perceptibly acid; 
it coagulates albumen, is powerfully antisep- 
tic, and is an efficient solvent of the most 
important alimentary substances. The gastric 
juice softens and reduces into a pulp various 
articles of food; but in order to do so the 
operation must take place in a temperature 



34 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

of 90° to 100° of Fahrenheit ; and it is also 
necessary that the food be subjected to the 
muscular movements of the stomach, by which 
every part is brought successively into con- 
tact with the mucus surface, from which the 
digestive fluid is poured out in great quantity. 
After seventeen hours fasting, Dr. Beaumont 
took out of the stomach one ounce of gastric 
juice, put into it three drachms of recently- 
salted boiled beef, and placed the containing 
vessel in a water-bath at 100°. In forty 
minutes digestion had commenced on the 
surface ; in fifty the fluid became opaque 
and cloudy ; in two hours the texture of the 
meat was entirely broken up, leaving the fibres 
loose and floating in fine shreds ; in six hours 
it was nearly all digested. A similar piece of 
beef was suspended in the stomach by a piece 
of thread ; in one hour it was changed, as in 
the artificial digestion ; but in two hours it 
was completely digested and gone. Dr. Beau- 
mont performed many other experiments. He 
macerated a piece of meat in water for several 
days, until it acquired a strong putrid odour ; 
on the addition of fresh gastric juice it lost its 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 35 

smell and all signs of putrefaction, and soon 
began to digest. 

The action of the gastric juice is supposed 
to depend on a principle which has been call- 
ed pepsine, and may be compared with that 
of a ferment inducing certain changes in or- 
ganic matters with which it comes into con- 
tact, and itself participating in these changes, 
or it may excite by its mere presence some 
chemical action ; and that pepsine does act 
thus, appears probable, from the very small 
quantity necessary to excite the digestive ac- 
tion in a large amount of food. The process 
differs from ordinary fermentation, in being 
unattended with the formation of carbonic 
acid, in not requiring the presence of oxygen, 
and in the non-production of new quantities 
of the active principle or ferment ; but, like 
fermentation, whatever alters the composition 
of pepsine destroys the digestive power of the 
fluid, as heat above 110°, alcohol, or strong 
acids. The real action of the gastric juice is 
the solution of the albuminous parts of our 
food. A high temperature, and the motion 
of the stomach, have been mentioned as neces- 



36 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

sary for digestion. Salts are also required. 
Common salt is required to act on the mucus 
membrane of the stomach, or to supply by its 
decomposition the muriatic* acid found in the 
gastric fluid. Many aromatics and gentle 
stimulants, like spices and mustard, also pro- 
mote digestion, by their action on the mucus 
membrane. As soon as the substances taken 
into the stomach are rendered soluble, they 
are either absorbed by vessels on the walls of 
the stomach, or they pass into the intestine, 
and permit a new surface of food to be ex- 
posed to the action of the gastric juice. If milk 
be taken as food, it is at once coagulated, the 
watery part directly taken away by the veins, 
and the caseine or curd gradually dissolved by 
the digestive process. The ferment of the saliva, 
with the bile and the fluids of some other 
glands, act chiefly on the most important non- 
nitrogenous or heat-producing element of our 
food, starch; while the ferment of the gastric 
juice acts chiefly on the nitrogenous or plastic 
element, albumen. 

The various substances taken in food, ac- 
cording to our present knowledge, are thug 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 37 

disposed of: — Water is taken up by itself as 
well as mineral matters soluble in water or in 
acids ; non-nitrogenous organic compounds (some 
are soluble, as sugar; others insoluble, as starch) 
are acted upon by the saliva and other fluids 
and rendered soluble by being converted into 
sugar; for nitrogenous substances the proper 
agent is the gastric juice — it converts albumen, 
fibrin, and caseine,into matters soluble in water, 
and fits them for absorption into the system 
for the purposes of life. There are many in- 
soluble parts of our food which pass the stomach 
unchanged, and are ejected from the system. 

The experiments of Dr. Beaumont and others 
shew the rapid absorption of fluids, which are 
taken up as soon as they enter the stomach. 
Water, wine, weak saline solutions, are at once 
absorbed, as is the fluid part of soup, leaving 
the rest in a concentrated state. The stomach 
of St. Martin, Dr. Beaumont's patient, was 
stronger than the average,— his powers of di- 
gestion were great, — and some allowance must 
therefore be made in his case, but the following 
was the order in which various substances were 
acted upon. Rice and tripe were digested in 



38 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

an hour; eggs, salmon, trout, apples, and veni- 
son, in one hour and a half; milk, liver, and 
fish in two hours ; turkey, lamb, and roast pig 
in two and a half hours ; beef and mutton in 
three and a half hours. Fatty matters pass 
through the stomach unchanged. Three to four 
hours may be considered the average period for 1 
the digestion of a meal. As digestion proceeds, 
and the dissolved portions of our food are gra- 
dually taken up by the vessels, the insoluble 
parts become of a firmer consistence, and, pro- 
ceeding onwards, assume the character in which 
they are excreted from the body. Some parts, 
both of animal and vegetable substances, un- 
dergo no change in the intestinal canal, as 
horny matter, skin, hair, woody fibre, skin of 
fruit, husks of seeds, &c. A free acid, usually 
the hydrochloric, is found in the stomach, in 
combination with the organic digestive prin- 
ciple, pepsine; but other acids are also found 
in the stomach, combined with pepsine, as the 
phosphoric, the acetic, the lactic, the buty- 
ric. These acids may all be required in some 
of the digestive processes, but they often give 
rise to many morbid dyspeptic conditions when 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 89 

they are secreted in excess, or that the food we 
take does not neutralize the whole quantity. 
A liquor containing hydrochloric acid and one 
quarter of a grain of acetate of pepsine, is 
capable of dissolving 210 grains of coagulated 
white of egg, at a temperature of 95° to 104°. 
The same fluid will dissolve blood, fibrine, meat, 
and cheese. The acid without the pepsine re- 
quires a much longer time to act on these sub- 
stances ; the acid is considered by some as the 
true solvent, and the pepsine is supposed to act 
as a kind of ferment. When the gastric juice 
is withdrawn from the stomach it retains its 
solvent powers, but more time is required, and 
frequent agitation, in a temperature of 100°. 
At a low temperature no solution takes place, 
hence we may infer the impropriety of drink- 
ing a large quantity of any cold liquid with 
our meals, and those who are subject to dys- 
pepsia, should take a hint from Nature, and let 
their drink be about the temperature of 100°. 
If we take a superfluity of food beyond 
the wants of the system, or in excess of the 
solvent powers of the gastric juice, it remains 
undissolved in the stomach, or passes into the 



40 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

intestinal tube in a state to cause irritation 
and disorder. Stimulants, as pepper, mustard, 
currie, mixed with our food, no doubt, cause 
a larger secretion of gastric fluid, and so pro- 
mote digestion for a time ; but taken ill ex- 
cess they do mischief, by bringing too much 
blood to the mucous surface, acting in a simi- 
lar way to excess of food, by depraving the 
qualities of the secretions ; the appetite be- 
comes impaired, the mouth dry, the tongue 
foul, and other dyspeptic symptoms follow, 
until the stimulus of food itself will excite 
no gastric secretion. Probably there are few 
persons in health who do not take more 
food than is absolutely requisite, and this is 
done for a long time without apparent mis- 
chief, but sooner or later, serious consequences 
follow. Eating too rapidly is one cause of 
taking more food than is necessary, as we do 
not observe when the stomach is satisfied. 
Any one who will try the experiment^ will 
find that his appetite ceases with a much 
smaller quantity of food when eaten delibe- 
rately than when bolted rapidly. 
We may form a pretty correct judgment of 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 41 

the best way of treating the stomach, by the 
effect experienced of the food or drink we 
have swallowed. After a meal of plain food, 
in moderate quantity, we feel a pleasing re- 
freshment, but beyond this, no consciousness 
that we have a stomach, and such is the 
natural condition ; but, if we take a very 
large quantity of food or drink of a stimu- 
lating kind, we feel a glow, a warmth, and 
"an excitement in the region of the stomach, 
which tells us of the existence of the organ, 
and that we have over-filled or over-excited 
it. After a plain meal we produce no conscious 
sensation in the stomach ; but if we take a glass 
of brandy, we excite a conscious sensibility in the 
stomach, telling us that we have exceeded the 
wants of Nature, which she intimates to our feel- 
ings by the production of unnatural sensations. 
Tome kind of respiration is necessary to 
all animals, to complete the process of blood- 
making, which is commenced in the stomach ; 
the circulating fluids, both of vegetables and 
animals, require the chemical action and in- 
fluence of atmospheric air, before they become 
efficient agents of organic life. 



42 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

Atmospheric air contains twenty-three parts 
of oxygen, and seventy-seven of nitrogen. 

Water contains eight parts oxygen, and one 
of hydrogen. 

Carbonic acid gas contains sixteen parts 
oxygen, and six of carbon. 

In atmospheric air there is some aqueous 
vapour, a small amount of carbonic acid gas, 
and a very little ammonia. Air is rendered 
tap™ b^the WMng of .ntaaH and V 
the combustion of wood, coal, or other fuel, 
both processes taking from the air oxygen, and 
returning carbonic acid gas to it The law by 
which gases are diffused prevents the accumu- 
lation of deleterious particles, which would be 
incompatible with animal life: for although 
carbonic acid gas is much heavier than atmos- 
pheric air, it is gradually diffused through the 
atmosphere, and does not accumulate on the 
surface, except in confined places, — as the 
Grotto del Cani, near Naples, where the 
lower stratum of air, about two feet from 
the ground, consists entirely of carbonic acid 
gas, and is fatal to dogs but harmless to men. 

Whenever carbon or hydrogen unites with 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 43 

oxygen, a development of heat occurs, and the 
amount of heat is always in proportion to the 
quantity of the gases consumed. The air we 
breathe gives out its oxygen in the lungs to 
the blood-vessels, the oxygen combining with 
the blood, and circulating with it to all parts 
of the body ; in this course it meets with car- 
bon, the two gases combine, heat is evolved, 
carbonic acid gas is produced, and carried on- 
wards by the veins to the lungs, where it is 
exhaled. The consumption of oxygen, and the 
rapidity of the respiratory changes — conse- 
quently, the temperature of the body — vary 
according to the nature of our food, the 
amount of exercise we take, the tempera- 
ture of the air, the powers of our digestion, 
the conditions of our mind, sleep, age, sex, &c. 
All the oxygen received by the blood in the 
lungs is not employed in the formation of car- 
bonic acid gas. If the total quantity taken 
in is represented by 100, the quantity found 
in the carbonic acid gas exhaled will be only 
seventy-four. The other twenty-six parts go 
to oxidise other substances — hydrogen, sul- 
phur, phosphorus. 



44 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

The temperature of man and the higher ani- 
mals is entirely sustained by the combustion 
of certain organic materials within the body. 
Warm-blooded animals in our climate are ge- 
nerally 30° or 40° above the temperature of 
the air ; the heat of their bodies varying from 
97° to 111°. The production of heat arises 
from the action of oxygen on certain elements 
of food, especially fat, a#d hydrates of carbon, 
starch, sugar, &c, and on the elements of the 
tissues wasted by use, the store of fat, &c. 
About 13£ozs. of carbon pass through the 
lungs daily in combination with 37ozs. of 
oxygen, A large quantity of watery vapour 
is also exhaled, from the union of oxygen 
with hydrogen. These products must, of 
course, vary with circumstances— chiefly, the 
season of the year, the supply of food, the 
activity of respiration, the metamorphosis of 
tissue, &a The carbon and hydrogen con- 
sumed must be resupplied by food, which 
Will be required in proportion to the oxygen 
absorbed. When we maintain a high tem- 
perature of the body by exercise in the pure 
and open air, we require, and may take with 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 45 

advantage, a larger quantity of food The 
higher the animal heat, the more is food re- 
quired The temperature of a child is 102° ; 
an adult, 99°; a bird, 105°. Children require 
more food, in proportion to their size, than 
adults, and they bear hunger less readily. 
A bird, deprived of food, dies in three days, 
while a cold-blooded serpent will live for 
months without. It is easier to bear hunger 
in hot than in cold climates. In tropical cli- 
mates the number of respirations are fewer 
than in cold countries, the amount of food, 
required is less, and less exertion can be 
made. Moreover, the air contains less oxy- 
gen, on account of its greater rarity. A 
much less internal development of heat be- 
comes necessary, so little being lost in the 
surrounding medium. If, under these ex- 
ternal conditions, a great amount of highly- 
nutritious food be taken, the stomach will 
have difficulty in digesting it. The respi- 
ratory functions not being sufficiently active 
to furnish oxygen enough to decompose the 
excess of food, the fatty elements accumu- 
late in the system, the liver is over-worked, 



46 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

and becomes gorged with fat, as in the Stras- 
bourg geese. There is much relation between 
the functions of the lungs and the liver; in 
the lower animals, in the foetus, the liver is 
very large, and when the actions of the lungs 
are imperfect in disease— as in phthisis — the 
liver enlarges. Most of the cases of liver 
disease, from residence in tropical climates, 
are "produced by Europeans carrying out the 
habits acquired in colder climates, and in- 
dulging in as much animal food and beer, 
or perhaps more, than they had been previ- 
ously accustomed to, while they ought to 
diminish the quantity of both, if they would 
preserve their health. 

In the lungs, gases are on one side of mem- 
branes, liquids on the other; the blood in 
the vessels, according to the law that denser 
fluids attract rarer, imbibe the oxygen through 
their delicate coats. It was formerly sup- 
posed that the interchange of gases and the 
development of heat, only took place in the 
lungs ; but there is reason to believe that these 
processes take place in every part of the body. 
Carbonic acid gas is formed in the ultimate 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 47 

parts of the tissues, and it is a component 
part of all animal juices. The interchanges 
of the gases are between those of the blood 
and of the intercellular fluids all over the 
body, and between those of the blood and the 
air in the lungs. The principal interchanges 
are the carbon and hydrogen of our food 
mixing with oxygen, forming, in the first case, 
carbonic acid gas, and in the second, water ; 
and whenever these interchanges take place, 
a species of combustion occurs, and heat is 
produced. 

Experiments have shewn, that of eighty 
parts of carbon in food, seventy-four com- 
bined with oxygen to form carbonic acid gas ; 
and of fifty-eight parts of hydrogen, fifty-four 
combined with oxygen to form water. 

Two marmots slept for eight days in a 
a closed apparatus ; on the evening of the 
eighth day there was oxygen enough left 
for two days' consumption, but one of the 
animals awoke, took all the oxygen, and died 
suffocated; the other remained asleep, and 
lived on in the same atmosphere for several 
hours. Other experiments on animals have 



48 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

shewn the difference of the heat of the body, 
according to the quantity of oxygen consum- 
ed; the temperature being when asleep, 52°; 
directly after awaking, 78°; and five hours 
after, 90°. 

From the preceding account of the progress 
and changes in the elementary principles of our 
food through the processes of digestion, nutri- 
tion, respiration, and oxygenation, it will be 
obvious how close is the relationship of the 
functions of the stomach and liver with those 
of the lungs. All the materials of nutriment 
which we take into the stomach, require not 
only to be digested, but to be vitally as well as 
chemically changed by the action which takes 
place in the lungs. Hence the importance of 
obeying all the laws relating to healthy respi- 
ration and the impossibility of enjoying good 
health unless we breathe good air; nothing 
contributes more to bad health than living in 
hot and ill-ventilated rooms, for all air that has 
been once respired becomes unfit to be again 
used. The laws which regulate the diffusion 
of gases, cause the removal of all particles deli- 
terious to animal life and the constant reno- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 49 

vation of pure air, but this can only take place 
where the currents of air are free. The more 
hours we spend without the house in the course 
of the day the better for our health, and this 
is self-evident by comparing the persons whose 
occupations oblige them to live almost all day 
in the air, with those who spend most of their 
time in chambers, offices or factories. In duly 
observing the laws of health, we have many 
things to observe — the quantity and quality of 
our food, solid and liquid, the necessity of 
breathing pure and fresh air, a sufficient amount 
of exercise to quicken the circulation and to 
aid in the removal of effete and worn-out par- 
ticles in our muscles, bones, &a The circula- 
tion of sound and healthy blood is necessary 
for the due" action of the brain and nervous 
system, while the nervous energy supplied by 
these organs is essential to the wellrbeing and 
due action of all other parts of our constitution. 
Hence the influence of the nervous system in 
the production of sound and vigorous health; 
and for this purpose we require that our sen- 
sational, our intellectual, and our moral depart- 
ments should harmonise with those of our more 



50 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

material functions. It will thus be apparent 
that the reciprocal action of the stomach, the 
liver, the lungs, and the nervous system, are the 
most essential principles of Hygiene or the art 
of preserving health; to these must be added 
the skin which performs some very important 
functions, and wfcch is a great aidto, Z ele- 
ment of good health; for perhaps no one means 
contributes more than that sound condition of 
the skin which is produced by a daily bath and 
friction. 

The purification and vitality of the blood de- 
pends on the air we breathe ; the changes ef- 
fected in the lungs between the blood and the 
gases we inspire and expire, are the primary 
2d most iniorta.t proves in the JZ 
economy. Aminal life is supported by absorb- 
ing into the blood after every respiration some 
of the atmospheric air which surrounds the 
earth; every act of inspiration brings renewed 
power to animal life, and every expiration sends 
out of the body particles that would be preju- 
dicial to animal life. However careful we may 
be of our health in regard to eating, drinking, 
and purity of the skin, we cannot enjoy good 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 51 

health, unless the air we breathe is frequently 
renovated from the atmosphere; and as there 
are many agents operating within a house to 
the deterioration of the air; unless we breathe 
daily and for some hours in the open air, and 
inspire something better than a house affords, 
we must not expect to enjoy good health. A 
fire cannot burn, a lamp give light, nor an 
animal breathe, without destroying a portion of 
that part of the air upon which vitality depends, 
viz., oxygen; and all these agents add a gas to 
the atmosphere, viz., carbonic acid gas, which 
is especially dangerous to animal life. The 
feeling of languor which occurs after being for 
some time in a crowded assembly, is thus to be 
accounted for, and hence the great importance 
of ventilation in our houses, our churches, our 
offices and factories. 

The flesh and the blood contain the same 
four classes of substances which we take into 
the stomach as food : — Water, salts, non- 
nitrogenous substances for respiratory or heat- 
making purposes, and nitrogenous or plastic 
materials for building up and keeping in re- 
pair the organs and tissues. The aliments we 



52 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

take in differ in their relations to oxygen 
with the excretions passing out ; but the same 
substances pass out of the system, although in 
a different form, as those which have entered. 
The animal organism may be compared with 
the soil, to which we must re-supply the mate- 
rials, or the principles which we have removed, 
in the shape of wheat, &c. In both cases, 
whether we waste the soil or the animal eco- 
nomy, without a due restoration of their re- 
spective aliments or fertilising principles, we 
cannot expect that either will be in good con- 
dition. The weight of the body remaining the 
same, whatever we take into the stomach is 
used in the daily actions of muscle, nerve, 
brain, &c. Bread and flesh taken in at the 
mouth, pass into the blood, supply new par- 
ticles to the muscular and nervous tissues; 
the organs wear them away by their respec- 
tive exertions, and the used-up materials, 
entering into ne^ combinations with oxygen, 
pass out of the system by the lungs as watery 
vapour and carbonic acid gas; by the skin, as 
aqueous fluid combined with saline matter; 
by the kidneys, as water holding urea, lithic 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 53 

acid, &o., in solution. Every organic action 
results in the decomposition of a certain num- 
ber of organic particles, which ought to be re- 
novated as they are expended by the deposi- 
tion of new particles from the blood. 

The due relations of waste and demand, of 
expenditure and income, may go on in exact 
proportion for years, if no more food is taken 
than is required, and no more waste allowed 
than can be re-supplied. This is perfect health, 
when our outgoings and our incomings are 
justly balanced ; but some eat and drink too 
much, and many work too hard, both mind 
and body: corpulence, indigestion, hemorrhages, 
nervous diseases, and premature degeneration, 
are the consequences. The salts of the urine 
are always increased after a meal, and if more 
food is taken than the system requires, the 
kidneys are overworked : hence the frequency 
of diseases of the urinary organs, and the ab- 
solute necessity of large feeders to take purga- 
tives to remove the surplus, and to sweep out 
the chimney of the factory, to which Liebig 
compares the large bowels. It is much better 
that our excesses should be at once cleared 



54 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

away through the bowels, than that the sur- 
plus should first be made into blood and re- 
quire an over-action of our internal organs to 
convert the superfluity into urea, carbonic 
acid, &<x 

There are certain relations between the in- 
spired oxygen and the quantity and quality of 
our food; and probably the discovery of the 
complete action of oxygen on organic life, when 
made, will rank higher even than that of the 
circulation of the blood. The entire effects of 
oxygen are obscure and difficult to trace 
through all the various organs; for no doubt 
ean exist that, from its entrance into the blood 
to its exit in various secretions, it pervades 
every part of our system, carrying its influence 
to the most minute structure, and effecting 
changes of the most microscopic kind. Every 
muscular effort, every mental action, in all pro- 
bability, calls for some expenditure of oxygen; 
in the innermost parts of us it enters into 
combination with carbon, hydrogen, &c. As 
the varying tints of autumnal vegetation owe 
their brilliancy of colour to the action of oxy- 
gen, so all the colouring matter of animal 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 55 

excretions are dependant on the same all- 
pervading influence (Liebig). 

By the process of absorption fresh materials 
are introduced into the blood from the air and 
from food, and by absorption parts of the body 
itself are removed, when they have fulfilled 
their office, or for any other reason require re- 
moval. Two sets of vessels are concerned in 
this process — the blood-vessels, or the lympha- 
tics and lacteals. The lymphatics exist in all 
parts of the body, the lacteals on the inner 
surfece of the intestines, and absorb such part 
of our food as is fit for nutrition; both sets of 
vessels carry their contents into the blood near 
the heart. As soon as anything is swallowed, 
the fluid and soluble part is absorbed and car- 
ried into the blood by the veins; the lacteals 
absorb certain constituents of the food, es- 
pecially fat, and derive their name from the 
white appearance of their contents, caused by 
the minute division of the fat in a state of 
emulsion. Chyle is always whitest and most 
turbid in carnivorous animals, it is less so in 
the herbivorous, while in birds it is quite trans- 
parent. Lymph is clear and colourless, contains 



56 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

more water than chyle, this having nearly 10 
per cent, of albumen, fat, &c, while lymph has 
only 3iJ per cent. Both lymph and chyle con- 
tain some of the same constituents as blood, 
viz., albumen, fibrine, fat, salts, iron, water; 
they may be considered as rudimental blood, 
and approximate the more to this fluid the 
nearer they approach to their confluence with 
the blood. 

There are two modes by which the content* 
of the digestive organs are received into the 
blood; all very soluble matters pass at once 
into the blood-vessels on the coats of the 
stomach, by the process called endosmose, by 
which liquids of a less density will at once 
pass through a membrane which separates 
them from a fluid of greater density, and the 
blood being of a greater density than the very 
soluble substances, as sugar, gelatine, &c., 
taken into the stomach, these permeate the 
very delicate coats of the minute vessels di- 
rectly into the blood. The other less soluble 
matters pass into the intestines, and are there 
absorbed by the lacteals and introduced into 
the circulation without passing through the 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 57 

liver, which the other matters entering the 
blood-vessels must do. Thus, one portion of 
our food is subjected to the elaboration of the 
liver before it becomes blood, and the other 
portion is not. Before passing into the liver, 
the blood contains much albumen and little 
fibrine, but the latter is much increased after 
having done so. It also appears that sugar 
may be changed into fat by the action of the 
liver. Sugar injected into the general circu- 
lation is soon found in the urine as sugar, 
while, if thrown into the veins which take the 
blood to the liver, it cannot be so detected; 
hence we may infer that one very important 
function of the liver is to act specially on all 
matter of a saccharine or starchy nature, and 
all products of saccharine fermentation, as 
wine, beer, spirits, &c. 

Inferences of great importance in medicine 
may be drawn from the two modes in which 
nutritive matter is taken into the blood. When 
the stomach is unable to digest food, the ab- 
sorbent power of the lacteals may be alto- 
gether suspended, and the body may be starved 
as completely as if no food whatever was taken. 



58 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

Under these circumstances, it is advisable to 
introduce such perfect solutions of food, that 
they may be taken up at once by the blood- 
vessels; this we effect by broths, wine, brandy, 
&c., which in the utter inability of the diges- 
tive process to supply the respiratory organs 
with materials for combustion, keep up the 
spark of life while Nature has time to elimi- 
nate from the system the poison of fever 
or other disease. The modern treatment of 
typhus, the merit of which belongs to Dr. Todd, 
is a remarkable exemplification of these facts 
— the \ heat-producing powers being maintain- 
ed by frequently-repeated doses of alcohol, in 
cases of great exhaustion. When brandy is 
administered in this manner, £ oz. or 1 oz. 
every hour, it is so immediately elaborated by 
the liver and burnt away by the lungs, that it 
cannot be accumulated in sufficient quantity to 
produce over-stimulating effects on the system. 
Nutrition is the process by which tissues 
and organs already formed are maintained in 
their integrity. By the incorporation of new 
materials into their substance, the loss conse- 
quent on the waste and natural decay of the 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 59 

various organs, &c, is repaired, each part se- 
lecting its appropriate particles — nerves taking 
nervous matter, muscles muscular substance, 
&c. By this process an adult in health is 
maintained through a series of years with 
the same general outline of features, of nearly 
the same size, form, and weight; although 
during all this time the various portions of his 
body are continually changing, parts decaying 
and removed being replaced by new ones, 
which also in their turn die and pass away. 
In the muscles every act of contraction is ac- 
companied with changes in the composition of 
the contracting fibres, a development of heat, 
and a decomposition of the fleshy tissue into 
urea, carbonic acid, and water. Yet the mus- 
cles retain their structure and form by the re- 
newal of a composition of fresh particles ex- 
actly similar to those which have been removed. 
Thus nutrition consists in this constant change, 
the vessels ever and anon taking away worn- 
out or disused matter, and replacing the latter 
with new substance, which has first been ela- 
borated by digestion, and then taken into the 
blood for the support of the animal economy. 



60 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

As every tissue differs in chemical composi- 
tion and functions, each will require different 
nutritive elements, and will have the power of 
selecting from the blood those materials best 
suited for its nutrition. Bone will require ge- 
latine and phosphate of lime, while muscles 
and nerves will select their own peculiar con* 
stituents. As the amount of repair differs in 
relation to the activity of the different tissues, 
so the quantity of different nutritive elements 
will vary. In teeth and bone the interstitial 
changes take place very slowly, while in the 
muscles and nerves they are of a more rapid 
nature. By nutrition, every part of the body 
is enabled to retain its original form, size, 
weight, and general character, notwithstanding 
the constant change of substance by the dis- 
integration and destruction of its component 
particles. The manner in which the old tissue 
is replaced by the new differs. In some struc- 
tures the old particles are removed from the 
surface and the new grow from below; the 
skin, hair, horn, and nails, grow in this way. 
In bone and muscle the growth must be within 
the interstices. Slow as must be the nutrition 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 61 

of bone, we know that such process is con- 
stantly going on; because if madder be taken 
with the food, the bones become tinged with 
it. The new tissues always take the exact 
likeness of the old ones, and although after 
some time not a single particle of a former 
structure remains, the physiognomy and per- 
sonal identity continue through life unchanged. 
It would appear that in the decomposition 
as well as in the nutrition of each distinct or- 
gan and tissue there were peculiar substances 
eliminated; after long-continued mental ex- 
ertion, there is an increase of the phosphatic 
salts in the urine, leading to the inference 
that the various acts of the nervous system 
are attended with some change in the nervous 
tissue, involving the decomposition of phos- 
phorus, and an increased quantity of phosphoric 
acid in the blood. In every organ the dis- 
charge of function impairs and wears away 
the tissues, and the nutritive power appears in 
their repair and restoration. One of the most 
essential conditions for the due nutrition of a 
part, is a regular adequate supply of appro- 
priate blood, for unless this condition be fill- 



62 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

filled, if the circulation of the blood in the 
part is partially or entirely cut off, we may 
have deficient nutrition or mortification. 

All the products of the destruction of tissues 
which are not converted into carbonic acid 
gas, must be sent out of the system; and it is 
the special purpose of certain glands to remove 
them, viz., the kidneys, the liver, the intestinal 
glands, and those of the skin, from all which 
are excreted substances which, if retained in 
the blood, act as poisons and destroy life. 

Thus terminates the system of nutrition, 
and the course the food may be supposed to 
take, from its absorption to its ultimate re- 
moval from the system. If the supply of nutri- 
ment and the waste of the tissues are duly 
balanced, these changes continue in the same 
order, until they are affected by that law of 
every organic atom by which its existence is 
terminated by death. Its power of resisting 
the action of the forces which destroy animal 
structures, viz., the action of oxygen, &c, 
gradually diminish in old age, and finally cease 
when the individual dies from the completion 
of a fixed and definite series of changes. This 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 63 

is on the supposition that nothing has inter- 
rupted the vital processes; and that nutrition, 
respiration, secretion, and excretion, have con- 
tinued their progress uninterrupted by disease 
(Carpenter). 

Secretion is the process by which materials 
are separated from the blood, with the object 
of serving some ulterior purpose in the animal 
economy, or of being discharged from the 
body. Most of the secretions do not pre-exist 
as such in the blood, but require special ap- 
paratus for their elaboration, as the liver for 
the bile, the mammae for the milk, &c. On the 
other hand, some of the excretions are in all 
probability merely separated from the cir- 
culating fluid, to be discharged from the body 
as carbonic acid, urea, &a Some of the secre- 
tions are formed from mucus and serous mem- 
branes, some from the skin, and some from 
glands. The serous membranes line the in- 
ternal cavities of the chest, the abdomen, the 
joints, &c., and, in health, the secretions from 
their surfaces are just sufficient to lubricate 
the parts; while in disease the secretion may 
be so increased as to constitute a form of 



61 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

dropsy. The mucus membranes line the cavi- 
ties which have outlets from the body, as the 
nose, mouth, throat, intestines, &c. The mucus 
surfaces are covered by a thin membrane, called 
epithelium, which renders smooth and protects 
the surfaces on which it is placed. The various 
kinds of mucus, when in a state of health, con- 
sist of this epithelium floating in a peculiar 
clear and viscid fluid, which is altered by cold 
and other causes of derangement, and in a 
morbid condition becomes mixed with puru- 
lent matter, as we all know by the effects pro- 
duced on the mucus membranes of our nose, 
throat, and when under the influence of 
catarrh, influenza, &c. 

The secreting glands are very various — as 
the lacrymal, which secrete the tears; the sali- 
vary; the mammary; the liver; the kidneys, 
&c. Some secretions are little more than exu- 
dations from the blood-vessels, and differ but 
little from the serum or watery part of the 
blood ; but for others much more than me- 
chanical forces appear to operate.* The liver, 
for example, may be in a manner compared to 
a chemical laboratory, where the changes in 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 65 

fluids coming in are of the most complex and 
important kind, among which has been men- 
tioned the preparation of sugar, fat, and other 
compounds of carbon and hydrogen, to fit them 
as proper fuel for that peculiar kind of com- 
bustion which takes place in the animal body, 
enabling it to maintain, in some instances, a 
degree of heat exceeding that of the surround- 
ing medium by 100°. The discharge of glan- 
dular secretions may take place as soon as 
formed, or they may' be stored up for ulterior 
purposes, or until the retaining vessels are 
filled. Those which are in active operation 
in separating noxious matter from the blood 
are soon discharged ; but when the office they 
ftdfil is only occasional, they are retained for a 
considerable time. The nervous system has 
great influence on our secretions — a familiar 
instance of which is the rapid formation of 
saliva when the body is somewhat exhausted 
by fasting, and favorite articles of food are 
seen or even thought of. Another remarkable 
instance is the changes produced in the milk 
by grief, anxiety, and other emotions ; serious 
danger, and even death, having accrued to 



66 HEALTH AND DISEASE; 

children from the effects produced on the milk 
of the mother. 

The secretion of urine is very much affected 
by the kind of food ; in herbivorous animals it 
is alkaline, in carnivorous it is acid ; a dog fed 
on vegetable substance will pass alkaline urine. 
The specific gravity of urine differs much in 
twenty-four hours; the relative quantities of 
water and solid constituents are affected by the 
condition and occupation of the body during 
the time that has passed since the last meal: 
in hot weather we lose much watery fluid by 
the skin, and the saline part of urine of course 
forms a stronger solution; in summer, we pass 
about 30 oz. and in winter about 40. The or- 
dinary constituents of urine are certain animal 
and saline matters, and occasionally are added 
various substances taken with the food, as co- 
louring matter, &c. ; 1,000 parts contain the fol- 
lowing : — 

Water 933*00 

Urea 30*10 

Uric acid 1*00 

Lactic acid, Lactates, and Animal matter 17*14 

Mucus of the bladder .... 0*32 

Sulphate of potash .... 3*71 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 67 

Sulphate of soda 3*16 

Phosphate of soda .... 2*94 

Phosphate of ammonia . . • 1*65 

Chloride of sodium .... 4*45 

Chloride of ammonium .... 1*50 

Earthy matters with a trace of ) - , QQ 

fluoride of calcium . i 

Silicious earth 0*03 



1000-00 



These constituents vary much even in health, 
according to season of the year, variations in 
food, mental influences, &c. : as an instance of 
the latter may be mentioned the increase of 
the mere watery part by hysterical affections, 
under the influence of which it is very pale. 
The colour varies, however, without any dis- 
order; it is in its most natural condition of a 
straw colour, but is sometimes of a deep orange, 
and at others quite pale. It will be often ren- 
dered turbed by an article of diet, and the ac- 
cession of cold or fever will at once change its 
appearance and character. In some diseases 
the solid parts are much increased. In diabetes 
it will contain large quantities of sugar, and in 
other diseases, the albumen, instead of going to 



\ 



68 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

nourish the tissues, is separated from the blood 
in the kidneys, and passes away with, the 
urine. 

The principal solid constituent of urine is 
urea, it is also the most important, as it is the 
chief substance by which the nitrogen of de- 
composed tissues and superfluous food is ex- 
creted from the body. The secretion of urine 
appears to be specially provided for the removal 
of urea from the body, and when it is retained 
its effects are most pernicious, in extreme cases 
acting as a poison. Urea, when decomposed, 
evolves ammonia, — hence the smell of stables, 
&c. The animal matters in urine becoming 
putrid, act as a ferment, and ammonia is the 
result of the change, being returned to the 
earth in an inorganic form, after having acted 
its part in supporting the vital principle, both 
in plants and anknals, destined again to go 
through the same changes, by being absorbed 
by the roots of plants to nourish a new genera- 
tion of animals. Urea abounds most in urine 
when the diet is exclusively animal, least when 
vegetable; it is derived from two sources — in 
part from the unassimilated elements of nitro- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 69 

genous food — this is shewn by the increase of 
urea on substituting an animal for a vegetable 
diet; but the larger part is derived from used- 
up or disintegrated animal tissues, which is 
proved by the fact that urea continues to be 
excreted, though in smaller quantity, when all 
nitrogenous substances are strictly excluded 
from the food, and the diet made to consist of 
starch, sugar, and similar vegetable matter. It 
is even excreted when no food at all has been 
taken for a considerable time. The uric or 
lithic acid is another nitrogenous animal sub- 
stance, rarely absent from the urine of man or 
animals. In birds and serpents it exists in 
much larger quantity than in other animals, 
and may be said almost to replace the urine of 
higher animals. In most febrile diseases lithic 
acid is formed in unnaturally large quantities. 
In gouty subjects it is deposited around joints, 
as urate of soda, forming what are called chalk 
stones. The saline substances in the urine are 
the same as exist in other fluids and tissues of 
the body, with some peculiar to the urine itself; 
the sulphates of soda and potash — phosphates 
of soda, ammonia, lime and magnesia. The 



70 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

wearing out and decomposition of nerve sub- 
stance and of brain supplies phosphorus; a 
person in health parts with 5 '70 grs. in twenty- 
four hours, which is increased by undue exer- 
tion of the mental faculties. 



BEALTH AND DISEASE. 7 J 



PART II. 

ON THE FOUNDATION OP A BOUND CONSTITUTION, AND THE 
SEPARATION OF A BROKEN ONE. 

There are few truths more universally as- 
sented to than that health is the most im- 
portant object of our life, and the most valuable 
possession we can attain; and yet practically 
there are few things about which people are 
so ill-informed, or so indifferent, or so negligent. 
Bitter experience of its loss appears necessary 
to all before an appropriate value can be set 
on its possession; we only find out its impor- 
tance when we suffer from its derangement; 
nor does a moderate amount of experience 
suffice to make us study its laws, that we may 
preserve what remains of it; and the only 
pfersons who can sufficiently appreciate its 
value are those who have irrecoverably lost it. 
When people become valetudinarians, they 
begin to attend to the laws of health ; such 



72 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

persons form so large a class of the community; 
so much of the happiness of others, as well as 
themselves, depends on a proper knowledge of 
the subject, that it is impossible to overrate its 
importance. Probably, in a perfect scheme of 
education, the philosophy of health should find 
a place in it ; for how many discover, when 
they have possessed themselves of wealth, 
honour and worldly welfare, that the want of 
health saps their enjoyment? A sound mind 
in a sound body is a very rare possession; the 
combination of an unsophisticated, unpreju- 
diced mind, with a body unimpaired in phy- 
sical power, ought to be more common if our 
education was good; for the want of both may 
be attributed to the neglect of true knowledge. 
It would be easy to trace unsound health, 
both of mind and body, to imperfect education; 
for the body is too often disordered by absurd 
indulgences from our very infancy, while our 
minds are immersed in prejudices which the 
experience of a long life too often fails to re- 
move. Probably if true knowledge was im- 
parted to us in our school-days, the subject of 
health, both in mind and body, would neces- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 73 

sarily result from the very system of tuition ; 
for if we were led forward from a knowledge 
of natural objects to their relations and uses 
in the arts and sciences, some knowledge of 
chemistry and physiology must be acquired, 
and with it some acquaintance with the laws 
of health. Perhaps our school education is too 
much engrossed with the works of man, while 
the works of God are comparatively neglected. 
The teaching in some infant schools is in 
the right direction, and it is to be lamented 
that such a mode of imparting the elements 
of knowledge is not employed for all classes. 
Children readily fix their attention on objects, 
and where the real things cannot be shewn, 
pictures and models are the proper substitutes. 
The very constitution of the human mind con- 
firms the wisdom of the arrangements of infant 
schools. Nouns are the only words used by 
children when first acquiring the elements of 
language, and when they have acquired a 
number of names of things, they begin to ap- 
preciate their relations — connect and compare 
them by means of verbs. If, in our earliest 
years, we were taught the names and uses of 



74 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

every natural object that can present itself, the 
curiosity thus engendered would, in the ma- 
jority of cases, lead children to acquire more of 
this kind of information for its own sake. 
Perhaps if the laws of language and of meta- 
physical divinity were not forced upon the 
mind at so early a period as is usual, it would 
be more conducive to the right development 
of the intellectual and moral powers. It might 
seem that in advocating an attention to the 
laws of health, I was going out of my way to 
say anything about the laws of education; but 
the two subjects are most intimately connected : 
probably a high degree of health, both of mind 
and body, can only be possessed by those whose 
minds have been property developed: hence, a 
true education will be the surest road to sound 
health. 

As a general rule, we may say that every 
human being is born with the latent powers of 
intellect and morals, of reason and virtue. In 
some the innate powers are individually or 
generally greater than in others ; but all have 
them in some degree, except idiots, and even 
these unfortunates have been found, by the per- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 75 

severing efforts of modern benevolence, capa- 
ble of some teaching ; these form an exception— 
but the general rule is, that all children have 
inherent faculties, which it is the business of 
education to develop. The law appears to be 
that the mind remains a carte blanche, unless 
its powers are elicited, first by an extensive 
knowledge of things, and then by knowledge 
of their actions, and relations one on the other. 
If we watch the progress of a very young child, 
we shall see that the senses are first employed: 
he feels and examines a toy mth his fingers, 
and afterwards with his other senses : thus are 
the perceptive powers of the mind exercised 
and developed, and probably we should do 
well to limit the teaching of many years of 
childhood to the exercise of the faculties of 
perception, attention, and memory for things. 

The laws of grammar are very proper to be 
taught; but perhaps they would be better 
known if deferred to a period when the corres- 
ponding mental powers had been brought forth 
by a more complete knowledge of things ; if we 
first taught our children more from the book 
of Nature ; — if, in other words, we first taught 



76 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

them the things and the laws of God, before we 
went into the rules by which men have ar- 
ranged and classified the mere symbols of 
things, viz., words. We try to teach children 
the logic of language, of religion and moral- 
ity, before their intellect can appreciate such 
things; while we neglect* to give them that 
knowledge of things which, when acquired, 
must lead to the grammar. Go into many 
schools ; examine a child on some absolutely 
metaphysical point, and he answers your ques- 
tion; shew him half-a-dozen of the commonest 
plants or trees, and you will find he does not 
know an elm from an oak. It would be very 
conducive to the well-being of children, both 
as regards mind and body, if they could be 
schooled in the open air, and taught the names 
of every plant in every lane, field, and hedge- 
row ; in the same way knowledge might be 
acquired of the ground we tread upon, the 
stones we kick, the sand, gravel, &c., we see 
dug up, and the earth in which the plants 
grow. Every locality offers illustrations for 
this kind of knowledge, and it is the kind 
truly adapted to the minds of children. Ani- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 77 

maJs are so peculiarly interesting to all chil- 
dren, that their attention to them does not 
even require to be directed. Acquaintance with 
a vast number of objects necessarily leads the 
mind to class them in some order, and a know- 
ledge of how they are employed in the arts 
and sciences naturally follows. What a vast 
amount of knowledge could thus be imparted 
without much effort, and certainly without any 
danger of overtaxing the developing mind of 
childhood. Having learnt something of the 
nature of the things by which we are sur- 
rounded, and which we daily use, the mind is 
naturally led to take an interest in their struc- 
ture and composition; the uses of the at- 
mosphere he breathes, the water he swims in, 
the fire which warms him, become obvious, 
and he will like to know something of their 
composition. If the mind has been awakened 
to an interest in natural objects, it will be led 
on to a knowledge of some of the laws which 
govern vegetable and animal life; the laws 
which regulate the actions of living beings, by 
which the integrity of the animal frame is 
maintained. Lastly, the structure of the mind 



78 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

itself will excite attention; the classification 
of its various impulses, feelings, instincts, per- 
ceptions, their relation to each other, and the 
adaptation of the mental faculties to the re- 
quired knowledge of man. Without some ac- 
quaintance with his own mind, how can a man 
be said to be educated? Nor is such know- 
ledge at all incompatable with classics, litera- 
ture, and grammar, more especially the latter; 
for, is it not the outward expression of those 
laws of mind, which regulate the speech and 
language of all races of men— those wonder- 
ful laws which, amidst the diversities of the 
words and component parts of language, never- 
theless require that the construction and 
grammar should be the same, because this is 
founded on those mental requirements which 
are fundamentally the same in all the races of 
man. 

But what has this to do with the laws of 
health ? If we acquire some knowledge of the 
nature of life and mind, and the true employ- 
ment of these valuable gifts, we should take 
more care of them, and study the laws by 
which we can retain them the longest in a 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 79 

condition to be serviceable. If we knew that 
mind is developed in proportion as the laws of 
its progress are attended to — if we knew that 
the life of grown men and women resulted from 
the manner in which they were treated from in- 
fancy upwards ; that the physical health and 
the moral power might be made what we 
please by proper direction, we should not so 
basely neglect them as we do. If half the 
exertions made to improve the breed of horses, 
cattle, and sheep, were employed in similar en- 
deavours to improve the physical and mental 
powers of the human race, what a different 
world we should live in. It is the real duty 
of parents to give their children all the life 
and all the mind which is possible; and the ex- 
tent to which these blessings may be diffused 
by right training, we have no present concep- 
tion, because we neglect the laws on which 
they both depend. Without some knowledge 
of the general principles of physiology, and 
without some knowledge of the laws of health, 
parents will be incapable of giving to their 
children that amount of health of mind and 
body, without which life ceases to be a blessing. 



80 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

Exiles of life may be laid down by religion 
and by moral philosophy. Rules of health 
may be laid down by physicians; but unless 
some real knowledge on these subjects — unless 
the mind is capable of appreciating the value 
of such rules, by knowing their power to in- 
crease human happiness — unless the mind of 
the taught can go with the mind of the teacher, 
the mere enunciation of rules and laws will 
make no lasting impression. 

The whole subject may be resolved into two 
questions : — 

1. How to found a good constitution in 
mind and body, by training and education. 

2. How to re-establish a good constitution 
when impaired by bad health, whether induced 
by inheritance, or by a mistaken system of 
nursery training, prejudice, and ignorance. 

The proper answer to the first question is to 
point out to parents, and all who have the 
management of children, the necessity of learn- 
ing the business they have undertaken — for 
such knowledge cometh not by intuition. In- 
stinct leads an infant to suck, and there are 
few mothers so ignorant as not to know what 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 81 

to give their baby for that purpose; but be- 
yond this point ignorance begins, and the 
number of infant lives annually sacrificed to 
such ignorance is an awful reflection. If we 
could depict the progress of infancy and child- 
hood graphically, we should be able in the 
process to shew many of the omissions and 
commissions by which, at this early period of 
our lives, our afflictions begin. 

The principal inlets, founts, or origin of dis- 
ease, are the digestive and nervous systems. 
An infant with quick and healthy digestion, 
and with a nervous system not easily disturbed, 
will pass through its infantile period without 
disorder; but, on the contrary, one that has 
inherited weak organs of digestion or sensitive 
nerves, will not pass many days of its early 
life without betraying its predisposition. In 
childhood, vicious management may soon de- 
range both these systems, and when we reflect 
on the utter ignorance of the subject, of the 
entire neglect of any means to acquire the 
knowledge necessary for the management of 
infants and children, we need not wonder at 
the early development of disorders, both of the 



82 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

* 

digestive and nervous systems. The majority 
of persons about to become parents appear to 
expect that the knowledge of how children 
should be treated is intuitive; while, in truth, 
it is a study which it is the duty of all in such 
circumstances most seriously to contemplate. 
How much of our happiness depends on the 
management of our earliest years — health of 
body and of mind. How much may be done, 
and how much may be omitted to be done, by 
those who undertake to conduct us through 
the early years of life. Many of the disorders 
which return upon us at intervals all through 
life, have their foundation in mismanagement 
of childhood, in the profound ignorance of 
parents and nurses on all subjects connected 
with the important duties they find them- 
selves called upon to perform. The majority 
of people give themselves no thought about 
the matter; it has never crossed their minds 
that they have anything to learn on the sub* 
ject: most children may really be said to take 
their chance, and an unhappy chance it is too 
often. I believe more real good would be done, 
if parents could be made to learn their duty 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 83 

in the practical business of assisting the proper 
development of mind and body in the founda- 
tion of good health in early life, than by all 
the sanitory measures that may be enforced by 
legislators, important as they are. The wisest, 
the best, the happiest, and the healthiest of the 
human race, owe all distinctions in their 
future career to the early directions of a sen- 
sible mother. 

How should a good constitution be estab- 
lished? That healthy offspring result from 
healthy parents; that much may be done to- 
wards the future health of offspring, even be- 
fore birth, is unquestionable ; but, as unsound 
and weakly people cannot be prevented from 
intermarrying, nor could it ever be just to at- 
tempt to prevent such marriages, for who 
could draw the line of demarcation between 
sufficient and insufficient degrees of health; 
and as the offspring of delicate parents, by 
judicious management after birth, may be 
made sound and healthy children, we shall 
commence our observations from the period of 
birth. We will suppose a child is born, as the 
great majority are, of fair average develop- 



84 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

ment; it is washed, dressed, and fed, and much 
of its future health depends on a judicious 
system in these early arrangements. A good 
nurse will wash an infant with great patience 
and great care, and it requires much of both to 
do the office well, especially to an irritable and 
crying child ; and this may be one reason why 
quiet children generally do so much better 
than irritable ones; they have more time be- 
stowed on them. The general health so much 
depends on health of the skin, that too much 
time cannot well be expended in washing, 
cleansing, and rubbing the skin of children; 
and for the latter purpose there is nothing so 
suitable as the human hand. You will see a 
good nurse, after a thorough washing and dry- 
ing, spend some time in rubbing every part of 
the body and limbs with her hand. With re- 
gard to the dress of infants, much depends on 
the judgment of the mother, for the nurse 
must use for this purpose what has been pro- 
vided If every tiling is very loose, the form or 
materials signify little; the simpler and the 
easier in its adjustment the better is the dress. 
Some nurses still continue to bind babies too 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 85 

tightly; the rapid development of an infant 
requires that there should be no undue pres- 
sure on any part of its body. I have seen 
many well-formed children at birth, who, 
in a few months, become narrow and pigeon- 
breasted, which I cannot help imputing partly 
to bandaging, although bad feeding and general 
bad management have much to do with this, as 
I shall hereafter point out. In regard to the 
feeding of infants there is not much to be said; 
it should, during the first three or four months, 
be confined to the breast, and the necessary 
exceptions to this rule may be looked upon as 
a great misfortune, both to mother and child. 
How should a mother live to be a good nurse? 
is a question often asked; and the proper 
reply is, to do exactly as she has. been accus- 
tomed, to continue the same habits of feeding, 
&c, which have best agreed with her health 
under ordinary circumstancea Many women 
double their allowance of beer, &c, sometimes 
on the plea that their appetite for food is bad; 
but nothing can be more injudicious, for the 
increase of the stimulant still farther depresses 
the appetite for wholesome food. Every 



86 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

woman about to become a mother should pay 
great attention to her own health; by so doing 
she will promote the health of her offspring, 
and fit herself for the better performance of 
her fiiture duties. A sensible woman will at 
once see the wisdom of this, and will do every- 
thing to promote the welfare of her child; and 
how much she can do, both before and after 
its birth, is so obvious, that it would appear 
superfluous to say anything on the subject 
To those mothers who enjoy firir average 
health, the general rules of food, air, and ex- 
ercise apply as under ordinary circumstances 
-the habite which best a^e in regard to 
diet, as much fresh air as possible, and regular 
exercise short of fatigue; to those who do not 
enjoy good health, particular rules will be re- 
quisite in each particular case, and in all cases 
much may be done in this respect, for Nature 
herself has been so considerate, that most 
women, under these circumstances, find their 
health improved. 

When a child is three or four months old, 
it is wise to begin to feed it once or. twice in 
the day ; this relieves the nurse, habituates the 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 87 

child to a change of food, and facilitates much 
the future operation of weaning. The simplest 
preparations of good bread or other forinaceous 
LL with milk, will, in most ca.es, be suf- 
ficient; in very delicate children, beef-tea may 
be necessary; but all taste for cakes, sweets, 
fruit, beer, &c., should never be encouraged. 
Among the varieties of opinion one meets with, 
we occasionally come across people who think 
that children of a few months should live much 
as they do themselves, with no exception but 
in quantity. It is no uncommon thing to see 
a poor, ill-nourished, ricketty child, the picture 
of all that is wretched — who, as the mother 
informs us, " lives as we do," — partake of a 
little of every thing — beer, unripe fruit, un- 
wholesome cakes, bread reeking from the oven ; 
all and everything, the dear little creature is 
permitted to indulge in. It may be very 
amusing to see a child enjoying itself over 
such things; but it is an amusement for which 
the child will have to pay in weakness and 
disease, and the parents in anxiety and dis- 
tress. The food of young children cannot be 
too simple; and to found a good constitution 



88 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

in their children, parents should watch with 
earnest care all the proceedings of the nursery. 
The proper age for weaning is from ten to 
twelve months, by which time several teeth 
ought to have made their appearance, and the 
child thus enabled to eat some solid food. At 
this period habits of regularity should be induc- 
ed, even if they have been neglected in earlier 
infancy. Three meals in the day are now 
sufficient; they should be at the same hours 
every day, and may consist pretty much of the 
same food, for children do not require that 
variety which adults indulge in. It is often 
injurious to change the food of infants. There 
are many different farinaceous compounds re- 
commended to every anxious mother, who 
with the expectation of advantage to her child, 
will try three or four kinds of food, and so 
cause diarrhoea, or other morbid conditions of 
the digestive organs. Having adopted a food 
of proper quality, it is wise to adhere to it, 
although possibly some temporary inconveni- 
ence may arise. Care should be taken — indeed, 
it is impossible to be too cautious on this head 
— to procure good food. The flour, or bread, 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 89 

should be the best of its kind. The ordinary 
London bread is ill-adapted for the stomach of 
a tender infant. 

It is impossible to impress too strongly the 
necessity of inducing habits of regularity and 
method in the feeding of children; of confining 
the food to those articles alone which are 
necessary for nutrition; of avoiding all things 
that are useless but to pamper appetite, and 
teach children to eat for the sake of eating. 

The principal rules to be observed in the 
management of the health of infants, are regu- 
laxity in feeding, careful washing night and 
morning, the most rigid attention to cleanliness, 
regular hours for sleep, and that in an airy 
apartment. As far as possible, order should 
be observed in the earliest management of in- 
fants; but as soon as the child is weaned the 
most strict attention to regularity in feeding 
should be punctiliously observed. With very 
good management, and rigid observance of the 
rules for feeding, clothing, air, and exercise; 
the evils which surround children in large 
cities may be alleviated. The kind of food 
must be regulated by circumstances, some chil- 



90 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

dren requiring more animal food, &c., than 
others; therefore, what is said on this subject 
must be considered as general rules, liable to 
individual modification. 

When a child is first weaned, it is advisable 
tp give a small quantity of animal food twice 
or thrice a week; and I believe the majority 
up to the age of six or seven years, would be 
well nourished if only allowed meat on alter- 
nate days. When they have meat for dinner, 
they should have no pudding. It is a very 
bad custom to have puddings or pies always 
after meat, and it is worse to give pudding 
invariably first, as is too much the case at 
schools. A child generally prefers pudding, 
and, having filled its stomach with that which 
it likes best, will have little inclination left 
for meat, which is doubtless the object of the 
system. Most parents are delighted when 
their children come home at the holidays, to 
see their round, chubby faces bronzed by the 
open air into the appearance of health, but 
which is dissipated in a week or two. The 
colour goes first and the plumpness next, 
being only the effect of a too farinaceous diet. 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 91 

It is not solid muscle nor even good fat, that 
is produced by this kind of diet, but a loose 
lymphatic fullness, which, carried to excess, 
and further encouraged by long residence in a 
damp and unwholesome locality, or too much 
confinement from air and exercise, may pro- 
duce a condition favourable to the develop- 
ment of tubercle or scrofula. 

That animal food is essential to the strength 
and full development of the physical and men- 
tal powers of man, is a proposition hardly 
requiring an argument. We deduce the neces- 
sity from the superior physical power of those 
who use animal food, and from laws .of our 
constitution, which prove that we were in- 
tended to use it. The love of hunting, fishing, 
&c, are remnants of the instinct possessed by 
man to destroy or capture animals for the 
sake of food ; and the possession of some teeth 
much resembling those of carnivorous ani- 
mals, constitutes a pretty conclusive argument 
that man was intended to use flesh as food. 
Much more might be said in favour of the 
argument, but the general conclusions of 
mankind in this part of the world are only 



92 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

called in question by an occasional dissen- 
tient in favour of an exclusive vegetable 
diet. 

As a child advances in age, the quantity of 
animal food should be increased. After the 
age of seven, he should have one meal of ani- 
mal food daily, and this constitutes the general 
rule for all ages ; but I fear it is only a small 
minority of mankind who can put it in prac- 
tice. That it is possible to enjoy a consider- 
able share of health on a strictly vegetable 
diet, has been proved over and over again ; 
but in all the cases coming under my own 
knowledge, the parties have not been capable 
of great endurance of fatigue, nor have they 
been long-lived. In many cases of disease, we 
see very beneficial effects from a purely vege- 
table diet ; and life has, by this means, been 
preserved for many years after the occurrence 
of one fit of apoplexy, and in other diseases 
resulting from a plethoric habit. There are 
some persons whose aptitude to make blood is 
so great that, with only a small allowance of 
animal food, they become so overcharged with 
rich blood as to require an occasional bleeding 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 93 

or cupping, or they are liable to fall into some 
inflammatory or congestive disease. No doubt 
such persons may be kept in health by a well- 
regulated vegetable diet. On the other hand, 
there are persons whose blood is so thin that 
they require animal food more than once a 
day. These are extreme cases — but ihe general 
rule is, meat once a day, and then in quantity 
regulated by individual experience. There is 
an old maxim, that every one at forty is either 
a fool or a physician ; and this is quite true as 
applied to individual experience. Before the 
age of forty, all should have discovered what 
agrees and what disagrees with them ; they 
should have found out by this time the pecu- 
liarities of their own digestive organs, and the 
effect of all articles of food on their stomach 
and general health. All the particular laws of 
health, as applying to their peculiarities, such 
as the effects of particular articles of food, 
bathing, &c, should have been long known, 
and always guarded against, so that every- 
thing injurious to health may be avoided. 
This, with great sobriety at all times, and 
occasional abstinence, are the principal means 



94 HEALTH AND. DISEASE. 

to establish a sound constitution and long 
life. 

A medical man can only deal in general 
rules, which each must apply to his own case. 
No rules of diet are universally applicable. 
The powers of the stomach vary in different 
persons, as all other parts of the body vary. 
In a large family of children there will be the 
greatest differences in the powers of digestion, 
and it is folly to insist on applying the same 
rules to all. If a child is disgusted with fat, 
it is often injurious to his powers of digestion 
if he eats it, although it is quite right to per- 
suade him to try a small quantity ; just as 
in those children who would always prefer to 
dine on pudding, it is advisable to teach them 
to eat a little meat. There is so much in cus- 
tom, that we should endeavour to induce good 
habits of feeding, as well as good habits of 
order, &c. By management, a child may be 
induced to take some, at least, of the kind of 
food that is best for him ; and it is precisely 
this direction of the early habits of children 
by which a foundation is laid for future health 

9 

and happiness. A watchful parent will be 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 95 

alive to every peculiarity in a child, and cor- 
rect that which has any tendency to be mis- 
chievous in its earliest bud. This can only be 
accomplished in the nursery, under the eye 
of a parent, or a first-rate nurse ; and if left 
to ordinary servants, is never properly done. 
How much of the misery of life would be pre- 
vented, if parents were more attentive to the 
nursery ! The subject is almost a science, but 
which is supposed to come by instinct, any- 
body being thought capable of taking charge 
of children ; and we all find, as life advances, 
and knowledge of the subject increases by ex- 
perience, how much our early management of 
children might have been improved. 

This is a subject* of vast importance to the 
community, as well as the heads of families ; 
for how important it is to a state that its 
members should be capable of rendering it 
physical assistance in time of need. So much 
of happiness and well-being through life de- 
pends on the direction of the first few years of 
our existence, that it is a question whether, in 
a well-regulated state, public means should 
not be adopted to give this sort of knowledge 



96 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

to all classes of the community. At all events 
it is the positive duty of all who are likely to 
have the superintendence of children, to ac- 
quire some knowledge of the proper means 
of early training. The acquisition of this 
knowledge would save parents from many 
an anxious hour, and it would enable them 
often to prevent, and in all cases to alle- 
viate, and perhaps cut short the disorders of 
their children. 

I cannot too strongly urge upon every one 
likely to become a parent, the wisdom of learn- 
ing all that can be learned of the practical ap- 
plication of the best rules for the development 
of the mind and body in health and strength. 
For this purpose, it is not necessary to have 
sufficient medical knowledge to treat diseases; 
on the contrary, what is recommended will 
lead to a discernment of the wisdom of apply- 
ing to a confidential medical practitioner in the 
earliest stages of real disease, as the prudent 
and proper course. The information which all 
parents should possess is that which will tend 
to the prevention of disorder, or to induce that 
vigorous state of constitution which enables a 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 97 

child to shake off the diseases to which all are 
liable, without laying the foundation of lasting 
bad health. 

In a country where good medical advice is 
always at hand, it is most unwise to treat any 
real illness without assistance. Every one 
should be very particular in the choice of a 
medical adviser: it is impossible to be too 
much so. Evidence should be obtained, not 
only of his competent knowledge of medical 
practice, but of his strict integrity and con- 
scientious principles. Having reposed their 
confidence, after due inquiry, that confidence 
should be unlimited; and it is the wisest and 
most economical plan to consult him at the 
earliest period, whenever any symptom has 
occurred that may be connected with internal 
disease. Most important maladies may be cut 
short by proper treatment in the earliest stage ; 
whereas, too often, the delay of a few days 
allows time for the establishment of serious 
organic mischief, and may confirm a disease 
which, if not fatal, may be of three four weeks' 
duration, instead of as many days. My pur- 
pose, therefore, is not to advise much know- 



98 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

ledge of medical treatment, but of that ac- 
quaintance with the laws of health which will 
enable parents to manage children in a ra- 
tional manner, so as to secure that strength of 
constitution which will prevent the establish- 
ment of disease. 

Every child has some peculiarities of consti- 
tution which require to be studied. Observa- 
tion should be busy in watching these pecu- 
liarities, because general rules can only be 
applied with those necessary modifications re- 
quisite in every particular case. The most 
obvious peculiarities observed in infants will 
be in the stomach and bowels, the skin, or the 
nervous system. Some infants will invariably 
reject a portion of their food ; others, having a 
less irritable stomach, will retain it, and throw 
off the superabundance by the bowels; while 
those who possess powerful digestive organs 
will convert all into nutriment, and become 
too fat. Great diversity will be observed in 
the action of the bowels — some will be too 
lax, while others will almost constantly re- 
quire management to keep them sufficiently 
so. Here let me advise mechanical means, in 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 99 

preference to physic, in the cases of all in- 
fants whose bowels are costive. A little warm 
water, thrown up by an India-rubber bottle, 
will generally be sufficient, and not at all in- 
jurious; whereas giving medicine by the mouth 
may derange the stomach and the whole diges- 
tive apparatus, when the object is only to pro- 
mote the action of the lower part of the intes- 
tinal canal. This advice is equally applicable 
to adults suffering from costiveness : the diffi- 
culty is in the large bowels, which are torpid 
— the stimulus of the warm water induces 
them to act. By a lavement, you apply your 
remedy to the seat of disorder, while an ape- 
rient dose irritates a very extensive line of in- 
testine, before your remedy reaches the spot 
you wish to act upon. 

There is also danger in the constant daily 
use of aperients, such as an aloetic pill. Cases 
of obstruction in the bowels occur where no 
passage can be obtained, and in which, on ex- 
amination after death, no mechanical strangu- 
lation is discovered. There is a general dis- 
tended condition of the whole of the intestines, 
which has been considered to be caused by a 



1 



100 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

kind of paralysis, destroying the contractile 
power of the muscular coat, and is thought by 
some practitioners to be brought on by the 
constant use of purgative medicines. 

Some people seem to think that any broken 
food, or hotch-potch, or heavy pudding, will 
do for children ; but of all species of economy 
this is one of the most pernicious. There may 
be in the kitchen some cold meat which is to 
be disposed of : — " Oh ! it will do for the nur- 
sery/' says the cook, and forthwith cuts it up, 
re-cooks it into a hash, an Irish stew, a pud- 
ding, or some such abomination ; the children 
are, perhaps, delighted with the savoury mess, 
and their taste perverted for more simple 
things. It should be a rule in all nurseries 
that fresh meat, in its simplest forms only, 
should be given to children ; that cold meat 
is wholesome, while re-cooked meat is indi- 
gestible and bad ; that all sauces, pickles, &c, 
which make people eat more than they want, 
should be utterly forbidden in the nursery. 
^ Puddings, and those light and good, should 
not be every day a regular part of the dinner, 
the effect of which is to prevent some children 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 101 

from eating as much meat as does them good, 
and induces other children to put enough for 
a second meal on the top of one amply suffi- 
cient, of meat, vegetables, &c. Let every 
mother, if she cannot always see her children 
at their meals, at least as often as possible go 
into her nursery at these times. Good diges- 
tion is the primary foundation for a good con- 
stitution, and the stomach is the inlet of many 
diseases. So long as the stomach does its 
duty well, and is only permitted to act on 
proper materials, we need fear no disease that 
may occur. A child with a sound stomach 
and healthy digestion will soon shake off dis- 
ordered health. In the intervals of meals 
children should be prevented from taking 
sweets and other trash, which kind friends 
and kind servants are too ready to furnish. 
The rewards for good behaviour should never 
be stomach-pleasures ; and the pocket-money 
should be directed to any other channel rather 
than the pastrycooks or the confectioners. 
We may even assist the development of mind 
while taking care of the stomach ; for if we 
direct the taste for pictures, books, or ingeni- 



102 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

ous toys, in preference to sweets, &a, we lay 
a foundation for the preponderance of intel- 
lectual pleasures over sensual ones ; and we 
can hardly begin too soon to form such a taste. 
To found a good constitution, air and exer- 
cise are essential One daily walk of an hour 
or two in fine weather is altogether insuffi- 
cient. A young child should almost spend 
his whole day in the open air. Even a Lon- 
don garden, with all its dirt, is better than 
a close room. There is much advantage to 
children in having a few simple gymnastic 
contrivances in a well-ventilated room ; they 
form a great resource to children doomed to 
a city life, or in bad weather, as well as being 
very conducive to health. Weather, unless 
very bad indeed, should be no excuse for con- 
fining children to the house : the streets and 
squares of London afford very good air, if they 
cannot reach the Parks. I have known seve- 
ral very healthy families brought up in Lon- 
don, by taking every advantage of opportu- 
nities for air and exercise, and very special 
attention to the stomach and its provender. 
Of course children subjected to the disadvan- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 103 

tages of a city life, should be doubly guarded 
in respect to good and wholesome food, for 
we may all take greater liberties with our 
stomachs while enjoying the fresh and open 
air in a healthy part of the country, than 
when living in a large town. 

Bathing, and every means that will keep 
the skin in good condition, is an essential item 
in the process of founding a good constitution. 
All children should be well washed at night, 
and immersed into cold water as soon as they 
are out of their beds in the morning. There 
are few children who will not be benefited by 
a cold bath ; but it should be a rule to do it 
as soon as they leave their bed, while the body 
is very warm. If allowed to run about the 
room in their night-dress first, they do not get 
half as much good, because the rapidity and 
power of reaction is not so great ; the glow, 
as commonly understood, is more certain and 
more decisive when the body still retains the 
heat of the bed. Mere sponging with cold 
water is not so beneficial as actual immersion, 
head foremost, but it is a good substitute 
where a real bath is impracticable; two, three, 



104 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

or four, immersions should be given in quick 
succession, and the skin then well dried and 
rubbed for ten minutes with a rough towel, 
flesh-gloves, and the handa Perseverance in 
this process for a few weeks will sensibly im- 
prove the health ; and a few months will often 
convert a delicate child into a strong one. 
An occasional visit to the coast, and daily im- 
mersion in the sea, will always be advantage- 
ous, but by no means sufficient to supersede 
the continuous daily domestic bath. 

The great anxiety, as well as necessity in 
these days for education, induces many parents 
to begin the process with too little regard to 
the physical development of the body. A 
child cannot begin to learn too toon, but the 
learning need not be by tasks ; a sensible 
mother is always teaching her child, and at a 
very early age may begin to excite attention 
to a knowledge of objects. The inquiring 
nature of the human mind does not require 
much leading for this purpose, most children 
intuitively directing their attention to every 
new thing presented to them. Something 
may be done even in infancy towards the de- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE, 105 

velopment of a good memory, by keeping the 
attention on the same thing long enough to 
acquire a complete knowledge of it. Nothing 
is so important as a good memory ; and this 
appears to be the result of complete know- 
ledge of a subject acquired by continuous at- 
tention to one thing at a time. What the 
French call " attention mivie" is the grand 
foundation for retentive memory. 

To give a young child a task to learn out of 
a book is little less than barbarous, and de- 
feats its own end, for the child soon thinks 
learning a bore, and for ever after associates 
school and its objects with pain and disgust. 
To found a good constitution, the first six 
years of life should be devoted to physical 
education ; three-fourths of the waking hours 
of a child's life should be spent in the open 
air, in all but the very worst weather, and 
the rest of its time in well-ventilated apart- 
ments, rather erring on the side of too much 
cold than too much heat. This is not incon- 
sistent with sufficient attention to mental 
development, by storing the memory with a 
knowledge of things, pithy sentences, and 



106 JHEALTH AND DISEASE. 

scraps of poetry ; but a sedentary and stu- 
dious child should rather be discouraged, and 
amused into more activity. A precocious de- 
velopment of any of the intellectual faculties 
is not to be desired, for it is too often accom- 
panied with life-long disorder. We need not 
fear the destruction of Genius ; where that 
exists it will be developed in due time, and 
better by the natural efforts than by any arti- 
ficial aids. 

If we can succeed in establishing sound 
bodily health in our children up to the age of 
seven, we need be under little apprehension for 
subsequent years; such children readily shake 
off the usual disorders of childhood, and are 
in a condition to withstand some considerable 
rough treatment during their school-life. The 
important question now arises of the respective 
advantages of school or home education; I be- 
lieve the advantages lie on the side of schools, 
both to girls as well as boys; but also that 
the most desirable system of education is daily 
attendance at a very good school, with re- 
sidence at home, thus combining the good of 
both, and moreover insuring a certain amount 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 107 

of exercise daily, in going to and returning 
from school in all weather. However, this 
question must be answered according to cir- 
cumstances ; for, unfortunately, in some homes, 
children learn as much harm as good, and 
there are many cases in which school is ab- 
solutely best. The choice of a school is 
most important; and it is next to impossible 
to meet with one combining the advantages 
of the most healthy locality with the most 
rational method of instruction. But we should 
never lose sight of health, and send our chil- 
dren to a low, damp situation, or any place 
where malaria is likely to exist. We should 
also be clear that the mode of feeding is judi- 
cious; for the combination of bad air and bad 
food will engender scrofula and other diseases, 
in almost any constitution. If we are for- 
tunate in the school-life of our children, and 
give them all the advantages in our power for 
health and for elementary knowledge — if the 
strength both of mind and body advances with 
their years, we may enjoy the gratification of 
having done all in our power towards the 
establishment of a sound constitution in both. 



108 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

It is wonderful how much may be effected by 
long perseverance in a judicious method, to- 
wards establishing sound health even in chil- 
dren who were weakly at birth, and during 
their early years; and it is equally certain 
that similar perseverance in a right method 
will develop intellectual faculties in children 
of the dullest original capacities. Nil deape- 
randum should indeed be our motto in all 
such cases, when we know the wonders that 
are now effected by the education even of 
idiots, as a visit to the Asylum at Highgate 
will prove in several remarkable instances. 
Nothing can be more glorious than the power 
of aiding the development of mind, and ought 
to be the grand pleasure and object of all 
parents; and whatever time and attention 
may be given to a study of this subject, will 
amply repay them in future years. Experi- 
ence and philosophy corroborate the unexcep- 
tional truth, that if you "train up a child in 
the way he should go, when he is old he will 
never depart from it." Mere teaching without 
example will be too often unavailing to de- 
velop in children the moral faculties, and 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 109 

although the germs of them have been 
implanted deep in our nature, they will not 
grow unless they are watered from the springs 
of parental feeling ; if the parental garden of 
the soul has not been cultivated to the pro- 
duction of the fruit of moral principle and 
power, the consequent want of due example 
will neutralize all mere wordy enforcement 
of the rules of virtue. The same principle 
applies to heads of schools, and, indeed, all 
who undertake the teaching of youth or of 
mankind, if they do not verify their precepts 
with that test of sincerity, their own example, 
their tuition will be unproductive of that 
genuine love of the good and search after 
wisdom, which follows the instructions of 
those who practically apply the truths of re- 
ligion and philosophy. Let the brilliant ex- 
amples of Dugald Stewart and of Dr. Arnold 
of Rugby, be selected to prove this principle. 
I should think no two men in the history of 
mankind had ever by their own individual 
teaching, propagated sound intellectual and 
moral views to so large a number of pupils, 
many of whom have been the best men of 



J 10 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

the age in every sense. A sound mind is in- 
timately connected with a sound body ; per- 
haps the one cannot exist in full integrity 
without the other, the laws of mind bearing 
a close relation and adaptation to the laws of 
health. If the intellectual faculties and moral 
principles have been duly developed, the body, 
the mind, and the feelings will always be 
under the due regulation of sound knowledge, 
judgment, reason — and their harmony of ac- 
tion constitutes what we are in search of — 
" mens sana in corpore sano!' 

The importance of selection in the teachers 
of our children must be clear to all, and yet 
upon what poor reasons are children sent to 
particular schools ; the truth is, that this im- 
portance is not sufficiently appreciated, .and 
the majority of people do not think at all 
about it, but are led to choose a particular 
school for mere convenience, or other motive, 
without considering they are doing one of the 
most important duties of life. Too much time, 
and reflection cannot be given to the subject; 
and having, after proper examination, placed 
our children at a good school or college, no 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. Ill 

light matter should induce us to remove them, 
for nothing is so detrimental to sound educa- 
tion and the establishment of fixed principles 
of action, as alterations in the system of men- 
tal training. The change of schools is a very 
frequent cause of vacilation of character, un- 
settled opinions, doubt upon all subjects, and 
scepticism on the most important guiding 
principles of life. Having so far laid the 
foundation for a sound constitution in mind 
and body, the few years that elapse from our 
school-days until our establishment in life re- 
quire consideration, for however sound we may 
be in mind and body up to this age, every 
benefit of teaching and example may now 
be annihilated by idleness, indulgence, and a 
vicious employment of our time. Much of the 
happiness of life in both sexes, as well as their 
future health, results from the way in which 
the period from school-life to the age of twenty- 
two or twenty-three is spent. 

There is no greater mistake made by a very 
large number of parents, than to suppose that 
all necessary education is obtained at school 
before the age of sixteen, and that all subse- 



112 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

quent teaching spoils a lad for business. To 
establish a sound constitution, both of mind 
and body, some further teaching is essential to 
form those habits of thinking and acting which 
constitute the basis for that continuous self- 
education without which no man ever became 
well informed; and unless a man is well in- 
formed, he neither knows how to take care of 
his mind nor his body. The Natural Sciences 
are among the most worthy, if not the best, 
objects of attention, after the rudimentary 
knowledge of school has ceased. There are 
very few minds that could not be directed to 
take an interest in the pleasing information 
afforded by Chemistry, Botany, Vegetable and 
Animal Physiology, and other branches of Na- 
tural History ; nor are there any inquiries 
which so much tend to £01 the mind with that 
objective knowledge which develops the un- 
derstanding, the reflecting and moral powers 
of the human mind. If a man is acquainted 
with Natural Science, he possesses within him- 
self available resources for improvement of 
mind and recreation of body, which lead to 
habits of life most conducive to sound health. 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 113 

Science can be prosecuted in gardens, in fields, 
on the sea, and on mountains ; everywhere is 
the Book of Nature open to our inspection, and 
everywhere can we learn those truths which 
lead us to contemplate the wisdom and intel- 
ligence everywhere surrounding us, and the 
wonderful adaptation of our own mental facul- 
ties for the acquisition and enjoyment of such- 
knowledge. In this respect the prosecution of 
Science has a great advantage over the pur- 
suits of Literature : health of body as well as 
of mind will be strengthened by the one, while 
the sedentary pursuits of the other have the 
reverse tendency, to say nothing of the mis- 
chief often endangered by the class of litera- 
ture too generally indulged in — works of fic- 
tion and imagination. Many nervous disor- 
ders may be traced to over-indulgence in the 
absorbing interest of romances and other 
imaginary descriptions of life, which render 
those who thus season their mind impracti- 
cable and unfit for ordinary duties, by having 
their imaginations of society so exalted, that dis-. 
appointment, and too often disgust, is the result. 
I might adduce, as an additional and very 



114 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

important reason for an early training of the 
mind with a view to its proper development 
the melancholy evidence of the unhealthy state 
of the understanding in a large proportion of 
so-called educated people, exhibited by the de- 
lusions of mesmerism, table-turning, spirit- 
rapping, et id genus omne. Whether we 
attempt to account for the progress of these 
absurdities by referring them to long-known 
principles of the human mind, to the absence 
of self-will and self-possession, to the force of 
imagination, or the prevalence in the mind of 
one predominant idea, it is a melancholy 
fact that there should be a large number of 
persons so destitute of force of mind as to be 
deluded into the belief that the effects wit- 
nessed arise from supernatural interposition. 
There is an able article in a latQ "Quarterly 
Review/' which places in a clear light the 
supposed wonders of electro-biology, table- 
turning, &c, shewing that all these singular 
delusions of the mind may be traced to well- 
known mental operations, which have been 
observed and recorded from time immemorial. 
A butcher, in taking down a joint from one of 



HEALTH AND DISEASES. 115 

his hooks was caught by it, held suspended in 
dreadful torture, and when released from his 
position his sufferings were excruciating from 
the supposed wound of the hook, until the 
examination of a surgeon proved that the skin 
had not been touched, but only his coat, &c. 
Here was exhibited the power of imagination 
and the force of a dominant idea, just as the 
victims of electro-biology, being destitute of 
any will of their own, have suggested and 
enforced by the authoritative command of the 
operator that they cannot rise from a chair, 
and have even forgot their own name. That 
so many can continue to be deluded with the 
idea that tables, turn by some unknown myste- 
rious power, when the effect can be proved to 
be the consequence of their own muscular 
force, is remarkable ; but this is in part to 
be explained from that spirit of party by which 
some minds will adhere to opinions when once 
adopted, in spite of all logic and the experi- 
ence of the whole world. 

Does not all this shew some great deficiency 
in education. The human mind requires to be 
developed by tuition, observation, and expe- 



116 HEALTH A2*D DISEASE 

rience; and, until it is developed, is liable to 
delusions of all kinds. In a very early and ig- 
norant state of society, every inexplicable cir- 
cumstance is referred to supernatural agency. 
Many things which are now known to observe 
regular laws, and are looked upon by the most 
ignorant as ordinary operations of Nature, were 
formerly considered by all classes as depend- 
ant on direct supernatural agency. The winds, 
the weather, various diseases, and even the 
common e very-day affairs of human life, were 
referred to the interposition sometimes of a 
spirit of good, sometimes of a spirit of evil 
That the negroes of Africa, and the aborigines 
of Australia, should be under the influence of 
such opinions, excites no surprise ; but it is 
lamentable to see amongst ourselves, and the 
enlightened inhabitants of North America and 
Germany, that numbers are still led away by 
such notions, and it affords evidence of the 
existence of a weak and undeveloped state of 
the understanding and the intellect. 

That state of mind which lays it open to 
delusions of various kinds is an incipient con- 
dition of insanity; and I believe it is a fact 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 117 

that many who have commenced by being 
influenced by mesmerism and its sequences — 
table-rapping and spirit-moving — in whom one 
dominant idea has been generated, and whose 
minds are thus abstracted from common sense 
principles of action, become, in time, monoma- 
niacs. No one with any experience of life 
doubts but that frequent cases of insanity may 
be traced to the absence of some definite pur- 
pose in the mind, the result of early indul- 
gence, vicious education, and total neglect of 
the means to elicit and give strength to the 
powers of self-knowledge and self-possession. 
The understanding has been neglected, and 
the intellectual and moral powers are almost 
as dormant as they were in infancy, while the 
sensual organs, the love for the marvellous, 
and morbidity of feeling have been exercised, 
encouraged and developed in undue propor- 
tions. All the supposed marvels of mesmer- 
ism, electro-biology, &c, are referrible to laws 
of the mind, either in a healthy or a diseased 
state; and it is the general neglect of the study 
of the laws of mind which renders so large a 
portion of the community open to delusions of 



118 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

various kinds. If the laws of mind formed 
part of our education ; if we were taught not 
only how to use our minds but how to direct 
and develop them, we might all have logic 
enough in us at once to detect fallacies, and no 
system of education will be really worthy of the 
name, unless it embraces this important element. 
The misapprehensions in regard to table- 
turning, &c, arise from the false inferences and 
conclusions which most people draw from the 
observed facts ; instead of looking for an ex- 
planation of them from known laws, they 
either proceed to impute them to supernatural 
influence, or they allow them to float in their 
minds as inexplicable and notorious. Both 
these conditions of mind are disgraceful to the 
age in which we live, for they both testify to 
the feet that we so neglect the mind in our 
plans of education, that it must be either pre- 
judiced and morbid in its opinions, or it must 
sleep in the torpor of indifference or the uncer- 
tainty of scepticism. Let us endeavour to 
elicit the dormant powers of the human mind 
by introducing into the education of all our 
people as much information as we possess of 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 110 

the nature, the mode of action, and the rela- 
tions of the intellectual and moral powers ; let 
the elements of the science of mental develop- 
ment and evolution form part of an unrrersal 
system of education, and then there may be 
some hope of seeing the public mind less open 
to the impostures of quackery, the delusions 
of enthusiasm and prejudice, and the sophistry 
of falsehood, however plausible may be the 
language in which it is clothed. 

We now proceed to consider our second pro- 
position—how to repair and re-establish an 
unsound constitution. We will suppose that 
by birth, parentage, or education, a very un- 
sound state of health has been engendered — 
that from childhood upwards a feeble condition 
has existed; that, in youth, the usual games 
and exercises were not to be indulged in from 
this cause — that sedentary pleasures became 
the habit — that the bodily organs were in con- 
sequence badly developed; and that all the 
functions of digestion, respiration, and nutri- 
tion were imperfectly carried on. Under such 
circumstances, on reaching the age of matu- 
rity, a person would be always, more or. less, 



120 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

an invalid, suffering from indigestion, debility, 
nervousness, &c. In such cases, can the con- 
stitution be improved, and a fair amount of 
health established? In the large majority 
I have no hesitation in answering in the af- 
Urinative, if a steady and very persevering 
attention is paid to all the laws of health. 
But in weak constitutions, and in chronic dis- 
orders, no permanent good can be effected by 
carrying out a few rules for a few weeks; in 
all diseases of slow growth the means of cure 
must also be slow, and a constant undeviating 
attention to every known condition of sound 
health is absolutely imperative to such invalids. 
In attempting to repair a weak constitu- 
tion, there are three organs over which we 
have great control, and which, if we can place 
in a good condition, must establish a fair 
amount of health — the stomach, the skin, and 
the nervous system; these are the great inlets 
of disease, and by placing them in the most 
favorable circumstances for the proper per- 
formance of their functions, we may in time 
re-establish a high degree of health in almost 
Any constitution. 



fiEALTH AND DISEASE. 12t 

Many of the worst cases of stomach and 
nervous disorders owe their origin to the bar- 
barous practises of nurseries and schools; the 
system of governing by fear is the prolific 
source of nervousness, from the morbid sensi- 
bility of slight cases to the incipient insanity 
of others. How much of moral restraint and 
intellectual arrangement, which all find so 
essential to health and comfort in after-life, 
and which to attain costs us so much bitter 
experience, might be given to us in early life, 
by wise and well arranged tuition. How 
many weak stomachs might have been made 
strong ones, if all parents would be at the 
pains of acquiring some knowledge on this 
subject, before they are called upon to attend 
to so important a thing as the health and 
happiness of their offspring. Disorders of 
childhood, as well as disorders of mature life, 
are often induced, and always aggravated, by 
weak and depraved conditions of the diges- 
tive organs, engendered by inattention to 
quantity and quality of food. The grossest ig- 
norance is too often witnessed in the extraor- 
dinary things a delicate child is allowed to 



122 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

partake off ; indeed, is often prompted to take, 
by misapplied kindness, or the unthinking 
system of rewarding merit by stomach indul- 
gences. 

Disease not only originates in the stomach, 
but is aggravated by its cravings, and the in- 
judicious supplies granted to its supposed 
wants ; and as this organ is the vehicle through 
which we must direct most of our curative 
agents, it deserves to be attentively studied 
under all circumstances, both of health and of 
disease. There are many articles of food and 
of medicine, which act differently on different 
persons — things which may be in general use, 
disagree with some persons in any quantity; 
it is therefore the duty of every one to study 
the peculiarities of his own stomach, and thus 
to discover what agrees and what disagrees. If 
Cornaro's rule was then acted on — "to take in 
moderation what best agrees with us " — there 
would be little occasion for such inquiries as 
those we are now concerned in. If, by the 
study of our own constitution, we knew what 
to take and what to avoid, we might most of 
us, like Cornaro, live to enjoy a healthy, cheer T 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 123 

ful and happy old age. By keeping the 
stomach in health, we may put ourselves in a 
condition to resist the deranging influences of 
the most untoward state of the elements, for 
few catch mi ordinary cold when their diges- 
tive organs are in the best condition; the 
most essential elements of health depending 
mainly on a sound stomach and a healthy 
skin, and the latter will generally exist as a 
consequence of the former. 

We might almost say that every disease 
depends on the state of the stomach and di- 
gestive organs, but there are some especially 
that most obviously do so ; among them may 
be enumerated gout and rheumatism, which 
in many instances may be altogether pre- 
vented by acquiring an acquaintance with 
the principles of digestion and nutrition, and 
strictly acting on such knowledge. Most per* 
sons subject to these diseases are great gene- 
rators of acid; their stomach may be con* 
sidered a vinegar-cruet that is self-supplied ; 
many never wake in the morning without 
that sure test of an over-acid stomach, rough-* 
ness on grinding the teeth together.. Those 



124 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

who are in this way inconvenienced, might, 
by a. round of experiments on themselves, 
determine what to take and what to avoid ; 
and all invalids would be able by such know- 
ledge to defend themselves from many incur- 
sions of their enemy. To be acquainted with 
individual peculiarities, is of great value in 
adopting the remedies for the cure of any 
disease, and a medical man may be much 
assisted by the communication of such know- 
ledge. Even an incurable disease may for 
years be kept at bay, if the stomach and di- 
gestive organs can be maintained in good 
condition by the strict observance of such 
rules as have been found by experience to be 
best adapted for that purpose. Confirmed 
organic diseases are best treated by both 
patient and physician directing their chief 
attention to the organs of digestion. 

Whatever may be the future development 
of disease, the stomach is generally the first 
organ to be deranged, and obviously the one 
through which our remedies, both of diet and 
medicine, must be directed; and to acquire 
a full knowledge of its individual peculiari- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 125 

ties, should lie the first step towards adopt- 
ing a course of remedial means. It is easy 
to perceive that our remedies, if not appro- 
priate, may do as much, or more harm, than 
good. Consider the delicate structure of the 
internal coats of the stomach, and the work 
it has to perform in the conversion of food 
into blood ; its whole surface consists of a con- 
geries of most minute and almost imperceptible 
nerves, arteries, veins, and various tissues, 
adapted for secretion, digestion, and absorp- 
tion. When we reflect on all this, so far from 
complaining of its frequent disorders, it is 
most marvellous that it should so long resist 
our indiscretions. Let us only remember how 
we treat it ; the variety of pernicious things 
the best of us ask it to digest ; what a med- 
ley of heterogeneous matter we place in it 
during a single meal; what ingenuity in 
cookery to torture into every form, to com- 
bine in every possible variety, articles, which 
by themselves alone, we should never dream 
of oppressing our stomachs. This organ, from 
our earliest infancy, and in all classes of so- 
ciety, is at all times pampered with such an 



126 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

extraordinary Variety of materials, that its 
taste is almost always depraved; things which 
at first disgust it, we induce it by habit to 
enjoy ; until, instead of being our servant, and 
employed solely for the welfare of the rest of 
our body, it becomes our master, and urgently 
demands supplies * which may be very dele- 
terious to the well-wking of the rJof the 
animal economy. How soon are the simple 
tastes of childhood perverted: the stomach, in- 
stead of being the receptacle of wholesome 
food for the formation of healthy blood, be- 
comes the deposit of all sorts of trash that 
can excite any pleasurable feeling in itself or 
its caterer, the, organ of taste. The pleasure 
of enjoying the expression of a young infant 
induces us to create in it a taste for various 
things, which would be better delayed as long 
as possible. We make the reward of what 
we call a good child to consist of sweets, or 
things which please its sensuality. Not con- 
tent with this, many parents take infinite 
pains to teach, at as early a period as possible, 
a love for wine, beer, &c. ; and however dis- 
gusting they maybe at first, the extraordinary 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 127 

imitative powers of children very sOon im- 
parts to them a fondness for the same things 
which they observe their seniors to take and 
to enjoy. Hence many of the disorders of 
childhood. A stomach overburthened with 
too much food, or perverted by improper food, 
either has its powers impaired, or it converts 
all it receives into the element of blood, and 
sends into the current of the circulation de- 
praved fluid, the germ of many of the diseases 
of which an infant, however healthy at birth, 
may soon become the victim. 

An invalid ought to be scrupulously atten- 
tive to the kind of food introduced into the 
stomach — the simpler the better ; and in the 
case of young children, nothing but the very 
simplest articles should ever pass the portals 
of the mouth. When we reflect that the 
stomach is the receptacle for matter destined 
to be converted into blood — that the real ob- 
ject of its existence is to subject such things 
as are fit for the nourishment of the body 
to certain processes which altogether change 
their conditions ; when we reflect on what 
the blood is, and that the object of eating and 



128 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

drinking is to make blood, we must feel the 
great importance of studying how to supply 
the stomach with food that is best adapted for 
this purpose. 

Upon the health of the blood must depend 
the well-being of every part of us; every organ 
and every square inch in our body is interested 
in the condition of the blood; it requires, 
therefore, very little physiological knowledge 
to comprehend how a disease of the skin may 
result from bad food. Our mind itself, being 
in our present state of existence manifested 
through the organic matter of the brain, which 
is dependant on the state of the blood, may- 
be sound or unsound, in such degrees as are 
related to the sound or unsound results of the 
action of digestion; our very intellectual and 
moral powers therefore are advanced or re- 
tarded in their development by the way we 
treat our stomachs. As we manage the pri- 
mary source of all nutrition, so we prepare for 
all the organs and parts of our body the ele- 
ments of health, comfort, and happiness; or 
the reverse. If we supply only a proper 
amount of wholesome food, the general result 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 129 

will be a wholesome state of the blood, and 
vigour and health to the constitution. The 
food of children cannot be too simple; and 
when they are sound at birth, not inheriting 
ancestorial sins of the third or fourth genera- 
tion, they will resist the influence of much in- 
correct diet; but if by birth and parentage 
they do inherit disease in some shape, then it 
becomes imperative that we should be doubly 
vigilant, that the stomach is supplied with 
those things only which are essential to good 
nourishment. Here is the really important 
point in relation to health of mind and body : 
if we inherited from our parents a constitution 
sound in all its parts, what we ate and what 
we drank would be of little importance; but 
as there are few who do not inherit the germ 
of some disease* care in most cases is neces- 
sary, and when the inheritance is clear and 
distinct, then it is that the most rigid laws of 
health should be enforced from earliest in- 
fancy : for, by so doing, we may often rear a 
healthy tree from the branch of a diseased 
stock. Place an unhealthy child under the 
most favorable circumstances — attend carefully 



130 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

to every element of good health — let no igno- 
rant servant pamper him with trash — let him 
have nothing but food from which his stomach 
may alone extract the elements of healthy 
blood; continue such a system for a sufficient 
time, and you will convert a sickly infant into 
a sound and vigorous child. The same re- 
marks apply to all ages; if the constitution be 
good and the stomach powerful, it matters 
little what is administered to it — you may 
much exceed the bounds of reason — very con- 
siderable liberties may be taken without any 
permanent mischief ; but in a feeble constitu- 
tion, and a depraved condition of the digestive 
organs, if we would avert evils that oppress 
the body, and render the mind incapable of 
any true enjoyment of life, we must atten- 
tively study the power of our stomach, and 
only partake moderately of such things as are 
known to agree with it. Every stage and 
condition of dyspepsia may be counteracted, 
by learning the laws of health, so far as our 
individual self may be concerned, and then by 
resolutely adhering to them, always bearing in 
mind that there can be no general rules for 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 131 

diet.; every stomach having its peculiaritities, 
it must be individually studied. 

In attempting to answer the question, how 
to re-establish a unsound constitution? we 
should consider the stomach in all its rela- 
tions, in health and in disease, because it is 
necessarily the agent through which we must 
carry on our operations. All our means of 
curing disease can only operate on the system 
through the stomach or the skin, when it 
becomes necessary to introduce medicaments 
into the blood; if we can do so through the 
skin, it will generally be better than through 
the stomach, but our power of doing so is 
more limited, although it may be doubted 
whether this means of treating disease has 
been sufficiently attended to. In the admi- 
nistration of medicine, our object is to act lo- 
cally and directly on the stomach and bowels, 
or to introduce substances into the blood, some 
of which act on the constitution generally, 
and others specially on a particular organ. 
Now the last object can be fulfilled as well 
through the skin as through the stomach, 
with some medicinal substances, as mercury, 



132 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

sulphur, turpentine, &c. Baths, of course, act 
through the skin, and this may be illustrated 
to non-physiological minds, by the fact that 
thirst may be allayed by the fluid absorbed 
into the system from >an ordinary bath. The 
vessels of the skin absorb, as well as the 
vessels on the mucus surfaces of the intestines 
— in fact, the mucus surfaces are continua- 
tions, if not modifications, of the skin — the 
lips forming the intermediate junction of the 
two surfaces. When a new lip has been 
formed by the operation of separating skin 
from the under part of the chin, to supply 
what is deficient at the mouth, as the wound 
heals, the new parts which are in and round 
the mouth gradually assume the character of 
mucus membrane and lip. We have therefore 
access to the blood through the skin, and 
when it is objectionable to introduce medicine 
by the mouth, we may succeed in so doing 
by absorption from the surface. It is worse 
than folly to continue to put medicine into 
the stomach when it is in a state of irritability, 
or disturbed by the introduction of almost any 
article of food; under such circumstances, we 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 133 

should allow it total rest until its powers are 
restored. The skin then becomes a very use- 
ful auxiliary in the treatment of disease, as 
well as important in its direct influence on the 
health of other organs; for if the skin is in 
good condition, the constitution at large will 
generally be so: hence the importance of baths, 
friction, and exercise. 

But the stomach is the organ through which 
our principal means for bettering the condition 
of the general system must be administered, 
either in the way of food, drink, or medicine. 
Could we succeed in making the stomach do 
its duty properly, we should have little diffi- 
culty in curing disease ; therefore it is that a 
rigid system of diet and regimen may, by long 
perseverance, effect the cure of a disease with- 
out one grain of medicine being administered ; 
and it is thus that a case of cure under the 
Medicine Expectante or Homoeopathy now and 
then occurs. But the cure of disease by diet 
alone is rare, for several reasons ; — it is rare to 
have a patient with sufficient faith in it to per- 
severe long enough ; and in truth disease may 
be cured much quicker by the joint adminis- 



134 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

tration of diet, regimen, bathing, &c, combined 
with a judicious employment of proper medi- 
cine; That medicine is to be banished alto- 
gether from the treatment of disease is an idle 
dream which does not deserve a moment's at- 
tention, the beneficial influence of numerous 
drugs is established on too firm a basis; the 
reform wanted is only to employ them when 
really required ; and the safeguard the public 
have in this respect, is always to give their 
confidence to a man of judgment and integrity. 
I am quite sure we are running fast into the 
opposite danger of neglecting drugs too much; 
and all men who profess to cure disease with- 
out medicine, or with a Materia Medica which 
they can carry in their waistcoat pocket, are 
equally dangerous practitioners, pandering ra- 
ther to a mistaken view on the part of patients, 
or trying to curry favour by advocating some*- 
thing new and original " to take the ears of the 
groundlings," by appealing to that excessive 
love for the marvellous which leads mankind 
into all sorts of absurdities. 

Whatever may be the diseased part we have 
to treat, whether the disease be acute or chro- 



HEALTH AND DISEASJS. 135 

nic, the stomach either sympathises with the 
general derangement, or is itself disordered, 
and will require special attention. It not un- 
frequently happens, that in trying to relieve 
some other disease, the very treatment adopted 
deranges the functions of the stomach, as in the 
cure of nervous disorders by stimulants. Here 
we have a fruitful source of mischief: delicate, 
weak, or nervous people think they require a 
great deal of keeping up, and by constantly 
plying the stomach with food or stimulants, 
they induce some form of dyspepsia, and thus 
aggravate the original disease. The practice 
of always taking something into the st6mach 
for every morbid feeling of languor or faint* 
ness is quite wrong, for sooner or later disease 
of the coats of the stomach will be added to the 
original malady. Let any one consider what 
must be the immediate effect on an already 
irritated organ, of alcohol in its various forms 
of brandy^ whiskey, eau-de-Cologne, essence 
of ginger, &c, &c. Let any one examine the 
change effected by the preservation in spirit of 
any dead animal structure, and he will perceive 
that it is the life of the part that alone preserves 



136 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

it, and then only for a time, from these power- 
ful agents. The living principle in some degree 
protects the coats of the stomach from various 
unwise doings, but not altogether ; for, by the 
undue employment of stimulants, many ner- 
vous and other invalids seriously complicate 
their maladies with some form of indigestion, 
by an indiscriminate use of what are basely 
termed the good things of life, under the im- 
pression that by so doing they are keeping 
themselves up. Possibly they may require to 
be kept up, but this is not the way to do it ; 
on the contrary, it is often the very reverse of 
the right way, for by treating the stomach 
with more simple means, it might extract some 
good nutriment, while under the other system 
it extracts nothing but what is very bad. Ner- 
vous people of all others should endeavour to 
maintain the health of the stomach by great 
simplicity of diet, and by attending to the 
golden rule of taking in moderation such 
things only as they know wiD agree with 
them. 

Among the complications of disease most 
commonly met with, are what are called ner- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 137 

vous complaints, combined with deranged or 
diseased states of some or all of the digestive 
organs, and the two disorders act and react on 
each other to produce a multiplicity of mala- 
dies, so various, so numerous, so changeable, 
and so obstinate, as by their extreme mutabi- 
lity to justify the epithet Protean, which has 
been applied to them. 

Nervous disorders are the complaints, par 
excellence, of the largest number of valetudi- 
narians. It is very difficult to classify them, 
varying as they do with every individual and 
every shade of feeling or opinion — depending 
as they often do on the characteristic mind of 
each individual sufferer, they are as Protean in 
shape as is the human mind itself. Eveiy ner- 
vous affection is so modified by the bent and 
tendency of the mental and moral powers of 
the subject of it, that to understand it properly, 
we ought to be well acquainted with the indi- 
vidual mind of our patient, as well as the ge- 
neral laws of mind, which exert their influence 
on every form of disease. The influence of the 
mind in all disease, and more especially in ner- 
vous diseases, always should be closely in- 



188 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

spected. We cannot understand the true 
character of the various phases of nervous 
complaints, without having some knowledge 
of the principles of mental and moral science, 
and are able to take into account the combined 
effect of the manifold constituents of human 
character. Nervous people have always some 
morbid peculiarity of mental operation : they 
are sensitive to impressions which pass un- 
heeded by the more obtuse ; they exaggerate 
their feelings by their strong imaginative 
power ; they magnify the importance of their 
symptoms by endeavours to trace them to 
some vital organ ; they bring the powers and 
peculiarities of their mind into operation by 
thinking too much of themselves, and the 
symptoms and causes of their complaints. The 
modes of thought, the direction and habitual 
tendencies of the mind, modify the symptoms 
of nervous persons ; and as the mind may be 
frivolous, imbecile, superstitious, active or pas- 
sive, sensitive or torpid, so are nervous dis- 
orders modified ; for it is a great mistake to 
suppose these diseases to be always imaginary, 
or under the influence of the wilL All ner- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 139 

vous people are not malades irimginaires; 
whether we designate these diseases as hyste- 
rical, hypochondriacal, neuralgic, pr by any 
other vague term, they depend on some really 
morbid condition of the nervous system or brain, 
and are not the result of mere icieness, caprice, 
or weakness of mind. Unquestionably they 
occur most frequently among the idle classes, 
among those whose circumstances and condi- 
tion render work either of mind or body unne- 
cessary; but still they result from a morbid 
condition, and are not at the command of 
caprice, or low spirits, or ill temper, to be 
assumed whenever the patient wishes, as many 
people seem to think. Among the sufferers 
from this class of diseases there are people of 
every shade of mental power, and many have 
what are called strong minds. That there is 
in most cases no organic disease, no established 
mischief in the structure of any organ that en- 
dangers life, is generally true; but still the 
sufferings are real while they last, and disturb 
the functions of the individual part attacked, 
and, as a consequence, the whole constitution. 
But although no organic change has yet oo- 



140 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

curred, and although years may elapse before 
a purely nervous complaint shall establish a 
condition bad enough to endanger life, yet the 
sufferings are so great, and the number of per- 
sons who are more or less affected by nervous 
disorders constitute so large a class, that their 
causes and effects well deserve our studious at- 
tention. We know too little of the real nature 
of the matter constituting the nerves and brain, 
to be able to account for the various distressing 
complaints consequent on their deranged condi- 
tion ; but we have only to reflect on the won- 
derful powers and delicacy of structure of those 
organs, and we shall cease to be surprised at 
their frequent derangements. Examine the 
structure of the brain or nerves, and bear in 
mind what they have to do in the animal 
economy, what their office in every mental 
manifestion and every corporeal change, how- 
ever trifling, and their frequency of derange- 
ment may be in some measure comprehended. 

The functions of the nerves and brain are 
those especially connected with animal life, 
with sensibility, irritability, and muscular con- 
tractions, with instinct, sensation, and per- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 141 

ception, with knowledge, reason, and moral 
power. The vegetable world is endowed with 
powers analagous to the digestion, respiration, 
and circulation of the animal kingdom, but the 
addition of nervous matter is the essential 
characteristic of animal life ; and among those 
doubtful beings which connect vegetables and 
animals, and which even the powers of the 
microscope have failed in some instances to 
elucidate, if we can detect any nervous matter, 
it is at once evidence that we are dealing with 
an animal. In ascending the scale of animal 
life, the nervous matter becomes more and 
more distinct; in the lowest creatures in 
which nerves are detected, they are uncon- 
nected with any masses of nervous matter; 
we have only nerves, but as the animal func- 
tions increase in number and in power, we 
find, in addition to the nerves, small masses of 
a similar substance to that which constitutes 
the nervous filaments, into which the nerves 
pass, and we may consider that the greater 
the amount of these ganglia the greater is the 
complicity of animal life. The more regular 
the nervous distribution, the more the nerves 



142 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

themselves are assisted with the concentrated 
matter of ganglia, the more advanced are the 
instincts and the functions peculiar to animal 
life. The ganglia are masses of nervous sub- 
stance into which the nerves lose themselves, 
and from which other branches of nerves pass 
out ; they are found in all parts of the body, 
are of the same nature as brain, but are not 
entitled to this appellation until they are con- 
centrated into one mass in the head of the 
animal. The possession of a head does not 
prove the possession of a brain, for there is no 
true brain in insects or any animal below the 
rank of a fish. The brain is not a mere con- 
gregation, concentration, or development of 
the ganglia; it is a distinct addition of nervous 
substance added to the ganglia, and increasing 
in size as the functions of animal life increase 
in number and power. In the lowest of the 
fishes it is very small, gradually increasing in 
this class, being larger in reptiles, larger still 
in birds, increasing in the different classes of 
mammalia as they increase in intelligence, 
until it reaches its climax in man. Instincts, 
propensities, sensations, affections, are all con- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 143 

nected with nervous substance and dependant 
on nerves, ganglia, and brain, and ceteris pari- 
bus, the larger the brain the larger and more 
advanced are these functions and powers. No 
one can doubt the possession of intelligence 
and affection in the dog, and the more dis- 
tinguished a dog will be for these powers, the 
larger will be his head, the best bred and 
most instructible of the class being easily dis- 
tinguished by the roundness and compactness 
of its brain-case in comparison with the length 
and size of its snout and face. We find no- 
thing like affection and attachment in any 
creatures without a brain ; and we find the 
greatest amount of these powers in those ani- 
mals which have most brain ; the parrot among 
birds, the seal, and the dog, among quadru- 
peds. Love, fear, joy, grief, anger, and other 
affections and passions are manifested by dogs, 
and a certain amount of intellectual power 
must also be conceded to them, all bearing an 
evident relation to the amount of brain ; and 
some dogs are distinguished by another simi- 
larity to the mental and moral powers of man, 
in being subject to various nervous disorders, 



144 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

very similar to the same train of symptoms in 
their masters or mistresses. We may also con- 
elude that the greater the development of the 
nerves and brain, the greater is the tendency 
to that large class of complaints commonly 
called nervous. 

The larger the brain, the more is the amount 
of nervous substance to be disturbed ; and as 
the brain partakes of the law applicable to all 
other animal structures of increasing in size 
by employment and exercise, the more it be- 
comes developed by education and refinement, 
the greater is its liability to disease. Hence 
the greater increase of disorders of the brain 
and nerves as society advances in refinement, 
education, and purely intellectual occupations 
and pleasures. The affections and moral sen- 
timents are, in civilized life, of a higher order, 
and become more and more complicated with 
the general avocations of mankind in the pro- 
gress of the social state. The increase of com- 
petition in all pursuits, the necessity of consi- 
derable mental development and acquirement 
in all classes, the collision of mind against 
mind in political and religious disputes, the 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 145 

intense action of hope and fear, the viscissi- 
tudes of life, the precarious tenure of many 
occupations, one year giving a large and 
another a poor income, the difficulty of main- 
taining a family and retaining a certain po- 
sition, these and many other circumstances 
connected with modern life, demanding larger 
exertion of the intellectual powers, necessarily 
entail more frequent derangement of the brain 
and nervous system. All nervous disorders 
are connected with some deranged or morbid 
condition of the mind or the feelings, over- 
excitement or depression, or both; a debili- 
tated condition of the mental powers resulting 
from corporeal disease, diseases in the organs 
themselves, something implicating the brain 
and nervous system as the organs and agents 
by which the manifestations of intellect or 
feeling are in this state of our existence most 
closely and intimately connected, are the seats 
of that large class of diseases commonly called 
nervous. As we look to the organs of diges- 
tion for the seat of the various degrees and 
kinds of indigestion, so we must look to the 
organs of intellect, feeling, and moral power 



146 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

as the seats of the various degrees and kinds 
of nervous derangements. The brain and 
nervous system, are the organs from which 
emanate in this world, all intelligence, feeling, 
will, propensity, instinct, or other manifesta- 
tion of the mental or moral powers and all 
sensibility ; a long-continued excited, or de- 
pressed, state, or other morbid condition of 
these powers or feelings engender actual or- 
ganic disease of the brain and nervous system. 
But in their earliest stages, nervous com- 
plaints may be only functional derangements 
of their organs, and in this condition are much 
under our control 

In attempting to answer the question — 
" How should nervous diseases be cured?" we 
ought to be able to look at them in their 
moral aspect ; for, in their origin, they will 
generally be found to have a cause in some 
morbid condition of mind ; but to go into this 
subject would require a volume, and not a 
pamphlet, and therefore our observations must 
be very general. Nervous complaints often 
begin after some distressing event has ab- 
sorbed the mind of the patient, and diverted 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 147 

it from all ordinary occupations, A severe 
illness, or death of an object of affection — re- 
verse of fortune — inordinate indulgence in 
scenes of great pleasure and excitement — the 
depressing effect of being withdrawn from 
pleasing society to comparative solitude — the 
dissevering of ties of affection — the miscon- 
duct of a beloved relative; to these, and many 
other circumstances operating on the mind or 
feelings, may be traced the origin of many 
nervous affections. They are usually accom- 
panied with indigestion, so that it is often 
difficult to say whether the primary mischief 
was in the nervous or the digestive system, 
because all excited states of feeling at once 
put an end to appetite, render the taking of 
food irregular, if they do not prevent it alto- 
gether, and thus lay the foundation of that 
complication of nervous and stomach dis- 
orders, which constitute half the diseases of 
the civilized world, and are the opprobrium of 
medical science. Why they are so, Shakspeare 
told mankind long ago : — 

" Can'st thou not minister to a mind diseased, 
Pluck from the soul a rooted sorrow, 



148 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

Eaze out the ■written troubles of the brain, 
And, with some sweet oblivious antidote, 
Cleanse the foul bosom of that perilous stuff 
Which weighs upon the heart V 

There lies the secret of cure in all nervous 
diseases; if the patient cannot or will not 
minister unto himself, and aid the counsels of 
his physician by the power of his will, and the 
moral influence which God has implanted in 
every human mind for this very purpose, then 
can the physician alone do little. That our 
great business in this life is to instruct the 
mind and to temper the moral powers, has 
been taught by religion and philosophy in all 
ages; that the wisest and best of the Greek 
and Eoman philosophers saw this, through the 
obscure lights of their own days, is as certain 
as that such is the fundamental principle of 
the Christian religion. Both religion and 
philosophy teach us that the more we instruct 
the mind and temper the moral powers, the 
more clearly do we see, and the more convinc- 
ingly do we feel, that our real destination is 
not the mere enjoyment of the pleasures, or 
even of the learning, or the affections of this 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 149 

world, great as are such blessings, but that all 
true acquirement — all true development of our 
mental and moral powers can have no other 
object than to fit us for another and a more 
perfect condition. The anomalies that sur- 
round us can have no other rational explica- 
tion; calamities, disease, and death are the 
tutors of the mind of man, which lead him to 
reflect on his true condition, past, present, and 
future. God has given us mental and moral 
powers all-sufficient to rescue us from any 
degree of anxiety and distress, provided we 
have developed them, and know how to use 
them. Their development results from their 
education, their experience, their active em- 
ployment. When by such means they have 
been matured, they help us to reflections 
which are capable of counteracting the greatest 
evils this world can inflict on us: — 

" Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased ]" 

" No," says the physician, " therein the mind 
must minister unto itself" And here is the an- 
swerto our question — "How should nervous dis- 
eases be cured?" By ministering unto ourselves 



150 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

those consolations, under distress of mind, that 
religion and philosophy alone can help us to. 
Some may object to my employment of the 
term philosophy at all, and, in truth, I believe 
it is superfluous, for the philosophy of Socrates 
was as truly religion, as the religion of our 
highest minded Christians has been true phi- 
losophy. The terms are, in point of fact, syno- 
nymous, although, perhaps many classes, both 
of religionists and of so-called philosophers, 
would not admit the principle. However, 
such remarks do not apply to mere partizans 
or sectarians, either of religion or philosophy, 
but to those highest examples of both classes 
who have worshipped the same God, because 
they have both acquired the same knowledge of 
his attributes through the exercise and teach- 
ing of the same faculties which he has implant- 
ed in all human minds for the same purposes. 
All nervous diseases, from the primary in- 
fluence of excessive fear and disturbance at 
trifling or imaginary dangers, to the over- 
whelming influence of complete insanity, are 
disturbed or diseased states of the brain or 
nervous system. Probably a person having 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 151 

a well-regulated mind is not susceptible of 
nervous disorders; but this is a question I 
shall not enter on here ; neither shall I touch 
on those extreme cases of nervous disease 
where unmistakeable insanity exists. The 
nervous disorders we speak of, are those 'dis- 
turbances of mind and body, which, resulting 
from over-indulgence in melancholy feelings, 
or the anxiety of real distress, are still within 
the domain of a curative treatment, and which 
treatment must be applied to the moral causes 
and effects of the malady, as well as to the 
physical ones; It will be vain to apply phy- 
sical remedies alone while moral causes are 
still operating to keep up the disease. If the 
mind is incapable of ministering to itself, we 
must endeavour to minister to it, at the same 
time that we are combating the physical mis- 
chief by our curative material agents. Had 
we always in such cases well-informed, well- 
developed, and well-regulated minds to deal 
with, our task would be comparatively easy — 
but, alas ! such minds are, indeed, few and 
far between ; and, as I have before hinted, 
probably such minds are never troubled with 



152 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

such diseases, and at all events can minister 
unto themselves. The classes of minds we 
have to deal with in nervous disorders are 
too often of the very weakest kind, and the 
difficulty of ministering to them is propor- 
tionately great ; but there is a way of getting 
at the internal spirit and feelings of the most 
obtuse and most obdurate of human beings 
as well as the most sensitive. So beautifully 
has our Creator adapted the mental faculties 
to the comprehension of his works and wishes, 
that a mind properly tutored can always in- 
fluence the most ignorant, by wisely adapting 
the subject and manner of its teachings to 
the capabilities which the intellect and moral 
powers of his patient afford. Nothing can be 
more beautiful than the influence of a well- 
regulated mind when combined with charitable 
feeling and a just view of human nature, over 
the ignorant, and even over the most vicious 
of our fellow sufferers. There are redeeming 
points in all characters, and none can say what 
are the unseen, unexpressed, inward feelings 
and workings of any human soul ; the most 
untoward, and even the most brutal, have in 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 153 

all probability moments, when the inward 
spirit contemplates in secret long-neglected as- 
pirations of something better than its practi- 
cal doings would appear possible to a confined 
or prejudiced mind. It is at such moments 
that the wonderful influence of sympathy, 
from one mind to another, would always have 
powerful influence if actuated by pure motives ; 
it can just touch the dormant feeling in the 
right way, and arouse contemplations of some- 
thing better than has been the ordinary 
occupation of long -perverted feeling and 
misdirected intellect. 

A judicious combination of moral and phy- 
sical remedies is the proper answer to the 
question — "How should nervous diseases be 
cured?" In these cases there is always more 
or less of disorder in the organs of digestion, 
and the reaction of the one class of diseases 
on the other often increases the evils of both. 
Some absorbing interest of mind or feeling pre- 
vents persons taking their usual meals, or they 
take them at snatches, irregularly; and from 
the consequent languor, refresh themselves 
with more wine or other stimulants than they 



154 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

have been accustomed to. The continuance 
of this state of things for some days is certain 
to engender derangement of the digestive sys- 
tem ; there will be loss of appetite, discomfort 
from food when taken, sluggishness of the 
bowels — such symptoms accompanying depres- 
sion from overwork of mind or body, or from 
over-exertion, or over-excitement of the feel- 
ings, constitute the ordinary commencement 
of nervous complaints. These disorders take 
their subsequent character from individual 
peculiarities, and are very different as minds 
and tempers differ. Persons in robust health, 
and of well-attuned minds, minister unto 
themselves — battle against the storm; and 
when its violence has subsided, repair their 
damaged sails and rigging, and refit their 
vessel for the prosecution of its voyage, per- 
haps with weakened powers, but still sound 
enough to escape from ordinary dangers. A 
mental or moral shock, occurring to persons 
of indifferent health, or of weak reparative 
powers of mind or body, will leave traces 
more or less permanent, both of bodily and 
mental disorder for the rest of life ; and such 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 155 

are the persons who constitute that large class 
of invalids called "nervous." Among them 
we find an immeasurable variety in the feel- 
ings, the symptoms, the bearings of their dis- 
orders on different organs or parts of the body 
— they will have pains here, there, and every- 
where ; sometimes a pain in one side, some- 
times in the other ; now the lungs will be the 
apparent seat of the disease, then the spine or 
the liver, or the heart. Perhaps the head is the 
part most frequently referred to, and is, in real 
fact, the general seat of the disturbance, as is 
proved by the frequent termination of nervous 
disorders in epilepsy, or other diseased condi- 
tion of the nervous centres ; but the termina- 
tion of nervous complaints in fatal diseases is 
rare in their early stages ; they generally last 
for many years, and give more employment to 
regular and irregular medical practice than all 
other diseases put together. 

Distress of mind is far from being the prin- 
cipal source of nervousness : there are other 
conditions, both of mind and feeling, which 
engender this constitutional derangement : the 
morbid feeling of having exhausted all sources 



i 



156 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

of pleasure and enjoyment, of being used up, 
of ceasing to take an interest in passing events, 
or social meetings : viewing the world with too 
much distrust or suspicion : thinking that the 
finger of scorn, or the hand of malice, is always 
ready to seize its victims. Some nervous people 
cease to mingle with the world, because they 
think that the entire system of social life is 
under the guidance of the Spirit of Evil ; that 
all human knowledge, all the most glorious 
inventions of the human mind are the mere 
temptations of the Evil One ; that science, in 
all its agency, and especially such wonderful 
applications of it as railroads and steam ships, 
are but the evidence of the coming on of the 
Infidel Power predicted, as I was once told by 
a nervous invalid, " that ye shall be as Gods 
is the plea of Satan to the world now, as it 
was to our first mother. I am alarmed rather 
than interested in the wonderful development 
of man's intellect and power in the present 
day; and I shrink from association with my 
species, thankful that my disordered nerves 
oblige me to relinquish what is termed so- 
ciety/' In fact, irregular and morbid condi- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 157 

tions of mind are the food of many religious 
sects, and those who indulge in them rarely 
escape one or other form of nervous disorder. 
Perhaps it would be wise in all communities 
to have religious establishments, to which such 
persons could always retire : they are not bad 
enough for lunatic asylums, and they are too 
morbid to mix with the world without discom- 
fort to themselves and all who come in contact 
with them. What a relief it would be to many 
families, if those who love to indulge in mor- 
bid humours, who in their own esteem are too 
good to mingle in the affairs of this sinful 
world, could retire to a well-regulated estab- 
lishment, the entire business of which was con- 
templation of the future ; all such incarcera- 
tions being purely voluntary, for no lengthened 
or fixed term, but with the perfect understand- 
ing that the inmates could again join the world 
if they so desired. If every distinct religious 
sect had a place of this sort for the reception 
of its hypochondriacs, its incurably nervous 
members, its zealots, and other morbidly- 
minded persons, society would be relieved of 
many unfortunate individuals, who are the 



158 HEALTH AND DISEASE 

great support of medical quackery. This for- 
ther good might result from such establish- 
ments, that we might judge of the comparative 
value of the different sects and their different 
modes of directly influencing and reforming the 
mental operations, by the per centage they 
respectively sent back cured into society. We 
have instances of persons who have been in- 
mates of a lunatic asylum, voluntarily return- 
ing on the accession of fits of insanity. 1 have 
no doubt such would be the case in the estab- 
lishments recommended, which might deserve 
the name of "Havens for the Wretched. " 
Monasteries and nunneries, under well-regu- 
lated laws, and as much supervision as lunatic 
asyluni3, limited to the reception of- morbid 
minds at present disgusted with themselves 
and the world, subjecting such morbid minds 
to instruction and discipline, and permitting 
their inmates to rejoin society if they chose. 
Such institutions might be great blessings, and 
a great relief to our over-crowded lunatic asy- 
lums, by providing a home for many who are 
not really insane. 

The number of nervous valetudinarians is 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 159 

increased by the disappoiated-whether it be 
disappointment in pleasures, sensual or of the 
imagination, or in the rewards of literature, 
professions, or business. Excessive expecta- 
tions froin any condition of life, must be dis- 
appointed, whether we place the summum 
bonum in a round of absorbing pleasure, in 
obtaining a high position either in rank or in 
wealth, if our anticipations are excessive and 
unreasonable, disappointment and consequent 
vexation is the result, and this state of mind 
always engenders nervousness and dyspep- 
sia. We might arrange nervous invalids into 
several classes — there would be the great idle 
class, that army of people which have no real 
occupatiou, who, by their own good fortune or 
the exertions of their progenitors, are placed 
in a position to be free from the ordinary cares 
of life. Not having any strife with the world, 
not having to fight their way through rivals 
and competitors to competence, wealth, or dis- 
tinction, their minds are free from those anxie- 
ties which bear upon the mass in struggling to 
provide for themselves and families. Being 
released from the necessity of work, either of 



160 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

mind or body, if they do not adopt some vo- 
luntary and absorbing occupation, they have 
too much time to think about themselves. 
The human mind must be employed ; if it has 
no regular work it preys upon itself, dwells 
too much on its own feelings, devotes too 
much attention to itself and its present tene- 
ment the body, until every trifling disturb- 
ance of health is magnified into one of vital 
importance. Want of occupation for mind or 
body is the principal cause of nervous disor- 
ders, whether idleness results from competence, 
from indolence, or from vice ; whether a man is 
idle because he has no necessity, or because he 
does not choose to work, similar consequences 
follow. Work is the natural condition of man, 
and without it he must fall into a morbid 
state of mind or body, or both. It is a great 
mistake to pity the working classes because 
they are obliged to labour; on the contrary, 
if all classes could compare and analyse their 
pursuits and the results of them, it would 
be found that the working-classes have the 
fewest hours of unhappiness. I do not mean 
to assert that there are no nervous disorders 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 161 

among the working-classes, but when they do 
occur, their ravages are not so devastating, as 
the mind must necessarily be occupied in some 
routine and daily pursuit. 

The great speculative class feeds the ranks 
of the nervous ; the ups and downs, the con- 
tingencies, the fluctuations in value of all 
human commodities ; that lottery of life, the 
gaining of money by large dealings in articles 
which are always changing their money value, 
engenders a love of gambling which, in itself 
operates injuriously on the nervous system, 
but in some of its effects is destruction both to 
the mind and body. No man should enter 
the lists of the speculative class unless he has 
a mind that can look on calmly while a large 
fortune may be in jeopardy — when any turn of 
the scale may make a difference of hundreds or 
thousands ; this is an occupation only for the 
hard-headed and strong-willed, who can bear a 
severe blow without flinching. Unfortunately, 
men assume occupations not because they are 
suitable to them, but because circumstances 
place them in their way, and therefore many 
very unsuitable persons join the ranks of the 



162 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

speculative to the destruction of their nerves, 
their happiness, and too often of their mind. 
A man finds that a stock, a railway, or a com- 
modity which he holds largely, is falling in 
value. Shall he sell or not ? He cannot make 
up his mind, but watches the markets with 
absorbing anxiety, neglects his regular meals, 
and substitutes stimulants, until he loses his 
appetite ; passes sleepless nights, and disar- 
ranges both his digestive and nervous systems. 
This may go on for weeks or months, giving 
rise to various symptoms of derangement, 
sometimes in the head, sometimes in the sto- 
mach ; but the end often is that he becomes a 
valetudinarian for life, ever obliged to be doc- 
toring his nerves or his stomach. In some 
such cases in advanced life, or in persons dis- 
posed to brain diseases, the end is apoplexy, 
epilepsy, or other disease of the brain ; which, 
if it does not destroy life, leaves its victim a 
hopeless cripple or an imbecile. 

The literary class affords many examples 
of nervous diseases. All men know that the 
brain will only bear a certain amount of work 
consistent with health ; but absorbed in a sub- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 163 

ject that makes captive the imagination, the 
flight of time is unperceived, meals are neg- 
lected or taken hurriedly and without discri- 
mination. Such interruptions as eating or 
taking exercise, are not allowed to waste the 
precious moments of inspiration; sleep itself 
is countermanded and delayed so long, that 
weary as the mind may be, it cannot be re- 
freshed by "Nature's best restorer, balmy 
sleep/' Some of the noblest minds have been 
destroyed by over-work, and the annals of 
our universities and schools supply many vic- 
tims to nervous disorders among their com. 
petitors for honours. 



164 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 



PART III. 

ON LONGEVITY. 

No determinate limit can be assigned as the 
absolute duration of human life ; the great 
majority die before the age of 70 — one-half of 
the population of England die before the age 
of 20 — yet we have so many instances of hale 
and hearty people of 80 years and upwards 
that there is much reason to believe in the pos- 
sibility of a considerable extension of the dura- 
tion of life by a careful study of all the sources 
of health and of disease. The records of our 
Life Insurance offices corroborate the fact of 
the increased value of human life within the 
last century. The better educated part of our 
population are more attentive to the laws of 
health ; their habitations are more wholesome, 
their clothing more suitable to the season, and 
just ideas of the means of preserving health 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 165 

are more generally diffused Medical treat- 
ment is more simple, more efficacious, and more 
within the reach of all classes of the commu- 
nity. From these and other causes, there is no 
doubt that the average duration of human life 
has increased, and there is much reason to think 
that it may be still farther extended as a know- 
ledge of the means of preserving health and pre- 
venting disease is more practically applied. 

In attempting to sum up the qualities of 
mind and body which have proved favourable 

difficult to establish general conclusions — the 
examples which are recorded of longevity oc- 
cur among persons of such varied habits, that 
many at once conclude that it depends on 
original strength of constitution, and that a 
person so blessed may live as he pleases with- 
out disturbing his chances of longevity. The 
most practical mode of looking into this ques- 
tion would be, to collect numerous instances of 
long life, and see whether some general prin- 
ciples might not be found characteristic of all 
who have lived to a great age, and from which 
useful conclusions might be drawn. In all the 



^ 

i 



166 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

individual cases of great age within my own 
personal experience, I have observed a large 
possession of what is called common sense — a 
coolness of temperament which rarely allowed 
feeling or passion to govern— sometimes a 
positive absence of feeling or of affection, or at 
least of so utilitarian a kind that it could 
easily be shook off if necessary. They have 
been, generally, persons free from anxiety, 
either living in circumstances that exempted 
them from all possibility of worldly difficul- 
ties, or of a temperament so cool and collected, 
that happen what would, they might be disap- 
pointed, but never anxious — they look upon 
sickness and death as the common lot of men, 
and whether in their own persons or their 
dearest connections, they were rarely so com- 
pletely absorbed in anxiety as to be prevented 
from taking and digesting a sufficiency of food. 
With bodily constitutions that soon shook off 
disease, they were possessed of minds equally 
capable of shaking off anxiety. 

Equanimity of mind is an important ele- 
ipent towards longevity ; if it results from 
reflection and contemplation, from great know- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 167 

ledge and sound views of the past, the pre- 
sent, and the future, it is one of the most de- 
sirable of possessions, and would enable us to 
meet the storms of life with calm resignation, 
certain«that all present apparent evils will be 
rectified in some happy future. Such a condi- 
tion of mind, if joined with sound bodily 
health, will make longevity desirable, but in 
the majority of its examples, we see little to 
encourage the wish for great length of years ; 
beyond the period when health of mind and 
body ceases, and decrepitude becomes our 
lot, old age cannot be considered a blessing. 
Second childishness is, of all other conditions, 
the most lamentable ; the childishness of youth 
has all sorts of redeeming qualities, but the 
childishness of age not one; to live to be a 
helpless creature, dependant on others for every 
movement of our body, is a state of existence 
the very reverse of desirable. But as lon- 
gevity may be our lot, the possibility should 
act as an additional reason for taking care of our 
health. Seeing, as every one must, so many 
examples of long life which are by no means' 
enviable, we should do all that is in our power," 



168 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

if we do reach an advanced age, that it may 
not be accompanied with hopeless decrepitude. 
That we can all guard against every accident, 
and altogether prevent ourselves from being a 
burthen on our friends in infirmity and age, 
would be to assert what is daily contradicted 
by fact ; but that very much of the incapabili- 
ties of age may be prevented by regulating 
our miods and bodies by the laws of health is 
an equally unquestionable fact. I believe that 
wisdom and prudence will cut very short in- 
deed the period of decrepitude, and that the 
last stage of all 

" Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything," 

is a condition that will rarely occur, if we have 
guarded our health both of mind and body 
with proper care. We do occasionally see an 
example of green old age, where soundness of 
bodily constitution is accompanied with a mind 
stored with knowledge of men and things, and 
with all the advantages which long experience 
can confer on an observant, a reflective, and 
contemplative mind. Such a mind has long 
been satisfied that in this state of existence 
men must agree to differ; that the various 



HEALTH AND DISEASR 169 

faculties and feelings which in the aggregate 
constitute the soul, exist in such different pro- 
portions, that it is next to impossible that any 
two should be able to agree on all things ; and 
there is no one result of long life and experi- 
ence more to be desired than the knowledge 
that there are vast numbers who, though dis- 
agreeing in present opinion, are all equally in 
search of Truth. In such inquiries and con- 
templations as must occupy all searchers after 
Truth, in the boundless inquiry with our 
limited human powers, there must be various 
stages where the mind will be as it were in a 
state of transition from one set of opinions to 
another; for to assert that a wise man forms 
his opinions in early life, and never changes 
them, is to assert that the human mind is not 
progressive in the acquisition of knowledge 
and reflective power. The longest life is in- 
sufficient to learn all that is known on any of 
the advanced sciences ; and as most men have 
occupations which necessarily employ much of 
their time, there can be but few thoroughly 
and completely informed even on one exten- 
sive science. All who have devoted their mind 



170 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

to inquiry, and have become authorities in any 
literary or scientific department, will admit the 
progressive nature of their knowledge, and that 
their opinions at various stages of life have 
been much modified, if not entirely changed 
In all minds there must have been transitional 
states resulting from different degrees of know, 
ledge, and therefore what may have been our 
opinions in former days, will differ materially 
from those which, in a more advanced state of 
our judgment, we have adopted. 

Surely this should teach us that, however 
opposite may be the opinions of men, that 
they should live in harmony, seeing that no 
two minds can be of the same shape, or ex- 
actly in the same condition ; therefore as it is 
impossible they can think exactly alike, they 
should agree to differ, and to be charitable one 
to another, as being all on their travel to the 
land of Truth ; but having different instru- 
ments and different powers, they must all be 
at different stages of the same journey. 

It would appear that at all times within the 
range of authentic history, the duration of life 
has not materially differed from what it is at 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 171 

present. In all times, and in most countries, 
at least in Europe, an individual has occasion- 
ally outlived a century. Great Britain, Swe- 
den, and Denmark, can boast of the largest 
ratio of centenarians ; and a moderately cold, 
together with a moist climate, seems to be 
fitvorable to longevity. There exists a record 
of the ages of old people, which, if authentic, 
would shew that the numbers of those who 
exceeded 100 years, was in somewhat larger 
proportion than at present. In the reign of 
Vespasian, the 77th year of our era, a census 
was taken of the inhabitants of Italy. In that 
part of the country which lies between the 
Apennines and the River Po, the record gives 
the number of 124 who had attained the age 
of 100 years and upwards : there were 54 of 
100, 57 of 110, 2 of 125, 4 of 130, and 7 from 
135 to 140. In all probability the whole of 
Italy would not now produce so many old 
people* There is no doubt that the climate 
was much colder in the time of the old Ro- 
mans, and this may have been the principal 
cause of their greater longevity. 
Exclusive residence in large cities is opposed 



172 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

to longevity, more especially when they are 
closely built, badly ventilated and drained, and 
lying in low alluvial soil, hardly raised above 
the bed of a neighbouring river. But in those 
parts of a great city which are well drained, 
and where many open spaces exist for free 
ventilation, people live to as great age as in 
the country, if they attend to dietetics and are 
moderate in all things. The great mortality of 
cities more especially applies to children, who 
labour under great disadvantages, requiring as 
they do better provision for air and exercise 
than adults; it is almost impossible they can 
have in large towns as much as is desirable ; but 
adults of sound constitution, where sanitary 
laws are publicly and privately carried out, 
may live as long in a great city as in a country 
district. In the London workhouses there 
have been some very old people. I remember 
a woman upwards of 106 in St. Margaret's 
workhouse, and among the catalogue of cen- 
tenarians given in the subsequent pages, will be 
found many inhabitants of towns. 

The Bills of Mortality are fallacious in regard 
to the number of deaths in large towns, and 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 173 

especially capital cities, to which invalids from 
all parts resort, for the sake of medical advice : 
this and other circumstances, will increase the 
number of deaths in the city, and to the same 
extent diminish those of the country. To these 
may be added the large number of immigrants 
of large cities, who kill themselves by intem- 
perance and the seductive pleasures of such 
places; as well as those who destroy them- 
selves by hard work, and the anxieties of the 
adventurous life they have selected. If the 
number of the deaths in cities be analysed, we 
shall find there is an undue proportion of chil- 
dren under five years, who are cut off prema- 
turely by neglect, ignorance, mismanagement, 
want of good air, and other disadvantages 
which are so destructive to young children in 
close and confined places. To arrive at just 
conclusions, we must not calculate the differ- 
ence in the total number of deaths : for ex- 
ample, the present average is, in London, 1 in 
40 ; in all England, 1 in 45 ; in Northumber- 
land, 1 in 72. We should first compare the 
numbers who die before the age of five and 
after that age. 



174 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

In Liverpool one-half of those born die be- 
fore they reach the age of five; in Manchester 
and in Birmingham, nearly as many; in Lon- 
don, one-half live to the age of 20. We 
must also remember that, in all such places 
as Northumberland, the most adventurous, and 
therefore those most likely to die early, emi- 
grate and swell the deaths of large towns; 
while the passive, easy, and contented souls 
continue to vegetate in their country districts, 
and thus diminish the statistical numbers of 
local deaths, without proving a greater degree 
of longevity. 

In the Metropolis 893 out of 1,000 die be- 
fore the age of 70; in the year 1839 the num- 
ber of deaths above 70 was 107. In Liverpool 
the proportion was 947 to 1,000, and the 
number of deaths above 70 was only 53; 
while in Cumberland and Westmoreland, only 
797 died before 70, and 203 after that age. In 
Liverpool, 53 ; in Westmoreland, 203, lived be- 
yond 70; these are the extremes of health and 
disease, according to the Registrar-General's 
report for 1840. In London, during the same 
year, 107 lived beyond 70. These facts illus- 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 175 

trate the power we possess on health and on 
disease, and the extension of sanatory mea- 
sures to our towns has already much increased 
the value of human life. 

It is very questionable whether a purely 
natural life, as that of a shepherd, is the most 
conducive to longevity, and whether some ad- 
mixture of art does not promote long life. In 
all civilised countries the life of man must be 
artificial, and if art be properly applied to the 
promotion of health, we may gain more by the 
wise application of experience to the welfare 
both of mind and body in a large city, than is 
afforded by the chances of longevity in a 
country district, unless it be among the most 
favoured. The real truth is that long life, 
under all circumstances, depends on the mode- 
ration with which we indulge our appetites 
and passions; and whether we live in town 
or country, we cannot enjoy health unless 
we live in a simple and rational manner with 
regard to diet and regimen. 

Long life appears to depend as much on the 
mind as on the body. In most instances of 
longevity, we find well-balanced minds and 



176 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

moderate passions added to sound bodily con- 
stitutions, and many of the wisest of men 
have been the longest livers. Wisdom must, 
as a general rule, be productive of length of 
days, because it will lead us to live the kind 
of life most congenial with health of body, and 
a truly healthy mind can hardly be concomi- 
tant with a valetudinarian existence. Common 
sense is often an inheritance, and but another 
name for wisdom; and among the healthiest 
of uneducated people, the majority will be 
found to be so gifted. Among the circum- 
stances favourable to longevity, we may enu- 
merate — equanimity of mind, moderate pas- 
sions, simplicity of taste for the pleasures, both 
of body and of mind, leading to the enjoyment 
of the gjfts of Nature, rather that the excite- 
ments of art. Regularity and order in all our 
proceedings, mental and bodily, is very neces- 
sary to health and longevity. A due amount 
of sleep, a due amount of food taken at regular 
times, a due amount of exercise to regulate 
our secretions and excretions, without which 
neither our lungs nor our skin can be subser- 
vient to sound health, nor can the absorption 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 177 

of worn-out materials, their combination with 
oxygen, and expulsion from the system go on 
with due effect without a certain amount of 
muscular contractions. Regular mental opera* 
tions are equally necessary; every mind should 
have some special pursuit, some resource as 
an object of inquiry and of reflection Nature 
has endowed us with a special faculty for 
looking into the ftiture, which is all-sufficient 
for this purpose, because, if exercised, it must 
lead to inquiry sufficient to occupy all our 
vacant hours. What is the nature of our being 
and our spirit? What is our mind; whence 
its origin; whither its destination, its powers, 
its desires, its hopes, its apprehensions ? What 
the purpose of our existence, and the ^true 
way of employing it? If we occupy our mind 
in such investigations, restrain our appetites 
and passions, look upon the events of life with 
equanimity, and take ordinary care with re- 
gard to dietetics, we may almost ensure health 
and longevity. 

All extremes are unfavourable to longevity; 
great powers of mind or body, great positions 
in rank, wealth, or science, do not supply a 



178 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

greater average of length of years than their 
opposites of mental weakness and great po- 
verty. Mediocrity appears more favourable, 
whether of condition, climate, temperament, 
or general constitution. Qreat natural gifts, 
either of mind or of person, even great strength 
of constitution and vigorous bodily powers 
may be impediments to the prolongation of 
life, by leading their possessors to employ their 
faculties with such intensity as to wear them 
out rapidly. May not this be the cause of 
the comparatively early death of poets, and 
especially those in whom imagination has been 
the most ardent. 

Climate, air, and exercise, are most import* 
ant elements towards longevity. In the first 
half of life we can hardly take too much exer- 
cise; while, in the latter half? it is much less 
necessary to our well-being. Idleness is un- 
favourable to longevity; a regular and not 
disagreeable occupation, which obliges us to 
spend some hours daily in business of some 
kind, on the other hand, is favourable. Peace 
of mind, cheerfulness, and consistency in our 
views of life are very desirable, and these will 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 179 

materially depend on the opinions we hold on 
the objects and duties of life. Is life a per- 
petual struggle, a vale of woe, a place of dis- 
appointment and trial? Should it not be 
looked upon as a condition for continued hope 
and continual mental development, by reflec- 
tion on our own thoughts and those of others. 
Surely the gift of life should of itself be re- 
garded as the greatest of blessings, that the 
gift is coupled with the means of great enjoy- 
ment — that, in fact, enjoyment is the rule, dis-> 
appointment and vexation the exceptions, 
and most frequently the result of our own 
want of judgment. Evil appears necessary to 
induce us to reflect on our present condition 
as one, not of unmixed happiness, but rather 
a transitional state — an educational prepara- 
tory stage to some more advanced condition 
of existence. Our present life must have con- 
stant reference to a future. To attain lon- 
gevity, and to enjoy it, we must not be afraid 
of calamity; we must habituate ourselves to 
contemplate death itself as an event which 
must occur in the ordinary course of things. 
The love of life is not inconsistent with a con- 



180 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

stant view of the possibility of death Fear is 
said to be a base passion, beneath the dignity 
of man. There is nothing of which a wise 
and consistent man need be afraid, death itself 
being looked upon as a mere change — a neces- 
sary passage from one condition to another, 
under the laws of a Being of perfect goodness 
and justice. Were we consistent in our belief 
of the Supreme — had we such perfect reliance 
on the absolute wisdom and benevolence of 
His government, as a proper and attainable 
knowledge would give us, we should hardly 
know what fear was; for, however apparently 
malevolent was our fortune in this world, 
however untoward our circumstances, how- 
ever lamentable the separation of our dearest 
attachments, however lonely and desolate we 
may be left by the death of those who, for a 
series of years, may have made existence one 
continuous enjoyment; be our calamities 
what they may, if our faith be stedfast, we 
must conclude that our suffering can be on]y 
temporary, and in comparison with the fu- 
ture, a mere point in time unworthy of the 
sacrifice of our equanimity. 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 181 

Mental anxiety, inordinate ambition, dis- 
appointments, are all causes of early death; 
but all are dependent on ill-developed and 
ill-directed mental powers — the want of spiri- 
tual discipline, placing too high a value on 
temporal things; the non-tutoring of the mind, 
to meet the evils inseparable from the very 
purposes of our temporary existence on the 
earth. The whole of life may be considered as 
a series of experiences for the tuition of our 
intellectual and moral powers, more or less 
progressive, as we employ our existence, more 
or less, in a right direction, for the health and 
welfare of our souls as well as our bodies. 

Although experience shews that persons ot 
all conditions of life, and of great variety of 
habit, attain old age, yet there are circum- 
stances which promote longevity, and some 
general conclusions may be arrived at. Cli- 
mate is a very important element. Although 
many instances may be adduced in hot lati- 
tudes, they are few compared with the num- 
bers of long livers in colder climates ; and, in 
most instances, although the situation may be 
tropical, the land is high and mountainous, as 



182 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

in Jamaica and Peru, where the inhabitants 
live to very great age. There are more very 
old people in Scotland than in England Nor- 
way and Sweden afford numerous examples; 
but Russia in the present day exhibit^ a longer 
list of centenarians than any other country. 
May not the spare diet of these northern and 
poor countries have something to do with lon- 
gevity? It is also a question, whether the 
records of the great age of many in our own 
country during former years, and those in the 
Russian empire at the present, may not be 
fabulous. Since the establishment of the Re- 
gistrar-General's Office, during six years, 1839 
to 1844, I find 689 deaths above the age of 
100, of which only one exceeded 110. 

Among the circumstances favourable to Ion* 
gevity, we may consider the establishment of 
a strong constitution first and foremost ; and 
unless this is accomplished in youth and early 
life, it is difficult afterwards, but nevertheless 
it is not impossible ; and Cornaro is a remark- 
able instance of success in re-establishing vigor* 
ous health and long life, after seriously injuring 
his constitution by irregularities and excesses 



HEALTH AND DISEASE.: 183 

carried beyond youth into middle life. Those 
who desire the enjoyment of a vigorous old 
agfe, should neglect none of the appliances of 
health ; and it is, a great mistake to suppose 
that attention to such rules deprives one of the 
pleasures of society, rational indulgence of the 
good things of life being perfectly consistent 
with health and longevity. . To eat and drink 
to repletion daily; a continuous uninterrupted 
indulgence of a large dinner every day of the 
week, is incompatible either with health or 
long life ; those who cannot be every day mo-* 
derate, should adopt the rule of an occasional 
abstinence, one^or two spare days every week, 
for moderation in eating and drinking is the 
most essential element of health. 

The most healthy old people have been early 
risers. It is a good rul4 to get up as soon as 
we are fairly awake, at a reasonable hour, say 
six or seven o'clock, and habit soon enables us 
to sleep pretty regularly up to the right time. 
As soon as w$ are out of bed, some modifica- 
tion of cold bathing should be adopted— a wet 
towel or sponge rubbed all over the skin, Or a 
large sponge of water squeezed over every part, 



184 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

or a shower-bath, or complete immersion in 
cold water, as may be most convenient, most 
agreeable, or most useful according to experi- 
ence, and most fitting according to the season 
of the year. Some persons cannot use the cold- 
bath in its more intense forms, when the milder 
modification of a wet towel will be more pro- 
per, or the water may be made tepid. After 
ablution, a quarter of an hour should be spent 
in friction to eveiy part of the body, with 
horse-hair band and gloves. This answers two 
good purposes : it rubs away the worn out 
superficies of the skin, and excites action and 
warmth by the exercise. There is no one 
circumstance which tends more to establish 
soundness of the constitution than most mi- 
nute attention to the cleanliness of the general 
surface of the whole body ; every part of the 
skin should be washed and rubbed daily, win- 
ter and summer. 

Every body ought to know that the secre- 
tions of the skin, and the glands of the folds 
of the skin, as the arm-pits,&c, excrete matters 
which if not removed, become offensive and 
injurious to health. There is every reason to 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 185 

believe that the skin by these secretions is a 
most important organ in depurating the blood 
of worn-out matter, which, if it remained in 
the circulating fluid, would be destructive to 
life itself; but by being allowed to remain on 
the skin, or in its folds, is injurious not only 
to the skin but to the general health. A man 
may be guilty of many things inimical to per- 
fect health if he will take great care of his 
skin by frequent changes of linen, ablution, 
and friction; much irregularity, overfeeding, 
and the ill effects of too much wine, are in a- 
great degree counteracted by cold bathing. 
Persons who are really too delicate for a cold 
bath, or cold water in any form, must use 
warm baths or tepid water ; and many very 
delicate people will find their health vastly 
improved by daily ablution with tepid water, 
succeeded by friction with coarse flannel or 
linen gloves, if the horse-hair are too rough. 
Persons who do not use daily ablutions should 
at least take a warm bath once or twice a- 
week; to maintain the purity of the whole of 
the skin, oovered or uncovered, ought to be as 
positive a duty as to wear clean linen; we 



186 HEALTH AND DI&EASE. 

owe the one, as well as the other, as a claim 
of society, and a maintenance of the decen- 
cies of life. Now that warm baths can be 
had for a few pence,, there can be no excuse 
for any person whatever going about the 
world with an unpurified skin. 

Among the more important circumstances 
conducive to longevity may be reckoned regu- 
larity in the intestinal function ; the healthy 
action of the bowels should be natural, 
habitual, and not dependent on medicine. 
The frequent repetition of purgative medi- 
cine is a very pernicious custom, and engen- 
ders disease in those organs, which is very 
frequently the indirect cause of frequent ill- 
ness and early death. It is no uncommon 
thing to meet with cases of obstruction in the 
bowels attended with great local pain, which 
is sometimes referred to inflammation, of 
which no trace is found after death. In some 
of these cases the only appearance of disease 
that can be discovered, is a distended state of 
the bowel, which has been imputed to para* 
lysis of the muscular coat, induced by the 
practice of taking frequent purgatives; for it 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 187 

is usually found in such bases that the patient 
had been in the habit of taking antibilkms 
or other aperients, two, three, and four tunes 
every week. Some persons think that if they 
clear away superfluities of food by frequent 
purging, they may continue to indulge in the 
habit of feeding largely; this is a very perni- 
cious doctrine, and an additional reason for 
moderate eating should be, to avoid the neces- 
sity of taking aperient medicine, the* constant 
repetition of which induces torpor and in- 
activity of the bowels, aid ultimately in many 
cases total parfelyBis of th£ muscular coat. 

Of 145 persons recorded to have died at 
the age of 120 years and upwards, more than 
half were inhabitants of Great Britain ; 63 in 
England and Wales, 23 in Scotland, and 29 in 
Ireland. The majority of centenarians are of 
middle stature, or rather below ; but we have 
a record of James McDonald, of Cork, who 
was 11 7, and measured 7ft. 6in. Mary Jones, 
of Wem, Shropshire, died at 100; was only 
2ft. 8in., very deformed and lame. 

The Chinese erect triumphal or honorary 
arches to those who exceed 100 years, con- 



188 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

sidering it a proof of a sober, temperate, and 
virtuous life. Temperance is the best security 
for health ; the few instances of persons of 
licentious habits who attain a great age are 
mere exceptions in comparison with the mul- 
titudes who are destroyed by them Dr. Fo- 
thergill says, "The due regulation of the pas- 
sions contribute more to health and longevity, 
than any of the other points of regimen/' 
More persons of cheerful and contented dis- 
positions enjoy health and longevity than 
those of irritable or fretful tempers. What- 
ever promotes good humour and hilarity must 
have a beneficial effect on health ; and it has 
been observed that many eminent musicians 
have attained to great age. Handel was 80. 

The medical art among the Greeks was 
somewhat different to our modern systems ; 
the prevention of disease being as much or 
more the object of its professors. Hippocrates 
taught that the art of prolonging life was to 
breathe pure and free air, frequent bathing, 
and friction of the skin, and moderation in all 
things. Plutarch says, " keep your head cool 
and your feet warm; instead of taking medi- 



Stealth and disease. 189 

cine for every ailment, fast a day, and while 
attending to the body neglect not the mind." 
Health, among the Greeks, appears to have 
been studied, while among modern physicians 
diseases and their remedies have been more 
especially attended to. The art of medicine 
among the Greeks, consisting of the appliances 
of diet, bathing, and regimen rather than of 
drugs : they studied and taught in the open 
air, we shut ourselves up in closets until the 
feeling of any air, but of the mildest character, 
becomes unpleasant to us, and then complain 
of the just consequences of our unnatural 
habits. Those who stir out only in fine wea- 
ther, must be more or less invalids : frequent 
changes from art to nature are necessary to 
maintain the true harmony of our powers both 
of mind and body. Just and true thinking, as 
well as bodily health, will be promoted by 
country excursions ; frequent views of Nature 
will modify those theories and visions which 
mystify the minds of eternal dweUers in towns. 
The Greek philosophers probably owed much 
of the clearness of thought, appositeness in 
their logic, and force in their reasonings, to 



190 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

their more open air life, their attention to the 
vigour, both of mind and body, by regimen 
and exercise, and possibly in some degree to 
the contemplative habits induced by their inti- 
macy with the scenes of wild Nature which 
their magnificent country afforded. 

A philosophical mind, interested in the study 
of Nature and the search after truth, besides 
affording the purest of human enjoyments, ap- 
pears to have a tendency to promote longevity ; 
Plato was 81, Newton 85, Kant 80, Halley 86, 
Galileo 78, Buffon 8 1 , Herschell 84, Franklin 84, 
Morgagni 89, Hans Sloane 93. The majority 
of great poets have died at a comparatively 
early age, Tasso was 51, Virgil 52, Shakspeare 
62, Dante 56, Ovid and Horace 57. Milton 
lived to be 66, and Dryden 70. Of great 
modern poets the most imaginative have died 
young — Keats, Burns, Chatterton, Byron, &c, 
while some who have combined philosophy 
with literature, have reached longevity: — 
Goethe was 82, Voltaire 85, Corneille 78, 
Young 80, Wordsworth 80, Fontenelle 100. 
Some celebrated painters have reached a great 
age—Claude 82, West 82, M. Angelo 96, Titian 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 191 

96. Kings and emperors have not furnished 
many instances of very great age — Augustus 
lived to 76 ; he was moderate in sensual en- 
joyments, simple and abstemious in his habits, 
taking little wine, although fond of society. 
He is said to have thus expressed himself 
shortly before his death: — "Applaud, my 
friends, the farce is ended." During a severe 
illness, cold bathing was employed as a re- 
medy, and this practice being continued with 
a beneficial change in his mode of living con- 
tributed to his advanced age. 

Tiberius died at 78 ; although of a brutal tem- 
per, and a voluptuary, he was not inattentive 
to health. Augustus called him, " Vvr lentis 
MaxiMs" because he was slow in eating, and 
probably also, alluding to his indifference as 
regards the mere pleasure of eating. Tiberius 
used to say, that a man was a fool who, after 
the age of 30, consulted physicians on diete- 
tics, because all who were not fools would be- 
fore that time have discovered what agreed 
and what disagreed with them. 

Frederick the Great lived to the age of 76, 
although much exposed to danger, fatigue, and 



192 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

anxiety; but he was moderate in the enjoy- 
ments of the table, possessed of great equani- 
mity, and of a philosophic mind, undisturbed 
by reverses, destitute of all fear, and very 
liberal in his opinions. He paid some atten- 
tion to the laws of health, and is reported to 
have said, "When I consider the physical 
structure of man, it would appear that nature 
had formed us rather to be postillions than 
sedentary men of letters. " His magnanimity 
was greater than has been often evinced by 
monarchs. On one occasion, riding through 
Berlin, he saw a crowd reading something 
against a wall. " What is it ?" said the king. 
One of his attendants replied, " It is a libel on 
your majesty/' " Have it placed lower/' said 
the king, " that the people may read it more 
easily/' George III., of England, was one of 
the greatest examples of longevity among 
monarchs; and all the world knows the sim- 
plicity of his habits of living and his practice 
of taking much exercise in the open air. Of 
the Roman and German emperors, in number 
above 200, only four reached the age of 80. 
In the Library of the College of Surgeons, 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 193 

London, there is a very curious record of 
cases of longevity, in a volume compiled by 
Mr. Easton, of Salisbury. It consists of a 
catalogue of 1712 persons who attained a cen- 
tury and upwards : for some of the cases he 
gives his authority, and we may admit a large 
number as authentic. Old Parr and H. Jen- 
kins are well-known cases of long-life; but 
Mr. Easton gives many others of 130 to 150 
and upwards. We have also records up to 
the present time in the Russian empire, of 
several deaths annually from 130 to 160 years. 
Probably in all these instances we must allow 
something for exaggeration and the love of 
the marvellous. In the authentic records of 
our Registrar-General, I find but one instance 
of death exceeding 110, and those from 100 
to 110 vary from about 120 to 140 annually. 
However, I must admit that there is authority 
for more cases of very old age than I had be- 
lieved before I looked into the subject ; and 
I think we are warranted in upholding the 
opinion of Hufeland, in the last century, that 
human life is capable of extension beyond its 
supposed and ordinary duration by attention 



194 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

to the laws of health. Hufeland places the 
period of our possible existence at 200 years. 

This volume on longevity by Mr. Easton is 
continued in manuscript by Dr. A. P. Buchan, 
physician to the Westminster Hospital, a man 
whose memory will be respected by all who 
knew him. Long before clinical lectures 
formed a part of medical education, I have 
heard from him observations on the diagnosis 
and treatment of disease, that would have 
done him credit even at the present time. 
He was the son of the author of Buchan's 
" Domestic Medicine/' For the following se- 
lection of cases of longevity up to the year 
1799, my authority is Mr. Easton ; after that 
date it is that of Dr. Buchan, who generally 
gives the name of the journal or person from 
whom he obtained his information. After 
1838 we have the authentic documents of the 
Registrar-General for our authority. 

Up to the year 1760, Mr. Easton records 
380 persons who lived from 100 to 110 years ; 
48 from 110 to 120; 43 from 120 to 130; 13 
from 130 to 140 ; 9 upwards of 1 40. The fol- 
lowing are some of the more remarkable : — 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 195 

A.D. 95. — Appolonius, of Tyana, died at the 
age of 130. He was a Pythagorean philo- 
sopher. At 16 he adopted very strict rules, 
renouncing wine, and all sorts of flesh. He 
lived in the temple of Escalapius, and is said 
to have performed many miraculous cures, 
which were instanced by the Pagans as equal 
to those of our Saviour. 

A.D. 491, — St. Patrick, the first Irish bishop, 
died at the age of 1 22. 

A.D. 500. — Attila, King of the Huns, is said at 
the age of 124 to have married for his second 
wife one of the most beautiful princesses of 
Europe. About the same time died at the 
age of 150, Lywarch -Hen, a Welsh bard, a 
contemporary of King Arthur. He had 24 
sons killed in resisting the Saxons. An Elegy 
on Old Age, and his sons' deaths, is said to be 
still remaining. 

In 1612 died the Countess of Desmond, aged 
145. On the ruin of the house of Desmond, 
she was obliged, at the great age of 140, to 
travel from Bristol to London to solicit aid 
from the Court, being reduced to poverty. 
Lord Bacon says, she renewed her teeth two 



196 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

or three times, and retained her vigour to the 
last. There is a portrait of her in Windsor 
Castle. 

Cornaro is a remarkable instance of what 
can be effected by a persevering regimen. He 
lived to the age of 98, after having, by a dis- 
sipated youth, brought himself at the age of 
40 to such a state of health that his life was 
despaired of He had long been under medi- 
cal treatment, when he resolved to relinquish 
the use of medicine altogether, and put him- 
self under a rigid system of spare diet He 
limited himself to 12ozs. solid food, and 14ozs. 
of fluid daily ; his health began to improve, 
and under this regimen, in a few years, his 
vigour was entirely restored. He avoided all 
extremes of heat and cold ; entirely repudi- 
ated all passion and excitement; preserved 
his equanimity of mind under all circum- 
stances ; even a tedious law-suit, which killed 
two of his brothers by anxiety and vexation. 
At an advanced age he was thrown out of a 
carriage, dislocated his arm and one of his 
ancles, and imputes his recovery to the pure 
condition of his blood from the simplicity of 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 197 

his diet. At the age of 80 he was persuaded 
to increase his food to 14ozs., and his drink 
to 16ozs., but it did not agree with him, and 
he returned to his old habits. At 83, he boasts 
that he can mount his horse without assist- 
ance. He had eleven grand-children, in whose 
amusement he took great delight. 

1635. — The most celebrated case of English 
longevity was Thomas Parr, who lived to the 
age of 152 years and 9 months. He was a 
farmer's labourer; at the age of 120 married 
a widow, and performed all his usual work 
till he was 130. In 1635, he was brought 
to London at the desire of Charles I., but the 
great indulgences he received at Court pro- 
bably shortened his life. He died in London. 
His body was examined by the celebrated 
Dr. Harvey, who found no organic disease. 
Parr had a grandson who lived to 120. 

1648. — Thomas Damme, 154. His age is re- 
corded on a gravestone in Chester church-yard 
and in the registry. 

1650. — Mr. Hastings, 100 ; a great sports- 
man, and rode to the death of a stag when 90. 
In Ware church-yard is a tombstone to the 



198 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

memory of Dr. William Mead, aged 148 years 
and 9 months. 

1670. — Henry Jenkins; remembered the 
battle of Flodden Field in 1513, and is said 
to have appeared as a witness in the Court of 
Chancery 140 years before his death, which 
occurred in his 169th year. 

1691.— Mrs. Ecleston, 143. Philipstown, 
King's County, Ireland. 

1706. — John Bayles, 126, of Northampton* 

1711. — Jane Scrimshaw, 127. Born at Bow. 
Died in Rosemary Lane workhouse. 

17H._William Edic, 120, bellman, Canon- 
gate, Edinburgh : married his second wife 
after 100. 

1732. — William Leland, 140, of Lisneshea, 
Ireland; was never sick, or lost the use of 
any of his faculties till the hour of his death. 

1733.— William Harding, 112 ; fought at the 
battle of Edgehill. Married twice after he 
was 100. Served under King William and 
Marlborough, and died in Chelsea Hospital 
The Duke of Richmond and Sir Robert Wal- 
pole allowed him a crown a- week besides his 
pension. 



health: and disease. 199 

1734 — John Rousey, Esq., 138, Distrey, in 
Scotland He was 100 years old when his 
son was born, who inherited the estate. 

1734. — John Burnett, 109. Married six 
times ; thrice after 100, and died in the same 
house in which he was born. 

1738. — Margaret Patten, 137, St. Margaret's 
Workhouse. Always enjoyed good health till 
a few days before death. For many years she 
chiefly subsisted on milk. 

1741. — John Rovin, 172 ; his wife, 164 : 
Temeswar, in Hungary. Both died in the 
same year, the 148th of their marriage. Their 
youngest son was 116. 

1743.— William Kellock, 111, Sangwhar, 
N.B., one of the town officers for 95 years ; 
enjoyed all his senses, and never wore spec- 
tacles. 

1744. — Adam Turnbull, Newcastle, 112 ; 
able to walk twelve miles a-day until three 
years before his death. 

1752.— D. McCarthy, 111, Kerry. At 84 
married his fifth wife, who had twenty chil- 
dren ; he was very healthy, never observed to 
spit; no degree of cold affected him. When 



200 HEALTH AOT DISEASE. 

in company drank plenty of rum and brandy, 
and claret and punch when required. 

1753. — Mary Jenkins, 110, Cloth- workers' 
Alms-houses, London ; never had any illness, 
and died suddenly. 

1754— Judith Banister, 108, Isle of Wight ; 
lived for last sixty years on biscuit, apples, 
milk and water. 

1757. — Fontenelle lived to the age of 100, 
although he was so weak at birth that his life 
was despaired o£ He had no violent disorder, 
or any of the maladies of age, till past 90, after 
which he was rather deaf and his sight some- 
what impaired. The tranquil ease of his temper 
is thought to have extended his life. 

1761.— Charles Cotterel, 120; his wife 115. 
They were married 98 years, in great union and 
harmony, and died within four days of each 
other. 

1761. — F. Atkinson, 104, porter at Palace- 
gate, Salisbury, in the time of Bishop Burnet. 
He wound up the clock at the top of the Pa- 
lace every night till within a year of his death. 
In ascending the stairs he usually halted half- 
way to say his prayers. He maintained his 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 201 

good health by regular living and exercise ; 
walked well and uprightly to the last. 

1762. — Eady Haddam, 114, an inhabitant of 
St. Christopher's Workhouse, London, for 50 
years. 

] 762. — Rob. Oglebie, 1 15, a travelling tinker. 
Could see to work a short time before death ; 
his wife was 103 ; they had been married 73 
years, and had twelve sons and thirteen 
daughters. 

1762.— Mrs. Esh, 100, Eynes, Burton, York; 
a few-days before her death had prepared every- 
thing for her own funeral. 

1762. — Rev. Peter Alley, 111, Dunamoni, 
Ireland, of which he was Vicar 73 years. He 
performed the duty until a few days before his 
death ; he was twice married, and had thirty- 
three children. 

1762. — This year there were in the diocese 
of Aggerhaus, in Norway, 150 married couples 
who had lived together 80 years ; 70 married 
couples who had lived together 90 years ; 12 
from 100 to 105 years ; and 1 of 110. 

1763.— Elizabeth Taylor, Piccadilly, 131. 

1763. — George Kirton, Esq., 125, Oxnop- 



202 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

Hall, York ; was a great fox-hunter till he was 
80 ; from that age to 100 was always taken to 
the unkennelling of the fox in a wheel-chair, 
and drank wine freely until ten years before 
his death. 

1763.— Robert Maber, 100, Frampton, Dor- 
set. An estate had been held on his life from 
1663. 

1765. — Janet Anderson, 102. Her life was 
regular and moderate ; she was remarkably 
active, and continued to work at spinning to a 
short time before her death. Her faculties 
were strong to the last. 

1765. — Elizabeth Macpherson, 117, Caith- 
ness. Her diet was chiefly buttermilk and 
greens. She retained her senses until three 
months before death. 

1765. — Mr. Dobson, 139, former. By much 
exercise and temperate living, he preserved the 
inestimable blessing of health : ninety-one chiL* 
dren and grand-children attended his funeral 

1767. — There died this year, in Great Britain 
and Ireland, 59 persons from 100 to 110 ; 10 
from 110 to 120 ; 3 of 130 to 134. 

1768. — The numbers this year were, — 46 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 203 

from 100 to HO; 8 from 110 to 120; 2 of 
120; 1 of 130; 1 of 150. 

1768. — Francis Confit, Burythorpe, near 
Malton, 150; took much exercise and was very 
temperate ; very fond of a raw new-laid egg ; 
for the last 60 years of his life he received 
parish support. 

1769.— 25 from 100 to 110; 2 from 110 to 
120 ; 8 from 120 to 130 ; 2 above 130. 

1769.— Mr. Butler, 133, Golden Vale, Kil- 
kenny. He was related to the Duke of Or- 
mond ; could walk well and mount his horse 
until near death. 

1770.— 32 from 100 to 110 ; 3 from 110 to 
120; 2 from 120 to 130. 

1771.— 38 from 100 to 110; 3 from 110 to 
120; 8 from 120 to 130. 

1772.— 38 from 100 to 1 10 ; 15 from 110 to 
120 ; 4 from 120 to 130 ; 2 above. 

1772. — Christian VI., King of Denmark, 
with his Queen, this year visited Norway, 
and resided with Colonel Colbiornson, at Fri- 
dershalL They were amused by a jubilee- 
wedding of four married couples of 100 years 
each. The women danced with green wreaths 



204 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

on their heads, the custom of brides in Nor- 
way. 

1774 to 1777. — In these four years there 
died in the United Kingdom 78 persons from 
100 to 110; 12 from 110 to 120; 9 from 120 
to 130 ; 7 from 130 to 140. 

1777. — Mrs. Jones, Cambridge Workhouse, 
125. She enjoyed her health and senses to the 
last. 

1777. — Mr. Moral, 136, was a surgeon, at 
Dumfries. 

In the next ten years, from 1778 to 1788, 
died 296 from the age of 100 to 110 ; 72 from 
110 to 120 ; 12 from 120 to 130 ; 7 above 130. 

Jane Davis, 113, a maiden lady of Hack- 
ney, who had enjoyed some post under Queen 
Anna 

Mary Rogers, 118, Penzance ; lived the last 
60 years on vegetables. 

Margaret Scott, 125, a maiden 25 years, 
a wife 50, and a widow 50. 

Fluellen Pryce, 101 ; was director of the 
village choir until three years of his death; 
had a great flow of spirits, sound health, and 
great activity ; his living abstemious, herb tea 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 205 

for breakfast, meat plainly drest for dinner, 
and, instead of supper, a pipe of tobacco. 

William Ellis, 131, Liverpool, shoemaker; 
was a seaman in the reign of Queen Anne, 
and a soldier in that of George I. 

Henry Grosvenor, Wexford, surveyor, 115. 
By a very sparing diet and much exercise, 
preserved what the French call the youth of 
old age, being an agreeable and cheerful 
companion at 100, when he married his last 
wife. 

Susan Edmonds, 104, Hants. Five years 
before death she had new hair of a fine brown 
colour, which began to turn grey four months 
before her decease. 

Mr. Evans, 139, Spitalfields, retained his 
senses to the last; was seven years old when 
King Charles was beheaded. 

Janet Taylor, Finlay, N.B., 116; was bap- 
tized in the fields during the troubles in the 
reign of Charles II. 

1786. — Magnus Reid, 114, Dunbar. When 
80 years old, commenced the business of a tra- 
velling chapman, which he continued till eight 
weeks before his death. 



208 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

London, to see Mrs. Siddons, and attended her 
performances nine times. This old lady was 
equally active in mind and body. One morn- 
ing, during her last visit to London, after sit- 
ting for her portrait, she mounted to the 
whispering-gallery at St. Paul'a She was re- 
markable for regularity and moderation, and 
lived for the last 30 years chiefly on potatoes. 

1790. — Samuel Fidler, 105, Buxton; walked 
daily five miles, till within three days of his 
death. He was attendant on St. Anne's Well, 
Buxton, and was supported by the company 
who resorted there to drink the waters. 

1790. — Mary Foley Rothreigh, Ireland, 117. 
Her descendants at her death were, 6 children, 
94 grand-children, 258 great-grand-children, 
and 27 great-great-grand-children. 

1790. — Valentine Cateby, 116; went to sea 
at 18, was a sailor 36 years, then a farmer. 
His diet the last 20 years was milk and bis- 
cuit. His intellect was perfect until two days 
before his death. 

1790. — John Wilson, 116. His supper, for 
40 years, was roasted turnips. 

1790. — James Pearce, 105, was servant to 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 209 

farmer Pope, of Beaminster, Dorset. He walked 
to market three or four times a week shortly 
before his death. On the farm was a goose 86 
years old, having outlived four successive 
tenants. 

Mary Melvil, 117, Fife, renewed her teeth 
at 100, never had an hour's illness, and 
could see and hear well to the hour of her 
death. 

Alexander Macintosh, 112, Dunkeld ; lived 
the last ten years on vegetables, and enjoyed 
good health till two days before his death. 

Thomas Edgar, 108; read many years 
with spectacles; twenty years before death 
he so far recovered his sight as to read small 
print without them. 

Mr. Froom, 125, gardener to the Hon. 
J. S. Bury Holmes Chapel, Chester, who, in 
consideration of his great age, left him i?50 
a year. He enjoyed great health until two 
years before his death. Left a son 90. 

Mary Cameron, 128, Inverness. Retained 
her senses to the last. Remembered the 
rejoicings for the restoration of Charles II. 
Her house was an asylum for the exiled Epis- 



210 HEALTH ATO DISEASE. 

copalians of the revolution, and for the pro- 
scribed gentlemen of 1715 and 1745. On 
hearing that the forfeited estates were to be 
restored, she said, " Let me now die in peace \ 
I want to see no more in this world." 

Mary McDonnell, 118, Down; was born 
in Skye, which she left in 1688. The day 
before her death she walked to Moira, 14 
miles. In 1783, reaped a ridge of corn, and 
was strong, healthy, and active. 

John Maxwell, 132, Eiswick; walked ten 
miles a few days before his death, and en- 
joyed through life exceeding good health and 
spirits. He left nine children, the youngest 60. 

In 1785, died Cardinal de Salis, Archbishop 
of Seville, aged 110. He used to say, "By 
being old when young, I find myself young now, 
when old." He led a sober, studious, but not 
a lazy or sedentary life. His diet was sparing 
though delicate, his drink the best of Xeres 
and La Mancha wines, of which he never ex- 
ceeded a pint, except in very cold weather. 
He rode or walked daily for two hours. He 
endeavoured to keep his mind in due temper 
by obedience to the divine commands, and 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 211 

consequently was void of offence to God or 
man. "Glorious old age," said the king, 
"would to- heaven he had appointed a suc- 
cessor, for the people of Seville have been so 
long used to excellence, they will not be satis- 
fied with the best prelate I can send them." 

Jean Jacob, 128, a celebrated patriarch 
of Mount Jura. In 1789 he was a deputy 
to the National Assembly of France, at the 
age of 127; he was led into the hall by his 
daughter, and seated opposite to the Presi- 
dent. On entering, all the members stood up, 
and he was desired to sit covered, which he 
did, having the national cockade in his hat. 
The king granted him a pension. Thus he 
was a spectator of a part of the reign of Louis 
XIV., of the whole of that of Louis XV., and 
the greater part of that of Louis XVI. 

Mary Lacy, 102, Horsferry-road, Westmin- 
ster. She died in the same house in which 
she was born, and in the full possession of 
her faculties. 

Archibald Cameron, 122, Keith ; died with- 
out a pain, a groan, or any previous sick- 
ness. He was domestic piper to seven lairds 



212 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

in ninety-four years, but his fingers failing, he 
was allowed a small pension. 

Jonathan Hartop, 138, Aldbrough, York ; 
was very short in stature, as most centena- 
rians are. He was married five times, and 
left behind 7 children, 26 grand-children, 74 
great grand-children, 140 great-great-grand- 
cliildren. He could read to the last without 
spectacles, and played at cribbage with perfect 
recollection. At Christmas, 1789, he walked 
nine miles to dine with one of his grandchil- 
dren. He remembered Charles II. He ate 
but little, and only drank milk. He enjoyed 
an uninterrupted flow of spirits. His third 
wife was said to be an illegitimate daughter of 
Oliver Cromwell. He possessed a portrait of 
Oliver, for which he refused <£>300. Mr. H. 
lent Milton «£50 ; an angry letter of the poet 
was found among the possessions of the old 
man. 

Hugh Llewellyn, 115, celebrated for his per- 
formances on the Welsh harp, which he was 
enabled to continue till a fortnight of his 
death. 

Rachel Huddy, 100, Somerset. She was 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 213 

blind for the last eleven years, but continued to 
pursue her calling as a midwife notwithstand- 
ing, and assisted at the birth of a child seven 
weeks before her death. 

Thomas Seville, 103 ; retained all his fiicul- 
ties in a very remarkable degree ; had a full 
set of teeth, not one unsound, Was a very 
hearty and cheerful man. 

Rebecca Povey, 106; was born Nov. 5, 1688, 
the day King William landed. Her mother 
was frightened at the noise of the guns, and 
was put into a coach, where Rebecca was born. 
She enjoyed uninterrupted health : cut two 
teeth at 102, and kept her bed but three days 
before her death. 

Susan Mills, 102 ; lived in a lock-house on 
the Bungay navigation, a most unwholesome 
marshy situation, surrounded by floods all the 
winter. Her husband was the manager of 
locks to Sir J. Dalling's grandfather in 1715. 

Charles Macklin, the actor, 100 or 107 ; was 
very intemperate until the age of 40, keeping 
late hours and drinking hard. He afterwards 
lived by rules, which he scrupulously observed. 
It was his custom to promote great perspira- 



214 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

tion by violent exercise, and then to change his 
linen. He became moderate, but not abstemi- 
ous, and ate and drank as other people till he 
was 70, when finding tea disagree with him 
he substituted milk with bread boiled in it, 
with a little sugar. In 1764 he lost all his 
teeth, and lived on a spoon diet for the rest of 
his life. His principal beverage was white 
wine and water. In his very latter years' he 
never took off his clothes unless to change 
them. He ate when hungry, drank when 
thirsty, and slept when sleepy. 

John Weeks, 114. Married his tenth wife 
at 106. His grey hair had fallen off, and waa 
renewed by a dark head of hair, and several 
new teeth had made their appearance. 

The Rev. Bellingham, who had been curate 
to Dean Swift, died in 1 798, aged 102. 

J. Wilson, 100, Blackheath;. after .60 his 
beverage was milk and water, with the excep- 
tion of two glasses of ale and one of spirit. 

In the "Philosophical Magazine," of Nov. 
1803, is an account of a man then living at 
Polack, in Livonia, who served under Gustavus 
Adolphus, and was present at the battle of 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 215 

Pultowa, when he was 86. Among the deaths 
recorded in 1803, we find Mr. Dennis Crana- 
bee, Ireland, 117; he retained all his faculties, 
and until two days before his death, never 
suffered pain or sickness except toothache. 
Three weeks before his death he walked to 
Gal way and back, twenty-six miles. He was 
Beamed seven times ; the last at 93. He left 
48 children, 236 grand-children, 944 great- 
grand- children, and 25 great-great-grand- 
children. His youngest son was 18. 

1804.-r-John Boys, 101 ; never had any ill- 
ness ; rose at six summer and winter ; nearly 
abstained from fermented liquor of any kind. 
All his teeth were perfect, and he could see 
to read without spectacles. 

1805;rt-Ffestiniog, North. Wales. "With 
the woman one loves, with the friend of one's 
heart, and a good library of books, one might 
pass- an age in this vale and think it a day. 
If you would enjoy health, come and take up 
your abode here. We hatf e just witnessed the 
death of a farmer aged 105, who haa left thirty 
children by his first wife, ten by his second, 
and four by his third. His youngest son was 



216 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

81 years younger than his eldest, and 800 per- 
sons descended from him attended his funeral" 
— Letter of Lord Lyttleton. 

From the Morning Post, Nov. 2nd, 1805 : — 
" Mr. John Mirehouse, Loweswater, Cumber- 
land, invited between thirty and forty friends 
to an entertainment on account of having on 
that day completed the 100th year of his aga 
The veteran, who enjoys all his faculties, sight 
excepted, and who is an intelligent man, has 
possessed a strong and robust constitution 
with a cheerful disposition. He received his 
company seated in a new oak chair and a new 
coat, that it might hereafter be said it was 
first used when J. Mirehouse was 100/' 

" The Hebrides boast of many instances of 
longevity. The inhabitants of Southuish are 
very healthy. A man lately died there aged 
130, having retained all his faculties. The 
island of Jura is esteemed the most wholesome 
spot of ground belonging to Great Britain: no 
epidemic was ever known there. Gout, rheu- 
matism, consumption, &c, are rarely heard of, 
and madness never. When Mr. Martin was 
there, no woman had died in childbirth for 3a 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 217 

years. Gillow Maccraw, who died about fifty 
years ago, kept about 180 Christmas days in 
his own house. A woman in Scort, just by, 
lived 140 years, and to live 90 and 100 is not 
rare/' — Chamberlain's State of Ghreat Britain. 

1805. — At Laymore, near Balyman, Mr. Wm. 
Simpson, 119 ; four days before his death he 
was walking about the farm in his usual 
health ; he was never sick an hour, and never 
intoxicated but twice in his life. 

Mr. Crick, Thurlow, Suffolk, 125 ; had been 
85 years a schoolmaster. " This may, perhaps, 
be considered an additional instance of a habi- 
tual association with young people tending to 
prolong life/' — Dr. Buchan. 

Mrs. Miles, Jamaica, 118; followed to the 
grave by 265 descendants ; practised as a mid- 
wife for 95 years, and followed her business 
until two days of her death. 

1806. — John Tucker, fisherman, Itching, 131. 
Followed his occupation until a few weeks of 
his death. 

Mrs. Twist, Birmingham, 104. Began to 
use spectacles at the age of 50 ; after using 
them 30 years she discontinued their use, find- 



218 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

ing that she could read very small print with- 
out them She retained every fitculty. 

There is now living at Wakefield, York, 
Samuel Spern, in the 109th year of his age ; 
he lives entirely by himself; cultivates his 
own garden, milks his cow, and makes his 
butter, which he takes to Wakefield market 
every week. He is in perfect health, and his 
cottage is admired by the surrounding neigh- 
bourhood for its neatness and cleanliness. 

In the registry of deaths in the Russian 
empire for 1806, there is one from 145 to 150; 
one from 130 to 135 ; four from 130 to 135 ; 
six from 120 to 125 ; thirty^two from 115 to 
120 ; 102 from 105 to 115 ; 137 from lOO.to 
105, and 1134 from 95 to 100. 

Jamaica has produced many centenarians. 
In 1807, died Joseph Rann, a negro, on Mor- 
rice Hall estate, aged 140. . He remembered 
the Duke of Albemarle, governor, in 1687. 
He enjoyed great health ; his appetite was 
always good, and he walked four miles a few 
days before his death. On the 5 th Feb., 1809, 
Mrs. Elizabeth Fletcher, aged 120, relict of the 
late J. Fletcher, Esq. She retained all her 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 219 

faculties ; a good appetite, perfect health, and 
great flow of spirits to the period of her death. 
She did all the duties of her domestic esta- 
blishment until the last three years of her life. 

1809.— Nov. 24. Now living in her 108th 
year, Sarah Williams, in a neat cottage be- 
tween Tavistock and Ledford. Within the 
last few years she has cut five teeth, three of 
which still remain with ten old ones. Her 
diet consists principally of broths. Her eldest 
son is 82, a strong, hale-loOking old man. 

Mary Robertson, Aberfieldie ; became blind 
at 63 by a gradual decay of sight, in her 78th 
year she recovered sight enough to read with 
glasses, and the following year it became so 
strong that she threw her glasses aside till she 
was 87, when it again failed. She retained all 
her other faculties in undiminished vigour. 

There were living at Stockholm, in 1809, 
243 men and 364 women, from 100 to 110, and 
22 men and 19 women from 110 to 120. One 
man at 122 and one woman at 127 years of 
of age. The deaths in Russia, 1809, were 294 
from 100 to 110, 59 from 110 to 120, 13 from 
120 to 130, 1 of 135, I of 145, 1 of 1 55 to 160. 
Part of Peru is remarkable for longevity. 



220 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

Caxamorea contains 70,000 inhabitants, and 
among them were living eight persons of the 
respective ages of 114, 117, 121, J 31, 132, 135, 
141, 147. 

October, 1814. — The oldest Jesuit in the 
world is Father Albert de Montaine, in Peru- 
gia ; he took his vows in 1724, and is now 126 
years of age. 

December 15, 1817, a Catholic priest in the 
Cathedral of Adria, returned thanks for the 
completion of his 110th year. He is without 
infirmity, and chaunted the cathedral service 
in a firm, manly, and dignified tone of voice. 

In 1837, among the deaths in England and 
Wales, there were 2,579 between the ages of 
90 and 100 ; 105 between 100 and 110 ; of 
those who reached 110, one was in Cornwall 
and one in Kent. 

In 1838, the total deaths were 331,007. 
There were 2,498 between 90 and 100, 102 
between 100 and 110, 1 of 115. There were 5 
deaths of 100 years in the metropolitan districts. 

In 1839, the total deaths were 359,604; 
from 90 to 100, 2786 ; from 100 to 110, 121. 

In 1840, the total deaths 358,624; from 90 
to 100, 2876 ; from 100 to 110, 114. 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 221 

In 1841-2, the total deaths were 343,847; 
from 90 to 100, 2857; above 100, 110. 

In 1843, total deaths, 349,157 ; from 90 to 
100, 2965 ; above 100, 109. 

In 1844, total deaths 356,950 ; from 90 to 
100, 2,903 ; above 100, 137. 

Among the deaths on record are two of 200 
years, one of which is said to have occurred in 
the parish of Shoreditch. 

In some of the London workhouses there is 
a fair average of very old people. In the West 
London Union House, of 754 inmates there are 
58 between 80 and 90, and 3 between 90 and 
100. In 1851, among the deaths, there were 
17 between 80 and 90, 3 between 90 and 100, 
and 1 above 100. In Marylebone Workhouse 
there are 9 men and 43 women between 80 
and 90, 2 men and 3 women between 90 and 
100, and one woman of 104. In the out-door 
poor there are 128 between 80 and 90. 

There were registered in 1832, in the Rus- 
sian Empire, 4,440 deaths from 90 to 100 ; 722 
from 100 to 110 ; 123 from 110 to 120 ; 41 
from 120 to 130 ; 5 from 130 to 140; and 3 
of 135, 140, 145. 

In the United States of America, in 1840, 



k 



222 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

there were 5,738 deaths from 90 to 100, 2,507 
males, S,231 females ; above 100, 791 ; 476 
males, 315 females. 

In the metropolitan districts, in 184*1, there 
died between the ages of 90 and 100, 203 
males, 418 females ; and above the age of 100, 
7 males and 16 females. 

Among the eminent persons who have died 
daring the last three years at an advanced 
period of life, we find the following: — The 
Rev. W. L. Bowles, 89; Wordsworth, 80; 
Rev. W. Kirby, 91; Sir M. A. Shee, 80; 
Joanna Baillie, 89 ; Dr. Lingard, 82 ; Basil 
Montague, 82 ; EL Luttrel, 86 ; Miss Agnes 
Berry, 88; J. Landseer, 90; W. Scrope 81; 
Miss M. Berry, 90; Dr. Lepsius, 84; J. Cot- 
tle, 84 ; Duke of Wellington, 81. 

I think I have given examples enough, pour 
encov/rager le% .avtres, to shew to all who may 
desire to attain long life, that it is to be done. 
Attention to the laws of health, regularity, 
moderation in all things, cheerfulness, due ex- 
ertions, both of mind and body, that acquies- 
cence with the position of life in which car- 
cumstances have placed us, and making the 
best of every event that may occur to us, 



HEALTH AND DISEASE. 223 

appear to be among the more important ele- 
ments of longevity. There is no universal 
rule by which long life is to be attained ; we 
find among the examples of it persons of very 
different habits and constitutions, who have 
lived in various ways, some on vegetable 
food, others on animal; some have been water 
drinkers, others have indulged in wine and 
beer during their whole lives, and occasionally 
we find an instance of a great spirit drinker 
attaining longevity. We have many examples 
of great age in towns, and even in very un- 
healthy districts; and I think there is one con- 
clusion that may be distinctly drawn from our 
examples, that the constitution must have been 
originally very sound, or has been rendered so 
at some period of life by long continuance of 
circumstances tending to the establishment of 
almost perfect health. Among our centena- 
rians we find some who have lived a very 
boisterous life in youth, and up to middle 
life; some who have from their irregularities 
brought on a very depraved condition of 
health; but in all these instances there has 
been induced in the constitution a great 
change, by the voluntary or necessary adop 



224 HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

tion of a strict system of regimen for the 
restoration of health; and the experience of 
the comfort and happiness so induced has es- 
tablished a regularity in living, the conti- 
nuance of which has been conducive to long 
life. Wherever there is no established organic 
disease up to the age of 50 or 60; wherever 
there is sufficient stamina left to be benefited 
by regularity and system, it is not too late 
to place the constitution in a condition for 
attaining a long and vigorous age ; the point 
being to lengthen out the period of middle 
life, to continue into extreme old age that 
equable condition of health of mind and body, 
which, in some happy instances, we see con- 
tinued to 80 and even 90 years without decre- 
pitude. The art of longevity should be to 
make that condition of green old age, con- 
tinuous to the last, so that decrepitude and 
death may be almost simultaneous. 



THE END. 



T. E. Metcalf, Printer, 68, Snow Hill, London. 



I 








i 


'£ 


-^ s Mjj&'i, 




1 S8gpP * .'.,. "', ; : 


" 4 4 






■ 





