Gi3.\ 



G^Z-h 




of tlje 

^nxanta. 



/9a3 



ry^/y c4^^^^ 




\^- 



.<■-.. 



s 



1 



h 



m 



'\S 



4:Si 






ON 

EAST AND NORTH-EAST WINDS, 

THE NATURE, TREATMENT, AND PREVENTION 
OP 

THEIR SUFFOCATIVE EFFECTS. 

EMBRACING ALSO THE SUBJECTS 
OP 

DIET AND DIGESTION, 

THEIR ERRORS AND PENALTIES. 



BY C. B: GAERETT, M.D. 

PHYSICIAN TO THE ROYAL HUMANE SOCIETY ; OPE OJ THB MBMCAL OPFIC»K^ 
TO THB KINGSTON DISPENSARY , AND TO THE SOtJTH-WESTB*N EAILWAY^ 



LONDON : 

SAMUEL HIGHLEY, 82 FLEET STREET, 

1855. 






Mtry, 



PREFACE. 

The consciousness of having fellow-suiferers in distress, 
softens down many of the asperities of human miseries. 
If one victim escapes, — expectant hope is awakened, 
and the means of his rescue become deeply interesting 
and consoHng. 

The Author, from a severe cold taken whilst pursuing 
his arduous vocations, endured the afflictions depicted 
in the following pages. By experiments, investigations, 
and observations, extending over many months, he 
arrived at the conclusions and remedies detailed in this 
book, and not only eifected a permanent cure in himself, 
but from three years' subsequent experience, he confi- 
dently places his views and therapeutic measures in the 
hands of the public. 

The Author much regrets that the few leisure hours 
at his command have prevented his bestowing as much 
time on this work as he could have wished. He can only 
tender his best apologies to the public, and solicit the 
kind consideration of the critical reader. 

Thames Ditton, 

January \st, 1855. 






ON EAST AND NORTH-EAST WINDS. 



CHAPTER I. 



•CLIMATE AND WINDS. 



1. " I DREAD those horrible Easterly Winds" is an 
expression which can only be properly estimated by 
those who are sufferers from their prevalence, or by 
Medical Men who feel the enormous difficulties of com- 
bating the miseries they entail. 

2. Who is there that perambulates the Metropolis on 
a cold day in March with a stout N. Easter blowing its 
terrific blasts in his teeth who does not pity the poor 
creature he meets in every street whose distressed features 
and muffled mouth proclaim him the submissive sufferer 
from the dire oeolian enemy ? Watch his hasty falter- 
ing step, — his nervous glance, and the frequent stoppages 
he makes to draw as full a breath as his circumstances 
permit ; observe how he elevates his shoulders, and sup- 
ports his hands on his side as he stops to inhale, and ac- 
complish a husky raking clearance of the windpipe, by 






2 CLIMATE AND WINDS. 

a cough, as metallic in its sound as though it passed 
through a brass tube. This is an endurer of no common 
an affliction, — with a sense of impending suffocation, and 
the most pitiable feebleness, his very look is that of 
trepidation and supplication for assistance. He tells 
you he is without a remedy, — without relief. 

3. Well do I recollect listening to a Lecturer two or 
three years ago in the Metropolis during the existence 
of a N. E. wind, and seeing the poor fellow suck away 
at a pocket full of oranges to mitigate the dryness of 
the Larynx and vocal organs. Little did he suspect 
the grateful juice he was applying to his florid dry lips 
was but an aggravation of his malady. — The fountain of 
moisture was agreeable, easy of access, and caused no 
appreciable interruption to his arduous duties, amount- 
ing to an hour's lecture, delivered four or five times 
a-day. Barristers, lecturers, clergymen, and others 
who severely tax their wind-pipes, come under the same 
category. Indeed no one is more likely to suffer in this 
way than the medical man in the country, whose duties 
keep him in constant alternation between hot bed-rooms 
and exposure to cold drives. 

THE CLLMATE 

4. Of this country is so proverbial for its change- 
ability, and the extremes we encounter, of heat, cold, 
long-continued drought, and prolonged rains, that we 
are exposed, as much as the inhabitants of any country 
can be, to the illnesses that arise from their influence. 



« 



CLIMATE AND WINDS. 3 

Even in our little island, the comparative variations of 
temperature and climate would hardly be believed ; and 
the physician directs his patient to those parts of the 
coast which possess advantages, as regards the climate, 
best adapted to his case ; considering, first, from what 
winds a certain residence is most free ; second, how far 
those winds to which it is exposed suit his patient's 
malady. This study is the more necessary, recollecting 
that climates are perpetually changing. 

5. Caesar says that the vine could not be cultivated 
in Gaul, on account of the winter cold. The rein-deer, 
now found only in the frozen zone, was then an inhabi- 
tant of the Pyrenees. The Rhine and the Danube, in 
the reign of Augustus, were generally frozen over for 
several months of winter. Indeed, large engineering 
undertakings have been known, more than once, to 
alter most remarkably the nature of the climate, and to 
introduce diseases which were previously unknown to 
the locality. 

6. To Sir James Clark we are much indebted for 
some very able observations in reference to climate, and 
to the local advantages to be derived from certain sea- 
side and inland residences. 

7. He points out that the South Coast, comprehending 
the tract between Hastings and Portland Island, is best 
suited for pulmonary and feeble affections ; that it is 
protected from the N. and N. E. winds ; and its ad- 
vantages exist chiefly in December, January, and Feb- 
ruary. 

8. The South-West coast of Devonshire is noted for 

B 2 



4 CLIMATE AND WINDS. 

its mildness ; for during the months of November, De- 
cember, and January, the difference in temperature is, 
on the average, five degrees higher than that of London 
during the same period ; whereas, on the South Coast, 
the difference scarcely exceeds two degrees : the former 
latitude being the most steady ; the higher temperature 
being most remarkable at night. Irritable and inflam- 
matory habits here find the best climate ; it is least 
suitable for relaxed nervous persons, or copious secre- 
tions or discharges of any kind, but highly advantageous 
for dry, irritated conditions of the mucous membrane. 

9. The West (Clifton) is more bracing and drier ; it is 
less suited for pulmonary, irritable, and inflammatory 
disorders ; and, for irritable dyspepsia. It is best 
for relaxed languid habits, and fluxes of the mucous 
membrane. 

FOREIGN CLIMATE. 

10. The South-West of France is similar to our own 
S. Westerly shores, with a mean temperature of 4^ higher 
in favour of the former. The climate is soft and humid. 
Pau is drier and warmer in the spring, and the N. winds 
less trying to invalids than in this country. 

1 1 . The South-East of France is warmer and drier, 
but more irritating and exciting than the South-West. 
There is great liability to cold piercing N. W. winds 
(mistral), which are most injurious to inflammation or 
irritation of the respiratory organs ; so that " the South 
of France " is a term which may risk the suitable se- 



« 



CLIMATE AND WINDS. 5 

lection of a residence for consumptive patients ; for if 
tubercles are already formed, the S. E. winds would be 
most injurious. 

12. It is my duty to describe those circumstances 
only, connected with the atmosphere, which relate to 
its influence on the animal economy ; and I may here 
observe — as it will be alluded to hereafter — that the 
composition of moist air embraces those four elements, 
carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, which alone 
form the basis of all animal and vegetable compounds. 
(Water contains 1 measure of oxygen and 1 of hydrogen ; 
the atmosphere 79 measures of nitrogen, 21 of oxygen, 
and about 1 per 2000 of carbonic acid, &c.) This start- 
ling announcement must be borne in mind, as being the 
fundamental knowledge on which the chemistry of ani- 
mal and vegetable organization rests. 

13. In the air, other matters are held in solution; for 
the real composition of the atmosphere has been found 
to be identical on the hottest or coldest days — in the 
clouds or in smoky cities — on the summit of the lofty 
Alps or the lowest swamps of Holland. But nitric acid, 
ammonia, sulphuretted hydrogen, ozone, effluvia, gases, 
vapours, fungi, &c., enter into the bulk of the air, or 
rather are temporarily suspended in it. The variable 
constitution of the atmosphere is thus substantially only 
altered by them. 

14. Atmospheric forces, or the action of the winds must 
be taken into separate account, and these have more or 
less their especial influences on the human system. 



CLIMATE AN]) WINDS. 



WINDS. 




15. In addition to the common attributes of great 
movements in the air, such as propelUng ships, scatter- 
ing seeds, churning gases with the waves, purifying low 
swamps, intermingling gases, diffusing rains, &c. ; there 
is still one other circumstance connected with it, its 
great absorbtion of fluid, usually termed evaporation ; 
and which will form part of our investigation hereafter. 

16. N. E. winds prevail most in January, March, 

April, May, and June ; least in July, Sep- 
tember, December. 

E. winds prevail most in spring. 

W. winds prevail most in summer and autumn. 

S. W. winds prevail most in July and August. 
Winds are boisterous in December and January ; next 
in March and November ; least in xlugust and Septem- 
ber. The sun being farthest South in December and 
January, the air seeks to preserve its equilibrium. All 
these changes have their special influences, and put 
in action their temporary powers on the creation 
and phases of diseases. This subject might be dwelt 
upon to a great extent ; but sufficient has been stated, 
ere we now proceed to examine the nature of the winds 
blowing from the several points of the compass. 

17. North winds are generally cold, coming from 
Polar regions, over mountains of snow and seas of ice ; 
they are exceedingly drying, — being charged with no 
moisture in their transit, and greedily imbibing it in our 
climate. 



CLIMATE AND WINDS. 7 

1 8. North East winds rarely bring rain ; they come 
from colder climates, and have a great capacity for im- 
bibing vapour : therefore they dry the air, dispel clouds, 
and consequently promote rapid evaporation from the 
skin and mucous membranes. 

19. East winds in England are generally cold, be- 
cause they pass over the cold swampy plains of the 
North of Europe, and have no great breadth of ocean 
to flow over, so as to warm them before they reach our 
shores. They are dnj, coming over vast continents, 
and very little ocean; in consequence of which, they 
have absorbed very little vapour, if any, and by reaching 
our island dry, they readily absorb all moisture. The 
Harmatan winds, blowing off the West Coast of Africa, 
are so drying, that the planks of the decks of ships 
split, and the human skin becomes dry and harsh. The 
same happens with the Sirocco winds, which blow off 
the Northern Coast of Africa, passing over the desert ; 
they cover vessels, even 200 miles from land, with the 
hot dry sand. 

20. South winds are usually warm, because they 
come over the hot sandy deserts of Africa. They bring 
rain ; because, heated by hot sands, they imbibe water 
plentifully in passing over the Mediterranean Sea and 
British Channel, the moisture being condensed on 
reaching our climate. 

21. South West winds generally bring rain ; they 
come from the torrid zone, and condense on our North- 
ern island. 

22. West winds are usually rainy ; coming over the 




8 CLIMATE AND WINDS. 

Atlantic, they are laden with moisture. The least chU 
therefore deposits rain. 

23. The facts I have already stated are to the effect, 
then, that the East and N. East winds are drying in 
their character ; and on reaching this island, their thirst 
for moisture causes them to absorb it most vigorously 
from all bodies which can furnish them with the 
slightest supply. Nor is it to be supposed that because 
they prevail on a rainy day, that their rapid passage 
over a few miles of country through the rain can have 
moistened, more than in a very trifling manner, the 
components of the atmosphere ; — though the general 
evaporation from the earth's surface on a wet day, from 
trees, &c., may moderate their furious demands, and 
mitigate the sufferings arising from their drought. But 
on a day free from rain, how dry the dust of the roads 
looks, tastes, and feels, as the gruff Boreas rushes at 
you like a herd of wild bulls, raking up the earth, and 
covering, choking, and blinding you with road-dust. 
The same facts are illustrated in various other ways ; 
the laundress finds her clothes dried very quickly, — and 
the shoemaker profits by the number of shoes sent him 
to repair, parched and cracked in all directions ; veri- 
fying the adage, *' It is an ill wind that blows no one 
good." 

24. Feel how dry and " fluffy " your hair is in spite 
of the liberally apphed pomade in the morning. See 
the horses and cattle in the fields, how rough their 
coats become, and how they congregate to the leeward 
of all places that can afford them shelter. A double 



CLIMATE AND WINDS. 9 

shed was erected in a field, — one having a N. E. aspect' 
the other a S. W. During the existence of a N. E. 
wind, the animals were all observed to inhabit the shed 
with a S. W, aspect ; but on the winds changing to 
S. W., they frequented both promiscuously. The leaves 
of plants, shrubs, and even of forest trees, look dry 
and withered, from the exhaustive evaporation of their 
foliage ; in fact, all animated nature unanimously mani- 
fests its abhorrence of, and suffering from, this peculiar 
atmospheric force. 

25. These then are all the circumstances, as far as I 
know, which relate to the subject of winds, as regards 
the matter under investigation. As we shall discuss the 
morbid effects of winds hereafter, it may be proper here 
to repeat, that Science has as yet been unable to discover 
any material difference in the chemical constitution of 
the several varieties. Some have supposed that ammo- 
nia predominated ; others, that nitrogen was unusually 
abundant : some presumed nitric acid to be generated ; 
but some doubt still hangs over the subject. 

26. It may now be inquired in what manner Respira- 
tors benefit the invalid ? I can only suggest three. 

1st. That they break the force of the winds, which is, 
I think, not the true advantage ; for an um- 
brella would answer this purpose. 

2nd. They warm the air proceeding to be inhaled. 
This is doubtless, auxiliary, — though a heated 
stone, wrapped in a handkerchief and held to 
the mouth confers no immunity, and but very 




10 CLIMATE AND WINDS. 

little relief, on the invalid suffering from 
E. and N. E. winds. 
3rd. They condense the exhaled moisture of the 
breath, — preserve it from the absorbing winds, 
and return it to the respiratory organs in each 
respiration, which is a circumstance of very 
great relief and advantage in the absence of 
remedial and preventive means. 
27. One observation may here be very properly in- 
troduced to avoid misconception. The cold Easterly 
winds and the dry frosty air differ in this respect, that 
the former has a powerful affinity for moisture, while 
the latter by reason of its low temperature cannot hold 
it in a liquid form, and therefore does not dispossess 
other bodies of their humidity. 



^ 



CHAPTER 11. 

THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE, AND SKIN. 

28. The mucous membrane is that moist sheet which 
is continuous with the skin at the several outlets of the 
body, lines the various open channels of the system, 
and all those chambers and passages which have com- 
munication with the external air. 

29. Its chief duty is to secrete an inoffensive slimy 
fluid for the protection of the mucous membrane from 
mechanical and other passing causes of irritation. 

30. In this Treatise my observations will chiefly be 
confined to one of the three mucous systems, the Gastro- 
pulmonary i"^ so called from its lining the gullet, sto- 
mach, and bowels, as well as being a direct continuation 
into the windpipe and lungs. 

31. In order that I may be the more clearly com- 
prehended, I must here enter a little into the minute 
anatomy of Mucous Membranes. I have already stated 
that the mucous membrane is continuous with the skin 
as seen at the lips; and so similar is its minute anatomy 
that no microscopic power can enable us to say where 

* yaarrip, the stomacli ; irveviiuv the lung. 




12 THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE, AND SKIN. 

either terminates, or the other commences. That tire- 
some and unsightly blister or bleb which frequents the 
lips, (Herpes labialis,) and is so characteristic of cold 
and catarrhs, raises up equally the outer layers of the 
skin and mucous membrane. 

32. It was left for the present century to explore, by 
means of the microscope, the arcana of our organiza- 
tion. Chemistry has advanced nobly in the cause, and 
explained the minute operations which that wonderful 
instrument has so miraculously revealed to us. 

33. The fact is now established that our growth, 
repair, secretions, and indeed all the vital operations of 
our system are accomplished by cells endowed with ex- 
traordinary faculties for those and other purposes. 

What is a cell ? is a question I put as a Tyro, and 
expect to be asked in my turn. A cell is not visible to 
the unassisted sight, but under the magnifying lens the 
simplest cell is seen to be a hollow globule, and may be 
compared to a white currant deprived of its contents, 
though a highly magnified representation of one. It is 
in fact a hollow skin without an opening. We will sup- 
pose this skin to be smeared over in its interior with a 
slimy substance, and lying collapsed ready for service. 

34. The duties of this cell are called into action by a 
peculiar endowment of animal membrane called Endos- 
mosis. This property must be understood, as it is much 
concerned in what I shall have to point out in the fol- 
lowing pages. 

Take a glass tube open at both ends, — cover one end 
with fresh bladder. Have in readiness two fluids of 



% 



THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE, AND SKIN. 13 

different densities — one being pure water — the heavier 
fluid being a solution of gum, salt, or sugar. Fill the 
tube with water, and plunge the lower covered end into 
a basin containing the denser hquid. The thinner fluid 
(water) makes the easiest and speediest passage through 
the membraneous structure ; it thus flows from the tube 
into the denser fluid and leaves the tube empty. The 
act of entering the basin is called endosmosis (ev^ov within 
wcTjtAo?, flowing) ; the act of leaving the tube is called 
exosmosis — (e| out of, oxr/xcx;) Reverse the experiment, 
fill the tube with the denser fluid and the basin with 
water, — the water will leave the basin, enter the tube, 
and cause it to overflow. 

35, We will now suppose an empty cell to be plunged 
in water ; the gummy matter in its interior being of a 
denser quality than water, the cell fills to repletion by 
endosmosis, and if the process be allowed to proceed, it 
bursts. Reverse this, and place a full cell in a thick 
syrup (or fluid denser than its own contents) the fluid 
will leave the cell empty and shrivelled by exosmosis. 
Place cherries (with their stalks on, to close the hole) 
in brandy, the spirit is endosmosed into the cherry, 
which swells in consequence. Preserve them in thick 
syrup, they exosmose and shrivel like raisins. Hams 
are prepared by exosmosis ; smeared with treacle or 
thick brine they exosmose water, &c. and are said to be 
" cured'' The cook, in boiling pease or beans acts on 
these principles ; she throws salt into the boiUng water, 
and causes them to be either watery or floury, full or 
shrunk, according to her tact in estimating the proper 



14 THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE, AND SKIN. 

quantity of salt, and thus she really sets in action en - 
dosmosis or exosmosis at her pleasure. 

36. It will be expedient first to consider the minute 
anatomy of the skin, which I shall have greatly to allude 
to, and which much resembles in its structure the Mu- 
cous Membrane. The external layer (the epidermis, 
raised in blisters) is composed entirely of cells, which 
are round and moist in its deeper structure (formerly 
called rete mucosum) but flat, scaly, and dry at its 
superficial surface. These cells are constantly scahng 
off above, and are actively renewed from its under sur- 
face. Next comes the derma, or true skin, — composed 
of two laminae, — the papillary or sensitive layer most 
superficial, below that, the corium or defensive layer, (a 
fibro-vascular structure) the whole being supported on 
areolar tissue, (which butchers blow up in veal) in which 
grow perspiratory glands, hair bulbs, and their pouching 
appendices the oil glands. 

37. The Mucous Membrane has a similar structure 
to the skin ; the former being exposed to moisture, and 
the latter being dry has very much to do with their 
apparent differences. If a portion of skin is made to 
occupy an internal position, it becomes mucous mem- 
brane, and when a portion of the latter becomes exter- 
nal, it loses its moisture and assumes the appearance of 
skin. The snake in shedding his skin, sheds also that 
continuous structure of mucous membrane (the conjunc- 
tiva) which forms the front covering of the eye. The 
hydra, or fresh-water polype, is a mere digestive tube ; 
by turning it inside out, the lining mucous membrane 



I 



■I 



THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE, AND SKIN. 15 

and external skin respectively exchange their characters 
and functions. 

38. The external cell-coat of the mucous membrane, 
called the epithelium, corresponds to the external cell- 
coat of the skin, the epidermis. Next comes the corion, 
the analogue of the derma, which is composed of two 
laminae ; the basement membrane (alias membrana 
propria) — a sensitive layer, the most superficial, and 
like the papillary layer of the skin flooded with blood- 
vessels, &c. Next distant from the surface is the fibro- 
vascular layer lying on areolar tissue. The following 
table will shew their analogies. 

SKIN. MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 

Epidermis,— cell structure. 
Dprmi i Papill'iry layer— sensitive, 
uerma -^ Coriiim— defensive. 
Supported on areolar tissue. 

39. The same circumstance which obtains in the 
cell structure of the skin (the epidermis), prevails also 
in the epithelium ; namely, that the loss of cells is per- 
petually taking place on the upper surface, and the 
balance of quantity maintained by reproduction at its 
deeper surface. If any intrinsic or external cause should 
disturb this balance, then diseased action must follow, 
and this is a circumstance to which we shall hereafter 
allude more particularly. 

40. The faculty of the animal cell, as far as we have 
yet seen, is simply that of fi.lling itself with fluid. Dr. 
Carpenter says,* " The epithelial cells being always in 
contact with fluids, do not dry up into scales like those 

* Manual of Physiolooy, § 231, by W. B. Carpenter, M.D. 



Epithelium, — cell structure. 
Corion I Membrana propria. 
) r ibro- vascular layer. 
Supported on areolar tissue. 



16 THE MUCOIDS MEMBRANE, AND SKIN. 

of the epidermis ; and they differ from them also in 
regard to the nature of the matter which they secrete 
in their interior. In this respect, however, the epithe- 
hal cells of different parts are unlike one another, fully 
as much as any of them are unlike the cells of the 
epidermis : for we shall find that all the secretions of 
the body are the product of the elaboration of epithelial 
cells ; and consequently there are as many varieties of 
endowment in these important bodies as there are va- 
rieties in the result of their action." 

41.1 shall now proceed to illustrate the action of epi- 
thelial cells, by showing how they discharge the duty of 
secreting mucus. 

The mucous membrane is studded with an immense 
number of follicles (follicula — a little bag), which dip 
their blind extremities into the membrana propria, 
which is highly vascular. A stick poked through a 
layer of fine gravel, and having just pierced the clay 
below, would leave a hole much resembling a magnified 
follicle. The particles of fine gravel on the surface, 
and those which are dusted over the interior of the 
hole, would well illustrate the epithelial cells. The 
close proximity of these cells to the blood-vessels in the 
membrana propria, enables them to draw from the blood, 
by endosmosis, those very elements which are necessary 
to form healthy mucus. The cell, thus filled, flies to the 
orifice of the bag, bursts, and delivers its contents — its 
cargo of mucus, upon the free open surface. Fresh 
cells are generated at the farther extremity of the follicle 
(at the germinal spots), which repeat the duties of their 



THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE, AND SKIN. 17 

predecessors, fill themselves to repletion, fly to the orifice, 
where they are shattered, and their disintegrated life- 
less carcases are seen by the microscope carried onwards 
in the viscid stream. 

42. Knowing what we do of the excitability of secret- 
ing organs, we can readily conceive that this secretion is 
at the mercy of many influences, and may be excessive, 
scanty, or suppressed, viscid, puriform, or watery ; or 
may be charged with numerous unhealthy products. All 
the secretions of the body are thus carried on. Not a 
tear is shed, but large famihes of cells are engaged in 
its secretion, whose existence is sacrificed even before 
the tear is visible. 

43. But these cells have not only the power of in- 
creasing the structure of their own walls by interstitial 
growth, and of endosmosing certain fluids into their 
own bodies, but they have the faculty of selection, and 
whether it be the bile-cell, the milk-cell, the fat-cell, 
mucous-cell, or any other, that cell so employed with- 
draws from the blood those very elements only which are 
necessary to form its own appointed material ! In the 
healthy state these duties are performed with such un- 
deviating integrity and mathematical accuracy, that not 
only does it appropriate for its elaborating uses from the 
blood all the elements required, in unerring proportions, 
but no man can tell how many generations of cells may 
have been created, employed, and slain in a single second 
of time ! 

44. We are astonished when we contemplate the fact 
that a certain spring at Leamington contains invariably 



18 THE MUCOUS MEMBHANE, AND SKIN. 



3 



about a grain of iodine in every gallon of water 
it pours forth ; that other springs, some saline, others 
chalybeate, are charged with numbers of ingredients, 
possibly not differing throughout the year more than 
the slightest fraction in any of their numerous ingredi- 
ents. If we looked down in one of those wells and 
saw a perpetual succession of bottles coming up to its 
mouth laden with mineral water, splitting to pieces on 
the ground and pouring their contents on the land, 
what wonder would fill our minds at such a marvellous 
organization ! but we find that this well, its chemical 
waters and bottles, are all typical of a single mucous 
folUcle, and that there are myriads of them in a single 
square inch of membrane ! How beautifully appro- 
priate is the language of Galen : '* In explaining these 
things, I consider myself as composing a hymn to the 
Author of our bodily frame ; and in this I think there is 
more true piety than in offering to Him hecatombs oi' 
oxen, and burnt-offerings of the most costly perfumes." 
45. These operations, again, be it remembered, take 
place in every act of secretion, and in every organ oi* 
the animal economy. The same occur when the en- 
dosmosed contents of the cells are intended for growth, 
deposit, or repair ; whether for skin, flesh, fat, nails or 
bone, or for the removal of the refuse matter of the 
system. If these mucous cells are exposed to much 
evaporation, and their envelopes become dry, as in the 
skin, and often seen in the cracking lips, then endos- 
mosis is either much interrupted or defeated. If un- 
healthy matters are presented to the cells by the blood. 



THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE, AND SKIN. 19 

as lithic and other acids, to an injurious amount, or 
miasmatic or other poisonous matters, then they be- 
come embarrassed, refuse to act, and fearfully jeopar- 
dize the system. The poison of scarlatina acts thus on 
the kidneys, hence the frequent dropsy which happens 
in that disease. 

46. Again, the epithelial cells, offended by the ca- 
chectic state of the system, and the impurities presented 
to them in the blood, occasionally manifest their sense 
of the injuries done them, and will on their part collect 
substances of a most impure character, and present the 
poisonous products to innocent organs and tissues. 
Urinary calculi, gout-stones, tubercles, &c. are common 
illustrations. The muciperous (mucus-making) cells of 
the wind-pipe and air passages, are far more obnoxious 
to extraneous influences than almost any others ; they 
are never free from duty, or at rest. They are especially 
exposed to the action of the atmosphere, and all irri- 
tating matters floating therein, and are engaged in the 
perpetual secretion of mucus to moisten the air-tubes. 



C 2 



^ 



CHAPTER III. 



DIGESTION. 



47. Digestion is divided by authors into several 
stages, the first of which (mastication) commences in 
the mouth. The pecuharities of the molar teeth and 
the free action of the lower jaw, distinguish man from 
carnivora or herbivora. The teeth not only tear the 
food asunder and break up its texture, but mix up with 
it a suitable quantity of saliva and atmospheric air. 
The action of mastication is one of more importance 
than is usually supposed, but is well known to those 
who have unhappily lost their teeth, and others who 
bolt their food.* The mucus of the mouth is in a con- 
stant state of exudation, and is slightly alcaline. Its 
chief property appears to be the lubrication of the 
mouth and fauces. 

48. The saliva has duties of a far more important 
character. It is rapidly secreted by a person in health 
during a repast : " if the saliva predominates, the fluids 

* Jackson the pugilist used to say that he knew an infallible plan 
for making any child crooked : viz. let it bolt its victuals and stand on 
one leg. — Mayo's " Philosophy of Living." 

" Bolting food in children is generally owing either to a morbidly 



DIGESTION. 21 

of the mouth are acid : if mucus predominates, they 
have an alkaUne reaction." (Carpenter.) SaHva acts most 
usefully on farinaceous substances whilst in the mouth 
by converting them into dextrine and sugar, — a fact 
worth being remembered by nurses, who dose their 
infants with too much of that article.* 

49. The senses greatly control and aid the salivary 
secretion, (the " mouth-watering " of our youth) ; and 
as these senses are presided over by the mind, it follows 
that mental attention should be directed to the enjoy- 
ment of the meal. The Indians detect a thief by causing 
all the suspected persons to chew a portion, of rice and 
spit it on a leaf. The anxiety of the culprit arrests the 
flow of saliva, and the unmoistened rice detects the de- 
hnquent. Deprived as infants are of the power of ex- 
citing the salivary secretion by the auxiliary senses, 
Providence has compensated this privation by a most 
beautiful, yet simple contrivance. During the action 
of sucking, the buccinator and other muscles, together 
with the tongue press, by a series of undulating con- 
tractions, on the several salivary glands which surround 
the mouth, and squeeze, during every act of sucking, 
such a quantity of saliva from these glands, as may be 
necessary for this — the first step in the process of nu- 
trition. Infants fed with a spoon may, and often do, 

ravenous appetite, through unhealthy secretion of the stomach, to 
tender gums, or carious fee^A,— all of which may easil}' be relieved and 
the habit conquered." — " Surgeon's Vade Mecum," by Dr. Druitt. 

* Spallanzani found that aliment enclosed in perforated balls in the 
stomach, was more easily digested when previously mixed with 
saliva. 




22 DIGESTION. 

starve from actual innutrition ; but if they be fed by 
sucking the same food from a proper vessel, they imme- 
diately thrive and regain their health. 

50. Ptyaliney the active principle of saliva, has its 
solubility destroyed by alcohol, (pure spirits,) and is 
thus robbed of a property which renders it so valuable 
an agent in the business of digestion, and, as we shall 
presently see, the practice of dram-drinking before or 
during meals, is one of the most injurious character. 

5 1 . The stomach is an organ as remarkable for the 
mechanism of its construction, as it is for its patient 
endurance of the immensely laborious duties which are 
imposed upon it. This thin membranous bag is nu- 
merously supplied with nerves, veins, arteries, &c., and 
is lined with mucous membrane, copiously studded with 
mucous foUicles. It may be said to perform duties 
almost entitled to be called instinctive, if not intelligent. 
It advises you of its plenitude, emptiness, or dryness. 
It announces the presence of any offensive or indigestible 
matter : it has the power of revolving its contents, of 
secreting a powerful composition for dissolving them, 
as well as a viscid fluid for the protection of its own sur- 
face. It absorbs and carries away to the liver certain 
soluble matters by the endosmosis (sucking up power) 
of its veins ; and so cognizant is it of the necessities of 
the system, that the stomach only eliminates so much 
gastric juice as is sufficient to act on that exact amount 
of food, that the body is at that particular time, in 
need of.* 

* Blondlot says (Traite Analytique de la Digestion) " Gah'anism 



DIGESTION. 23 

52. The stomach and the brain exchange sympathies. 
A blow on the head readily produces vomiting ; and 
indigestion gives rise to much pain and disturbance in 
the brain. The eighth pair of nerves (the Pneumo- 
gastric) supply in their passage from the brain to the 
stomach certain parts in the throat, the heart, lungs, &c., 
and are the nerves which convey to the sensorium the 
impression of the condition of the stomach, and inform 
the brain of the state of hunger, thirst, and satiety. 
The sensation of thirst is experienced in the fauces, 
whilst the stomach is more especially the seat of priva- 
tion. A fluid slightly damping the mucous membrane 
of the throat, only temporarily relieves thirst, as is de- 
monstrated by the school-boy trick of putting a cold 
stone in the mouth, which by exciting the flow of saliva 
moistens the interior surface. Thirst is not actually 
relieved or removed, till fluid is carried into the circula- 
tion, either by the absorbing vessels of the stomach, or 
by injection into the veins. (See § 62.) Here then is 
seen a telegraphic line of communication between the 
stomach and interior of the throat. We now see how 
derangement of the stomach produces many fearful 
diseases, as crowing inspiration : why dyspepsia in in- 
fants causes " stomach coughs : " why new bread often 

even has not power to create or augment the flow of gastric juice, or 
to increase the muscular movements of the stomach, unless there is 
food in it to be acted on." 

Dr. Combe says, " The quantity of gastric fluid which the stomach 
is capable of secreting, always bears a direct relation to the amount of 
sustenance required by the system at the time." — Physiology of Diges- 
tion, p. 47. 



24 DIGESTION. 



m 



causes a choking sensation. The sympathies also be- 
tween the respiratory organs and stomach are observed 
in the sickness caused by inhaUng foetid odours, and 
the hurried breathing which accompanies the sense of 
nausea. This alHance also explains why the larynx 
should be dry and irritable when the stomach is so. We 
shall presently see that the continuity of the sheet of 
mucous membrane is much concerned in those disor- 
dered states of the interior of the larynx which accom- 
pany disturbed conditions of the stomach. 

53. The sensation of hunger can now be better com- 
prehended. Hunger is not relieved by a small quan- 
tity of food only, however nutritious ; but bulk is 
required to some extent, and for the purpose of exciting 
the elaboration of a satisfactory quantity of gastric juice, 
experience has shown the advantage of mixing with a 
scanty meal, even innutritious substances, in order to 
give it bulk and solidity. For if this be not done, the 
gastric juice is not poured forth in proper quantity, and 
the result is, that neither the sense of hunger is relieved, 
nor are the wants of the system satisfied. The Kams- 
chatdales are in the habit of mixing earth or saw-dust 
with the train-oil, on which alone they are frequently 
reduced to live. The Veddahs, or wild hunters of 
Ceylon, on the same principle mingle the pounded 
fibre of soft and decayed wood with the honey on which 
they feed, when meat is not to be had. 

54. The gastric juice is a very vague term, but it is 
one which Physiologists have applied to a peculiar se- 
cretion of the arteries of the stomach, and which takes 



DIGESTION. 25 

place according to the observations of Dr. Beaumont, 
in the case of Alexis St. Martin, only when food is in the 
stomach.* 

55. Its active principle is called Pepsine, a substance 
which appears not to be a solvent in itself, and only 
seems to act on food after the manner of heat, by soft- 
ening its structure. It is supposed to act like Ptyaline, 
as a ferment ;t and the atmospheric air introduced into 
the food by chewing, is believed to contribute to that 
fermentation. Herein may be some advantage in froth- 
ing our beverages — even water at our meals. 

56. But if pepsine is acidulated, it becomes a powerful 
solvent. Healthy gastric juice is secreted with an acid 
in its composition of precisely that strength or propor- 
tion which gives it the most solvent power ; and it is 
found that its digestive power is equally impeded, whe- 
ther the acid be deficient or in excess. There are great 
disputes as to the nature of this acid ; and the difficulty 
of procuring pure gastric juice (which is secreted only 
when food is present) has been a great impediment to 
chemists in determining its nature. Of all acids the 
hydro-chloric and lactic are proved to have the most 

* Alexis St. Martin, a young Canadian, eighteen years of age re- 
ceived a musket wound on June 6, 1822, which left an opening into 
his stomach capable of admitting the whole middle finger, through 
which all that was going on in his stomach could be actually seen and 
watched. — Experiments and observations on Gastric Juice and Diges- 
tion by Dr. W. Beaumont. 

+ Liebig says that saliva ferments farinaceous 'food, and gastric 
juice femients protein compounds (flesh) ; the first he calls fermenta- 
tion, the latter putrefaction. 




26 DIGESTION. 

solvent powers when mixed with pepsine ; and some 
contend that these two acids replace each other.* 

Dr. R. D. Thomson speaks with more confidence : f 
he says, ** The filtered liquid of the stomach contains no 
hydro -caloric acid, but an acid which is either lactic 
acid, or corresponds very closely with it." I may re- 
mark that the lactic is an acid which is abundantly 
secreted by the skin as well as in the system. 

57. Dr. Beaumont and others have shown that in- 
creased vascularity of the mucous membrane of the sto- 
mach causes an iricreased secretion of acid ; whereas a 
long-continued abuse or over-taxation of the digestive 
functions, causes an apathy of the secreting powers, 
diminished vascularity, and a deficient elaboration of 
acid. 

Let us examine two such cases. First, that of a 
young man suffering from irritation of the mucous 
membrane ; at dinner he takes a little soup and a glass 
of wine ; his face becomes flushed, his eyes glassy, his 
lips red, tongue florid — lake colour, with headache and 
giddiness, and rumbling uneasiness over the abdomen. 
If he takes more wine, beer, or other acid, his distress is 

* At an elevated temperature Hydro-chloric acid is obtained, but 
this is equally the effect of heating together chloride of sodium 
(table-salt usually found in the stomach) and lactic acid. 
Lactic acid -» r Lactic acid "j • . 

T'bk-l' {Sr """"^rS; I Lacta.eofsoda. 
Water i Oxygen j thus Chlorine ) into 

I Hydrogen J L Hydrogen ) Hydro-chloric acid. 

t On the food of animals, &c. p, 201 See also Todd and Bowman's 
Physiology. 



DIGESTION. • 27 

increased, his breathing becomes short, hot, and suffo- 
cative, and his taste very inaccurate and dull. Litmus 
paper placed in the mouth shows the greatest acidity ; 
and, in proof of the cause being an excessive secretion 
of acid in the stomach, a well proportioned dose of an 
alcah corrects the acid, and immediately quells all those 
symptoms, which may be renewed by again taking a 
small quantity of vegetable acid. Raking, excitement of 
society, rich, irritating, and improper food,* and in 
fact anything which excites the acidulous action of the 
mucous membrane, will lead to this distressing yet 
most easily curable malady. Females, from various 
causes, are especially liable to this form of dyspepsia. 
When a child is teething, or has a cold, the same acidi- 
fication takes place, and it rejects its milk curdled, and 
containing free lactic acid in great excess ; an alcali is 
known to be the remedy for its cure. 

58. We have seen that a florid tongue denotes arterial 
vascularity and acid secretiveness of the stomach. The 
sodden buff-leather tongue of the gourmand denotes a 
totally opposite condition. The stomach has lost its 
vascularity, its nervous energies, its secreting powers 
(particularly as regards the elimination of acid), and is 
now a mere distended bag. He takes brandy-bitters 
before dinner, to excite the vascularity of the stomach. 
The secretion of acidulated pepsine fails, digestion stands 
still, and he endeavours to compensate the absence of 
acid furnished by the stomach by taking them freely in 

* Dr. Bence Jones says *' Common salt promotes the secretion of 
acid by its irritation of the Mucous Membrane of the stomach." 




28 DIGESTION. 

his diet. His turtle-soup is washed down with acid 
punch ; he takes lemon-juice with his white-bait, cu- 
cumber-salad with his salmon, acid jelly with his veni- 
son, lemon, mint-sauce, apple-sauce, pickles, salads, 
&c., in abundance, and selects those wines which are 
characterized by their acidity. The secretion of acid 
by the mucous membrane of the stomach is further pro- 
voked by curries, spirits, olives, anchovy-toasts, and the 
hot spices. 

59. We now come to the following conclusions : — 

1. That an acid is necessary for the digestive process. 

2. That a quantity of acid, much below or exceeding 
the healthy standard, impedes or destroys the powers of 
digestion. 3. That irritation of the gastric mucous 
membrane excites an abnormal and injurious excess in 
one case, and a most scanty and strained contribution 
of acid in the other. That these respective opposite 
states are demonstrated on the tongue, and must exert 
a morbid influence on the whole sheet of mucous mem- 
brane. We may properly entitle one " the irritable or 
acid state," and the other the " leathery or acidless 
state." The nervous connection between the stomach 
and the larynx, shows how the local nerves of the latter 
may be the nestlings of stomach derangement. 

60. A few more remarks in reference to the gastric 

juice.* Temperature affects it much. Dr. Beaumont 

* Artificial digestive fluid. Take a bit of Mucous Membrane of 
the stomach of a pig, macerate it in distilled water for twelve hours at 
98" or 100°. Add diluted Hydrochloric Acid till the precipitate is 
redissolved. This is an acidulated solution of Pepsine in Water. 
(Todd and Bowman's Physiology). 



DIGESTION. 29 

discovered that, ** at a temperature of 115^ to 120^ F., 
the solvent power of gastric juice was destroyed, not to 
be regained by cooling ; though the temperature men- 
tioned had not, as far as science could detect, affected 
its other chemical qualities ; that a temperature much 
below 100^ had a similar effect. Pepsine is perfectly 
insoluble in warm water. These are facts which may 
interest persons who drink their tea very hot, and those 
who take ices whilst digestion is going on. 

61. I previously remarked on the salutary and in- 
fluential action of the mind on the flow of the saliva ; 
the same observations apply, but with much more force 
and importance, to the process of digestion. That di- 
gestion should proceed properly, and in a manner bene- 
ficial and comfortable to the individual, it is necessary 
that the nervous influence should be devoted, as much 
as possible, to that process. That the appetite should, 
by its exalted gratification> direct to the several secre- 
tions the fullest share of mental assistance ; on the other 
hand, the abstraction of nervous energy by reading or 
profound thought, impedes digestion, and in men of 
business occasionally entirely interrupts it. Reading a 
newspaper at breakfast impedes weak digestion. Com- 
mercial or literary men, and others who actively employ 
their mental faculties on a full breakfast, suddenly per- 
haps, divert the nervous action from the stomach, di- 
gestion flags and stops, the aliment taken causes gastric 
irritation ; giddiness, fainting, and numbness ensue, and 
the sufferer believes himself to have been threatened with 
a fit. He goes through the operations of cupping, 




30 ' DIGESTION. 

purging, and starvation very needlessly ; and 
weak and sickly, more ifrom the effects of the mal- 
treatment than of the malady. The expenditure or 
employment of nervous influence during digestion, is 
exceedingly improper, and may entail much constitu- 
tional distress and functional disturbance.* Dr. Cald- 
well says, " Dyspepsia commences in the brain as often 
as it does in the stomach." The merry conversation 
which leads to hearty laughter, like moderate exercise, 
churns up the contents of the stomach, and tends to 
rub up some nervous energy. Hence gourmands rarely 
like to dine alone, and why my Lord Mayor's fool was 
retained as a digester. So important to my subject is 
the consideration of these secretions, and their uses, 
that I have dwelt upon them at some length. 

62. We will now suppose that a meal has been taken 
of flesh meat, boiled greens, and rice (farina), with a 
moderate quantity of water. The vegetable matter first 
finds its way through the lower (pyloric) aperture of 
the stomach into the first bowel (the duodenum). 
Fatty and farinaceous matters follow. The animal sub- 
stances remain in the stomach, to be acted upon by the 
gastric juice, and then are called chyme. The arteries 
of the stomach having secreted gastric juice, &c., the 
veins are in a better condition for sucking in fluids. 
They actively endosmose water and such soluble mat- 
ters as are of less density than the blood itself (of lower 
sp. gravity than 1055), also alcohol, gum, salts, sugar, 

* Delicate children should not make too hearty a breakfast, nor 
study after dinner. 



DIGESTION. 31 

and water, all of which are conveyed direct to the liver 
for assimilation. 

63. The lower (pyloric) orifice is surrounded by a 
ring of muscular fibres, called a sphincter, which stops 
the passage of offensive matter into the duodenum ; and 
if the intrusive material becomes importunate and re- 
peats its application for passage through the portal, a 
retrovertent action rejects it by vomiting. Occasionally, 
in a more torpid state, the pylorus permits coins, but- 
tons, &c. to steal a march, and pass into the bowels. 

64. The vegetable matter is supposed to have arrived 
in the duodenum and is moving forward, its soluble 
portion being absorbed as it slowly progresses along the 
intestinal tube. Its lignine (woody fibre) completing 
the whole route of the bowels as seen in herbivora. 

6d. To return to the duodenum ; fat and farina (all 
kinds of flour or corn-seeds) are here acted on by the 
bile and pancreatic juice. Fatty and oily matters are 
saponified (converted into soap) by the combined action 
of these two fluids. What amount of credit is due to 
either of them has not yet been determined. Pancreatic 
juice consists of the alcaline salts of potassa largely di- 
luted with water, which confers solubility on various 
substances which arrive here. Bile consists chiefly of 
choleic acid and soda, (an alcaline choleate of soda) 
bili-verdine, &c. That the pancreatic fluid is much 
concerned in the process of saponification, is evident 
from the fact that when oil-globules, or fatty matter 
continue to appear in the foeces, the pancreas is inva- 
riably found to be diseased. 



32 DIGESTION. 

66. Both fluids assist in neutralizing the acidity given 
to thQ food in the stomach, and by making them al- 
caline, they again become soluble. The pancreatic fluid 
acts on all farinacious food, by converting it first into a 
soluble gum (dextrine) and afterwards into sugar. The 
soap and sugar are picked up by the lacteals for im- 
portant purposes hereafter. The chyme (acidulated 
animal food) now arrives, and is divided by the action 
described into two portions, chyle and refuse ; the for- 
mer enters the lacteals, and the supply of nutriment is 
at length completed. 

67. The functions of the bile may thus be summed 
up: — 1. It assists in alcalizing the chyme. 2. It 
saponifies fat. 3. It aids the lungs in removing car- 
bon and hydrogen from the system.* 4. It separates 
chyle from refuse. 5. It is an aperient,f antiseptic and 
emetic, and stimulates the secretion of mucus. The 
quantity of bile secreted in 24 hours is variously esti- 
mated at 1 7 to 24 ounces ; a very small portion passes 
oif in defaecation, (a 34th part of the whole) ; the rest is 
reabsorbed, and having undergone a second assimila- 
tion is burnt in the system in support of animal warmth 
and respiration ; but if bile gets into the system not 
secondarily assimilated, then the shivering emaciation 
and constipation of jaundice proclaim its poisonous in* 

* In Phthisis, the liver becomes fatty from over supply of Carbon, 
owing to the incompetency of the lungs. In hot climates, it is congested 
and indolent from the skin performing extra duties. 

f Hence the use of Ox Gall suggested as an aperient in liver com- 
plaints. 



DIGESTION. 33 

fluence. Schwann tied the bile-duct of a dog and drew 
off the bile by an external orifice ; the dog died of 
emaciation. Another he permitted to lick the bile 
trickling from the wound ; he lived and flourished. The 
excretion of bile is supposed to be excited by food in 
the bowels, for if a man dies of starvation, the gall- 
bladder is found invariably to be full. 

The following substances being insoluble in the sto- 
mach, proceed into the duodenum, to be acted upon by 
the pancreatic fluid and bile. 

1 . Starch, converted into sugar. 

2. Oil and fat ,, ,, soap. 

3. Resin, salts, lignine. 

. /' Albumen ^ converted into a pecu- 

J Fibrine V liar form of albu- 

Compounds in- I 

^ l^ Caseme J men. 

5. Gelatine. 
69. The absorption of these materials from the duo- 
denum is performed by small finger-like prolongations 
of the mucous membrane called villi (about thirty-six 
to the square line), the exact antitheses of the follicles. 
Let a small quill, surrounded by a few bloodvessels, and 
covered with leather, represent a lacteal tube (so called 
from containing milky-looking chyle) and mucous mem- 
brane. Sprinkle this with the finest gravel representing 
epithelial cells, and you have a complete illustration of 
a villus. The cells elect and endosmose the chyle into 
their interior ; this they present to the villus where it is 
eudosmosed into the lacteal, which has no open mouth 
or other communication with the contents of the bowel. 

D 



34 DIGESTION. 

The cells, having performed this duty, are sacrificed as 
in the folhcle. Professor Goodsir says that the disinte- 
grated cells are seen in great abundance during active 
digestion. 

70. This proceeding is termed by Dr. Prout primary 
assimilation ; and were it not for another process taking 
place termed secondary assimilation, sugar taken as food 
would create perpetual diabetes, and the white of an 
egg would engender that fearful disease, albuminuria. 
(B right's disease). Sugar and albumen injected into 
the systemic circulation are readily traceable in the 
urine.* 

7 1 . Of the shape of the stomach, little need be said, 
except that in the infant it is scarcely more than a bent 
tube, whereas in advanced life it becomes pouched and 
distended. The former shape makes vomiting a very easy 
aifair — the latter a very painful one. An adult has an 
advantage, not of much value, — that he can eat, drink, 
swallow, and retain his food in the stomach if turned 
upside down — his head on the ground and his feet in 
the air. 

72. That a fermentive process takes place in the 
digestive organs, seems to be corroborated by the pre- 
sence of those gases which distend the intestinal canal. 
If that tube was collapsed, the secretions (pancreatic, 
bilious, and mucous) would be blocked up — no peri- 
staltic action could forward the contents ; a stoppage 
(perpetual constipation) would ensue ; a slight concus- 
sion would be unendurable and destructive under several 

* Carpenter's Physiology, § 493. 



DIGESTION. 35 

conditions : the large vessels would be compressed by 
the presence of food, and tight stays could no longer 
be worn, as no abdominal action could take place in aid 
of respiration. Combe says : * ** Air injected in large 
quantities has been successfully employed in overcoming 
obstinate constipation." The bowels, five times the 
length of the body, (Bell,) secrete pepsine and possess 
absorbents in a gradually diminishing number through- 
out the Intestines. t Lavements of nutritious fluids are 
therefore of more value than is usually attributed to them. 

73. It may be worth while remembering that when 
bark and mineral acids are administered, the tannin of 
the former precipitates gelatine, and the mineral acids 
render albumen insoluble. As these two animal sub- 
stances are secreted by mucous membranes, occasional 
intervals of repose and purgation should be alternated 
with the administration of the medicine. The absorp- 
tion of chyle is therefore arrested by this albuminous plas- 
ter, which in a congealed state forms the nidus of worms. 

The acid of the stomach renders insoluble all animal 
substances. If there is little or no bile in the Duode- 
num to assist in alcalizing it, then the whole acidulated 
mass is forwarded through the bowels, producing the 
irritation peculiar to acids. Under such circumstances 
alcalies should be cautiously administered after a meal 
to compensate its loss ; for the absorption of nutriment 
is also thus much interfered with. 

* Combe on Digestion, p. 184-5. 

+ Dr. R. D. Thomson says (op. cit. p. 36) " The colon in a natural 
state contains water," — a circumstance which explains the action of 
certain medicines. 

D 2 



CHAPTER IV. 

KESPIRATION. 

74. Respiration is that process by which carbonic 
acid and water are discharged from the circulation of 
the blood, having performed certain important duties 
in the animal economy, and at length become oifensive 
and oppressive. 

75. A large blood-vessel (the aorta) arising from the 
left side of the heart, diffuses arterial blood over the 
whole body. This fluid is not only laden with fresh 
alimentary matters imported into the system in food, 
but it contains oxygen in a liquid and solid form, and 
all the elements required for every purpose of forma- 
tion, growth, secretion and repair. It contains iron in 
a high state of oxidization (the peroxide, 2 parts of iron, 
and 3 of oxygen) for not only has iron a great affinity 
for oxygen, as is seen in its readily rusting in the open 
air, but animal organization confers on that and other 
substances a power of combination with oxygen, which 
is not possessed by them under ordinary circumstances. 

76. The arteries ramify over every part of the body, 
and end in microscopically minute tubes, (capillaries, 
from capilla, a hair) which terminate the arterial stream ; 
the return current is taken up by a continuation of 



IIESPIRATION. 37 

those tubules now called capillary veins, which uniting 
and reuniting into large trunks, convey the blood to the 
right side of the heart, and this completes the systemic 
circulation. From thence the two pulmonary arteries 
carry the blood into the lungs for purification ; whence 
it is returned to the left side of the heart for re-distribu- 
tion ; this is denominated the pulmonary circulation. 

77. The structure of the respiratory organs is easily 
comprehensible. The gristly windpipe bifurcates into 
two smaller ones (henceforth called bronchi, or bronchial 
tubes) shortly after diving into the chest. By repeated 
arborescent subdivisions, the bronchi are distributed 
over every part of the lungs. Each cartilaginous bron- 
chial tube is accompanied by an artery, two veins, 
nerves, &c. and terminates in a bulbous expansion 
termed a pulmonary cell ;* which, microscopically 
small in itself, is surrounded by the finest net-work of 
blood-vessels which penetrate its membranous structure, 
and by exosmosis blow off carbonic acid and water. The 
blood now endosmoses oxygen, and having thus dis- 
charged its noxious ingredients, and possessed itself of 
a new supply of oxygen, is said to be oxidized or 
arterialized. 

78. The minute bronchial tubes are believed to possess 
muscular fibres, and this supposition is confirmed by 
the fact, that in spasmodic asthma, the extreme bronchi 

* Pulmonary cells have no Epithelium, but have the other la3^ers 
of Mucous Membrane. 

Lieberkiihn estimates the extent of the Membrane which form the 
minute vesicular cells of the lungs at 1400 square feet. 




38 , RESPIKATION. 

are spasmodically contracted, and those remedies only 
are efficacious which are known to relieve spasm. 

79. The patient is by these means enabled to cough 
up irritating mucus, by a power which is too easily 
exhausted ; for the sensibility of the bronchial nerves 
is speedily diminished, as we see in the coughs and 
bronchial affections of old persons. In these cases the 
pulmonary cells and smaller tubes become filled with 
viscid mucus ; the bronchial nerves now deficient in 
sensibility have no longer sufficient energy to support 
tussive action, and aggravated difficulty of breathing 
ensues. The cough is incessant, and being confined to 
the larger bronchi, is fruitless in its endeavours to get 
up the sputa. Now it must be clear, that as opium 
can only further depress the excito-motory influence of 
the bronchial nerves and lessen muscular action as well 
as inspissate the viscid secretion, opiates must be in- 
jurious. This pathological state teaches us that if we 
strengthen the muscular fibres of the bronchial tubes, 
invigorate the sensibility and power of their nerves, 
correct the viscidity and any acidity of the morbid 
secretion, we accomplish all we desire. It should be 
borne in mind in such cases, that if we stop the cough, 
we stop the pump. The sesqui-carb. of ammonia taken 
internally, and brandy applied externally,* together with 
appropriate diet, will act as panacese. 

80. The larynx is protected at its summit by an over- 

* To the chest and face, for the fifth pair of nerves are largely con- 
nected with the function of respiration, as witnessed in sponging and 
fanning the face of a fainting person. 



N 



i 



RESPIRATION. 39 

hanging flap (the epiglottis) from intrusive matter. In 
something less than an inch below, a considerable ex- 
pansion of the tube is called the pelvis, or vocal cham- 
ber, situated within the projecting cartilaginous box (the 
pomum adami) so prominent in men. A sudden con- 
traction of the floor of the chamber forms a chink or 
fissure called the rima-glottidis. The whole is lined 
with mucous membrane, an extension from that of the 
mouth and fauces. The mucous membrane of the 
larynx is the seat of the most exalted sensibility ; every 
one knows the convulsive eff'ect of a venturesome crumb, 
or the inhalation of ammonia, or chlorine, any of which 
set powerfully in action the expulsive eff'orts of the 
muscles situated in the base of the larynx. The great 
pneumo-gastric (lung and stomach) nerves send off on 
either side a superior laryngeal nerve conferring the 
faculty of sensation, and an inferior or recurrent lar- 
yngeal nerve bestowing motive power. The one 
announces the presence of ofl'ensive matter, and the 
other causes its expulsion. 

A most important alliance is therefore established 
between the stomach and the larynx, which leaves us at 
no loss to account for the translation of morbid action 
from the stomach to the larynx (as in the crowing in- 
spiration of infants) ; for the sufl'ocative sensations 
produced by new bread and other indigestible articles ; 
for vomiting, arising from inhaling fetid vapours 
and gases ; and for the metastasis of diseased actions 
from the mucous membrane of the stomach to that of 
the larynx. 



40 RESPIRATION. 

82. The respiratory actions which take place in the 
human body are not only interesting in themselves, but 
most important in reference to the subject under con- 
sideration. 

83. If oxygen and hydrogen gases are placed together 
in a glass vessel, they mingle only, remain still gaseous, 
and do not chemically unite to form water at the ordi- 
nary temperature of the atmosphere ; but if hydrogen 
gas be highly heated or deflagrated in the presence of 
oxygen, then these elements combine with an explo- 
sion ; an immense amount of heat is generated, and the 
product is pure water. The same facts apply (with 
change of products) to carbon, whose combustion re- 
sults in carbonic acid. 

These combinations take place in one fixed proportion 
only, from which they never differ. 

1 part of oxygen (by measure) and 1 of hydrogen 
form water. 

2 parts of oxygen (by measure) and 1 of carbon form 
carbonic acid. 

84. The vital organization dispenses with the obliga- 
tions of a preliminary high degree of heat (§ 75), and 
permits them to combine at the temperature of the in- 
terior of the body. But the combination causes the 
production of heat, and a perfect but slow combustive 
process takes place. 

These two materials, therefore, hydrogen and carbon, 
being actually burnt in the circulation, warm the body ; 
and all such food as contains them to a considerable 
extent, is very properly called by Liebig the fuel of the 
system. 




RESPIRATION. 41 

85. Through the highly-attenuated walls of the ca- 
pillaries, these changes take place ; by these terminal 
vessels also the true business part of the circulation is 
transacted ; to them are due the various secretions, as 
well as the growth and repair of all the organs and tis- 
sues in the body. 

86. The arterial blood surrenders its oxygen to the 
purposes of supporting combustion, and the new pro- 
ducts, carbonic acid and water, are conveyed by the 
veins to the lungs for purification. The iron has parted 
with its peroxide, and, from combining with carbonic 
acid, is now become a proto-carbonate of iron. 

87. It may be interesting to state, that an ordinary- 
sized person inhales on each occasion from 15 to 16 
cubic inches of atmospheric air.* That the air can 
only hold in solution 10 per cent of carbonic acid. 
That as that proportion prevents the further exhalation 
of carbonic acid gas and the inspiration of fresh oxygen, 
suffocation must ensue (Lavoisier and Seguin). Brewers' 
vats, wells, and the Grotto del Cano in Spain, are in- 
stances of excess of carbonic acid gas, more than can be 
held in solution in the atmosphere. 

88. The purposes then of taking hydrogen and car- 

* The constituents of the air are easily investigated. 

Carbonic acid is abstracted by caustic Potash which absorbs more 
than 100 times its volume of carbonic acid ; therefore the loss of a 
slow current of dry air shews the amount of carbonic acid, —the weight 
of air having previously been ascertained. 

Oxygen is absorbed by red hot copper. Dry air passed over red 
hot copper filings in a tube loses all its oxygen. 

Nitrogen is known to be the residue. (Dumas.) 




42 RESPIRATION. 

bon in our diet, are chiefly that they may furnish a 
supply for the purposes of combustion ; an (T the objects 
to be gained are the equable generation of animal heat 
throughout the system ; and secondly, a supply of 
water for purposes relating to osmosis and respira- 
tion. % 

89. Leibig has, with his usual felicity, compared the 
body to a furnace, and the lungs to its fire-place. Bear- 
ing in mind the fact that carbon can only combine with 
double its measure of oxygen, to form carbonic acid — 
neither more nor less ; — and that hydrogen can only 
combine with its equal measure of oxygen to form water ; 
it follows that the quantity of carbon and hydrogen 
which can be consumed must depend on the quantity 
of oxygen inhaled. Combustion is therefore accelerated 
or impeded, according to the quantity of oxygen ad- 
mitted into the system. 

90. The reason now becomes manifest why broad- 
chested persons demand most respiratory food ; why 
the butcher selects a narrow-chested ox for fattening ; 
and why the dairyman chooses a narrow-chested milch- 
cow. 

This may have much to do with the reason why 
narrow and pigeon-chested people are often phthisical. 
The chest-bound lungs are obliged to respire not only 
more frequently but more laboriously. The lower 
lobes of the lungs expand the more freely, owing to the 
space aiforded by the expansion of the walls of the 
abdominal cavity ; whilst the upper lobes, comparatively 
inactive from their imprisonment, offer a genial and 



EESPIRATION. 43 

undisturbed residence for the tubercular deposits of 
phthisis. Liebig believes that " Phthisis is the result 
of an excess of oxygen in the blood, which consumes its 
material and texture." That oxygen exercises a power- 
ful influence on phthisis is undoubted, and seems also 
probable from the value of remedies abounding in hy- 
drogen and carbon. 

91. The materials necessary for respiration are nu- 
tritious food and oxygen. Lavoisier computed the an- 
nual consumption of oxygen at 746 pounds ; Menzies 
calculated it at 837 pounds. Lavoisier and Seguin 
state that 32y ounces of oxygen are daily consumed by 
the skin and lungs. 

92. Oxygen is taken up by the blood corpuscles in a 
fluid and solid state, — indeed in the lowest state of 
combination. The fluid part of the chyle which is en- 
dosmosed into the blood corpuscles contains much iron ; 
both these stores deliver their oxygen in the capillaries, 
for the purposes of combustion ; and the amount of heat 
generated by the union of carbon and hydrogen with 
oxygen, is found by direct experiment to be exactly of 
the same degree, as though hydrogen and carbon were 
burnt in a suitable apparatus, and a certain quantity of 
water was heated. 

93. The quantity of oxygen gas inspired exceeds the 
bulk of carbonic acid gas exhaled. As the only other 
combustibles found in the body are sulphur, phosphorus, 
and hydrogen, and as the two former are consumed 
very sparingly, it would be presumed a priori that the 
excess was demanded for combination with the hydro- 



44 RESPIRATION. 



n 



gen — and such is the fact. Hybernating animals, who 
exist on their stock of fat, exhale in carbonic acid and 
secrete in fluid exactly their loss of fat (§ 100). 

94. " Blood, when agitated with air, takes up more 
than one-tenth of its own volume of oxygen ; and this 
gas may be very nearly entirely expelled by agitation 
with carbonic acid. When blood saturated with car- 
bonic acid is agitated with air, carbonic acid is displaced, 
and in its stead oxygen is taken up, which, in like 
manner, may be again expelled by carbonic acid." * 

The excess of oxygen taken into the arterial blood 
does not invalidate the law, that oxygen and carbonic 
acid mutually displace each other, and that the inhaled 
oxygen must bear relation to the quantity of carbonic 
acid expired ; for the latter contains one measure of 
carbon only in three of its volume. 

95. The balk of inspired and exhaled gases being 
presumed to be constant, the receipt and expenditure of 
gases can only be increased by more frequent respira- 
tions, and the chief causes of their frequency are fever, 
radiation of heat (external cold), vaporization (perspir- 
ation), and preternatural dryness of climate. If 15 to 
20 "respirations per minute exhale a certain quantity of 
carbonic acid gas and moisture, 30 to 40 respirations 
per minute will suggest the multiple, and the increased 
expenditure of the resources of the system. A high 
state of fever is truly said to be consuming, and the fre- 
quent respirations of incipient phthisis too fearfully illus- 
trate rapid emaciation. 

* Liebig's Letters on Chemistry, p. 332. 



RESPIRATION. 45 

96. The temperature of the blood is the same (98^) 
in all climates, and this degree of warmth is maintained 
in all vicisitudes of seasons and regions of the globe ; 
whether, as at Palermo, the surrounding temperature is 
nearly equal to the body, or in the polar regions, where 
the temperature is from 70 to 90 degrees lower than 
that of the human system. The inhabitants of the 
arctic circle and natives of the south both enjoy the same 
internal warmth ! 

97. A quicker combustion and greater expenditure of 
fuel are necessary, when the circumambient air is much 
below the temperature of the body. Therefore a supply 
must be kept up by such aliment (and that to a liberal 
extent) as is rich in carbon and hydrogen. 

98. Fat and oils contain from 77 to 80 per cent of 
carbon, and about 1 1 per cent of hydrogen ; circum- 
stances which point them out as a peculiarly eligible 
diet for those exposed to the extreme degrees of cold. 
What chemistry suggests, nature has anticipated and 
realized. The Samoyedes fish and hunt nearly naked, 
and *• consume with ease 10 or 12 pounds of fat and a 
pound of tallow candles into the bargain." — (Liebig's 
Letters.) The Esquimaux and Greenlanders eat 20 or 
30 pounds of blubber at a meal. In whatever manner 
our bodies are cooled, an increased quantity of fuel is 
consumed, and an additional supply of respiratory food 
is required to sustain the laws of animal heat. 

99. Exposure to the air in an open carriage, or on 
the deck of a ship, create an appetite, by increasing 
vaporization and the radiation of heat. The tempera- 



46 RESPTTIATION. 



or food 



ture of the body is lessened, and the necessity for 
is increased. Copious draughts of cold water, drank 
perhaps at a temperature of 65° and vaporised at 98^-, 
act in a similar manner. 

100. Clothing is a preservative of temperature and 
an economizer of nourishment ; and it might- fairly be a 
question with the benevolent as to whether coals, fat, 
or clothing would in the best and cheapest manner 
maintain the animal warmth of the poor in winter. 
Clothing is therefore to a large extent an equivalent for 
food ; we cool less, and the amount of heat to be fur- 
nished to keep up the natural standard, is diminished. 
Those who fatten cattle know well the value of external 
warmth. 

Nature abounds in instances of quantities of fat {fuel 
in reality) being stored up in animals for the starva- 
tion of winter, or a day of privation. The hunches of 
camels, the fat tails of Cape sheep, are illustrations ; so 
is the Beccafico, which is so much esteemed in Italy, 
and if killed in winter is found to be " a lump of fat." 
Martell * relates that a fat pig buried beneath an ava- 
lanche of earth lived 1 60 days without food, and was 
found to have diminished in weight in that time 1 20 
pounds. Hybernating animals are similarly protected. 
Lucky therefore is the individual, who, in a day of ad- 
versity and famine can draw upon so fortunate a com- 
missariat, to battle with the giant consumer oxygen ! 
All farinaceous and fatty food not consumed in the sys- 
tem, is stored up as /a? in the animal economy. 

* Trans: Linn : Soc: Vol. xi. page 411. 



IIESPIRATION. 47 

101. In very hot rooms, the equable temperature of 
the blood is threatened with violation ; the air being 
rarified, less oxygen is consumed, and less heat there- 
fore generated in the system. The venous system be- 
comes loaded, difficulty of breathing ensues ; and but for 
the burst of perspiration and its cooling effect, a variety 
of sequelae might endanger the system. Those dancers 
who leave a hot ball-room to cool in an open corridor, or 
on an exposed terrace, must beware how they paralyze or 
interrupt the safety-valve and action of the skin, and 
engorge the respiratory organs ; also, how they take 
ices, and suddenly arrest the protective secreting actions 
of the skin and mucous membrane. Many a healthy 
person invokes self-immolation by committing these vio- 
lent acts of imprudence. 

102. Liebig felicitously compares the system to clock- 
work, and that respiration is its pendulum ; indeed the 
truth is self-apparent, for if we ascertain the weight of 
air expired, and count the number of respirations, we 
may calculate to some nicety the amount of aliment posi- 
tively required and consumed in the twenty-four hours. 

103. Not only does the surrounding temperature 
regulate our bodily furnaces by supplying expanded air 
in hot weather and condensed air in cold weather ; and 
in the latter, possibly doubling the amount of oxygen 
in each inspiration ; but the Great Author of nature 
presents to the inhabitants of cold climates, blubber, 
oil, &c. containing 80 per cent of carbon, and to those 
living in hot climates, fruits, &c. not exceeding 12 per 
cent of carbon. 



48 RESPIRATION. 



m 



104. Passive respiration is supported by the 
diet alluded to ; but exercise draws additionally upon the 
resources of the system. Every movement, every mus- 
cular effort is proved to be attended with the explosion 
of minute atoms of muscular matter or substance. Part 
of its composition, the carbon, unites with oxygen and 
becomes an additional source of animal heat and respi- 
ration. A man running, therefore, not only consumes 
the ordinary quantity and kind of fuel, but adds the 
decomposition of muscular fibre to that heat so gene- 
rated, and to the amount of gases exhaled. A copious 
perspiration lends its aid under the embarrassment, and 
rids the system of a great portion of hydrogen (as wa- 
ter) ; and thus cools the internal heat by rapid evapo- 
ration.* 

105. A humble bee was incarcerated in a bell glass, 
and being in constant activity during the excitement of 
capture, he produced in a single hour one-third of a 
cubic inch of carbonic acid gas. On the succeeding 
day he was at comparative rest, and generated in twenty- 
four hours a less quantity of carbonic acid.f 

Animals, in a menagerie, move rapidly up and down ] 
their cages to promote the disintegration of effete tissues. 
Carnivorous animals consume more oxygen than those 
who live on farinaceous food, , and keep up respiration 
almost entirely at the expense of the fleshly tissues. 

* If the atmosphere is charged with moisture, this evaporation is 
obstructed, — hence the distress of asthma, and the feebleness of horses 
in autumn when the perspiration is condensed on their coats. 
t Carpenter's Manual of Physiology, § 645- 



KESPIRATION. 49 

Great muscular exercise is necessary to disintegrate the 
animal fabric ; not only for the purpose of removing 
obsolete matter, and of generating warmth, but to per- 
petuate that motion and molecular force which is, most 
probably, intimately associated with the continuation of 
vitality. (§110.) Indeed, the nitrogenous compounds 
would soon accumulate in the body, and exert their 
well-known toxical effects on the system. Voracity is 
the impulse of those beasts of prey who inhabit the 
arctic regions : infinitely exceeding those of the torrid 
zone. How comparatively inert and docile are the 
herbivora. 

106. Much of moral induction may be drawn from 
these details. Those who live in indolence and consume 
largely of animal food, become loaded with lithic acid, 
urea and other azotic impurities ; are assailed with gout, 
local pains, rheumatism, skin and organic renal affections, 
which make the life of such persons one of perpetual 
misery ; and singular enough, although the physician can 
see and point out the mode of certain cure, I scarcely ever 
have been able to induce such patients to abandon the 
indulgences of the table. Recommend such persons 
farinaceous diet for a month, with light albuminous food 
only and barley water ! and they will either revoltingly 
refuse to comply with your advice, or clandestinely eat 
roast goose on a fast-day, and call it fish ! '* Doctor 
so-and-so could not cure me," (is a common expression ; 
but it should be added) '* though I confess I paid no 
respect to his dictation." None but homoeopaths can 
enforce compliance with such minute matters I 

E 



50 RESPIEATION. 



^ 



107. It may be stated as a fact, that " in cold cli- 
mates, air strives to consume the body." By gratifying 
the appetite thus excited, we obtain the most efficient 
protection against the most piercing cold. A starving 
man is speedily frozen to death. 

The exercise of loud and long continued singing or 
reading, and the crying of infants, exert a decided and 
appreciable influence on the amount of food taken. 
Here let me highly extol those capital little exercising 
machines, " Baby jumpers," for the same reasons. 

108. Anymore minute manner in which the atomic 
combination of oxygen with hydrogen and carbon take 
place, we are unable further to explain. Yet some spon- 
taneous combustions aid us with a little light. If fat 
or oil is distributed over a surface of woollen cloth, 
oxygen is rapidly absorbed, and so much heat is gene- 
rated as to occasionally set them on fire. 

Surface has much to do with oxidization, therefore 
also with the phenomena connected with respiration, an 
advantage which must be possessed by the capillaries 
to an extraordinary extent, for the point of the finest 
needle cannot enter the spot of skin where blood-vessels 
are not distributed, 

109. It may now be readily gathered that if the 
supply of hydrogen and carbon should flag, that other 
proceedings must take place. The fatty substances 
being consumed, the progress of starvation proceeds. 
The muscles shrink and soften, the fleshy tissues suc- 
cumb, " towards the end, the particles of the brain be- 
gin to undergo oxidization and delirium, mania and death 
close the scene." — (Liebig.) 



RESPIRATION. 51 

110. Perpetual molecular change is the moving spring 
of life. Berthollet and Laplace laid down a law, that 
** an atom or molecule put in motion by any power what- 
ever, may communicate its own motion to another atom 
in contact with it." Atoms of various kinds have their 
allotted residence in the body ; they perform the func- 
tions assigned them, and depart to make room for 
others. As long as this series of actions takes place 
harmoniously, health is maintained ; but whatever dis- 
turbs the regularity of these proceedings opens the door 
to disease of an acute or chronic character, according to 
the presiding circumstances. Liebig says, " Disturbed 
respiration is the end of all chronic diseases." 

Every atom of the body obeys the law of deposit, 
decay, and removal after the appointed term of its ex- 
istence. The demolition of muscular and nervous 
matter is much expedited by exertion. 

111. All organized bodies are liable to decay (erema- 
eausis), and their chief product is carbonic acid and 
water. Unhealthy plants give out more carbonic acid 
than they gain by fixation from the atmosphere. A 
very simple experiment will be a fit conclusion to these 
observations. If a small piece of decayed wood be placed 
in a closed bottle with a known quantity of oxygen and 
hydrogen gases, these gases will be found after a time 
to be diminished in the exact proportion to form water, 
and the wood will be discovered to have gained that 
additional weight of moisture. 



E2 




CHAPTER V. 



THE SKIN, — PEUSPIRATION. 



112. Perspiration performs manifold duties which 
are strongly correlative to those of the gastro-pulmonary 
mucous membrane. Its anatomical structure has already 
been described, (§ 36) and it now remains for us to 
consider those functions which relate to the excretory 
relief of the system. 

The perspiratory apparatus consists of spirally twisted 
tubes of very minute, yet beautiful construction. They 
pierce the several layers of the skin, and terminate in 
small oval or globular glands, situated in the deepest 
cutaneous structure. 

These tubes are lined with prolongations of the epi- 
dermis, which dip down and form their interior lining 
or sheath. Now when a blister is formed, the lining of 
the perspiratory duct is drawn out of its canal, hangs 
down like a sleeve, and acts as a long flapping valve. 
The pressure of the contained fluid effectually prevents 
any exudation. The fact of a blistered epidermis being 
impervious to fluid, led formerly to grave doubts as to 
the nature, and even the existence of perspiratory pores 
in the scarf-skin. 



THE SKIN, — PERSPIEATION. 



53 



1 13, The products of perspiration are elaborated by 
the perspiratory and sebaceous glands, whereby the sys- 
tem is relieved of various matters, which, having per- 
formed certain beneficial services in the animal economy, 
are now become effete and injurious. It is truly stated 
that the skin and kidneys purify the arterial blood, 
whilst the lungs and liver remove the impurities of the 
venous blood. 

Dr. Dalton fed an individual for some time on a daily 
allowance of 91 ounces of food, and he found the duties 
of the several organs interested, to have been performed 
by the following excretions : 



Urine - 

Lungs - 
Skin 

Faeces - 



Water secreted. 
45^ oz. 
20A„ 

3|„ 
76 oz. 



Solids secreted. 

31 oz. 

10} „ 

4 »' 
11 



Total egested. 
4U oz. 

5 ,, 



15 oz. 



91 



Other physiologists have arrived at different conclu- 
sions. Lavoisier and Seguin estimated the exhalation 
of the skin at 8 grains in a minute, giving a total equal 
to 33 ounces in 24 hours. Simon says that the skin 
exhales in 24 hours about 5 scruples of organic matter, 
and 4 scruples of saline, and about 33 ounces of water. 
Recollecting the infinite number and variety of dis- 
turbing causes which affect the cutaneous action, as re- 
gards the quantity and quality of its secretion, it is not 
to be wondered that every observer should have arrived 
at a different computation. 

114. The emunctorial powers of the skin must ex- 



54 THE SKIN, — PERSPIRATION. 

ceed all imagination ; and I shall here quote Mr. Eras- 
mus Wilson, as to the amount of duties performed by 
this vast organ.* He estimates the perspiratory pores 
or orifices, on an average, at 2,800 the square inch. 
Each tube being about a quarter of an inch long, it fol- 
lows that in a square inch there is a length of 700 
inches. Now the number of square inches of surface, 
in a man of ordinary bulk and height, being about 
2500, the number of perspiratory pores are therefore 
7,000,000, and the length of perspiratory tubes 
1,750,000 inches; that is, 145,833 feet, or 48,611 
yards, or nearly 28 miles. 

It cannot be supposed that this great outlet can be 
interrupted with impunity, although influences external 
and internal are incessantly operating upon its acti- 
vities, and varying the amount and nature of its educ- 
tions. 

115. The perspiration contains all kinds of ingre- 
dients, animal matters, gases, acids (lactic 29 per cent, 
of the whole fluid, according to Anselmino), acetic, 
butyric, hydrochloric, lithic, phosphoric, and sulphuric ; 
alcalies, calcareous earth, metals, salts, and probably 
sulphur. Considering the immense amount of sub- 
stances coming under these several heads, it must be 
clear that, during a state of suppression, these matters 
must fall back upon, pervade, and distress the system. 

These salutary perspirations may be vitiated by 
sudden and permanent accumulations, and then those 
troublesome cutaneous diseases arise, which so sorely 
* On healthy skin, p. 53. 



THE SKIN, — PERSPIRATION. 55 

harass the patient, and often perplex the medical 
adviser. 

116. I may here observe that many, if not most, 
skin aifectionc, so far give evidence of the oppressive 
action of acid matters acting in their propagation, that 
alcalies and aliments which oppose acid formation are 
those found most efficacious in their treatment. Dr. 
Willan * says, " I look on solution of potass as a spe- 
cific in the various species of psoriasis which depend on 
an irritable state of the primse vise." 

117. The effects of temperature in disturbing the 
equanimity of the skin are multifarious. Heat, for the 
reasons given (§ 101), not only derivates the circulation 
to the capillaries and expedites molecular changes, but 
relaxes the pores of the skin, and invites cutaneous ex- 
halations ; the necessity for combustion is lessened, 
and the products, carbonic acid and water, are freely 
exhaled by the lungs and skin. That it has a counter 
action to that of the mucous membrane, is seen when 
diarrhoea is relieved by a hot bath, and a cold wet towel 
applied to the abdomen acts as an aperient in irritable 
dyspepsia — often being successful when all other ape- 
rients have failed. 

Cold also suspends the action of the skin ; and then 
the lactic acid, &c., pervades the system in excess, as 
is the case in rheumatism. No longer being discharged 
at the cutaneous surface, they frequently load the urinary 
secretions, and promote renal affections. 

* Willan on Cutaneous Diseases, p. 141. See also Thomson's Ma- 
teria Medica, p. 1087. 



56 THE SKIN, — PERSPIRATION. 



I 



A moist atmosphere introduces infectious matters and 
miasmata, which traverse the skin without any impedi- 
ment. The absorbing action of the skin is often of 
great value to us. In impediments to swallowing, 
persons have been kept alive for a long time by spong- 
ing the body with warm milk and water. 

Alcaline baths strongly promote cutaneous reaction, 
whilst salt-water baths exosmose exhalations (§ 34). 

A cold moist atmosphere prevents cutaneous exha- 
lation (§ 104), and the pulmonary mucous membrane 
becomes much congested. In cold dry air, moisture is 
rapidly evaporated (§ 27). 

118. The skin relieves the system in three ways : — 
1st, by desquamation; 2nd, by perspiratory glands; 
3rd, by sebaceous (oil) glands. It has been said, that 
the health of the skin depends on four auxiliaries — 
clothing, towels (friction), soap, and water. Sir Wil- 
liam Temple was supported by fact, in saying, " No 
man need have the gout who can keep a slave to rub 
him." 

119. Innumerable instances can be introduced, to 
shew how close is the alliance between the skin and the 
gastro-pulmonary mucous membranes. Drinking a glass 
of cold water, if the skin is kept warm, will produce 
copious perspiration. A hot air-bath will relieve con- 
gestion of the pulmonary mucous membrane. Poisonous 
fish (mussels, &c.) produce nettle-rash. Cold water 
sponging, in scarlatina, promotes all the secretions. 
Burns and scalds cause inflammation of the lungs, if 
their full action is suppressed. Many cutaneous dis- 



THE SKIN, — PERSPTRATTON. 57 

orders cause nausea and vomiting, with great pain in 
the stomach. The effect of chill on the skin is to sup- 
press also intestinal action ; for constipation always at 
first takes place with a cold ; but if this chill occurs in 
a febrile state of the system, some part of the gastro- 
pulmonary mucous system takes on excited action, as 
in bronchitis, and in the intestinal inflammation which 
frequently supervenes in measles. 

120. The following laws may be said to arise out of 
these considerations. 

First. The diseases of a part of a membrane may 
spread over the whole, as in erysipelas, and other 
exanthemata. 

Second. Diseases of the mucous membrane may 
extend to the skin, and vice versa ; as herpes 
labialis, &c. 

Third. Diseased actions of part of a mucous mem- 
brane may be translated to a distant part of the 
skin, and vice versa ; as poisonous fish producing 
nettle-rash ; acne (blotches) of the face, arising 
from dyspeptic causes ; suppressed cutaneous 
action, producing water-brash (pyrosis), and other 
forms of dyspepsia. 

Fourth. The functions of either (skin or mucous 
membrane) being interrupted, the other is embar- 
rassed and its duties disturbed. (§ 119.) 

121. " Colds " are considered the frequent forerunners 
of all diseases ; and this arises from the impossibility of 
foretelling how and to what extent the system may 
suffer. Chills act in a variety of ways, but are modi- 



58 THE SKTN, — PERSPIRATION. 

fied in their action and eifects by various circumstances, 
such as — 

1 . The predisposition of the patient to disorders of 
the other depurating organs (the lungs, bowels and 
liver, kidneys, &c.), which become embarrassed by 
greater weight of duties. 

2. Or the accumulation of lactic acid (the chief cuta- 
neous material) in the system, and causing rheumatic 
and other local painful affections. 

3. Or whether any locality may be predisposed, as 
the eyes, nose, throat, uvula, tonsils, &c. 

4. Or, being asthmatic and ripe for febrile action, 
whether the effects may be general febrile action, or 
local congestion, irritation, or inflammation. 

5. Or whether the effects be depressant ; and low 
catarrhs, or morbid secretions from the mucous surface, 
may be the result. 

Lastly ; much depends on surrounding circum- 
stances, especially on the nature of the winds, or the 
temperature, and moisture, to which the patient has 
been exposed. 



II 



CHAPTER VI. 

SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

122. It is not to be wondered that the limited know- 
ledge of our forefathers led them to build up theories 
of the most ludicrous and apocryphal character, and 
that the pseudo-philosopher should have esteemed the 
hobby he had adopted as a panacea for " all the ills 
that flesh is heir to ;" or, on the contrary, as being the 
casus belli,^the materies morhio^vW human infirmities. 

Scepticism and credulity often ran mad and attempted 
to outvie each other ; whilst sensible, calm-thinking 
men were unable to sift the truth from fiction, and to 
combat, for want of materials, the chimerical doctrines 
put forth by the self-constituted savans of the day. 

Lactantius, with every confidence in his scientific 
authority, opposed the then newly advanced theory of 
the spheroidal shape of the earth. " Is there any one," 
says he, *' so mad as to believe that there are men 
whose feet stand opposite to ours ? and who are able to 
walk with their feet upwards, and their heads hanging 
down ; that there is a part of the world where all things 
grow topsy-turvy ; where the trees grow with their 
branches downwards, and where hail, snow, and rain 



60 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

fall upwards? " Such is now a demonstrated fact ; and 
it has been well said that " in our schools mere chil- 
dren are now taught truths the attainment of which has 
cost immense labour and indescribable efforts." 

Although scepticism is salutary in the end, yet it has 
in all ages deprived men of research and ability, of a 
vast deal of that credence and merit to which they were 
fairly and honestly entitled, but to whom a more en- 
lightened subsequent generation has accorded a proper 
meed of posthumous fame. 

123. Some individuals have believed that all diseases 
were the result of acids generated to excess in the hu- 
man system ; whilst others contended that the opposite 
condition was the true morbific agent, and that preter- 
natural alcalinity of the fluids was the actual cause of 
diseases. And really these disputants had much subtle 
argument on both sides, considering that the same 
mucous-membrane secretes alcaline mucus and (almost 
in the same place) acid saliva. That the liver and 
pancreas largely eliminate alcalies, whilst the kidneys 
in health secrete an abundance of acids. The blood also 
is necessarily alcaline j whilst " the juices of flesh (ac- 
cording to Berzelius, supported by Liebig) contain 
lactic acid." * 

Indeed the system abounds in free and combined 
acids and alcalies, in one grand chaos of torrents and 
rivulets ; yet every particle floating in these streams is 
filtered off before it has completed the circulation of the 
body, and each one is appointed to its own especial 
* Dr, Golding Bird, Urinary Deposits, p, 91, 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 61 

purposes in a manner incomprehensible to human un- 
derstanding. 

124. These chemical matters are subjected to influ- 
ences apparently most trifling. Even our usual articles 
of diet exert a power that we little suspect. By choice 
of food alone we can increase the amount of acid 
matters formed in the system to an extent much ex- 
ceeding the healthy proportion, with but little injury to 
the system ; and by dietetic means can considerably 
suppress the normal acidities, and give certain secretions 
an entirely alcaline re-action. So that the advocates of 
either of these specialties relied for the maintenance of 
their dogmas chiefly on the weight of illustrations 
which the disputants respectively had at their command. 

As instances, it may be mentioned, that a large 
amount of flesh food often provokes a considerable for- 
mation of lithic acid,* which acts poisonously on the 
system (as in gout and local pains), whereas other 
articles of diet, as roasted-apples, strawberries, currants, 
and champagne, change the fluid alluded to, to an alca- 
line condition. 

Many of these substances are consistent with health, 
whilst in certain moderate proportions, and so long as 
they abide in their proper residences, but which act 
toxically when in excess (as lithic and lactic acids), or 
when they migrate to regions to which they are alien 
and ofi^ensive, (as sugar in diabetes and bile in jaundice). 

125, In the wonderful corporeal laboratory which we 
inhabit, are elements of all descriptions. We have four 

* MUller's Physiology, p, 161, 



62 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

extremely combustible materials disposed over every 
part of the system. Two of these, hydrogen and car- 
bon, burn with rapidity, but with that subdued com- 
bustion that no fabric is injured so long as health guides 
the process. The other two, sulphur and phosphorus, 
are not so freely expended; they enter into important 
combinations in the formation of various animal tissues, 
and take an active part in many processes of organiza- 
tion. 

It is difficult to believe that without sulphur and 
phosphorus we could neither have shape nor solidity ; 
and, if such a thing were consistent with vitality, we 
could never advance beyond a state of pulp, and should 
positively be without any membrane or living bag to 
put it in ! An egg could never have organic existence 
or have been an egg at all, without sulphur and phos- 
phorus. 

One of these combustibles is consumed in the forma- 
tion of water ; the other three in the formation of acids, 
(carbonic, sulphuric, and phosphoric) ; so that the elabo- 
ration of acids is intimately concerned in our existence, 
and is never standing still. 

126. The fading tissues, casting off particles of their 
substance in every spot and in every organ, are per- 
petually entering into fresh compositions favourable to 
their issue from the system, and are thus the legitimate 
sources of numerous acid and other effete compounds. 

Certain ingredients seek preferentially certain resi- 
dences, in their travels through the economy. Bone- 
earth seeks its deposit in the bony structure ; potassa. 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 63 

the pancreas ; soda, the liver ; * and phosphorus, the 
brain f and nerves. 

Nitrogenous refuse matters are removed chiefly by 
the skin and kidneys ; carbonaceous compounds chiefly 
by the Hver and lungs ; and I think I may safely say, 
that lactic acid is depurated chiefly by the skin and 
mucous membranes, 

127. I shall now take a slight retrospect of the pro- 
cess of digestion. Dr. Beaumont found that the mu- 
cous membrane of the stomach, when unemployed, was 
of a pale pink colour ; that, immediately food was in- 
troduced, the vessels became more injected, as is the 
case with the conjunctiva of the eye, on the application 
of a foreign body, and that its colour became changed 
from pale pink to deep red. A pure, colourless, slightly 
viscid fluid, with distinct acid reaction, was then ob- 
served (through the opening in St. Martin's stomach) 
to distil from the surface of the membrane, and to collect 
in various points, trickling down the wall of the sto- 
mach, till it mingled with the food. During fasting, 
no such fluid was observed ; only a viscid mucusy occa- 
sionally slightly acidulated, and which effervesced with 
alcaline carbonates. 

128. From these observations we come to the con- 
elusions, that by irritation of the mucous membrane it 
gradually heightens in vascularity, from pale pink to 

* Ashes of blood contain 78 per cent, of Soda, Bowman's Med- 
ical Chemistry, p. 155. 

t " Phosphorus comprises from l-20th to l-30th part of the whole 
solid matter of the Brain. It seems to be universally deficient in the 
Brains of Idiots. Carpenter's Physiology, § 383. 



64 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

deep red ; that the latter state is one of active secre- 
tion ; that pepsine (the active principle of gastric juice) 
is only secreted when food is present ; and that a free 
acid is occasionally eliminated during fasting. As ner- 
vous excitability is the presiding influence over vascu- 
larity, our conjecture is realized by experiment, that the 
vascularity of the stomach — the reddened secretive state 
— depends on the exalted sensibility of the gastric 
nerves. That when food is present, pepsine is elicited ; 
but when no food is present, any heightened vascularity 
of the stomach leads to the secretion of acidulated 
viscid mucus. Now let us examine the testimony re- 
lating to these propositions. We have been told that 
any considerable excess of acid, in relation to the pep- 
sine secreted, arrests digestion as well as the opposite 
or scanty supply. Now if these states can take place 
in the human system, what are the symptoms and what 
the causes ? Neither Dr. Beaumont, nor any other 
writer, to my knowledge, has given any elucidation as 
to the causes and symptoms of the morbid secretions of 
acids when fasting . 

129. Notwithstanding the ascribed "intelligence" of 
the stomach (§ 51), it cannot distinguish the presence 
of nutritious food from that which is innutritions (§ 53) ; 
but it obeys the well-known laws of the animal economy 
in regulating its own action and secretiveness, in a ratio 
according to the amount and degree of stimulating 
matter presented to it. Food is the natural stimulant ; 
and when food or any foreign body is present, and only 
then, is gastric juice secreted. Dr. Beaumont found 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 65* 

that even the bulb of a thermometer excited a slight 
secretion of gastric juice ; and " Reaumur, taking ad- 
vantage of this fact, made animals swallow sponges, 
which he could draw out of their stomachs with strings 
attached." * 

130. In certain forms of dyspepsia, pepsine (the ac- 
tive principle of gastric juice) is not secreted even by 
the natural stimulus — food ; for Dr. Beaumont observed 
that, under some disturbing circumstances, " the mucous 
coat of the stomach became red and dry, and at other 
times pale and moist, and lost altogether its smooth and 
healthy appearance. As a necessary consequence, the 
secretions became vitiated, impaired, or entirely sup- 
pressed." t It is perfectly clear, that in the absence 
of any definite knowledge, as to the secretion or sup- 
pression of free acid. Dr. Beaumont recognized the 
phenomena, though he was unable to explain the condi- 
tions to which I have referred (§57 and 58). Nor do 
I know of any writer who has in any way further alluded 
to, identified, or explained these respective states of the 
mucous membrane. Yet there are lots of testimony of 
an oblique character in allusion to them. Dr. Golding 
Bird says,;j; " In irritative dyspepsia with pyrosis, a large 
proportion of free acid is generated in the stomach." 
And again, *' the acid thus generated in the stomach by 
disease is often considerable, far exceeding the propor- 
tions poured out during healthy digestion." But these 

* See Todd and Bowman's Ph^^siology, Part III, p. 198. 

t Physiologj' of Digestion, by Dr. Combe, p. 48. 

X Urinary Deposits, p. 153. 

E 



66 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

observations also leave us to explain the symptoms and 
pathological condition attending the excessive secretion 
of free acid in the stomachy without pyrosis, which all 
writers seem to have associated with acidity of the 
stomach in dyspepsia. Dr. Bence Jones bears testi- 
mony to the fact, and there he leaves us. *' Common 
salt," says he, " promotes the secretion of acids by its 
irritation of the mucous membrane of the stomach." 
It remains for us to identify the causes of this undue 
secretion, and to recognize its manifest effects on the 
system. 

131. There are clearly various shades of excitability 
in the mucous membrane, between that pale pink preced- 
ing a glass of barley-water, and the deep red following 
a basin of highly-seasoned turtle-soup. Our sensations 
tell us that a rump-steak is more '* satisfying" — that 
is, more stimulating, than a slice of boiled Sole ; yet 
these all abound in strictly nutritious matter. The 
tongue, too, with the Sole and barley-water retains al- 
most its usual colour, but becomes watery and florid- 
red after the turtle-soup and rump-steak. Now the 
tongue is a faithful telegraph of the state of the sto- 
mach. Dr. Samuel Wright notices this state of the 
tongue, but he fails to identify the state of stomach 
which it illustrates. He says, " Others again will have 
clean tongue, and of natural (?) redness, whilst they are 
suffering from severe stomach disorder. I called your 
attention to a case of this sort the other morning, in the 
person of a female, the subject of very severe pyrosis."* 

* Lecture on Morbid States of the Tongue, by Dr. S. Wright, Bir- 
mingham.—Medical Times: Dec. 26, 1846. 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 67 

The fore part of the paragraph refers clearly to the 
action of free acid in the stomach, although unrecog- 
nized. Dr. Wright notices also the opposite state, 
without comment : " The pale, flabby, sodden tongue 
of habitual drunkenness, debility of the gastric appa- 
ratus, &c." Here is evidently pourtrayed the tongue 
of what we identify as the acidless state of the stomach. 
132. Dr. Beaumont tells us, that soup rejected by 
vomiting, from its richness, is invariably acid ; and Dr. 
Guy Says, " Lactic acid is probably the chief ingredient 
of acid Hquors rejected from the stomach." * Wine 
and other acid liquors speedily lead to emetic effects in 
the irritable stomach, which is not the case vdth alca- 
line fluids, as soda or potass water, although a quantity 
of spirit, equal to that of the wine, is added to them. 
The efi*ects of spices, bitters, acids (" hard ale "), &c., 
before and during meals, are those which excite the re- 
luctant secretion of acid, and are successful only with 
those whose digestive organs are apathized by habitual 
indulgence or disease. Here are ample illustrative facts 
of the cases imperfectly described (§ 57 and 58.) The 
effects of a debauch on two such opposite cases are 
these, — the irritable florid tongue indicates a necessity 
for the administration of alcaline drinks ; the pale, 
flabby, sodden tongue points to comfort only from 
strong green tea, acid beer, spirits, and salted food. Dr. 
Beaumont states that '* an hour after giving St. Martin 
nine ounces of raw sour apples, the stomach was full of 
fluid and pulp, quite acrid, and which irritated the edges 

* Hooper's Practice of Physic. Edited by Dr. Guj', p. 53. 
' F 2 



68 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

of the aperture, as is always the case when he eats aces- 
cent fruits or vegetables." 

133. Excited or febrile states of the system are fertile 
causes of undue acid secretion. An infant has a cold 
or is teething ; it repeatedly throws up curdled milk, 
highly tainted with acid odours. It has griping pains, 
and a diarrhoea characterized by the same acid foetor. 
A small alcaline dose cures it.* Entozoa (worms) 
create irritation in the intestines. The acids secreted 
by the mucous surface, act in the manner peculiar to 
them ; they coagulate the albuminous portion of the 
secreted mucus, which adheres in a plastic manner to 
the plicae or folds of mucous membrane, and thus it 
forms a congenial habitat, or nidus, for the residence of 
those most troublesome intruders, (§ 73.) As alcalies 
re-dissolve albumen, (§ QQ) this reasoning suggests the 
free use of alcaline drinks before and during the opera- 
tion of vermifuge medicines. Dairymen know that a 
heated cow's milk speedily turns acid. Dr. Beaumont 
notices that in the febrile state produced by dry air, 
the stomach of Alexis St. Martin became exceedingly 
red.f 

134. Fermentation is performed in the human sto- 
mach much in the same way as it is under other or 
ordinary circumstances, and leads to the conversion of 
farina, and sugar taken as food, into lactic acid. This 
extra source of acids causes a retroversion of acidulous 

* Alcaline Baths are of great service in these and in other cases of 
irritation in the digestive organs. 

t Combe, op. cit. p. 59. 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 69 

action again upon the peccant mucous membrane. Fer- 
mentation is a peculiar process of rapid decomposition, 
and re-arrangement into other substances ; the agent 
which sets this proceeding in action is termed afer- 
menty and its only necessity is that it should contain 
nitrogen in its composition, and be itself in '* a state 
of change," (so chemists describe it.) When fer- 
mentation is once set in motion, any fluid containing 
a nitrogenous element continues that action ; the plas- 
tic matter acting as an impromptu ferment. Liebig 
says,* " The skin of animals and the mucous mem- 
branes have many properties in common with gluten 
and yeast." The scum ("skimmings") of preserves, 
which consists of albumen, is removed, or it would soon 
constitute a ferment in warm closets. As a tea-spoonful 
of yeast sets in fermentation a hogshead of beer,f so a 
slight acescent condition of the gastric mucous mem- 
brane is an effective excitor of that process. " Lactic 
acid can be readily formed out of the body, by allowing 
a solution of sugar to ferment in contact with an ani- 
mal substance in a state of change, such as the mucous 
membrane of a calf's stomach, — rennet." ;j; By ordi- 
nary fermentation, farina is converted into sugar (malt- 
ing) ; sugar into alcohol ; and alcohol into vinegar ; 
but if the ferment is itself only in an incipient or feeble 
" state of change," then sugar is not converted into 
alcohol, but into lactic acid.§ Now it was previously 

* Letters on Chemistry, page 202. 
t In malt liquors, all the plastic matter of the malt is consumed as 
erment. + Uninary Deposits. Dr. G. Bird, p. 93. 

§ Liebig's Animal Chemistry, p. 36. 



70 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

stated (§ 48), that saliva had the power of converting 
starch (farina) into dextrine (gum) and sugar ; dextrine 
being probably the first stage towards the formation of 
sugar, so that farina reaches the stomach in this acidu- 
lous diathesis possibly entirely converted into- dextrine 
and sugar by the saliva, and prepared for fermentation 
into lactic acid. 

135. We will now take a glance at the composition 
of these substances, and it will be seen that the pro- 
portion of hydrogen and oxygen in each article is equal 
to form water, and that their variation constitutes the 
only difference, the quantity of carbon remaining sta- 
tionary. 

Carbon. Hydrogen. Oxygen. 

Starch (farina) 12 volumes 10 10 

Cane sugar 12 11 11 

Gum 12 11 11 

By this it will be seen that 12 volumes, or measures of 
carbon, and 10 measures of (hydrogen and oxygen) 
water are the components of starch, and so on with 
cane-sugar, and gum. Now lactic acid is a smaller 
looking substance, and is composed when dry, of 6 car- 
bon, 5 hydrogen, and 5 oxygen, but if these figures be 
doubled, and (1 of hydrogen and 1 of oxygen) 1 of 
water is added, it has the same composition as gum and 
cane sugar, C 12, H 11, Oil;* therefore the conver- 
sion of sugar and gum into lactic acid is more a func- 
tional confirmation peculiar to chemical endowments 

* Pereira on Food and Diet, p. 22. 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 71 

than to such substantial changes as would appear 
necessary to one unmitiated in physiology and che- 
mistry, — such an one as is ignorant that pure charcoal 
and diamonds are identical in chemical constitution. 

136. The question may be asked, how can biscuits 
contain such an abundance of water and be in a per- 
fectly dry state ? I will explain this by a very good 
illustration. Slaked lime, is lime saturated with water, 
which combines with that earth, and increases its weight 
to the exact amount of the water so absorbed ; a new 
apartment coated with this material exhibits no mois- 
ture on its walls, but if carbonic acid be generated in 
that room, either by the respiration of individuals, or 
by the combustion of a stove or candles, the carbonic 
acid unites with the lime forming carbonate of lime, 
and displaces the water used in slaking, which trickles 
down the walls. Previously to the introduction of the 
carbonic acid, the water existed in a dry solid state in 
union with the lime. Here then is water held in dry 
combination made manifest as a fluid by other agencies. 
We now see how biscuits relieve thirst, and by furnish- 
ing a large supply of carbon protect from chill, and as 
containing alimentary materials protect us from hunger. 

137. Dr. Golding Bird says, ''•The composition of 
lactic acid bears so simple a relation to that of some of 
the most ordinary elements of our food, that its presence 
in the secretions, at least under many circumstances, 
might really be anticipated." * Lactic acid is positively 
a constituent of the juices of flesh. f 

« Urinary Deposits, p. 93. t Dr. G. Bird, Op. Cit. p. 91. 



72 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

If the carbon and hydrogen which are burnt in the 
system, combine with only a Hmited supply of oxygen, 
or the oxygen is indisposed to unite with both these 
elements, then by devoting the whole of the oxygen to 
the hydrogen forming water and leaving the carbon free, 
lactic acid is the result. By oxidizing lactic acid, we 
re -produce carbonic acid and water. By removing two- 
thirds of the oxygen from carbonic acid and water, we 
again form lactic acid. So that lactic acid, and the pro- 
ducts of the combustion of carbon and hydrogen in the 
system have a reciprocal play of affinities and productions. 

138. Whatever abnormal action may be taking place 
in the capillary blood-vessels, excessive mental exercise 
has the power of exalting these organic functions. We 
observe, in blushing, the influence of the mind on these 
minute vessels, how passion increases the temperature 
of the body, and how great mental perturbation pro- 
duces copious perspiration. The ordinary sensibilities 
are much heightened by incessant toil of intellect, and 
the diatheses are provoked into action. 

In reference to the lithic acid diathesis, 

" Gout kills more wise men than fools," says Syden- 
ham. 

" It attacks men of large heads." Cullen. 

" It is peculiarly incidental to men of cultivated 
minds and intellectual distinction." Dr. Watson. 

139. Acids, &c. often pervade the system in their 
own identical form. " In the case of a pregnant female 
who was poisoned with sulphuric acid, and gave birth 
to a child in the expiring throes of life, sulphuric acid 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 73 

was detected in the body of the infant, and in the ma- 
ternal fluids."* *' The urine is always most acid when 
the stomach is most acid."f 

All mothers are doubtless aware of the effects of their 
taking acid food, or unripe fruit, in causing distress to 
their infants, of precisely that character which is de- 
tailed (§ 133) as the result of exciting causes acting on 
the infantile systems. I once saw a baby griped and 
made sick by the mother having drank sour ale only 
eight minutes previously ; the distress of the infant was 
most pitiable, but was instantly relieved by a Httle 
carbonate of soda. 

THE LACTIC ACID DIATHESIS. 

140. The term Diathesis in Medicine means ** a na- 
tural predisposition to certain diseases," — as the tuber- 
cular and cancerous diathesis. It is also applied to 
certain urinary deposits, whose presence in the circula- 
tion leads to disturbed states of a most obdurate and 
distressing character. Of the latter class we have the 
lithic acid diathesis, the oxalic acid, and the phosphatic 
diatheses ; each term implying that those several sub- 
stances pervade the system in excess, and produce cer- 
tain morbid phenomena. The two latter are diagnostic 
of an enfeebled constitution, the former one of the 
contrary. 

141. I trust the grounds which I shall detail for 

* Thomson's Materia Medica, p. 1153. 
t Animal Chemistrj', by Dr. Bence Jones, p. 41. 
X Called Lactic Acid, as being that formed in sour milk, not pecu- 
liar to milk alone as now determined. 



74 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 



!ll 



instituting an additional diathesis will be considere 
conclusive, and supported by fact. We will take the 
two following as being most parallel. 

Lactic acid is composed of carbon 6, hydrogen 5, 
oxygen 5 measures. 

Lithic acid is composed of carbon 10, hydrogen 4, 
nitrogen 4, oxygen 6. 

The former is therefore identified with the composi- 
tion of farina, gum, sugar, &c. ; the latter with animal 
substances, possessing the four elements of which flesh 
is composed. 

Lactic and lithic acids differ in this other respect, 
that lactic acid is perfectly soluble, and never can be 
detected as a deposit ; whilst lithic acid is soluble only 
to the extent of 1 part in 10,000 parts of cold water, 
according to Carpenter j * 1 in 15,000, according to 
Bowman. f 

142. Whatever changes the food may undergo before 
it is absorbed into the circulation are denominated pri- 
mary assimilation. The changes which these alimen- 
tary substances are subjected to subsequently in the 
body, as in secretion, repair, removal, &c., are termed 
secondary assimilation. This secondary process may 
be deranged ; and instead of those changes taking place 
as they do in health, abnormal products may be gener- 
ated (as lactic and lithic acids) ; or substances may 
pass through the capillary vessels unchanged (when 
they ought to have been) and pervade the system, as 

* Carpenter's Physiology, § 732-3. 
f Bowman's Medical Chemistry, p, 6, 



SYMPTOMS ANJ) TREATMENT. 75 

sugar in diabetes, and bile in jaundice, and produce 
their well-known injurious effects. 

143. Urea (C^ m N^ 02) is the natural soluble 
compound arising from the decay or destruction of the 
animal tissues ; but if it is controlled by morbid influ- 
ences, lithic acid is generated in its stead, a substance 
containing a less proportion of oxygen. 

Carbonic acid and water are the healthy products 
arising from the combustion of farina, sugar, &c. ; but, 
influenced by morbid agencies, lactic acid is formed, 
containing two-thirds less of oxygen than the two na- 
tural compounds. 

144. Urine contains about 1 • grain of lithic acid in 
1000, being 10 times more acid than is soluble in 1000 
grains of cold water, according to Carpenter. More 
than this proportion is deposited probably in the various 
parts of the body, giving rise to local pains (and may 
be facetiously termed " gravel-pits "), or unites with the 
soda in the blood, and forms gout or chalk-stones (lithate 
of soda) in the knuckles.'^ 

To an abundance of lactic acid in the system are 
usually attributed rheumatic affections. An excess of 
either acid is prejudicial to health. 

Now if either diathesis is once established, the ten- 
dency is not easily checked, and farinaceous, saccharine 
matters, &c., continue to be converted into lactic acid, 
and animal substances into lithic acid. 

* Iodide of potassium dissolves lithate of soda. I have seen gouty 
swellings of the knuckles dispersed by its use as a lotion, poultice, or 
ointment, aided by friction and pressure, — and diet. 



76 



SYMPTOMS ANT) TREATMENT. 



145. By tabulating a comparison between these 
two diatheses, we shall the better judge of the pro- 
priety of creating the new dignity of a lactic acid 
diathesis. 



LACTIC ACID 

1. Is generated in the periphery 
oF the circulation. 

2. Is found in the blood. 

" Lactic acid is found in the 
juices of flesh."* 



3. Is owing to mal-assimilation 
of respiratory materials. 

" Thus an excess of farinaceous 
food which furnishes sugar and 
lactic acid faster than thej* can 
be thrown off, as carbonic acid 
and water, favours the forma- 
tion of lactic acid in the sys- 
tem.t 

4. The excessive formation of lac- 
tic acid is caused by irritation 
in the stomach. 

See Cases in this book. 



* Golding Bird, op. cit. p. 91, 
+ Carpenter's Physiology, 
735. 



LITHIC ACID 

, Is generated in the periphery 
of the circulation. 

Is found in the blood. 
" The lithic acid diathesis is 
due, not to disorders of the 
kidney, but to an undue pro- 
duction of lithic acid in the 
blood."* 

Is owing to mal-assimilation 
of plastic materials. 
" The quantity of lithic acid is 
increased (by mal-assimilation) 
in quantity merely by taking 
animal food."+ 



4. The excessive formation of 
lithic acid is caused by irrita- 
tion in the stomach. 
"• Whatever generates free acid 
in the stomach, favors lithic 
acid deposits."! 
" Berzelius gives a case in 
which phosphorus was given, 
and the urine deposited lithic 
acid, so long as tae drug pro- 
duced irritation in the bowels, 
and no longer, though the dose 
remained unaltered."§ 

* Carpenter's Physiology, § 
422. 

t Miiller's Physiology, p. 161, 
636. 

X Dr. A. T. Thomson's Mate- 
ria Medica, p. 1151. 

§ Dr. Prout's Enquiries into 
the Nature and treatment of 
Gravel. 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 



77 



LACTIC ACID. 

5. Acid food rouses the diathesis 
and causes the rapid elabora- 
tion of lactic acid. 
See Arguments and cases re- 
corded in this book. 



6, An accustomed outlet being 
stopped up, an insalubrious re- 
dundancy ensues. 
Effects of chilled skin. 



7. Symptoms. 

Dyspepsia, often with rheuma- 
tism. Thegastro-pulmonary rau- 
cous-membrane cniefly affected. 

8. Treatment. 

Alcalies neutralize the acid and 

correct the diathesis.* 

Diet — bland, free from exciting 

or acid ingredients : attention 

to skin, clothing, climate and 

exercise. 



* See the chapter on food and 
dictation, for further information. 



MTHIC ACID. 

5. Acid food rouses the diathesis 
and causes the rapid elabora- 
tion of lithic acid. 

"All acids, even the weakest, 
as carbonic acid, precipitate 
lithic acid."* 
Effects of port wine, &c. 

6. An accustomed outlet being 
stopped up, an insalubrious re- 
dundancy ensues. 
BerthoUetfouiid a diminution of 
lithic acid in the urine followed 
by gout. Dr. Garrod confirms 
this.f 

7. Symptoms. 

Dyspepsia, gout. The Genito- 
urinary mucous - membrane 
chiefly affected. 

8. Treatment. 

Alcalies counteract the diathe- 
sis. Alcalies increase the solu- 
bility of lithic acid. 
Lithate of potass is soluble in 
85 times its weight of hot water. 
Lithate of soda soluble in 124 
times its weight of hot water.J 
" Solution of potass counteracts 
the red lithic acid deposit." § 
Diet— bland, free from acid or 
exciting ingredients. Atten- 
tion to skin, clothing, climate, 
and exercise. 



* Carpenter, op. cit.§ 732, 733. 

+ SpencerWells on Gout, p. 11. 

t Bowman's Medical Chemis- 
try, p. 7. 

§ Dr. A. T. Thomson's Dis- 
pensatory, p. 1024. 

I think these are good grounds for conferring on the 
elaboration of lactic acid, and its effects on the human 
system, the denomination of *' The Lactic Acid Dia- 
thesis." And this term I shall now use, as we pro- 
ceed. 



/» SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

146. So much must now have been gathered of the 
symptoms arising from the lactic acid diathesis, the 
various ways in which it is aroused, and the circum- 
stances to which it responds, that I shall endeavour, 
first, to personify its mode of action ; and then give 
those symptoms in detail, which are the effects of East 
and North-East Winds on the human body. 

Case 1. — A person has flushed and hot cheeks after 
a meal, vastly depending on the acid or irritating 
nature of the food, usually attended by constipa- 
tion. The tongue is of a florid lake-colour (the 
best description I can give — being no painter). 
As may be expected, rich soups (§ 132), wines, 
beer, and other acid fluids, disagree, as well as the 
richer and fibrinous meats. 
The administration of an alcali removes the flush from 
the cheeks, and reduces their heat to the natural 
standard. It also acts as an aperient, though it 
does not do so under other circumstances. 
Unripe oranges, acid preserves, acid lemon-drops, 
the carbonic acid of simple aerated water, all excite 
the diathesis, which is especially called into action 
by them, and indeed all these symptoms are much 
aggravated, by East and N. E. winds. 
Case 2. — A gentleman tells me that E. or N. E. 
winds produce a sense of heaviness, swelling and 
tightnes,s in the head, sudden flashes of giddiness. 
He feels occasionally faint, has lost health, strength, 
and appetite ; has deficiency of memory, restless 
in sleep— perhaps but little. Is fidgetty — possibly 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 79 

fretfiil and excitable in temper, and has great de- 
pression of spirits ; perhaps a great flow of saUva 
during the night, flooding his pillow. 

Here the disturbance is chiefly cerebral, of an active 
kind. 

Case 3. — A person has flushed cheeks after meals, 
and after dinner cannot possibly combat the ten- 
dency to sleep. Feels dull, heavy, can enjoy no- 
thing, and has no pleasurable prospects. Dis- 
inclined for study ; and the memory is most 
transient. 

Case 4. — Complains of a husky full sensation in the 
larynx, and as though the mucous membrane was 
swollen. These symptoms attack him the moment 
the wind is in the E. or N. E. ; and he is perhaps 
awoke in the morning by these unmistakeable 
afllictions of one of those particular winds. A 
sense of suffocation gives an anxious character to 
his features. His breathing is short and oppres- 
sive, a wheezing rhonchus is heard in his throat and 
chest, his inspirations are laborious, he stretches 
his neck in forced inhalations, and looks and feels 
the picture of misery. He tries all kinds of food 
and physic — nothing relieves him. Brandy dis- 
comforts him the least, as containing less acid than 
any other liquors ; and he flies to it after meals, to 
relieve his distress, — but in vain. 

The dietetic and medicinal treatment which I shall 
point out as we proceed, vnll entirely remove or 
cure the lactic acid diathesis, in which alone (in 



80 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

the absence of organic disease) these cases can pos- 
sibly exist. 

Case 5. — Suffers during the prevalence of E. or N. E. 
winds, from palpitation of the heart, often of a 
peculiar tumultuous fluttering character, especially 
after meals, on turning in bed, and on walking. 
Occasionally pains in the region of the heart, &c.* 

Case 6. — For years has suffered from what he calls 
asthma, which comes on especially after acid or 
exciting food ; he dreads an E. or N. E. wind, which 
nearly suffocates him. The tubular respiration in 
the larynx is most sonorous. 

The laborious inspiratory efforts of the muscles, so 
brought into action, add to the pains in the chest, 
before and behind ; and as the larger bronchi soon 
take on the same state of excitement, the roar of 
his breathing can be heard in an adjoining apart- 
ment. The lactic acid diathesis is so marked in 
these cases, that they may be relieved or aggra- 
vated almost at pleasure by alcalies and acids. An 
appropriate diet is indispensable. 

Case 7. — Expectorates pints of watery saliva in 
24 hours ; and the patient tells you it has a salty 
taste (the acid fluid in pyrosis — water-brash, has a 



* In a beautiful Lecture recently delivered by Dr. Marshall Hall 
at Manchester " On the Spinal System and its Diseases," he says, 
" The spinal marrow is the conductor of the influence of undue acidity 
in the stomach when it affects in a reflected manner the action of tJie 
heart— a, subject requiring new and careful investigation." — Lancet, 
Nov. 11, 1854, page 392. 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 81 

salt taste). The injurious effect oi vegetable acids, 
in these cases, is remarkable. There is generally 
a most enfeebled constitution, and bloodless ap- 
pearance of the system. The sesquicarbonate of 
ammonia (a most valuable alcali), supported by 
that unexciting preparation the ammonio-citrate of 
iron, are the only rem.edies on which I most confi- 
dently rely, with (and I must strongly insist upon 
this subject) a proper diet. 

Case 8. — A lady had an ulcer at the back of her heel; 
it was highly sensitive, and of a vermilion-red colour. 
The state of her system indicated the lactic acid 
diathesis. She was treated accordingly ; and in a 
very short time this troublesome sore of fourteen 
months standing was perfectly healed. 

Cases of local pains, numbness and cramp of the 
limbs, depraved sensations, weak eyes, ear and 
toothaches, nasal fluxes — often of a most offensive 
character to the patient, many cutaneous affections,* 
particularly in the face, and obstinate eructation, are 
highly amenable to the aggravating agency of E. and 
N. E. winds, acting upon the lacticacid diathesis. I 
may also add, that in this state of system, hysteria 
in females often developes itself ; and, from my own 
observations, I think that a similar state of another 
mucous system is the chief source of hysterical 
disorders. 

* The value of alcalies in the internal and external treatment of 
cutaneous affections is known to every one ; and I firmly believe that 
ninety-nine out of a hundred of those whose cases are believed to be 
incurable, owe their want of success to impropriety of diet. 
G 



82 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 



^ 



These are a few classes of cases, taken from my note- 
book, in which I recognize the lactic acid diathesis ; and 
I believe them to be perfectly curable, when not compli- 
cated, of course, with organic disease. 

147. The following is a catalogue of those very dis- 
tressing symptoms, which usually appear in those who 
suffer severely from the violence of the E. and N. E. 
winds, varying to some extent, according to the sex, 
age, habits, and climate, appertaining to the patient. 
Headache, sudden flashes of giddiness, occasionally 

fainting. 
Impaired memory, nervousness, restlessness, and petu- 
lance. 
Depression of spirits, gloomy apprehensions. 
Conjunctivae reddened, glassy and irritable in strong 

light, flying specs, and bewildered vision. 
Cheeks hot and flushed, it may be in patches or on 
one side chiefly ; at other times, pale muddy, and 
anxious. 
Lips, nostrils, and eye-lids much reddened. 
Flow of watery saliva at night, flooding the pillow. 
Nasal discharge, sometimes most off'ensive to the pa- 
tient : at other times a sense of fetid odours. 
Tongue of a florid or reddened-lake colour (not the 
*' beefy" tongue of inflammation), clean, watery, 
and soapy. It feels rough against the roof of the 
mouth, from projection of the papillae, and the 
absence of mucus, and the presence of watery acid 
saliva. 
Speech occasionally thick, especially after food. 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 83 

Breathing much embarrassed ; choking, swollen, 

woolly, suffocative sensation in the wind-pipe. 
Voice husky ; a raking, clearing cough, of a sonorous 

laryngeal character. 
Deafness, from the dry state of the epidermis lining 

the ear. 
Tumultuous palpitation of the heart. 
Cutaneous eruptions on the face much aggravated, 

especially acne and eczema. 
Distension of the stomach after meals, which almost 

instantly subsides on the administration of an 

alcali. 
Irresistible sleepiness after dinner. 
Oily and fatty matters disagree ; as the alcaline action 

of the bile is antagonized by the excess of acid in 

the stomach. 
Even the weakest beer creates distress, from its acid 

composition ; and salt, from its irritation (§ 130). 
Constipation, of a dry and most obstinate character, 

generally aggravated by aperients. 
Craving hunger, possibly without relish or enjoyment, 

too often followed with great discomfort. 
Pulse soft, quick, and irritable. 
Wounds or abrasions put on a highly florid, tender, 

and unhealing appearance.* 

* A medical officer in the Crimea states that " on the prevalence of 
southerly winds, wounds became hot, red, and irritable, — showing 
little disposition to heal." — Times, November 8, 1854. Now these 
winds passing over the dry sands of Egypt, Nubia, the Libj^an deserts 
and Arabia, are of the same character as our N., N.-E. and E. winds, 
but are hot in addition to their dryness. 



84 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 



^ 



The back, the shoulder-blades, and sometimes the 

space between them, become the seats of severe 

pains, extending along the muscles at the back of 

the shoulder and arm. 
Numbness of arm and leg, on one or both sides ; 

" pins and needles " in the fingers ; frequently a 

limb is nearlj paralyzed. 
Pains in the chest, back, and loins. 
A peculiar stream of trembling debility, or " bub- 

bhng," down the front of the thighs, often felt 

even when sitting still. 
It must not be supposed that the whole of these symp- 
toms should infallibly be present in every case. They are 
the category of morbid conditions usually manifested 
under the influence of these exciting causes. 

148. The E. andN.E. winds are usually accompanied 
by a very cold temperature ; but I never knew a sufferer 
from them who did not declare that he could tell when 
the wind was in either of those points, as soon as he 
awoke in the morning, by the manifestation of his com- 
plaint, and therefore had not left his bed or been ex- 
posed to any cold whatever. Indeed a heated apartment 
confers no immunity from these merciless assailants. 

149. I have before pointed out the vastness of the 
perspiratory apparatus, (§ 114) the large quantity of 
effete matters discharged by it, (§ 113) that lactic acid 
formed a considerable portion of their composition, 
(§ 115) and that each perspiratory tube was lined by a 
sleeve-like prolongation, or sheath of epidermis. I 
previously described the histological structure of the 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 85 

epidermis, which, Hke the epitheliara, is composed of 
cells, flat, dry and scaly on the surface, moist and 
globular beneath (§ 36). 

We have many instances of disease arresting the 
emunctorial functions of the skin, followed by a rapid 
exfoliation of the epidermis as in scarlet fever. The 
same takes place as the effects of the E. and N.E. winds 
drying up this cell-structure, whereby the office of the 
skin is abolished, and its conduits are no longer 
available. 

Knowing as we do the sympathy or reciprocity which 
exists between the skin and mucous membrane, and 
how disturbance of one sheet or membrane is taken up 
by its compeer, we should expect that the stoppage of 
the cutaneous drains would be followed by a rush of 
perspiratory matters being determined to the mucous 
membrane. And further, that such matters would be 
discharged on the mucous surface in excess ; also that 
other parts of that mucous sheet than those accustomed 
during health to such elaborating duties would take on 
the secretive process, and give rise to the transpiration 
or formation of those particular materials, Also that 
the presence of irritating fluids on such parts of the 
mucous membrane as were unaccustomed to them, would 
affect the welfare and comfort of the organ, and ma- 
terially derange its natural functions. Such then are 
the practical effects of the E. and N.E. winds acting on 
the cutaneous surface. 

150. But if it could be additionally demonstrated 
that there were copiously distributed in the sensitive 



86 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

structure of the skin, nervous fibrillae, endowed not 
only with the faculty of sensation, but with a power of 
exciting peculiar motor action, then we should attribute 
to such cutaneous disturbance a morbid realization of 
exalted sensibility and general motile excitement 
throughout the capillary portion of the circulation. To 
Dr. Marshall Hall we are indebted for these and other 
important facts in reference to the excito-motory nervous 
system.* Again, what more likely to add to this 
cutaneous excitement than an accumulation of noxious 
matter dammed up in these depurating channels ? 

151. Whatever irritative dyspepsia may ensue, it is 
clear that the disturbance is spread over the whole sheet 
of gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane. The frontal 
sinuses (behind or under the eye-brow, communicating 
with the nose) ; the conjunctivae (an extension of the 
same mucous membrane up the nasal duct) ; the pas- 
sages of the nose, mouth, fauces, and respiratory organs, 
are more likely to take on morbid action from their ex- 
posure to the morbific properties of these winds. The 
moist mucous cells are dried up by the absorbing powers 
of the E. and N.E. winds (§ 18, 19) ; their desquama- 
tion is expedited ; their secretive powers are diminished, 
and fluid is dropsically collected under the epithelial 
structure. The natural calibre of the windpipe is thus 
diminished by the cushioning of the mucous membrane. 

* The excito-motory action is demonstrated thus. If the skin of 
a frog's foot be tickled after decapitation a muscular movement is 
caused in the extremities ; but if the skin of the foot be removed, no 
such effect is produced. 




SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 87 

The stomach partakes in the general excitement and 
inundation ; the pneumo-gastric nerves are highly 
irritated, and this irritation runs up the nervous cord to 
the lungs, heart, the larynx, and finally to the brain, 
where these most important nerves originate. 

Irritative dyspepsia can in no way sufficiently account 
for these phenomena, when other organs betray a much 
greater amount of lesion ; nor do sedatives succeed in 
allaying these maladies ; no treatment, in short, is effi- 
cacious or successful, which does not entirely antagonize 
the lactic acid diathesis. 

152. A person in health boldly defies these winds ; 
but an individual previously indisposed, is rendered 
highly obnoxious to their influence. What is that pre- 
disposed state of system ? My experience tells me it is 
the lactic acid diathesis. 

These views have the disadvantage of being entirely 
novel : but all the facts on which I rely, the ground- 
work on which these doctrines are built, are supported 
by the testimony of the authorities I have quoted, and 
the concurrent evidence of many other writers. 

TREATMENT. 

153. I scarcely know how best to describe the medical 
and dietetic management of these cases — ever varying, 
as they do, in intensity and malevolence — without being 
too prolix and verbose. However, let the severest case 
be the type of the whole. 

If I found the papering of my walls besmeared and 



88 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

stained by any extraneous substance, it would clearly be 
my first object to operate upon, and render inert, those 
qualities which were most injurious to the fabric ; and, 
secondly, to prevent the recurrence of the circumstance. 

If I found an irritating acid mingled with the fluid 
lying on the mucous membrane, I should take steps to 
neutralize that acid, and render it innocuous. If I 
found the system also replete with it, I should follow 
up the administration of my antagonistic remedies, so 
as to chase and annihilate the aggressor. And if I 
found the channels for its natural efflux stopped up, I 
should take measures to re-open them. Whatever ex- 
citement it had caused, I should use means to allay, and 
should provide against its abnormal formation. I 
should add to these, the adoption of all known auxilia- 
ries for the general promotion of health. 

154. The treatment is simple, rational, and intelli- 
gible ; indeed, a comprehension of what appears in the 
preceding pages, must be almost suggestive of the 
remedial measures to be adopted. 

Lactic acid and soda are found in combination in the 
human system in great abundance, especially in the blood, 
(§ 199) which may almost be considered proclamatory of 
their natural alliance ; and this would in itself create in 
one's mind a preference for that alcali (soda), over any 
others. Soda is itself a powerful irritant, or rather 
escharotic, and would, even much diluted, produce very 
injurious effects on the mucous membranes. The car- 
bonate of soda, a drug of very great utility, yet inoffen- 
sive in its nature, is composed of one equivalent of 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 89 

carbonic acid to one of soda. The bi-carbonate of soda, 
composed of two equivalents of carbonic acid to one of 
soda, is preferable, for the reasons, that it is much 
more soluble than the simple carbonate, and can be 
added to mercurial preparations, preventing their irri- 
tating the stomach, and not decomposing them ; (a good 
additional illustration of the effect of irritation in pro- 
voking acid secretion). Both carbonates readily release 
their own carbonic acid, to unite with almost any other 
known acid.* 

155. Three circumstances indicate the administration 
of the alcali : — 

1st. To neutralize all acid lying mingled with other 

fluids on the mucous surfaces. 
,2nd. To prevent the fermentation and conversion into 
lactic acid of farinaceous, and saccharine alimen- 
tary matters. 
3rd. To correct the acid diathesis, and to check its 

excessive formation in the capillary circulation. 
We will suppose a patient to be in that febrile state, 
arising from the first impingement of an East wind ; 
that the mucous membranes are all in a loaded and 
highly-excited condition. Secretion and absorption by 
the mucous membrane are alike interrupted by the dried 
state of the epithelial cells. Any one in such a state 
would refuse farinaceous food, which would assuredly 
turn acid, and would much prefer a draught of perfectly 
pure cold water. But if I add to this a few grains of 

* It is of the deepest importance that the several drugs herein 
alluded to, should be of the purest possible character. 



90 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

bi-carbonate of soda, the draught will become refreshing 
and cooling, ** the viscid mucus, slightly acidulated, 
effervesces with the alcaline carbonate;" (§ 127.) the 
epithelial cells of the stomach are moistened ; the endos- 
mosis (absorption) of fluids from the stomach re- com- 
mences, and a free secretion of " viscid acidulated 
mucus " ensues. The mucous membrane of the tongue, 
the mouth, fauces and gullet, have derived the same 
benefit from the grateful fluid washing their shores. 
The larynx is relieved as well, by the inhalation of 
some of the alcaline fluid into the wind-pipe, also by 
its nervous connection and sympathy with the stomach, 
(§52 and 81), arising from that harmonious action 
which is pecuhar to the skin and mucous membrane, 
the whole sheet assuming the physical condition of its 
parts. (§ 120.) 

156. The tendency to recur to this dry condition is 
now on the decline, from the copious draughts of the 
alcaline drinks, and care must be taken that the quan- 
tity of alcali is not great, for if it exceeds the specific 
gravity of blood (1055,) absorption is opposed, and 
exosmosis of fluid takes place into the stomach, (this is 
one mode of action of some saline purgatives) and not 
from the stomach into the system. (§ 34). About 30 
grains of bi-carbonate of soda to an ounce of distilled 
water, give a specific gravity of about 1055, but so 
powerful a drink would dissolve all the protecting mucus 
of the stomach, and cause excessive irritation. I prefer a 
solution of 40 to 60 grains of the bi-carbonate, in an 
imperial pint of weak gum arable water, which shields 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 91 

the stomach from the too rapid action of the alcaH. If 
the tongue becomes white and pasty, the alcali should 
be suspended for a short time. 

This having been accompUshed, sago or tapioca, 
boiled in water, may be substituted for the gum water, 
and which may be cooled with a little milk, as we pro- 
ceed, still holding the bi-carbonate in solution, which 
now may be lessened in quantity, or regulated according 
to the amount of fermentible matter (farina, sugar, and 
milk) consumed. 

157. I need scarcely say, that when no pepsine is 
being secreted, the use of animal food is strictly contra- 
indicated ; even milk must not be taken at first, nor 
subsequently, if it does not agree. Many persons, from 
their debility, fancy such a diet is starving, and that 
they want more support. Here is the bane ! — the im- 
mense difficulty of keeping patients strictly to that diet- 
which is proper for their welfare, but which they do 
not comprehend. These are the forms in which I 
would administer the alcali. When the acidity of the 
stomach is somewhat controlled, a cup of sago water, 
or tapioca water may be alternated, without the alcali 
in it, so as to relieve the *' toujours perdrix." The 
diluted hydrocyanic (prussic) acid, will be found of 
immense service in allaying the high excitability of the 
mucous membranes. I give from a half to a whole 
minim of Scheele's acid, at intervals of 3 or 4 hours. 
I think this dose is usually large enough, though much 
larger doses are given, but they produce considerable 
depression. Sugar should be especially avoided, as 



92 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

being only one leap from lactic acid. (§ 134). Whilst 
the bi-carbonate of soda is certainly the best remedy 
on the whole, — the bi-carbonate of potass agrees best 
with some constitutions, especially where a diuretic 
action is likewise desirable, or if there is a gouty ten- 
dency. But certainly the former alcali is preferable, 
when there is much nervous sensibility ; and perhaps 
the potassa in chronic and less compilable states of the 
stomach. If the gastric irritability runs high, and there 
is vomiting, Dr. Goldiug Bird's suggestion may be 
found valuable in these cases, as well as in certain 
urinary deposits for which he intended it.* He directs 
30 grains of the bi-carbonate with 5 grains of citric 
acid, (or a tea-spoonful of lemon juice) to be mixed in 
a tumbler of tepid water, followed freely by diluents. 
The acid property is perfectly annihilated, by the large 
excess of alcali in this agreeable and refreshing draught. 
The respective eligibility of the salts of soda and potassa, 
will be discussed in the next chapter. 

15S. Aperients often fail in their intended effects; 
but, strange to say, that the few first doses of bi-car- 
bonate of soda will generally produce a most comfortable 
action of the bowels. This is much assisted by a cold 
or tepid lavement, consisting of a drachm of tartrate 
of soda, dissolved in 4 ounces of thin gum mucilage. 
Indeed, whether constipation or diarrhsea prevail, the 
alcali seems to possess a regulating and corrective power 
over them. 

The difficulty of breathing and cough demand our 
* On Urinary Deposits, p. 162. 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 93 

most careful consideration. The patient inspires with 
great labour. Rhoncous sounds occasionally in the 
windpipe are audible, even in the adjoining apartment ; 
and the cause of the suffocative embarrassment is most 
clearly evident in the windpipe. To the relief obtained 
by the alcaline drink, I add an external adjuvant. I 
apply a cold damped piece of flannel, with some moist- 
ened curd soap well rubbed into it, as a plaster round 
the throat, till it becomes well nettled, and then remove 
it. If this does not cause sufficient irritation, a little 
flour of mustard may be sprinkled over it ; but in that 
case, it should not be applied over the site of the larynx 
or trachea. 

These remedies act like a charm, and only require to 
be witnessed, to be convincing proofs of their efficacy. 
The soap cravat may be re-applied as often as the effects 
of the previous application fade away, or the upper 
part of the chest may be the seat of the next application. 

159. We next turn our attention to the skin. No 
external application has greater power in renewing or 
promoting the healthy action of the skin than alcalies. 
of which soap is a good and valuable example if made 
of proper materials. I scarcely ever use my hot-air ap- 
paratus, or hot baths, for the purpose of renewing the 
action of the skin, unless in a most pressing case, on 
account of their enfeebling and depressing consequences. 

Let a flannel be damped with tepid rain water, and 
well smeared with sopp-lather. Let this be well rubbed 
over the body and limbs before going to a warm bed, 
in a warm room, and remove the soap, not by washing it 



94 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

off, but by rubbing it away with a rough towel ; put the 
patient into a warm bed and give him a draught of cold 
water, (§119). In the morning let him be well rubbed 
with a flannel glove, well floured with dry carbonate of 
soda before he leaves his bed. 

160. As we proceed, a little boiled sole, turbot, 
rabbit, or chicken may be added to his diet, together 
with a head of cauliSower, broccoli, or well-boiled greens. 
The vegetable matter named is of immense service, 
being a cooling nutritious laxative, (§ 64). Let it be 
well remembered that the acid diathesis is not yet sup- 
pressed ; one error in diet, and the whole may return ! 
Tea, salt, and other irritants, acids, &c. have been fully 
alluded to, and their effects demonstrated in previous 
pages. 

To these measures I would add, that a lozenge or 
bolus consisting of half a grain of extract of henbane 
with three or four grains of, each, powdered and ex- 
tract of licquorice, and so made into a tolerably hard 
consistence, may be taken (previously slowly dissolved in 
the mouth) several times in the twenty-four hours, to re- 
lieve cough or restlessness ; and if heat and dryness of 
the mucous membrane continue, a quarter of a grain of 
ipecacuan may be added. 

161. The following aperient pills are of extreme 
utility in all cases of irritability of the system (especially 
for ladies) ; they are unexciting, give no discomfort, 
nor do they leave any debility. 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 95 

Take of Compound extract of colocynth 24 grains. 
Extract of henbane . 4 grains. 

Ipecacuanha . . 1 or 2 grains. 

Divide into 12 pills, and two may be taken for a dose 
at any hour. 

Others may find the common seidlitz powders, taken 
twice or thrice a week, an agreeable and comfortable 
aperient ; or an ounce of Dinneford's fluid magnesia, 
with or without a tea-spoonful of lemon juice. 

The earliest and most agreeable tonic, or cordial that 
can be taken, is a wine-glassful of clove tea, and a few 
drops of compound tincture of cardamoms added when 
the tongue has lost its redness.* 

I am aware that for the first day or two this strict 
discipline may be irksome ; but even if so, it will 
assuredly be successful. The slightest deviation from a 
strict diet may be a source of entire failure. I have 
seen urgent difficulty of breathing, and cough come on 
impnediately after tasting only a little of the weakest 
table-beer. I have observed repeatedly the same effect 
proceed from an orange, or acid lemon drops. Recollect 
what Dr. Beaumont says even of a basin of soup, 
(§ 132) consumed in such a condition of the stomach. 
Errors of diet unfortunately are screened under a most 
common question, "How can so and so hurt me?" 
The respondent being unable to detail the consequences, 
the verdict is appropriated by the patient in default. 

* If the tone of the stomach be much diminished, the mineral acids 
(not the vegetable) may be advantajreously, but cautiously, adminis- 
tered, with infusion of calumba or of orange-peel. Lime-water in 
milk is a valuable tonic in some cases. 



96 SYMPTOMS AKD TREATMENT. 

162. I will here allude to a therapeutic agent of 
great service in many morbid states of the larynx and 
glottis, the application of solutions of nitrate of silver 
(lunar caustic) by means of a sponge probang. In 
ulcerations, follicular disease, &c. the application is of 
great value ; but it is necessary that I should explain 
its operation in the disturbed state of the larynx arising 
and depending upon the lactic acid diathesis. The 
application of the solution once or so, is attended with 
marked comfort to the patient, who tells you he 
breathes more freely, and he is enabled to get up the 
viscid mucus rendered tenacious and insoluble by the 
acid secreted. But this relief is most transient, in the 
absence of medical and dietetic treatment ; the first 
effect of the solution of caustic is to deaden temporarily 
the sensibility of the laryngeal nerves ; but the quantity 
of it which remains on the gastro-pulmonary mucous 
membrane, and that which finds its way into the 
stomach, so fearfully excite the lactic acid diathesis, 
that after one or two applications, all benefit is lost, 
matters are made ten times worse than ever, and the 
disturbance is perpetuated as long as the remedy is ap- 
plied. I have had large experience in the application 
of solution of nitrate of silver to the epiglottidean and 
laryngeal membranes, and am in my own person a 
living attestation of the truth of my remarks. For 
many months I drank nothing stronger than tea and 
coflFee ; I took acid fruit and lemonade freely, and had 
my throat repeatedly sponged with the caustic solution. 
The E, and N. E. winds caused me an oppression of 



I 



SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 97 

breathing, nearly suffocative. I followed the advice of 
my medical friends strictly, but without relief. I came 
at length to the determination of investigating the sub- 
ject thoroughly. The result of my observations, ex- 
periments, and investigations, I now present to the 
public, confirmed and verified in every respect by three 
years' subsequent experience. 

163. There is an opposite condition to that which I 
have noticed ; a debilitated state of system accompanied 
by the excessive expectoration of saliva. Where vascu- 
lar action is at a low ebb, and either as the result of 
old age or a prolonged illness, there is a general pallor 
of the cutaneous surface. In this state a stimulating 
alcali is given with great success, and we find that the 
sesquicarbonate of ammonia in two or three grain doses 
every four or five hours, produces the very best effects. 
The ammonio-citrate of iron may be given in similar 
doses immediately after a meal, if the vital powers are 
very low and feeble, and if it is not in any respect con- 
tra-indicated. Weak, and nearly saltless beef-tea, (so as 
not to oppose endosmosis (§ 34), but it may be spiced,) 
should be frequently given, also cocoa, milk, &c. 
which will form a most nutritious and unirritating diet, 
till the digestive powers will permit a gradually en- 
larged one. A warm aperient may be occasionally 
necessary, composed of 10 or 15 grains of rhubarb, 
and 2 or 3 grains of sesquicarbonate of ammonia, 
which may supersede a mid-day dose of the medicine. 
As the patient improves, a head of cauliflower, orbro- 
coli, with a little chicken or mutton, will be an improv- 

H 



98 , SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 

ing dietary. The henbane lozenges will here be ser- 
viceable also, and as an external application in suffoca- 
tive respiration, or difficulty in expectoration, rubbing 
the whole chest and throat with brandy is highly 
serviceable. 

I may here state that when the bowels take on ex- 
cited action with diarrhsea, no medicine is so efficacious 
as the bi-carbonate of soda, with a few drops of com- 
pound tincture of camphor ; and rice may then be chosen 
as the best farinaceous food, 

164. Modifying these treatments according to the 
severity of the cases, keeping steadily in view the facts 
and principles herein laid down, together with the fol- 
lowing remarks on the subject of food ; I apprehend 
no one can have any doubt or difficulty in guiding the 
vessel safely between Scylla and Charydis, or steering 
clear of the shoals of East and North East Winds. 



CHAPTER VII. 



FOOD A.ND ITS USES. 



165. I THINK the assertion will meet with general con- 
currence, that most human diseases arise from errors and 
indiscretions in diet. The ancient Romans, who lived 
on boiled barley, were strangers to our nervous and 
dyspeptic disorders ; and those of the Scotch whose food 
is chiefly oatmeal, have but a limited category of dis- 
ease : cerebral, liver, and urinary disorders are of rare 
occurrence among them. 

It is particularly interesting to observe how the se- 
lection or nature of food modifies organic development. 
Two centuries ago, certain of the Irish were treated as 
rebels, and driven into mountainous tracts bordering on 
the sea. Brutalized and degraded by poor living, how 
physically distinct are they from their kindred race of 
Meath and other adjacent districts. Their low stature, 
not exceeding five feet two inches, "pot-stomachs," and 
bow-legs, projecting mouths, prominent teeth, and ex- 
posed gums, advanced cheek-bones, and depressed 
noses, exhibit conspicuous emblems of barbarism, ty- 
pical of the earliest dawn of humanity and civilization. 
H 2 



100 FOOD AND ITS USES. 

We will now take an opposite picture ; and the bee- 
hive affords a beautiful illustration. The majority of the 
community are neuters — females with generative organs 
undeveloped. The queen-bee is the only perfect one, 
and is the sole parent of the forthcoming progeny. If 
she dies, or is removed, the bees then select two or 
three from the neuter larvsa, enlarge their cells to 
" royal cells," by breaking down some of the walls of 
the contiguous chambers, and rebuild them on an en- 
larged scale, removing at the same time the grubs which 
these cells contained. A pungent, stimulating food is 
now prepared for the royal babe, and this grub becomes 
a future queen, endowed with procreative faculties si- 
milar to her predecessors. 

166. Herbivorous, carnivorous, and other animals, are 
led to the adoption of their particular diets by an instinct 
guided by their special internal formation. Indeed Pro- 
fessor Owen has been able to identify, by established s 
laws, some antediluvian beasts, and to arrange their i 
geological fragments, as well as to determine to what \ 
class of food each was indubitably attached, though the i 
habits of the animal were previously unknown to him. j 

Man's physical characters dedicate him to a mixed ' 
diet : and most lamentably ignorant are they who ad- ' 
vocate his entire devotion to a vegetable diet. \ 

But a meal composed of animal and vegetable matter | 
in no way implies or demands a necessity for the condi- 
ments and liquors which our artificial mode of living has 
seduced us into. 

It is by loading the stomach, and urging it to the 



n 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 101 

digestion of food which is oppressive to it, and exhaus- 
tive to its healthy action, that we voluntarily invoke 
disease, create unhealthy products of digestion, embar- 
rass the system with poisonous materials, and lay the 
foundation of disease. 

167. Food has been variously classified by different 
authorities. 

Dr. Prout, taking milk for his type, divides food into 
four classes. 

1 water, 2 albumen, 3 fat (cream), 4 sugar. 
Liebig makes two classes only. 

1 Plastic (or flesh-forming) food.* 

2 Respiratory food. 

Having examined in the two grand natural divisions, 
animal and vegetable, the plastic and respiratory mate- 
rials found in each, we shall then proceed to the mineral 
kingdom, and acknowledge how much we are indebted 
to its stores, for our existence, welfare, and strength. 

168. Mulder prophesied that all animal matter used 
as food (excepting fat) could be traced back to a certain 
composition as a root, from which all fleshy materials 
could take their starting point (as clarified sugar might 
be the root of all syrups and confectionery) ; and this 
conjectural substance, called by its founder protein 
(from TtpoTeva, I hold the first place), has since been 
actually realized. f The three subsidiary classes of food 

* Called also nitrogenous, from containing that principle,— sa/i- 
ijuineous, by Dr. Gregory, — calorifiant by Dr. R. D. Thomson. 

t " Fibrine, albumen, and caseine, (both animal and vegetable) 



102 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 



— fibrine, albumen, and caseine, were hence called the 
protein compounds. Lean meat, white of egg, and 
cheese, are familiar illustrations of these articles. To 
these I shall here add the analysis of gelatine, which is 
used very much as an article of diet.* 

The three protein compounds, fibrine, albumen, and 
caseine, refresh, renew, repair, and build up, all parts of 
the human fabric, and are therefore rightly termed 
plastic (or creative) materials. 

It may be asked, whence so great a physical distinc- 
tion, in substances so chemically similar ? Our chemical 
knowledge supplies us with similes. Otto of rose and 
our street gas are constituted alike, and are both mem- 
bers of that inflammable class of bodies denominated 
from their composition Hydro-carbons. Carbonate of 
ammonia (smelling salts) has the same components as 
moist atmospheric air. Sugar and saw-dust are simi- 
larly composed ; tallow and butter. 

dissolve in a solution of caustic potass. If to the resulting liquid 
acetic acid be added, the same precipitate is obtained, whichever of 
the above three principles has been employed. The substance thus 
precipitated is protein." — Pereira on Food and Diet, p. 39. 



Protein... 
Albumen. 
Fibrine... 

Casein 

Gelatine.. 



Carbon. 


Hydrogen. 


Nitrogen. 


Oxygen. 


Sulphur. 


55.29 


7.00 


16.01 


21.70 




54.84 


7.09 


15.83 


21.23 


0.68 


54.56 


6.90 


15.72 


22.13 


0.36 


55.10 


6.97 


15.95 


21.62 


0.36 


50.048 


6.477 


18.350 


25.125 





Phos- 
phorus. 

0.33 
0.33 



Mulder's formulae.— Todd and Bowman's Physiology, pp. 37—42. 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 103 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



1. Plastic. 

169. Fibrinous food — The dried muscles of animals 
fully matured in age, deprived of nerves, fat, &c., con- 
tain 70 per cent, of fibrine. 

Fibrine is chiefly found in beef, mutton, pork, venison, 
hare, duck, goose, &c., and in certain fish, as salmon.* 

The darker meats, and those which have a tougher 
fibre, are generally fibrinous, and abound in ozmazome 
(a stimulating digestive agent), iron, and other exciting 
elements. *' Thus beef and mutton are more purely 
fibrinous than veal and lamb ; because in the two former 
and in most animals of mature age, the fibrine exists 
in larger quantities, in proportion to the albumen and 
gelatine (jelly), than they do in the two latter, and in 
young animals." f 

Fibrine is the most stimulating of all animal food, 
and excites in a high degree the muscular and vascular 
action of the stomach. 

It is the most nutritious, and leaves least residue. 
Hence it is improper for all persons suffering from irri- 
table states of constitution and weak digestive powers. 
It is proper for persons using great muscular exertion, 
for persons of pale or lymphatic temperament, sluggish 
habits, residents in low situations, and all who require a 
healthy stimulus. 

170. Albuminous food is found purest in the white 

* Combe, op. cit. p. 138. f Combe, op. cit. p. 137. 



104 FOOD AND ITS USES. 

of egg, which contains water 80. albumen 15. 5. imcoa 
gulable matter 4.5. in every 100 parts, and is always 
accompanied by free soda. 

It is found in brains, liver, kidney, spleen, pancreas, 
sweetbread, (thymus gland), and indeed in all glands,* «■ 
and particularly in the flesh of young animals ; in || 
whey,f tripe, yolk of egg, (in combination with oil, 
phosphorus, sulphur, &c.) ; in oysters, haddock, turbot, 
soles, fresh water fish, &c. 

Albumen cooked by a small degree of heat,X for it is 
coagulated at 167^ is easily digestible, very nutritious, 
and much less stimulating than fibrinous meats. 

There is no ozmazome in the flesh of young animals, 
and it is deficient in iron. 

As fibrine chiefly repairs and supplies muscular tissue, 
the albuminous class of food is improper for labourers '1 
and pale persons, (who are deficient in iron). It is i 
proper for the sedentary and indolent, for nervous, 
excitable, bilious, and sanguine temperaments, for con- 
valescents and sufferers from irritable and exciting 
disorders. 

Albumen may be considered the grand staple of life, i 

* Liebig's Letters, &c. p. 346. 

t When whey is used as diet, it should be re-alcalized by the addi- 
tion of Carbonate of Soda. 

X Sportsmen eat hard ijoiled eggs, as being less easily digestible, 
and therefore as they believe " more sustaining." " Coagulated albu- 
men is readily soluble in alcaline solutions ; and when an excess of 
alcali is present, no coagulum takes place on boiling." — Bowman's 
Medical Chemistry, p. 43. This indicates the use of alcalies with 
albuminous food. — C. B. G. 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 105 

" In the egg, by warmth and oxygen, which has access 
through the shell ; under the influence, therefore, of 
those conditions which accompany respiration, all the 
parts of the body, feathers, claws, muscles, membranes, 
cells, blood, nerves, bones, &c., are developed. It is 
obvious, therefore, that albumen is the starting-point 
and foundation of the whole series of tissues, which 
constitute those organs, which are the seat of vital 
action. The elements of these organs now possessing 
form and vitality, were originally elements of albumen."* 

171. Caseine is an ingredient in milk, (rendered 
soluble by the presence of free soda) which, deprived 
of its water, contains caseine 34 parts in 117 of milk. 

By the addition of a weak acid, or a ferment, as rennet 
(§ 134), the sugar of milk is converted into lactic acid, 
and the fermentation, once set in motion, runs through 
any quantity of milk, its caseine acting as the nitro- 
genized substance ** under change," (§ 134) rapidly ren- 
dering all the caseine insoluble (curd). 

The composition of cheese is nutritious ; being one 
of the three protein compounds, and seems highly 
adapted for infantile nutriment. It is the only protein 
compound which contains no phosphorus, (see Note 
to § 168). 

In its soluble state (in milk) being held in solution 
by a free alcali, caseine is readily digested, (if its albu- 
men is not coagulated by heat in cooking) even in very 
feeble conditions of the stomach, provided it meets with 
* Liebig's Letters, p. 345. 



106 FOOD AND ITS USES. 



no acid in that organ, as in the lactic acid diathesis, 
when it becomes curdled, and then is most irritating. 

The insolubility of cheese is confirmed by the acids 
it encounters in the stomach ; its digestion is, therefore, 
extremely slow, and its effects irritating. Hence the 
gourmand (§ 58), takes cheese as one of the stimulants 
of his repast. 

172. As the three plastic (protein) articles rely on the 
presence of a free alcali in the system for their solu- 
bility, it must occur that in excessively acid states of 
the stomach they cannot be digested, (§ 56), nor can 
the bile and pancreatic juice restore their alcalinity. 
(§ 65). I may here observe, that fibrine is soluble 
only in the living circulation ; for immediately that it 
leaves the vital current, as in cuts, or ulcers, and in 
bleeding, its rapid coagulation takes place, which is 
often a property most conducive to our interests and 
welfare. Their coagulability may thus be tabulated : — 



n 



Coagulates spontane- 
ously, not by heat 
nor acids. 

Coagulates in organic 
threads. 



By heat and acids, 
not spontaneously. 



By acids, not by heat, 
nor spontaneously. 



Coagulate with no definite structure. 



That fibrine and albumen are mutually convertible, is 
shown by the following experiments. If we leave mus- 
cular tissue covered with w;ater, and exposed to the air 
a very short time, a part runs into decomposition and 
the whole becomes soluble and liquid. If heated, this 
proves identical with albumen. The conversion of ca- 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 107 

seine into its two confreres is shown in the above quota- 
tion (§ 171) relating to childhood. 

173. Gelatine, vernacularly termed jelly, takes no 
nutritive rank. It is not convertible by any practical or 
theoretical means into either of the protein compounds, 
nor does it possess sulphur or phosphorus. 

Dr. Pereira says,* " Gelatine is incapable of conversion 
into blood, but it may perhaps serve for the nutrition of 
the gelatinous tissues (cellular tissue, membrane, and 
cartilage)." 

Liebig observes,! ** It has now been proved by the 
most convincing experiments, that gelatine has no nu- 
tritious value — is not capable of supporting life — but it 
overloads the blood with nitrogenous products, the 
presence of which disturbs and impedes the organic 
processes." 

Dr. Carpenter remarks, J " The presumption derived 
from various experiments is, that gelatine cannot be 
applied ta the nutrition of muscular and other fibrous 
tissues." 

All authors § seem to agree .that its nutritious pro- 
perties are of a very insignificant character ; but that it 
has the advantage of being a ready-made material for 
the sustenance of the gelatinous structures. 

Gelatine is readily soluble at a very moderate tempe- 

* Treatise on Food and Diet, p. 43, 

t Op. cit. p. 425. 

t Manual of Physiology, § 429. 

§ Doune ; Magendie ; the French Academicians, &c. 




108 FOOD AND ITS USES. 

rature, and when diluted with 1 00 times its weight of 
water, makes when cold a consistent solid. 

Its solubility, its transparency, and disregard of acid 
or alcaline adjuncts, — its massive and beautiful appear- 
ance, especially with colouring matters, has created for 
it a value which it does not alimentarily deserve. When 
pure and thin it is readily absorbed by the veins of the 
stomach, and excites probably little or no digestive 
action. These attributes confer on it some practical 
utility for invalids when the digestive organs are feeble, 
as it slightly employs the secretive functions of the 
stomach, is an admirable vehicle for wine and other 
ingredients, and relieves the pressing demands of that 
organ by its bulk (§ 53). 

In its denser form it is slow of digestion, innutritions, 
and creates so little digestive action that without wine, 
acid, spices, and other stimulants to rouse the gastric 
energies to effect their digestion, they linger in the sto- 
mach, become rancid, acid, and often cause diarrhaea or 
vomiting. An instance has been recorded of apoplexy 
arising from eating cow-heel ; and I knew one such in- 
stance from a corpulent gentleman eating a fried sole, 
the under skin (gelatine) not having been previously 
removed, which cooks scarcely ever think of. Indeed 
it is probable that the death of Henry the First arose 
from eating Lampreys with their skins on. The only 
real objection to the use of gelatinous food by healthy 
persons is, that it displaces better materials. 

Gelatine is found in the cellular sheaths of muscular 
fibres, in skin (glue), in ligaments, tendons, membranes, 
and bones. 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 109 

174. Albumen and Gelatine so much abound in 
a combined form as to demand additional notice. They 
are observable especially in veal and other pies, and 
abound in most animals in which there is a deficiency of 
red colouring matter. 

The previous remarks would have suggested to a 
strong healthy person the addition of a more stimu- 
lating food in the form of fibrinous meats ; and we find 
rump-steak, ham and tongue, with an abundance of 
pepper, used to improve their exciting and muscle- 
making properties. 

175. From what has already been stated, we shall 
arrive clearly at the following conclusions. 

1. That the three plastic (protein) compounds che- 
mically resemble each other. 

2. That their physical characters are distinct, and 
their action, as articles of diet, various — whilst 
they are mutually convertible. 

3. That fibrine builds up muscular and other parts 
of the body, whilst albumen and caseine contribute 
mainly to the purposes of general nutrition. 

4. That under the continual privation of fibrine, albu- 
men acts in its stead. 

ANIMAL FOOD. 

2. Respiratory. 

1/6. Fat (Oil, &c.) constitutes the whole of the 
material, destined for the purpose of respiration, con- 
tributed bv animals. 



110 FOOD AND ITS USES. 



n 



It is composed (by measure) of carbon 13, hydrogen 
11, oxygen 1. By the addition of 10 measures of 
oxygen and the removal of 1 of carbon, we have the 
precise composition of cane sugar: (Carbon 12, hydro- 
gen 11, oxygen 11 :) and it so happens that if more 
farina, sugar, or fat is devoured than is required for the 
purposes of combustion in the body, — if more respiratory 
matter in short is taken into the system than is used for 
those purposes, the superabundance is stored up in the 
body as fat, an excess of which may be said to constitute 
disease,* we have illustration in the bloated obesity of 
great ale drinkers. But this is one of our chief objects in 
the administration of cod-liver- oil, and points to the free 
use of butter and fat in cases where it is so indicated. 
Fat people bear privation of food (as corroborated by 
Arctic Travellers) infinitely better and longer than spare 
ones, and are less affected by external cold. The accu- 
mulation of fat is much promoted by warmth and indo- 
lence (§ 100) : facts that demand strict attention in 
attenuating diseases and impoverished constitutions. 
Many persons who are said to be " bilious " have actu- 
ally a deficiency of bile secreted ; fat must then be used 
most sparingly, as it cannot be saponified in the duo- 
denum (§ 65), and passes through the intestines un- 
changed, and often becomes a source of irritation. But 
if the excretions and vomitings evidence the excessive 
secretions of bile, a better antagonist cannot be found 
than fat bacon for breakfast, as recommended by Dr. 
Bailey. Plastic food does not form fat ; — great eaters 

* Lord BjTon terras it " oily dropsy."— Rejected Addresses. 



FOOD AND ITS USES. Ill 

of it are usually thin, but of firm muscular fibre ; a 
fact noticed to advantage by pugilistic and pedest- 
rian trainers : and it is eaten underdone, so as to 
contain all its albuminous and mineral constituents 
undisturbed. A person who takes a glass of beer 
before running, is out of breath in an instant ; and 
spirit (hydro-carbon) drinkers are no better off; for 
the system, in either case, is flooded with hydrogen and 
carbon. Oil-cake fattens cattle ; and the unfortunate 
geese at Strasburg, whose feet are nailed to the ground, 
to deprive them of motion, are stuffed with respiratory 
materials, and kept in a room heated to a very high 
temperature, have fatty disease of their livers, which 
furnish the esteemed luxuries, Pates de Foies gras. Oil- 
merchants who repeatedly taste the oils they purchase, 
often become immensely fat. 

177. Fat undergoes no change in the stomach, and is 
therefore highly improper for irritable states of that 
organ. So much of that material as passes the duo- 
denum unassimilated (not saponified) travels onward 
through the bowels, and acts as a mild laxative and 
lubricant. 

Fat (embracing suet, butter, oil, &c.), embodied with 
articles of diet, impedes their solubility, and therefore 
digestibility. Hence pancakes, and fish fried in oil, 
suet-dumplings and rich pastry, oily meats, as fat pork 
and liver, — oily fish, as salmon, eels, &c., are difficult of 
digestion, in the conditions of the digestive organs 
which I have described. Mr. Dickens, aware of such oc- 
casional disagreement, puts these memorable words into 



112 FOOD AND ITS USES. 

the mouth of the inebriated Pickwick, when discovered 
floundering in the mud, and charged with being intoxi- 
cated, he declares, " It was the salmon did it." Fat 
has its representative (cream) in milk, which tells us, 
by its silent admonition, how useful fresh butter is in 
the dietary of children. 

VEGETABLE FOOD. 

178. The vegetable kingdom holds a position of the 
deepest interest ; it not only exclusively supplies aliment 
to a large class of the animal creation, but it is the in- 
termediating agent between the animal and mineral do- 
mains. Vegetables select from the earth and elaborate 
all those mineral substances, on which, as will shortly 
appear, our organization and existence depend. To the 
maritime dominions (and salt mines) we chiefly appeal 
for our soda ; to the terrestrial vegetation, for potass ; 
for our earths and metals, we explore the fossil regions, 
— all with immense cost and labour : but there stand 
a few insignificant plants, who, perfectly stationary, 
draw from the mineral fields all those articles which 
our nutrition demands, and which confer on them ac- 
cordingly their respective alimentary value. Animals 
who feed on vegetable matter are valueless to us, if 
their flesh does not possess the necessary quantity of 
minerals. 

179. Vegetables also present to us plastic materials, 
differing in no respect from those which we obtain from 
the animal kingdom ! And as though to taunt us with 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 113 

our voluntary indolence, in comparison with their rooted 
activity, one plant (the sensitive) imitates our muscular 
action, whilst another actually decoys and devours in- 
sects in our presence ! * 

180. Vegetable Fihrine, 

Is readily and abundantly obtained from wheat-flour, 
by washing away the starch with cold water, and drying 
the residue, which is called gluten. 

By allowing the expressed juice of vegetables to stand, 
a jelly-like precipitate soon separates and sinks. The 
colouring-matter being removed, a grayish-white sub- 
stance is left, — this is vegetable fibrine. 

181 . Vegetable Albumen^ 

Remains dissolved in the juice mentioned above, after 
the separation of the fibrine. At a temp, of 167^ it is 
coagulated, and may be collected. 

When the clarified juice of nutritious vegetables, such 
as turnips, cauliflower, or asparagus, is made to boil, a 
coagulum is formed, which cannot be distinguished from 
that of white of eggs boiled in water. 

182. Vegetable Caseine, 

Is chiefly found in the seeds of peas, beans, and si- 



* In the Sarraceniix and Dischidia (pitcher plants), according to 
Mr. Burnett, the modifications of leaves called pitcliers, attract insects 
by their fluid, and prevent their escape by the long bristles which line 
the cavity. The fluid dissolves the bodies of the insects, and the 
whole is absorbed into the plant. 

I 



114 FOOD AND ITS USES. 



1 



milar leguminous seeds. It may be extracted from 
their meal by cold water, and kept in solution, on the 
surface of which, when evaporated, a skin forms, and 
the addition of an acid causes a coagulum just as in 
animal milk.* 

The almond emulsion has all the characters of milk. 

183. Vegetable Gelatine, 

Exists in Ceylon-moss, to the amount of 54 per cent., 
with 15 of true starch. '* By boiling in water, it yields a 
liquid which gelatinizes on cooling. The decoction or 
jelly forms an agreeable light article of food for inralids 
or children."! 

It is satisfactorily proved, 1st, that the protein 
(plastic) substances, derived from the vegetable king- 
dom, when properly purified, differ in no respect from : 
those obtained from vegetables. 2nd, that the protein 
compounds, animal and vegetable, alone are capable 
of conversion into blood, and of forming organized 
tissues. :;|; 

184. We can now comprehend what is meant by the 
plastic matter furnished by vegetables. Liebig has 
given us a most valuable table of the relative average 

* Mr. J. Itier says, "The Chinese make a real cheese from peas by 
boiling them to a thin paste, which is passed through a sieve and co- 
agulated by a solution of gypsum. The curd, acted on b}' rennet, is 
pressed, and with the addition of salt formed into a cheese. It is sold 
in Canton under the name of Taofoo, and cannot be told from milk 
cheese,'''' 

f Pereira on food. p. 391. 
X Pereira, op. cit. p. 42. 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 115 

amount of plastic and respiratory materials contained in 
the following articles of food.* 

Plastic. Respiratory as starch. 
Cow*s milk contains 10 parts to 30 



Human milk 




10 


» 


40 


Lean beef 




10 


)» 


17 equal to 7 of fat. 


Lentils 




10 


>> 


21 


Horse beans 




10 


3) 


22 


Peas 




10 


,, 


23 


Wheat flour 




10 




46 


Oatmeal 




10 




50 


Rye flour 




10 




57 


Barley 




10 




57 


Potatoes, white 




10 




86 


blue 




10 




115 


Rice 




10 




123 


Buckwheat floui 


r„ 


10 




130 



As 10 parts of fat correspond to 24 of starch, it is easy 
to calculate its equivalent. Peas, for instance, contain a 
substance nearly equal in respiratory value, to 10 parts 
of fat to every ten of plastic food, making its soup a 
very eligible article for the poor in winter. Wheat-flour, 
it may be seen, is nearest allied in constituents to human 
milk, which is the perfect formula of human diet. 1 7 
parts of lean beef contain as much plastic matter as 33^ 
parts of peas, 56 of wheat-flour, 67 of rye-flour, 96 of 
white potatoes, or 133 of rice. 



* Letters on Chemistry, p. 361. 
1 2 



116 FOOD AND ITS USES. 

Plastic. Respiratory Equivalent 
as starch. as fat. 

185. Fat pork contains 10 parts to 30 equal to 12.5 

Fat mutton „ 10 „ 27 „ 11.25 

Lean beef „ 10 „ 17 „ 7.08 

Hare „ 10 „ 2 „ 0.83 

Veal „ 10 „ 1 „ 0.41 

It is obvious, that by a due mixture of these articles 
of food, we can obtain a diet of a composition analogous 
to that of milk or wheaten bread. By the addition of 
bacon or fat pork to peas, beans, or lentils ; of beef to 
potatoes ; of fat bacon or ham to veal ; of mutton to 
rice, we entirely regulate our diet, and may, in each 
instance, make it accord with the prescription of nature, 
as made manifest in milk. A horse fed on meadow-hay 
only, may become fat, but he requires for severe mus- 
cular exertion the plastic matter of corn. An indolent 
man is best dieted on respiratory food — a labourer on 
plastic. If the former takes more plastic food than his 
muscular expenditure in exercise requires, the redund- 
ancy charges his system with lithic acid, m-ea, and other 
nitrogenous matters ; the lithic acid diathesis is created, 
and gout, local pains, and organic disturbances are the 
result. I can trace back many cases of great suifering, 
in which my efforts were baffled by the impossibility of 
sailing to nature's compass. '* You may physic me 
as you please — I will swallow bottles and all, if you 
wish it ; but I wont give up my diet. Surely I know 
best what suits me." This is the language we are often 
accustomed to have addressed to us. 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 117 

My excellent friend, Sir James Eyre, has made some 
very amusing remarks on this subject.* 

186. Cow's milk contains less respiratory matter than 
human ; therefore a child deprived of its parental support, 
should have the cow's milk sweetened with sugar. A child 
fed on wheat-flour boiled in water, should have cow's 
milk added, to comply with the proportions of its na- 
tural sustenance. The composition of farinaceous and 
saccharine matter has been previously detailed ; and it 
is a curious circumstance, that the privation of oxygen 
in the system leads to an excess of three important 
substances : sugar and farina into fat ; carbonic acid 
and water into lactic acid ; and urea into lithic acid, — 
all being sources of distress to the system, when in ab- 
normal abundance. 

It is a truth worthy of being here recorded, that man 
and carnivora cannot digest raw farinaceous matter : a fact 
worth remembering by those who eat the wheat which 
they pillage and devour by handfuls in their walks 
through the farmer's corn-fields.f 

187. I have constructed a table, shewing the quantity 
of plastic matter per cent, of various articles, and with 
these statements before us we are competent to regulate 
the dietaries of any classes of individuals. 

* " The stomach and its difficulties," by Sir James Eyre, M. D. 
t This explains the indigestibility of nuts, &c., and why they are 
said to be injurious for coughs. 



118 



1^ 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 







Plastic food per cent. 


Wheat flour contains 


10 to 35 


Dried Peas 


» 


29 


Bean Meal 


» 


25 


Green Peas 


» 


24 


Linseed Meal 


jj 


23^ 


Lentils & Harricots „ 


22 


Scotch Outmeal 


»> 


15i 


Barley 


» 


11 


Malt 


)) 


8^ 


Rice 


,, 


8 


Sago 


i> 


3.33 


Arrow- root 


>i 


3.21 


Tapioca 


3» 


3.13 


Potatoes 


>» 


^ 


Cabbages 


J> 


n 


Parsnips 


>> 


2.1 


Beetroots 


J> 


2 


Turnips 


»> 


1* 


Carrots 


J> 


1| 



By comparing these tables, the quantities and propor- 
tions of the plastic and the respiratory ingredients in the 
various articles can be readily determined. 

188. As the arrow-root and farinaceous foods of the 
shops are composed chiefly of cheap potato starch (con- 
taining not an atom of plastic or mineral material) we 
observe the delusiveness of trusting our children's health 
to such a wretched diet. 

It is only necessary to repeat what has been stated 
in the chapter on digestion, that the plastic matter is 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 119 

separated in the stomach to be acted on by the gastric 
juice ; that farinaceous (and oily) matters are digested in 
the duodenum, — whilst the ligneous (woody) fibre follows 
the route of the bowels, undergoing little further change 
or digestion. When we wish to keep the stomach at 
rest, we avoid plastic food ; — when acidity exists, we give 
weak farinaceous food, protected by alcalies ; and when 
we wish for aperient action, we give well-boiled, vege- 
tables containing much woody fibre ; uncooked vegeta- 
bles (celery, cresses, &c.) are equally efficacious in strong 
and healthy stomachs only, and then their chilling 
efi'ects should be warded off^ with spices, or digestion 
may be arrested, and apoplectic or epileptic seizures may 
follow. 

189. Most fruits and vegetables contain organic acids, 
— the malates, the citrates, tartrates, &c., all containing 
the same elements as sugar, farina, and lactic acid,* 
namely, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Their acid enters 
the blood in combination chiefly with potass, and is 
actually burnt in the system. The alcali allies itself to 
the carbon and oxygen only, and the article voided from 
the system is the carbonate of the alcali. In the higher 
forms of fever, these are the only means of administer- 
ing respiratory matter to compensate the immense ex- 
penditure of substances undergoing combustion, also of 
importing an alcali to give solubility to lithic and other 
acids. So that the juice of fruits and some vegetables, 
well diluted so as to be speedily absorbed, effect three 
special objects, — diluting the blood, — furnishing respi- 
* Garden rhubarb and sorrel contain oxalic acid. 



120 FOOD AND ITS USES. 

ratory matter, and a solvent for the lithic acid generated 
by the rapid disorganization of the burning tissues. 
Sugar is likewise absorbed by the'gastic veins (§ 62) ; 
hence currant and apple jellies plentifully diluted, are 
most refreshing and salutary beverages, and may be 
added to flavour the farinaceous water. These advan- 
tages obtain in high fevers, — not so when the lactic acid 
condition prevails, for that acid is as consumable as the 
vegetable acids above mentioned — but acids are then in 
excess in the system, and are consumed. Therefore by a 
renewed administration of vegetable acids they enter the 
blood to contribute in themselves to the formation of 
more lactic acid. This is not the case with mineral 
acids which have not that effect on the constitution. 
These vegetable acids combined with alcalies (and called 
salts) are usually found as — 

Malates, in all kernel (pips) fruits and pine-apple ; 

Citrates, in stone fruits, currants, and potatoes ; 

Tartrates, in grapes. 
x41so in the juices of edible roots, tubers, and green 
vegetables. 

The above are the reasons why vegetable matters are 
considered cooling, laxative, and " purifiers of the 
blood." Fruits contain also a considerable quantity of 
albumen, as cooks discover in the scum or skimmings, 
when making preserves. 

190. I need scarcely add anything more as regards 
the effects of cold salads, melons, cucumbers, &c. on 
irritable and feeble stomachs ; they are not only in such 
cases very indigestible, but may also produce such a 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 



I2l 



chill as may arrest digestion, and cause a reversion on 
the circulation of the brain. Acid or unripe fruits are 
also to be deprecated, especially for children. Boiled 
beet-roots eaten at breakfast are of great laxative and 
nutritious value, if there is no excess of acid in the 
stomach, which converts their sugar into lactic acid. 
There is a Spanish j)roverb, that ripe fruit is " gold in 
the morning, silver at noon, but lead at night," and the 
principles of dictation fully substantiate its truth. 

The utility of farina as an article of diet has already 
been discussed ; and it is a remarkable fact that a sports- 
man who fills his pocket with biscuit and consumes it 
during his labours, can go through an immense amount 
of work without much fatigue ; and further, that he who 
stands in a shower and devours biscuits, rarely catches 
cold, on account of its supply of combustible ingredients. 

191. I shall now proceed to refer more minutely to 
the physiology of farinaceous matter. I have pointed 
out that vegetables are intermediate between the animal 
and mineral worlds, and elaborate from the earth con- 
siderable magazines of inorganic (mineral) materials. The 
elements of their growth are derived from carbonic acid, 
ammonia, and water, which animals are constantly restor- 
ing again to the inorganic world, in precisely their original 
forms. The tree and man truly spring from a similar 
germ ! 

192. If we go back to the lowest state of vege- 
table creation ; we find it simply composed of cells. The 
red-snow, and gory dew, parasite residents on the vast 
tracks of snow in the arctic regions, and which afford 



122 FOOD A.ND ITS USES. 

meagre diet to the rein-deer, are strictly cells, and have 
no sustenance derivable from the earth. Cereal seeds 
are magnified illustrations of the same. Take a linseed 
for instance, it has an albuminous cortical covering (its 
husk or shell) . If this seed is thrown into hot water, it 
very slowly delivers up its mucilage, however much it 
may be boiled ; and what is true of the seed is true also 
of its minute fragments. The true farina of seeds is 
contained in very minute flattened cells like two watch- 
glasses placed edge to edge, and these cell-walls are 
composed of glucose (plastic matter) lined with albu- 
men. If the meal of seeds is thrown into boiling water, 
the albumen of the cell-walls is coagulated, and its true 
farina is retained till the cell- walls are dissolved or de- 
composed ; but if such flour is placed in cold water, it 
swells ; the cell-structure bursts, and the soluble ma- 
terials are taken up by the water. Heat may then be 
gradually applied, and the whole becomes dissolved. 

If we desire to dissolve peas, (as in soup) pearl- 
barley, rice, coff^ee, cocoa, arrowroot, oatmeal, &c. we 
should first macerate them in cold water, and after some 
time place them on the fire to complete the solution of 
their plastic and farinaceous substances. If we desire 
to have peas-pudding, or rice-pudding, or other seeds 
placed on the table whole, they should be plunged into 
water at a temperature exceeding 176^ (the temperature 
at which albumen congulates). If the ingredients con- 
tain oil, as cocoa and cofi'ee, the temperature should not 
be very much higher, or the oil will be vaporized. 
Laundresses dissolve their starch in cold water before 



FOOD AKD ITS USES. 123 

submitting it to heat, on true philosophical principles ; 
and it is really wonderful that instinct and blind prac- 
tice are constantly anticipating the verifications of science! 
The potatoe contains its fecula (watery starch) in cham- 
bers made up of hexagonal plates. If when half boiled, 
they are suddenly removed from the boiling pot and 
plunged into cold water, the cell-walls contract and 
force out the water. If then returned to the boiling 
water, the cells expand, and a floury or mealy potatoe 
is your reward. 

MINERAL ARTICLES OF FOOD.* 

193. We have so far travelled through the luxurious 
fields of animal and vegetable diet. It now remains for 
us to explore regions so secluded from popular observa- 
tion as never perhaps to have enjoyed the slightest 
notice in convivial balad, or in the pastoral strains 
poured forth by lyric shepherds. Who ever dreams 
that the French academicians made vast experiments on 
the subject, and determined that no article of diet is 
nutritious, digestible, or can support respiration, which 
is deprived of a due proportion of mineral materials ? 
They proved that " animals fed on food from which all 
inorganic substances had been removed, died of starva- 
tion." Hence the aphorism, that " no animal can live 
on any one article of diet." 

194. The blood on being submitted to great heat 

« Called also inorganic^ or incombustible, as they are left in the 
ashes after the blood or body is consumed by heat. 



124 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 



leaves ashes, which give evidence that the incombus- 
tible or mineral ingredients of blood consist chiefly of 
Free phosphoric acid. 
» I y r Phosphate of soda. 
I Phosphate of potass. 

Alcaline earths (P''°^I''^^t^°^"'"«- . 
L Phosphate of magnesia. 

Oxidized iron.* 

Common salt (chloride of sodium.) 
and that these matters which never fail to exist in the 
blood of man, are found in the fodder of animals. These 
substances (called salts) exist in the blood in such pro- 
portions as to give it an alcaline ascendancy. 
A predominating free alcali in the blood 

1. Keeps the chief constituents of the blood in a 
fluid state. 

2. Prevents the sanguineous fluid leaving the minute 
capillaries (§ 33 exosmosis). 

3. Protects the albumen of the blood from coagula- 
tion, and renders a high temperature necessary for 
the purpose. 

4. Dissolves oxide of iron (chiefcoloring matter), and 
gives it transparent solution. 

T). It increases and promotes the combustibility of 
respiratory matter, and performs many other duties 
in respiration and secretion. 

The reason must now be obvious why the acid fur- 
nished by the gastric juice in digestion (§ QQ) should 

* Oxide of iron forms twenty per cent, of the whole ash after de- 
ducting common salt. 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 125 

be alcalized, as it is converted into chyle in the duode- 
num by the pancreatic juice and bile, so that the lacteal 
fluid should enter the circulation chemically suited by a 
preponderance of alcali for its new duties. For sangui- 
fication, heat-making, and secretion are undoubtedly 
carried on, only under the influence of an alcali. 

195. Another property of the alcalies in the blood, 
is, that by their influence all the combustible matters 
are burnt in the system. The tartaric, malic, and 
citric acids, alluded to (§ 189), as existing in fruit and 
vegetables, are severally composed of carbon, hydrogen, 
and oxygen, in which state they enter the blood. The 
acid is burnt in the system, and its carbonic acid unites 
with the alcali, displacing a portion of the phosphoric 
acid of the phosphates. No such decomposition could 
possibly take place but with the aid of the alcali. But 
if lactic acid prevails in the system, and the alcali is 
oppressively encumbered by it, this decomposition of 
organic (vegetable) acids is impeded or thwarted, and 
possibly they may, themselves being similarly consti- 
tuted, lend a hand to further acidulous formation. " In 
precisely the same way is lithic acid destroyed or burnt 
in the system." * 

196. A most remarkable fact remains to be noticed. 
The phosphoric acid and phosphates mentioned in the 
above table, as constituting ingredients in the blood, 
owe their existence to the presence of these articles in 
the food. But by a change of diet we can exchange 
carbonic acid for phosphoric acid, and carbonates for 

* Liebig's Letters, p. 399. 



126 FOOD AND ITS USES. 

phosphates, without the slightest interference with the 
quahties or duties of the blood. When the food con- 
sists of bread or flesh, which leave in their ashes no 
carbonates, but only phosphates, the blood contains 
phosphates only. If we add to the bread and flesh, 
potatoes or green vegetables, the blood acquires a cer- 
tain amount of alcaline carbonate. If we replace the 
flesh and bread entirely by fruit, roots, or green vege- 
tables, the blood becomes entirely carbonated, and ac- 
quires the composition and quality of an ox or a sheep. 

Whatever therefore the animals may be, whether 
carnivorous, herbivorous, graminivorous, or mixed, 
they all exhibit in the burnt ashes of their blood the 
very same inorganic substances which are afforded by the 
articles of their respective diets ; the free acid, the 
alcalies, and alcaline earths being phosphates or car- 
bonates accordingly. 

Although this interchange of acids has no apparent 
influence on nutrition, sanguification, or the production 
of heat, yet the secretions are much affected by the 
change. Liebig says, " contrary to all known laws, it 
appears to the chemist like a miracle, that two acids^, 
a gaseous and a fixed one — one of the weakest and one 
of the strongest — two, of all acids, which difl'er most in 
composition, can form with the alcalies found in the 
blood, compounds of the same chemical character." * 

197. The alcaline carbonates take up a considerable 
portion of free carbonic acid, and hold it in their solu- 
tions, whilst the alcaline phosphates confer great solu- 
* Liebig's Letters, p. 390. 



FOOD ANB ITS USES. 127 

bility on free phosphoric acid. We now can see in 
what manner carbonic acid after combustion enters the 
blood and is carried away to be exhaled in the lungs, 
and free phosphoric acid to join other materials which 
render it soluble and capable of reaching its natural 
outlet. Phosphoric and carbonic acids having but a 
slender affinity for their alcalies, readily resign their 
connexion to others, and thus aid in completing other de- 
compositions. The products arising from these changes 
are removed from the body by three outlets, so as not 
to embarass the system. The gaseous by the lungs, 
the soluble by the kidneys, and the insoluble by the 
bowels. The table (§113) gives some idea of the im- 
portance of these proceedings. As no minerals are 
stored up in the system, and as the receipt must 
therefore be equal to the loss, how important it is to 
ascertain that the fluid, &c. excreted from the system, 
contain not only the sum of materials necessary to be 
discharged, but that they are elaborated in their healthy 
forms, and not in those various conditions, which not 
only announce with clearness and precision where lies 
the disturbance, but teach the physician how by suitable 
diet and remedial m'&asures to reach and adjust the 
causes of disease. Gout, and most chronic disorders, 
must fly before a proper comprehension of such mat- 
ters. I must confess, and deeply regret to say, that 
dictation is fearfully neglected in our profession, and 
grossly misused by the public. 

198. The solid, insoluble organized tissues diff'er from 
the blood, in possessing free phosphoric acid, which 



128 FOOD AND ITS USES. 

holds fibrine in solution, and has a special duty to per- 
form in the formative or plastic process, which can be 
performed by no other acid. 

The brain and nerves contain 20 per cent, of phos- 
phorized fat. , The vertebral bones half their weight of 
phosphate of lime and magnesia. The white of eggs 
contains an excess of alcali, — the yolk contains free 
phosphoric acid! It is clear, from these and other 
facts, that free phosphoric acid presides over and enters 
into the formation of the organized tissues. 

199. Chlorine and sodium united, form common salt, 
which is not so deadly an enemy as has been represented 
by some advertiser. 

There is no fluid of the animal body in which chlorine 
is absent. It is found in the muscles combined with 
potassium, — in the blood combined with sodium. 
'* Whilst chlorine and potassium prevail in muscles, 
chlorine and sodium are essential and constant ingre- 
dients of the blood." — (Liebig.) 

Potass residing in the muscular system in which 
plastic matter is decomposing, uses its solvent power to 
depurate the lithic acid matters (§ 145). Soda pervad- 
ing the blood encounters the products of respiratory 
decomposition. These circumstances seem to ratify the 
eligibility of potass for the treatment of lithic acid in 
excess, and of soda for that of lactic acid. 

Vegetables furnish but little salt or soda, hence our 
potatoes and amylaceous food suggest salt as a part of 
our diet. In North America large magazines of salt 
are provided for wild animals, called " buffalo licks." 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 129 

All cattle-dealers know the value of salt on the meat, 
and even coats, of their animals. In many countries 
where it is very scarce (as in Africa), men are sold for 
salt — indeed only the rich can procure it. Mungo Park 
says, that among the Mandingoes, the expression — " he 
flavours his food with salt," is synonymous with being 
a rich man. 

The intended limits of this Book compel me to cur- 
tail the subject before us, which T have dealt with, I 
fear, too briefly to be satisfactory, and very inefliciently. 
I shall now claim attention to a very few special articles 
of diet. 

SOUPS 

200. Are solutions of animal substances in water. 
During digestion, the water is absorbed, and the plastic 
matter left for the action of the gastric juice. Their albu- 
minous and gelatinous solutions, of less specific gravity 
than the blood (§ 62), are taken up freely by the veins 
of the stomach ; but rich fibrinous solutions (as beef 
tea), not only delay digestion, by requiring its water to 
be first absorbed, but it dilutes the gastric juice, and 
excites, to a very trifling extent only the peristaltic move- 
ments of the stomach (§ 61). " Soups do not call into 
play the muscular coat of the stomach, and are so slow 
of digestion, when that organ is already weakened, as 
to give rise to acidity. Hence they are unfit for most 
dyspeptic patients." * Chicken-tea, beef-tea, and soups, 

* Combe, op. cit. p. 126. 
K 



130 FOOD AND ITS USES. 



during recovery from illness, ought always to be made 
very weak at first, and to be given in small quan 
titles." * 

As fats and oils resist the action of the gastric juice 
(§ 62), they should be carefully removed, by skimming 
or blotting-paper, for invalids. 

Vegetable and farinaceous matter, mixed up in soups, 
have to be separated in the stomach from the plastic, 
and thus give additional labour to that organ. 

Fibrinous soups (as beef-tea, &c.), derive their flavour 
from the ozmazome (§ 169), and contain also ironm so- 
lution, which renders them inadmissible in irritable or 
acid states of the stomach. Salt opposes endosmosis. 
(§ 34.) 

MILK. 

201. Contains plastic matter, sugar, butter, iroiH 
lime, free soda, phosphates, &c. The specific gravity 
of cow's milk is about 1.030. It is adulterated with 
brains and albuminous matters, in order to hold in solu- 
tion, chalk and turmeric, with a liberal addition of 
water. 

Human milk contains most respiratory food, — cow's 
most plastic matter, — ass's milk is most easy of diges- 
tion. 

The constituents of these three kinds of milk are 
shewn in the following table. f 

* Combe, p. h%. f Pereira on Diet, p. 249. 



■ 

ade V 



« 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 



#-^31 





Human 


Cow's 


Ass's 


Caseine (plastic) 


1.52 


4.48 


1.82 


Butter 


3.55 


3.13 


0.11 


Sugar of Milk * 


6.50 


4.77 


6.08 


Various Salts 


0.45 


0.60 


0.34 


Water 


87.98 


87.02 


91.65 



100.00 100.00 100.00 

Heat renders milk easily acidulated, and when * burnt" 
is partially decomposed. Hence for invalids and chil- 
dren, milk should never reach the fire, but be warmed 
by the addition of boiUng water, or by plunging the 
vessel containing it into hot water. 

BREAD. 

202. Consists of moistened wheat flour, rendered 
spongy by its gluten holding the air bubbles arising from 
the yeast f in small chambers. It contains every sort 
of aliment with iron and other minerals. 

White Bread consists chiefly of pure farina deprived 
of the bran, — which contains an abundance of service- 

* " The milk of purely carnivorous animals is destitute of sugar, 
consisting, like their food, of protein compounds and fatty matter 
only." — Carpenter, op. cit. § 436. 

f " Yeast changes a part of the farina into sugar and the sugar into 
alcohol and carbonic acid as in brewing." — The Chemistry of Common 
Life, by Prof. Johnston, Vol. i. p. 97. 
K2 



132 FOOD AND ITS USES. 

able materials, especially bone earth (phosphate of lime) 
hence it is not fit nutriment for young persons, (chil- 
dren). 

The great preference for white bread, leads the baker 
to the liberal use of alum, — from twenty-four to sixty- 
six grains in a quartern loaf. Thus an inferior flour 
makes a very white, elastic, firm, and dry loaf; and from 
the property possessed by alum of absorbing and retain- 
ing water, a much smaller amount of flour is necessary 
to make up the full weight of the loaf, alum is a pow- 
erful astringent, therefore pale colored jalap is used to 
obviate its constipatory effects. In dyspepsia it is a 
powerful irritant; I never trust baker's bread for poul- 
tices, for fear of the inflammation being increased by the 
alum. 

Dr. Bernays says, ''the prevalence of bad teeth 
amongst the English, is in part owing to their universal 
preference for white bread." * 

Brown Bread, if genuine, is highly nutritious, from 
containing hran which is rich in phosphate of lime and 
other minerals and in plastic matter. Magendie fed a 
dog on white bread and water, — he died in forty days. 
He fed others on brown bread and water, — they flou- 
rished and grew fat.f 

A mess of boiled wheat (firmity) or common unrefined 
oatmeal porridge, with sugar and milk, should be given 
once a week to growing children. If the latter is too 
irritating, the former should be selected. 



I 



* Household Chemistry, p. 82. 
f Millon, Comptes Rendus, xxxviii. p. 40. 



« 



FOOD ASD ITS USES. 133 

Captain's biscuits (flour and water only) are most 
valuable articles of diet, and may in many cases be most 
advantageously substituted for bread. Those with 
carraway seeds, (the husks when unbruised being indi- 
gestible) may be called biscuits with thorns. 

Potatoes added to bread may be unobjectionable, — 
but they certainly displace better materials. 



BEVERAGES. 

203. Tea contains theine, tannin, and iron, — three 
stimulants. Coffee contains theine and a stimulating 
oil. Tapioca, Sago, and Rice, boiled in water, are inost 
valuable articles of diet, and well supersede tea and 
coffee. They may be cooked with milk if desirable, 
and currant jelly or marmalade may be added to flavour 
them in dry feverish states, (§ 189) or orange or lemon- 
peal. Cocoa, if pure, has important advantages over 
every similar article of diet. Composed chiefly of 
farina, it contains in abundance a most nutritious and 
agreeable oil, which is supposed by some late writer to 
contain medicinal properties, equal to cod-liver-oil. If 
the oil disagrees, it can be removed when cold, (for it 
then hardens like suet on the surface) and the fluid be re- 
warmed, when it forms a delightful aromatic beverage. 
A most splendid specimen is sold by Marshall and Son, 
20, Strand, at ten -pence per pound, under the name of 
*' Rock Cocoa," which contains an abundance of oil, — a 
fragrant aromatic odour, — a mass of pure farina, — with 



134 FOOD AND ITS USES. 

plastic and mineral ingredients. It is in fact meat, 
bread, and butter. 

For sportsmen, for invalids, and delicate children, it is 
exceedingly valuable. As a general article of diet, it is 
most economical. 

204. SACCHARINE COMPOSITIONS, 

Sold in the shops, and called sweet-meats, are mostly 
of a diabolical, if not poisonous quality, from their col- 
ouring matter, and the sulphuric and acetic acids sold as 
citric acid. Sugar acts on the kidneys, and is a valu- 
able diuretic, if the skin is cool ; but a diaphoretic 
usually, if the skin is warmed : hence the value of 
treacle-posset in colds. Sugar morbidly formed in the 
stomach, and absorbed by the portal veins into the 
liver, creates diabetes ; but if formed in the duodenum, 
as in health, it is a respiratory aliment. Medicated 
lozenges are most mischievous, from their unknown dose 
and composition. Some others are base frauds ;* and such 
has been found to be the case with pounds of homoeo- 
pathic globules, tested by Messrs. Brande andFarraday, 
who discovered that not an atom of the alleged drug 
entered into the com.position of the large quantities 
which they examined. 

SPIRITS AND WINE 

205. Are cordials ; but when administered in collapsed 

* Jargonelle pear lozenges are flavoured with acetate of oxyde of 
formyle : apple lozenges by valerianate of formyle. 



I 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 135 

states (as in drowning), the capillaries must be invigo- 
rated by external warmth, before their materials can be 
appreciated. 

Spirits form no fat — they precipitate ptyaline and pep- 
sine (§ 50) and albumen,* and load the system with car- 
bon. Hence gin-drinkers are blue and thin ; and though 
their indulgence renders them free from phthisis, it entails 
other and equally fatal diseases. Our home-made wines 
are replete with acids, from too great exposure to the air 
during fermentation. (Liebig.) Beer contains similar 
acids, and carbonaceous matters in great excess. There- 
fore beer-drinkers take but little food (especially farina- 
ceous and sugar), and their livid faces denote an excess 
of venous blood. Liebig says,-|- " Some English families 
adopted the plan, since the formation of Temperance 
Societies, of allowing their servants money in lieu of 
beer ; but it was soon found that the weekly consump- 
tion of bread increased in a striking degree, so that the 
beer was twice paid for ; once in money, and a second 
time in its equivalent of bread.'* 

206. I have now given, in a condensed form, a great 
portion of what is known on the subject of food and 
dictation. I will, in conclusion, add a few remarks on 
the dictation of infants. An infant that does not suck 
its food may be encouraged to suck its thumb after 
taking food (§ 49) ; and it is astonishing how they 
fatten by so doing. Oatmeal relaxes ; rice constipates ; 

* Surgical preparations are preserved by spirits. 
•f Letters on Chemistry, p. 454. 



136 FOOD AND ITS USES. 

wheat-flour is neutral ; and either of these three, boiled 
in water and cooled with new cow's milk, will at all 
times regulate a baby's bowels. Flesh-meat is in- 
admissible till the necessary masticatory instruments 
are provided by nature. Milk furnishes all the ele- 
ments necessary for infantile life. Sugar should be 
given sparingly, as being the next stage to the forma- 
tion of lactic acid (§ 134) ; farina is converted into nu- 
tritious sugar in the duodenum (§ 66). In flatulence, 
sickness, and acidity^ a little bi-carbonate of soda, and 
a little weak clove-tea, will instantly remove them, and 
usually remove diarrhcca. Fibrinous meat hurries the 
formative process, encourages a lankey and thin growth, 
without symmetry, makes children excitable and *' hu- 
moury ; " and pre-disposes them to phthisis and other 
scrofulous diseases. 

Fast growing children with small bones, should take 
a tea-spoonful or two of lime-water occasionally in a 
little milk and the yolk of an egg. In febrile states, 
sago and tapioca in water should be given, on account of 
their being low in the plastic scale. 

207, To recapitulate my opinions on the subject of 
this work. I believe that the E. and N. E. winds dry 
up the skin and respiratory mucuous membrane ; that 
they arrest the removal of lactic acid by the skin ; that 
the mucuous membrane becomes loaded with this acid ; 
that they set up the lactic acid diathesis. That lactic 
acid is generated to excess in the capillaries, the al- 
calinity of the blood is overpowered ; that sugar and 



FOOD AND ITS USES. 137 

farina undergo acidulous conversion, and that the mu- 
cous membranes elaborate lactic acid in excess. That 
the pneumogastric nerves sympathetically connect the 
respiratory organs with the stomach, and that other 
organs also are powerfully affected by the lactic acid 
diathesis. Under these circumstances fogs, and an 
atmosphere loaded with moisture or floating extraneous 
matters may also distress the sensitive larynx. The prin- 
ciples of treatment are to restore the healthy action of the 
skin ; to neutralize free acid in the stomach, as well as 
in the blood, and to procure the proper alcaline ascen- 
dancy in the circulation. Lastly, to prevent a recur- 
rence, and ensure a permanent cure by the strictest 
attention to diet. I may conclude by saying, that if I 
was forced by any strange coincidence to take my 
choice in the treatment of diseases (not immediately 
threatening life) witli the use of medicine, or the regu- 
lation of diet, I would infinitely prefer the means placed 
at my disposal by the latter, and should rely with the 
greatest confidence on the powers afforded me by the 
vast resources of dietation. 



FINIS. 



PRINTED BY 

L. SEELEY, 

THAMES DITTON. 



A/ 



•^ BOUND BY *1 
.A LONDON Jt 



