Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



I 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 



MEMOIRS 



ov 



A STOMACH. 



■> 



WEHTEN BY HDISEIF, 

THAT ALL WHO EAT MAY REAK> ^ ^ 

BT 

A MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR. 



LONDON : 
PUBLISHED BT W. E. PAINTER, 342, STRAND ; 

▲ND SOLD BT ALL BOOKSBLLEBS IN TOWN AND OOUNTBT. 

1853. 



/iV. ^^ /^^. 



\ 



INTRODUCTION. 



My duties in editing the following pages 
have been of a very simple nature, 
consisting principally of weeding out 
many expressions of bitterness and heart- 
burning in which my friend, Mr. Stomach, 
too often indulges ; and also in throwing 
what little light I was able upon passages 
and remarks obscure or questionable. This 
part of my task, I admit, has required 
some degree of industry and care. It 
will not fail to be observed that our author 
is of a sensitive nature, and by no means 
possessed of a strong constitution ; indeed, 
had it been otherwise, these pages would 



VI INTBODUCTION. 

never have been written. A patient only 
seeks medical advice when he is ailing; 
and a stomach only proffers his experience 
when he feels that it may be of use to 
others of a like delicate temperament with 
himself. 

His humour, his satire, and his philo- 
sophy will not fail to be appreciated. I 
only trust my humble task has been per- 
formed with justice to my friend, the 
public, and myself; and I can only express 
the wish, that the following very curious 
memoirs (considering their authorship) 
had been intrusted to the supervision of 
others more competent to the task, than 
to him who for a brief period has accepted 
the office of 

MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR. 



AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 



By what manual agency I wrote the sub- 
joined pages no one has a right to inquire ;* 
but as far as intellectual faculties are con- 
cerned, I consider I hold a superior posi- 
tion to my helpmate Mr, Brain;* for, 
while I reside in the drawing-room floor, 
he lives in the attics. Moreover, if he 
separated the good from the bad, and 
digested all matters which he receives as 

1 It is to be presumed that all information obtained by our 
author on subjects distinct from his own personal experience, 
has been derived from the conversation of the individual 
he inhabits ; and who, we are hereafter informed, was addicted 
to literary avocations. 

s This boast is excusable. Van Helmont placed the seat of 
understanding in the stomach, of volition in the heart, and of 
memory in the brain I 



Vlll PREFACE. 

thoroughly as I do, he would have a 
greater right to look down upon me than 
he has at present. 

The depreciation of another's powers of 
mind, is the usual and proper beginning 
to books in general ; and though I am 
accustomed to introductions of all kinds, 
I will here content myself with this one. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 



Jejunus raro stomachus vulgaria tenmit.— Hob. 

Oh, that my stomach were a cable long, and every inch a 
palate.— Qunr. 



Mt days of early infancy shall be rapidly passed 
over ; but it is necessary to state that I was bom of 
gentle parentage, being related, on the maternal 
side, to the celebrated Stemums, of Eaton Hall 
(since migrated to Eaton Moor), and, on my 
father's side, I dated my pedigree as far back as the 
first invasion of the Saxons, when the great Sir 
Hugh Stomach was created baron, from the huge 
quantity of beef he was able to digest ; and since 
that time a certain portion of the ox has been called 
after him. The name Stomach, indeed, is of pure 



10 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

Saxon origin, from the word Sto^ meaning to stow 
away, and ach or hacky signifying to hew into small 
pieces ; the consonant m having been inserted for 
the sake of euphony.* It is scarcely necessary for 
me to observe that my progenitors first established 
the Diet of the German empire. 

Of my poor mother, I will say but little ; she was 
of a softy 3rielding disposition, totally unfitted for 
the companionship of her husband, who I am 
bound to confess was of a coarse and robust nature, 
one that could not appreciate the sweet excellence 
of his partner. The match, indeed, was an iU- 

1 This is evidently a dig at etymologists, and reminds us of 
Dean Swift's derivation of the word Leda, Leda, he says *' was 
the mother of Castor and Pollux, and, laying a couple of eggs, 
was therefore called Laid a, or Leda." This joke is execrable, 
but still it was — Swift*s. From the same authority we have 
another derivation, thus : " Achilles was the most valiant of the 
Grecians. This hero was of a restless, unquiet nature; and 
therefore, as Guy of Warwick was called a Kill-Cow, and an- 
other terrible man a Kill-Devil, so this general was called 
A-kill-ease, or the destroyer of ease ; and at length by corrup- 
tion, Achilles." Far worse is the derivation of Cucumber — 
King Jeremiah, Jeremiah King, Jerry-King, Jerking, Girking, 
Cucumber. Equalled, if not excelled, in absurdity, is that 
quoted by Home Tooke :— oo-Trep nrntf vntf ^iavip ; Napkin, 
nipking, pipking, pippenkiug, King Pepiu. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 1 1 

assorted one in many respects ; and, in about three 
months, after giving birth to a son and heir in the 
person of the present writer, my revered parent 
joined the stomachs of another sphere, and was 
interred (her remains, I mean) in the family mauso- 
leum ; while on her tomb was engraven the follow 
ing simple and touching epitaph, an impromptu by 
my father : — 



(( 



With my poor wife Death played his last trick ; 
She died, sweet soul, from want of gastrick." 



I cannot, of course, remember the event ; but this 
I know, I was turned over to a nurse before ablac^ 
tation, and the change was highly detrimental to 
my health and comfort. The sweet almondy taste 
of the deUcious food my poor mother gave me was 
changed to a sort of London milk, slightly impreg- 
nated with Geneva. The tricks this woman played 
were frightful. The doctors told her to drink 
porter, and so she did, and every other sort of 
liquor in the bargain, to be obtained at the public- 
house. The worst of it was I had no redress, 
but I took care to let everybody participate in 



12 MBMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

my diflgxist, by inciting my neighbouring arms 
and legs to kicks and contortions ; and to the 
•mall voice which dwelt upstairs I suggested such 
shrill cries, as made every person in the house 
detest the Uttle body of which I was the centre. 
However, I suffered terribly for my want of endur- 
ance; for sometimes, when the pangs of hunger 
obliged me to take any refreshment I could get, I 
heard my friends the lips make a great friss about 
some bitter compound the poor wretches were com- 
pelled to come in contact with, and these cries were 
a sure prelude to a horrid flavour coming down, 
which as much astonished as annoyed me ; but I 
soon found out, when the nurse considered I had 
received sufficient of her generous gifts, she dis- 
couraged every desire for a further supply by a 
certain use of gall, not unknown to maternal solici- 
tude, which nearly turned me inside out. 

After enduring a wretched state of being for 
some time, at length the happy period arrived 
when other aliment was given; and I should 
flu a volume were I to relate all the extraordinary 
surprises which awaited me when different com- 



MEMOnUS OF A STOMACH. 13 

pounds forced themselves upon my attention, but 
which nevertheless I was compelled to digest and 
make the most of, for the good of the system in ge- 
neral. Amongst other things, I remember that bread- 
sop puzzled me extremely. I believe my innocent 
attendants imagined they were giving me groimd 
com. Com, indeed! Why, when I came to test 
it by the aid of my powerful machine of analysis — 
a machine so strong I could dissolve a marble, and 
tell you its component parts — ^when, I say, I came 
to test it by a strong acid, I found that there was 
not more than twenty per cent, of flour in the 
whole composition, the remainder being made of a 
common sort of starch, alum, ground bones, potato 
flour, and often plaster of Paris !^ 

I must explain that there was a sort of super- 
vising oflicer who always accompanied me in life, 
caUed Palate, whose duty it was to taste every par- 
ticle of food intended for my consumption, and to 
reject it if disapproved. The vigilance of this per- 
sonage, however^ was of no avail against the strata- 

1 In a penny bun lately analyzed were fonnd three gniaM of 
alnm and ten of chalk, and in others plaster of Paris. 



14 MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 

gems which were made to deceive both him and 
me ; the consequence being, that he very often got 
into a morbid state of feeling, not knowing good 
from bad; and instead of guarding me from evil, 
led me into it. 

Occasionally, while I was tranquilly reposing 
after the hard work consequent upon a good 
meal, or when I was busily at work distributing 
nourishment to all around, I was suddenly aroused 
from my slumbers, or my duties, as the case 
might be, by compounds rushing down, with 
whose nature I was totally imacquainted, and 
with which I was sometimes so thoroughly dis- 
gusted, that I grew restive, and refused to re- 
ceive this unjust demand upon my powers of 
assimilation and willingness to oblige. For this, 
however, I was generally well punished ; and never 
shall I forget, when one day I had rejected some 
horrid mixture of treacle, chalk, and sugar, called, 
I believe, sweetmeats, when I had literally turned 
it out of doors — ^never, I say, shall I forget my sen- 
sations when, after a little preliminary conversation 
between my attendant and a physician, there came 



MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 15 

gurgling into my hapless inside a black cascade of 
SO horrible a nature, tliat I fancied the waters of 
Phlegethon had been stirred up, and administered 
for my especial benefit. I really thought it was all 
over with me; and what added greatly to my 
sufferings, was the fear 1 was in of rejecting the 
nauseous poison ; for I thought I might perhaps be 
subjected to a repetition, so I bore the evil as 
well as I could, and took especial care to let my 
neighbours have a very considerable idea of my 
sufferings, not simply theoretical. 

From that hour I date a series of petty 
grievances of a very Protean sort; and really 
it was sometimes laughable to hear rubbing going 
on for rheumatism; to know that poultices were 
applied to sores; mineral watei's recommended, 
for skin complaints; ay, and even operations 
performed on diseased members,^ when I alone 

1 One of our most eminent surgeons, SirB— — B , has 

admitted, and printed his admissions too, that for the cure of 
a certain disease he has all his life performed operations ; but he 
now attempts to eradicate it by other means, and hM in this case 
entfarely reUnquished the knife I Do the ghosts of his patients 
limbs haunt his conch like the spectres round King Richard's? 



16 MBMOIES OF A STOMACH. 

was the cause of it all : and if the niirses and 
doctors would only, during my first indispositions, 
have allowed me to remain in perfect repose, sup- 
pljring me with light and nourishing food at regular 
intervals, giving me, in fact, little or nothing to do 
beyond agreeable recreation, I should have grate- 
fully thrown my feet on my well-stuffed so&, got 
an agreeable nap, awoke refreshed, and all might 
have been well; but a system of medicine, once 
commenced, involved the necessity of its continu- 
ance, and my feelings may better be imagined than 
described, when I heard certain drugs being pre- 
scribed for me, which I knew would ultimately un- 
dermine and injure my constitution. 

It will here be as well to give a short and familiar 
description of my mission in life ; and since I desire 
that all who eat may read, I shall make little or no 
use of those technical and anatomical phrases, 
which would only be comprehended by my greatest 
enemies — ^the ordinary run of medical practitioners. 
My personal appearance, I must acknowledge, is 
not prepossessing, as I resemble a Scotch bagp^ 
in form, the pipe part being the oesophagus or 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. ^^ 

gullet, and the bag myself, I often wish there 
were more " stops," especially when I am played 
upon by gluttony, and perhaps there would have 
been, could I give vent to noises similar to those of 
the Caledonian instrument, whose strains are so ter- 
rible that the brave Highlanders are said to rush 
into battle to escape them. 

The internal structure of the whole of my 
tribe, Nature originally made very nearly per- 
fect, but she allotted a large degree of influence 
to a presiding faculty of the mind called Eea- 
son ; and in consideration of man's elevation 
beyond, and above all created things, she made 
it a rule absolute that man himself should, by 
the use of this presence, reign over his own des- 
tiny. Now, this seems to be a very fair provision ; 
for, had Nature chosen to form man as a mere piece 
of perfect machinery, no doubt she could have done 
so ; but by apportioning to him certain high facul- 
ties, and giving to him a discretionary power, she 
made him a free agent, and permits him to exhibit 
all those lights and shades of character which make 
him so remarkable an animal, and so well worth the 

B 



18 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

trouble of stud3dng. As I said before, therefore, 
though my material form was admirably adapted 
for the purposes of my being, yet much was left to 
the dictates of this same Reason; and a carelessness 
of her mandates is the cause which has produced so 
many bodily iUs amongst the inhabitants of this our 
planet. 

My chief uses were these — To receive with 
becoming courtesy and politeness all nourish- 
ment that arrived in my parts, through an anti- 
chamber,or passage, called GBsophagus ; and though, 
as I before explained, there was an of&cer named 
Palate, aided by a subordinate called Smell, stationed 
at the entrance to lay an embargo upon all improper 
importations, yet, generally speaking, I graciously 
received what the gods sent, and proceeded to per- 
form my several duties. The instant food arrived 
within myportalsy and touched the mucous surface, 
I secreted so strong an acid^ from the vigour of my 

1 The frastric juice, besides its acid qualities, contains a pecu- 
liar nitrogenous substance, called pepsine, but doctors differ 
as to the nature of the entire secretion ; and it has been as- 
cribed to hydrochloric, acetic, phosphoric, and lactic acids, and 
also to an acid phosphate or lactate of magnesia. There are, 



MEMOIBS OP A STOUACH. 1^ 

adjacent coats that I reduced it to a sort of pulp, 
and out of the strangest materials, with the as- 
sistance of those below me, I formed a milky 
semi-fluid, called chyle, so extremely valuable, that 
the instant it was made a whole body of porters, 
with so called lacteal vessels, carried it off with 
all haste to fertilize the soil. Now, suppose for 
one single instant the certain result, if you, gentle 
reader, had sent a number of your servants to fill 
their pails from a pure stream in order to irrigate 
your pastures, but, instead of limpid water, they 
found a compound like the river Thames, which the 
Times terms "a seething ditch." Just so, it often 
happened to those lacteal vessels I have just men- 
tioned. They were brought to convey pure and 
wholesome chyle to all parts of the body ; when they 
discovered such horrible mixtures, owing to gluttony 
and oveiffeeding, that I was often obUged to use all 
my personal influence to get them to perform their 
allotted task. 

however, many therapeutic arguments against its consisting of 
any one of these ; but Liebig and Lehmann are in favour of the 
lactic acid. 

b2 



20 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

But do not for a moment imagine that Nature 
was so saving as to furnish me with only one 
means to decompose matters. Oh dear, no. Besides 
the acid, she also provided an alkali in the pancrea- 
tic juice, as also in the bile ; so that there was hardly 
a chance of escape for any sort of passenger, inas- 
much as when one intense acid was insufficient to 
settle their business, a strong alkali was caUed into 
requisition, and this helped me off with all sorts of 
fatty substances, with which the gastric juice would 
have nothing to do. Substances not soluble by 
either of these powerful auxiliaries, were sent about 
their business one way or the other, so that I was 
well provided by Nature against all contingencies, 
and the affair stood thus: — ^the ordinary run of 
things / dissolved ; but when I could not manage 
them with acid, I turned them over to the alkali. 
When substances arrived which we neither of us 
could manage, we passed them on to another parish ; 
and when in the hands of the tender-hearted over- 
seer, I pity much their case. If, however, I took 
a violent disUke to any very questionable sub- 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 2 1 

stances, with a strong muscular effort I discarded 
him at once, as an intruder and a vagabond.* 

Of course, I had my own peculiar methods of 
setting to work upon my numerous duties ; and I 
could explain in detail, if it were necessary, 
how, by the contraction of my muscles, by par- 
tial fermentation, by dilution, by endosmosisy 
but chiefly by my gastric juice acting as a 
menstruum, I accomplished the dif&cult task of 
supporting the entire body, and giving it all its 
energy and vigour. Added to these means, I had 
trusty messengers in every direction ; and between 
myself and that individual, Mr. Brain, there was 
Bstablished a double set of electric wires,^ by which 
means I could, with the greatest ease and rapidity, 
tell him all the occurrences of the day as they 
arrived, and he also could impart to me his own 
feelings and impressions. Often when he has re- 
ceived unwelcome intelligence, I have refused to 

1 The act of sickness here allnded to, is performed by mus- 
cular assistance, and is another example of how wonderfully 
Nature provides against all contingencies. 

2 Pneuraogastric nerves. The formation of chyme will be 
hereafter explained. 



22 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

digest out of pure sympathy ; and when occasion- 
ally I grew morose and refused to work, he too 
grew irritable and petulant. 

In reference to my personal resemblance to the 
Scotch Bagpipe, there exists in the archives of my 
family an old MS., written in quaint English cha- 
racter, which professes to account for the peculiar 
similitude of our forms. As the legend is short, 
and bears intimately upon the subject of these 
memoirs, I here transcribe it : — 

YB LEGEND OF Y^ BAGPIPE. 

Once upon a time one of the early Nord Kings 
left his Scandinavian home upon a foraging expe- 
dition, and with a party of picked retainers made 
sail for the coast of Scotland. His voyage was' 
prosperous, and he accomplished his landing without 
difficulty, making at once for a certain large village 
from whence he issued his commands, and gave 
himself all the airs of a native monarch of the soil. 
The wretched aborigines strove rather to appease, 
than to reject him, and after making levies of cattle, 
hides, and a spirit known to the early inhabitants 



MEMOIBS OP A STOMACH. 



23 



called Weiss Keigh, he prepared to depart home- 
wards. It must be here remarked that this monarch 
not only united in his own person the representation 
of a powerful, restless, marauding people, but indi- 
vidually he was endowed with many accomplish- 
ments, and amongst others he possessed the know- 
ledge of alcheihy and necromancy. By his arts he 
could turn inanimate objects into animate ones, and 
when he required a war-horse or a vessel, he betook 
himself to his incantations.' 

Just as he was on the point of returning to his 
kingdom laden with spoil, a brave but rash Pict, 
who had seen with disgust the apathy with 
which a pirate conqueror was received, resolved 
to take the law into his own hands, and if pos- 
sible to slay the intruder. Arming himself, there- 
fore, with a heavy stone slung in a thong of 
goat's leather, he awaited the arrival of his 
country's enemy near the coast, and, craving an 
interview, was ushered into the Royal presence. 
Drawing himself up to his full length, he exclaimed, 

1 Then why did he come to roh and plunder, when he pos- 
lessed other means of growing rich ? 



24 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

"Why, oh Monarch of the Maelstrom and Ice- 
bergers, comest thou to levy taxes upon an unoffend- 
mg people? but Thor and Odin whom thou servest, 
have permitted this arm to avenge my country, and, 
xash man, thy last hour hath come. ** With this the 
sling, quick as the forked Ughtning, described one 
evolution in the air, and with the force of a thunder- 
bolt descended upon — the empty throne of the 
monarch. Yes, the Weird King had vanished, and 
his followers, rushing upon the devoted but unfor- 
timate man, bore him into an inner chamber for 
judgment. 

There sat the grim Nord, as unconcerned as though 
he had never moved, taking coimcil of himself how 
best he might punish the would-be assassm, and at 
length with gloomy brow he thus spoke : " Know, 
oh, man, thou must die ! It is written in the book 
of fate that if ever I pardon the villain who seeks 
my life, misery and woe will alight upon my people, 
and the portals of Valhalla shut against me ; there- 
fore thou must die ! I might have pardoned thy 
rash design in honour of thy patriotism ; but destiny 

forbids it, and by Igdrasil^ (at this dreadful oath the 
I The Scandinavian tree of life. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. ^5 

earth shook) thou'diest ! All I can now do to lessen 
thy just punishment is to render thy death an easy 
one instead of sending thee to the torture- chamber, 
where thy cries of suffering would charm the hear- 
ing of the fell Eumenides.* Their wrath, however, 
must be appeased, and the cries of agony thou 
would'st have uttered must be perpetuated for ever 
throughout the land wherein thou dwellest. No 
more; I have spoken the word of fate, and thy 
doom is sealed." 

With this speech, before the wondering cap- 
tive could utter a word, the enchanter cast a 
powder in his face, the spectres of death 
gathered around him, and he sank to the earth a 
corpse ! 

The stem arbiter of his fate, a httle while re- 
garding him, in almost pitying accents exclaimed, 
"Let him be buried where the curlews whirl in 
circles, where the sea-mew screameth her dirge for 
the departed, and where the eternal ocean mur- 

1 The Eumenides or Erinnyes, i.e., the Furies. Surely, this 
is a palpable anachronism ; or did the monarch in his capa- 
city of wizard make use of terms of Grecian mythology ? 



26 MBMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

rnurs a requiem for the dead. But first render 
unto me the stomach of the man, that I may 
sacrifice to the furies even as I promised, that his 
spirit may rest in peace." 

At this command the chief fiefman ripped 
open with his sword the body of the dead, and 
carefully extracting the stomach of the Pict, to- 
gether with the oesophagus or pipe which leads 
into it, placed it on the groimd before the necro- 
mancer, the servants carrying out the body for inter- 
ment on the sea-E^ore. The scene at this moment 
was touching and grand. There sat the Weird King, 
wand in hand, and there lay the digestive organs 
of the departed. At length he uttered a few strange 
words, and tracing some hieroglyphics in the air 
with his royal finger, he exclaimed aloud, " Change 
thou thy form, oh thing of mighty use when in the 
living clay, and on thy tube let there be stops and 
key-notes, and in thy bag let there be wind, and let 
the natives of this region have cimning to play upon 
thee, and let thy tones be ever as the shrieks of a 
tortured man, so that the Erinnyes may be satisfied, 
and let thou be called now and hereafter Bag- 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. ^ t 

FiPBy* 80 that what I spoke may come to pass» even 
mito the letter." 

He said, and his astonished retainers raised from 
the earth the first instrument bearing that name bom 
imto Scotland; and when they found a native to 
play up(Hi it, they all rushed to their ships stopping 
their ears, and never more set foot on the shores of 
Alben. 

To return now to the events of my chequered life. 
Time wore on and the period arrived when it was 
necessary to send me to school, and accordingly I 
was packed off to a public establishment. Here, 
it must be confessed, I rapidly gained health and 
spirits, for the strict regimen, regularity of meals, 
and general discipline to which I was there sub- 
jected, made great amends for a preliminary surfeit 
of rich cake and other matters of torture which 

1 It is believed the first bagpipe known to the Scots was 
found in one of the vessels of the Spanish armada, wrecked on 
the northern coast. The instrument is a very ancient one ; for 
on a piece of Grecian sculpture of the highest antiquity now at 
Bome, is represented a bagpiper, dressed like a modern high- 
lander. Nero is said to have played upon a bagpipe, a.d. 51. 

2 The ancient name of Scotland. 



2B MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

were packed up in a trunk ; and for the first few 
days the key grated in the lock ahout every two 
hours. The supplies being soon exhausted, school 
experience began in earnest. 

I remember during play hours I heard a 
great fuss going on amongst the boys, when 
all of a sudden I received such a thump as 
made me fancy I was knocked clean out of the 
osseous framework wherein I lay. This I dis- 
covered was owing to a polite interchange of 
blows, arising from the fact of a boy being 
pitted against the new comer as a trial to test his 
strength, so as to place him in his proper position 
in the sliding scale of pugilism. I acknowledge I 
disliked these " bouts'* imcommonly, but any suf- 
fering, was better than the pangs of being over- 
loaded; and be it admitted to the yoimgsters* credit, 
that it was not considered fair and manly to select 
trie as the place of attack ; on the contrary, the 
head and ribs were generally the parts more favoured 
by polite attentions — a most just and proper law 
which had my entire support and concurrence. 
OccasionaDy it was the custom of the bigger boys 



MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 29 

to stray out of bounds for the purpose of buying all 
sorts of abominations, though sometimes I was glad 
enough of a little addition to the ordinary school 
fare. Upon one particular occasion the humorous 
and the terrible were so strongly involved by an 
event, which custom has since deprived of all 
novelty, that I must even relate it before I proceed. 
The day was over, the bell was soimded for " all 
in," and prayers were called; when, during the con- 
fusion of the boys rushing to their places, I foimd 
myself carried as fast as legs could carry me far 
beyond the precincts of the school-grounds, so I felt 
certain that an ordeal of some sort was in store. 
Instead of finding myself as usual in a pastry- 
cook's shop, a certain marine odour of stale fish 
puzzled me extremely; and I waited the elucidation 
of the mystery with such feelings as only a stomach 
experiences when he is all imcertain as to what is 
going on and what is coming in, and when he is 
placed at the mercy of a hungry and unscrupulous 
school-boy. 

I was not long held in suspense, and never 
shall I forget my sensations. Down there came 



30 HEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

flopping — ^no other word is descriptive — ^into my 
astonished inside a small mucilaginous mass of 
a saltish flavour, almost fluttering with life (good 
powers, I thought, it has not had time to settie its 
affairs !) accompanied by a fluid of extreme acidity, 
and by particles of black pepper, hot and pungent. 
I really was never so completely astounded in my 
life. Over and over I turned the wonderful com- 
pound, but could make nothing at all of the shape- 
less Httie monster. Before I could give vent to a 
burst of invective which I felt rising within me, 
another and yet another came unceremoniously 
slipping down, and then a torrent of a sort of 
licorish fluid, called porter, came gurgling and 
frothing after. At this a horrible suspicion flashed 
across me. For a moment the dreadM ques- 
tion arose in my mind, whether these pecuUar 
substances salt and flabby, which had so excited 
my awe and abhorrence, were the eyes of some of 
the poor brewers employed in the well-known firm 
of Nux, Vomica, and Co. This fearful idea seemed 
in a manner to be corroborated by the brackish 
taste I before alluded to, and which I naturally 



MEMOIRS OF A ST03fACH. 31 

attributed to the flavour of the poor fellow's tears. 
The powder, it is true, cast a doubt as to the cor- 
rectness of my surmises; but with exquisite ima- 
gmation I looked upon this as some of that dust 
blown back into the faces of the men, which their 
master had endeavoured to throw into the eyes of 
the public, when they playfully affirmed that their 
beer is genuine. Another cataract of black Uquor, 
however, distracted my attention; and when the 
money chinked upon the counter, the name of this 
extraordinary little stranger (which was not wel- 
come) was pronounced for the first time in my hear- 
ing, and the word Otster was indelibly impressed 
upon my memory for evermore. 

Since that time I have had occasion to re- 
ceive these creatures with extreme courtesy under 
all forms and circumstances — scolloped, stewed, 
buttered, devilled, with beards and without beards 
but to the young, ingenuous stomach like my- 
self at this moment, the raw oyster, bolted with 
adjuncts of strong vinegar and black pepper, 
and washed down with a semi-opaque fluid, will 
ever present features for recollection to linger 



32 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

over, and offers another proof of how slight is 
the partition which separates the suhlime from 
the ridiculous. 

Experience has since told me that it is the 
custom in poHte society to commence dinner by 
a few oysters, to give an appetite to the coming 
repast, at which I am in no wise surprised; for, 
directly they arrive at their interior destination, 
every description of stomach at all conscious of the 

dignity of his position as a scientific member of a 
wonderful body, is so curious to analyse the re- 
markable mollusca, that he secretes a larger amount 
of gastric acid than is absolutely necessary for the 
test, and the residue thereof imparts an additional 
stimulant to appetite. ^ During my process of 

analysis, I discovered that this conglomeration of 
seeming ^organic matter is possessed of a very 
important structure, having a mouth, prolonged 
lips, gills, muscles, liver, intestines, and, above lal, 
a heart, wherein may repose, for all we know to 
the contrary, soft affections, and gentlest impulses. 

1 What will medical men say to the ingenuity of this argu- 
ment ? Is our author in earnest, or is it a sly poke at those 
ever so ready to account for cause and effect ? 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 33 

At all events the female can produce about 1 ,200,000 * 
eggs, SO small that 2,000,000 could lie within the 
compass of a cubic inch;^ so that if affection is at 
all dependent upon fecundity, the oyster lays strong 
claims to distinction in this particular. Their sus- 
ceptibihty is so great that they have been observed 
to' close their shells upon the shadow of a boat 
passing over them ; and, consequently, it is not too 
much to surmise that they feel strongly their posi- 
tion when they are violently wrenched open by an 
unrelenting knife, snatched from their homes, and 
cast at once into the powerful solution I make ready 
for my victim. the moment he arrives. 

The question naturally arises, were these delicate 
little fl-nimala intended entirely to tickle men's appe- 
tites ? — was HeUogabalus bom for oysters, or oysters 
for HeUogabalus ?3 I suspect, however. Nature in- 

1 Poli, the eminent naturalist of Molfetta, who studied at Pisa, 
and was a member of the Royal Society of England. 

3 Leeuwenhoek, the author of the Arcana Nature. 

3 By Heliogabalus any well-known glutton is doubtless in- 
tended; and perhaps Domitian, introduced into Juvenal's fourth 
satire, would do equally well, as part of the knotty question ; or 
better than either would be Nero, for at the first taste he knew 
whether oysters were bred at Gircei, or at the Lucrine rock, 

or in the beds of Rutupis. 

C 



34 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

tended them for a higher purpose than that of con- 
tributing to the pleasures of the table, even Roman in 
its luxury ;> for geology tells us that they perform, 
by the immense banks they constitute, a very impor- 
tant part in preventing the encroachments of the 
sea upon land, wishing, no doubt, to keep their own 
element all to themselves. This selfishness, how- 
ever, is very useful ; and looking at a single oyster, 
certainly people would never believe they form, 
when congregated, a sort of concealed breakwater; 
living together in a happier republic than Sir 

I The wanton luxury of the Bomaos may be discerned from 
the variety of their oysters, which were brought from every sea. 
Osireis et conchyliU omnibus conHngit, ut cum luna crescant 
pariter pariterque decrescant ; Civ. Div. ii. 33. ostrece senescente 
luna inubereSf macree, temies, exsuccce ; crescente, pinguescunt ; 
Gell. XX. 7. luna alit ostrea et implet echinos ; Lucil. lubrica 
nascentes implent conchylia luna ; Hor. II S. iv. 30. Plin. ii. 41. 
Ath. iii. 13. The Tarentine are extolled by VaiTO, R. R. iii. 3, 
and Gellius, vii. 16. the Lucrine are preferred by Seneca, Ep. 
79. and Pliny, ix. 64 s 79. Circceis autem ostreis caro testaque 
nigra sunt ; his autem neque dulciora neque teneriora esse ulla 
compertum est ; Id. xxxii. 6 « 21. murice Baiano melior Lucrina 
peloHs : ostrea Circeiis, Miseno oriuntur echini ; pectinihus 
patulisjactat se molle Tarentum ; Hor. II S. iv. 32 sqq. P.R. cf, 
eund, ii. 31 sqq. Pers. vi. 24. Plin. ix. 18 s 32. Macr. S. ii. 11. iii. 
16. V. Max. ix. 1. Col. viu. 16. Varr. R. R. iu. 17. Sen. Helv. 
10 R. — Note to Stocker's Juvenal. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 35 

Thomas Morels ; carrying on all the duties of life 
with vigour and propriety ; setting us the example 
of conjugal worth ; stormg their joint-stock banks 
with gems more precious than gold; and making 
even those diseases^ incidental to a marine life, yield 
forth an incalculable wealth to mankind. I wonder 
whether the ladies and the gentiemen who sun 
themselves in the Haymarket — ^that emporium for 
sales of the moUusca family— ever reflect upon all 
these claims to our consideration ; and whether, 
when the full and fair bosoms of the poor fluttering 
ostrea are suddenly exposed to view, they at least 
swallow them with feelings of sympathy and kind- 
ness. Alas, for human nature, I fear not. So much, 
then, for my first experience of an Oyster, a pro- 
duction of Nature which reverses the usual method 
of expiring, for it lives in its bed, and very often 
dies out of it. 
Having lingered over the idiosyncrasy of the gentie 

1 By some it is supposed that pearls are the result of internal 
disease ; but others imagine that they are formed by the filling 
up of injuries done to the shells by some finny enemy. Reaumur 
^as of the former opinion, but Linnseus boasted he could make 
pearls, no doubt meaning that he could do so by the insertion of 
some foreign substance in the shell of the pearl fish. 

c2 



36 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

fish at greater length than I intended, I must be as 
concise as possible in describing my feelings at an 
event which created a revolution in my domestic 
economy, and very nearly as much affected my con- 
stitution as revolutions usually do. I was one day en- 
joying my " otium ciun dignitate," digesting quietly 
and comfortably, contented with myself, my dinner, 
and all my kind, when suddenly there came trick- 
ling upon my imhappy head, a mixture of sahva 
and some deadly poison, that at once roused me 
from the "dolce far niente,** into an active condition 
of emotion and horror. I immediately sent a 
sample to my cerebral neighbour, and he tele- 
graphed back a message that he too was suffering, 
and I gradually grew worse. I was obliged at once 
to relinquish my agreeable occupation of supplying 
the body with what it required, and could do 
nothing but express my agonies of sufferings by 
spasms and distortions, which terminated in a re- 
sult similar to that I once afterwards experienced 
by the lurching of a vessel at sea, but which 
it is not necessary to describe. Sufficient to say I 
was ill the whole of the next day; and as I positively 



MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 37 

rejected every overture at reconciliation, I remained 
sulky and disgusted, till in due time the evil sub- 
sided, and I gained energy enough to enable me to 
ascertain the cause of this strange phenomenon. 
Then it was I learned, that though my sufferings 
began, they did not end, in smoke. Yes, reader, 
smoke; the smoke &om a most deadly weed; a 
spirit of evil ushered in by fire, and exorcised by 
sickness ! Nature made it nauseating — ^poisonous ; 
but man, combating with the penalty she placed 
upon his use of it, puffs away through existence ; 
and this first specimen I received was the puff 
preliminary. Repetition overcame my dislike to 
the taste ; and at length, with the true philosophy 
of my race, I endured that which could not be 
cured ; and though ultimately cigars and pipes sub- 
scribed their share with other evils in injuring the 
system and drying up the juices of the body, stiU I 
shared the ill with my adjacent brotherhood ; and 
personally I received the injury and insult with the 
dignity of a stomach conscious of his own rectitude. 
At this period I left school. Notwithstanding these 
several drawbacks of occasional suffering, I was, on 



38 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH 

the whole, benefited by the regularity of my re- 
ceipts and their simple nature. Soon, however, 
commenced a new era in my life; and now began a 
series of ills and misfortunes, which handed me 
over to those who have ever been the executioners 
of my tribe — ^the doctors. Hassen ebn Sabah him- 
self, with his devoted assassins, were not more for- 
midable to the kings and princes of the East than 
the physician and Im " Fedavi's** (the chemists and 
druggists) are to the whole progeny of stomachs. 
Oh, how I trembled when any of these gentlemen 
were announced ! and most strange did it appear to 
me that there should exist, in these enlightened days, 
chronicles and lists of domestic poisons, and a tribe 
of posologists sworn to their administration, under 
a regulated system and certificates from govern- 
ment ! 

My college career was ushered in by suppers 
delayed till the morning, and breakfasts till noon. 
Such breakfasts, too ! Being used to a mug of tea, 
and a round of dear, simple bread and butter, con- 
ceive my consternation when a heterogeneous mass 
was driven into my luckless interior, including every 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 39 

ktiown condiment, and every unknown compound 
under the sim. Devilled kidneys and moselle : 
cocoa and cura^oa : coffee and cognac : anchovy 
paste and pigeon pie : mushrooms, marmalade, 
and potted char: laver, caviar, pates de foies 
gras: dried fish, Catalonian ham, and Arch- 
angel deer tongues: all these, with many other 
minor deHcacies too numerous to mention, very 
often constituted my first meal ; and out of 
this melange I was expected to select the 
good from the bad, without grumbling at the 
additional labour. My Mend and relative, Mr. 
Head, too, had his tasks to perform; and never did 
two cab-horses on a (people's) holiday work harder 
ihan we did ; but at length, just as he passed his 
"little go," I broke completely down, and from 
sheer incapacity was not to be removed by whip or 
spur. In vain they tried all sorts of drams and 
stimulants ; I had become so used to them, their 
effects had ceased. In vain little roimd pellets of 
mercury were sent to try their effect. The god 
himself might have shaken his caduceus in my 
Face with no result. In fact, I could not, would 



40 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

not, stir; and it was only after a long course of 
almost starvation that I consented to resume my 
duties, and then only by slow degrees. 

For some time after this I was treated ^ith 
more forbearance; but getting strong again, 
they resumed their old tricks of overfeeding me • 
and now commenced a system of physicking 
truly horrible to mention. The raps of the 
apothecary's boy at the door were incessant, and 
none but a stomach can estimate the state of 
nervous excitement those knocks occasioned me. 
The state to which I was reduced, they were pleased 
to term dyspepsia, and 1 never heard the name 
without trembling all over. For this complaint all 
the first men^ of the day were consulted, and they 
usually prescribed remedies directly opposed to one 
another; but then there was this advantage — as the 
whole affair was thorough guesswork, there was 

i No doabt, one of these days we shall have toomen-doctors. 
America threatens to set ns the example, which, after all, is 
nothing new. Mr. Torrens McCallagh, in his learned and most 
useful work '*The Industrial History of Free Nations," men- 
tions the fact that a monument at ancient Bome bore a Greek 
inscription connected with the name of Euhodia, a lady of rank, 
who possessed extraordinary skill in medicine. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 41 

safety in the number of drugs prescribed, as there 
was a chance of the poisons becommg neutralized.^ 
To prove that I neither exaggerate nor draw too 
strongly upon my imagination,! have transcribed afew 
veritable prescriptions, written by the most eminent 
medical practitioners of the day, and purchased, 
for the fee of one guinea, for always the same com- 
plaint, described by the luckless patient in always 
the same terms. Be it observed, my master had the 
good sense not to consult those medical men who 
dispense their own drugs ; for if he had, I should 
never have been alive to pen these memoirs. Those 
red and blue and green carboys in the shops are 
simply beacons (they are lit up at night) to warn 
the constitution where it is certain to be wrecked. 
But not to digress, let me in the dramatic form — 
for a short farce is properly so written — describe 

THE DOCTOR AND PATIENT. 
Act 1, Scene 1. 

The interior of a handsome home in a fashionable 
street in London. Enter patient^ who waits in 

1 '^Similia sinailibns carantur" — according^ to Hahnemann. 



42 MBMOIES OF A STOMACH. 

the waxting-room with others^ untU his turn ar^ 
rives for heing ushered into the presence of the 
Esculapitis, according to the order of his coming. 

Enter Servant, 
Servant. This way, sir, please. 

Patient follows conductor into a large room. 
Books^ btists, and papers everywhere. 

Patient (rather nervously ). I*ve done my- 
selfi 

Physician (standing with his back to the fire). 
Take a seat, my dear sir. 

Patient. I thank you — ^its rather cold (or hot) 
this mom — ^ing. 

Physician. Yes ; what can I 

Patient. I'm not at all well, doctor. The fact 
is, I have no sort of appetite ; and so I thought — 

Physician (interrupting). Put out your tongue. 
Humph ! foul — dyspeptic — very. 

Patient. When I rise of a morning 

Physician {interrupting). One moment, give me 

1 There is something pecaliarly sardonic in making the 
doctor's interruption cause the patient to exclaim— ** I have 
done myself.** 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. -3 

your hand. (Feels pulse,) Pulse languid. How 
long have you felt unwell ? 

Patient. About a week. 

Physician. You suffer from acidity. 

Patient (enthitsiasticaUy). Oh, excessive; a 
constant burning sensation 

Physician. Yes, I see, sir; the stomach is in a 
morbid state. Soimd here. (Taps pcUienfs chest). 
Breathe hard, my dear sir. (Places Ms ear 
Oigainst patienfs heart.) (With a smile) Nothing 
wrong there. Have you a headache } 

Patient. No ; but a dread 

Physician (interrupting). Oh, its only confined 
to the parts a leetle out of order. I'll write you a 
prescription, my dear sir, which will put you to 
rights in a few days. (Sits to write.) 

Patient. I forgot to say I've considerable pain 
between the shoulder blades, and 

Physician (interrupting). Just so; I'll add a 
mixture likely to remove it. (Goes on writing ; 
then carefully blots the MS,, and hands it to the 
pa^tient, with a bland smile.) There, my dear sir. 



44 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

take this^ as directed, and come to me in a few 
days. 

Patient (aoercome with gratitude.) I'm extremely 
obliged for your kindness. Funibleafor the guinea 
in Ms waistcoat-pockety feeling a little abashed at 
offering any gratuity to so erudUe a Galen ; and in 
shaking hands, slips it into his palm. Physician 
exhibits no external symptoms of hashfulness. 
Patient going. 

Physician. If you've no chemist of your own, 
my dear sir, I can strongly recommend Mr. Mor- 
bus, of 24, Doom-street, Bury-square. Allow me 
to write his address on the prescription. Use my 
name, and you'll find his medicines excellent. 

Patient. — ^Thank you; he certainly shall make 
it up. Then, I'm to call again about Wednesday 
next? 

Physician. If you please, my dear sir ; and I've 

1 A story is told in Henry Stephens's apology for Hero- 
dotus, how a countryman swallowed the doctor's prescription in 
the form of a bolus, because he was told to " take this as 
directed." Hudibras refers to- the anecdote :— 
*' Like him that took the doctor's bill. 
And swallowed it instead o' th' pill." 



MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 45 

no doubt we shall soon put you to rights. RmgB 
hell, hows patient out, who still thinks he has left 
something unsaid. Patient hows, servant opens 
door, exit patient. Enter another (flat^) : scene as 
he/ore, or similar. 
Street door closes. Patient reads prescription, as 

he walks along to Doom-street, Bury-square, 

aiUmd. 

Peescrtption. 

Inf. Galumbse, 5 oz; Mixture of Gum sufficient; Tris- 
nitrate Bismuth, 18 grains ; Sesquecarbonate Soda, 
\ dram ; Tinct. Opium, 1 do. ; do. Calumbse, 4 do. 

I am quite aware that this,^ and the following 
samples of drug-giving would be defended by the 
whole faculty. Bismuth tends, they would say, to 
decrease the nervous irritability of the coats of the 
stomach; mineral acid stimulates the action of 
gastric juice ; alkali promotes the alkaline secre- 
tions of the liver, &c., &c., &c. ; but I pray you, 
whatever may be said, do not believe a word of it. 
What effect they may have upon other parts of the 

1 A theatrical term — he never loses an opportnnity. 

2 I find all these prescriptions are quite genuine. 



46 MBMOIBfi OP A STOMACH. 

body, I pretend not to know ; and I don't wish to 
interfere with other people's business, but to me 
they were worse than useless — and surely I am the 
best judge upon the subject. 

What a rage I was in at receiving such a com- 
pound ! Putting the bismuth, soda, and calumba ^ 
out of the question, here was opiimi administered 
— opium which, instead of stimulating the secre- 
tions, deadened them ! Opium ! which acts diffe- 
rently upon every third person — sometimes exciting 
and sometimes soothing. Eeally, I could have 
ground my teeth with passion, and yet I was com- 
pelled to take repeated doses of this mixture, twice 
a day, as well as I remember, but fortunately 
memory is not tenacious of the ills of life. Of 
course, I got worse instead of better ; and so the 
second visit was duly paid to the doctor. 

A similar scene was again enacted at the physi- 
cian's house; and never shall I forget the cool 
complacency with which he listened to the descrip- 
tion of my woes, and then quietly added : " Just 

1 The London College spells this word Calamba, the Edin- 
burgh and Dublin Colleges Columba. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 47 

give me the recipe, my dear sir, and I'll make a 
little alteration, which I am sure will put you to 
rights." Upon this he glanced at the precious 
document, and ran his pen through one of the items 
— the opium, I believe ; but seeming to think bet- 
ter of the matter, he wrote an entirely fresh pre- 
scription, and handed it to my master, with the 
same gentlemanly air and suavity as before. He 
also refused the second fee, for physicians are 
usually polished and liberal, and he bowed us 
out with perfect good-breeding. Now, it may be 
well imagined that both my fears and curiosity were 
intensely excited as to the nature of this fresh war- 
rant of execution. The reader who has so far fol- 
lowed me will, I am sure, sympathise with my suf- 
fering, and comprehend the nature of my anxious 
position. The sword of Damocles was again sus- 
pended over my head, and I could only guess at 
the thickness of the thread which held it. It must 
be remembered, too, that all this time I was inca- 
pable of giving proper attention to my domestic 
affairs, owing to the injury I had sustained by over- 
feeding; and all I required was light diet, and 



-iS MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

being left to the curative process of ever kind 
Nature, who is always striving to heal injuries if 
you will only permit her. Under these circum- 
stances, therefore, just conceive my state of anxious 
imcertainty as we walked off to Mr. Morbus, to 
get this second compound made upland here it 

is: — 

Peesceiption. 

Trisnitrate Bismuth, Aromatic Confection, each, 2 
scruples ; Gum Mixture, 3 drams ; Compd. Spirits 
of Ammonia, 4 drams; Compd. Infusion of Orange 
Peel, 1 oz. ; do. do. Gentian, to 8 oz. 

Mix. Two tablespoonfuls three times a-daj. 

I scarcely remember whether I deemed this 
poison more repugnant to me than the other, but I 
know it was quite nauseous enough; and I was 
compelled to take it three times a-day instead of 
twice ! I recognised my friend's bismuth ; and 
gentian was merely a change from one bitter to 
another; but they both arrived at my wretched 
portals, in company with spirits even worse than 
themselves. Of course, my condition rather retro- 
graded than improved ; and off I was taken to an- 
other " eminent physician," who entered a little 



MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 49 

more fully into the diagnosis of my complaint, as 
usual tapped his fingers against the bars of my 
prison the ribs, and then proceeded to make many 
inquiries, of a nature quite confidential. Again 
despair seized me as I heard his pen writing an* 
other manifesto against health and longevity. This 
time it came forth in a somewhat different shape ; 
and the bitterness of my grief was only equalled by 
the bitterness of the aloes. 

Peesceiption. 

Compd. Decoction of Aloes, 2 oz.; Infusion CalumbflB, 
3 oz.; Tincture Thebaici, 10 drops; do. Hops, 1| 
dram ; 61k. Cherry Water, 6 drams. 
Mix. Two tablespoonfuls daily. 

Be it observed that, in the recipe before this, 
aromatic confection was one of its ingredients — 
here aloes are prescribed — the two producing 
effects diametrically opposed! Bitters, however, 
though in another form, were again introduced; 
and so far in bitterness the doctors were consistent. 
Notwithstanding this delectable mixture, I still 
continued out of sorts ; for unfortunately my mas- 
ter the patient considered that the penalty of taking 



50 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

medicine absolved him from the necessity of a 
strict regimen, so I grew rather worse than better, 
and off I was again carried to a second Leech. 

I should only weary the most patient reader were 
I to describe the various opinions which were 
offered as to the cause of my disease ; it is there- 
fore sufficient to say, that one doctor prescribed 
alkalies, and another declared they were fatal, and 
insisted upon acids. I subjoin what he ordered to 
be taken : — 

Pbescription. 

Sulphate of Alum, do. of Zinc, each, 1 dram ; Dilute 

Sulphuric Acid, 4 oz. 
Mix. Thirty drops in a half-pint of water and sugar 

three or four times a-day. 

These strong acids, from their antiseptic quali- 
ties, had certainly one good effect — they helped to 
get rid of some accumulations; but then simple 
lemon-juice would have done infinitely better. ^ 

1 Upon the subjects of acids, Dr. Basham, in an introduc- 
tory lecture lately read in the Westminster Hospital, says: 
— '* We learn from an experiment of Dutrochet that acid fluids, 
in mixing with another fluid by means of an animal membrane, 
yield more than they receive from the opposite fluid, and thus 



HEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. ^1 

Wh^i this remedy was exhibited to yet another 
medical practitioner, he shook his head and 
ordered, 

Pbescbiption. 
Liquid Potash, 3 drams; Tinct. Galumbse, 13 drams. 

As this was equally inefficient with the others, it 
was resolved to carry me off into the country of 
the pigmy practitioners, the Homoeopathists (so 



the acid character of the contents of the stomach seems to be 
precisely the means by which resorption is promoted in a 
simple physical manner. This fact also interprets the yalne of 
the mineral acids in diseases of debility, and in the conyales- 
cent stage from protracted illness. Taken before food, these 
remedies impart a sufficient degree of acidity to the organic 
tissues to promote and &cilitate nutritious absorption.. Fluids 
pass with facility through ordinary filtering paper; but if the 
paper be smeared with oil, its permeability is destroyed, its 
capillarity is obstructed. A like effect is witnessed in the 
human stomach upon taking fatty or oleaginous food, and there 
are few who are not cognisant of the incouTenience and distress 
experienced by taking such kind of aliment on an empty 
stomach. The surface of the intestinal canal becomes coated 
with a film of oil, and its powers of absorption for a time are 
as effectually obstructed as you would witness in the experi- 
ment of filtering a fluid through oiled bibulous paper. In a 
similar manner the effects of intoxicating drinks may be re- 
tarded for a time, by taking a spoonful of oil on an empty 
stomach." 

O 2 



52 MBMOIES OF A STOMACH. 

called, I suppose, from their always being at home 
for consultation), and I must say their method of 
administering medicine made me smile, though 
feebly, and rejoice too, as well as my weakened 
condition would permit. When 1 first heard of 
their doctrines, I was prepared to find them admi- 
nistered by httle figures, such as we see in the Fan- 
toccini, served by their tiny hands, in doU-house 
glasses ; so imagine my surprise, when a big, burly 
doctor prescribed a dose, expressed by a fraction, 
the denomination of which is an unit, followed by 
sixty cyphers ! It may be well supposed, there- 
fore, that I treated the deciUionth of a grain with 
profoimd contempt. Let not the reader, however, 
condemn this (in some respects) very useftd race of 
medical advisers; for though, of course, their doc- 
trines are utterly absurd in a curative point of view, 
yet they possess a species of negative excellence ; 
for I maintain that the administration of drugs 
should approach as near zero as possible, and these 
gentlemen are, at all events in quantity, within a 
shade of that desirable point. 

How the allopatliists and homoeopathists must. 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 53 

or ought to fight. ^ The Lilliputians doing battle 
with the Brobdingnags, would, I should imagine, 
paint a good picture of the wars of these medical 
dwarfs and giants ; and I can conceive a dialogue 
between the A.'s and H.'s, somewhat after the fol- 
lowing style 2 : — 

1 And do fight I Sir James Eyre says :— **I look back with 
mach satis£Eu;tion npon an instance where (being medical director, 
that is, Physician, for there was no other examiner, daring eight 
years, at an Insurance office) I refused the life of a nobleman of 
high rank, because his medical man was an Homooopathist, and 
my brother Directors concurred with me unanimously.** 

Mr. Headland, in a more unanswerable and scientific pas- 
sage in his new work, speaks thus : — *' The homoeopathists would 
work a strange revolution in the Materia Medica. Charcoal, 
Silica, and other substances commonly supposed to be inert, ap- 
pear as remedies of wonderful efficacy. It is said that Bella- 
donna produces a state like scarlatina, and also a condition 
resembling hydrophobia, and thus cures both of these disorders. 
Of these three propositions it is almost needless to say that all 
are equally erroneous. Further, an experimental trial of this 
principle was made by Andral on a large number of patients at 
the Academic in Paris, with the assistance of the homoeopathists 
themselves. The medicines were carefblly and fairly adminis- 
tered, but in no one instance were they successful.'* {Medical 
Gazette, yoL xy. p. 922.) 

2 The opinions here expressed by Homoeopathist are by far 
too sensible not to bear evidence that the followers of Hahne- 
mann would indignantly repudiate them. Our author requires 
a puppet to express his own sentiments, so he makes the dis- 



^4 MEMOISS OF A STOICAOH. 

AUopatMst and HomceopatMst meeting. 

A. — Sir, you are a quack — don't stop me. 

H. — And you a humbug. You poison by 
wholesale. 

A. — ^And you by retail, sir. But I don't wish 
to talk, to you. 

H. — But you must talk. You can't so grandly 
ignore our existence, when patients are leaving 
you by the dozen to come to our establishment. 

A. — It is utterly untrue, and a falsehood is the 
only thing you don't administer infinitesimally. 

H. — I can afford to be cool. Now, confess, 
haven't we deprived you of hundreds of patients ? 

A. — Yes ; the fools leave us to go to you. 

H. — ^The fools pay best. 

A. (aside.) — That is very true. (Aloud.) 
Then, I daresay, sir, you are a rich man. Good 
morning. 

H. — Not so fast ; I am inja firiendly mood. Tell 
me truly — ^Would you take your own medicines ? 

penser of the smallest qaantity of physic lay down the law for 
his companion. 



MBMOIBS OP A STOMACH. ^5 

A. (making a grimace.) — Not all of them ; but 
we are obliged to experimentalise upon patients for 
the advance of science. 

H. — Ho ! ho ! is it so ? just as surgeons do upon 
dogs. Having been so candid, would you object 
to take our remedies ? 

A. — Certainly ; they are useless. 

H.— Why.> 

A. — Because matter is not divisable to the frac- 
tional extent you administer it. 

H. — ^What think you of the aqua tofana^ and 
the poisoners of the 1 4th century ? 

A. — ^Took too long about it. You would take 
longer. 

H. — ^And you do it at once ? 

A. — Sir, this insolence 

H,— ^Hush! don't lose your temper. We are 
both in the same boat. 

A. — Possibly; and, pulling different ways, it 
stands still. 

H. — ^Ha, ha; very good. How many people 

1 Supposed to have been arsenic and laurel water given in 
minute doses. 



^6 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

have been killed by London chemists' shops, and 
how many have you ^sent there? You can't ask 
that of me. 

A. — Pooh, sir ; do you mean to run ] down 
chemistry?! 

H.— Chemistry ! So you would confuse your 
system with that splendid science. A lame man 
uses a strong stick ! 

A.— What do you call the"'action of yofur medi- 
cines — ^mechanical ? 

H. — ^You just denied they had any. So, ac- 
cording to your showing, if we don't do good, we 
don't do mischief. 

A. — ^You quibble, sir. How am I to support 
my family, and keep up an establishment, without 
medicine ? 

H. — Ah! that is the point. Prescribe regimen 
and simples, and charge just as much as at present 
for your advice. 

A. — ^Why don't you practise what you preach ? 

1 Foreigners laugh at the number of our chemists' shops and 
well they may. Where you see one in a continental tonvn, you 
tee at least a dozen here. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. ^7 

H. — Because I should starve. 

A. — And so should I. 

H. — We thrive, therefore, through the ignorance 
of the people, 

A. — Be good enough to speak in the singular 
numher. But it is very true. If, when a patient 
comes to me with his digestive powers out of 
order, I were to prescribe a strict diet, early hours,, 
and name some half a dozen simples, he would 
include me amongst the latter, and rush away to 
receive advice &om the hands of such men as the 
late Sir W. Farquhar, who wrote a formula with 
thirteen different articles in it;^ so that if one 
didn't do — some of the others might. 

H. — Then you agree the public is to blame ? 

A. — Certainly. The tone of the profession 
would be raised were people less ignorant. 

H. — ^Let us both shake hands then, and both 
grow rich. 

A. — I wish you well, but I can't shake hands. 
Do you mean to say you would do away with 
the administration of medicine altogether ? 

1 Sir James Eyre states this. 



^B MEMOnUS OF A STOMACH. 

H. — ^No; but I would confine medicine to 
simples ; and I would so weed the wilderness of the 
Pharmacopoeia, as to leave a neat trim garden. 

A. — ^What remedies would you leave in it ? 

H.— -Only those whose certain effects on the sys- 
tem are ascertained. 

A. — ^Why you would have nothing left! It 
would be difficult to find a dozen compounds that 
act under all conditions with certain results. 

H. — ^Th^i make the foundation of your Materia 
Medica consist of that dodeka. 

A. — ^In fact, reduce our recognised dispensatory 
to a state of bankruptcy. 

H. — A consummation devoutly to be wished. 
I should like to be appointed Commissioner to try 
all the fiaudulent tribe. There are very few, I can 
tell you, who should have a first-class certificate. 

A. — To whom would you grant one ? 

H. — Only to those who could render to the court 
a clear account of their debts and liabilities, and 
who could prove that their state of insolvency had 
not arisen fi:om speculation. 

A. — I should like to see you in such a position. 
Go on. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 59 

H. — This would be the sort of thing reported in 
the papers: — **The celebrated firm of Salts and 
Senna, who carried on an extensive cathartic trade 
in Apothecaries' Hall, applied for their discharge 
under the act. There being no opposition on the 
part of the asagnee,his Honour expressed his belief 
that the bankruptcy of the firm had arisen more 
from the faults of others than their own, and that 
they had explained their method of conducting 
business with as much perspicuity as possible. 
Under these circumstances he rfiould grant them a 
second-class certificate; but he considered it his 
duty, upon public grounds, to advise the partners 
to conduct their affairs for the future, contiguous to 
some of the great banquetting hails in the city, 
since their chance of success in life could only 
arise from the patronage of those who indulge in 
gormandizing." 

A. — Very fine; and you let them off so easily 
only because their effects are so clear? Well, I 
suppose, black doses, and Epsom salts, and aloes, 
and all other drastic drugs, would secure your 
favourable judgment. 



60 MBMOIES OP A STOMACH. 

H. — ^Probably, for we cannot say we are ignorant 
of their results ; and gluttony reqiiires such horrid 
compounds to walk in its trail, in case of the fat 
monster falling down into some fit. Instead of the 
skeleton placed upon the table, as at the Eg3rptian 
feasts, the stomach-pump should have a position at 
the City banquets. 

A. — ^What would you say to mercury ? 

H. — ^Ha, ha, my fine fellow, I should exclaim, 
and what have you been doing ? and the examina- 
tion would go on thus : — 

Mercury, Please your Honour, I was ordered to 
drive out a virulent poison &om the system. 

His Honour, Did you do it ? 

Mercury, Yes, sir, I believe so. 

His Honour, Believe so ! Did you enter the 
system without producing any evil ? 

Mercury, Am I bound to answer that question ? 

His Honour, Of course, sir — ^to give an explicit 
one. 

Mercury, I manufactured a poison of my own. 

His Honour. Similar to the one you were ta 
have expelled ? 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 61 

Mercury. In effect, your Honour, but more viru- 
lent. 

Hu Honour. You are remanded, sir; and I 
shall take care to institute a most rigid inquiry into 
your affairs, which at present are in an extremely 
suspicious state. 

A. — ^Well, I must say you are no Rhadamanthus. 
I'll be boimd you would behave better to one of the 
fashionable medicines. 

H. — ^Would I, by Jove? I'd send them all to 
prison, shave their heads, and make them wear the 
prison dress. In fact, the criminal law is the only 
one fitted to meet this case. 

A. — What would you do with such a medicine as 
the oxide of silver — ^the pet of Sir James Eyre, who 
has written an agreeable little book^ ostensibly about 
digestion, but in reality to introduce what he terms 
an " elegant" preparation. 

H. — ^Why, I would subject it to a severe cross- 
examination in this way : — ^** So, Mr. Oxide, you 
have been administered very successfully in all sorts 
of cases, eh ? Who says so ? 

1 The Stomach and its Difficulties. 



62 MBMOIBS OF A STOMAOH. 

Oxide. Why, your Honour, Sir James Eyre, who 
has brought a number of witnesses in my favour. 

His Honour, Who are they ? 

Oxide, One is a gentleman lately returned from 
India, who took me with great success.^ 

His Honour, Oh, he did, eh? Did you enter 
his system? 

Oxide, I am not prepared to answer that ques- 
tion. 

His Honour, I ask you did you enter the blood, 
or did you merely act upon the stomach and its 
adjacent surfaces ? 

Oxide, I am not prepared to answer that ques- 
tion. 

His Honour, But sir, you say you did good. 

Oxide, I cured the gentleman. 

His Honour. Were you administered alone ? 

Oxide. No ; with opium. 

His Honour, On your oath, sir: how do you 
know it was not the opium, or the change of cHmate 
which benefited the patient ? 

Oxide, I really cannot say. 

1 Appendix, page 153. 



MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 63 

His Honour. No, I fancy not. Then why do 
you arrogate all the credit to yourself? 

Oxide. I have my other witnesses, who will 
testify to my good character and sanitary powers. 

His Honour. Let them be called. 

Enter a crowd of testimonials;^ one of them steps 
into the witness-box, and is sroom. 

His Hofwur. I understand, sir, you declare that 
yoUr fiiend, Mr. Oxide, is a fit and proper person 
to fill the position of curator to the inside ? 

Testimonial. Yes, your Honour. 

His Honour. Upon what grounds do you form 
your commendations ? 

Testimmdal. He was administered in my pre- 
sence, and in a week wrought wonders. 

His Honour. Was he accompanied by any mem- 
ber of his family, friend, or strangers ? 

Testimonial. By no one. 

His Honour. No rules insisted upon as to 
diet 

Testimonial. Oh, yes ; a strict regimen was en- 
joined. 

1 Sir James Eyre publishes these himself. 



^4 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

His Honour. Anything else ? 

Testimomcd (hesitating). Yes, sir. 

His Honour, Come, sir, you are on your oath. 

Testimonial, Early rising, too, was recommended. 

His Honour, Ha! Were all the directions fol- 
lowed ? 

Testimonial, Oh yes. 

His Honour, And the patient recovered? 

Testimonial. Completely. 

His Honour, Now, sir, again recollect your posi- 
tion in this court, and tell me how you arrive at 
the assumed fact that that medicine benefited you, 
and not the early rising and strict regimen. 

Testimonial. I really cannot say. 

His Honour, You may go, sir. (To Oxide.) So 
much for your witness; and as for your general 
evidence, there is such a manifest desire to equivo- 
cate, that I must refuse you a certificate. 

Exit Oxide, 

A. — ^If your ideas of physic are not better than 
your knowledge of law, I pity you. How would 
you treat bismuth, and that large class of medicines 
given to improve the digestive powers ? 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 65 

H. — Much in the same way. And Pd wager my 
best box of globules that I should catch them all 
tripping. 

A. — But how would you treat those drugs con- 
sidered specifics, such as quinine, in cases of ague ? 

H. — ^Why, I should first examine evidence as to 
what 1 they did, and then Juyw they did it ; and I 
should be very suspicious if they were imable to 
answer the second question. If, however, I was 
satisfied on the first point, I should include them 
amongst the very few remedies proper tp administer, 
but at the same time I should reserve to myself the 
right to rescind imy order I might make in their 
favour. If I descried them causing headache and 
sickness,^ I should subpoena the whole of the 
Faculty, and go more Ailly into the matter than 
has ever yet been done. 

A. — ^They would all differ even as to the general 
result upon the system. 

1 Van Swieten, in his Commentaries on Boerhaave, says i—** In 
the meantime it may suffice for the physician to Imow the effheti 
of a medicine, though he Imows not the particnlar manner 
whereby it acts.** 

s A common eflfeot of quinine. 



66 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

H. — ^You acknowledge that, do you! Well, I 
isbould go on pruning till even the dozen we before 
spoke of were reduced to half. 

A. — ^A pleaaant fellow. Would you bleed ? 

H. — ^Never. 

A^ — ^Then in some cases your patients would die ? 

H. — ^Possibly ; but better one should die by not 
bleeding, than that hundreds should be killed by 
phlebotomy. 

A.-^In fact you would neither administer medi- 
cine, nor would you bleed ? 

H. — ^Exacdy, and that is the reason I am an 
Homoeopathist. People will have something,' and 
I give nothing, yet satisfy their demands. 

A. — ^You are a queer fellow, and I am sure hun- 



1 Corrisart, Napoleon's physician, was a great enemy to 
medicine. When the Empress Josephine insisted upon taking 
some, he gave her bread pills I Napoleon himself was perfectly 
incrednloos as to the benefit of physic, and his remarks upon the 
human body should never be forgotten. " Our body," he said, 
<* is a machine for the purpose of life : it is organised to that end- 
that is its nature. Leave the life then at its ease, let it take care 
. of itself, it will do better than if yon paralyse it by loading it with 
medicines. It is like a well-made watch, destined to go for a cer- 
tain time; the watchmaker has not the power .of opening it, he 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 67 

dreds would have died in your hands if you had had 
the chance of killing them. 

H. — ^Do you not think many thousands have been 
killed by physic ? 

A. — Why, y^e-s, per«haps. 

H. — ^Do you think many hundreds have died 
through its absence ? 

A.— N-o. 

H. — ^Enough ; go through a sum of simple arith- 
metic, and I shall be satisfied. 

A. — But I maintain we live in such an aitificial 
state, that artificial remedies are essential 

H. — ^I will accord you the proposition, though I 
believe I could effectualiy refute the argument. 
Granted, then, we exist m an artificial condition ; I 
maintain we do not Uve in such am extreme degree 
of artificiality as to require for the adjustment of 
health a recourse to the most involved, compHcated, 
and subtle science in the whole cycle of human know- 



oannot meddle with it but at random, and with his eyes bandaged. 
For one who, by dint of working it with his ill-formed instm- 
ments, succeeds in doing it any good, how many blockheads 
destroy it altogether V 

e2 



68 XSSOISS OF A BiaiUCB. 

ledge. Koiirdkt coDsisted of nudteneTokedfrom 
the deepest mTsteries of art. then I gmit yon we should 
require remedies eqnaDr sobt^ ; but if we live 
toknhly dose to the laws of Nature (nhidi I sulmit 
is the case), &en we require equally ampie remedies, 
for in diving forthean too deeply, we overshoot the 
mark. When our ordinaiy food is adnltented, it is 
then we approadi nearest to an extreme degree of 
artificiality ; and then, I grant you, commensurate 
curative measures are necessaiy to restore the ba- 
lance of health; but, excepting this, we consume cgalj 
the products of the earth, without resorting to any 
veiy elaborate process for our aifanoits. I affiim, 
therefore, we do not require concealed remedies ; 
but that, on the contraiy , we need simple ones, and 
Nature will then perfoim her part with redoubled 
activity. 

A. — But I have you on the hip, my firiond. You 
infer, do you not, diat we require ronedies of the 
same nature as our food, only making a change in 
combination, &c ? 

H.— Yes, I do. 

A. — But our food contains almost eveiy compound 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 69 

to be found in chemistry ; ^ so that what is so natural 
when wrong combinations, proportions, or excesses 
produce disease, as to resort to the science of medi- 
cine, which includes the ultimate and proximate 
composition of such matters as we consume for our 
support ? f 

H. — ^These facts by no means shake my position. 
If, as you say, food contains such a variety of com- 
pounds, as minerals, acids, alkalis, neutrals, and 
gases, then surely food in different form, combina- 
tion,* or proportion, is the proper means to restore 
health; thus your argimient is a weapon to turn 
against you. 

A. — I cannot see it ; but, if I understand rightly, 
this is your proposition. First, if we Uved simply, as 
in the primitive ages, champing acorns and drinking 



1 Coffee and tobacco are said to yield traces of copper ; and 
tamarinds of gold. The blow-pipe will melt the flinty part of 
wheaten straw into a bead of glass. 

3 The greatest wonders of chemistry are owing to combina- 
ions. Sagar, starch, and gum are very different substances yet 
are composed of three elements, carbon, hyrdogen, and oxjgen» 
the proportion of each making the difference. 



70 MBM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

water, we should require simples in case of disease. 
Secondly, if we live artificially, we require remedies 
as artificial as our method of existing. Thirdly, if we 
live 80 entirely artificially that the profoundest secrets 
of nature sore explored to present us with our food, 
then and then only we shall require remedies equally 
difficult to obtain. Fourthly, you affirm that at pre- 
sent we do not live so artificially as set forth in your 
'third position, yet, nevertheless, our medical cura- 
tives are as artificial as though we did. 

H. — ^Precisely so; and the texture of medical 
science requires drawing closer together, for at pre- 
sent it is a mere sieve through which truth, if it 
arrives, runs, instead of remaining. 

A. — ^I acknowledge we might often attack the diet 
instead of giving drugs. It is better to remove the 
cause of evil than to prescribe an antidote. I don't 
mind telling you that I shall turn my attention to this 
neglected part of the doctor's duties ; but still I 
cannot but perceive that even evils have produced 
good — just look at the blessings of chloroform. 

H. — ^And think you chloroform would not long ere 



MBMOIBS OF A 8TOMA0H. 71 

thb haVe been known, had the science of medicine 
been studied upon sounder principles. 

A. — How mean you — sounder principles ? 

H. — ^If, instead of the system of guess-work so 
long in existence, the efforts of our great men had 
been concentrated in the pursuits of anatomy, analy- 
sis, dissection, scientific analogies, and above all the 
microscope, I feel assured that discoveries of vast 
importance would have been ours at this day, but 
which we can now only look for in the Aiture. 

A. — You would hold medicine in abeyance till the 
collateral sciences have thrown more light upon its 
administration ? 

H. — Clearly. The first authorities of the day 
allow that the science of medicine is improving, 
because so many old nostrums are now discarded, 
and they also admit that the effects of their most pet 
physics are uncertain.^ I believe too, that the best 



1 «A medicine which at one time raises or excites the 
yital forces, may at another time depress them ; it may be 
one thio^ with a sick man, the other thing with a healthy man ; 
it may have the one effect when taken for a short time in 
moderation, the other effect when taken for a longer time in 
ezoess.*^— Headland's ** Actions of Medidne." 



72 MEMOntS OP A BTOMACH. 

nostrums are ever changing their modes of action, 
so that what may be good to-day may be evil to- 
morrow; and that the state of the mind, atmos- 
pheric influences, or some temporary alteration in 
the forces of the nervous system, may completely 
vary the effects of medicines upon the body. 

A. — But how are we are to arrive at the modus 
operandi of medicines unless we try them ? 

H. — If you feel justified in making human beings 
subjects for experiment, I grant you very valuable 
discoveries may accrue thereby ; and it might be- 
come a question with the Legislature whether, instead 
of sending our felons to the fairest spots on the 
earth to corrupt, it would not be as well to set the 
vilest aside, for the faculty to doctor ! 

A. — ^Poor wretches ! That would be nearly as bad 
as the silent system, — a system which might have 
satisfied the demoniacal imagination of Ezzelino the 
Paduan.i I must admit, if we were honest we should 

I Snrely Allopathist, is here right — the tortures of the middle 
ages, are by the silent system, reviyed to administer them to 
the mind, and reason is forced from her seat little by little I 
It were a mercy to kill a man rather than subject him to 
such horrors of feeling as only those who have studied psycho- 



MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 7^ 

starve, and I suspect if we write over our doors, 
Patients experimentalised upon for the benefit of 
Science^ we might wait a long time for their 
arrival. 

H. — ^Depend upon it, you must arrive at my way of 
thinking, and '* throw physic to the dogs,'' unless 
indeed your feelings of compassion should interfere 
in favour of those faithful creatures. 

A. — ^At all events, you are a bold man to avow 
such sentiments. 

H. — Oh, there is nobody here, and you dare not 
repeat them. 

A. — Tell me truly, do you consider yourself a 
charlatan ? 

H. — ^Yes, to the world, but not to science. You 
are one to both. 

A. — ^Much obliged. But you are not a bad fellow, 
and I promise you one good at least shall result from 
our conversation — I will plentifully dilute my medi- 
cines with the pure fluid. 

logy as applied to medicine can nndentand. What says Dr. 



Winslow Forbes to this barbarous punishment, which is a dis- 
grace to the age, and especially to England ? 



7^ MB1C0IB8 OF A STOUAOH. 

H. — ^Bfavo! I give infinitessimal, and jou diluted 
doses. We are both in the right path. Vive la 
bagatelle. 

A. — I suppose then I must cry, Vive Peau des 
puits.i 

Exeunt deferent nxiya. 

To return, however, to my tale. The globules 
of my friend were, of course, quite useless ; so, as a 
dernier ressort, one of the first surgeons of the day 
was consulted; and, for the sake of a pleasing 
variety, he goes in for, and hopes to win by, saline 
mixture. Here he stands confessed in the form of 

P&ESCBIPTION. 

Saline 2 Mixture, 6 oz. ; Wine Seeds of Golchicum, 
Sweet Spirits Nitre, each, 4 scruples ; Syr. Orange 
Peel, 2 drams. 

Mix I part every 6 hours* 

Oh, ye gods, this was to be taken every six 

1 AUopathist coming to pnnip water at last, is, indeed a 
climax, which whether right or wroQg, is brought about wi^h 
eonsiderable ingenuity and close reasoning. 

2 A certain medical gentleman, with whom we have the 
honour of being acquainted, insists that an excess of salt, taken 
during the preTalenee of epidemics, will prevent infection, 
owing, he declares, to the large amount of pure chlorine evolved 



M EM 0IB8 OF A BTOMAOH. 75 

'hours ! Human nature oould not stand this, and a 
human stomach is equally open to prejudice; so 
without more ado I rejected every overture at 
Teccmciliation, even a new dose in the form of 
-quinine, and refused to receive either liquid or 
solid, save dry toast and a little tea. Nothing 
could induce me to make up the quarrel ; and the 
moment the slightest d^;ree of force was resorted 
to, I turned more obstinate than ever, till I re- 
ceived a formal deputation £rom all the members 
of the corporation, intreating me to resume my 
Amotions if only a litde at a time. At last I con- 
sented, but with very indifferent grace ; and if the 
stem moralist feels diie^Kwed to condemn the spirit 
of my resentment, just let him, for one moment, 
place himself in my position. Here was I, a 
stomach of high pedigree, and of naturally a 
haughty and reserved temperament, made to work 

by the stomacb, this gas being the most disaffecting with which 
we are acquainted. In the colomns of the Timet, amongst the 
advertisements, there is very often to be seen the announce- 
ment of a work, showing that all dbeases arise from the use of 
■alt! People rush to a new theory, be it never so absurd, and 
no doubt the book has sold. 



76 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

like a galley-slave, at all hours of the day and 
night. This I bore with proud resignation till the 
last merciless load, metaphorically speaking, broke 
my back, and I was incapable of stirring hand or 
foot. In this deplorable state they use whip and 
goad ; and when these fail, they resort to the ad- 
ministration of the most horrid compounds which 
they can wring from Nature, at which Science 
herself makes the ughest grimaces of aversion. 

Just fancy yourself, oh thou too prone to con- 
demn others, while suffering from debility and 
low spirits, being unceremoniously carried off, and 
made to sit in the torture chamber of suspense, 
while a chartered toxicologist prescribes his nos- 
trums, which you know you are doomed to swallow! 
Fair Rosamond herself had the option of the poison 
or the dagger. I had never even the choice given 
me, or depend upon it I should soon have ter- 
minated my sufferings by the latter. The tyrant of 
Syracuse, or the crowned fiddler of Rome, could 
never have exceeded the exquisite torments to 
which I was so mercilessly subjected. If you 



MBMOnW OP A STOMACH. 77 

doubt this, oh sceptic! make a list of the drugs 
and poisons — ay, literally poisons — ^which I have 
given you the opportunity of counting, and glance 
at lihe charming epitome whence have come all 
the echoes of my wailing. Condemn me not, 
therefore, but rather have pity upon my sufferings, 
and take warning that you never submit your own 
poor dependent inside, to similar suffering and in- 
dignities. Still, however, I was not lost to all sense 
of compassion ; and as I before said, at the touch- 
ing appeal of others, I resumed my duties, but 
with sorrow at the past and distrust for the ftiture. 
Some time after this episode in my existence, an 
event occurred which, if it had no other good 
effect, acted as an entire alter ative. Header, I fell 
m love. Now, I beg that I may not be laughed at 
for this confession ; but let me tell you a stomach 
has a heart, and a very tender one too.^ The 
worst part of the affair was that, like the great 
potentates of the earth, I was obliged to promise 
my affections to an object I had never seen. It 

1 " A heart," by metonymy — a figfare our author is compelled 
coDstantly to use. 



78 MBMOntS OF A STOdtfAOH. I 

is true Mir. Brain gave me an inkling of her like- 
ness; but the reader will see at once, from the 
nature of my position, that I was not capable of 
visional contemplation. Upon this point, indeed, 
I was so much interested, that I longed to knock 
away the plaster between the hbs, and get a glance 
at the lady ; but as such a proceeding would have 
been unjust to others, I sat like Pyramis behind 
a wall, without even a chink through which to look 
at Thisbe. I soon discovered that the damsel, 
who was the cause of this internal commotion (for 
there was not a portion of the whole body but 
which was influenced in some way or other) was 
nothing better than a Hosier's ^ughter, living near 
the University. 

I fear this statement will let the air out of 
any little interest some fair reader might other- 
wise have taken in my narrative; but I am 
bound to a strict adherence to truth. I widi wi^ 
all my heart I could have introduced a heroine in 
my simple memoirs ; but, alas ! she on ^om my 
master lavished his affections sold stockings and 
socks, and whose only psychological tendency was 



MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 79 

to deal in lindsey woolsey souls ! As the best re- 
presentative of a long line of Stomachs, formerly 
of Sternum Hall, now of Eaton Moor, I felt per- 
sonally the let down of an alliance, with a family 
who could only add a stocking to the garter 
already on our escutcheon. However, my passion 
was sincere, or perhaps it would be better to say 
our passion ; for though I was willing enough to 
take all the merit of love to myself, when I 
thought the object might have done credit to our 
pedigree; yet after the information I received 
touching her questionable origin, I desire to share 
iny affections, as in reality I did, with the living 
and moving framework in which I was enclosed.^ 
To continue the phiral number, therefore, this our 
passion was sincere; and that constant manufac- 
turer of sighs, Mr. Lungs, betook himself more 
than ever to fanning the flame of love, and my 
near locality to the current of air was by no means 
agreeable : — ^A residence close to a pair of bellows, 
even though they work in the cause of Eros, is not 

1 This seems to as a piece of grfttuitons candour, and 
strongly smacks of aflfeetation. 



80 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

agreeable; added to this, my food constantly lay 
undigested, like a hard dumpling in my inside, for I 
was so intent upon the novel nature of my feelings, 
that I neglected the usual routine of my duties. 

By no means the worst part of the business 
was, that love turned my gentleman into no less a 
personage than a Poet, and his sentences issued 
from his Ups in rhythm. How curious is this very 
usual result of love upon human beings ! Is it 
that the anticipated stun of their happiness can 
only be added up in numbers ? To *' lisp in num- 
bers'' is a common expression; and until now I 
thought that it alluded to financial gentlemen. 
However that may be, here was my good master 
all of a sudden turned into a water-drinker at the 
Castalian font, and an herbaceous animal nibbling 
in the pastures of Parnassus. What iff it in love, I 
ask again, which has such an extraordinary effect ? 
Does it touch the key-note of a man's nature, and 
change him into a would-be musical instrument? 
But then he notes nothing save his engrossing pas- 
sion, and only plays a duetto with excessive selfish- 
ness. To me it is all a mystery; and perhaps 1 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. ^^ 

might take a different view of the matter, only it 
80 happened I was constantly being woke up in the 
middle of the night, and found myself either walked 
up and down the room, the maniac repeating love 
ditties, or else I was pressed most inconveniently 
against the sides of a table, while another and 
deeper form of madness was exhibited in his 
scribbling doggrel, or if anything better was com- 
posed, I beg pardon, for it was more than I was. 
Conceive my outraged feelings at these nightly 
disturbances, and it really seemed as if destiny 
took a delight in injuring and insulting me. Then 
perhaps he would vary these amusements by sing- 
ing, absolutely singing, during the small hours of 
the morning ! This latter annoyance was not only 
severely felt by myself, but also by my near neigh- 
bours, and aroused my profoundest feelings of con- 
tempt. 

One night when we should all have been 
safely locked in the arms of the poppy-crowned 
god, my restless gentleman gave vent to a 
gush of sentiment in the form of a song, which 
would easily be recognised as one of Moore's most 

F 



82 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

beautii^. I believe, too, it was decently enough 
bom into vocal form, and tolerably well accom* 
panied on the piano; but I have no ear for music; 
and the wheezing of the bellows, belonging to a 
certain organ, is always so near me, that I am 
imable to appreciate any melody which may happen 
to exist in the voice. But I was savage at being 
kept up late o' night; and so, for my own especial 
recreation, I composed the following : — 

THE POETi AND THE STOMACH. 

Oft in the chilly night. 

When slumber should have boimd him, 
Pale Phosphor' gives its hght. 

His dressing-gown aroimd him. 



1 Nothing is so low, intellectually speaking, as a borlesqae 
eyen when in the form of a parody, as close to the original as 
the one aboye, and nothmg so easy to perpetrate. We should 
haye indignantly erased this song from the MS., bnt it may be 
as well, perhaps, for the reader to perceive how very possible it 
b, when instructing others, to err, and that most egregionslj* 
ourselves. 

2 Does he mean by this that Phosphor, or the morning star, 
sheds its pale light for the poet's benefit, or does he refer to 
the match-box ? If both, we must say the commonplace is weU 
concealed by the poetical. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 83 

He rushes then 
For ink and pen, 
To write some lines in measure. 
The while poor I 
Can only sigh, 
Nor glow with Poet's pleasure. 
Thus, in the chilly night, 

When slumber should have bound him ; 
Sad Phosphor gives its light. 
His dressing-gown around him. 



When I remember all 

The many hours wasted ; 
Those dainties turned to gall 
Which I had lately tasted. 
I must lament 
The time misspent, 
The hours snatched from slumber ; 
The stomach's curse 
Is midnight verse, 
Without regard to number ! 
Thus, in the chilly night. 
When slimibers should have bound him ; 
Sad Phosphor gives its light. 
His dressing-gown aiound him. 



f2 



84 MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 

After having accomplished this, I felt somewhat 
easier in my mind; and I have the vanity to think 
even this attempt excelled the abortive efforts of 
my master. Some of his wretched outpourings I 
happen to remember; and I give the reader an 
idea of them here, as a warning to all whom it may 
concern, that when they believe they are spouting 
poetical nonsense to the winds, there may be a 
stomach within listening to it all, with a sneer on 
his lips and rancour in his heart. The antecedent 
circumstances were these. Oftentimes it so hap- 
pened, after we had retired for the night, instead 
of sleeping, we lay tossing and fidgetting (and all 
lovers will agree to the frequency of this), while 
the cocks, and clocks, and the watchmen, rivalled 
one another in teUing us the hours. Yes, slumber 
was effectually chased by the winged urchin ; and 
the drowsy old god dared not approach the bright 
torch of the boy. I admit it was, perhaps, useless 
remaining in bed to be tossed on a sea of restless- 
ness; but still / was warm, and contented, and 
comfortable. No matter, out we were bundled ; the 
lucifer match evoked the spirit of light; a warm 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 85 

dressing robe was cast over us ; the keeping-room 
adjoining was sought (they were University cham- 
bers, remember) ; the decaying embers in the grate 
were scraped together ; and down we sat to a table 
covered with writing implements — those innocent 
causes of my misery. The Poet's eye may roll in 
a fine frenzy, for all I know to the contrary ; but 
during his lucubrations, his stomach is in a very 
different situation, and Im frenzy is of another sort. 
Well, the poet writes, and in this wise : — 

TO JULIA. 

" Aurora rises, and the purple dawn 
("purple** is struck out and "rosy" added.) 
With coronet of light doth rise ; 

("rises," in first line, struck out, and "cometh" 
inserted.) 

And I awake with love, perceive the dawn. 
And greet her coming with my sighs. 

(This he repeats as corrected, and on he goes) — 

" And wherefore sighs .'* Oh, not for gold, 
Nor treasures such as earth bestows ; 



86 MEMOIBS OF A STOMAOH. 

(He here pauses, and repeats ''gold, told, mould, 
fold ;" how I longed to put in, " Oh, go to bed, or 
else youll catch a cold.") 

I sigh for beauty in a lovely mould. 
Yes, Julia could dispel my woes." 

(The lines are carefully corrected, the word 
"trashy" inserted before the word "gold" — a very 
appropriate word too. Then he carefully re- 
writes the lines; and from out the chaotic state 
they emerge in poetic form, thus: — 



C( 



t( 



Aurora cometh, and the purple dawn 

With coronet of light doth rise ; 
And I awake with love, perceive the dawn. 

And greet her coming with my sighs. 

And wherefore sighs ? Oh, not for trashy gold. 
Nor treasures such as earth bestows ; 

I sigh for beauty in a lovely mould, 
Yes, Julia could dispel my woes." 



I too sighed for something in a mould, but it 
wasn't beauty. And out of the evil conceivings of 



# 



MEMOIRS OF A BTOMAOH. 37 

my heart, I parodied the efiiision in die following 
manner, which I have the conceit to believe stands 
unequalled for poetical imagery and boldness of 
metaphor : — 



TO JULIA, 

UPON THE DAT PBOMISING TO BE STORMY. 

Stem night hath faded, and the fiery dawn 
Glows like a savage Hon in his rage ; 

The streaky, bar-like sunbeams of the mom. 
Are as the golden barriers to his cage. 



Oh, Julia ! gaze one moment on the East, 
The look will soothe the fierceness of the ray; 

'Twill change the threatening aspect of the beast, 
Into a calm and sweetly-smiling day.* 



1 Our friend seems to be prood of his poetical essays; but it 
most be admitted the figure of comparing the fiery dawn — such 
as Danby delights in — ^to a lion in a cage with golden bars is 
very original; while Julia's changing that noble animal by a 
look into a sweet, calm day — snch as Creswickloveth— is highly 
complimentary to the lady. 



■^ 



S8 MEMOIRS 07 A STOMACH. 

The two verses — ^not mine, but my master's — are 
then by him read and re-read ; and diving into the 
realms of imagination for fresh ideas, divers altera- 
tions are consequently made ; so many, indeed, that 
in course of time the whole of their constituent parts 
are changed. I must do my gentleman the justice to 
say, however, that, like Saturn, he unmercifully 
destroyed his own progeny ; and after trying every 
description of metre which he fancied Boileau or 
Horace might approve, he at length retires upon 
the Latin Hexameter, as being the longest and 
strongest on which to pile his p3rramid of nonsense. 
All, however, is useless. The divine afflatus will 
not descend ; and then he betakes himself to those 
peregrinations again, of which I so complained just 
now, and caUs upon his memory in favour of the 
lyric poets, and repeats aloud such strains as he 
believes most appropriate to his present love-sick 
mood. Under such circumstances, Little is to him 
extremely great. Yes, Moore is not only sug- 
gestive of all that is musical and elegant in song, 
but also very clearly expressed that which I 
dreamt of — ^repose. 



HEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 89 

When I glance at the above expressions in print, 
I must acknowledge to several twinges of con- 
science at the depreciation of my master's poetic 
powers; so, as a little salve to my own feelings, 
and as a matter of justice to the individual thus 
maligned, I here insert a song of his composition, 
which may perhaps be considered as an exception 
to the usually strict rule of his evil-doings : — 



LOVE'S ASTRONOMY. 
Qtn CDoncttto. 

Ian the, my love, did the thought ever strike you. 
The world, after all, is a beautiful thing ; 

Containing so much to enchant and delight you. 
That clustered to guard it, are stars in a ring ? 



They say look to Zenith, and there ever beaming 
Are golden-eyed stellar orbs, pensive with love ; 

But below at Antipodes, Nadir is teeming. 
The East and the West, too, are gemmed as 
above. 



90 MBMOIBR OF A STOMACH 



No question our Earth is the centre of Heaven, 
And stars are battalions around us at night ; 

Their watch-fires are lighted, the pass-word is 
given. 
And all we see here is their bivouac's light. 



To me, I confess, 'tis an exquisite pleasure. 
Each eve when that camp of the mighty appears. 

To fancy I list to a heavenly measure, 
As planets march out to " the music of spheres." 



And do we not see, too, on Summer's night clearly, 
A meteor drop down from the ranks in the sky ; 

We call it a shooting star, but it is really 
A sentinel chasing a spirit on high. 



A spirit of evil entranced with thy beauty. 

Attempts on the bloom of its sweetness to light ; 

But discovered in time by the sentry on duly. 
He saves my lanthe, and chastens the sprite. 



MBM01B8 or A STOMACH. 91 

I own I am puzzled if e'er I endeavour 
To tell what becomes of the stars in the day ; 

And I cannot accoimt for the fact, that whenever 
The sun is seen rising they all run away. 

I trust I shall not be considered as violating the 
sacredness of a lover's most lonely hours, in thus 
making the reader acquainted with those moments 
of existence, when love, like an Ariel, plays such 
strange freaks with poor mortals; and I hope I 
may not be considered frivolous in descending 
from the dignity of history to recount matter of 
a domestic and confidential nature. 

But now to continue the thread of my narrative. 
Had it not been that at this period we went abroad, 
the consequences of these visits and other evils might 
have been serious. As it was, the entire body grew 
wofully emaciated ; and my friend upstairs having 
received his degree of B.A., off we started for the 
Rhine, since people affirmed that travelling was the 
only remedy against the inroads of the /^n^2^ passion 



92 MBMOIES OF A STOMACH. 

— BO called, I suppose, from the victim being usually 
so thoroughly done. Apropos to this, I must here 
explain that one of my peculiarities consisted of 
an intense hatred of food underdressed. Indeed, I 
looked upon this matter from a very serious point 
of view, and I expressed my repugnance so strongly 
that I was generally humoured by my master. 
Mutton underdone is simply sheep, and so on 
with all the animal suppUes, Nature, I am quite 
sure, never intended the flesh part of our aliment 
to be eaten otherwise than thoroughly cooked, in- 
asmuch as the raw material is never so well adapted 
for the system as when chemically changed by the 
action of fire, seeing that the nitrogenous prin- 
ciples are thereby coagulated, and so become 
the most nutritious element in food.' How- 

1 Azote, or nitrogen. Liebig's Animal Chemistry supports 
this view of onr friend ; but the assertion is very much disputed 
by prize-fighters, rowers, athleta) in general, and men of strong 
powers of digestion, who usually prefer meat underdone, and 
are strong advocates of its wholesomeness. We must remem- 
ber that our author is of a sensitive and delicate constitution 
and perhaps his repugnance to food underdone may arise from 
imagination as well as from an outraged palate. 



MBMOntS OP A STOMAOH. 9S 

ever this may be, all I know is, my horror of red 
meat, the juices of which people termed " only the 
gravy," but which the indignant truth^ilness of my 
whole nature denominated blood, soared far beyond 
all powers of reason ; and whenever I heard a man 
in a coffee-room order his steak underdone, or 
scold the waiter because the joint was done 
brown, I thanked Providence that at least I was not 
his particular inside. Just in the same way an in- 
dividual may be supposed to thank Heaven he was 
not bom amongst the Anthropophagi. By the way, 
Sarcophagy' (I should not be deemed erudite and a 
proper authority if I did not introduce long names), 
.^th the necessary accompaniment of carmine fluid, 
establishes a very close degree of consanguinity 
between ourselves and those much maUgned gentle- 
men at the antipodes, who evidence one of the great 
cardinal virtues by a love for one another. " Oh, I 
could eat you up," is a colloquial term of endear- 
ment in highly civilised life, and the practice and 
wish expressed form a very delicate line of demai- 
cation ; so that, by this system of argument, it is 

1 Sarcophagy — the practice of eating flesh. 



94 MEMOIRS 07 A STOMACH. 

possible to prove that people are cannibals; and 
such description of logic is, I hear, very much in 
vogue, both in the theological and in the medical 
world.* 

But let us consider : I am now on the Rhine, and 
I should like to say something of the scenery, more 
especially as I have never seen it. But I fear the 
subject is used up; and therefore, purely on con- 
scientious grounds, I refrain from drawing upon my 
powers of invention, and it is merely necessary for 
me to say that the change of diet agreed with me 
very well, and I was only once thoroughly shocked 
by receiving a piece of raw ham, which I re- 
jected with vigorous disdain. The light Ehenish 
wines, at first, caused me a few uneasy sensa- 
tions, which, when I exhibited, procured for me a 
more generous sort, called, for the sake of brevity, 
Asmanhauser. Altogether I enjoyed myself ex* 
ceedingly, for I was ever a lover of variety notwith- 
standing my sex ; and let me tell you (for I never 

1 We cannot but deplore this unnecessary divergence of oar 
author from his starting point, to eigoy a thrust at matters he 



has no business to introduce. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 95 

permit a point of information to escape me) that 
the powers of assimilation greatly prefer variety of 
food, and that few things are more unwholesome or 
disgusting than lumps of one sort of meat, such as 
we find served up in dear old England.^' The light- 
ness of the air, too, made me quite joyM; for the 
air has always a great influence upon my feelings 
and health, through the medium of the hlood he- 
coming purified, owing to the polite attention of my 
neighbours the Lungs. Amongst all the changes of 
scene, however, we had not forgotten our passion 
for the fair hosieress, and many a glass of Liebfrau- 
enmilch (appropriate name') was quaffed to her 
memory. 

Pajssing into Switzerland, the thinness of the wine 
nearly turned me into a vinegar cruet,^ and glad 
enough I was when we retraced our steps, crossed 

1 '( Man can live and thrive only npon food analogous to 
himself;" not that he ia composed of breads meat, whie, 
spirits, and vegetables, but the elements of these matters serve 
to replace the wear and tear of his system. — See Liebig's 
Theory of Life. 

2 LiteraUy, "good wife's milk.» 

3 Aviendo pregonado vino, vend vintfgre. After liaving cried 
up the wine, they sell vinegar. 



96 MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 

the frontiers at Kehl ; and after dining at a capital 
table d'h6te at the Hotel de France at Strasburg, I 
was treated, for the first time, to such excellent Bur- 
gundy, that, had I possessed lips, I would have 
smacked them in sympathy with those above. As 
it was, I evinced my approval so cordially, that I 
received a leetle too much of a good thing, and I 
sent a messenger upstairs with a cup of the over- 
plus to Mr. Brain, who deported himself in such an 
extraordinary manner, and suggested such queer 
conduct to the entire body, that I really was quite 
ashamed of the whole affair. I positively dare not 
teU you all that occurred ; but, next morning, feeling 
very unwell, I hinted at the necessity for less pota- 
tions in friture ; and I am happy to say the advice 
was properly attended to, for my master had not 
forgotten his troubles at college. If people gene- 
rally responded with greater alacrity to any httle 

• 

hint I send up, it would be infinitely for their own 
benefit, and of course mine also; and I must here 
beg that the reader will not in any way confuse me 
with that false rogue and sinner, scarcely deserving 
his roof to cover him — Mr. Palate. 



MBMOiaS OF A STOHAQH. 97 

Paris was next our abiding place, and in this 
capital I received some very delicate attentions. I^ 
was usually taken to the first-rate Restaurants, and 
often dined in company with some rather fss^ young 
Frenchmen, connected with a government office, 
whose salaries were veiy raipll, hut whose expendi- 
ture presented a stril^ng contrast They thproughly 
understood ordering a good dinner,^ and if I remem- 
bered the exact bill o£ fare of asiy^ ^pepial fe^at^ I 
would certainly here insert it, sh^qiply for the benefit 
of those who look ovj^r a French co^, with a very 
puzzled air, as if they were 6tu4ying Cherokee or 
the aimwhheaded choracteiis*. 

I observe, with some degree of surprise, that 
although MjT. John BuU h^s a reputation for 
being a great glutton, the French fireely pay a 
much la^er sum for thioir dinner th^ we do. 
People whom one could easily ini^iagine not able to 
afford so many s6us^ iiJtyesii; from fiye tp twenty 
francs fbr their grand meal as a ma^r of pourse. 
What with a heavy midday breal^ast, a capital 
dinner at s^ven; coffee^ liqueurs, cigars, ices, and 
sorbets, as small matters of dalliance during the 

Q 



98 MEMOIRS 07 A STOMACH. 

intervals, with perhaps just a plat of golden plovers 
and a bottle of champagne at midnight, a French 
gentleman may lay claim, quite as pretentious as an 
Englishman, to a love of the good things of this life, 
— ^but then the Gallic goiumet is an artist. Every 
dish has a chromatic relation with its antecedent. 
Every condiment has a studied specific purpose ; and 
every bottle of wine is either harmonic, or a proper 
discord with, the particular entremets over which it is 
destined to commingle.^ The Enghsh system of 
cookery it would be impertinent for me to describe ; 
but still when I think of that huge round of par- 
boiled ox flesh, with sodden dumplings, floating in 
a saline, greasy mixture, surrounded by carrots 
looking red with disgust, and turnips pale with 
dismay, I cannot help a sort of inward shudder, and 
making comparisons unfavourable to English gas- 
tronomy. It was all very well for the sense of 
sight, and sometimes that of smell, to complain, but 
what were their grievances to mine ? Oh, Hercules, 
how I did work ! 

1 A glass of liqnear should be taken after coffee. French 
epicures style these— 1, Chasse; 2, Rmcette; 3, Sorrincette ; 
4^01oriat 



MEMOIRS 07 A STOMACH. 99 

As though everything in Paris were to be bright 
and agreeable, who should we stumble against in 
the Louvre but the hosier of Bridgecam and his fair 
daughter. The first intimation I received of the 
&ct was an increased action of the heart, which 
extended its influence to myself, and soon I heard 

a voice exclaim, "Oh, papa, there is Mr. ." 

Papa, I fancy, was hurrying away with the poor 
fluttering bird; but my owner, without think- 
ing of consequences, obeyed the impulses of the 
moment, and what with shaking of hands and ac- 
cents, and mutual blunders, and incoherent ques- 
tions with answers to match, I must confess I was 
highly diverted ; the long and short of it all being, 
we were invited to papa's house, or rather lodgings, 
in the Rue des Comediens, the heart still in a state 
of tremulousness; and I am compelled, by the fealty 
I have sworn to truth, to confess that, when the 
elderly gentleman turned his back, I felt a soft 
female relative pressed gently against me, and from 
the lips above issued — a renewed declaration of 
passion. This was all very well and very agreeable, 
but in nowise did it compensate me for being 

o 2 



100 MEMOIBfi OV A STOMACH. 

deprived of my dinner; and I took care, upon a 
reiteration of the evil, to have my revenge. This 
soon occurred ; and while the hours slipped away in 
the "soft interchange of mutual feelings of esteem," 
I was, of course, again neglected and forgotten. 
Iliis made me very sulky, and tinctured my views 
of things in general with an unwholesome colour- 
ing. Secreting, therefore, certain morbulent acids, 
I imparted my disgust to the whole system, and 
produced so much irritation that a quarrel sprung 
up between the pair, and for the second time they 
were upon the point of separating. My advice to 
every lover, therefore, is, take care of your Stbmach, 
for his influence is greater than you imagine; and I 
feel perfectly pe)*suaded, that more love matches 
have been broken off owing to this very respectable 
organ than to any other cause. It is all very well 
to term the reasons for remaining sin^e — ^prudetice, 
and the necessity of providing means to keep your 
carriage and servants, and all that sort of iMng ; 
but the truth is, a derangemeirt of the digestive 
powers makes both men and ^omen petulant, ovei'- 
sensdtive, scepticdt, aiill fastidiou0, and it engenders 



MBMOIBS OF A STOMACH. IQl 

a host of other ill qualities, erroneously thought to 
emanate from the brain or liver. The ancients 
were wrong, when they attributed. to this last organ 
the seat of the affections; and the modems are 
equally so in debiting love to the account of the 
heart. The stomach is the real source of that sub- 
lime passion, and I swell with pride and inward 
satisfaction when I make the avowal. ^ 

Eventually regaining my good temper, the lovers 
made up their quarrel and also their minds to marry, 
and here all the romance of the matter ends. Schiller, ^ 
I beUeve it is, who declares that the psychological 
part of love commences with the first sigh and ends 
with the first kiss. I could say a good deal on this 
subject, and put Mr. Schiller to rights, as well as 
many authors who discourse anent this, but I have 
certain reasons for silence not to be disregarded. 

1 Paracelsus exalts the ^ archsiis*' in a similar manner, and 
believed its seat was in the stomach, and the same as a sen- 
tient soul. Van Helmont, to whom (considering the period in 
which he lived) medicine was indebted so much, held similar 
ideas; and declared that by virtue of the ''archseus,'* man was 
linked to genii and to spirits. 

2 In vain we have searched the works of this author. Will 
the editor of NoUs and Queries inform us? 



102 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

Shortly after the event of our union (and now, I 
need scarcely say, I was no longer trouhled with 
poetical effusions), we retraced our steps homeward, 
a fog, of course, welcoming us back to merry Eng- 
land ; and as there was one when I left, I imagined 
it had remained in possession of the city all the 
time we were living under the blue sky abroad. 
The most agreeable thing that awaited us was a 
tremendous outburst of indignation from our friends, 
at making a match so much beneath us ; but as the 
evil was done, we bent to the breeze, and settled 
down into respectable married Hfe. 

The married state, I must admit, agreed with me 
extremely ; and I believe this period would have been 
the happiest in my life, but for the incessant change 
of our cooks. The moment one of these fair ministers 
of our appetites arrived at the point of making some 
peculiar dish entirely to my satisfaction, that moment 
she was sure to be discovered in too hospitable a 
communion with the policeman, falsely called " on 
duty," and was consequently dismissed our esta- 
blishment ; or else she took French leave to go out 
when she chose ; or else she was too pretty ; or too 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 103 

much addicted to the contents of master's cellaret ; 
or too generous to her cousins in the Coldstream 
^Guards; at all events, something always went 
wrong, just at the culminating point of perfection. 
I regarded the high priestess of the kitchen as my 
especial good or evil genius ; and I firmly beUeve 
the sharpness of the saw, which sayeth, " God sent 
food, and the De'il cooks." The only doubt I 
have is, whether, when they get discharged by 
family after family, the obhging Mr. Pluto takes 
them back into his service again. If so, I cannot 
at all wonder at the very natural dread which all 
people manifest at the idea of only a temporary 
abode in Hades. There was one other evil too 

m 

from which I suffered — ^the disparity of tastes be- 
tween our bride and myself She, poor, tender 
Stomach, was incapable of enjojring the sterner 
dishes of Ufe; and consequently I often found my- 
self coaxed into receiving messes and slops which 
I abhorred. This, however, was only occasional; 
and again I aver I found the marriage state to be 
very conducive to health and comfort. 
By this time our father-in-law had become a great 



104 MBUOIBS OF A STOKAOH. 

man in the City. He was already a member of the 
Corporation, and in due time will most likely reach 
the summit of his ambition, the civic chair. Be- 
tween himself and my external person or entirety, 
the living and breattiing man, in whose chest I was 
locked, there never had existed that perfect cor- 
diality which should exist between relatives ;i for 
the fact is, my master's avocations being connected 
with literature and art, produced a natural disgust 
in the mind of his wife's parent. The finer sen- 
sibiUties, which take re^ge in pen, ink, paper, and 
books, do not, and never will, accord with those 
purely money-getting pursuits which call a differen 
set of faculties into being. This is quite right, and 
does not involve any serious matter for condemna- 
tion on either side, only the manifestation of disdain 
which rich Mr. Ledger exhibits towards poor Mr. 
Bookworm, sometimes assumes a form closely verg- 
ing on the ludicrous. This sort of ill feeling, though 
existing between our wife's father and her husband 
did not burn with so intense a fire as to consume all 

1 Should exist, bat too often does not,and— ''acerrimaprozi- 
morum odia." 



MEMOntS OP A STOMAOH. 105 

the amemties of family intercourse, and many were 
the civic feasts we revelled in. My belief is, if I 
had never passed Temple Bar I should at this mo- 
ment have been ^t least ten years younger in feel- 
ings ; but as it is, my constitution is imdermined, 
and not with blowing up, but blo\imig out. 

It is wonderM what a deal of packing the whole 
of our family will • stand. For myself I was a per- 
fect dromedary in the quantity I could bear; and 
though I often thought the last • mouthful would 
break my back, yet somehow it all shook down like 
passengers crowded inside an omnibus. I do not 
mean, by any means, to say that I never grumbled, 
for, like the animal just named, I had a groan for 
every package that I considered too heavy ; but all 
I now got for my pains was a spur, or goad, in the 
shape of a glass of raw spirits— neat, but not whole- 
some — ^which at first had the effect in suddenly 
rousing me up to action, like a stripe on a sleeping 
mule, but I took care to be surly enough afterwards, 
and my energies oftener flagged after this whipping 
than before. 

Now I am grown old and grey in service I 



106 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

cannot but lament how foolishly my master spurred 
a willing horse by these constant applications 
of alcohol. They contributed more to make me 
a wreck than even the overloading, and they 
affected Mr. Head above in such a manner as made 
me believe he was sometimes out of his mind ; and 
let me tell you an insane gentleman on the last 
landing is no joke for the other lodgers. Fami- 
liarity breeds contempt, and this applies especially 
to stomachs. At first these smaQ drams stimulated 
to increased action, till I got used to their burn- 
ing efifects: then they came down stronger and 
oftener. After a time I refused to work without 
the scourge, and so fresh evils accumulated, till my 
master very nearly became a confirmed drunkard. 
From this he was saved by a hydropathic doctor, 
but very nearly paid the penalty of restored health 
by first dying. Aquarius came it too strong, or 
rather too weak, and, instead of letting me down 
by degrees, he cut off my supplies at once ; the 
consequence being that from the sudden reaction 
I nearly came once more to a standstill, and I can 
fancy the agonies I inflicted on all around by my 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. H)7 

want of action. At length, by more prudent treat- 
ment, I slowly recovered my energies, but I never 
regained my pristine vigour, and when anything 
went a little wrong I longed again for the fillip, and 
threatened a relapse. 

Time wore on, however, and Mr. Hosier hav- 
ing risen to the dignity of Lord Mayor and filled 
the civic throne with honour and glory to him- 
self, was gathered to his fathers, and left his 
daughter, my master's wife, a thumping legacy. I 
now remarked that those very persons who had been 
loudest in their condemnation at our mesalliance 
were the^ first to come and do the civil, and they 
sent in their condolences in a very marked and 
amiable manner. This accession of good fortune 
was all in my favour, for I had only to express a 
desire to have it gratified, but still an insatiable 
longing for my old flame alcohol would intrude itself. 
This I have reason to know occasioned my master 
the deepest anxiety, but being a man of a somewhat 
determined character he sought refuge in the coun- 
ter-excitement of ecclesiastical disputations, and 
cast himself into the vortex of certain sectarian 



108 MEM0IB8 OF A STOKAGH. 

quairels which happened to rage at this time. So 
much hatred and fierce passion was engendered by 
this phase in his life, that the state of excitement 
upstairs prevented the growing of my spiritual de- 
sires, upon the principle, I suppose, of one poison 
driving out another.^ I need scarcely say that true 
religion had nothing at all to do with the whole 
affair, but they used her name, and fought under a 
banner painted to resemble her own beautiful one. 
Such an : amoimt of gall, ill feeling, ignorance, 
superstition, and bigotry was exhibited as made 
even a stomach, usually indifferent to such subjects, 
disgusted and grieved. This lasted for some time, 
but at length the wave of evil passions subsided on 
our side, and the real judgment of the man coming- 
forth showed him his folly and unchristian conduct. 
These ups and downs and changes in our consti- 
tution I am compelled, as a writer of memoirs loving 
the truth, to thus narrate, for unimportant as they 
are when regarded fi-om an ordinary point of view, 

1 Hippocrates thought differently. He says:— Ta hayria 
Twv JvavTicin' Icrrh infmra, "Contraries are the remedies of 
oontraries.** 



MEMOIBS OP A STOMAOH. 109 

yet considering the close connexion of myself ^vith 

the occurrences, and the peculiarity of my position, 
as at once a writer, a commentator, an actor, and a 
paunch, there springs up*— «t least I trust. soi-*-an 
interest independent of tiie mere text. 

I must, however, hasten to a close ; but before I 
do so» I should ill Mfil the task I have undertaken 
were I not to endeavour, in as few words as possible^ 
to impart what knowledge I possess of the means 
to keep, through my assistance,* the entire oorpbreal 
system in health and comfort, so tlxat when Hfe is 
yielded up to its great Giver, memory may be elo-* 
quent of past blessings; and tixat gratitude and 
love may help to gently release the spbit &om the 
miracle of life. 

It will be admitted from the foregoing nanrative 
that I have gone: through the ordinary ups and 
downs of life, and though my existence has been 
free from thoaor extraordinaiy circumctoicea which 
m iKovelist lovetii, yet at least I have enjoyed 
vanety. I have had both the lean and the fat of 
things.' consmnaUe, wholesome aiad imwholesome^ 
sooaetiikies living like; a fighlsng coek, and somer 



) 10 MBMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 

times like a London sparrow. The pangs of star- 
vation I have never known ; but, oh ! how inde- 
scribably fearful they must be, for even a tempo- 
rary forgetfulness on the part of my master during 
his love-making produced cravings I shall always 
remember. Verily, the rich of the land hold a stew- 
ardship from Providence of an awful responsibility ; 
and when the accoimts are at last rendered — ^what 
of the items wherein starvation amidst affluence is 
set down against the debtor Dives ? Of this gaunt 
and horrible spectre, however, I had not even an 
idea beyond the little delay to which I have just 
alluded, and the smaQ irregularities in my supply 
consisted more of matters pertaining to quality than 
to quantity^ 

I have dined at eating-houses, the effluvia 
of which, steaming up through the iron grat- 
ing, made me qualmish before eating, and ill all 
the day after. I have enjoyed myself at some of 
the first clubs in town; I have luxuriated at some 
of the best restaurants in Europe ; I have groped 
my way down hypocausts in Fleet-street, and dined 
in cavern-like taverns, wishing myself a thousand 



MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 1 H 

miles away the moment the eternal joint was mico- 
vered ; I have fed gloriously in the coflTee-rooms in 
first-rate hotels both in London and in fashionable 
watering-places, where the waiters are all fine gen- 
tlemen, who attend to you with an air of condescen- 
sion beautiM to witness — who walk noiselessly about 
(they ought to wear roses in their button-holes ^ ) 
Hke votaries of Harpocrates, upon double-piled car- 
pets — ^who with their snow-white neck-ties have ^e 
appearance of gentlemen hired to say grace — who 
will take nothing less than silver for their gratuity, 
but who never consider it infra dig, in the service of 

1 Being aware that onr author has coostantly some second 
meaning expressed or understood, I was unwilling to remain 
satisfied with believing this allasion to the rose a simple desire 
that the waiters should be decorated, and I think the following 
throws a light upon the subject: — ^*'The rose was considered 
by the ancients as an emblem of silence, from its being dedi- 
cated by Cupid to Harpocrates, the god of silence, to engage 
him to conceal the actions of his mother Venus. Whence, in 
rooms designed for convivial meetings, it was customary to 
place a rose above the table, to signify that anything there 
spoken ought never to be divulged. The epigram says : 

Est rosa flos Veneris, ctgus quo facta laterent, 
Harpocrati, matris dona, dicavit amor. 

Inde rosam mensis hospes suspendit amicis, 
Conviva ut sub e& dicta tacenda sciat.* 



112 HBMOIBS OF A STOlfAOH. 

their employeM^ to give you false measure for your 
wine. Of wines, too, I have had an equal variety, 
firom tibe Johannisbeig^ with the golden seal, and a 
sheny called, if I remember rightly, Per Alta^ at 
four guineas a botde (!), down to the poverty- 
stricken Marsala, at ninepence the humble half-pinL 
The sweet but thin wines of Italy ; the sour wines 
of Switzerland ; the light but aromatic wines of th^ 
Hhine and the Moselle; Hie generous wines of 
France, ai^d, oh! especially the ruby Burgundy, 
which the sun has kissed with his own lips ; thp 
potent wines of Spain ; the astringent fluids of Poi^- 
tugal ; not omitting the strong potations of tiie New 
World ; all these it has been my lot in turn to turn 
in, and I can safely say I have done my best to 
receive each and every one with that friendly inte- 
rest and warmth which it is an English stomach's 
prerogative to exhibit to all guests who arrive, 
bringing proper recommendations from foreign 
climes. 

In truth, I believe I may safely aver I know 
all the chromatic colourings of taste from tliose 
dainty sublimated ones in alto, to the more robust 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. i 13 

but less flavourable in basso, and notwithstand- 
ing this heterogeneous mass being presented at 
my court, I should scarcely have been the worse for 
the introduction (saving certain adulterated abomi- 
nations * ) had it not been for that accursed spirit 
called by the poor Indian, whom it has helped 
to exterminate, "fire water." This demon had 
no sooner crossed my direshold ^ than all went 
wrong ; but he made himself so fascinating that I 

1 In 1851, there were fewer pipes of wine imported by 217, 
than in 1788, the population having more than doubled in the 
interval! It is scarcely necessary to say how very much adolte- 
ration must have to do with this increasing diminution. The 
manufiftcturer of wines, without the juice of grapes, has become 
quite a science ; and though chemistry has aided and abetted 
the nefarious system, yet chemistry turns Queen's evidence, and 
becomes the means of conviction. " A fine fruity port" is often 
made as follows :— Damson wine, eleven gallons ; brandy, five 
gallons; cyder, thirty-six gallons; elder wine, eleven gallons. 
Nothing here is detrimental to health, but salts of copper and 
Uie oil of bitter almonds (both poisonous) are very often re- 
sorted to — the one to impart an astringent flavour, the other a 
perfume. The ends of the corks are usually dipped in a de- 
coction of Brazil wood and alum, to paint them with the ap- 
pearance of age. Those who are curious to know by what 
means the extensive system of food-adulteration is carried on, 
should consult the Lancet on the subject, or perhaps better 
still, peruse a very able article in the January number of the Nei9 
Quarterly Review, entitled ** Falsification of Food." 



114 MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 

always felt spellbound by his presence, and the 
oftener he came the more I regarded his society. 
Of course, there were a multitude of minor little 
matters connected with edibles, which ranged be- 
tween good, bad, and indifferent, as didhkewise the 
wines, and the ordinary articles of daily consumption, 
such as coffee, tea, beer, cocoa, chocolate, '* et hoc 
genus omne," and these, when in a pure state, which 
I am sorry to say was very rarely the case, were all 
received by me in the poUtest manner, which recep- 
tion indeed they well deserved, from their intrinsic 
worth, and the benefit they conferred upon myself. 
Undoubtedly, all stomachs have their own peculiar 
idiosyncrasy ; and I do not pretend to put myself 
up as an authority upon all dietetic matters, but 
certain doctrines I will never give up, upon a 
principle of obstinacy entirely my own. These 
especial points of my obstinacy may be summied 
up in a few general rules ; and the first is. Mode- 
ration. With this as your weapon you may 
defy the B e octors. Secondly, if by any 
chance you should sacrifice to Epicurus a little too 
devotedly, all I ask is to give me Rest, that I may 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 115 

profit by that grand and beautiful law, the "vis 
MEDicATRix NATUR-^," which often proves so great 
a friend to the medical practitioner, that even, in 
spite of physic, he reaps all the credit and reward of 
Nature's exertions. Thirdly, never resort for ad- 
vice, when ailing, to such medical men as prescribe 
large doses, for they know no more of the modtis 
operandi of the most simple drug than moles do of 
astronomy. It is true they are aware that certain 
physics have certain eflfects, such as those that are 
drastic, those which are opiates, those which act 
upon the skin, or on the glandular tissues, &c., &c. ; 
but they are profoundly ignorant (and will admit 
it) of the cause and manner of action.^ The most 



1 An elaborate essay, by Mr. f. W. Headland, has lately 
appeared, to which has been awarded the Fothergillan gold 
medal, wherein he treats of the actions of medicine upon the 
system. The entire work is one great exposS of the ntter 
ignorance abroad as to the modus operandi of medicine. 
Whether the author himself throws new light upon the 
science, or whether the thesis is merely an ingenious series 
of hypotheses, it is not for us to say; but Mr. Headland's 
liberal views and perfect candour are indisputable. In his 
introductory remarks, he writes : — "I am induced to lay 
stress on the difficulties surrounding an inquiry into the 
modus operandi of medicines, because it will be some ex- 

H 2 



116 MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 

childish question will puzzle the most learned 
Hippocrates. Why does opium, for instance, act 
diametrically opposite upon two different constitu- 
tions — ^to the one it is a sedative, the other it 
excites. Yet how often does a physician (vide 
prescription page) prescribe opiiun the very first 
time the patient consults him, before he has ever 
attempted to enter into the diagnosis of his com- 
plaint. Experience has informed them of a few 
specifics, i, e., of certain effects under the adminis- 

cuse for the manifest insafficiency of the sketch which I am 
about to draw. For this, too, I may find a farther apology in 
the fallacies and mistakes, both of reasoning and statement, of 
which previous writers have been guilty. These are best shown 
by their discrepancies. On no question, perhaps, have scienti/ie 
men differed more than on the theory of the action of medicines. 

Again: — "Most authors have grouped remedies together 
according to the broad result of their action. They do not 
make inquiry as to the mode of operation or behaviour of a 
medicine after passage into the system; nor do they ask 
whether this action is especially directed to any organ or tissue; 
but they judge by external evidence of its ultimate effect on 
the body, and on the powers of life." 

The seeming paradox, "the more we know, the more we know 
the less we know," is here triumphantly put forth ; but such works 
have one great advantage — if they do not show us what is right* 
they go a g^eat way in exposing that which is wrong ; and the 
most likely method of leading to important discoveries, is to 
carefully close up those paths which we know lead to error. 



. MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 117 

tration of certain drugs, and upon such data has 
been constructed one of the most glaringly false 
systems ever built up. Why does the bite of the 
cobra kill a man ? What is hydrophobia? Why does 
Peruvian bark, in most cases, alleviate ague ? Why 
does mercury produce salivation ? Why does iodine 
act upon the glands? Nay, tell us why Epsom salts 
is a cathartic? With many of the simplest ques- 
tions in medicine the whole faculty is at logger- 
heads; and just in the same way, that before Sir 
Isaac Newton's time people saw apples fall to the 
ground without knowing the reason thereof, so are 
medical practitioners aware of certain sure results, 
patent to every one, without knowing the why and 
wherefore, which to them are as the Eleusinian 
mysteries. Far be it for an humble Stomach like 
myself to attach any degree of culpability to this 
ignorance. The subtle and hidden causes, by 
which Nature works in the human system, must 
ever defy hmnan scrutiny, till the discovery of 
some grand principle* (like that of the circulation 

1 How much science has derived from the search for the 
impossible ! The attempt at the transmutation of metals, and* 



118 



MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 



of the blood) gives a fresh clue to frurther know- 
ledge; and this can only accrue from the patient 
system of observation and experiment which Bacon 
insists upon, and which is now more than ever 
become the recognized method of pursuing science. 
It is not too much to beUeve, that the microscope 
is the means by which discoveries of vast import- 
ance will hereafter be brought to light ; and that it 
will achieve for science results as usefrd, if not as 
grand, as those which the telescope has produced. 
The resolution of nebulae into distant worlds and 
systems, is not more wonderM than secrets which 
may be yet disclosed by the minute inspection of 
matter. The maxima and minima have kingdoms 
to explore, each as rich as the other, for science 
takes less heed of bulk, than of combinations. 
I say again, therefore, far be it from a modest 
Stomach to blame a whole profession for not 
knowing the profoundest secrets of Nature ; but a 

search for the philosopher's stone, have been the cause of some 
of oar most valuable augmentations to knowledge. Faraday 
always insists upon the necessity of experiment. ** If you don't 
find what you want " says he, ** yon will find something perhaps 
more valuable." 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 119 

Stomach does blame them, and possesses a prescrip- 
tive right to do so, for prescribmg in the dark — 
for putting the seal of their authority upon docu- 
ments, whose contents, for all they know, may be a 
libel upon the Creator. A Stomach does condemn 
them for drenching people with drugs and nos- 
trums, written in hieroglyphics, fit only for the 
tablets of some astrologer of Eld. 

Is the necessity of gain at the bottom of it all ? 
Has it been bequeathed to us from the evils which 
have sprung up, in not permitting the general prac- 
titioner to receive fees for his attendance ? Is the 
compact tacitly existing between the chemist and 
physician so intricate, so interwoven with one 
another's interest, that piedical reform is impos- 
sible? Your first-class practitioners are, perhaps, 
take them all in all, the most humane (of course, 
barring the administration of medicine) and the 
most useftd class of men hving. The nature of 
their studies unshackles their minds ; and notwith- 
standing the dark in which they are groping, with 
respect to the materia medica, they necessarily dive 
into the mysteries of all the collateral sciences. 



120 MEMOntS OF A STOMACH. 

and imbibe such an amount of information as 
makes them the most agreeable companions in the 
world; added to which, the afflicted in body and 
mind must always appeal to them as their best 
friends and true advisers.^ There is no class of men 
more liberal in their views, hence more willing to 
admit the evils of the system; none so ready to 
assist the unhappy, or so careless of their just re- 
muneration, when an object for compassion comes 
in their way. When, however, they sit down com- 
placently to prescribe compounds, from that book 
called the Pharmacopaeia, the fancied gold of the 
wizard is turned, as in the fable, into dry leaves. 
Those rows of phials, with frmereal labels round their 
necks, are just such as the priests of Isis might 
have stowed the inmost recesses of their temple 

1 Such men as Dr. B g, of Park-lane, and Dr. B ^m, 

closely connected with the Westminster Hospital, the late 
lamented Mr. L , of Brighton, and many others, are the 
centres of more real benefit to oar species than any other class 
ef men existing. Their knowledge of the human heart, and 
their pity for human nature, make their advice and their sym- 
pathy at once sound and smcere. What tales the hospital and 
the sick chamber of the poor could famish, when the medical 
man is often, from necessity, at once the physician, the lawyer* 
and the divine t 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 121 

with, to awe the vulgar or the sceptic ; but in these 
enlightened times, when proffered by the hands of 
the really learned and good, the whole affair be- 
comes a travestie upon science, at once dangerous 
and humihating. 

The next rule worthy of the yaletudiaarian^s 
attention is care in the selection of diet, and be 
assured I am the proper authorily to consult upon 
this subject. Eegularity of meals is another 
essential point, for I can work with great vigour 
when I am called upon to do so at stated, and 
tolerably certain intervals. Exercise, too, is a sine 
qzia non, for the entire internal machinery becomes 
clogged unless a healthy waste of the system is pro- 
duced by walking or ridiog. Over-fatigue, how- 
ever, is my abhorrence, since my attention is then 
distracted from my own particular duties. Masti- 
cation is another highly important item in my 
economy, and the dental organs may be considered 
as the teeth of the wonderful internal mill, which is 
neither worked by wind or water. Indeed, in a 
jocose way I understand the teeth are called " grin- 
ders," though they do not grind, but bruise. Thia 



122 MEMOntS OF A STOMACH. 

preliminary process of comminuting food and 
mixing it with saliva, is to me a subject of deep in- 
terest, for my own labours are considerably increased 
or diminished by a proper or improper performance 
of this act of grace. The better the teeth perform 
their part the sweeter is my temper during digestion ; 
so take warning all ye who bolt your food, for by so 
doing you bolt in, acidity and ill humours.* 

1 The preliminary part of digestion depends much upon 
nervous energy, which may be greatly augmented by external 
circnmstanccs. The moment food is swallowed it is changed 
into a kind of pulp or pap called chyme, and this conversion is 
owing to the electric action of eight pair of nerves, which decom- 
posing the salt always mixed with food naturally, and generally 
artificially, muriatic acid is set free and dissolves the mass. 
Now the reason that eating a heavy meal like that of dinner, in 
your own society is injurious, arises from thought being engen- 
dered by solitude, and thus detracting from the energy of those 
nerves which act upon the assimilation of food. Hence, bad 
news deprives us of appetite, and the reverse increases it. 
Hence, why men of sedentary habits so often suffer after eat- 
ing, and why fatigue just before a meal is so injurious. The 
nervous vigour cannot be fully at work in two places at once, so 
when you are going to eat it is as well to concentrate it in the 
digestive regions. Salt, besides what we derive from the saliva, 
and what is adherent in food, is positively essential, though if 
taken in excess, the excess of muriatic acid will do injury. Scurvy 
is produced by the undue consumption of salted meat, and lemon 
juice is a specific. May not this be owing to the acid aiding the 
galvanic action of the nerves just mentioned, and thus assiiting 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 123 

The next dietetic rule I desire you to observe is, 
NEVER TO DINE BY YOURSELF. I rejoice beyoiid 
measure in listening to conversation during dinner, 
for generally thereby I became au conrant with the 
news of the day, and get an idea of how the world 
wags. The custom of reading a periodical or news- 
paper, however hght and amusing, is no substitute 
for conversation at feeding time, for there is nothing 
so tantalising to a stomach of an inquiring mind as 
to be compelled to work, and not be made the while 
a recipient of the news which is imbibed by his lord 
and master. Occasionally during dinner I have 
found myself suddenly shaken by a poverty-stricken 
sort of laugh, without knowing what the joke was 
about, whereas if it had arisen during conversation 
I could have joined in the fan, and made the 
cachinnation hearty and real. I detest your inward 
half-ashamed sort of sniggle ; but commend me 
to a good robust octave of merry notes; even a 
smile of genuine kind nature sheds a Ught down into 
my depths, and imparts a glow hke a glass of cordial. 

digestion? Surely this hypothesis, crude as it may appear, 
is at least worthy of the physician's attention. 



124 



MEMOIBS OF A STOMAOH. 



In short, cheerfulness is my delight, especially at 
meal time, and if doctors would insist upon their 
patients dining in society instead of giving them 
those eternal drugs, I'll be bouud to say dyspepsia 
would fly away for ever on its bat-Hke wing. 

What will my Mends and the world in general 
say if I venture to declare that a life spent in good 
will to others, and a judicious regard to our moral 
government, influences an humble individual like 
myself, in a most remarkable manner. Yet the hu- 
man body is such a bundle of sympathies, it is per- 
fectly true. I do not mean a mere selfish care of 
the body, a regularity of existence suggested simply 
by providential motives ; but I mean that I sympa- 
thise, and act in harmony with those higher inspira- 
tions and faculties, which distinguish a highly 
gifted nature from a common one. An explanation 
of this principle in all its bearings would involve 
both a physiological and psychological disquisition, 
and as the office of lecturer to mankind is not 
my role in life, I will forbear inflicting the reader 
by any plunge into obscure matters. This I may 
say, however, that a cow's stomach digests in its own 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 125 

peculiar way, admirably for the necessities of a 
COW. A gizzard does the duty of mastication for 
tiie bird tribe. A boa constrictor's slow working 
apparatus is excellentiy well adapted for that gentie 
animal, and the inside of many insects is as com- 
plicated as their Ufe is varied, and is nicely calcu- 
lated to serve them on earth, air, or water. Now, 
the stomach of a human being is equally con- 
genial to man's nature, and the higher his intel- 
lectual faculties the more sensitive and dehcate is his 
inside. In organic structure it is, of course, the 
same in all men, and a Hottentot's digestive organs 
and those of a Sir Isaac Newton's would present 
identical conformations, but the sjrmpathy of the 
nervous energies mark the subtie difference. 
Thence, I again affirm that the moral acts upon the 
physical, and vice versa, by the most delicate sym- 
pathy, and wonderful laws. 

Thus far then, the necessary observances to sus- 
tain the body in health consist of moderation; 
mastication; a careful choice of food; regu- 
larity ; exercise; society at meals ; abjuration 
of physic ; and in case of indisposition arising from 



126 MEMOUtS OF A STOMACH. 

an infringement of these rules, rest, and a strict 

REGIMEN. 

Advice so simple, savours, perhaps, of self-evi- 
dent truisms ; but why then do people neglect them 
BO continually ? By far the larger portion of the ills 
of Ufe, is occasioned by errors in diet, and though 
there, of course, exist hereditary diseases which 
have nothing whatever to do with myself, and rest 
solely with my ancestors, yet even these ills are to 
be mitigated, and in a generation or two, totally 
eradicated, by a strict attention to what passes the 
lips — ^inwardly. The moment compoimds are swal- 
lowed the system must get rid of them in some 
way or other, and just conceive how much evil 
might be avoided if people would only consider this 
simple fact. Health influences directly and indirectly 
a man's actions, and his mode and tone of thought ; 
and hisi ideas expressed in language, are so many 
winged seeds, which he sows during life, to spring 
up ultimately for the good or ill of those who 
reap. He should never forget, too, that he is a link 
(as, indeed, so is the smallest atom of matter) in the 
chain which stretches from the dim past into the 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 127 

illimitable fiiture, and he contributes his share in 
giving form and shape to things to come, in the 
same way as he and his ideas have been formed, and 
shaped, by things past. Creation is, indeed, one 
whole, one entirety, and for all man knows to the 
contrary, his spirit may be pre-ordained to dwell in 
those remote worlds which seen from our planet, 
are as Uttle specks of fire in the vast expanse of 
ether. It is possible that here^ he moulds his 
future destiny therey and his highest and first duly 
is to hsten to the suggestions of his reasoning 
powers, and by moderation and discipHne, to deve- 
lop all his faculties, spiritual, mental, and phy- 
sical. Health, therefore, is a treasure he has no 
right to expend lavishly, or to fritter away: he 

holds it in trust, as he does his life; and even in 
the dark ages, when science was struggling in the 
hands of astrologers and alchemists, they regarded 
the vital portions of the body so highly, as to exalt 
matter into the throne of man's soul and spirit. 

There are some members of my family whose 
nature is so vigorous and robust, that ordinary rules 
and regulations would seem scarcely to apply to 



128 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

their particular case. To such, I say, go on and 
prosper; but there are breakers ahead, and take 
care that you do not get wrecked on alcohol. 
From your very vigour you will be enticed to in- 
dulge, first in small drams, and then larger ones, 
till it will come to pass, that ultimately your diges- 
tion is no longer inside you, and a part of you, but 
in bottles and flasks. 

At the risk of seeming to treat of matters beneath 
the attention of the general reader, I shall take my 
leave by submitting to his attention a little dietaiy 
tariff, well adapted for my brethren of all denomina- 
tions, but especially so for those to whom I now 
more especially address myself — ^the fastidious and 
dainty ones. In my sketch of a Uttle dinner it may 
be said, half the world could not afford the deUca- 
cies I name, and all I have to say is, make such 
selections out of my " rules" as suit your purse and 
inclination. I speak, too, of a '* slice out of the 
joint," having breathed dire anathemas against 
joints of all kinds, but I referred to their graceless 
conduct when served alone, thus compelling the 
general meal to be made entirely off huge lumps 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 129 

of meat. Some of these days the gentle Londoners 
will, I hope, make it worth while for clubs and 
taverns to establish a table d'hote, where variety 
and conversation are both attainable at a reason- 
able charge. But not longer to digress, here are my 
few suggestions, or 

RULES FOR SPECIAL PRACTICE 

IN THE 

COURT OF HEALTH. 

I. Rise tolerably early and perform your ablutions 
all over with tepid water. Rub yourself well dry, get 
as red as a boiled lobster, and take a brisk walk for 
half an hour.i If the stomach craves for food, munch 
a dry biscuit on your way rejoicing. Note: If a 
person can bear a cold bath, and finds a quick re- 
action of warmth, there is not very much the matter 
with him. 

IL Take for breakfast one large cup of black tea, 
with plenty of milk, and very little sugar. Coffee is 
more heating, but extremely wholesome, made French 

1 It is scarcely necessary to allude here to the important 
function of the skin. The internal machinery has much addi- 
tional work to get through, when the pores of the coyering to 
the body are allowed to get partially closed up from the absence 
of the bath, and friction. 

I 



130 MBMOIKS OF A nOMACE. 

fiHhioo — that ity a small qoantitj of the wery 
filled up with ffood boiling milk, so as to make three 
parts milk, and one part coflke. Coeoa and chocolate 
may be taken if particnlariy rdished, and if no eme- 
tations follow; bat the oil they contain is difficult fiov 
me to digest. Strong black tea is generally my &- 
▼oorite beTevage. A toasted French roll allowed to 
get cold, or thoroughly baked and fermented bread 
with a slice of bacon, are the solids I best approve ; 
bat breakfast is the meal when most liqaid shoald 
be taken, bat neyer exceed a pint Note : If a per- 
son can eat a hearty breakfast off scTeral kinds of 
meat, d la mode those of my oniTcrsity experience, 
there is not Tery much the matter with him. 

m. A light lanch in the middle of the day suits me 
well, for the absorbents have assisted in the diffusion 
of my former receipts. A small mutton chop, or a 
sandwich without butter ; a single glass of bitter ale, or 
a single wine-glass of sheny may, and ought to be 
taken, as it is necessary to stave off exoessiye hanger 
till a late dinner. It is usual to recommend an early 
dinner for invalids, and an early supper; but this is 
tantamount to a hearty lunch, and a very late dinner. 
Note: If a person can fast from breakfast to six or 
seven o'clock, without feeling the necessity for food, 
there is not very much the matter with him. 

IV. First catch, i. e., earn your dinner; and this, the 
grand meal of tlie day, requires our best attention ; 
not for the purpose of gormandising, but so as to shape 
its quality and quantity to my powers of digesting it* 



MEMOUIS OF A STOMAOH. 131 

As J before said, variety is essential^ but soapi is not 
good to commence with. When the Stomach is armed 
cap-a-pie and eager for the fray, he requires something 
to grapple with — something solid upon which to try his 
strength — and he turns up his nose at 'liquids. First, 
then, he loveth a nice little bit of boiled fish, a very 
small quantity of melted butter, with a few drops of 
the life blood of the fair demoiselle Ann Chovey.*'* With 
this he receiveth complacently a glass of sherry; and 
he is now all attention, having an ear for a little 
agreeable conversation, as also an eye to his duties. 
Next, he loveth a portion of a French entr^met, pro- 
vided it be made by an adept. There will possibly be 
around it, or in it, a pleasing variety of well-selected 
and well-dressed vegetables; or should its character 
not admit of those graceful adjuncts, a pur^e of simple 
potatoes forms a soft bed, proper to prepare for the delicate 
viand, when it arrives at its destination, as an inside 
passenger. Plenty of bread, of yesterday's baking, he 
confidently expects at this interesting juncture. An- 

1 If taken at all, it must be thin and of vegetable. After 
heavy thick soops, cold roast beef, with a mealy potatoe, is the 
best second course. 

2 If melted butter disag^rees (and anchovy is considered by 
some to spoil the flavour of fish), ** cold butter, mostared," with 
a little cayenne, is an excellent substitute. The robust, who can 
eat anything and everything with impunity, will laoi^h to scorn 
such petty details as these, but the reader is again requested 
to remember that this part of our author's subject is not 
written for such fortunate individuals. 

I 2 



132 MBMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

other glass of sherry, and a laugh, or good-humoured 
speech, or some little piquant on dit, now pleaseth him 
well, and all is proceeding in a most satisfactory man- 
ner. Next, this same Stomach loveth a brown slice or 
two out of the joint, with plenty of gravy, and, may 
be, a little stewed celery, or thoroughly boiled artichoke 
of Jerusalem, is added with entire approval. Another 
glass of sherry is welcomed with open arms and a 
sweet smile, and he beginneth to feel extremely com- 
fortable. A short interregnum now arrives, and the 
conversation becomes animated and pleasant; and this 
is the period for the wise man to consider whether his 
internal satisfaction has arrived at its culminating point. 
If he believes it is so, let him exclaim : " Hold, enough ;*' 
but if he feels that each previous dish has been partaken 
of but sparingly, and that he has yet a little niche to 
fill up judiciously, then the stomach smileth blandly, 
and comports himself to receive with affection a slice or 
so from the bosom of a wild duck, with a gentle squeeze 
of lemon — and never forget to take a little acid with 
your dinner.^ In lieu of this dish of grace. Stomach 
receiveth with courtesy and warmth the leg and wing 
(not divorced) of a partridge, with an addition of bread 
sauce, to assuage the pangs of the operation the poor 
thing underwent in being carved. In the absence of 
this amiable little bird, woodcock or snipe are admirable 
substitutes, or even a cut from the breast of a plump 

1 Again he insists upon acids, no doubt again because of the! 
antiseptic qualities, proved by their removal of foetid breath. 
Lemon juice is now often given for gout and rheumatism. 



MBMOIBS OP A STOMACH. 133 

hen pheasant (however sportsmen may demur), or else 
a plover, or rotund quail, or melting landrail, — ^he loveth 
all and each of them ; but now woe betide the unhappy 
wight who dares to add to such welcome delicacies, 
pastry of any kind whatsoever. ^ Neither is cheese re- 
ceived without a sneer, and after a suspicion of celery 
(do not swallow it) to clear the palate, it is far better 
to make the finger bowl the finale of the feast; or if 
you take just one extra glass as the epilogue of the 
three-act drama, rise from the table without either 
dessert, or a further imbibation of vinous fluids. Fruit 
is excellent in its season, but not after a good meal. 
Note: If a person feels light and buoyant, and ready 
for a little cheerful recreation • after such a meal as the 
foregoing, he may be delicately oonstitutioned, but — 
there is not very much the matter with him. 

V. Supposing you are neither a dub-man at meal- 
time, nor a tavern-dining individual ; and then, further, 
supposing there are ladies to join in the drawing-room, 
oh, happy mortal, count the moments which keep you 
dallying over the bottle to the eternal detriment of poor 
me, steal away from table as soon as you can, and 
never feel ashamed of the humanising effects of female 
society ; for let me tell you the whole race of Stomachs 
dearly loveth the music from fair ladies* lips. For 
myself, I never digested so perfectly at my ease as when, 
after a light dinner, I was carried, as soon as English 

1 An omelette or souffle are the only admissible sweets after 
game, and it is as well to close question Mr. Stomach as to whe- 
ther he needs even these. 



134 HBHOIBS OF A 8TOHA0H. 

manoen would permit, into the drawiDg-room, a enp of 
coffee, without milk, being suffered to descend; the 
while the gentle prattle of female tongues, or a little 
music (not too scientific), or a game of chess, or carda, 
or some such social amusement, passed the evening 
agreeably away, without leaving a pang for the morrow, 
or a moment of ennui at the present. Where do young 
men of the present day usually pass their evenings? 
Who are their companions ? A Stomach eoM answer. 
Do our fiair countrywomen, by the absence of formality, 
or the graceful facility of making impromptu amuse- 
ments like our neighbours abroad, encourage the rougher 
sex to seek for recreation at home P Does the heartless 
tone of London society, with its formal dancing parties, 
beginning at eleven, and its set dinner gatherings of 
dumb, cold ostentation, contribute in any way to hang 
up such garlands and fraits at home, as create a counter 
lure to the meretricious amusements of the young male 
members of the household ? What a sermon a Stomach 
could preach if he dared ! But he has said enough upon 
this subject to prove that Rule V. is no rule at all, but 
its exception. 

VL Supposing the evening to have been cheerfully 
passed, and your time of rising had been early, there 
will be no difficulty in a corresponding early retirement 
to slumber, and by all means avoid supper of every 
description. It is true the activity of the mind at night 
will sometimes unpleasantly show itself in wakefulness, 
unless its attention is called off by a gentle exertion on 
my part; and for those who suffer in this wise, it is 
as well to keep a little reserve of biscuit by the bed- 



MEMOIRS OP A STOMACH. 135 

side. If, before you retire, you will be courageous 
enough to drink a tumbler of cold water, so much the 
better; for water is an excellent solvent, and its use, 
externally and internally in moderation, of the greatest 
possible value. Note: If a person rise refreshed, with 
a clean tongue, a ready aptitude to commence the 
day's exertions, and at his heart a warm feeling of grati- 
tude for the gift of life, depend upon it he has nothing 
whatever the matter with him. 

And now, dear reader, having waited at your 
table during the day, and having consigned you, 
as I hope, to happy dreams, wherein the forms of 
loved objects float around you, I make my bow 
and doff my hat, in a manner worthy, I trust, of the 
Stomach of a Chesterfield. 



J. MOORE, SOUTUAMPTON-STBEET, STBAND. 



UNO BY 1 
TLEYSAC?) 
\ft STREET, il 




Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



MEMOffiS OF A STOMACH. 



MEMOIES 



OP 



A STOMACH. 



WRITTEN BY HIMSELF, 



THAT ALL WHO EAT MAT REj6i 







>•'* -i * A, 



Miiti^ ^tt%y OPrittcal ^anb lExpIanatorg, 



BY 



A MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR. 



SECOND EDITION. 



LONDON: 
PUBUSHED BY W. E. PAINTER, 342, STRAND ; 

AlTD SOLD BY ALL BOOESELLEBS IN TOWN AND COUNTRY. 

1853. 



/S7. /^./Z/, 




INTRODUCTION. 



My duties in editing the following pages 
have been of a very simple nature, 
consisting principally of weeding out 
many expressions of bitterness and heart- 
burning in which my friend, Mr. Stomach, 
too often indulges ; and also in throwing 
what little light I was able upon passages 
and remarks obscure or questionable. This 
part of my task, I admit, has required 
some degree of industry and care. It 
will not fail to be observed that our author 
is of a sensitive nature, and by no means 
possessed of a strong constitution ; indeed, 
had it been otherwise, these pages would 



Vi. INTBODUCTION. 

never have been written. A patient only 
seeks medical advice when be is ailing; 
and a stomach only proflfers his experience ' 
when he feels that it may be of use to 
others of a like delicate temperament with 
himself. 

His humour, his satire, and his philo- 
sophy will not fail to be appreciated. I 
only trust my humble task has been per- 
formed with justice to my friend, the 
public, and myself; and I can only express 
the wish, that the following very curious 
memoirs (considering their authorship) 
had been intrusted to the supervision of 
others more competent to the task, than 
to him who for a brief period has accepted 

the office of 

% 

MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR. 



AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 



By what manual agency I wrote the sub- 
joined pages no one has a right to inquire ;* 
but as &r as intellectual Acuities are con- 
cerned, I consider I hold a superior posi- 
tion to my helpmate Mr. Brain;* for, 
while I reside in the drawing-room floor, 
he lives in the attics. Moreover, if he 
separated the good from the bad, and 
digested all matters which he receives as 

I It is to be presumed that all information obtained by oar 
author on subjects distinct from his own personal experience, 
has been derived from the conversation of the individnal 
he inhabits ; and who, we are hereafter informed, was addicted 
to literary avocations. 

8 This boast is excusable. Van Helmont placed the seat of 
underttanding in the stomach, of volition in the heart, and of 
memory in the brain ! 



VUl. PRBFACX. 



thoroughly as I do, he would have a 
greater right to look down upon me than 
he has at present. 

The depreciation of another's powers of 
mind, is the usual and proper beginning 
to books in general ; and though I am 
a.ocu8tomed to introductions of all kinds* 
I will here content myself with this one. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 



Jejamii raro stomaohoi ¥ii]garia (emnit-^HoB. # 

Oh, that my stomach were a cable lone W^ every ioeh 
a palate.— QuiN. 



Mt days of early infancy shall be rapidly passed 
over ; but it is necessary to state that I was bom of 
gentle parentage, being related, oi^ the maternal 
side, to the celebrated Stemums, of Eaton HaU 
(sincer migrated to Eaton Moor), and, on my 
father's side|il dated my pedigree as far back as ^e 
first invasion of the Saxons, when the great fir 
Hugh Stomach was created baron, from the huge 
quantity of beef he^as able to digest ; and since 
diat time a certain portiin of the ox has been called 
after him. The name Stomach, indeed, is of pure 



10 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

Saapm origin, from the word Sto^ meaning to stow 
away, and ach or hack, signifying to hew into small 
pieces ; the consonant m having been inserted for 
the sake of euphony. ^ It is scarcely necessary for 
me to observe that my progenitors first established 
the Diet of the German empire. 

Of my poor mother, I will say but little ; she was 
of a soft, yielding disposition, totally unfitted for 
the companionship of her husband, who I am 
bound to confess was of a coarse and robust nature, 
one that could not appreciate the sweet excellence 
of his partner. The match, indeed, was an ill- 

1 This is evidently a dig at etymologists, and reminds as of 
Dean Swift's derivation of the word Leda, Leda, he says *'wa8 
the mother of Castor and Pollux, and, laying a couple of eg^gs, 
was therefore called Laid a, or Leda." This joke is execrable^ 
but still it was — Swift^s. From the same authority we have 
another derivation, thus : " Achilles was the most valiant of the 
Grecians. This hero was of a restiess, unqi^t nature; and 
therefore, as Guy of Warwick was called a Eill-Gow, and an- 
other terrible man a Kill-Devil, so this general was called 
A-kill-ease, or the destroyer of ease ; and at length by corrup- 
tion, Achilles." Far worse is the derivation of Cucumber — 
King Jeremiah, Jeremiah Ring, JeiVf -King, Jerking, Girldng, 
Cucumber. Equalled, if not excelled, in absurdity, is that 
quoted by Home Tooke i^amip q^cp oTrcp ^tavep ; - Napkin^ 
nipkiog, pipking, pippenking, King Fepm. 



MBM0IE8 OF A STOMACH. 11 

assorted one in many respects ; and, in about three 
months, after giving birth to a son and heir in £b.e 
person of the present writer, my revered parent 
joined the stomachs of another sphere, and was 
interred (her remains, I mean) in the family mauso- 
leum ; while on her tomb was engraven the follow- 
ing simple and touching epitaph, an impromptu by 
my father : — 

" With my poor wife Death played his last trick ; 
She died, sweet soul, from want of gastrick." 

I cannot, of course, remember the event ; but this 
I know, I was turned over to a nurse before ablac- 
tation, and the change was highly detrimental to 
my health and comfort. The sweet almondy taste 
of the delicious food my poor mother gave me was 
changed to a sort of London milk, slightly impreg- 
nated with Geneva. The tricks this woman played 
were frightful. The doctors told her to drink 
porter, and so she did, and every other sort of 
liquor in the bargain, to be obtained at the public- 
house. The worst of it was I had no redress, 
but, I took care to let everybody participate in 



i 



12 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

my disgust, by incitiBg my neighbouring arms 
and legs to kicks and contortions; and to the 
sniall voice which dwelt upstairs I suggested such 
shrill cries, as made every person in the house 
detest the little body of which I was the centre. 
However, I suffered terribly for my want of endur- 
ance ; for sometimes, when the pangs of hunger 
obliged me to take any refreshment I could get, I 
heard my friends the lips make a great fuss about 
some bitter compound the poor wretches were com- 
pelled to come in contact with, and these cries were 
a sure prelude to a horrid flavour coming down, 
which as much astonished as annoyed me ; but I 
soon found out, when the nurse considered I had 
received sufficient of her generous gifts, she dis- 
couraged every decdre for a farther supply by a 
certain use of gall, not imknown to maternal solici- 
tude, which nearly turned me inside out. 

After enduring a wretched state of being for 
some time, at length the happy period arrived 
when other aliment was given; and I should 
fill a voliune were I to relate all the extraordinary 
surprises which awaited me when different com- 



MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 13 

pounds forced themselvef upon my attention, but 
which nevertheless I was compelled to digest and 
make the most of, for the good of the system in ge- 
nei;al. Amongst other things, I remember that bread- 
sop puzzled me extremely. I believe my iimocent 
at^ndants imagined they were giving me ground 
com. Com, indeed! Why, when I came to test 
it by the aid of my powerful machine of analysis--*- 
a machine so strong I could dissolve a marble, and 
tdl you its component parts — when, I say, I came 
to test it by a strong acid, I found that there was 
not more than twenty per cent, of flour in the 
whole composition, the remainder being made of a 
common soft of starch, alum, ground bones, potato 
flour, and often plaster of Paris !' 

I must explain that there was a sort of super- 
vumg officer who always accompanied me in life, 
called Palate, whose duty it was to taste every par- 
ticle of food intended for my consumption, and to 
reject it if disapproved. The vigilance of this per- 
sonage, however^ was of no avail against the strata- 

1 In a penny bun lately analyzed were found three grains of 
sliiB sad ten of cbi^k, and is oikers plaster of Paris. 



14 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

gems which were made to deceive both him and 
me ; the consequence being, that hq very often got 
into a morbid state of feeling, not knowing good 
from bad; and instead of guarding me from evil, 
led me into it. 

Occasionally, while I was tranquilly reposing 
after the hard work consequent upon a good 
meal, or when I was busily at work distributing 
nourishment to all around, I was suddenly aroused 
from my slumbers, or my duties, as the case 
might be, by compounds rushing down, with 
whose nature I was totally unacquainted, and 
with which I was sometimes so thoroughly dis- 
gusted, that I grew restive, and refiised to re- 
ceive this unjust demand upon my powers of 
assimilation and willingness to oblige. For this, 
however, I was generally well punished ; and never 
shall I forget, when one day I Jiad rejected some 
horrid mixture of treacle, chalk, and sugar, called, 
I believe, sweetmeats, when I had literally turned 
it out of doors — ^never, I say, shall I forget my sen- 
sations when, after a little preliminary conversation 
between my attendant and a physician, there came 



MEMOIRS OF A 8T0MACB. ^ 15 

gurgling into my hapless inside a black cascade of 
so horrible a nature, that I fancied the waters of 
Phlegethon had been stirred up, and administered 
for my especial benefit. I really thought it was a^l 
over with me; and what added greatly to my 
sufferings, was ^e fear I was in of rejecting the 
nauseous poison ; for I thought I might perhaps be 
subjected to a repetition, so I bore the evil as 
well as I could, and took especial care to let my 
neighbours have a very considerable idea of my 
sufferings, not simply theoretical^ 

From that hour I date a series of petty 
grievances <yi a very Protean sort; and resiXky 
it was sometimes laughable to hear rubbing going 
on for rheiunatism; to know that poultices were 
applied to sores; mineral waters recommended 
for skin complaints; ay, and even operations 
performed on diseased members,^ when I alone 

1 One of our most eminent surgeons, Sir B— B , has 

admitted, and pruned his admissions too, that for the cure of 
a certain disease he has all his life performed operations ; but be 
now attempts to eradicate it by other means, and has in this case 
entirely relinquished the knife t Do the ghosts of his patients' 
limbs haunt bis couch like the spectres round King Bichard^s? 



16 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

was the cause of it all: and if the nurses and 
doctors would only, during my first indispositions, 
have allowed me to remain in perfect repose, sup- 
plying me with light and nourishing food at regular 
intervals, giving me, in fact, little or nothing to do 
beyond agreeable recreation, I should have grate- 
fully thrown my feet on my well-stuffed sofa,, got 
an agreeable nap, awoke refreshed, and all might 
have been well; but a system of medicine, once 
o(»nmenced, involved the necessity of its continu- 
ance, and my feelings may better be imagined than 
described, when I heard certi^ drugs being pre- 
cribed for me, which I knew would ultimately \m- 
dermine and injure my constitution. 

It will here be as well to give a short and familiar 
description of my mission in life ; and since I desire 
that all who eat may read, I shall make little or no 
jMe of those technical and anatomical phrases, 
which would only be comprehended by my greatest 
enemies — the ordinary run of medical practitioners. 
My personal appearance, I must acknowledge, is 
not prepossessing, as I resemble a Scotch bagpipe 
in form, the pipe part being the oesophagus or 



MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 17 

I 

gullet, and the bag myself, I often wish there 
were more '* stops," especially when I am played 
upon by gluttony, and perhaps there would have 
been, could I give vent to noises similar to those of 
the Caledonian instrument, whose strains are so ter- 
rible that the brave Highlanders are said to rush 
into battle to escape them. 

The internal structure of the whole of my 
tribe. Nature originally made v^iy nearly per- 
fect, but she aQotted a large degree of influence 
to a presiding faculty of the mind called Rea- 
son ; and in consideration of man's elevation 
beyond, and above all created things, she made 
it a rule absolute that man himself should, by 
the use of this presence, reign over his own des- 
tiny. Now, this seems to be a veiy fair provision ; 
fort had Nature chosen to form man as a mere piece 
of perfect machineiy, no doubt she could have done 
so ; but by apportioning to him certain high facul- 
ties, and giving to him a disicretionary power, she 
made him a free agent, and permits him to exhibit 
all those lights and shades of character which make 
him so remarkable an animal, and so well worth the 

B. 



18 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

trouble of studying. As I said before, therefore, 
though my material form was admirably adapted 
for the purposes of my being, yet much was left to 
the dictates of this same Reason; and a carelessness 
of her mandates is the cause which has produced so 
many bodily ills amongst the inhabitants of this our 
planet. 

My chief uses were these — To receive with 
becoming courtesy and politeness all nourish- 
ment that arrived in my parts, through an anti- 
chamber,or passage, called (Esophagus ; and though, 
as I before explained, there was an officer named 
Palate, aided by a subordinate called Smell, stationed 
at the entrance to lay an embargo upon all improper 
importations, yet, generally speaking, I graciously 
received what the gods sent, and proceeded to per- 
form my several duties. The instant food arrived 
within my portals, and touched the mucous surface, 
I secreted so strong an acid^ from the vigour of my 

1 The gastric juice, besides its acid qualities, contains a pecu- 
liar nitrogenous substance, called pepsine, but doctors differ 
as to the nature of the entire secretion ; and it has been as- 
cribed to hydrochloric, acetic, phosphoric, and lactic acids, and 
also to an acid phosphate or lactate of magnesia. There are 



MEM0IS8 OF A STOMACH.. 19 

adjacent coats that I reduced it to a sort of ptdp; 
and out of the strangest materials, with the as- 
sistance of those below me, I formed a milky 
semi-fluid, called chyle, so extremely valuable, that 
the instant it was made a whole body of porters, 
with so called lacteal vessels, carried it off with 
all haste to fertilize the soil. Now, suppose for 
one single instant the certam result, if you, gentle 
reader, had sent a number of your servants to fill 
their pails from a pure stream in order to irrigate 
your pastures, but, instead of Umpid water, they 
foimd a compound like the river Thames, which the 
Times terms ^'a seething ditch." Just so, it often 
happened to those lacteal vessels I have just men- 
tioned. They were brought to convey pure and 
wholesome chyle to aU parts of the body ; when they 
discovered such horrible mixtures, owing to gluttony 
and overfeeding, that I was often obliged to use all 
my personal influence to get them to perform their 
allotted task. 

howerer, maoy therapeutic arguments against its consistiDg of 
any one of these ; hnt Liebig and Lehmann are in taYOJxr of the 
lactic acid. 

B 2 



d 



20 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

But do not for a moment imagine that Nature 
was so saving as tp furnish me with only one 
means to decompose matters. Oh dear, no. Besides 
the acid, she also provided an alkali in the pancrea- 
tic juice, as also in the bile ; so that there was hardly 
a chance of escape for any sort of passenger, inas* 
much as when one intense acid was insufficient to 
settle their business, a strong alkali was called into 
requisition, and this helped me off with all sorts of 
fatty substances, with which the gastric juice would 
have nothing to do. Substances not soluble by 
either of thes^ powerM auxiliaries, were sent about 
iheir business one way or the other, so that I was 
well provided by Nature against all contingencies, 
and the affair stood thus: — ^the ordinary run of 
things / dissolved ; but when I could not manage 
them with acid, I turned them over to the alkali. 
When substances arrived which we neither of us 
could manage, we passed them onto another parish ; 
and when in the hands of the tender-hearted over- 
seer, I pity much their case. If, however, I took 
a violent dislike to any very questionable sub- 



MEM0II18 OF A STOMACH. 21 

stances, with a strong muscular effort I discarded 
him at once, as an intruder and a vagabond.^ 

Of course, I had my own peculiar methods of 
setting to inrprk upon my numerous duties ; and I 
could explain in detail, if it were necessary, 
how, by the contraction of my mu£|cles, by par- 
tial fermentation, by dilution, by endosmosis, ' 
but chiefly by my gastric juice acting as a 
menstruum, I accomplished the difficult task of 
supporting the entire body, and giving it all its 
energy and vigour. Added to these means, I had 
trusty messengers in every direction ; and between 
myself and that individual, Mr. Brain, there was 
established a double set of electric wires,^ by which 
means I could, with the greatest ease and rapidity, 
tell him all the occurrences of the day as they 
arrived, and he also could impart to me his own 
feelings and impressions. Often when he has re- 
ceived unwelcome intelligence, I have refused to 

1 The act of sickness here alluded to, is performed by nras- 
oolar assistance, and is another example of how wonderfiilly 
Nature provides against all contingencies. 

9 Pneumogastrio neryes. The formation of chyme will be 
heieafter explained. 




id MBM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

digest out of pure sjrmpathy; and when occasion- 
iJ]^ I grew morose and refused to work, he too 
grew irritable and petulant. 

In reference to my personal resemblance to the 
Seotoh Bagpipe, there exists in the archives of my 
(kmily an old MS., written in quaint English cha- 
racter, which professes to account for the peculiar 
ilmilitude of our fohns. As the legend is. short, 
and bears intimately upon the subject of these 
memoirs, I here transcribe it: — 

YB LEGEND OF Y^ BAGPIPE. 

Once upon a time one of the early Nord Kings 
left his Scandinavian home upon a foraging expe- 
dition, and with a party of picked retainers made 
sail for the coast of Scotland. His voyage was 
prosperous, and he accomplished his landing without 
difficulty, making at once for a certain large village 
from whence he issued his commands, and gave 
himself all the airs of a native monarch of the soil. 
The wretched aborigines strove rather to appease, 
than to reject him, and after making levies of cattle, 
hides, and a spirit known to the early inhabitants 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 23 

called Weiss Keigh, he prepared to depart home- 
wards. It must be here remarked that this monarch 
not only united in his own person the representation 
of a powerful, restless, marauding people, but indi- 
vidually he was endowed with many accomplish- 
ments, and amongst others he possessed the know^ 
ledge of alchemy and necromancy. By his arts he 
could turn inanimate objects into animate ones, and 
when he required a war-horse or a vessel, he betook 
himself to his incantations.^ 

Just as he was on the point of returning to his 
kingdom laden with spoil, a brave but rash Pict, 
who had seen with disgust the apathy with 
which a pirate conqueror was received, resolved 
to take the law into his own hands, and if pos- 
sible to slay the intruder. Arming himself, there- 
fore, with a heavy stone slung in a thong of 
gQat's leather, he awaited the arrival of his 
country's enemy near the coast, and, craving an 
interview, was ushered into the Royal presence. 
Drawing himself up to his full length, he exclaimed, 

1 Then why did he come to rob and plunder, when he pot- 
•eaied other means of growing rich ? 



i 



24 MEMOniS OF A STOMACH. 

"Why, oh Monarch of the Maelstrom and Ice- 
bergers, comest thou to levy taxes upon an unoffend- 
ing people? but Thor and Odin whom thou servest, 
have permitted this ann to avenge my country, and, 
rash man, thy last hour hath come. '' With this the 
sling, quick as the forked lightning, described one 
evolution in the air, and with the force of a thunder- 
bolt descended upon — ^the empty throne of the 
monarch. Yes, the Weird King had vanished, and 
his followers, rushing upon the devoted but unfor- 
tunate man, bore him into an inner chamber for 
judgment. 

There sat the grim Nord, as unconcerned as though 
he had never moved, taking council of himself how 
best he might punish the would-be assassin, and at 
length with gloomy brow he thus spoke: "Enow, 
oh, man, thou must die ! It is written in the book 
of fete that if ever I pardon the villain who seeks 
my life, misery and woe will alight upon my people, 
and the portals of Valhalla shut against me ; there- 
fore thou must die ! I might have pardoned thy 
rash design in honour of thy patriotism ; but destiny 
forbids it, and by Igdrasil' (at this dreadful oath the 
1 The SoandinaTian tree of life. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 25 

eai£h shook) thou diest ! All I can now do to lessen 
thy just piuiishment is to render thy death an easy 
one instead of sending thee to the torture-chamber, 
where thy cries of suffering would charm the hear- 
ing of the fell Eumenides.1 Their wratbr, however, 
must be appeased, and the cries of agony thou 
would'st have uttered must be perpetuated for ever 
throughout the land wherein thou dwellest. No 
more; I have spoken the word of fate, and thy 
doom is sealed.'' 

With this speech, before the wondering cap- 
tive could utter a word, the enchanter cast a 
powder in his &ce, the spectres of death 
gathered around him, and he sank to the earth a 
corpse ! 

The stem arbiter of his fate, a little while re« 
garding him, in almost pitying accents exclaimed, 
''Let him be buried where the curlews whirl in 
circles, where the sea-mew screameth her dirge for 
the departed, and where the eternal ocean mur- 

1 The Enmenides or Erinnyes, t.e., the Furies. Sureljiihis 
18 a palpable anaohroiuBm ; or did the monarch in his capa- 
city of wizard make use of terms of Grecian mythology ? 




26 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

murs a requiem for the dead. But first render 
unto me the stomach of the man, that I maj 
sacrifice to the furies even as I promised, that his 
spirit may rest in peace." 

At this command the chief fiefinan ripped 
open with his sword the body of the dead, and 
carefully extracting the stomach of the Pict, to- 
gether with the oesophagus or pipe which leads 
into it, placed it on the ground before the necro- 
mancer, the servants carrying out the body for inter- 
ment on the sea-shore. The scene at. this moment 
was touching and grand. There sat the Weird King, 
wand in hand, and there lay the digestive organs 
of the departed. At length he uttered a few strange 
words, and tracing some hieroglyphics in the air 
with his royal finger, he exclaimed aloud, '* Change 
thou thy form, oh thing of mighty use when in the 
living clay, and on thy tube let there be stops and 
key-notes, and in thy bag let there be wind, and let 
the natives of this region have cunning to play upon 
thee, and let thy tones be ever as the shrieks of a 
tortured man, so that the Erinnyes may be satisfied, 
and let thou be called now and hereafter Bag- 



MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 27 

PiFB,^ 80 that what I spoke may come to pass, even 
unto the letter." 

He said, and his astonished retainers raised from 
the earth the first instrument bearing that name bom 
unto Scotland; and when they found a native to 
play upon it, they all rushed to their ships stopping 
their ears, and never more set foot on the shotes of 
Alben.2 

To return now to the events of my chequered life. 
Time wore on and the period arrived when it was 
necessary to send me to school, and accordingly I 
was packed off to a public establishment. Here, 
it must be confessed, I rapidly gained health and 
spirits, for the strict regimen, regularity of meals, 
and general discipline to which I was there sub- 
jected, made great amends for a preliminary surfeit 
of rich cake and other matters of torture which 

1 It is believed the first bagpipe known to the Scots was 
found in one of the vessels of the Spanish armada, wrecked on 
the northern coast. The instnunent is a very ancient one ; for 
on a piece of Grecian sculpture of the highest antiquity now at 
Borne, is represented a bagpiper, dressed like a modern high- 
lander. Nero is said to have played upon a bagpipe, a.d. 51. 

2 The anoient name of Scotland. 




28 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

were packed up in a trunk ; and for the first few 
days the key grated in the lock about every two 
hours. The supplies being soon exhausted, school 
experience began in earnest. 

I remember during play hours I heard a 
great Aiss going on amongst the boys, when 
all of a sudden I received such a thump as 
made me fancy I was knocked clean out of the 
osseous framework wherein I lay. This I dis- 
covered was owing to a polite interchange of 
blows, arising from the fact of a boy being 
pitted against the new comer as a trial to test his 
strength, so as to place him in his proper position 
in the sliding scale of pugilism. I acknowledge I 
disliked these '* bouts" uncommonly, but any suf- 
fering was better than the pangs of being over- 
loaded; and be it admitted to the youngsters' credit, 
that it was not considered fidr and manly to select 
me as the place of attack ; on the contrary, the 
head and ribs were generally the parts more favoured 
by polite attentions — a most just and proper law 
which had my entire support and concurrence. 
Occasionally it was the custom of the bigger boys 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 29 

to stray out of bounds for the purpose of buying oil 
sorts of abominations, though sometimes I was glad 
enough of a little addition to the ordinary school 
&re. Upon one particular occasion the humorous 
and the terrible wer^ so strongly involved by an 
event, which custom has since deprived of all 
novelty, that I must even relate it before I proceed. 

The day was over, the bell was sounded for ^* all 
in," and prayers were called; when, during (he con- 
fusion of the boys rushing to their places, I found 
myself carried as &Bt as legs could cany me &i 
beyond the precincts of the school-grounds, so I felt 
certain that an ordeal of some sort was in store. 
Instead of finding myself as usual in a pastry- 
cook's shop, a certain marine odour of stale fish 
puzzled me extremely; and I waited the elucidation 
of the mystery with such feelings as only a stomach 
experiences when he is all uncertain as to what is 
going on and what is coming in, and when he is 
placed at the mercy of a hungry and unscrupulous 
school-boy. 

I was not long held in suspense, and never 
shall I forget my sensations. Down there came 



30 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

flopping — ^no other word is descriptive — ^into my 
astonished inside a small mucilaginous mass of 
a saltish flavour, almost fluttering with life (good 
powers, I thought, it has not had time to settle its 
affairs !) accompanied by a fluid of extreme acidity, 
and by particles of black pepper, hot and pimgent. 
I really was never so completely astounded in my 
life. Over and over I turned the wonderM com- 
pound, but could make nothing at all of the shape- 
less little monster. Before I could give vent to a 
burst of invective which I felt rising within me, 
another and yet another came unceremoniously 
slipping down, and then a torrent of a sort of 
licorish fluid, called porter, came gurgling and 
frothing after. At this a horrible suspicion flashed 
across me. For a moment -the dreadM ques- 
tion arose in my mind, whether these peculiar 
substances salt and flabby, which had so excited 
my awe and abhorrence, were the eyes of some of 
the poor brewers employed in the well-known firm 
of Nux, Vomica, and Co. This fearful idea seemed 
in a manner to be corroborated by the brackish 
taste I before alluded to, and which I naturally 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 31 

attributed to the flavour of lihe poor fellow's tears. 
The powder, it is true, cast a doubt as to this cor- 
rectness of my surmises; but with exquisite ima- 
gination I looked upon (Ms as some of that dust 
blown back into the faces of the men, which their 
master had endeavoured to throw into the eyes of 
the public, when they playfully affirmed that their 
beer is genuine. Another cataract of black liquor, 
however, distracted my attention; and when the 
money chinked upon the counter, the name of this 
extraordinary little stranger (which was not wel- 
come) was pronounced for the first time in my hear- 
ing, and the word Oystsr was indelibly impressed 
upon my memory for evermore. 

Since that time I have had occasion to re- 
ceive these creatures with extreme courtesy under 
all forms and circimistances — scolloped, stewed, 
buttered, devilled, with beards and without beards ; 
but to the young, ingenuous stomach like my- 
self at this moment, the raw oyster, bolted with 
adjuncts of strong vinegar and black pepper, 
and washed down with a semi-opaque fluid, will 
ever present features for recollection to linger 



I 



32 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

over, and offers another proof of how slight is 
the partition which separates the sublime from 
the ridiculous. 

Experience has since told me that it is the 
custom in polite society to commence dinner by 
a few oysters, to give an appetite to the coming 
repast, at which I am in no wise surprised; for, 
directly they arrive at their interior destination, 
every description of stomach at all conscious of the 
dignity of his position as a scientific member of a 
wonderful body, is so curious to analyse the re- 
markable mollusca, that he secretes a larger amount 
of gastric acid than is absolutely necessary for the 
test, and the residue thereof imparts an additional 
stimulant' to appetite. ^ During my process of 
analysis, I discovered that this conglomeration of 
seeming inorganic matter is possessed of a very 
important structure, having a mouth, prolonged 
lips, gills, muscles, liver, intestines, and, above all, 
a heart, wherein may repose, for all we know to 
the contrary, soft affections, and gentlest impulses. 

1 What will medical men say to the ingenuity of this arga- 
ment? Is oar author in earnest, or is it a sl^ poke at those 
ever so ready to acooont for cause and effdct?.' 



MEM0IR8 OF A STOMACH. 33 

At all events the female can produce about l,200,000i 
eggs, so small that 2,000,000 could lie withm the 
compass of a cubic inch ; ^ so that if affection is at 
all dependent upon fecundity, the oyster lays strong 
claims to distinction in this particular. Their sus- 
ceptibiUty is so great that they have been observed 
to close their shells upon the shadow of a boat 
passing over them ; and, consequently, it is not too 
much to surmise that they feel strongly their posi- 
tion when they are violently wrenched open by an 
unrelenting knife, snatched from their homes, ai^d 
cast at once into the powerful solution I make ready 
for my victim the moment he arrives. 

The question naturally arises, were these deUcate 
litde aniTnalfl intended entirely to tickle men's appe- 
tites ? — was HeUogabalus bom for oysters, or oysters 
for HeUogabalus?' I suspect, however. Nature in- 

1 Poll, the eminent naturalist of Molfeita, who studied at Pisa, 
and was a member of the Royal Society of England. 

s Leenwenhoek, the author of the Arcana Naturie. 

8 By HeUogabalus any well-known glutton is doubtless in- 
tended ; and perhaps Domitian, introduced into Juvenal's fourth 
satire, would do equally well, as part of the knotty question \ or 
better than either would be Nero, for at the first taste he knew 
whether oysters were bred at Circei, or at the Lucrine rook, 
or in the beds of Bnti^pie. 





94 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

tended them for a higher purpose than that of con- 
trihuting to the pleasures of the table, even Roman in 
its luxury;' for geology tells us that they perform, 
by the immense banks they constitute, a very impor- 
tant part in preventing the encroachments of the 
sea upon land, wishing, no doubt, to keep their own 
element all to themselves. This selfishness, how- 
ever, is very useful ; and looking at a single oyster, 
certainly people would never believe they form, 
when congregated, a sort of concealed breakwater; 
living together in a happier republic than Sir 

I The wanton laxnry of the Romans may be discerned from 
the variety of their oysters, which were broujifht from every sea. 
Ottreis et eonehylus ommbUs contingitf ut cum luna erueani 
pariter parUerque decresecmt; Civ. Div. ii. 33. ottrecB senescente 
hma inuberes, maercB, tenues, exsucca ; crescente, pingttescunt ; 
Gell. XX. 7. luna alii oitrea et impl^ ecMnos ; Lnoil. bdniea 
natcentes impUnt conchylia luruB ; Hor. II S. iv. 30. Plin. ii. 41. 
Ath. iii. 13. The Tarentine are extolled by Varro, B. B. iii. 3, 
and Gellius, vii. 16. the Lncrine are preferred by Seneca, Ep. 
79. and Pliny, ix. 54 « 79. CinuBis autem ostreis caro Ustaque 
nigra sunt ; his autem neque duJciora neque teneriora esse ulla 
eon^pertum est; Id, xxxii 6 « 21. murice Baiano melior Luerina 
pdoris : ostrea Circeiis, JMiseno oriuntur echini; pectinibus 
pahtUsjaetat se molle Tarentum ; Hor. II S. iv. 32 sqq. P.R, tf, 
eund, ii. 31 sqg, Pera. vi. 24. Plin. ix. 18 s 32. Macr. S. ii. 11. iii. 
16. V. Max. ix. 1. Col. viii. 16. Varr. E. E. iii. 17. Sen. Helv. 
10 B.— Note to Stocker's Jnvenal. 



MBM0IB8 OF A STQMAGH. 36 

Thomas More's ; carrying on all the duties of life 
with vigour and propriety ; setting us the example 
of conjugal worth ; storing their joint-stock hanks 
with gems more precious than gold; and making 
even those.diseases^ incidental to a marine life, yield 
forth an incalculahle wealth to mankind. I wonder 
whether the ladies and the gentlemen who sun 
themselves in the Haymarket — ^that emporium for 
sales of the moUusca family — ever reflect upon all 
these claims to our consideration; and whether, 
when the full and fair hosoms of the poor fluttering 
ostrea axe suddenly exposed to view, they at least 
swallow them with feelings of sympathy and kind- 
ness. Alas, for himian nature, I fear not. So much, 
then, for my first experience of an OiTstsr, a pro- 
duction of Nature which reverses the usual method 
of expiring, for it Uves in its bed, and very often 
dies out of it. 
Having lingered over the idiosyncrasy of the gentle 

1 By some it is supposed that pearls are the result of internal 
disease; but others imagine that they are formed by the filling 
up of injuries done to the shells by some finny enemy. Reaumur 
was of the former opinion, but Linnseus boasted he could make 
pearls, no doubt meaning that he could do so by the insertion of 
some foreigpi substance in the shell of the peaf'l fish. 

c 2 



^ MB)ilOIR8 OF A STOMACH. 

fish at greater length than I intended, I must be as 
concise as possible in describing my feelings at an 
event which created a revolution in my domestic 
economy, and very nearly as much affected my con- 
stitution as revolutions usually do. I was one day en- 
joying my " otium cum dignitate," digesting quietly 
and comfortably, contented with myself, my dinner, 
and all my kind, when suddenly there came trick- 
ling upon my imhappy head, a mixture of saliva 
and some deadly poison, that at once roused me 
from the "dolce far niente," into an active condition 
of emotion and horror. I immediately sent a 
sample to my cerebral neighbour, and he tele- 
graphed back a thessage that he too was suffering, 
and I gradually grew worse. I was obliged at once 
to relinquish my agreeable occupation of supplying 
the body with what it required, and . could do 
nothing but express my agonies of sufferings by 
spasms and distortions, which terminated in a re- 
sult similar to Ihat I once afterwards experienced 
by the lurching of a vessel at sea, but which 
it is not necessary to describe. Sufficient to say I 
was ill the whole of the next day; and as I positively 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 37 

rejected every overture at reconciliation, I remained 
sulky and disgusted, till in due time the evil sub-^ 
sided, iind I gained energy enough to enable me to 
ascertain the cause of this strange phenomenon. 
Then it was I learned, that though my sufferings 
began, they did not end, in smoke. Yes, reader, 
smoke; the smoke from a most deadly weed; a 
spirit of evil ushered in by fire, and exorcised by 
sickness! Nature made it nauseating — ^poisonoiisj 
but man, combating with the penalty she placed 
upon his use of it, puffs aWay through existence ; 
and this first specimen I received was the puff 
preliminary. Bepetition overcl^me my dislike to 
the taste ; and at length, with the true philosophy 
of my race, I endured th^t which could not be 
cured ; and tbou^ ultimately pigar« and pipes sub- 
scribed their share with other evils in injuring the 
system and dr^ring up the juices of the body? still I 
shared the ill with my adjacent brotherhood ; ^n4 
personally I received the injury ^nd insuH with the 
dignity of a stomach conscious of his own rectitude. 
At this period I left school, Notwith^tandipg these 
several drawbacks of occasionial suffering, I was, on 



M 



38 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

the whole, benefited by the regularity of my re- 
ceipts and their simple natm'e. Soon, however, 
commenced a new era in my life; and now began a 
series of ills and misfortunes, which handed me 
over to those who have ever been the executioners 
of my tribe — ^the doctors. Hassen ebn Sabah him- 
self, with his devoted assassins, were not more for- 
midable to the kings and princes of the East liian 
the physician and Ms '' Fedavi's" (the chemists and 
druggists) are to the whole progeny of stomachs. 
Oh, how I trembled when any of these gentlemen 
were announced ! and most strange did it appear to 
me that there should exist, in these enlightened days, 
chronicles and lists of domestic poisons, and a tribe 
of posologists sworn to their administration, under 
a regulated system and certificates from govern- 
ment ! 

My college career was ushered in by suppers 
delayed till the morning, and breakfasts till noon. 
Such breakfasts, too ! Being used to a mug of tea, 
anda round of dear, simple bi^ad and butter, con- . 
ceive my consternation when a heterogeneous mass 
was driven into my luckless interior, including every 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH, 39 

known condiment, and every unknown compound 
under the sun. Devilled kidneys and moselle: 
cocoa and cura9oa: coffee and cognac: anchovy 
paste and pigeon pie: mushrooms, marmalade, 
and potted char: laver, caviar, pates de foies 
gras: dried fish, Catalonian ham, and Arch- 
angel deer tongues: all these, with many other 
minor delicacies too numerous to meittion, very 
often constituted my first meal ; and out of 
this melange I was expected to select the 
good from the had, without grumhling at the 
additional lahour. My friend and relative, Mr. 
Head, too, had his tasks to perform; and never did 
two cah-horses on a (people's) holiday work harder 
than we did ; hut at length, just as he passed his 
"little go," I broke completely down, and from 
sheer incapacity was not to be removed by whip or 
spur. In vain they tried all sorts of drams and 
stimulants ; I had become so used to them, their 
effects had ceased. In vain little round pellets of 
mercury were sent to try thevr effect. The god 
himself might have shaken his caduceus in my 
face with no result. In fact, I could not, would 



40 MEMO IBS OF A STOMACH. 

not, stir; and it was only after a long course of 
almost starvation that I consented to resume my 
duties, and then only by slow degrees. 

For some time after this I was treated with 
more forbearance; but getting strong again, 
they resumed their old tricks of overfeeding me; 
and now conmienced a system of physicking 
truly horrible to mention. The raps of the 
apothecary's boy at the door were incessant, and 
none but a stomach can estimate the state of 
nervous excitement those knocks occasioned me. 
The state to which I was reduced, they were pleased 
to term dyspepsia, and I never heard the name 
without trembling all over. For this complaint all 
the first men^ of the day were consulted, and they 
usually prescribed remedies directly opposed to one 
another; but then there was this advantage — as the 
whole affair was thorough guesswork, there was 

1 No doubt, one of these days we shall have women-doctors. 
America threatens to set ns the example, which, after all, is 
nothing new. Mr. Torrens McCnllagh, in his learned and most 
nsefnl work "The Industrial History of Free Nations," men- 
tions the &ct that a monument at ancient Rome bore a Greek 
inscription connected with the name of Euhodia, a lady of rank, 
who possessed extraordinary skill in medicine. 



MfiMOlRB OF A STOMACH. 41 



/ 



safety in the ntunber of drugs prescribed, as there 
was a chance of the poisons becoming neutralized.' 
To prove that I neither exaggerate nor draw too 
stronglyuponmy imagination,! have transcribed afew 
veritable prescriptions, written by the most eminent 
medical practitioners of the day, and purchased, 
for the fee of one guinea, for always the same com- 
plaint, described by the luckless patient in always 
the same terms. Be it observed, my master had lihe 
good sense not to consult those medical men who 
dispense their own drugs ; for if he had, I should 
never have been alive to pen these memoirs. Those 
red and blue and green carboys in the shops are 
simply beacons (they are lit up at night) to warn 
the constitution where it is certain to be wrecked. 
But not to digress, let me in the dramatic form — 
for a short farce is properly so written — desi^ribe 

THE DOCTOR AND PATIENT. 
Act 1, ScsNS 1. 
The interior of a handsome house in a fasihimwble 
street in London. Enter patient^ who waits in 

1 "Similia similibus curantur** — according to Hahuetnaan. 



42 MBMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

the waxtwg-room with others^ until his tvm c^- 

fives for hemg ushered into the presence of the 

EseulapiuSj according to the order of his coming. 

Enter Servant. 

Servant. This way, sir, please. 
PcOknt follows condtictor into a large room. 
Books ^ busts ^ and papers everywhere. 

Patient (rather nervously). I've done my- 
selP 

Physician (standkng with his back to the fi/re). 
Take a seat, my dear sir. 

Patient. I thank you — ^its rather cold (or hot) 
this mom — ^ing. 

Physician. Yes ; what can I 

Patient. I'm not at all well, doctor. The fact 
is, I have no sort of appetite ; and so I thought — 

Physician (interrupting). Put out your tongue. 
Humph! foul — dyspeptic — very. 

Patient. When I rise of a morning 

Physician (interrupting). One moment, give me 

1 There is something peculiarly sardonic in making the 
doctor's interruption cause the patient to exclaim— ** I have 
done myself.** 



I 
MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 43 

your hand. (Feels pulse.) Pulse languid. How 
long have you felt unwell ? 

Patient. About a week. 

Physician. You suffer from acidity. 

Patient (enihtmasticaUy), Oh, excessive; a 
constant burning sensation 

Physician. Yes, I see, sir ; the stomach is in a 
morbid state. Sound here. (Taps patient 8 chest). 
Breathe hard, my dear sir. (Places Tds ear 
agamst patienfs heart,) (With a smUe) Nothing 
wrong there. Have you a headache ? 

Patient. No ; but a dread 

Physician (mterruptmg). Oh, its only confined 
to the parts a leetle out of order. I'll write you a 
prescrijption, my dear sir, which will put you to 
rights in a few days. (Svts to write,) 

Patient. I forgot to say I've considerable pain 
between the shoulder blades, and 

Physician (interrupting). Just so; I'll add a 
mixture likely to remove it. (Goes on im^ng ; 
then carefully hlots the MS., and hands it to the 
patient, with a bland smile,) There, my dear sir, 



44 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

take this! as directed, and come to me in a few 

days. 
Patient (ooercome rmth gratitude.) I'm extremely 

obliged for your kindness. Fumbles for the guinea 

in his waistcoat-pockety feeling a little abashed at 

offering any gratuity to so erudite a Galen ; and in 

shaking hands, slips it into his palm. Physician 

exhibits no external symptoms of hashfidness. 

Patient going. 

Physician. If you've no chemist of your own, 
my dear sir, I can strongly recommend Mr. Mor- 
bus, of 24, Doom-street, Bury-square. Allow me 
to write his address on the prescription. Use my 
name, and you'll find his medicines excellent. 

Patient. — ^Thank you; he certainly shall make 
it up. Then, I'm to call again about Wednesday 
next? 

Physician. If y^>2« please, my dear sir; and I've 

1 A story is told in Henry Stephens's apology for Hero- 
dotns, how a countryman swallowed the doctor's prescription in 
the form of a bolus, because he was told to ** take this as 
directed." Hndibras refers to the anecdote : — 
" Like him that took the doctor's bill, 
And swallowed it instead o' th' pill." 



MEM01B8 07 A 8T0MAGH. 45 

no doubt we shall soon put you to rights. Rin^s 
bell, boJVB patient out^ who still thinks he has Irft 
something unsaid. Patient bows^ servant opens 
dooTy exit patient. Enter (mother (flat^): scene as 
hqforey or similaar, 
Strjeet door closes. Patient reads prescription^ as 

he walks along to Doem-street^ Bury-square^ 

edoud. 

PBE8CBIFTI0N. 

Inf. CalumbsBi 5 oz; Mixture of Gum sufficient; Tris- 
nitrate Bismuth, 18 grains; Sesquecarbonate Soda, 
\ dram; Tinct. Opium, 1 do.; do. CalumbaB, 4 do. 

I am quite aware that this,^ and the following 
samples of drug-giving would be defended by the 
whole faculty. Bismuth tends, they would say, to 
decrease the nervous irritability of the coats of the 
stomach; mineral acid stimulates the action of 
gastric juice ; alkah promotes the alkaline secre- 
tions of the liver, &c., &c., &c. ; but I pray you, 
whatever may be said, do not believe a word of it. 
What effect they may have upon other parts of the 

1 A theatrical term— ^he nerer loses an opportunity. 
^i I find all these prescriptions are quite genuine. 



46 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

body, I pretend not to know ; and I don't wish to 
interfere with other people's business, but to me 
they were worse than useless — and surely I am the 
best judge upon the subject. 

What a rage I was in at receiving such a com- 
poimd ! Putting the bismuth, soda, and calimiba^ 
out of the question, here was opium administered 
— opium which, instead of stimulating the secre- 
tions, deadened them ! Opiimi ! which acts diffe- 
U^y upo. eve,, M^ pe,».-™.ed.e. exeid,, 
and sometimes soothing. Really, I could have 
ground my teeth with passion, and yet I was com- 
pelled to take repeated doses of this mixture, twice 
a day, as well as I remember, but fortunately 
memory is not tenacious of the ills of life. Of 
course, I got worse instead of better ; and so the 
second visit was duly paid to the doctor. 

A similar scene was again enacted at the physi- 
cian's house; and never shall I forget the cool 
complacency with which he listened to the descrip- 
tion of my woes, and then quietly added : " Just 

1 The London College spells this word Gilamba, the Edin- 
burgh and Dnblm Colleges Cbhimba. 



MEM0TB8 OF 4 STOMACH. 47 

give me the recipe, my dear sir, and I'll make a 
little alteration, which I am sure will put you to 
rights." Upon this he glanced at the precious 
document, and ran his pen through one of the items 
— ^the opium, I believe ; but seeming to think bet- 
ter of the matter, he wrote an entirely fresh pre- 
scription, and handed it to my master, with die 
same gentlemanly air and suavity as before. He 
also revised the second fee, for physicians are 
usually polished and liberal, and he bowed us 
out with perfect good-breeding. Now, it may be 
well imagined that both my fears and curiosity were 
intensely excited as to the nature of this fresh war- 
rant of execution. The reader who has so far fol- 
lowed me will, I am sure, sympathise with my suf- 
fering, and comprehend the nature of my anxious 
position. The sword of Damocles was again sus- 
pended over my head, and I could only guess at 
the thickness of the thread which held it. It must 
be remembered, too, that all this time I was inca- 
pable of giving proper attention to my domestic 
affairs, owing to the injury I had sustained by over- 
feeding; and all I required was light diet, and 



48 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

being left to the curative process of ever kind 
Nature, who is always striving to heal injuries if 
you will only permit her. Under these circum- 
stances, therefore, just conceive my state of anxious, 
imcertainty as we walked o£f to Mr. Morbus, to 
get this second compound made up— and here it 
is: — 

Paesgbiftion. 

Trisnitrate Bismuth, Aromatic Confection, each, 2 
scruples ; Gum Mixture, 3 drams ; Compd. Spirits 
of Ammonia, 4 drams; Compd. Infusion of Orange 
Peel, 1 oz.; do. do. Gentian, to 8 oz. 

Mix. Two tablespooafuls three times a-daj. 

I scarcely remember whether I deemed this 
poison more repugnant to me than the other, but I 
know it was quite nauseous enough; and I was 
compelled to take it three times a-day instead of 
twice! I recognised my friend's bismuth; and 
gentian was merely a change &om one bitter to 
another; but they both arrived at my wretched 
portals, in company with spirits even worse than 
themselves. Of course, my condition rather retro- 
graded than improved ; and off I was taken to an- 
other ''eminent physician," who entered a litde 



MEM01B8 OF A 8T0MA0H. 49 

more fully into the diagnosis of my complaint, as 
usual tapped his fingers against the bars of my 
prison the ribs, and then proceeded to make many 
inquiries, of a nature quite confidential. Again 
despair seized me as I heard his pen writing an- 
other manifesto against health and longevity. This 
time it came forth in a somewhat different shape; 
and the bitterness of my grief was only equalled by 
die bitterness of the aloes. 

Pbescbiptiok. 

Compd. Decoction of Aloes, 2 oz. ; Infusion CalumbeB, 
3 oz.; Tincture Thebaici, 10 drops; do. Hops, 1^ 
dram ; Blk. Cherry Water, 6 drams. 
Mix. Two tablespoonfuls daily. 

Be it observed that, in the recipe before this, 
aromatic confection was one of its ingredients — 
here aloes are prescribed — the two producing 
effects diametrically opposed ! Bitters, however, 
though in another form, were again introduced; 
and so far in bitterness the doctors were consistent. 
Notwithstanding this delectable mixture, I still 
continued out of sorts ; for imfortunately my mas- 
ter the patient considered that the penalty of taking 



I 



50 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

medicine absolved him &om the necessity of a 
strict regimen, so I grew rather worse than better, 
and off I was again carried to a second Leech. 

I should only weary the most patient reader were 
I to describe the* various opinions which were 
offered as to the cause of my disease ; it is there- 
fore sufficient to say, that one doctor prescribed 
alkalies, and another declared they were fatal, and 
insisted upon acids. I subjoin what he ordered to 
be taken : — 

Pkesckiption. 

Sulphate of Alum, do. of Zino, each, 1 dram ; Dilute 

Sulphuric Acid, 4 oz. 
Mix. Thirty drops in a half-pint of water and sugar, 

three or four times a-day. 

These strong acids, from their antiseptic quali- 
ties, had certainly one good effect — they helped to 
get rid of some accumulations; but then simple 
lemon-juice would have done infinitely better. * 

I Upon the subjects of acids, Dr. Basham, in an introdac- 
tory lecture lately read in the Westminster Hospital, says: 
— "We learn from an experiment of Dntrochet that acid fluids, 
in mixing with another fluid by means of an animal membrane, 
yield more thorn they receive from the oppotite fluid, and thus 



MBM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 51 

When this remedy was exhibited to yet another 
medical practitioner, he shook his head and 
ordered, 

PBE8C»IPTI0N. 

Liquid Potaafa, 3 drams ; Tinct. Calumbee, 13 drams. 

As this was equally ineiSicient with the others, it 
was resolved to carry me off into the country of 
the pigmy practitioners, the Homoeopathists (so 

the add character of the contents of the stomach seems to be 
precisely the means by which resorption is promoted in a 
simple physical manner. This foct also interprets the ralne of 
the mineral acids in diseases of debility, and in the conyales- 
cent stage from protracted illness. Taken before food, these 
remedies impart a sufficient degree of acidity to the organic 
tissnes to promote and £Eu;ilitate nutritions absorption. Fluids 
pass with facility through ordinary filtering paper ; but if the 
paper be smeared with oil, its permeability is destroyed, its 
capillarity is obstructed. A like effect is witnessed in the 
human stomach upon taking fatty or oleaginous food, and there 
are few who are not cognisant of the inconyenience and distress 
experienced by taking such kind of aliment on an empty 
stomach. The surface of the intestinal canal becomes coated 
with a film of oil, and its powers of absorption for a time are 
as effectually obstructed as you would witness iu the experi- 
ment of filtering a fluid through oiled bibulous paper. . In a 
similar manner the effects of intoxicating drinks may be re- 
tarded for a time, by taking a spoonful of oil on an empty 
stomach." 

D 2 



52 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

called, I suppose, &om their always being at home 
for consultation), and I must say their metbod, of 
administering medicine made me smile, though 
feebly, and rejoice too, as well as my weakened 
condition would permit. When I first heard of 
their doctrines, I was prepared to find them admi- 
nistered by little figures, such as we see in the Fan- 
toccini, served by their tiny hands, in doll-house 
glasses ; so imagine my surprise, when a big, burly 
doctor prescribed a dose, expressed by a fraction, 
the denomination of which is an unit, followed by 
sixty C3rphers! It may be well supposed, there- 
fore, that I treated the decillionth of a grain with 
profoimd contempt. Let not the reader, however, 
condenm this (in some respects) very useful race of 
medical advisers; for though, of course, their doc- 
trii^es are utterly absurd in a curative point of view,, 
yet they possess a species of negative excellence ; 
for I maintain that the administration of drugs 
should approach as near zero as possible, and these 
gentlemen are, at all events in quantity, within a 
shade of that desirable point. 
How the allopathists and homGeopathists must. 



MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 53 

or ought to fight.' The Lilliputians doing battle 
with the Brobdingnags, would, I should imagine, 
paint a good picture of the wars of these medical 
dwarfs and giants ; and I can conceive a dialogue 
between the A.'s and H.'s, somewhat after tiie fol- 
lowing style* : — 

1 And do fight! Sir James Eyre says :— ''I lo«k back with 
nrach satisfkotion upon an instance where (being medical director, 
t])at is, Physician, for there was no other examiner, during eight 
years, at an Insurance office) I refused the life of a nobleman of 
high rank, Tteeause his medical man was an Homoeopathist, and 
my brother Directors concurred with me unanimously.'* 

Mr. Headland, in a more unanswerable and scientific pas- 
sage in his new work, speaks thus : — " The homoeopathists wonld 
work a strange reyolution in the Materia Medica. Chaiysoal, 
Silica, and other substances commonly supposed to be inert, ap- 
pear as remedies of wonderfol efficacy. It is said that Bella- 
donna produc(^s a state like scarlatina, and also a condition 
resembling hydrophobia, and thus cures both of these disorders. 
Of these three propositions it is almost needless to say that all 
are equally erroneous. Further, an experimental trial of this 
principle was made by Andral on a large number of patients at 
t^ Academic in Paris, with the assistance of the homoeopatMsts 
themselyes. The medicines were carefully and Mrly adminis- 
tered, but in no one instance were they successftO.** {Medical 
Gazette, yoI. xv. p. 922.) 

C The opinions here expressed by Homoeopathist are by iar 
too sensible not to bear eyidence that the followers of Hahne- 
mann would indignantly repudiate them. Our author requires 
a poppet to express his own sentiments, so he makes t^e din- 



54 MEM0IB8 OF A STOBffACH. 

Allopathist and Homoeopatlust meetmg. 

A. — Sir, you axe a quack — don't stop me. 

H. — ^And you a humbug. You poison, by 
wholesale. 

A. — ^And you by retail, sir. But I don't wish 
to talk to you. 

H. — But you must talk. You can't so grandly 
ignore our existence, when patients are leaving 
you by the dozen to come to our establishment. 

A. — It is utterly untrue, and a falsehood is the 
only thing you don't administer infinitesimally. 

H. — I can afford to be cool. Now, confess, 
haven't we deprived you of hundreds of patients ? 

A. — Yes ; the fools leave us to go to you. 

H. — The fools pay best. 

A. (aside,) — That is very true. (AUrud.) 
Then, I daresay, sir, you are a rich man. Grood 
morning. 

H. — Not so fast ; I am in a friendly mood. Tell 
me truly — ^Would you take your own medicines ? 

penser of the smallest quantity of physio lay down the law for 
his companion. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 55 

A. (makmg a grimace, y-^Qt all of them ; but 
we are obliged to experimentalise upon patients for 
the advance of science. 

H. — Ho ! ho ! is it so ? just as surgeons do upon 
dogs. Having been so candid, would you object 
to take cfur remedies ? 

A. — Certainly ; they are useless. 

H.— Why? 

A. — Because matter is not divisable to the frac- 
tional extent you administer it. 

H. — What think you of the aqua tofana^ and 
the poisoners of the 14th century ? 

A. — -Took too long about it. You would take 
longer. 

H. — ^And you. do it at once ? 

A. — Sir, this insolence 

H. — Hush! don't lose your temper. We are 
both in the same boat. 

A. — Possibly; and, pulling different ways, it 
stands still. 

H. — ^Ha, ha; very good. How many people 

1 Sapposed to have been arsenic and laurel water g^ven in 
minnte doses. 



56 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

have been killed by London chemists' shops, and 
how many have you sent there? You can't ask 
that of me; 

A. — ^Pooh, sir; do you mean to run down 
chemistry?* 

H. — Chemistry! So you would con^e your 
system with that splendid science. A lame man 
uses a strong stick ! 

A.— « What do you call the action of yomr medi- 
cines — ^mechanical ? 

H. — ^You just denied they had any. So, ac- 
cording to your showing, if we don't do good, we 
don't do mischief. 

A. — You quibble, sir. How am I to support 
my family, and keep up an establishment, without 
medicine ? 

H. — ^Ah ! that is the point. Prescribe regimen 
and simples, and charge just as much as at present 
for your advice. 

A. — ^Why don't you practise what you preach ? 

I Foreigners langh at the number of our chemists' shops, and 
well they may. Where you see one in a continental town, you 
see at least a dozen here. 



MBMQIB8 OF A STOMACH. 67 

H. — Because I should sta^e. 

A. — ^And so should I. 

H. — ^We thrive, therefore, through the ignorance 
of the people. 

A. — Be good enough to speak in the singular 
number. But it is very true. If, when a patient 
comes to me with his digestive powers out of 
order, I were to prescribe a strict diet, eariy hours, 
and name some half a dozen simples, he would 
include me amongst the latter, and rush away to 
receive advice from the hands of such men as the 
late Sir W. Farquhar, who wrote a formula with 
thirteen different articles in it;^ so that if one 
didn't do — some of the others might. 

H. — Then you agree the public is to blame ? 

A. — Certainly. The tone of the profession 
would be raised were people less ignorant. 

H. — Let us both shake hands then, and both 
grow rich. 

A. — ^I wish you weH, but I can't shake hands. 
Do you mean to say you would do away with 
the administration of medicine altogether ? 

1 Sir James Eyre states this. 



58 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

H. — No; but I would confine medicine to 
simples ; and I would so weed the wilderness of the 
Pharmacopseia, as to leave a neat trim garden. 

A. — ^What remedies would you leave in it ? 

H.^ — Only those whose certain effects on the sys- 
tem are ascertained. 

A. — ^Why you would have nothing left ! It 
would be difficult to find a dozen compounds that 
' act under all conditions with certain results. 

H. — Then make the foundation of your Materia 
Medica consist of that dodeka. 

A. — In fact, reduce our recognised dispensatory 
to a state of bankruptcy. 

H. — A consummation devoutly to be wished. 
I should like to be appointed Commissioner to try 
all the fi*audulent tribe. There are very few, I can 
tell you, who should have a first-class certificate. ^ 

A. — ^To whom would you grant one ? 

H. — Only to those who could render to the court 
a clear account of their debts and liabilities, and 
who could prove that their state of insolvency had 
not arisen from speculation, 

A. — I should like to see you in such a position. 
Go on. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 59 

H. — ^This would be the sort of thing reported in 
the papers: — ^"The celebrated firm of Salts and 
Senna, who carried on an extensive cathartic trade 
in Apothecaries' Hall, applied for their discharge 
under . the act. There being no opposition on the 
part of the assignee, his Honour expressed his belief 
that the bankruptcy of the firm had arisen more 
from the faults of others than their own, and that 
they had explained their method of conducting 
business with as much perspicuity as possible. 
Under these circumstances he should grant them a 
second-class certificate; but he considered it his 
duty, upon public grounds, to advise the partners 
to conduct their affairs for the future, contiguous to 
some of the great banquetting halls in the city, 
since their chance of success in life could only 
arise from the patronage of those who indulge in 
gormandizing." 

A. — Very fine ; and you let them off so easily 
only because their effects are so clear? Well, I 
suppose, black doses, and Epsom jsalts, and aloes, 
and all other drastic drugs, would secure your 
favourable judgment. 



60 ^EMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

H. — ^Probably, for we cannot say we are ignorant 

of their results; and gluttony requires such horrid 
compounds to walk in its trail, in case of the &t 

Bionster falling down into some fit. Instead of the 

dieleton placed upon the table, as at the Egyptian 

feasts, the stomach-pump should have a position at 

Hie City banquets* 

! A.— What would you say to mercury ? 

H. — ^Ha, ha, my fine fdlow, I should exclaim, 
and what have you been doing ? and the examina- 
tion would go on thus : — 

Mercury. Please your Honour, I was ordered to 
drive out -a virulent poison firom the system. 

His Honour. Did you do it ? 
^ Mercury. Yes, sir, I believe so. 

His Honour. Believe so ! Did you enter the 
system without producing any evil ? 

Mercury. Am I bound to answer that question ? 

His Honour. Of course, sir — to give an expHcit 
one. 

Mercwry. I manufactured a poison of my own. 

SRjs Honmar^ Similar to the one you were to 
have expelled ? 



MEM0IA8 OP A 8T0M ACH. 61 

Menisvry. In effect, your Honour, but more viru- 
lent. 

His Honour, You are remanded, sir; and I 
shall take care to institute a most rigid inquiry into 
your dffairs, which at present are in an extremely 
suspicious state. 

A. — ^Well, I must say you are no Bhadamanthus. 
Ill be boimd you would behave better to one of the 
fashionable medicines. 

H. — ^Would I, by Jove? I*d send them all to 
prison, shave their heads, and make them wear the 
prison dress. In fact, the criminal law is the only 
one fitted to meet this case. 

A. — What would you do with such a medicine as 

» 

the oxide of silver — ^the pet of Sir James Eyre, who 
has written an agreeable little book^ ostensibly about 
digestion, but in reality to introduce what he terms 
an "elegant" preparation. 

H.— Why, I would subject it to a severe cross- 
examination in this way :-« So. Mr. Oxide, you 
have been administered very success^y in all sorts 
of cases, eh ? Who says so ? 

1 The Stomach and its DiffionKies. 



62 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

Oande. Why, your Honour, Sir James Eyre, who 
has brought a number of witnesses in my favour. 

ERs Honour, Who are they ? 

Oxide. One is a gentleman lately returned from 
India, who took me with great success.^ 

His Honour. Oh, he did, eh? Did you enter 
his system? 

Oxide. I am not prepared to answer that ques- 
tion. 

His Honour. I ask you did you enter the blood, 
or did you merely act upon the stomach and its 
adjacent surfaces ? 

Oxide. I am not prepared to answer that ques- 
tion. 

His Honour, But sir, you say you did good. 

Oxide. I cured the gentleman. 

His Honour. Were you administered alone ? 

Oxide. No ; with opium. 

His Honour. On your oath, sir: how do you 
know it was not the opium, or^the change of climate 
which benefited the patient ? 

Oxide. I really cannot say. 

1 Appendix, page 158. 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 63 

-ffi* Uorumr, No, I fancy not. Then why do 
you arrogate all the credit to yourself? 

Oxide, I have my other witnesses, who will 
testify to my good character and sanitary powers. 

His Honour, Let them he called. 
Enter a crowd of testimonials;^ one of them sieps 
into the witness-box, and is sworn. 

His Honour, I understand, sir, you declare that 
your friend, Mr. Oxide, is a fit and proper person 
to fill the position of curator to the inside ? 

TestimonuU, Yes, your Honour. 

^s Honour. Upon what grounds do you form 
your commendations ? 

Testimonial. Pie was administered in my pre- 
sence, and. in a week wrought wonders. 

His Honour. Was he accompanied hy any mem- 
her of his fanuly, friend, or strangers ? 

Testimonial. By no one. 

His Honour. No rules insisted upon as to 

diet- 

Testimonial. Oh, yes ; a strict regimen was en- 
joined. 

^ 1 Sir James Eyre publishes these himself. 



64 MBM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

His Honour. Anything else ? 

Testimonial (hesitating). Yes, or. 

His Honoitr. Come, sir, you are on your oath. 

Tes^monicU, Early rising, too, was recommended. 

His Honour. Ha! Were all the directions fol- 
lowed? 

Testimordetl. Oh yes. 

His Honour. And the patient recovered? 

Testimonial. Completely. 

His Honour. Now, sir, again recollect yonr posi- 
tion in this court, and tell me how you arrive at 
the assumed fact that that medicine benefited you, 
and not the early rising and strict regimen. 

Testimonial. I really cannot say. 

His HoTiour. You may go, sir. (To Oxide.) So 
much for your witness; and as for your general 
evidence, there is such a manifest desire to equivo- 
cate, that I must refuse you a certificate. 

Exit Oande. 

A. — If your ideas of physic are not better than 
your knowledge of law, I pity you. How would 
you treat bismuth, and that large class of medicines 
given to improve the digestive powers ? 



MEM0IB6 OF A STOMACH. 65 

H. — Much in the same way. And I'd wager my 
best box of globules that I should catch them all 
tripping. 

A. — But how would you treat those drugs con- 
sidered specifics, such as quinine, in cases of ague ? 

H. — ^Why, I should first examine evidence as to 
what ^ they did, and then how they did it ; and I 
should be very suspicious if they were unable to 
answer the second question. If, however, I was 
satisfied on the first point, I should include them 
amongst the very few remedies proper to administer, 
but at the same time I should reserve to myself the 
right to rescind any order I might make in their 
favour. If I descried them causing headach and 
sickness,^ I should subpoena the whole of the 
Faculty, and go more fuUy into the matter than 
has ever yet been done. 

A. — ^They would aU differ even as to the general 
result upon the system. 

1 Van Swieten, in his Commentaries on Boerhaave, says : — " In 
the meantime it may suffice for the physician to know the effiMia 
of a medicine, though he knows not the particular manner 
whereby it acts." * 

2 A common effect of quinine. 

£ 



66 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

H. — You acknowledge that, do you! Well, I 
should go on pruning till even the dozen we before 
spoke of were reduced to half. 

A. — A pleasant fellow. . Would you bleed ? 

H. — Never. 

A. — Then in some cases your patients would die ? 

H. — Possibly ; but better one should die by not 
bleeding, than that hundreds should be killed by 
phlebotomy. 

A. — In fact you would neither administer medi- 
cine, nor would you bleed ? 

H. — ^Exactly, and that is the reason I am an 
Homoeopathist. People will have something,* and 
I give nothing, yet satisfy their demands. 

A. — You are a queer fellow, and I am sure hun- 



1 Corvisart^ Napoleon's physician, was a great enemy to 
medicine. When the Empress Josephine Insisted upon taking 
some, he gave her bread pills ! Napoleon himself was porfectly 
incredulous as to the benefit of physic, and his remarks upon 
the human body should never be forgotten. " Our body, he said 
is a machine for the purpose of life : it is organised to that end— 
that is its nature. Leave the life then at its ease, let it take care 
of itself, it will do better than if you paralyse it by loading it with 
medicines. It is like a well-made watch, destined to go for a cer- 
tain time ; the watchmaker has not the power of opening it, he 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 67 

dreds would have died in your hands if you had had 
the chance of killing them. 

H. — Do you not think many thousiuids have heen 
kiUed by physic ? 

A. — ^Why, y-e-s, per-haps. 

H. — Do you think many himdreds have died 
through its absence ? 

A.-<^N-o. 

H. — ^Enough ; go through a sum of simple arith- 
metic, and I shall be satisfied. 

A. — But I maintain we Uve in such an artificial 
state, that artificial remedies are essential. 

H. — I will accord you the proposition, though I 
beheve I could eflfectually refute the argument. 
Granted, then, we exist in an artificial condition ; I 
maintain we do not live in such an extreme degree 
of artificiality as to require for the adjustment of 
health a recourse to^ the most involved, compUcated, 
and subtle science in the whole cycle of human know*- 



cannot meddle with it bat at random, and|with|his eyes bandaged. 
For one who, by dint of working it with his ill-formed instru- 
ments, succeeds in doing it any good, how many blockheads 
destroy it altogether T ^ 

£ 2 



68 MBM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

ledge. If OUT diet consisted of matters evoked from 
the deepest mysteries of art, then I grant you we should 
require remedies equally subtle ; but if we hve 
tolerably close to the laws of Nature (which I submit 
is the case), then we require equally simple remedies, 
for in diving for them too deeply, we overshoot the 
mark. When our ordinary food is adulterated, it is 
then we approach nearest to an extreme degree of 
artificiality ; and then, I grant you, commensurate 
curative measures are necessary to restore the ba- 
lance of health ; but, excepting this, we consume only 
the products of the earth, without resorting to any 
very elaborate process for our ailments. I affirm, 
therefore, we do not require comphcated remedies ; 
but that, on the contrary, we need simple ones, and 
Nature will then perform her part with redoubled 
activity. 

A. — But I have you on the hip, my friend. You 
infer, do you not, that we require remedies of the 
same nature as our food, only making a change in 
combination, &c ? 

H. — ^Yes, I do. 

A. — But ouTifood contains almost every compoimd 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 69 

to be found in chemistry ; ' so that what is so natural 
when wrong combinations, proportions, or excesses 
produce disease, as to resort to the science of medi- 
cine, which includes the ultimate and proximate 
composition of such matters as we consume for our 
support ? 

H. — ^These facts by no means shake my position. 
If, as you say, food contains such a variety of com- 
poimds, as minerals, acids, alkaUs, neutrals, and 
gases, then surely food in different form, combina- 
tion,2 or proportion, is the proper means to restore 
health; thus your argument is a weapon to turn 
against you. 

A. — I cannot see it ; but, if I understand rightly, 
this is your proposition. First, if we lived simply, as 
in the primitive ages, champing acorns and drinking 



1 Coffee and tobacco are said to yield'traces of copper ; and 
tamarinds of gold. The blow-pipe will melt the flinty part of 
wheaten straw into a bead of glass. 

s The greatest wonders of chemistry are owing to combina- 
tions. Sugar, starch, and gum are very different substances, yet 
are composed of three elements, carbon, hyrdogen, and oxygen 
the proportion of each making the difference. 



70 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

water, we should require simples in case of disease. 
Secondly, if we live artificially, we require remedies 
as artificial as our method of existing.. Thirdly, if we 
live 60 entirely artificially that the profoundest secrets 
of nature are explored to present us with our food, 
then and then only we shaU require remedies equally 
difficult to ohtain. Fourthly, you affirm that at pre- 
sent we do not live so artificially as set forth in your 
third position, yet, nevertheless, our medical cura- 
tives are as artificial as though we did. 

H. — Precisely so; and the texture of medical 
science requires drawing closer together, for at pre- 
sent it is a mere sieve through which truth, if it 
arrives, runs, instead of remaining. 

A. — I acknowledge we might often attack the diet 
instead of giving drugs. It is better to remove the 
cause of evil than to prescribe an antidote. I don^t 
mind telling you that I shall turn my attention to this 
neglected part of the doctor's duties ; but stiU I 
cannot .but perceive that even evils have produced 
good — just look at the blessings of chloroform. 

H. — And think you chloroform would not long ere 



MBMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 71 



this have been known, had the science of medicine 
been studied upon sounder principles. 

A. — ^How mean you — soimder principles ? 

H. — If, instead of the system of guess-work so 
long in existence, the efforts of our great men had 
been concentrated in the pursuits of anatomy, analy- 
sis, dissection, scientific analogies, and above all the 
microscope, I feel assured that discoveries of vast 
importance would have been ours at this day, but 
which we can now only look for in the future. 

A. — You would hold medicine in abeyance till the 
collateral sciences have thrown more light upon its 
administration ? 

H. — Clearly. The first authorities of the day 
allow that the science of medicine is improving, 
because so many old nostrums are now discarded, 
and they also admit that the effects of their most pet' 
physics are imcertain.* I believe too, that the best 

1 "A medicine which at one time raises or excites the 
Tital forcoa, may at another time depress them; it may be 
one thing with a siok man, the other thing with a healthy man; 
it may have the one effect when talcen for a short time in 
moderation, the other effect when taken for a longer time in 
exoe8B.''-«Headland's ** Actions of Medicine." 



72 MBMOiaS OF A 8T0MAGB. 

nostrums are ever changing their modes of action, 
80 that what may be good to-day may be evil to- 
morrow ; and that the state of the mind, atmos- 
pheric influences, or some temporary alteration in 
the forces of the nervous system, may completely 
vary the effects of medicines upon the body. 

A. — But how are we are to arrive at the modus 
operandi of medicines unless we try them ? 

H. — If you feel justified in making human beings 
subjects for experiment, I grant you very valuable 
discoveries may accrue thereby ; and it might be- 
come a question with the Legislature whether, instead 
of sending our felons to the fairest spots on the 
earth to corrupt, it would not be as well to set the 
vilest aside, for the faculty to doctor ! 

A. — ^Poor wretches ! That would be nearly as bad 
as the silent system, — a system which might have 
satisfied the demoniacal imagination of Ezzelino the 
Paduan.' I must admit, if we were honest we should 

1 Surely Allopathist, is here right — ^the tortures of the middle 
ages, are by the silent system, revived to administer them to 
the mind, and reason is forced from her seat little by little! 
It were a mercy to kill a man rather than subject him to 
such horrors of feeling as only those who have studied psycho- 



MRM0IB6 OP A 8T0MAGH. 73 

starve, and I suspect if we write over our doors. 
Patients eajpefimentalised upon for the benefit of 
Science, we might wait a long time for their 
arrival. 

H. — ^Depend upon it, you must arrive at my way of 
thinking, and " throw physic to the dogs," unless 
indeed your feeUngs of compassion should interfere 
in favour of those faithfiil creatures. 

A. — ^At all events, you are a bold man to avow 
such sentiments. 

H. — Oh, there is nobody here, and you dare not 
repeat them. 

A. — Tell me truly, do you consider yourself a 
charlatan ? 

H. — ^Yes, to the world, but not to science. You 
are one to both. '' 

A. — ^Much obliged. But you are not a bad fellow, 
and I promise you one good at least shall result from 
our conversation — I will plentifully dilute my medi- 
cines with the pure fluid. 

logy as applied to medicine can understand. What says Dr. 
Winslow Forbes to this barbarous punishment which is a dis- 
grace to the age, and especially to England? 



74 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

H. — Bravo! I give infinitessimal, and you diluted 
doses. We are both in the right path. Vive la 
bagatelle. 

A. — I suppose then I must cry, Vive Peau de 

puit.* 

Exeunt different ways. 

To return, however, to my tale. The globules 

of my friend were, of course, quite useless ; so, as a 

dernier ressort, one of the first surgeons of the day 

was consulted; and, for the sake of a pleasing 

variety, he goes in for, and hopes to win by, saline 

mixture. Here he stands confessed in the form of 

Prescription. 

Saline 2 Mixture, 6 oz. ; Wine Seeds of Colchicum, 
Sweet Spirits Nitie, each, 4 scruples ; Syr. Orange 
Peel, 2 drams. 

Mix J part every 6 hours. 

Oh, ye gods, this was to be taken every six 

1 Allopathist coming to pnnip ^ater at last, is, indeed a 
climax, which whether right ar wrong, is brought about with 
eonsiderable ingenuity and close reasoning. 

2 A certain medical g^^ntleman, with whom we have the 
honour of being acquainted, insists that an excess of 8alt> taken 
daring the prevalence of epidemics, will prevent infection, 
owing, he declares, to the large amount of pure chlorine evolved 



MBM01B8 OF A STOMACH. 75 

hours! Human natdre could not stand this, and a 
human stomach is equally open to prejudice; so 
without more ado I rejected every overture at 
reconciliation, even a new dose in the form of 
quinine, and refused to receive either Uquid br 
solid, save dry toast and a Uttle tea. Nothing 
could induce me to make up the quarrel ; and the 
moment the slightest degree of force was resorted 
to, I turned tnore obstinate than ever, till I re- 
ceived a formal deputation from all the members 
of the corporation, intreating me to resume my 
functions if only a Uttle at a time. At last I con- 
sented, but with very indifferent grace ; and if the 
stem moralist feels disposed to condemn the spirit 
of my resentment, just let him, for one moment, 
place himself in my position. Here was I, a 
stomach of high pedigree, and of naturally a 
haughty and reserved temperament, made to work 

by the stomach, this gas being the most disaffecting with which 
we are acquainted. In the colanms of the Times, amongst the 
' adyertisements, there is yery often to be seen the announce- 
ment of a work, showing that all diseases arise from the use of 
salt! People rush to a new theory, be it never so absurd, and 
no doubt the book has sold. 



76 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

like a gaUey-slave, at aU hours of the day and 
night. This I bore with proud resignation till the 
last merciless load, metaphorically speaking, broke 
my back, and I was incapable of stirring hand or 
foot. In this deplorable state they use whip and 
goad ; and when these fail, they resort to the ad- 
ministration of the most horrid compoimds which 
they can wring from Nature, at which Science 
herself makes the ugliest grimaces of aversion. 

Just fancy yourself, oh thou too prone to con- 
demn others, while suffering from debility and 
low spirits, being imceremoniously carried off, and 
made to sit in the torture chamber of suspense, 
whUe a chartered toxicologist prescribes his nos- 
trums, which you know you are doomed to swallow! 
Fair Eosamond herself had the option of the poison 
or the dagger. I had never even the choice given 
/ me, or depend upon it I should soon have ter- 
minated my sufferings by the latter. The tyrant of 
Sjrracuse, or the crowned fiddler of Eome, coidd 
never have exceeded the exquisite torments to 
which I was so mercilessly subjected. If you 



MBM0IB6 OF A *8T0MACH. 77 

doubt this, oh sceptic! make a list of the drugs 
and poisons — ay, literaUy poisons — ^which I have 
given you the opportunity of counting, and glance 
at the charming epitome whence have come all 
the echoes of my wailing. Condemn me not, 
therefore, but rather have pity upon my sufferings, 
and take warning that you never submit your own 
poor dependent inside, to similar suffering and in- 
dignities. Still, however, I was not lost to all sense 
of compassion ; and as I before said, at the touch- 
ing appeal of others, I resumed my duties, but 
with sorrow at the past and distrust for the ftiture. 
Some time after this episode in my existence, an 
event occurred which, if it had no other good 
effect, acted as an entire alterative. Reader, IfeU 
m lofce. Now, I beg that I may not be laughed at 
for this confession ; but let me tell you a stomach 
has a heart, and a very tender one too.* The 
worst part of the affair was that, like the great 
potentates of t^Je earth, I was obliged to promise 
my affections to an object I had never seen. It 

1 ** A heart," by metonymy— a figure our author is compelled 
coDstanUy to use. 



78 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

is true Mr. Brain gave me an inkling of her like- 
ness; but the reader will see at once, from the 
nature of my position, that I was not capable of 
visional contemplation. Upon this point, indeed, 
I was so much interested, that I longed to knock 
away the plaster between the ribs, and get a glance 
at the lady ; but as such a proceeding would have 
been unjust to others, I sat like Pyramis behind 
a wall, without even a chink through which to look 
at Thisbe. I soon discovered that the damsel, 
who was the cause of this internal commotion (for 
there was not a portion of the whole body but 
which was influenced in some way or other) was 
nothing better than a Hosier's daughter, living near 
the University. 

I fear this statement will let the air out of 
any Httle interest some fair reader might other- 
wise have taken in my narrative ; but I am 
boimd to a strict adherence to truth. I wish with 
all my heart I could have introduced a heroine in 
my simple memoirs ; but, alas ! she on whoiti my 
master lavished his . affections sold stockings and 
socks, and whose only psychological tendency was 



MEM0IB8 OF A 8T0MACB. 79 

to deal in lindsey woolsey souls ! As the best re- 
. presentative of a long line of Stomachs, formerly 
of Sternum Hall, "now of Eaton Moor, I felt per- 
sonally the 'let down of an alliance, with a family 
who could only add a stocking to the garter 
already on our escutcheon. However, my passion 
was sincere, or perhaps it would be better to say 
Qwr passion ; for though I was willing enough to 
take all the merit of love to myself, when I 
thought the object might have done credit to our 
pedigree; yet after the information I received 
touching her questionable origin, I desire to share 
my affections, as in reality I did, with the living 
and moving framework in which I was enclosed. ' 
To continue the plural number, therefore, this our 
passion was sincere; and that constant manure- 
turer of sighs, Mr. Lungs, betook himself more 
than ever to fanning the flame of love, and my 
near locality to the current of air was by no means 
agreeable : — A residence close to a pair of bellows, 
even though they work in the cause of Eros, is not 

1 This seems to as a piece of gratuitous candour, and 
strongly smacks of affectatioD. 



80 MBMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

agreeable ; added to this, my food constantly lay 
undigested, like a hard dumpling in my inside, for I 
was so intent upon the novel nature of my feelings, 
that I neglected the usual routine of my duties. 

By no means the worst part of the business 
was, that love turned my gentleman into no less a 
personage than a Poet, and his sentences issued 
from his Hps in rhythm. How curious is this very 
usual result of love upon human beings ! Is it 
that the anticipated siun of their happiness can 
only be added up in numbers ? To " lisp in num- 
bers" is a common expression; and imtil now I 
thought that it alluded to financial gentlemen. 
However that may be, here was my good master 
all of a sudden turned into a water-drinker at the 
Castalian font, and an herbaceous animal nibbling 
in the pastures of Parnassus. What i^ it in love, I 
ask again, which has such an extraordinary effect ? 
Does it touch the key-note of a man's nature, and 
change him into a would-be musical instrument? 
But then he notes nothing save his engrossing pas- 
sion, and only plays a duetto with excessive selfish- 
ness. To me it is all a mystery; and perhaps I 



MEM0IB6 OF A STOMACH. 81 

might take a different view of the matter, only it 
so happened I was constantly being woke up in the 
middle of the night, and found myself either walked 
up and down the room, the maniac repeating love 
ditties, or else I was pressed most inconveniently 
against the sides of a table, while another and 
deeper form of madness was exhibited in his 
scribbling doggrel, or if anything better was com- 
posed, I beg pardon, for it was more than I was. 
Conceive my outraged feeUngs at these nightly 
disturbances, and it really seemed as if destiny 
took a dehght in injuring and insulting me. Then 
perhaps he would vary these amusements by sing- 
ing, absolutely singing, during the small hours of 
the morning ! This latter annoyance was not only 
severely felt4)y myself, but also by my near neigh- 
bours, and aroused my profoundest feelings of con-* 
tempt. 

One night when we should all have been 
safely locked in the arms of the poppy-crowned 
god, my restless gentleman gave vent to a 
gush of sentiment in the form of a song, which 
would easily be recognised as one of Moore's most 

F 



82 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

beautiful. I believe, too, it was decently enough 
bom into vocal form, and tolerably well accom- 
panied on the piano; but I have no ear for music; 
and the wheezing of the bellows, belonging to a 
certain organ, is always so near me, that I am 
unable to appreciate any melody which may happen 
to exist in the voice. But I was savage at being 
kept up late o' night ; and so, for my own especial 
recreation, I composed the following : — 

THE POET I AND THE STOMACH. 

I. 

Oft in the chilly night. 

When slumber should have boimd him. 
Pale Phosphor^ gives its light. 

His dressing-gown around him. 

1 Nothing is so low, intellectually speaking, as a barlesqne 
even when in the form of a parody, as close to the original as 
the one above, and nothing so easy to perpetrate. We should 
have indignantly erased this song from the MS., bat it may be 
as well, perhaps, for the reader to perceive how very possible it 
is, when instructing others, to err, and that most egregioosly, 
ourselves. 

2 Does he mean by this that Phosphor, or the morning star, 
sheds its pale light for the poet's benefit, or does he refer to 
the match-box ? If both, we must say the commonplace is well 
concealed by the poetical. 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 83 

He rushes then 
For ink and pen, 
To write some lines in measure. 
The while poor I 
Can only sigh, 
Nor glow with Poet's pleasure. 
Thus, in the chilly night. 

When slumber should have boimd him ; 
Sad Phosphor gives its light. 
His dressing-gown around him. 



II. 



When I remember all 

The many hours wasted ; 
Tnose dainties turned to gall 

Which I had lately tasted. 

I must lament 

The time misspent. 
The hours snatched from slumber ; 

The stomach's curse 

Is midnight verse. 

Without regard to number ! 

Thus, in the chilly night, 

When slumbers should have boimd him ; 

Sad Phosphor gives its light, 

His dressing-gown around him. 

f2 



84 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

After having accomplished this, I felt somewhat 
easier in my mind; and I have the vanity to think 
even this attempt excelled the abortite eflforts of 
my master. Some of his wretched outpourings I 
happen to remember; and I give the reader an 
idea of them here, as a warning to all ^om it may 
concern, that when they believe they are spouting 
poetical nonsense to the winds, there may be a 
stomach within hstening to it all, with a sneer on 
his lips and rancour in his heart. The antecedent 
circumstances were these. Oftentimes it so hap- 
pened, after we had retired for the night, instead 
of sleeping, we lay tossing and fidgetting (and all 
lovers will agree to the frequency of this)f while 
the cocks, and clocks, and the watchmen, rivalled 
one another in telling us the hours. Yes, slumber 
was effectually chased by the winged urchin ; and 
the drowsy old god dared not approach the bright 
torch of the boy. I admit it was, perhaps, useless 
remaining in bed to be tossed on a sea of restless- 
ness; but still / was warm, and contented, and 
comfortable. No matter, out we were bundled ; the 
lucifer match evoked the spirit of light ; a warm 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 85 

dressing robe was cast over us ; the keeping-room 
adjoining was sought (they were University cham- 
bers, remember) ; the decaying embers in the grate 
were scraped together ; and down we sat to a table 
covered with writing implements — ^those innocent 
causes of my misery. The Poet's eye may roll in 
a fine frenzy, for all I know to the contrary ; but 
during his lucubrations, his stomach is in a very 
different situation, and Im frenzy is of another sort. 
Well, the poet writes, and in this wise : — 

TO JULIA. 

" Aurora rises, and the purple dawn 
(*'purple" is struck out and "rosy" added.) 
With coronet of light doth rise ; 

("rises," in first line, struck out, and "cometh" 
inserted.) 

And I awake with love, perceive the dawn. 
And greet her coming with my sighs. 

(This he repeats as corrected, and on he goes) — 



cc 



And wherefore sighs ? Oh, not for gold, 
Nor treasures such as earth bestows ; 



86 HEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

(He here pauses, and repeats ''gold, told, mould, 
fold ;" how I longed to put in, " Oh, go to bed, or 
else you'll catch a cold.") 

I sigh for beauty in a lovely moidd. 
Yes, Julia could dispel my woes." 

(The lines are carefully corrected, the word 
"trashy" inserted before the word "gold" — a very 
appropriate word too. Then he carefully re- 
writes the hues; and from out the chaotic state 
they emerge in poetic form, thus : — 

I. 

" Aurora cometh, and the purple dawn 
With coronet of light doth rise ; 
And I awake with love, perceive the dawn. 
And greet her coming with my sighs, 

II. 

" And wherefore sighs ? Oh, not for trashy gold. 
Nor treasures such as earth bestows ; 
I sigh for beauty in a lovely mould, 
Yes, Julia could dispel my woes." 

I too sighed for something in a mould, but it 
wasn't beauty. And out of the evil conceivings of 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 87 

my heart, I parodied the effusion in the following 
manner, which I have the conceit to beHeve stands 
unequalled for poetical imagery and boldness of 
metaphor : — 

TO JUUA, 

UPON THE DAT PBOMISING TO BE STORMY. 

I. 

Stem night hath faded^ and the fiery dawn 
Glows like a savage Hon in his rage ; 

The streaky, bar-like sunbeams of the mom. 
Are as the golden barriers to his cage. 

II. 

Oh, Julia ! gaze one moment on the East, 
The look will soothe the fierceness of the ray ; 

'Twill change the threatening aspect of the beast. 
Into a cakn and sweetly-smiling day.' 



1 Our friend seems to be proad of his poetical essays; bnt it 
must be admitted the ^gvace of comparing the fiery dawn— such 
as Danby delights in— to a lion in a cage with golden bars is 
▼ery original; while Julia's changing that noble animal by a 
look into a sweet, calm day— such as Creswickloveth— is highly 
complimentary to the lady. 



88 ICEMOXRS OF A STOMACH. 

The two verses — ^not mine, but my master's — are 
then by him read and re-read; and diving into the 
realms of imagination for fresh ideas^ divers altera- 
tions are consequently made ; so many, indeed, that 
in course of time the whole of their constituent parts 
are changed. I must do my gentleman the justice to 
say, however, that, like Saturn, he immercifully 
destroyed his own progeny ; and after trying every 
description of metre which he fancied Boileau or 
Horace might approve, he at length retires upon 
the Latin Hexameter, as being the longest and 
strongest on which to pile his pyramid of nonsense. 
All, however, is useless. The divine afflatus will 
not descend ; and then he betakes himself to those 
peregrinations again, of which I so compledned just 
now, and calls upon his memory in favour of the 
lync poets, and repeats aloud such strains as he 
believes most appropriate to his present love-sick 
mood. Under such circumstances. Little is to him 
extremely great. Yes, Moore is not only sug- 
gestive of all that is musical and elegant in song, 
but also very clearly expressed that which I 
dreamt of — repose. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 80 

When I glance at the ahove expressions in print, 
I must acknowledge to several twinges of con- 
science at the depreciation of my master's poetic 
powers; so, as a little salve to my own feelings, 
and as a matter of justice to the individual thus 
maligned, I here insert a song of his composition, 
which may perhaps be considered as an exception 
to the usually strict rule of his evil-doings : — 

LOVE'S ASTRONOMY. 

fSin Coiuttto. 

1. 

lanthe, my love, did the thought ever strike you, 
The world, after all, is a beautiful thing ; 

Containing so much to enchant and dehght you. 
That clustered to guard it, are stars in a ring ? 

2. 

They say look to Zenith, and there ever beaming 
Are golden-eyed stellar orbs, pensive with love ; 

But below at Antipodes, Nadir is teeming, 
The East and the West, too, are gemmed aSs 
above. 



90 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

8. 

No question our Earth is the centre of Heaven, 
And stars are battalions around us at night ; 

Their watch-fires are lighted, the pass-word is 
given, 
And all we see here is their bivouac's light. 



To me, I confess, 'tis an exquisite pleasure. 

Each eve when that camp of the mighty appears. 

To fancy I list to a heavenly measure. 
As planets march out to " the music of spheres." 

6, 

And do we not see, too, on Simuner's night clearly, 
A meteor drop down from the ranks in the sky ; 

We call it a shooting star, but it is really 
A sentinel chasing a spirit on high. 

6. 
A spirit of evil entranced with thy beauty. 

Attempts on the bloom of its sweetness to light ; 
But discovered in time by the sentry on duty. 

He saves my lanthe, and chastens the sprite. 



MBM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 91 

7. 

I own I am puzzled if e'er I endeavour 

To teU what becomes of the stars in the day ; 

And I cannot account for the fact, that whenever 
The sun is seen rising they all run away. 

I trust I shall not be considered as violating the 
sacredness of a lover's most lonely hours, in thus 
making the reader acquainted with those moments 
of existence, when love, like an Ariel, plays such 
strange freaks with poor mortals; and I hope I 
may not be considered frivolous in descending 
from the dignity of history to recount matter of 
a domestic and confidential nature. 

But now to continue the thread of my narrative. 
Had it not been that at this period we went abroad, 
the consequences of these visits and other evils might 
have been serious. As it was, the entire body grew 
wofrdly emaciated ; and my friend upstairs having 
received his degree of B.A., off we started for the 
Rhine, since people affirmed that travelling was the 
only remedy against the inroads of the tender passion 



92 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

— 80 called, I suppose, from the victim being usually 
so thoroughly done. Apropos to this, I must here 
explain that one of my peculiarities consisted of 
an intense hatred of food underdressed. Indeed^ I 
looked upon this matter from a very serious point 
of view, and I expressed my repugnance so strongly 
that I was generally humoured by my master. 
Mutton imderdone is simply sheep, and so on 
with all the animal supplies. Nature, I am quite 
sure, never intended the flesh paxt of our aliment 
to be eaten otherwise than thoroughly cooked, in- 
asmuch as the raw material is never so well adapted 
for the system as when chemically changed by the 
action of fire, seeing that the nitrogenous prin- 
ciples are thereby coagulated, and so become 
the most nutritious element in food.^ How- 

1 Azote» or nitrogen. Liebig's Animal Chemistry supports 
this view of our friend ; but the assertion is very much disputed 
by prize-fighters, rowers, athletse in general, and men of strong 
powers of digestion, who usually prefer meat underdone, and 
are strong advocates of its wholesomeness. We must remem- 
ber that our author is of a sensitive and delicate constitution 
and perhaps his repugnance to food underdone may arise from 
imagination as well as from an outraged palate. 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 93 

ever thig may be, all I know is, my horror of red 
meat, the juices of which people tenned " only the 
gravy," but which the indignant truthfulness of my 
whole nature denominated blood, soared far beyond 
all powers of reason ; and whenever I heard a man 
in a coffee-room order his steak underdone, or 
scold the waiter because the joint was done 
brown, I thanked Providence that at least I was not 
his particular inside. Just in the same way an in- 
dividual may be supposed to thank Heaven he was 
not bom amongst the Anthropophagi. By the way, 
Sarcophagy^ (I should not be deemed erudite and a 
proper authority if I did not introduce long names), 
with the necessary accompaniment of carmine fluid, 
eatabUshes a very close degree of consanguinity 
between ourselves and those much maligned gentle- 
men at the antipodes, who evidence one of the great 
cardinal virtues by a love for one another. " Oh, I 
could eat you up," is a^colloquial term of endear- 
ment in highly civilised life, and the practice and 
wish expressed form a very delicate line of demar- 
cation ; so that, by this system of argument, it is 

' Sarcophagy— the practice of eating flesh. 



94 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

possible to prove that people are cannibals; and 
such description of logic is, I hear, very much in 
vogue, both in the theological and in the medical 
world. ^ 

But let us consider : I am now on the Rhine, and 
I should like to say. something of the scenery, more 
especially as I have never seen it. But I fear the 
subject is used up; and therefore, purely on con- 
scientious grounds, I refrain from drawing upon my 
powers of invention, and it is merely necessary for 
me to say that the change of diet agreed with me 
very well, and I was only once thoroughly shocked 
by receiving a piece of raw ham, which I re- 
jected with vigorous disdain. The light Ehenish 
wines, at first, caused me a few uneasy sensa- 
tions, which, when I exhibited, procured for me a 
more generous sort, called, for the sake of brevity, 
Asmanhauser. Altogether I enjoyed myself ex- 
ceedingly, for I was ever a lover of variety notwith- 
standing my sex ; and let me tell you (for I never 



1 We cannot but deplore this unnecessary divergence of our 
author from his starting point, to eigoy a thrust at matters he 
has 00 business to introduce. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 95 

permit a point of infonnation to escape me) that 
the powers of assimilation greatly prefer variety of 
food, and that few things are more miwholesome or 
disgusting than lumps of one sort of meat, such as 
we find served up in dear old England. ^ The light- 
ness of the air, too, made me quite joyful; for the 
air has always a great iBfluence upon my feelings 
and health, through the mediimi of the blood be- 
coming purified, owing to the poHte attention of my 
neighbours the Lungs. Amongst all the changes of 
scene, however, we had not forgotten our passion 
for the fair hosieress, and many a glass of Liebfrau- 
enmilch (appropriate name 2) was quaffed to her 
memory. 

Passing into Switzerland, the thinness of the wine 
nearly turned me into a vinegar cruet,^ and glad 
enough I was when we retraced our steps, crossed 

1 ** Man can live and thrive only npon food analogous to 
himself;" not that he is composed of bread, meat, ifine, 
spirits, and vegetables, but the elements of these matters serve 
to replace the wear and tear of his system.— See Liebig's 
Theory of Life, 

2 Literally, "good wife's milk." 

3 Aviendo pregonado vino, vend vindgre. After having cried 
up the wine, they sell vinegar. 



96 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

the frontiers at Eehl ; and aj^r dining at a ca{ntal 
table d*h6te at the Hotel de France at Strasburgy I 
was treated, for the first time, to such excellent Bur- 
gundy, that, had I possessed lips, I would have 
smacked them in sympathy with those above. As 
it wajB, I evinced my approval so cordially, that I 
received a leetle too much of a good thing, and I 
sent a messenger upstairs with a cup of the over- 
plus to Mr. Brain, who deported himself in such an 
extraordinary manner, and suggested such queer 
conduct to the entire body, that I really was quite 
ashamed of the whole affair. I positively dare not 
tell you all that occurred ; but, next morning, feeling 
very unwell, I hinted at the necessity for less pota- 
tions in ^ture ; and I am happy to say the advice 
was properly attended to, for my master had not 
forgotten his troublea at college. If people gene- 
rally responded with greater alacrity to any little 
hint I send up, it would be infinitely for their own 
benefit, and of course mine also; and I must here 
beg that the reader will not in any way confiise me 
with that false rogue and sinner, scarcely deserving 
his roof to cover him — Mr. Palate. 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 97 

Palis was next our abiding place, and in this 
capital I received some very delicate attentions. I 
was usually taken to the first-rate Bestaurants, and 
often dined in company with some rather fast young 
Frenchmen, connected with a government office, 
whose salaries were very small, but whose expendi- 
ture presented a striking contrast. They thoroughly 
understood ordering a good dinner; and if I remem- 
bered the exact bill of fare of any especial feast, I 
would certainly here insert it, simply for the benefit 
of those who look over a French carte^ with a very 
puzzled air, as if they were stud3dng Cherokee or 
the arrow-headed characters. 

I observe, with some degree of surprise, that 
although Mr. John Bull has a reputation for 
Ming a great glutton, the French freely pay a 
much larger sum for their dinner than we do. 
People whom one coidd easily imagine not able to 
afford so many sous, invest from five to twenty 
francs for their grand meal as a matter of course. 
What with a heavy midday breakfast, a capital 
dinner at seven; coffee, liqueiu*s, cigars, ices, and 
sorbets, as small matters of dalliance during the 



98 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 



intervals, with perhaps just a plat of golden plovers 
and a bottle of champagne at midnight, a French 
gentleman may lay claim, quite as pretentious as an 
Englishman, to a love of the good things of this life, 
— ^but then the Gallic gourmet is an artist. Every 
dish has a chromatic relation with its antecedent. 
Every condiment has a studied specific purpose ; and 
every bottle of wine is either harmonic, or a proper 
discord with, the particular entremets over which it is 
destined to commingle.* The EngHsh system of 
cookery it would be impertinent for me to describe; 
but still when I think of that huge round of par- 
boiled ox flesh, with sodden dumplings, floating in 
a saline, greasy mixture, surroimded by carrots 
looking red with disgust, and turnips pale with 
dismay, I cannot help a sort of inward shudder, aid 
making comparisons imfavourable to EngHsh gas- 
tronomy. It was all very well for the sense of 
sight, and sometimes that of smell, to complain, but 
what were their grievances to mine } Oh, Hercules, 
how I did work ! 

1 A glass of liqueur should be taken after coffee. French 
epicures style these— 1, Chasse; 2, Rincette; 3, Surrincette 
4, Gloria ! 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 99 

As though everything in Paris were to be bright 
and agreeable, who should we stumble against in 
the Louvre but the hosier of Bridgecam and his fair 
daughter. The first intimation I received of the 
fact was an increased action of the heart, which 
extended its influence to myself, and soon I heard 

a voice exclaim, " Oh, papa, there is Mr. /' 

Papa, I fancy, was hunying away with the poor 
fluttering bird; but my owner, without think- 
ing of consequences, obeyed the impulses of the 
moment, and what with shaking of hands and ac- 
cents, and mutual blunders, and incoherent ques- 
tions with answers to match, I must confess I was 
highly diverted ; the long and short of it all being, 
we were invited to papa's house, or rather lodgings, 
ill' the Hue des Comediens, the heart still in a state 
of tremulousness; and I am compelled, by the fealty 
I have sworn to truth, to confess that, when the 
elderly gentleman turned his back, I felt a soft 
female relative pressed gently against me, and firom 
the hps above issued — a renewed declaration of 
passion. This was all very well and very agreeable, 
but in no wise did it compensate me for being 

G 2 



100 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

deprived of my dinner ; and I took care, upon a 
reiteration of the evil, to have my revenge. This 
soon occurred ; and while the hours slipped away in 
the " soft interchange of mutual feelings of esteem," 
I was, of course, again neglected and forgotten. 
Thia made me very sulky, and tinctured my views 
of things in general with an imwholesome colour- 
ing. Secreting, therefore, certain morbulent acids, 
I imparted my disgust to the whole system, and 
produced so much irritation that a quarrel sprung 
up between the pair, and for the second time they 
were upon the point of separating. My advice to 
all lovers, therefore, is, take care of your Stomach, 
for his influence is greater than you imagine; and I 
feel perfectly persuaded, that more love matches 
have been broken off owing to this very respectii.ble 
organ than to any other cause. It is all very well 
to term the reasons for remaiiiing single — ^prudence, 
and the necessity of providing means to keep your 
carriage and servants, and all that sort of thing; 
but the truth is, a derangement of the digestive 
powers makes both men and women petulant, over- 
sensitive, sceptical, and fastidious, and it engenders 



MEMOIRS OF A SOTMACU. 101 

a host of other ill qualities, erroneously thought to 
emanate from the brain or liver. The ancients 
were wrong, when they attributed to this last organ 
the seat of the affections; and the modems are 
equally so in debiting love to the account of the 
heart The stomach is the real source of that sub- 
lime passion, and I swell with pride and inward 
satisfaction when I make the avowal.^ 

Eventually regaining my good temper, the lovers 
made up their quarrel and also their minds to marry, 
and here all the romance of the matter ends. Schiller,^ 
I believe it is, who declares that the psychological 
part of love commences with the first sigh and ends 
with the first kiss. I could say a good deal on this 
subject, and put Mr. Schiller to rights, as well as 
inany authors who discourse anent this, but I have 
certain reasons for silence not to be disregarded. 

1 In vain we have searched the works of this author. Will 
the editor of Notet and Queries inform as? 

2 Paracelsus exalts the ** archseus" in a similar manner, and 
believed its seat was in the stomach, and the same as a sen- 
tient soul. Van Helmont, to whom (considering the period in 
which he lived) medicine was indebted so much, held similar 
ideas; and declared that by virtue of the **arch8eas,'* man was 
linked to genii and to spirits. 



102 MEM01B8 OF A STOMACH. 

Shortly after the event of our union (and now, I 
need scarcely say, I was no longer troubled with 
poetical effusions), we retraced our steps homeward, 
a fog, of course, welcoming us back to merry Eng- 
land ; and as there was one when I left, I imagined 
it had remained in possession of the city all the 
time we were Kving imder the blue sky abroad. 
The most agreeable thing that awaited us was a 
tremendous outburst of indignation from our friends, 
at making a match so much beneath us ; but as the 
evil was done, we bent to the breeze, and settled 
down into respectable married life. 

The married state, I must admit, agreed with me 
extremely ; and I beheve this period would have been 
the happiest in my life, but for the incessant change 
of our cooks. The moment one of these fair ministers 
of our appetites arrived at the point of making some 
peculiar dish entirely to my satisfaction, that moment 
she was sure to be discovered in too hospitable a 
communion with the poUceman, falsely called " on 
duty," and was consequently dismissed our esta- 
bUshment ; or else she took French leave to go out 
when she chose ; or else she was too pretty ; or too 



MEH0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 108 

much addicted to the contents of master's cellaret ; 
or too generous to her cousms in the Coldstream 
Guards ; at all events, • something always went 

I 

wrong, just at the culminating point of perfection. 
I regarded the high priestess of the kitchen as my 
especial good* or evil genius ; and I firmly beUeve 
the sharpness of the saw, which sayeth, '* God sent 
food, and the De'il cooks." The only doubt I 
have is, whether, when they get discharged by 
family after family, the obUging Mr. Pluto takes 
them back into his service again. If so, I cannot 
at all wonder at the very natural dread which all 
people manifest at the idea of only a temporary 
abode in Hades. There was one other evil too 
&om which I suffered — ^the disparity of tastes be- 
tween our bride and myself. She, poor,, tender 
Stomach, was incapable of enjoying the sterner 
dishes of Hfe; and consequently I often foimd my- 
self coaxed into receiving messes and slops which 
I abhorred. This, however, was only occasional; 
and again I aver I foimd the marriage state to be 
very conducive to health and comfort. 

By this time our father-in-law had become a great 



104 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

man in the City. He was already a member of the 
Corporation, and in due time will most tikely reach 
the simunit of his ambition, the ciYic chair. Be- 
tween himself and my external person or entirety, 
the living and breathing man, in 'vdiose chest I was 
locked, there never had existed that perfect cor- 
diality which should exist betweeti relatives;' for 
the fact is, my master's avocations being connected 
with hterature and art, produced a natural disgfostt 
in the mind of his wife's parent. The finer sen- 
sibiUties, which take refdge in pen, ink, paper, and 
books, do not, and never will, accord with those 
purely money-getting pursuits which call a different 
set of faculties into being. This is quite right, and 
does not involve any serious matter for condemna- 
tion on either side, only the manifestation of disdain 
which rich Mr. Ledger exhibits towards poor Mr. 
Bookworm, sometimes assumes a form closely verg- 
ing on tiie ludicrous. This sort of ill feeling, though 
existing between our wife's father and her husband 
did not bum with so intense a fire as to consimie all 



1 Should exist, but too often does not, and— *< acerrima prozi- 
mortiin odia." 



MBM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 105 

the amenities of family intercomtie, and many were 
the civic feasts we revelled in. My belief is, if I 
had never passed Temple Bar I should at this mo- 
ment have been at least ten years yoimger in feel- 
ings ; but as it is, my constitution is undermined, 
and not witlf blowing up, but blowing out. 

It is wonderful what a deal of packing the whole 
of our family will stand. For myself I was a per- 
fect dromedary in the quantity I could bear ; and 
though I often thought the last mouthful would 
break my back, yet somehow it all shook down like 
passengers crowded inside an omnibus. I do not 
mean, by any means, to say that I never grumbled, 
for, Uke the animal just named, I had a groan for 
every package that I considered too heavy ; but all 
I now got for my pains was a spur, or goad, in the 
shape of a glass of raw spirits — ^neat, but not whole- 
some — ^which at first had the effect in suddenly 
rousing me up to action, Hke a stripe on a sleeping 
mule, but I took care to be surly enough afterwards, 
and my energies oftener flagged after this whipping 

than before. 

Now I am grown old and grey in service I 



106 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

cannot but lament how foolishly my master spurred 
a willing horse by these constant applications 
of alcohol. They contributed more to make me 
a wreck than even the overloading, and they 
affected Mr. Head above in such a manner* as made 
me beheve he was sometimes out of hft mind ; and 
let me tell you an insane gentleman on the last 
landing is no joke for the other lodgers. Fami- 
Uarity breeds contempt, and this applies especially 
to stomachs. At first these small drams stimulated 
to increased action, till I got used to their burn- 
ing effects: then they came down stronger and 
oftener. After a time I refused to work without 
the scourge, and so fresh evils accumulated, till my 
master very nearly became a confirmed drunkard. 
From this he was saved by a hydropathic doctor, 
but ^^ery nearly paid the penalty of restored health 
by first djdng. Aquarius came it too strong, or 
rather too weak, and, instead of letting me down 
by degrees, he cut off my suppUes at once ; the 
consequence being that jfrom the sudden reaction 
I nearly came once more to a standstill, and I can 
fancy the agonies I inflicted on all aroimd by my 



MEM0IB8 OF ▲ STOMACH. 107 

want of action. At length, by more prudent treat- 
ment, I slowly recovered my energies, but I never 
regained my pristine vigour, and when anything 
went a little wrong I longed again for the fillip, and 
threatened a relapse. 

Time wore on, however, and Mr. Hosier hav- 
ing risen to the dignity of Lord Mayor and filled 
the civic throne with honour and glory to him- 
self, was gathered to his fathers, and left his 
daughter, my master's wife, a thumping legacy. I 
now remarked that those very persons who had been 
loudest in their condemnation at our mesalliance 
were the first to come and do the civil, and they 
sent in their condolences in a very marked and 
amiable manner. This accession of good fortune 
was all in my favour, for I had only to express a 
desire to have it gratified, but still an insatiable 
longing for my old flame alcohol would intrude itself. 
This I have reason to know occasioned my master 
the deepest anxiety, but being a man of a somewhat 
determined character he sought refuge in the coun- 
ter-excitement of ecclesiastical disputations, and 
cast himself into the vortex of certain sectarian 



108 MBM01B6 OF A 8T0MA0H. 

quarrels which happened to rage at this time. So 
much hatred and fierce passion was engendered by 
this phase in his life, that the state of excitement 
upstairs prevented the growing of my spiritual de- 
sires, upon the principle, I suppose, of (me poison 
driving out another.' I need scarcely say that true 
religion had nothing at all to do with the whole 
affair, but they used her name, and fought tmder a 
banner painted to resemble her own beautiful one. 
Such an amount of gall, ill feeling, ignorance, 
superstition, and bigotry was exhibited as made 
even a stomach, usually indifferent to suck subjects, 
disgusted and grieved. This lasted for some time, 
but at length the wave of evil passions subsided on 
our side, and the real judgment of the man coming 
forth showed him his folly and unchristian conduct. 
These ups and downs and changes in our consti- 
tution I am compelled, as a writer of memoirs loving 
the truth, to thus narrate, for unimportant as tiiey 
are when regarded from an ordinary point of view, 

1 ffippocrates thought difiFerently. He says:— Ta Ivavrta 
Twv £vayTi««v I<ttIv Infxura. "Contraries are the remedies of 
contraries." 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 109 

yet considering the close connexion of myself with 
the occurrences, and the pecuUarity of my position, 
as at once a writer, a commentator, an actor, and a 
pamich, there springs up — at least I trust so — an 
interest independent of the mere text. 

I must, however, hasten to a close ; hut before I 
do so, I should ill fulfil the task I have undertaken 
were I not to endeavour, in as few words as possible, 
to impart what knowledge I possess of the means 
to keep, through my assistance, the entire corporeal 
system in health and comfort, so that when life is 
yielded up to its great Giver, memory may be elo- 
quent of past blessings; aifd that gratitude and 
love may help to gently release the spirit from the 
miracle of life. 

It will be admitted from the foregoing narrative 
that I have gone through the ordinary ups and 
downs of Ufe, and though my existence has been 
free from those extraordinary circumstances which 
a novelist loveth, yet at least I have enjoyed 
variety. I have had both the lean and the fat of 
things consumable, wholesome and unwholesome, 
sometimes Uving like a fighting cock, and some- 



110 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

times like a London sparrow. The pangs of star- 
vation I have never known ; but, oh ! how inde- 
scribably fearful they must be, for even a tempo- 
rary forgetfulness on the part of my master during 
his love-making produced cravings I shall always 
remember. Verily, the rich of the land hold a stew- 
ardship from Providence of an awM responsibility ; 
and when the accounts are at last rendered — ^what 
of the items wherein starvation amidst affluence is 
set down against the debtor Dives ? Of this gaunt 
and horrible spectre, however, I had not even an 
idea beyond the Utile delay to which I have just 
alluded, and the smaD irregularities in my supply 
consisted more of matters pertaining to quality than 
to quantity* 

I have dined at eating-houses, the effluvia 
of which, steaming up through the iron grat- 
ing, made me qualmish before eating, and iU all 
the day after. I have enjoyed myself at some of 
the first clubs in town; I have luxuriated at some 
of the best restaurants in Europe ; I have groped 
my way down hypocausts in Fleet-street, and dined 
in cavem-Hke taverns, wishing myself a thousand 



MKMOIRfi OF A STOMACH. Ill 

miles away the moment the etemaljomt was mico- 
vered ; I have fed gloriously in the coffee-rooms in 
firstrate hotels both in London and in fashionable 
watering-places, where the waiters are all fine gen- 
tlemen, who attend to you with an air of condescen- 
sion beautiM to witness — ^who walk noiselessly about 
(they ought to wear roses in their button-holes * ) 
like votaries of Harpocrates, upon double-piled car- 
pets — ^who with their snow-white neck-ties have the 
appearance of gentlemen hired to say grace — who 
will take nothing less than silver for their gratuity, 
but who never consider it mfra dig, in the service of 

1 Being* aware that our anihor has constantly some second 
meanug expressed or understood, I was unwilling to remain 
satisfied with believing this allusion to the rose a simple desire 
that the waiters should be decorated, and I think the following 
throws a light upon the subject:— "The rose was considered 
by the ancients as an emblem of silence, from its being dedi- 
cated by Cupid to Harpocrates, the god of silence, to engage 
him to conceal the actions of his mother Venus. Whence, in 
rooms designed for convivial meetings, it was customary to 
place a rose above the table, to signify that anything there 
spoken ought never to be divulged. The epigram says: 

Est rosa jQos Veneris, cigus quo &cta laterent, 
Harpocrati, matris dona, dicavit amor. 

lode rosam mensis hospes suspendit amicis, 
Conviva ut sub eft dicta tacenda sdat.** 



112 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

Aeir employers, to give you false measure for your 
wine. Of wines, too, I have had an equal variety, 
from the Johannisberg, with the golden seal, and a 
sherry called, if I remember rightly, Per Alta, at 
four guineas a bottle (!), down to the poverty- 
stricken Marsala, at ninepence the himible half-pint. 
The sweet but thin wines of Italy ; the sour wines 
of Switzerland ; the Ught but aromatic wines of the 
Rhine and the Moselle ; the generous wines of 
France, and, oh! especially the ruby Burgundy, 
which the sun has kissed with his 6wn lips ; the 
potent wines of Spain ; the astringent fluids of Por- 
tugal ; not omitting the strong potations of the New 
World ; all these it has been my lot in turn to turn 
in, and I can safely say I have done my best to 
receive each and every one with that friendly inte- 
rest and warmth which it is an English stomach's 
prerogative to exhibit to all guests who arrive, 
bringing proper recommendations from foreign 
cHmes. 

In truth, I believe I may safely aver I know 
all the chromatic colourings of taste from those 
dainty subhmated ones in alto, to the more robust 



MEM0IB6 OF A STOMACH. 113 

but less flavourable in basso, and notwithstand- 
ing this heterogeneous mass being presented at 
my court, I should scarcely have been the worse for 
the introduction (saving certain adulterated abomi- 
nations ^ ) had it not been for that accursed spirit 
called by the poor Indian, whom it has helped 
to exterminate, "fire water." This demon had 
no sooner crossed my threshhold than all went 
wrong ; but he made himself so fascinating that I 

1 In 1851, there were fewer pipes of wine imported by 217, 
than in 1788, the population having more than doubled in the 
interval I It is scarcely necessary to say how very much adulte- 
ration must have to do with this increasing diminution. The 
manu&cturer of wines, without the juice of grapes, has biecome 
quite a science ; and though chemistry has aided and abetted 
the nefarious system, yet chemistry turns Queen's evidence, and 
becomes the means of conviction. ' ** A fine fruity port ** is dften 
made as follows: — ^Damson wine, eleven gallons; brandy, five 
gallons; cyder, thirty-six gallons; elder wine, eleven gallons. 
Nothing here is detrimental to health, but salts of copper and 
the oil of bitter almonds (both poisonous) are very often re- 
sorted to — ^the one to impart an astringent flavour, the other a 
perfume. The ends of the corks are usually dipped in a de- 
coction of Brazil wood and alum, to paint them with the ap- 
pearance of age. Those who are curious to know by what 
means the extensive system of food-adulteration is carried on, 
should consult the Lancet on the subject, or perhaps better 
still, peruse a very able article in the January number of the New 
Quarterly Review, entitled " Falsification of Food.** 

H 



114 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

always felt spellbound by his presence, and the 
oftener he came the more I regarded his society. 
Of course, there were a multitude of minor little 
matters connected with edibles, which ranged be- 
tween good, bad, and indifferent, as did likewise the 
wines, and the ordinary articles of daily consumption, 
such as coffee, tea, beer, cocoa, chocolate, " et hoc 
genus omne," and these, when in a pure state, which 
I am sorry to say was very rarely the case, were all 
received by me in the politest manner, which recep- 
tion indeed they well deserved, from their intrinsic 
worth, and the benefit they conferred upon myself. 
Undoubtedly, all stomachs have their own peculiar 
idiosyncrasy ; and I do not pretend to put myself 
up as an authority upon all dietetic matters, but 
certain doctrines I will never give up, upon a 
principle of obstinacy entirely my own. These 
especial points of my obstinacy may be summed 
up in a few general rules ; and the first is, Mobb- 
RATiON. With this as your weapon you may 

defy the De octors. Secondly, if by any 

chance you should sacrifice to Epicurus a litt}^ too 
devotedly, all I ask is to give tne Rest, that I may 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH, 115 

profit by that giund and beautiM law, the ''tis 
MBDiCATRix NATURiB," which oft«n proves so great 
a friend to the medical practitioner, that even, in 
spite of physic, he reaps all the credit and reward of 
Nature's exertions. Thirdly, never resort for ad- 
vice, when ailing, to such medical men as prescribe 
large doses, for they know no more of the modus 
operandi of the most simple drug than moles do of 
astronomy. It is true they are aware that certain 
physics have certain effects, such as those thftt are 
drastic, those which are opiates, those which act 
upon the skin, or on the glandular tissues, &c., &c. ; 
but they are profoimdly ignorant (and will admit 
it) of the cause and manner of action.^ The most 



I An elaborate essay, by Mr. F. W. Headland, has lately 
appeared* to which has been awarded the Fothergillan gold 
medal, wherein he treats of the actions of medicine upon the 
system. The entire work is one great exposi of the ntter 
ignorance abroad as to the modus operandi of medicine. 
Whether the author himself throws new light upon the 
science, or whether the thesis is merely an ingenious series 
of hypotheses, it is not for us to say; but Mr. Headland's 
liberal views and perfect candour are indisputable. In his 
introductory remarks, he writes: — ''I am induced to lay 
stress on the difficulties surrounding an inquiry into the 
modus operandi of medicia^ beeause it will be some ez^ 

H 2 



116 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

childish question will puzzle the most learned 
Hippocrates. Why does opium, for instance, act 
diametrically opposite upon two different constitu- 
tions — to the one it is a sedative, the other it 
excites. Yet how often does a physician (vide 
prescription page) prescribe opium the very first 
time the patient consults him, before he has ever 
attempted to enter into the diagnosis of his com- 
plaint. Experience has informed them of a few 
specifics, i. ^., of certain effects imder the admini^- 

cuse for the manifest insufficiency of the sketch which I am 
about to draw. For thi^, too, I may find a farther apc^Qgy in 
the fallacies and mistakes, both of reasoning and statement, of 
which previous writers have been guilty. These are best shown 
by their discrepancies. On no question^ perhaps, havescienitfie 
men differed more than on the theory of the action of medicines. 

Again: — <<Most authors have grouped remedies together 
according to the broad result of their action. They do not 
mak^ inquiry as to the mode of operation or behaviour of a 
medicine after passage into the system; nor do they ask 
whether this action is especially directed to any organ or tisme) 
bnt they judge by external evidence of its ultimate effect on 
the body, and on the powers of life." 

The seeming paradox, "the more we know, the more we know 
the less we know," is here triumphantly put forth ; but such works 
have one great advantage— if they do not show us what is right, 
they go a gn^eat way in exposing that which is wrong ; and the 
most likely method of leading to important discoveries, is to 
careAilly dose np those paths which we know lead to error. 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 117 

tration of certain drugs, and. upon such data has 
been constructed one of the most glaringly false 
systems ever built up. Why does the bite of the 
cobra kill a man ? What is hydrophobia? Why does 
Peruvian bark, in most cases, alleviate ague } Why 
does merciuy produce salivation ? Why does iodine 
act upon the glands? Nay, tell us why Epsom salts 
is a cathartic? With many of the simplest ques- 
tions in medicine the whole faculty is at logger- 
heads; and just in the same way, that before Sir 
Isaac Newton's time people saw apples fall to the 
ground without knowing the reason thereof, so are 
medical practitioners aware of certain sure results, 
patent to every one, without knowing the why and 
wherrfore, which to them are as the Eleusinian 
mysteries. Far be it for an himible Stomach like 
myself to attach any degree of culpability to this 
ignorance. The subtle and hidden causes, by 
which Nature works in the human system, must 
ever defy human scrutiny, till the discovery of 
some grand principle* (like that of the circulation 

• How maoh science has derived from the search for the 
impuaaible ! The attempt at the transmutation of- metals, and 



i 

118 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

of the blood) gives a fresh clue to further know- 
ledge; and this can only accrue from the patient 
system of observation and experiment which Bacon 
insists upon, and which is now more than ever 
become the recognized method of pursuing science. 
It is not too much to beUeve, that the microscope 
is the means by which discoveries of vast import*- 
ance will hereafter be brought to light ; and that it 
will achieve for science results as usefrd, if not as 
grand, as those which the telescope has produced. 
The resolution of nebulae into distant worlds and 
systems, is not more woi^derful than secrets which 
may be yet disclosed by the minute inq)ection of 
matter. The maxima and minima have kingdoms 
to explore, each as rich as the other, for science 
takes less heed of bulk, than of combinations. 
I say again, therefore, far be it from a modest 
Stomach to blame a whole profession for not 
knowing the profoundest secrets of Nature ; but a 

search for the phUosopher's Btone, have been the cause of some 
of our most valuable augmentations to knowledge. Faraday 
always insists upon the necessity of experiment. «• If you don't 
find what you want," says he^*« you will find something perhaps 
more valuable'.** 



MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 119 

Stomach does blame them, and possesses a prescrip- 
tive right to do so, for prescribing in the dark — 
for putting the seal of their authority upon docu- 
ments, whose contents, for all they know, may be a 
Ubel upop the Creator. A Stomach does condemn 
them for drenching people with drugs and nos- 
trums, written in hieroglyphics, fit only for the 
tablets of some astrologer of Eld. 

Is the necessity of gain at the bottom of it all ? 
Has it been bequeathed to us from the evils which 
have sprung up, in not permitting the general prac- 
titioner to receive fees for his attendance ? Is the 
compact tacitly existing between the chemist and 
physician so intricate, so interwoven with one 
another's interest, that medical reform is impos- 
sible? Your first-class practitioners are, perhaps, 
take them all in all, the most humane (of course, 
barring the administration of medicine) and the 
most useful class of men living. The nature of 
their studies unshackles their minds ; and notwith- 
standing the dark in which they are groping, with 
respect to the materia medica, they necessarily dive 
into the mysteries of all the collateral sciences, 



120 MEMOIfiS OF A STOMACH. 

and imbibe such an amount of infonnation as 
makes them the most agreeable companion^ in the 
world; added to which, the afflicted in body and 
mind must always appeal to them as thdr best 
friends and true advisers.^ There is no class of men 
more liberal in their views, hence more willing to 
admit the evils of the system ; none so ready to 
assist the unhappy, or so careless of their just re- 
muneration, when an object for compassion comes 
in their way. When, however, they sit down com- 
placendy to prescribe compounds, from that book 
called the Pharmacopseia, the &ncied gold of the 
wizard is ttuned, as in the fable, into dry leaves. 
Those rows of phials, with frmereal labels round their 
necks, are just such as the priests of Isis might 
have stowed the inmost recesses of their temple 

i Such men as Dr. B g, of Park-lane, and Dr. B ^m, 

closely connected with the Westmhister Hospital, the late 

lamented Mr. L , of Brighton, and many others, are the 

centres of more real benefit to our species than any otiier class 
of men existing. Their knowledge of the hnman hearty and 
their pity for hnman nature, make their advice and their sym- 
pathy at once sound and sincere. What tales the hospital and 
the sick chamber of the poor could furnish, when the medical 
man is often, from necessity, at once the physician, the lawyer, 
and the difine I 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 121 

with, to awe the vulgar or the sceptic ; but in these 
enlightened times, when proffered by the hands of 
the really learned and good, the whole affair be- 
comes a travestie upon science, at once dangerous 
and hmnihating. 

The next rule worthy of the valetudinarian's 
attention is cabs in the selection of diet, and be 
assured I am the proper authority to consult upon 
this subject. Eegulabity of meals is another 
essential point, for I can work with great vigour 
when I am called upon to do so at stated, and 
tolerably certain intervals. Exercise, too, is a sine 
qua nofiy for the entire internal machinery becomes 
clogged unless a healthy waste of the system is pro- 
duced by walking or riding. Over-fetigue, how- 
ever, is my abhorrence, since my attention is then 
distracted &om my own particular duties. Masti- 
cation is another highly important item in my 
economy, and the dental organs may be considered 
as the teeth of the wonderftd internal mill, which is 
neither worked by wind or water. Indeed, in a 
jocose way I understand the teeth are called " grin- 
ders," though they do not grind, but bruise. This 



124 IfSMOlBS OF A STOMACH. 

In short, cheerMness is my delight, especially at 
meal time, and if doctors would insist upon their 
patients dining in society instead of giving them 
those eternal drugs, I'll he hoUud to say dyspepsia 
Would fly away for ever on its hat-like wing. 

What will my Mends and the world in general 
say if I venture to declare that d Ufe sp^it in good 
will to others, and a judicious regard to our moral 
government, influences an humhle individual like 
myself, in a most remarkable manner. Yet the hu- 
tnan body is such a bundle of sympathies, it is per- 
fectly true. I do not mean a mere selflsh care of 
the body, a regularity of existence suggested simply 
by presidential motives ; but I mean that I sympa- 
thise, and act in harmony with those higher ins^nra- 
tions and faculties, which distioguish a highly 
gifted nature from a common one. An explanation 
of this principle in all its bearings would involve 
both a physiological and psychological disquisition, 
and as the office of lecturer to mankind is not 
my role in life, I will forbear inflicting thfe reader 
by any plunge into obscure matters. This I may 

say, however, that a cow's stomach digests in its own 



MBM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 125 

peculiar way, admirably for the necessities of a 
cow. A gizzard does the duty of mastication for 
the bird tribe. A boa constrictor's slow working 
apparatus is excellently well adapted for that gentle 
animal, and the inside of many insects is as com* 
plicated as their life is varied, and is nicely calcu- 
lated to serve them on earth, ^ir, or water. Now, 
the stomach of a human being is equally con- 
genial to man*s nature, and the higher his intel- 
lectual faculties the more sensitive and delicate is his 
inside. In organic structure it is, of course, the 
same in all men, and a Hottentot's digestive organs 
and those of a Sir Isaac Newton's would present 
identical conformations, but the sympathy of the 
nervous energies mark the subtle difference. 
Thence, I again affirm that the moral acts upon the 
physical, and vice versa, by the most delicate sym- 
pathy, and wonderful laws. 

Thus far then, the necessary observances to sus- 
tain the body in health consist of moderation; 
mastication; a careful choice of food; rsgu- 
ULRiTT ; exercise; society at meals ; abjuration 
of PHYSIC ; and in caae of indisposition arising firom 



126 MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 

an infiingement of these rules, rbst, and a strict 

REGIMEN. 

Advice so simple, savours, perhaps, of self-evi- 
dent truisms ; but why then do people neglect them 
so continually ? By far the larger portion of the ills 
of life, is occasioned by errors in diet, and though 
there, of coiirse, exist hereditary diseases which 
have nothing whatever to do with myself, and rest 
solely with my ancestors, yet even these ills are to 
be mitigated, and in a generation or two, totally 
eradicated, by a strict attention to what passes the 
lips — ^inwardly. The moment compounds are swal- 
lowed the system must get rid of them in some 
way or other, and just conceive how much evil 
might be avoided if people would only consider this . 
simple fact. Health influences directly and indirectly 
a man's actions, and his mode and tone of thought ; 
and his ideas expressed in language, are so many * 
winged seeds, which he sows during life, to spring 
up ultimately for the good or ill of those who 
reap. He should never forget, too, that he is a link 
(as, indeed, so is the smallest atom of matter) in the 
chain which stretches from the dim past into the 



MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH. 127 

illimitable foture, and he contributes his share in 
giving form and shape to things to come, in the 
same way as he and his ideas have been formed, and 
shaped, by things past. Creation is, indeed, one 
whole, one entirety, and for all man knows to the 
contrary, his spirit may be pre-ordained to dwell in 
those remote worlds which seen &om our planet, 
are as little specks of fire in the vast expanse of 
ether. It is possible that herCy he moulds his 
future destiny therey and his highest and first duty 
is to listen to the suggestions of his reasoning 
powers, and by moderation and discipline, to deve- 
lop all his faculties, spiritual, mental, and phy- 
sical. Health, therefore, is a treasure he has no 
right to expend lavishly, or to fiitter away: he 

holds it in trust, as he does his life; and even in 
the dark ages, when science was struggling in the 
hands of astrologers and alchemists, they regarded 
the vital portions of the body so highly, as to exalt 
matter into the throne of man's soul and spirit. 

There are some members of my family whose 
nature is so vigorous and robust, that ordinary rules 
and regulations would seem scarcely to apply to 



128 MEMOIBS OF A STOMACH. 

their particular case. To sach, I say, go on and 
px>sper; but there are breakers ahead, and take 
care that you do not get wrecked on aloohoL 
From your very vigour you will be enticed to in- 
dulge, first in small drams, and then larger ones, 
till it will come to pass, that ultimately your diges- 
tion is no longer inside you, and a part dl you, but 
in bottles and flasks. 

At the risk of seeming to treat of matten beneath 
the attention of tiie general reader, I shall take my 
leave by submitting to his attention a little dietary 
tariff, well adapted for my brethren of all denomina- 
tions, but especially so for tiiose to whom I now 
more especially address myself-^e fietidious and 
dainty ones. In my sketch of a htde dinner it may 
be said, half tiie woild could not afford the ddica- 
cies I name, and all I have to say is, make such 
selections out of my ^ rules" as suit your pmne and 
inclination. I speak, too, of a ** slice out of the 
joint,'' having breathed dire anathemas against 
joints of an kinds, but I ref<;rred to their graceless 
conduct when served akme, tiius con^^eHing the 
general meal to be made oitirdy off huge hmips 



MBM0IB6 OF A STOMACH. 129 

of meat. Some of these days the gentle Londoners 
wiD, I hope, make it worth while for clubs and 
taverns to establish a table d'h6te, where variety 
and conversation are both attainable at a reason- 
able charge. But not longer to digress, here are my 
few suggestions, or 

RULES FOR SPECIAL PRACTICE 

IN THB 

COURT OF HEALTH. 

L Rise tolerably early and perform your ablutioD^ 
all over with tepid water. Rub yourself well dry, get 
as red as a boiled lobster, and take ^ brisk walk for 
half an hoiir.^ If the Qtomaoh craves for food, munob 
a dry biscuit on your way rejoicing. Note: If a 
person can bear i^ cold bath, and finds a quick re- 
action of warmth, there is not very much the matter 
with him. 

IL Take for breakfast one large cup of black tea» 
with plenty of milk, and very little sugar. Coffee is 
more heating, but extremely wholesome, made French 

1 It is scarcely necessary to allude here to the important 
fdnction of the skia. The internal machinery has much addi- 
tional work to get through, when the pores of the coTering to 
the hody are allowed to get partially closed up from the ahsence 
of the bath, and friction. 

I 



130 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

fashion — that is, a small quantity of the very esaenoe 
filled up with good boiling milk, so as to make three 
parts milk, and one part coffee. Cocoa and chocolate 
may be taken if particularly relished, and if no eruc- 
tations follow; but the oil they contain is difficult for 
me to digest Strong black tea is generally my fa- 
vourite beverage. A toasted French roll allowed to 
get cold, or thoroughly baked and fermented bread 
with a slice of bacon, are the solids I best approve > 
but breakfast is the meal when most liquid should 
be taken, but never exceed a pint Note : If a per- 
son can eat a hearty breakfast off several kinds of 
meat, k la mode those of my university experience, 
there is not very much the matter with him. 

m. A light lunch in the middle of the day suits me 
well, for the absorbents have assisted in the diffusion 
of my former receipts. A small mutton chop, or a 
sandwich without butter; a single glass of bitter ale, or 
a single wine-glass of sherry may, and ought to be 
taken, as it is necessary to stave off excessive hanger 
till a late dinner. It is usual to recommend an early 
dmner for invalids, and an early supper; but this is 
tantamount to a hearty lunch, and a very late dinner. 
Note: If a person can fast from breakfast to six or 
seven o'clock, without feeling the necessity for food, 
there is not very much the matter with him. 

IV. First catch, i. e., earn your dinner; and this, the 
grand meal of tlie day, requires our best attention . 
not for the purpose of gormandising, but so as to shape 
Its quality and quantity to my powers of digesting it* 



MBMOIBB OF A STOMACH. 131 

As J before said, variety is essential, but soapi is not 
good to commence with. When the Stomach is armed 
cap-a-pie and eager for the fray, he requires something 
to grapple with — something solid upon which to try his 
strength — and he turns up his nose at liquids. First, 
then, he l6yeth a nice L'ttle bit of boiled fish, a yery 
small quantity of melted butter, with a few drops of 
the life blood of the fair demoiselle Ann Chovey.s With 
this he receiveth complacently a glass of sherry; and 
he is now all attention, having an ear for a little 
agreeable conversation, as also an eye to his duties. 
Next, he loveth a portioiv of a French entr§met, pro- 
vided it be made by an adept. There will possibly be 
around it, or in it, a pleasing variety of well-selected 
and well-dressed vegetables; or should its character 
not admit of those graceful adjuncts, a puree of simple 
potatoes forms a soft bed, proper to prepare for the delicate 
viand, when it arrives at its destination, as an inside 
passenger. Plenty of bread, of yesterday's baking, he 
confidently expects at this interesting juncture. An* 

1 If taken at all, it must be thin and of vegetable. After 
heavy thick soups, cold roast beef, with a mealy potatoe, is the 
best second coarse. 

2 If melted batter disagrees (and anchovy is considered by 
some to spoil the flavoar of fish), ** cold batter, mastared,** with 
a little cayenne, is an excellent substitute. The robust, who can 
eat anything and everything with impunity, will laugh to scorn 
such petty details as these, bat the reader is again requested 
to remember that this part of our author^s subject is not 
written for such fortunate individuals. 

I 2 



132 MEM0IB8 OF A STOMACH. 

Other glass of sherry, and a laugh, or good-hnmoared 
speech, or some little piqaant on dit, now pleaseth him 
well, and all is proceeding in a most satisfactory man- 
ner. Next, this same Stomach loyeth a brown slice or 
two out of the joint, with plenty of gravy, and, may 
be, a little stewed celery, or thoroughly boiled artichoke 
of Jerusalem, is added with entire approval. Another 
glass of sherry is welcomed with open arms and a 
sweet smile, and he beginneth to feel extremely com- 
fortable. A short interregnum now arrives, and the 
conversation becomes animated and pleasant; and this 
is the period for the wise man to consider whether his 
internal satisfaction* has arrived at its culminating point. 
If he believes it is so, let him exclaim : " Hold, enough;'' 
but if he feels that each previous dish has been partaken 
of but sparingly, and that he has yet a little niche to 
fill up judiciously, then the stomach smileth blandly, 
and comports himself to receive with affection a slice or 
so from the bosom of a wild duck, with a gentle squeeie 
of lemon — and never forget to take a little acid with 
your dinner.i In lieu of this dish of grace, Stomach 
receiveth with courtesy and warmth the leg and wing 
(not divorced) of a partridge, with an addition of bread 
sauce, to assuage the pangs of the operation the poor 
thing underwent in being carved. In the absence of 
this amiable little bird, woodcock or snipe are admirable 
substitutes, or even a cut from the breast of a plump 

1 Again he insists upon acids, no doubt again because of their 
antiseptic qualities, proved by their removal of foetid breath. 
Lemon juice is now often given for gout and rheumatism. 



MBM0IB6 OF A 9T0MACH. 133 

hen pheasant (however: sportsmen may demur), or else 
a plover, or rotund quail, or melting landrail,-^he loveth 
all and each of them ; but now woe betide the unhappy 
wight who dares to add to suoh welcome delicaoies, 
pastry of any kind whatsoever.* Neither is cheese re- 
ceived without a sneer, and after a suspicion of celery 
(do not swallow it) to clear the palate, it is far better 
to make the finger bowl the finale of the feast ; or if 
you take just one extra glass as the epilogue of the 
three-act drama, rise from the table without either 
dessert, or a further imbibation of vinous fluids. Fruit 
is excellent in' its season, but not after a good meal. 
Note: If a person feels light and buoyant, and ready 
for a little cheerful recreation after such a meal as the 
foregoing, he may be delicately constitutioned, but — 
there is not very much the matter with him. 

V. Supposing you are neither a club-man at meal- 
time, nor a tavern-dining individual ; and then, further, 
supposing there are ladies to join in the drawing-room, 
oh, happy mortal, count the moments which keep you 
dallying over the bottle to the eternal detriment of poor 
me, steal away from table as soon as you can, and 
never feel ashamed of the humanising effects of female 
society ; for let me tell you the whole race of Stomachs 
dearly loveth the music from fair ladies' lips. For 
myself, I never digested so perfectly at my ease as when, 
after a light dinner, I was carried, as soon as £ngUsh 

1 An omelette or soaffle are the only admissible sweets after 
game, and it is as well to close qaestion Mr. Stomach as to whe- 
ther he needs even these. 



134 llEMOiaS OP A STOMACH. 

manners would permit, into the drawing-room, a oup of 
coffee, ^without milk, being suffered to descend; the 
while the gentle prattle of female tongues, or a little 
music (not too scientific), or a game of chess, or cards, 
or some such social amusement, passed the evening 
agreeably away, without leaving a pang for the morrow, 
or a moment of ennui at the present. Where do young 
men of the present day usually pass their evenings? 
Who are their companions ? A Stomach could answer. 
Do our fair countrywomen, by the absence of formality, 
or the graceful facility of making impromptu amuse- 
ments like our neighbours abroad, encourage the rougher 
sex to seek for recreation at home ? Does the heartless 
tone of London society, with its formal dancing parties, 
beginning at eleven, and its set dinner gatherings of 
dumb, cold ostentation, contribute in any way to hang 
up such garlands and fruits ai Aome, as create a counter 
lure to the meretricious amusements of the young male 
members of the household ? What a sermon a Stomach 
could preach if he dared! But he has said enough upon 
this subject to prove that Rule V. is no rule at all, but 
its exception. 

YI. Supposing the evening to have been cheerfully 
passed, and your time of rising had been early, there 
will be no difficulty in a corresponding early retirement 
to slumber, and by all means avoid supper of every 
description. It is true the activity of the mind at night 
will sometimes unpleasantly show itself in wakefulness, 
unless its attention is called off by a gentle exertion on 
my part; and for those who suffer in this wise, it is * 
as well to keep a little reserve of biscuit by the bed- 



MEMOISS OF A STOMACH. 135 

side. If, before you retire, you will be courageous 
enough to drink a tumbler of cold water, so much the 
better; for water is an excellent solvent, and its use, 
externally and internally in moderation, of the greatest 
possible value. Note : If a person rise refreshed, with 
a clean tongue, a ready aptitude to commence the 
day's exertions, and at his heart a warm feeling of grati- 
tude for the gift of life, depend upon it he has nothing 
whatever the matter with him. 

And now, dear reader, liaving waited at your 

» 
table during the day, and having consigned you, 

as I hope, to happy dreams, wherein the forms of 

loved objects float around you, I make my bow 

and doff my hat, in a manner worthy, I trust, of the ^ 

Stomach of a Chesterfield. 



LONDOfI : PSUITBD BT J. MOOBE, 
6, SOUTH All PT0N-8TBKET, AND 29> EXBTEB>8TBEET, STBAHD. 



JuMt published, boards, gUt Utters, 3s, 6d, or by post, 48 postage 

stamps, 

THE MEMOIRS OF A STOMACH, 

WBITTBN BY HIMSELF, 
THAT ALL WHO BAT MAT READ. 

EDITED BY A MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR. 

SECOND BDITION. 

PUBLISHED BY W. E. PAINTEB^ 342, STBAND. 

AND ALL BOOE8ELLEBS. 

OPINIONS OF T HE PRE88. 

HORNING ADYEETISEB. 

'* This pleasant, and, if rightly read, profitable jeu ^ esprit , has for 
its penman a scholar, an observer, a satirist, and a humourist— a rare 
combination, yet the more delightfid from its infrequenc^. True, that 
by a certain gravity great^blockheads pass for wise men, and immense 
fools, if they can control their tongues, get credit for capacity which 
they never i>ossessed ; these classes, conscious of their own deficienqy, 
always shake the head and look wise when they come upon sudi 
masters of Ic^cal fence and laughing philosophy as tliefacete author 
of Memoirs of a Stomach, For in truth this book, amidst its qaipa 
and cranks, contains more dietetic truths, more caustic bitings 
into the i>olished SurflEUje of medical humbug, more gastronomic, 
physiol(^cal, aye, and philosophical teachings, than a score of * pro- 
fessional' works. • • • We recommend those who would love 
a merry hour, to possess themselves of these Memoirs qfa Stomach, 
and especially peruse the ' Rules for Special Practice in the Court of 
Health,* which form an Appendix to this wise and merry monitor.*' 

SUN. 
" This is a droll, fJMwtious book, and will rank in the category of 
those fifcvourite byegones— " The Gold-Headed Cane,** " The Velvet 
Cushion,** and " The Complaint of a Leffc-Handed Member of 
Society.** The grievances which a stomach has to complain of are 
very wittily told, and the members of the medical profession are 
unsparingly but justly dealt with. Fashionable doctors and fashion- 
able doctrines are held up to the weU-deserved ridicule which thegr 
so richly merit and deserve. We advise aU lovers of fun, and all 
who have dyspeptic stomachs, to take one dose of humour from this 
work ; it is worth five hundred fees paid to an M.D.* 



, »» 



Ml 



NE^ QUABTBRLY. 
'The most fantastic and curious little book of the quarter. It is 
a most humorous account of the miseries this poor oif;an has to en- 
dure from the bread and treacle days of childhood, through the 
coUegiata nights of fieiy port and deviUed kidneys, and weU into 
the aldermanic senescentfJ difficulties of turtle and venison dinners. 



WetMlaal sometimes I!m1 w« hftve a itomaoh, and hftye been eftooons 
tempted to adopt the Frenchma&Hi definition of a happy man, ' one 
who has a good stomach and a bad heart.' We owe the author, 
whoever he maj be, a kind word, for he has obtained ns a hearty 
laugh and an appetite. He has exposed to us also the absurdities 
of some of our fayourite stomachics, and we hope to feel less bilious 
and write better hereafter. The biped who is conscious of possessing 
a stomach must possess one out of order : let him consult this (Hraole. 
It is apparently written by some physician, who thinks it etiquette 
to remain anonymous." 

ERA. 
" This is decidedly a witty production, and by no means an useless 
one. It is not merely a smart rebuker of the over -dosing medical 
system, but also a pleasant and sensible adviser upon these three 
important subjects— How, When, and What to Eat At one time we 
are almost led to fanqy this book a mere mask for the advocate of 
homoeopathy to speak behind; but this impression wears off on 
further perusal ; and there does not appear to be any overt intention 
on the writer's part beyond the wish to make his reader's * inside* 
healthy and comfortable. We cordially recommend these Memoirs." 

SPECTATOR. 
"A scientific jeu cP esprit, in which physiological information is 
given, dietetic errors i>ointed out, and sound advice is offered, in the 
form of a Stomach's autobiography from infancy to advanced age." 

CHURCH AND STATE GAZETTE. 
"Nothing is betrayed flrom the private, diary that could hurt the 
most susceptible of feeling people ; while nearly everything is brought 
forward calculated to raise a good-humoured laugh. The editor is 
evidently entitled to all the praise that is due, and he has interpreted 
the grumblings, communications, and wayward ways of his alter ego, 
* Stomach,' with a wit and vivacity which charm, and with an ability 
which surprizes." 

CHURCH OF ENGLAND QUARTERLY. 
"Abounds with fun and pleasant satire, and breathes a spirit of 
originality as rare as it is welcome in these book-making days." 

WEEKLY DISPATCH. 
"There is an abundance of good sense aided by incontrovertible 
reason in its pages." 

LLOYD'S NEWSPAPER. 
" Treats on Stomachs in general with a wisdom that is none the 
less readily taken down, because it is a wisdom recommended with a 
sirupy pleasantness." 

SUNDAY TIMES. 
" The Stomach has a natural aversion to physic, and advantage is 
taken of this fact to launch a philippic against the doctinrs, their 
contradictory prescriptions being brought in judgment against 
them with telling effect." 



MR. SYDKET WHITING'S 

LITERARY Ml&LANGE, 

SECOND BDITIOM. 

PUBLISHED BY W. E. PAINTER. 342. STBA.ND. 

Price Five ShiUijigs. 



NOTICES OF THE LAST EDITION. 

" Mr. Whiting is a most graceful and interesting writer. Endowed 
with a high poetic feeling, he is also gifted with great dramatic 
power. Or this there is abundant evidence in the ' Summer's Tale 
of Venice ' and the other Essays and Poems of which his book 
consists. The * Lion at a Party * mi^ht well have come fh)m the 
graceful pen of Lambe or Irving. It is one of those social sketches, 
which, to redeem them flrom common-place, reauire the delicate touch 
of a master-hand. * The Missing Despatches,' although a mere sketch, 
contains within itself more than would suffice to fill three volumes 
by most of our novel- writers. But Mr. Whiting's poetry is even better 
than his prose. ' Ck)ra, or a Legend of Somersetshire,' is a sweetly 
pretty Poem. It is full of poetic imagery, and replete with poetic 
teehng."— Atlas. 

"Numerous as the articles are. and widely divergent as are their 
vfuious subjects, they will all repay pierusal. In one respect also, the 
lx)ok, in spite of the number and variety of the subjects, may be said 
to possess a unity of its own. the separate parts being fused together 
by a peculiar spirit of kindliness visible in each. A certain geniality 
pervades the whole, proving the common parentage."— i>a% News. 

*' There is considerable amusement to be met with in this collection. 
The Tales are very interesting, and the Plays exhibit great talent, the 
characters are well drawn, and the incidents have the appearance of 
truth, while novel and entertaining. The short poems are very 
pleasing ; thev are chiefly on mythological subjects, and display con- 
siderable classical knowledge."— i9tm. 

" One and all of the articles exhibit considerable elegance of diction, 
great propriety of thought, and a depth of right feeling which cannot 
be too hi^ly commended in the present taste of literarv productions. 
Their umform tendency is to inculcate mercy and forbearance ; and 
therefore they cannot be too warmly recommended to the reader." — 
Observer. 

" Imaginative and didactic by turns, Mr. Sydney Whiting invariably 
arrests the attention of those somewhat more imperious in their 
requirements than the mere desultory r«Bder, by tne deep vein of 
reflection which pervades even the lightest of the articles before us, 
and at times imparts a philosophiad character to his narrative. Of 
this, the very ably-written paper on ' The Value of Thought ' fUmishes 
a striking illustration. A poet himself, as we shall presently show, 
our author indulges in no mawkish sentimentalism respecting the 
disappointment too often, aJas I tn store for genius. Much of this 
he attributes to the want of fusion, if we may so express ourselves, 
of the actual with the ideal."— 7ai^« Magazine, 

" Whilst in his sketches of society Mr. Whiting still retains that 
nice and well-bred delicacy of touch and outline which formerly 
distinguished him, there is now added to it a love of truth and of 
virtue for their own sakes, the want of which are the most prominent 
defects in writings of much greater popularity. It is indeed in this 
direction, that tne bent of Mr. Whiting's mind is evidently cast, in 

Eleasantly reooffnisingand extracting the good from whatever society 
e finds himself in, and by pursuing this his natural inclination, he 
is likely to make many valuable admtions to descriptive literature, 
perhaps even to fill up a void in social philosophy."— I^ww* Telegraph. 




'* Mr. Whiting strikes a higher chord in ' A Word for Poets/ 
which is an eloquent protest against the wrongs of those who sung 
to the world in the sweetest strains. But there is something in the 
volume to suit all tastes, and no matter what a reader's mood may 
be, we venture our critical reputation that he will find something to 
gratify it in the ' Litemxj Melange.' "— Brighton Herald. 

** In the varied phases of a classical taste and elegant imagination, 
the accomplished writer disports with the grace and fervour of 
poetical temperament, to the certain eigoyment of all who partake 
of the rich dainties so bountiftdly catered for in his volume."— 
Taunton Courier, 



NOTICES OF THE FIBST EDITION. 

"The author exhibits el^ance and propriety of thought, and a 
ftind of good feeling, which he conveys in a sl^le easy, without effort, 
playful, and at times nervous and profound.— Jfornin^ Herald. 

** The tendency of these writings is to inculcate cheerfulness and 
benevolence. . . . It is curious to find the author excelling where 
excellence is so rare— the comic underplot."— ul^^. 

"We can only say that they more nearly approach the character 
of Charles Lamb's writings than any of the modem imitators of that 
delightful essayist.**— Pictorta? Times. 

"El^ance and humour are the leading characteristics.*'— O^i/brcl 
and Cambridge Review. 

"The tales, sentimental and humourous, much above the common 
run of novels in small ; and which is curious, Mr. Whiting's i)oetry 
seems to excel his t^tq&q."— Spectator. 

"The 'Summer's Tale of Venice* contains scenes which attest 
both dramatic power and high poetic feeling ; and the other more 
desultory Poems have fairly earned the encomiums which they have 
already received."— uli»«ii;or^A'« Magazine. 

"There is no pretension in these volumes beyond what their merit 
will sustain."— JbAn BvU. 

ALSO, BY THE SAME ATJTHOB., 

AFFECTION, 

ITS FLOWERS AND ITS JFRUITS. 
A NOVEL, m THREE VOLUMES. 



"Pectus est fons misericordiie benignum. 

"Bids fair to be as popular as its aim is benevolent and praise- 
worth."— Jfomi»flr HerMd. 

" It deserves every good man's approbation for the beautiftd en- 
thusiasm in the cause of benevolence which it evinces. . . . One 
character in the book is remarkably beautiful in its conception and 
execution ; that of Mary Stapleton, a mere sketch as it is, is perfect 
in its wB,y.**—Jerrold*8 Paper. 

" It has novelty, descriptive power, and unflagging amusement."— 
New Monthly. 

*' If any novel can do good by placing before us paintings of exem- 
plary character, showing us tne good consequences of affection, 
tempered by humanity and reason, the work under notice must do 
so." — Observer. 

" The pictures of social life are drawn with a master touch, and 
shaded only as the poet's eloquent taste could shade them."— CW^. 

" Is not only of a very interesting character in itself, but also gives 
promise of a valuable acquisition to the class of novel-writers."— 
Weekly Dispatch. 



-t- 



?^ 




BOUND BV 

WESTLEYSAC? 

>R»A« STKEJT. 



