
•J!|cr) 'uot>po4S ■ 

"A 'N 'asn^oJ^S 
M3Q NI8 131HdWVd 



LITERARY COOKERY 

WITH REFERENCE TO HATTER ATTRIBUTED TO 

COLERIDGE AND SHAKESPEARE. 

A LETTER 

ADDRESSED TO "THE ATHENMM." 



WITH A POSTSCRIPT 

CONTAINING SOME REMARKS UPON 
THE REFUSAL OF THAT JOURNAL TO PRINT IT. 



SINCERUM EST NISI VAS &c. 

A Hint, from HORACE, on Cooking, 



LONDON : 
JOHN EUSSELL SMITH, SOHO-SQUA1IE. 

1S55. 



-/ LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
E) 7 SANTA BARBARA 



AMERIC A. 



A writer in " Notes and Queries " considers the name of our country 
faulty, because derived from the Italianized form of the German " Em- 
merich." 

The latter is, however, evidently a contraction of the Gothic AlR- 
manareiks, which apparently signifies Most Exalted or Universal 
Ruler, and, when applied to a country, may likewise be rendered Most 
Sublime Dominion ! 

As regards its signification, therefore, the name " America " is 
more appropriate than " Columbia : " for, in the one case, we have only 
to wait till " this whole boundless continent is ours," but, in the other, 
until the lion shall lie down with the lamb; for we shall, I fear, hardly 
be dovelike before the millennium. 

The Mueso-Gothic " Airmana " is the same as the old Saxon " Ir- 
min " or " Irman " and the Anglo-Saxon " Eormin." " Reich " signified, 
anciently, both power and dominion, as well as one holding i><m-< r. 

The name " Airmanareiks " was borne as early as the fourth cen- 
tury by a King of the Goths. In the course of ages it was gradually 
changed to " Armanarich," " Ermanarich," " Ermenrich," " Emme- 
rich," &c. 

B. II. I). 



The true nature of this pamphlet was entirely misre- 
presented in the ex parte statement made in support of a 
rule for a criminal information against the publisher, moved 
for before the Judges of the Queen's Bench on the 16th 
inst., but refused by them. 

It is not true that there is any direct charge contained 
in this pamphlet against Mr. Collier as to a surreptitious 
preparation of the " Marginal Corrections of Shakespeare :" 
such a charge would be absurd, because at present incapable 
of proof. 

But it is stated in this pamphlet, that so long as certain 
facts, with respect to the preparation of another series of 
papers, remain unaccounted for, the unfavourable inference 
thereby created must extend to all Mr. Collier's productions 
in the same line. 

These facts, although often complained of, had been 
suffered by Mr. Collier to remain before the public, for 
upwards of a year, unexplained and uncorrected, until the 
publication of this pamphlet : and they are shortly 
these : — 

1 . The reiterated assertion of impossible dates to several 
distinct documents. 

2. The report of a portion of " the third lecture' after it 
had been twice most distinctly stated by Mr. Collier that no 
such report existed. 

2Qd January, 1850. 



INTRODUCTION. 



It is very much the fashion to cry down as unfair 
and unworthy of attention, charges preferred 
anonymously against known individuals; but al- 
though under certain circumstances they may 
deserve that character — where the charges are of 
a private nature, sustained only by the opinion or 
testimony of the accuser — yet there has always 
been a conventional and well understood exception 
where accusations are brought forward upon public 
grounds — against public individuals who by their 
own acts or from the nature of their functions are 
open to the criticism of all the world. 

So long as the accusation is of public import, 
and so long as the acts animadverted upon are of 
public notoriety or accessible record, they are a 
fair and legitimate subject for an anonymous 
writer. He is merely the mouth-piece and pro- 
claimer of those acts, and if the inference he 
would draw from them be unjust, there is a well 



IV 



known reaction of generosity in the public mind 
that converts a pointless accusation into an in- 
crease of confidence. 

If ever there was an individual who by his own 
act and assumption placed himself upon a pinnacle 
of public suspicion, it was Mr. J. P. Collier, when 
he took upon himself the triple capacity of dis- 
coverer — sponsor — and interpreter of the " Mar- 
ginal Corrections" of the Text of Shakespeare. 

By exacting for these corrections a considera- 
tion wholly due to their asserted antiquity, he 
converted them from matter of opinion into matter 
of faith and credibility — himself the witness : and 
if from that moment his public acts are subjected 
to cross-examination with a view to sift the value 
of his testimony, he must not be offended — the 
inconvenience is of his own infliction. 



A LETTER 

TO THE EDITOR OF THE ATHENMM 

ON 

LITERARY COOKERY. 



The Athenmum has so frequently and so fearlessly exposed 
the delinquencies of literary peculators — shewing up in 
parallel columns the spoiler and the spoiled, to the great 
amusement of its readers, and, it is to be hoped, to the 
discouragement of evil doers — that after such just severity 
towards simple larceny, it can scarcely desire to screen the 
graver offence, if not of downright forgery, at least of what 
may be described by that expressive phrase — " cooking.'' 

The charge on the present occasion needs no vouching ; 
it is a crimen sine teste probatum the facts of which speak 
for themselves and require only simple inspection. A 
certain document, alleged to be in existence, either does 
or does not exist : if existing, it has been falsified ; if not 
existing, the story of its discovery is untrue. It is a dilemma 
from which there is no escape. 

Some time in last year Mr. J. P Collier announced with 
great circumstance (in Notes and Queries, vol. X.) another 
of his " preposterous discoveries." 

He stutcd that it had very recently been his good 
fortune to " make a find" of his own original short-hand 
notes of Lectures on Shakespeare and Milton, " delivered 
by Coleridge so far back as the year 1812 ;" and that among 



these notes he had also " luckily found" the original printed 
prospectus of the course. 

Of that prospectus he then professed to give a literal 
copy, and its first sentence is this : — 

" Mr. Coleridge will commence on Monday, November 18th (1812), 
a course" — &c. 

Why the year should be enclosed in brackets does not 
appear — it might be to draw attention to it — but however 
that may be, the same date "November 18, 1812," is after- 
wards forced into notice in a very extraordinary manner. 

Not only is it expressly and pointedly confirmed by 
several extracts from the alleged contemporary notes, but 
the year 1812 is reiterated, in one shape or another, twelve 
or fourteen times in the course of the description ; and there 
are two of these repetitions which impress the date with such 
remarkable emphasis, that no reasonable doubt can exist 
that for some purpose or another, the date was designedly 
enforced upon the reader's attention. 

In one place Mr. Collier writes (alluding to his notes) — 

" It is singular that I have not marked the date of the day 
•when any lecture was delivered, excepting the first on Monday, Nov. 
18, 1812." 

And in another place, in a farewell admonition to his reader, 
he again insists that there must be no mistake about the 
date : — 

" It will be borne in mind that all I have written belongs to the 
end of the year 1812, and the beginning of the year 1813." 

Can any person then, even the most credulous, believe for 
an instant, that all this deliberate and apparently needless 
iteration is consistent with accident or inadvertence ? 

It must be recollected that a printed document was all 
the while before the writer's eyes, and that it is the date of 
that printed document that is so elaborately confirmed by the 
manuscript notes. 



That two or three independent sources should concur in 
a mistake of such improbable occurrence as the date of the 
year in which they were respectively written and printed, is 
absolutely incredible. 

But then another pi'ofessed copy of this same prospectus 
has been long before the world in the " Life of Coleridge," 
by James Gillman, published in 1838. It is in every respect 
the same as Mr. Collier's, except the date, which in Mr. 
Gillman's reprint is — 

"Monday, November 18, 1811." 

Hence, with the same printed document before them, either 
Mr. Gillman or Mr. Collier must have altered the year. 

But Mr. Gillman's date is possible and consistent, while 
Mr. Collier's is imjjossible ; so that the only inference is, 
that Gillman's is the true copy: and Mr. Collier is left in this 
dilemma — either a document, which he alleged he had just 
found, was not in his possession at all, or if in his possession, 
it had been knowingly and intentionally altered to serve a 
purpose. 

What that purpose may have been, it is, of course, im- 
impossible for another person to aver, but it must not merely 
on that account be doubted that the alteration was intentional, 
where evidence of design is so apparent : but if it should 
still be considered that the suggestion of some possible 
motive is essential to the completeness of the charge, the 
following hypothetical case might not be far wrong. 

Supposing an ingenious person wished to confer upon 
-certain MS. notes, purporting to have been written at such 
and such a time, an extraneous title to credit — and supposing 
that person had imbibed an idea that a new and more 
correct date might be ascribed to an occurrence which had 
hitherto been (as he might suppose) erroneously dated : there 
can be no doubt that if the new date could be supported, and 
the old date shown to be wrong, a very extraordinary pre- 
sumption of truth would thereby accrue to the alleged 



contemporary notes from which the new date might appear 
to he obtained. 

Now, although the new date ascribed by Mr. Collier to 
Coleridge's lectures can not be sustained, because it is an 
impossible date, and inconsistent with itself, yet it by no 
means follows that the adopter of that date may not for a 
time have been led into an implicit though mistaken confi- 
dence in it. 

Because the date " Monday, November 18, 1812," happens 
to be a correct and consistent date according to old style : so 
that all that is required to account for the whole affair, is the 
easy supposition that a person desirous of ascertaining a back 
date had got hold by mistake of an old-style almanac ! 

Now by a singular coincidence there happens to be a well 
known book of reference wherein old-style almanacs are 
attached to years of the present century. 

And by a stdl more singular coincidence, it is the book 
of all others the most likely to be consulted by a writer in 
Notes and Queries, since it had been advertised and frequently 
alluded to in that publication, and editorially mentioned in 
terms of special recommendation for the " ready test it affords 
as to accuracy of dates .'" 

It is scarcely necessary to say that the book alluded to 
is De Morgan's " Book of Almanacs," wherein the first and 
most observable table of years extends to A.D. 1900, and is 
for old style. 

A person, then, desirous of ascertaining a back date, and 
not very well up to the distinction between old and new 
style — or perhaps unobservant that the first table was exclu- 
sively for the former, might very easily and very unwittingly 
search therein for A.D. 1811 (with a view perhaps to verify 
Gillman's date of the Coleridge prospectus). 

Kunning his eye along the columns of years he would 
come to A.D. 1811 in the penultimate column of page 3, 
with an annexed direction to Almanac 12. Here he would 
find the 18th of November attributed to Saturday, and he 



would immediately rejoice in the fancied discovery that 
Gillman's date was wrong. He would then refer to the 
following year, 1812, and receiving a similar direction to 
Almanac 31, he would find the 18th of November therein 
set down to Monday. Whereupon, if not very conversant 
with chronology, he would naturally place the most implicit 
reliance upon " Monday, November 18, 1812," as a true and 
defensible date. 

But whether this be or be not the true explanation of the 
delusion by which Mr. Collier's anomalous report of the 
Coleridge lectures was brought about, it is undoubtedly true 
that he has alleged the existence of a printed prospectus, 
bearing not only an impossible date, but a date differing from 
other published copies of the same document: and it is no 
less true that he has confirmed and supported that erroneous 
date by extracts from alleged private notes, purporting to 
Lavr been written at the time, but, nevertheless, most un- 
accountably impressed with dates equally impossible. 

Consequently the case, as against Mr. Collier, amounts 
to this : — 

The printed prospectus, if it had the date of the year 
upon it at all. (and that it had, may be presumed from 
Gillman's verbatim copy) must have been originally impressed 
" 1811." 

If this had been altered to 1812 previously to coming into 
Mi*. Collier's possession, such an alteration in a printed 
document must have been apparent, and ought to have excited 
investigation and remark. 

When, therefore, Mr. Collier is found silently quoting 
it as '• 1812," that circumstance is of itself suspicious; but 
when 1812 is again corroborated by private notes and memo- 
randa, for which Mr. Collier is alone responsible, the inference 
is irresistible that the dates of both prospectus and notes had 
a common origin, and were subjected to one common self- 
convicting blunder. 

All this may seem slight and unimportant, but it almost 



invariably happens, that it is precisely by such ill-considered 
trifles that deception is betrayed and unmasked. What 
reader of Miss Edgeworth's tale of " Patronage" but must 
recollect the venerable and white-headed old man who is 
suborned to testify to the false will ? There has been an 
old defaced sixpence enclosed within the seal, and the old 
man is to swear that he saw it placed there many years 
before when the will was sealed. The cause is on the point 
of being decided in favour of the forgers — the old man seems 
so thoroughly respectable in his mildness and grey hairs 
that not a breath against his truth will be listened to : — but 
the old witness is so enamoured of the clever device of the 
sixpence, and has got himself so well up in the story relating 
to it, that he is loth to relinquish it — he stoops down to his 
counsel and whispers that the sixpence has been forgotten 
— thereupon the seal is broken, the coin is found just as 
described, and the old man's triumph is for a while complete. 
But alas ! the acute counsel on the opposite side has at 
length succeeded in decyphering the date upon the coin, 
and, to the utter confusion of the forgers, it proves to be long 
subsequent to the alleged date of the will. 

Verily, chronology is a useful servant, but a most dan- 
gerous accomplice ! 

But it must not be imagined that all this trouble would 
have been taken merely for the purpose of proving that Mr. 
Collier must have tampered with the Coleridge prospectus. 
Certainly not : the object in view is far higher and mox'e 
important. 

It is to rescue the outraged spirit of Shakespeare from 
the incubus of those " marginal corrections," which, to the 
shame of the nineteenth century, have been permitted, like 
the unclean birds of old, to settle down upon his text, tearing 
and mangling, and befouling where they could not destroy. 

There is a strong family resemblance between the dis- 
covery of these marginal corrections and the find of the 
Coleridge notes : but, unfortunately for the ends of justice, 



the edge-tool of chronology was not meddled with in the 
former case, so that the same sort of direct proof could not 
be brought against it as is now shown to be so fatally 
damaging to the notes. 

There are some persons whose minds are so constituted 
that nothing sbort of direct and undeniable proof of dis- 
honesty in the witness will induce to admit the possibility 
of his deceiving them — the more especially if the witness be 
what is considered " competent authority." 

The presumption — the plagiarism — the vulgarity — the 
imbecility — of those wretched libels on the text of Shakes- 
peare were as nothing to convince of their hxrposture; but 
had the prestige of their sponsor being less — had they really 
been dependent solely on their own merits — they would have 
been at once cried to scorn. 

To dispel that prestige, by laying bare the taint of 
contrivance, is the real object of this exposure ; if the scent 
now opened be effectively followed up, it may, perhaps, at 
length extort a second confession, similar to Ireland's, of 
Shakespearean forgeries. 

The AihmcBum, although it was soon left far behind by 
more enthusiastic admirers of the marginal corrections, was 
the first to " stamp the leasing" with the currency of its 
approval. Will it now assist in undoing the mischief? Will 
it, at the least, give publicity to this impeachment? The 
name of Shakespeare ought to be as sacred an appeal to all 
true adherents, as that of the Sovereign to all loyal subjects, 
for aid and furtherance to 



A DETECTIVE. 

3rd October, 1855. 



POSTSCRIPT. 



The foregoing letter was sent to the Editor of the Athenaum 
on the 3d of this month, accompanied by a note to the 
following effect : — 

"This letter is sent to the Athenaum for 'publication under this 
condition : that if published at all, it shall be intact and entire, 
without addition or curtailment. 

" Should this condition not be complied with, or should publication 
be altogether refused, it is the writer's intention to have the letter 
immediately printed for diffusion through the post-office." 

To this an answer appeared in the Athenaum of the 6th, as 
follows : — 

"A Detective is declined. His manuscript is left for him at our 
office. The insertion of the year within a parenthesis is a clear 
intimation that it was not printed on the document from which the 
writer was copying, and therefore was conjectural : Detective's com- 
ment is therefore a mere waste of words." 

The Editor doubtless thought that this dictum would 
quite settle the matter, and leave " A Detective" in a pre- 
dicament, to exclaim with Charles, in the " Elder Brother" — 
"My head is broken with a parenthesis." 

But the parenthesis which encloses the year in Mr. 
Collier's copy of the Coleridge prospectus is not, by any 
means, such a plain proof as the Editor of the Athenaum 
would assume, that there was no year printed in the original 
document ; especially in the face of the direct evidence to the 
contrary afforded by Mr. Gillman's reprint. (Life of 
Coleridge, vol. I. p. 262.) In that reprint there is no 
parenthesis, nor any other indication that the year had been 
an addition of Mr. Gillman's own. 



9 

Besides, even in Mr. Collier's version, the manner in 
which the parenthesis is inserted, within an including comma, 
and with no break in the quotation-marks, is certainly 
much more indicative of a singling out (by brackets) for the 
purpose of future comment, than of the intrusion of new 
matter extraneous to the original. 

But admitting that the fact is as the Editor of the 
Athemeum assumes, and that there really was no year printed 
in the original prospectus, how does that alter the complexion 
of the manoeuvre? It merely changes the modus operandi from 
substitution to interpolation. The charge is that the pros- 
pectus is altered, and the Editor of the Athenaum seems to 
forget that alteration may be effected as well by interlopatiou 
as by substitution. 7s it not, in fact, an altered document as 
it stands ? "" 

The statement of Mr. Collier was, that certain long lost 
notes — short-hand notes — had been found, which, when all 
written out, " extend to from ten to forty sides of letter- 
paper for each lecture ;"' that is, to sufficient for the 
manufacture of an octavo volume of matter to be attributed 
to Coleridge. The date of these notes is asserted in the 
most positive and unequivocal manner ; and is apparently 
confirmed by a printed document found with them, but 
mis-quoted with the addition of a fictitious, or, as the Editor 
of the Athencmm delicately terms it, a conjectural date to suit. 
If not as a corroborative, why was this date add< d at all ? 
Mr. Collier was repeating the year 1812 in almost every 
sentence of his own remarks upon the subject; where, then, 
could be the necessity of introducing it surreptitiously into 
a professed verbatim copy of another document, in contra- 
diction to the date that had previously been attributed to 
that document ? 

But there was a third mutual corroborative, which also 
turned up at the same time, in the shape of a journal or 
diary, in which every thing seems to be fragmentary, except: 
ing tb^ various dates: they are perfect enough, and all 



10 

concur in supporting this same date which we are now to 
look upon as merely conjectural. Nay, this diary is so 
precise that it gives the date of an allusion by Coleridge 
himself to another series of lectures delivered by him the 
-preceding year. (? ) 

" Coleridge himself mentioned them in a conversation at my father's 
on the 21st October, 1812. It was on the same occasion that he 
announced to us his intention of giving the lectures, of seven of which 
I have notes, and which commenced on the 18th Nov. following." 

But the Editor of the AtheW&um now assumes that the 
date of the year common to all these documents was con- 
jectural ! Conjecture implies doubt, and if Mr. Collier really 
wished to verify his date there was a ready means of so doing 
by a glance at obvious sources of information, such as Gillman's 
Life of Coleridge, or the Coleridge Lectures, in both of 
which the very prospectus he was copying is to be found. 

It is almost incredible that any person would sit down 
to write matter to be attributed to Coleridge, and yet omit 
to consult at least the indexes of previous collections. Or 
was it with intention that Mr. Collier apparently provokes 
the inference that he had done so ? It is difficult to banish 
such a suspicion, when he is found reprinting the well known 
prospectus of 1818 with this preliminary remark : — 

"As I cannot find that the prospectus of Coleridge's lectures in 1818, 
(they began on 27th January, and finished on 13 th March,) was ever 
reprinted, and as I happen to know that it cost him no little trouble 
and reflection, I venture, though it is somewhat long, to subjoin the 
introduction to what is called the syllabus of the course," &c. 

Ever reprinted ! Why it occupies a conspicuous place in 
the " Remains," published in 1836; — it is reprinted at length 
in the " Life," published In 1838 ; — and it is the very first 
article in the 2d vol. of the "Lectures," published in 1849, 
being an obvious and indispensable portion of the lectures 
themselves. 

Oue, at least, of these books Mr. Collier appears to be 
acquainted with ; since he quotes it, volume and page, in his 



11 

Notes and Emendations: and yet the expression "cannot find" 
would seem to imply a search ; aud if so, surely the books 
just enumerated are precisely those in which a search would 
be made. 

But it is singular that this should be the second time 
that Mr. Collier considered it necessary to make the same 
disavowal. In a previous part of his communication he had 
said : — 

"I had carefully preserved Coleridge's printed 'Prospectus' of his 
lectures in 1818 (I know not if it has been reprinted)," &c. 

By the w r ay, there certainly is a word peculiar to Mr. 
Collier's copy of this Prospectus of 1818, which does distin- 
guish it from other versions, viz. : — 

" The acquisitions and attainments of the intellect ought, indeed, to 
hold a very inferior rank in our estimation, opposed to moral worth, 
or even to professional and scientific skill, prudence, and industry." 
(Keprint in Notes and Queries, vol. x. p. 22.) 

The word scientific, in all reprints save this of Mr. Collier's, 
is printed specific ; and it is needless to say, that all other 
reprints are unquestionably right : but perhaps this may be 
an emendation! — it has, indeed, a wondrous smack of the Old 
Corrector — 

Although the print be little, the whole matter 
And copy oj the father — 

But to return to the lectures of " 1812" — there is another 
circumstance, perhaps of not much importance in itself, but 
significant in aggravation of the other discrepancies in 
these revelations. 

Mr. Collier states that he had recovered his notes of 
seven out of the fifteen lectures which constituted the course : 
and these seven he enumerates as " the first, second, sixth, 
seventh, eighth, ninth, and twelfth. " 

And yet, in the very next page to this enumeration, we 
read — 

" These were the concluding words of Coleridge's second lecture. In 
his third he thus" — &c. 



12 

And then follows half a page of matter, reported in the first 
person, as though taken down from the lips of Coleridge, 
whose third lecture was not one of those of which the notes 
had been so fortunately recovered. 

But if ever there was positive assertion, untinctured by the 
slightest appearance of doubt, hesitation, or conjecture, it 
assuredly is the assertion by Mr. Collier of every particular 
relative to his alleged date of Coleridge's Lectures " of 1812." 
A Detective cannot therefore agree with the Editor of the 
Athenceum, that it is "a mere waste of words" to draw public 
attention to the impossibility of that date, and consequently 
to the extreme improbability of its having been obtained from 
any bona fide or really contemporary source ; and, as a 
corollary to that conclusion, that no faith ought to be placed 
in any other antiquities that may have been issued from the 
same laboratory. , 

10th October, 1855. 



" [| ]Mii i ii mil 1 1 iii in! ill Id 



o 1^05 03059 0820 



UC SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 



A A 001 425 223 






