' 



Martin, James Ranald 

The influence of tropical 
climates on European constitutions 




OLP 
CLASS 

MHy 



BueP 



I IEAI IVIIW wwii 

EXTREME CARE 

I _ _ U _.*-*! ^v 



and CANNOTbe repaired! 



photocopy only if necessary 

return to staff 

do not put in bookdr 



Gerstein Science Information Centre 



ssssss 






^ 






THE 






INFLUENCE OF TROPICAL CLIMATES 



EUROPEAN CONSTITUTIONS, 

INCLUDING 

PEACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT 

OF THE DISEASES OE EUROPEANS ON THEIR RETURN 

EROM TROPICAL CLIMATES. 



BY 



JAMES RANALD MARTIN, F.R.S., 

SURGEON BENGAL ARMY, RETIRED J LATE PRESIDENCY-SUROEON, AKD SURGEON TO THE 

NATIVE HOSPITAL, CALCUTTA ; MEMBER OF THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY OF GREAT 

BRITAIN AND IRELAND, AND OF THE ASIATIC SOCIETY OF BENGAL. ETC. JtTC. 



A NEW EDITION. 




7 

* 

r 



LONDON : 

JOHN CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 

MDCCCLVI. 




SEEN BY 

PRESERVATION 

SERVICES 



LONDON : 
G. J. PALMER, SAVOY STREET, STRAND. 



PREFACE. 



WHEN, little more than twelve months ago, I was called upon 
to prepare anew the work composed by the late Dr. James 
Johnson and myself, in 1841, on the " Influence of Tropical 
Climates on European Constitutions," I felt that a mere reprint 
could not in justice be proposed as a Seventh Edition. Many 
years had elapsed since Dr. Johnson's original and admirable 
work on the subject first appeared. The additions in subsequent 
re-publications consisted chiefly of his able reviews of the labours 
and researches of other authors on tropical diseases, which 
appeared in the " Medico-Chirurgical Review." The work thus 
became in great part a collection of reviews, which, excellent as 
they were at the time, could not now be made to represent the 
advancing knowledge of the day. 

I have therefore ventured to re-cast and re-write the entire 
work. Even the introductory chapter is entirely re-written so 
much only of Dr. Johnson's observations being retained as 
appeared to me proper to the subject, and all beyond is exclu- 
sively my own composition. 

I am well aware of the responsibility I have thus reluctantly 
assumed. Throughout the present Edition I have adhered to, and 
preserved the medico-topographic and statistical character of my 
original Official Reports, which were printed and circulated at the 
public cost in Bengal, by order of the Supreme Government of 
India, while I was serving under its orders. In doing so, I am 



vi PREFACE. 

actuated by the conviction that, next to the importance of physio- 
logical investigations, stand those which relate to the discovery of 
the EXTERNAL CAUSES OF DISEASE. By such a course of inquiry 
we shall, I think, most readily appreciate both the prevention and 
cure of those formidable diseases to which Europeans are subject 
in hot climates. 

I have likewise continued, so far as the scope and intent of the 
work admits, an examination of the physiological influences of 
climate, both Asiatic and European, while every suggestion is 
offered which seemed to me likely to enhance the value and 
importance of PREVENTIVE MEDICINE. 

For the discussion of the nature, causes, and treatment of 
tropical diseases, my opportunities, whether rightly or wrongly 
applied, have been both varied and extended. I served in various 
parts of India in peace and war amongst natives and Europeans 
in hospital and in private practice for two-and-twenty years, 
and during this time I did my best to collect materials in the ample 
field which came under my observation ; I wish much that I could 
command more leisure for the arrangement and completion of my 
subjects. 

A treatise purporting to describe " The Influence of Tropical 
Climates on European Constitutions," which should not comprise 
some description of the sequelae to tropical diseases, and of the 
counter-influences which, under an European climate, affect the 
health of persons who have resided long in warm regions, would 
be obviously incomplete. I therefore here reprint from "The 
Lancet" certain articles published by me during the last six 
years, on " The Nature, Causes, and Treatment of the Diseases of 
Europeans on their Return from Tropical Climates." The want 
of such a supplementary treatise was felt by my friend Dr. James 
Johnson, who urged me, on my return from India, to this under- 
taking ; and having now been several years in extensive observa- 
tion of this class of invalids, I venture on the discharge of the 
duty which my friend proposed to me. In conclusion, I cannot 
refrain from offering a tribute of respect to the memory of the 



PREFACE. Vll 

author of the " Influence of .Tropical Climates on European 
Constitutions," originally published in 1813, from materials col- 
lected and arranged by him when he was not twenty-four years of 
age. Having served not quite three years in the Indian seas, as 
surgeon to a ship-of-war, he had at this time returned home with 
broken health, several abscesses having been discharged from the 
liver, rendering his life one of extreme suffering for years there- 
after. By great native elasticity of mind and body, he overcame 
his distresses and difficulties, and ended his career as an esteemed 
and eminent physician of this metropolis. 

Referring to the subject of the sixth edition of the work, com- 
posed jointly by Dr. Johnson and myself, in 1841, he observes, 
with a just pride, that " Although successive editions have received 
additions and improvements, yet, very few of the Author's original 
doctrines have been subverted, or practices exploded, during a 
period of more than a quarter of a century." 

Few men in our profession could say so much ; and I speak but 
the general sentiment when I say, that fewer still have departed 
from us, leaving a higher reputation for kindliness of feeling, and 
high sense of honour, than did Dr. James Johnson. 

To his talented son, Mr. Athol Johnson, I am under much 
obligation for the aid he has given me in revising the work while 
being printed. 

J. R. MARTIN. 

Grosvenor Street, Grosvenor Square, 
December, 1855. 



CONTENTS. 



PART I. 



SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE OF CALCUTTA, IN 

BENGAL, WITH GENERAL REMARKS ON THE CAUSES OF PHY- 

SICAL CLIMATE . . . . . .1 

/ Action of the Sun upon the Atmosphere . . . .5 

Internal Heat . . . . . .7 

Elevation of the Ground . . . . .9 

General and Local Aspects ' . . . . .10 

Position of Mountains . . . . .11 

Effects of the Neighbourhood of the Sea . . . .11 

Geological Nature of the Soil . . . . .13 

Influence of the Labour of Man General Population . . 20 

The Predominant Winds . . . . .22 

The Rains Sources of Aqueous Exhalations Humidity . . 25 

The River . . . . . . .27 

The Salt Lake ; . . . . .29 

Woods and Marshes of the Sunderbunds . . . .30 

MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON . . 33 

Physical Effects of Climate . . . . .36 

The Hot Season and its Effects . . . . .38 

The Rainy Season . . . . .42 

The Cold Season ...... 

STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF CLIMATE AND SEASON IN PRODUC- 
ING SICKNESS AND MORTALITY IN CALCUTTA . . .52 
Mortality of the various Races, European and Native . . .59 
Mortality of British Soldiers and Seamen . .74 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS, PRELIMINARY TO A CONSIDERATION 
OF THE INFLUENCE OF TROPICAL CLIMATES ON EUROPEAN 
CONSTITUTIONS . . . . . .86 

Capability of Man to bear changes of Climate . . .87 

Perspiration . . . . .88 

Sympathy of the Skin with Internal Organs . . . .92 

Influence of Tropical Heat on the Biliary Functions . . .94 

Lichen Tropicus, or Prickly Heat . . . .97 

THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE . . . .99 

General Observations Importance of the Subject . . .100 

Circumstances to be investigated in the art of Preserving Health . 102 

More immediate objects of State Medicine . . . .103 

Neglect of the Subject in this Country . . . .105 

Military Hygiene, or, Preserving of the Soldier's Health . .108 

Summary of precautions for the French Troops in the East . .118 

Tropical Hygiene, Special rules in all hot countries, regarding . . 122 

Dress ....... 124 

Food . . . . . . .127 

Drink ....... 130 

Exercise ....... 132 

Bathing . . . . . . .133 

Sleep . . . . . . .135 

The Conduct and Government of the Passions . . .137 

THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL 

General Observations ...... 140 

Topographical and Statistical Notices . . . .141 

Historical Notices . . . . . .142 

Predisposing Causes ...... 145 

Symptoms and Progress . . . . .146 

Pathology ... . 150 

The Selection and Application of the means of Cure . . . 152 

Emetics ....... 154 

The Warm Bath Tepid and Cold Affusions Cold Drinks . .155 

Blood-letting . . . . . . .157 

Purgatives . . . 162 

Diaphoretics . . 164 

Mercury ... ... 164 

Tonic Treatment by Bark . .166 

Arsenic ..... 167 

Wine . .-.' . . . .168 

Opium . ... . . . . 168 

APPLICATION OF REMEDIAL MEANS TO THE INDIVIDUAL CASE . 169 

Management of Convalescence . . . . .173 

Gestation in the open air . . . . .176 



CONTENTS. XI 

PAGE. 

Catalogue raisonne of the Treatment of Remittent Fevers by different 

Authors, in different ages and countries . . .178 

General Remarks in Conclusion . . . . .180 

INTERMITTENT FEVER 

Historical and General Notices ... 185 

Causes . 187 

Symptoms and Progress . . .187 

Pathology . . . ^ -189 

Treatment . . . . .192 

THE CONGESTIVE CONTINUED FEVER OF THE COLD SEASON IN 
BENGAL . . . . . . -200 

THE ARDENT CONTINUED FEVER OF THE HOT SEASON IN 
BENGAL .... "": ' .204 

THE FEVERS OF THE NATIVES OF INDIA 

General Topographical Observations in British India . . .210 

Physical Character of its Inhabitants .... 212 

State of Agriculture and the Arts . . . .213 

Native Annies Character of the Sepoy of Bengal . . 214 

Official and Social Position of the Medical Officer . . .215 

British Officers of the Indian Army .... 215 

Native Army of Bengal, its strength .... 216 

Average Sickness and Mortality for Twenty Years . . . 216 

Native Army of Madras, its strength . . . .217 

Its average Mortality and Invaliding . . . .217 

Native Army of Bombay . . . . .217 

Its average Mortality and Invaliding . . . .217 

Liability of the Native Troops to Fevers . . . .217 

Influence of change of Climate, and of Diet . . .217 

Seasons of Unhealthiness common to Natives and Europeans . . 220 

Fevers constitute the first inroad on Health . . . 220 

Treatment of the Fevers of the Natives .... 221 

ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL 

General and Historical Observations .... 222 

Predisposing Causes ...... 223 

Symptoms and Progress . 224 

Complications ...... 226 

Hepatic complication ...... 227 

Splenic ...... . 229 

Scorbutic ,, . . 229 

Pathology . . ... 230 

Treatment of acute Tropical Dysentery . . . 233 



Xll CONTEXTS. 

PAGE. 

Treatment of Haemorrhagic Dysentery .... 239 
Hepatic Dysentery. .... 240 

Scorbutic . . . .240 

Dysentery, complicated with Fevers Remittent and Inter- 
mittent . . . . .242 
Enlargement of the Spleen .... 242 
Convalescence ..... 243 

Catalogue raisonne of the treatment of Acute Dysentery in different ages 

and countries, by different authors .... 243 

General Observations in conclusion . . . .246 

CHRONIC DYSENTERY . . . . . .254 

Dysentery in the Natives of India .... 254 

DISEASES OF THE LIVER . . . . .257 

Increased Secretion of Bile ..... 257 

Treatment ....... 258 

Congestion of the Liver ..... 258 

Treatment . . . . . . . 260 

Hepatitis . . . . . . .260 

Symptoms and Progress ..... 260 

Causes ....... 263 

Pathology . . . . . . .263 

Treatment ....... 265 

Hepatic Abscess ...... 269 

Treatment . . . . . . .271 

Jaundice .... .^ . . 273 

Causes . . . . . .' ' . 274 

Pathology . . * . . .275 

Treatment . . . . . . .276 

Chronic Enlargement and Induration of the Liver . . .277 

Treatment . . . . . . .278 

ON THE ENDEMIC CONGESTION OF THE SPLEEN . . 283 

Symptoms ....... 284 

Causes ....... 285 

Pathology . . . . . . .286 

Treatment . . . . . . .287 

EPIDEMIC CHOLERA . . . . . .293 

Sketch of the Earlier Indian History of . . . 293 

Reports of the Medical Boards of Bengal and Madras . . 294 

Geographical Progress of Epidemic Cholera . . . 298 

Symptoms and Progress ..... 299 

Predisposing Causes .... . 300 



CONTEV XI11 

PACC. 

Comparative dnration of fatal Diarrhoea, Snmmer Cholera, and Epidemic 

Cholera ...... 392 

Relation of elevation of the soil with Mortality from Cholera in London . 393 
Diagram representing the Me 




The six tbeorka as to the canse and propagation of Cholera . . 396 

Dr Baly's Report to the College of Physicians . . .307 

PrerentiTe Measures . . 314 

In the Army . . . 320 

Morbid appearance after death in Collapse . 325 

Pathology of Cholera . - 330 

Treatment of Cholera Dr. Golfs Report to the College of Physicians . 335 
Epidemic Cholera in Calcutta . . . . .343 

Cholera Fever of 1834 . . .344 

.345 
.346 
. 348 
Diarrhoea . . . . . 348 

Pathology . ... . . . .349 

Treatment . . .359 

Tables of avenge Sickness ami Mortality from Cholera in our foreign 

. 354 



THE YELLOW, OR H.MOGASTRIC FEVER 

5y^:p:c~'! i-'i Pr- *r'?s- . . . 360 

Sequelae . - . . . . . .362 

The Black Vomit . ... .362 

... . . . .363 

. 365 
Mortality . . .366 

PrediqKMag Caves .... .370 

Endemic Causes ... .371 

Infection . . .375 

Prerention. ...... 382 

Core . .386 

DELIRIUM TREMENS. 

Symptom* and Progress . - 392 

.394 
. 395 

Pathology ... .395 

PrerentioB. - .397 

C \.ra::ve 






XIV CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

HABITS OF THE BRITISH SOLDIERY AND THEIR INFLUENCE ON 
HEALTH . . . . .402 

Barrack Life . . . . . .402 

Necessity of Exercise ... . . . . 403 

Intemperance . . . . . .407 

Immoderate use of Tobacco ..... 409 

ON THE SELECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF LOCALITIES FOR 
THE EUROPEAN TROOPS IN OUR INTERTROPICAL POSSESSIONS. 
LOCALITIES TO CHOOSE, LOCALITIES TO AVOID . . 413 

Memorandum relating to the construction and arrangement of barracks 

and hospitals . . . . . .420 

Table of Mortality in town and country throughout the different seasons 

of the year . . . . . .422 

Neglect of Army Medical Officers by the Authorities . . .427 

Localities to Choose . . .... 

Avoid ...... 

ON THE TERM OF EFFICIENT SERVICE IN INDIA 

General Observations ...... 434 

ON THE MORTALITY AND PHYSICAL MANAGEMENT OF EUROPEAN 

CHILDREN IN BENGAL . 441 



PART II. 



PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF 
THE DISEASES OF EUROPEANS ON THEIR RETURN FROM TROPICAL 
CLIMATES 

Introductory Chapter . 

ANAEMIA . 

Cases Treatment 

ON THE TREATMENT OF INVALIDS SUFFKRING FROM THE SEQUELS 
TO THE FEVERS OF TROPICAL CLIMATES 

Cases 

CHRONIC DIARRH<EA 

Cases Treatment 



CONTENTS. XV 

PAGE. 

CHRONIC DYSENTERY . ... f>25 

Table of Statistics .... .527 

Symptoms ... . 530 

Cases Treatment . . .531 

CONGESTION OF THE LIVER . ... 548 

Cases Treatment .... .550 

TORPOR OF THE LIVER ..... 558 

Symptoms . . . . 559 

Treatment . . . . . . . 561 

Nitro-muriatic acid bath ..... 564 

Mode of using ...... 564 

Cases . . . . . . .568 

CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. . . . 575 

Treatment . . . . . . .578 

Cases . . . . . . .579 

CONCLUSION . . 597 



ON CLIMATE. 

SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE OF CALCUTTA 

IN BENGAL, 

WITH GENERAL REMARKS 

ON THE CAUSES OF PHYSICAL CLIMATE. 



" L'ensemble de toutes les circonstances naturelles et physiques, au milieu desquellcs 
nous vivons dans chaque lieu." CABANIS. 

" The best observations upon climate, often lose half their value from want of an 
exact description of the surface of the country." MAJVTE BRCN. 



WHOEVER considers climate, with reference to its vast import- 
ance to human welfare, must feel some degree of disappointment 
at the raeagreness in which the advanced state of knowledge in the 
nineteenth century has yet left this most interesting branch of 
inquiry. 

On this all-important subject it is but too evident that, in 
the language of Sir John Herschel, we have not yet determined 
" what ought to be observed" and thus it has happened, for want 
of " a right direction," that much of the labour of observation and 
minute investigation has been " but labour lost." In medical pur- 
suits, we find continually that the apparent cause of sickness, or of 
death, is not the real cause ; and so it is with the causes of phy- 
sical climate. " When a thing is accounted for in two ways," says 
Fontenelle, "the truth is usually on the side most opposed to 
appearances." 

B 



'J SKETCH DF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 

One philosopher, for instance, will view climate as any space 
distant from the equator and poles ; another, as nothing more than 
a well arranged table of the winds, of the thermometric, barometric, 
and hygrometric degrees ; a third, as having reference solely to 
elevation above the mean level of the earth's surface ; a fourth, as 
consisting only of the internal heat of the globe ; while a fifth, 
supposed to be better informed than all the rest, an authority who 
" seemed to have been in nature's cabinet council," pronounces 
climate to be influenced only by latitude and local elevation, and 
allows it to be but slightly affected by any other causes. We may, 
then, with some show of reason, exclaim with Dr. A. T. Thomson, 
" what is climate ?" 

That such partial views are unequal to the elucidation of the 
subject of climate, will at once be apparent by reference to the 
common geographical fact, of two places in the same elevation 
and degree of latitude possessing climates the most opposite. We 
must, then, look for the causes of climate elsewhere ; and however 
much those may be influenced by elevation and latitude, we shall 
find other and powerful accessories w T hich greatly influence health, 
and consequently human happiness. He must be a bold, if not a 
presumptuous man, however, who shall pretend to do full justice 
to a subject so elaborate, and which demands the application of 
such refined principles in physical science as climate ; yet, I can- 
not help thinking that much that is important may be done by a 
careful observation and comparison of facts, made at different 
times and places ; for it is by such means that a complex science 
like that of climate can alone be perfected. A most interesting 
demonstration of the local character of climate is furnished by Mr. 
Glaisher of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, in his remarks on 
the weather during the quarter ending September 30th, 1847. 
After showing from a most accurate series of observations, conti- 
nuous and comparative, that the climate of Cornwall and Devon- 
shire is not only different from every other part of England, but 
is far from being the same in different parts of these counties, this 
eminent meteorologist concludes : " In fact, there seems to be 
several different climates in these counties, but all of them free 
from extremes and sudden changes of temperature." If this be 
true (and who that knows anything of the subject can doubt it), 
how vast and various must be the climates over the great continent, 
the islands, and the extensive lines of coast of the East Indies, 
and how important must be the careful study of local influences 
throughout our empire there ? 

Whether we view the subject in a physical or medical sense, we 
shall do well to carry along with us the maxim of Professor Adam 
Fergusson, "that all observation is suggested by comparison." 
The value of all scientific facts depends in a great measure on 



OF CALCUTTA IN BENGAL. 3 

their being comparable, and this in an especial manner applies to 
inquiries relating to medical topography and medical statistics. I 
am satisfied that, in a professional sense, it is impossible to take 
too extended a view of the subject of climate, and that he who 
succeeds best must follow the indication of Cabanis ; " L'ensemble 
de toutes les circonstances naturelles et physiques, au milieu des- 
quelles nous vivons dans chaque lieu;" for this much is certain, 
that the framers of elaborate tables of the winds and of the degrees 
of the thermometer, have as yet done little to inform our minds, or 
guide our inquiry. " Le climat n'est done point resserre dans les 
circonstances particulieres des latitudes, ou du froid et du chand ; 
il embrasse, d'une maniere absolument generale, 1'ensemble des 
circonstances physiques attachees a chaque local, il est cet ensem- 
ble lui-meme ; et tous les traits caracteristiques par lesquels la 
nature a distingue les differents pays entrent dans 1'idee que nous 
devons former du climat." 

Medical men, to whom a right understanding of the subject is 
paramount, whether we consider, the good or the evil to be derived 
from climate, are happily beginning to be aware of this fact; and 
it is with much satisfaction, I find one of the latest and best 
writers on medical topography in England, declaring, in further- 
ance of the just and comprehensive views above quoted, that the 
character of a climate is much more faithfully indicated by such a 
natural test as its influence on vegetable products, " than by any 
instrumental, or artificial means whatever." 

Dr. Mason Good, asserts, with truth, that it is no exclusive 
reproach to medicine that meteorology has hitherto been turned 
to so little practical advantage ; " for of all the subdivisions of 
general philosophy, there is none so little entitled to the name 
of science as meteorology itself. And, till the naturalist has 
explained the variations of the barometer, the physician need not 
blush at being incapable of turning to account the supposed 
influence of the planets, or unfolding the origin, or tracing the 
capricious courses of epidemics and pestilence." Difficult as is 
the subject, however, it ought to have its great attractions to the 
physician ; for, assuredly, no other affords so free a scope for 
original observation and inquiry ; and this applies in an especial 
manner to tropical climates. Dr. Watson observes justly, that " to 
ascertain the causes of any disease, and to display them before the 
public mind, are large steps towards the ultimate removal of such 
as human endeavours are competent to remove." . . . . " To 
know the cause of a disease is sometimes to be able to cure, often 
to be able to prevent it." 

Malte Brim's division of physical climate shall here be adopted, 
because it marks the geographical points to which our inquiries 
may most profitably be directed, inasmuch as a consideration of 

B 2 



4 SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 

the details, as given by that admirable writer, brings us at once to 
the discovery of such errors in the physical condition of any given 
place, as may lead to its improvement, and the consequent pre- 
vention of disease the great end of medical topography. 

When again, we look back to our native country, and boast of 
its pure and bracing air, let us not forget the important fact, " that 
it is man himself who has in a great measure created these salu- 
brious climates. France, Germany, and England, not more than 
twenty ages ago, resembled Canada and Chinese Tartary, countries 
situated, as well as our Europe, at a mean distance between the 
equator and the pole." 

" Whenever nature is more powerful than industry, whether for 
good or for bad, man receives from the climate an invariable and 
irresistible impulse ;" and so it is in Bengal, 'for bad,' in conse- 
quence of the total absence of that ' industry ' which elsewhere 
moulds nature to the purposes of man, for his ' good.' 

Physical climate, says Malte-Brun, comprehends the degree of 
heat and cold, the drought, the humidity, and the salubrity which 
occur in any given region of the earth. 

The causes of physical climate he states to be nine in num- 
ber: 

1st. The action of the sun upon the atmosphere. 

2nd. The interior temperature of the globe- 

3rd. Elevation of the earth above the level of the ocean. 

4th. The general inclination of the surface and its local ex- 
posure. 

5th. The position of its mountains relatively to the cardinal 
points. 

6th. The neighbourhood of great seas and their relative situa- 
tion. 

7th. Geological nature of the soil. 

8th. Degree of cultivation and of population at which a country 
has arrived. 

9th. The prevalent winds. 

To these perhaps may be added : 

10th. Position in respect to the equator. 

llth. Position in respect to large rivers or lakes. 

12th. Position in respect to forests. 

By tracing these causes, and by uniting and arranging under 
general points of view, the results of particular local observations, 
we shall, according to Malte-Brun, arrive at an approach to 
climatology, in some measure corresponding to the present state of 
the other sciences. 



OF CALCUTTA IN UEM-AI 



ACTION OF THE SUN UPON THE ATMOSPHKRK. 

At all places between 20 and 23^ of latitude, the solar rays 
during two months fall at noon either perpendicularly, or at an 
angle which deviates from a right angle only by 3^ at most. The 
degree of temperature is also increased by the greater length of 
the longest days, which near the tropic, are 13^ hours. The ap- 
plication of these facts to the geographical position of Calcutta 
during portions of May, June, July, and August, are sufficiently 
obvious, and would not seem to require the lengthened details 
offered by some writers. 

The difference between sensible heat and that indicated by in- 
struments, is nowhere more remarkable than within this city during 
the hot months, where, from the length of time the houses, walls, 
and roads are getting heated by the sun, the first hours of the 
night are rendered even more oppressive than the day, from 
the copious radiation going on for some time after the sunset. 
" The tine indication of the force of the solar rays," says Herschel, 
" would seem to be, not the statical effect upon the thermometer, 
but their momentary intensity measured by the velocity with which 
they communicate heat to an absorbent body." 

Professor Daniel's observations also go to show that the power 
of solar radiation in the atmosphere increases from the equator to 
the poles, and from below upwards. 

Chowringhee and Garden Reach have a perceptible advantage 
over Calcutta, from their openness and the great extent of evapo- 
ration from trees, which tends so much to reduce temperature. 

This delightful property in trees should always be turned to 
our advantage ; and where the grounds are kept in proper order, 
a moderate number of trees will prove grateful and beneficial in 
every sense, but especially in the hot dry season. 

In the rains, the evaporation from trees can add but little to the 
humidity already existing in the atmosphere. It has been com- 
puted that a country covered with trees emits more vapour by one- 
third, than one even covered with water, and it is this property 
that gives to the shade of vegetables a coolness so much more 
effectual and agreeable than that of rocks or walls. 

In the sweeping condemnation by Dr. M'Culloch, of trees, 
&c. down to the very flower-pots, he goes a length unwarranted 
by any known facts. It is surely unphilosophical to view every- 
thing in nature as made only for man's destruction. 

The following table will exhibit the state of the atmospheric tem- 
perature in Calcutta, its weight and humidity, during the years 



6 



SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 



specified. The thermometer in the open air is found to vary from 
40 to 110 in this city. 







MAXIMUM. 


MINIMUM. 


REMARKS 







Therm. . . 


90 4 


53 .... 3 


Mean Barometer. 


. .g g 




Barom. . . 


30 .... 131 


29 512 


Wet bulb d epression 


1 O 3 C S 

ifij 




Hygrom. . . 


16 .... 9 


1 .... 5 




> "3 J5 


1 


Therm. . . 


95 .... 8 


57.... 8 




J >>* 


1831. 


Barom. 


30 122 


29 .... 456 




-o * | 


I 1 


Hygrom. .. 


14 5 


1 .... 5 


Mean Barometer 


o " 2 3 




Therm. 


96 .... 9 


54 6 


29 764 


** S = at 


1832- 


Barom. 


30 .... 071 


29 467 




* o> 


1 


Hygrom. . . 


15 .... 2 


1 .... 6 




.3*5 


r 


Therm. . . 


97.... 2 


61.... 1 


Mean temperature. 


Iw^s ^"3 


1833 ^ 


Barom. . . 


30 .... 095 


29 .... 485 


78 


3 .m 

5|"J . 


I 


Hygrom. . . 


17 .... 3 


2 .... 3 








Therm. . . 


99 4 


58 9 




c'g'e'C g 




Barom. . . 


30 .... 022 


29 .... 470 




1 i E 




Hygrom. . . 


13 .... 8 


1 .... 4 




11- 1 






In the Sun. 


On the ground. 






[ 


Therm. . . 


110 2 


42 


i 


i 


1835 4 


Barom. . . 


30 038 


29 .... 480 




"Sc-o 


I 


Hygrom. . . 


13 .. : 9 


3 .... 2 




^ 5 






May. 


January 




s 


r 


Therm. . . 


97.9 .. .. 


53.... 5 




"3 
o ^ 


J 


Barom. . . 


Jan. 30-087 


Aug at 9 h. 50 







1836] 






29-569 




>|~ 


I 


Hygrom. . . 


March 14-8 


August 5'6 






r 


Therm. . . 


June 98-2 


not absfl. 


Each entry is the 


> "O * 

s 


18374 


Barom. . . 


Jan. 31-101 


July 29-547 


averageof a month's 




I 


Hygrom. . . 


April 20-4 


July, Aug. 42 


observations. 


O 



The mean temperature of each month in Calcutta, may be seen 
by the annexed table : 



i 

i 
i- 


February 


1 

S 


04 

< 


& 

i 


V 

a 
a 
>-> 


>* 

"3 

>-3 


E 

1 

3 


September. 


October. 


November. 


December. 


66. 2 


69 .8 


80 .0 


85. 4 


85.7 


83. 7 


81.8 


82.0 


82.0 


79.2 


74.2 


66.6 



The greatest range of temperature takes place in December and 
January, when it amounts to about 18, the least range is in July, 
when it is about 6. The mean hour of minimum temperature 
for the year is about sun rise : that of maximum temperature, 
2.40 P.M. 



OF CALCUTTA IN BENGAL. 



INTERNAL HEAT. 

Some philosophers have sought the cause of climate in the in- 
ternal heat of the globe. The subject has engaged the attention 
of scientific men in various countries, but it is only of late that 
anything approaching to precise information has been obtained. 
From experiments recently made, it would appear certain that in 
proportion to the depression below the earth's surface, so does the 
temperature steadily increase ; and even where the depths were 
very small the elevation was quite perceptible. At the depth of 
100 feet from the surface, the temperature of the earth is the 
average temperature of the climate, and differs with the latitude ; 
thus at Walso, in Lapland, it is 36 ; at St. Petersburg!!, 40 ; in 
England, 52; at Paris, 54; at Rome, 61; and at Cairo, 70. 
T. Griffiths. 

It is stated, on the other hand, by Fourier, that at 100 feet 
below the surface the influence of the solar rays is extinct. The 
position where this takes place he calls the invariable stratum ; 
all variations above this place are imputed to the influence of 
radiation, all below to the nature or primeval heat of the globe. 

" It is obvious," says Professor Alfred Taylor, " that this in- 
crease of our temperature cannot be due to solar influence. 1st. 
Because the existence of a zone of invariable temperature shows 
that the power of the sun must be limited to that portion of the 
earth's crust which is above it. 2nd. Because, if the interior heat 
of the mass of the earth were due to external or solar influence 
alone, the thermometer should fall just in proportion as we 
descend below the invariable stratum. But the reverse of this is 
the fact, as we may presently be able to establish from the results 
of accurate observations. Hence we are irresistibly led to this 
conclusion that in going below the invariable stratum, we are 
approaching some great source of heat, which must be situated 
within the interior of our globe." . . . . " The experiments 
hitherto made lead to the following interesting results. Diurnal 
variations of temperature are not perceived beyond two or three 
feet. Variations depending on the months or seasons extend 
somewhat lower; and annual variations are entirely lost at a depth 
of from 60 to 100 feet, varying slightly in different localities. The 
maximum depth at which the changes in the thermometer are 
perceptible, amounts to only I -400,000th part of the earth's dia- 
meter ! Upon the alternate heating and cooling of this film, 
which does not exceed the nine-millionths of an inch in a globe 
of three feet in diameter, depend all the vicissitudes of tem- 
pt rature in climates, seasons, and cycles of years." .... 
" The extent to which the strata become warmed by the sun must 



SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATK 



depend, 1st. upon the directness with which the rays fall, hence 
it is greater in the tropics than in temperate regions, and greater 
in summer than in winter ; 2ndly, upon the conducting power of 
the strata, which is subject to great variation. It is, however, ob- 
vious that the depth to which this solar influence extends, may be 
determined by the thermometer. If below the surface of the 
earth we can find a stratum in which, after a long series of careful 
observations, made at all seasons of the year, and at all periods of 
the day and night, this instrument remains stationary, it is certain 
that we have reached a depth beyond which the power of the sun 
cannot extend. Such a stratum has been found, and it is called 
the stratum of INVARIABLE TEMPERATURE." . . . . " One 
test which has been proposed for the invariable stratum is, that 
its temperature should correspond to, or differ but little from, the 
mean temperature of the climate in which the observations are 
made. On this principle, Boussingault fixed its position in the 
tropics at one-third of a metre, or rather more than a foot below 
the surface of the soil ; but the recent experiments of Captain 
Newbould have shown that this is an error ; the diurnal variation 
at this depth amounting to as much as 2. 75 Fah. Captain New- 
bould found the thermometer to remain stationary, in a shady 
locality, at about four feet, i. e. at that depth the temperature cor- 
responded to the mean of the atmosphere." . " What- 
ever affects the mean temperature of a place must affect its posi- 
tion, the influence of the strata in altering the position of this 
zone was observed by Captain Newbould in the tropics. He 
found a constant temperature to exist at four feet depth from the 
surface in clayey soils, but in order to obtain it in light sandy 
soils it was necessary to go much deeper." 

The following is taken from the " Thermometrical Table" of 
Professor Alfred Taylor : 



Artesian Well, Vienna, at ... 200 feet below the surface 

Artesian Well, Hanwell .... 290 

Mines of Brittanny 500 

Deep Mines, Europe 

Cumberland Coalmines .... 600 

Durham Coalmines 900 

Cairo Well 210 

Monckwearmouth Mine .... 1,500 

Artesian Well, Crenelle .... 1,300 

Mexican Mines 1,650 

Valenciana Mine, Mexico .... 

Crenelle Well 1,794 



Fahr. 
55 
55 
58 
62 
66 
69 
70 
72 
73 
75 
91 
91 



The temperature in mines rises on an average 1 for every 
49 4 6 feet, while that of water in the wells rises 1 for every 54 
and 55 feet; the average ratio of increase, in various parts of 
England and the continent, being about 1 for 46 feet in depth. 



OF CALCUTTA IN BENGAL. 9 

lii the Artesian well of Grenelle the temperature rises 9 in the 
last 500 ftvt. 

The temperature of the deep sea, on the other hand, varies but 
little from the Equator to the Poles, while that on the surface 
varies considerably, being about 27 in the Polar regions, and 88 
under the Equator. 

The conclusions arrived at by the authority here referred to, 
on the important subject under discussion, are : 

1st. That the temperature of the surface of our globe, including 
that of the air, earth, and sea, depends exclusively upon the 
quantity of heat transmitted to it from the sun, the heat thus re- 
ceived being again lost, partly by radiation into space, and partly 
by conduction downwards through the superficial strata. 

2nd. That the chief loss takes place undoubtedly, by radiation, 
and that it is by the amount of this last we learn the temperature 
of the medium (space) in which our globe is floating. 

3rd. That at a certain depth below the surface of the earth, 
there is a source of heat which progressively affects the thermo- 
meter as we descend. 

4th. That this interior heat cannot be derived from the sun or 
from local chemical changes. 

5th. That it does not directly affect climates or seasons, or per- 
ceptibly influence the temperature of the surface of the earth, 
the depths of the ocean, or the atmosphere floating above them. 

6th. That the vicissitudes of climates, seasons, and cycles of 
years are due entirely to solar influence. 

7th. That this influence, even at a maximum, does not pene- 
trate to a greater depth than the 1 -400,000th part of the earth's 
diameter. 

8th. That although we have positive evidence of the existence 
of subterranean heat, we can neither measure its degree, nor, at 
present, determine its exact ratio of increase downwards into the 
interior. 

9th. That there is not the slightest evidence to show that the 
earth is gradually cooling from a high temperature, or that, within 
the last two thousand years, its temperature has undergone any 
increase or diminution. 



ELEVATION OF THE GROUND. 



When we consider the accuracy and extensive knowledge we 
have arrived at in the position of points of interest on the surface 
of the globe, with regard to the co-ordinates of latitude and longi- 
tude, iind how littlt has been done for the third co-ordinate* of 



10 SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 

elevation, we shall have a field before us, open to cultivation in 
many parts of our empire, and of the greatest interest within the 
Tropics in the East and West Indies especially. 

The importance, in a sanatory point of view, of attention to the 
subject of elevation, is exemplified in the fact that, plague in 
Egypt, yellow fever in the west, and marsh remittent in the east 
and west, have never been known to ascend to any considerable 
height. The limit of yellow fever, in the Island of Jamaica, was 
long ago observed by Robert Jackson, while it is notorious that 
the plague of Egypt confines itself to the low, damp, and marshy 
districts never ascending so far even as Assouan, where the soil 
and, consequently, the atmosphere are dry. 

With the elevation of the land cold increases in a very rapid 
progression, being caused by the enlarged capacity which air ac- 
quires by rarefaction. 

The rate of increase of cold is one degree for every hundred 
yards of altitude ; and this beneficent appointment of nature con- 
siderably increases the number of habitable countries in the 
Torrid Zone. " In ascending from Bengal to Thibet, we ima- 
gine ourselves in a few days transported from the Equator to the 
Pole." 

The site of Calcutta is said to be, on the average, but little, if 
at all, above the level of the tides at Sagor : in the diplomatic 
language of Asia, " what more need I say," as to the choice of 
our position ! 



GENERAL AND LOCAL ASPECTS. 

The general aspect should be distinguished from the local 
aspect. The general declivity of a country, large in itself, does 
not exclude the most opposite local declivities. It may, however, 
be admitted as a general principle, that the positive sum of all 
the local aspects is in the same direction as the general aspect. 

This principle can only be applied to spaces of great extent ; 
for example, the entire tract of country through which a river flows. 
Every one knows of what effect as to temperature is the exposure 
of a soil relatively to the sun. A hill inclined 45 to the south, 
when the sun is elevated 45, receives solar rays perpendicularly, 
whilst upon a plain the same rays strike the soil under an angle 
of 45, that is, with one quarter less of force ; and a hill inclined 
45 to the north will be struck by the solar rays in a horizontal 
direction, which makes them glide along its surface. 

Malte-Brun, speaking of the northern hemisphere, says that 
the south-south-west and south-west situations are the warmest of 



OF CALCUTTA IN MKMiAL. 1 1 

all ; whilst, on the contrary, those of the north-east are the coldest. 
The general aspect of the valley of the Ganges is about east and 
west, with an inclination of the delta to the south. 



POSITION OF MOUNTAINS. 

Mountains act on climates in two ways. They attract the 
vapours suspended in the air ; these vapours, by their condensa- 
tion, produce clouds and fogs ; often, also, these assemblages of 
\\atery substances, which the winds waft in ever}' direction, are 
stopped in their devious course by chains of mountains, in the 
elevated valleys of which they continue to accumulate. These 
effects are still more sensibly felt, when a chain of mountains is 
crowned with extensive forests. 

The elevated lands in Bengal-Proper hardly merit the name 
of mountains, and are mostly situated in the districts of Bheer- 
boom, Sylhet, Chittagong, and along the eastern boundaries of 
Tipperah. They are limited in extent, and exert little or no in- 
fluence on the climate of Calcutta. 



EFFECTS OF THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF THE SEA. 

The neighbourhood of the sea moderates the excess of tem- 
perature, besides contributing, according to Pouillet, through eva- 
poration, one of the most important sources of atmospheric elec- 
tricity. 

In hot climates the maritime regions are not so wann as the 
centre of the plains ; of this we have an annual example in the 
marine current of the south-west monsoon. 

Calcutta is situated about 100 miles from the sea, but so level 
is the country that the tides ascend in the dry season as far as 
Sooksagur, being 140 miles from Sagor Point. 

In the beginning of March, when the south-west monsoon sets 
in, the currents set up the Bay of Bengal, and gradually raise the 
sea at its head several feet, raising the river Hooghly with it, and 
that long before the freshes are felt. This continues till October, 
when the pouring of the rivers into the bay, during the rains in 
July, August, and September, and the changes of the monsoon to 
north-east in the end of October, give the current a set in the 
contrary direction, and gradually restore the sea and river to their 
condition in the previous March. The effect of the two monsoons 
upon the currents, and the height of the sea in the Bay of Bengal, 
may therefore be considered, as that of two long unequal tides 



12 SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 

during the year eight months of flood and four of ebb. From 
the point of lowest low water in the dry season, to that of the 
highest high water in the freshes is 20 feet 10 inches. 

The greatest mean rise of the tide from low to high water mark 
in the freshes is ten feet. The smallest mean rise of the tide in the 
dry season, neap tides, is four feet. The " Bores " in the Hoogly 
occur only in the highest, or alternate spring tides ; their appear- 
ance may with certainty be predicted by the season of the year 
and the parallax of the moon. They are greatest under the in- 
fluence of the south-west monsoon, and are only felt in those por- 
tions of the river where the peculiar form of the sands, and the 
direction and set of the tides in any particular reach actuate their 
rise.* 

Persons who speak confidently, and enter into minute details 
on the tides and levels, assert that we are only protected from 
irruptions of the sea, by the counter-currents of the rivers, and 
the friction of the tides against their banks. They state the tides 
in the Salt Lake to be but two feet above the mean level at 
Sagor, and consequently several feet at flood-tide, below that at 
Sagor. Of the truth of some of these assertions we had a cala- 
mitous illustration on the 20th and 21st of May, 1833, when the 
sea, backed by a storm from the east-south-east and south-east 
overran the low countries along the coast from Balasore, along 
Hidgelee, and up to Tumlook and Diamond Harbour, making a 
breach over the Sunderbund as far north as Calcutta, and extend- 
ing its devastations as far east as Dacca. There have been many 
irruptions of the sea within fifty years, but none to equal this last 
in violence and extent. In some days the barometer stood at 
28 inches and 8 decimals, being lower than it had been known 
for years, the thermometer averaged 84. 

The tide, which ran for seven hours, rose to a height of twelve 
feet above its ordinary level, destroying embankments and build- 
ings of every kind, while the storm levelled the trees ; nothing 
stood within the influence of tide and wind, and the loss of human 
life and destruction of cattle must have been enormous. 

Sagor Island was covered seven feet deep ; and out of a popu- 
lation of 7,000 persons few escaped. The rains were nearly a 
month later than usual in setting in, and the ordinary cultivation 
was arrested from the saturation of the soil with salt. The starv- 
ing survivors from these united calamities crowded about the outer 
suburbs of Calcutta, and were at last reduced to the necessity of 
supporting the parents' lives by the wretched and unnatural traffic 
in their children, the most emaciated of whom sold at last for one 
rupee. 

* Vide the interesting paper by Mr. James Kyd, Trans. A. Society. 



OP CALCUTTA IX BF.NiJU. IS 

(iovcrnmcnt did much to relieve the more pressing necessities 
of these poor people ; but there was much that no power could 
relieve. Towards the end of August there broke out a severe 
epidemic fever, which, by the end of September, and during the 
drying process, ripened into terrible violence carrying off, ac- 
cording to the reports of respectable natives, nearly three-fourths 
of the remaining population to the south and east of us. Neither 
did Calcutta escape ; thousands of the natives died, particularly 
in the suburbs, nearest the land inundated in May ; even the 
Europeans suffered severely, though there were not many casual- 
ties in proportion to the numbers attacked with the fever. 



GEOLOGICAL NATURE OF THE SOIL. 

Whenever the natives of India speak of climate, they designate 
it by the terms " air and water." They have, indeed, no other 
definition of it. 

The circumstance is here mentioned to show that the popular 
impression, on this important head, throughout Hindustan, is at 
least as well-founded in fact as some others that, in Europe, are 
entertained by philosophers. 

The nature of the soil, which must of necessity influence the 
qualities of both air and water, in an essential manner, remains 
unnoticed in most definitions, European and Asiatic; yet the 
geological nature of the soil would seem one of the most im- 
portant of the causes of physical climate. Of this I became satis- 
fied very early in my service in India. 

Clay-lands, while they retain water and moisture of every kind, 
do not readily admit either heat or air, owing to their compact 
and adhesive nature. They are proverbially cold, as are also the 
chalky soils. Soils containing much carbonaceous or ferruginous 
matter, on the other hand, acquire a very high temperature under 
the solar rays, while they likewise cool more rapidly than other 
soils, especially when dry. 

Dark soils, too, absorb heat more powerfully, and radiate heat 
more energetically than light-coloured soils, which reflect a great 
portion of heat In short, a very slight attention to the effects of 
various qualities of soils will be sufficient to show that these last 
affect very powerfully both the temperature and the humidity of 
the atmosphere ; and hence the vast importance of this branch of 
study. 

The internal nature or composition of the soil must have an in- 
fluence on climate in a variety of ways. All grounds are not 
heated equally soon. One soil quickly pans with its acquired 
heat, while another retains it for a long time. Exhalations, which 



14 



SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 



vary according to the nature of the soil, rise into the atmosphere, 
and become identified with it. Clayey grounds, and those which 
are impregnated with salt, cool the atmosphere ; extensive accu- 
mulations, when they are dry, augment the heat. The general 
soil of Bengal is clay, with a considerable proportion of silicious 
sand, fertilised by various salts, and by decayed substances, animal 
and vegetable. Both the upper and sub-soil are generally per- 
vious to water, but on an average depth at twenty feet is found a 
tenacious clay ; at this depth, too, brackish water is found. In 
sinking wells in the vicinity of Calcutta no springs of fresh water 
were reached at a depth of 480 feet. 

In the old magazines and newspapers printed in Calcutta, I 
find very frequent mention of earthquakes ; but in none of these 
does there seem to have been any material injury sustained, which 
looks as if the causes were remote from us. 

In 1820, while marching to join the Ramghur battalion, over 
the abrupt mountain ranges which are crossed between Midna- 
pore, in the province of Orissa (Bengal Presidency), and Sum- 
bhulpore, on the Mahanuddy River, province of Gondwana, I ob- 
served that throughout the entire extent of that country, so noted 
for the fatal character of its fevers, the soil was throughout fer- 
ruginous. 

The late Major Markham Kittoe, of the Bengal army a fellow- 
sufferer from the destructive fevers of those countries presented 
me with the following sketch from memory, when at home on sick 
leave, in 1842. The quality of the soil is given as the result of 
repeated personal examination : 



Calcutta and Fort 
William, on the 
Hoogly. 

Tumlook. 
The Roopnarrain 
and Doomnooda. 



-Cr.: 



Midnapoor on the 
Kossai. 



High land of Midnapoor hetween the Roopnarrain 
and Kossai Rivers. Iron clay resting on decomposed 
primitive rock and lithomarge soil and water 
strongly impregnated with iron oxide cerebral 
fevers common here. 



Seersa on the 
Subanreeka. 



Shingle and sandy tracts quartz and hornblende 
oxide of iron forests of stunted saul and Assina 
fevers prevalent. 

Granite, sienite, quartzose rocks, steatite, and 
serpentine hornblende this is the first range run- 
ning north and south, varying from 500 to 3,500 
feet, covered with dense forests of saul and other 



MI ' \M t n \ IN HI \., \l . 



15 



Keunjhur nn the 
Uyturnee. 



trees, and the climate deadly water very scarce, 
impregnated with vegetable and mineral matter 
iron ore in great abundance, the soil red with its 
oxide. 



This country is very deadly ; the soil chiefly red 
from iron oxides. 



Bonaie on the 
Brah mini. 



C J 

VI '. f 

J 



Suuibhulpoor on 
the Mahanuddi. 



Keunjhur and Mahagirri Hills, sicnite, gneiss, 
talcit !, hornblende, kidney-iron ore and iron in 
every shape, it affects the needle deadly climate 
except on the heights, which vary from 1,700 to 
4,000 gneiss gold found in the rivers. 



Beauraurra Hills gneiss, quartzose, iron ore in 
abundance some very fine falls of water strongly 
impregnated with calcareous matter, leaving stalac- 
tite considered wholesome height 1,200 feet? 



Height of this range about 300 feet above Sum- 
bhulpoor, or 800 feet above the sea ? 

Gneiss formation, talcite much iron, though 
less than in the other ranges diamonds and gold 
worked for matrix red clay and sand height 
supposed to be about 500 feet climate very un- 
healthy in the hot season to strangers deadly. 



In the " Madras Quarterly Medical Journal," for 1841, is pub- 
lished a very interesting report " On the Hill Fevers of the 
Southern Peninsula of India," by Dr. Heyne, of the Madras 
army. This officer, after describing the hill ranges, " which have 
rendered themselves known to Europeans for the malignity of the 
fever," and likewise those that are " as constantly free of the hill 
/i-rer" goes on to state that here, the received opinions, as to the 
vegetable or marshy origin of fever, will not hold, for that the hills 
in question " are not more woody than in other healthy places ; 
some, indeed, where the epidemic of 1808 and 1810, as well as 
the endemic, were most destructive, are quite naked of trees, as 
Dindigal, Madura, and the rocks west of Seringapatam." . . . 
" Now, if it should be found that the fever exists constantly and 
hiritridltly among certain description of /rills, when others of a 
different ciHH/iosilioH are as constantly free from the same, would 
it not become reasonable to suppose that the nature or composi- 
tion of the rock itself must furnish the cause of the calamity ? 
The hills where it is found to prevail appear, at first view, to be 



16 SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 

quite harmless, as they are granite, which is the most common 
rock-kind on this globe. They contain, however, besides quartz, 
felspar, and mica, a great proportion of ferruginous hornblende, 
which, by its disintegration or separation from the rock, becomes 
highly magnetic, and in which, I suppose, the cause resides which 
produces this fever, besides a great train of other diseases. The 
iron hornblende occurs in such quantity that all the rivulets, 
public roads, indeed, all hollows along the hills are filled with its 
sand ; from which, also, all the iron in this part of the country is 
manufactured." 

In pursuance of my early personal observations, and referring 
also to those of Dr. Heyne, I obtained, through the kindness of my 
friend Sir Charles Trevelyan, Secretary to the Treasury, a report 
on the quality of the soils of all the most unhealthy stations on the 
west coast of Africa, as well as samples of the several earths. 
These last, including the mud of the rivers were, without excep- 
tion, ferruginous. Reports from Hong- Kong speak of " ferrugi- 
nous-looking clay," and of " pestiferous mineral gas." The soil 
of this station proves on analysis to be ferruginous. 

Captain Pemberton says that the ranges of hills stretching 
south of Chittagong, and forming a great portion of the prover- 
bially unhealthy country of Aracan, are composed " almost en- 
tirely of sandstone, with which a stiff ferruginous clay is frequently 
commingled." Here the army of General Morrison was destroyed 
by malignant fever chiefly, in 1825, Europeans and natives of 
Hindustan suffering alike. 

In the " Excursions" of Mr. Fetherstonehaugh into the Slave 
States of the American Union, we find "malaria" mentioned in 
continual connection with the " ferruginous" soil of those coun- 
tries, with the " red sandstone rock," and " the red mud of the 
Arcansas." 

Tn the medical topography of the West Coast of Africa, by Mr. 
Ritchie, surgeon R.N., it is stated that the rugged surface of the 
country around Freetown, Sierra Leone, is composed of a " scanty 
and red earth." Speaking of Bathurst, in the mouth of the 
Gambia, Mr. Ritchie says of the rainy season and its tornadoes, 
which are most prevalent at the commencement and termination of 
the rains : " They always come from the eastward, and produce 
violent electrical phenomena. This period of the year is the most 
pregnant with disease." 

My friend, Dr. M' William, in his admirable Medical History of 
the Expedition to the Niger, speaks of " fever of a most malig- 
nant character " as having broken out in the Albert, within a short 
distance of the red cliff of Tddah. This cliff is composed of " fer- 
ruginous sandstone." 

Sir William Napier, in his history of Sir Charles Napier's ad- 
ministration of Sindh, states that Dr. Kirke, of the Bengal army, 



OF CALCUTTX IN i:i.\<;\L. 17 

\\lio bestowed great attention upon the subject, attributed the fatal 
trver of that country, in 1844, " to exhalations from linn stdiir 
rocks on which the barracks were built." Others again attributed 
the fever, so fatal to the 78th Highland Regiment, to neglect of 
tin- tanks; but the sickness was more generally ascribed to " an 
unusually high and anomalous inundation, and an equally ano- 
malous fall of the Indus, which brought an extraordinary fertile 
but premature vegetation. The early and entire subsidence of 
the waters left this vegetation to be withered up by the sun, which 
produced, as it always does in Sindh, malaria." 

Sir William Napier, referring to these several opinions, justly 
observes, that probably all the causes were here condensed. He 
adds, that " this and other epidemics which prevail at irregular 
periods in Sindh, arise from exhalations produced by volcanic 
action ; for the country, though alluvial, is so subject to sudden 
and extensive changes from earthquakes, that in 1819 nearly the 
whole surface of Cutch was changed." 

But soils of various colours may be quite as ferruginous as the 
red soils the difference being that, when dark, they retain organic 
matters, while, in the purely red earths, all organic substances 
have" been, more or less, decomposed, or dissipated. May not 
this decomposition by the iron, together with the magnetic pheno- 
mena, elicited by heat and other agents, be productive of disease, 
and of fever especially, in certain climates and localities ? 

I am aware of the numerous objections that may be urged to 
this, or to any other hypothesis; but, in the absence of con- 
clusive aids from chemistry and meteorology, we can do no better 
than have recourse to rational conjectures. " There is nothing so 
clear and obvious," says Biot, " as the discovery of yesterday : 
nothing so obscure as that of to-morrow." 

" Whatever may be the cause," says Hennen, " it is certain that, 
in many countries, the malaria does not arise until all the surface- 
water has totally disappeared, and leaves the whole surface of 
the country, including the many courses of the winter streams, an 
arid desert." 

The difference in the composition of the soil on the sea-coast 
and in the interior of the United States, is declared by Dr. Forey 
to cause the vast difference observable in the prevalence of inter- 
mit tent fever. 

Where the soil is primitive, with a sandy sterile soil, the rate of 
intermittent fever is but 36 per 1,000 annually, while in the in- 
terior, where the soil is alluvial, composed of a rich vegetable 
mould from three to six feet deep, the fever is nearly six times as 
l>iwalent. In the suburbs of London it is said that in places 
1 rained within the last few years the temperature has been raised, 
fogs have disappeared, and influen/a, marsh fevers, rheumatism 



18 SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 

and neuralgic pains have much diminished. The deaths also, in 
the clay districts of the metropolis, compared with the " gravelly 
districts within a few miles of London, were as three to one." 

M. Boudin, surgeon- general to the Military Hospital at Ver- 
sailles, speaking of the great importance of the nature of the soil 
in relation to public health, and how necessary it is that this 
should be an object of special attention on the part of military 
surgeons especially, observes : " It may not be out of place at 
present to call to mind the connection which the attentive ob- 
server remarks between the configuration and the geological cha- 
racter of the soil. If we consider that other connection which 
e'xists within certain limits between the geological nature of the 
soil and certain pathological conditions of man, we comprehend 
at once the important part reserved in future, in a medical point 
of view, for the study of physical geography. Thus the occur- 
rence of goitre and cretinism in the Alps and Pyrenees caused 
the existence of the same forms of disease in the Himalayas and 
Cordilleras to be foreseen a long time, and experience has verified 
the induction." The same able writer says justly, that the known 
effects of the marshes of the Italian rivers enable us to determine 
certainly the character of predominant disease in the great deltas 
of the Blue and Yellow rivers in China ; the Zaire, the Orange, 
and Zambeza, in Africa ; the Amazon, the Orinoco, and the Rio 
del Norte, in America. " Finally," he says, " as under a dissi- 
milar geological constitution, we see the forms of disease differ 
entirely at the mouth of the Po from those of the Arno, so we can 
predict a similar difference between the eastern and western 
coasts of America, and affirm safely the rarity of marsh fevers at 
the granitic embouchures of the Simpson, the Columbia, the 
Oregon, and the St. Francis." 

The same authority remarks, that a reference to the geological 
map of England exhibits the sites of the largest of our towns on 
the hard red sandstone ; while the smaller towns, and those of the 
agricultural districts, are situated on the chalks or oolites. 

When we reflect on the vital importance of the cerebral and 
organic functions, and on the readiness and power with which 
these functions are influenced by the electric and malarious states 
of the atmosphere, we shall at once comprehend the vast interests 
connected with the subjects treated in this article. They form, 
indeed, the real and only excuse for its length. 

It has long been known that animals waste and perish when 
they have been deprived of their positive electricity, by being 
attached to the opposite pole of a galvanic battery. When the 
human body, on the other hand, has been for some time exposed 
to an atmosphere of a negative electricity, it is believed by many 
to become thus incapable of resisting the various causes of disease, 



OP CALCUTTA IN BENGAL. 19 

as the exhalations from the earth, the force of epidemics, &c. 
'I 'he varying states of the earth's magnetism cannot fail of exer- 
-isin^ powerful influences on human health, however little may be 
tin' present amount of our knowledge respecting the nature and 
i>|nT;itions of these influences. 

In 1845 I obtained, through Sir Charles Trevelyan, samples of 
three kinds of earth from Sierra Leone ; viz. that of the Coast, of 
the Isles de Loss, and of Grand Cape Mount, as also of the Rivers 
Sierra Leone and Pongos. The following replies to questions sub- 
mitted by me were likewise received from the colony of Sierra 
Leone : 

" 1. What is the geological character of the soil in and around 
the settlement? 

" Above high water mark, red earth specimen sent. Below 
high water mark, black mud specimen sent from Congo Creek. 
Flats and valleys, black earth specimen sent from King Tom's 
Point. 

" 2. Does ferruginous or red sand-stone prevail, or red earth ? 

" Red earth. Red sand-stone in the strata (used for building) 
underneath specimen sent from Freetown. Occasionally large 
blocks and some strata of blue granite (now used in building) 
specimen sent from Fort Thornton. 

" 3. Is the soil of the most unhealthy stations of a ferruginous 
nature ? 

" I have never heard any one station in this colony called less 
healthy than another. 

" 1. Does the soil of the valleys or flats partake of the ferru- 
ginous character ? 

Yes. 

" 5. Do the low lands emit any offensive gases or smells, and, 
if so, at what period of the twenty-four hours ? 

" The mud by the river banks smells when exposed to the sun 
at ebb tide. 

" 6. Does magnetic iron exist, and, if so, is the variation of the 
compass affected by it ? 

" Yes specimen sent from Tower Hill Barrack Yard. 

" 7. Has the nature of the soil in general, or of the most un- 
healthy localities in particular, been chemically analysed ? 

" Answer by Dr. Fergusson So far as I know there has not 
been any minute analysis of the soil of this colony beyond the 
general one, that the soil is ferruginous ; gravelly in some 
jiiirts; loamy in others; in others sandy; but in all ferru- 
ginous." 

For the following report, on the qualities of the specimens of 

h from Sierra Leone, I am indebted to Professor Bowman, of 

King's College, London. The numbers, as given below, do not 

r 2 



20 



SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 



correspond with those mentioned in the answers to queries ; and 
one of the specimens reported on by Professor Bowman was from 
the colony of Hong-Kong : 

" I have now completed the estimation of the oxide of iron in 
the specimens of soil from Sierra Leone, and beg to hand you the 
following results. They are nearly all remarkable for the large 
quantity of ferruginous matter which they contain : 

" No. 1 contains 8-84 per cent, oxide of iron. 
2 26-00 



11-48 
23-20 
29-00 
46-12 
6-92 
11-56 



Another, numbered 9, 12-48 

This is described as " taken up at the rising of the hill below 
Mr. Melville's farm, not far from the Regent Farm Road, and a 
fair specimen of the earth of the colony. That in the bottle, with 
no label, but which is probably -No. 7, contains 11 '00 per cent, 
oxide of iron." 

In many hot climates the most deadly sites for encampments 
have been the dried up beds of rivers, or their immediate vicinities. 

Humboldt, in the 5th volume of his " Personal Narrative," in 
mentioning the fevers in the villages of Atures and Maypures, 
around the two great cataracts of the Oroonoko, says that the 
natives believe the pestilent exhalations that arise from the bare 
rocks of the Raudales to be the cause : " Among the cataracts, 
and whenever the Oroonoko, between the missions of Corichana 
and Santa Barbara, periodically washes the granite rocks, they 
become smooth black, and as if coated with black lead. The 
colouring matter does not penetrate the stone, which is coarse- 
grained granite, containing a few solitary crystals of hornblende. 
The same appearance is seen in the primitive rocks of Syene, and 
was observed by the naturalists of Captain Tuckey's expedition in 
the * Yallalas' that obstructed the Congo." Humboldt asks, " Can 
it be possible that, under the influence of excessive heat and con- 
stant humidity, the black crusts of the granite rocks are capable of 
acting on the ambient air, and producing miasmata with a triple 
basis of carbon, azote, and hydrogen." 



INFLUENCE OF THE LABOUR OF MAN. GENERAL POPULATION. 

Without cultivation few climates would be salubrious or agree- 
able, and it is by its means that man exercises so powerful an 
influence upon the temperature and purity of the air. 



OP CALCUTTA IN BENGAL. 21 

Parisot remarks justly, that animalised vegetable matters in a 
state of decomposition are condensed and not decomposed by 
porous bodies, amongst which fine sand may be classed. " In 
the mild and moist winter putrid decomposition commences. The 
subtile ferments it produces are condensed in the sandy soil of 
which Egypt is fonned, and in which the dead repose. When the 
elevation of the temperature makes the ferments evaporate, man 
receives them by the superficial absorbent vessels, or by those of 
the lungs in the act of respiration." 

Let us contemplate a desert country, the rivers, abandoned to 
themselves, become choked and overflow, and their waters serve 
only to form pestilential marshes. A labyrinth of thickets and of 
brambles overspread the most fertile hills. In the meadows the un- 
sightly wild mushroom, and the useless moss choke the nutritious 
herbs ; forests become impenetrable to the rays of the sun ; no wind 
disperses the putrid exhalations of the trees which have fallen under 
the pressure of age ; the soil, excluded from genial and purifying 
warmth of the air, exhales nothing but poison ; and an atmosphere 
of death gathers over all the country. But what do not industry and 
perseverance accomplish ? The marshes are drained ; the rivers 
flow in their disencumbered channels ; the axe and the fire clear 
away the forests ; the earth furrowed by the plough is opened to 
the rays of the sun, and the influence of the wind ; the air, the 
soil, and the waters acquire by degrees a character of salubrity ; 
and vanquished nature yields its empire to man, who thus creates 
a country for himself. 

Agriculture must be much improved in Bengal before the 
European, in the language of Malte-Brun, can be said to have 
created a country for himself. A Hindu field is described by 
Mill to be in the highest state of cultivation, where only so far 
changed by the plough, as to afford a scanty supply of mould for 
covering the seed, while the useless and hurtful vegetation is so far 
from being eradicated, that where burning precedes not, the grasses 
and steriles which have bid defiance to the plough, cover a large 
portion of the surface. The same author concludes, that " every- 
thing which savours of ingenuity, even the most natural results of 
common observation and good sense, are foreign to the agricul- 
ture of the Hindus. Their ideas of improvement are very 
limited ; they scarcely extend beyond the introduction of irri- 
gation into land which was formerly cultivated dry. Each small 
proprietor is content to follow the customs of his forefathers ; the 
same rude implements of husbandry, the same inferior race of 
cattle, and the same practices are still in operation, which have 
existed unchanged for centuries. As to any new experiments of 
general measuring, draining, differences in the rotation of crops, 
introducing new grain or vegetables, or new sorts of those already 



22 SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 

known, any attention to their breed of cattle, any adoption of a 
better and more combined system by which a smaller number of 
people could raise the same or a larger proportion of produce 
all these are out of the question." 

I cannot find that the example of European superiority has had 
much influence on the state of agriculture around the metropolis 
of India. It is certain that in the cold season the markets are 
supplied with excellent vegetables of every kind ; but beyond this 
I believe matters are much the same as in the days of Job Char- 
nock, the founder of Calcutta. The general crops are of rice. 
In the Appendix to the Parliamentary Reports of 1831, I find 
the population of the 24-Pergunnahs, suburbs, and city, rated 
at 1,225,000, which I have reason to think is over-estimated. 



THE PREDOMINANT WINDS. 

The united influence of all the elements which constitute phy- 
sical climate is variously modified by the prevailing winds ; and 
all their variations depend on the equilibrium of the atmosphere, 
the heat of one climate and the cold of another exercising a con- 
tinual influence on each other. Atmospheric currents prevent the 
accumulation in it of the noxious elements which are constantly 
emanating from the earth's surface. 

Mr. Atkinson, referring to the well-known influence of different 
winds on plants and insects on the animal and vegetable fibre 
observes, that " there is something in the atmosphere which, by 
change of wind, causes a simultaneous action in all living sub- 
stances and structures. The pimpernel, * the poor man's weather- 
glass,' and the chickweed," he says, " are both excellent natural 
barometers, opening their delicate structures on sunny days, and 
closing them against rain. So also the spiders prognosticate the 
north and east winds, which ' cause them to leave their webs and 
shelter themselves in holes.' 

The northern parts of a great continent will sometimes send 
forth their cold air towards the southern parts ; and sometimes 
they will receive warm air in return. The monsoon always 
changes some time after the equinoxes, and constantly blows to- 
wards that hemisphere in which the sun is found. The action of 
this luminary on the atmosphere is therefore plainly one of their 
causes, the cold air from the mountains of Thibet following its 
course for half the year, and that from the southern seas during 
the other. 

The south-west rainy monsoon, the most remarkable of our 
periodical winds, begins on the Malabar coast in May, and reaches 
Delhi by the end of June, extending to the north- eastern parts of 



OP CALCUTTA IN BENGAL. 23 

Afghanistan, but greatly modified. It prevails more in the moun- 
tains than the flats of the Punjaub ; the hills and valleys of Cash- 
mere have their share of it, and it gradually loses itself westward 
in the valley of Peshawur, where it appears only in clouds and 
showers. On the Coromondel Coast it is retarded, the clouds 
brought by the south-west winds being detained by the Ghauts. 
It reaches Bengal by the 15th of June. 

Owing to the arrest of the south-west monsoon by the moun- 
tains, and consequent accumulation of vapour, an extraordinary 
deposition of rain takes place on the Malabar Coast, being not 
less than 123-5 inches in the year in the latitude of ll north. 

When not influenced by elevated lands, this monsoon generally 
prevails north of the Equator from April to October, accompanied 
by tempests, storms, and rain, while a north-east wind blows 
during the other six months. The periodical winds that prevail 
in the Bay of Bengal extend their influence over the flat country, 
until they are diverted by chains of mountains into another direc- 
tion, nearly correspondent, however, with the course of the 
Ganges. When the sun has passed into the southern hemisphere, 
the monsoon alters its direction ; the mass of air whicR had been 
accumulated during the hot season and rains on the central plat- 
form of Asia, now bestirs itself, and moves towards the regions 
south of the Equator, where the atmosphere has been dilated and 
dissipated by the solar heat. Over most parts of the Indian 
Ocean this monsoon proceeds from the north-east, because the 
central platform lies to the north-east. On the other hand, as the 
seas of China, of Borneo, of New Guinea, of Java, have the centre 
of Asia to the north and north-west, the monsoon comes to them 
from these points. 

In the south of Bengal the prevalent winds are north and south ; 
in Behar east and west, and the same takes place in Assam, follow- 
ing the course of the Berhampooter. 

That the monsoons exercise a beneficial influence on health 
cannot be doubted, but especially the south-west, from its preva- 
lence during the greatest heats, and from its greater power of 
thoroughly ventilating the country " Qualiit aer, tails spiritus" 
Stagnation would prove immediately destructive to health in a 
climate where there are so many various and abundant sources of 
noxious effluvia, to ripen into activity by such a cessation of wind 
as should admit of their accumulation, and that of heat, in any 
one place, or in such streets, for instance, as those of the native 
portion of Calcutta, Of the north-east monsoon I must limit my 
praises solely to its ventilating properties; for in every other 
respect it exercises an unfavourable influence on health to a 
degree not generally known ; indeed, so far from it, that k is 
common to hear the accession of the cold season hailed by in- 



24 



SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 



valids who are ignorant of the many dangers it carries along. It 
is the true " Sirocco of the North." 

The following table gives the direction of the winds at noon 
during the years specified : 





N. 


NW. 


W. 

Days 


S.W. 


S. 


S.E. 


E. 


N.E. 


Calm 




Days 


Days 


Days 


Days 


Days 


Days 


Days 


Days 


In 1832 the wind was 
1833 , 
1834 , 
1835 , 
1836 , 
1837 , 
1838 


44 
56 
53 
41 
67 
83 


60 
39 
52 
65 
58 
26 


26 
14 
12 
31 

88 
77 


44 
30 
25 
84 
38 
43 


67 
115 
99 
41 
46 
76 


49 
24 
22 
45 

7 
6 


4 
25 
26 
12 
23 
21 


71 
32 
40 
31 
20 
13 


9 
29 
36 
7 
12 
7 


No regist. 1 day. 
2 days. 

8 days. 
6 days. 
3 days. 


Total . . . 


344 


300 


248 


264 


444 


153 


111 


207 


100 





The following table,* given by Mr. Smeaton (Philos. Trans.), 
and confirmed by Mr. Hutton (Mathematical Dictionary), ex- 
hibits in pounds avoirdupois the pressure which different winds 
will exert upon a square foot of surface exposed directly against 
them. The first column is a rough representation of the 
second : 



Velocity of Winds. 


Force on one 
Square Foot 
in pounds 
Avoirdupois. 


Character of the Wind. 


Miles per Hour. 


Feet per Second. 


1 








2 


1-47 


005 


Hardly perceptible. 


3 

4 


2-93 
440 


020 ) 
044 { 


Just perceptible. 


5 
10 


5-87 
7-33 


079 
123 




Gentle pleasant Wind. 


15 
20 


14-67 
22-00 


492 
1-107 




Pleasant brisk Gale. 


25 
30 


29-34 
36-67 


1-968 
3-075 




Very brisk. 


35 
40 


44-01 
51-34 


4-429 
6-027 




High Winds. 


45 
50 


58-68 
66-01 


7-873 
9-963 


' 


Very high. 


55 


73-35 


12-300 


Storm or Tempest. 


60 


88-02 


17-1715 


Great Storm. 


80 


117-36 


31.490 


Hurricane. 


100 


146-70 


49-200 


Destructive Hurricane. 



* A. B. Maddock, M.D., on tlic Influence of Air and Weather. 



OF CALCUTTA IN BENGAL. '. ) 



THE RAINS SOURCES OF AQUEOUS EXHALATIONS HUMIDITY. 

The endiometric processes having failed of discovering in the 
atmosphere of places the most opposite, such as the narrow lanes 
of London, and the summits of lofty mountains, any difference in 
the constituent properties of their permanent gases, it becomes a 
question of the highest interest and importance to ascertain the 
varying quantity of aqueous vapour in our atmosphere ; for it is 
the only ascertainable fluctuating ingredient in its composition. 
To the medical topographer, a minute inquiry of the kind here 
suggested may lead to a knowledge interesting and important 
respecting the causes and cure of certain diseases, in so far as 
these may be connected with climate, and this is no small benefit 
from the proper application of instruments. 

" The rain in falling," says Mulder, " carries with it everything 
that floats in the atmosphere, and which is not essential* to its con- 
stitution ; which brings back to the earth what came from the 
earth ; and which, while it thus purifies the atmosphere from these 
hurtful adulterations, restores to the soil these numberless volatile 
substances, where they have abundant opportunities of forming 
not only harmless but useful combinations." 

Without taking into view the expanse of the Bay, the coup-cTceil 
of a good map of Bengal will at once show how bountiful nature 
has been to that country, by means of her majestic rivers with their 
innumerable tributaries, in yielding the sources of aqueous exha- 
lations, and it were gratifying to the medical topographer, could 
his description be limited to these. There are not any lakes in 
Bengal resembling those of Scotland or Canada, but there is a 
profusion of extensive jheels, which may be either denominated 
shallow lakes or morasses. A large proportion of these in the dry 
season contain little or no water, but during the rains present im- 
mense sheets, over which boats of the greatest magnitude may be 
navigated, and some are navigable to a certain extent throughout the 
year. There is reason to believe that nearly all these stagnant 
sheets of water rest in what were, at a remote period, the channels 
of large rivers, which have since altered their courses and now 
flow in other directions. The area of Bengal and Behar is 
149,217 square miles, and with Benares not less than 162,000 
square miles. The following proportions of the surface are 
grounded upon many surveys after making allowance for large 
rivers : 



SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 



Parts. 

Rivers and lakes (one-eighth) . . . . . . 3 

Deemed irreclaimable and barren (one-sixth) . . 4 

Sites of towns and villages, highways, tanks, &c., (one twen - 

fourth) .. .. .. .. .. 1 

Free land (three twenty-fourths) remaining liable to revenue 3 

In tillage (three-eighths) . . . . . . . . 9 

Waste (one sixth) . . . . . . . . 4 

Total , 24* 

According to another calculation, Bengal contains 97,244 square 
miles ; if from this, that portion of Tipperah which is independent, 
the tract of the Sunderbunds and other wastes, equal to 13,244 
miles, be deducted, the remaining inhabited country will be equal 
to 84,000 square miles ; but the extent of waste and surface, occu- 
pied by rivers, marshes, &c.. seems here greatly under- rated. 

When all this is considered, along with the complete saturation 
during five months in the year, of every inch of soil, even that 
which may not be actually inundated, the extent and sources of 
aqueous exhalation the commerce of land and water may be 
imagined. It is ascertained that the capacity of the atmosphere for 
moisture varies with its temperature, so 'that at 113 it holds a 
twentieth part of its weight of moisture ; at 80 a fortieth, and 
so on. 

To a scientific officer well acquainted with the localities, I put 
the two following questions: 1st. Taking the area of the 24 
pergunnahs to be 882 square miles, what proportion should you 
say the water surface bears to the land, on the 30th May and the 
10th of October, the first being just before the rains, and the latter 
just after ? 2nd. What proportion does the cultivated land bear 
to the waste and jungle within the said area ? 

Answer to 1st Question. I should say that on the 10th of June, 
you might assume one-twentieth pan as the proportion of the 
water to the land ; of course, I mean by water, ground from which 
exhalations could arise. Answer to Question 2nd. The cultivated 
land maybe about 14-20ths; water, l-20th ; roads and villages, 
2-20th ; uncultivated, 3-20ths. 

The subjoined table will show the annual fall of rain during the 
years specified. The average annual fall is about 60 inches. 



BAIN. 



1830 
1831 
1832 
1833 
1834 



inches. 
63.28 
57.50 
49.26 
60.56 
68.73 



* W. Hamilton. 



OP CALCUTTA IN BENGAL. 27 

inches. 
1835* .. .. .. .. .. 85.50 

1836 .. .. .. .. .. 45.39 

1837 .. .. .. .. .. 43.06 

1838 .. .. .. .. .. " " 

Mean . . 59.228 

The following are the average rates of evaporation for the dry 
months : January, three inches ; February, five ; March, seven ; 
April and May, nine. 

It is during the periods of the year when the drying process is 
in greatest activity that unhealthiness prevails with greatest 
severity, namely, the commencement and termination of the rainy 
season. In the former, or that called by the natives the lesser 
rain (Chotabursat), common remittent fevers arise, and at the ter- 
mination, or that from 15th September to the end of October, the 
severest forms of the same fever prevail, but chiefly amongst the 
indigent natives, and Europeans newly arrived. 

The connexion of the rainy season with disease, would, in such 
a climate as this, form a highly interesting branch of inquiry ; but 
the absence of everything like statistical object in our hospital 
reports, prevents even an approach to accuracy on tlu's, or indeed 
on any subject connected with climatorial influence. 

The following statement is taken from the " Bengal Hurkaru " 
of September 6th, 1845. 

" The Englishman is informed that seventy-four inches of rain fell 
in Arakan during the last month ; and that fifty inches had fallen 
during the first twelve days of the present month. The whole fall 
during the monsoon, to the 15th August, was two hundred inches." 

The quantity of rain that occasionally falls in a brief space of 
time within the tropics, and especially near the equator, is enor- 
mous. On the 10th May, 1885, sixteen inches fell in Calcutta, in 
twelve hours. But, owing perhaps to the direction and elevation 
of the mountain ranges, and to the nearer approach to the equator, 
it is in the Burmese territories that we find the most surprising 
examples of great falls of rain. Those who served at Rangoon, 
and in Upper Ava, as the first European observers, will never 
forget the rainy seasons of those countries. 



THE HOOGHLY RIVER THE WESTERN BRANCH OF THE GANGES 
THE BHAGIRATHI, OR TRUE GANGES OF THE HINDUS. 

By some persons who have spoken of our climate, a large por- 
tion of the evils under which we suffer, has been ascribed to the 
river its supposed overflowings its sluggish tides and foul 
waters its muddy and slimy banks, and the action of a vertical 
* Sixteen inches fell on the 10th May, in less than twelve hours. 




28 SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 

sun upon them, &c., but I shall view the river in a different and 
more friendly light, a* the purifier of our city. 

Certain am I that without this great scavenger, to whose tides we 
owe more than Captain Hamilton ever dreamt of, we should now 
be in a worse condition even than when he left us an hundred 
years ago. The truth is that, under moderate supervision on the 
part of the police, the river banks are inoffensive ; and along their 
whole extent, although crowded with buildings for a space of nine 
miles, disease will be found less prevalent by far, than in the 
interior quarters towards the east ; in short, the causes of fever are 
to be traced to other and more palpable sources than the river- 
bank, which is the most elevated of all our grounds, being from 
three to four feet above the surrounding levels. The causes of un- 
healthiness in Garden Reach, after the salt water inundation of 
1833, could be readily traced to the state of the back-grounds no 
one ever thought of looking for them in the river-bank. The annual 
rise of the Ganges and its branches, is in 

May 
June 

July .. .. 

Half of August 

Total .. 32 

From above 350 observations of temperature made by Mr. G. A. 
Prinsep, of which the details are given in the Journal of the 
Asiatic Society, it would appear that " the mean temperature of 
the surface water exceeds 81 Fahr., everywhere between Calcutta 
and the sea." In the dry season the mean rate of motion is less 
than three miles per hour ; in the rainy season, and while the in- 
undations are draining off, the current runs from six to seven, and 
even eight miles in particular situations. 

The river is at its lowest in the beginning of March, and the 
freshes are at their height in September, when the tides are 
scarcely visible off Calcutta; and the river water is "perfectly 
sweet, far beyond Saugor in the open sea." 

The following table exhibits the depths of the river channel at 
the different seasons. 

Dry season. 
Minimum depth . . . . . . . . . . 8J feet 

Maximum average depth of eleven of the shallowest places in 
the Hooghly spring ehb .. .. .. .. J5J 

Maximum average depth over the same places spring flood . . 31 ,, 

Rainy season. 

Minimum depth . . . . . . . . . . 16 feet 

Minimum average depth of eleven of the shallowest places in 

the Hooghly spring ebb . . . . . . . . 22J 

Maximum average depth over the same places spring flood .. 32 J ,, 

Highest rise, ditto, ditto . . . . 36 

Difference between highest and lowest, 20J. Dry and rain. 



OF CALCUTTA IN BENGAL. 29 

The situation and extent of the salt-water lake have already 
l>rrn described; and it only now remains to state the probable 
advantages of causing its area to be drained, filled up, and brought 
under cultivation. Owing to the shallowness of the lake generally, 
it is easy to drain it for the purposes of native agriculture ; but to 
deprive the ground so drained of the sources of noxious exhala- 
tion is not so easy. 

It is not sufficient to convert the ground into a state of soft low 
meadow land; for the most dangerous exhalations are those which 
are retained, and occasionally emitted from under a crust of earth 
during the drying process, whereby they would appear to acquire 
unusual concentration, and prove the origin of the worst fevers. 
It is necessary that the grounds be thoroughly drained, leaving 
none of the characters of the marsh, otherwise it had better be 
left as it is ; its present condition being one of far greater safety 
than such half drained soil as that obtained from the marsh of 
Chartreuse, for instance, near Bordeaux, which caused in the year 
1805 alone, 12,000 persons to be affected with fever, within the 
city, of whom 3,000 died within five months ! 

Two modes of effecting the drainage suggest themselves; the 
one by letting in the river during the rains, and thereby gaining a 
succession of deposits of the river silt, so as gradually to fill the 
lake, and thereby bring it in time to a level with the surrounding 
land; this would seem the easiest; it imitates the simple opera- 
tions of nature, and would be the cheapest ; but perhaps not the 
most conducive to health. Another mode is by a deep and well- 
constructed canal, so as to effect the drainage ; but, as even this 
must, to a certain degree, prove a receptacle for noxious matter, 
and offer a considerable surface for evaporation, a close line of 
umbrageous trees should, under the proposed plan, be planted 
along each side of the canal, as being powenully attractive of 
marsh exhalation. This property in trees was practically known 
to the ancients,* and is now beneficially exemplified in Deme- 
rara, and other parts of Guiana, " where the humid heat constantly 
cherishes the seeds of disease." 

The ground cleared from water, should be well ploughed and 
cultivated, the ploughing to be done during the heaviest rain, so as 
to prevent exhalation ; for it is during a certain stage of the dry- 
ing process, that marsh exhalation is most concentrated, and it 
has been observed in many countries that the drying up of brackish 
water is more injurious than that of either salt or fresh alone. A 
succession of crops purifies and evaporates the soil, and thereby 
obviates exhalation ; but they should not be of rice, or such crops 

* Regaud de L'Isle says of the malaria of Italy, that various obstacles form barriers 
which they cannot pass, and against which they deposit themselves. 



30 SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE 

as require profuse irrigation. The want of attention to some of 
the precautionary measures above hinted at, has neutralized the 
advantages that would otherwise have resulted from extensive 
draining executed in some parts of France and [taly ; and I have 
only thus long dwelt on that of the Salt- Water-Lake, because I 
believe its proper performance to be a matter of great importance 
to this city, so far as regards the prevention of disease ; and I 
need not here insist on the superior efficacy of preventive 
measures, such as have advanced in our own country apace with 
our civilization, and altogether banished from us some of the 
severest calamities that have ever afflicted the human race. 



THE WOODS AND MARSHES OF THE SUNDERBUNDS. 

The enormous extent of the Sunderbunds covering a superficies 
of more than 20,000 square miles, and extending 180 miles to the 
South and East of Calcutta is composed of marshy land, covered 
with forest and underwood, together with the numerous embou- 
chures of the Ganges a region from whence the solar light, the 
heat, and the air, are excluded by the forest trees, to the extinc- 
tion of all minor vegetation. When we consider all these cir- 
cumstances, and their common influences on all the conditions of 
the atmosphere necessary to health, we shall be at no loss to per- 
ceive how great must be the deteriorating influences of so vast a 
region on the climate of Calcutta. That " forest on the borders of 
the sea," must necessarily exercise a very powerful influence on 
the temperature, humidity, electricity, and freedom of circulation 
of the atmosphere in and around it, not to speak of the noxious 
exhalations generated within, and disseminated without. It is 
evident that the electric condition of the air must be greatly 
affected by the combination of oxygen with the materials of living 
plants over so vast a surface, as also by the extent of evapora- 
tion from it ; and they are subjects deserving our most careful con- 
sideration. 

How far the geological nature of the soil the amount of evapo- 
ration the presence of forests the vicinity of seas, lakes, and 
rivers ; how, in fact, all the local circumstances, noted in our topo- 
graphic charts, may affect the electrical states of the medium in 
which " we live, move, and have our being ;" these are questions 
of the last importance to be observed and noted. 

That the clearing of the extensive surface of the Sunderbunds, 
or of any considerable portion of it, leaving belts and clumps of 
forest trees, would tend greatly to improve the local climate, in and 
around Calcutta, there can be no doubt. The history of this city, 



OF CALCUTTA IN BENGAL. 31 

and that of the effects of clearing marshes and forests in the neigh* 
bourhood of other cities in other countries, offers a demonstra- 
tion of this fact. 

Such a measure would open out the city to the more free 
influence of the sea-breezes, diminish the moisture of its atmo- 
sphere, and purify it. These are no speculative results. 

It is found, contrary to the vulgar opinion, that in cleared and 
cultivated tracts, the air is rendered drier and warmer in summer, 
and colder in winter, than in such as, from want of cultivation, 
remain, like the Sunderbunds, covered with wood and marsh. 

" Earth-clouds " are commonly observed in the early morning 
to the east of Calcutta, over the borders of the Salt- Water Lake, 
and the cleared portions of the Sunderbunds. They are caused 
by the immense radiation of heat in the calm nights, and by the 
cooling of the earth's surface far below that of the air above thus 
forming vast clouds or mists, close to the earth's surface. If then, 
to counterbalance the only disadvantage attendant on clearing 
some little increase of temperature we obtain purity and dryness 
of our atmosphere, we shall still be very greatly the gainers ; for it 
is not so much from the high rate of temperature we Europeans 
suffer, as from the excessive humidity that is conjoined to it for so 
many months in the year, and both which, commingled with the 
terrestrial exhalations, tend gradually through their united in- 
fluence, by inducing what may be termed a Cacliexia Loci, to un- 
dermine the best and most robust of constitutions. 

The clearing and draining immediately around the city, partial 
and imperfect as these are, have yet removed only some of the 
concentrated evil ; but that emanation which was death within a 
few yards, cannot be other than insalubrious even at the distance of 
a few miles. 



POSTSCRIPT. 

Referring to the influences of all the physical and geographical 
circumstances detailed in the foregoing notes as affecting the 
electricity of the atmosphere, I would call attention to the con- 
clusions arrived at by Dr. Pallas of the French army in Algeria, 
offering them here only as subject-matter for examination and test 
in other hot climates. Dr. Pallas considers : 

1 st. That, just as light and air are the essential agents of vision 
and respiration, so electricity is the functional agent of innerva- 
tion. 

2nd. That the greater number of diseases, and especially those 
which belong to the class of neuroses, are occasioned by the ex- 



32 SKETCH OF THE PHYSICAL CLIMATE, &C. 

aggerated influence of general electricity, of which clouds, storms, 
and marshy regions are the most fruitful sources. 

3. Marshes, in their geographical constitution, and in the effects 
which they produce upon the economy, present the greatest analogy 
to the galvanic pile. Thus their action is much the more baneful 
as they contain certain proportions of water, and their activity is 
considerably increased when the water contains organic or saline 
matters in a state of solution. This explains why salt marshes 
and such as are near maritime rivers are the most insalubrious. 
The drying up or submersion of marshes produces analogous con- 
ditions to those of a galvanic pile deprived of humidity, or which 
is under water, and the effects of which are there insignificant. 

4. The researches of philosophers and physiologists have shown 
that the electricity produced by our machines exerts a special 
action upon the nervous system. Experience and rigorous obser- 
vation of facts proves that the diseases which are produced by a 
marshy atmosphere are primarily nervous, and become inflamma- 
tory only by the re-action of the nerves upon the vascular system, 
inducing consecutive, local, or general irritation. 

5. The neuroses are occasioned generally by the effects of elec- 
tricity, and intermittent fevers have a similar origin ; that is to say, 
they are due to the electrical emanations of the marshy pile, which 
are very active in hot countries, and not to miasmata, which have 
never been met with. 

Professor Schonbein considers, on the other hand, that the 
physiological importance of electricity has, upon the whole, been 
much exaggerated, that agent, in comparison to heat and light, 
acting but an inferior part in the economy of organized beings. 
" Electricity," he says, " would affect neither the sense of taste or 
smell, if atmospheric air did not contain oxygen and nitrogen; 
and the phenomena of sound and light, perceived during electrical 
discharges, are due to the vibrations into which the particles of air 
are thrown by the electrical discharges, electricity having directly 
nothing to do with them." 



MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCK <>l 
SEASON. 



" Si 1'histoire naturcllc a besoin d'unc bonne geographic physique, la science de 
I'homme a besoin d'une bonne geographic metlicale." CABANIH. 



UNDER this head I shall offer some cursory observations on what 
is usually called by physicians " medical climate," and also some 
brief notices of the geography of disease, as connected with our 
Bengal climate and seasons. 

Temperature and humidity being the elements that give activity 
to terrestrial emanations, and all the external causes affecting 
health, derived from locality, I shall now consider them apart from 
the subjects above classed ; remarking generally that the heat of 
Hindustan as compared to that of other regions, is more charac- 
ter! /ed by its duration than by its intensity. On the other hand, 
where the cold is excessive, the rise of temperature in spring and 
summer is sudden and intense, while again in those countries 
where the range is more limited, the seasons glide gradually and 
imperceptibly into each other. 

Speaking of the average of men, the terms hot, warm, cool, cold, 
as applied to the surrounding air, are regulated by the sensations 
produced ; and if the heat be carried off as fast as it is generated, 
and no faster, no particular sensation is felt the bodily powers 
being neither stimulated nor exhausted. Supposing then that 
no extraordinary exertions arc made, the equilibrium is main- 
tained when the thermometer stands at 62, or thereabouts ; and 
this point in the scale is therefore called temperate. All degrees 
above that point, up to 70, are reckoned warm ; all above 70, 
hot. Descending again in the scale, we speak of the temperature 
denoted by any degree between the 60th and the 50th as being coo/, 
and any lower degree of temperature is cold. Changes of temperat in c 
^1 in to be as readily felt at one part of the tlu-rinoint iric scale as 
;it tin- other, and in whichever direction they take place. Captain 
Parry found that a rise in the thermometer from 13 below /em to 

D 



84 MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 

23 caused discomfort to his men. " I may possibly incur the 
charge of affectation in stating that this temperature was much too 
high to be agreeable to us ; but it was nevertheless a fact that 
everybody felt and complained of the change." On the other hand, 
the fall to from 40 or 50 at night in Bengal, during the cold season, 
might seem to an European as both agreeable and salutary ; but a 
very brief experience teaches him the contrary. Much has been 
said and written on the superior capabilities of adaptation to 
climate in man over the lower animals ; but if the power and just 
application of the arts of civilization be deducted, I am disposed 
to think with Dr. James Johnson, that the difference would be but 
small ; for, even with these aids we find that in this climate "many 
die suddenly, others droop, and all degenerate," very much as with 
the lower animals of more temperate regions; and all we can 
hope to learn is how best to conquer by obeying nature. It is 
thus that man, the weakest of animals, is, in reality, the strongest ; 
and it is under circumstances apparently calculated to overwhelm 
and destroy his vigour that he finds the means of developing new 
faculties and resources, which excite even his own astonishment. 

Gibbon, after stating that the Roman soldiers, from their " ex- 
cellent discipline," maintained " health and vigour in all climates," 
adds, that " man is the only animal which can live and multiply in 
every country from the equator to the poles. The hog seems to 
approach the nearest to our species in that privilege." It is true, 
as stated by the historian, that men do " live " in other than their 
natural climates, but their existence is very unlike to the health 
and vigour of the Roman soldier, whose habit and discipline did 
not allow his manly character and physical energy to be dissolved 
in indolence. 

" The truth is," says Dr. Johnson, " the tender frame of man is 
incapable of sustaining the degree of exposure to the whole range of 
causes and effects incident to, or arising from vicissitudes of climate, 
which so speedily operate a change on the structure, or at least the 
exterior of unprotected animals. The object of these remarks, which 
at first sight might seem irrelevant, will now appear. Since it is 
evident that nature does not operate more powerfully in counter- 
acting the ill effects of climate on man, than any other animal, it 
follows that we should not implicitly confide, as too many do, in 
the spontaneous efforts of the constitution, but on the contrary, 
call into its aid those artificial means of prevention and ameliora- 
tion, which reason may dictate and experience confirm. In short, 
that we should study well the climate, and mould our obsequious 
frames to the nature of the skies under which we sojourn." 

Although the physical effects of climate, in forming or influ- 
encing the differences by which the varieties of tribes of the human 
species are characterized, are foreign to the present inquiry, still, 



MEDICAL r/.IMATK AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 35 

one cannot help remarking, that, if the native of Bengal Proper is 
to IK- classed among the Caucasians the standard of the human 
race the effects of climate and locality must indeed be great and 
remarkable. 

NO climates exist that are uniformly hot and dry, hot and moist, 
cold and dry, or cold and moist ; yet certain countries have such 
a preponderance of one or other of these qualities, as to give a 
N cry marked character to the physical and moral nature of man ; 
ana physicians would do well to observe these results of climate 
more closely than has yet been done : " Si 1'histoire naturelle a 
besoin d'une bonne geographic physique, la science de 1'homme a 
besoin d'une bonne gdographie m6dicale." 

The moral as well as the physical influences of climate have 
been considered so powerful by some philosophers, as to make 
some persons doubt whether a people, situated as our Asiatic sub- 
jects, are capable of receiving die impress of European knowledge 
and institutions. There is in hot climates, it has been well ob- 
served, a vis inertia which indisposes men to change their cus- 
toms, or to cope with abuses ; and the indolence which the climate 
occasions conduces to the stability of their barbarous institutions. 

" The astonishing rapidity of political revolutions in Asia," says 
Montesquieu, " arises, however, out of one fact which is really de- 
pendent on its physical geography. In that part of the world, 
weak nations are opposed to strong ; people warlike, brave, and 
active, border upon those who are effeminate, idle, and timid ; the 
one must necessarily be conquerors, the others conquered. Here 
we have the principal reason of the liberty of Europe and the 
slavery of Asia." " It is necessary," says Malte-Bnui, " to com- 
bine this just remark with another truth proved by physical geo- 
graphy, namely, that Asia has no temperate zone, no intermediate 
region between very cold and very hot climates. The slaves in- 
habit the hot, and the conquerors the elevated and cold regions." 

In European countries, a certain amount of injury is caused to 
public health by the agitations of ceaseless competition, commer- 
cial speculation, religious controversy, and party politics ; and 
though these influences are not apparent in India generally, we 
cannot altogether overlook them, or the many causes arising 
from long ages of civil and sacerdotal dominations, and other 
abuses of government which, with difference of race and of religion, 
produce so remarkable a difference between the moral and physical 
constitution of the Asiatic and European, so as to render the 
latter so much more liable to be affected by tropical climates. 

The hot and dry season in Bengal extends from the beginning 
of March to the middle of June, during which the winds are 
steady and strong from south and south-west. The temperature 

< gradually from 80 to about 1)0 J)5in the shade, and reaches 

i. _> 



36 MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 

to 100 120 and upwards in the open air. Notwithstanding the 
high temperature, this season is rendered far less oppressive to the 
feelings than might be supposed, by means of the moisture carried 
along with the monsoon in its passage over the bay, and likewise 
by the frequency of refreshing storms, accompanied by rain, 
lightning, and thunder. Of Calcutta at mid-day, in April, May, and 
part June, it may be said, however, with truth, that it is " a city of 
stone, in a land of iron, with a sky of brass." The local news- 
papers of May, 1851, speak of the heat as more intense than it had 
been for years. " The thermometer in the coolest rooms stands 
at 92 to 94, and the breeze which should bring refreshment at 
the close of the sultry day, has been as the breath of a furnace." 

The most ordinary and simple effects of the season just de- 
scribed are determination of the fluids generally to the surface of 
the body, the blood being venalfted in proportion to the elevation 
of temperature ; and respiration being less perfectly carried on, 
owing to the rarefaction of the air, and the consequent diminution 
of its oxygen in a given bulk, a vicarious decarbonization of the 
blood is established in the great increase of the biliary secretion ; 
while, at the same time, the urine is surcharged with saline im- 
pregnation, and much diminished in quantity. Recent experi- 
ments render it probable that, as temperature rises, the quantity of 
oxygen consumed in respiration is less, while the amount of car- 
bonic acid exhaled is less also. At this season too, it is believed 
that both the relative and absolute quantity of carbonic acid ex- 
haled is diminished. There seems at length some reason to hope 
that the vicarious nature of the relations existing between the de- 
purative functions of the liver, kidneys, mucous surfaces, skin, and 
lungs may receive demonstration from chemistry. 

" Vierordt has made a very extensive series of observations, 
with the view of ascertaining the connection between the tempera- 
rure and the pulse, the respiratory movements, and the volumes of 
air expired, and of carbonic acid, in one minute. His experi- 
ments were made at every degree of temperature between 37 and 
76 Fahr. 

" From a table of observations, we see that elevation of tempe- 
rature is accompanied by a diminution of the number and of the 
depth of the inspirations ; its effect on the excretion of carbonic 
acid is, to a certain degree, of an indirect nature, since the dimi- 
nished number and depth of the expirations must have a con- 
siderable influence ; but inasmuch as the diminution does not 
merely show itself in the total quantity excreted, but also in the 
per centage of carbonic acid in the expired air, it seems obvious 
that the elevation of temperature has a more direct influence on 
the excretion of carbonic acid than could be accounted for by the 
modified respiratory action. 



MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 37 

" The degree of atmospheric moisture, to a certain degree, in- 
fluences the respiratory functions and the excretion of carbonic 
acid. Lekmann, some years ago, experimented on this subject 
with pigeons, greenfinches, and rabbits. The quantity of carbonic 
acid exhaled in a moist air was much greater than in a drier 
atmosphere." . . . . " The researches of Vierordt on the 
influence of atmospheric pressure, show that this also is by no 
means an unimportant element." ..." Vierordt and Baral 
agree in the opinion that more carbonic acid is excreted in winter 
than in the summer. 

" The excretion of carbonic acid is very considerably diminished 
during sleep. This is most decisively proved by the experiments 
of Scharling, who found that a man, during one hour of the night, 
exhaled only 22'77 grammes, who, during an hour of the next 
day, immediately after a meal, exTialed 33'69 grammes ; and who, 
in another case, found that the horary excretions of carbonic acid 
during this night and during the day were as 31 '39 : 40'74." 
Uriti>tk and Foreign M. C. Review, July, 1854. The alternations 
here mentioned cannot fail of being important in relation to 
European health within the tropics. 

It appears to me that the physiological action of heat is ex- 
hibited, first, in its temporary stimulation of both the ganglionic 
and cerebral systems of nerves, and in the increased manifesta- 
tion of all those functions governed by them ; and secondly, in 
its sedative and more lasting influence on the same systems of 
nerves, and in diminished manifestation, consequently, of all those 
functions governed by them. This last result is strikingly exemplified 
in the diminished muscular powers of both the heart and uterus. 

Bearing in mind these important and interesting facts, as they 
appear to me, we shall at once perceive how it is, that for a 
certain time, the respiration, circulation, the hepatic function, and 
that of innervation itself, are unnaturally excited, and how the 
newly arrived European is exhilarated in mind, and so prone 
also to acute inflammatory and congestive abdominal diseases. 
But, as this state of over-excited or exalted function cannot be 
maintained beyond a certain limited term of years, without danger to 
the power and equable functional action of the source the ganglio- 
nic nerves we see how, along with a feeble respiration and circula- 
tion, diminished power of generating heat, and torpor of the hepatic 
function eventually succeed ; all tending to congestion and other 
dangerous forms of more passive disease. Again, we perceive how 
the long-continued operation of alternate stimulation, and of sub- 
sequent depressive and sedative influences on the functions of the 
organic and animal systems of nerves, produces and confirms that 
eu ntual bodily and mental inertness and indisposition to healthy 
action, which not even the most powerful of Europeans can hope 
always to resist, beyond certain defined limits as to time. 



38 MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 

The hot season swells the exterior and produces that general 
chubbiness of appearance which is so remarkable in the torrid zone, 
even where the weight of the body is sensibly diminished : it in- 
creases the animal heat, and accelerates the pulse, accompanied by a 
prodigious increase of the pulmonary and cutaneous transudations : 
it produces nervous excitability varying in degree in most per- 
sons an exaltation of the general sensibility : eruptive diseases, 
latent during the cold season, become actively developed ; and the 
cutaneous vessels, even in healthy persons, are excited to the extent 
of producing the distressing eczema solare, known in the tropics by 
the name of prickly-heat. In ordinary seasons, we find that here, 
as in the West Indies, the most healthy months are from February 
to May, inclusive ; while in the seasons of epidemics (cholera in 
particular) these are the months in which the disease is most fatal 
and long continued ; indeed, it seldom vanishes till the setting in 
of the rains. 

Under exposure, excessive fatigue, mental depression, or neglect 
of temperance in diet, results ardent fever, with some serious local 
determination, and that very frequently to the cerebral organs oc- 
casionally to the liver ; but though this is admitted, under the mea- 
sures of precaution dictated by common sense and experience, the 
very hottest are yet the healthiest of our seasons, and of our stations 
also,* which goes far to prove that it is not heat alone that does all 
the mischief, but something else in the climate and in the consti- 
tution and habit of the stranger European, not common to the 
native of the country. From the results of personal observations 
in active field service both in India and in Ava, I am led to con- 
clude that mere heat, unless long continued, and combined with 
intemperance, with chills, and other untoward circumstances, is 
very rarely the direct cause of disease. 

Edwards states it as a fact that the quantity of cutaneous exha- 
lation from the human body is sometimes ten times greater in dry 
than in moist air, and that it is doubled in the mere passing from 
32 to 64 F. 

I have seen men of the Bengal Pilot service, persons who lived 
and laboured in the sun, during their youth and manhood, in whom 
the functions of the skin appeared at length to have been ex- 
hausted. They exhibited a permanent dryness, roughness, and 
scaliness of the whole surface of the body, from which they expe- 
rienced distress in the cold season of Bengal, and more in the 
English winter and spring. One old pilot's skin was so fur- 
furaceous that he would often say : " I could write my name with 

At Agra, the hottest of our stations, the percentage of death has not been two, or 
one in fifty per annum, out of a garrison of one thousand men, a more favourable result 
than shown in any table hitherto prepared in India. ASIATIC RESEARCHES. MAJOR 
HENDEHSON. 



MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 80 

my nail on any part of my body and limbs." With these men the 
functions of i IK- kidneys were always disturbed also. 

The troops from Bengal and Madras were exposed, in the expe- 
dition to Egypt, to an excessive heat in crossing the desert from 
Kosseir to the Nile ; yet they enjoyed excellent health, because 
they were not exposed to excesses, and their minds as well as 
their bodies were kept in activity. 

The superior power of enduring heat, under a sudden effort, or 
while the mind is keenly occupied, possessed by Europeans in 
India, even beyond the natives, has often been exhibited in other 
climates. It would seem to arise from the same causes that enabled 
the natives of the southern countries of Europe, according to Lar- 
rey, to bear the cold of the Russian winter during the French re- 
treat from Moscow, " better than the natives of the Northern and 
moister climates such as the Hanoverians, the Dutch, the Prus- 
sians, and the other German people : the Russians themselves, from 
what I learned at Wilna, suffered more from the cold than the 
French." They also suffered in Holland, in 1799, much more 
from cold than the British with whom they co-operated, as observed 
on the spot by Robert Jackson. 

The inhabitants of the temperate regions of the globe, it is sup- 
posed, having their constitutions matured by genial climates, are 
able to bear the extremes of both heat and cold better than those 
whose frames have been weakened either by the severities of the 
arctic, or the relaxations of tropical climates. 

These remarks must be understood to apply only to sudden 
efforts or brief exposures ; for it is now well known that to the 
duration of heat more than to its intensity to a long continued 
exposure to a high range of temperature, more than to the tempe- 
rature itself must be referred much of the injurious influence of 
tropical climate on European constitutions. Robert Jackson, 
speaking of the first American campaigns, says, " Bad effects from 
tne greatest exertions in the hottest weather of summer were ex- 
tremely rare in that country, after the campaign had been conti- 
nued for a few days." 

The equable determination to the surface consequent on the 
progressive increase of temperature, seems to exercise an agreeable 
as well as a favourable influence on general health, especially in 
the old Indian ; and even a new-comer seems to bear without com- 
plaint or apparent injury the great augmentation of the sensible 
perspiration. It is only the opposite condition the total suppres- 
sion of it in our cold season that is felt by all so unnatural and 
unhealthy : indeed, it is then we become aware of the effect of 
long continued exposure to a high range of temperature, through 
our extreme predisposition to be injuriously influenced by cold. 

Miscarriages, frequent at all seasons in India, occur yet more 



40 MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 



frequently in the hot season, and the recovery is more protracted, 
owing to the increased force and frequency of the circulation, 
especially in those of plethoric habits. 

There are two classes of persons to whom our climate seems 
genial, the weak-chested, as they are called in England, who are 
of a scrofulous habit, but in whom pulmonary disease has not 
actually declared itself. These are saved by going to India; and I 
have known many persons in the curable stage of consumption 
that is, labouring under the preceding stage, or that of " tubercu- 
lous cachexy," enjoy good health in Bengal, and survive their 
brothers and sisters at home. The fate of those, on the other hand, 
who go to the East with suppurating tubercles, or even in the 
stage approaching it, is only precipitated. Persons of phlegmatic 
habit also, with dyspepsia, languid circulation and cold extremi- 
ties, seem to have better health there than in Europe. 

Besides the protecting influences already mentioned, an anta- 
gonism of phthisis and intermittent fever is believed by some ob- 
servers to exist; and the fact that, tubercular disease is much 
less frequent in marshy districts than in any others, has been in- 
sisted on by certain physicians of France and Italy, supported by 
statistical details, the results of experience in many of the marshy 
quarters of those countries. But, like the influence of heat, the 
malarial influence must, they say, be sufficiently intense and con- 
tinued in its action to produce the marshy cachexia, or, in other 
words, the antagonism to phthisis. 

In Algeria, the French surgeons found phthisis a rare disease. 
Out of 1,480 French soldiers in hospital, M. Haspel found but 
three cases of pulmonary disease, and only one death was caused 
by it out of 138 deaths. A general report gives but thirteen phthi- 
sical cases out of a total of 8,485 patients, and but ten deaths from 
pulmonary disease out of a total of 87 1 deaths. 

It may then be asserted on the ground of statistical evidence of 
the most extended nature, that climates and employments that in- 
duce sweat, or that induce a gentle perspiration not subject to 
check, are unfavourable to the existence of scrofula or consump- 
tion. It may be inferred also that the curative virtue of marshy 
countries, as respecting phthisis, resides less in the miasmata 
themselves than in the uniformity of temperature, the heat of the 
atmosphere, a moderate degree of moisture, and the absence of dry 
sharp winds. 

There is, on the other hand, a malarious cachexy, or cachexia 
loci, generally observable in Europeans who have resided long in 
the more unhealthy districts or stations of tropical climates, even 
when they have escaped actual visceral disease there. But when the 
contrary holds when organic disease within the abdomen has 
resulted, the condition of the blood here referred to forms a 



MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 41 

serious complication. It renders the cure difficult and tedious, 
the system being cachectic, the blood dissolved, there being a 
general anaemia, in sin in. 

To give a more concentrated view of the physical circumstances 
above related, it may be said that in hot climates, the air being 
expanded, less oxygen is taken in at each inspiration. The neces- 
sity for hydrocarbonaceous food is therefore lessened. Less of 
the " elements of respiration " ought to be taken in the food than 
would be taken in colder climates. In consequence of the internal 
increase of temperature, less internal heat is required. 

Exercise increases the heat of the body by increasing the rate 
of circulation and respiration. In a very hot climate all increase 
of heat is undesirable. Moreover, the excessive heat renders mus- 
cular action impossible, because the circulation is chiefly directed, 
in consequence of the activity of the skin, to the surface, in order 
that fluid may be furnished for evaporation, to keep down the heat 
of the body, to prevent the parching of the surface which other- 
wise must ensue. 

In consequence of the lessened muscular action, less of the albu- 
minous constituents of the food are required to supply the waste of 
the muscles. 

Hence, in hot climates, less of both kinds of food should be 
taken, and nature points this out in the absence of appetite ; to 
force an appetite stimulants are taken, and then the system is over- 
loaded with nourishment. The excessive perspiration requires an 
excess of liquids ; but instead of water alone, sugar and spirit, the 
elements of respiration, are taken with the water as beer, and the 
spirit, by its stimulating properties, is doubly injurious. 

The excessive flow of blood to the surface (the consequence of 
the high temperature) no doubt prevents, for a time, the evils re- 
sulting from an excess of the two kinds of food. The chemical 
changes and evaporation going on in the skin draw the circulation 
to the surface of the body, just as the flame of the lamp draws the 
oil up the wick. Whilst the high temperature lasts this increased 
action of a flow to the surface is kept up. It is probable that the 
action of the heart is thereby made feeble by the excessive suction 
of the skin, as we see it frequently is temporarily by the perspira- 
tion bath. As soon as the temperature falls the blood ceases to 
flow in excess through the skin. According to the degree of cold 
it is almost driven from the surface. It accumulates within, and 
congestions and inflammations are produced. Free action on the 
inner or outer surface of the body for a time relieves the conges- 
tions, and enables the circulation to proceed. 

After such alternations for years, the resident in the hot climate 
returns to a far colder home. There no heat leads the blood to the 
surface ; it accumulates in the enlarged capillaries of the internal 



42 MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 

viscera. The outward appearance is that of anrrmiu ; whilst in 
reality an internal plethora frequently exists. 

The more frequent and severe the temporary congestions of the 
viscera have been, whilst in the hot climate, the more permanent 
does the internal congestion become, when the surface is con- 
stantly exposed to cold. Though the surface and extremities may 
look void of blood, the capillaries of the liver and spleen will often 
be full; and the enlargement of the internal capillaries which was 
the effect of temporary congestion for years, becomes permanent 
when the coldness of the atmosphere leaves the blood to be circu- 
lated by the enfeebled heart alone. 

The consideration of the effects produced by migration, during 
a state of disease, from a cold to a warm and moist climate, says 
Dr. Copland, is of the utmost importance. Keeping in mind its 
influence on the healthy frame, chiefly in exciting the functions of 
the skin and liver, and diminishing those of the lungs, we are led 
to prescribe it in various diseases. 

In haemoptysis this change is obviously beneficial, especially as 
a warm and moist atmosphere, by this mode of operation, lessens 
the activity of the pulmonic circulation, and the disposition to 
sanguineous exudation from the surfaces of the bronchi ; bronchitis 
and tubercular phthisis are also often benefited, and the progress 
of the latter much delayed by this change of atmosphere, especially 
when adopted early. 

Chronic rheumatism is sometimes cured by this measure, seem- 
ingly owing to its influence in promoting the biliary and cutaneous 
functions. 

Dropsies, particularly anasarca and hydrothorax, have been in 
a few instances, removed by a change to a warm climate ; but 
whilst a moist state of the air is most serviceable in pulmonary and 
ha;morrhagic diseases, dry warmth seems more beneficial in drop- 
sies, dyspeptic affections, and hypochondriasis, evidently from its 
effects in augmenting the insensible perspiration and the pul- 
monary exhalation, and imparting tone to the capillary circulation. 

Besides these, he adds, gout in its early stages, dysmenorrhaea 
and scrofula in nearly all its forms, are benefited by a change to 
a warm or even a mild atmosphere. 



THE EAINY SEASON. 



Although medical authorities have not been able accurately to 
estimate the effects of moisture, either acting simply or in combi- 
nation with heat, yet it is certain that this last union is more inju- 
rious than either applied separately. In warm and moist climates, 
obesity and laxity of frame are induced a fact which was very 



MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 48 

early observed ; thence the proverbial acnteness of the Athenians, 
.in.l the sluggishness and stupidity of the Boeotians. 

The effect of situation upon the habit may in some degree de- 
pend also on the gravity or weight of the atmosphere connected 
with locality. When the barometer is high, we feel vigorous and 
cheerful; when it sinks, languor and low spirits oppress us. 
Hit-hat states that, " accumulations of fat are said to take place in 
some animals in a few hours, in certain states of atmosphere. 
During a fog of twenty-four hour's continuance, thrushes, wheat- 
ears, ortolans, and red-breasts are reported to become so fat that 
they are unable to fly from the sportsman." 

In Bengal, as on the West Coast of Africa and other unhealthy 
climates, the heat and moisture combined cause a vast increase of 
minute vegetable and animal life, while the decomposition of dead 
animal and vegetable matter is equally rapid, showing the aptitude 
of all substances to pass from the inorganic to the organic, and vice 
versa. The oxidation of metals proceeds with immense rapidity 
also during the rainy season. 

During the first month of this season, the temperature falls 
considerably, accompanied by a freshness of the air delightful to 
the senses, after the previous excessive and dry heat. The mon- 
soon is steady and veers to the south and south-east ; vegetation 
springs up with all the exuberance of a tropical climate, promoted, 
as is supposed, by an electric current of increased activity between 
the atmosphere and the earth ; and the dust, so offensive at all 
other seasons, subsides and is washed away. 

From the 15th July to 15th October, and as the rains advance, 
we live in an atmosphere having all the properties of a tainted 
vapour-bath ; and when the wind comes sifting through the Sun- 
derbunds at south-east, we experience many of the inconveniences 
ascribed by Heunen to the sirocco of the Mediterranean, which 
" without affecting the thermometer or barometer in any remark- 
able degree" yet inflicts on the delicately sensitive human frame 
a feeling of indescribable languor and oppression, with an ex- 
hausting perspiration, much like what we suffer from in Bengal 
during the latter portion of the rainy season, and which a West 
Indian lady, speaking of the sirocco, described as giving " the feel 
ax if she had been bathing in a boiler of syrup" This is the moist 
sirocco of Bengal. The mind, too, seems to partake in the general 
relaxation, being unfitted for vigorous or sustained effort ; in short 
we here perceive the ca/n'ptctiiutn, languor, et expletio, remarked 
1'v 1'etronius amongst the luxurious and dissolute Romans of his 
time. The muscula/ system, and that of the heart, are relaxed 
and weakened ; so that, and after a time they become irritable and 
very defective in tone. These circumstances, together with the 
inlluences of malaria on the nervous system, appear to me to occa- 
sion the intermitting pulse so common to the old Indians. 



44 MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 

At this season, through the saturation of the atmosphere, the 
perspiration by evaporation is suppressed, but that by transuda- 
tion is enormously increased, thus rendering the system suscep- 
tible of the least impression from cold or malarious exhalation, 
with a strong tendency to congestion in the abdominal vessels, while 
at the same time absorption is increased, and all the excretions 
diminished. The excessive watery discharge from the skin, during 
this season must also, and of necessity, have the effect of rendering 
the venous blood unnaturally dense, and thus cause the European 
to be more liable to congestive forms of disease. Dr. J. B. Williams 
refers the disposition to liver complaints, dysentery, and cholera, 
to the stimulating properties of the blood, deprived, as we have 
seen, of more than usual of its water, and less of its hydro-carbon. 

Such is the rainy season, and such are some of the reasons for 
its proverbial unhealthiness in all tropical climates. If it be true 
that an individual in health ought to be in that state of perspira- 
tion in which it is insensible, what are we to think of the exhaust- 
ing drain flowing from the pores of an European during this and 
the preceding season, though differing in their modes of action ? 
When, during the rainy season, the temperature ranges so high 
as, or higher than, that of the human body, and when, at the same 
time, the atmosphere is saturated with moisture, we find the accu- 
mulated animal heat earned off by becoming latent in the then 
extraordinary transudation which covers the whole surface of the 
body. Evaporation being now at its lowest point, we have here a 
beautiful illustration of the wonderful power of nature in esta- 
blishing an immediate and effectual compensation, without which 
life would speedily be endangered. 

As in the sirocco, we here experience an extreme oppression 
of the nervous energy, and consequent muscular lassitude, with 
disinclination to active exertion of mind or body, the body seeming 
more bulky and feeling heavier to the individual ; the hair looks 
dank and greasy, while the scalp is covered with furfuraceous 
eruption, and exudes an unpleasant acid odour. " The walls of 
houses, stone-floors, and pavements," says Hennen, " inva- 
riably become moist when the sirocco blows. I have seen the 
stone-floors at Corfu absolutely wet without any rain having fallen, 
and gentlemen who made hygrometrical experiments state to me, 
that the instrument has frequently fallen from ten to twenty 
degrees during the prevalence of this wind wine bottled in a 
sirocco is greatly injured, and often destroyed. Meat taints asto- 
nishingly soon during its prevalence. No prudent housekeeper ever 
salts meat at this time, for it either taints at once, not taking the 
salt, or else it keeps very badly. Drains emit more putrid smells 
in a sirocco than at any other period. No carpenter uses glue in 
the sirocco, for it does not adhere. No painter willingly works 



MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. I > 

luring its prevalence, for his paint will not dry. Bakers diminish 
tin- (|uamit\ of their Ir.ivm during the sirocco, as dough is found 
to ferment sufficiently without. It is a remarkable fact that wounds 
and ulcers, and the discharge from mucous surfaces generally de- 
teriorate during the prevalence of the sirocco, and it is equally 
certain that if vaccination or small-pox inoculation are performed 
at this period, they are extremely liable to fail ; and if they suc- 
ceed, the progress of the pustule is often suspended, and it is fre- 
quently ten or twenty days in reaching the state usually attained 
in six or eight." When we come to the influence on vegetable 
life the parallel ceases. Hennen says, that though " the sirocco 
is so charged with moisture, vegetables, especially that part of 
them exposed to it for any length of time, appear quite shrivelled 
and burnt up, and very frequently they are destroyed alto- 
gether." 

The whole of these observations, in so far as they relate to the 
human frame, were annually verified in the surgical wards of the 
Native Hospital under my charge ; and we had the same discom- 
forts in perhaps a severer degree whenever a calm of any duration 
existed during the rains : in former times ulcers used to assume 
a gangrenous condition, but vigorous measures of prevention en- 
tiirl \ obviated these occurrences in latter times. 

I know nothing I should dread so much as a long calm at this 
season in Calcutta. It might not be followed by plague as in 
London, Nimeguen, and Vienna, in former times ; but in the re 
Milt, as affecting human life, I think we should not fare better than 
did those cities. 

Amongst Europeans the diseases of the rainy season assume a 
character of diminished vital action ; the ardent fever, with burn- 
ing skin and racking head, of the hot season, degenerating into the 
congestive form, with a moist cool skin, indicative of an extreme 
atony in the sudatory vessels, and an oppressed pulse ; the com- 
plications are generally abdominal. Dysenteries, as well as fevers, 
become more frequent, severe, and complicated, as the rainy season 
advances, the fonner implicating the whole of the abdominal 
organs ; but the most severe cases, especially amongst newly- 
arrived Europeans, are at the commencement and termination of 
the rains. During the former, or that called by the natives 
Chota-Bursat, which leaves some days of sunshine between the 
falls, fevers of a severe and complicated form arise, and, during 
the drying process which terminates the season, they are even 
more so ; occasionally these last are attended with a yellow suf- 
fusion of the skin ; but I have only once seen anything like black 
vomit. 

The greater liability of the human frame to fever, during natural 
sleep, may be referred to the diminished power of generating 



40 MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 

heat in the system during the time of repose. But may not this 
greater susceptibility to disease be also promoted by the known 
increase of putrefaction in dead animal and vegetable substances 
during the night, resulting from the rapid abstraction of heat from 
the earth's surface by radiation, and the consequent production of 
moisture in the form of vapour, dew, or water all productive 
within the tropics of vast increase of decomposition ? 

The abortions of the rainy season appear to arise from simple 
congestion and relaxation aided and promoted by diminished 
nervous power the natural results of an excessive and exhaust- 
ing humidity, joined to a high temperature. 

Humid air, says Dr. Edwards, at an equal or even superior 
temperature, produces a peculiar sensation of cold which differs, 
not in its intensity, but in its nature. It is more profoundly felt, 
and seems to penetrate the whole system, and particularly dis- 
poses to paleness and shivering. By these characters I could not 
mistake a species of refrigeration, which consists in the diminu- 
tion of the power of producing heat. 

In dry air, on the contrary, a sensation is experienced, which is 
called a sharp cold, and which designates rather the nature than 
the degree of sensation ; moreover, it is superficial, and when the 
reduction of temperature is not too great, an increase of activity is 
experienced ; the skin reddens, and in extreme cases the limbs 
have a tendency to stiffen, instead of yielding to the irregular 
and involuntary motions, which constitute shivering. It may be 
seen by this comparison, and by what we have stated above, that 
damp cold must tend to produce in individuals, whose power of 
developing heat is rather feeble, the series of actions which con- 
stitute the accession of an intermittent fever, especially if they 
are exposed to that action during sleep. The confirmation of this 
will be found in the study of medical topography. In the greater 
number of cases these fevers are ascribed to marsh-miasmata in 
fine weather, but others occur in places and at seasons at which 
the atmospheric constitution which we have mentioned predo- 
minates. 

A familiar but emphatic illustration of the effects of our climate 
may be seen in its influence on the habitations of Calcutta. Con- 
structed of the finest known materials, whether of wood or mortar, 
and of such solidity that in England they would endure for cen- 
turies, and in Upper Egypt for a thousand years ; they are here, 
through the destructive influence and severe alternations of climate 
alone, rendered in a score of years, or less, fit habitations only for 
crows ; in much less time, indeed, they may be seen reduced to a 
heap of rubbish covered with vegetation. " A deserted village is 
overflowed by the forest like the waves of the sea, in course of two 
wet seasons, and the traces of man are buried by the exuberant 
productions of nature." 



MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OP REASON. 47 

< M all the causes which thus render household and other pro- 
perty so surprisingly perishable, humidity would stvni tlir st 

inlhu'iitial. 



THE COLD SEASON. 

I believe it was Charles the First who described the best climate 
as tli. n in wliich a man could bear exposure during the greater 
number of hours at all seasons. On this view our climate of Cal- 
rutta is assuredly one of the worst, for even during the cold wea- 
ther, from the end of October to the beginning of February, an 
European cannot be exposed for any length of time with im- 
punity ; the hot sun and cold parching wind, with its evening and 
morning rawness, causing the most uncomfortable feelings of ex- 
ternal dryness and internal fulness, unless it be in persons of 
youth and robust health, and under exercise sufficient to determine 
moisture to the surface. But, with all its disadvantages, this is 
the season during which the European soldier should be initiated 
into the climate of Bengal, and of India generally. This truth 
is now beginning to be understood by the authorities ; and let us 
hope that we may never again witness the arrival of recruits from 
England, as of old, in the month of May, the hottest of the year. 
It was a cruel and destructive custom. 

The unfavourable influence which the north-east monsoon ex- 
ercises on the general health of persons of a feeble constitution, 
or who are ailing, may in part be ascribed to its relatively low 
electric state, or its being in a negative state, thus attracting the 
positive electricity of the animal frame, as well as that of the soil. 
If the powerful physical agent of electricity is that which, through 
the system of organic nerves, influences the various secretions, 
how much must our climate, and consequently our health be in- 
fluenced by those causes, whether general or local, which affect 
the proportions of electricity in our atmosphere always greater and 
more uniform than in European climates. Coming down upon us 
directly from the frozen platform of Central Asia, the temperature 
of the monsoon is also relatively reduced so as to absorb much of 
our terrestrial heat, while, at the same time, its hygrometric capa- 
city is much increased, parching up the soil along with the animal 
and vegetable fibre. 

" The temperature of the blood is about 98, at which it is sus- 
tained with some slight variations even when the body is immersed 
in an atmosphere of 29, or of a still lower temperature. But the 
heat that is lost by the lungs and the skin is so great, that it is not 
supplied with sufficient rapidity in the young and the old ; who, 



48 MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 

to use a common expression, do not ' stand the cold,' so well as 
men in the prime of early manhood. The above numbers show 
that the power of cold on life varies according to definite laws ; 
thus the mortality by cold is (35) twice as great under the age of 
20 as the mortality (18) at 20 40; but after that turning point 
the power of resisting cold decreases every year, and men of 90 
and men of 30 have suffered from the cold that we have expe- 
rienced in the proportion of 100 to 1 (or of 1,749 to 17'5)." Dr. 
FARE, February 27th, 1855. 

People, on coming into Lower Bengal from the Upper Pro- 
vinces during the cold season, perceive an extraordinary change 
in the condition of the atmosphere on first approaching the Delta 
of the Ganges ; the bracing elastic cold of Upper India is exchanged 
for that of a damp cellar, and thus they invariably describe it. 

At the commencement of the cold season, in October, the tem- 
perature and die winds are variable, the drying process is in full 
activity, and the unhealthiness is great. In Colonel Tullock's 
" Statistical Report on the West Indies," it is stated that, though 
the months previous to the cold ones have the most sickness, yet 
" the principal mortality is during the cold dry weather which 
generally prevails at Christmas." In Aracan also, during the 
Burmese war, it was found that, " in September and October, 
when the rain began to abate, the fever was equally prevalent, 
and still more fatal than in the preceding months ; and in No- 
vember, when little or no rain fell, the disease appears to have 
been at its height." 

From the 1st of November to the end of February the weather 
is settled and agreeable to persons in health ; but to the delicate 
and sickly the altered balance of circulation and nervous function, 
occasions much discomfort. The monsoon keeps steadily to north- 
east, the atmosphere during the day is dry, and a slight rise takes 
place in the barometer the thermometer ranging from 45 to 75 ; 
the nights are damp as well as cold during this season, the 
dewing process being excessively productive ; and the fogs which 
prevail occasionally are of a nature more dense than I have any- 
where seen, except in Pegu. 

On the other hand, during the day, the cold north-east wind 
absorbs moisture with extraordinary rapidity from every object, 
animate and inanimate, over which it passes. Furniture, although 
made of the most seasoned wood, foreign or native, warps and 
cracks audibly ; plaster newly laid falls from the wall through 
rapidity of evaporation ; the old Indian becomes goose-skinned 
and shrivelled, with a sense of dryness in the palms of the hands 
so uncomfortable, as to give to some persons of irritable habit, and 
in whom the power of generating heat may be diminished by a 
long residence in India, a constant sense of nervous uneasiness 



MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OP SEASON. 49 

of the whole sentient surface, not to be described. " I can bear 
the chilling blasts of Caledonia," says a Scotchman, quoted by 
Ward, " but this this cold, 1 know not what to do with it ;" in- 
deed, it requires a degree of equilibrium of health, not commonly 
enjoyed by persons of long residence in Bengal, to take kindly 
to the alternation from copious and incessant discharge from the 
surface, to its total suppression, and consequent abdominal and 
cerebral engorgements. It is only to the sound of constitution, 
who are temperate in all ways, and thereby able to bear the cold- 
bath, or to such as are recently arrived from Europe, that our cold 
season is either agreeable or healthy. But here I would observe, 
that the degrees of health and disease are not to be measured by 
the thermometer, taken singly such observations in connection 
with health affording little information to the medical inquirer ; and 
it has been well observed in our own country, that the influence 
of the weather on the human frame is not to be thus estimated. 
An east wind, with the thermometer at 56, will impress the body 
with a more chilling effect, than a south-west wind, when that in- 
strument indicates a temperature 10 lower; and a foggy atmo- 
sphere, in like manner, much more injuriously than a clear one 
of equal cold. In the Statistical Report on the West Indies, 
already quoted, it is stated that in Jamaica the lowest mortality 
throughout a long range of observation, was in the three months 
prior to June 1827, when twelve deaths only were reported 
through the whole quarterly returns. The next quarter remittent 
fever broke out, and among a diminished force the deaths amounted 
to 252 in the same period, without the thermometer indicating any 
further increase of temperature than about 3, and without any re- 
markable change in the weather. 

The diseases more peculiar to the cold season in Bengal are 
congestive fever of the continued form ; intermittents, with the 
sequela; of tumid or indurated liver or spleen ; hepatic insidious 
sub-acute inflammation, terminating rapidly in abscess, if not 
promptly and vigorously treated ; dysentery, frequently com- 
plicated with hepatic congestion all more or less acute, according 
to individual habit, or length of residence in India. Catarrhs and 
bronchial affections are not so severe or so prevalent as the con- 
trasted nature of the season would lead us to suspect. Haemor- 
rhoids with many persons follow immediately on the drying up 
of the surface, and consequent fulness of the internal vessels. It 
results also from the cold season that the blood is more venalized, 
a larger quantity of oxygen being consumed in the maintenance 
of the temperature of the body ; and this condition of the blood, 
aided by congestion, would seem to dispose to apoplexy, the most 
fatal forms of which that have come under my observation in 
Bengal having occurred at this season ; and paralytic affections 



50 MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. 

are not unfrequent amongst the aged and infirm. Chronic erup- 
tions, in an active state of development during the previous hot 
season and rains, now become suddenly repelled, accompanied by 
headache and vertigo. 

In old residents the appetite fails, accompanied by an oppres- 
sive sense of abdominal fulness ; and when this state is not met 
by a suitable change of diet, clothing, and some medicine to act 
upon the skin and bowels, visceral congestion, oedema of the lower 
extremities, or some more active disease may ensue. New-born 
infants suffer materially from, and are sometimes destroyed by, 
the impression of our cold season on the unguarded and 'delicate 
surface. The abortions of the cold months have always ap- 
peared to me connected with acute venous congestion, and the 
intermitting states of the pulse and epigastric pulsations common 
to old Indians at this season are increased by this state of the 
great venous trunks. The kidneys act during the continuance 
of the cold weather with diabetic violence, the urine being 
limpid, and they only cease to do so on the return of a warmer 
season, and consequent equability of circulation, causing mois- 
ture of the surface. The biliary excretion, in excess during 
hot ad rainy seasons, is here diminished, as indicated by the 
whitish or clay-coloured state of the alvine discharges, follow- 
ing the reverse order of what takes place in the instance of 
the kidneys. The function of the liver, indeed, is now depressed 
and depraved. 

The reader will not fail to observe that congestion has repeat- 
edly been mentioned as participating in the most dangerous of 
our diseases. That climate has a principal share in producing 
this unfavourable state, there can be no doubt; but, admitting 
this, we must consider also that the absence of all exhilarating 
exercise of mind and body, with their animating, varied, and 
heathful influences on all the functions, predisposes much, when 
aided by a too full and stimulating diet, to this end. Unhappily, 
too, the European resident in tropical climates has no sufficient 
remedy against the evils of this double inaction, excepting the 
moderation in diet, which he will not adopt ; for, during the hot 
and rainy seasons, the amount of exercise necessary to health in 
temperate regions would here be impossible, and would be hurtful 
even if possible. Those who would preserve their healths, there- 
fore, must be temperate,* use such bodily exercise as each season 
will admit of, and relieve their minds from the monotony of routine 
official duty, by the inexhaustible resources of European science 
and elegant accomplishment. It is only thus that health, hap- 

* It has been shown by experiment, that when alcohol has been introduced in large 
quantities into the circulation, " the arterial blood retains the venous colour." It is 
doubtless through the contamination of the blood chiefly that the abuse of ardent 
spirits proves so baneful in hot climates especially. 



MEDICAL CLIMATE AND THE INFLUENCE OP SEASON. 5] 

l>i ness, and reputation can be insured under the disadvantages of 
our position in India, where too commonly the whole time is given 
up to business. 

From die sketch now given of the locality and climate of Cal- 
i-utta, it will be seen that, without taking the specific or malarious 
influences into account, we are there exposed to atmospheric 
changes to an extraordinary degree ; to an extreme of heat and 
dry ness extremes of heat and moisture cold and moisture 
cold and dryness. The European exile may well join in the 
" complaint of the black knight" of Chaucer. 

" Nowe hotc as fire, nowe colde as ashes ded ; 
Nowe hote for colde, now colde for bete again ; 
Nowe cold as yse, and now as coles red, 
For hete I brenne. ' 

That these various influences alternately excite and depress the 
vital processes must be evident; and it is to their long continued 
application (even where disturbance of function does not amount 
to actual disease), that we must refer the attenuated condition and 
general feebleness of the old Indian. 

" Bengal has received a bad character for insalubrity," says 
Malte-Brun, " and certainly it is in an eminent degree exposed to 
a succession of violent extremes and vicissitudes ; at one time to 
excessive rain, at another to hurricanes ; then to scorching heat, 
and frequently to thick fogs; yet the English have, by dint of 
prudent regimen, accommodated themselves to the climate." When 
Malte-Brun wrote, I fear there was not much of that " prudent 
regimen " to which he ascribes such happy results ; but let us hope 
that it is now about to be attained, and that it may no longer be a 
reproach to us that, not satisfied with choosing the worst localities, 
we also adopt habits of life the worst calculated for the accommo- 
dation of our constitution to them and their climates. 

As illustrative of the conservative influence of good habits of 
life, it is worthy of remark that, of the European officers on the 
licngal establishment, there died on an average of eight years, of 
the unmarried class, 3'77 per cent, annually ; while, of die married 
class, the mortality for the same term was but 2*74. Of the Euro- 
pean soldiery again there died annually, during the period here 
referred to, 7'88 per cent. This wide difference in sickness and mor- 
tality is referable almost solely to the difference of habits of life ; for, 
in the important circumstances of age and constitution, the private 
soldier, on an average, has the advantage. On entering the ser- 
MI c he may be taken generally to be of a stronger frame than 
the commissioned officer; and he very rarely serves to so ad- 
vanced a period of life as the latter. With the exceptions of 
coarser diet, a habitation inferior to the officer, and harder work 

K 2 



52 STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF 

on actual service, circumstances which do not generally tell much 
on the amount of sickness and mortality, the soldier has thus some 
real advantages over the officer excepting in the all-important 
one of habits of life. 

Referring, lastly, to the influence of habits of life and of 
climate, in preventing thoracic diseases, I would quote Dr. Atkinson, 
of Wakefield, and others, who infer, that by the use of alcoholic 
liquids, " a state of the blood is produced, opposite to that which 
obtains in tuberculosis, and may thus prevent the development of 
it." This view is supported by Dr. Atkinson in a numerical 
statement, showing a mortality from phthisis, amongst the adults 
of Wakefield, " of rather less than one in three, and in publicans 
of one in twelve and a-half." Publicans are here placed in con- 
trast with the general community as affording examples of hard- 
drinking persons ; but a moderate supply of alcoholic liquids, with 
a generous diet, is what Dr. Atkinson recommends as a prophy- 
lactic. This gentleman regards phthisis as " characterised by an 
excess of oxygen circulating in the system, and that when the 
blood becomes too highly carbonized from various diseases 
tubercles are not deposited." 

If further observation should confirm this view of tuberculosis 
and its causes, we may receive from it some assistance towards 
elucidating and determining the actual physiological operation of 
tropical climates in preventing the development of pulmonary con- 
sumption. It has been seen that, during the hot weather and rains 
especially, the blood is venalised, and malaria may perhaps be re- 
garded as having a somewhat similar influence ; so that the anta- 
gonism alleged by the French military surgeons to exist in Algeria 
may, after all, have more of foundation than did at first appear. 



STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF CLIMATE AND 
SEASON IN PRODUCING SICKNESS AND MORTALITY 
IN CALCUTTA. 



SICKNESS. 



IT now remains to trace in a more special and statistical manner 
the influence of season in producing sickness and mortality ; for 
this purpose I have prepared several tables, and the first, exhibit- 
ing this influence on the mortality of natives, was got up, at my 
request, by Dr. Duncan Stewart; the period it comprehends is 
seven years, viz., from 1831 to 1837, inclusive: 



CLIMATE AND SEASON IN CALCUTTA. 



53 





Of 1000 Deaths 


Of 1000 living 


Of 1000 living 


Total Natives : 


MONTHS. 


there occurred 
in different 


Hindoos there 
died in different 


Mussulmans 
there died in 


Of 1000 living, 
there died in 




months. 


months. 


different 


different 










months. 


months. 


In 7 Januarys .... 


924 


27] 




9 




22j 




7 Februarys. . . . 


67* 


12, 









16 


1 


7 Marchs 


651 


18 




g, 




15; 




7 Aprils 


WWSJ 

694 


19, 









tj 
16, 




7 Mays 


63} 


17, 








lOj 

15, 


t 




541 


14, 




gj 




10 I 
13 


1 


7 Julys 


i j 


"i 
18 


i 






161 


7 Augusts . . 


904 


26 




1 
IM 




10f 

214 


7 Septembers 


98 


28 




12} 




IM 


7 Octobers . . 


1044 


30 




124 


25J 


7 Novembers 


1164 


34, 






28 




7 Decembers 


1064 


31, 


m 




tfj 



This table exhibits in a remarkable manner the fatal influence 
of the months from September to January inclusive, and which 
would be even more striking if we possessed the means of deduct- 
ing the deaths by cholera in the months of March, April, May, 
and June, so as to show only the ordinary endemic influence ; as 
it is, however, the table is instructive and interesting. 

The following table I have had collated from the records of the 
vestry; it exhibits burials in the Protestant burial-ground for 
twenty years, from 1819 to 1838 inclusive, and arranged 
months : 



in 



MONTHS. 


Under five 
years of age. 


Above five 
years of age. 


Total. 




53 


257 


310 


20 Februarys 


41 


165 


206 


20 Marchs 


70 


260 


330 


20 Aprils 


105 


307 


412 


20 Mays 


104 


421 


525 


20 Junes 


99 


298 


397 


20 Julys ; . . . 


104 


285 


389 


20 Augusts 


87 


389 


476 


20 Septembers 


74 


379 


453 


20 Octobers 


84 


368 


452 




60 


379 


439 


20 Decembers 


53 


349 


402 










Total 


934 


3857 


4791 











54 



STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF 



Thus it appears, that though the greatest number of deaths oc- 
curred in the Mays the worst of the cholera months the period 
of greatest general mortality has been from August to January in- 
clusive ; and if the deaths by cholera during the hot months could 
be excluded, this result would appear very striking. 

With a view to exhibit the simple endemic influence in the fair- 
est manner, I again had recourse to the vestry records, from which 
the following table of Protestant burials has been framed for the 
twenty years just previously to the appearance of cholera as an 
epidemic, namely, from 1796 to 1815, inclusive : 



MONTHS. 


Under five 
years. 


Above five 
years. 


Total. 


In 20 Januarys 


28 


216 


244 


20 Februarys 


26 


153 


179 




31 


164 


195 




33 


178 


211 


20 Mays 


25 


235 


260 




22 


209 


231 




34 


219 


253 




44 


288 


332 




42 


296 


338 


20 Octobers 


32 


293 


325 


20 Novembers 


32 


331 


363 




23 


311 


334 










Total 


372 


2893 


3265 











Thus it appears, that in twenty years, Novembers were the most 
fatal months, and that the five months from August to December 
inclusive, were more fatal than the whole seven months besides. 

But further to ascertain the influence of season on the health 
and mortality of the European soldiers and seamen, I have pre- 
pared the following Table from a document furnished by the 
Medical Board : it exhibits the totals of admissions and deaths 
in the Presidency General Hospital in each month during twelve 
years ; the item " other diseases" has some awkwardness in it, but 
that I cannot help: 



CLIMATE AND SEASON IN CALCUTTA. 





TOTAL ADMISSIONS. 


TOTAL DEATH*. 


RANGE or OBSERVATIONS 


id 


- ft 

- - 


J . 


jr. 


. 


V jt 


c 


3 . 


*'* 


g 


IN MONTHS. 


I 


11 


|| 


J ' 


K! 


11 


J 


f 


II 


>-S! 




-. / 

ffi| 


.*s 


,:f 


MB 


- ^ 


co* "3 



>"5 


^ ^ 


-_= 


M 






CQ 





CQ 






CQ 


CQ 


CQ 




In 12 Januarys 


899 


64 


261 


245 


1469 


89 


10 


5 


8 


12 


, 12 Februarys 


557 


46 


185 


150 


938 


67 


6 


2 


13 


88 


, 12 Marcos 


456 


38 


163 


132 


789 


55 


5 


5 


7 


72 


, 12 Aprils.. 


619 


42 


138 


175 


974 


50 


6 


6 


12 


74 


, 12 Mays.. 


722 


70 


161 


178 


1131 


67 


11 


7 


12 


97 


, 12 Junes.. 


791 


63 


184 


186 


1224 


64 


4 


4 


11 


83 


, 12 Julys .. 


843 


38 


176 


127 


1184 


104 


6 


11 


24 


145 


, 12 Augusta 


732 


42 


180 


146 


1100 


88 


9 


9 


8 


114 


, 12 Septembers 


683 


69 


148 


174 


1Q74 


112 


8 


11 


S 


144 


,12 Octobers .. 


764 


48 


229 


182 


1223 


114 


4 


1 


18 


136 


, 12 Novembers 


1142 


120 


282 


325 


1869 


97 


4 


5 


10 


116 


, 12 Decembers 


948 


87 


247 


233 


1515 


109 


8 


7 


27 


151 


Total 


9156 


727 


2354 


2253 


14490 


1016 


81 


82 


153 


1332 





It appears from the Medical Board's Table, from which the 
above is framed, that out of 1,704 Europeans, who died in the 
twelve years, 372 died of cholera ; 304 of dysentery ; 58 of diar- 
rhoea ; 465 of remittent fever ; 66 of intermittent ; 50 of hepatitis ; 
88 of phthisis, so-called, but more than half were probably bron- 
chitis; 19 of rheumatism; 6 only of splenic disease; 8 of apo- 
plexy ; 9 of delirium tremens ; 6 of small pox, leaving 270 deaths 
from " other diseases." 

The total admissions in twelve years are 1 5,293, and the deaths, 
1,704. 

The proportions of deaths to cases treated are as follows : 

Of Remittent Fever, 5,116 admissions and 465 deaths, or one in 
Of Dysentery, 1,877 admissions and 304 deaths, or one in ... 
Of Cholera, 853 admissions and 372 deaths, or one in . . . . 
Of Diarrhoea, 608 admissions and 58 deaths, or one in 
Of Intermittent Fever, 501 admissions and 66 deaths, or one in 
Of Hepatitis, 446 admissions and 50 deaths, or one in ... 
Of Spleen diseases, 58 admissions and 6 deaths, or one in . 
Of Delirium Tremens, 124 admissions and 9 deaths, or one in 
Of Apoplexy, 27 admissions and 8 deaths, or one in . . , 
Of " other diseases," 2,253 admissions and 153 deaths, or one in 

Average of deaths from all the diseases, is therefore nearly one 
in nine. 

Of a hundred British soldiers who die in Bengal, Dr. Burke states 
that 26'8are from fever ; 7*3 from hepatitis ; 30'5 from dysentery and 
other bowel complaints; 19*5 from cholera; 4*6 from pulmonic 



56 STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF 

diseases, 1 '9 of which is from phthisis pulmonalis ; leaving only 
1 1 produced by other diseases. 

From the Medical Board's Table of Seasons, it appears that 
the most healthy months comparatively, are February, March, 
April and May ; that from June to January, the admissions range 
high, these also being by far the most fatal months. These 
results correspond nearly with observations on the climate of 
Jamaica, and others of the West Indian Colonies, wherein the 
most unhealthy as well as fatal months of the year extend from 
August to December inclusive ; the months comparatively healthy 
being, from January to June. Such observations would seem to 
apply to most parts of the Northern Hemisphere, which generally 
possess the same character of climate : they also accord with the 
ancient maxim in the south of Europe which held the summer and 
autumnal to be the most sickly seasons. 

Celsus, writing of the influence of season in the malarious city 
of Rome, says, " Igitur saluberrimum ver est ; proxime deinde ab 
hoc, hyems ; periculosior a3Stas ; autumnus longe periculosissimus. 

From the researches of statistical writers, it appears that all over 
Europe the maximum of deaths occurs towards the close of winter, 
and the minimum towards the close of summer. 

In order that the table should express only the result of ordinary 
season and endemic influence, I have not included cholera, which 
epidemic is found to prevail chiefly in the months of April, May, 
and June. 

October, November, December and January are the months in 
which there occurred the largest proportions of remittent fever 
cases, and the same applies to dysentery, diarrhoea, and acute he- 
patitis ; while Septembers alone give more intermittents than the 
whole of the other months besides. 

In order to account for the unusual mortality under all heads of 
disease, it is proper to mention that the descriptions of persons 
treated in the General Hospital, are as follows : European soldiers 
belonging to detachments from Her Majesty's and the Honourable 
Company's regiments ; recruits for ditto ; the sick of all regiments 
returning from service, as for instance, during the late Burmese 
war, &c. ; European and American seamen from the shipping; 
townsmen, paupers, generally seamen ; invalid soldiers on their 
way to England, &c. &c. ; in short, a class of persons many of 
whom, besides being diseased and worn out, are away from that 
salutary control which leads to prompt measures both for the 
prevention and cure of disease. It thus happens that the earlier 
stages of acute illness are neglected ; an irrecoverable loss, and 
which must necessarily imply a larger proportionate loss of life. 

The following table exhibits the admissions and deaths, in cadi 
mouth, during the period included between 1827 and 1838, in the 



CLIMATE AND SEASON IN CALCUTTA. 



57 



Hospital of Her Majesty's Regiment in the Garrison of Fort 
William. 





TOTAL ADMISSIONS. 


TOTAL DEATHS. 


MONTHS. 


1 


1 


us 

k c 

EJ 


-= i 


3* 
*1 


j 


1 


33 

* 

o a 

M^H 


Is 

9 


g rf 

*| 






m 


ss "3. 


'o jj 




V 


V 


^. 




7 




m 


X 
ffl" 


-.= 
o 




I* 


PI 

a* 


= 
>. 

CO 


> B 

- 


fflQ 


[I 

i| 


In 12 Januarys 


231 


24 


249 


539 


1043 


7 


3 


20 


10 


40 


12 Februarys .. .. 


266 


51 


263 


627 


1207 


1 


2 


16 


5 


24 


.. 12Marchs .. ..' .. 


323 


64 


286 


606 


1279 


9 


1 


16 


10 


36 


12 Aprils 


303 


66 


318 


708 


1S95 


6 


2 


19 


9 


36 


12 Mays 


418 


53 


330 


726 


1527 


8 


2 


22 


12 


44 


12 Junes 


488 


57 


253 


698 


1496 


5 


2 


18 


13 


38 


12 Julys 


403 


68 


314 


586 


1371 


16 


5 


28 


10 


59 


12 Augusts 


427 


38 


321 


609 


1395 


18 


4 


25 


8 


55 


,,12 Septembers .. 


446 


42 


256 


557 


1301 


18 


4 


30 


10 


62 


12 Octobers 


404 


33 


250 


541 


1228 


23 





21 


6 


50 


12 Novembers .. 


423 


39 


203 


574 


1239 


19 


4 


25 


9 


57 


12 Decembers .. .. 


311 


20 


202 


550 


1083 


16 


1 


16 


10 


43 


Total.. .. 


4443 


555 


3245 


7321 


15564 


146 


30 


256 


112 


544 



It thus appears that in the 12 years there were 15,564 admissions 
by all diseases, and 544 deaths, or one death in every 28f patients 
treated, being less by two-thirds than the general average afforded 
by the General Hospital returns for the same period an emphatic 
example of the value of that internal discipline and economy in 
corps to which so much preventive and curative result is ascribed 
by all military and medical authorities. Out of 544 deaths, 250 
are by bowel complaints 146 by fever, and 30 by liver disease, 
leaving 112 deaths by other diseases. If, from the column of 
deaths, we abstract, for the hot months, those by cholera, the com- 
parative fatality of the months from September to January in- 
clusive, will be rendered very remarkable. 

The proportions of deaths to cases treated are as follows : 

By fever 4,443 admissions and 146 deaths, or one in 30 and 
two-thirds, nearly: by bowel complaints 3,245 admissions and 
256 deaths, or one in 12 J, nearly : by hepatitis, the very large pro- 
portion of 555 admissions and 30 deaths, or one in 18| : by other 
diseases, 7,321 admissions and 112 deaths, or one in 65 and rd, 
nearly. 

In order to exhibit the difference of result in the two hospitals, 
I subjoin the following table : 



58 



STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF 



Diseases. 


Ratio of Deaths 
in the Regi- 
mental Hos- 
pital. 


Ratio of Deaths 
in the General 
Hospital. 


Diflference. 




One in 30 


One in 10$ 


Of 20 nearly. 


Bowel complaints . . 
Hepatitis . . . . . 


- ,,12* 
18* 


t, 6 ft / 

00 


6 
5* 
9i 


Other diseases . . . 


,,65i 


.. ""I 


n 501 



Under the head bowel complaints it is not known whether 
cholera, dysentery and diarrhoea are all comprehended. This 
laxity in framing the table, and the lumping of 7,000 odd cases 
under the vague designation of " other diseases," goes conside- 
rably to vitiate the regimental return ; but both errors arose from 
miapprehension on the part of the compiler, who is at the distant 
station of Meerut. 

The table, with all its faults, is not without value as bearing on 
the three grand divisions of tropical disease, viz., fevers, bowel 
diseases, and those of the liver : but comparison cannot, of course 
be made, to any just or useful purpose, between the two hospitals, 
as the one treats only a selected class of men whose mean age is 
26 ; while the other treats the broken down and miserable of all 
ages, and in all the stages of their diseases. 

The winter, all over Europe, is the season of the greatest mor- 
tality ; and not only is this a proved fact in statistics, but a mild 
winter is found to be attended by a diminished mortality, compa- 
ratively. In the first quarter of 1846, the winter was unusually 
mild throughout England, and " the rate of mortality was lower 
than in the corresponding quarters of eight previous years." 

In the first quarter of 1847, on the other hand, the temperature 
was below the average, the severity of the weather being through- 
out unusually great. The mortality corresponded, being " 6,035 
above the corrected average," for the 117 districts only, comprised 
in quarterly returns of the registrar-general. 

" Winter," says Dr. Farr, " appears to be the season in which it 
is most natural to man to die." The same authority justly observes, 
that " as man progresses in life, the more necessary does warmth 
become to him ; while the summer lengthens, the winter shortens 
his days." 

Dr. Mouat, of the 13th Light Dragoons, states that, while serving 
in the Madras Presidency, out of 3,394 cases of disease treated in 



CLIMATE AND SEASON IN CALCUTTA. 50 

the Regimental Hospital, 1372 soldiers imputed their illnesses 
to cold, while only 62 ascribed theirs to exposure in the sun. 

The influence of atmospheric pressure on sickness and mor- 
tality has not been observed in India; but the subject is one of 
much interest and importance. Professor Casper of Berlin founds 
the following position on numerous statistical tables, ranging over 
seven years' observation in the Prussian capital : " In nearly all 
the seasons of the year a high atmospheric pressure increases, and 
a tow pressure diminishes the rate of mortality" 

Dr. Prout observed an unusual amount of pressure in the atmo- 
sphere at the time of the appearance of epidemic cholera in Lon- 
don, which he conceived to depend on the diffusion through the 
lower strata of some heavy gaseous body. 



MORTALITY OF THE VARIOUS RACES EUROPEAN AND NATIVE. 

In any inquiry as to the duration of life, and into the causes of 
mortality amongst the natives of Bengal, we must consider, not 
only that general climate exercises a powerful influence on the 
longevity of different races, by accelerating or retarding the deve- 
lopment of the human system, but that, along with one of the 
worst of climates, all the institutions and habits of life of the 
Bengalis tend materially to abbreviate the term of existence 
their premature decay being in perfect accordance with their early 
and forced development. 

The law of correspondence of the period of puberty with the 
whole term of life is subject to few exceptions, and has been 
well expressed by Bacon, by " Nature's finishing her periods 
in larger circles." Hist. Vita et Mortis. 

It is well known that the proportional number of individuals 
who attain a given age differs in different climates, and that the 
warmer the climate, other circumstances being eo.ual, so much the 
shorter is the average duration of human life. Even within the 
limits of Europe the difference is very great, being one death in 
twenty-eight in the Roman States, and one death in forty-six in 
England annually. According to Moreau de Jonnes, the rate of 
mortality in some instances, and inversely the duration of life, 
differ by nearly one-half from the proportions discovered in other 
examples. 

In approaching the Equator we find the mortality increase, and 
the average duration of life consequently diminished. 

The same authority observes, that the comparatively lo\\ drgivc 
of mortality among the men of colour in the Y\Y>t Indies, and tlu 



60 



STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF 



Javanese and Parsees, in countries where those races are either 
the original inhabitants, or have become naturalised by an abode 
of some centuries is remarkable. " It would seem that such per- 
sons are exempted, in a great measure, from the influence of 
morbific causes which destroy prematurely Europeans and other 
foreigners. That the rate of mortality should be lower among 
them than in the southern parts of Europe, is a fact which, in the 
present state of our knowledge, is difficult to explain.*' 

The following Tables and remarks were found by me amongst 
the records of the Committee for the improvement of Calcutta, and 
were handed to the late Mr. James Prinsep, who published them in 
the eighty- second number of the Journal of the Asiatic Society. 

Mortality among all classes in Calcutta for Twenty Years ; but 
for the Native Population only Five Years. 







aa 


to . 

l-a 






I 


1 






Protestant 





if 




A 


a 

V 


c 




Years. 










.1 


I 


5j 


Natives. 




Burials. 


a ^ 


^ j 


ri 


'3 













Js P 


MS 





V 





> 
3 








Is 


8 







rt 











u 




O 






iz 




1817 


216 




313 


169 


4 


10 


3 






1818 


272 




211 


159 


2 


20 


3 






1819 


275 




284 


158 


. 


23 


3 






1820 


281 




282 


136 




17 


1 




Native Deaths for five years. 


1821 


246 




277 


172 


. 


16 


3 






1822 


324 


Scotch 


294 


140 


. 


16 


2 




Hindoos .. 8299 


1823 


270 


burying 


277 


156 




10 


2 




Mussulmans 1009 


1824 


278 


ground 


282 


188 




21 


1 




9308 in 1832 


1825 


297 


began 


285 


154 


1 


12 


10 




Hindoos .. 15138 


1826 


275 


1826. 


309 


145 


2 


19 


17 




Mussulmans 2385 


1827 


254 


11 


308 


174 




15 


16 


4 


17523 in 1833 


1828 


256 


19 


250 


170 


2 


15 


12 


3 


Hindoos .. 11167 


1829 


184 


21 


209 


146 


3 


12 


16 


2 


Mussulmans 1900 


1830 


224 


26 


236 


138 


1 


14 


15 


t , 


13067 in 1834 


1831 


186 


29 


236 


122 


3 


17 


19 


8 


Hindoos .. 6873 


1832 


217 


25 


269 


121 


1 


17 


16 


1 


Mussulmans 1229 


1833 


302 


30 


288 


204 


2 


23 


14 


5 


8102 in 1835 


1834 


281 


35 


257 


199 


2 


16 


17 


4 


Hindoos . . 6366 


1835 


233 


18 


233 


115 


1 


7 


16 


4 


Mussulmans 1515 


1836 


197 


26 


188 


104 





15 


13 


3 


7881 in 1836 




5065 


240 


5288 


3070 


24 


315 


199 


34 


55881 




20 


10 


20 


20 


12 


20 


20 


9 


5 


Average 


253 


24 


264 


153 


2 


153 


10 


3J 


11178 



CLIMATE AND SEASON IN CALCUTTA. 



61 



Slnh'tnent of the average rate of Mortality per cent, amony the 
tlijft'rcnt classes of Inhabitants in Calcutta per Census, and 
Table of Mortality. 



Denominations. 


Number 
of 

Inhabitants. 


Tnt.ll. 


Average 

Mortality 
per annum. 


Average 
Mortality 
per cent. 




English 
Eurasians 

Portuguese .. .. 
French 

Western Mahomedans. . 
Bengal Maliomedans . . 
Moguls 
Arabs 

Western Hindus 
Bengal Hindus 
Mugs 
Low Castes 

Armenians 
Native Christians 
Chinese 
Jews 

Parsees.. .. * . . 

Madrassccs 


3138 
4746 


7884 
3341 

59,622 

157,418 
636 
49 
362 
307 
40 
55 


277 
417 

1607 

9558 
25] 
3ft 


3J perct. 
124 

2| 

G, 1 , ,, 
*A n 
2* 


1 in 28 
1 in 8 

1 in 36 

1 in 16 
1 in 25 
1 in 14 


3181 
160 


13,677 
45,067 
527 
351 


17,333 
120,318 
683 
19,084 





" The great difference in mortality between the Hindus * and 
Mussulmans is striking, while the difference to be observed 
between the Portuguese, as compared with the English and the 
Eurasians, is equally so. 

" Here is much room for speculation, and it cannot be said that 
as yet we have as good means of getting correct information upon 
this subject as they possess in Europe ; nevertheless, we may 
approach as near as we can to the point we wish to ascertain, and 
we may hope to improve in such statistical records. 

" The Portuguese, among whom so great a mortality is shown, 
are a suffering race very subject to the catalogue of complaints 
enumerated in these papers ; while the English and Eurasians are 
far more prosperous in life, and enjoy comforts and happiness in 
a very high degree, as compared with the former section of 
society. The mortality of English and Eurasians, -'U per cent. 

* The difference of mortality amongst the Mahomedans and Hindus may be ac- 
counted for by the circumstance that the Hindus of Calcutta, consisting of families, 
include a much larger proportion of infant life. The same circumstance will explain the 
great difference between the average mortality amongst the Portuguese and the Euro, 
peans of Calcutta. ED. Journal Atiatic Society. 



62 STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF 

per annum, while that of the Portuguese being 12 per cent., is 
very great. In 1830 I ascertained, and published in the ' Glean- 
ings of Science,' the burials in Calcutta of Protestant Christians 
from the year 1820, to show at that time, that although the Euro- 
pean population must have greatly increased, yet, that the deaths 
and burials had not increased ; and now that the same population 
is acknowledged to have increased very materially indeed, yet we 
see upon referring to the first column of one of the tables, giving 
the Protestant burials, for the last twenty years, no increase of 
deaths. The years 1833-4, the two years following the sea inun- 
dations, show the greatest mortality of late years ; while among 
the native population those two years show an extraordinary mor- 
tality. The two last years show in much of both European and 
native population that healthiness is restored. The mortality 
among the other columns of society, the Catholic, Greek, Arme- 
nian, Hindu, Armenian and Native-Christian, are for the last 
twenty years, and I believe them to be nearly correct. The 
Chinese and Jews keep no account of their burials ; I of course 
could not include them, and they form a minute portion of the 
population of this city." 

" The native soldiers of Bengal," says Colonel Henderson, " are 
very healthy under ordinary circumstances. It has been found on 
inquiry that only one man died per annum, out of 131 of the 
actual strength of the army. So injurious, however, is Bengal 
Proper to this class of natives, as compared with the Upper Pro- 
vinces, that though only one-fourth of the troops exhibited are 
stationed in Bengal, the deaths of that fourth are more than a 
moiety of the whole mortality reported." 

That the climate of the country of the great waters, the Delta of 
the Ganges, was not less fatal to our Mahommedan predecessors, 
is evident from Gladwin's translation from a Persian document : 
" In former reigns, Bengal, on account of the inclemency of the 
air and water, was deemed inimical to the constitution of Moguls 
and other foreigners, and only those officers who laboured under 
the royal displeasure were stationed there ; and this fertile soil 
which enjoys a perpetual spring, was considered a strong prison, 
as the land of spectres, the seat of disease, and the mansion of 
death." 

" The Mussulman invaders," says a native writer, " of the west of 
Hindustan, who afterwards established themselves on the throne of 
Delhi, considered this country, Bengal, to be Dojakh, or an infernal 
region ; and whenever any of the Ameers or Courtiers, were found 
guilty of capital crimes, and the rank of the individual did not per- 
mit their being beheaded, while policy, at the same time, rendered 
their removal necessary, they were banished to Bengal. The air 
and water of Bengal were considered so bad as to lead to the certain 
death of the criminal." 



CLIMATE AND SEASON IN CALCUTTA. 



60 

TS 
* 



o c 

'" 



IS 
3 
o "S 



1 

' 



- 

^' 

E 7 

> 

' 



>> ^ 

.t; 

?GO 
2 

5 ? 

O 00 

s 



o 

^5 C-l 

^ rr 

~ 00 

0) 

I" 

H 



O O 

1* 

0) 

4 



- 



t/Ll-S-j 


O 
II 


S S 


g 


mlft 


ll 

9 "5 


.9 .9 .S 

c? 3? "S 
C4 i> 




z * 


1 


| | J 


o 



pi 


111 


a 

o 


.9 .9 .9 




o 5 

S^^ 


I 

s 


S S 




o 3 








.2 .0 -* 


s 


1 1 1 


| 


c a 





3 .9 .9 




* 


fl 


7 p 








e* t>. 








* *s . 


" 





1-2 


. C O 
O V O ^ 00 


= 
5 c> 


3 1 $ 


13 


^ .5 .9 |. .9 

^^ O O rt O 


7 

* o 


H S - 






. 


CJ ^^ 


^ 


*J *i "S 





1 


r C 


* . 
'" <O O t*f 

o "- 1 Co fc, ^" 




CO 


K 


IS 


fe -9 C .9 H. .9 


8. .2 






hi hi ** hi 
(O O -^ O C4 O 


S 






"8 _r "S _r *' 


*i 




1.2 


8N OT fl 
O O 00 
h, "" hi *^ 


I 


S ei 

C4 

Sir* 


IS 


8, J 8, .9 6 S 

<O ^H 00 -H * 

o u M u oo "^ 

O T* O ii O 


{J 

<N 




o> 




-- -- **> 


^. 


"2 ^ 


.2 - 


B X" * ~ 

8 g? 8 g | S 


a 




| 


S, .9 ft .9 fc *S 

^ _ 00 _i ' S 


I .1 






cb o ^* o T o 


~ 






"3 -J 







|.2 


s si.* 

S, .9 8. .9 8 .9 


a * 

8 ^ 

v .9 


t*i 


^3 


O ,- -H ? * 


1 ^^ 


K 

73 *. 




C4 O C4 

- S S ^ S 


^* k 

o o 


e 




>. . ^ 







e C 


; "2 "5 "3 "5 
a S g - g 


1 




2^ 


** <* " S 

5 $ "2 " 

v ^ o. .5 . a 


I 3 




^ 


^* .3 i ^ _^ c*l 


** 






p T: ^ - 7 

l^ -< 5 N 








: : 3 : 






i 








i 


ill 






8 










5 en IS 





64 



STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF 



The following table is collated from the interesting and valuable 
article of Mr. H. T. Prinsep on the mortality for ages and births 
of Indo-Britons in the Lower Orphan School of Calcutta, during 
40 years, and published in the Journal of the Asiatic Society for 
September, 1838. 





BOY8. 


GIRLS. 




Number in the 




Ratio of 


Number in the 




Ratio of 


AGE. 


House, on 31st 


Total 


Deaths per 


House, on 31st 


Total 


, Deaths per 




December of 


Deaths. 


1000. 


December of 


Deaths. 


1000. 




each year. 






each year. 









2-713 


486 


171-480 


2-766 


416 


144-980 


1 


2-430 


498 


185-890 


2-436 


496 


184-830 


2 


2-169 


186 


82-220 


2203 


170 


74-300 


3 


1-968 


113 


55-830 


2-030 


80 


38-640 


4 


1-845 


65 


35-230 


1-790 


77 


42-120 


5 


1-725 


56 


31-940 


1-788 


52 


28-690 


6 


1-587 


42 


26-110 


1-677 


49 


28-800 


7 


1-451 


41 


27-870 


1-572 


30 


18-900 


8 


1-314 


36 


27-270 


1-431 


36 


24-910 


9 


1-186 


15 


12-570 


1-322 


14 


10-530 


10 


956 


33 


33-960 


1-210 


17 


13-950 


11 


750 


20 


26-300 


1-140 


18 


15660 


12 


528 


8 


15-040 


1071 


12 


11-130 


13 


287 


3 


10-450 


951 


15 


15-650 


14 


138 


1 


7-240 


799 


5 


6-240 


15 


70 


6 


82-190 


626 


4 


6-360 


16 


38 


3 


76-920 


449 


6 


13-270 


17 


19 





. . . . 


295 


7 


23-490 


18 


14 


1 


. 


194 


4 


20-400 


19 


11 





. . . . 


131 


1 


7-630 


20 


8 


1 


.. 


81 


1 


11-230 


Total . . 


21-207 


1-614 


908-510 


25-970 


1-510 


741-710 


Mean. . 


530^ 


40JS 


22*,, 


649,' 


87& 


18|i 



"N.B. In forming this ratio, as the number of Boys and Girls is 
stated for the last day of the year, and therefore does not include 
the deaths during the year, it has been necessary to add half the 
deaths, on the calculation that each person that died gave the rest 
of his life for half the time of those who lived out the year." 

By a statement forwarded by the Medical Board to the Com- 
mittee for the improvement of Calcutta, it would appear that 



CLIMATE AND SEASON IN CALCUTTA. 



fi 



during the thirty years, from 1st January, 1808 to 31st December, 
1837, there were of admissions and deaths amongst the European 
patients of the Presidency General Hospital as follows : 

Total admissions 35,119 

Total deaths 3,607 

This, for thirty years, gives a mean ratio of 10^ deaths per 
cent of the admissions. 

The quinquennial ratios are as follows : 





Admissions. 


Death*. 


Ratio of 
Deaths per 
cent. 


From 1808 to 1812 
1813 to 1817 


2-713 
4-360 


299 
450 


11 

io, 


1818 to 1822 


6-425 


657 


10" 


1823 to 1827 


9-560 


1039 


10, 7 * 


1828 to 1832 


6-315 


585 


Q*6 


1833 to 1837 


5-746 


577 


10, i, 










Mean 


5-853} 


684| 


lf 



This is all that the Medical Board can furnish ; for it was not 
till 1808 that any records were used, even of admissions and 
deaths. 

The following Table exhibits both the sickness and mortality of 
the British troops in garrison at the Presidency, together with the 
proportion of deaths to cases treated of the three principal ende- 
mic diseases of Bengal ; viz., fever, dysentery, and hepatitis : 



66 



STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF 



Table of Admission into Hospital, and Deaths during 12 Years 
of the European Troops in Garrison of Fort William. 











Ratio per 1000 of Strength. 


Years. 


Strength. 


Admissions. 


Deaths. 


Admitted. 


Died. 


1822 


866 


1303 


75 


1,594-62 


86-60 


1823 


828 


1687 


51 


2,037-24 


61-59 


1824 


736 


2268 


103 


3,082-32 


139-94 


1825 


902 


2542 


110 


2,818-18 


121-95 


1826 


863 


1826 


96 


2,115-87 


111-23 


1827 


893 


1336 


56 


1,496-08 


62-71 


1828 


913 


1776 


42 


1,945-23 


45-00 


1829 


885 


1995 


58 


2,253-67 


62-14 


1830 


808 


1722 


59 


2,131-78 


73-02 


1831 


831 


1061 


57 


1,276-77 


68-59 


1832 


771 


1024 


59 


1,728-14 


76-52 


1833 


687 


1387 


64 


2,018-92 


93-15 


1834 


608 


1166 


57 


1,917,76 


93-15 


1835 


743 


1211 


33 


1,629-87 


44-41 


1836 


734 


1245 


25 


1,696-18 


34-06 


1837 


709 


899 


26 


1,267-98 


36-07 


1838 . 


633 


694 


22 


1,096-36 


34-75 


Total 


13-410 


25-142 


497 


















Average .... 


7881$ 


1478J? 


29 ,V 


1,833-33 


73-26 



The ratio of deaths to cases treated, was, during ten years, as 
follows : 

In Fever one in 28-^ 

.. Dysentery one in 12{$ 

Hepatitis, Acute and Chronic one in 8i 



CLIMATE AND SEASON IN CALCUTTA. 



67 



Tall? of Admission into Hospital, and Deaths during 12 Years, 
of the European Troops at Chinsurah (Depot), IS miles distant 
from Calcutta. 



Years. 


Strength. 


Admissions. 


Deaths. 


Ratio per 1000 of Strength. 


Admitted. 


Died. 


1826 


1,083 
814 
200 
132 
366 
927 
737 
577 
784 
832 
743 
765 


818 
1,329 
542 
571 
822 
1,412 
1,182 
1,155 
1,308 
872 
1,428 
1,322 


86 
80 
20 
24 
24 
51 
41 
54 
82 
17 
39 
32 


755-81 
1,632-67 
2,710-00 
4,325-75 
2,245-95 
1,523-19 
1,603-79 
2,001-73 
1,668-36 
1,048-07 
1,921-93 
1,728-10 


79-40 
98-28 
100-00 
181-81 
65-57 
56-OJ 
55-63 
93-58 
40-81 
20-43 
52-35 
41-83 


1827.. 


1828.. 


1829.... 


1830.... 


1831 


1832 


1833 


1834 


1885 


1836 


1837 




ToUl 


7,960 


12,761 


500 












Average . . . 


6631 


1,063^ 


4U 


1,930-40 


73-72 



The ratio of deaths to cases treated, was, during three years, as 
follows : 

In Fever one in 25 J 

Dysentery one in "H 

Hepatitis, Acute and Chronic one in 8*, 

The above must be taken as the mortality on the spot only, and 
does not include the invalids, who died on their passage to 
England, or shortly after their arrival there, amounting to 3$ 
annually. If, as is well known also, the Medical Returns be taken 
at the highest strength in course of the year or quarter, or a tenth 
part higher than it ought to be, instead of the mean monthly 
strength, the ratio of mortality will be greatly increased. It is 
believed that a correction of all errors would bring the annual 
mortality to more than eighty per thousand. 

Tli at in India as elsewhere age materially influences the ratio of 
mortality \\ill be seen from the following tables for the officers ..!' 
ilu- Bengal army, and those of the Civil Service Out of 

F3 



68 



STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF 



deaths among officers, the proportion occurring annually in each 
rank, and at each age, has been as follows : 





j 


FH 


o 


o 










<0 


. ~ 




t CO 


00 9^ 





a 




Colonels, 
average age 


Lieutenan 
Colonels 
average age 


Majors, 
average age 


2 v 
ll 

i 


Lieutenant 
average a; 
18 to 33. 


u W l 2 


General 
average at 
ages. 


Died annually per "j 
















thousand of each > 


59-4 


48-4 


41-0 


34-5 


27-5 


23-4 


31-2 


Class.. 

































The mortality among the civil servants, for a period of forty-six 
years, from 1790 to 1836, exhibits almost precisely the same re- 
sults, viz. 





T3 






.. 




.>. 


.*. 




!i 


o 


id 


o 
""** o 


eo 


2 


S 10 




S>'E 

45 03 h 




R8 


O u O4 


2 SS 


2- 


o 2 




o'SC 


o Ss 


2'R 5 


SB 5 


P 









5 e^ 


"* S 


^ W o 

a> * <M 


" " 


4, 


J *S 


^J -c 




9 o 


to 


to 


bo 


im -< 


tDC 


bO C 




eo 


^ 




^ 


2 


<; 


< S 


Died Annually per "j 
thousand of each > 
class J 


48-6 


36-4 


35-4 


23-4 


16-6 


20-8 


19-9 



















Between ten and fifteen years' service is the period when leave 
of absence is allowed to those who choose to return to Europe for 
three years, which of course must have a material tendency in 
reducing the mortality of that class. With this exception the 
results are uniform for both civil and military servants, and they 
are no less so when extended to the officers of the other Presi- 
dencies. 

The official results in regard to the mortality at each age among 
the military officers and civil servants of the Bengal Presidency, 
afford a convincing proof that in the East Indies no advantage has 
hitherto been derived from length of residence. As those indivi- 
duals are never employed out of India, and generally arrive there 
about the age of eighteen or twenty, their respective ages and 
ranks may be assumed as a criterion for estimating their length of 
residence in the country. On that principle, then, we find, taking 
equal numbers of each rank, that the mortality among the Ensigns, 



CLIMATE AND SEASON IN CALCUTTA. 



65) 



for the most part youths but recently arrived, is only twenty-three ; 
\\ liilc that of the Lieutenants, who must have been at least three 
years longer resident to have attained that rank, is twenty-seven ; 
and that of the Captains, who must have been about twelve or 
thirteen years longer, is thirty-four per thousand, and so on in a 
corresponding proportion with the higher grades. In case it should 
be objected that this does not exhibit the precise operation of mor- 
tality during the first year or two of residence in the country, when 
the influence of acclimation is supposed to be most strongly 
manifested, the following information in regard to the Civil Servants 
in the Bengal Presidency will supply that defect. 









Ratio of 




Numbers 


Deaths in 


Deaths per 




alive. 


first year. 


thousand of 








living. 


1st Year of Residence. . . . 


975 


19 


19-5 


2nd .. .. 


933 


22 


23-5 


3rd .. .. 


906 


18 


20-0 


4th .. .. 


874 


19 


22-0 



Here, then, we have traced the same individuals through four 
successive years of residence, with the liability to mortality con- 
stantly augmenting ; and unless we are to suppose that a different 
law regulates the mortality among Europeans in the tropical 
climates of the eastern and western hemisphere, we are inevitably 
led to the same conclusions which we have already demonstrated 
from the previous numerical results. Colonel T\tllock's Reports. 

The comparative annual per centage mortality of the officers 
belonging to the armies of the three Presidencies of Bengal, 
Madras, and Bombay, is stated by Colonel Henderson to be as 
follows : 



Total for Bengal, including Medical Officers . . 
Madras ,, 

Bombay ,, 



8*12 per cent. 
4-49 
8-94 



The subject of Statistics is one that has been altogether neg- 
lected by the medical authorities of the Bengal Presidency; 
and, though the example of the hospitals of her Majesty's army, 
from which very complete reports are made, has now been 
many years before them, this important branch the very central 
point of medical science can scarcely be said, until very re- 
cently, to have been approached. It is the deficiency here com- 
plained of that has caused the omission in this Article of all men- 
tion of the hospitals of Calcutta, and of the General Hospital in 



70 STATISTICS Of THE INFLUENCE OF 

particular ; an institution that has existed for more than seventy 
years, and in which tens of thousands of European soldiers have 
been treated under three or four different medical systems, yet no 
one fact, out of the numerous and important observations made 
during that long time is known to any one of us. Its surgeons, and 
those of the other public institutions many of them able and ex- 
perienced officers have, through the neglect of the controlling 
medical authorities, been rendered, in respect to us and to science, 
no more than a set of dumb actors in the circle of a routine duty. 
Dr. John Macpherson forms a very honourable exception, his 
statistical investigations prepared at the General Hospital of Cal- 
cutta, being works of standard value. All this official neglect and 
want of discipline has been repeatedly urged by me in what I 
thought the right quarter, and in the most emphatic manner ; but 
though my proposition met with no very flattering reception, 1 
have yet the satisfaction to know that I produced some action, with 
the civil authorities, tardy perhaps, yet such as will lead to some 
ultimate improvement. We are in India continually kept in mind 
of that law of our nature, by which old men are disinclined from 
undertaking anything, however excellent, of which they cannot be 
expected to see the end. Through the operation of climate also, 
we have too often to lament the premature display of the con- 
tracting influences of age on the moral and physical constitution 
of man, to the prejudice no less of public welfare than of private 
happiness. 

From the circumstance that no general mode of registering 
and recording has existed till lately, on statistical principles, 
which all should adopt, the great majority of experience in India 
has hitherto perished with individuals, and the valuable ma- 
terials of a long and active life have been thus for ever lost to 
the public service. 

The labour of analysing observations which have been irregu- 
larly kept is immense to some men impossible ; while by order, 
a habit of observation is fostered and kept alive, through the in- 
creasing facility in the process, and the interest excited by the 
subject. Such are the opinions of some of the ablest writers in 
England ; but they have as yet found no echo in our Bengal medical 
board, where we have still to regret the leaden influences of an 
exclusive seniority principle of promotion. 

To insure precision and uniformity in reports, the nomenclature 
of hospitals is systematic and strictly ordered in the royal army, 
and this is one of the many advantages its plan of arrangement 
possesses over ours. 

As to the constantly recurring questions, do we not live under 
an improved climate, and is not the mortality of Europeans greatly 
diminished of late years ? It is not very easy to speak satisfac- 



CLIMATE AND SEASON IN CALCUTTA. 71 

torily, owing to the absence of statistical record. That the climate 
of the actual site of Calcutta is improved to a certain extent, there 
can be no doubt ; and that European general mortality is likewise 
diminished, amongst the better classes especially, I believe to be 
true ; but the chief cause will be found in the improved habits of 
the latter class ; for, with the troops in garrison, notwithstanding 
the improved discipline and interior economy of modern times, it 
would not appear tint mortality is much, if at all diminished, and 
the same may be said of the nearest military station of former 
times Berhampore.* 

The decrease in the proportional mortality of British troops in 
our various colonies, is stated by Robert Jackson to be only 
of recent date ; and he adds, that it would not be safe to pro- 
nounce positively whether it is owing to improvement in medical 
management, with improvement in military economy, or to con- 
tingent and temporary change in the nature of morbid causes, pro- 
ducing a less aggravated form of disease than belonged to other 
times. The soldiers did not die in greater numbers in Germany 
and Holland in the war of 1793, 94, and 95, than they did in the 
war of 1803. Further, he says, that the mortality was not greater, 
cteteris paribus in North America in the war of 1756, than in 
the revolutionary wars of 1775 or in the late war of 1813. It is 
in the navy, he might have added, that a great and progressive 
reduction in mortality has been effected by the measures of pre- 
ventive medicine instituted in 1779. 

Mortality has been nearly equal at all times in the West Indies, 
viz. in the war of 1756, in the war of 1778, the war of 1793, and 
the war of 1803. 

Of the earlier health history of the European troops in Bengal, 
we have little or no information. I must therefore content myself 
with the following tables for Fort William and Berhampore, made 
up from scattered records procured with much trouble, from the 
offices of the Auditor and Adjutant-General. After what has 
already been said, they require no comment. 

* Making the corrections stated at page 55, the table for Fort William will give 
88-40, and that for Berhampore 102-69, as the ratio of deaths per 1,000. All the 
tables of the military have been framed from four official sources viz. the Adjutant 
and Auditor-General's Office, that of the Inspector-General and the Medical Board ; 
and where they differed I took the estimates of the Audit Office. More deaths were 
recorded in the Adjutant-General's returns than in any of the others. Slight errors 
have been made by the writer in calculating some of the Tables, but they in no manner 
affect the general accuracy of the whole. 



72 



STATISTICS OF THE INFLUENCE OF 



Table showing the deaths amongst the European troops in Fort 
William during the years specified : 









Ratio of deaths 




Tears. 


Strength. 


Deaths. 


per 1000 


Remarks. 








of strength. 




1790 


967 


88 


91-00 


11 Months in Garrison. 


1791 


316 


26 


82-34 


7 Months in Garrison. 


1797 


867 


117 


134-02 




1800 


848 


108 


127-35 




1801 


916 


65 


70-96 




1802 


1020 


94 


92-15 




1805 


927 


53 


57-17 




1806 


1122 


55 


49-02 




1807 


1198 


49 


40-90 




1808 


1319 


107 


81-12 




1809 


1182 


71 


60-06 




1810 


1106 


33 


22-83 




Total .. 


11,788 


866 







Average .... 


982,ft 


72 


76-40 





Table showing the deaths amongst the European troops at the 
Station of Berhampore during the years specified : 









Ratio of deaths 




Years. 


Strength. 


Deaths. 


per 1000 


Remarks. 








of strength. 




1788 


497 


47 


94-56 




1791 


230 


19 


8260 


11 Months at the Station. 


1792 


157 


18 


114-64 




1793 


183 


23 


125-68 




1794 


290 


29 


100- 


10 Months at the Station. 


1796 


245 


35 


138-77 




1797 


383 


44 


114-88 


9 Months at the Station. 


1798 


403 


46 


114-14 




1806 


835 


53 


63-47 


5 Months at the Station. 


1807 


848 


39 


45-99 




1808 


726 


46 


63-36 




1809 


721 


45 


62-41 




1810 


512 


30 


58-59 




Total .. 


6030 


473 






Average .... 


463}J 


36ft 


90-69 





CLIMATE AND SEASON IN CALCUTTA. 



73 



For the following important and interesting General Abstract 
of Admissions and Deaths by the principal Diseases among the 
European troops in Calcutta, Chinsurah, and Berhampore, in 
Bengal Proper, I am indebted to Colonel Tullock : 







Chinsurah for 8 yean, 


Berhampore for 10 




Calcutta for 10 years, 


viz. from June, 1826, 


years, viz. for 1823, 




i/.. from 1827 to 1836 


to June, 1827, 


and from 




each inclusive. 


and from 1830 to 


1826 to 1834 






1836, inclusive. 


each inclusive. 




Aggregate Strength, 


Aggregate Strength, 


Aggregate Strength, 


DlSBASKS. 


7823. 


6531. 


11,077. 




Admissions 
into 
Hospital. 


Deaths. 


Proportion 
of Deaths to 
Admissions. 




hi 
1-1 


Deaths. 


Proportion 
of Deaths to 
Admissions. 


Admissions 
into 
Hospital. 


Deaths. 


Proportion 
of Deaths to 
Admissions. 


Feb. Intermit tens 


747 


6 


1 in 124 i 


227 


4 


1 in 57 


1044 


11 


in 95 


Remittens .. 


706 


63 


1 in 11 


278 


26 


1 in 10} 


1467 


120 


in 12} 


,, Cont. Com. . . 


2390 


53 


1 in 45 


1413 


24 


1 in 59 


5324 


90 


in ;>'.'! 


Pneumonia.. 


202 


8 


1 in 25 


103 


4 


1 in 26 


235 


4 


in 59 


Haemoptysis 


11 


3 


1 in 3} 


4 


3 


lin l 1 , 


10 


1 


in 10 


Phthisis Palm. . . 


14 


9 


1 in 1 .! 


15 


9 


1 in ij 


31 


25 


in \\ 


Catarrhus 


554 


24 


1 in 23 


217 


4 


1 in 54 


532 


8 


in 66J 


Hepatitis, &c. . . 


490 


21 


1 in 23 


228 


19 


lin 12 


636 


34 


lin 18} 


Enteritis 


43 


11 


1 in 4 


8 




Oin 8 


22 


7 


lin 3 


Dysenteria 


1603 


137 


lin 11| 


1381 


119 


1 in 11} 


2472 


191 


1 in 13 


Diarrhcea 


974 


26 


1 in 37} 


475 


24 


1 in 1'.' 


1593 


18 


1 in 88 


Colica 


358 


3 


1 in 119 


200 


1 


1 in 200 


356 


1 


1 in 356 


Obstipatio 


142 




in 142 


90 




in 90 


117 




Oin 117 


Cholera Morbus . . 


240 


75 


1 in 3* 


235 


64 


1 in 3 : 


642 


169 


lin 4 


Apoplexia .. 


18 


12 


1 in H 


17 


4 


1 in l ' 


38 


34 


1 in 1 i 


Paralysis . . 


12 


. . 


Oin 12 


14 


2 


lin 7 


7 


1 


1 in 7 


Amentia 


3 


. . 


I in 3 


2 


. . 


Oin 2 


.. 


. . 




Mania 


8 


1 


1 in 8 




. . 


. . 


2 




Oin 2 


Delirium Tremens 


37 


. . 


Oin 37 


56 


3 


1 in 18} 


100 


15 


1 in 6} 


Epilepsia 


43 


3 


1 in 14J 


26 


2 


1 in 13 


49 


4 


1 in 12 


Hy drops 


23 


8 


1 in 3 


20 


4 


1 in 5 


40 


12 


1 in 31 


Rheumatism! . . 


632 


4 


1 in 158 


420 


4 


1 in 105 


665 


.. 


1 in 665 


All other diseases 


4556 


26 


1 in 175 


3799 


12 


1 in 3161 


6774 


18 


1 in 376 


Total .. .. 


13806 


493 


1 in 28 


9228 


332 


1 in 27} 


22156 


763 


1 in 29 



74 STATISTICS OF MORTALITY 

From this record it appears that, out of an aggregate force of 
25,431 British soldiers, stationed during ten, eight, and ten years 
respectively, between 1823 and 1836, at Calcutta, Chinsurah, and 
Berhampore, all in Bengal Proper, there occurred of sickness as 
follows : 

Fevers, remittent, intermittent, and continued .. .. .. 13,596 

Dysentery and diarrhoea . . . . . . 8,499 

Hepatitis 1,354 

Cholera 1,117 

Total cases of four acute tropical diseases . . . . 24,566 
There was a total of admissions into hospitals, on account of 
all diseases, of 45,170 cases, and a total of deaths from all diseases 
of 1,588 soldiers. It is true that these men were British soldiers, 
differing in habits from the higher classes of Europeans residing 
in the same localities worse fed and lodged also, and that a few 
out of the few survivors of the Burmese war may have been ad- 
mitted into the hospitals. But, making due allowance for all these 
circumstances, and for the bad climate of Lower Bengal compara- 
tively, the actual sickness and mortality, not to speak of the pro- 
portionate invaliding, was enormous. 

Out of that portion of the inhabitants of George Town, British 
Guiana (a country somewhat resembling Lower Bengal in its me- 
dical topography and climate), who were likely to resort to public 
hospitals the total population of the town amounting to 20,000 
there were admitted into the Colonial Hospital, from June, 1846, 
to June, 1847, 2,938 cases of remittent and intermittent fevers ; 
and the annual consumption of quinine in Demerara and 
Essequebo averaged 3,000 ounces. But mere figures convey only 
a very faint impression of the calamities attending upon and re- 
sulting from tropical fevers, and other acute diseases of hot cli- 
mates. To realise the full powers of such endemics we should 
be presented with the sequela) of broken constitutions, and conse- 
quent invalidings, amongst British soldiers, and amongst all who 
are exposed to the widely-extended and unnatural influences here 
spoken of. 

SICKNESS AND MORTALITY OF BRITISH SOLDIERS AND SK AMI- N. 

The following summary deductions are made by M. Budin, 
from his admirable " Statistics of the Sanitary Condition and 
Mortality of Forces by Land and Sea, as influenced by Season, 
Localities, Age, Race, and National Characters." * 

These subjects are of such vast interest and importance to naval 
and military surgeons especially, that I hope to stand excused 
for here republishing the conclusions of our neighbour and worthy 
fellow-labourer of the French army : 

* Vide Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, No. 171 an article ably prepared 
by Dr. Balfour of the Grenadier Guards. 



OP BRITISH SOLDIERS AND SEAMEN. 75 

" 1. The losses of armies from disease greatly exceed those in 
time of war from the sword and fire of the enemy. In the Wal- 
cheren expedition, in 1809, the mortality of the English army 
amounted to 16*7 deaths by wounds, and 332 by diseases per 
1,000 of the strength. 

" 2. The most trifling losses are experienced in general by 
troops serving in their native country; and they augment in 
European armies in a direct ratio as these approach the Equator. 
The inverse takes place with negro troops, among whom mor- 
tality increases obviously in the direct ratio of their removal from 
the tropics. 

" 3. Even during a residence in their native country, European 
armies are subject to a mortality exceeding, in a sensible manner, 
that of the civil population at a corresponding age. In certain 
tropical countries, Sierra Leone for example, the mortality of the 
soldier (483 deaths per 1,000) surpasses the proportion of deaths 
which occurs in England among the male population at the age 
of 100 and upwards (454 per 1,000). 

" 4. In localities bordering closely upon each other, the mor- 
tality often differs in a very marked degree. This ought to be 
seriously considered in the selection of military stations and 
places for garrisons, as well as in the choice of sites for barracks 
and hospitals. 

" 5. In tropical regions the annual number of deaths ranges 
within very wide limits from one year to another, so that the 
mortality of a single year cannot serve as a basis for estimating 
the mean mortality of these countries. 

" (i. In the most unhealthy tropical climates the judicious 
choice of good positions on elevated grounds will often secure to 
armies, composed of men of the Caucasian race, a perfectly 
healthy condition, worthy of the most favoured regions of tempe- 
rate climes. The degree of elevation required varies in a marked 
manner with the geographical latitude and longitude of the place. 
Residence on the high grounds is fatal to negro troops. 

" 7. The geological nature of the soil exerts a decided in- 
fluence, not only on the sanitary condition and mortality of 
armies, but also on the presence or absence of certain defects 
which render a man unfit for military service. 

" 8. The increase of the mortality of armies, especially in warm 
climates, is determined in a great measure by the marshy cha- 
racter of the localities occupied. 

" 9. The mortality of the army in the different quarters of the 
world considerably exceeds that of the navy. 

14 10. In the temperate region of Europe, the density of the 

population in garrison towns tends to affect the sanitary con- 

i, and augment the mortality of the troops. The relumr 



76 STATISTICS OF MORTALITY 

density of the population of the different quarters and streets of 
a large town should be seriously considered in selecting sites for 
barracks and hospitals. 

"11. Numerous facts militate against the hypothesis of a pro- 
gressive amelioration in the sanitary condition of European 
troops in warm climates in general, arid particularly in tropical 
regions, as an effect of length of residence. 

" 12. In a military point of view, the knowledge of the patho- 
genic march of the seasons in different parts of the globe, and of 
the relation of the sanitary condition of armies with the different 
meteorological influences, is of immense interest, and has not yet 
received the attention it deserves. 

" 13. The pathogenic influence of the seasons is in a strict de- 
pendence upon the quality of the soil, the latitude, longitude, and 
elevation of the places, their position in the northern and southern 
hemispheres, and the nationality and race of the soldier. 

u 14. In all countries where the influence of age has been 
studied, the lowest mortality has been found to be that of soldiers 
from eighteen to twenty years of age. 

" 15. Nationality and race favour or neutralize the pathogenic 
action of climate, so that, under precisely similar circumstances, 
troops of different races and nations may suffer and die in different 
proportions and of different diseases." 

To the above we may add, of our own experience : 

16. That, in the first expedition to Rangoon, the mortality of 
British soldiers, in the first year of service, 1824-25, amounted to 
thirty-five deaths from wounds, and 450 by disease, per 1,000 of 
strength ; while, in the second year, 1825-26, the losses in action 
and by disease were about one-half of what occurred in the first, 
making a total mortality by wounds and by disease, of 727 per 
1,000 of strength, in the two years. 

An expedition to Rangoon having been determined on in 
January, 1824, cattle were marched to Calcutta from distant 
stations, and slaughtered in the month of February, under a de- 
gree of heat so high that before the process of salting could be 
established, some degree of decomposition must have commenced 
in the meat intended for the use of the soldiers. War was de- 
clared on the 5th of March, 1824. " From the middle of June," 
says Colonel Tullock, " the troops had nothing to subsist on but 
salt beef and biscuit of very inferior quality, and were without 
vegetables of any kind to counteract the effects of such a diet" 

17. The other British expedition employed against Burmah, 
in 1825-26, and employed in the province of Aracan, under Ge- 
neral Morrison, became speedily ineffective from the malignant 
fever of the country. Five thousand five hundred soldiers, Euro- 
pean and native, were soon struck down with the disease, with- 



OP BRITISH SOLDIERS AND SEAMEN. 77 

out reckoning the sick of the public establishments, and of the 
camp followers soon, indeed, " every one who was not dead was 
in hospital." 

" The Bengal infantry Sepoy suffered the most ; in fact, they 
disappeared altogether." Of the original European force three- 
fourths perished, and the miserable survivors were ruined in con- 
stitution none living long thereafter. 

18. It has been seen that in the first Burmese war, in Ava, 
owing to the neglect of every sanitary precaution, " the deaths 
nearly equalled the number of British soldiers originally em- 
ployed on this service, and that but for the seasonable reinforce- 
ments which arrived, the whole must speedily have been anni- 
hilated." 

To show, however, that Governments, like individuals, are slow 
to derive lessons from experience, we have cattle again marched 
to Calcutta, and slaughtered in the same heats of February, as 
stated by Major Hough, with the same consequences to the Euro- 
pean troops employed in China, in 1840-42. It was the horrors 
of Rangoon over again. 

" The attempt to improve the Calcutta salted meat by fresh 
brine at Singhapore did not answer ; and thus, in the Island of 
Chusan, between the 5th of July and the 22nd of October, 1840," 
" out of three thousand six hundred and fifty troops, only two 
thousand and thirty-six were fit for duty " the 26th Cameronians 
and the 49th Regiment being the chief sufferers. These five 
regiments, says Major Hough, were reduced " to a perfect 
skeleton ;" and, in the short space of three months, the former 
corps was reduced from upwards of nine hundred strong to two 
hundred and ninety-one. 

There was here, in addition to the neglects of the Government, 
neglect and grievous ignorance in the officer placed in command 
on the Island of Chusan. " The sickness was comparatively mild 
amongst the officers, who had means of living on more generous 
diet." This, it must be confessed, reads very badly of the officer 
in command, who seems to have lived well, while he neglected 
the comfort and welfare of the soldiers. 

As a contrast to our former arrangements in Burma, in 1825- 
26, and in China, in 1 840-42, may be cited the following : 
" The Marquis Wellesley began early in the cold season of 1800 
to prepare for the expedition to Egypt, which sailed in April from 
Calcutta." The circumstance here recorded ought to be remem- 
bered to the honour of our great Indian statesman, as should also 
i In- admirable arrangements of the Marquis Dalhousie for the 
conduct of the last Burmese war. 

Referring to the comparative circumstances of military sen-ice 
in various countries and in different climates, it may not prove tin- 



78 STATISTICS OF MORTALITY 

interesting here to quote the results of some battles, sieges, and 
campaigns in the East Indies, as compared to similar results in 
Europe. In Marlborough's battles the losses were as follow : 



Allied armies included. 



1704. Blenheim . . . . 1 in 5 

1706. Ramillies, about . . . 1 16 

1708. Oudenarde . . . 1 36 

1709. Malplaquet . . . 1 5 

At Waterloo,* the Duke of Wellington lost in the proportion of . 1 in 6. 
The Indian returns show the following ratios : 



1804. Dieg 
1817. Mehedpore 
1817. Sitabuldy 


. 1 
. 1 
. 1 
. 1 


4i 
6 
4* 

3J 




. 1 


fi 


1846. Battles of the Sutlej 


. 1 


f> 


1848. Chilian-wallah 


1 


. 7 



" Here," says the Edinburgh Review, No. 197, " is no proof 
of cowardice on the part of the defeated, whose loss in every affair, 
except perhaps the last, greatly exceeded our own." 

During the siege of Seringapatam, in 1799, it was stormed and 
captured " by 4,376 men, in two columns." The loss in the 
assault was as follows : 

Killed. Wounded. Missing. 

European officers .... 22 .. 45 .. 

N.C.O. and soldiers . .181 . . 122 . . 22 

Native soldiers .... 119 . 420 . . 100 

Making a total, killed, wounded, and missing, of 1,031 men. 

Of the above officers, twenty-five were killed and wounded in 
the assault. 

Lord Lake, with an original force of 9,000 men, augmented 
after the second storm by the force from Bombay, according to 
Major Hough, appeared before Bhurrpore in January, 1805. 
During four successive assaults, each increasing in desperation, 
Lord Lake was repulsed with the losses on each occasion, and, in 
the aggregate, as follows : 

First assault .... 456 men killed and wounded. 

Second ditto .... 573 

Third ditto 894 ,, 

Fourth ditto 987 

Total .... 2910 

* In the battle of Waterloo, out of a British force of 36.273, there were killed 1,41 7, 
making about 3*9 per cent. ; but, including 362 men killed of the King's German 
Legion, the ratio rises to 4 - 9 per cent. The total force, British and Allied, under the 
Duke of Wellington, amounted to 69,686, out of which there was a total killed of 2,947, 
or a grand total killed of 4-2 per cent., British and Allied. 



OF BRITISH SOLDIERS AND SEAMEN. 79 

There were of officers killed, 15, and 95 wounded, making a 
total of officers killed and wounded, 110. "Major Thorn gives the 
loss in all the operations, at 3,100 men and 102 officers, killed and 
wounded." 

During the expedition to Walcheren, in 1809, 1.67 per cent, of 
the entire force was killed in action, and 32'2 per cent perished 
by disease, making a grand total of 84*69 per cent in that fatal 
and ill-directed attempt. 

Of our losses in the earlier campaigns of the French revolu- 
tionary war, we receive but the following general statements : 

In 1794, says Dr. William Fergusson, the French array in 
Flanders, composed principally of mere boys, many of them of 
five feet three or four inches in height, " kicked us before them 
like a foot-ball through Flanders and Holland into Germany, 
destroying in their course, full three-fourths of our army." The 
same authority, speaking of the same campaign, says that " by dis- 
ease, by famine, by the rigour of the season, and by the sword, 
out of a host of fully 30,000 men, when the retreat from Flanders 
first began, scarcely 8,000 remained to witness its completion." 

Figured statements more in detail would be desirable in respect 
of so important an operation as that described by Dr. Fergusson, 
but they are not now procurable ; and in respect of the Continental 
wars of 1745 and of 1756, as well as of the first American war, it 
were in vain to expect any more accurate record. 

The hospital arrangement of the British army, in 1794, was 
very defective, and the experienced regimental surgeons were, by 
order of " an old, broken-down court physician of London," super- 
seded by " graduates of the English Universities. The conse- 
quence was such as might have been foreseen." " Disor- 
derly hospitals," says Dr. Fergusson, " will destroy an army faster 
than it can be recruited." We may infer, also, that in those days 
the sanitary arrangements were on a par with the hospital manage- 
ment ; ana where both these are deficient together, there can be 
no hope for the safety of any army. 

In the Peninsular army, again, under the Duke of Wellington, 
taking forty-one months during which the war was carried on with 
the utmost vigour, an annual mortality of about 4 per cent, occurred 
in battle and from wounds, and 12 per cent, was from disease, 
"being nearly 16 per cent, of those employed;" whereas, in the 
first year of the first Burmese war, 3^ per cent of the British 
troops were killed in action, and 45 per cent perished by disease, 
" making a total loss of 48 per cent., consequently each person 
employed throughout that year encountered more risk of life than 
in three Peninsular campaigns." 

In the second year of the Burmese war, as already stated, the 
losses in action andbv disease were aboutone-half of what occurred 



80 STATISTICS OF MORTALITY 

in the first, making a total for two years of 5 per cent, killed in 
action, and 67 4 by disease, or a grand total for the two years of 
72 of the European force employed under Sir Archibald Camp- 
bell. The official records exhibit a loss of 61 officers of her Ma- 
jesty's army alone, killed, wounded, and died of disease, "avery 
heavy loss, indeed," says Colonel Tullock, " considering that the 
average number of officers present did not probably exceed 
150." * 

The expedition to Rangoon, during the first Burmese war, was 
therefore the most fatal of which we have, as yet, any record. 

This result of a war with a savage race is the most remarkable 
circumstance of all, and it is well worthy of notice. The Burmese 
are held in light estimation as soldiers by the Europeans, but 
without reason. Warring is their natural fashion, in well con- 
structed stockades, they inflicted on British troops almost the 
same proportionate amount of loss as did the legions of Napo- 
leon, commanded by the marshals of France. Speaking of the 
destruction of the European force on this occasion, Colonel Tul- 
lock makes the following just observations : " It seems essen- 
tial to bring such facts as these prominently to notice, because 
there is no mode of estimating the severity of military service ex- 
cept by comparison, and it is of importance that the authorities 
with whom rests the ultimate reward of the soldier should have 
some means of knowing the risk of life and peril of constitution 
by which his pension has been earned." 

A national mode of warfare always makes itself felt. It does 
not imitate, and it is not, therefore, subject to the moral infe- 
riority, the weaknesses, inabilities, and incapacities resulting from 
the systematic routine of organized bodies, so cramping to the 
physical and moral energies of men. When the princes of India 
set aside their hordes of 80,000 to 100,000 horsemen, and imitated 
Europeans in forming brigades of disciplined infantry, and in 
stand-up fights, it was easy to foresee the speedy destruction of 
their armies, and the fall of their empires. 

The Highlanders, in 1745, were sneered at by British officers, 
and especially by those of the cavalry, who made the least re- 
spectable figure in that remarkable contest. The British army 
was then, as now, officered by gentlemen, and disciplined on 
the Prussian system. The formation of general lines and move- 
ments in lines were then, as now, its characteristics ; yet, in 
conflict with peasants led by country gentlemen, it was first 
quickly routed, and then destroyed. ' Even at Culloden, where the 
mountain peasant was led in the usual manner, the result was the 
same. 

* War Office Statistical Report. Presented to both Houses of Parliament by com- 
mand of her Majesty. 



OF BRITISH S.II.IHI |;s \M> x| \MEN. 81 

" The Scottish Highlanders," says Robert Jackson, " \\crc 
badly provided with arms; they, notwithstanding, defeated the 
regular and experienced troops of the Crown, both at Preston pans 
and at Falkirk ; and there are grounds to believe, from the de- 
cided experiment that was made upon Barrel's regiment at Cul- 
loden, that they would have defeated them a third time, had there 
I )cci i union in council and accord in action." 

These various circumstances of service are worthy the careful 
consideration of the military surgeon ; as, for the conduct of his 
difficult and toilsome duties, it is not enough that he should have 
some foreknowledge of the probable amount of his sick, but he 
should also prepare some estimate of the probable amount of his 
wounded men. This tact in calculation forms, indeed, one of the 
requirements of an effective administrative medical officer. 

Nor are the results of statistical investigations confined to 
military operations. On the contrary, they may be rendered sub- 
servient to, and suggestive of vast improvements in civil commu- 
nities, as remarked by Colonel Tullock in the following im- 
portant observations : 

" To ascertain the races of men best fitted to inhabit and 
develop the resources of different colonies is a most important 
inquiry, and one which has hitherto attracted too little attention, 
both in this and other countries. Had the Government of 
France, for instance, adverted to the absolute impossibility of 
any population increasing or keeping up its numbers under an 
annual mortality of seven per cent, (being that to which their 
settlers are exposed at Algiers), it would never have entered on 
die wild speculation of cultivating the soil of Africa by Euro- 
peans, nor have wasted a hundred millions sterling with no other 
result than the loss of 100,000 men, who have fallen victims to 
the climate of that country. In such questions, military returns, 
properly organized and properly digested, afford one of the 
most useful guides to direct the policy of the Colonial legis- 
lator ; they point out the limits intended by Nature for particular 
races, and within which alone they can thrive and increase ; 
they serve to indicate to the restless wanderers of our race the 
boundaries which neither the pursuit of wealth nor the dreams 
of ambition should induce them to pass ; and proclaim, in 
forcible language, that man, like the elements, is controlled 
1>\ a Power which hath said, ' Hither shalt thou come, but no 
further ! ' " 

Hie worst enemy to the soldier has everywhere and at all times, 
been disease. 

" Civilians, however, think that shot kills most soldiers, but 
Colour! < jueach, a Peninsular officer of some experience, and an 
;mthoriiy upon the subject, having served throughout the Penin- 



8-2 STATISTICS OF MORTALITY 

sular campaigns with the old 95th Rifles, says, that 40,000 men 
were killed in action or died of wounds 120,000 died of disease, 
a great deal of which was rendered fatal by the want of proper 
medical attendance ; whilst 120,000 more were, by disease, ren- 
dered unfit for service." 

It is a principle in modern war, well understood by the great 
Marlborough, that the more rapid its course the more humane the 
result ; and Frederick of Prussia held that " all wars should be 
short and rapid ; because a long war insensibly relaxes discipline, 
depopulates the state, and exhausts its resources." During the 
protracted operations of previous wars, the destruction of men 
"by famine and the ague" was horrible beyond description. 

The losses in the great battles of Marlborough do not appear so 
heavy when we consider the unusual nature of the obstacles to 
be overcome, the numbers opposed to him, and the obstinate 
nature of the defence. This first of British commanders was 
careful, in an especial manner, of the health and comfort of his 
men. It was the restless energy, the genius, the daring, and 
the impetuous spirit of Napoleon, which allowed no repose to 
his own troops or to those of his enemies, that completed the 
establishment of a system which set all tardy rules and practice at 
defiance. He brought his men to make forced marches and to 
bivouac under every extremity of season his principle being that 
" legs win more battles than arms." 

Mr. Hodge, in his " Report on the Mortality arising from Naval 
Operations," states, that " Taking the whole of the casualties in 
action in the British service during the wars of the French Revo- 
lution, the proportion of those returned killed to the whole number 
injured in naval engagements was 100 in 398, or rather more than 
one in four ; while in engagements on land it was 1 00 in 529, or 
rather less than one in five. It may perhaps be thought, that as 
a greater proportion of deaths were inflicted in the navy, the inju- 
ries suffered by the wounded would also be of a serious character, 
but this is not necessarily the case. 

" A large proportion of the wounds in naval actions are caused 
by round shot ; of those in actions on land by musketry. An 
injury to a vital organ from a round shot would be more likely to 
prove fatal at once than one from a musket-ball ; a man mortally 
wounded by the latter might linger on for some time, a result less 
probable in the former case." 

At first sight, there would appear no reason why mortality 
arising from disease should be much increased in the navy by 
war, as is well known to be the case in the army ; but an exami- 
nation of the facts proves that it was so. It is undoubted that 
during the last war the risk of death to persons employed in the 
navy, from the accidental destruction of vessel > alone, was four or 
five times greater than it has been since the peace. 



OF BKIIIMl NUI mi |;x \sn SRAMKN. 



Mr. Hodge adduces the following numbers as in excens of 
deaths caused by the war of twenty and a- half years, between 
17! Hand 1815: 



Casualties in action 

Destroyed and wrecked in ship* 

From disease on board 



44,662 



T..UI 



63,310 



" The following statement shows that the loss inflicted upon us 
in our contests with the navies of different nations, has been gene- 
rally in proportion to the reputation of their seamen for skill and 
discipline, and is an additional proof of the importance of main- 
taining our superiority in those respects: 



Action. 


Enemy's Fleet. 


Proportion of British Loss in 
Killed and Wounded. 


Number of Enemy's 
Ships. 


To 1,000 
British 
engaged. 


To 1,000 of 
the enemy 
engaged. 


To each ship 
taken or 
destroyed. 


Engaged. 


Taken 
or de- 
stroyed. 


Cape St. Vincent 


Spanish 


32 


19 


75 


25 


4 


Trafalgar . . 


Franco-Spanish 


100 


78 


94 


3S 


18 


Nile 


French . . 


112 


91 


82 


13 


11 


Camperdown . . 


Dutch .. .. 


100 


115 


92 


16 


9 



" The loss sustained in an action, is the price of the result ob- 
tained by it, and we must compare these elements with each other 
before we can arrive at a correct estimate as to either. By the 
above statement it is shown, that the casualties of the British in 
the battle off Cape St. Vincent, were only thirty-two per 1,000 
engaged, while each of the enemy's ships taken or destroyed cost 
i \-live men in killed and wounded. At the battle of the 
Nilr each ship taken or destroyed cost only seven more, or eighty- 
two men in killed and wounded, although the proportion per 1,000 
engaged was 1 12, or between three and four times as many as at 
Cape Si. Vincent From the general result, it appears, that out 
of 204 hostile vessels engaged, seventy-three were taken or de- 
stroyed by the British, whose total loss, in killed and wounded, 
was 7.:U!>. or a fraction over 100 for each vessel lost to tin- 

:i\ ." 



84 



STATISTICS OF MORTALITY 



" From the various estimates that have been considered, the fol- 
lowing has been drawn out, as the 

General Summary of the Mortality in the Royal Navy among an 
average force of 110,000 Men during 20 T ^ Years of Hostili- 
ties occurring in and between 1793 and 1815. 





Number of Deaths. 


Estimated 


Excess caused by 
War. 






Number of 










Deaths that 








Annual 




would have 




Propor- 


Causes of Death. 


Ratio to 




occurred 




tion 




1,000 


Total. 


from the 


Total. 


to 




Mean 




same causes 




100,000 




Strength. 




during Peace. 




Deaths. 


Casualties in action 


3 


6,663 


.. 


6,663 


10-524 


Drownedor destroyed in ships 1 
accidentally wrecked or > 


6 


13,621 


1,636 


11,985 


18-931 


burnt .. .. . . J 












Estimated to have died from "j 
disease or ordinary acci- V 
dents on board . . . . J 


32 


72,102 


27,440 


44,662 


70-545 


Total 


41 


92,386 


29,076 


63,310 


100-000 



" With reference to every description of armed force, it is of the 
greatest importance to ascertain what is the average proportion of 
men unable to attend to their duty from sickness. We have no 
information of this kind as to the navy." 

The following Table shmes the Mortality in the Navy on the East 
Indian Station for Fourteen Years ending with 1843. 





Mean 
Strength. 


Annual Ratio to 1,000 Mean Strength of the 
Deaths arising from 


Diseases. 


Wounds 
and 
Injuries. 


Acci- 
dental 
Drown- 
ing. 


Unknown 
Causes 


All 
Causes. 


(1830 to 1836.. 
Peace j 
1 1837, 1838, 1839 

War 1840,1841,1842 


1,849 
1,883 
5,156 


15-10 
14-34 
36-78 


N 

2^48 
3-49 


__, 


17-30 
21-77 
50-23 


2-20 

^* 


4-42 
4-01 


0.53 
5-95 



OF BRITISH SOLDIERS AND SEAMEN. 



85 



l< To facilitate the comparison between the periods of war and 
peace, the following table has been deduced from the reports on 
the health of the navy, printed by order of the House of Commons. 
It contains the results of all the reports yet published, with the 
exception of those for^the East Indian Station from 1840 to 1843 : 
they are omitted on account of the Chinese War, which commenced 
in 1840. 



CO 

f 
oo 



I 



o 

tw 

2 



I 



s 



*3 1 

111! 



& 8 



r -8 



? 



8 * 



t* n 



c. , 



M ?> 



8 




GENERAL OBSERVATIONS, PRELIMINARY TO A CON- 
SIDERATION OF THE INFLUENCE OF TROPICAL 
CLIMATES ON EUROPEAN CONSTITUTIONS. 



IT is a general opinion among philosophers that the constitu- 
tion of Man is better adapted to bear those changes of tempera- 
ture, and other circumstances, experienced in migrating from a 
northern to a tropical region, and vice versa, than that of any 
other animal. They proudly observe, that this power of accommo- 
dating itself to all climates is a distinctive characteristic of the 
human species, since no other species of animal can endure trans- 
plantation with equal impunity. But it would not be difficult to 
show that, for this boasted prerogative, man is more indebted to 
the ingenuity of his mind, than to the pliability of his body. It 
would appear, in fact, that he and other animals start on very 
unequal terms in their emigrations. Man, by the exertion of his 
mental faculties, can raise up a thousand barriers around him, to 
obviate the deleterious effects of climate on his constitution ; while 
the lower animal, tied down by instinct to a few simple modes of 
life, is quite defenceless. Nature must do all for the latter ; and, 
in fact, this indulgent mother does compensate in some degree for 
the want of reason by producing such corporeal changes as are 
necessary for the animal's subsistence under a foreign sky, in a 
shorter space of time than is necessary for effecting correspondent 
changes in man. The tender sheep, for instance, when trans- 
ported from the inclemency of the North, to pant under a vertical 
sun on the equator, will, in a few generations, exchange its warm 
fleece of wool for a much more suitable coat of hair. " Can the 
Ethiopian change his hue " in the same period, by shifting from 
the interior of Africa to the shores of the Baltic ? or will it be said 
that the fair complexion of the European, may, in two or three 



OKNKKAI. oltSKRVATI' 87 

generations, acquire the sable aspect of the inter-tropical natives, 
by exchanging situations ? Assuredly not Where then is the 
superior pliancy of the human constitution ? The truth is that the 
lender frame of man is incapable of sustaining that degree of ex- 
posure to the whole range of causes and effects incident to, or 
arising from the vicissitudes of climate, which so speedily operates 
a change in the structure, or at least the exterior, of unprotected 
animals. 

lint it is observed that, of those animals translated from a tem- 
perate to a torrid zone, " some die suddenly, others droop, and all 
degenerate." This is not to be wondered at, considering the dis- 
advantages under which they labour. Man would not fare better, 
if placed in similar circumstances. Even as it is, the parallel is 
not far from applying; for of those Europeans who arrive on the 
banks of the Ganges, many fall early victims to the climate, as will 
be shown hereafter. That others droop, and are forced, ere many 
years, to seek their native air, is also well known. That the suc- 
cessors of all would gradually and assuredly degenerate, if they 
remained in the country, cannot be questioned ; for already we 
know that the third generation of unmixed European is nowhere 
to be found in Bengal. 

On the other hand, if we look at intertropical natives approach- 
ing our own latitudes, the picture is not more cheering. The African 
children, brought over by the Sierra Leone Company for educa- 
tion, seldom survived the third year in this country. " They bear 
the first winter," says Dr. Pearson, " tolerably well, but droop 
during the second, and the third generally proves fatal to them.*' 

The object of these remarks, which, at first sight might seem 
irrelevant, will now appear. Since it is evident that Nature does 
not operate more powerfully in counteracting the ill effects of 
climate on man, than on other animals, it follows that we should 
not implicitly confide, as too many do, in the spontaneous efforts 
of the constitution, but, on the contrary, call to its aid all those 
artificial means of prevention and amelioration which reason may 
dictate, and experience confirm. In short, we should study well 
the climate, and mould our obsequious frames to the nature of the 
skies under which we sojourn. 

The British youth leaves his native shores with vigorous health 
and buoyant spirits, for a foreign land of promise, where he is to 
meet with adventures, acquire fame, and realize a fortune. All the 
happy events, real or ideal, of his future journey through life, are 
painted 1>\ his ardent imagination in prominent characters, on the 
foreground of the scene ; while reverses, sickness, disappointments, 
death itself, are all thrown into the shade, or, if suffered to in- 
trude, only serve as incentives to the pursuit which has been com- 
menced. 



88 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 

During the short space of existence to which man is doomed 
on earth, it is a merciful dispensation that youth anticipates no 
misfortune, and that, when the evil day arrives in after life, Hope 
comes on glittering wing, and gilds the scene even till the last ray 
of our setting sun is extinguished. 

That, so circumstanced, salutary precautions in matters affecting 
health are too often despised or neglected, need be no matter of 
surprise ; and a quotation from the writings of a gentleman who 
resided more than twenty years in India, and whose talent for ob- 
servation is peculiar, will place the fact beyond a doubt. " Nothing," 
says Captain Williamson, " can be more preposterous than the sig- 
nificant sneers of gentlemen on their first arrival in India ; mean- 
ing thereby to ridicule, or to despise, what they consider effemi- 
nacy or luxury. Thus several may be seen walking about without 
chattahs" (umbrellas) "during the greatest heats. They affect to 
be ashamed of requiring aid, and endeavour to uphold, by such a 
display of indifference the great reliance placed on strength ofcon~ 
stitution. This unhappy infatuation rarely exceeds a few days ; 
at the end of that time, we are too often called upon to attend the 
funeral of the self-deluded victim." 

Before proceeding to the individual disorders which prevail in 
hot climates, it may be well to allude briefly to some of those 
gradual and progressive changes in the constitution, and deviations 
from previous health and habits which, though predisposing and 
varying towards, yet fall short of actual disease. These are 
consequences which, on leaving their native soil, all must expect 
to feel more or less, and in which all are naturally and directly 
interested. For although a few individuals may occasionally 
return from even a long residence in hot climates, without having 
suffered any violent illness, or much deterioration of consti- 
tution, yet the great mass of Europeans will certainly expe- 
rience the effects sketched out under this head, and many other 
consequences also which will be noticed in different parts of this 
work. It is, however, by the most scrupulous attention to these 
incipient deviations from health, by early arresting their growth, 
or at least retarding their progress, that we can at all expect to 
evade those dangerous diseases, to which they inevitably, though 
often imperceptibly, tend. 

PERSPIRATION. The transition from a climate, the me- 
dium temperature of which is 52, to one where the temperature is 
from 80 to 100, or higher, might be supposed, a priori, to occa- 
sion the most serious consequences. The benevolent Author of 
our existence has, however, endowed man, as well as other animals, 
with the power not only of generating heat, and of preserving their 



(JENKRAL OBSERVATIONS. 89 

warmth in the coldest regions of the earth ;* but has also pro- 
vided an apparatus for carrying off any suj>erabundance of it that 
might accumulate where the temperature of the atmosphere ap- 
proaches to or exceeds that of the body. 

" We have seen," says Mr. Erasmus Wilson, " that the tempe- 
rature of man varies very little in the whole extent of range between 
tin- tropics and the pole; that he can support the intense heat of 
the former without much elevation of his inward heat ; that he can 
live where the mercury is a solid mass, like lead, with the most 
trilling depression of his vital warmth. But it must not be sup- 
posed that the constitution of the man is the same in these two 
opposite conditions ; it is, indeed, widely different ; in the one, 
lu- enjoys what may be termed a summer constitution : in the 
other, a winter con.it Hut ion : and we all, without knowing it, have 
a summer constitution, to harmonize with the warmth of summer, 
and a winter constitution, to enable us to resist effectually the in- 
clemency of that season. 

" The regulation of the temperature of the body is only one of the 
purposes fulfilled by the perspiration ; another, and an important 
one, is the removal from the system of a number of compounds 
noxious to animal life. It was estimated by Lavoisier and Seguin, 
that eight grains of perspiration were exhaled from the skin in the 
course of a minute, a quantity which is equivalent to thirty-three 
ounces in twenty-four hours. Of this quantity, a large proportion 
is, naturally, water ; but nearly one per cent., according to Ansel- 
mino, consists of solid substances, of the latter, one hundred parts 
contain about twenty-three parts of salts, the remainder being 
organic matter. An analysis of one hundred parts of the solid 
matter of perspiration, according to Anselinino, gave the following 
results : 

Osmazome.t combined with common salt ... 48 parts. 

Lactic acid salts, with osmazome . 29 

Animal matter, with vitriolic salts , . . . 21 .. 

Calcareous salts 2 

100 

" To which may be added carbonic acid gas, ammonia, and iron, 
and, in rare instances, copper. The peculiar odour of perspiration 
is due to organic matters, and its acid qualities and occasional acid 
smell to the lactic acid, an organic substance not far removed in 
composition from distilled vinegar." 

* In the polar voyages the thermometer was noted as low as seventy degrees below 
zero, while throughout Hindustan it rises to 120 Fahrenheit, and upwards. 

t The peculiar animal principle which gives flavour to meats and part of the odour of 
perspiration.^ Practical Treat ite on tke SJtin, 1845. 



90 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 

The talented author above quoted, adds that, " to obtain an 
estimate of the length of tube of the perspiratory system of the 
whole surface of the body, 2,800 may be taken as a fair average of 
the number of pores in the square inch, and 700, consequently, of 
the number of inches in length. Now, THE NUMBER OF SQUARE 

INCHES OF SURFACE IN A MAN OF ORDINARY HEIGHT AND BULK IS 
2,500; THE NUMBER OF PORES THEREFORE 7,000,000, AND THE 
NUMBER OF INCHES OF PERSPIRATORY TUBE 1,750,000, THAT IS, 

145,833 FEET, or 48,600 YARDS, OR NEARLY TWENTY-EIGHT MILES." 
Well may the author exclaim, " What if this drainage were 
obstructed." This again brings us to the practical conclusion of 
Moseley, that " cold is the cause of almost all the diseases of hot 
climates to which climate alone is accessary." Even in Europe, 
the summer night affects us with a chill, while the same tempera- 
ture, a few months later in the winter season, would feel oppressive 
from its heat. It is during sleep that alternations of heat and cold 
most seriously affect us. 

We are no sooner beneath a vertical sun than we naturally begin 
to experience the disagreeable sensation of unaccustomed warmth ; 
and as the temperature of the atmosphere, in the shade, now ad- 
vances to within ten or twelve degrees of that of the blood, and in the 
sun actually exceeds it, the heat constantly generated in the body 
cannot be so rapidly abstracted as hitherto, by the surrounding air, 
and would thus soon accumulate so as to destroy the very func- 
tions of life, did not Nature immediately open the sluices of the 
skin, and by a flow of perspiration reduce the temperature of the 
body to its original standard. 

When we contemplate the admirable provision of Nature, 
against what might appear to us an unforeseen event ; when we 
survey the resources and expedients which she can command oil 
all emergencies, her power of supplying every waste, and of re- 
straining every aberration of the constitution, we would be almost 
tempted to conclude that man was calculated for immortality ! 
But alas ! 

" Nascentes morimur, finisque ab origine pendet." 

Till, at length, this wonderful machine, exhausted by its own 
efforts at preservation, and deserted by its immaterial tenant, sinks, 
and is resolved into its constituent elements ! 

But, reverting to the function of the skin : we must not conclude 
that this refrigerating process, adapted by Nature to prevent more 
serious mischief, is in itself unproductive of any detriment to the 
constitution, when carried to excess. Far otherwise is the fact ; 
and we may conclude for certain that those Europeans who avoid 
direct solar exposure, and who are temperate in all ways, but 
especially in the use of wine, beer, and spirits, will be in enjoy- 



.,1 M KM OHM |;\ \| |QM. !| 

im ni of health and vigour, and capable id undergo tin: greatest 
fatigues, in. 'in. il and bodily, without injury. One familiar example 
will illustrate this subject 

We will suppose two gentlemen to be sitting in a room, in the 

; or \\Yst Indies, just before the setting in of the sea-breeze, 
both complaining of thirst, their skin hot, and the temperature of 
their bodies 100, or two degrees above the natural standard. One 
of them, pursuant to the instructions of Dr. Currie, who never was 
in a tropical climate, applies to the negus, beer, or brandy-and- 
water cup, and, after a draught or two, brings out a copious pers- 
piration, which soon reduces the temperature to 98. It will not 
stop here, however, nor will the gentleman, according to the plan 
proposed ; for, instead of putting the bulb of the thermometer 
under his tongue, to see if the mercury is low enough, feeling his 
thirst increased by the perspiration, he very naturally prefers a 
glass or two more of the same stimulating draught " to support the 
discharge, 11 still, however, " stopping short of intoxication." Now, 
by these means the temperature is reduced to 97 or 96^, in which 
state even the slight and otherwise refreshing chill of the sea- 
breeze, checks more or less the cuticular discharge, and paves the 
way for future maladies. 

Let us now return to the other gentleman, who pursues a dif- 
ferent line of conduct. Instead of the more palatable and stimu- 
lating drinks, he takes a draught of plain cold water. This is 
hardly swallowed before the temperature of the body loses by ab- 
straction alone, one degree at least of its heat. But the external 
surface of the body immediately sympathising with the internal 
surface of the stomach relaxes, and a mild perspiration breaks out, 
which reduces the temperature to its natural standard of 98. Far- 
ther, this simultaneous relaxation of the two surfaces completely 
removes the disagreeable sensation of thirst; and as the simple 
" antediluvian beverage " does not possess many Circean charms 
for modern palates, there will not be the slightest danger of its 
being abused in quantity, or of the perspiratory process being 
carried beyond its salutary limits. Nor need we apprehend its 
being neglected ; since from the moment that the skin begins to be 
constricted, or morbid heat to accumulate, the sympathising sto- 
mach and fauces will not fail again to warn us, by craving the 
proper remedy. 

Taken, therefore, as a general rule, the advantages of the latter 
plan are numerous the objections few. It possesses all the re- 
quisites of the former in procuring a just and equable reduction of 
temperature, without any danger of bringing it below the proper 
level, or of wasting the strength by the pro fineness of the dis- 
charge. 

During, or subsequent to violent exertion, under a powerful tun, 



92 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 

or in any other situation in a tropical climate, when profuse per- 
spiration is rapidly carrying off the animal heat, and especially 
when fatigue or exhaustion has taken place, or is impending, then 
cold drink might prove dangerous, on the same principle as would 
cold externally applied. In persons who have been for some time 
in the climate, and whose digestive organs are enfeebled, some 
weak wine and water may not be objectionable ; but such in- 
dulgence is by no means necessary in the young and vigorous, 
and it should be reserved for ulterior residence and more advanced 
periods of life. I may here mention that, during the first Burmese 
war, while serving as surgeon to the Governor General's Body 
Guard of cavalry, I found warm tea, after the most severe marches 
in the sun, by far the most refreshing beverage. 

The habit of Napoleon under great fatigues was as just physio- 
logically, as it evinced the sagacity of that wonderful man. Find- 
ing that excessive fatigue constricted the skin, and produced a sen- 
sation of cold, he went into a warm-bath, and on getting out he 
took a cup of strong coffee a sensorial stimulant. He thus be- 
came in a few minutes fit for renewed exertions, both mental and 
physical. 

It is hoped that these details may not appear prolix, or unneces- 
sarily minute, to the medical reader ; but, considering that this is 
generally the first erroneous step which Europeans take on enter- 
ing the tropics, and that the function of the skin, here under con- 
sideration, is more intimately connected with other very important 
ones than is commonly supposed, it has been thought proper to 
set them right in limine. The probability of future suffering 
will rarely deter the European from indulging in present gratifi- 
cation ; but when stimulating liquids are represented, from high 
authority, as not only innocent but salutary, it will require some 
strength of fact, and of argument, to persuade young men to re- 
linquish their use, or to check the wide-spreading evil. 

SYMPATHY OF THE SKIN WITH INTERNAL ORGANS. 

In attempting to delineate the influence of tropical climates on 
the European constitution, although we may endeavour " to 
chain the events in regular array ;" yet it must be confessed that 
Nature spurns all such artificial arrangements. 

As matter of fact, however, there does exist between different 
parts of the body a certain connection or relation, so that when 
one is affected by special impressions^ the other sympathises, as it 
were, and takes on an analogous action. Of the sympathies here 
referred to, none is more universally remarked than that which 
subsists between the external surface of the body and the internal 
surface of the alimentary canal. This, indeed, seems more easily 
comprehended than many others, since the latter appears to be a 



01 NP.RAL OBSERVATIONS. 93 

rontinimtion of the former, with the exception of the cuticle. 
I have remarked that, when we first arrive between the tropics, the 
perspiration and biliary secretion are both increased ; and that, 
as we become habituated to the climate, they both decrease, pari 
passu. 

In the first section an instance was given of the skin sympa- 
thising with the stomach, where the cold drink was applied to the 
latter organ. Had the water been applied to the exterior of the 
body, on the other hand, the stomach would have sympathised, 
and the thirst would have been assuaged. 

Mr. Erasmus Wilson justly observes, that the sensibility of the 
skin conveys to the mind a knowledge of the temperature of the 
body, thus constituting a " thermometer of vital heat, the degrees 
upon the scale being computed by the expressions agreeable and 
disagreeable, in place of the terms of the common thermometer. 
The value of these expressions to health is not, however, suffi- 
ciently estimated, but it is, nevertheless, certain, that a disagree- 
able impression of temperature in the skin is a warning note of 
something mischievous to health, acting either within or without 
the economy." The same author states the rule of health to be 
by food, by raiment, by exercise, and by ablution, to maintain 
and preserve an agreeable warmth of the skin. Everything 
above this is suspicious ; everything below noxious and dangerous. 
For good or for evil, as it may be, the function of the skin is 
highly important. 

It will be found on experience that the loss of tone in the ex- 
treme vessels of the surface, consequent on excessive or long-con- 
tinued perspiration, is accompanied, or soon succeeded, by a 
consentaneous loss of tone in the stomach, and will fairly account 
for that anorexia, or diminished appetite, which we seldom fail to 
perceive soon after entering the tropics, or indeed during hot 
weather in England. Now this, though but a link in the chain of 
effects, seems a most wise precaution of Nature, to lower and 
adapt the irritable, plethoric European constitution to a burning 
climate, by effectually guarding against the dangerous conse- 
quences of repletion. This view of the actual subject will set in 
a clear light the pernicious effects of stimulating liquids, operating 
on an organ already debilitated, probably for salutary purposes, 
and goading it thereby to exertions beyond its natural power, pro- 
ducing a temporary plethora and excitement, with a great increase 
of subsequent atony. 

" An important medical law," says Mr. Erasmus Wilson, " is 
founded on the continuity and similarity of structure of the in- 
vesting and lining membrane of the body. This law resolves 
itself into three expressions namely, that disease affectiny a 
part of a membrane is liable to spread to the whole , secondly, 



94 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 

that disease of the mucous membrane may spread to the skin, 
and vice versa ; and, thirdly, that disease of a part of a 
mucous membrane may become translated to a part of the skin, 
and vice versa." A remark which every person of observation 
must have made, even in this country, during the summer, but 
particularly in equatorial regions, will further elucidate this sub- 
ject. If by walking, for instance, or other bodily exercise in the 
heat of the sun, during the forenoon, or near the dinner hour, the 
perspiration be much increased, and the extreme vessels relaxed, 
we find, on sitting down to table, our appetites almost entirely 
gone, until we take a glass of wine, or other stimulating fluid, to 
excite the energy of the stomach. Observation and personal 
feeling have taught that in hot climates, perhaps during hot 
weather in all climates, an hour's cool repose before dinner is 
highly salutary ; and if, on commencing our repast, we find we 
cannot eat without drinking, we may be assured that it is Nature's 
caveat to beware of eating at all. This will be deemed hard doc- 
trine by some, and visionary by others ; but it is neither the one 
nor the other, and those who neglect or despise it may feel the bad 
consequences when it is too late to repair the error. 

There are several other causes also which operate in conjunc- 
tion with the above, to impair the appetite ; one of which is, the ab- 
sence of rest at night. After a disturbed and unrefreshing sleep, 
but too common in tropical climates, the whole frame languishes 
next day, and the stomach participates in the general relaxation. 
The means of obviating and managing these effects will be pointed 
out in the prophylactic part of this work. 

INFLUENCE OF TROPICAL HEAT ON THE BILIARY 
FUNCTION. The effect of a tropical climate on the function of 
the liver is universally allowed to be an increase of the biliary 
secretion. This is so evident in our own country, where the 
summer and autumn are distinguished by diseases arising from 
superabundant secretion of bile, that it would be waste of time 
to adduce any arguments in proof. 

Were this a question of mere curiosity, or theoretical specula- 
tion, I should pass it by unnoticed ; but from long and attentive 
observation, as well as from reflection, I believe that I have dis- 
covered a connection between two important functions of the 
animal economy, which will let in some light on this subject, and 
lead to practical inferences of much importance. The arguments 
and facts adduced in support of this connection will be found 
under the heads Hepatitis and Dysentery, and in other parts of this 
work ; and, in the meantime, I shall merely state in a few words 
the result of my observation, leaving the reader to give credit to 
it, or not, as he may feel inclined. 

There exists, then, between the extreme vessels of the vena 



I] KM I'H^I U\ \ I IMNV >.-, 

l>nrt(s in the liver, and the extreme vessels on the surface of the 
body in other words, between the biliary secretion and per- 
npirationone of the strongest sympathies in the human frame, 
although entirely unnoticed hitherto, so far as I am acquainted. 
That these two functions are regularly, and to appearances equally 
increased, or at least influenced by one particular agent, atmo- 
spherio heat, from the cradle to the grave, from the Pole to the 
Kquator, will be readily granted by every observer; and that this 
jpMtaMMM action alone, independent of any other original con- 
nection, should soon grow up into a powerful sympathy, manifest- 
ing itself when either of these functions came under the influence 
of other agents, is a legitimate conclusion in theory, and what I 
hope to prove by a fair appeal to facts. This last consideration 
is the great practical one ; for it is of little consequence whether 
this sympathy was originally implanted by the hand of Nature at 
our first formation, or sprung up gradually in the manner alluded 
to, provided we know that it actually exists, and that by directing 
our operations towards any one of the functions in question, we 
can decisively influence the other. That is what I maintain, and 
what in a future part of the work I hope to prove by facts and 
cogent arguments. 

I shall here offer one practical remark, resulting from this view 
of the subject, and which will be found deserving of every Euro- 
pean's attention on his emigration to southern regions ; namely, 
that as the state of the perspiratory process is a visible and pretty 
fair index to that of the biliary, so every precautionary means 
which keeps in check, or moderates, the profusion of the former 
discharge, will invariably have the same effect on the latter, and 
thus tend to obviate the inconvenience, not to say disorders, aris- 
ing from redundancy of the hepatic secretion. To this rule I 
do not know a single exception, consequently its universal appli- 
cation can never lead astray in any instance. 

It is well known that if any organ be stimulated to inordinate 
action, one of two things must in general ensue. If the cause 
applied be constant, and sufficient to keep up this inordinate 
action for any length of time, serious injury is likely to accrue to 
the organ itself, even so far as structural alteration. But if the 
cause be only temporary, or the force not in any great degree, 
then an occasional torpor or exhaustion of the organ takes place, 
during which period its function falls short of the natural range. 
To give a familiar example, of which too many of us are quite 
competent to judge : thus, if the stomach be goaded to immode- 
rate exertion to-day, by a provocative variety of savoury dishes 
and stimulating liquors, we all know the atony which will succeed 
to-morrow, and how incapable it then will be of performing its 
accustomed office. It is the same \\ith respect to the HMT After 



96 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 

great excitement by excessive heat, violent exercise in the sun, 
&c., a torpor succeeds, which will be more or less according to 
the degree of previous excitement, and the length of time during 
which the stimulating causes have been applied. 

When Europeans first arrive in tropical climates, the degree of 
torpor bears so small a proportion to that of preceding excitement 
in the liver, that it is scarcely noticed ; particularly as the debi- 
litated vessels of this organ continue, like the perspiratory vessels 
on the surface, to secrete an imperfect fluid for some time after 
the exciting cause has ceased ; hence the increase of the biliary 
secretion occupies our principal attention. But these periods of 
torpor, however short at first, gradually and progressively increase, 
till at length they greatly exceed the periods of excitement ; and 
then a deficiency of the biliary secretion becomes evident. This 
is not only consonant to experience, but to analogy. Thus, when 
a man first betakes himself to inebriety, the excitement occasioned 
by wine or spirits on the stomach and nervous system, far ex- 
ceeds the subsequent atony, and we are astonished to see him go 
on for some time, apparently without suffering much detriment to 
his constitution. But the stage of excitement is gradually cur- 
tailed, while that of atony increases, which forces him not only to 
augment the dose, but to repeat it oftener, till the organ and life 
are destroyed ! 

It is remarkable that this alternation of redundancy and defi- 
ciency, or irregular secretion in the biliary organ, should pass 
unnoticed by writers on hot climates. They, one and all, repre- 
sent the liver as a colossal apparatus, of the most herculean power, 
that goes on for years performing prodigies in the secreting way, 
without ever being exhausted for a moment, or falling below the 
range of ordinary action, till structural derangement, such as 
scirrhosity or tuberculation, incapacitates it for its duty ! A very 
attentive observation of what passed in my own frame, and those 
of others, has led me to form a very different conclusion; and the 
foregoing statement will, I think, be found a true and a natural 
representation of the case. 

Here, then, we have two very opposite states of the liver and 
its functions ; first, inordinate action, with increased secretion 
the periods gradually shortening; and, secondly, torpor of the 
vessels of the liver, with deficient secretion the periods progres- 
sively lengthening. In both cases the bile itself is vitiated. We 
can readily conceive how this last comes to pass, by comparison 
with what takes place in the stomach during and subsequent to a 
debauch. In both instances the chyme passes through the pyloris 
into the duodenum, in a state less fit for chylification than during 
a season of temperance and regularity ; so, during the increased 
secretion, and subsequent inactivity in the liver, the bile passes 



01 M K VI. OBSERVATION^ !)7 



mil into the inic'Mincs deteriorated in quality, as well as supera- 
bundant, or deficient, in quantity. 

In what this vitiation consists it is certainly not easy to say. 
In high degrees of it with hurried secretion, both the colour and 
taste are surprisingly altered, since it occasions all the shades 
between a deep bottle-green and jet black; possessing at one 
time an acidity that sets the teeth on edge ; at other times, and 
more frequently, an acrimony that seems absolutely to corrode the 
stomach and fauces, as it passes off by vomiting, and, when 
directed downwards, can be compared to nothing more appropriate 
than the sensation which one would expect from boiling lead 
flowing through the intestines. Many a time have I experienced 
this, and many a time have my patients expressed themselves in 
similar language. The slightly disordered state of the hepatic 
functions, which we are now considering as primary effects of 
climate, and within the range of health, may be known by the fol- 
lowing symptoms : Irregularity in the bowels, with motions of 
various colours, and foetid or insipid odour ; general languor of 
body and mind, slight nausea, especially in the mornings, when 
we attempt to brush our teeth ; a yellowish fur about the back part 
of the tongue ; unpleasant taste in the mouth on getting out of 
bed ; a tinge in the eyes and complexion from absorption of bile ; 
the urine high-coloured, and a slight irritation in passing it; the 
appetite impaired, and easily turned against fat or oily victuals ; 
irritability of temper ; dejection of mind ; loss of flesh ; disturbed 
sleep. These are the first effects then of increased and irregular 
secretion of bile, and may appear in all degrees, according as we 
are less or more cautious in avoiding the numerous causes that 
give additional force to the influence of climate. 

If, for example, I use more than ordinary exercise, expose my- 
self to the heat of the sun, or drink stimulating liquids to-day, an 
increased and vitiated flow of bile takes place, and to-morrow 
produces either nausea or sickness of stomach, or a diarrhoea, with 
gripings and twitchings in the bowels. But a slight degree of 
inaction or torpor succeeding, both in the liver and intestines, 
there will probably be no alvine evacuation at all the ensuing day, 
till a fresh flow of bile sets all in motion once more. These irre- 
gularities, although they may continue a long time without pro- 
ducing much inconvenience, especially if they be not aggravated 
ly excesses, yet they should never be despised, since they ine- 
vit;il)ly, though insensibly, pave the way for serious derangement 
in the biliary and digestive organs, especially in hot climates, 
unless counteracted by rigid temperance, and proper prophylactic 
measures. 

LICHEN TROPICUS, OR PRICKLY 1IKAT. Few KM.O- 

M 



98 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 

peans escape from this the most primary effect of a hot climate, 
for it can hardly be called a disease. 

From mosquitoes, cockroaches, ants, and the numerous other 
tribes of depredators on our personal property, we have some 
defence by night, and in general a respite by day ; but this un- 
welcome guest assails us at all, and particularly the most unsea- 
sonable, hours. 

The sensations arising from prickly heat are perfectly inde- 
scribable, being compounded of pricking, itching, tingling, and 
many other feelings for which there is no appropriate appellation. 
It is usually, but not invariably, accompanied by an eruption of 
vivid, red, pimples, not larger in general than a pin's head, which 
spread over the breast, arms, thighs, neck, and occasionally along 
the forehead, close to the hair. The eruption often disappears to 
a certain degree when we are sitting quiet, and the skin is cool ; 
but no sooner do we use any exercise that brings out perspira- 
tion, or swallow any warm or stimulating liquid, such as tea, soup, 
or wine, than the pimples become elevated, so as to be distinctly 
seen, and but too sensibly felt ! 

Prickly heat being rather a symptom than a cause of good 
health, its disappearance has been erroneously accused of pro- 
ducing much mischief ; hence some of the early writers on tropical 
diseases, harping too much on the humoral pathology, speak very 
seriously of the danger of repelling, and of the advantage of 
" encouraging " the eruption, by taking warm liquors as tea, 
coffee, wine whey, broth, and nourishing meats. Even Dr. 
Moseley retails the puerile and exaggerated dangers of his prede- 
cessor Hillary. " There is great danger," he says, " in repelling 
prickly heat ; therefore cold bathing and washing the body with cold 
water, at the time it is out, is always to be avoided." Every naval 
and military surgeon, however, who has been a few months in a 
hot climate, must have seen hundreds, if not thousands of seamen 
and soldiers plunging into the water for days and weeks in suc- 
cession, covered with prickly heat, yet without bad consequences 
ensuing. 

The eruption is seldom repelled by the cold bath, which rather 
seems to aggravate it and the disagreeable sensations belonging to 
it, especially during the glow which succeeds the immersion. It 
certainly disappears suddenly sometimes on the accession of other 
diseases, but there is no reason to suppose that its disappearance 
occasioned them. At the same time cold bathing and repellents 
are not to be recommended in this eruption, even in persons of 
robust constitutions, recently arrived in the country, and who are 
in the enjoyment of good health. Where any organ happens to 
be weak, on the other hand, or any tendency to disease exists, 
the repulsion of an eruption is by all means to be avoided, and 



GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 99 

the more so if the sufferer have been long resident in the 
climate. 

Hair-powder, lime-juice, and a variety of external applications 
have been used for the removal of prickly heat, but with little or 
no benefit. The truth is that the only means productive of good 
effect in mitigating its violence, till the constitution becomes assi- 
milated to the climate are light clothing, temperance in eating 
and drinking, avoidance of all exercise in the heat of the day, 
open bowels ; and, lastly, the use of the punkah, or large fan, 
during the night, as is now the ordinary practice in Bengal. The 
punkah is always safe ; and, unlike the thorough-draught or ex- 
ternal breeze, it removes the heated air surrounding the body, 
without exposing it to the dangers arising from sudden night 
changes in the temperature and humidity of the atmosphere. 



POSTSCRIPT. 

In the foregoing sections I have adopted the order and the lan- 
guage of Dr. James Johnson, offering occasional additions and 
illustrations. I have endeavoured to place before the reader a 
fair abstract of the physiological doctrine the cutaneo-hepatic 
sympathy of the author. This doctrine was propounded by Dr. 
Johnson in early life, in the East Indies, with a limited range of 
observation in years, and in the subjects for observation namely, 
the crew of a ship of war. But with all these disadvantages it 
will, I think, be admitted that, practically considered, in relation 
to the nature, causes, prevention, and cure of disease, there is 
much in the theory to " lead to practical inferences of consider- 
able importance ;" for it is to the restoring of the lost balance of 
circulation, of the nervous functions, and of secretion, that our 
main efforts have been, and always must be directed in the treat- 
ment of tropical disease, whether it be Fever, Dysentery, Hepa- 
titis, or Cholera. 

For all the articles that follow, I am individually and exclu- 
sively responsible J. R. M. 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

Descartes must have had in view the science of PREVENTION OF 
DISEASE, or of STATE MEDICINE, when he declared: " S'il est 
possible de perfectionner Tespoce humaine, c'est dans la medicine 
|ii'il faiit en chercher les moyens." This philosopher felt that 

H 2 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

whatever tended to improve the physical constitution of man, must 
promote general happiness and virtue, and thus prevent crime. 

Nor did Bacon hold this greatest department of medicine in 
less estimation ; for he exhorts the profession in his time to 
" exert themselves for the general good, and raise their minds 
above the sordid considerations of cure ; not deriving their honours 
from the necessities of mankind, but becoming ministers of the 
Divine power and goodness both in prolonging and restoring the 
life of man." It would accord with the views of these great men 
that adequate public provision and arrangement should be made 
to enable the medical profession to render the services desired ; 
but, in this country, it has hitherto been employed by the State 
individually, and chiefly in its curative or therapeutic capacity 
only ; while it might be employed collectively, in a higher and 
nobler way namely, in its preventive or prophylactic office. 

It is surprising that in so civilized a state of society as ours, we 
should still be so far behind some of the ancient peoples. Moses 
imposed sanitary laws upon the Jews ; the Greeks and Romans held 
their officers of health in high consideration. " In the Cyclo- 
paedia of Xenophon," says Dr. Farr, " the preservation of health 
is declared a noble art worthy of Cyrus himself." 

In the army and navy of England the medical officers have for 
ages past occupied themselves, spontaneously, and without pros- 
pect of reward, in establishing impprtant principles in this great 
branch of medical science the prevention of disease ; and the 
sister science of Medical Statistics may be said to be founded, in 
this country at least, on the labours of such men as Pringle, 
Lind, Blanc, Robert Jackson, Trotter, Hennen, and Henry 
Marshall.* 



* I take leave here to state that, while serving in the East Indies, in March, 1835, I 
submitted to the then Governor-General of India, Sir Charles, afterwards Lord, 
Metcalfe, a systematic and detailed plan for requiring from all competent medical 
officers throughout our eastern possessions, reports on Medical Topography and 
Sanitary Statistics of the districts, stations, or cantonments, whether fixed or tempo- 
rary, with the localities of which each officer may in the course of service be best 
acquainted. In the following year, 1837, I placed before the Government of Bengal a 
detailed Report on the Medical Topography, Climate, and Diseases of Calcutta, with 
suggestions for removing the defects, local and structural, which there injuriously 
affected the health of its inhabitants, European and native. This report also contained 
suggestions for the removal of the European troops from the plains to the mountain 
ranges throughout India. The first measure here mentioned, though it received little 
or no support from the medical authorities of Bengal, was ordered by a direct act of 
the Governor-General, Sir Charles Metcalfe, to be a standing regulation throughout the 
three Presidencies of India, and it has stood so ever since. The second proposal for 
the sanitary improvement of Calcutta has for several years been practically carried out 
under legislative enactments ; the works are still in progress, under an official board, 
and will continue to their completion. Dr. Farr, of the Registrar General's Office, 
speaking of the measures above mentioned, says " We look upon the well-conducted 
sanitary inquiry, commenced in Bengal, as one of the most important undertakings of 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 101 

Dr. Alison, in his History of Medicine in the present century, 
observes that, " Next to the additions which have been made 
since the end of last century to our knowledge of physiology, we 
may place die numerous important observations by which our in- 
formation as to the external causes of disease has been rendered 
more extensive and more precise. 

These observations and the inferences from them demand the 
more attention from physicians, that they necessarily involve a 
kind of evidence essentially different from that on which we pro- 
ceed in other medical inquiries, and if we durst hope that the 
progress of human wisdom and virtue would bear any proportion 
to that of human knowledge, we might expect that the lessons to 
be drawn from these inquiries would prove of even greater im- 
portance to the future happiness of mankind than any which we 
can gather from the history and treatment of disease. 

These inquiries have in some instances been prosecuted by in- 
dividuals in civil life ; but the opportunities of making decisive 
observations on some of the causes of disease which occur in the 
experience of medical officers of fleets and armies, who are per- 
fectly informed of the whole circumstances of the organized bodies 
of men under their observation, and often see these circumstances 
suddenly altered, or have even the power of altering them at plea- 
sure, are much superior to those which other practitioners enjoy ; 
and the peculiar value of such observations has never been so well 
understood as during the last war." 

The unobtrusive but important services of our brethren in the 
navy and army, alluded to by Dr. Alison, are not written in the 
rolls of fame, but they will be remembered and appreciated by 
the philanthropist and the statesman, for ages after other and 
more brilliant services are forgotten. But in public rewards or 
emoluments our brethren must not as yet expect to share ; for 
" in medicine alone," according to Marshall Hall, " improvement 
is without recompense." Referring to " the progress of human 
wisdom and virtue," it may reasonably be supposed that by ren- 
dering men more healthy they may become more happy, and that 
thus the bonds of our common humanity may be drawn the closer, 

the age in India useful to science, to England, and creditable alike to Mr. Martin, 
with whom it originated, and to the Government." 

Lord Hardinge, referring to the same subject, says " I am happy to bear testimony 
to the services you rendered to our Indian Empire in originating those valuable 
measures of sanitary improvement which have so materially contributed to the comfort 
and prosperity of an immense population. The importance of these benefits will be ever 
felt ; and I am aware, from the interest that, as Governor-General, I took in this subject, 
that their inestimable results are honourably associated with the active part you took in 
their first introduction." Thus, although my endeavours were but coldly received by 
the superannuated members of the Bengal medical board, they are approved by persons 
the most competent to judge of their value, whether scientific or practical. J. R. M. 



102 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

so that the uncertainties, which are the same to us all, may even- 
tually be regarded as the true and natural bond of union amongst 
men. 

From what has been stated, it must be obvious that, for the ad- 
vancement and perfectioning of the science of Prevention of 
Disease, we must command the co-operation of the medical pro- 
fession generally, and, in particular, that of the medical officers of 
the army, the navy, the police, hospitals, dispensaries, lunatic 
asylums, parochial unions and workhouses, vaccination establish- 
ments, prisons, factories, mines, provident societies and other 
institutions, and public works. 

The medical profession has so invariably spurned all selfish 
considerations in originating and promoting objects of great sani- 
tary utility, that I would here allude only to the obvious advan- 
tages which will result to medicine, and the increased estimation 
in which its professors and practitioners will be held, both by the 
Government and the country at large, from the realization of the 
projects here contemplated. " One of the first steps," says 
Heberden, " towards preserving the health of our fellow-creatures, 
is to point out the sources from which diseases are appre- 
hended." 

The Medical Topographer should investigate all the circum- 
stances which tend to deteriorate the human race, and to lower 
its vigour and vitality ; all that relates to the external causes of 
diseases, their propagation, and their prevention; all plans for 
improving the physical, and, through it, the moral condition of the 
people. He should cultivate more extensively the medical topo- 
graphy of the empire. The natural features and peculiarities of 
every locality affect materially the life and health of the inha- 
bitants. Any general system of sanitary inquiry should, there- 
fore, embrace information respecting the surface and elevation of 
the ground, the stratification and composition of the soil, the 
supply and quality of the water, die extent of marshes and wet 
ground, the progress of drainage ; the nature and amount of the pro- 
ducts of the land ; the condition, increase or decrease, and preva- 
lent diseases of the animals maintained thereon ; together with 
periodical reports of the temperature, pressure, humidity, motion, 
and electricity of the atmosphere. Without a knowledge of these 
facts it is impossible to draw satisfactory conclusions with respect 
to the occurrence of epidemic diseases, and variations in the rate 
of mortality and reproduction. 

The result of such inquiries would also, doubtless, show that 
agriculture is everywhere the most powerful improver of climate, 
and that its advancement ministers not only to the support of man 
in the production of his food, but in a greater degree to his health 
and vigour, by purifying the air he breathes. 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 103 

The practical connection, therefore, of agriculture with the 
nutrition and growth, the sickness and health, the birth and death, 
of man and of the lower animals, is inseparable from a compre- 
hensive consideration of the public health. 

The science of localising the population, and of constructing 
towns, cantonments, barracks, and hospitals, is much neglected in 
this country, and throughout its various intcrtropical possessions. 
It is proved over and over again, in the records of die Registrar- 
General that, owing to defects in the sites of towns, in the erec- 
tion of buildings, in the selection of healthy soils and levels, in the 
supply of pure air and water, in the drainage and cleansing of 
streets and houses, a mortality of from a fifth to a third part greater 
occurs in large towns than in small communities and niral districts. 

The amount of sickness occurring in cities, towns, and villages, 
and thinly populated districts, requires a much more careful and 
extended investigation than has ever yet obtained. Evidence 
should be obtained, on an extended scale, of the moral and phy- 
sical deterioration of mankind when aggravated in low and 
crowded towns. " The causes," says the Registrar-General, " that 
destroy the lives of so many people, degrade the lives of more, 
and may ultimately, it is feared, have a very unfavourable effect 
on the energies of a large proportion of the English race. Here 
is a wide field for salutary and beneficial reform." 

Amongst those whose habits and pursuits in life qualify them 
to be consulted in the objects of State Medicine, the following 
may be enumerated : The clergy, the statesmen, colonial autho- 
rities, philanthropists, naval and military commanders, the legal 
profession, the medical profession, quarantine authorities, the 
landed proprietary and the agricultural body, magistrates, poor- 
law guardians, actuaries, engineers and architects, shipowners, 
manufacturers of all classes, the several trades. Professors of 
State Medicine in foreign countries should be solicited to forward, 
by their information and experience, the objects in view ; and the 
various methods which the Government of those countries have 
adopted to investigate and preserve the health of the people, 
should be ascertained and carefully considered. 

It will thus appear that among the more immediate objects of 
State Medicine, may be enumerated the following : 

1. To direct public attention to the increased security of life 
and property, which must result from a sustained and organized 
investigation, by competent persons, of all those agencies and cir- 
cumstances, moral and physical, which deteriorate, through local 
or general influences, the public health. 

2. To disseminate knowledge amongst all classes of the com- 
munity, on the most obvious and well-ascertained causes of in- 
jury to public health, and as to the most effective and econo- 



104 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

mical measures of sanitary improvement, both in town and 
country. 

It is believed that the union of the medical, clerical, and lay 
bodies, for the collection of scientific and practical information, 
for the consideration of sanitary measures within the United 
Kingdom and its foreign dependencies, and for establishing 
fixed and determinate principles in sanitary affairs, could not fail 
to enlarge the sphere of usefulness of the medical profession, for 
the most extended and beneficent pursuits, and to promote the 
moral as well as the physical improvement of the population. 

" In the science of health," says Dr. Farr, " there are more 
exact demonstrable truths than in the science of disease ; and the 
advantages of ' prevention ' over ' cure ' require no proof." I 
need, therefore, proceed no further to explain why I here give the 
priority and the preference to the subject of THE PREVENTION OF 
DISEASE. 

The first duty of die naval and military surgeon is, to preserve 
the health of the men committed to his charge a service far 
higher and more useful than the cure of disease and wounds, how- 
ever necessary this last function. 

" Hygiene," says Cabanis, " teaches the means of preserving 
health, and forms an important branch of moral as well as of me- 
dical science. Ethics, being in fact but the science of life, how is 
it possible for this science to be complete, without a knowledge of 
the changes which the subject to which it is applied may expe- 
rience, and without a knowledge of the means by which their 
changes are effected. Hygiene, therefore, and, consequently, 
some concise notions of anatomy and physiology, should form 
part of every system of education." The study of nature, he 
says, is, in general, a study of facts, and not of causes, a know- 
ledge of these last not being necessary. " For studying the 
healthy and diseased states, for tracing the progress and deve- 
lopment of any particular disease, we have no occasion to know 
the essence of life, or that of the morbific cause. Observation, 
experience, and reasoning are sufficient for our purposes we re- 
quire nothing more." 

That the subject of Public Health has not as yet been taught 
in our schools is matter of much and general regret, and those of 
the medical profession, who have devoted their time and attention 
to this branch of medicine, have always done so, in the army and 
navy at least gratuitously, and under great disadvantages and 
difficulties. I can say with truth, that I first became aware of 
the power of external causes in the production of disease, under 
circumstances of general and personal suffering of the most pain- 
ful character, in the marshes of Orissa and Gondwana, and after- 
wards in those of Rangoon. Our men were dying a miserable, a 



THE PREVENTION OP DISEASE. 105 

dismal, a nameless death, by thousands. We lost more men in- 
gloriously than would have made the most bloody campaigns. I 
have gone through so many storms of febrile suffering, on so many 
occasions, that I often wonder how I came to survive them. I 
was young, and inexperienced in the " art of preserving health ;" 
but I laboured hard, and, like others in the public service, I may 
be supposed to have acquired some knowledge essential to the 
welfare of the soldiers under my charge.* But suffering, general 
and personal, was always the school in which I received tny in- 
struction. 

At the moment of writing, the Legislature and Government of 
this country have ordained that a Board for die management of 
the health concerns of England shall be constituted without any 
person of the medical profession having a seat, in its deliberations. 
That for this unhappy state of things the medical profession is 
itself principally to blame is, I think, manifest ; for had " the art 
of preserving health" been taught in our schools of medicine, and 
been thus placed on its proper footing in the public estimation, no 
Government, in these days of free discussion, could have resisted 
the just claims of science. As matters stand at present, there is 
no remedy ; but the remedy will eventually be found, when me- 
dical science shall be represented in the councils of the nation. 

It is not so much owing to the defects of our ancient sanitary 
laws, great as these defects confessedly were, as to the utter neglect 
of their provisions, that matters relating to the public health in 
this country have been allowed to fall so immeasurably behind 
the wants, the science and spirit of the age ; and it is feared that 
popular ignorance, national indifference, prejudices, and par- 
simony, will continue yet a while, as of old, to neutralise better 
measures of sanitary regulation than even now exist ! English- 
men, even of classes above the labourer, will agitate and combine 
for political privileges of no value when secured. They will cry for 
cheap bread, for holidays, for shorter time of labour, and for higher 
wages ; but they will neither reflect upon, nor combine, for any 
matters affecting their sanitary improvement. Here, in our cities, 
as in Paris, the thing must be done for them, by an authority 
which they may not question. The truth I believe to be that, in 
respect to measures of prevention of disease, medical men have 
always been ready and capable to direct to good purpose, but 
society was not, and is not yet, anywhere possessed of sufficient 
knowledge to co-operate with them. I happen to possess some 

* " The art of preserving health," says Dr. Farr, " is taught in no regular course of 
lectures in any of the great schools of medicine in the United Kingdom. Yet the 
classical sanitary works of Pringle, Lind, Blanc, Robert Jackson, Johnson, and Martin, 
have been framed from observation in the British navy and army." Report u* tkt 
Mortality of Cholera. London, 1852. 



106 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

official as well as professional knowledge on this head ; for I was 
appointed, in 1 843, member of the Royal Commission, ordered by 
her Majesty, " for inquiring into the present state of large towns 
and populous districts in England and Wales, with reference to 
the cause of disease amongst the inhabitants." As one of the said 
Commissioners, I examined and reported on the sanitary condi- 
tion of six of the manufacturing towns of England, and two thou- 
sand copies of my reports were printed by order of the Govern- 
ment. The Commission was composed of thirteen gentlemen, 
including two Cabinet ministers, and its deliberations and in- 
quiries extended over two years. The final " Recommenda- 
tions" contained in the Report of the Commission to her 
Majesty, formed the groundwork of the clauses of a Bill, sub- 
sequently passed by Parliament, for regulating the health 
concerns of England and Wales. The Recommendations were, 
with a very few exceptions, of a permissive character. To 
this principle I ventured - on sundry occasions to object, 
urging that, on the score of experience, whatever was allowed to 
be permissive was sure to be neglected; whereas, whatever had 
been made imperative, like party-walls to prevent the spreading 
of fire, had surely been obeyed. I urged that Englishmen yield a 
ready obedience to Acts of Parliament, however stringent, but that 
to the requisitions of a sanitary Board they would render neither 
respect nor obedience. I think that my anticipations have been 
amply verified in the workings of the first unhappy " Board of 
Health," and that its short- comings have arisen fully as much 
from defective legislation as from the intrinsic defects of that ill- 
sorted Board. 

I feel convinced that legislation in sanitary affairs to be effective 
must be IMPERATIVE, and based on the principle that no man can 
be allowed a right to use his property so as to cause injury to the 
health of his neighbour. In the " Builder " newspaper, I find at 
the moment of writing, the following common sense view of this 
question as regards one out of our many nuisances : " The total 
abolition of cesspools must be made compulsory ; landlords will 
not make the necessary outlay unless compelled to do so, and the 
sooner it is done the better." The State does interfere, and has 
always interfered, in all sorts of ways, in the prevention of crime, 
and on many kindred subjects. Centralization may be carried too 
far, but so also may respect for local government. The first prin- 
ciples of justice, and the first sentiments of humanity, would seem 
to be common to all mankind ; bnt who would trust the framing 
and the administering of a criminal code to local or municipal 
management ? Self preservation requires that we should stop an 
evil where we can, if we must stop it somewhere. We cannot give 
up the right and duty of society to stop crime in the bud ; nor 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 107 

should we hesitate to assert the same right in respect of dis- 
ease. 

The simple circumstance that amongst the destitute poor we 
must do the cure, and that the cure is very costly and difficult, 
imposes on us also the duty of prevention. The polite or permis- 
si\< system of legislating for die public health may do when dan- 
ger is believed to be suppositions or remote ; but in the presence 
of actual danger it will never answer any good purpose, in this 
or in any other country. 

The right to use one's property is one thing, and the right to 
abuse the privilege is another thing. It is of this last that I com- 
plain. 

The facts and circumstances here detailed will not be consi- 
dered irrelevant when the important principle involved in them is 
taken into account. The establishment of sound principles in 
sanitary affairs must precede the arrangement of details a fact not 
always present to die minds of diose who frame sanitary regulations. 

If it be the business of Government to prevent and to punish 
crime to secure the public peace to enforce industry instead of 
raj line, and the settlement of disputes by appeal to reason instead 
of by fraud and violence ; if die well being of the subject be, in 
short, the main object of legislation, then would it appear die 
special duty of the ruling power to secure the health and the life of 
those who, of all others, stand most in need of its protection 
against the invasions of individual or corporate caprice, ignorance, 
or stolid avarice. Here we perceive a moral and political duty of 
necessity. On this subject it should ever be borne in mind dial 
where there is disease, there also will be found the seat of poverty 
and crime. Disease, poverty, and crime, in their worst forms, are 
constantly and everywhere found togedier. The truth then is, that 
misery and crime produce disease, and disease produces misery 
and crime, in a circle which revolves, in the same calamitous mono- 
tony, from year to year of the brief existence of the masses crowded 
in the worst quarters of our manufacturing cities. 

Whilst men are in the lowest state of physical destitution, sur- 
rounded by filth, vermin, privation, and squalor of every conceiv- 
able kind familiar widi sickness and death, and strangers to 
every comfort with the mind continually on the rack, or absorbed 
in striving against physical necessity or with the animal spirits 
broken down by its pressure ; how is it to be expected that obe- 
dience to the laws, tliat morals, education, or religion should find 
a place ? How can a man whose mind is ruined even more 
efleetually than his body the man by whom moral degradation 
and physical suffering have done their worst how can such a man 
pet-ted to give a passing diought ever to such matters ? The 
tiling is impossible. But, not to speak of diose higher considera- 
tions, I should say that the 1>< m lit- of the surrounding civilization 



108 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

even are not for the occupants of the lanes, courts, and alleys, 
through which I have of late passed. * Even amongst what are 
called the better classes of society we find that in the false pride of 
a quasi science, or of civilization, we continually neglect measures 
of precaution known to the rudest people ; as if we thought our- 
selves not subject to the laws of organization which regulate the 
functions of the inferior animals. The nature of brute animals, in- 
deed, we study attentively, and adapt our conduct to their consti- 
tution, whilst of our own we continue ignorant and neglectful. " If 
one-tenth of the persevering attention and labour bestowed to no 
purpose in rubbing down and currying the skins of horses," says 
Dr. A. Combe, " were bestowed by the human race in keeping 
themselves in good condition, and a little attention more paid to 
diet and clothing, colds, nervous diseases, and stomach complaints 
would cease to form so large an item in the catalogue of human 
miseries." 

MILITARY HYGIENE, OR PRESERVING OF THE SOL- 
DIER'S HEALTH. M. Thiers remarks that in ordinary histories 
of war we see only armies completely formed and ready to enter into 
action ; but it can scarcely be imagined what efforts it costs to bring 
the armed man to his post, equipped, fed, trained, lastly, cured, if he 
has been sick or wounded. All these difficulties are increased in 
proportion to the change of climate, or the distance to which the 
army moves from the point of departure. Most generals and 
governments, he says, neglect this kind of attentions, and their 
armies melt away visibly. Those only who practice them with 
perseverance and skill, find means to keep their troops nume- 
rous and well-disposed. 

Of the efforts and difficulties here announced, those of the 
medical officer are not the least, although nowhere else, if he were 
fully trusted, could his services be so effective as in the preserving 
of the soldier's health. As it is, his disadvantages are endless. He 
is consulted, perhaps on active service, through ignorance or caprice, 
often when it is too late, but more generally not at all ; and thus the 
soldier always suffers. In the British armies, at home and abroad, 
the rule is to leave everything, even of a sanitary nature, to the proper 
authorities, as they are called; and thus much is on all occasions 
found to be wanting. There is nothing so difficult to deal with, whe- 
ther in public or private life, as the troubles we create for ourselves. 

When a commander by sea or land is invested with authority, he 

* These two last paragraphs are transcribed from my Official Report on the Sanitary 
Condition of the Labouring Population in our Manufacturing Towns, as Member of the 
Health of Town's Commission. The observations are believed to be generally applicable 
to all persons and places similarly circumstanced ; and they are here presented in order 
to show what were my sentiments on this most important subject. The principle I 
believe to be the same in respect to sanitary Regulations for civil and military commu- 
nities ; they should be compulsory for both. 



THE PREVENTION OP DISEASE. 109 

al \\.i\s desires it to be understood that he is complete master of 
the situation that he knows every tiling, and will do everything. 
But when such a man knows little, and does less, as too fre- 
(jiu nt ly happens, then the results are sure to be disastrous, whether 
we look to considerations of health, or to the completion of war- 
like enterprises. The truth is that Governments may confer 
material power on governors, admirals, and generals ; but if they 
do not possess moral power, it is as nothing. 

Nor is ignorance and neglect of matters affecting the health of 
the soldier confined, as is supposed in civil life, to blundering and 
ill-informed lieutenants; for far otherwise is the case. When 
very young, and serving in one of the most pestilential countries 
known in India, I made a topographic examination of the locali- 
ties, and reported die result to my commanding officer, suggesting 
at the same what I regarded as the most suitable arrangement for 
encamping the men, against the coming rainy season, when it 
was well known that a great increase of deadly fever would result. 
The answer was" I'll be d d if I do." 

Now, here was no blundering lieutenant, but, on the contrary, 
one of the most able and well-informed field-officers I have ever 
known ; yet, such was his treatment of a grave matter of duty, and 
the neglect of which, before the year was over, cost him his life. 

Again, on landing at Rangoon, during the first Burmese war, I 
was credibly informed that the superintending surgeon of die 
Bengal division there had warned tin- officer commanding that, 
without fresh animal food and vegetables, the European soldiers 
must perish from scurvy. The answer was characteristic, and 
somewhat more civil than that granted to me. It was this : 
" Medical opinions are very good, sir, when they are called for." 

Here also was no blundering subaltern, but a gray-headed 
general of reputation, and one who received much honour and 
profit, after his army had perished miserably. 

If it be asked how come these things, I answer that it has 
always been so, and that it always will continue to be so until 
it is ordered otherwise. 

In all our wars pestilence will everywhere be found to form 
their most dismal and affecting page ; yet it need not have been so. 
In none of our most fatal expeditions in that of Rangoon, for in- 
stance was there any actual necessity for sen-ing decayed rations to 
our men, or for exposing them through the hot and rainy seasons, 
to excessive fatigue, to the rank air and damp encampment there 
to be destroyed, without notice and without remembrance. 

Governments and communities sympathise readily enough with 
the soldier's triumphs, but not with his perils and sufferings. Of 
sympathy with his sufferings from hunger and thirst from long 
and forced marches under the burning sun and the heavy dew 
from the cold bivouac from the long suspense attending field 



110 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

operations ; with these, and with his sufferings from inscrutable 
pestilence, there is but little sympathy ; yet they are, after all, the 
most ordinary as well as the hardest trials of war. For one soldier 
who is struck down on the field of battle, ten, sometimes twenty, 
are lost to their country through the unappreciated hardships here 
briefly recounted. England, often engaged in great wars, is, of 
all nations, the most slow to learn the real nature of war and of its 
requirements ; and when peace arrives, all the experiences of 
former wars are forgotten in the pursuits of commerce. When 
we complain of inhumanity, military errors, and disastrous national 
failures, political adventurers and sophists are always ready to 
declare that " we have not suffered more than we have invariably 
done before on many similar occasions." Such men always have 
an eye to fair seemings, hollow consistencies, and present con- 
veniences, rather than to truth. 

As a familiar example of the results of mismanagement on the part 
of Governments and commanders, I shall here only notice the hos- 
pital arrangements during former wars, and especially the general 
hospital system. Pringle, writing an hundred years ago, says: 
" Among the chief causes of sickness and mortality in an army, 
the reader will little expect that I should rank the hospitals them- 
selves, though intended for its health and preservation, and that 
on account of the bad air and other inconveniences attending 
them." Robert Jackson is even more detailed and emphatic in 
his condemnation of general hospitals, and he quotes the military 
of George the Second's time who characterised this institution as 
" the destroyer of the army." The truth is that the physical ills 
they produced by generating new diseases, tending to fatal re- 
lapses and counteracting recovery, repressing zeal in the regi- 
mental surgeons, and causing delay in early treatment, were not 
surpassed by their moral ills which went to destroy the best feel- 
ings of the man, and by consequence the highest qualities of the 
soldier. Here, if anywhere, one would have expected some defer- 
ence to medical opinion, but the system continued. 

The general hospital system sprung up afresh for the use of 
the infantry, and was employed on a large scale in Holland, in 
1794-95, and the mortality was enormous, ending in " dreadful 
destruction ;" while the cavalry, which " traversed die same fields, 
and lived in the same air," but which carried its own sick and 
treated them regimentally, had " little or no mortality in the whole 
course of its service." It was the same with some few corps of 
infantry that adopted the regimental plan of management. In the 
parliamentary report of the Military Commission of 1808, the 
general hospital system is described as " attended with the most 
destructive consequences to the sick soldiers, and that it has pro- 
duced expenditure and waste of every kind." Again, we find 
"the accumulated horrors of ill-arranged hospitals," in other 



THE PRKVF.NTION OF WSRA8R. Ill 

\\onK, tin- terrible consequences of Hospital Miatm, frequently 
alluded to during the Peninsular war by the historian Alison. 
" The military hospitals," he says, " charged sometimes with 
twenty thousand sick at a time, fostered contagion rather than 
cured disease ;" while the government of England, that lavished 
its millions on the vain and irregular efforts, prompted by the pre- 
sumptuous folly of the Spaniards, left their general no funds " to 
pay for hospital necessaries," for the use and comfort of his sick 
and wounded soldiers. 

A correspondent writing from the Crimea, in December 1854, 
says, " All the officers here concur in describing the general 
hospital at Balaclava as a perfect pest house." Thus, from the 
days of George II, general hospitals have iu no way improved on 
acquaintance ; if, indeed, so bad an institution be capable of im- 
provement* 

* " The Army at the census of 1851 consisted of 142,870 officers and men, of whom 
66,424 were stationed in the United Kingdom, 2,948 on passage out or home, and 
73,498 abroad in the colonies and in the East Indies. The annual mortality of men in 
Civil life at home of the corresponding ages is at the rate of 9 in 1,000, but the mor- 
tality of the troops at home probably exceeds 15 per 1,000, and the mortality of the 
troops abroad, and chiefly in the tropical climates, is such that the mortality of the whole 
Army is said to be at the rate of 30 in 1,000 in time of peace. At these rates, 3,290 
officers and soldiers die abroad annually, of whom about 2,193 belong to England, whose 
names, whatever their connection with property may be, never appear on the English 
registers. In the time of war the deaths in the Army abroad are raised in two ways ; 
by the augmentation of the forces, and the increased rate of mortality from wounds and 
from the diseases that have hitherto been incidental to warfare in the field. Thus the 
mean strength of the British force, officers and men, in the Peninsular, was 66,372 ; the 
deaths during the forty-one months that ended May 25th, 1814, were 35,525, of which 
only 9,948 happened in battle or as the consequences of wounds. 225 per 1,000 of the 
61,511 men, were, on an average, upon the sick list, and their annual mortality was at 
the rate of 161 per 1,000. 

" To the ordinary deaths of officers and soldiers abroad in 1854 must be added the 
excess of deaths in the war, which have been caused partly by the extension of the same 
epidemic of cholera that has prevailed in England, and partly by ili.irrh.-ra. dysentery, 
and other diseases that, like cholera, are made fatal by lying on the ground, by the use 
of impure water, by dirt and damp, by privation, and by the substitution of salt pork, 
rum, and biscuits, for the fresh meat, vegetables, bread, fruit, ale stout, or wine, that 
officers and men, like the rest of the people, live on at home. 

" Sixty-one thousand of the deaths in England during the year 1854 are referable to 
the imperfect operation of the sanitary organization of our towns. And the same causes 
exaggerated certainly, with the absence of the comforts and necessaries that are supplied 
at home, has led to the deplorable destruction of life in the Crimea. 

" The deaths in an average year among 54,000 men in the town and country popu- 
lation of England at the same ages as the men in the Army is 486, or nearly 41 monthly, 
and about 972 are constantly sick. All the deaths and sickness in excess of these 
numbers, except the deaths and wounds from battle, are, like the excess of deaths and 
sickness in our towns, referable to conditions that, in the present state of engineer ng, 
chemical and medical science, maj be removed to a considerable extent in ordinary 
climates, even in the field and in the presence of an enemy ; for the art of preserving 
life has, since the Peninsular campaigns, made as much progress as the manufacture of 
arms, and if skilfully applied, our Army will never again endure the mortality from dis- 
ease that so much impaired its efficiency once in the Peninsular, and again, after the 
lapse of more than forty years, in the Crimea." Dr. William Farr, Report* tf tke Rtyii- 
frar-Gfnfral. 



112 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

When general hospitals must of military necessity be esta- 
blished, even for a short time, their inmates should consist only of 
such sick and wounded men as cannot be removed to better 
quarters, aud crowding ought above all things to be carefully 
avoided ; the position, construction, and arrangement being, at the 
same time, of the most approved kind; the charge and control 
being conferred on medical officers of rank and experience, in 
order that the various abuses, moral, medical, and financial, 
inherent in the General Hospital system, may be guarded against 
as far as possible. It ought also to be made an understood matter in 
the establishment of all general hospitals, that they should be 
but temporary, and that they should be abolished at the earliest 
possible moment. 

When the scene of war is in Europe, the sick and wounded 
should invariably be sent home. With our command of shipping 
this may always be done, and there is no just reason for neglect- 
ing this duty to the soldier. It is never neglected in the instance 
of the officer. 

As illustrative of this subject I may mention that, previously to 
enlarging the accommodations of the Smallpox Hospital in 
London, " Erysipelas, Typhus, Malignant Cynanchy," and other 
formidable diseases were common ; but " by spreading the same 
number of cases over double the extent of surface," these terrible 
consequences of crowding have been altogether avoided. 

Respecting the ill-regulated general hospitals for seamen and 
soldiers, the ill-situated and ill-ventilated hospitals of old in our 
great cities, one might reasonably have asked with Ponteau, "are 
hospitals, then, more pernicious than useful to society ?" So much 
for one item only of neglect in matters affecting the preservation 
of the soldier's health. Those who desire to see further into the 
health history of the British Army will find other numerous 
sources of disease and death in the land forces, narrated in the 
famous speech of Earl Grey, delivered in the House of Lords on 
the 8th of April, 1854. 

This noble address went far to inform and confirm public 
opinion ; and public opinion in this country need rarely be mis- 
trusted, if it is but formed on sound knowledge, and pronounced 
with due care ; but the subject is a difficult one. 

" The administration of an army," says Audouin, " is sometimes 
called a trade, but those who understand the subject know that it 
is a science, and one of so complicated a character that the study 
of one of its branches might occupy a long life. To comprehend 
even the elements of the administration of an army, it is neces- 
sary to know its origin, progress, and rules ; the various means 
employed to raise soldiers, organize, arm, equip, pay, and put 
them in motion ; to subsist them in health and in sickness ; to 
command them in the field of battle ; to profit by their success ; 



THI i'i:i \ i \ I IMN ..i nisi VSE. 11.1 

to remedy their failures; to reward and to punish them; and to 
preserve an account of their fortunate and unfortunate operations." 
1/iftin're tic V Administration tic In Guerre. 

Referring more especially to the preserving of the soldier's 
health, I would quote the sensible observations of Hennen, who, 
speaking of die prophylactic value of medicines, says that he does 
not question their proper use in tin- cases of reflecting individuals ; 
" but I don't hesitate to say, first that they cannot be generally 
applicable to a whole corps or garrison. Secondly, that although 
the soldier may submit in passive obedience, he will invariably 
make himself amends, as he supposes, for the restriction by subse- 
quent excess of one kind or other; and thirdly, although military 
officers are sufficiently enamoured of any favourite theory origi- 
nating with themselves, they view the proposals of medical officers 
but too often with a jealous eye, especially when the advantages 
to be derived from them are merely prospective. We possess the 
power, by means of the established medical inspections, to meet 
the approaching disease as early as possible, but I question the 
prudence, in a military view, of anticipating it before its arrival by 
a general administration of medicine throughout the garrison ; 
because nearly thirty years' experience has convinced me that no 
power on earth will reconcile British soldiers to taking physic en 
masse, when they are not sick, nor will they ever view the man 
who orders it in any other light than that of a speculative experi- 
mentalist. 

The tnie preventives to disease are shelter from the heat of the 
day, and from the dews and cold of night, avoiding the neighbour- 
hood of marshes and other unhealthy spots in military exercises, 
mounting guards at such an hour that the least possible number of 
fatigue-parties may be employed in conveying dinners, &c. ; timing 
duties in such a way that the men may enjoy their natural sleep, 
regulating the messes so that the soldier snail always have a due 
proportion of vegetables, and especially a comfortable breakfast 
before going on morning duties; furnishing every man with flannel 
waistcoats, or cotton shirts,* enforcing personal cleanliness by 
frequent bathing, and by daily washing the feet, &c. ; but, above 
all, regulating the canteen, so that access can be had to liquor only 
in the evening, and then taking every precaution that the bad 
spirits and sour wine of the country be rigidly withheld. We may 
refine as much as we choose, and we may modify our plans 
ace. nling to circumstances with critical precision, but these are 
tin basis on which health is founded, so far as the soldier is indi- 
vidually concerned." 

* Daring the hot and rainy season in Bengal the shirt should be changed after exer- 
cise, and friction with a dry cloth used at the time of changing. The bedding should 
also be daily exposed to the sun. 

I 



114 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

Of all the causes which tend to the premature destruction of the 
British soldier in our intertropical possessions, none are so power- 
ful as the neglect in selecting proper localities for camps and can- 
tonments, together with the neglect of suitable structural arrange- 
ments in his barracks and hospitals. As compared to these neglects 
the other ills, although great, sink into comparative insignificance. 

The dieting of the soldier is another question which greatly 
concerns his comfort, health, and efficiency, but which has not re- 
ceived from authority a tithe of the attention due to it ; and with 
the exception that breakfast has been allowed him, I understand 
that the coarse sameness of his food, and the same inferior cooking 
of it, remain as in 1793. This subject demands the attentive con- 
sideration of competent persons a complete revision and reform 
so that the soldier's food should be ordered to suit his wants, and 
changed so as to be adapted to the various climates in which he 
serves. He should also be instructed to dress his food in a 
palatable wholesome manner ; and these things can be done with 
little cost or trouble. 

The same indifference of authority is still, after ages of heavy- 
priced experience, manifested in the ordering of the soldier's 
clothing and head dress throughout our intertropical colonies, no 
adequate arrangement being made for climate, for peace or war 
service, for the night and day duties. 

All the best officers concur in the recommendation of Robert 
Jackson, to permit the soldier to do for himself whatever he can do 
without injury to his health and discipline ; and I feel quite assured 
that as regards his food, as one example out of several, there is 
much truth in the suggestion. 

As already stated, I do not believe that there is any one cause so 
effective to the destruction of the British soldier, all over the world, 
as that of the neglect of fitting positions and other arrangements 
for the temporary and the permanent encampment of our troops. 

In Holland, in 1794; at Walcheren, in 1809-10; on the Gua- 
diana, in 1810; in Varna, in 1854, the same errors were com- 
mitted. To station our soldiers in the plains, at the embouchures 
of rivers and low harbours in our Eastern and Western inter- 
tropical possessions, is to place them where they are sure to die 
without any necessity. There never can, indeed, exist under any 
circumstances, any reasons of military or political necessity for 
destroying an army ; it is an absurd subterfuge and misrepresen- 
tation, under which no ignorant or negligent commander should be 
allowed to shelter himself for a moment. If a disgraceful capitu- 
lation is punishable with death, surely some punishment should 
attach to the wanton sacrifice of an army from causes easy of pre- 
vention. 

So far back as 1835, I urged on the supreme government of 
India, as part of a measure sanctioned and carried at my sole 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 115 

instance and recommendation by Sir Charles Metcalfe, then 
Governor General of India, for collecting Sanitary reports from 
all districts, stations, and cantonments in the three residencies of 
India, the following preliminary clause, namely, that 

" The topographical reports when forwarded to each Presidency 
by the superintending surgeons, shall then be collated by a com- 
mittee of three medical officers, nominated by the medical boards, 
and that such as are approved shall be printed and fonned into a 
memoir, a cony of which shall be furnished to all staff surgeons 
and officers of the Quarter- Master General's department." 

By this clause I intended that information on the all-important 
question of medical topography should be imparted to the officers 
of the Quarter-Master General's department ; information which 
they could not acquire of themselves. 

In furtherance of this object I recommend that a medical topo- 
grapher, an important officer of health, an officer of trust and of 
rank, be permanently attached to the Quarter-Master General's 
department, in the British as well as in the Indian anny. In time 
of peace he should inspect and report on the sites of camps, can- 
tonments, and stations, and on the condition of barracks, and hos- 
pitals, and transport ships. 

In time of war, in addition to the above duties, he should 
accompany the Quarter- Master General in the field ; and, where 
military reasons do not control, his opinion should In- obtained on 
the sites of encampment, and upon every matter relating to the 
prevention of disease ; all the suggestions of matured sanitary ex- 
perience being put in requisition for the protection of the soldiers' 
health. 

This great conservative branch of medicine has not even yet 
been called into sufficient exercise in our fleets and armies ; yet it 
is on the perfection of its civil establishments that the safety and 
efficiency of our sea and land forces entirely depend. 

Had such an officer existed in 1809 the soldiers employed on 
the expedition to Walcheren, would not have l>een permitted to 
encamp in a pestilential site, involving as this did the destruction 
of the anny, and the sacrifice of a million sterling, per annum, in 
perpetuity ; and if Wellington had had such an adviser he would 
not perhaps have decimated his army on the Guadiana. 

But it is in our intertropical possessions that the chronic waste 
and destruction of men and money takes place; and could we 
count the hundreds of thousands of British soldiers, and die 
millions sterling there lost unnecessarily, even the humanity of 
commanders and of governments would l>e shocked. 

With a little attention to matters very easy of being understood, 
and quite as easy of being executed, we may obviate, lor the 
future at least, those dark passages \\ lurli tanii-Oi the histories of 
our colonial administration, and of all our wars. 

i > 



116 THE PREVEXTTOX OF DISEASE. 

In unhealthy climates especially, and during the prevalence of 
epidemics in all climates, the medical inspection of the troops 
should be regular and frequent. This rule tends greatly to the 
preservation of health, for it is a standing order of all well 
regulated troops that every individual soldier be fit for duty in the 
full sense of the word, or on the sick-list under regimen and 
medical treatment. 

It is a remarkable fact, and one often observed, that in malarious 
countries especially, and where vicissitudes are great, most dis- 
eases have their origin in night exposure. "During natural 
sleep," says Dr. W. F. Edwards, "there is a diminution in the 
power of producing heat, and this explains why a damp cold air, 
or a dry and piercing air, which is borne without inconvenience 
while the individual is awake, even without the aid of exercise, 
may be hurtful during sleep." Speaking of the yellow fever, 
William Fergusson says, " It is my belief that malaria can only 
prevail upon the body during the passive state of sleep ; in fact, 
that to sleep is the danger." It may be remarked, in addition, 
that the effect of exposure to cold during sleep must necessarily 
vary according to the power of producing heat. As a means of 
guarding the system against the effects of atmospheric vicissitudes 
I know of none so influential as the cold bath, provided always 
that the subject be healthy and of temperate habits. 

The unnecessary and vexatious restrictions on the soldier's 
freedom of action, such as we constantly observe in garrisons and 
cantonments in India, are irksome to his mind and injurious to 
his health. He should be allowed to do for himself whatever he 
can do without prejudice to health or discipline ; and this ought 
to be made matter of standing regulation, not depending, as now, 
on the mere will or the uncertain notions of individual command- 
ing officers. " It is easy to conceive," says Pringle, " that the pre- 
vention of disease cannot depend on the use of medicines, nor 
upon anything which a soldier shall have in his power to neglect, 
but upon such orders as he himself shall not think unreasonable, 
and such as he must obey." 

The flannel is still a debatable question with military surgeons ; 
and William Fergusson considers it necessary only for the 
bivouac. As an article of military wear he considers it one of 
which the healthy, hardy soldier (and there ought to be none 
others in the army) can never stand in need. The recommenda- 
tions of this distinguished officer are worthy of attention on 
another important point the night-covering and accommodation 
of the soldier. He urges that, in every part of the British empire 
the men should sleep in separate hammocks, which are cool, soft, 
and elastic, and can be washed like a garment, while they cannot 
be used without raising the body off the ground, or the hard 
boards, and they require no aid from flocks or straw to make the 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 117 

occupant comfortable, an additional blanket in cold climates being 
all that is necessary. The hammock-railings have the great ad- 
vantage of preserving freedom of ventilation, even during the 
night, and of being altogether out of the way during the day. 
Wherever a couple of stakes can be driven into the ground it will 
serve all the above-mentioned purposes in the bivouac ; and the 
creation of hammock-railings, consisting of uprights with cross- 
posts and hooks, would be as simple as economical. 

The preservation of the British soldier's health in our various 
colonies is a matter of paramount importance as regards our poli- 
tical condition, little as the subject has hitherto engaged the at- 
tention of our legislators. " No circumstance," says a popular 
reviewer, " has so checked the progress of English rule as the 
maladies peculiar to tropical climates. And it is no exaggeration 
to affirm, that any means by which this intense mortality could be 
diminished would more effectually secure our dominion than the 
most brilliant victories we have ever achieved. Not only does the 
expense involved in conveying troops to fill the vacancies in the 
decimated legions fall heavily on the parent country, but another 
result, more lamentable than any pecuniary loss, invariably fol- 
lows. A prestige of insalubrity hangs like a cloud over our colo- 
nial possessions. The soldier and the emigrant leave home with 
a melancholy foreboding at the probable speedy termination of 
their career. Hence the colonies unhappily become the resort of 
the desperate and the reckless. The worst features of English 
society are there peqietrated with few of its excellencies. This 
affects the condition of our army to an immense extent." 

The rulers of France have not considered this question in its 
just view, or they never could have conceived it possible to colo- 
nise the Algerian provinces under an annual mortality of seven 
per cent. The result, years ago, has been the sacrifice of a 
hundred millions sterling, and the loss of a hundred thousand men. 

Colonel Tulloch justly observes that military returns, properly 
organised and properly digested, afford one of the most useful 
guides to direct the policy of the colonial legislator. Nor is the 
value of well-ordered numerical returns confined to military ques- 
tions. 

" Whether we wish to appreciate the value of symptoms," says 
Louis, " to know the progress and duration of diseases, to assign 
their degree of gravity, their relative frequency, the influence of 
medical constitutions upon their development, to enlighten our- 
selves as to the value of therapeutical agents, or the causes of 
diseases, it is indispensable to count." 

Cormenin, a, celebrated French writer, says truly, that " details 
govern the world ;" and the aphorism is especially true of armies. 
It is different with civil r< immunities, in which the defects of law 
and of details, are compensated by the moral attitude and conduct 



118 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

of the people. Mr. Macaulay expresses this fact when he declares 
that the Scotch would be well governed without any laws, or 
under the worst laws, while the Irish would be ill governed under 
the best laws. But it is not so with an array an organised 
and artificial body, in which good regulations and " details " are 
everything. 

The details here presented by authority of the French War 
Minister, for the service of the army to be employed on the 
Danube, may at first sight appear a kind of truism ; but every- 
thing must be made plain to the soldier, and everything ordered 
in detail. 

" SUMMARY OF THE PRECAUTIONS TO BE TAKEN FOR THE PRE- 
SERVATION OF THE HEALTH OF THE TROOPS IN THE EAST. 

" The Council of Health has been charged by the Minister of 
War to examine the precautions most proper for maintaining the 
health of the troops in the country to which they are called to 
make war. This Council has drawn up detailed instructions, 
from which the following particulars are extracted as necessary to 
be observed, with the greatest care : 

" 1. It is necessary to be always so clothed as to be proof 
against the sudden chills to which one is liable, at all seasons, 
from the abrupt changes of temperature which very frequently 
happen in nearly all parts of this country. 

" 2. In summer the best protection against sun-strokes, which 
are often very dangerous, is never to leave shelter without having 
the head covered. 

" 3, Cleanliness of persons, clothes, and dwellings is imperi- 
ously required by the nature of the climate. 

" 4. Whenever practicable, the face, and particularly the eyes, 
should be frequently washed daily, after exposure to dust. 

" 5. The feet should not be washed with cold water, especially 
when heated after a march. 

" 6. The greatest care is needed for protection against the 
freshness of the nights, even when the heat is extreme ; it is 
dangerous to remain clad only with the shirt during the night. 
At the bivouac, and in the tent the soldiers should be very care- 
fully covered. 

" 7. When the camp is pitched near a marsh, a tank, pools of 
stagnant water, or a valley, the chief openings of the barracks or 
tents should be in the opposite direction. In these bivouacs 
every possible means should be employed to counteract the inva- 
riably noxious vapours exhaled by such foci of infection. At 
night the openings of the barracks, with the exception of those 
indispensable for ventilation, should be closed. 

" 8. It is wrong to sleep in immediate contact with the ground ; 



1MB PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 119 

perfectly dry substances, not easily permeated by moisture should 
be interposed. For this purpose fresh branches or vegetable 
matters should never be used. 

' ' :'. Water, tin ink in large quantity, is always injurious. If, 
after a fatiguing march, a stream of water is met with, thirst 
must be sparingly satisfied, and the water reserved for subse- 
quent use. 

" 10. When only a small quantity of water is procurable, in- 
stead of swallowing it, die mouth should be gargled as long as 
possible, and the water rejected as soon as it is warm. 

"11. When reduced to the necessity of drinking stagnant 
water, it should, by way of precaution, be strained through a cloth, 
to separate leeches, imperceptible from their smallness, and which 
it is very dangerous to swallow. 

" 1 2. A mixture of wine and water, brandy and water, or infu- 
sion of coffee and water, is always an excellent drink, taken in 
moderation. It should be mixed at the time of use, and not pre- 
pared beforehand, as it in that case becomes heated, changes, and 
no longer fulfils its purpose. 

" 18. When salted meat and fish are substituted for fresh meat, 
they should be soaked before cooking, and, when practicable, 
mixed with a certain amount of vegetables. 

" 14. Condiments in small quantity are good seasoning; in 
excess they irritate the stomach, and render thirst more difficult 
to bear. 

" 15. Saffron increases the digestibility of rice and flour; it is 
particularly useful with maize. 

" 16. Food should always be taken before a march. 

" 17. Before and after guard-mounting, it is very useful to 
drink a moderate quantity of warm water, with a little brandy or 
infusion of coffee in it. Night guards should always be well 
clothed. 

" 18. Sickness should at once be reported to the medical 
officer. 

" 19. These recommendations shall be published in general 
orders. Every commanding officer will take care that they are 
read to the troops, once a week at least, and that the officers 
superintend and direct their execution." British and Foreign 
Mediio-Cltiruryicnl Hevietc, April, 1855, page 424. 

The tente-abri of the French the suggestion of necessity in 
their African campaigns is the most useful article yet introduced 
amongst soldiers. It is three feet high, four and a naif long, and 
is composed of three pieces of canvas, attached by buttons and 
strings. Two sticks placed at each extremity MTVC to support it, 
and it is fixed by pins to the earth. Three minutes suffice to set 
it up, and two to take it down. Kach tent accommodates three 
men ; each of the three carries a portion of the canvas, and they 



120 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

divide the sticks and pins among them, and so they inarch. The 
first thing they do on arrival at their ground is to fix the tent, and 
to dig a trench to carry off the water in case of rain. At night 
they sleep wrapped in blankets, and with their knapsacs for 
pillows. They are thus preserved from damp and rain. 

The tente-abri thus proves a protection for health and a 
guarantee for discipline ; it preserves an effective force and 
assures the duration of the army. 

In camps and fleets, the officers in command should by every 
means promote and encourage all kinds of innocent and salutary 
games and exercises, music, dancing, &c. The monotony of 
naval and military life, and the varying and sometimes disappoint- 
ing circumstances of active service, lead to mental despondency 
and consequent ill health. The fact has often been exemplified ; 
so much so, that the medicina mentis should ever hold a high 
place in naval and military prophylaxis. 

The late Dr. James Johnson relates, that " His Majesty's ship 
Russell, 74, sailed from Madras on the 22nd of October, 1806, 
and arrived at Batavia on the 27th of November; the crew healthy, 
and their minds highly elated with the sanguine expectations of 
surprising the Dutch squadron there. Such, however, was their 
sudden disappointment, and concomitant mental depression on 
missing the object of their hopes, that they began immediately to 
fall ill, ten, twelve, or fourteen per day, till nearly two hundred 
men were laid up with scurvy, scorbutic fluxes, and hepatic com- 
plaints ! Of these, upwards of thirty died before they got back to 
Bombay, and more than fifty were sent to the hospital there. 
The Albion did not fare better. The Powerful fared worse : so 
that in these three ships only, in the short space of a few months, 
full an hundred men died on board, and double that number were 
sent to hospitals, many of whom fell victims to the disease speci- 
fied and aggravated, and in a great measure engendered, by 
mental despondency." 

With equal truth Sir Gilbert Blane, referring to the converse 
influences of high spirits, says : " When the mind is interested 
and agitated by wann and generous affections, the body forgets its 
wants and feelings, and is capable of a degree of labour and 
exertion which it could not undergo in cold blood. The quantity 
of muscular action expended in fighting a great gun for a single 
hour, is perhaps greater than what is employed for a whole day in 
ordinary labour ; and though performed in the midst of heat and 
smoke, and with little bodily refreshment, yet the powers of nature 
are not exhausted or overstrained even the smart of wounds is 
not felt ! " . . . " It is stated that, when the fleet under Ad- 
miral Matthews, in the year 1744, was off Toulon, in the daily 
expectation of engaging the combined fleets of France and Spain, 
there was a general suspension of the progress of sickness, par- 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 121 

ticularly of the scurvy, from the influence of that generous flow of 
spirits with which the prospect of battle inspires British seamen. 
But if the mere prospect and ardent expectation of battle, without 
any happy result, could have such a sensible result, what must be 
the effect of the elevation of mind created by the exultation of 
VICTORY, a victory in which the naval glory of our country was 
revived and retrieved, after a series of misfortunes and disgraces, 
which had well nigh extinguished the national pride and spirit in 
e\er\ department of the service. The plain and honest, though 
unthinking seaman, is not less affected by this than the more en- 
lightened lover of his country. Even the invalids at the hospital 
manifested their joy by hoisting shreds of coloured cloth on their 
crutches." 

In accounting for the sraallness of the mortality amongst the 
soldiers in the first month of service at Walcheren, the distin- 
guished author here quoted says, that " an excited tone of mind, 
as well as youth and robust health, had a share in keeping down 
the mortality at this period." And so it was with the health of 
Hill's division when it surprised that of Gerard at Aroyo de 
Molinos, in Spain. Dr. Luscombe states, that during the week in 
which this surprise was being executed, the rain was heavy and 
almost incessant, and the men passed two nights in bivotiac with- 
out tires ; yet the sick in Hill's division was less during that and 
the subsequent week than in any equal period during that year. 
Dr. Luscombe, in almost the very words of Blane, assigns as the 
reason of the immunity of the soldiers from the effects of fatigue 
and exposure to cold and wet, that they were under " exercise 
and mental excitement." 

Finally it cannot be too often repeated, that on the perfection 
of the so-called civil establishments the Medical and the Com- 
missariat departments must depend, not only the efficiency, but 
the very existence of our fleets and armies. I say " so-called" 
because, in respect to the medical corps at least, it is a complete 
misnomer ; for neither by sea or on land is there nor can there be 
any absolute protection, for the surgeon, during the hour of battle, 
from the fire of an enemy. The recent calamitous losses in the 
Crimea have demonstrated another fact, viz., that so long as the 
departments above-named are dependent and subordinate, and 
under the management and control of officers holding but an 
inferior rank, consideration, and power, so long will they re- 
main insufficient to their great purposes; but let them once 
be ruled and directed by responsible officers of a rank and 
station, adequate to command an instant attention to their respec- 
ti\e wants let such officers be largely and immediately respon- 
sible and then, but not till then, will the two most important 
.-i.ilili-limrnts of our fleets and armies rise so as to bo equal to 
all requirements, whether during peace or in war. 



122 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

TROPICAL HYGIENE. Hints for the Preservation of 
Health in all Hot Climates. 

Certain popular means of prevention of disease present them- 
selves to the common sense of most nations to a certain degree, if 
they would but choose to reflect on their importance, and act upon 
them. But it is with communities as with individuals ; hygienic 
rules are better known than regarded. They are like the vital 
points in religion and morals ; all men agree in them, yet how 
easily are they forgotten ! In order to think seriously on matters 
relating to health most men require to suffer from disease, the 
lessons derived from such experience being longest remem- 
bered. 

But there is one circumstance which ought to be impressed 
everywhere on individuals and communities; and that is, that 
however useful medicine may be in moderate and judiciously ad- 
ministered doses, under occasional circumstances of change of 
climate or season, or during the prevalence of certain epidemics, 
it is yet more on the proper selection of localities, the avoidance 
of day and night exposure, care in diet, clothing, exercise, &c. ; 
in short, on the adoption of all those well-known measures of 
avoidance, whether affecting individual habit of life, or those more 
general predisposing causes of disease now so well understood, 
that the prevention of disease depends, and not on a system of 
self-quackery with calomel and other mercurial preparations, such 
as many persons pursue in England, and in India too, to their 
great injury, for the removal of what they call " biliousness.' 1 '' 

Many is the robust habit I have seen destroyed by this sense- 
less custom ; and F have known several lives lost, and others put 
in jeopardy by the use of saline purgatives during seasons of 
cholera. 

Another source of destruction to health I must here mention, 
as it has come frequently under my notice, both in India and in 
England ; I mean the long-continued use of aperient medicines 
containing the mercurial preparations. Patients frequently obtain 
from their physicians aperient pills, for instance, containing some 
blue pill, or calomel. They may have been given with a parti- 
cular view, or for a special occasion only ; but it often happens 
that the patient continues for months, or even for years, that which 
was intended to be used for days or weeks. The results are very 
lamentable. I have seen persons in a state of nervous irritability 
bordering on insanity, from this cause, with sub-acute inflammation 
of the mucous digestive membrane, and chronic ptyalism all re- 
sulting from long- continued and unconscious use of mercury. A 
field-officer used blue pill and colocynth for two years and a half, 
and an American gentleman took the same preparations, with 
ipecacuanha, during a voyage from Madras to America, and back 



THE PREVENTION .OF DISEASE. 128 

to Calcutta. It is quite needless to detail how utterly ruined was 
the health of both. 

" Ingenuity," says Dr. Copland, " cannot possibly devise a more 
successful method of converting a healthy person into a confirmed 
invalid, of destroying many of the comforts of existence, and of 
occasioning hypochondriasis and melancholy, than the practice of 
prescribing large doses of calomel on every trifling occasion, or 
when the bowels require gentle assistance ; or because the patient 
erroneously supposes himself to be bilious, or is told so by those 
who should know better." The same distinguished writer ascribes 
the lapse of occasional indigestion into confirmed stricture of the 
rectum, and of hoernorrhoidal affections into fistula:, to the fre- 
quent and injudicious use of calomel for the removal of mere 
occasional derangements of health. The unfortunate word 
" bilious," as applied to slight disorders, is the scape-goat of the 
ignorant. 

Dr. Paris assures us that, " if the truth were told, a large por- 
tion of dyspeptics seek the advice of a physician, not so much for 
the better adjustment and regulation of their diet as for the 
means by which they may counteract the ill effects of their in- 
dulgences hence the popularity of those " antibilious remedies, 
which promise to take the sting out of their excesses, and enable 
the unhappy dupes to fondle and play with vice as with a charmed 
serpent." 



The following is an abstract of the excellent special rules pre- 
scribed by Dr. James Johnson, regarding dress, food, drink, ex- 
ercise, sleep, bathing, and the conduct and regulation of the 
passions. For what has been withdrawn, altered, or added, I 
alone am responsible. J. R. M. 

There is no situation where the stranger European may not ob- 
viate, in a great measure, the first and most dangerous effects of a 
tropical climate, by a strict observance of two fundamental rules, 
TEMPERANCE AND COOLNESS. The latter indeed includes the 
former ; and, simple as it may appear, it is in reality, the grand 
principle of intertropical hygiene, so well understood and prac- 
ticed by all classes and descriptions of natives of the East, and 
which must ever be kept in view, and regulate our measures for 
the preservation of health. 

Common sense, independently of all observation and reasoning 
on the subject, might, a priori, come to this conclusion. From 
heat spring all those effects which originally predispose to the 
reception or operation of other morbific causes ; and how can we 
obviate those effects of heat, but by calling in the aid of its anta- 
gonist cold. To the sudden application of the latter, after the 



124 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

former has effected its baneful influence on the human frame, 1 
have traced most of those diseases attributable to climate : nothing 
therefore, can be more reasonable than that our great object should 
be to moderate by all possible means this heat, and to habituate our- 
selves, from the beginning, to the impressions of cold ; so that we 
may thus bid defiance to the alternations or vicissitudes of both 
those powerful agents. 

This is, in truth, the grand secret of counteracting the influence 
of tropical climates on European constitutions; and its practical 
application to the common purposes of life, as well as to particu- 
lar exigencies, shall now be rendered easy and intelligible. 

DRESS. When Europeans enter the tropics they must bid 
adieu to the luxury of linen if what is uncomfortable, and indeed 
unsafe in these climates, can be styled a luxury. The natives of 
the country, from the lowliest to the highest, wear none but cotton 
clothes, and those of them who can afford luxuries wear them in 
the largest quantities. 

The waterman of Bengal may be taken as an example of a man 
who works very hard, on wages of from two to fourpence per day. 
His clothing, like his diet, is scanty and precarious in the extreme ; 
the former amounting only to a narrow piece of cloth passed be- 
tween the thighs, and fastened before and behind to a piece of 
stout packthread that encircles the waist. Thus unprotected, he 
exposes his skin to the action of an intense tropical sun to a 
deluge of rain, to the dews of the night, and to a cold piercing 
N. E. monsoon with equal indifference ; and with perspiration 
issuing at every pore, he darts overboard when necessary, and 
wades through puddles and marshes this moment under water, 
and the next in the open air, with rapid evaporation from the 
whole body. It is true that he, in some degree, supplies the defect 
of clothing by the assiduous and regular use of oil friction to the 
entire surface of the body ; but, independently of all and every habit,- 
Nature has, by race and from birth, done much to secure the hard- 
working boatman, by forming both the colour and the texture of 
his skin, in such a manner that the extreme vessels of the surface 
are neither violently stimulated by the heat, nor easily struck tor- 
pid by sudden transitions to cold. Certain it is also, that the 
action of perspiratory vessels is different from those of Europeans, 
the fluid exuded in the Native being more oily and tenacious than 
the sweat of the former. 

The dress of the shepherds again, throughout Bengal, who are 
much exposed to all weathers, consists of a blanket gathered in at 
one end, so as to rest on the head, the rest hanging all round like 
a cloak. This answers the triple purpose of protection from the 
hottest sun of a tent in the rainy season to throw off the wet 
and of a coat in the cold season to defend the body from the 



THK PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

piercing cold. 'Thus our ridicule of the Portuguese and Spaniards 
for wearing their long black cloaks in summer, to keep them cool, 
and in winter, to keep them warm, is founded on prejudice ratlin 
than on correct observation. 

But if we look beyond the hardy labouring classes of natives of 
Hindustan, we observe both Hindu and Mahomedan guarding 
most cautiously against solar heat, as well as cold. The ample 
turban and khummerbund meet our eye at every step ; the former 
to defend the head from the direct rays of a powerful sun the 
latter for the purpose of preserving the important viscera of the 
abdomen from the deleterious impressions of cold. The khum- 
merbund is certainly a most valuable part of the dress, and one 
that is extensively imitated throughout India, by Europeans, in the 
form of a cotton or flannel waistband, worn generally next the 
skin. 

The cotton dress, from its slowness of conducting heat, is admi- 
ral ily adapted for the tropics. It must be recollected that the tem- 
perature of the atmosphere, sub dio, in the hot seasons, exceeds 
that of the blood by many degrees, and even in the shade it too 
often equals, or rises above the heat of the body's surface, which is 
always, during health, some degrees below 97'. 

Here then we have a covering which is cooler than linen, inas- 
much as it conducts more slowly the excess of external heat to our 
bodies ; but this, though a great advantage, is not the only one. 

When a eicixtitude takes place, and the atmospheric tempera- 
ture sinks suddenly far below that of the body, the cotton covering, 
faithful to its trust, abstracts more slowly the heat /row* it, and 
tliu- preserves to the wearer a more and more steady equilibrium. 
To all these advantages must be added the facility with which the 
cotton absorbs perspiration. While linen so circumstanced would 
feel wet and cold, under a breeze, and even occasion a shiver, the 
cotton dress, as stated, would maintain an equable warmth. 

That woollen and cotton dresses should be warmer than 
linen, in low temperatures, will be readily granted; but that 
they should be cooler in high temperatures, will, perhaps, be 
doubted. But let two beds be placed in the same room during 
the day, when the thermometer stands at 90 ; and let one be 
covered with a pair of blankets, the other with a pair of linen 
sheets. On removing both coverings in the evening, the bed on 
which were placed the blankets will be found cool, the other 
warm : the linen transmitted the heat of the surrounding air to all the 
parts beneath it, while the woollen covering, as a non-conductor, 
prevented and obstructed the transmission of heat from without 

From this view of the subject Jlannel might be supposed supe- 
rior to cotton, and indeed at certain seasons, or in particular places 
where the mercury often takes a wide range in a very short time, 
the former is a safer covering than the latter, and is adopted by 



126 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

many experienced and seasoned Europeans. Bat, in general, 
flannel is inconvenient for three reasons. First, it is too heavy 
an insuperable objection ; secondly, where the temperature of the 
air ranges pretty steadily a little below that of the skin, the flannel 
is much too slow a conductor of heat from the body. Thirdly, 
the spiculae of the flannel prove too irritating, and increase the 
action of the perspiratory vessels on the surface of the body, 
where our great object is to moderate the process. From the 
second and third objections, indeed, even cotton or calico is not 
quite free, unless of a fine fabric, when its good qualities far 
counterbalance any inconvenience in the above respects. 

The great object of tropical prophylactics being TO MODERATE, 

WITHOUT CHECKING THE CUTICULAR DISCHARGE, I Would here 

enter a caution against a too frequent changing of the body linen, 
a habit confined to newly arrived Europeans principally. To 
change morning and evening is enough for all and every purpose, 
even in the hot and rainy seasons ; and to change oftener is sim- 
ply injurious. The property which frequent change of linen has, 
in exciting the cuticular secretion, and the effects resulting from 
the sympathy of the skin with the stomach, liver, and lungs, may 
account, in a great measure, for the superior health which accom- 
panies cleanliness in our own climate ; and, on the contrary, for 
many of the diseases of the indigent and slovenly, which are so 
frequently connected with, or dependent on, irregularity or sup- 
pression of the cuticular discharge. But though this is true, by 
the injudicious, nay, injurious habit of too frequent change of linen 
in a tropical climate, the fluids on the surface of the body, already 
in excess, are thus powerfully solicited, and the action of the per- 
spiratory vessels, with all their associations, morbidly increased, 
instead of being restrained. 

The necessity which tyrant custom, or perhaps routine, has 
hitherto imposed on us, of continuing to appear in European dress 
particularly in uniforms, on almost all public occasions, and in all 
formal parties, under a burning sky, is not one of the least miseries 
of a tropical life ! 

It is true that this ceremony is waived in the more social circles 
that gather round the dinner-table, where the light, cool vestures 
of the East supersede the cumbrous garb of northern climates. 
But it is laughable, or rather pitiable enough, to behold a set of 
grijfinish sticklers for decorum, for some time after each fresh im- 
portation from Europe, whom no persuasions can induce to cast 
off their exuviae, even in the most affable company, pinioned in 
their stiff habiliments, while the streams of perspiration that issue 
from every pore, and ooze through various angles of their dress, 
might almost induce us to fear that they were on the point of 
realizing Hamlet's wish ; and that, in good earnest, their 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 127 

" Solid flesh would melt- 
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew." 

To the above observations on dress may be added, that no 
European should voluntarily expose himself, at any season, to the 
direct rays of the sun. If forced to be out of doors, the chatta 
should never be neglected, if he wish to guard against coup-de- 
soleil, or some other dangerous consequence of imprudent expo- 
sure. 

FOOD.A11 must agree with Celsus, that " sanis omnia sana 
and with a late eminent physician, that, an attention to quantity 
is of infinitely more consequence than the quality of our repasts; 
and also that an over fastidious regard to either will render us 
unfit for society, and not more healthy after all ; yet, when we 
change our native climate for the torrid zone, many of us may find, 
when it is too late, that we can hardly attend too strictly to the 
quantity and quality of our food during the period of being acco- 
modated to the new climate ; and that a due regulation of this 
important matter will turn out a powerful engine in the preservation 
of health. 

It is now well known, from dire experience, that instead of a 
disposition to debility and putrescency, a congestive, and some- 
times an inflammatory diathesis, with tendency to general or local 
plethora, characterises the European and his diseases, for some 
years at least after his arrival between the tropics ; and, hence, 
provident Nature endeavours to guard against the evil by diminish- 
ing our relish for food. But, alas ! how prone are we to spur the 
jaded appetite, not only " by dishes tortured from their native 
taste," but by more dangerous stimulants of wine and other liquors, 
as well as by condiments and spices, which should be reserved for 
that general relaxation and debility which unavoidably supervene 
during a protracted residence in sultry climates. Here is an in- 
stance where we cannot safely imitate the seasoned European ; for 
there are no points of hygiene to which the attention of a new- 
comer should be more particularly directed, than to the quantity 
and siniftlii-ihi of his viands. They are 'practical points, entirely 
within his own command, and a due regulation of them is not at 
all calculated to draw on him the observation of others a very 
great advantage. 

That vegetable food is, generally speaking, better adapted to a 
tropical climate than animal will be admitted, especially in the 
instance of the unseasoned European ; not that it is quicker or 
easier of digestion, for it is slower, but it excites less commo- 
tion in the system during that process, and is not apt to induce 
plethora afterwards. These are the considerations which should 
preference to vegetable over animal substances in the diet of 



128 THF PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

the unseasoned European, and which should induce him to be at 
least sparing in the use of the latter. 

Every valetudinarian, and particularly, the hectic, knows full 
well the febrile movement which follows a full meal ; and the 
same takes place, more or less, in every individual, whatever may 
be the state of health at the time. How cautious should we be 
then of exasperating those natural paroxysms, when placed in 
situations where various other febrific causes are constantly im- 
pending over, or even assailing us ! The febrile stricture which 
obtains on the surface of our bodies, and in the secerning vessels 
of the liver, during the gastric digestion of our food, as evinced by 
diminution of the cutaneous and hepatic secretions, will be propor- 
tioned to the duration and difficulty of that process in the stomach, 
and to the quantity of ingesta ; and as a corresponding increase 
of the two secretions succeeds, when the chyme passes into the 
intestines, we perceive the propriety of moderating them by abste- 
miousness, since they are already in excess from the heat of the 
climate alone, and this excess is one of the first links in the chain 
of causes and effects that leads ultimately to various derangements 
of function and of structure in important organs, as exemplified in 
the fevers and dysenteries, in the hepatitis and cholera of tropical 
regions. 

The newly arrived European should content himself with plain 
breakfast of bread and butter, with tea or coffee, and avoid indulg- 
ing in meat, fish, eggs, or buttered toast. The latter alone often 
disagrees, and occasions rancidity, with nausea at stomach, while 
it increases the secretion of bile, already in excess. A glance in- 
deed at the Bawurchee, buttering our toast with the greasy wing of 
a fowl, or an old dirty piece of rag, will have more effect in re- 
straining the consumption of the article than any didactic precept 
which can be laid down ; and a picturesque sight of this kind may 
be procured any morning by taking a stroll into the purlieus of the 
kitchen. 

In regard to dinner, were the European master of both time and 
circumstance, the early part of the afternoon should be that of his 
principal meal ; but the great majority of men of business, whether 
official or mercantile, are unable to disengage themselves during 
the day, and thus from seven to eight o'clock becomes the settled 
hour. 

It is true that military men, excepting such as hold staff offices, 
may choose their hour of dinner, but fashion and routine rule this 
and other habits; and the mess hour is too late. Naval and 
military men are, beyond all others, devoted to system, and to a 
certain extent justly so. But system, like everything in this 
world, may be abused so as to degenerate into something even 
worse than mere routine. As matter of fact, regiments in 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 129 

general have luncheon ("tiffin") on table at one o'clock, with 
wine and ale, and a heavy dinner at seven with more wine and 
ale. Thus any officer who is so disposed may become the subject 
of a daily feverishness, soon to be followed by disease ; and even 
such as are temperately disposed commit excesses in eating and 
drinking, often without being aware of it. 

An old staff officer in Fort William used to say that he had 
known more duels, courts martial, and dismissals, to result from 
the " tiffin " alone than from any other cause ; but what were the 
other results, in the olden times, of the tiffin and the dinner, from 
year's end to year's end, there is no man alive now-a-days to tell ! 
Although a great deal that was objectionable in the double meal has 
given way to modern improvement in the general habit of society 
throughout India, still too much of both tiffin and dinner remains. 
Both meals are greatly too much after the European fashion ; while 
wine and ale are too liberally circulated, at least for health. 

He then who consults his health in the East will beware of late 
and heavy dinners, particularly during the period of probation, 
but will rather be satisfied with a light and early repast as the 
principal meal, when tea or coffee at six or seven o'clock will be 
found a grateful refreshment. After this his rest will be as 
natural and refreshing as can be expected in such a climate, and 
he will rise next morning with infinitely more vigour than if he 
had crowned a sumptuous dinner w ith a bottle of wine the previous 
evening. 

Let but a trial of one week put these directions to the test and 
they will be found to have a more substantial foundation than 
theory. 

A limited indulgence in fruits, during the first year, is prudent ; 
and there is little reason to believe that, when ripe and used in 
the forenoon, they dispose to irritation of the bowels. Particular 
kinds of fruits have peculiar effects on certain constitutions ; thus, 
mangoes have sometimes a stimulating and heating effect, which 
not seldom brings out a plentiful crop of pustules, or even boils, 
on the unseasoned European. The pine apple, though very 
delicious, is not the safest fruit to make too free with at any time. 
The orange is always grateful and wholesome, and good ripe 
shaddocks are so likewise, owing to their cooling subacid qualities. 
The banana is wholesome and nutritious, whether undressed or 
frittered. 

The use of spice or condiment, as already stated, should be 
reserved for those ulterior periods of our residence in hot climates 
when the tone of the constitution is lowered, and the stomach 
participates in the general relaxation. They are then safe and 
salutary. 



130 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

DRINK. In a vast empire, such as that of India, held by the 
frail tenure of opinion, and where the current of all the various 
religious opinions of the natives runs strong against intoxication, 
it was early found necessary from motives of policy rather than of 
health, to discourage the acquisition of habits at once dangerous 
and disgraceful. Hence the inebriate has always been justly con- 
sidered as not merely culpable in destroying his individual health, 
but as deteriorating the European character in the eyes of the 
natives, whom it is on all accounts desirable to impress with a 
just sense of our superiority. It is thus that our power may 
acquire material substance from the gradually improving convic- 
tions of the natives themselves. Happily what has been promo- 
tive of our own interests has been also preservative of our health, 
as well as conducive to our happiness ; and the general temper- 
ance which now characterises the European circles of society in 
the East Indies is most gratifying. We shall no longer hear from 
medical or lay writers of " gently stimulating liquids," used during 
the forenoon " for supporting perspiration, and for keeping up the 
tone of the digestive organs," for all experience has proved such 
habits to be actually pernicious. The European who should now 
take to such unworthy indulgences would soon find himself 
excluded from good society. 

It has already been observed that the great physiological rule 
for preserving health in hot climates is TO KEEP THE BODY COOL. 
The strong sympathy that subsists between the skin and the several 
internal organs, as the stomach, liver, and intestinal canal, has alsc 
been emphatically referred to. The common sense of mankind 
would seem indeed to point out the propriety of avoiding heating 
drinks, for the same reason that we endeavour instinctively to 
guard against a high external temperature. But the truth is that, 
until men begin to feel the corporeal ill effects of intemperance, a 
deaf ear is turned to the most impressive lectures against the 
most deplorable of propensities, that which Napoleon declared to 
be the least compatible with greatness. With the feeble and 
irresolute the magic bowl, which this moment can raise its votaries 
into heroes and demi-gods, will, in a few hours, sink them beneath 
the level of the brute creation. Moralists and philosophers have 
long descanted on this theme, but with little success, as few will 
attempt to prove that water is the simple and salutary beverage 
designed by nature for man ; seeing that every nation, even the 
most refined, has practically repudiated the doctrine. Let the 
medical profession, however, do its duty in portraying truthfully 
the ill effects of the abuse of drink, in tropical climates especially. 
The truth is that as drunkenness leads, in a moral point of view, 
to every crime, so, in a physical point of view, it promotes the 
invasion, and retards the cure, of every tropical or other disease. 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 1 -U 

It may be received as a truth that, during the first two years of 
residence at least, the nearer we approach to a perfectly aqueous 
regimen in drink, so much the better chance have we of avoiding 
sickness ; and the more slowly and gradually we deviate from this 
ai'tn -wards, so much the more retentive will we be of that in- 
valuable blessing, HEALTH. 

In speaking of the means of preserving health, which depends 
so much on the tone of the digestive organs, we must not omit the 
recent luxury the American ice which has now become an 
article of necessity in the East. It would be out of place here to 
speak of its uses in the treatment of various diseases, and of fevers 
especially, as those of the cerebral and gastric nature. " Nothing," 
says Dolornieu, "is more salutary during the sirocco than iced 
beverages ; they revive the spirits, strengthen the body, and assist 
the digestion." Those who have now, during several years past, 
made use of this real luxury in the East Indies, need no argu- 
ments in favour of promoting so remarkable an instance of 
American enterprise. 

I would caution the newly arrived European against a very 
common and very dangerous mistake, namely, the acting in 
matters of diet and exercise on the supposition that he may with 
impunity do as the elder residents; for it is consonant with 
experience, as with theory, that the latter class may indulge in 
the luxuries of the table with infinitely less risk than the former. 
To think and act otherwise is to confound all discrimination 
between very different habits of body which the seasoned and un- 
seasoned possess. 

One other circumstance should always be held in recollection, 
to wit, that when a course of temperance is fully entered on, and 
the pleasures of temperance fully enjoyed, no consideration should 
induce us to commit an occasional debauch, especially during our 
seasoning, for we are at those times in infinitely greater danger of 
both endemic and epidemic attacks than the habitual bacchanal. 

In the last article it has been stated that the subacid fruits are 
both grateful and wholesome, and so will it be found with mode- 
rately acid drinks, such as sherbet. Nature seems to point out 
the vegetable acids in hot climates, as grateful in allaying drought 
and diffusing a coolness from the stomach all over the body. To 
the temperate and the healthy they will generally prove salutary, 
and I have never seen or heard of any ill effects from their use. 

We hear much amongst vulgar habitual topers of the supposed 
prophylactic influence of spirits and cigars against night exposure, 
malaria, and contagion ; but no medical observer, in any of our 
numerous colonies, has ever seen reason to believe in any such 
<li lusive doctrine, nor is there in reality the smallest foundation 
for it. All excitement is followed by a corresponding depression 

K 2 



132 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

of the vital functions, and it is then that the toper is doubly liable 
to suffer. 

EXERCISE. -This is one of the luxuries of a northern climate 
to which we must, in a great measure, bid adieu between the tropics. 
The principal object and effect of exercise in the former situation 
appear to consist in keeping up a just balance in the circulation, 
in supporting and maintaining the functions of the skin, and pro- 
moting the various secretions. But the perspiration, biliary, and 
other secretions being already in excess in equatorial regions, a 
perseverance in our customary European exercises would prove 
highly injurious, and it often does so, by promoting and aggra- 
vating the ill effects of an unnatural climate. As such excess very 
soon leads to debility, and to diminishing action in the functions 
alluded to, and to a corresponding inequilibrium of the blood, so 
it is necessary to counteract these by such active or passive exer- 
cise as the climate will admit at particular periods of the day or 
year ; a discrimination imperiously demanded if we mean to pre- 
serve health. When the sun is near the meridian for several 
hours of the day on the plains of India, not a leaf is seen to move, 
every animated being retreats under cover, and even the 
" Adjutant," or gigantic crane of Bengal, soars out of reach of the 
earth's reflected heat, and either perches on the highest pinacles 
of lofty buildings, or hovers in the upper regions of the air, a 
scarcely discernible speck. 

At this time the native retires instinctively to the innermost 
apartment of his humble shed, where both light and heat are 
excluded. There he sits quietly in the midst of his family, re- 
galing himself with cold water or sherbert, while a gentle perspi- 
ration flows from the skin, and contributes naturally and power- 
fully to his refrigeration. Mr. Twining justly observes that the 
natives, both Hindoo and Mahomedan, seem to suffer much from 
the hot season in Bengal. During the latter part of this season 
those natives whose circumstances enable them to act as they 
wish, avoid any exertion as much as possible, reducing the quan- 
tity of their food, and eating certain fruits which they consider 
cooling. In the afternoons they drink the fluid contained in the 
unripe cocoa-nut, or a very simple sherbet, or some sugar and 
water, deeming the latter especially cooling ; and in the mornings 
they take an infusion of Nalta Pat, or leaf of the Corchorus 
Olitorius, which they say has a cooling effect, at the same time 
that it acts as a mild tonic, promoting digestion, and preventing 
lassitude. He adds that the natives, though adapted by nature to 
bear the climate, take more care to moderate the effects of heat 
than Europeans, especially in their light clothing, abstemious 
food, and tranquil habits. 



THE PREVENTION OP DISEASE. 133 

After this example of the salutary habits of all classes of natives 
of India, it is hardly necessary to urge the injuriousness of every 
kind of active exercises to Europeans under tropical heats, and 
especially during the heats of the day, yet hundreds perished 
annually from this very cause, particularly in the West Indies, 
upon each influx of European troops during the late war. Happily it 
may now be said that, owing to the removal of the European 
troops from the plains to the mountains, the horrors resulting 
from the climate of Jamaica have been exchanged for health 
and comfort. This beneficent act is due to the generous and 
noble nature of the late Lord Metcalfe, when governor of that 
island. 

Who would expect to find dancing a prominent amusement in 
a tropical climate ? The natives of the West Indies are exceed- 
ingly fond of tliis exercise ; but those of the East are wise men 
still, for instead of dancing themselves they employ Natch girls to 
dance for them. 

Gestation of every kind, whether in palankeens or spring 
carriages, is a species of passive exercise exceedingly well 
adapted to a tropical climate. The languid state of the circula- 
tion of the blood, in those who have resided long there, is 
pointedly exhibited in the disposition which they evince to raise 
the lower extremities on a line with the body when at rest ; and 
this object is completely attained in the palankeen, which indeed 
renders it a peculiarly agreeable vehicle. 

On the same principle we may explain the feeling of satisfac- 
tion and the utility of shampooing, where the gentle pressure and 
friction of the soft Asiatic hand over the surface of the body, but 
particularly over the limbs, invigorate the circulation after fatigue, 
as well as after long inaction, and thus excite the insensible 
cuticular secretion. The Keesa, or hair glove of India, is an 
admirable means of giving additional effect to the practice of 
shampooing, a practice which, to the indolent wealthy natives, 
proves a real and effective substitute for exercise. 

The swing might perhaps be rendered useful in the hot and 
rainy season in the East Indies. In chronic disorders of the 
viscera it could hardly fail to be grateful and salutary, by its 
tendency to determine to the surface and relax the subcutaneous 
vessels, which are generally torpid in those diseases. It might be 
practised in the early mornings and evenings within doors, when- 
ever the weather or other circumstances do not admit of gestation 
in the open air. 

BATHING. Moseley's caution to the European residents of his 
day in the West Indies, may be recorded for the benefit of all who 
think that, in hot climates, they may do what they please with cold 



134 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

\vater. " I DARE not recommend cold bathing; it is death with 
intemperance, and dangerous where there is any fault in the 
viscera. Tt is a luxury denied to almost all, except the sober and 
abstemious females, who well know the delight and advantage of 
it." The cold bath is death, not during intemperance but in the 
collapse which follows a debauch, or indeed any other great 
fatigue of mind or body. It is also dangerous under every form 
of visceral disease, but the healthy and temperate of habit may as 
safely partake of the " delight and advantage " of the cold bath as 
Dr. Moseley's " sober and abstemious females." The truth is, that 
the cold bath is a prize due to, and gained by, the temperate. 
To all else it is eminently unsafe, as any naval and military sur- 
geon of tropical experience can testify. To the European resi- 
dent in tropical climates whose constitution is sound, and whose 
habits are temperate, no more efficient means exists of obviating 
the most unpleasant effects even of the cold season ; for he who 
reacts well under the cold bath will not be troubled with dry skin, 
and sense of internal fulness. To persons of ordinary health, but 
who are not robust, the cold bath will be found tonic and agreeable 
from the beginning of March, in India generally, to the end of 
September. The temperature ranges high in these months, and 
the determination to the surface is such as to ensure a sufficient 
reaction. It is a common error to think that before using the cold 
bath we must get cooled first, while the very opposite rule is the 
correct one. To the delicate, indeed, immersion in a warm bath 
for a few minutes is an excellent preliminary, followed at once by 
affusion of some three or four vessels of cold water. A glow over 
the whole surface of the body will immediately follow. This is a 
safe and excellent mode of bathing to all who shrink from or who 
feel doubtful of salutary reaction from the use of cold water. 

We hear warm and cold bathing recommended without reference 
to the state of health, to the season, or to regularity of habit, 
although these circumstances should form essential preliminaries 
to the choice. It may be concluded for certain that, to persons 
who have suffered from tropical disease, or who are affected with 
visceral congestions, or with visceral enlargements especially, the 
results of fevers or dysenteries, the warm bath is the only safe one 
at all seasons. The same rule applies to the dissipated, and to 
such as are in the habit of keeping late hours. In such persons 
the balance of circulation is already disturbed, and the effect of 
cold water is to throw the blood with force on organs already 
irritated by irregular courses of life, the abdominal viscera espe- 
cially. 

Under such unfavourable circumstances it is not to be expected 
that the "conservative energies" should be capable of being 
" roused to successful resistance ;" with the whole external surface 






THE PREVENTION OP DISEASE. 1 .T> 

parched, and with the digestive mucous surfaces in a state of irri- 
tation, how can it be otherwise ? 

As many persons have but an imperfect knowledge of the rela- 
tive temperatures of the several baths in ordinary use, the follow- 
ing scale is here presented : 

Cold Bath, from . . . . 60 to 75 

Tepid Bath, from . . . . 85 to 92 

Warm Bath, from . . . . 92 to 98 

Hot Bath, from . . 98 to 112 

By the healthy and temperate European the use of the cold 
bath should be regularly and daily persevered in, from the moment 
of his entrance within the tropics ; and when from long residence 
there, the functions above referred to begin to be irregular, or 
defective, he may prudently veer round by degrees to the use of 
the tepid bath, which will then be found a most valuable part of 
tropical Hygiene. 

The use of the cold bath being a passive operation, unattended 
by any exercise, it may be used at any period of the day, although 
the mornings and evenings are generally selected by Europeans 
in the East; immediately after leaving their couch and before 
dinner. On both occasions the bath is very refreshing, and it 
powerfully obviates that train of nervous symptoms so generally 
complained of by our countrymen in hot climates. Before dinner 
it seems to exert its salutary influence on the surface of the body, 
and by sympathy on the stomach, removing the disagreeable 
sensation of thirst, which might otherwise induce a too free use of 
potation during the repast. It is always imprudent to bathe 
while the process of digestion in the stomach is going on, as it 
disturbs that important operation. 

SLEEP. When we bid adieu to the temperate climate of 
Europe, with its " long nights of revelry," and enter the tropics, 
we may count on a great falling off in this " solace of our woes." 
The disturbed repose which we almost always experience there, 
has a greater eventual influence on our constitutions than is 
generally supposed, notwithstanding die silence of authors on this 
subject. Whatever we detract from the requisite period of our 
natural sleep will surely be deducted, in the end, from the natural 
range of our existence, independently of the predisposition to dis- 
ease which is thus constantly generated. This is a melancholy but 
a true reflection, and it should induce us to exert our rational facul- 
ties in obviating so great an evil. 

The great object of the European is to sleep cool, and obtain 
complete protection from Mosquitoes. Happily both advantages 
may be secured to the temperate by the large mosquitoe frame and 



136 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

curtain with punkah suspended from the ridge, as now prevalent 
throughout Bengal. This is not only luxurious but safe, the 
gentle agitation of the punkah removing the heated air surrounding 
the body without exposing the person to the dangers arising from 
sudden night changes in the temperature or humidity of the 
atmosphere. 

The European is thus enabled to procure more and sounder 
rest than he could possibly do otherwise ; and by giving his frame 
a more thorough and complete respite from the great stimulus of 
heat, he imparts to it tone and vigour, so necessary to meet the 
exhaustion of the ensuing day, as well as to repair that of the pre- 
ceding. Early hours are here indispensable ; for the fashionable 
nocturnal dissipations of Europe would soon cut .the thread of our 
existence within the tropics. The order of nature is never inverted 
with impunity, even in the most temperate climates ; beneath the 
torrid zone it is certain destruction. The hour of retirement to 
repose should never be protracted beyond ten o'clock ; and at 
daylight we should start from our couch to enjoy the cool, the 
fragrant and salubrious breath of morn. 

Without some artificial aid, such as that above mentioned, a 
great waste of strength indeed of life may arise from our inabi- 
lity to obtain cool repose at night. The cold and rainy seasons, 
heavy dews, or exhalations from contiguous jungles or marshes, 
often render it impossible with safety to sleep in the open air ; a 
practice, during the hot season, fraught with refreshing benefit, 
where the obstacles mentioned do not prevent its execution. 

In Bengal Proper, in the plains of Upper India, and on the 
Coromandel coast, except during the hot land winds there, or at 
the change of the Monsoons, Europeans may generally indulge, 
during the hot and dry season, in the luxury of sleeping in the open 
verandahs, not only with safety, but with infinite advantage. It 
is an old habit throughout most parts of India, especially of the 
military classes ; and the judicious Captain Williamson says 
justly that, while it is attended with the greatest refreshment, 
enabling them to rise early, divested of that most distressing lassi- 
tude attendant upon sleeping in a close oppressive apartment, 
communicating a febrile sensation, very few instances could be 
adduced of any serious indisposition attending it. Healthy and 
temperate persons, and who are habituated to the use of the cold 
bath, need be under no apprehensions, excepting at the places 
and seasons alluded to, as to transitions from the scorching heat 
of the day to the serenity of night, for indeed it is gradual and easy. 

Those who habitually exclude themselves from the breath of 
heaven, whether from inclination or necessity, become languid 
from the continued operation of heat and want of repose : even 
the slightest aerial vicissitude, or admission of a partial current of 



TIIK PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 137 

cool air, unhinges the tenor of their health, and deranges the 
functions of important organs. These are they who require the 
afternoon siesta, and to whom indeed it is necessary, on account 
of the abridged refreshment and sleep of the night ; while the 
others are able to go through the avocations of the day without 
any such substitute a manifest and great advantage. 

A few words on the incubus, or night-inare a troublesome 
visitor to the tropical couch may properly conclude this section. 

From the results of treatment it would appear that the primary 
cause has its seat in the digestive organs, in whatever way it may 
act ; and that the night-mare originates in defective digestion, 
producing heart-burn, flatulence, griping and eructation, with a 
train of dyspeptic pomplaiuts. 

Of all medicines, the carbonate of soda will be found the most 
efficacious, taken in scruple doses at bed time, or night and 
morning, in some aromatic water, such as the peppermint. This 
medicine not only neutralizes the acids of the stomach, but it pro- 
motes the elimination of the bile, and the evacuation of slimy dis- 
charges from the bowels. 

There are few people with whom particular kinds of food do 
not disagree, and, being known, these should be avoided. Thus, 
chestnuts or sour wine will almost always produce incubus in those 
predisposed to it, as was observed by Hildanus : " Qui scire cupit 
quid sit incubus ? Is ante somnum comedat castaneas, et super- 
bibat i in a m fceculentum" In this country, cucumbers, nuts, 
apples, and flatulent kinds of food are the articles most likely to 
bring on night-marc. 

THE CONDUCT AND GOVERNMENT OF THE PAS- 
SIONS. Most of the precepts that apply to the regulation and 
government of the passions in cold climates will be found to apply 
to them in tropical climates ; but it is necessary to correct at once 
an erroneous impression that there is something peculiar to the 
tropics which excites certain passions in a higher degree than in 
temperate regions. 

Dr. Moseley says that, "there is in the inhabitants of hot 
climates, unless present sickness has an absolute control over the 
body, a promptitude and a bias to pleasure, and an alienation 
from serious thought and deep reflection. The brilliancy of the 
skies and the beauty of the atmosphere conspire to influence the 
nerves against philosophy and her rigid tenets, and forbid their 
practice among the children of the sun." However true this de- 
scription may be in respect of " the children of the sun," it does 
not accurately exhibit the condition of the stranger European, in 
whom such a course of relaxation would be very immoral; for 
such a view would furnibh the dissolute libertine with a physical 



138 THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

excuse for his debaucheries, when the real source might be traced 
to laxity of religious and moral principle. We would ask Dr. 
Moseley, if the " promptitude and bias to pleasure" be increased 
in hot climates, why the ability to pursue or practice it should be 
lessened ? a fact well known to every debauchee. 

It has been asked, says Hennen, what has the medical topo- 
grapher to do with the morals of the natives of a country ? and it 
has been asserted that their immoralities cannot affect the health 
of troops quartered amongst them, if proper discipline be ob- 
served. Such opinions are founded upon a very superficial view 
of the subject; for the soil and inhabitants, he adds, always react 
on each other. A sober and industrious race of people will, for 
example, have a greater desire to improve their country than men 
of a contrary character, and will also possess greater physical 
power to carry their desire into execution. Place such a body of 
men in a district overrun with noxious weeds and timber, and fast 
degenerating into a morass, and can there exist any rational 
doubt that they will clear it sooner, and preserve it longer in 
that improved state than men of a different disposition ? Place 
in a similar situation, or even in a district thus improved, a body 
of men who are idle and intemperate, and the immediate result 
will be that the soil will deteriorate for want of proper care, the 
weeds will reappear, the drains will become obstructed, the edible 
products of the earth will lessen in quantity, and diminish in 
their nutritive quality ; the inhabitants will become unhealthy 
from the bad state of their grounds ; and the diminution of their 
physical powers thus produced will disable them progressively 
more and more from remedying the causes of the evil. Many of 
these effects will doubtless first be felt in their own persons, but 
it is undeniable that they must ultimately operate on their visitors. 
On this obvious principle is founded the axiom in Medical Topo- 
graphy " that a slothful, squalid-looking population invariably 
characterises an unhealthy country." 

Whether the founders of the Hindu faith acted designedly or 
otherwise, there can be no doubt that, by depressing all the phy- 
sical energies, by a diet purely vegetable, they fastened with a 
firmer and stronger band the bonds of Brahminical domination 
on the people of India ; until a chain, forged only by supersti- 
tion, became in progress of fifty centuries, and through the most 
powerful of moral and physical agencies, strong as death. 

" The use of certain kinds of food and drink," says Cabanis, 
" may tend to confirm or impair certain moral habits. Sometimes 
it may operate directly, and by the immediate impressions which 
it produces ; at other times, by the different states of health or 
disease which it occasions, or by the changes in the fluids and 
solids which result from it ; for all these different alterations in 



THE PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 130 

the system soon manifest themselves more or less distinctly in 
the ordinary dispositions of the will and understanding." 

The same great authority in the physiology of climates adds 
that, " the poor diets prescribed by the legislators of various reli- 
gious orders, have never had the effect of diminishing the vene- 
real appetite, but have, on the contrary, inflamed these propensi- 
ties the more, or disordered the imagination in diminishing the 
physical forces ; and thus men have been rendered more feeble, 
more unhappy, and more easy of domination." 

But let us hope that, in respect of the natives of India, the all- 
powerful benefits of education, and the example of their Euro- 
pean governors, may enable them to conquer the influences 
of climate, and of the depraving religious and political habits of 
ages. To expect, however, that such changes can be speedily 
effected were contrary to reason and experience. The caste 
is of unknown antiquity. " Neither the proselytising sword of 
the Mussulman, nor the mild light of Christianity, has had any 
influence upon it, and the Hindu still worships before the altars 
of his gods with the same devotion as when Orpheus charmed the 
wild beasts by the sounds of his lyre, and when Moses ascended 
Mount Sinai. Religion, manners, customs, costume, civilization, all 
have remained immovable, as the temples hewn out of the granite 
rocks of Ellora." 

After what has been here stated, it cannot be questioned that 
the habits and character of the people amongst whom we live, 
during many years, must have a powerful influence on our morals. 
But to return to the condition of the stranger European. The 
removal of religious and moral restraint, the temptations to vice, 
the facility of the means, and the force of example, are the real 
causes of this bias to pleasure ; and in respect to the effect* of 
licentious indulgences between the tropics, the reader may be 
assured that he will find, perhaps when too late, how much more 
dangerous and destructive they are than in Europe. 

The nature of the supposed " propensity " has been explained 
to him ; and as the principal cause resides neither in the air, nor 
in the " brilliancy of the skies," but in his own breast, he has no 
excuse for pennitting it to grow into the wild luxuriance of un- 
bridled excess. 

The monotony of life and the apathy of mind so conspicuous 
in hot climates, together with the obstacles to matrimony, too 
often lead to vicious and immoral connections with native females, 
which speedily sap the foundations of principles imbibed in early 
youth, and involve a train of consequences not seldom embarrass- 
ing, if not embittering every subsequent period of life. It is here 
that a taste for some of the more refined and elegant species of 
literature \\ill prove an invaluable acquisition for dispelling ennui 
the moth of mind and body. 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 



THIS fever has been long known to, and carefully described by, 
British writers on the diseases of the East. Some of the older 
observers termed it Putrid Intestinal Remitting, and Putrid Re- 
mitting Marsh, Fever; perhaps without being sufficiently aware 
that in those days, owing to the salt diet, crowding, and other 
sanitary neglects in their then long voyages, a general scorbutic 
taint existed, amongst the newly arrived Europeans especially. 
Since then, and under the various designations of Jungle, Hill, 
Teraee, Bilious Remittent, Marsh Remittent, or Malarious Fever, 
it has been described by more modern writers. Robert Jackson 
terms it Gastric, or Bilious Remittent, and describes it as a fever 
belonging to all countries ; but as endemic in the West Indies at 
all seasons of the year. Though common to all countries, and 
observed occasionally at all seasons of the year, he justly adds 
that it prevails more generally in warm countries, on extensive 
alluvial plains, and in the autumnal season. 

Remittent fevers will be found almost everywhere throughout 
the East Indies, varying in their intensities, and in their compli- 
cations, as they may occur in the Deltas, along the marshy banks, 
or in the embouchures of rivers ; in the plains extending from 
the bases of mountain ranges, termed teraees ; in partially inun- 
dated or irrigated lands, or in such as are traversed by percolating 
streams, or by canals ; in wooded districts, termed jungles ; or in 
certain hill districts. The seabord, especially where there is 
jungle, or salt marsh, and the adjacent islands, when of a jungly 
or marshy nature, are peculiarly pestilential ; and so are often 
found the drying-up marshes, and the drying-up beds of rivers. 

The British army has often been fever stricken, and occa- 
sionally destroyed, in low, dry-looking, sandy plains, such as 
those of Walcheren and of Rosendaal ; on the elevated, rocky, 
and dry-looking countries, and in the half-dried water-courses of 
Portugal ; on the plains of Spain, along the course of the Gua- 
diana ; but everywhere there was " water to within a few inches 
of the surface ;" the ravines were always " half-dried ;" and the 
Guadiana itself consisted of but " lines of detached pools." 



I II I III MITTKNT FEVER OF BENGAL. 141 

Whether on the coast of Kent, about Dungeness, " during the 
hot summer and autumn of 1807," or in the West India Islands, 
the same topographical conditions were found to exist by William 
Fergusson; there was generally the presence of actual marsh, 
or damp ; and always the antecedents of heavy rain, or of " flood- 
ing in the rainy season." " The fevers of Cadiz, Carthagena, 
Gibraltar, and Zealand," says Dr. James Johnson, " may compete 
in respect to virulence and fatality, with those of Batavia, Bengal, 
St. Domingo, and Philadelphia." 

Varying somewhat in type and in complication, each depending 
on locality, on constitution, and on habit of life, the essential 
characters of the remittent fever are still everywhere the same ; 
and, whether as cause or effect, this disease has much to do with 
almost all the derangements of health of Europeans in the East 
It is also by far the most prevalent of Indian endemic diseases ; 
and on the right understanding of its movements, peculiar 
nature, complications, and just treatment, will always, and in a 
great measure depend, the usefulness of the Indian medical 
officer. 

According to a table furnished to me by Colonel Tulloch, out 
of an aggregate European force of 25,431 men, of her Majesty's 
army, serving in periods of eight and ten years respectively, be- 
tween 1823 and 1836, in the stations of Calcutta, Chinsurah, and 
Berhampore, all in Bengal Proper, 13,596 cases of fever, re- 
mittent, intermittent, and continued, occurred ; whereas, out of 
the same aggregate force, 8,499 cases of dysentery and diarrhoea 
occurred thus establishing the far greater prevalence of the mala- 
rious fevers over diseases of the bowels. 

In the history of the remittent fever of Bengal, during the 
last hundred years, the first observation that presents itself is 
the great difference as to its intensity in the present as compared 
to former times ; and, secondly, the causes of this difference. 

The earliest account we possess of the state of public health, 
and of the season of greatest mortality in Calcutta is, that of 
Captain Hamilton (1688 1723), wherein he mentions 460 
burials out of 1,200 British inhabitants, from August to the en- 
suing January. 

Of Major Kilpatrick's detachment of 240 men, mostly Euro- 
peans, stationed at Fultah, Ives tells us, that " not thirty of the 
whole were left alive between August and December, 1756, by 
one of these epidemics." He adds that, " the number of men 
buried in Bengal amounted to more than half of all who died in 
the several hospitals in India, during the whole term of Admiral 
Watson's command, a period of three years and one month." Dr. 
Bogue, who also served in Watson's fleet, says that, " out of 
three ships of the line and a twenty gun ship, and those not fnlly 



142 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

manned, we lost in six months upwards of two hundred men, most 
of whom died of these fevers." 

Dr. James Lind was surgeon of the Drake Indiamau, and writes 
of the fever "which raged in Bengal, in the year 1762," and 
which he terms Putrid and Remitting Marsh Fever. This fever 
" raged more or less in different places, according as the soil 
was more or less swampy ;" and, " became so violent," during 
the rainy season especially, " as to end in death during the third 
fit, which is generally the case." Others, he says, " were ex- 
posed to the danger of dying at every fit ;" and " when the 
disorder continued for any time, without a change, it generally 
ended in death ; while the weather grew better it sometimes, in 
the space of a few days, from a common fever became an in- 
termittent one, and the patient recovered, unless his liver, which 
was sometimes the case, happened to be affected." 

Stavorinus, the Dutch naval commander, speaking of " the sort 
of sickness or fever" which prevailed amongst the European in- 
habitants of Calcutta, during his visit to that city in 1766 1771, 
says that " it generally sweeps away those who are attacked by it 
in the space of three days." 

Dr. John Clark, who visited Calcutta between 1768 and 1771, 
says that " the fever and flux " were very fatal in the former year. 
Of the fever, he states that " it frequently carries off the patient in 
twelve hours." ..." During the sickly season in Bengal, the 
uncertainty of life is so great that it frequently happens that one 
may leave a friend at night in perfect health who shall not survive 
the following day. There have been several melancholy instances 
of persons who have retunied home in a state of perfect health, 
from performing the last duties to a deceased friend, and have next 
day been numbered with the dead." 

The same authority records that out of 189 cases of fever treated 
in ships trading to the various ports in the East, " 105 recovered, 
and 84 died." Again, " out of 876, the complement of men be- 
longing to eight ships, 78 died in Bengal, and 55 at sea or nearly 
one in six. Both the fever and flux, if obstinate, have an equal 
tendency to terminate in abdominal obstructions, particularly in 
fatal swellings and suppurations of the liver." From this truthful 
record, and looking to the sanitary condition of the sufferers, and 
to the results of the treatment by bark, we are constrained to infer 
that the ultimate recoveries must have been but few, out of all who 
were the subjects of the fever or the flux. 

Mr. Magennis states that in 1784, out of the crew of his ship, 
the Valentine, and six others stationed at Khidgeree, there died of 
fever and dysentery, 170 men, the usual period of their stay in the 
Hooghly being from August to January. Curtis writes that about 
the same time, out of two companies of the 98th and 100th regi- 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OP BENGAL. 143 

ments embarked in England for India, there died during a " suf- 
fering and tedious passage of exactly eleven months, 75 men, 40 
<>f them being from fever, 18 from dysentery, and the remainder 
from scurvy and cachexy." It was on this occasion that the 2nd 
battalion of the 42nd regiment alone suffered a loss, by the time it 
landed in Calcutta, of five officers and 116 men, all from fevers, 
bowel complaints, " and the scurvy." It would appear that the un- 
fortunate companies referred to by Curtis, had " some occasional 
fillings up from the other ships as the numbers decreased ;" but, 
making allowance for this circumstance, the loss of life was hor- 
rible especially, when we reflect that each ship in a fleet shared 
a like mortality. 

The ships were, in the language of Clive, " crammed with sol- 
diers ;" so that, along with salt rations, there was crowding, and 
consequent filth and want of ventilation making altogether a 
combination of the most unfavourable circumstances to the soldier's 
health. 

That a scorbutic taint was very general in these times may, I 
think, be admitted ; and this circumstance will account for the 
general term " putrid," as applied by the older writers to the en- 
demic fevers and dysenteries : this unfavourable complication will 
go far also to account for the enormous mortality. Curtis states, 
that in the open well-ventilated Naval Hospital at Madras, con- 
taining from four to five hundred men, " the great bulk of the cases 
were ukers ;" indeed he constantly refers to the scorbutic taint as 
prevalent amongst both soldiers and seamen, a fact almost entirely 
overlooked by modern writers when treating of the earlier results 
of treatment in tropical diseases. Dr. James Lind, in his excellent 
" Treatise on the Putrid and Remitting Marsh Fever of Bengal in 
1762," refers expressly to the prevalence of scurvy amongst the 
crews of all the ships off Calcutta. So recently indeed as the be- 
ginning of the present century, James Johnson states that, in the 
small portion of the river running between Calcutta and Khidgeree, 
full 300 European seamen, or more than a fourth of the ships 7 
crews, fell annual victims to the ravages of remittent fever. 

But happily we have no longer to record any such fearful 
ravages by endemic diseases in the Capital of the East ; neither 
do such sweeping epidemics as that recorded by Clark in 1770, 
with its cold stage of twelve hours, occur, carrying off 80,000 
Natives and 1,500 Europeans. Such pestilences seem to have 
gone from us ; and we find that here, as in the Western Hemi- 
sphere, the malignant fevers of former days, if they have not- 
disappeared, are at least mitigated. Even in Jamaica, although 
severe epidemic fevers sometimes recur, they do not now, as for- 
merly, destroy "to the amount of the whole number of its white 
inhabitants once in five years." 



144 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

Of a just and useful comparison, so far as relates to the means 
of cure, and the results, in former as compared to recent times, 
there can therefore be little or none. But this much may be conceded 
in favour of the position of modern Indian medical officers ; that 
owing to the better sanitary condition of their patients, to the 
better understanding of the value of depletory means, of a cool- 
ing regimen, and of the power of improved antiperiodic means, 
we not only save many more lives, but we leave far fewer of the 
sequelae to fevers and dysenteries than of old. For instance, out 
of 284 Europeans treated by Dr. Paisley, in the Military Hospital 
at Madras, in 1782, 182 men suffered from some form of "visceral 
obstruction ;" in other words, from organic disease of the liver 
or spleen, or of both, rendering a death more or less speedy a 
necessary result. 

The object of these remarks is, principally, to excite the atten- 
tion of the younger members of the profession in the East to the 
superior efficacy of measures of prevention, to those of cure of 
disease. In the first-named department of our profession, although 
a new science, the progress has been immense; whereas in the 
last, although a science of some two thousand years, or more, the 
results are by no means so signally useful, whether as regards 
the benefits to the individual, or to the community. 

With all the advantages of modern medical science, no one 
could, even now, pretend to any very great success in the cure of 
Europeans suffering at once from the united influences of the 
most concentrated malaria and of scorbutus. We know, in fact, 
that in the olden times, owing to the joint influences of the marsh 
poison, and of the blood depraved beforehand by a salt diet, and 
by crowding in ships and barracks, the seaman and soldier were 
destroyed by fever and dysentery within a few hours of their ad- 
mission into hospital. Such men were in truth almost beyond 
any, and all, medical means of cure: no amount of cinchona 
could have cured them ; but very easily devised, and very ob- 
vious means of prevention MIGHT HAVE PRESERVED THEM IN 

HEALTH. 

The causes of the present comparative improvement in public 
health must be of the highest interest and importance, especially 
to communities living within the tropics ; and, with all just con- 
fidence in modern medicine, guided by the lights of an improved 
physiology, and those also of pathology, I cannot yet agree with 
those who would ascribe the whole of the difference here spoken 
of to superior modes of medical treatment, great as these con- 
fessedly are. It is not through modern improvements in the 
treatment of disease, as contrasted with the older modes, that 
public health has been so much amended, as through the great 
measures of prevention of disease, consequent on the progress of 



THE KKMITTENT FEVER OP BENGAL. 145 

improvement of localities, institutions of police, &c. It is to the 
preservative power of knowledge, to the reciprocal actions of the 
social state, and of political events upon each other, and upon 
medical science, that the advancement of public health is most 
indebted, and so it will continue to be, although these circum- 
stances are not sufficiently weighed by some of us when, in our 
hurry to praise ourselves, we forget what is due to our predeces- 
sors of old, and that those last had frequently to treat a violent 
and complicated form of disease which we have never seen, and 
with whose fatal severity we are consequently unacquainted. 

It is justly observed by a popular writer, that there never were 
any specifics discovered against the plague, the sweating sickness, 
or the leprosy ; and yet the leprosy, the sweating sickness, and 
the plague, are now among the things unknown to us. They 
disappeared, not before any marvels of medicine, or any perfec- 
tion of chemical science, but before the gradual amelioration of 
our condition through sanitary improvements. 

PREDISPOSING CAUSES. The predisposing causes of 
fever will be found in all those conditions of the body, and in all 
those habits of life, which tend to spoil the blood, and which 
lower the tone of the nervous system. The depressing passions 
of the mind also tend greatly to the advent of fever, whether 
endemic or contagious ; and here we are carried back to the 
voyages of thirteen months to Bengal, to the crowding of soldiers 
and seamen, to the mental despondencies, to the scurvies, to 
the mortal "putrid remitting Marsh fevers" of Europeans on 
landing in India, in the days of Clive and Hastings. 

Extremes of every kind extremes of supply and deficiency, of 
repletion and of privation ; excesses of every kind, especially in 
the use of spirituous liquors, wine, fermented drinks, and of 
tobacco, each and all of them dispose to fever ; and so does ex- 
posure to extremes of heat and of cold, to heavy dews and fogs, 
to night air, to changes of season and other influences. Amongst 
seamen and soldiers proceeding to our various intertropical pos- 
sessions, the salt rations and the spirits served to the men during 
the voyage used to be to a great extent, and are still, to some de- 
gree, very injurious to health, and very predisposing to fevers, 
dysenteries, and hepatic diseases. 

Excessive labour and the consequent fatigue, whether from the 
operations of sieges, or from long marches, powerfully dispose to 
fevers amongst soldiers ; and when to labour and fatigue we add 
the absence of proper diet, the want of necessary cover from 
tents, want of sufficient clothing, and want of sleep, we shall be 
at no loss to account for the ravages of disease in camps espe- 

L 



146 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

cially when to all the above causes we superadd the abuse of 
stimulating liquors, and the malarious influences. 

After the brief sketch here offered of the history and causes of 
the remittent fever of Bengal, the reader will be prepared to enter 
on a consideration of its symptoms, pathology, and treatment, as 
they are presented to us in our day. 

SYMPTOMS AND PROGRESS. In no other morbid state is 
the physiognomy of disease so marked with general distress as in 
the severer forms of tropical fevers ; for whether we behold the suf- 
ferer in the stage of rigor, reaction, or that tending to collapse, 
the countenance and manner are expressive of anguish, varying 
only in degree according to the stages. 

The attack of the Bengal Remittent Fever is usually sudden, 
though occasionally the patient may complain for a day or more 
of weakness and lassitude, headache, nausea, and general uneasi- 
ness, accompanied by mental depression, or subdued anguish. 
The countenance is pale and shrunk the conjunctiva; clear, and 
of a dull whiteness. During this premonitory stage of malaise 
the pulse is small, contracted, and frequent, with a slight increase 
of the temperature of the surface, especially over the forehead 
and pra3cordia, and a diminished action of the intestinal and 
urinary organs, as well as of the skin. 

The actual invasion of fever is ushered in by debility of the 
mind and body, indicative of diminished power of the nervous 
system, by shivering, or horror, the sensation of cold recurring in 
paroxysms, not being continuous. The headache now becomes 
intense and darting, with sense of tension across the forehead as if 
with a tight-drawn cord, and with pain in the back and loins 
or on moving the eye-balls. The eyes now look muddy, or are 
tinged yellow, being void of lustre and expression ; or else they 
have the appearance of deep seated inflammation ; occasionally, 
they are protruded, giving a wild and passionate expression to a 
countenance already flushed and anxious. At other times the 
countenance is bloated and torpid, expressive of general conges- 
tion, or of what the patient terms inward suffering. There is 
frequently a distressing giddiness which occasionally proceeds to 
delirium. When this last symptom appears early, and runs high, 
we may anticipate a dangerous form of fever. 

The tongue is red at the tip and edges, loaded, clammy, and 
moist ; at other times, with a bitter or bad taste, the tongue is but 
little changed from the healthy appearance. The thirst is usually 
most distressingly urgent, and the previous nausea is now increased 
to actual and severe bilious vomiting, accompanied by distressing 
sense of oppression and burning pain of the pracordia. 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 147 

On examining the surface of the body, we find the skin thick, 
dry, and corrugated, giving to the hand a rough unpleasant sensa- 
tion of pungent deep-seated and intense heat: occasionally, in 
severe complicated cases, the skin is of a deep yellow. In the 
fevers of the rainy season, and especially in persons of a phleg- 
matic habit and large abdomen, the skin is moist, clammy, and 
cadaverous, indicative of prostration of the nervous and vascular 
functions. 

The abdomen generally, but more particularly the epigastric 
region, will be found tender on pressure, tumid and inelastic, ac- 
companied by great anguish and oppression, caused by sanguineous 
congestion around the nervous centres. The secreting and ex- 
creting functions are all seriously disturbed, the bowels being 
usually constipated ; but occasionally there are copious biliary 
evacuations ; at other times, they are acrid and watery, while the 
urinary excretion is always scanty and depraved, though occa- 
sionally it also is copious, limpid, or tinged with bile. 

The pulse, previously oppressed, becomes now hard and quick, 
ranging from 110 to 120 in the minute; and the force and fre- 
quency of circulation through the brain, superadded to the already 
disturbed condition of the nervous functions, gives rise to confu- 
sion of ideas, and loss of mental command, amounting occasionally 
to actual delirium. 

The respiration is hurried and irregular, sometimes interrupted 
by deep sighing; and with all these accumulated distresses, there 
is not a point on the entire sentient surface of the body on which 
the patient can recline for a moment with comfort. No posture 
affords ease or rest, the sufferer being harassed with a restlessness 
which nothing can appease, characteristic at once of gastric irrita- 
tion and oppression, with much general disturbance of the great 
central nervous functions of life. In a brief space the sufferer goes 
through a terrible storm of diseased action, his throes of anguish, 
mental and corporeal, being truly distressing to behold. 

After a time, this general distress of body and mind, so difficult, 
if not impossible to describe, begins to subside ; and, with a relax- 
ation of all the symptoms, comes a state more or less approach- 
ing to regularity of function, termed remission, more or less com- 
plete, according as the fever is mild or severe in its character. 

These symptoms rise and fall in daily succeeding paroxysms, 
until they advance perceptibly into a condition of returning health, 
or recede and become aggravated and complicated into a state of 
imminent danger the paroxysms running imperceptibly into each 
other, so as hardly to leave the least interval from suffering, during 
the brief but retrograde process that now remains to be gone through. 

It sometimes, although rarely, happens, that a double paroxysm 
occurs within the twenty-four hours a circumstance to be car-- 

L 2 



148 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

fully ascertained, lest the physician's visits and his application of 
active remedies, and especially of bleeding and purging, should be 
mistimed ; that is, used at the wrong time of remission, instead of 
the right time, or that of the accession of fever. 

The favourable stage again, or that of remission, is indicated by 
a gentle perspiration, a reduced temperature, a soft and expanded 
pulse, diminished in frequency down to about 90 in the minute 
a full, free, and regular respiration, and a more abundant action 
of the secreting and excreting functions. In the rainy season and 
in dissipated and unhealthy subjects, as well as in the worst of our 
fevers, the stage of remission is the period of greatest danger the 
relaxation proceeding too far, as shown by profuse sweats, coldness 
of the extremities, great anxiety, and sinking of the vital powers ; in 
short, there is no stage of this fever that does not require a careful 
observation and watching; for each succeeding event has strict 
relation to its antecedent, and all of them vary in degree of inten- 
sity according to the locality and season according to the age, 
constitution, and previous habits of life of the patient. 

In the ordinary forms of remittent fever, the first stage, or that 
of cold, is but short, while that of reaction, or of heat, varies from 
two to eight hours' duration ; and this again is followed by relaxa- 
tion or remission, which is more or less complete, of longer or 
shorter duration, proportioned to the severity and duration of the 
previous stages. In its more concentrated forms, on the other hand, 
the remission of symptoms is so trifling as to require a close obser- 
vation for its detection ; and unless the progress of disease can be 
early arrested by art, paroxysm follows upon paroxysm with in- 
creasing rapidity and severity, until life is destroyed. 

In the milder or less dangerous forms of this fever, under the 
influence of proper treatment, the daily paroxysms steadily decline 
in force and frequency ; and towards the fifth or seventh day, or 
earlier, convalescence may be completely established, and a return 
to health ensured. But however mild the fever may appear, the 
inexperienced practitioner should be on his guard against evil. 
In fact, he who has to watch the progress of this fever should be 
always expecting the unexpected ; so suddenly and insidiously 
may unfavourable symptoms set in. He must be on the watch for 
the sudden accession of symptoms at once dangerous, unlocked 
for, and rapid in their progress, if allowed to go on unchecked. 
Changes also take place suddenly in the constitutional powers of 
the patient ; especially in persons of weakly condition, in such as 
have suffered from previous disease, or from great bodily fatigue, 
from privation, or from mental distress. 

The previous detail of symptoms will have shown how greatly 
the nervous and vascular functions have been disturbed, even in 
the course of one paroxysm, and how much the cerebral and ab- 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OP BENGAL. 149 

dominal organs have been oppressed ; it is then to these two 
regions that the attention of the medical observer must be princi- 
pally directed ; for what serious results may he not anticipate from 
many such paroxysms, if unrestrained and unmitigated ! The truth 
is, that, in respect of changes within the two cavities named, our cir- 
cumspection cannot be too keen ; for congestion, more or lets 
severe, to end perhaps in inflammation and effusion, and consequent 
destruction of some organ essential to life, may be the result of 
carelessness, or of inattention. The most serious, rapid, and un- 
expected changes will be found to occur within the cerebral cavity ; 
but indeed this latter, as well as the abdominal viscera, should be 
regarded throughout every stage of the fever with the most anxious 
attention. 

Such is a detail of the symptoms and progress of the remit- 
tent fever of Bengal. In no instance perhaps will each and 
all the above-mentioned symptoms be presented, for the fever 
varies with the locality and season ; but so many of the symptoms 
described will be found in every case as to leave no doubt what- 
ever as to the real nature of the disease. 

A consideration, however transient, of the outline here given, 
must satisfy any one that the disease under consideration is one 
which involves the safety, or the destruction of the most import- 
ant organs of the body. It is likewise, varying in degree, the most 
prevalent form of disease known to the world, and that by which it 
is supposed that the greater portion of the human race is prema- 
turely destroyed ; it therefore claims a paramount attention on the 
part of the tropical physician, as on his intimate acquaintance 
with its nature and treatment will mainly depend his character for 
usefulness. 

In placing before the reader a detail of the symptoms of the 
Bengal remittent fever, I have confined myself to the mention of 
such as are present in the ordinary and severer forms of that dis- 
ease, omitting all notice of the minor forms and degrees, as these 
last may appear at different seasons of the year, in persons of pe- 
culiar temperaments, habits of life, or in persons of different ages 
and sexes. 

I have done this with a view to avoid confusion, and the entan- 
glement which results from over minute descriptions of symptoms 
which vary only in degree ; believing too that he who can appre- 
ciate the circumstances of danger in the graver forms of fever, so 
as to overcome them, will be at no loss when called to treat such 
as are mild, and almost free from danger to life. After having been 
familiar with the mastering of great dangers, it is easy to bring 
one's mind down to considerations for the removal of the smaller 
ills. There is, in short, notlu'ng in the nature or progress of dis- 



150 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

ease which can disturb or embarrass the man who has been habi- 
tuated successfully to encounter the storms of tropical fevers. 

PATHOLOGY. A consideration of the phenomena constitu- 
ting a paroxysm of remittent fever, in a person previously healthy, 
and the fact that the violence of succeeding paroxysms has during 
life fallen with augmenting morbid force on the organs within the 
abdominal and cerebral cavities, will prepare the pathologist to find, 
that, after death, the results of congestion, or of inflammatory 
action, are manifested in the peritonaeum, stomach, liver, and 
bowels in the one case, while the membranes, the cavities, or the 
substance of the brain suffer injury in the other case ; and so it is 
in fact. Another circumstance deserves a preliminary and special 
notice, namely, the almost universal application to the fevers of 
the East of the significant term BILIOUS. That it has not been in 
the olden time, any more than in our own day, an accidental or a 
misapplied term is evident, for modern statistics fully attest to its 
pathological accuracy in the most extended and unquestionable 
manner. We are thus, in India, continually thrown back on the 
just observation of Clark, that of all the organs of the human body, 
the liver is the most liable to disease. 

The great majority of the complications in the fevers of Bengal 
are abdominal, whether these consist of mere irritation, of con- 
gestion, or of congestion proceeding onwards to inflammation; 
and this would appear to be the principal cause of the prostration, 
with tendency to collapse, so common, especially during the rainy 
season ; for, even within a few hours, there occasionally exists 
here an oppression of the vital functions alarming to the stranger 
physician. 

The depression caused by a violent blow on the abdomen more 
nearly resembles the febrile collapse than any other morbid con- 
dition with which I am acquainted ; and both probably depend on 
a disturbance in the functions of the organic nervous system the 
powerful though silent source of many symptoms known to us 
only by their effects. 

It must be held in recollection, too, that what are termed con- 
gestions, subacute and acute inflammations, tend, firstly, to destroy 
life speedily ; and secondly, that, in their remoter results, they 
found organic diseases which have the same eventually fatal effects. 
In either case they form conditions of the utmost importance ; for, 
in the first instance, the immediate cure is involved, so as to save 
life in the second, the prevention of disease more or less remote 
and deadly. 

The oppressive fulness and tenderness of the epigastric region, 
with nausea, vomiting, or retching, forming so urgent a feature in 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

tlir symptoms during life, are followed, in fatal oases, by alterations 
of structure in the mucous digestive surfaces, more or less exten- 
sive and destructive according to the intensity or the duration of 
the previous fever. 

These lesions will be found in the stomach, duodenum, and 
mcsocolon principally, and they are generally of a congestive or in- 
flammatory nature, as evidenced by a turgid or dirty red condition 
of the inner surfaces, and by interstitial effusions : in very severe 
or protracted cases the results of congestions, or of inflammatory 
actions, as redness, ecchymosis, or even ulceration, will extend to 
the mucous surfaces of the small and large intestines, while the 
liver, spleen, omentum, and mesentery exhibit various degrees of 
vascular engorgement. A severe disturbance of the hepatic func- 
tion is almost universal in the progress of the remittent fevers of 
the East, and the evidences of congestion, sometimes of inflamma- 
tory actions, in the liver, gall-bladder, and ducts, will very gene- 
rally be found after death. The spleen is not so frequently the 
seat of morbid changes ; and when they do exist in persons pre- 
viously healthy, the conditions are those of simple enlargement, or 
of softening 01 the organ. 

Nor are the evidences of congestion, or of inflammatory action 
within the cerebral cavity, of a less prominent or declared character; 
and they consist occasionally of serous effusion into the ventricles 
or between the membranes, being the results of vascular deter- 
mination passing onwards to congestion, or inflammation, and 
their consequences. In general, these results consist in effused 
serum, events sudden and dangerous in their nature, and such as 
we should most anxiously guard against by a prompt and effec- 
tive treatment; for when effusion occurs within the head the 
fatal termination is too often close at hand. As already stated, 
however, the greater proportion of the complications, in the 
remittent fevers of Bengal, are abdominal, and, though hardly 
of less danger to the patient, they are not so sudden in their 
invasion, or so immediately dangerous to life, as those which 
are cerebral. But it is well to remember that against the one 
or the other, or against both together, the tropical practitioner 
must be unceasingly and carefully on his guard. 

The evidences that serous effusion is threatened, or taking place 
within the cerebral cavity will be found in mental incoherence, 
and a- wandering indifference to objects of former interest, ending 
in stupor more or less complete, if the disease advances. To 
questions relating to his condition of health, the patient replies 
that he is " very well." This insensibility to, and unacquaintance 
with, his actually dangerous state, indicates imminent peril ; 
and the sufferer, when not relieved by timely and proper treat- 
ment, first " sinks in bed," under the laws of gravitation, and after- 



152 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

wards with dilated pupils, flushed cheeks, cold extremities, and 
increasing stupor, he sinks in death. 

The effusion of serum within the abdominal cavity is accom- 
panied by increased praocordial anxiety, with increased tendency 
to collapse ; the abdomen feels full and inelastic on examination, 
and sometimes there is tenderness on pressure. The tendency 
in the remittent fevers of Bengal to found visceral disease within 
the abdomen is so great that we should be on the careful watch 
against such complications from the first hour of treatment, until 
convalescence shall be established and matured. 

Death from remittent fever being usually an event of speedy 
occurrence, there can seldom exist time for emaciation of the 
body; but the surface generally exhibits a sallow or greenish- 
yellow appearance. Where jaundice occurs in the course of this 
fever, and especially where it is associated with cerebral disturb- 
ance, such as drowsiness, the danger is again imminent. The 
collapse here has a double source a cerebral as well as an abdo- 
minal origin ; and the surface of the body after death exhibits a 
deeper tinge of sallowness, with livor of the face and neck. 

A presentiment of death is a very unfavourable circumstance in 
the progress of remittent fever, and one that is too often verified in 
the result. A soldier will say : " You have been very kind to me, 
sir, but this time I shall not get over it." There may exist in the 
poor fellow's case nothing that has the appearance of absolute or 
immediate danger at this time yet the man generally dies, and 
that in the course of a few paroxysms. The fatal impression is 
instinctive, and is not at first shared in by the medical attendant, 
who is seldom able to trace the pathological source. 

In July, 1840, the height of the rainy season, when, as stated, the 
fevers are more than usually severe in type, I passed a gentleman, 
the head of a mercantile firm, while driving through the streets of 
Calcutta. He remarked to a friend on my healthy appearance, 
and on the amount of labour I appeared to undergo with impunity. 
At 2 P. M. of that day he was seized with the remittent fever ; and 
at 4 P. M., he was informed that, although the younger and stouter 
of the two, my life was despaired of by my professional friends. 
His countenance speedily assumed a very grave expression, and 
after some days he refused to use any means of cure, truly declar- 
ing himself to be a dying man. On examination after death a 
purulent collection was found under the descending colon, a con- 
dition not suspected during life. 

THE SELECTION AND APPLICATION OF THE MEANS 
OF CURE. In every form and variety of fever, in every climate, 
and in every season of the year one of the most important cir- 
cumstances to observe, is, the nature of the prevailing disease, 



IIIK REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 153 

whether endemic or epidemic ; for not only do fevers differ in their 
nature in different localities and seasons, but so also do their 
complications whether congestive or inflammatory, so as to require 
a manifest and carefully proportionate treatment. It should like- 
wise be impressed on all medical officers that too much attention 
cannot be paid to the type of every epidemic fever, to its general 
cli. tract. T, as well as to each individual case. 

We are told by Sir James Mc'Grigor, in his admirable history 
of the diseases of the Peninsular army, that not only had fever 
very different forms in different seasons, and in different quarters 
of the same seasons, but they required very different, nay opposite 
kinds of treatment : the knowledge of this, he adds, strongly im- 
presses on us the necessity of becoming acquainted with every 
attending circumstance, before we venture to censure any particular 
practice. These circumstances should be for ever present to the 
mind of the physician. And here I would remark on the serious 
disadvantages under which the tropical practitioner undertakes 
the cure of fever, as compared to his more fortunate brethren of 
temperate climates. The fonner has, in a large proportion of 
instances, to treat a fever violent, concentrated, and rapid in its 
nature and tendencies : he has but a few days, and sometimes but 
a few hours between the invasion of disease and the recovery or 
death of the sufferer. The means of cure too, while they require 
the most cool, measured and careful judgment, must be prompt, 
direct, and powerful to a degree not known, and therefore not 
required elsewhere. All this involves a most grave responsibility. 
In Europe, on the other hand, owing to the comparatively subdued 
and protracted character of the fevers generally, we can afford to 
watch the slow progress of events, so as cautiously and indirectly 
to treat symptoms, and thus aid nature in her endeavours to free 
herself from disease. By him who would conduct his patient with 
safety through the troubles and distresses of a tropical remittent 
fever, two preliminary conditions must be settled : he must first 
select his means of cure with judgment, and apportion them care- 
fully ; and having done this, he must apply them promptly. In 
fever, above all diseases, we must ever admit with Trophilus that 
" he who is able to distinguish what can be done, and what 
cannot be done, is the true physician ;" but how great and difficult 
his task ! He must measure his means to the wants of nature, 
doing neither too much nor too little carefully avoiding what 
ought not to be done. 

Before proceeding to the cure of this formidable disease it is 
always necessary carefully to observe the duration of the actual 
stage of the fever ; that is, whether it be of some hours' or some 
days' duration, and whether the actually existing paroxysm be at its 
accession, or its decline ; for, by the daily recurrence of these 



154 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

paroxysms, changes take place in the relative balance of power in 
the several functions, nervous and vascular, which render a pro- 
portionate modification in our more active means of cure necessary 
to successful treatment. The means which would be salutary 
within the first few days cannot be used later to the same effect, 
or to the same amount; and so again the means which would 
arrest fever and save life, if applied at the accession of the parox- 
ysm, would induce a dangerous collapse, or even destroy life, if 
applied at the stage of its decline or towards its termination. 
After these preliminary cautions the reader will be prepared to 
enter into the general details of remedies in their usual order of 
application into a consideration of their respective physiological 
actions into the preferences to be given to some of them, and 
their application to particular cases. 

EMETICS. Certain authors in various countries have recom- 
mended that, in the treatment of fevers, we should begin with the ex- 
hibition of an emetic, and each has had his favourite as sulphate of 
zinc, antimonial preparation, or ipecacuanha, the latter being by 
some persons believed to be the safest. Certainly, when a patient 
seized with fever is found with a stomach loaded with food and 
drink, the sooner he is vomited the better ; but the coincidence 
cannot be a frequent one anywhere, and within the tropics the 
practice of early vomiting in fever has not obtained or held ground. 
In the treatment of Europeans, suffering from the periodic fevers 
of India, I have very seldom exhibited emetics ; but I am bound 
to say that, in the treatment of natives of all classes, civil and 
military, I ever found a combination of compound jalap powder 
with a few grains of calomel, and one or two grains of emetic tar- 
tar, to act in a manner frequently to cut short the progress of fever 
tiie patients very generally requiring neither bark nor arsenic, 
the free action of both stomach and bowels, having proved curative 
of the fever. 

In the instances in which emetics have proved of real service to 
European patients, I was disposed to refer the benefit generally to 
the sudorific and sedative effects, and not to the action of vomiting 
a severe and distressing symptom already present in almost every 
violent case of remittent fever. There exists, in the East at least, 
a prejudice against the use of emetics ; but I apprehend that the 
just application of this powerful means has not yet been found, 
through a careful course of observation and experience. All that 
seems to be really known is, that there are cases of fevers in which 
emetics may act beneficially, and others in which they prove injurious. 

Robert Jackson says that, in periodic fever, particularly in the 
bilious remittent of the autumnal season, the emetic is often the 
first remedy prescribed ; and, in certain cases, its operation is not 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 155 

(infrequently beneficial, so beneficial indeed in many instances 
that the disease is arrested, or a condition induced by its action 
under which it is easily arrested by other applications. This cele- 
brated physician adds, however, that emetics do no good, but even 
do harm, " where the habit is full, the arterial action high, the 
pulse hard and tense, or small, deep and concentrated the skin 
thick and torpid, or where the functions of important organs, viz., 
the head, lungs, or liver,' are oppressed by sanguineous congestion." 

Mr. Wade of Chunar, published a book, in 1791, in which he 
detailed the results of treatment by means of a solution of Epsom 
salts and emetic-tartar, with a success " unbroken, except by two 
cases of unfortunate termination, in the treatment of about four 
hundred cases of fever and dysentery." That the fevers and dys- 
enteries amongst the old hard-drinking European pensioners 
forming the garrison of Chunar, in 1791, could not have been of a 
very formidable character, is sufficiently apparent. Mr. Wade 
invites " the medical world to draw their own comments ;" and the 
medical world has done so long ago. Meanwhile, this same plan of 
treating every disease alike, was copied by and attempted to be 
practised at the General hospital 01 Calcutta, under the influence 
of bayonets, by the late Dr. Halliday ; but it had no better success 
this time with " the medical world." As to the patients in this 
latter instance, no power could induce the Europeans to submit, 
either to the continued nausea, the frequent vomitings, or the in- 
cessant purgings which resulted. There was, in fact, no power at 
that time in the government of British India sufficient to enforce 
the emetic cathartic treatment. 

This is the kind of case-book that is calculated to do so much 
harm with the inexperienced and the inattentive, who are averse 
from the trouble of learning their duties, except by the shortest and 
easiest of ways. 

THE WARM BATH TEPID AND COLD AFFUSIONS- 
COLD DRINKS. Robert Jackson began his treatment of 
the congestive fevers of the West Indies by a warm bath and 
active frictions to the whole surface of the body. While thus 
immersed, with the sensibility of the skin " augmented by the 
heat of the bath and by friction," and with the fluids power- 
fully derived to the surface, he abstracted blood from the arm. 
That such means are powerful and require the hand of a master, 
no one can doubt ; but, in point of fact, neither the warm bath 
nor the tepid and cold affusions have had, any more than the 
emetics, any systematic or sustained support from the practitioners 
of the East. Perhaps the great tendency to collapse in the fevers 
of Bengal may have at all times deterred us from the very liberal use 
of means which tend powerfully to affect the balance of circulation. 



156 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

I remember the instance of an European who was employed on 
the deadly island of Sagor, and whose case interested me greatly 
at the time. His fever was in its seventh day when I saw him, 
and the native boatmen, to prevent his leaping overboard, had tied 
him in his delirium to the benches, in which state he was exposed, 
bareheaded and half naked, to the direct rays of a March sun dur- 
ing the two days of his passage up the river to Calcutta. The 
whole surface of the body was of a lurid lead-and-brick hue, as 
were the eyes. His delirium was subsiding into stupor, no cohe- 
rent reply being obtained from him ; his restlessness was of the 
most distressing kind, for he tossed and changed his posture vio- 
lently in every few seconds of time ; his tongue was black and dry, 
and his pulse was extinguished by the weight of my fore-finger : 
the case looked hopeless. I seized, however, on what appeared to 
me the most urgent feature of this poor fellow's case, namely, the 
most excessively pungent and unpleasant heat of skin I had ever 
felt by means of the touch ; and I ordered him at once, and under 
my inspection, to be dashed with cold water over head and trunk, 
from a few feet of height. Some six or eight earthen pitchers of 
water were thus poured on the patient, after which he was well 
rubbed and put in bed. The fearful restlessness at once subsided, 
and in half an hour he was in a gentle perspiration and sound 
sleep. I have never seen such a case, or such a result before or 
since. A few mercurial purgatives concluded this man's cure, and 
I did not see him until two years subsequently. But it now be- 
came apparent how severe had been his fever, for the faculties of 
the mind never regained their former power, and he was eventually 
sent to his friends in England. The unusual nature and amount 
of heat in this case induced me at once to apply the cold bath; and 
I was of opinion at the time that, had I adopted any other course of 
treatment, the patient must have died. But it is only fair to state that 
Robert Jackson, the originator of this plan of treating fevers (and 
not Dr. Ourrie, of Liverpool), and who had had more experience of 
its effects than any other person since his time, declares that the 
salutary action of cold affusion, in febrile diseases, is not necessarily 
and indispensably connected with the presence of increased heat. 
His caution that cold affusion is " ineffectual or dangerous where 
deep congestion or strong inflammation exists in any of the inte- 
rior organs," may constitute another reason why this means has 
not been more generally had recourse to in the fevers of the East 
Indies. Measures difficult of application and sometimes doubtful 
of result excepting when used w r ith an extraordinary tact like 
Robert Jackson's, will not be generally adopted or employed by 
ordinary medical practitioners. 

The topical use of cold and tepid water is much practised in 
India, and that with signal benefit when applied to the scalp, fore- 



THE REMITTENT FF.VKR OF BENGAL. 157 

head, and temples, where cerebral determinations occur with seve- 
rity, as in the ardent fever of the hot season. 

Warm baths have been limited, in my own practice, to the latter 
stages of fever, dysentery, and hepatitis, and when convalescence 
was approaching. They will then be found both grateful and be- 
neficial. 

Nature prompts the free use of cold drinks in all forms of fever, 
and the extinction of thirst is everywhere esteemed a powerful 
means of cure ; so much so that certain mild forms of lever are 
curable by cold water alone. The abundant introduction of 
American ice into the three capitals of India has proved of great 
service in the treatment of the fevers of those cities. The ice is 
useful not only as a local and general refrigerant, but as a power- 
ful means also for allaying the distressing irritability of stomach 
so common to our fevers. 

BLOOD-LETTING. I come now to consider blood-letting, 
the most powerful remedy, the most difficult of just application, 
but the most needful of any we possess, if we would cure the re- 
mittent fever of Bengal, and save the patient from subsequent 
visceral disease. The question of blood-letting in disease is al- 
most the most important which can engage the attention of the 
practical physician. I am aware that a kind of fashion is at pre- 
sent moving against the practice, almost to the desire for its total 
exclusion ; but those who are acquainted with the history of medi- 
cine, and who have seen and understood the nature of acute 
tropical disease, will take fashion here at its proper value, and at 
no more. " It may be very well," says a Dublin critic, " to refrain 
from blood-letting in the treatment of feeble and unsound patients 
in large cities, but what will our provincial friends say to the 
wholesale interdiction of the lancet ? That we do not now bleed 
as we formerly did is obvious enough ; but do we err in the oppo- 
site extreme t We have ourselves * a theory,' that it might be 
better at once to diminish the quantity of the circulating fluid than 
to render it unfit to support life or repair injury, by slops and 
physic.. By the way, if it is so bad a practice to bleed, how does 
it happen that we have so much leeching and cupping, especially 
in private practice ? These questions .are worthy of consideration, 
both in a pathological and medico-ethical point of view." Cer- 
tainly, these questions are worthy of consideration ; and, to borrow 
their own language, how long will medical men persist in thinking 
that if any given proceeding be wrong, its directly opposite must 
necessarily be right ; that if profuse and indiscriminate bleeding, 
for instance, be wrong, the not bleeding in any case must be right ? 

One very important circumstance should be impressed on the 
attention of all young naval and military surgeons, viz., that when, 



158 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

upon careful consideration, general blood-letting is deemed neces- 
sary in the severer forms of tropical fevers, when there is violent 
tumult of arterial action, or an oppressive venous congestion, con- 
ditions alike dangerous to life the said general blood-letting, to 
be effective, should be practised as early as possible, and be suffi- 
cient in amount to make an impression on the febrile movement. 
A small bleeding, or repeated small bleedings, may moderate a 
mild, but can never arrest a violent tropical fever. 

In the practice of Robert Jackson, in the West Indies, the 
largest bleedings, amounting in some cases to "ten pounds in 
twenty -four hours," were made chiefly in the ardent and inflamma- 
tory cerebral fevers, and occasionally in the congestive abdominal 
complications common to the West as to the East Indies. Of the 
complications referable to the cavities of the abdomen and cere- 
brum, the latter is the more ardent, and the more immediately 
dangerous to life. It is but proper to add, that " this apparently 
revolting practice," as Jackson terms it, was of such effect in his 
hands " that the greater number of persons who were treated in 
this manner returned to their duty within a fortnight." As here 
stated, the rule of depletion that applies to an acute or ardent 
fever, applies with equal force to the same means of cure in the 
more difficult form of congestive fever ; and there is not in the 
whole range of practice of medicine any question of a more nice 
discrimination than that of the measure here referred to ; and next 
to that important question comes that of the proper time of using 
blood-letting. To render this important operation " the more cer- 
tain, and the more perfect," Jackson urges : 

1. " That it be made within six hours from the invasion of con- 
tinued fever, or before the paroxysm of the periodic fever of vio- 
lent excitement has attained its acme. 

2. "The simple act of abstracting blood from the circulating 
system is often decisively effectual in arresting the course of fever, 
where it is resorted to at an early period, and where the process is 
properly conducted. 

8. " It is still salutary, but of less decisive effects, where the 
course is more advanced, that is, beyond the third day. It is not 
of dependence, but is not prohibited, and it is occasionally useful 
even at late periods. It is thus not safe to carry it to the extent 
of effecting precipitate arrest ; it is safe, as well managed, to alle- 
viate impending dangers, and often to facilitate the development 
of regular crisis:" thus he conceives that guarded blood-letting 
favours the tendency of fevers to subside under the law of periodic 
action. 

4. " If employed thus it obviates or removes congestion, and 
thereby prevents effusion into internal cavities, and into the sub- 
stance oi internal organs. 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 159 

5. " Abstraction of blood is, moreover, safe, and its effect is 
often important, at the first moments of relapse. 

6. " Prescribed with consideration, and applied with manage- 
ment in execution, blood-letting is both a safe and powerful re- 
medy, either decisive of cure by its own power, or preparatory of 
the curative powers of others. It is the main engine of successful 
practice ; it is not the sole remedy. 

7. " But though I say this in truth, I do not say that bleeding 
in a large, even in any quantity, is uniformly proper, or uniformly 
safe. 

8. " Though the abstraction of blood is generally beneficial, it 
is only so conditionally, and under management. If the effect 
produced by it be not seconded by well-considered means of 
stimulation, or conservative of auxiliary power, general or local, 
adapted to the circumstances of the case, the chances are that the 
harm will be greater than the good. But while blood-letting is a 
remedy of nice management in cases of relapse, it is to be avoided, 
as well as other remedies of strong operation, where there exist 
appearances of approaching a favourable crisis. On the contrary, 
where the critical power labours, and the critical effect is marred 
through internal impediment, the abstraction of blood in a given 
quantity is often followed by signal benefit ; it gives facility to the 
course of the salutary process artificially obstructed. 

9. " If there be no prohibitory circumstance in the case, one 
bleeding is preferable to repeated small bleedings. 

10. " But though I regard the abstraction of blood as a remedy 
of the first importance, for the abrupt and successful cure of fever, 
either primarily or secondarily, I am yet free to own that its good 
effect depends principally on the manner of adjusting the subtrac- 
tion to the condition. 

11. "It often fails, and even sometimes does harm where, em- 
ployed as principal, its real place is only that of auxiliary ; and, 
per contra, where employed as auxiliary, its real place is that of 
principal." 

Not to speak of the practical importance of the rules here laid 
down by our greatest military physician, and numbered by me the 
more to mark their separate import, they are of extreme interest 
in the history of tropical fevers, and of their treatment ; and it is 
principally on this latter account, and not as absolute rules of 
practice in India, that they are here presented to the reader's con- 
sideration. Such histories I conceive to be of great importance, 
as from their attentive consideration and comparison we learn, 
generally after a lapse of years, to deduce from them a just balance 
in the use of all the known means of cure, old as well as new. In 
the principles involved in the rules above quoted from the writings 
of Robert Jackson, he will, I think, be found just, although the 



160 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

degree and extent to which he carried blood-letting will not apply 
to the fevers of our day, in the East Indies at least. The rational 
and the timely employment of blood-letting are the two great 
points for consideration and determination by the tropical 
physician. 

It has been well observed that the most distinguished physicians 
of all ages, who have treated of fever, coincide entirely in the 
feeling that with regard to this important class of disease it is im- 
possible, in the short life allotted to the most aged, to do anything 
more than add a little knowledge to the common stock. If this be 
true, and who that knows anything of medicine can doubt it, we 
should study with care the history of fever, and learn from it not 
to boast of our success, or blame those who have gone before us ; 
for in truth we are too often only able to see the defects of the 
older writers by the lights which they have placed before us. 
The accurate observer Tennant, speaking of the treatment of 
the fevers of his time in Bengal, 1796, says that it was "simple 
and decisive, and more efficacious than that of any sort of diseases 
equally malignant in Britain." 

Jackson designed to produce immediate curative result by 
cutting short the progress of fever, and so did the older medical 
officers in our tropical possessions by "throwing in the bark." 
In the circle of varying opinion, doctrine, and practice, we come 
again, after the round of a century, to the same exclusive treat- 
ment last mentioned, in heroic doses of quinine. This plan of 
arresting fever has been of late had recourse to in the continued 
types of Europe, and in the formidable paroxysmal malarious 
fevers of tropical regions, but as yet without any determinate 
results. The treatment by Peruvian bark, and by bark chiefly, 
was long and faithfully practised in former times, and an enormous 
amount of visceral disease, the infarctions of the older writers, was 
the result ; and it is to be feared that, in hot climates at least, 
such will again be the result, whether we employ, after an exclu- 
sive manner, the disulphate of quina, or the more galenical prepa- 
rations of the bark. All experience points, in fact, to the union 
of the depletory and refrigerant with the antiperiodic means in the 
cure of tropical fevers, remittent and intermittent, thus blending 
all the safe and effective means of cure, not limiting ourselves to 
one exclusively. 

In the treatment of fevers, as of other acute diseases, we must be 
content with what can be done with safety and efficiency. As 
matter of theory, or even of reasonable endeavour, it seems 
sound in principle to cut short a fever in its career, however diffi- 
cult the execution ; for, as in military affairs, what can be done 
most speedily is done most effectively, and we should bring into 
action all our forces as soon as possible. As yet, however, we 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OP BENGAL. 161 

have nowhere succeeded in absolutely cutting fever short by c<>n/'- 
de-main, either by blood-letting or by the Peruvian bark ; yet the 
two means constitute beyond doubt our heroic remedies. Robert 
Jackson was supposed to have come nearer the desired result than 
any physician with whose practice we are acquainted; but it is ad- 
mith'd also that, in hands less skilled than his, the practice of large 
and repeated bleedings was not always safe. In the East Indies 
they have never been used, nor would they there be justifiable as a 
general rule. No tropical practitioner can peruse the works of 
Robert Jackson, however, without great benefit ; but it is to those 
practising in the West Indies that, with a certain reservation, they 
will prove of the most special and signal use. 

All circumstances considered, I give a very decided preference 
to general over local blood-letting in all cases of acute and 
aggravated tropical disease, whether it be the remittent fever, 
Dysentery, or Hepatitis. When the medical attendant bleeds 
from the arm he sees and knows what he is doing ; he measures 
his means and adapts them to the circumstances of the case, and 
he sees carefully, and at once, that it is not carried too far; 
whereas, by the application of leeches, no one knows the exact 
amount of blood abstracted in the first instance, and the amount 
of subsequent oozing, in the absence of the medical attendant, is 
even more uncertain, and in remittent fever even more dangerous 
when, as occasionally happens, this oozing takes place during the 
night, and in the declining stage of remission. This much is cer- 
tain, however, that so much blood does occasionally ooze from 
leech-bites as to cause an immediate prostration of the powers of 
life amounting to dangerous collapse, with a subsequent anaemia 
very difficult of cure. Of these facts various emphatic examples 
are daily presented to me in the instances of invalids returning 
from India, and the proofs will be furnished in a subsequent por- 
tion of this work. From the recorded histories of the cases it is 
often evident that, where the medical attendant in India intended 
to abstract the amount of twenty ounces, sixty ounces have been 
lost, or three times as much as was intended. Now, no medical 
officer of ordinary education, however young, could look on vene- 
section, and see his patient approach to a sunken condition with- 
out immediately tying up the arm ; but where leeches have 
been applied I see very lamentable results from neglect and 
oozing, the patients being at the time under the general care of 
very able and experienced medical officers. The application of 
leeches is too often left to relatives and to servants, a contingency 
which cannot in the nature of things happen in venesection. 
When I ordered the application of leeches in the fevers of Bengal, 
I invariably sent a native dresser to apply the requisite number, 
with directions to dress the leech-bites so as to preclude any 

M 



162 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

oozing. I would strongly recommend, therefore, that whenever it 
is proposed to abstract by leeches so much blood as twelve 
ounces or more, the operation be performed by the lancet instead. 
Fevers, idiopathic and symptomatic, are traced by Dr. Billing 
" to a loss of the functions of the nervous centres, and subse- 
quently of the organs depending on them." Fever, he says, re- 
sults " from injury to the centres of the nervous system, which 
arises either from peripheral injury propagated to them, or through 
lesion by miasm, which, by the route of the circulation, directly 
poisons them most probably by chemical combination or altera- 
tion instantaneously lowering their power or energy. I have 
shown throughout, that the immediate effect of the lowering of the 
power and energy of the nerves or the nervous system is inflam- 
mation, or congestion of the capillaries, the first degree of inflam- 
mation." Referring to the treatment, he says : " If we can relieve 
his debility of body and mind, the patient will recover from his fever ; 
that debility we have shown to be caused by an overloaded state of 
the nervous centres. We uniformly see that the only successful means 
of relieving them consist in diminishing the injecting force when the 
pulse is strong, increasing at the same time the contracting action 
of the capillaries by antimony, mercury, salines, bark, &c. &c., or 
even when the pulse is not strong, we find bleeding sometimes 
necessary to diminish the actual quantity of the load, as the con- 
stringents alone may not be sufficient to produce contraction, so 
that, with reference to the indication of bleeding, we have much 
more to consider the state of plethora of the internal vessels than 
the state of the pulse or vis a tergo. And though emetic sub- 
stances have an influence similar to that of bleeding in lowering 
the vis a tergo they are, nevertheless, of most essential advantage 
when the pulse is even almost gone, by their immediate con- 
stringent effect on the internal capillaries : hence it is evident that 
the pulse, which was so long considered as the indication for the 
use of bleeding or sedative medicines, is often no guide at all, in 
which cases the necessary practice of sedatives, from having been 
hitherto unexplained, has always been called indirect practice. 
This distinguished physician adds, " I do not admit this term, and 
never practise indirectly ; my indications are always founded upon 
physiology, as I have explained them up to this point." Principles 
of Medicine. The doctrines here propounded appear to have 
anticipated that of Virchow, who refers the primary phenomena of 
fever to " loss of power in the nerves ;" and likewise that of 
Traube, who ascribes many of the symptoms of fever to " a 
weakened, more or less paralytic condition of the vagus." Brit, 
and For. M. C. Review, for April, 1855. 

PURGATIVES. When we reflect on the intimate pathological 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OP BENGAL. 163 

connection which exists between the stomach, small intestines, 
and liver, and on the facility with which morbid irritations of the 
former organs are conveyed to the latter, when to these circum- 
stances we add the frequency with which the liver is congested or 
inflamed in the course of the febrile movement, we shall be at no 
loss to perceive how it is that purgatives have at all times been 
held of high repute in the treatment of the remittent fevers of 
Bengal. When we regard the intimate nervous and vascular 
inter-communications of every organ within the abdomen, the one 
with the other, and that each and all of them are disturbed in their 
functions during this fever, while some of the organs are more 
liable than others to become congested or inflamed during its 
progress, we shall be prepared to find that purgatives rank as 
powerful means in aid of the cure, and such they have always 
very justly been held to be. 

Given in their uncombined forms, and with reference to their 
pxinl and peculiar actions, they remove retained or vitiated 
matters from the bowels, thus carrying out of the system sources 
of contamination, while they promote a more free arterial and 
venous circulation ; they excite the secreting and excreting func- 
tions of the bowels, and by these several actions they produce a 
sedative effect, while they derive from the head so as to relieve 
that cavity, as well as the abdomen, from an oppressive load of 
congestion. Combined with mercurials they act as cholagogues, 
and thus relieve the portal circulation from stagnation, and the 
liver from consequent disease. They rouse the dormant sensi- 
bilities of the bowels, and aid in restoring the balance of the 
general circulation, especially when blood-letting has preceded 
their administration so as to remove congestions, and thus afford 
a renewed activity to the functions of secretion. When we con- 
sider the certain action of purgative medicines, and that their 
influence is exerted on the most extensive secreting surface of the 
human body, we shall at once perceive how powerful must be their 
effects. By previous depletion the system is, in fact, prepared for 
the more free action of this class of remedies, whether exhibited 
in their simple or combined forms. The compound extract of 
colocynth, with calomel and James's powder, followed in a few 
hours by infusion of senna with sulphate of magnesia, or by the 
compound powder of jalap, is a favourite mode of purgation in 
this fever. It is usual also to add the sulphate of quina to 
purging mixtures, so that the tonic and antiperiodic may thus be 
applied to the whole mucous digestive surface. I found this last 
an excellent remedy, both in hospital and private practice. 
Where, in the latter stages of fever, the bowels are torpid and the 
hypochondria inflated, Robert Jackson recommends a tincture 
composed of aloes and myrrh, and also the oil of turpentine. He 

M 2 



164 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

is partial to the use of the tincture ; but the oil of turpentine, he 
says, while purgative, stimulates the whole alimentary system to 
the proper exercise of its functions. 

DIAPHORETICS. If the main cure of fever, as stated by 
Robert Jackson, consists " in turning the tide of circulation to the 
exterior, in maintaining it there, and thereby disembarrassing the 
interior organs," the value of diaphoretics must be great. In the 
very milder forms of fever a few doses of purgative medicine, 
with or without mercurials, as may be, and followed by sudorifics, 
given so that their action shall be maintained, and by diluents, 
will cure the disease ; but in the more grave cases here under 
consideration, blood-letting and purging must precede and give 
effect to the sedative action of diaphoretics by their relaxing 
effects on the system, and by their reduction of its unnatural heat. 
As in the instance of purgatives so with sudorifics the system 
must be prepared for their full effects by other and more powerful 
means. 

Minute and repeated doses of tartar emetic have always 
appeared to me to constitute the best diaphoretics, given simply ; 
but when mercury in any form was added, I then used James's 
powder in preference. 

" All the metallic salts," says Dr. Billing, " have, more or less, 
an astringent effect on the capillaries ; and to this influence I 
attribute the universal efficacy of antimony as an antiphlogistic 
remedy, it being doubly valuable in acute cases from its sedative 
effects on the heart and pulse, combined with its locally tonic or 
astringent effects on the capillaries of inflamed or congested 
parts, as well as on those of all the secreting structures. Hence, 
too, its efficacy, in small repeated doses, in cases where there is 
great depression of the system, by its relieving the relaxation of 
the capillaries by which the depression is caused. Nay more, we 
can manage to insure its full antiphlogistic effects without the 
inconvenience of nausea, by combining it with a little opiate and 
aromatic." 

MERCURY. Second generally in time of application, and 
only second in point of importance, comes the action of calomel. 
When blood-letting shall have produced its results on the circu- 
lation, the febrile movement, though subdued, being still in seri- 
ous progress, we have recourse to this mineral. It is at once the 
best aid to the abstraction of blood, and the best preparation for 
the effective action of antiperiodics, such as quinine, arsenic, &c., 
through its active operation on all the depurative functions. 
Robert Jackson, though no favourer of mercurial treatment, ad- 
mits that in fevers, complicated with abdominal congestion, calo- 






THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 165 

mel is a remedy of the first importance. He says that it repairs 
mischiefs which no other means with which we are acquainted 
are capable of touching. This is the simple truth, and it consti- 
tutes the reason why this remedy has at all times held so high a 
place with the practitioners in our worst climates. 

As it is better to repeat than to leave an important subject in 
any doubt, I here beg leave to transcribe from my article on 
Hepatitis a summary of the actions of mercury, and especially of 
those of calomel : It is for the very reason that calomel assists 
powerfully, both in " drawing off" accumulations, and in pro- 
moting " increased secretion" that it proves of such value in aid 
of blood-letting. It is, in fact, by this very double action of 
purging and increasing secretion at the same time, that calomel 
relieves the loaded and inactive vessels of the diseased gland ; 
not to speak of the other acknowledged physiological influences 
of this mineral such as its increase of all the secretions and 
excretions of the body its influence on the capillary circulation 
its febrifuge effect the peculiar specific power ascribed to it 
by Gooch and others as an antagonist to inflammations, whether 
general or local its stimulant power over the absorbent function 
its power of unloading, at the same time that it gives a new im- 
pulse to the vascular system its peculiar power in removing 
viscid and tenacious intestinal secretions its alterative, solvent, 
and antiplastic effects on the blood ; these are the actions and 
uses ascribed to mercury by the ablest of our physicians and 
surgeons, and they are such as place this remedy second only in 
order and in importance to blood-letting, in all the more acute 
hepatic affections of India. That mercury enters into intimate 
union with the elements of the blood is now an ascertained fact. 
It must, therefore, " modify its plasticity, and influence all the 
organic functions to which it is subservient." I have only to 
add here that the above summary is quoted from the former edi- 
tion of this work, with commendation, by Dr. Copland, in his 
article on Diseases of the Liver. 

Dr. Billing, speaking of the treatment of disease by " calomel 
and opium," says justly, that though powerful allies to the anti- 
phlogistic treatment, they have often failed from being employed 
without being supported by bleeding, or purgative, or emetic, or 
diaphoretic medicines. This is equally true of tropical diseases, 
and I have seen enormous quantities of calomel given with no- 
thing but evil effect, because its action was not solicited and sup- 
ported by previous depletory means. 

Robert Jackson states, that the preparation of the subject by 
previous abstraction of blood is indispensable to the success of 
mercury, in the more concentrated fevers and more complicated 
dysenteries of tropical climates. 

It is thus, by regarding each means of cure as constituting a 



166 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

part only of a whole, that we shall best avoid the errors and 
dangers of relying upon exclusive means in the treatment of 
dangerous and complicated diseases, and that we shall learn to 
apportion to each remedy its just value. 

BARK. Sir James Annesley observes, that visceral disease is 
the necessary result of the neglect of depletory means, including 
mercurial purgatives ; and that congestions often lead to inflam- 
matory action, especially if bark or arsenic have been freely ad- 
ministered during the stage of congestion, and of disturbed and 
impeded secretion ; and this is in accordance with general ex- 
perience. Here again we perceive that quina, like other power- 
ful remedies, may not only prove of no effect, but may be admi- 
nistered so as actually to be injurious. It may do signal good, 
or even prove hurtful, according as the patient may or may not 
have been prepared for the actions of the bark. To apportion 
the dose and determine the right time for exhibiting it, so as to 
secure the full tonic and antiperiodic influences of the quina, we 
must appreciate accurately the circumstances in each individual 
case, the stage of the fever, and the effect of the previous anti- 
phlogistic means. The random exhibition of quina by timid, 
careless, or inexperienced practitioners does infinite harm ; and, 
in former times, when bark alone was relied upon for the cure of 
all tropical fevers, the results were horrible. 

Where, with a state of general plethora, visceral congestions 
remain unsubdued, or only partially removed, the secretions being 
scanty and depraved, with the pulse full and hard, and the skin 
constricted, dry, and hot, the time for the exhibition of bark has 
not yet arrived. Robert Jackson says, that bark is not to be re- 
lied on for the precipitate arrest of remittent fever, either in the 
West Indies or in other countries. Bark and the disulphate of 
quina are efficacious in arresting the remittent fever of Bengal 
when venous congestions have been overcome by previous de- 
pletory means, when the pulse has been reduced in force and fre- 
quency, when the secretions are in free action, and the skin re- 
laxed ; when these preparatory results have been obtained, we 
may then be sure of establishing the antiperiodic influence of quina, 
with the best effect, and without risk of producing any injury. 
It then becomes a sovereign remedy ; and the nearer the patient 
can be brought to the state of remission, the surer will be the 
operation of the antiperiodic. It must now be given in full doses, 
so as speedily to establish its influence. The amount of dose, 
and the frequency with which it is to be repeated, will depend on the 
nature of the fever ; where paroxysms are violent, or where the 
sufferer is in a malarious locality, the doses should be large, and 
often repeated. It is better to exhibit the quinine in five grain 
doses, often repeated, than to give scruple doses as recommended 
by some writers ; for by the former plan we have the advantage 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 167 

of observing the effects as wo proceed, and we can withhold ex- 
cessive doses. 

" Quinine," says Dr. Bcnce Jones, " acts in weakening the 
pulse in a similar way to arsenic, hydrocyanic acid, opium, and 
other narcotics, antimony, and nitre." 

Quoting the general conclusions of M. Briquet, he adds : 

" 1. That the maximum diminution of the pulse is rarely twenty 
to twenty-five pulsations a minute, even in typhoid fever. 

" '2. That the diminution is always in direct relation to the pre- 
vious frequency of the pulse. 

" 8. That the reduction is never below forty beats a minute. 

" 4. That much fibrin in the blood, or active inflammation, pre- 
vents the depression. 

" 5. That large doses of quinine produce so serious a pertur- 
bation of the economy that they should not be given unless the 
illness, as regards length, seriousness, and accidents, is sufficiently 
important." 

With regard to the pathological action of quinine, M. Briquet 
considers : 

" I. That it does not act directly on the marsh poison. 

" 2. That it does not act on the general state of the organs, or 
on die blood ; but it has especial action on the nervous system 
C'est la medicine du quitte au double, celle que les militaires em- 
ploient quand pour couper la fi^vre ils avalent une double ration 
d'eau de vie chaude mole de poudre a canon. 

" 8. It does not act by increasing the vital forces or by sustain- 
ing them. 

" 4. It is not by a tonic action, or an astringent action, or a 
stimulant action, but by a sedative stupifiant action that it acts on 
the marsh poison. 

" Lastly. The absorption of quinine by a sound skin is very 
doubtful." 

ARSENIC. This mineral acts as a powerful tonic and anti- 
periodic, ranking in these qualities next to the cinchona. Arsenic 
has been used from time immemorial in Hindustan by the native 
doctors ; and I saw at the Native Hospital of Calcutta daily ex- 
amples of permanent injury to the circulating system, and to the 
mucous digestive organs from the abuse of this mineral by the 
Bazar practitioners, in their endeavours to cure fevers, rheuma- 
tisms, and venereal diseases. " Arsenic," says Dr. Billing, " often 
acts as equivalent to a union of bark and mercury ; for arsenic, 
besides its tonic effect on the nervous system, increases the secre- 
tion of bile, and otherwise acts on the liver ; it possesses also the 
power, like mercury, of curing chronic inflammations ; and even 
further resembles it in occasionally producing the inconvenience 
of salivation.' 



168 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

We should commence the use of this mineral in small doses, 
and not persist many days in its exhibition ; in fever not beyond 
eight or ten days. If, besides its tonic and antiperiodic effects, it 
acts " on the liver as much as mercury," according to the last- 
named authority, we should hold this remedy in more regard in 
India than we now do. It is one that may safely be administered 
during the paroxysm of fever ; and the number of days stated are 
sufficient to test its virtues. In the practice of the medical officers 
in the East Indies, in so far as the fevers of the country are con- 
cerned, the exhibition of the arsenical preparations is almost ex- 
clusively confined by them to the intermittent forms ; and, even in 
these, arsenic is far from being in general use. 

WINE. In the treatment of the ordinary remittent fevers of 
Bengal wine has little to do ; for unless a tendency to collapse 
occur, with profuse sweats, an anxious countenance, a laborious 
respiration, a cold damp skin, and sunken pulse, we have not to 
exhibit spirituous or vinous stimulants. On the occurrence of 
collapse, however, diffusible stimulants are invaluable, and they 
are always resorted to. In cases where the cure is delayed for 
many days, either from neglect of early treatment, or from con- 
stitutional peculiarity, wine is occasionally requisite. But whether 
in recent or in protracted cases, the tendency to sinking is the 
event to be carefully watched ; and then the wine should be given, 
with or without farinaceous food, according to circumstances, and 
with quina in the intervals. Wine and spirits must be regarded 
as simple stimulants ; they do not change the course of events in 
periodic fevers. This is so much the case that, after the use of 
wine, we may in the next coming paroxysms have to use anti- 
phlogistic means : such are some of the difficulties to be en- 
countered in the management of this formidable disease. 

In some forms of continued fever, and in certain malignant 
periodic fevers, Robert Jackson admits of the use of wine ; but he 
says that the application must be nicely adjusted. Champagne 
he considers a good wine for the occasion ; and porter, he adds, 
is relished by the British soldier. 

OPIUM. Opium in stimulating doses I have seen prove of 
great value, under two circumstances not uncommon in the pro- 
gress of remittent fever. The first is, the disposition to faintness 
or to profuse perspiration after blood-letting. Here half a grain 
or more of opium with calomel, or tincture of opium, with chloric 
ether, given with the calomel, will relieve from vascular and 
nervous depression, and rouse and restore the patient. The other 
occasion is when, after the use of depletory means, the hard-living 
patient, or the man habituated to the free use of various stimu- 
lants, begins to feel the depressing effects of fever, and of active 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OP BENGAL. 160 

treatment, and of the absence of the accustomed exciting bever- 
ages ; then it is that symptoms of nervous exhaustion come to 
be complicated with the existing fever, so as frequently to consti- 
tute a masked or subdued delirium tremens. There is here great 
danger, in the hands of the inexperienced or the inattentive. 
Depletory measures would now destroy the patient ; whereas 
opium, applied in a moderate dose, at the right time, calms while 
it restores the sunken nervous functions, and the patient is 
saved; under ignorance or neglect he is lost. Given in the 
manner proposed, and for the occasion only, conjoined with calomel, 
the opium imparts its influence to the nervous system, without 
locking up the secretions an important reserve in the case be- 
fore us. 



APPLICATION OP REMEDIAL MEANS TO THE INDIVIDUAL CASE. 

After the general view of the various therapeutic agents em- 
ployed in the treatment of fever, and of their effects, we come to 
consider their joint and several applications to the individual 
patient, suffering from the remittent fever of Bengal ; and here we 
find, on experience, that the first and most immediate object is, 
to reduce the force and frequency of arterial action during the 
paroxysm, which if allowed to go on unrestrained, would injure 
or destroy some organ essential to life. 

If the patient be seen in the forenoon, on the accession of the 
first, second, or third paroxysm of ordinary remittent fever, 
if he is of a sound constitution and not beyond middle life, 
blood-letting from the arm, while the patient is in the recumbent 
posture, should be practised to the extent of relieving the sufferer 
from praccordial oppression, from visceral fulness and congestion^ 
or from the intensity of headache, whichever may predominate. If 
along with reduced force and frequency of the pulse, and reduc- 
tion of the morbid temperature, we obtain from the operation a 
gentle relaxation of the skin, we have the best evidence of relief 
from visceral congestion, whether the operation be performed for 
the cure of fever, dysentery, or hepatitis ; the quantity of blood 
abstracted being regulated by the effect, and not by an arbitrary 
measure in ounces. It will sometimes happen, however, from 
peculiarity of habit, or other cause, and notwithstanding the utmost 
circumspection, that the relaxation of the skin will proceed to 
sweating, with symptoms of depression of the vital powers ; then 
from half a grain to a grain of opium, or from fifteen to twenty 
minims of laudanum, with as many of chloric ether, should be 
administered. This will impart tone to the bean's action, and 
soothe the nervous excitement, while it will allay gastric and in- 



170 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

testinal irritation. It is only in cases of depression, however, such 
as this, that opium is to be recommended in the very early treat- 
ment of fever ; but, when requisite, it will be found to calm both 
mind and body. Let the physiology of the disease, and the habit 
and condition of the patient guide the application of remedies, and 
we shall approach as nearly to the correct measure of means of 
cure as human endeavour can compass. 

Unless the fever assume a severe form, one general blood- 
letting, practised as stated, in the recumbent posture, and 
under the studied observation of effect will, on the average, be 
found sufficient to relieve the patient from abdominal or cerebral 
oppression. Blood-letting, used as here directed, will be found 
to simplify the application of all the subsequent means of cure. 
Within an hour after the bleeding a dose of calomel with com- 
pound extract of colocynth and James's powder should be exhi- 
bited, followed in two hours by a powerful cathartic, such as in- 
fusion of senna with sulphate of magnesia. After the free action 
of these remedies we shall obtain in the afternoon some degree 
of remission ; and the patient should be directed to take at bed- 
time from six to ten grains of calomel, with four of James's powder, 
if the skin be dry. Here, within eight or ten hours of first -seeing 
the patient, we perceive that of the means above generally de- 
scribed, blood-letting, mercury, a sudorific, and a purgative, have 
been used, while the patient has been allowed free recourse to 
cooling diluents. 

On the early morning visit of the following day the patient will 
probably be found in a more complete state of remission, when 
the sulphate of quina alone, or in combination with the purging 
mixture, should be freely and repeatedly administered ; given in 
this latter manner the quina applies itself to the whole extent of 
the mucous digestive surface, so as to give full effect to its tonic 
and antiperiodic influences ; and a larger dose of it can thus be 
borne in the early stage of fever than if given without the pur- 
gative. This is an important consideration ; for the quina rightly 
administered will arrest the progress of a mild fever, and save 
the life of the patient in a severe one, by mitigating the 
symptoms. 

By the forenoon the paroxysm may recur in a milder degree, 
though to such an extent as to demand the application of leeches 
to the epigastric region, if any oppression or fulness exist 
there, or behind the ears if there be headache ; while a mixture 
composed of antimonial wine with the acetate or nitrate of potash 
should be given every two hours, so as to soften the skin and de- 
termine increased action of the kidneys. It is usual in the re- 
mittent fevers of Bengal to give from five to ten grains of calomel, 
with or without antimonial powder, at bed-time, followed in the 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 171 

early morning by an active purge, and when the last is under 
operation quinine in solution is given freely. This is a good 
practice, and a sufficient means in itself to cure some of the milder 
forms of the fever under consideration ; preceded by an adequate 
abstraction of blood, this practice will even cure a severe fever. 
Thus, under the favourable circumstances contemplated, we 
witness the daily decline of the disease, and the daily diminishing 
occasion, therefore, for the use of active measures of cure, until 
towards the third, fifth, seventh, or ninth day convalescence is 
completely established. 

If remittent fever has existed unrestrained, however, for several 
days, and the patient is not seen till the accession of the third 
or fourth paroxysm, or even later, provided the general powers 
of the constitution remain uninjured, a general blood-letting 
is still the principal means to save life, followed by calomel, 
purgatives, and quinine, in the manner previously indicated. But 
if, on the other hand, the duration of the disease being as above, 
the paroxysms have become indistinct, running into each other 
with but brief or ill-defined intervals, while abdominal or cerebral 
complications arise, as indicated by epigastric fulness with anguish, 
or by approaching stupor or delirium, congestion now wearing the 
aspect of inflammation ; then the time and manner of applying 
our more active means demand the nicest care to insure, not only 
their just effects, but their safety. Blood-letting may even now 
constitute the principal means to save life, but the blood must be 
guardedly abstracted, whether generally or locally ; and calomel 
becomes indeed a remedy of necessity, as Robert Jackson would 
rather refuse to call it, in the treatment of the fevers of the West. 
To save the patient from impending dangers, in the case of unre- 
strained fever here contemplated, the medical attendant must be 
neither rash nor supine : sinking would result from the rash ap- 
plication of means, and effusion into one or both cavities involved 
in those fevers would be the result of timidity or indecision. 
Generally speaking the blood must here be abstracted by leeches 
at the accession of the paroxysm ; antiraonials must be used 
cold must be applied to the shaved head sinapisms and blisters 
must be applied; but on the influence of calomel chief reli- 
ance must be placed. It must be given every three or four hours, 
with an occasional mild aperient in the intervals, until the danger- 
ous symptoms shall have yielded ; and this favourable state is 
often observed to be coincident with the mercurial influence, as 
evidenced in the odour of the breath, or on the gums. Dangerous 
symptoms such as are here described will sometimes arise suddenly, 
without any loss of time, or without any neglect in the treatment ; 
and when such conditions arc associated with yellowness of the 
skin, in persons broken in health, or of a feeble constitution, or of 



172 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

dissipated habits of life, or who may have undergone much 
mental distress, the chances of a fatal termination are imminent. 

In the remittent as in all forms of periodic fever, the stages of 
danger are those of the accession and of the decline of the pa- 
roxysm : in the first, the violence of arterial action may proceed 
at once, unless restrained by treatment, to destroy life by serous 
effusion ; while, in the second, so great a prostration of the vital 
powers may succeed to the previous tumult of vascular action, as 
to terminate in a feeble and irregular pulse, a damp coldness of 
the surface and of the extremities, despair, and death. I have 
seen one paroxysm of Bengal remittent fever, and of jungle fevers, 
cause death in both ways, within twelve hours ; and the first 
instance, attended with very painful circumstances, occurred within 
a few months of my arrival in India. A young officer was seized 
with fever at 11 A. M. ; but nevertheless, he went into the China 
bazar of Calcutta. He returned to his quarters in Fort William 
at 3 P. M., and placed himself under the care of a staff surgeon 
there. He was bled at 4, and he was dead at 7 P. M. The same 
operation, practised at noon, would probably have saved his life. 

When the spleen is affected with enlargement, either of the 
acute or chronic nature, mercury in all forms had better be avoided 
in the treatment of the fever ; for there is in the splenic compli- 
cation a dissolved condition of the blood, with general cachexia, 
that should preclude the use of this powerful mineral. Blood- 
letting, general or local, when found necessary, should be cau- 
tiously used, and carefully regulated in these cases ; and the 
oozing from leech-bites should be carefully and promptly ar- 
rested. 

It is necessary to be on our guard against irregularities in the 
paroxysms of remittent fever, as they occasionally vary not only in 
their time of accession, but there may arise a double or anticipa- 
ting night paroxysm, in addition to that of the forenoon. This 
will require a double attention, especially in respect of the time of 
using remedies. 

A close observation is indeed necessary as to every event and 
circumstance which may arise in the course of these fevers ; for 
upon the amount and accuracy of such knowledge will depend 
not only the selection and application of our means of cure, but 
the affixing of the proper time of using them often a vital question. 

The result of each paroxysm on the cerebral and abdominal 
organs should also be carefully noted, for by this knowledge we 
regulate both the force of our remedial means, and the frequency 
with which their application may be needed. Through such ob- 
servations also we come to estimate aright the powers and capa- 
bilities of the patient ; for the greater have been the numbers of 
paroxysms, the more the viscera are likely to be oppressed and 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 173 

congested, and the less power consequently do we find in the 
patient either to sustain him under further invasions of fever, or 
to bear him well through the operations of the necessary remedies. 
In such a case there will be a tendency to exhaustion, and, while 
we act with decision and calmness, we must be doubly watchful of 
effect. I have preferred a simple narrative of the treatment of 
remittent fever, such as is here presented, to a detail of hospital or 
other cases ; for I have seen that, in the treatment of fevers and 
other acute diseases, cases are too often seized upon and followed 
out to the letter, by young medical officers, to the disregard of the 
differences of circumstances, and to the exclusion of reason and 
reflection on the cases before them. Cases thus become a kind of 
pattern in routine, and the young naval and military surgeon is 
injured where it was intended to afford him help. He is thrown 
off his reasoning powers by an array of cases, and enticed into a 
groove of routine, out of which it will require much exertion and 
firmness on his own part to extricate him. A case-book thus, while 
it purports to be a guide for the treatment of dangerous, varying, 
and violently acute diseases, carries with it, when used in the 
manner stated, sources of weakness, even to those whom it in- 
tends to benefit. It is othenvise in respect of chronic lesions, the 
results of acute tropical diseases, in which the constitution of the 
patient, and the symptoms are at once more subdued, brought 
more into a common level, rendered thus less variable, and for 
the management of which ample time is given to the inexpe- 
rienced for consideration of means, for reflection on their effects, 
and for consultation with the elders of the profession. 

In chronic disease, again, no sudden changes occur, as the re- 
sult of youth, constitution, influence of season, or of epidemic con- 
ditions all which exercise powerful, immediate, and varying 
effects in acute disease. 

We cannot defer till to-morrow the treatment of a case of fever, 
dysentery, hepatitis, or cholera ; duty requires that we should act 
on the instant ; and to do so with justice to the patient requires at 
least a knowledge of pathology and of the principles of medicine : 
we should not have to rely on a guide or case-book. 

MANAGEMENT OF CONVALESCENCE. I cannot con- 
clude these observations without adverting to the importance of 
the management of convalescence from fevers, remittent and 
intermittent not the least serious of the duties imposed on 
the naval and military surgeon. In all cases of recovery 
from fever, but especially in those wherein the complications have 
been severe, or where important organs have been affected in the 
course of the fever, or as a sequel to it, it is impossible to be too 
careful in the diet, and in attention to the activity of the secreting 



174 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

functions ; and this vigilance must not be relaxed until perfect 
health shall be established. How often do we see patients who 
have been sufficiently well treated during the acute stages of dis- 
eases, but on whom a neglect of this important rule of practice has 
entailed enlargement of the liver and spleen, or other visceral dis- 
eases, requiring a protracted voyage to sea, or a return to 
Europe. 

The just management of convalescence is a subject that should 
always be present to the minds of those who have the regulation 
and control of naval and military hospitals, wherein the perfect 
re-establishment of the sailor's and soldier's health, before their 
return to duty, should be a maxim never to be swerved from. It 
must not be supposed that with the medical management of acute 
diseases, our duties towards those intrusted to our care have termi- 
nated. 

It ought to be in the recollection also of medical officers, that, 
after every serious or protracted illness, the blood is necessarily 
impoverished that all the organs and their respective functions 
are as necessarily enfeebled sometimes nearly exhausted. To send 
a soldier in such a condition to the temptations, the diet, and the 
duties of the barrack, is an injury to the service, and a cruelty to 
the individual. 

A small sick-list is pleasing to commanding officers ; but the 
discharging of men from hospital in a partial state of convalescence, 
is a crime in the surgeon. The medicina mentis, and the benefits 
to be derived from change of air, ought to be as available to 
the soldier as to the officer ; but they are matters that scarcely 
receive from us the attention they deserve from their great im- 
portance. In the latter stages of remittent fever, when the patient 
does not convalesce owing to a slight feverishness towards even- 
ing, with warmth of the head, and followed by restless nights and 
by increasing debility, then it is that the astonishing benefits 
derivable from change of air, and of gestation in the open air, are 
manifested. They save the patient's life ; and many are worn out 
and die for want of them, because the friends and relatives, and 
perhaps the medical attendants too, consider the patient " too weak 
to be moved." I never saw the fever patient that was too weak to 
be moved at the proper time ; and it should be remembered that 
movement does not here mean violence. 

During the severe and fatal remittent fever of 1833 in Bengal, 
an eminent member of the Bench fell into the condition here 
referred to, so that I had little hope of his recovery ; and I directed 
his removal to sea. A friend, a brother officer of mine, the 
most able in the management of fever of any man I have ever 
known, said : " You are mistaken in this instance ; he is so feeble 
that he will die before he reaches the boat, and all the people of 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 175 

Calcutta will declare that you have killed the Chief Justice." I 
persisted, nevertheless ; and the removal to the river, which waa 
about 500 yards distant, was accomplished without accident. But, 
in the act of being removed from the boat into a 74-gun ship at 
Khidgcree, notwithstanding my warnings to the contrary, the head 
and shoulders were raised to near the sitting posture, when the pa- 
tient fell back in a fainting condition which for some minutes 
looked like death. But from this sunken state he recovered rapidly 
in the fresh breeze ; and in ten days, he reached Madras, whence 
he was reported to be eating mutton chops. I have always been 
of opinion that but for the timely removal from malarious influences 
this distinguished gentleman must have died. 

Next to the benefits to be derived from early and effective treat- 
ment, come those which secure and maintain convalescence ; and 
this truth will be found to apply whether we refer to organized 
bodies of men, or to individuals. It is to the mismanagement of 
convalescence principally that we must refer the numerous and 
fatal relapses in the fevers and dysenteries of our seamen and 
soldiers, not to speak of ill health contracted through the sequelae 
to those diseases, in the form of visceral affections. In India 
I have continually seen that almost all the relapses in fever, so 
often fatal to the soldier, were caused by mismanagement of the 
stage of convalescence, and by his too early discharge from hospi- 
tal. 

The mean age of a British regiment may be taken to be twenty- 
six years a stage of life when the rallying powers of the consti- 
tution may be asumed to be at their acme, and when, therefore, 
the tendency of nature towards convalescence is at its height But 
in the individual cases of older men, and with such of the young 
men as have been exhausted by the violence of disease and the 
activity of depletory measures of cure, wine, porter, and bitter 
tonics will be requisite, together with more time, and a longer ex- 
emption from duty, for the purpose of maturing health. This latter 
consideration is of great importance. 

It is true that the authority of the naval and military surgeon 
does not extend beyond the hospital ; but better days than those 
of Robert Jackson are coming, both for the soldier and the sur- 
geon. Humanity is now at length pretty sure to have a powerful 
press on its side ; and no governor or commander, by sea or land, 
can any longer venture to do, or leave undone, the things which I 
have seen done, and left undone. 

When the disease is endemic, whether it be fever, dysentery, or 
hepatitis, the first means towards maturing convalescence, and ob- 
taining the complete restoration of health is a removal from the 
local and endemic influences. 

This measure, coupled with great attention to diet, clothing, 



176 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

exercise, and bathing, will fill the ranks with healthy soldiers ; 
while leaving them in crowded or otherwise unhealthy hospitals is 
too often but condemning them to wait for death. In all our in- 
tertropical Possessions we should establish Convalescent Depots, 
conveniently situated; and where practicable they should be in 
some near mountain range, or other elevated ground, or in well 
selected positions on the sea, which latter are, I think, always pre- 
ferable. I know that in the East Indies one or other of such posi- 
tions may generally be found by the intelligent medical topo- 
grapher ; and, for the rest, everything will depend on the authori- 
ties, civil and military. Nor are the advantages of such positions to be 
confined to convalescence ; for where the locality is pestilential, or 
where barracks, camps, or hospitals are badly situated, the sick 
should at once be removed to the elevated or other selected site. 
Such early removal will be found to modify the progress of dis- 
ease, aiding thus the medical treatment, and saving the patient 
from those congestions which are so liable to occur in the pro- 
gress of fevers, especially in malarious situations. 

GESTATION IN THE OPEN AIR. Gestation in the open 
air presents itself at once as one of the most refreshing restorative 
means for maturing convalescence, and it is seldom difficult of 
application under willing authorities. It should never be neglected 
in the late stages of fevers ; for it gives tone and vigour to the flag- 
ging functions, and conduces to refreshing sleep where medicine 
has failed of securing rest. Of gestation in the open air, Robert 
Jackson observes that it is neither useful nor safe in the early 
stages of fevers, while plethora exists ; but that in the late stages 
of concentrated endemic fevers, it constitutes the " last anchor of 
hope" to the sinking invalid. He complains justly that this 
powerful remedy has not been applied generally and systema- 
tically ; for he had frequent opportunities of directing gestation in 
the open air, and of observing its beneficial results, in the first 
American war, in the West Indies, and in Holland. He says that 
" moving the body rapidly in an opeu cart or carriage through 
woods, or on the green turf; or in defect of woods, shaded, if in 
the day time, with boughs of trees, exposed, if in the night time, 
to all the freshness of the air, and all the dews of heaven, has 
appeared to do what no other means were capable of doing." 
Jackson considers that airings for an hour or two in carriages, 
where the subject is defended from the weather, or but partially 
touched by the salutary influence of the air, constitutes but a 
feeble substitute for journies of six or eight hours in open con- 
veyances, even when the patients are exposed to wind and rain, to 
heat and cold, and other apparent disadvantages. 

Where, as in the retreat through Holland, in 1795, this measure 



I III: KKMITTKXT FEVER <>l Ml M.AI.. 177 

\\as adopted from necessity, ho says that "it often succeeds; for 
the operation is continued till the effect is confirmed." Under all 
the disadvantages of this retreat, Jackson declares that the benefits 
to the sick where demonstrably felt. "Where due attention was 
bestowed in disposing the sick in wagons, the travelling was 
agreeable during its continuance even in cold and rainy weather ; 
the good effect was strongly manifested at the end of the journey ; 
even the most enfeebled acquired an evident accession of strength. 
Where the diseased action has actually ceased, but where the com- 
mencement of healthy movement is slow, and the healthy action 
imperfect, more benefit is visibly derived, and more strength visibly 
gained, by travelling for six hours in an open carriage, exposed to 
all the chances of weather, than by the best treatment that can be 
devised in a crowded hospital for a space of six days." The bene- 
ficial effects, he adds, are confirmed and rendered permanent by a 
continued application of the means. 

This great authority expresses his regret that gestation in the 
open air a means that has the smallest chance of any other medi- 
cal appliance of doing harm is not numbered among the regular 
means of physicians in the cure of fevers ; and this regret must be 
shared by all who have seen and served in the sickly camp. The old 
71st Regiment, or Fraser Highlanders, with which Jackson served 
during the first American war, was forced to retire before a large 
body of the enemy, carrying along with them a heavy sick-list of 
men suffering from remittent fever. " The sick, during the march, 
had little opportunity of taking medicine ; yet no one had died ; 
some had got entirely well ; and in others, indeed in all, where the 
disease had not yet ceased, the form was changed to that of dis- 
tinct intermittent." 

Those few survivors, who, like the writer of this work, marched 
with the miserable remnant of the European army originally sent 
to Rangoon, during the first Burmese war, will never forget the 
drooping attenuated form and haggard eye of the British soldier 
on the day we broke ground from the last mentioned town, and the 
amended condition of the same man on entering Prorne two months 
afterwards. Yet here the soldiers were moved under every conceiv- 
able disadvantage, excepting in the matter of diet; for, as we ad- 
vanced into the interior of the country, we procured some fresh 
meat, and occasionally some fruits and vegetables.* 

It may now prove both useful and interesting to take a glance 

* There perished in the first year of the first Burmese war, at Rangoon alone, of the 
British portion of the force, 48) per cent., of whom 31 per cent were killed inaction, 
or died of their wounds, being within one-half per cent, of the annual casualties from 
wounds in the Peninsular war, during 41 months of the most active service. The total 
European loss within the Burmese Territory, during the two years of the war, was 720 per 
thousand of the strength being the greatest mortality of which as yet there is any 
record. 

N 



178 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

at the prominent parts of the treatment of tropical fevers by the 
following authors, all British but the first-named, in the order of 
their respective dates : 

1629. Bontius : Bleeding, general and topical, and repeated 
as occasion required purgatives opiates extract of saffron. 

1751. Gleghorn. Bleeding, repeated according to occasion 
cathartics bark. 

1757. Dr. Bogue, Bengal. Bleeding emetics purgatives 
mercury bark camphor in the cold stage. 

1757. Dr. Huxham. Bleeding purgatives diluents. 

1 760. Dr. Huck. Blood-letting, repeated according to occasion 
ipecacuanha and tartar emetic, so as to vomit and purge bark 
during the remission. 

1762. Dr. James Lind. " Putrid and remitting marsh fever" 
cautious blood-letting vomits of tepid water, occasionally of 
emetic tartar and ipecacuanha saline purgatives cooling acidu- 
lated drinks bark, speedily and freely administered. 

1768. Pringle. Bleeding, repeated according to occasion 
active purgatives antimonials bark, as an occasional means. 

1790. Dr. Balfour. Vomits calomel and purgatives frequently 
repeated bark and opium. 

1791-98, 1820. Robert Jackson. Blood-letting, copious and 
repeated, according to the severity of symptoms the operation 
always performed in the recumbent posture, while the head and 
shoulders are dashed with cold water, and heat applied to the 
feet ; purgatives, followed by moderate doses of calomel, anti- 
monial powder and cathartic extract, so as to keep up " effective 
evacuation," bark blisters, largely and freely applied when 
local congestions require them gestation in the open air change 
of air. In fevers with congestion of the cerebral and abdominal 
viscera, calomel as a remedy " of the first importance," one which 
"repairs mischiefs which no other means with which we are ac- 
quainted are capable of touching." 

1795. Dr. Chisholm. Calomel and opium to salivation. 

1796. Dr. J. Hunter. A strong saline purgative, followed by 
James's powder till remission took place then bark freely admi- 
nistered throughout the disease, and during each remission 
blisters cordials opiates change of air. 

1797. Dr. John Clark. Mercurial purgatives bark anodynes. 
1799. Blane. Bleeding vomits and purges sudorifics bark 

anodynes. 

1799. Dr. Lempriere. Blood-letting active purging by mer- 
curials and cathartics perseveringly used diaphoretics blisters 
pediluvia saline draughts along with the bark, to allay nervous 
symptoms ether, camphor, and wine ; in doubtful and dangerous 
cases, mercury to affect the system. 






THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 179 

1804. James McGrigor. Emetics occasionally blood-letting 
cold affusion calomel with purgatives mercury to affect the 
system blisters nitric acid opiates bark. 

1807. Mr. Curtis. Evacuants and diluents, in the first stage 
calomel, ipecacuanha, and purgatives in protracted cases. 

1808. William Fergusson. Early and copious blood-letting 
calomel to affect the system sudorifics purgatives. 

1811. Dr. Bancroft. Bleeding cold affusion calomel pur- 
gatives bark. 

1818. James Johnson. Blood-letting, general and local mer- 
curial purgatives diaphoretics calomel, according to severity of 
symptoms, to affect the system bark change of air. 

1816. William Burnet. Bleeding both general and local 
purgatives. 

1818. Ballingall. Blood-letting, general and local purgatives 
cold affusion moderate use of calomel occasional emetics 
bark. 

1819. Dr. Dickinson. Vomits blood-letting active purging 
cold ablution diluents. 

1827. Mr. Geddes. Blood-letting, mercurial and other purga- 
tives diaphoretics diluents opiates before the paroxysm 
quinine. 

1828. Annesley. Blood-letting, general and local emetics 
full doses of calomel purgatives diaphoretics cold affusion 
and cold lotions to the head bark during the remissions. 

1 832. Mr. Twining. Blood-letting, local and general, repeated 
as occasion required calomel, followed by purgatives calomel 
so as to effect the system in severe cases ouinine in the remission. 

1833. Dr. Joseph Brown, Cyclopicdia of Practical Medicine. 
Bleeding, general and local, aided by warm baths mercurial 
purgatives cold affusion cold to the head cold acidulated 
drinks in the advanced stages, opium change of air. 

1835. Copland, Dictionary of Practical Medicine. An emetic 
blood-letting, general and local " full doses of calomel followed 
by purgatives," evaporating lotions to the head cooling diapho- 
retics quinine during the remissions. 

From the coup d'o3il here presented we learn that to the cure of 
fever there is neither a short path nor a royal road, and that a 
disease so varying in its nature, so general and complicated in its 
influence on the system, is not to be justly treated by one remedy. 
Bark and calomel, each a remedy of great power, will nevertheless 
not succeed in the cure of fever, if used exclusively, and so it is 
with the most powerful of all means, blood-letting. We must, 
tlinvfore, give to each remedy its proper place in the treatment; 
we shall thus be as nearly right as is possible. No one can be 
now-a-days to follow Dr. Clark or Dr. Chisholm in his 

N -J 



180 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

exclusiveness. Men of science cannot be induced to believe that 
because one practice is wrong its very opposite must be right, 
thus meeting one extreme by another extreme. The truth is that 
exclusive doctrines and practices never take any general or per- 
manent hold on the mind of the medical profession ; and even the 
great names of Brown and Broussais have secured them but few 
followers in Europe. 



GENERAL REMARKS IN CONCLUSION. If tropical 
fever and dysentery were always simple morbid actions, or mere 
inflammatory states of the system, or of particular organs, no 
doubt bleeding and purging, as recommended by some writers, 
might often prove of themselves sufficient to the cure ; but un- 
fortunately, in both instances, we very seldom find this unmixed 
condition of disease in actual observation in Bengal, where, 
besides the morbid condition of the entire system, including 
a violent disturbance of the nervous and vascular systems in par- 
ticular, we have in our fevers continually to combat dangerous 
abdominal complications, congestive and inflammatory, with the 
addition, in the fevers of the hot season, of the cerebro-spinal, all 
demanding a more or less complex and careful treatment, a speedy 
unlocking of all the secretions and excretions of the body, which 
the most ample experience proves that bleeding and purging alone 
will not effect. Tropical fever, dysentery, and hepatitis are pro- 
duced by the action of specific causes, and such diseases are no- 
where cured by the exclusive use of blood-letting and purging, as 
in the instance of common or of mere inflammations. Yet here, 
as in dysentery and hepatitis, bleeding is the standard remedy, 
subject to age, constitution, and length of residence in India. 
Bleeding, whether general or local, should be practised to the 
extent of reducing the force and frequency of the pulse, and of 
relieving the loaded and oppressed abdominal viscera. It pre- 
cedes all other means of cure, both in order of time and in 
importance. The fevers of Bengal have for a length of time been 
treated according to indications grounded on explanation of the 
symptoms, on the physiology, and not on any exclusive plan. 
Accuracy of diagnosis and simplification of treatment, the true 
aims of the practical physician, have very generally been held in 
view. Blood-letting has been had recourse to, to moderate the 
force and frequency of arterial action, and to relieve congestions ; 
free purgation, by means of mercurials conjoined with cathartics, 
to remove accumulations or vitiated secretions, and to aid in 
correcting the latter; calomel with sudorifics to act on all the 
secretory and excretory functions ; bark or quinine during the 
remissions, so as to arrest the coming paroxysm ; cold affusion in 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OP BENGAL. 181 

the ardent continued fevers of the hot season these have long 
been in use \vith us. 

Subject only to the limitations already stated, bleeding early 
Mtrding whether general or local, and always practised at the 
rcry onset of the stage of reaction, is very generally necessary in 
the severer forms of Bengal remittent fever ; then come full doses 
of calomel and sudorifics, short of producing salivation, with saline 
purgatives, and quinine in the intervals. If under such treatment 
the disease does not speedily yield, but on the contrary, if the 
secretions become of a watery nature, or if they be suppressed, 
and the paroxysms recur at shorter intervals, or with increas- 
ing severity, leaving but imperfect remissions, then there is im- 
minent danger, and inflammation or congestion, more or less 
acute, in some important abdominal or cerebral organ may be 
more than suspected. For the cure of this state, in addition to 
topical bleeding and cold applications to the head, when it proves 
the seat of disease, calomel in small and repeated doses, with 
antimonials, must be exhibited so as mildly to affect the system ; 
its judicious use, and that of quinine, constitute the only known 
means of saving the patient by anticipating the destruction of 
some organ essential to life. I have seldom had occasion to urge 
mercury to the extent of salivation, during the whole period of 
my service in India. Where there is much irritability of the 
nervous system, or tendency to sinking of the vital powers, the 
union of camphor with the calomel, as recommended by the 
Indian medical officers of old, will be found useful. In such con- 
ditions it will be found more safe than opium, especially in the 
hands of the inexperienced, for it does not favour congestion, or 
lock up the secretions as opium is too apt to do. But opium is 
necessary in some cases, and given with care and judgment it will 
then save life. In treating seamen and soldiers suffering from 
tropical fevers and other acute diseases, we should very carefully 
inquire into the previous habits of the patient, for when these have 
been dissipated, including the free use of ardent spirits and 
tobacco, we must be on our guard against the complication of 
delirium tremens more or less masked by the fever. This is a 
delicate point to determine for the young surgeon ; but, looking to 
the history of the man's life, and to the predominance of nervous 
over vascular disturbance, he will soon perceive that an opiate, 
and not the lancet, is the remedy ; the latter would indeed be 
fatal. Here the nervous system has been rendered feeble and 
irritable, while the blood has been depraved, by habitual excess. 

The tendency to sinking of the vital powers is another most 
important consideration, never to be overlooked in treating the 
remittent fever of Bengal. This impending event is the reason 
why all our active antiphlogistic measures of cure, as blood-letting, 
purgatives, and sudorifics, must be so cautiously regulated as to 



182 THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 

the time of using them ; for what was a saving means at the com- 
mencement of the paroxysm, is as surely destructive at the end of 
it. On the subject of blood-letting, Robert Jackson's works 
abound in valuable injunctions, such as ought to be present to the 
recollection of all who undertake the onerous duty of treating 
tropical fevers. After the exposition of admirable rules as to the 
"just point of time" for the application of this most powerful 
means, he concludes by declaring that " the same remedy, after 
the delay of a few hours, not only ceases to be useful, but the 
application of it even sometimes becomes unsafe :" further on he 
adds, with equal truth, that " it requires much discernment in many 
cases to discover the cause, a very correct judgment to measure 
the means, and even no small degree of knowledge to be able to 
ascertain that the end is attained." 

That our fevers in Bengal alter their types, nay that instances 
both endemic and epidemic occur in which blood-letting is not 
only unnecessary but injurious, the pages of this work sufficiently 
attest, and death even from its ill-timed use has more than once 
come under the author's observation; yet the fact remains un- 
touched that blood-letting, practised with the care and thought- 
fulness which should mark every step we take in this disease, at 
the proper time, and apportioned to circumstances of constitution, 
age, sex, season, and length of residence in India, forms the 
principal means of cure in our endemic fevers, and of preventing 
those organic lesions which otherwise so frequently follow them. 
Leeches are a ready and powerful means in the treatment of 
tropical fevers of every type; but I would caution the in- 
experienced against this mode of abstracting blood as a general 
rule, or as a substitute for venesection and I would likewise 
place him on his guard against the ill effects of prolonged oozing 
from leech-bites, especially in the instances of persons at the two 
extremes of life the very young and the aged. I have seen the 
most serious results from carelessness in this respect 

In regard to the next most powerful remedy in paroxysmal 
fevers, namely, the peruvian bark ; where the remissions are 
becoming sufficiently well marked, quinine should be given in 
full doses without waiting for a perfectly favourable condition of 
the system : in bad fevers we should seize the very first dawn 
of remission to exhibit quinine. Some practitioners recommend 
that before this drug is used we obtain a clean tongue, na- 
tural secretions, and the absence of all heat of skin, and of local 
complication. I believe this to be a very dangerous practice : if 
we are to wait for everything favourable we shall often have to 
wait too long, and till it has become too late. It is in acute dis- 
eases as in critical circumstances political and commercial every- 
thing is for him who can wait ; but, unhappily, in the formidable 
remittents of the tropics we can wait for nothing, for there is not 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OP BENGAL. 183 

a moment to lose. I have always given quinine in the more 
favourable cases now under consideration, in disregard of certain 
abdominal complications (those of the cerebral cavity should in 
general exclude its use), believing that if I arrested the paroxysms, 
the progress towards curing the disease as a whole, greatly out- 
weighed any harm which the quinine could possibly ao to 
the local affection, the treatment of which, by local depletion, 
by mercurials, or by counter-irritants, is not interfered with 
by the means in question. Again, all tenderness on pressure, or 
local pain, does not necessarily constitute inflammation ; and even 
where such is actually present, its character is often so modified by 
malarious influences, and anaemic states of the general habit, as to 
constitute a state very different from idiopathic and uncomplicated 
inflammations, such as may demand only the kind of treat- 
ment here immediately referred to. In respect to quinine, I have 
often combined it with sudorifics, and I think with advantage ; 
where there existed depression of the vital powers I have added 
small doses of laudanum. It is also usual with us in Bengal to 
combine this powerful antiperiodic with common purging mixture, 
a mode whereby it applies itself to the entire and extensive surface 
of the mucous digestive organs, so as materially to add to its 
influences. 

It is well known in the history of the treatment of the fevers of 
India a history so instructive that it ought to be known to all of 
our profession who may serve there that at different times bark, 
calomel, and blood-letting have, each in its turn, been in almost 
exclusive favour with some individual practitioners ; but such 
partial plans of treating so formidable and complicated a disease 
has never, for any length of time, held influence on the more 
thinking portion of the profession. I would guard and caution 
the younger medical officer alike against the adoption of exclusive 
measures of cure, and against the over-treatment of fever, both 
being equally mischievous. In truth, it is only by a rational and 
well-adjusted plan, which shall call into operation all the aids 
suggested by science and by experience, that such a disease as 
fever can anywhere be justly treated. 

Finally ; it cannot be too much or too often impressed on the 
Indian surgeon that it is on his careful attention to the phenomena 
and treatment of fever that nine-tenths of his usefulness depends. 
I have here presented the reader with a summary of the nature 
and treatment of the Bengal remittent fever : it will be found to 
correspond in most of its details with the history of endemic 
fevers generally, with the bilious remittents of the Indies, whether 
East or West : they all have a pathological community, they are 
all fevers of locality, and do not by any means differ so much as 
medical writers of partial views and partial experiences would 
have us believe ; their supposed differences, or uasological divi- 



184 



THE REMITTENT FEVER OF BENGAL. 



sions, are more frequently the work of man than of nature : they 
may and do differ in degree of intensity ; but their essential 
phenomena, and the organs affected in their progress so as to 
endanger or ultimately to destroy life, are the same, and so like- 
wise are the essential parts of their treatment. 

I have now concluded this the most important article in this 
work ; and I trust that, provided I have treated the subject wor- 
thily, the reader will not consider that I have devoted too much 
space to the discussion of it ; for he who can successfully combat 
the remittent fevers of tropical climates need not despair of acting 
with a like success in the treatment of the dysenteries and hepatic 
diseases of those regions. The principles here inculcated will, if 
I mistake not, guide the medical officer to such favourable issues, 
under every variety of type and complication of remittent fever 
as may reasonably be attainable, in the present state of our 
knowledge. 

For the following Table, exhibiting the comparative frequency 
and the intensity, as shown by the relative mortality of remittent 
fever, throughout the wide extent of climate occupied by British 
soldiers, I am indebted to my friend Colonel Tulloch : 





Period 




Remittent Fever. 






Aggregate 






of 










STATIONS. 




Strength. 






Proportion 




Observation. 




Attacked. 


Died. 


of deaths to 












admissions. 


Windward and Leeward 1 
Command . . . . j 


20 years . . 


86661 


17799 


1966 


1 in 9 


Jamaica 


20 


51567 


38393 


5114 


1 in 8 


Gibraltar 


19 


60269 j 


YF * 314 


28 


lin 11 






I 


' 1522 


423 


1 in 3| 


Malta 


20 


40826 


384 


16 


1 in 24 


Ionian Islands 


20 


70293 


6934 


623 


1 in 11 










6 


1 in 3 


Bermudas 


20 


11721 | 


YF* 19 
277 


101 


1 in 2J 


Nova Scotia and New } 












Brunswick $ 


20 


46442 


15 


. . 


1 in 15 


Canada 


20 


64280 


294 


18 


1 in 16 


Western Africa 


18 


1843 


1601 


739 


1 in 2 


Cape of Good Hope. . 


19 


22714 


15 


1 


1 in 15 


St. Helena 


9 


8973 


25 


1 


1 in 25 


Mauritius 


19 


30515 


6 


1 


1 in 6 


Ceylon 


20 


42978 


4643 


868 


1 in 5J 


Tenasserim Provinces 


10 


6818 


594 


22 


1 in 27 


Madras 


5 .. 


31627 


1139 


54 


1 in 21 


Bengal 


5 


38136 


1311 


89 


1 in 14} 


Bombay 


5 


17612 


2854 


114 


1 in 25 



* The prevalence of Epidemic Yellow Fever is here indicated. 



INTERMITTENT FEM i: Is:, 



INTERMITTENT FEVER. 



THE proportionate amount of sickness from intermittent fever, 
in any given communities, will depend on the relative amount of 
local sanitary improvement, or of the neglect of it, in the districts, 
stations, and cantonments occupied by them throughout our inter- 
tropical possessions. The geographical distribution of the class of 
fevers here treated of will be found to be very much the same with 
that of remittent fevers ; where the one form of fever prevails, there 
we generally find the other likewise ; and whether an European is to 
be affected by a remittent or by an intermittent fever will depend 
on length of residence in a tropical climate, on age, constitution, 
and previous habits of life, on season, and the intensity of the 
exciting causes. 

The usual history given by Europeans who have resided in 
malarious districts or stations is, that they had first been affected 
by remittent (jungle) fever, and that then followed the intermit- 
tent form. 

Dr. Bryson, in his Statistical Reports on the health of the navy 
serving in the East Indies, says of the fevers of China : " A large 
proportion of or nearly all the cases of intermittent were the 
sequelae of fevers which had first appeared in the continued or re- 
mitting forms; still there were a few which seem to have been 
intermittent from the commencement, although it is probable they 
were connected with preceding attacks which were not observed, 
or had been forgotten." 

In Calcutta, through the hitherto gradual improvements in its 
ill-chosen site, intermittent fever has become, for many years 
past, a mild and infrequent disease comparatively, especially 
among the better classes of society, and amongst Europeans of 
better habits of life. This simple fact strongly illustrates the 
beneficial influences resulting from local sanitary improvements, 
while it constitutes a powerful inducement to the government and 
the public of the city in question, to proceed in the same course of 
amelioration which has already secured to its inhabitants so great 
an exemption from disease. 

At home, and in our own capital, we find that the sweating 
sickness, scurvy, dysentery, malignant ague, and other formidable 
diseases, have yielded to die slow progress of sanitary improve- 
ment in modern London ; so, in our Eastern capital, we have no 
longer " the obstinate putrid intermitting fevers," described by the 
older writers, with their cold stage of " twelve hours" and their 
long list of sequelae in the form of tumid livers and spleens, 



186 INTERMITTENT FEVER. 

diarrhoeas, dropsies, &c. &o., a condition of public health which 
we now regard, even in the capital of British India, with horror. 

Dr. Bogue, who practised in Calcutta in 1757, speaks of this 
form of fever " as the most fatal " of that time. It began with the 
rainy season, and continued with increasing violence during its 
continuance, and " for some time after," the paroxysm recurring 
daily, so that "the patients had not above four or five hours 
respite from it." Thus he says, " we had sick at the same time, 
in this place, one half of the men of the squadron under the com- 
mand of Admirals Watson and Pocock." 

The fevers here described would seem to have possessed the 
malignant character of the febres intermittentes algidce of Torti, 
in which the power of generating heat was so impaired that the 
patient died in the cold stage at the end of two or three accessions. 

Immediately, our modern intermittents are in general not 
dangerous to life, but, consecutively, the dangers arising from 
visceral diseases, in after years, are considerable. Of this latter 
fact I have had presented to me in England very numerous 
instances, and one very remarkable will be found under the head 
of Chronic Diarrhoea. In certain districts of the East Indies, as 
in others of our colonies, the type of intermittent fever assumes a 
malignant form, and then the dangers of a rapid dissolution, or of 
visceral disease and a broken constitution, are very great. 

I have said that ague is an " infrequent" disease in Calcutta, 
and strangers will read with surprise that I do not think I saw 
above a dozen cases in a year, on the average; and these occurred 
in persons who went into the neighbouring jungles on hog-hunting 
and other such excursions. But this disease is of frequent 
occurrence in the marshy and jungly portions of Bengal Proper, 
as well as of all such countries throughout India. 

I remember attending a mercantile gentleman who contracted 
his ague in the Sunderbunds, about the middle of October. On 
his return to Calcutta, about the 26th of the month, he experienced 
a good deal of malaise, and took medicine from a chemist with 
partial relief. Towards the end of the month the native servants 
who accompanied him fell ill of ague one after the other, and on 
the 20th of November their master was seized with a violent 
paroxysm of the same disease. Here we perceive the superior 
power of resistance to the morbific influence exhibited by the 
European over the natives, as shown by the difference in the 
period of latency or of the abeyance of the fever in each, being 
more than thirty days in the former, as compared to ten and 
fifteen days in the latter. This gentleman was temperate in his 
habits, and inured to the climate ; and both master and servants 
entered the Sunderbunds in good health, and neither had been 
previously affected with ague. 



INTERMITTENT FEVER. 187 

CAUSES. That the emanations from marshes produce agues 
is the universal belief of mankind in all ages and countries ; and 
the accordance of the medical profession in this opinion has 
always been quite as general. 

Many authors believe with Cullen that, in the climate of 
England, this fever can alone be produced by exposure to marsh 
exhalations; and Sir John Forbes has shown in a very able 
memoir on the medical topography of Land's End in Cornwall, 
" that neither impure air simply, nor wet, nor the alternations of 
cold and heat, nor all these combined, can give rise to fevers of 
thi^ type." This I believe to be quite true in respect to a Jirst 
seizure; but after //</, and when the disposition to relapse is once 
established in the system, such a combination of influences will 
certainly in tropical climates prove an efficient cause ; and even 
Cullen admits " the concurrence of other existing fevers," when 
the malaria is not " strong enough to produce disease." In sup- 
port of this latter view I quote the following important passage 
from Sir James McGrigor:- 

" After the effluvia from marshes or the exhalations raised by a 
powerful sun acting on a humid or luxuriant soil, we found that in 
those who were convalescent or lately recovered from agues, the 
causes next in power to reproduce the disease were exposure to 
a shower of rain or wetting the feet, exposure to the direct solar 
rays, or to cold, with intemperance and irregularity, or great 
fatigue. Many other causes would excite the disease in the pre- 
disposed, but these never failed to do it. In marching troops in 
a country where the disease is endemic, particularly if they have 
been lately discharged from hospitals, the above causes should by 
all means be avoided, since the whole of our experience in the 
Peninsula showed that relapsed cases seldom or never get com- 
pletely well in the country in which they were contracted, under 
all the circumstances of a soldier's life. In making calculations 
of efficient force this description of men could not be depended 
on for operations long continued in the field." Pringle the 
father of British military medicine writes to much the same 
effect : " After the frosts of November the intermittents never 
appeared unless upon catching cold, and even then such only as 
had been ill of them in autumn were seized in that manner." 

The important observation is continually repeated also by this 
great author, as to the excessive liability to attack of those who 
occupied the lower floors of houses and barracks, and this 
happened all over Flanders. 

SYMPTOMS AND PROGRESS.--The symptoms of inter- 
mittent fevers are well known to consist, like those of remittent 
fevers, in paroxysms of three stages a cold, a hot, and a sweating 



188 INTERMITTENT FEVER. 

stage, the succession of such events following each other every 
day, when the fever is termed quotidian; or every other day, when 
it is called tertian ; and when two days intervene, then it is termed 
a quartan ague, the intervals being respectively twenty-four, forty- 
eight, and seventy-two hours. 

The intermittent differs from the remittent fever in this, that in 
ague the stages are generally complete and well marked, while 
they are followed by a complete intermission of disease, or state 
of health, which allows of time and opportunity for the application 
of means of cure, having for their object the arrest of further 
progress of the fever. Unchecked by medicine, however, the pa- 
roxysms of intermittent fever recur at regular or irregular intervals, 
for weeks, months, or even years, so as eventually to prove more or 
less detrimental to health. The types of intermittent fevers 
change so that the quotidian becomes tertian, and this last again 
a quartan ; and so likewise do the paroxysms occasionally change 
their hours of invasion sometimes coming later in the day, when 
they are said to be postponed while by coming earlier they are 
said to anticipate. In all fevers of the paroxysmal form the 
former is regarded as a favourable, while the latter is held to be 
an unfavourable event, in the progress of the disease. 

All the types of intermittent fever are to be found in the East, 
but by far the most prevalent is the tertian ; and we very gene- 
rally find that the first seizure of this fever ensues upon an attack 
of the remittent form. It was so in my own person : after a 
dangerous remittent fever, which I contracted on active service 
in the hill ranges of Gondwana, and from the violence of which I 
must have speedily sunk but for a profuse haemorrhage from the 
nose, during the height of the two first paroxysms (the moment 
when I ought to have been bled had there been any other medical 
officer present) all which left me in a very emaciated and en- 
feebled condition. In this state, while sitting to be dressed, near 
the door of my tent, a shower of rain came on, accompanied by a 
very slight reduction of temperature ; and on the instant I was 
seized with violent shivering, which proved an intermittent fever. 
This disease in its tertian form harassed me greatly during 
eighteen months subsequently ; and I only got rid of it by pro- 
ceeding to the Isle of France, and by being absent from Bengal 
during eight months. But so severe were these fevers, that, 
in my after life, the susceptibility to malarious fever has re- 
mained so strong on me as never, up to this very day, to have 
left me. 

The average duration of a paroxysm ranges from six to twelve 
hours, the severity of the disease, as well as its amenableness to 
treatment, depending very much on the duration of the cold 
stage ; for where this last proves of two hours' duration, or more, 



INTERMITTENT FEVER. 189 

and the disease is protracted, the patient incurs much risk of 
disease of the abdominal viscera. 

PATHOLOGY. All the organs and functions which are dis- 
turbed or oppressed during the paroxysm of remittent, are likewise 
more or less affected in that of the intermittent fever. During the 
cold stage of the latter the brain is occasionally oppressed by 
congestion, while all the abdominal organs are similarly affected ; 
and in the succeeding hot stage the same organs and functions 
are more or less seriously disturbed in the tumult of vascular re- 
action. There is flushing of the face, headache, and sometimes 
delirium, the patient being at the same time distressed by general 
uneasiness, restlessness, and epigastric anguish. It is no wonder 
that morbid actions and alternations such as these, repeated 
during weeks, months, or even years, should result in organic 
diseases of a formidable character. 

Agues which have become habitual by repetition will also im- 
part a character of periodicity to other ailments, such as neuralgic 
affections. A few years ago I became subject to facial neuralgia, 
which came on regularly at eleven A. M. the very hour at which ague 
used to commence with me in India more than twenty years previously. 
Further, when the intermittent fever has been severe, or long-con- 
tinued, the disposition to recurrence of the same disease seems to 
last for life. After a residence of ten years in Europe I happened 
to pass three nights at the best hotel in Strasburg, at a time when 
ague prevailed in the garrison amongst the French soldiers who 
had served in Algeria ; and two days after quitting that town I 
was seized at the accustomed hour of eleven A.M. with ague, and 
I was the only person of the party who was so affected. 

We have in the East not only every variety of type of inter- 
mittent fever, but every degree of intensity also certain districts 
and provinces being noted for the malignity and fatality of their 
agues ; and even in Bengal Proper we have often to combat severe 
and obstinate visceral diseases, the sequela? to these intermittents. 
Under neglect of early and effective treatment such cases termi- 
nate in permanently broken health, through disorganisations of 
the liver, spleen, or mesentery, or of all three. In the malignant 
intermittent fevers of Aracan, and Gondwana, and of provinces of 
a like unhealthiness, we perceive such remote ravages of disease 
as to prove at once conclusive both of the original intensity and 
danger of the disease, and of the ultimate serious consequences, 
even after the lapse of years. One such case I will adduce by 
way of illustration : 

Captain contracted the intermittent fever of Aracan 

in 1837, which was speedily followed by great enlargement of 
lie 'i It liver and spleen. At my recommendation he was sent to 



190 INTERMITTENT FEVER. 

England for the recovery of health, whence he returned to India 
in 1839. His health continuing very indifferent under various 
changes of climate, he was constrained to resign the service in 
1847. But even in England he was always an ailing person ; 
and in October, 1852, I was consulted on the state of his health, 
which was then desperate. He died two months afterwards in a 
state of universal dropsy. 

For the following post mortem record I am indebted to Mr. 
Pollock of St. George's Hospital : " The peritoneum was covered 
throughout its free surface with an opaque white false membrane. 
This membrane was thin on the surface of the abdominal wall and 
small intestines, but was very thick elsewhere, as on the surface 
of the stomach, transverse colon and liver, from which viscera it 
could be peeled off. From the peculiar manner in which it was 
spread over and attached to these organs, when the abdomen was 
opened, the small intestines were the only viscera that could be ob- 
served. The large intestine, stomach, liver, and spleen were hid 
from view by the false membrane glueing them together ; and the 
only indication of their situation was an irregular nodulated mass 
covered with this membrane, and situated at the upper part of the 
abdominal cavity. The membrane on the right side was con- 
tinuous from the abdominal wall over the ascending colon to the 
spine, and so bound down the ascending colon that, until the 
membrane was removed, the situation of the bowel was not ascer- 
tained. From the surface of the bowel the membrane passed to 
and attached itself to the mesentery of the small intestine over 
the vertebrae, in some parts thicker than others, so that it might 
almost be said to consist of bands, and, from their attachments, 
they must have much compressed the ascending colon. On re- 
moving the membrane from the irregular mass, the stomach, 
transverse colon, omentum, and spleen, with the liver, were 
brought into sight ; but all these viscera had been compressed as 
it were into the mass by the false membrane spread over them 
the membrane being strongest in this situation, and equal to three 
or four sheets of paper in thickness. The membrane here was 
readily removed. The liver was enlarged, but chiefly on its left 
side ; and between the longitudinal fissure and the extremity of 
the left lobe and its anterior margin, there was a whitish yellow 
mass of hardened deposit which dipped some two inches into the 
substance of the liver, and it was some three inches broad. When 
cut into, it was firm and consistent, and appeared to consist of 
fibrous tissue with portions of fatty matter, somewhat resembling 
the character of scirrhus, but less hard. The spleen was healthy, 
but larger than usual. The kidneys were healthy. The other 
viscera were not examined." 

The reader will now be able to appreciate the original violence 



INTERMITTENT FEVER. 191 

of the intermittent fever in tins instance, and the necessity there 
was for die most active antiphlogistic means, including blood- 
letting, to overcome inflammatory complications. Such means 
were not applied ; or, if applied, they were not of sufficient 
power ; and hence, in all probability, the unfortunate issue. 

In all the severer intermittent fevers of India, such as that by 
\\hidi the European and Native force under General Morrison 
was destroyed in Aracan, during the first Burmese war, we find 
the sequela; of diarrhoeas and dysenteries to be very frequent 
also ;* and it is Justly observed by Dr. Schulhoff, in his Notes on 
the Diseases of Turkey, that where there is ague dysentery is not 
far off. Congestive and inflammatory affections of the spleen 
and liver, diarrhoeas and dysenteries, the results of intermit- 
tent fevers, are most frequent and most severe during the cold 
season in Bengal. 

The influence, real or supposed, of splenic disease in keeping 
up the morbid train of actions of the original fever, and in pro- 
ducing relapses, is a subject well deserving the careful attention 
of the tropical practitioner. 

M. Piorry, on his attentive examination of the state of the 
spleen in more than five hundred cases of ague, has come to the 
conclusion that that organ is invariably enlarged during the pro- 
gress of the fever ; and he has ascertained with equal accuracy 
the fact that, by the use of quinine the spleen is diminished in 
size. M. Piorry states : 

The devotion of the medical officers attached to this portion of our invading army 
was most notable. Mr.Grieraon, of the Bengal Medical department, says : " Of the first 
five deaths that occurred among the European officers, four were in the medical branch 
of the service. This blank was severely felt ; but twice the above number were soon on 
the rick list ; and at length only eight medical officers remained for the whole duties of 
the division, the sick of which at that time amounted to near 5,500 men, besides the 
sick of the various public establishments, and the camp-followers." All who were not 
dead were in hospital. From this simple statement, the hopeless nature of the duties 
devolving on the few surviving surgeons of the army of Aracan may be inferred ; and 
it will be matter of no surprise that in a few months, three-fourths of the entire force, 
European and Native, perished on the spot ; while the suffering survivors were ruined 
in health. 

Mr. Lewis Grant, of the Bengal Medical Department (brother to the gallant Sir Colqnhoun 
Grant), was the principal medical officer. It is related of him that " he was attacked by 
the fever, and recovered. When told that to save his life he ought to go, he replied, 
' No, Sir, this is our post, and I will not set the example of leaving it.' He soon after- 
wards had a relapse, which proved fatal." The Native officers of Gardiner's Horse tried 
to cause the authorities to interfere with their surgeon to take care of himself, and be 
leas in hospital. " The death of a dozen of us does not matter," they said; " but if be 
dies, the whole corps will perish." 

Mr. T. C. Robertson, the humane and most able Commissioner on the spot, says, in 
his "Political Incidents of the First Burmese War:" " The devotion of all members of 
the medical staff to their duties was most exemplary. Not one of them, however ill, 
withdrew from the Province, where many of the number died. I have myself seen some 
of them, in the intervals of their own agues, wrapped up in cloaks and busied in visiting 
the sufferers under their charge." The Commissioner, who subsequently rose to be 
Governor of Agra, might well designate the conduct of Mr. Grant as " a fine example." 



192 INTERMITTENT FEVER. 

1st. That the reduction in the size of the spleen bears some 
proportion to the quantity of the medicine taken. 

2nd. That the effect produced by quinine upon intermittent 
fevers is proportioned to the reduction of the spleen. 

3rd. That the fever is cured simultaneously with the cure of the 
splenic disease. 

4th. That, on the other hand, the fever will be liable to recur 
so long as the spleen exceeds its proper size. 

M. Piorry believes that as the spleen attains its greatest size at 
an early period in ague, the paroxysm does not produce the 
hypertrophy, but rather that the enlarged organ maintains the 
disease. He and M. Bally are of opinion that no other remedy 
is so certain or energetic in agues as quinine ; its powers being 
equally remarkable in the ascites that results from long-continued 
disease of the spleen. British and Foreign Medical Revieiv, 
vol. vi. 

There are cases of intermittent fever, however, complicated 
with hepatic and other engorgement, and which continue to recur 
despite of all means, until a few doses of calomel, followed by 
purgatives, are administered. Then the quinine, which before 
failed, will speedily cure the disease. It would thus appear 
that certain morbid conditions of both liver and spleen will cer- 
tainly produce and maintain the tendency to recurrences of ague, 
Raniazini relates the case of a patient harassed by an obstinate 
ague, and who was cured by mercurial frictions administered for 
syphilis. 

" The cause which prevents the cure of ague," says Dr. Billing, 
" is visceral disease, which may either have existed before the in- 
termittent, or have arisen during its continuance. The ague and 
the visceral disease, whether of bowels, liver, spleen, or lungs, 
&c., act reciprocally as cause and effect the ague aggravating the 
visceral disease by causing congestion during each paroxysm ; the 
visceral disease, by keeping up morbid sensibility during the in- 
termission (or even a pyrexial state between the paroxysms, when 
the disease is named remittent), which prevents the cure ; but if, 
by mercury, or bleeding, &c., the visceral disease be removed, the 
cinchona exercises its influence on the nervous system, and 
finally arrests the disease." 

TREATMENT. We shall be led to the most effective treat- 
ment of intermittent fevers, by an early and close attention to 
their complications, such as the splenic and hepatic congestions, 
and the inflammatory affections of these and other organs, which 
occasionally arise during their progress, and towards their termi- 
nation. The utmost attention should be paid, during and subse- 
quently to each paroxysm, to the condition of the two important 



INTERMITTENT FEVER. 198 

organs referred to, as well as to the state whether congestive or 
inflammatory of the cerebral and abdominal organs generally. It 
is easy in the average of cases to cure a simple uncomplicated 
ague ; but it is not so when the type of the fever is malignant, or 
adynamic, or where the complications are severe. In every case 
of ague there will be more or less of simple turgescence of both liver 
and spleen during the cold stage, especially if this last prove of long 
duration ; but this turgescence disappears in mild cases with the 
sweating stage of the fever. It is different, however, under concen- 
trated endemic influences, and where the ague is consequently per- 
nicious ; for here the spleen and liver, if they do not become imme- 
diately affected, are sure to be so eventually. Repeated over a 
succession of months or years, even simple turgescence may ter- 
minate in organic disease, in defect of early or proper treatment. 
In truth, the difficulties encountered in the treatment of agues 
consist in the presence of the original malarious influence, and in 
the existence of the complications above mentioned. Wanting 
these two, or, in other words, under change to a purer air, and in 
the absence of cerebral or abdominal complication, agues are very 
easy of cure. 

Emetics would seem to be indicated in the cold stage of this 
fever, with the view to restore the balance of circulation and re- 
lieve oppression resulting from congestion of the viscera ; but 
here, as in the remittents of Bengal, emetics are not, and never 
have been, in favour with the practitioners there. Warm drinks, 
ammonia, ether, camphor, and other diffusible stimuli, and 
warmth externally applied, are preferred by the great majority. 

When the hot stage has come on, a full dose of calomel with 
James's powder should be given at once, and in three hours this 
should be followed by a brisk cathartic diluent drinks being 
freely used meanwhile, along with some cooling diuretic : the 
tartarised antimony, with nitrate of potash, answer the double 
purpose of determining the fluids to the skin and the kidneys. On 
the following morning, the intermission being complete, the sul- 
phate of quinine is to be administered, at intervals of three hours 
during the day, the patient being kept in bed, and supplied with 
farinaceous food only. The treatment here briefly indicated will 
speedily cure a mild and uncomplicated ague. In the simple 
cases hei contemplated it may not be necessary to administer 
mercurials more than once or twice ; but active purgatives are 
always beneficial in relieving the full and congested state of the 
abdomen generally during the continuance of intermittent fever. 

But where the disease is severe, and accompanied by pracordial 
oppression, pain, or fulness of the spleen or liver, or of both, or 
where there is severe headache, or headache with giddiness, or an 
oppressive fulness of the chest, a general or local blood-letting, 



194 INTERMITTENT FEVER. 

or even both together, will be necessary, as a means of present 
cure, and as a preventive of future ills. Measures of deple- 
tion are as necessary here as in remittent fever, and repeated 
applications of leeches, with several doses of calomel and strong 
purges are required, in these severe cases, to prepare the system 
for the antiperiodic power of bark, quinine, or arsenic. 

" Depletions" says Copland, " are almost indispensable preli- 
minaries to the quinine or bark, especially in the complicated and 
congestive forms : for, without them, it will either not be retained 
on the stomach ; or, if retained, will convert congestions, or slight 
forms of inflammatory irritation, to active inflammation, or to 
structural change." He adds that it is chiefly to a neglect of this 
practice that complications and unfavourable consequences so 
often follow the use of bark, quinine, or of arsenic ; for these often 
interrupt secretion, and over-excite and inflame loaded, obstructed, 
or congested organs. As in the milder instances, mercurials with 
sudorifics, occasional diuretics, followed by powerful cathartics, 
and quina, are here necessary ; and on their proper application 
the efficiency and the speed of the cure will depend. Blood 
should be drawn here, as in the remittent fevers, at the very onset 
of the hot stage, or that of reaction ; and it should be regulated by 
the constitution, age, and habit of the patient, as already ex- 
plained. By such timely depletion congestions and inflammatory 
conditions will be removed, and much future disease and suffering 
will be prevented. 

Where, on the other hand, the intermittent fever assumes a low 
adynamic form, or where the subject is in a state of anaemia, with 
or without enlargement of the spleen, mercurials should be most 
carefully avoided in the treatment, and reliance placed on change 
of air, quina, chalybeates, and improved diet. Under the condi- 
tion of the general habit now referred to, mercury must not 
be administered for the cure even of hepatic enlargement : the 
nitro-muriatic acid must be used instead, both internally and exter- 
nally. Mercury would here be at once ineffective and injurious in- 
deed dangerous while the mineral acids are most powerful to good. 

In the low form of ague, in the anaemic habit, and where there 
is chronic enlargement of the spleen, with the splenic cachexia, 
blood-letting, general or local, should also be avoided ; but even in 
weakly persons who are not anaemic, local blood-letting by means 
of leeches will be found extremely beneficial, under the cautions 
as to subsequent oozing already pointed out. In removing epi- 
gastric oppression or tenderness, or similar states of either or 
both hypochondria, fomentations followed by leeches will always, 
in a tolerably sound state of the constitution, be safe and proper, 
as will occasional blisters. Warm-baths, used at bed-time, are 
likewise very beneficial. 



INTERMITTENT FEVI l!."> 

The sulphate of quinine is exhibited variously by various prac- 
titioners some, as Maillot, giving very large doses of twenty and 
thirty grains four hours before the expected paroxysm while 
others begin to administer the quinine on the subsiding of the pa- 
roxysm, and during the sweating stage. But the most rational 
plan, so far as my experience extends, would appear to be that of 
inhibiting the quina every three or four hours during the apyrexy, 
and in such doses as the urgency of the symptoms may demand. 
In this manner a sufficient quantity of the antiperiodic will be best 
borne, while the risk of injury by overdosing will be avoided 
seeing that during the intervals of exhibition we can watch and mea- 
sure the effects. I have always exhibited the sulphate of quinine 
in this manner, I believe, with an average amount of success ; and it 
can hardly be necessary to observe here that I have seen, over a long 
range of years, and in various countries of the East, very severe 
types of intcrmittcnts. To cure the patient by means of the quina 
is all that is wanted ; and to exhibit more of that medicine than is 
needful to this object, or to protract the use of it beyond the occa- 
sion, is to injure him. I always administered the quinine in solution, 
and with the addition of a small quantity of dilute sulphuric acid. 

In the instances of plethoric subjects, I often conjoined the 
quinine with antimonials ; and where the patient was feeble and irri- 
table, with symptoms of exhaustion, I added a few drops of tinc- 
ture of opium to the antiperiodic. Several very able medical 
officers are in the habit of giving quinine in the intermittent of 
the East Indies, in doses of twenty-five to thirty grains " as soon 
as the patient began to perspire freely after the hot stage.'* They 
declare that this plan has proved in their hands more effective, and 
more economical of the medicine. 

Arsenic has for ages been known to and largely exhibited by the 
native doctors throughout India, in every form of fever, continued 
as well as paroxysmal ; and they are in the habit of exhibiting the 
mineral in very large doses, and for a long continuance frequently 
with permanent injury to the health, as mentioned at page 167. 
When arsenic is preferred in the treatment of ague, it should be 
given in the College formula of solution, not in bitter infusions, 
as recommended by some writers, but in some aromatic water, with 
or without a few drops of laudanum to each dose of the arsenical 
solution, as may be deemed necessary. From six to eight drops 
given in this manner, every three hours during the apyrexy, and 
continued only for a few days, prove very effective in some cases. 

After the force of the fever has been broken by the use of quinine, 
or where relapses in lesser degrees of violence still harass the 
patient, the arsenical solution will be found a valuable aid and 
substitute ; and this becomes an important consideration in the 
field of active service, where quinine may be scarce. 



196 



INTERMITTENT FEVER. 



The Swietenia Febrifuga, and the kernel of the Caesalpinia Bon- 
ducella, and the Chiretta, are much used by the native practi- 
tioners of Bengal, as antiperiodics and tonics. 

Where the intermittent fever has become chronic, or when as 
secondary results there is organic disease of the liver or spleen, or 
of both, change of climate becomes a measure of necessity ; and 
it is one that should never be neglected in such cases. I trust I need 
not add to what has been said in the last article on this subject. 

As, notwithstanding its scientific claims, fashion unhappily still 
holds some influence in medicine, and as bleeding in the cold 
stage of intermittent fever may again come under professional 
review, in the round of medical opinions and practices, I think it 
right to notice the subject. My own personal experience will not 
allow of my speaking in favourable terms of this practice ; neither 
will a reference to authority prove more encouraging, as the fol- 
lowing comparative quotations will show : 



DR. MACKINTOSH. 

"The practice prevents debility in a 
direct manner by saving the vital fluid." 



MR. TWINING. 

" I may say that in all regular inter- 
mittents, with c^ld, hot, and sweating 
stages, and tolerable uniformity in the 
hours of accession, the practice of bleeding 
in the commencement of the cold stage, 
has proved always safe, and generally 
more successful than any other remedy." 



DR. MACKINTOSH. 
"I believe bleeding in the cold stage, 
conjoined with the occasional use of sul- 
phate of quinine and laxatives, to be as 
certain a mode of treating intermittents as 
any other set of medicines can be said to 
be certain in the treatment of any other 
class of diseases." 

DR. MACKINTOSH. 

" The practice may be adopted in the 
first stage of all fevers." 



DR. ELLIOTSON. 

" It is not at all right to take away 
blood, and thus impair the power of the 
patient ;" when, as he adds, he " never 
saw a case which he could not cure by the 
sulphate of quinine." 

DR. WATSON. 

" I object to bleeding because it appears 
to me quite unnecessary ; because it is not 
such as the nature of the symptoms would 
suggest ; because it tends to produce sub- 
sequent debility, which we should not 
needlessly inflict ; and because the expe- 
rience of other sober minded men, who 
have given the method a fair trial, does 
not bear out the statement made by Dr. 
Mackintosh in respect to its usefulness. 
If in this country bleeding be requisite at 
all, it is in the hot stage." 

DR. STOKES. 

" Bled in the cold stage, and found it 
useless and injurious ; and, after all, was 
compelled to give quinine sooner or later." 

DR. ELLIOTSON. 

" The quinine which cures it best inter- 
feres with no other measures." 

THE CELEBRATED DR. GREGORY. 

" Blood-letting, which at another period 
of the disease might have been proper, if 
employed in the first stage never fails to 
be attended with the most dangerous con- 



INTERMITTENT FEVER. 



197 



sequences ; or it is, to use the words of 
Celsus, homintm jvffulare." 



In 



DR. COPLAND. 
* case where I directed blood- 



MR. TWINING. 

" The recent practice of bleeding in in- 
tennittents, as recommended by Dr. 
Mackintosh, not only accords with the 
acknowledged pathology of that class of 
fevers, but seems to bring our system of 
therapeutics, as applied to them, within 
the limits of those established principles 
adapted to the treatment of other fevers, 
from which, formerly, intcrmittents were 
almost excluded." 



MR. TWINING. 

" The safety and efficacy of this practice 
have been so far established by Dr. 
Mackintosh that I have not hesitated to 
adopt it." . . . . " The great advantage 
of V. S. in the cold stage of ague appears 
to me to depend on the prompt and 
decided relief it affords, guarding the 
patient against the ulterior results of re- 
peated congestions of internal organs." . . 
. . " It appears to me that V. S. in the 
cold stage of intermittent fevers deserves 
to be classed among the best remedies 
which we possess for the effectual cure 
of many of the most obstinate cases of 
these diseases in Europeans." 



DR. MACKINTOSH. 

" Bark has been long in use, and al- 
though I never denied that it had virtues, 
yet when given in substance in the large 
dotes which are admitted to be necessary, 
I have so frequently seen it do mischief 



letting before reaction supervened, the 
loss of three or four ounces caused pro- 
found and prolonged syncope, yet within 
four hours, when reaction had come on, 
fifty ounces were taken before any effect 
was produced upon the pulse ; and before 
the sun of the same day had gone down, 
forty more were abstracted at one time, 
in all ninety-four ounces within twelve 
hours." 

DR. DENMARK, PHYSICIAN TO THE 
FLEET. 

"In these instances venesection was 
never had recourse to till the vascular 
system had fairly emerged from the 
depressed state incident to that stage of 
the fever, and reaction had clearly mani- 
fested itself by the returning glow of the 
skin, the tilling of the previously shrunk 
and dejected features, and the firm though 
frequently oppressed beat of the pulse. 
Former experience not only taught me 
that an earlier abstraction of blood was 
never borne to an extent productive of 
ultimate benefit, but, on the contrary, 
seemed to be injurious by tending to pro- 
tract the first stage of the paroxysm." 

DR. WATSON. 

" Drs. Townsend and Law, of Dublin, 
found it fail in the majority of cases. In 
Dr. Stokcs's hands the most usual effect of 
blood-letting was to check the shivering ; 
and, next to this, to mitigate the severity 
without abridging its duration. In most 
instances no modification was produced of 
the hot and of the sweating stages. In 
Dr. Kelly's experience the general effect 
was to shorten the cold stage, and to 
render the hot one milder ; but in some 
cases it seemed to aggravate the symptoms. 
Mr. Gill found that, although the blood- 
letting might cut short the cold stage, it 
appeared to lengthen the period of febrile 
disturbance." 

DR. STOKES. 

" Having now described the effects of 
the practice on the paroxysm, and on the 
local symptoms, I must next mention 
some very untoward circumstances which 
appeared to follow the bleeding in the 



198 



INTERMITTENT FEVER. 



that the question has often suggested itself 
to me, whether it was not more injurious 
than beneficial ? It seems to be injurious 
in many cases by overloading the stomach 
and bowels with indigestible ligneous 
fibre, and I have seen it cause serious intes- 
tinal irritation, as displayed by griping 
pains in the bowels, diarrhoea, and painful 
tenesmus. On examining the stools in 
these cases, they seemed chiefly to consist 
of bark, with a considerable quantity of 
mucus occasionally tinged with a little 
blood. 

" The preparation of bark, which is 
known by the name of the sulphate of 
quinine, is the greatest improvement in 
modern pharmacy, and the knowledge of 
its beneficial effects in simple intermit, 
tents affords sufficient proof of the virtues 
of the substance from which it is ex- 
tracted; yet this remedy, all-powerful as 
it is, is useless in the cold stage, and must 
also fail in cases complicated with organic 

disease My youthful readers 

may rest assured that the same observa- 
tions are generally applicable to the 
sulphate of quinine ; yet they will most 
probably meet with many practitioners, 
who will assure them that they have never 
seen a case in which bark, exhibited in 
substance, or in any other form, has failed 
in their hands. When they hear such 
statements they n.ay be satisfied that such 
practitioners never met with a severe case, 
or that there is some subterfuge. Some 
medical men, it is but charitable to sup- 
pose, are in the habit of deceiving them- 
selves. In the instances which fell under 
my own observation, and to which I have 
already alluded, fever and violent cerebral 
symptoms'succeeded, and, in two or three 
instances, local inflammations." 



MR. TWINING. 

" In the early stages of intermittent 
fever, or to speak with more precision, 
within two or three weeks of their com- 
mencement, in persons of robust habit, 
there is very often disorder of the func- 
tions and secretions of the digestive 
organs, and particularly of the stomach, 
co-existent with congestion of the brain, 
and attended in some cases with tolerably 



cold stage these were the occurrence of 
new local inflammatory symptoms, and the 
supervention of a low irritative fever. 
From the examination of the cases, I 
apprehend that an impression will be 
received against the indiscriminate or 
even frequent use of bleeding in the cold 
stage of ague. It may be remarked that 
in the great majority quinine had to be 
administered before the disease was eradi- 
cated; that many of them had an ex- 
tremely slow and dangerous convales- 
cence ; that in several instances the 
disease, so far from being relieved, ap- 
peared exaspeiated by the practice ; that 
local inflammatory affections occurred 
several times after the operation ; and, 
lastly, that the bleeding appears to have a 
tendency to convert intermittent into 
continued fever. In one case, that of 
Caseley, death from pneumonia and 
softening of the brain occurred. In none 
of my cases did any bad effects from 
sinking of the powers of life follow the 
practice immediately ; but I am informed 
that, in the practice of a highly respect- 
able individual, there occurred two cases 
in which the patients did not recover 
from the collapse produced by bleeding in 
the cold stage. These facts should make 
us very cautious how we interfere with 
nature by means of the lancet in simple 
intermittent, where we have so certain, 
and as far as I have seen, so infallible a 
remedy as the sulphate of quinine. I do 
not deny that cases may often occur 
where venesection may be proper, such as 
intermittent complicated with severe in- 
ternal inflammation ; but shall only re- 
mark, as these cases have not come under 
my own immediate observation, that to 
offer my opinion on a purely practical 
point connected with them would be 
wholly useless. I may mention that I 
have been informed by my friends, Dr. 
Townsend and Law, of this city, that they 
have given the practice a trial, and have 
found it to fail in the majority of cases." 

DR. JAMES JOHNSON. 

" What kind of inflammation must that 
be which explodes, as it were, the moment 
the clock strikes a particular hour, and 
this for days and weeks together ? What 
kind of inflammation is that which, every 
second day, terminates in profuse perspi- 
ration from head to foot, and yet is 
renewed after au interval of forty-eight 
hours with the symptoms as before, and 



INTERMITTENT FEVER. 199 

dittinct evidence* of inflammatory condi- to on ? Do we see real and unequivocal 
tion either in the cerebral membranes or inflammation* pursue this course ? Never, 
in the brain itself." * Are the causes of these intermittent 

phlegmatic (if such an expression be not 
a solecism in medical language) of a pe- 
riodical or intermittent nature ? No. 
They do not accommodate themselves to 
any particular theory." 

Thus it appears, at least in Europe, that the treatment of inter- 
mittent fevers by blood-letting in the cold stage, whilst it has the 
show of being prompt and energetic, proves in effect haphazard, 
systemless, operosc, and tedious ; and, from all that I have seen 
and heard in the East, the result there has not been more favour- 
able. Modern science, indeed, is steadily though slowly achiev- 
ing a signal victory, in the treatment of fevers especially namely, 
that over exclusive systems. It is no longer with us as with the 
character in Moliere : " A dead man is but a dead man, but rules 
are everything." 

To conclude : The rule of practice laid down by Pringle and 
Cleghorn has received little or no addition in more recent times. 
Where general blood-letting is had recourse to, in the treatment 
of intermittent fevers, whether simple or complicated, it should, 
as in the case of all other fevers, be performed at the very onset 
of the stage of reaction. Practised at this period of the febrile 
movement, it will diminish the force and frequency of arterial 
action, relieve venous congestion, usher in the sweating stage, 
and thereby pave the way for the administration of purgatives, 
sudorifics, diuretics, and quinine, on the just application of all 
which the prevention of recurrence must depend. 

In the milder forms of ague, in feeble habits, or in the cases of 
persons who may have resided long in India, local depletion, by 
means of leeches, will answer every purpose. 

* The italics in the two last quotations are mine, and I have added them with a view 
to mark the vagueness and want of precision in both writers when they speak of 
inflammation, whether as affording an explanation of the physiology of this disease, as 
some writers would have it, or as applicable to mere occasional complication. 
It is to the former notion that Dr. James Johnson's observations apply. 



200 THE CONGESTIVE CONTINUED FEVEK 



THE CONGESTIVE CONTINUED FEVER OF THE 
COLD SEASON IN BENGAL. 

THIS fever, like all the diseases of the cold season in Bengal, is 
dangerous from its insidiousness. It is a frequent form of disease ; 
and none are exempt from its seizure not even the prudent of the 
better classes of Europeans. It attacks persons of all ages, and of 
both sexes ; but men are, from their habits of life, far more ex- 
posed to it, and that in its graver forms. Its approach, unlike the 
fevers of the hot season and rains, is very gradual, being generally 
but little noticed either by the patient or his friends ; or, if noticed, 
it passes for catarrh, or dyspepsia. 

At this stage, the functions of circulation and secretion are but 
little affected ; yet, there is a harsh dryness of the skin, especially 
of that covering the abdomen, coupled with a sense of fulness and 
oppression at the epigastrium, which will not fail to attract the 
notice of the careful medical observer. In the course of a few days, 
provided these symptoms receive no professional attention and 
treatment, the circulation and respiration become hurried ; head- 
ache is present, together with lassitude and anxiety, loss of appe- 
tite and rest, the tongue indicating disorder of the digestive functions. 
The loss of more time brings with it serious complications 
in the form of abdominal and cerebral congestions, as indi- 
cated by increased fulness and oppression of the proecordia 
tension of the whole abdomen intense headache, with occasional 
delirium and sometimes with yellowness of the whole surface of 
the body, jaundiced eye, and a surcharged state of the urine ; in 
short, there are present all those morbid conditions which we 
might, a priori^ anticipate as likely to arise from neglect, under the 
influences described at pages 49 and 50, and which cannot be too 
deeply impressed on the recollection of all who have to encounter 
the cold season in Bengal ; for the same neglect may, according to 
circumstances, induce the fever here described, dysentery or the 
still more dangerous, deep-seated and insidious hepatic inflamma- 
tion common to the cold season. 

It is believed that in animals whose pulmonary system is compa- 
ratively less perfect, there is a greatly increased quantity of blood 
transmitted through the liver. In hot climates then, where respira- 
tion is less perfectly carried on than in such as are cold, owing to 
the greater rarefaction of the air in warm regions, according to 
Tiedmann and Gmelin, a vicarious decarbonization of the blood is 



OF THE COLD SEASON IN BENGAL. 201 

established by an increased flow of. bile ; and hence it is that the 
function of the liver, now weakened and rendered torpid, in pro- 
portion as its function has been unnaturally excited during the pre- 
vious hot and rainy seasons, becomes disposed to congestion and 
inflammation of its parenchyma during the cold season, and thus 
are produced the dangerous states of disease noticed. 

An irritable or inflamed state of the mucous digestive surface is 
a frequent complication ; and these combined circumstances con- 
stitute the great dangers of our congestive fever of the cold season 
in Bengal, as well as those of the autumnal fevers of the more un- 
healthy countries of Europe. 

The form of fever is generally continued ; but when protracted, 
it may and does frequently assume the remittent character, parti- 
cularly where the patient has recently been exposed to malarious 
influences, as during the sporting excursions made during the cold 
season into the districts around Calcutta. In cases where we have 
to lament the neglect of early treatment, cerebral congestion with 
delirium prove occasionally long-continued and troublesome, espe- 
cially when to these states are added retention of urine all demand- 
ing much care and attention : but serious as these cerebral affections 
appear, I have generally seen that the patient recovered, provided 
they were not associated with abdominal complication of a grave 
nature. But when we have the attendants of yellow suffusion, 
parched and black tongue, jactitation, and a generally typhous 
condition, we must perceive that the condition of the sufferer is 
one of imminent peril. 

The appearances on dissection are such as the nature of the 
disease and its complications might lead us to expect; various 
degrees of acute congestion, or of inflammation, with their results, 
being very generally found within the abdominal and cerebral 
cavities. In neglected cases we find hepatic abscess, and some- 
times ulceration of the mucous digestive surface. This latter con- 
dition I found to be very prevalent amongst the labouring classes 
of natives, whom I had continually to treat at the Native Hospital 
of Calcutta on account of neglected fevers of from fifteen to twenty 
days' duration ; and yet a large proportion of them recovered. 

The treatment of the continued fever of the cold season in Ben- 
gal, amongst Europeans, is conducted on the same general prin- 
ciples which guide us in our management of those of the other 
seasons. We have to diminish arterial action, and relieve local 
congestions, by blood-letting, suited to the age, sex, and length of 
residence in India of the patient, and to the urgency of the symp- 
toms. Having effected these primary objects, we proceed, without 
loss of time, to promote the secretions by a full dose of calomel 
with James's powder, followed in a few hours by active saline ca- 
thartics. Where no complications exist, one or two moderate 



202 THE CONGESTIVE CONTINUED FEVER 

bleedings, followed by brisk purgatives, and tartarized antimony 
with nitrate of potash, will suffice for the cure, when these have 
been accompanied and followed by total abstinence from food, and 
by cooling diluent drinks. But where the brain, or liver, or both, 
have become the seats of diseased action, then our remedial means 
increase in vigour ; the general and local blood-letting must be 
larger in amount, and more frequently repeated the calomel with 
antimony, and the purgatives, must be more largely and more fre- 
quently exhibited until relief from the fever, and from all local 
congestion, shall be obtained, together with a restoration of natural 
secretion ; for these are the only true signs of recovery. 

It frequently happens in the course of this fever, that, with or 
without cerebral oppression, we have a sluggish condition of the 
bowels, with defective hepatic and intestinal secretions. In order 
to elicit these secretions, I was in the habit of combining plain 
scammony and the James's powder with the calomel, exhibiting 
them thus united over night, and following them up in the morn- 
ing by a brisk draught of infusion of senna with simple jalap 
powder ; or, where viscid mucus impacted the bowels, by a tere- 
binthinate draught. In the fevers of children especially, we often 
find that the most alarming cerebral symptoms, with a doughy 
inelastic state of the abdomen, and torpid bowels, are removed at 
once by the night exhibition of medicine here mentioned, followed 
in the morning by the rectified oil of turpentine. 

When the patient is seen after having been many days ill, with- 
out previous medical aid, congestion having proceeded unrestrained 
within the cerebral or abdominal cavity, or within both, blood-let- 
ting, general and local, calomel, sudorifics with diuretics, and 
strong purgatives, must still constitute our means of reliance ; and 
we shall frequently have to exhibit the calomel so as gently to 
affect the system. These means, powerful as they are, will not, 
under the circumstances of neglect here contemplated, prove so 
prompt in their results as when applied earlier ; but, nevertheless, 
they must be used, powerfully and repeatedly in bad cases, other- 
wise the patient will be destroyed by the force of disease. 

Where, on the other hand, we have evidence of irritation of the 
mucous digestive surface, we must determine to the skin freely by 
mild diaphoretics in the form of antimony or ipecacuanha, to- 
gether with warm baths, relieving the bowels when necessary by 
the most unirritating aperients. 

Natives of Bengal were daily brought into the Native Hospital, 
in the most advanced and neglected stages of this form of fever ; 
with tumid abdomens, confirmed stupor, and tongues black and 
dry as charcoal ; and it was surprising how many of these poor 
people recovered under the following plan of treatment which, 
on a large amount of experience, became at length the settled 






OP THE COLD 8BA8ON IN BENGAL. 203 

management in such cases. On admission into hospital, the 
patient was put into a warm bath, while the entire surface of 
the body was purified by the free use of brush and soap the head 
being shaved at the same time, and cold applied to it. A large 
sinapism was then applied to the abdomen ; and where the state of 
the pulse admitted of it, a few leeches were applied to the epigas- 
tric region, or behind the ears, or to both regions, followed in a day 
or two by blisters to those parts. A very mild aperient draught 
was always administered on admission, aiding its operation by 
enemata. 

A course of treatment was then commenced, of alkali, mild ape- 
rient and sudorific, all conjoined. The formula which I ordered 
was generally as follows : 

Sesquicarbonate of soda, one scruple, 
Powdered rhubarb, five grains, 
ipecacuanha, one to two grains. 

This medicine was exhibited three or four times in the twenty- 
four hours, according to the severity of congestion, while the diet 
consisted only of iced barley water ; and, as I have already stated, 
the result from such simple means was such as to surprise medical 
officers habituated only to the treatment of Europeans. The pro- 
gressive recovery of sense, and gradual restoration of health, of 
persons who a week or ten days before had appeared in a hopeless 
state of disease, was very remarkable : but the natives of India will 
recover from wounds, and from advanced states of diseases result- 
ing from fevers, which would destroy any European. The cases 
of fever here referred to were those of persons of the labouring 
class of natives, in whom fever had gone on unrestrained by any 
treatment for fifteen or twenty days, and in which, consequently, 
the period for more active measures of cure had long passed 
away. We were therefore content to work on gradually with 
nature to see the patients improving ; as any heroic endeavour to 
hasten the operation of cure would only have endangered their 
safety so reduced were the powers of life. 

To conclude : it is scarcely necessary to urge that where this 
fever assumes the remittent character, whether in the instance of 
an European or native, quinine in proper doses, and administered 
during the remissions, will prove of signal advantage. 



204 THE ARDENT CONTINUED FEVER 



THE ARDENT CONTINUED FEVER OF THE HOT 
SEASON IN BENGAL. 

I HAVE placed my notice of this fever last in order, because 
though very dangerous to persons of irregular habits of life, it is 
yet by no means so frequent of occurrence as the forms of fever 
previously noticed. A consideration of what has been said on the 
general influence of a high range of temperature at pages 37 and 
38, will have prepared the reader for an unusually severe and dan- 
gerous disturbance of the nervous and vascular functions, under the 
united influences of direct, and of long continued solar exposure, 
especially where there has been intemperance of habit ; and so we 
find it in the European soldier. 

While examining the records at the Director General's Office, 
to which the kindness of Sir James Macgrigor gave me access, the 
clerk who assisted me in the examination said : " Here, Sir, are 
twenty-two admissions into hospital at Berhampore in one season 
from apoplexy, and twenty-one deaths" They were examples of 
the most violent cerebral fever, amounting in some cases to actual 
coup-de-soleil : " Where the line was to be drawn," reports Dr. 
Henderson, " between apoplexy and remittent fever, is here hard 
to say." The history of these fatal cases, as given by Doctors 
Henderson and Mouat, the able officers then in medical charge of 
Her Majesty's 13th Light Infantry, will afford a correct idea of 
this fever when in its worst form. 

The soldiers consisted of older men who had recently returned 
from the first Rangoon campaigns, and recruits but recently arrived 
from England. The corps was marched in two detachments, 
cruelly, because unnecessarily, during the hot season, from Nuddea 
to Berhampore a distance of sixty miles. The recruits had been 
drilled in the sun thrice a day before quitting Calcutta, so as greatly 
to injure their healths; in short, both classes composing the corps 
were in but indifferent health on commencing their unfortunate 
march; and though it was chiefly conducted during the night, with 
every care within reach of the medical officers, the effects were fatal 
in a remarkable degree, while " none of the natives were taken ill 
during the trip. n Such of the Europeans as could not reach the 
ground of encampment by 9 A. M., "were seen to drop down and 
instantly expire : others less severely attacked were saved by timely 
and copious bleeding." But presently Dr. Henderson, the medical 
officer in charge, became seriously ill ; and the day closed with a 
sick-list of sixty-three, and eighteen deaths, out of the right wing 



OP THE HOT SEASON IN BENGAL. 205 

of tho regiment alono ; both the sickness and the deaths being 
principally confined to the recruits. 

The symptoms as described by Dr. Henderson, were : flushing 
and swelling of the face, amounting in some cases to lividness a 
parched and burning skin a full and frequent pulse difficult and 
oppressed breathing giddiness and sense of fulness in the head, 
amounting to acute pain in some instances, with burning heat of 
the eyes, succeeded by loss of sense and motion, and faltering of 
the tongue dilated pupils twitching of the muscles of the face 
subsultus tendinum, and involuntary evacuations. There was 
no stertor or paralysis, the symptoms being referred to a violent 
excitement of the nervous and vascular functions, with congestion 
of the cerebral vessels, the results of excessive heat acting on the 
irritable frames of hard-drinking and unseasoned European sol- 
diers. 

Such is an example of the severer form of ardent fever peculiar 
to the hot season in Bengal ; and from a very interesting report by 
Dr. Milligan of the 63rd Foot, we find that like symptoms resulted 
from the exposure of his corps to the sun during a military funeral 
at Madras. " The greater number of the men," he says, " were in the 
prime of life ; but there were amongst them some old soldiers who 
had served twenty years and upwards, some of it in the West 
Indies, and were much broken down by service and intemperate 
habits. The entire corps had just arrived from the Australian 
colonies, " where spirituous liquors can be had on easy terms." 
The regiment landed at Madras in the month of May ; and from 
the date of the " untoward circumstance " of the funeral, " the hos- 
pital became filled with cases of fever." Two men dropped down 
and died on the very day of the funeral, and for several days after- 
wards the fever cases augmented considerably. " I have reason 
to believe," adds Dr. Milligan, " that the effects of this exposure to 
the rays of a vertical sun did not rest here, but laid the foundation 
of future mischief in assisting to originate fever, hepatitis, and 
dysentery, from which the regiment afterwards suffered much." 
Examination of the body after death was unfortunately impracti- 
cable in both the instances cited, as the sickness of most of the 
medical officers, and the harassing duties imposed upon all, left 
no time for the customary investigations. 

In the Bengal instance the medical officers directed frequent 
bathing of the head and hands as a precautionary and preventive 
means, the march being conducted slowly, and the troops halted 
every hour; during the halts the men were urged to refrain as 
much as possible from drinking the indifferent water to be found 
along the line of march. When the actual disease set in, with 
" sinking of the vital powers, or a kind of collapse, a grain of 
opium was given to produce reaction, after the occurrence of 



206 THE ARDENT CONTINUED FEVER 

which they were largely bled ; and, with these precautions, though 
thirty men were admitted into hospital after the first march, none 
died." 

Of Dr. Mouat's detachment sixty-three men were taken ill 
during the march, of whom fifty were recruits. " The disease," he 
says, " was a remittent fever of the severest kind." Subsequently 
Dr. M. describes " a cerebral disease arising from exposure to 
fatigue under the influence of a high temperature." In this latter 
instance blood-letting to the extent of fifty, sixty, and even a 
hundred ounces, was had recourse to ; but " the remedy was worse 
than the disease ; for though the first attack might be relieved, yet 
the subsequent symptoms required the same profuse evacuation 
for their relief ; and from the previous loss of blood the patient 
was not in a state to bear such depletion, in fact, two men became 
convulsed, and died shortly after they were bled, and it was found 
after death that, though the heart was empty, the vessels of the 
head were loaded with blood." Here the brain would seem to 
have been overpowered by congestion beyond relief. Cold 
affusion often repeated, and continued cold to the head, were sub- 
sequently premised in the treatment ; and after being put to bed, 
when reaction took place, the soldiers were bled to thirty or forty 
ounces, followed by full doses of calomel, purgatives, and leeches 
to the head. This latter treatment is proved to be more 
successful. 

To the reports above quoted we have appended, in the Madras 
Medical Journal, important observations by the late distinguished 
Inspector-general of Her Majesty's hospitals in India, Dr. Murray. 
He " apprehends that there is an essential pathological difference 
between the morbid affections arising from exposure of the bare 
head to the direct rays of the sun, or from over exertion under 
great heat, and such as are induced by the influence of a high 
temperature in the shade. In the former case, strong excitement 
is at once produced in the organ affected, by the direct stimulus 
of the cause. Thus, in the case of exposure of the bare head to 
the sun, the scalp being protected by the hair, and peculiarly 
constructed, does not blister as the skin of other parts of the body 
would do if exposed to a strong solar influence ; but its tempera- 
ture becomes exalted, and the caloric, traversing it and the 
skull, gives immediate rise to active hyperaemia, and inflammation 
of the contents of the cranium. In the latter case, the application 
of the morbific agent being upon the general system, the cerebral 
affection which results appears to be induced in a different man- 
ner ; at first there is nervous depression or collapse, and sangui- 
neous congestion, upon which reaction follows." Then follow 
remarks of great value from this able officer, on the seat, symptoms, 
predisposing causes, diagnosis, necroscopy, cure and prevention of 



OP THE HOT SEASON IN BENGAL. 207 

the cerebral disease ; and it is with. regret that I find myself pre- 
cluded from doing more than quoting the summary of treatment : 
" The remedial means consist in blood-let //////. general and local, 
cold applications to the head, cathartics, clysters, antinuminh, 
counter-irritants, cordials, darkness, rest, quiet, and absti- 
nence" 

Dr. Murray urges that, excepting in cases of extreme necessity, 
the patient be not subjected to coercion such as that of the strait 
waistcoat, as the cerebral excitement would thereby be increased 
in the patient's efforts at release. All articles of clothing capable 
of obstructing circulation in any part of the body, but more espe- 
cially about the neck, should be removed, and the posture should 
be such as to favour the free return of blood from the head. 

During the fatigue and severe exposure of the Bengal detach- 
ments marching to Berharapore, it was remarked that while the 
Europeans suffered so fatally, " none of the natives were taken 
ill ;" and such I dare say will generally be the case. I recollect 
one instance, however, where it proved the reverse of this, in the 
Governor-General's Body Guard of Cavalry, with which I served 
during the two campaigns of the first Burmese war. We mounted 
at 11 A. M. of the 12th of May, and, with one short halt only, we 
made a forced march of forty miles under as powerful a sun as 
ever shone in Burniah. The heat oppressed us almost beyond 
endurance, and many very powerful men, native officers as well as 
troopers, fell off their horses, vomiting, convulsed, cold, and 
bathed in a clammy sweat. Where a tree could be found I had 
the men placed under its shade, and they were dashed over with 
water. The detachment then pushed on, leaving several men 
thus affected on the road ; but not one European officer, whether 
commissioned or non-commissioned, fell sick either during the 
march or after it. But we were all young, healthy, temperate in 
our habits, and well seasoned to the climate; and such men, it is 
well known, will bear with comparative impunity fatigue and 
exposure almost beyond belief. 

By seasoning no more is here meant than the accommodation of 
the constitution, through the gradual operation of physiological 
changes, to extraordinary ranges of temperature, and which we 
everywhere observe to occur during the first few years of residence 
within the tropics. This, and no more, is meant by the term 
acclimation ; in short, as stated in the article on climate, it is the 
ill habits of life of the European soldiery that give such fearful 
activity of power to tropical heat, and, but for these habits, its in- 
fluence would be less felt by them, comparatively. In the 
two wings of the 13th Light Infantry, for instance, we hear of no 
officer's having fallen sick, excepting Dr. Henderson ; and his 
fatigue of mind and body will alone account for his illness. 



208 THE ARDENT CONTINUED FEVER 

But I must now refer briefly to the fever of the hot season in 
Bengal, as it appears amongst Europeans in civil life. It cannot 
be necessary to enter into all the minute details of symptoms in 
the milder forms of this fever, seeing that its graver type has 
already been described; for it is always easy to bring the mind to 
the comprehension of simple and uncomplicated diseases, when 
once we have been rendered familiar with their most concentrated 
and complicated states. 

The type of this fever is usually continued, but sometimes re- 
mittent ; it seizes with suddenness and violence, the heat, thirst, 
throbbing and frequent pulse, restlessness and racking headache 
coming in rapid succession. The complications are generally 
cerebral, with occasionally severe forms of gastric disturbance, as 
indicated by pain, oppression of the praecordia, and vomiting ; 
sometimes the liver is involved. We have not here the tendency 
to collapse so characteristic of the true Bengal remittent fever ; 
but the ardent rapid progress of the disease, together with the 
cerebro-spinal and gastric complications, constitute this fever of 
the hot season one of very considerable danger. 

The appearances on dissection are such as might be anticipated 
from the symptoms during life ; they consist of inflammatory and 
congestive states of the cerebro-spinal organs; and where the 
stomach, lesser bowel, and liver have been implicated, we perceive 
the morbid appearances common to our other fevers of the climate. 
Serous effusions are frequently found in the cerebral and abdo- 
minal cavities, more rarely within the thoracic cavity. 

The treatment consists in active blood-letting, practised to the 
extent of allaying the vascular disturbance, relieving the pain of 
the head, and reducing the temperature of the body ; these are the 
tests and the proof that the operation has been successful. 

Leeches applied behind the ears, cold affusions, continued cold 
to the shaved head, and calomel and antimony, followed by very 
active purging, will generally confirm the relief of the patient, and 
complete his cure. In this fever, as in that of the cold season, 
the skin will generally be found harsh to the touch, compacted, hot 
and dry, so as to require a more free use of antimonial diapho- 
retics, united with cooling diuretics, than we find to be necessary 
in the fevers of the rainy season. When remissions take place, 
provided the head be relieved, quinine must be had recourse to for 
the purpose of preventing the recurrence of paroxysms; and 
should symptoms of exhausted nervous power, or of delirium 
tremens, make their appearance, from half a grain to a grain of 
opium, united with calomel and antimony, will soothe and procure 
sleep. In this, as in the ordinary remittents of Bengal, where an 
anaemic irritable condition of the brain has become manifest, 
symptoms occur which prove very embarrassing to the young 



OP Till II<>T SEASON IN 1JKNGAL. 209 

surgeon ; and the treatment of them by camphor, or by camphor 
and opium, becomes an important practical question. 

"For the congested state of the nervous centres in fever," says 
Dr. Billing, " syrup of poppy, or a few drops of laudanum, will 
produce an effect equal to that of a larger dose of opiate medicine 
in other states of disease." The same authority observes that 
narcotics are frequently useful during fever, nay necessary, as 
may be understood by referring to the essence of fever, and 
knowing that sleep is nature's restorer of deficient nervous in- 
fluence. The obstinate wakefulness which takes place in some 
cases of fever must have a deleterious tendency to produce 
collapse, hence the benefit of gentle opiates. 

Drs. Corrigan and Gordon, of Dublin, have for some time past 
exhibited chloroform internally to procure sleep in fever, to re- 
lieve pain in painter's colic, and to overcome nervous agitation 
and restlessness in delirium treraens. 

" The affections of the cerebral functions," says Dr. Gordon, 
" frequently assume great importance in fever ; their derangement 
is sometimes indicative of disease in the respiratory apparatus, or 
in the digestive canal ; more commonly, however, it is owing to 
the organic nervous influence produced by the fever on the brain 
and nervous tissue itself. One of the most prominent character- 
istics of this lesion is insomnolency, causing, or, at all events, 
followed by delirium, subsultus, &c." It is in such highly 
dangerous states of disease that chloroform internally administered 
produces the happiest effects. 

Dr. Corrigan states truly that " the loss of sleep, if continued, 
is of itself sufficient to kill ;" and he adds that, " if even the 
shortest sleep is procured some advantage is gained." His 
formula, of which one ounce is the ordinary dose, is as follows : 

Chloroform ..... 3v. 
Pulv. Glycyrrhzae 3v 

Mist. Camphora; .... ,V XSS - 

To afford sleep in fever, to relieve pain in painter's colic, the mi- 
nimum dose exhibited is half a drachm of chloroform repeated every 
two or three hours. In delirium tremens the dose at first is a 
drachm, and is often increased to two drachms. It may with 
safety be given in larger doses, and unlike opiates it does not 
lock up the secretions. 

Speaking of the use of wine in fever, Dr. Billing says, that the 
person who best understands the nature of delirium tremens will 
be the quickest to discern the propriety and necessity for the 
administration of wine and opiates in fever, erysipelas, &c. 
Even in inflammations occurring in debauched and debilitated 

v 



210 THE FEVERS OF THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 

constitutions, it is absolutely necessary to give more or less 
stimulants at a very early stage. 

Where wakefulness threatens injury during the course of, or in 
the more advanced stages of tropical fevers, or where symptoms 
indicative of delirium tremens arise, opiates are not only safe but 
necessary ; but the inexperienced medical officer must be on his 
guard against error in diagnosis. He should feel his way with 
small doses at first, given at intervals ; for, as remarked by Dr. 
Latham, it is a fearful thing to strike a heavy blow in the dark, 
where the alternative is of such magnitude. 

It is in this fever that cold affusion exerts its greatest power in 
abstracting heat and subduing nervous and vascular excitement I 
remember the case of an officer who had been much exposed to the 
direct rays of the sun, and who was not subjected to treatment until 
the advanced stage of his fever. His sufferings and distress were 
beyond description, and he appeared to be rapidly sinking. His 
reduced state rendered blood-letting in any form inadmissible; 
but, the skin being of a pungent dry heat, I had him soused with 
cold water, and the relief was, excepting in one other case already 
narrated, the most surprising of any that I have ever witnessed. 
This person to all appearance lost, was, through cold affusion 
chiefly, speedily restored to health. 



NOTE ON THE FEVERS OF THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 

THE subject of the diseases of the natives of India deserves a 
separate treatise, and I trust that the time is not distant when we 
may hope to possess one worthy of so important a question. But 
the scope, purport, and very title of this work do not admit of any 
further discussion on the subject than the most cursory. A know- 
ledge of the diseases of Asiatics is intrinsically of great import- 
ance, while, contingently, it will present an interesting and ex- 
tensive field of comparison with the diseases of Europeans, and 
their causes. 

British India, divided into four great portions that of the 
Ganges to the east, of the Indus to the west, of the Dekhan to 
the south, and of that bounded by the great Himalayan range to 
the north is inhabited by nations differing in religion but 
descendants of the same great family ; they are distributed over 
the vast extent of what is termed the Peninsula of Hindustan 
the widest extent of empire with the smallest and most easily 
defensible line of frontier of any existing on the globe. 

There is reason to conclude, from the notices by the Greek 
authors, that no change whatever has taken place in the institu- 



THE FEVERS OP THE- NATIVES OP INDIA. 211 

tions, character, or manners of the Hindus, from the ago of 
Alexander to the time when they were discovered by the nations 
of modern Europe. 

The extreme length of Hindustan from south to north is 1,880, 
while its breadth from east to west is 1,620 miles, or 27 degrees 
of latitude and 25 of longitude, comprising 1,280,000 square 
miles; all its features being on the most magnificent scale. 
Washed by the Bay of Bengal to the south-east, and by the 
Indian Ocean to the south-west, it is bounded to the north and 
east by mountains of prodigious elevation, from whence the two 
great, rivers of India have their sources, and flow to opposite 
points of the continent. 

Varying in physiology of constitution as they may be divided 
by geographical distinctions of latitude, quality and elevation of 
soil, or by differences in diet, the natives are separated, Hindu 
from Hindu, and Hindu from Mahomedan, by impassable barriers 
of caste and of religion ; yet, under British rule, this wonderful 
aggregation of one hundred and fifty millions of subjects has 
attained to a degree and kind of union, such as no antecedent 
rulers, whether ancient indigenous Hindu, or more modern con- 
quering Mahomedan, ever could conceive, far less accomplish.* 

Out of this enormous mass, every description of person enters 
eagerly into the various public employments presented by the 
British government, whether civil or military, and natives of every 
caste and class are thus brought into familiar and friendly commu- 
nication with their European superiors. Not only is this the case, 
but natives, both Hindu and Mahomedan, undergo laborious and 
protracted courses of education, the better to qualify themselves 
for the various public duties offered to them ; and here, to the 
honour of the medical profession, it has taken the lead, and accom- 
plished a noble triumph of education. Always prominent in 
every endeavour to advance the moral and intellectual condition 
of the people, youths may now be seen by the hundred, trained 
and instructed by our medical officers at the three Presidencies, 
who but a few years back, had they touched a dead body, would 
have become outcasts. Now these youths are seen to go through 
years of the dissecting room, and to leave their colleges able 
physicians and expert surgeons. 

The relative proportions of the followers of the two dominant 
religions of India, the Hindu and Mahomedan, may be taken as 
about eight of the former to one of the latter, for the whole of 
Hindustan; Pegu and the Island of Ceylon being inhabited by 
Budhists. It is estimated that, throughout India generally, there 
are 3,400 Natives to one European; but insignificant as this pro- 
portion appears, the presence of the European offers to the Hindu 

* The Mahomedan conquest of India was completed A. o. 1215. 

p 2 



212 THE FEVERS OF THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 

and Mahomedan the only hope of ever attaining to truth in 
religion or in science. 

The complexion, stature, bulk, and weight of the body vary in 
the several nations, as they may inhabit the south or the north of 
India, as they may occupy countries near to or far from the 
Equator ; the advantages in all the above respects being generally 
much in favour of the northern nations. But whether of high or 
low stature the trunk of the Asiatic, whether Hindu, Mahomedan, 
or Budhist, will be found slender, as compared to that of the 
European. The Siah-Posh, an undoubted branch of Hindu race, 
and who inhabit the cold mountain region of Kohistan have, 
according to Sir Alexander Burns, arched eyebrows, a fair com- 
plexion, blue eyes, and Grecian features, while, on the contrary, 
the descendants of fair Persians and Affghans have, in the course 
even of a few centuries, become of darker and darker shades as 
we trace them into the farther south of India. Generally speak- 
ing, the Mahomedan, whether of Persian, Affghan, or Baluchi 
descent, will everywhere, but in the north especially, prove the 
fairer as compared to the Hindu, but this distinction will be found 
to have gradually disappeared under a foreign climate, and the 
fairer Mussulman will have become more and more dusky with 
advancing generations. 

The various natives inhabiting Hindustan appear to differ 
from Europeans less in feature than in the more trifling cir- 
cumstances of colour, size, and form. They are nevertheless 
moulded by a great variety of climates, localities, habits of 
life, diet, occupation, &c., so as to constitute in reality a people 
varying exceedingly in moral and intellectual qualities, in 
physical powers and appearances. The medical officer will 
therefore have peculiarities to investigate in almost every state 
and province throughout the whole extent of our Eastern posses- 
sions. Placed under few of the rigorous necessities which, in 
northern latitudes, impart energy to the mind and body of the in- 
habitants, the people of the east are handed over by the richness 
of th.eir soil, the power of their sun, and by climate and institutions 
of religion, to a state of indolence and inactivity as compared to 
western nations. 

Of Caucasian origin, but exposed during countless generations to 
the same succession of external influences of high temperature, 
and corresponding habits of life and diet, receiving the same 
reiterated impressions peculiar to climate and religion, an acquired 
temperament is formed, which constitutes the Hindu and Maho- 
medan, men differing widely, morally and physically, from 
Europeans, while from each other they differ principally in re- 
ligion and in diet. These general causes, together with the pre- 
mature development of the generative function, produce an 



THE FEVERS OP THE NATIVES OP INDIA. 213 

excitability of the nervous system, diminished volume, enervation, 
and relaxation of the muscular system as compared to Europeans, 
all which dispose the natives of India generally, and those of 
Bengal Proper in particular, to tetanic affections under wounds, 
surgical operations, and the impressions of cold and damp. 

Generally speaking, the agriculture and the mechanical arts are 
in but a rude state with the Hindus, both being supposed to have 
remained stationary for two thousand years or more. "India," 
says Dr. Royle, " vast in extent and diversified in surface, is re- 
markable as the cradle of one at least of the nations who earliest 
practised the arts and cultivated the sciences which characterize 
civilisation, and from whence these travelled to the west, and 
perhaps also to the east. Its present inhabitants continue to 
venerate sciences which they know only by name, and to practise 
arts of which they know not the principles, and this with a skill 
not only remarkable for the early period at which it attained per- 
fection, but also for the manner in which it has remained 
stationary for so many ages. This can be explained by the fact 
that the son was unable to add to the manual dexterity of the 
father, and could not improve an art which he knew only as a 
routine process. But when commerce was in its infancy, or dealt 
only in the most precious commodities, these arts coula not have 
been practised unless India had contained within itself all the 
raw materials which art could convert into useful articles or 
elegant ornaments. Without cotton the so-called * webs of woven 
air' could have had no existence. Without numerous woods, 
barks, and flowers, dyeing could not have been practised, and 
calico-printing would probably not have been invented. If an 
Indigofera had not been indigenous, indigo would never have 
derived its name from India, nor have afforded us the proof, in 
the stripe of mummy-cloth, of the early commercial intercourse 
between its native country and Egypt. Neither would sugar have 
been arranged by the Greeks with honeys, nor the Indians de- 
scribed as those who ' bibtint tenera ditlces ab arundine stucco*, 
unless they had had the cane-like Saccharum as a plant of their 
country. Neither in Persia would the proverb of 'giving an 
Indian answer' have been considered equivalent to a cut with an 
Indian sword, unless the Hindus had possessed the ore which 
enabled them to manufacture the far-famed wootz steel ; and gun- 
powder is likely to have been invented at an early age only in a 
country where ' villanous saltpetre ' is abundant." Another 
ancient saying amongst the natives, repeated to this day with glee 
by the Sepoys of Bengal, exhibits alike the warlike character of 
the people, and their readiness at all times for mercenary ser- 
\icr : 

" Ji ka Deg, oos k* Teg." 



214 THE FEVERS OF THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 

This popular and admired proverb is translated by Brigadier 
Hodgson of the Bengal army, as follows : 

>f He who can keep the pot boiling, 
Will never want for trenchant blades." 

The mention of an Indian answer, wootz steel, trenchant 
blades, and gunpowder, brings us naturally to consider the native 
army of India, the proper subject in the present article. 

The native soldier of whom alone I can pretend to personal 
knowledge and acquaintance is the Sepoy of Bengal. He is 
brave, obedient, cheerful and patient under labour, fatigue, and 
privation, abstemious by religion and habit, honest and amiable 
in all his dealings, and possessing a very high sense of military 
honour ; attached to his European officer, and grateful for kindness 
shown him, he never abandons his colours ; and when kindly and 
justly treated, and properly commanded, he has never disap- 
pointed the reasonable expectations of his commanders. He is 
cheerfully resigned in sickness, never exhibiting any unmanly 
qualities under suffering ; he thus stands forth an object deserving 
die special and high consideration of his European medical 
officer. A fine example of the kindly feeling of the Sepoy 
towards his surgeon was afforded after the battle of Mahid- 
pore, when the Commander-in-chief of the Madras army, Sir 
Thomas Hislop, on visiting the hospitals was addressed by the 
wounded Sepoys, who " made a personal request of his Excellency 
that he would now take care of the surgeons who had been so 
kind and attentive to them." Colonel Blacker in his history of 
this war, and referring to the " unanimous petition " of the Sepoys, 
adds, that "unassuming merit could not have a more grati- 
fying and appropriate reward, intrinsically more estimable than 
any formal commendations flowing from authority."* That the 
qualities here recorded, of the men forming the native army of 
Bengal, are derived from the domestic circle and habit of civil 
life, shared by the Sepoy with his brothers, is as certain as that 
all the qualities of a great military commander are civil qualities. 
A soldier is a citizen and something more; the addition being 
but the result of military discipline and military habit. To form 
a just estimate of the soldier we must everywhere trace him back 
to the recruit. 

The natives of India generally are amiable and respectful in 
their intercourse with Europeans ; and towards no class of their 
rulers do they show more real kindness of feeling and gratitude 
than to such of our medical officers as may prove deserving. 

* Colonel Blacker is quite philosophical and even kind on the subject of handing 
over the surgeons of his army for rewards to the bare contemplation of their own 
merits ; but he does not say that, in his own person, he would prefer such mode of 
recompense to the companionship of: the military order of the Bath. 



THE FEVERS OF THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 215 

Personally, I must say that I shall ever look back to my early 
connection with the Sepoy of Bengal, and to my later friendly 
communications with the native inhabitants of Calcutta, with 
sentiments of sincere regard. 

Medical officers in the East Indies, holding as they do military 
commissions, are principally employed in the duties of the 
native armies ; but a certain smali proportion is allotted, or " lent," 
to tin- civil department of the state, for conducting the medical 
duties of civil stations. But the great body of the medical corps, 
numbering for the three Presidencies of India about eight hundred 
officers, are under the direct and immediate orders of the Com- 
mander-in-chief, and are thus placed much more in contact with 
the native soldiery than with the civil population at large. 

Nor is the social position of the medical officer less befitting a 
man of science. Entering the Indian army with rank corres- 
ponding to that of lieutenant, his position is at once established as 
that of an officer and gentleman ; and it depends on the conduct 
and character of the individual how he shall uphold such privi- 
leges. To secure the confidence and respect of his brother 
officers of the army, and to become distinguished in his profes- 
sion, he must possess knowledge, indefatigable industry, judgment, 
energy, resolution, address, and an untiring patience ; and to all 
these qualities he must add a courage not fed by excitement of 
the heat of conflict, or buoyed by any hope a courage that does 
not look to rewards, a courage of the highest order: in truth " the 
two o'clock in the morning courage," which Napoleon prized so 
highly, is quite as necessary to the surgeon as to the captain. 
Towards natives of all classes his conduct should be just, kind, 
and liberal ; while in his intercourse with superiors and equals of 
his own country, his conduct should be that of a modest unpre- 
tending man of science. He must learn that familiarity in the 
mess-room or elsewhere is not friendship, and that such conduct 
is never supported by real friendship. And let not these observa- 
tions be considered irrelevant, for they have in truth much to do 
with moral as with professional effect. 

Excellent as are the native qualities of the Sepoy, his usefulness 
to the British government depends mainly on good discipline, 
aided by a just and kind treatment on the part of his European 
officer. Taken from the middle class the pith and marrow of 
British society, whether for peace or for war the officer of the 
Indian army is at once a gentleman and a soldier by profession ; 
but he is neither an amateur nor a dilettante soldier. He does 
not enter the army to make it an amusement rather than a business ; 
he is not a monied idler ; and wherever he is placed in command, 
he is not found wanting. Freed from the weaknesses of class or 
caste, which for a long time have damaged certain branches of 



216 THE FEVERS OF THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 

the British army freed also from the democratic infusions of the 
armies of continental Europe ; he stands in a middle position be- 
tween the two extremes; and if at any future time he is to exhibit 
well-intentioned weakness and incapacity, it will be from causes 
which are not now in operation. After fifty years' service in the 
British Army, Robert Jackson declares that "for any great purpose 
of peace or of war, the middle classes of the empire are the saviours 
of their country." From the earliest formation of the Indian 
army, its officers have remembered in a proportion which does 
them honour, that in reading, and the command of one's reading, 
consists education, and that no officer can deserve the name with- 
out such mental discipline. On the staff too, we seldom find the 
offensive peculiarities against which Shakespeare has warned us in 
your " dog in office." In short, the officers of the Indian army do 
not regard military life as a mere dashing and casual pastime, but 
as "a serious and permanent profession." It follows from what has 
just been stated, that the medical officer who has the good fortune 
to serve in the Indian army will find the criticisms of its officers 
on his general and professional conduct, matters not to be disre- 
garded. 

But with all these advantages, there still remains a source 
of affliction and of debility, to the medical officer of Bengal 
especially. The medical department is there ruled, as in the 
other presidencies, by the three oldest men in the service. To 
attempt the defence of such an institution were to build its tomb : 
to endeavour to instruct members counting forty years' service 
under tropical influences, or to make them understand the true 
purpose and object of their official calling; or even to compre- 
hend their own true interests, were about as hopeful as to send 
forth missionaries to convert the Pope to Protestantism, or the 
Emperor of Russia to representative government. 

The strength of the Native armies varies with the exigencies of 
the state ; that of Bengal, in 1825, mustered 152,843 men of the 
several arms, infantry, cavalry, and artillery; while, in 1832, the 
same army was reduced to 78,346 men 

The following is stated by Colonel Sykes to be the distribution 
of castes in the Bengal army : 

Christians. Mahomcdaiis. Brahmiiis. Rajpoots. Inferior Castes. 

Hindus. 

1.076 12,411 24,849 27,993 13,920. 

^ ^ j 

Grand Total . . 80,249. 

The average admissions into hospital of this army during twenty 
years was for each soldier one admission in two years ; while the 
average mortality for the same period was 1'7J) per cent., and the 
invaliding 1'5 per cent, per annum. 



THE FEVERS OF THK NATIVES OP INDIA. 217 

The strength of the Madras army varied from 71,488, in 1826, 
to 48,571 in 1887. Tin- average mortality in this army during 
twenty years, was 2*09, and the invaliding, 1*90 per annum. 

In the Presidency of Bombay, the strength of the Native Army 
varied from 49,873 in 1844, to 25,782 in 1833. Six-eighths of 
this army are natives of Hindustan, there being in the propor- 
tion of eleven Hindus to one Mahomedan ; and low caste men con- 
stitute about one-eighth. The mean percentage of deaths during 
twenty years gives T29 a remarkable degree of health while the 
invaliding during the same period was 3*81 per cent, per annum. 

The mean mortality during twenty years for the whole Native 
Army of India, as given by Colonel Sykes, is T80 per cent, per 
annum, and the invaliding as 1*93 exhibiting a remarkable con- 
dition of health even in troops serving in their native climate. 

It is with Native as with European troops in the East, fevers and 
bowel complaints constituting by far the greatest amount of sick- 
ness. The maximum of admissions into the hospital of Bengal 
troops occurred in 1842, when 98,936 men were treated medically 
out of a strength of 113,020; the minimum occurring in 1827, 
when only 30,903 were treated medically out of a strength of 
130,303 men. During twenty years the average admission into 
hospital was for each soldier, one admission in two years. 

In i In three Presidencies of India we have the following mor- 
tality amongst the British and Native soldiery per cent: 

Bengal. Madras. Bombay. 

European Troops . 7'38 . 3'846 . 5'07 
Native Troops . . T79 . 2'095 . 1.29 

Thus a European regiment is renewed in Bengal in ten years, 
in Bombay in twelve years, and in Madras in seventeen years. 

To account for the circumstance that in the Madras Presidency 
the Native mortality is greatest while the European mortality is the 
least, Colonel Sykes states that the constituents of the Madras 
Native Troops are the reverse of the other two Presidencies. In 
the Madras Cavalry there are six to seven Musulmans to one 
Hindu; and in the infantry there is one Musulman to 1 1 or 
If Hindus; but amongst the latter there is a considerable number 
of low castes, without prejudices of caste ; therefore the majority 
of the Native troops of the Madras Army can eat and drink like 
Europeans, and the mortality returns show us that they suffer from 
cholera as much as Europeans, and that the mean mortality from 
all causes is 2'095 per cent, or more than J per cent beyond that 
of the Bombay army for twenty years. 

" I never followed," says Colonel Sykes, " a farinaceous or 
vegetable regimen myself in India, nor do I recommend it to 
others; but I at moderately and drank little, and I have a strong 
conviction that much of European disease in India is attributable 



218 THE FEVERS OF THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 

to over-stimulus, and that the mortality among the European 
troops will not be lessened until the European soldier is improved 
in his habits, until he is made to understand that temperance is for 
the benefit of his body, libraries for the benefit of his mind, exer- 
cise for the benefit of his health, and savings' banks for the benefit 
of his purse. The climate of India is less to blame than indivi- 
duals ; for in the case of foreigners, the people of a country being 
healthy, they should, to a certain extent, conform to the habits of 
the natives to be healthy also." 

The same authority adds : " The Natives of India are generally 
considered to be very temperate in their habits ; but it is quite a 
mistake to suppose that they all live upon farinaceous or vegetable 
matters, and do not drink fermented liquors ; it is equally a mis- 
take to suppose that the general food of the people is rice, which 
is only very much the case in low lands subject to inundation, and 
along the coasts. In the interior rice is generally so much dearer 
than the bread grains, of which there are many (wheats, millets, 
the genera holcus, panicum, paspalum, &c. &c.,) that rice is rarely 
consumed, at least in Hindustan and the Dekhan. The Hindus- 
tanee soldier lives almost exclusively upon unleavened cakes of 
wheaten flour, daily baked upon an iron dish, and washed down 
with water. On the other hand, all Mahomedans, and all low caste 
Hindus are consumers of animal food, spirituous liquors, opium, 
ganja, or hemp-water; and many castes of the Sudras, the Mah- 
rattas, for instance, eat mutton and fish, when they can afford to 
do so ; but meat is not essentially necessary to health and 
strength. Liebig says, that only those substances can possibly be 
called nutritious which are capable of conversion into blood, and 
that farinaceous food has also this nutritious principle in high de- 
gree. The truth of this profound assertion of Liebig is established 
by the food of the great majority of the Native soldiers of the 
Bombay and Bengal armies. I have shown that six -eighths of the 
Bombay army consist of Hindus, and considerably more than half 
of the whole army are Hindustanees. These men never taste meat, 
fish, or spirituous liquors, but live, I may from personal observa- 
tion venture to say, almost exclusively upon unleavened cakes of 
wheat, or other cerealea, baked upon an iron dish, and eaten as 
soon as cooked." 

The natives of India are very subject to the influences of the 
various climates contained within the British empire in the East, 
and none more so than the Sepoys of the Bengal army, recruited as 
they are almost exclusively from the plains of Upper Hindustan; 
but wherever circumstances admit of the use of artificial means, 
both Hindus and Mahomedans, though born and bred on the soil, 
take greater precautions against both heat and cold than the 
stranger European. " To brave the climate " forms no part of 
native disposition or habit. 



THE FEVERS OF THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 219 

The climate of Bengal proper is, for instance, most prejudicial 
to the health of the " up-country" Sepoy ; for, although according 
to Colonel Henderson, but one-fourth of the Bengal army is sta- 
tioned there, the deaths of that fourth are more than a moiety of 
the whole mortality reported. Much of this mortality is doubtless 
due to the excessive humidity and to the malarious character of 
the climate ; but much is also duo to the great change of diet from 
wheaten bread to rice, which latter the Sepoy will use, not because 
he prefers it, but because it is by so much the more cheap. The 
native dealers in grain, taking advantage of the Sepoy's frugality, 
offer cheaper and worse qualities of rice, or mixtures of rice and 
wheat flour ; so that within two or three years' residence in the 
lower provinces, what with the injuries from climate and the infe- 
rior and imperfect nutriment the robust Sepoy wastes, and falls a 
sacrifice to the fevers, dysenteries, and diarrho3as of an unnatural 
climate ; and thus it is in many of the low malarious countries 
throughout India. 

As with the European soldier, so with the sepoy of Hindustan 
Proper when transferred to the malarious low regions ; both shared 
a common fate when, through the feebleness and incapacity 
of General Morrison of Her Majesty's army, the united force under 
his command was planted by him in the marshes of Aracan, in 
the first Burmese war. Those native soldiers who did not perish 
on the spot sank soon afterwards from general cachexia, and enor- 
mous enlargements of the spleen, followed by dropsical effusions, 
colliquative white flux, or lientery : in fact, all perished alike 
the native and the European. 

In Ava again, in the same war of 1824-25, where I was witness 
of what happened, and where the climate generally was good, the 
Sepoy, by a proper diet and clothing, was preserved in compara- 
tive health through two severe campaigns ; but the British soldier, 
the instrument of the power and glory of the Government, was 
suffered by its criminal negligence to perish miserably through 
want. 

Dr. Finch, of the Bengal army, in an able report on the effect 
of climate on the health of the native army of that Presidency, 
gives the following comparative view of the influence of the 
climate of Hindustan, and of Bengal Proper : 

Average Average Average per cent. 
Yean. Strength. Sick. Sick to Strength. 

18351 

753 354 . . 46 



Hindustan 



Bengal Proper . 



1836 
1837 
1838 
1839 



899 649 . . 79 



220 THE FEVERS OF THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 

" During three years at Mynpuree," he says, " the corps lost 
by death but twenty-six men ; while during its stay in Bengal 
Proper, the casualties amounted to not less than 203 ! " 

The manner of locating native troops, with reference to the 
country of their birth, the period of service in climates which are 
unnatural to them, and the proper time for relieving corps and 
divisions, so as to preserve the soldier's health, are matters that 
as yet have not received from the authorities the attentive con- 
sideration due to them. 

As with the European, so with the native soldier, the season of 
greatest amount of disease is, from June to January cholera 
being most prevalent in April, May, and June. During the rainy 
season fevers, remittent and intermittent, prevail the most ; and, 
towards their decline, bowel complaints which, in low malarious 
tracts prove very intractable, become frequently associated with 
splenic cachexia. Again as with the European, so with the native 
soldier fevers remittent and intermittent generally constitute the 
first inroad on his health ; after which successions of recurrences 
ensue, followed sooner or later by enlargement of the spleen and 
general cachexia the disease which closes life being dysentery 
or diarrhoea. 

Amongst the natives in civil life, the Bazar preparations of 
arsenic and mercury, so freely administered by the Bazar em- 
pirics, prove a source of much broken health, causing severe 
rheumatisms, diarrhoeas, and dysenteries, especially during the 
cold season. Of all this I observed much in the Native Hospital 
of Calcutta, of which institution I was surgeon during ten years. 

The fevers of the natives, whether remittent or intermittent, 
present the same events in the same succession as in the Euro- 
pean, differing only in degree ; and in the Indian army the 
patient, like his western comrade, has the advantage of coming 
under the care of his surgeon on the instant he falls sick ; and 
within the first twenty-four hours much may be done to place him 
in a position of security, and to prepare him for convalescence. 

I generally began the treatment by an emetic-cathartic, com- 
posed of from one to two grains of emetic tartar, from three to four 
grains of calomel, added to two scruples or a drachm of com- 
pound jalap powder, according to the age and strength of the 
patient. This powder placed dry on the tongue, and washed 
down with water, produced a speedy and free action of both 
stomach and bowels, followed by copious perspiration, and a more 
or less complete remission of all the symptoms. Generally speak- 
ing the patient was next day in a condition to use bark, quinine, 
or some of the native bitter tonics to complete the cure. Such of 
my servants as had served me long, and been with me when in the 
army, always asked for what they called " the fever powder" 



THE FEVERS OP THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 

whenever seized with the disease, and the other servants soon 
learned to follow their example ; and my European friends, whe- 
ther civil or military, when going into camp, or on a long march, 
always carried with them a supply of the same medicine for the 
use of their native establishment. It continually happened that, 
in the milder cases of fever, no tonics of any kind were necessary, the 
triple action of the emetic-cathartic and sudorific proving sufficient 
for the cure ; and this was especially the case in the sudden and acute 
febrile seizures of the hot season. I may here add that mercury 
in any form, beyond the first moderate dose, I seldom if ever ad- 
ministered. When heat at stomach, with urgent thirst, are com- 
plained of, the greatest relief will be obtained from the use of 
saline effervescing draughts. 

But in malarious countries adynamic forms of fevers, both re- 
mittent and intermittent, will occur, accompanied very generally 
by abdominal congestions with enlargement of the spleen. Here, 
in addition to bark and other tonics, warm aromatic aperients, 
chalybeates, improved diet, and change of air must be had recourse 
to. The Sepoy of Upper India is bound by warm ties to his 
family, to which he never fails to remit his pecuniary savings. In 
sickness he eagerly looks to rejoining his relatives ; and, where 
the exigencies of the service admit of it, such indulgence should 
always be recommended by the medical officer, whatever the colonel 
may think. 

in treating the fevers of the natives we must not expect to find 
in them the sustaining powers of constitution of the European ; 
acute disease subsides in the former much earlier than in the 
latter, requiring, therefore, antiphlogistic measures of much less 
energy in the case of the Asiatic, while a much earlier recourse 
may be had to quina and other tonics in conducting his cure. 
Whenever we feel satisfied also that acute disease has been over- 
come, an improved diet may be allowed at an early period the 
native constitution not bearing a severe and protracted abstinence . 
and condiments may be allowed, especially during the rainy 
season. 

Finally : Let the surgeon be careful that the Sepoy is not dis- 
charged from the hospital too soon, out of a small, narrow, or 
mistaken notion of military efficiency, or of what an unreflecting 
ing adjutant or crack colonel may designate, " keeping the effec- 
tive list complete." The effectiveness of convalescents amounts 
only to deceptive numbers borne on the muster-roll ; and such 
sham efficiency will bring disgrace on'the medical officer, stamp- 
ing him at once with want of knowledge, want of firmness, and 
want of humanity. 



222 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

THIS is at once a dangerous and a frequent disease throughout 
our intertropical possessions; so much so that no medical officer 
should be permitted to enter on the duties of the public services 
without a careful previous study of its nature and treatment. 
Dysentery has at all times proved one of the most severe scourges 
of our fleets on foreign stations, and of our armies in the field, 
even when campaigning in temperate regions. It is truly desig- 
nated by William Fergusson an army disease. " The soldier," he 
says, " when in the field may escape fever, but never dysentery, if 
he lie on the ground." It is the disease of the famished garrisons 
of besieged towns, of barren encampments, and of fleets navi- 
gating tropical seas, where fruits and vegetables cannot be pro- 
cured. Dysentery has occasionally been found to assume a ma- 
lignant character in low damp situations, so as to prove very 
deadly ; but on the sufferers being removed to elevated sites, 
and a better air, the disease has been rendered amenable to treat- 
ment. 

In tropical climates dysentery, though most prevalent during 
the hot and rainy season, will be found to exist at all periods of 
the year ; but in European countries it is almost exclusively a 
disease of summer and autumn : it stands thus associated with a 
high range of temperature, and atmospheric changes. 

Colonel Tulloch states, that out of an aggregate force of 25,433 
men of his Majesty's army serving in periods of eight and ten 
years respectively, between 1823 and 1836, in the stations of Cal- 
cutta, Chinsurah, and Berhampore, all in Bengal Proper, there oc- 
curred 8,499 cases of dysentery and diarrhoea ; and though the years 
within this return were subsequent to the first Burmese war, still 
the proportion of dysenteric cases is excessive, making every proper 
allowance for such unfavourable influence. The climate of Lower 
Bengal has always been very unfavourable to European health, as 
compared to Upper India ; but making allowance for all circum- 
stances, including the ill habits of life of the soldiery, the amount 
of sickness from dysentery and diarrho3a here exhibited is 
enormous. 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OP BENGAL. 223 

In the Presidency of Madras again, out of an aggregate British 
force of 82,342 men, serving there from 1842 to 1848, there oc- 
curred 10,531 cases of dysentery, and 9,189 cases of diarrhoea, 
making a total of 19,720 cases of bowel diseases, exclusively of 
cholera. It thus appears that, next to the malarious fevers of 
India, bowel complaints are the most prevalent diseases, while the. 
dangers to health and to life from these last are even greater than 
from fevers. There were admitted into the European General 
Hospital of Calcutta, according to Dr. Macpherson, in the years 
1830 to 1850, 2,044 cases of dysentery, of whom there died 457, 
or 22*3 per cent. The extremes of mortality were 14*8 in 1833, 
and 34 in 1845. 

Robert Jackson regards dysentery as " one of the most im- 
portant of the maladies that occur among troops, particularly in 
the West Indies, where, in some of the islands it amounts to one- 
half, even to more than half of all the forms of acute disease which 
appear in the hospital return of sick." This great authority adds : 
" It is dangerous in itself ; more fatal, in fact, among the mi- 
litary in the West Indies, either primarily or secondarily, than 
any other, the concentrated fever, as incident to strangers, ex- 
cepted." The losses of the French army in Egypt were greater 
by dysentery than by the plague the deaths by the latter disease 
being 1,689, while by the former they amounted to 2,468. During 
two years and a-half only of the time occupied in the war in Por- 
tugal and Spain, the British army, according to Sir James 
M'Grigor, lost 4,717 men by dysentery. Of the diseases which 
destroyed the European portion of the expeditionary force in 
Ava, during the first Burmese war, dysentery scorbutic dysentery 
was by far the most prevalent and fatal disease. 

PREDISPOSING CAUSES. Whatever causes predispose to 
fever will exercise a like influence in producing dysentery ; 
but more especially the following : The very duties of the fleet 
and of the camp, which necessarily expose seamen and soldiers 
to wet and cold, suppressing the secretions to high ranges and 
to sudden and violent changes of temperature, causing checked 
perspiration especially; the use of crude, ill-prepared, indiges- 
tible, or otherwise unwholesome diet excesses in the use of 
wine, spirituous liquors, or tobacco the use of impure water 
retained excretions fatigue and privation endemic, epidemic, 
and malarious influences previous fevers, of the remittent and 
intermittent types especially diseases of the liver or spleen ; 
all these circumstances will, severally or individually as may be, 
disuse the subject to the invasion of dysentery. The causes of 
scorbutic dysentery are : Deprivation of fresh meat, vegetables 



2*24 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

and fruits sameness in diet crowding mental depression 
hardship and fatigue exposure to damp and foul air the use of 
impure water. 

SYMPTOMS AND PROGRESS. The immediate and urgent 
symptoms in tropical dysentery are sense of constriction of the 
skin, followed by irregularly developed febrile movements, more or 
less marked according to the season of the year, the length of resi- 
dence in India, the constitution and previous habits of the patient. 
The amount of attendant fever is very variable ; in some cases it 
hardly excites attention, while in others it amounts to heat and 
dryness of skiu, flushed face, furred tongue, and hard frequent 
pulse. Fever is most considerable in the hot season ; while in 
that of the rains it is less declared, the tendency being here as in 
remittent fever, to congestion and collapse. In some forms of 
malarious dysentery there is considerable fever, with but little 
hepatic complication comparatively ; at least it proved so in 
China. But here, as in all the diseases of the stomach and 
bowels, the power of the pulse rapidly fails as the disease ad- 
vances. 

Soon the patient experiences, during from twelve to twenty- 
four hours the uncomfortable feelings attending upon frequent 
loose discharges from the bowels ; when at length irregular pains, 
at first of a griping nature only, along the course of the large 
intestine, becoming gradually more severe, shooting, or " cutting," as 
the soldiers designate them, with sense of heat ascending from the 
rectum, and pain extending sometimes to the hypogastrium, until the 
whole abdomen becomes involved in soreness and feeling of dis- 
tress, accompanied by frequent purging, griping, and straining, 
all aggravated during the night and early morning, and leaving 
behind them the wearing sensation that there has always remained 
in the bowel something which has yet to be discharged. At this 
time the discharges are generally scanty, and consist of mucus 
and blood, or bloody slime as the soldier calls it ; and this is a 
matter of the utmost importance to investigate, as from the cha- 
racter of the discharge we derive important information as to the 
extent and nature of the disease. 

Towards a right estimate of the condition of the tubular, as of 
the associated solid viscera, we may also receive much aid from a 
careful exploration of the caecum and colon, including its sigmoid 
flexure ; and a careful examination of these regions, as of those of 
the liver and spleen, should never be neglected ; for pain, fulness, 
or thickening of the bowel may always be detected, unless the 
subject be inordinately stout. When pain and fulness are absent 
from the regions named, and there is, nevertheless, much local 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OP BENGAL. 225 

distress, such as urgent and constant tormina and tcnesmus, with 
strangury, the seat of inflammation and thickening will be found 
to be centered in greater degree along the rectum ; but this cir- 
cumstance does not render the case less severe, or less difficult of 
cure. 

The matters voided in the dysentery of India consist at first of 
liquid faeces, generally of unnatural colours, streaked with blood 
or mixed with blood and mucus. If the disease advances in the 
absence of treatment, or in defect or insufficiency of it, then we 
shall find all the symptoms, constitutional and local, much aggra- 
vated, while the intestinal discharges contain more of blood and 
mucus, together with shreds or larger sloughs of mucous mem- 
brane, so as often to assume the appearance of putrid blood, or of 
the washings of raw meat. Scybala are rarely seen in the dysen- 
teries of the East. When to symptoms such as these are super- 
added, a pungent heat and dryness of the skin, with furred tongue, 
an urgent thirst, high-coloured and scanty urine, an increased 
frequency of the pulse, and an increased urgency and frequency 
of call to stool all augmented towards night they indicate con- 
siderable danger. When, again, patients suffering from the tropical 
dysentery present the further retrogression of a cold clammy sur- 
face, a cadaverous smell from the body and intestinal discharges, an 
anxious and oppressed countenance, and a sinking pulse with hiccup, 
and motions voided involuntarily, the case is generally hopeless. 

Such are briefly the symptoms of acute dysentery, which will 
be found to vary in degree according to the severity of the in- 
flammation ; and of this last the medical officer will best judge by 
an attentive observation of the constitutional symptoms, together 
with a careful daily examination of the nature of the discharges 
from the bowels : this, indeed, cannot be done too often, or too 
minutely. 

The duration of dysentery varies with the force of the predis- 
posing and exciting causes, the age, constitution, length of re- 
sidence in hot climates, the season and other contingent circum- 
stances. Some cases will go through their course even unto death 
\\itliin three to five days ; while others will be received into hos- 
pital having suffered during periods from five to twenty days, with 
appearances the most unfavourable, and yet they recover. 

The progress of the disease will, in fact, depend on the condi- 
tion and circumstances of the individual case, past and present 
The scorbutic form of dysentery may be recognised at once by 
the dusky hue and dull melancholy expression of the counte- 
nancethe livid complexion of the surface generally, but espe- 
cially of the extremities, which are cold and spotted over \\ith 
petechiai, which the least scratch will convert into an ulcer. Th 
tongue is dark in common with the gums, which latter are spongy, 

Q 



226 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

and bleed on the slightest touch, or blood oozes spontaneously 
from them. There is a disrelish for the previously uniform diet, 
and especially for the use of salted meats, while there is an urgent 
craving for vegetables and subacid fruits of every description. 
The pulse is feeble and frequent; in short, all the symptoms 
general and local, indicate an extreme and aggravated cachexia 
a dissolved, diseased condition of the blood. The purging 
soon exhibits the true scorbutic character, the discharges being 
composed principally of gruuious putrid bloody matter , and even 
the urine has a bloody hue. 

The progress to recovery from dysentery implies a healing of 
ulcerated surfaces. Dr. Parkes accords with the German anato- 
mist Sebastian, and others, as to the fact of the reproduction of 
intestinal mucous membrane ; while Dr. Bleeker regards cicatri- 
zation as the normal termination of dysentery ; but the number 
and extent of the cicatrices " may withal produce a condition of 
the colon which renders it unfit properly to perform its function. 
Cicatrices, be they ever so completely formed, cannot make good 
the loss of the mucous membrane with its absorbent and secreting 
organs." 

COMPLICATIONS. Dysentery is found in all climates to 
complicate readily with the prevailing fevers, and within the 
tropics it is frequently associated with fevers remittent and inter- 
mittent : it is also occasionally complicated with scurvy. In the 
East Indies we find that, either from the beginning, or during the 
progress of the dysentery, diseases both functional and structural 
are apt to arise in the liver. 

Amongst the European patients in the General Hospital of 
Calcutta, Dr. Macpherson found that, out of an hundred and sixty 
acute cases, the liver was altered in eighty-four cases containing 
abscess in twenty-one cases being enlarged in forty cases, &c. ; 
while in fifty-five cases of chronic dysentery the proportion of 
hepatic diseases was nearly the same. This able officer states 
that, on a comparison of acute with chronic dysentery, the liver is 
more frequently altered in the latter, that abscess is about equally 
frequent in either form, that in acute dysentery the liver is fre- 
quently enlarged and soft, while in the chronic it is more generally 
small and indurated. He adds that the stomach and small in- 
testines suffer also more frequently in the chronic form, and the 
mesenteric glands are more frequently altered in it. 

In the Madras Presidency, out of fifty-one cases of acute dysen- 
tery there were twenty-six hepatic abscesses; and in Bombay, 
out of thirty cases of acute dysentery, twelve cases of hepatic 
abscess occurred. " It is worthy of remark," says Dr. Macpher- 
son, " that the liver has been found, in the General Hospital of 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. -J'J7 

Calcutta, to have been altered in 118 out of 215 cases; in the 
Medical College Hospital in thirteen out of thirty cases, while Sir 
.lames M'Grigor found it in India altered sixteen times in twenty - 
i\\" cases, and in Egypt, as in India, he found it diseased." 

The hepatic complication can in some cases be perceived from 
the commencement of the dysentery, while in others it probably 
arises in the course of the principal disease. The daily explora- 
tion of the hepatic region, and of the course of the large intestine, 
will therefore be necessary in every case, in order to the just ap- 
preciation of all its attendant circumstances. It sometimes hap- 
pens that enlargement of the liver is not manifested till after the 
disappearance of the dysentery ; and we observe also that 
hepatic abscess is discoverable only after the cessation of the 
primary bowel disease. 

The association of hepatic diseases with dysentery would seem 
to be most frequent in the climate of the East Indies, and in such 
as have a common influence. Dr. Morehead, of the Bombay 
army, found that out of thirty fatal cases of dysentery, twelve were 
attended with hepatic abscess ; and out of twenty-five dissections 
of dysenteric patients at Moulmeiu, in Burmah, Dr. Parkes found 
hepatic abscess in seven cases, while the same proportion of com- 
plication was observed in Ceylon by Henry Marshall. 

" As functional disease," says Dr. Parkes, " implies a propor- 
tionate certain amount of change in the molecular structure of 
organs, cither primary in the organ itself, or secondary to changes 
in the blood or vessels, the most delicate test of the condition of 
an organ will in time be the chemical constitution of its secretion, 
when this knowledge is obtainable. We already see this test be- 
ginning to apply itself in the case of the kidneys and urine. 
Judging from this test, the liver is found to be more or less dis- 
eased in every case of dysentery." 

In the province of Oran, Algeria, the French surgeons state that 
the hepatitis and consequent abscess were frequently coincident 
with dysentery. Of 157 deaths in two- thirds of which tiiarrli.ru and 
dysentery had prevailed during life, " there were in sixty-five 
cases notable marks of diseases of the liver, including twenty ex- 
amples of abscess." The tendency to hepatic complication was 
found in Algeria to increase with age, and with the length of ser- 
vice in that country. The coincidence of disease in die co3cum 
and liver was noticed by me in the wards of the General Hospital 
of Calcutta; and, reporting on the diseases- of Bengal in 1839, I 
find tlie following statement : " I have seen many cases in which 
morbid action was co-existent in the liver and co2cum, and I 
\\ould l>eg to call attention to the subject." This official record 
rel'i-rrcd to cases which terminated in recovery ; and the " calling 

w -' 



228 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

attention to the subject" had reference to the verification of the 
fact in dissection.* 

Severe illness obliged me to quit Bengal before this opportu- 
nity had been afforded me ; but the fact of the morbid coincidence 
in question has since been established both at home and abroad. 
It is now established that disease is frequently " co-existent in 
the liver and ccecum" that an intimate connection exists be- 
tween ulceration of the mucous membrane of this portion of the 
intestine and hepatic abscess, owing to suppurative phlebitis, to 
purulent absorption, and to contamination of the portal blood, 
in chronic cases. In diseases so complicated as dysentery and 
hepatitis it is often difficult, with uncertain histories, to determine 
with accuracy where morbid action begins ; but the extension and 
coincidence of serious evil, in all the associated organs, is early 
discernible to the careful observer of symptoms in both diseases 
during life, and we can readily trace the results after death. But 
here, as in many other instances, we arrive at an ultimate fact, and 
can proceed no further with certainty : we can see and examine 
the co-relation, but we do not, therefore, understand which is the 
cause, and which the effect. We know not, in too many instances, 
which of the diseases is the primary that in the bowel, or the 
liver. But there are cases, and they are numerous, in which we 
can plainly discern hepatic disease and hepatic abscess as pri- 
mary, concomitant, and secondary affections in the time of their 
occurrence ; but whether they are to be regarded as a cause, a 
concurrence, and a consequence of dysentery, it is not so easy to 
determine ; but, practically, a prompt and accurate diagnosis is 
here of much importance ; for, by a speedy removal of hepatic 
disease, in the first and second instances cited, we may obviate 
suppuration of the liver while we cure the dysentery ; and by the 
early healing of ulceration of the bowel, in the third instance 
cited, we may cure the dysentery and perhaps prevent the occur- 
rence of hepatic abscess, or purulent deposit of any kind. I 
would direct the special attention of pathologists to the state of 
the lining membrane of the ducts and gall-bladder, as affording, 
perhaps, some clue to the pathology of hepatic abscess in asso- 
ciation with dysentery. 

In a review of this subject, published in the " Lancet," the 
writer draws the following conclusions : 

1. " That dysentery, in a great number of cases, commences and 
runs its course uncomplicated by hepatic disease. 

* It is worthy of remark that in the only dysenteric case of a Hindu, in which " the 
caecum with its appendages was totally destroyed by a sloughing ulcer perforating in 
some places all its coats similar ulcers being formed in the colon and its ascending 
portion, and sigmoid flexure, as well as in the rectum," there was found, by Dr. Parkes, 
in the liver, " throughout its substance, numerous small abscesses filled with viscid pus." 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OP BENGAL. 229 

2. That hepatic disease may in some cases be the predisposing 
or exciting cause of dysentery. 

3. That a large majority of the fatal cases of dysentery are 
complicated with hepatic abscess. 

4. That in a much larger majority of these cases, ulceration of 
the intestine is the primary disease and the source of the hepatic 
abscess." 

Diarrhoea, easy of cure, occasionally results from vitiation or 
redundancy of bile ; but not so dysentery, as suggested by An- 
nesley. It is an every-day occurrence, on the other hand, to find 
that diseases of the liver, and consequent suppression ofttie biliary 
function, will cause both diarrhoea and dysentery. 

The whole question, however, is still an open one. " The con- 
nexion between abscess of the liver," says Dr. Ballard, " and dysen- 
tery, as a clinical fact is indisputable. Dr. Henoch, however, 
refuses his assent to the explanation of it, supported by Budd,who 
views it as a result of phlebitis, the pus from which, carried by the 
portal blood, is arrested in the liver, and becomes the focus for the 
formation of an abscess. Apart from the debated question of the 
capability of the inner membrane of veins undergoing inflamma- 
tion at all, Dr. Henoch considers, as opposed to this explanation, 
the fact that Dr. Parkes, on the most careful examination of such 
cases, never found the slightest trace of inflammation in the small 
veins of the intestine, while no direct proof has been advanced of 
the mediation of the portal blood in the process." Dr. Henoch 
concludes : " I believe we must give the preference to that view 
which regards the two diseased processes, dysentery and abscess 
of the liver, as without mutual relation, but as running their course 
together, dependent upon one and the same cause ; in favour of 
which view is the circumstance, that in hot climates abscess of the 
liver also very frequently occurs associated with remittent fevers, or 
consecutive to them, without dissection exhibiting any ulceration 
of the mucous membrane of the intestine." British and Foreign 
M. C. Review, July, 1854. 

When dysentery follows upon, or is associated with intermittent 
fever, the spleen will frequently become enlarged. We then per- 
ceive a general anaemia, or splenic cachexia, with a low asthenio 
type of dysentery. This complication augments the difficulties 
and embarrassments in treatment, and greatly increases the dan- 
gers of the original disease. In temperate climates dysentery is 
found associated occasionally with continued fevers, and then it 
becomes contagious. 

The scorbutic complication may be expected to arise in seamen 
and soldiers, when, in tropical climates especially, they have been 
supplied for some length of time with unwholesome rations, or 
with such as consist in whole, or in chief part, of salted meat 



230 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

Sir Gilbert Blane asserts that the disease " has been known to arise 
among prisoners of war living entirely on fresh diet, and solely im- 
putable, therefore, to confinement in bad air, a didl uniformity of 
life, depression of spirits, and indolent habits naturally belonging 
to a state of captivity." The most terrible instance of suffering 
from this cause was that of the European portion of the force em- 
ployed in Ava, during the first Burmese war, where they were for 
six and a half months fed on salt rations, and where 48 per cent, 
perished within ten months, principally by scorbutic dysentery. 

The symptoms noted by all the medical officers were as follow : 
swollen, loose, and livid gums, with ulcerated and sloughing 
edges, and fetid breath, pain and hardness in the calves of the 
legs, constriction of the hams, and purple discoloration of the 
skin of the lower extremities oedematous swelling of the feet 
and legs anarsarca ascites and hydrothorax. When to such a 
condition of the system, scorbutic dysentery was added, the 
speedy and fatal character of the disease may be inferred. 

The bowel complaint was characterized by green, or greenish- 
yellow discharges, becoming by degrees sanious; then dark, 
bloody, grumous, and putrid. A sudden and universal dropsy 
marked the latter days of the sufferers : I saw one of Her 
Majesty's regiments at Prome, in the second campaign, lose forty 
men in one night from this cause ; and at Rangoon, in the first 
year, the Madras European regiment, containing many old, hard- 
drinking soldiers, was the first corps to be destroyed by this 
dropsy which, from its suddenness and fatality, resembled the 
worst form of the Beribery of Ceylon. 

From such a hopeless state of disease as has here been de- 
scribed, there are many grades, down to the very minor degrees ; 
and the medical officer who finds his men fed on bad, poor, and 
insufficient diet, under tropical influences, should be on the watch 
for scorbutic taints. They are all dangerous, and they mount 
rapidly from the least to the most aggravated grades. 

PATHOLOGY. As the symptoms of tropical dysentery during 
life will depend on the condition of the general habit on the 
amount of plethora, of congestion, or of actual inflammation in a 
portion, or in the whole of the abdominal viscera so, the results 
of these morbid actions will, after death, vary with the form and 
degree of the disease. Generally speaking, tropical dysentery 
consists in inflammation, more or less extensive, along the mucous 
membrane, and occasionally in the solitary glands of a portion or 
of the whole of the large intestine, running rapidly to ulceration 
more or less advanced, unless checked by treatment, and always 
ussociated with disturbance of function of the skin and liver. " f)r 
I'arkcs considers it to be a process of ulceration universally com 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 231 

mencing in the solitary glands of the large intestine ; others, with 
Mr. Raleigh, consider it to be a simple inflammation of the 
mucous coat of the large intestine; but if it were simple it 
would be more amenable to treatment. Whatever of truth or 
error may be in these opinions, the appearance presented to 
us in simple Bengal dysentery, is that of an inflammation of the 
large intestine, which may be d'iffusive, ulcerative, purulent, hsemor- 
rhagic, or gangrenous, according to circumstances !" . . . " 1 1 
should be borne in mind that the state of the solitary glands, as 
observed by Murray and Parkes, exactly corresponds with their 
usual appearance in cholera, and that all Murray's and most of 
Parke's cases, occurred in dysenteric patients suddenly carried off 
by that disease. Dr. Mticpherson. 

In the milder cases which yield to treatment within two or three 
days, we may fairly presume that diseased action has not pro- 
eroded beyond plethora, or the mildest form of vascular conges- 
tion, or of inflammation of the mucous surface and glands. 

In severe cases, the inflammatory action far from confining it- 
self to the mucous membrane, extends to the serous covering, and 
even to the solid viscera, while ulceration, and even sloughing of 
the mucous surface and its glands, may be in extensive progress ; 
and all this, occasionally, without that amount of corresponding 
fever which might, a priori, be anticipated a circumstance which 
gives a character of peculiar insidiousness to a disease already very 
dangerous in its nature. Abrasions, ulcerations, and sloughs are 
but varying degrees of the same morbid process, the sloughing 
sometimes involving all the structures alike. Again, ulceration is 
found to result from deposits of pus, lymph, and serum below the 
mucous membrane, as well as from inflammation of this tissue. 

" Omental inflammation or congestion," says Robert Jackson, 
" accompanies dysenteric fever not unfrequently. The indications 
of its existence are obscure ; and its foundations are not moved 
without difficulty not without the most extreme measures in bleed- 
ing, blistering, &c." 

When much tumidness with tenderness of the abdomen is asso- 
ciated with irritability of stomach and vomiting ; inflammation of 
the peritoneal covering may be more than suspected, and post- 
mortem appearances will frequently confirm this view of the case. 
When again, from want of treatment, or through unskilful treat- 
ment, the disease has proceeded unchecked for a considerable 
time, the least that can generally happen will be the merging of 
acute into chronic dysentery or imperfect healing of the ulcerated 
bowl. 

Certain portions of the large intestine have always appeared to 
me to be more affected when the complication in dysentery has 
,,f tin- In patic nature namely, the cojcum and the rectum. 



232 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

In the General Hospital of Calcutta, a government institution for 
the treatment of Europeans, I observed so frequently as to attract 
my special notice, that, when the coacum was the principal seat of 
pain and swelling, the liver was generally enlarged ; but whether 
as cause or effect 1 could not say. As with the natives of India, 
Hindu, and Mahomedan, so with British born subjects in their 
native climate, hepatic abscess is found to be but very rarely asso- 
ciated with dysentery ; whereas with Europeans placed out of 
their native climate, and under great heats, as in the East Indies, 
hepatic diseases and abscess have been found to be very frequent 
complications in dysentery. 

In the Millbank Prison, out of " many hundreds of cases," which 
occurred during seven years, " not one has been complicated with 
hepatic abscess," says Dr. Baly. These facts would lead to the 
conclusion that a foreign climate mainly, and its unnatural in- 
fluences, and more particularly heat, produces the difference of 
result, as respects British subjects. 

The other seat of irritation and of aggravated disease, associated 
with, or derived from, the hepatic complication, I observed to be 
the rectum ; and in this portion of the bowel two causes appeared 
to me to operate unfavourably : the first consisted in the arrest of 
circulation in the hsemorrhoidal veins consequent on congestion 
or enlargement of the liver, producing internal or external haemor- 
rhoids, or both. Through inflammation, thickening, and adhesion, 
the ccecum speedily loses its tone and contractile power, thus be- 
coming the passive receptacle for the lodgment of vitiated and de- 
caying matters ; while the angle of the bowel at its sigmoid flexure 
becomes, through the incessant drainings of the same matters over 
its surface, the special seat of soreness. Much of the suffering and 
distress of the patient may always be traced to the irritated states of 
the sigmoid flexure and rectum, kept in constant tormina and 
tenesmus by the passage of such matters, often with the addition 
of acrid scalding bile. The same distresses I have seen produced 
by the misapplication, or by the protracted use, of calomel and 
drastic purgatives by over-treatment, in short. 

Death being presumed to occur only in the severer forms of 
dysentery, and in the worst cases only, we perceive on removing 
the abdominal parietes a turgid and congested state of the vessels, 
with adhesions of the serous coverings of the omentum, mesocolon, 
and mesentery, with varied and more extended adhesions between 
the different viscera ; enlargements and inflammations of the 
glands of the mesocolon and mesentery, with occasional suppura- 
tions in them ; inflammation and its results, such as thickening of 
the coats of the large intestines, softening, ulceration, or sloughing 
of the mucous membrane of the ileum, or of a portion, or of the 
entire of the larger bowel the ulcers having the appearance of 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OP BENGAL. 283 

variolous pustules, and being, in fact, glandular ulccrations, some- 
times perforating the coats of the intestines into the general cavity ; 
thickening of the coats, and contractions of the bore of the intes- 
tines, from effusion of fibrine and lymph, especially of the larger por- 
tion, and most frequently at its sigmoid flexure. Adhesions of the 
omentum to the caecum, and abscess in the vicinity of the ccecum, 
are occasionally observed. 

In the hepatic complication the liver will be found congested, 
inflamed, suppurated, or indurated, according to the degree and 
duration of the disease. In the dysentery of the Peninsular army, 
under the Duke of Wellington, the spleen, liver, and mesentery 
were generally found diseased ; and in the epidemic form of the 
disease, as it prevailed in Ireland, the liver was diseased in half, 
the spleen in a fourth, the small intestines in two-thirds, and the 
colon and rectum in all the dissections ; but I do not recollect 
mention of hepatic abscess from phlebitis, purulent deposit, or 
other cause, an event so frequent in the East. 

In the scorbutic complication the post obit appearances are 
altogether of an astheuic character, indicative of a diseased condi- 
tion of all the fluids. The inner surface of the large intestine, and 
of the ileura likewise, generally exhibiting extensive disorganiza- 
tion and decay, the bowel being in many cases filled with shreds 
and sloughs of mucous membrane and grumous blood, while the 
liver has a blue appearance externally, and when cut into the 
blood which flows is atrabilious and dissolved ; but where haemor- 
rhage from the bowel has occurred, the liver will be found soft- 
ened and antemic. The spleen crumbles under the slightest pres- 
sure, like a mass of grumous blood. Ecchymosed patches are to 
be seen on the outer skin, on the external and internal surface of 
the bowels, while congestions of diseased blood and softening of 
textures are found in the heart and lungs. Appearances such as 
these indicate either that the forces of diseased action have been 
invincible in their nature, or that the treatment intended for their 
removal has been inert, or insufficient. 

TREATMENT OF ACUTE TROPICAL DYSENTERY. 

The first and greatest care of the medical officers of fleets and 
armies should be directed to the prevention of this formidable 
disease, by securing such attention from the authorities to matters 
of diet, clothing, protection from weather, and'the conduct of duty, 
as may preserve the men in the vigour of health. There is no dis- 
ease in which an early preventive and remedial attention is of more 
importance than in dysentery the very great mortality of the dis- 
ease in many of our tropical possessions being in considerable 
degree referable to the neglect of early measures of previ mion and 
cure. Soldiers and seamen, when left to their own ways, will go 



284 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

on with their duties under seriously advancing disease ; and it is 
only when " bloody stools, with cutting pains," afflict them, that 
they will " report sick." It is here that the all-powerful influence 
of commanding officers should be solicited by the watchful sur- 
geon. An inspection-muster, morning and evening, should be 
ordered, with a view to be assured of the earliest detection of ad- 
vancing disease. This simple measure will save vast suffering 
and many lives. 

But however watchful the sanitary precautions, a certain amount 
of sickness from dysentery will always occur in naval and military 
service within the tropics. It therefore behoves all who have to 
treat this disease to bear in mind that the destruction of those 
placed in their charge is at hand indeed imminent unless 
promptly relieved by appropriate medical means. Every conside- 
ration of humanity and of duty to the State should concur and 
unite in directing our efforts to the speedy and effectual arrest of 
the sufferings and dangers attendant on tropical dysentery. For- 
tunately we have, both in the army and navy to treat men in the 
vigour of life, and the further advantage that the patient comes 
under our care immediately that he falls sick. A speedy and 
secure convalescence therefore results from a timely, well-regulated, 
and decisive course of treatment, while chronic dysentery, with 
lingering sufferings in hospital, or permanently broken health, will 
follow on feeble and indecisive attempts at cure. Let it be remem- 
bered also that cases, bearing the appearance of the mildest cha- 
racter of disease are occasionally found to exhibit in course of a 
few hours the real characters of destructive inflammation. Nothing, 
therefore, but the most watchful care, guided by intelligence in 
the selection and use of means, can lead to the patient's safety. 

It will be found wdth dysentery, as with fever, that a sufficient 
abstraction of blood by venesection, practised at the very onset of 
the disease, will simplify and render easy all the subsequent stages 
of the cure ; so much so that, in mild and uncomplicated dysen- 
tery, as in the violently acute and inflammatory type of the dis- 
ease, blood-letting is the primary as well as the cardinal measure. 
In acute uncomplicated dysentery, a moderate bleeding from the 
arm, followed by a full dose of calomel and James's powder, or 
that of ipecacuanha, say twenty grains of the latter to ten of calo- 
mel, given at bed-time, a warm bath, or hot fomentations to the 
abdomen a morning aperient, followed during the day by sudo- 
rifics conjoined with diuretics the moderate use of demulcent 
drinks, allowing no other sustenance will, in a very few days, 
bring about convalescence. 

Where pain remains in any particular region of the abdomen, 
as that of the coecum, sigmoid flexure of the colon or the rectum, 
leeches should follow the general abstraction of blood, guarding 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OP BENGAL. 

carefully against subsequent oozing from the leech-bites, and using 
warm fomentations or poultices only where the bites have bn-n 
thoroughly dried up. While any irritation of the bowels remain, 
as indicated by frequent stools, containing mucus and blood, 
the nightly dose of ipecacuanha, diminished in amount as the 
symptoms mitigate, must be continued, followed during the day 
by cooling diaphoretics with diuretics, as recommended in the 
treatment of fever. In the use or the withdrawal of calomel or 
blue pill at night, along with the sudorifics, we should be guided 
by the presence or absence of fever with a furred tongue, and by 
the healthy or depraved condition of the intestinal discharges. 
Mercury ought not, in short, to be regarded, in every case, as a 
necessity in the treatment of dysentery. It is not a remedy of ne- . 
cessity in all cases or in all climates : in the West Indies, for in- 
stance, the hepatic complication is by no means so frequent as in 
the East. 

While the use of sudorifics, with some mild mercurial, is indi- 
cated by the continuance of dysenteric symptoms, with more or 
less vitiation of the secretions, a mild aperient in the form of castor 
oil, or of compound powder of ialap, should be exhibited every 
other morning, while in this mild, as in every form of acute dysen- 
tery, the diet must be of the very lowest, presuming that the time 
required for the cure will not comprehend many days. 

In the highly inflammatory type of dysentery, on the other 
hand, we shall find that, after free blood-lettings, the occasion for 
the use of calomel with the sudorific will depend on the constitu- 
tion of the patient; and when he is youthful and robust, with 
fever, tumid abdomen, and furred tongue, the repetition of blood- 
letting, and that of calomel and sudorifics in full doses, will bo 
called for; and the mercurial sudorific must be repeated every 
night, reduced in dose as the disease yields, until the discharges 
from the bowels assume a natural appearance, when calomel may 
be discontinued, and blue pill or mercury and chalk substituted, 
if any such should still be necessary. The circumstance too that, 
in certain cases, much blood is voided by stool should not deter 
the surgeon from the use of the lancet, for, on the contrary, the 
early and free employment of depletion will greatly conduce to 
safety. Of blood-letting and mercury it must be observed also 
that, although they prove most powerful to good when used early 
in the disease, they will still be found necessary, in their just pro- 
portions, where the disease has even existed for some time, or 
where treatment has been neglected. Blood-letting was repeated 
l>v Robert Jackson "until all that was expected from it had bi-rn 
aitainrd." But all the circumstances of each individual must V 
so weighed, in reference to constitution, age, habits of lift-, and 
length of residence in India, as to guide the medical officer in tin- 



236 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

amount and measure of every means employed. It is impossible 
to fix an arbitrary rule or guage for every case beforehand, and it is 
better that a young practitioner should reflect seriously on all 
that relates to his patient, and act on principle according to his 
judgment, than that he should betake himself to a pattern such as 
is occasionally afforded in narratives of published cases. He must 
learn that, in our management of an ever-varying disease, we are 
unable to lay down any catholic rules of treatment which shall be 
suitable to every case. When we feel assured that inflammation 
has been subdued, a full opiate may be added to the night dose of 
sudorific, or the two may be combined in the form of compound 
powder of ipecacuanha; and thus, provided we have been so 
fortunate as to see the patient, immediately on being taken with the 
disease, a few days of treatment, such as is here described, will 
prove effective of cure. Used in this manner, opiates conduce 
powerfully to the cure ; and their free use, in the manner here 
recommended, should never be neglected. Robert Jackson fre- 
quently ordered the Dover's powder, in doses of eight grains thrice 
a day. In persons of a less robust constitution, again, and even in 
such as are delicate of habit, in whom dysenteric purging, griping 
pains, and pain on exploration of the abdomen are present, repeated 
abstractions of blood generally, and by means of leeches, will be 
requisite ; the measure of blood-letting, as well as the occasion 
for its repetition, being estimated and determined by the amount 
and degree of the disease. In every case dysentery must be 
speedily overcome by treatment, if we would save our patient. 

" When the state is inflammation," says Robert Jackson, " and 
the termination congestion, suppuration, or gangrene, the physi- 
cian must not hesitate in striking a balance between the chances 
of debility and the almost certainty of death. There is here no 
safety in half measures." It was a maxim of Hippocrates that 
" in desperate diseases, desperate remedies, energetically pursued, 
are the most efficacious." 

But while without blood-letting there is no safety for the 
sufferer so long as evidences of inflammation are in existence, no 
sensible person would, on the other hand, practise such an opera- 
tion, or continue the use of powerful remedies, after the subsiding 
of symptoms has indicated the approach of convalescence ; and 
here we limit ourselves to the use of ipecacuanha as a sudorific, 
cooling diaphoretics with diuretics, mild aperients, cold water 
enemata, with or without lead and opium, anodynes by the 
stomach and rectum, warm baths, demulcent drinks, and farinaceous 
diet, all which means must follow upon depletion, and their exhi- 
bition must be persisted in until we shall have obtained to conva- 
lescence, but no further. 

When, after the removal of inflammation, soreness along any 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 237 

portion of the large intestine exists, with a suspicion of ulccration 
of the mucous membrane, the use of washed sulphur alone, or in 
combination with the bitartrate of potash, will prove the best 
aperient given every other morning. This combination seems to 
have a detergent and healing influence, and even the sulphur un- 
combined acts as a most gentle and soothing relaxant. Enemata 
are here also most powerful to good, either in the emollient and 
anodyne form, given at bed-time, or as an astringent and refrige- 
rant in the form of cold water, having eight or ten grains of die 
acetate of lead, with two of opium, in solution. This last form of 
injection with diminished proportions of lead and opium, may 
also be exhibited three times a day where great tenderness and 
irritation exist in the rectum. It is always desirable that the in- 
jections should be retained, and to this end they should not 
exceed three or four ounces, and the operation of injecting should 
be performed in the most gradual and gentle manner ; and as to 
the temperature, whether cold or warm, we should be guided by 
the feelings and wishes of the patient, these being the true tests. 

It is important to pay attention to such adjuvants, for tormina 
and tenesmus are very wearing and depressing to the nervous 
system, and they are aggravated during die night so as not only 
to prevent sleep but, by the frequency of the calls to stool, the 
patient is exposed to the additional risks of checked perspiration 
and chills. To guard against such evils it will always be proper, 
in the case here under consideration, to add the enemata to the 
night opiate, or Dover's powder. Suppositories of ointment of 
lead, with two grains of opium, will likewise be found calming of 
irritation in the rectum, and therefore very grateful to the patient. 

On the subsidence of inflammatory action, when fulness, tender- 
ness, or thickening of the bowel exists at any portion of its course, 
blisters are always beneficially employed. Robert Jackson states, 
where tenesmus is urgent, with pain and heat in the rectum, 
accompanied by offensive discharges, he found the following 
powder very efficacious : 

Finely powdered charcoal . . . 3j. 
rhubarb . . . gr.x. 

ipecacuanha . . gr.v. 

A drachm of charcoal powder in rice water he also states to be 
equally effective as an enema. " These," he says, " of all means 
kno\vn to me have had the most instantaneous good effect in this 
form of disease. When the subject has been prepared by pre- 
vious evacuation, &c., two or three doses of the powder by the 
stomach generally effect a cure." In severe cases he gave this 
preparation every five or six hours, but he adds, with characteristic 



288 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

candour, that " where the action of the disease is chiefly upon the 
exterior membrane, or in the more remote organs within the 
abdomen, it was of no value." 

The force of disease having been subdued by depletory means, 
Robert Jackson says, that " the application of very cold salt water 
to the abdomen, particularly to the fundament by cloths or 
sponges ; or immersion of the lower part of the trunk in a tub of 
cold water is singularly refreshing. It allays the torments of 
tenesmus, and gives a respite from local sufferings which, if 
properly valued and improved, lays the case open to the action of 
general remedies, so as that the disease may be conducted to a 
safe and speedy issue with something like calculable certainty." 

In the instance of inflammatory dysentery, as already stated, 
we cannot be too sparing in the' use of food, or even in the use of 
liquids. Thirst is rarely urgent, as in fever, and there is no 
craving for food. We shall therefore do well to require the most 
rigid abstinence on the part of the patient. During the first ten 
days of convalescence also, the most careful attention should be 
paid both to the quality and quantity of the food, else relapse 
may be apprehended. The healing of ulceration and the absorp- 
tion of effused fluids are processes to be seriously retarded by 
anything approaching to a full stomach. 

A most dangerous form of hajmorrhagic dysentery appears occa- 
sionally under the influence of causes the most concentrated, re- 
mote, and exciting, and chiefly amongst seamen and soldiers when 
exposed to the joint actions of the deleterious compounds of 
intoxicating liquors sold in the bazars of Calcutta, and of severe 
exposure by night and day to the influences of the climate. 
This is the form of dysentery termed retrograde by Robert 
Jackson. So imminent is the danger that death may take place 
within a few hours of admission into hospital, or it may be pro- 
tracted to the third or fourth day; but, even in a disease so 
frightful to behold, it is surprising how cases wearing the most 
unfavourable aspects will sometimes recover. 

The patient generally presents the appearance of collapse with 
a sad, anxious, scorbutic looking countenance, much restlessness, 
a cold damp surface, a small quick and feeble pulse, and a cada- 
verous odour exhaling from the body, the matters voided consist- 
ing of grumous blood, or of fluid largely tinged with blood, with 
sloughs and patches of mucous membrane, and having an offensive 
cadaverous smell. Increase of collapse with hiccup, vomiting, 
and the involuntary passage of copious bloody dejections end in 
speedy death. 

On dissection, an excessive deposition of coagulable lymph is 
found between the coats of the large intestine, and most generally 
in the co3cum, sigmoid flexure, and rectum, while large irregular 



ACUTE DYSKNTKKY <M HKNGAL. 239 

patches of sloughing ulcoration pervade the mucous membrane, 
which sometimes cause large perforations of the bowel. 

In treating this hacmorrhagic form of the disease we must have 
instant recourse to the most powerful astringents in the largest 
doses, aiding their effects by the addition of opiates; and both 
must be frequently administered by the mouth and anus. Lead 
may bo used more liberally and more safely than is generally 
supposed. Dr. Christison of Edinburgh has given six grains of 
the acetate of lead daily for several months, without any ill effects, 
while Mr. Webber of Norwich informs Mr. Squire that, "in 
severe cases of bronchitis he administers from three to ten grains 
of the same medicine in pill, with a mixture containing three 
drachm doses of distilled vinegar every four hours till symptoms 
subside, which frequently takes place after the third or fourth 
dose." 

In haDmorrhagic dysentery the lead should be given every two 
hours, so as speedily to establish its influence, while to each dose 
from half to a grain of opium is added, using at the same time 
strong enemata of solution of acetate of lead with opium, thrown 
with sufficient force to enter the course of the colon ; and this 
course of treatment must be persisted in till the discharge of 
blood shall have totally ceased. In a form of the disease charac- 
terised by a rapid destruction of the organs immediately involved, 
and by general collapse of the nervous and vascular systems, such 
a diet must be allowed as may nourish while it supports the 
sinking powers of the patient ; and with these views soup should 
be added to the farinaceous articles, while even wine must be 
allowed, in order to guard against sinking. Convalescence will 
be greatly promoted by the exhibition of quinine with nitric or 
sulphuric acid, with the addition of a few minims of laudanum. 

Dr. Wilmot of Tunbridge Wells, in a severe epidemic dysentery 
of a scorbutic character, and attended by sloughing ulceration of 
the mucous membrane, while he exhibited by the stomach the 
decoction and compound tincture of bark with sulphuric acid, 
administered in the form of enema a drachm of creosote in twelve 
ounces of thin starch ; and to this latter means, exhibited every 
night at bed-time, Dr. Wilmot ascribes very decided results, as a 
stimulant, antiseptic, and styptic. 

But whether we have to treat dysentery in its milder or most 
severe form, complications will meet us, either from the com 
mencement of the disease or during its progress, and we must 
then be prepared to meet each contingency as it may arise ; and 
tii-M, of the hepatic complication. The liver will be found in- 
volved, in some instances, from the very commencement of the 
diseases, while in others it palpably arises in the course of the 
dysentery. The daily exploration of the hepatic region, as well 



240 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

as of the course of the large intestine, will therefore in every case 
be necessary, in order to the just appreciation of all the circum- 
stances of each case. Here depletion, both general and local, 
must be carried to such extent as to remove congestion of the portal 
system, tumidness, and pain of the liver, while by the nightly use 
of calomel and ipecacuanha, followed by compound powder of 
jalap in the early morning, and diaphoretics with diuretics during 
the day, we relax the skin, emulge the liver, and restore the lost 
balance of circulation. The measures here indicated must be 
repeated so long as the evidence of hepatic complication is pre- 
sent, discontinuing the use of calomel and blood-letting on its 
disappearance. In this, as in every other instance, where leeches 
are used, I would urge on the young surgeon the necessity of 
applying so many leeches as may be necessary, and no more, 
arresting the oozing from their bites without delay, while no 
poultices or fomentations should be applied until all oozing shall 
have completely ceased. 

After the removal of acute symptoms, should fulness or tender- 
ness of the liver still continue, the occasional application of 
blisters should be made over the region ; and to advance conva- 
lescence the nitro-muriatic acid, internally and externally exhi- 
bited, will prove eminently serviceable. It is necessary in the 
dysenteries of the east to have constant regard to the hepatic 
complication ; for it may be that, by appropriate means, we can 
remove inflammation and consequent ulceration of the mucous 
membrane of the intestine, but if disordered function, 'congestion, 
or inflammation of the liver tending to abscess be going on, the 
cure \vill be postponed or prevented by any one of the circum- 
stances named, or by the occurrence of dysenteric relapse, a con- 
dition to be vigilantly guarded against. 

In the cure as in the prevention of scorbutus we have mainly 
to look to the diet, cleanliness, ventilation, and cheerful occupa- 
tion ; while medically, and referring to the scorbutic complication 
in dysentery, our first indication of treatment is, by appropriate 
medicine and regulation of the diet, to restore the health of the 
blood. 

In addition to the liberal use of pure lime-juice, vegetables and 
fruits should be abundantly supplied, and potatoes especially, as 
being eminently anti-scorbutic. During long voyages some 
reduction in the meat portion of the ration might be advantage- 
ously made, granting a proportionate increase of vegetables and 
fruits ; for it is to the want of these last, even more than to the 
sameness of the diet and the salted meat, that the production of 
the scorbutic taint is referred. Scorbutus is not only a serious 
disease in itself but its complication with fever and dysentery, and 
the greater liability of scorbutic persons to be affected with the 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. >' 1 1 

various tropical diseases, malarious and other, renders its preven- 
tion and cure a question of great importance.* 

In scorbutic dysentery fresh lime juice with opiates simply, or 
in the form of Dover's powder, will prove the best medicine, while 
a liberal allowance 01 fruits and vegetables should be granted, 
along with so much fresh animal food as the stomach will bear. 
When irritability of stomach exists, the chlorate of potash, the 
carbonates of soda and potash in effervescence, lime juice being 
in excess, may be given with advantage ; and when tormina and 
tenesnms occur, with bloody discharges from the bowels, anodynes 
and astringents combined, or lime juice and opium in the form of 
enemata, should be employed, while the infusion of cinchona with 
the nitro-muriatic acid and opium are given by the stomach. 
When sloughs are discharged by stool along with grumous blood, 
the scorbutic taint being manifest, the danger to life is imminent. 
For the removal of the oo/ing which takes place in scorbutic 
dysentery from the gums and mucous membrane of the bowels, 
the astringent and tonic properties of the sulphate of iron, largely 
administered in solution by the stomach and rectum, and used as 
a gargle, will be found eminently serviceable ; with the same view 
the muriated tincture of iron is recommended by Annesley and 
others, but it is not intended that either means should supersede 
the use of the direct antiscorbutics. 

The combination of iron and alum will likewise be found of 
great service, as will the Sand Rock chalybeate water of the Isle 
.f Wight. 

In default of lime juice the medical officer must seek for sub- 
stitutes in citric acid, and in all kinds of summer fruits. For 
more than a century fruits have been justly lauded by our army 
surgeons in the treatment of dysentery, and the physicians of 
Spain and Portugal, according to William Fergusson, have for 
ages employed the juice of lemons with good effect in the endemic 
and epidemic dysenteries of their respective countries. Dr. 
Cabbel, a talented young surgeon of the Peninsular army, used 
no other medicine in treating British soldiers; when severely 
attacked in person by the disease in Portugal, and though attended 
by Dr. Fergusson, he refused all remedies other than lemons and 
oranges, and he speedily recovered. " In Trinidad, too, when a 
dysentery of uncommon malignity appeared there, Dr. Lynch 
O'Connor found that lime juice, administered by the mouth and in 
lavement, was the only remedy that could be depended upon." 

* Sir Gilbert Blanc states that " the first ample supply of lemon juice to ships of 

war was as long ago as 1757, to the squadron under Admiral Watson in the East Indie*, 

at the suggestion of his surgeon, Mr. Ives, a gentleman highly educated, of great mrrii 

.IM<| modesty; and we do not learn that he courted public notice, far les that he 

.d a reward in doing what he deemed to 1* merely his duty." 



242 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

Pringle, more than a hundred years ago, used grapes freely in 
the treatment of dysentery, and there have been few since his 
time who may be regarded as better authorities. On the subject 
of the Bael fruit of Bengal, and on the use of fruits generally in 
the East Indies, I beg to refer the reader to what is stated respect- 
ing them in the article on chronic diarrhosa. 

Dr. Kinlock Kirk, of the Bengal army, speaking of the sickly 
condition of the 78th Highlanders in Sindh, in 1843-44, states 
that the soldiers suffered from " large livers and spleens, and 
were weakened by continued colliquative purging." In this state, 
and suffering from a low fever, " the men found from their own 
experience more comfort and more advantage from the use of 
limes than from any other substance, and many gave back a por- 
tion of their rations to receive in lieu its value in limes." This 
intelligent officer, when serving in the same country with Sepoys 
suffering in the same manner, made use of the Phyllanthus 
emblica, or Aoula of the natives, and which is held by them in 
high repute. The fruit is used in various ways, preserved in its 
dried state, in syrup, or pickled, and is to be found in all consi- 
derable towns throughout India. " An infusion of two ounces of 
aoula in twenty of water was given to ten men three times a day, 
in conjunction with whatever else was necessary, as bark, quinine, 
opium, &c. ; and I found this remedy as useful certainly as lime 
juice, in cases where the spleen and liver were enlarged." Dr. 
. Kirk found on examination that the fruit consisted of " citric acid, 
tannic acid, and pectin, or vegetable jelly." For years Dr. Kirk 
has been using lime juice in the treatment of enlarged spleen, 
" with the most beneficial effect." This quotation is made from 
the " Pathologia Indica" of Professor Allan Webb, of the Calcutta 
Medical College, a work of the greatest value to all who are 
interested in the progress of tropical medicine. 

In treating the complications of dysentery with fevers remittent 
and intermittent, we must have regard to the type and prevailing 
character of the febrile movement, as well as to the paroxysms, in 
addition to the attention that may be demanded by the condition of 
the bowels. When the fever is of an ardent inflammatory cha- 
racter our antiphlogistic means must be applied with an energy 
proportioned to the violence of the disease ; while in the low 
adynamic type we must have recourse to bark, quinine, opiates, 
chalybeates, the vegetable and mineral acids, improved diet, and 
change of air. In convalescence from dysenteries, acute and 
chronic, much active benefit will be promoted by the external and 
internal use of the nitro-muriatic acid. When die spleen is found 
to be enlarged, whatever the stage of dysentery, and whatever the 
type of the fever, mercury must be carefully avoided, trusting 
rather to the means just named, and to all such as vivify and im- 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BKNUAL. '243 

prove the blood. It is almost unnecessary to add likewise that 
the abstraction of blood, in the complication of these fevers with 
dysentery, should be practised only when the fever is of the acute 
or ardent type, the adynainic forms, as well as the splenic 
cachexia, not admitting of the use either of mercury or of blood- 
letting. 

As regards the treatment of convalescence from dysentery, I 
would impress on the inexperienced a careful attention to all that 
has been urged upon that subject in the conclusion of the article 
on fever. There is not a word of caution there inculcated that 
does not apply with equal force to the management of the stage of 
recovery from tropical dysentery, as to that of convalescence from 
fever ; and too much attention cannot be paid to either case if we 
would protect the seaman or soldier from the dangers of relapse. 
It should be a rule with all medical officers to grant the seaman 
and soldier sufficient time to confirm convalescence and restore 
health, before returning him to duty. Time is necessary to the 
absorption of interstitial deposits, and for the cure of functional 
disorders, the results of acute disease ; and it would indeed be a 
mistaken notion of efficiency which should cause a half-cured 
man to be sent to labour whether in peace or war, not to speak of 
the inhumanity of such conduct. 

So much having been offered on the treatment of dysentery, 
simple and complicated, I must once and again urge upon the 
naval and military surgeon the value of time in dealing with such 
a disease. In treating fever as well as dysentery it should again 
and again be remembered that time is either our most important 
ally, or else our most powerful enemy, just as we may use or 
neglect it. Time will often be turned into a dire enemy both by 
the soldier and seaman, if permitted ; and in civil life the same 
neglect will occur through the carelessness or the vices of indi- 
viduals, so that the patient comes under treatment at all stages 
of the morbid progress. Excepting under the pressure of 
actual war, when dislocations and impediments will occur, it is 
happily in the power of officers in command to order parades of 
inspection conducted by the surgeons ; and thus every man may 
be looked to on the instant of his falling sick, an incalculable 
advantage to the individual and to the state. 

I propose now, as in the instance of remittent fever, to present 
a catalogue-raisonne of the treatment of Dysentery in different 
ages and countries. This, while it exhibits the limited views of 
some men, establishes with authority the comprehensive measures 
of cure of the majority of authors : 

li>-2'2. Boutins. Bleeding, repeated according to occasion 
vomit of ipecacuanha, and a purge the extract of saffron, " the 

R 2 



244 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

anchor of hope" emollient enemata and fomentations fruit 
diet. 

1696. Sydenharn. Early blood-letting opiate at night active 
purge in the morning, repeated every other day, and followed by 
a powerful opiate an anodyne with a diaphoretic every night, or 
every eight hours in severe cases emollient injections, and in- 
jections containing Venice turpentine. 

1760. Dr. Huck. Blood-letting, repeated according to occa- 
sion purgatives ipecacuanha and tartar-emetic, in repeated and 
full doses. 

1768. Pringle. Blood-letting vomiting mercurial purges 
ipecacuanha and opium grapes. 

1773. Dr. John Clark. Full emetic of ipecacuanha and tartar- 
emetic, followed by mild purgatives ipecacuanha and opium in 
small and repeated doses. 

1782. Mr. Curtis. Purgatives chiefly ; in the advanced stage, 
small doses of ipecacuanha powder astringents and tonics. 

1787-9. Dr. Moseley. Blood-letting antirnonials freely ad- 
ministered revulsion. 

1791. Mr. Wade, of Chunar. Solution of tartar-emetic and 
purging salts anodynes and sudorifics. 

1791 1820. Robert Jackson. Copious blood-letting during 
immersion in the warm-bath, " the sovereign remedy, without 
which nothing can be done with a fair prospect of benefit," fol- 
lowed by an emetic and mercurial purgative ; the alternate use 
of evacuants and sudorifics, " Dover's and James's powders hold- 
ing the first rank of the latter" hot fomentations to the ab- 
domen, with the local use of cold water, and " tonic appli- 
cations in glyster" warm clothing change of air, especially a 
sea voyage. 

1796. Dr. Hunter. Mercurial and saline purgatives, followed 
by opiates. In mild cases this constituted the sole treatment: 
in severe cases draughts of infusion of bark with rhubarb fo- 
mentations blisters. 

1799. Dr. Lempriere. An emetic warm baths and fomenta- 
tions emollient injections " as a necessary preparation to a 
purge " active and persistent purging by common purging salts, 
by calomel and rhubarb, or by calomel and jalap diluents fari- 
naceous diet. 

1799. Blane. Blood-letting vomit and purge at the begin- 
ning ipecacuanha and opium purgative salts small doses of 
ipecacuanha powder. 

1799. Dr. Whyte. Profuse blood-letting flannel roller over 
the abdomen careful confinement to bed, the body being anointed 
with oil no medicine. 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OP BENGAL. 245 

1804. Sir James M'Grigor. Blood-letting mercury with sudo- 
rific. flannel roller round the abdomen aperients opiates 
nitric acid internally, and in the form of bath enemata of lead 
and /inc demulcent drinks antiphlogistic regimen change 
of air. 

1814. James Johnson. Blood-letting, repeated according to 
occasion calomel in full doses sudorifics occasional mild pur- 
gatives anodynes cooling antiphlogistic diet warm clothing 
change of air. 

1817. William Fergusson. Blood-letting small doses of ca- 
lomel with ipecacuanha inunction, till the gums become af- 
fectedfomentations wann clothing the use of fruits change 
of air. 

1818. Sir George Ballingall. Topical bleeding purgatives 
infusion of ipecacuanha opiates warm baths and fomentations 
enemata bliss ters. 

1818-22. The Dublin Physicians Epidemic dysentery. 
Blood-letting general and local calomel, antimony and opium 
combined emetics enemata counter-irritation warm baths. 

1819. Mr. Bampfield. Blood-letting cathartics diaphoretics 
with mercury. 

1822. Annesley. Emetic of ipecacuanha, followed by full doses 
of calomel, smart purge, and warm bath then blood-letting ge- 
neral and local, according to constitution and length of residence 
in India calomel and opium alternating with purgatives and 
enemata ipecacuanha, or antimony, with opium as a sudorific. 

1823. Dr. Latham. After the failure of all the remedies com- 
mon to European practice, including ipecacuanha " calomel and 
opium became the settled practice." 

1832. Mr. Twining. General and local blood-letting, repeated 
according to occasion simple powder of ipecacuanha with extract 
of gentian purgatives. 

1833. Dr. J. Smith, Edinburgh Epidemic dysentery. Scruple 
doses of calomel, given so as to fall short of salivation, " the 
more common measures having failed." 

1833. Dr. Joseph Brown Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine. 
Blood-letting general and local, repeated according to urgency, 
aided by hot baths and fomentations gentle laxatives mercury 
as a subsidiary to general and local bleeding, and combined with 
simple or compound ipecacuanha powder sudorifics opiates 
enemata. 

1835. Copland Dictionary of Practical Medicine. Blood- 
letting general and local, repeated according to occasion opiates 
" after depletion" mild aperients cooling diaphoretics ipeca- 
cuanha and opium blisters. 

It is observed by Mason Good, that " the principles of Syden- 



246 ACDTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

ham's practice it is not easy to improve upon ;" nor, indeed, have 
either his principles or his details of practice been much improved 
upon, from his day to the present blood-letting, sudorifics, 
opiates, and aperients remaining still at the head of our standard 
remedies. 

There can be no doubt that the " putrid dysentery" of Clark, 
described by him as prevalent in Calcutta in 1773, was com- 
plicated, like the fevers of those days, with scurvy. The then 
protracted voyages to India, the bad diet, the general sanitary 
neglect during the voyage, and, if possible, the greater sanitary 
neglects after landing in Bengal, left little hope to the British 
seaman or soldier when tropical disease was added to scorbutus. 

It is stated, on the authority of the records of the Calcutta 
European General Hospital, that even in more recent times the 
mortality by dysentery was as follows : 

Treated. Died. 

1797. March, April, and May 37 . . 21 

June and July 58 . . 35 

August and September 22 . . 16 

November and December 21. .15 

1798. March, April, and May 17.. 7 

June, July, and August 27 . . 14 

October, November, and December . . . 25 . . 8 

1799. Juty, August, September, and October . . 31 . . 11 

Total . 238 . 127 



In those days the treatment of fever and dysentery was by ca- 
lomel and opium, mercurial inunctions, bark, animal food, and 
wine. 

Of the authors quoted in the above catalogue, those who speak 
most in favour of their success in treating tropical dysentery are 
Bontius, Dr. John Clark, Dr. Moseley, and Mr. Wade : a brief in- 
quiry into the merits of their respective modes of treatment may 
therefore prove of some interest. 

Bontius commenced with the abstraction of blood, and with 
vomits ; then came the extract of saffron, " than which, I dare to 
say, a more excellent remedy was never discovered by mankind ; 
and I am fully persuaded that it is the most perfect antidote 
against this disease, even when of a malignant kind." 

Dr. Clark merely wishes " to present facts ; but he must add 
that he has given bark to one hundred and fifty fever patients in 
Bengal and other places in the East Indies ; and of that number 
lost only one who took the medicine with perseverance." This 






ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 247 

gentleman was equally successful in the treatment of dysentery ; 
for out of " a number of patients" he only " lost four." 

Dr. Moseley abstracted blood likewise : " Bleeding," he says, 
" being an operation of great consequence in the flux, the cure is 
generally begun with it, repeating it as symptoms authorise, ob- 
serving only, " Non qua oetas sit sed quce vires sint" After 
bleeding, a vomit of ipecacuanha is to be given, and then an 
opiate after its operation is necessary. This is to be followed by 
a careful and continued use of antimonial wine and laudanum 
combined, with a view to keep up a sweat proportioned to the vio- 
lence of the disease, and not in the trifling way of giving them in 
small doses, whilst the patient is exposed, and their operation 
neglected." The doctor goes on to relate that the eminent success 
of this plan was exhibited when the soldier had been suffering 
from " the worst condition of the disease, with blood running 
from him as in a haemorrhage ;" and he adds that this demonstra- 
tion of his superior success had been made before " several of the 
officers of different regiments in the West Indies who were de- 
sirous to be spectators of a fact so interesting to the army." He 
concludes his triumphant narrative by exclaiming " Such is the 
power of revulsion" 

The power of revulsion in the cure of dysentery is undoubtedly 
great, whether produced by agents internally or externally exhi- 
bited. I remember, when serving with the army in Ava, to have 
heard that a British merchant, while prisoner in the capital, was 
seized with dysentery. After days of unmitigated suffering, under 
circumstances of barbarous treatment, and when death appeared to 
him near and certain, an order arrived for the removal of the pri- 
soners to a place of closer and still more severe confinement, 
where they were literally packed together. Here the sufferer was 
thrown into a violent perspiration ; and from that time all his 
symptoms left him. Such, again, is the power of revulsion ! 

Mr. Wade, of Chunar, claims an amount of success unbroken 
except by " two cases of unfortunate termination in the treatment 
of about four hundred cases of fever and dysentery." The treat- 
ment for both diseases was by a solution of purgative salts 
and tartar emetic, followed by anodynes and sudorific night 
draughts. 

Mr. Wade observes, that " the medical world may draw their 
own comments on the cases which are submitted to their exami- 
nation. The person who has treated and compiled them shall 
defer his, until the public may have formed some unbiassed opi- 
nion of them, he should only venture at present to vouch for their 
authenticity." This is just what has been done and said at all 
times by every writer of such cases, and by every pretender to 
\ t raordinary cures ; but it is a curious fact, well deserving con- 



248 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

sideration how it happens and happen it always does that 
those who in their day claim the greatest and most exclusive suc- 
cess in the practice of medicine should, in after times, be the least 
followed in their modes of treatment 

Some of the causes of error in reasoning and practice, as re- 
spects dysentery, are so well stated by Sir James M'Grigor that I 
cannot do better than present them in his own words : " My op- 
portunities of seeing this disease have been no common ones. 
Rarely, I believe, has it fallen to the lot of an individual to see 
so very many cases of one disease in such a variety of climate 
and situation. In the 88th Regiment, during more than ten years, 
I saw the same man the subject of this disease on the continent 
of Europe, in America, in both extremities of Africa, and in India. 
Of late, it has afforded me not a little amusement to review my 
notes as well as my journals of practice in this disease, in all 

these quarters 1 became convinced in Alexandria 

that, with change of country and climate, we had a different 
disease. This is one proof how improper, and how unsafe, it is 
for the practitioner of one climate to set down and describe the 
diseases of another. They only who have studied the same 
disease, in various opposite climates, can fully comprehend the ex- 
treme absurdity as well as the fallacy of this. From reasoning of 
any kind, we are incompetent to decide on the identity of disease. 
Reasoning from analogy here always deceives. In many of the 
symptoms diseases may agree ; but from thence to infer their 
identity is taking a very narrow view." 

Dr. Macpherson, of Calcutta, speaking of the comparative re- 
sults of the treatment of dysentery by the free use of opium, and 
other soothing means, observes with proper candour : " Our ob- 
vious difficulty in arriving at safe conclusions is, that the disease 
itself varies so much in intensity in different years, as well as in 
different periods of the same year. Thus her Majesty's 55th Re- 
giment lost at Secunderabad in 1837, one in four and a half; 
in 1838, one in seven and a half; in 1839, one in ten ; yet the 
treatment was the same, and conducted by the same medical officer 
throughout." 

If dysentery and fever were diseases of an uniform character, 
having an uniform cause and seat, then perhaps they might be 
treated after an uniform plan ; but a very slender experience of 
the two diseases, as they prevail within the tropics especially, and 
even within the British Isles, shows that this is not the case ; 
for although, in the disease now under consideration, some por- 
tion of the larger bowel is universally implicated, yet, either from 
the accession, or during the progress of the disease, for we cannot 
often say which, the lesser bowel, the liver, the spleen, the pan- 
creas, and mesentery, frequently become the seats of plethora, 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 249 

and of other morbid actions, so as greatly to complicate the 
disease, and modify its treatment. 

The pathology of our dysenteries, whether in southern or 
northern India, as described by our best authors, sufficiently 
establishes the fact that, in this formidable disease, morbid action 
is not confined here, any more than in Europe, to the course of 
the large intestine alone, but that all, or most of the associated 
organs are found after death to be more or less deeply involved, 
just in proportion to the extent and severity of the symptoms 
during life. The truth is, that the dangerous and fatal characters 
of tropical dysenteries are principally due to these complications. 
" I have been repeatedly astonished," says Dr. Macpherson of the 
General Hospital, Calcutta, " to discover after death an immense 
extent of structural change in boys, whose illness could not be 
ascertained to have exceeded eight or ten days." It appears 
to me that to a want of just consideration of these inevitable pa- 
thological complications must we refer the system of exclusive 
treatment, so much reprehended by every author who has had 
varied and extended opportunities of observation in dysentery ; 
these complications explain also the successive abandonment, by 
the surgeons of our fleets and armies, of every exclusive plan 
of treatment hitherto proposed, almost as soon as it has been tried. 
" In the treatment of no other disease, perhaps," says Dr. Cop- 
land, "has the baneful influence of exclusive medical doctrine 
been more fully exerted than in that of Dysentery." 

The adhesions of the peritoneum the pink colour, thickening 
and softening of the omentum the effused lymph the adhesions 
between the different intestinal surfaces the red and thickened 
state of the mesentery, with the enlargement of its glands while 
they indicate the general amount and great extent of inflam- 
matory action during life, leave the fact still demonstrated that, in 
causing death, the main force of the disease has been expended 
on the mucous surfaces. 

He who would treat dysentery with success, while he shuns 
exclusive means, must assign to each remedy its proper value, and 
neither more nor less. Blood-letting, sudorifics, and purgatives 
constitute the most universal remedies, and in simple uncompli- 
cated dysenteries they will prove all-sufficient. But when the 
abdomen is tumid, and there is pain in the liver, or in any other 
region, while the nature of the discharges indicates advancing in- 
flammation, calomel conjoined with sudorifics, and repeated to 
meet the occasion, will powerfully aid the curative effect, through 
its influence on the depurative functions on the circulation, in 
unloading, jointly with purgatives, the gorged vessels of the ab- 
dominal organs on the blood and on secretions generally 
and on the very sudorific function which we so much desire 



250 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

to excite. This, in so many words, I believe to be the real value 
of calomel in the treatment of dysentery ; and the inexperienced 
have been led into much unnecessary doubt, and into no small 
amount of error, by some writers who regard calomel as a remedy of 
necessity, and by those who, on the other hand, would exclude its 
use altogether. 

It is hardly necessary to repeat that while calomel is a most 
powerful agent in its place, as an aid to blood-letting, the 
pushing it to the extent of ptyalism is here by no means in- 
tended ; nor should mercury in any shape be used in adynamic 
forms of the disease, in the splenic cachexia, nor in states of 
anaemia for in all these conditions of the system its actions are 
most injurious. 

Amongst the surgeons in Bengal, blood-letting general and 
local, takes the lead, and has done so for many years in the treat- 
ment of dysentery. It is the standard remedy ; and I believe that 
when the subject comes early and freely under this treatment, and 
that the case is not complicated with hepatic or other congestion, 
or with inflammation, little else than a few doses of sudorifics and 
aperients, as aids to general blood-letting, will be needed for the 
cure. But as in most cases of this formidable disease, as it ap- 
pears within the tropics, the morbid action going on in the large 
intestine is intimately associated with general abdominal plethora, 
and individual complications, other and important means speedily 
follow upon the bleeding ; and of these the first are those which act 
powerfully on all the secreting organs, internal and external 
such as calomel with ipecacuanha, in full doses at first, and given 
at bed-time followed by mild laxatives sudorifics enemata 
warm baths and fomentations blisters, and other minor adju- 
vantia. I believe this to have been for many years the course of 
practice in Bengal, and I have seldom seen calomel urged to the 
extent of producing salivation ; neither do I think this degree of 
effect at all necessary to the cure. Several experienced medical 
officers have assured me that antimony in combination with the 
calomel proved, in their hands, quite as efficacious as ipeca- 
cuanha ; but in my own practice I always preferred the latter. 

When, after a few days, inflammatory action has been subdued 
by blood-letting, with the lowest diet, and intestinal irritation has 
been overcome by calomel, ipecacuanha, and aperients ; then, 
recourse should be had to milder measures, as a persistence in 
the stronger ones is no longer either necessary or proper to the 
cure ; indeed, such persistence would prove eminently injurious. 

The late Mr. Twining would appear to ignore the associated 
diseases of the liver, and, in his clinical work, he advocates the 
use of simple ipecacuanha powder combined with bitter extract, 
which plan of treating dysentery he states to have been very sue- 



ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 251 

cessful. As first assistant, and as officiating surgeon to the Gene- 
ral Hospital of Calcutta, during Mr. Twining's service in that 
institution, I had ample opportunity of witnessing the results of 
his treatment, and 1 am not aware that his system was followed at 
the time, or since, by any of the other medical officers of that hos- 
pital ; neither would his plan of treatment appear to be success- 
fully imitated in the provinces throughout Bengal. Dr. Mac- 
nab, in an excellent practical Report on the dysentery of the 
native soldiery of Hindustan, when serving in Bengal Proper, says, 
that " blue pill with ipecacuanha and extract of gentian proved a 
complete failure, as has generally been the case in my trials of it 
Indeed I much suspect that Mr. Twining overrated the value of 
his favourite remedy, and that he may have also miscalculated the 
anti-emetic properties of the gentian." 

On Mr. Twining's use of drastic purging, Dr. Everard says : 
" Twining has certainly overpraised repeated strong purging. 
The Deputy Inspector General, Murray, informed me that in his 
tour of inspection, he found some cases which had been dysenteric, 
labouring under one-drachm doses of compound jalap powder 
given daily at noo/i, which got well immediately on removing the 
cause" 

Ipecacuanha has been a favourite remedy in the south of India 
for nearly a century, although Mr. Twining, like many respectable 
practitioners, fell into the error of supposing that what he observed 
was new, while in truth it was very ola. Speaking of his cotem- 
poraries, Mr. Geddes, Drs. Mortimer and Baikie, of Madras, he 
concludes : " In fact, ipecacuanha has been a favourite remedy 
with some of the medical men at the Madras Presidency;" and 
from the context it is evident that a very recent date is here 
meant. Dr. Whitelaw Ainslie, writing in 1813, after an experience 
of thirty years in Madras, and an extensive practice amongst all 
classes of Europeans, says of this drug that " it has no equal in 
simple dysentery, that is, dysentery not complicated with hepatic 
derangement ; in such cases, given even so as to produce daily a 
little vomiting, it has the happiest effects." This is an observa- 
tion of great truth and practical importance consequently, and I 
believe that it impresses and fixes a just discrimination in the use 
of ipecacuanha. In speaking of a personal experience of two-and- 
twenty years in the East Indies, and of an extensive range of ob- 
servation of this disease as it occurred in hospitals, European and 
Native, and in extensive private practice in Calcutta ; also as it 
occurred amongst troops serving in the unhealthy provinces of 
Orissa and Gondwana, and in the fatal campaigns of Rangoon and 
Upper Ava, in the first Burmese war, I should say with Dr. 
Ainslie, that it is alone in simple uncomplicated dysentery that 
ipecacuanha shows its best effects, administered as an aid to 
blood-letting and moderate purging. 



252 ACUTE DYSENTERY OF BENGAL. 

In hepatic dysentery a frequent complication in Bengal, espe- 
cially during the cold season calomel is absolutely necessary to 
the cure. I remember treating, for this form of the disease, an 
officer who had suffered severely from the fever of Batavia, con- 
tracted at the capture of Java ; he was bled generally and by 
leeches, followed by sudorifics and purgatives ; but no amend- 
ment took place, and nothing was voided but mucus and blood ; 
two full doses of calomel with antimonial powder were then given 
at bed-time, which produced copious biliary discharges, followed 
by immediate relief, a few doses of blue pill and ipecacuanha, fol- 
lowed by mild aperients, concluding the treatment. There existed 
in this case no enlargement of the liver, nor uneasiness on pres- 
sure, but there was a total absence of biliary secretion, and, until 
that was restored, the other treatment afforded no relief. In 
another case of very severe hepatic dysentery, requiring remedial 
measures of great activity, recovery was marred in convalescence 
by errors in diet ; the liver became enlarged and painful as ever, 
the dysentery recurring, and requiring a repetition of general and 
local blood-letting, mercury, &c., and this under circumstances of 
greatly reduced strength. This gentleman was sent to China, 
where, six months afterwards and owing to continued errors in 
diet, hepatic abscess took place, from which he died. 

Cases of hepatic complication, treated without mercury, fre- 
quently terminate in inflammation and abscess of that organ, even 
where blood-letting has been employed. It is not enough here to 
reduce the volume of the blood, nor yet, along with it, to diminish 
the force and frequency of the circulation ; we must also emulge 
the gland involved in disease. 

To such as prefer ipecacuanha in the treatment of dysentery it 
might prove desirable to ascertain the following circumstances: 

1st. Whether extract of gentian have any and what effect in 
preventing vomiting under the use of this drug. It is true that, 
after a few days' use, a comparative tolerance of medicine seems 
to be established, as in the case of the antimonial preparations ; 
but altogether, as it appeared to me, unconnected with the use or 
disuse of bitter extract. 

2nd. Whether the preparations of the Cannabis Indica may 
from their sedative, as well as from their powerfully anti- 
emetic qualities, prove serviceable in conjunction with ipecacuanha, 
or with antiraonials. Unlike opium and its preparations, hemp 
does not lock up the secretions. 

3rd. Whether four grains of ipecacuanha occasion as much 
sickness as ten grains, and, if so, whether the larger dose should 
be preferred for the cure of dysentery. If the action of ipeca- 
cuanha be purely revulsive, or if, according to Dr. Paris, it be to 
abate both the velocity and the force of the heart's action, so as to 



ACUTE DY8KNTKRY OF BENGAL. 



966 



affect " the whole series of blood vessels from their origin to their 
iiinM minute ramifications," we may do wrong by being sparing of 
our dose, in so formidable a disease as dysentery, if the stomach 
can be made to bear the larger quantity. This subject has not, I 
tliink, received the attention duo to its importance, in reference to 
i In- subject here under consideration. "Ipecacuanha has long 
been usefully employed," says the Brit, and For. M. C. Review, 
for July, 1855, " in various morbid puerperal conditions. M. 
Legroux is said to resort to it with almost uniform success at the 
Hotel Dim, in sub-inflammatory and congested states of the 
uterus following delivery." 

For the following interesting table, exhibiting the prevalence 
and the intensity of dysentery, as indicated by the mortality in 
various countries, I am indebted to Colonel Tulloch: 





Period 






Dysentery 





STATIONS. 


of 
Observation 


Aggregate 
Strength. 


Attacked. 


Died. 


Proportion 
of deaths 
to 
admissions. 


Windward and Leeward I 
Command ... } 


20 years 

20 ,, 


86661 
51567 


17843 
4909 


1367 
184 


1 in 13 
1 in 26} 


Gibraltar 


19 


60269 


2653 


64 


1 in 11', 


Malta 


20 ,. 


40826 


1401 


94 


1 in 15 


Ionian Islands . . . 


20 
20 


70293 
11721 


3768 
1751 


184 
36 


1 in 20, 
1 in 48} 


Novia Scotia and New 1 
Brunswick . . J 


20 

20 , 


46442 
64280 


244 
735 


18 
36 


1 in 1S| 
in 20J 


Western Africa . . . 
'apt- of Good Hope . . 


18 
19 

9 


1843 
22714 
8973 


370 
1425 
751 


55 
44 

69 


in 7 
in 32, 
in 11 


Mauritius 


19 , 


30515 


5420 


285 


in 19 




20 


42978 


9069 


993 


in 9 


Tenasscrim Provinces . 
Madras 


10 , 
5 , 


6818 
31627 


1460 
6639 


137 
559 


in 10} 
in 12 


Bengal 


5 , 


38136 


5152 


411 


in 12| 




5 , 


17612 


1879 


151 


1 in 12} 















254 CHRONIC DYSENTKRY. 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

ONE has bat to behold a soldier in hospital under chronic 
dysentery to grieve that a disease so destructive had not been cut 
short in its acute stage ; for truly does William Fergusson declare 
that the sufferer exhibits " a spectacle of distress of as pitiable a 
kind as can be found in the history of human misery." Let the 
young naval and military surgeon ponder on the spectacle before 
him, and determine so to master the subject aud manage the 
treatment of acute dysentery, as that he may have the least possi- 
ble amount of the chronic to deal with. He will thus by one 
act cure the acute, and prevent the chronic disease. 

It is not intended in this place to enter into the details of chro- 
nic dysentery, the reader being referred to an article on that sub- 
ject in the second part of this work, and which describes the dis- 
ease as it occurs in European invalids on their return from tropical 
climates. But chronic dysentery in the East Indies differs from 
that disease as it appears in persons on their return to Europe in 
this that in India a certain amount of congestive and inflamma- 
tory action still remains, both in the mucous membrane of the 
large intestine and in the associated organs, requiring moderate 
topical blood-lettings, mercurial alteratives, and blisterings ; 
whereas in the same disease, as it appears in England in the per- 
son of the tropical invalid, neither of the above conditions hold. 

With the important exceptions stated, the treatment of chronic 
dysentery should be the same in both hemispheres ; and in that of 
the East as of the West I would strongly urge the internal aud ex- 
ternal use of the nitro-muriatic acid. It is a powerful means as a 
substitute for mercurials, powerful in maturing convalescence. 



NOTE ON DYSENTERY IN THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 

A LARGE proportion of the sickness and mortality of the native 
troops throughout India occurs from dysenteries and diarrhosas, 
originally contracted as such, or resulting from fevers remittent 
and intermittent ; and this holds especially in respect of the 
troops recruited in the plains of Hindustan, when they are trans- 
ferred thence to the low marshy countries along the courses of the 
great rivers, or into countries abounding in jungle. 

The late Mr. John Tytler, of the Bengal Medical Department, 



DYSENTERY IN THE NATIVES OP INDIA. 255 

in an Essay on " a most melancholy disorder," which he terms 
Diarrhoea Hectica, states that " it is no exaggeration to say, that of 
the total deaths among the lower orders of Hindustan, three-fourths 
are the effect of this disease, either idiopathic or as a terminating 
symptom. It is the scourge of crowded jails, and of hospitals filled 
with harassed and fatigued Sepoys ; and it is the great avenue 
through which the swarms of naked and famished paupers and 
miserable infants that occupy the bazars are continually vanishing.* 1 

Mr. Burnard, speaking of the sufferings of the Sepoys in Ara- 
can, under General Morrison, says : " Dysentery and diarrhoea 
were the diseases which proved most fatal, not in their acute form, 
but ensuing as a consequence of fever ; and their ravages, parti- 
cularly amongst the native troops, were very great." 

" The average mortality amongst natives in the Calcutta Medical 
College Hospital," says Dr. Macpherson, " has been 16*9, that 
among Europeans, 22*5. This accords with general experience, 
which has shown the disease in natives to be more amenable to 
treatment than in Europeans." 

The symptoms of dysentery in the Asiatic races are precisely 
the same as in the European, differing only in degree of severity 
and in complications ; and the same may be said as to the patho- 
logy of the disease. 

The post-mortem appearances exhibit ulcerations in the large 
intestine, amongst the natives of India, as with Europeans ; but 
the complications in the dysenteries of Asiatics are by no means 
either so frequent or so severe, if we except that of the spleen in 
malarious districts, in which dysentery and diarrhoea are commonly 
associated with the remittent and intermittent fevers of such local- 
ities. Here the ulcerations of the large intestine are always of an 
anaemic, atonic character. 

Excepting in the instances of powerful and athletic Sepoys, 
and those mostly of the better-fed Mahomedans, I seldom had 
recourse to general blood-letting in treating natives for this dis- 
ease leeching being in the far greater numbers quite sufficient. 
The same regard to measure holds good in the use of purgative 
and other remedial appliances, the mildest in moderate doses 
being effective to the cure ; and mercury in any form is seldom 
required, unless it be to the more robust, especially the Maho- 
medan, to whom I had often to exhibit one moderate dose of 
calomel with ipecacuanha or antimonial powder, followed by a 
brisk purgative, with the view to remove jaundiced appearances 
of the conjunctivae, indicative of hepatic congestion. If such 
indications were not present, I never had recourse to mercurials 
in any shape. 

The great principle of treatment in the dysenteries and diar- 
rhoeas of the natives of India, in their acute stages, is what Mosely 



256 DYSENTERY IN THE NATIVES OF INDIA. 

would term revulsive sudorific; ipecacuanha being the best 
means, aided by gentle aperients, farinaceous diet, fomentations to 
the abdomen, and warm clothing. When by such means we have 
overcome the more acute symptoms, the Dover's powder will very 
fitly complete the cure ; and the assistance to be derived from 
proper diet and warm clothing should never be overlooked. Cold 
acts most banefully on the native constitution, and too much at- 
tention cannot, therefore, be paid to the subject of suitable cover- 
ing by night and day, especially during the cold season. 

For maturing convalescence from the ordinary dysenteries of 
India, the nitric, or nitre-muriatic acid in bitter infusions will be 
found very efficacious ; but where convalescence is retarded by 
continuance of liquid discharges, the acetate of lead and opium 
will prove greatly effective, the lead being exhibited in full doses. 
I had recourse to the acetate of lead in treating the native soldiery, 
after the more acute symptoms had passed, very early in my ser- 
vice in India, and afterwards very extensively in treating the 
dysenteries of the natives of Calcutta, while surgeon to the Native 
Hospital of that city. My excellent assistant at this institution, 
Mr. O'Brien, has for more than ten years subsequently, as sur- 
geon to the 4th Regiment of Native Infantry, Gwalior Contingent, 
carried out this plan of treatment with great success, from the very 
onset of the dysentery. The Native Hospital formula was acetate 
of lead, tincture of opium, and distilled vinegar. This treatment has 
continued to be very successful in the hands of Mr. O'Brien as well 
as in mine ; and he says that " when the liver is complicated, ap- 
propriate treatment is directed to that viscus ; but acetate of lead is 
given at the same time without at all interfering with the other reme- 
dies. I do not mean to say that I employ lead solely ; for I employ 
leeches, aperients, and blisters, which are very generally indis- 
pensable." The sulphate of copper and opium are also an excel- 
lent combination in the chronic stage of the disease. At all stages, 
indeed, and under every degree of severity and of distress from 
this disease, we are limited, in the treatment of natives, to the 
use of medicines by the stomach alone, as enemata they will not 
consent to use the very impression of death making no alteration 
in their fixed aversion to every such remedy. 



ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 



THE most cursory reference to the articles on fever and dysen- 
tery must satisfy the reader that, whether as original or secondary 
affections, inflammation, congestion, and chronic enlargements of 
the liver constitute in reality very frequent and very important 
diseases in the East Indies. Nor do the official returns, under 
the special heads of acute and chronic hepatitis, afford any ap- 
proach to the actual frequency of hepatic diseases ; for when these 
last occur as complications with, or as sequelae to fevers, dysen- 
teries, diarrhoea, and cholera, the hepatic complication or sequel 
remains unnoticed in the numerical returns the cases being 
classed and numbered under the primary disease, whether fever, 
dysentery, diarrhrca, or cholera. It thus happens that the nume- 
rical hospital retunis do not yield anything like an approximation 
to a true estimate of the existing amount of hepatic disease. The 
same observations will, f believe, apply with equal justice to the 
returns of acute diseases of the West Indies, the West Coast of 
Africa, the Stations in the Mediterranean, and the French Posses- 
sions in Algeria, although in a lesser degree. 

INCREASED SECRETION OF BILE. On the subject of 
the physiological influences of the climate of India on the func- 
tions of the liver, I must refer the reader to what is stated in the 
introductory chapter on climate. It is there stated as a generally 
received opinion, that an increased secretion of bile is one of the 
ordinary results of the exposure of an European to an unnaturally 
high range of temperature ; and this opinion 1 believe to be well- 
founded to the extent, first that the exaltation of function is not 
of long duration, and is very much confined to the earlier years 
of residence, declining thence ; secondly, that, to a certain de- 
gree, such increase of secretion is salutary ; and, thirdly, that it is 
in part from the sudden suppression of secretion through cold, 
that congestive and inflammatory states of the liver are engen- 
dered, rather than through any serious injury from increase of 
secretion a process consisting more of acclimation than of 
disease, and one which nature adjusts in the progress on residence 
in India. So much has been said by some writers on tropical 
diseases as to morbid increase and vitiation of bile, that they have 
altogether forgotten the more important but less notable deficu-n- 

s 



258 ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

cies and suppressions of this secretion conditions far more seri- 
ous in their results than mere excess of secretion. 

Chemically, we have as yet ascertained nothing as to the 
healthy or unhealthy qualities of bile ; and, practically, all we do 
know is, that with certain symptoms there is a redundancy, and 
with others there is a deficiency of that secretion. We know 
also, from the scalding sensations that accompany certain forms 
of bilious diarrhoea, that the fluid in question is of an acrid irri- 
tating quality ; and that is all. 

TREATMENT. If, along with an acrid and irritating bilious 
diarrhoea there be fulness and uneasiness in the region of the 
liver, so as to excite the suspicion of congestive action, a few 
leeches followed by fomentations and warm baths, together with 
a mild mercurial and an aperient will procure relief ; but when 
heat and dryness of skin exist, with irritative febrile symptoms, 
effervescing draughts, containing antimonials and diuretics, will 
prove both grateful and curative. 

In general, the disorder constituting increased biliary secretion, 
and those resulting from it, are sufficiently cured and prevented 
by avoiding the direct rays of the sun, by a strict attention to diet, 
exercise, clothing, bathing, and by the use of demulcent and sub- 
acid fruits, as the bael, pomegranate, orange, &c., and by the oc- 
casional use of mild aperients. 

With few exceptions, and these resulting from exposure to 
direct solar influences, or from ill habits of life, such simple means 
of treatment I have always held to be both suitable and effective ; 
and I cannot but think much unnecessary confusion has arisen 
from wordy descriptions of what certain writers on tropical dis- 
eases, as Annesley, appear to regard as an affection demanding a 
complicated medical management. They talk of " bile " as if it 
were a disease, and would cure it by " full doses of calomel at 
bed-time, generally for five or seven days, followed by Pil. Aloes 
and Myrrh alone, or with Pil. Hydrarg." Of such unmeasured, 
disproportionate, and unnecessary treatment of a mere functional 
disorder, it is to be hoped we have seen the last : it is really 
worse than routine. The real diseases connected with bile and 
very serious they are too are those in which bile is altogether 
absent, and wanting to the cure ! 

CONGESTION OF THE LIVER. Congestions more or less 
acute, according to constitution, previous condition of health, and 
season, are very common to all countries in the East. Sudden 
changes of temperature, producing chills the repeated cold 
stages of fevers, remittent and intermittent, an over-full and 
stimulating diet, together with the abuse of vinous and spirituous 



ON THE DISEASES OP THE LIVER. 259 

liquors violent bodily exercises, especially those carried on in 
the sun, exposing the individual to the more ready influences of 
cold ; those are the more ordinary causes. 

The organ will be found enlarged, generally in its upper convex 
direction, but sometimes in all directions, as in malignant inter- 
mittents the enlargement resulting from venous and biliary con- 
gestion, and the latter being produced by the pressure of the over- 
distended veins preventing the due diminution of the smaller 
ducts a condition of the liver, I repeat, frequently associated 
with, and following upon, remittent and intermittent fevers.* 

The bulging out of the liver the evidence of severe vascular 
turgescence is rarely accompanied by more than uneasiness 
on exploration, or of weight on getting into the erect posture : 
the respiration on the affected side will be found more or less op- 
pressed and impeded. These symptoms will become well marked 
when, as occasionally happens, the volume of the liver is much 
augmented ; and when such is the case we may fairly infer that 
stagnation and consequent viscidity of the bile will take place, 
both in the gall-bladder and ducts, so as to complicate and aggra- 
vate the disease. 

The countenance and complexion will exhibit pallor, or else a 
dusky livid, sallow hue, according to the temperament of the 
patient, or the duration of the disease paleness, with sense of 
cold and shivering, being more characteristic of the immediate 
result of external cold, or chill. The tongue will generally be 
found coated the bowels constipated the intestinal and viscal 
excretions depraved the appetite defective, with occasional 
nausea or even vomiting, and more or less headache. The pulse 
is slow, oppressed, irregular, or quick and feeble, according to the 
age and constitution of the patient, and to the duration of the 
disease ; but the frequency of pulse will not be that of fever. 
Here, in short, the symptoms are obscure not declared and 
they must be taken in their collective characters, assemblage, 
and connection, and not separately, or individually. 

When, through any or all the causes above enumerated, con- 
gestion of the liver has been of long duration, permanent injury 
to its structure and secreting function may result : the disease in 
any form must, therefore, be regarded as one of importance. The 
signs in this, as in other diseases of the liver, are so obscure that 
of such as we actually possess a knowledge we cannot afford to 
overlook the least, if we would do justice to our patients, and to 
our own characters. On examination after death, the liver is 
found to be enlarged, principally upwards into the right thoracic 
cavity dark from impeded circulation, and full of blood ; and, 

* Passive congestion of the liver, and torpor of that organ, as they appear in the 
returned Indian, are noticed in th second part of this work. 



260 ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

when the disease has been of any duration, its texture will be 
found softened. 

TREATMENT. When from careful exploration, and a due 
consideration of all the attendant symptoms, we are satisfied that 
congestion of the liver does actually exist for its existence must 
not be assumed a moderate venesection, followed by leeches if 
necessary a few doses of blue pill or calomel, with purgative 
extract and an antimonial, all three united a few saline purgatives 
hot fomentations to the region of the liver, and warm baths ; 
these means, together with abstinence in diet, will speedily bring 
about a cure. Nor must we be deterred all other circumstances 
being duly considered by feebleness or oppression of the pulse, 
from the use of such antiphlogistic means in these cases; for, 
under judicious treatment the pulse will rise and expand under 
the use of these means, and general relief will follow. 

Finally Convalescence will be matured, and an exemption 
from future attacks secured, by attention to diet, exercise, bath- 
ing, attention to clothing, and by avoidance of exposure to direct 
solar influences, as well as the chills by night. 

HEPATITIS. Amongst the better classes of Europeans, who 
are careful in their habits, this disease is not of so frequent oc- 
currence as formerly, when the habits of life were different from 
what they are now ; and this observation has special reference to 
the acute inflammatory, or adhesive form of the disease. The 
cases seen in private practice are very much confined to those of 
fair complexion, and lax fibre. European females of every class 
are far less subject to this disease, and to every form of hepatic 
affection, than their countrymen ; and women of the better classes 
are rarely affected comparatively. Amongst British soldiers, and 
Europeans who lead what is called a free life, and who incur ex- 
posure to the direct rays of the sun, and to the damps and chilling 
influences of the night, the disease, on the other hand, attacks 
men of all ages, and of every variety of constitution. It is a 
disease of great importance in a military sense, causing much im- 
mediate loss of life, invaliding, and ultimate inefficiency in the 
European portion of the army. It would appear from various re- 
turns to which I have had access that, of British soldiers attacked, 
upwards of half were lost to the service by death, by ruined health 
in India, and by invaliding to England. In the Madras European 
Regiment, according to Mr. Geddes, 280 cases of hepatitis oc- 
curred in five years. 

SYMPTOMS AND PROGRESS. The symptoms and pro- 
gress of hepatitis vary much according as the inflammation is 



ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 261 

seated in the upper convex surface, on the exterior of the organ, 
or in its central parenchyma; but the nature and amount of the 
inflammation are assuredly the first and most important considera- 
tions to be determined, if we would successfully combat so 
dangerous a disease. 

For practical purposes hepatitis may be considered, first as 
consisting in a more or less superficial and adhesive inflammation 
of the organ ; and secondly in deep-seated suppurative inflam- 
mation of its parenchyma. 

1. This well-marked form of the disease is ushered in by rigor, 
or sense of cold and constriction of the skin, followed by febrile 
reaction, the complexion being of a dusky sallow hue, nausea and 
vomiting, urgent thirst, loaded tongue, occasional headache, pain 
of the right hypochondriura, increased by pressure, or a full inspi- 
ration, and more or less acute according as the peritoneal covering 
may be more or less involved, pain occasionally of the right 
shoulder, cough and oppressed breathing, difficulty in lying on the 
left side, scanty and high-coloured urine, loss of appetite ; such 
are the usual and more urgent symptoms. They will not all be 
present in any case ; but so many of them will be manifested as 
to render diagnosis generally easy. There occurs frequently a 
loose state of the bowels, the matters voided being pale, or muady, 
and watery; at other times the bowels are even constipated. 
When vomiting is urgent, with sense of heat and burning in the 
epigastrium, it indicates an acute state of the disease involving 
the ducts, duodenum, and pylorus. 

As the disease advances the pulse becomes frequent and hard, the 
skin is hot, dry, and constricted, the pain, cough, and oppression 
of breathing increase, there is occasional hiccup, with an anxious 
and desponding countenance, all indicative of advancing disease ; 
and if this condition be not speedily arrested by remedial means, 
abscess of the liver, destroying life, or permanent enlargement of 
the liver, destroying the general health, will inevitably result 

In this formidable disease we should regard the severity of the 
hepatic and epigastrial pains, and other distressing symptoms as 
really invaluable indications ; for while they warn us of a pressing 
danger they explain everything, and thus relieve the mind from 
what otherwise would be a most painful state of doubt and 
anxiety. In the form of hepatitis which is attended with so much 
suffering as is here described, the fate of the patient is compara- 
tively secure ; for even the inexperienced will be induced to 
apply immediate and decisive remedies. 

2. It is different in respect to the deep-seated and suppurative 
inflammation of the parenchyma of the liver; for here the danger 
is even greater than in the former instance, with no salutary 
warnings from symptoms. It is one of the most dangerous of 



262 ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

diseases, because of the total absence of urgent symptoms, and 
consequent insidiousness ; the process which leads to destruction 
is here silent and rapid. 

Of various kinds of inflammation the suppurative is by much 
the more frequent, in Bengal at least. It attacks persons of both 
sexes, and those even of the most temperate habits ; it occasionally 
terminates the career of the old Indian. 

Whether occurring in the person of the older resident in Bengal, 
or in the new comer, this form of the disease occurs very generally in 
the cold season, and is caused by exposure to alternations of heat 
and cold, by such means, in short, as determine powerfully from 
the surface to the internal organs. I have seen cases where it 
resulted from the chilling thorough-draughts of the northern 
entrances to the Calcutta houses, on issuing from a ball-room, for 
instance ; and other cases where it was occasioned by exposure 
to damp and cold before daylight for the purpose of hunting. 

The disease is sometimes preceded by a perceptible falling off 
in the general health, such as emaciation, dry cough, and embar- 
rassed respiration, loss of appetite, the complexion gradually 
assuming a muddy sallow hue, but it more generally comes on in 
the midst of apparent health. We seldom indeed see the patient 
till inflammation has actually commenced ; when he generally com- 
plains of a feeling of abdominal uneasiness, but more particularly 
of the epigastric region and that of the liver, with some degree of 
fever preceded by slight rigor or ague ; but all these may be so 
slight as too often to attract but little of the patient's attention. 
Perhaps he consults his physician on account of diarrhoea, sup- 
posed to result from errors in diet ; medicine affords some relief, 
and the patient proceeds in his ordinary occupations for days, or, 
when the action is less acute, for weeks, though under great 
depression of the mental and corporeal energies, till at length his 
altered appearance, hacking cough, permanently dry skin, invin- 
cibly rough furred tongue and morbid taste, all expressive of a 
suppressed and depraved state of the secretions, attract some 
more serious notice on his own part, and that of his family. 
The real nature of the disease may still remain a secret to both 
patient and physician ; and it may not be till actual tumour of the 
liver, a marked succession of rigors, or profuse and clammy 
sweats announce in unmistakeable terms the formation of abscess, 
that either party becomes awake to the impending danger ; and 
then it is too late. A sense of uneasiness, hardly amounting to 
an obtuse dull pain, a sense of weight and oppression, may or 
may not exist in the region of the liver, according as the disease 
is centred more or less deeply in its substance or in its upper 
convex surface ; when the former exists the symptoms are more 
than usually obscure and insidious ; in the latter case they are 



ON THE DISEASES OP THE LIVER. 

somewhat more of an acute nature. In this form of hepatitis it is 
seldom that we discover any pain in the shoulder. 

I should say, then, that a rigor, or a diarrhoea, followed by 
feverishness, the peculiar harsh state of the skin, the tongue 
having the roughness of a coarse file with adherent coating, to- 
gether with the local uneasiness already described, cough, scanty 
surcharged urine, often of a deep saffron colour, ought immediately 
to warn the physician of the suppurative inflammation which 
speedily leads to abscess. In every instance the diagnosis will 
receive material assistance from the external examination of the 
chest, especially when the upper convex surface of the liver is the 
seat of disease. Nor should the exploration of the abdomen be 
less carefully made ; nothing should satisfy the medical attendant 
as to the condition of his patient short of the most painfully 
assiduous explorations often repeated ; for we have here to deal 
with a disease deadly in its nature and rapid in its progress. 

CAUSES. The causes of hepatitis will be found in the follow- 
ing circumstances : residence in hot climates, exposure to high 
ranges of temperature, followed by cold and damp, causing sudden 
arrests of the cuticular as well as of the internal secretions, the 
cold seasons of tropical climates, night exposure while imperfectly 
clothed, the exposure of the bivouac. These causes become very 
powerful when fatigue is added to them, and under irregularities 
of diet, and intemperance in the use of wine and ardent spirits 
especially. Dysenteries and fevers, remittent and intermittent, a 
too rich and stimulating diet, producing gastric and duodenal 
irritation, these are frequent ana influential causes of hepatitis ; 
and more remotely may be numbered previous attacks, malaria, 
various forms of dyspepsia, neglect of the natural action of the 
bowels, the age of puberty. 

PATHOLOGY. Were the earliest morbid change in the liver 
ascertainable antecedently to actual inflammation, I have no 
doubt that that condition would in most cases consist in acute 
congestion ; for, as in the well known instance of hepatic conges- 
tion and consequent diarrhoea, both resulting from the sudden 
application of the cold damp of the Himalayahs, for example, so 
the pale, watery, premonitory dianrhrea is one of the most ordinary 
and immediate precursors of hepatitis ; it is generally the earliest 
and indeed the only symptom which attracts the notice of the 
patient ; and it should always receive the instant and close atten- 
tion of his medical attendant. In two cases of hepatitis in recently 
arrived Europeans, and which terminated fatally, Mr. Twining 
found " the internal membrane of the hepatic veins inflamed, and 
purifonn matter in the right ventricle of the heart" Their com- 



264 ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

plaints, he says, " began as common diarrhosa of a severe de- 
scription." In the case of an European soldier in Burmah, treated 
by Dr. Murchison, and in which inflammation terminated in 
abscess, " an obstinate diarrhoea had been one of the most harrass- 
ing symptoms in this case ; but no traces of ulceration were found 
either in the small or large intestine." These observations on 
the earlier pathological changes, refer to every form of hepatitis, 
but more especially to the deep seated suppurative inflammation of 
the parenchyma of the liver ; and he who will best ascertain them 
at their commencement will least be taken by surprise in the 
progress and terminations of this disease. In the suppurative in- 
flammation the earliest observable lesions I believe to be redness 
and softening, soon to be aggravated into the formation of abscess. 

Mr. Twining declares that he has " never seen a case terminate 
in abscess without our being able by a careful examination to 
detect the disease that is in progress long before there was any 
reason to believe that suppuration existed." This may be gene- 
rally true, but then the examination must be most rigorous and 
often repeated, until we are quite satisfied as to the true nature 
of the case. The patient's recovery or death will depend on the 
care and discrimination with which this examination is made ; a 
false diagnosis is here a death-warrant, they are indeed but con- 
vertible terms. I remember that, in the cold season of 1837 
alone, in Calcutta, I was consulted in four cases of suppurated 
liver, in which no such condition had been previously suspected. 

The appearances on dissection of Europeans who have died of 
hepatitis will vary with the intensities and the duration of the dis- 
ease. Various vascular discolorations of the peritoneal covering 
are observed, differing according to the degrees of inflammation, 
and the number of previous hepatic ailments thickenings of the 
peritoneum, and effusions under it being very generally discover- 
able. Adhesions of the liver to the colon, stomach, and diaphragm 
are also common. 

Where inflammatory symptoms have run high, and death has 
ensued rapidly, there will be great enlargement of the liver, with 
much redness and vascularity of the organ, with depositions in the 
interlobular cellular tissue ; in other cases its colour will be dark, 
or even black bleeding freely in both instances on section being 
made. In other cases the covering membrane is found of a pale 
hue, thickened and indurated the structure underneath bleeding 
but little on being cut ; while induration, more or less extensive, 
with deposition of coagulable lymph, tubercles, and concretions 
are very general. 

On the concave surface of the liver, the gall-bladder is often en- 
larged and filled with viscid bile ; in other instances, diminished 
in volume, its coats thickened, and the body covered with false 
membranes. 



ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 265 

The observations of Rose and Henry would seem to establish 
that the quantity of urea excreted by die kidneys is lessened in 
suppurative hepatitis apparently in a degree proportioned to the 
extent to which the secretion of the liver was destroyed by the ab- 
scess. " If the statement be proved by future observation," says 
Dr. Parkes, " it is, in my opinion, impossible to overrate its im- 
portance in a pathological as well as in a physiological point of 
view." 

Since my return to England I have on several occasions tried to 
obtain from India information on this and on other important mat- 
ters connected with the chemistry of the blood and of the secretions 
in tropical diseases ; but some officers said they were over-worked, 
others that they were situated too far from the Presidencies, and so 
on. Thus I have failed in my object ; but I hope yet to succeed. 

TREATMENT. The maxim of De Retz that " what is abso- 
lutely necessary is never dangerous," is true in medicine as in 
politics : nor is there here any difficulty in perceiving either what 
is necessary to be done, or yet what is safe in the treatment of 
acute hepatitis ; it is likewise very easy to comprehend what it 
would be dangerous to leave undone. The greatest danger will in- 
deed be found in feebleness, irresolution, and in do-nothing 
plans. 

However long the disease may have existed, and in whatever 
part of the liver the inflammation may be situated, provided there 
be no symptoms indicative of suppuration, general blood-letting, 
repeated as the symptoms may demand, and copious in relation to 
age, health, and length of residence in India must be had recourse 
to ; and the sooner the better for the patient, the measure of deple- 
tion being, in all cases, a sense of local and general relief /<//// 
softening of the skin. These are the only criterions of adequate 
loss of blood ; and it should be always held in recollection that 
inflammation, suppurative especially, and of the most deadly cha- 
racter, is present, and that, consequently, there is not an hour to be 
lost 

After the general blood-letting, a full dose of ten grains of 
calomel, with five of James's powder is to be exhibited at bed- 
time, followed in the early morning by a strong saline purge, or a 
full dose of compound jalap powder ; and this course must be pur- 
sued using leeches to- the side, mercurials with antimonials, pur- 
gatives, and diaphoretics with diuretics daily, so long as they are 
called for by fulness or tenderness of the hepatio or epigastric 
region. The medical attendant must remember that the subsidence 
of local symptoms, together with a declared and satisfactory abate- 
in* nt of all the general symptoms, including that of the force and 
lYeijuency of the circulation, and a permanent relaxation of the 



266 ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

skin, with freedom in the secretions, can alone warrant the discon- 
tinuance of antiphlogistic means, including the ' most spare use of 
farinaceous food and drink. If the bowels be irritable, and any- 
thing like diarrhoea threatens to distress the patient, the Dover's 
powder, or pure opium, must be added to the calomel, in lieu of 
the antimonial. 

As regards the constitutional influence of mercury, the utmost 
that I found necessary, even in the worst cases, was the producing 
a gentle action on the gums, salivation being unnecessary, and in 
the instances of persons of a feeble or strumous habit, naturally 
injurious. The precautions already insisted on against oozing from 
leech-bites must here be carefully regarded ; while blisters will be 
found useful on the entire disappearance of inflammatory action. 

Nor should the most strict abstinence in diet be deviated from, 
until, by the subsiding of all uneasiness, and tumidness of the 
region of the liver, and of the abdomen generally, by the cessation 
of all febrile movements, and by the restoration of healthy secre- 
tions, we feel assured, on these sufficient evidences, that convales- 
cence is well established : and even then, the return to accus- 
tomed habits should be made very slowly, so as to afford time, 
under great abstemiousness, for the absorption of instertitial depo- 
sits ; a reparative process which cannot take place under a full 
stomach. 

Mild saline aperients in bitter infusion, the mtro-muriatic acid 
in bitter infusions the bicarbonate of soda in large doses with 
bitter infusion, where there is much acidity warm baths, and 
gentle exercise in the open air all tend to the maturing of conva- 
lescence ; and, in the cold season, great attention must be paid to 
the clothing. Nor should the European soldier here, any more 
than under fever or dysentery, be permitted to return to the bar- 
rack life, or to duty, before his strength has been restored : it is 
to the neglect of this rule that many of the serious and often 
fatal relapses are due. 

When convalescence proceeds unkindly, and there is reason to 
apprehend structural injury to the liver, a full course of the nitro- 
muriatic acid, as described in the second part of this work, will 
be found the surest and best remedy. 

Mr. Twining relied too exclusively on blood-letting in hepatic 
inflammation, and too little, as appears to me, upon other remedial 
means. There are cases where inflammation will go on notwith- 
standing the most copious depletions, and others in which the same 
will occur with a debilitated constitution and a weak pulse. What 
then is to be done : " What degree of depletion," says Dr. Billing, 
" will remove a node, or syphilitic iritis, without mercurial and 
other medicines ? What would venesection do for rheumatic 
pains without antimony, colchicum, opium, bark, mercury, and 



ON THE DISEASES OP THE LIVER. 267 

other medicines ? The question is not so much as to possibility, 
as expedition and safety to the constitution." Robert Jackson 
no aavocate of mercurial treatment in tropical diseases admits 
that " mercury, after the condition has been prepared for its action, 
is the principal means of cure where biliary secretion is princi- 
pally in fault." 

Mr. Twining, who was in the habit of prescribing half scruple 
doses of calomel at bed-time, in hepatitis, asks the following ques- 
tion respecting the action of mercury in this disease : " We have 
been told that mercury is beneficial in hepatitis in the way that 
the breast-pipe or pump relieves inflammation of the female breast, 
when milk abscess is impending. But a legitimate parallel cannot 
be established in the action of the respective remedies ; the pipe 
relieves the inflamed breast by drawing off the superfluous milk, 
without exciting increased secretion. Has the action of mercury 
an analogous effect on the liver ?" 

No : and if it had but the limited effect of the pump or pipe, it 
would not be the valuable remedy physicians and surgeons have 
ever found it to be in so great a variety of inflammatory affections, 
and in the deadly inflammation of the liver in particular. It is for 
the very reason that calomel assists powerfully both in " drawing 
off" accumulations, and in promoting " increased secretion" that 
it proves of such value in aid of blood-letting. It is, in fact, by 
this very double action, of purging and increasing secretion at the 
same time, that calomel relieves the loaded and inactive vessels of 
the diseased gland ; not to speak of the other acknowledged phy- 
siological influences of this mineral, such as its increase of all 
the secretions and excretions of the body its influence on the 
capillary circulation its febrifuge effect the peculiar specific 
power ascribed to it by physicians and surgeons, as an antagonist 
to inflammations, whether general or local its stimulant power 
over the absorbent functions its power of unloading, at the same 
time that it gives a new impulse to, the vascular system its pecu- 
liar power in removing viscid and tenacious intestinal secretions 
its antiphlogistic, solvent, and alterative effects on the blood ; 
these are the actions and uses ascribed to mercury by the ablest 
British practitioners and authors, and they are such as to place 
this remedy second only in order of importance to blood-letting in 
all the more acute hepatic affections of India. 

That mercury enters into intimate union with the elements of 
the blood is now an ascertained fact : it must therefore " modify 
its plasticity, and influence all the organic functions to which it is 
subservient." That mercury has been, and is still, abused by ill- 
informed and inconsiderate persons, is quite true, both at home 
and abroad ; but to argue hence its disuse would not be either 
safe or wi>-. 



268 ON DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

It is of great practical importance that the real benefits derivable 
from the use of mercury be impartially set before the inexperienced 
tropical practitioner, and I have here endeavoured briefly to do so, 
I hope, with fairness to the subject, and to persons with whom I may 
happen to differ in opinion. In the pride of pathological science 
we are induced to believe that, because we see and examine, we 
therefore understand ; and we too often neglect the science of pure 
observation so inestimable to the physician ; and thus, I think, it 
happens that matters are still in doubt with us which a more chas- 
tened and correct observation ought long ago to have fixed and 
settled. 

When inflammation has terminated in hepatic abscess, mercury 
given with the view to its general influence, is always highly in- 
jurious: it aggravates the irritative fever and general distress, 
while its specific influence so hopeful in the previous stage now 
but aggravates the danger by increasing the suppurative process, 
and the general debility, so as to retard, or altogether to obviate 
the curative efforts of nature. 

Shortly before I left Calcutta, a case came under my care, in 
the month of August, in which slight hepatic tenderness existed in 
complication with severe dysentery. From both diseases the 
patient speedily recovered; and to restore his strength, I ad- 
vised a short voyage to sea, where, having exceeded in diet, the 
liver became tender and enlarged, there being no recurrence of 
dysentery. A second time he recovered, but being of a weakly 
ha*bit, and now much reduced by disease and treatment, I sent him 
on a longer voyage to Pinang. Here again, despite the most 
careful written instructions, he took to excesses in eating and 
in the use of wine : the result was that, in three months from his 
leaving Calcutta, an hepatic abscess formed, and discharged itself 
through the stomach by vomiting, soon after which he died. I 
mention this case as affording an illustration of the necessity for 
abstinence in diet, and to show that, even when the hepatic disease 
is but secondary, it may, and very often does, prove the ultimate 
cause of death by the formation of abscess. 

In 1837, a young staff officer consulted me on account of cough 
and emaciation, which he considered to indicate tubercular con- 
sumption, as some relatives of his had died of this disease in 
England His respiration and pulse were very rapid, and he had 
profuse night sweats ; in short, I found that he was dying of sup- 
purated liver. The history he gave me was to the effect that, six 
weeks previously, he drove in an open gig from a ball-room in 
Calcutta to Barrackpore, and that on getting to his quarters, he 
was seized with shivering, followed by feverishness and diarrhosa ; 
he continued to perform the duties of his office up to the day on 
which he consulted me, and the real nature of his disease had not 



ON DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 209 

till then been so much as suspected. He died in a fortnight, and 
the entire substance of the liver was found to be converted into a 
huge cyst filled with pus. 

Well might Curtis, writing in 1781, speak of hanging up cases 
such as these " /// terrorem, against the attacks of this insidious 
disease ;" or rather, he might have added, as warnings against the 
crimes of heedlessness and inattention in cases of so pressing a 
duty. 

I will now present a case the converse of the above: In the 
cold season of 1836, a professional friend called on me to consult 
respecting the case of a patient of his ; and just as he was taking 
leave, he said, as if by accident, that he had " a pain in his back 
like lumbago" Being an able experienced surgeon, I might well 
have said, " go home and take care of yourself ;" but there was 
a something in his expression of countenance which excited a 
suspicion of diease, and so I made a careful examination. The 
result was the discovery of deep-seated inflammation of the 
liver, and that it had existed for three days, during which he had 
been living as usual, and using the cold bath every morning. All 
the patient had noticed was a slight shivering three nights pre- 
viously, followed by feverishness and pain in the back; but he 
considered his symptoms of so little moment that he felt a doubt 
as to the accuracy of the diagnosis. I then referred him to our 
common friend, Mr. Nicolson, of Calcutta, who concurred with me 
completely as to the nature of the disease. The patient was young 
and of robust habit, so that with the loss of about eighty ounces of 
blood in the first twenty-four hours, followed by calomel and anti- 
mony gently to affect the gums, strong purgatives, and total depri- 
vation of food, he rapidly recovered; but I think he recovered 
with difficulty ; a few more hours lost to the treatment, and it 
would have been too late. 

The above case is interesting and important, as showing how 
very obscure and insidious are die symptoms, and how little they 
possess of urgency to cause a salutary alarm, even to the mind of 
a professional person. But it is always thus when the inflamma- 
tion is centered in the parenchyma of the liver ; and hence the 
absence of that acute pain, and those urgent symptoms which 
characterise inflammatory states of the peritoneal covering of the 
gland, and which generally give ample warning. 

HEPATIC ABSCESS. The formation of abscess in the liver, 
as already stated, is generally announced by irritative fever, in- 
creased towards night rigors or shudderings, followed by profuse 
cold sweats a tenaciously furred rough tongue scanty and high- 
coloured urine, &c. &c. ; when the abscess is large, by a percep- 
tible tumor of the right hypochondrium the mind being anxious 
and depressed. 



270 ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

These symptoms vary in degree according to the extent of the 
abscess ; and when that is extensive there is much oppression of 
the respiration, with restlessness. When, on the other hand, the 
abscess is small, the symptoms are displayed in a very obscure 
manner and degree ; so that it is from a careful consideration of 
all the circumstances already detailed that the judgment must be 
formed. It is probable that in some persons mere congestion 
with softening of the textures will terminate in a kind of chronic 
abscess. 

I remember hearing of the case of a trooper of her Majesty's 
llth Dragoons, who fell from his horse on parade at Cawnpore, 
and was killed on the spot by fracture of the skull and laceration 
of the brain. On post mortem examination an abscess was found 
in the liver ; and this, although the man had never expressed any 
feeling of indisposition, and had not for months been an hour 
absent from duty. 

Soon after I went to India, I was requested by my friend Mr. Nicol- 
son, and by Dr. William Russell, to assist at the examination of the 
body of a deceased magistrate of Calcutta. He had but a week 
previously returned from a hog-hunting party, feeling then slightly 
indisposed. There had been no fever, nor any symptom to indi- 
cate danger ; so that his sudden death took his friends by sur- 
prise. The appearance of the body exteriorly was that of a 
powerful and healthy man ; but in the liver were found seven ab- 
scesses, distinct and separate, and varying from the size of a com- 
mon nut to that of an orange. I was then very young, and this 
case left a deep impression on my mind as to the concealed 
dangers of such cases. 

Mr. Twining fancied that " a greater degree of tension of the 
right rectus abdominis muscle, than of the left," formed " one of 
the most undeviating symptoms of congestion with incipient de- 
posit into the texture of the liver, which commonly goes to deep- 
seated abscess." The truth I believe to be that the right rectus 
abdominis, like any other muscle in the body, will contract more 
or less, according as any organ beneath its fibres is in a state of 
suffering, or of pain no matter whether that pain be from in- 
flammation, congestion, or other cause ; but that the mere tension 
or partial contraction of a muscle could prove an " undeviating 
symptom" of congestion, of suppuration, or indeed of any one 
special or peculiar morbid change in a gland beneath it, cannot 
be admitted in any case ; neither have I ever seen it confined to 

inflammatory or congestive states only : on the contrary, I have 

known many persons in whom it was a well-marked accom- 
paniment of hepatalgia, as well as of the painful affection of the 
bowels described by the late Dr. James Johnson, and in whom it 
continued so for many years. The same symptom was noticed 



ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 271 

by Dr. Budd, in a case of jaundice from a closure of the common 
duct, and in a case where a cancerous ulcer of the stomach had 
eaten into the adherent liver ; and by Dr. Graves, in an inflamed 
gall-bladder. Dr. Parkes, again, has seen this state of tension 
very prominent in a case of phthisical diarrhoea, in which there 
was extensive alteration in that part of the ileum situated imme- 
diately under the muscle ; while partial contractions of the abdo- 
minal muscles, over a suffering part, are justly stated by Mr. 
Holmes Coote, and by Dr. Kirkes, to be frequent in jaundice and 
other affections of the abdominal organs. 

We may, therefore, conclude with Dr. Watson, that this sym- 
pathetic affection is but one instance among many of that kind of 
protective instinct whereby a tender part is in some measure 
shielded against the infliction of pain by pressure. 

TREATMENT. It is little, indeed, that we can do for the 
unhappy sufferer from hepatic abscess. When the abscess is 
small we may favour the efforts of nature at absorption by care in 
diet and clothing gestation in the open air, and change of air 
the use of the nitro -muriatic acid with bitter tonics, &c. When 
the abscess has happily discharged its contents into the stomach 
or bowels, or externally, a more nutritious diet will be proper, 
with the view to support the strength of the patient, and even a 
little wine may now be allowed. But nothing should be done 
which may excite the nervous or vascular functions ; and mercury 
in every form is to be carefully avoided, and even the mildest 
aperients should only be exhibited under necessity. 

Of the instances of recovery within my personal knowledge, by 
far the greater numbers were amongst such as had discharged the 
pus by the bowels ; and one married lady I remember to have re- 
covered health rapidly, after vomiting the contents of an enormous 
abscess. I also saw four instances of recovery where the abscess 
had opened into the lung. Of those in whom the pus was dis- 
charged through the external integument, the majority have within 
my knowledge died. But by much the greater proportion of the 
instances of hepatic abscess end fatally either before the burst- 
ing of the abscess, or within a few hours from its discharge into 
the peritoneal cavity : and this brings me to the consideration of 
the propriety of making an opening for the discharge of such ab- 
scesses through the external integument. I have often seen this 
operation performed in India, and I have myself performed it ; 
but in no instance that I remember did the operation appear to 
me to result in eventual good. I therefore agree with Dr. Budd, 
that " it is generally best, when an abscess of the liver projects at 
the side, to allow it to open itself. Nature performs the operation 
better than the surgeon. When the abscess opens of itself it is 



272 ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

usually by a very small aperture, like those of worm-eaten wood, 
which never closes ; and the matter gradually oozes out as the sac 
contracts. No air gets mixed with the matter of the abscess, and 
no violence is done to its walls ; and, consequently, no fresh in- 
flammation is set up. The discharge is very gradual, and as 
small in quantity as it can be. There is less shock to the system, 
and less drain from it than when the abscess is opened by the 
knife. The prominent part should be poulticed, and the matter 
allowed to escape in the poultice, but should not be squeezed or 
pressed out." 

These observations accord altogether with my own experience 
in India where, too often, young medical officers are urged by the 
pressing dangers of the case, and by the importunity of friends, 
to " do something." 

Dr. Budd is deserving of attention on another question con- 
nected with this subject. " In opening an abscess in the sub- 
stance of the liver," he says, " there is another, and greater, and 
more unavoidable source of danger, which has not been noticed 
by the writers to whom I have referred. It is that the solid 
hepatic tissue cannot readily collapse, so as to close the cavity 
when the abscess is opened. When, then, a free opening is made 
even into a recent abscess, air almost necessarily enters into the 
cavity, and from the sudden removal of pressure, or, it may be, 
from the manipulation employed to empty the cavity, violence is 
done to the walls of the abscess, and there is often some degree 
of haemorrhage from them. Air and blood thus become mixed 
with the pus in the abscess, decomposition takes place, and the 
air, or the decomposed pus, sets up fresh inflammation of the 
inner surface of the sac. This causes, of course, a fresh acces- 
sion of fever, and of other constitutional disturbance, and if the 
abscess be large, a profuse, and foetid, and continuous discharge, 
which may soon exhaust the strength of the patient. The se- 
condary inflammation thus excited by the presence of air, or by 
the decomposed pus, may even lead to gangrene, and speedily 
destroy life ; and this happened in one of the cases that fell under 
my care at the Dreadnought. A similar case is noticed by 
Cruveilhier." 

Of fifty-seven cases of hepatic abscess, real or supposed, re- 
corded in the Medical Journal of Madras, for 1844, the following 
were the terminations : 

Recovery took place . . . in 17 cases. 

Of these the trocar entered the abscess . \ in 8 

No pus obtained . . . . . in 3 

Pus obtained on the 6th, 7th, and 1 1th days in 3 

No pus mentioned . . . . .) in 3 

Death occurred . in 40 



ON THE DISEA8RS OP THB LIVER. 273 

The proportion of recoveries to deaths in eighty-one coses of 
hepatic abscess, recorded by Mr. Waring, of the Madras array, 
and in which their contents were evacuated by operation, was as 
follows : 

Recoveries . . . . * . 15, or 18*519 per cent 
Deaths . . . . . 66, or 81'481 



81 100-000 

Referring to 300 fatal cases of hepatic abscess, of which the 
details are given by Mr. Waring, in the first part of his work, he 
considers that operation might have been applicable in the follow- 
ing proportions : 

Total number of cases ...... 300 

There were a plurality of abscesses in . . .108 

192 

Of 177 cases in which abscess was solitary, there] 
was more or less extensive ulceration of the[ 76 
large intestines in ) 

116 

Thus it appears that " the proportion of cases of hepatic abscess 
n-hich hold out a reasonable hope of cure by the performance of 
an operation for evacuating the contents, is much smaller than 
most persons are aware of." . . . Out of the whole number 
above recorded, " only in 116, or little more than one in three, 
could the operation have been undertaken with any reasonable 
probability of success; and this number would, of course, be 
still further diminished by taking into account the cases in which 
abscess, though solitary, communicated with the lung, colon, or 
some other viscera, and those in which other organic disease 
existed." 

JAUNDICE. This disease occurs in India, as elsewhere, as 
an acute affection, and as a distinct and separate disease often 
unconnected with hepatitis, fever, or dysentery. 

Jaundice is usually attended by mental depression and physical 
lassitude dyspepsia with loss of appetite, nausea, a yellow raited 
tongue, and flatulence. In some persons there exists fulness and 
uneasiness on pressure of the epigastric region and that of the 
liver; while the amount of sallowness of the skin, and of the 
mine, together with the degrees of paleness and of absence of 

T 



274 ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

bile in the alvine discharges, will depend on the intensity of the 
cause of the jaundice. The characters of the disease will vary 
also with the age, constitution, habits, and length of residence in 
India age and length of residence being circumstances that are 
certain to operate to the disadvantage of the patient, especially if 
an aneemic state of the system be present at the same time. 

The existence of gall-stones obstructing the ducts may be in- 
ferred from the following symptoms : A sudden seizure of violent 
fits of pain in the epigastric and right hypochondriac regions, ac- 
companied by irregular transient shiverings, and severe fits of 
vomiting the pain at times being excruciating. Feverishness of 
the irritative character now makes its appearance ; and, within 
twenty-four or more hours, sallowness over the forehead, extend- 
ing rapidly to the trunk and extremities, becomes evident, while 
on the appearance of the jaundice pain usually subsides. It is 
well to note here, that the pain attending the passage of gall- 
stones far exceeds that even of peritoneal inflammation, and that 
the fever, when such is present, is of a subdued character, unlike 
the endemic fevers of India diagnostic circumstances worthy the 
attention of the inexperienced. 

In the East Indies, and as it generally appears amongst Euro- 
peans there, the progress of the disease, under appropriate treat- 
ment, is very generally of a favourable tendency the cause being, 
in most cases, of a congestive or inflammatory nature, susceptible 
of easy removal ; and we find that as convalescence proceeds the 
urine gradually loses its saffron hue, while the skin also becomes 
fairer by slow degrees. More rarely, though the jaundice is plainly 
seen, so as to require no other diagnosis than is furnished by 
the complexion, the causes of this complaint are nevertheless very 
difficult to trace. 

CAUSES. Whatever causes may produce hepatitis, or more 
especially congestion of the liver, will give rise to jaundice. Cer 
tain affections of the brain have been known to excite this disease, 
as the extremes of despondency, and sudden bursts of passion ; 
but by far the more ordinary causes are cold applied to the sur- 
faces of the body, or cold applied suddenly to the stomach in the 
form of iced drinks, when the body has been heated by exercise 
or other exertion. In an analysis of seventy-two cases of icterus 
typhoides, by Professor Lebert, one-third of all the cases occurred 
in November and December, or in two only out of the cold mouths. 
Previous attacks predispose powerfully to jaundice. Formerly, 
when extreme courses of mercury were used in the treatment of 
venereal diseases, what with the action of mercury on the hepatic 
function, and with the influence of external cold on the skin, 
jaundice was a frequent disease in our hospitals at home. In 



ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 275 

every case of jaundice that I have seen in England, amongst the 
returned Indians, cold has been the immediate cause of the 
disease. 

Jaundice, according to Dr. Budd, may be produced in two ] 
ways : first, by some impediment to the flow of bile into the U 
duodenum, and consequent absorption of the retained bile ; and, 
secondly, by defective secretion on the part of the liver, so that / 
the principles of the bile are not separated from the blood. It is 
probable, he adds, that jaundice which follows closure of the 
common duct, does not result merely from absorption of retained 
bile, but also, in part, from the secretion of the liver being 
less active, so that the principles of bile are retained in the . 
blood. 

" But in many cases of jaundice, perhaps in the greater num- 
ber, there is no impediment to the flow of bile through the ducts. 
In fatal cases, it happens not unfrequently that the gall-bladder 
and gall-ducts are found empty, and their mucous membrane 
is unusually pale showing that no bile was secreted. The jaun- 
dice results solely from suppressed, or deficient secretion." 

I think it right to place before the reader the views of this able 
writer, as to the causes of jaundice ; adding, however, that in 
India the more general causes are congestion and inflammatory 
affections, involving the gall-ducts, more or less directly. 

PATHOLOGY. As few persons die in India of actual jaun- 
dice, the opportunities for the examination of the liver and its 
appendages in such cases can only occur by accident, as when a 
sufferer from jaundice dies of another acute disease. Such occa- 
sions, however, have been sufficiently numerous to establish, on 
examination after death, the following appearances : These con- 
sist in inflammatory states of the liver, and of the gall-ducts 
congestions of the liver deposition of coagulable lymph within 
the capsule of Glisson, with enlargement, more or less consider- 
able, of its absorbent glands effusion of lymph into the areolar 
tissue about the gall-ducts and the presence of gall-stones im- 
pacting the common duct : morbid affections of the duodenum 
are also found to be associated with jaundice. 

Dr. Henry Kennedy, of Dublin, after narrating some cases of 
rapidly fatal greenish yellow jaundice, in which the ducts were 
found quite pervious, and in which the discharges from the bowels 
" though probably of a lighter colour than what is natural, were 
by no means free from bile," suggests that " a much deteriorated 
bile, the absorption of whicji would cause serious consequences," 
may have here caused death. Dr. Cathcart Lees, of the same 
-ity, has been led by the examination of the urine of jaundiced 
patients " to entertain the opinion that the absence of any symp- 

T 2 



276 ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

toms referable to the nervous system in many cases of jaundice 
might be accounted for by the presence of cholic'acid in the urine, 
and its consequent absence from the blood." . . . "If the 
supposition be correct, 1 think the detection of cholic acid, or its 
conjugates in the urine, may prove a very important element of 
prognosis in every case of jaundice, as assuring us against the 
supervention of cerebral symptoms in cases where it is present, 
while, if absent, it may put us on our guard, and possibly enable 
us to adopt a prophylactic treatment." 

TREATMENT. Before proceeding to treat this disease wo 
must weigh carefully the symptoms, and be well satisfied as to the 
probable nature of the morbid action producing the jaundice. 
Where we find tumidness and tenderness of the epigastric region, 
extending into that of the liver, with a harsh dry skin, fever- 
ishness, and a furred tongue, the constitution being sound, one 
general blood-letting, followed by leeches and fomentations, will 
generally relieve the more acute symptoms, after which a few 
doses of calomel, of active purgatives, saline diaphoretics with 
diuretics, and warm baths, will in a few days bring about a solution 
of the disease, the diet consisting of farinaceous articles, fruits, 
and diluents, soda water being about the best drink. Convales- 
cence will be matured in such cases by the continuous use of 
warm baths, a moderately low diet, and by the daily use of saline 
aperients in some bitter infusion. In treating the jaundice of the 
returned Indian at home, I have found no remedy in the early 
stage of the disease more serviceable than the warm bath, used at 
bed-time. 

In treating the calculous form of jaundice we must commence 
with the use of such means as allay pain and relieve spasm of the 
ducts, as opium or morphia in full doses, followed by hot fomen- 
tations to the affected region, and both measures to be repeated 
until relief shall be obtained. By such means the violence of 
pain and spasm will generally be overcome, while a hot bath, 
used to faintness, and followed by a dose of calomel and a strong 
saline purge will conduce greatly to the relief of the patient, and 
prepare for the stage of convalescence. 

Should congestive or inflammatory symptoms supervene, the 
appropriate antiphlogistic means already indicated will become 
necessary, including nauseating doses of emetic tartar. 

When, on the other hand, the patient is anaemic, or long resi- 
dent in India, with a flat abdomen and evidences of enfeebled 
health, neither blood-letting nor mercurials will avail to any good, 
but indeed the contrary. We must here be content with saline 
purgatives, bitter tonics, diaphoretics, and the persistent use of the 
warm bath at bed-time. Should drowsiness or tendency to coma 



ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. '277 

appear, very active purgatives perseveringly used, sinapisms to the 
epigastric region, and blisters to the nape of the neck will prove 
efficient in aid, even in cases wearing an alarming aspect. 

When jaundice becomes chronic I know of no means to be 
compared in effect to the persevering use of the nitro-muriatic 
acid bath, applied to the whole body, under the influence of 
which I have seen cases of the most obdurate nature recover, both 
in India and at home. As stated elsewhere this powerful agent 
was first used in the treatment of hepatic diseases by the late Dr. 
Helenus Scott of the Bombay army, who, according to Mason 
Good, " plunged the Duke of Wellington in a bath up to the chin, 
for a severe hepatic affection he was then labouring under, and 
thus restored him to health in a short time." It was through this 
means that General Wellesley was enabled to return to his com- 
mand, and to fight what, in proportion to the numbers engaged, 
was the most bloody of his victories, the battle of Assaye, and 
thus to lay the foundation of his future greatness. 

CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT AND INDURATION OF 
THE LIVER. Although the subject of this article is fully 
detailed in the second part of this work I am desirous very briefly 
to notice this form of hepatic disease as it appears in Bengal. It 
is presented as the result of previous inflammation of the liver, 
more or less acute, of congestions of the organ, or as the sequel 
to fevers, remittent and intermittent. 

The liver is enlarged, sometimes indurated, in a perceptible 
manner, its function is greatly impaired, the biliary secretion being 
scanty and depraved ; that of the kidneys being similarly affected. 
There is frequently a hacking dry cough, dyspepsia in various 
forms, a despondent state of the mind, and much general ill 
health, a generally cachectic state, with a sallow pasty complexion 
and emaciation ; more rarely we find dropsical effusion into the 
great cavities. In this form of hepatic disease we occasionally 
find also an embarrassed state of the circulation in the form of 
excitement of the heart's action, or an intermittent pulse, these 
symptoms being prominent in proportion as the liver is more or 
less indurated. In both instances the disturbance would seem to 
arise principally from the impediment to a free circulation offered 
by an indurated liver. Whenever, therefore, I hear mention 
of an excited or intermittent state of the heart's action, I make a 
careful and searching examination of the hepatic region, the only 
kind of examination that is of any value. 

There is a morbid condition of the stomach and bowels de- 
scribed by the late Dr. James Johnson, which is very often mis- 
taken, both in India and in England, for hepatic enlargement or 
nther diseases ; it is a mistake !' ron>e<]iiemv, ina>much as the 



278 ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

disorder is one of frequent occurrence, and the treatment usually 
employed, on the supposition of its hepatic origin, is very injurious 
to health. 

In both cases there is tenderness of the right side and epigas- 
trium, increased by pressure, but here the resemblance ceases. 
There are, in the affection described by Dr. Johnson, none of the 
other symptoms characteristic of hepatic disease, and the tumid- 
ness, besides the difference in anatomical position, wants both the 
appearance and solid character of the real hepatic enlargement. 
Abdominal tumors, such as morbid growths of the omentum, or 
peritoneum, and foecal accumulations in the colon, are occasional 
sources of mistake; but the situation and fleeting character of 
such tumours, together with the occasional and spasmodic nature 
of the attendant pain will, in general, point to the true nature of 
the case. In this state of the stomach and bowels there will 
generally be found a red, inflamed, or excoriated state of the 
tongue, gums, and fauces, indicating a highly irritable condition 
of the mucous digestiive surface, the nervous system being much 
excited. There is occasionally also a continuous acceleration of 
the pulse, while at other times irregular attacks of feverishness 
occur, preceded by rigors, and followed by irritable dyspepsy. 

Purgatives are borne with great distress, especially when of an 
acrid nature ; and calomel, so often resorted to for the cure of the 
supposed liver disease, is but rasping the already inflamed or irri- 
tated mucous membrane of the stomach and bowels, so as fre- 
quently to produce discharges of blood and mucus, with great 
aggravation of all the symptoms. 

Grievous, then, as are the errors of omission, noticed in the 
article on hepatitis, where acute disease of the most dangerous 
nature is allowed to proceed undetected, and fruitful as they are 
in calamity, they are not surpassed in result by the errors of com- 
mission in chronic affections, where mercury, bleeding, and drastic 
purgatives, are quite as injurious to health, as they are necessary 
to save life in the first mentioned instance ; in fact there are no 
mistakes more detrimental, nor any against which the inexpe- 
rienced should be more on his guard, than the two here mentioned. 
In my experience, however, such errors in diagnosis do not arise 
so much from want of knowledge as from a careless and hasty 
manner of examining the patient, an unpardonable negligence in 
exploration. 

The treatment of this disease is not well understood. Mercury 
I believe to be improper: it injures the stomach and bowels, 
already but too often over-drugged, without exciting any secretion 
from the organ chiefly affected, and on which this mineral, from 
repeated use, has lost its influence ; indeed, in the great .majority 
of instances, the system is in a cachectic state, so as to render 






ON THE DISEASES OP THE LIVER. 279 

mercury on any account inadmissible. Purgatives of an irritating 
or drastic nature are especially injurious ; in fact, it is often an un- 
manageable disease, not readily amenable to treatment or change 
of climate. It must be borne in mind that I am here treating 
only of simple chronic enlargement of the liver, unaccompanied 
by plethora, general or local, or by inflammation of the gland. 
Where such tendencies exist, or where general or local abdominal 
congestion is present, antiphlogistic means must be used, followed 
by die persevering application of the nitre-muriatic acid bath. 

This bath is the plan of cure that I have had recourse to for many 
years past, both in India and at home. Like mercury, it seems to 
act powerfully on both the excretory and absorbent systems ; and 
in the cases here under review, it acts with a power and efficiency 
superior to any other remedy that I have used, or that I have ever 
seen used. 

If we admit absorption by the capillary veins and the absor- > 
bents, and their conveyance of substances, rejected by the lac- 
teals, directly into the vena portae, to be transmitted to the 
liver, there to " undergo a true and proper digestion, a hepatic ; 
digestion which is as real as that effected in the stomach and 
duodenum," we shall be at no loss to account for the powerful in- 
fluence of medicinal agents exhibited in the manner of the acid I 
bath. 

When from morbid dryness of skin the acid is not readily 
taken up I direct the occasional use of the vapour bath, or the warm 
water bath, with powerful friction to the whole surface, in order to 
restore the exhaling and absorbing actions, always suspended or 
suppressed in this disease, and, generally, with a view to stimulate 
all the functions of the skin. 

Out of many cases treated by me with success while in India, I 
will select one of the earliest and worst. It was that of a gentle- 
man of the civil service who had resided ten years in India, and 
who had suffered three years previously to the illness now described 
from a dangerous attack of remittent fever. The details are in the 
words of the patient, a preferable mode when the sufferer is a 
person of education ; because we daily observe, with Gooch, that 
" such is the nature of the human mind that cases for a precon- 
ceived opinion are retained easier than those against it." Were 
the example of Sir A. Cooper and others followed in this par- 
ticular, medical cases would stand better, and carry more weight 
with the profession as authentic evidence. 

"In November, 1829, I arrived in Calcutta, suffering from a 
jungle fever contracted at Chittagong ; my liver and spleen were 
perceptibly enlarged, my limbs were much swollen, and so stiff 
that I could with difficulty walk, and the least exertion occasioned 
vomiting. Before my arrival at the Presidency, I had for months 



280 ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 

taken medicine. This plan was altered, and I was put through a 
course of the nitric acid bath, taking a vapour bath every other 
night for the first week. The nitric acid bath acted in a few days 
very powerfully immediately on using it, and in about three weeks 
both the liver and spleen could no longer be felt, nor did pressure 
give me much uneasiness ; the stiffness too disappeared, and my 
skin became less tense and dry. I took an aperient draught twice 
a week, and nothing else but the bath. I left Calcutta in the end 
of December for Simla, and had little or no occasion for medicine 
for two years afterwards, my general health being completely re- 
stored." 

This was a case of extreme and urgent danger : there was 
enormous enlargement of both liver and spleen, so much so that, 
on using any drink, if the patient walked across the room the 
movement caused the fluid to pour from his mouth. There were 
ascites and universal anasarca ; and, altogether, the case was re- 
garded as of a very hopeless nature. 

In the cold season of 1 838, this same gentlemen again visited 
Calcutta, in a peculiar state of disease. There was an unnatural 
dry ness or suspended function of the surface of the body and of 
the mucous intestinal membrane, with a doughy enlargement of 
the abdomen, swelling of the hands and feet, and obstinate consti- 
pation, his excretions from the bowels being deficient in bile, 
pasty, and peculiarly dry. He brought the following report from 
the surgeon of his station : 

" Arrived at this station in January, 1836, in tolerable health. 
During the cold season the digestive organs were much deranged, 
with loss of appetite, obstinate constipation, distension and hard- 
ness of the epigastrium, particularly after meals, acidity, and flatu- 
lence. The complexion was sallow and pale, and occasionally he 
complained of a dull- heavy pain in the right hypochondrium. 
These symptoms continued till the cold season of 1837, when some 
improvement took place ; but on the return of the hot season all 
the former symptoms recurred with increased violence, accom- 
panied by excruciating headache which for the time utterly inca- 
pacitated him from attending to the important duties of his office. 
Towards the tennination of the rains, the hands and feet began to 
assume a dropsical appearance ; and for many months he was 
compelled to take drastic purgatives almost every day, without 
which no movement of the bowels could be effected." 

Regarding the case now, as one of well marked and extreme 
torpor of the liver, I directed the patient to go through a course of 
the nitro-muriatic acid bath, and vapour bath, as before, adminis- 
tering mild saline aperients. Presently the skin began to soften, 
the tumidness of the abdomen to subside ; and with these symp- 
toms, a more ready action of the bowels, so that, in about a month, 



ON THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 281 

a fourth part of his original dose acted as an aperient ; and before 
he li-ft Calcutta for the Cape of Good Hope, the bowels were for 
the first time during two years moved without purgatives, the dis- 
charges having become copious, dark, and pitchy ; in other words 
the iirst outpourings of a long pent-up liver. This was a case of 
peculiar interest from its severity, " calomel, alterative courses of 
blue pill, combined with purgatives and ipecacuanha, and strong 
irritating medicines," having, in the language of the surgeon's re- 
port, " utterly failed of doing any good." 

In the chronic enlargement of the liver, change of air and of 
climate should never be omitted in the treatment. We have, in the 
protracted stages of tropical diseases, indeed, no other adequate 
substitute for change of air. " In India," says Sir James Mc'Gri- 
gor, " when patients, whose condition of life permits them to take 
a voyage to Europe, are in this state of disease, they never fail to 
take it, and most commonly are recovered by it ; but there is no 
hope for the poor soldier or sailor." 

It is so likewise in the latter stages of fevers and dysenteries ; 
and Dr. James Johnson, speaking of the sufferers from the latter 
disease, in our fleets and armies, says : " they waste away and die 
for want of the only remedy that possibly could arrest the hand of 
death change of climate." 

The distinction so feelingly pointed to by the eminent men just 
named, as between the seaman and soldier and his officer, is un- 
justifiable in principle, as it is cruel and barbarous in results; and 
I trust the day may not be distant which shall see both classes 
treated alike in their diseases. On any medical, moral, or just 
financial grounds, the distinction is, I think, unwarrantable. 

As in the articles on fever and dysentery, I conclude the present 
one with a table exhibiting the geography of hepatic diseases, fur- 
nished me by Colonel Tulloch. It shows that though diseases of 
the liver are somewhat more frequent in the South of India, they 
are more fatal in Bengal. It is remarkable in the geography of 
this disease that, though there exists so great an apparent simila- 
rity between the climates of the Eastern and Western hemispheres, 
there should yet be so great a dissimilarity of result in the com- 
parative influence on the European constitution : in the East 
Indies generally, Annesley states that thirteen per cent, of the effec- 
tive strength of British regiments are attacked with hepatic disease, 
while, according to Colonel Tulloch's Reports, but 2| per cent, of 
the effective strength in the Windward and Leeward Command, 
and one per cent, only in Jamaica, are similarly affected. 



ON THE ENDEMIC COXGESTION OF THE SPLEEN. 









Inflammation of the Liver 




Period 


Aggregate 


and Jaundice. 




of 










STATIONS. 




Strength. 






Proportion 




Observation. 




Attacked. 


Died. 


of deaths to 












admissions. 


Windward and Leeward 1 
Command . . . . J 


20 years . . 


86661 


1946 


161 


1 in 12 


Jamaica 


20 .. 


51567 


539 


51 


1 in 11 


Gibraltar 


19 


60269 


759 


22 


Iin34 


Malta 


20 


40826 


857 


47 


1 in 18 


Ionian Islands 


20 


70293 


1168 


58 


1 in 20 


Bermudas 


20 


11721 


168 


6 


1 in 58 


Nova Scotia and New I 
Brunswick S 


20 


46442 


384 


10 


Iin38} 


Canada .... 


20 


64280 


488 


12 


1 in 40} 


Western Africa 


18 


1843 


150 


11 


1 in 14 


Cape of Good Hope. . 
St. Helena 


19 ' 
9 


22714 
8973 


496 
171 


25 
24 


1 in 20 
1 in 7 


Mauritius 


19 


30515 


2508 


122 


1 in -_MU 


Ceylon 


20 


42978 


4382 


213 


1 in 11 


Tenasserim Provinces 


10 


6818 


488 


29 


1 in 17 


Madras 


5 


31627 


3372 


190 


1 in 17} 


Bengal 


& ,. 


38136 


2412 


174 


1 in 14 


Bombay 


5 


17612 


1084 


62 


1 in 174 



There died in London, according to the reports of the Registrar 
General during the fifteen years, 1840 1854 of the specified he- 
patic diseases as follow, and doubtless a goodly proportion of them 
had their origin in the influences of tropical climates : 
Hepatitis. Jaundice. Disease of Liver. 

2270. 2091. 7914 = Total 12,275. 



Mfl 



ON THE ENDEMIC CONGESTION OF THE SPLEEN. 

CONSIDERING the frequency and fatality of splenic affections 
amongst soldiers especially, both European and native, and amongst 
tin Kuropean inhabitants of our intertropical possessions, it has 
always been matter of surprise that so little attention has been 
bestowed by the profession on the consideration of diseases of the 
spleen. But when we look to our imperfect knowledge of the 
anatomy and physiology of this organ, we shall cease to wonder 
that naval ana military surgeons have refrained from disquisitions 
on what could only result, at the best, but in unprofitable specu- 
lation. 

Mr. Gray, of St. George's Hospital, the most recent and most 
successful investigator of the structure and uses of the spleen, con- 
siders that the organ " serves to balance alike the quantity and 
the quality of the blood, and is especially adapted for this function 
by its connexion with that part of the vascular system which is 
concerned in the introduction of new material into the circulation."* 

Mr. Gray, from numerous experiments, has come to the conclu- 
sion " that the weight of the spleen increate* considerably during 
the time when the digestive process is near to its completion, at 
the time when the new material is about to be, or has become, 
ron \erted into blood; and that it decrease* considerably in weight 
at varying periods after that process has been finally completed." 
This conclusion, says Dr. Carpenter, is confirmed by the results 
of experiments upon highly fed and upon insufficiently fed animals 
of the same species ; for the increase during digestion was carried 
in the former to an unusual degree, so as to give the organ more 
than twice its former weight, whilst in the latter no increase after 
feeding was observable. 

The distinguished reviewer concludes: "we are inclined to be- 
lieve that the office of the colourless parenchyma of the spleen is 
not only to serve as a storehouse for the surplus albumen that finds 
its way into the circulation on the completion of the digestive pro- 
cess, but also to exert an assimilating action upon it, whereby it 
is rendered more fit for the nutrition of the tissues ; and of this 
assimilating action, we deem the generation of fibrine to be one of 
the result*. And if it be true, as we have elsewhere suggested, 
thatone special function of red corpuscles is to assimilate or prepare 
that peculiar combination of materials which is required for the 
nutrition of the nervo-muscular apparatus, the disintegration of 

* Review by Dr. Carpenter, Brituh aiid Foreign Medical Chirorgical Review, lot 
January, 1855. 



284 ON THE ENDEMIC CONGESTION OF THE SPLEEN. 

these corpuscles in the splenic parenchyma may answer the two-fold 
purpose of regulating their total proportion in the mass of the 
blood, and of diffusing through the liquor-sanguinis the materials 
which the nervous and muscular tissues are to draw from it for 
their own development." If such be the functions of the spleen, 
we can readily perceive how diseases of that organ may, and 
actually do, spoil the blood, and produce a state of general 
cachexia. 

The tumid or turgid spleen, as .it appears in Europeans who 
have resided in low marshy districts in Bengal, or as it comes 
under observation in hospital among the children of indigent 
Europeans, and as seen in British and native soldiers who have 
campaigned in unhealthy countries, appears to consist in passive 
congestion, or hyperajmia of that organ, and is found in its most 
severe forms during the cold season. It may, and does, occur as 
a primary disease, the result of mere residence in malarious locali- 
ties, but far more generally congestion of the spleen is found, in 
India at least, as a complication of, and a sequel to, fevers remit- 
tent and intermittent, and especially in their adynamic types, as 
on the West Coast of Africa, Walcheren, parts of Italy, Aracan, 
and other malarious countries in the East. When complicated 
with endemic fevers, it may be regarded as in its more acute 
stage ; but, with the subsidence of the primary disease, this condi- 
tion gives place to that of passive congestion. Why the worse 
term " engorgement," was preferred by Mr. Twining to the more 
truly expressive and old one, congestion, does not appear; but 
certain it is that the altered form of expression has in no way 
added to, or improved, our knowledge of the obscure pathology of 
congestion, whether of the spleen or of any other organ. In the me- 
dical, as in other sciences, terms ought not to be changed, unless 
they express relations established as certain, which have not been 
determined before ; whereas here, we have but a distinction in 
words without any difference in fact. 

In the fevers of the West Indies, Robert Jackson found that the 
spleen was " generally distended, sometimes even to rupture." 

Hyperaemia and softening of the spleen are found also to be 
very general complications in the congestive typhoid fevers of our 
own country, and of those of the continent of Europe the fact 
being demonstrated in the most extensive post-mortem examina- 
tions. 

SYMPTOMS. In the more acute form of the disease we have 
present some febrile action a sense of dull pain in the left hypo- 
chondrium, extending to the shoulder of that side, accompanied 
by fulness and increased uneasiness on pressure all indicative 
of something more than mere vascular engorgement the disturb- 



ON THE ENDEMIC CONGESTION OF THE SPLEEN. 285 

anco of tho abdominal functions being refurriblo to congestive 
I'.-vcr, and to its splenic complication. The symptoms of splenic 
diseases, whether acute or subacutc, are always more or less nega- 
tive in character. Whether this form of splenic enlargement be 
the result of fever, or the more gradual influence of malaria, it is 
a very important afiection, owing to the unfavourable state of the 
c< institution which invariably accompanies it. As a complication 
with fever, too, it is unfavourable in itself, and as putting an instant 
bar to the use of mercury, however desirable the exhibition of that 
mineral might prove, as a means of equalizing the circulation of 
eliciting increased secretions or of relieving local congestions 
in other organs. 

To the practised eye, the very countenance of the sufferer be- 
speaks his condition. The expression is dull, the mind apathetic; 
the complexion is of a dirty lemon-colour, the integument being 
puffed up and bloated, the eye pale, and of a peculiar clearness, 
the lips, tongue, and fauces blanched and bloodless ; in short, we 
have here a concentration of cachexia of systematic writers the 
very type and essence of anaemia. A wound or trifling abrasion, 
which at another time would escape notice, now becomes afoul and 
sloughing ulcer, owing to the depraved state of the blood, and the 
generally diseased state of the system : haemorrhages arise from 
slight causes sometimes spontaneously; and so altered is the 
character of the blood from want of red globules apparently 
that when performing surgical operations of immediate necessity, 
at the Native Hospital of Calcutta, I always became aware of the 
presence of splenic disease on making my first incision the hue 
of the blood being demonstrative of the fact. 

In addition to the depravation of the fluids, we have excessive 
muscular debility, bodily inertness, and mental despondency 
the whole morbid assemblage tending to impair the functions of 
respiration, assimilation, and secretion. It can be matter of 
no surprise, therefore, that when fatal terminations occur, they 
should be preceded by dropsies, haemorrhages, or gangrenous 
ulcers of the cheeks and gums conditions to which persons suf- 
fering from splenic disease are peculiarly liable. 

CAUSES. Of all the known causes of splenic disease, the 
most influential is malaria. The long continued application of 
the ordinary endemic influences, without ensuing acute disease of 
any kind, will, as already observed, produce anaemia, enlarge* 
tin-lit of the liver, of the spleen, and of the mesenteric glands. 
But the most ordinary cause of splenic congestion, whether ac- 
tive or passive, will always be found in the malarious fevers of the 
East remittent and intermittent which, for longer or shorter 
1 it-nods, and by the recurrences of their cold or congestive 



286 ON THE ENDEMIC CONGESTION OF THE SPLEEN. 

stages, for months or years together disturb, or eventually de- 
stroy, the balance of the abdominal circulation, and with it the in- 
tegrity of the abdominal functions. 

When to these morbid conditions we add destitution the absence 
of comfort in food and clothing the residence in low, cold, and 
damp localities mental depression those causes, in short, which 
contaminate the blood, and determine its flow into the abdominal 
organs ; all these causes will powerfully tend to the production of 
splenic disease. Previous inflammation and acute congestion, are 
often found in India to terminate in chronic enlargement of the spleen. 

PATHOLOGY. " Dr. Henoch of Berlin recognises two forms 
of chronic enlargement of the spleen. The most common form is 
a true hypertrophy, a mere increase of the natural elements of the 
organ. In a large number of cases, however, he considers the en- 
largement is due to excessive insterstitial exudation of plasma, 
probably of a character unfit for healthy nutrition, and he conse- 
quently regards this kind of tumour as the result of chronic sple- 
nitis."* 

The appearances on dissection vary from the firm and friable 
condition, to the indurated and banded texture, approaching to 
scirrhus the degree of enlargement varying, according to the in- 
tensity of the malarious and other external influences, and to the 
duration of the disease. The substance of the spleen is often 
found of a dark purple on being cut into, and composed chiefly 
o granular matter. Dr. Sieveking found crystals interposed among 
the granular matter, which were soluble in acetic acid ; also yellow 
spots with tuberculous-like deposits. 

In the softened spleen we find its substance reduced to the con- 
dition of a grumous mass, indicating a diseased state of the con- 
stituents of the blood. Thickening of the investment and adhe- 
sions of it to that of the surrounding parts, are more generally 
found in the Native than in the European subject. 

There is reason to conclude that endocarditis is a frequent and 
serious concomitant of the more active diseases of the spleen in- 
flammation of the interior lining membrane of the heart, together 
with vegetations on the aorta and valves, coagula, and other ap- 
pearances, demonstrative alike of endocarditis, and of a diseased 
condition of the blood being often observable after death. I 
have no doubt that the numerous sudden deaths of both Europeans 
and natives of the army of Aracan, in the first Burmese war, during 
apparent convslescence, arose from the causes just noticed the 
fever which destroyed the army having been a malignant, adyna- 
mic, intermittent. Sudden deaths from the same causes are found 
to occur in yellow fever. 

* Dr. Ballard, Brit, and For. Review, July, 1855. 



ON THE ENDEMIC CONGESTION OF THE SPLEEN. 287 

TREATMENT. In splenic congestion of recent occurrence, 
where the system is sound, and exhibits an inflammatory action, 
or an acute state of congestion, whether of the abdominal vessels 
generally, or of those of the spleen, a moderate blood-letting, general 
or local, repeated according to occasion, and followed by brisk 
cathartics and sudorifics, will conduce powerfully towards conva- 
lescence. On the cure of the fever, indeed, we shall generally find 
that the splenic complication will subside ; but if tumidness of 
that organ still remain, by the continued exhibition of quinine and 
brisk purgatives, followed by chalybeates and change of air, con- 
gestions, both general and local, will be removed. But, on the 
other hand, if the type of the fever be adynamic, and the state of 
the general health anaemic, opposite and tonic remedies must be 
used ; every indication of cure resting on the two radical condi- 
tions the local or endemic influence existing at the time, and the 
sanitary condition of the individual. 

Within a few years of my arrival in India, I suffered severely 
from the dangerous remittent fever of Gondwana, followed by ma- 
lignant, adynamic intermittent. For the recovery of my health, I 
was sent to Calcutta, where, notwithstanding the best advice and 
care, ague recurred twice or thrice every month during a year and 
a half, when I was ordered to sea. There was then enlargement 
of the spleen with O3dema of the lower extremities. I made a 
voyage to sea, and was absent but eight months from Bengal ; and, 
although I used not one grain of medicine, all my ailments dis- 
appeared. The truth is, that there are fevers, dysenteries, ai*l 
chronic forms of hepatic and splenic disease, which no amount of 
medicine can cure, but which change of air will cure with some 
degree of certainty. 

When the more acute local symptoms have subsided, and the 
disease has become a simple chronic enlargement, we still find 
that no corresponding improvement takes place in the health ; and 
in general, according to the duration of the disease, and the size 
of the spleen, so do we find a complicated parabysma, and the 
consequent cachectic state to prevail; softening and relaxation 
being prevalent in the nervous, vascular, and glandular structures. 
Again, we occasionally see cases where enormous spleens, occupy- 
ing two-thirds of the abdominal cavity, cause but surprisingly little 
disturbance of the health, apparently the patient complaining 
only of sense of weight in the left hypochondrium ; but this state 
of passive toleration does not last long, the general health being 
sure to suffer in the end ; while in other cases, and with varying 
degrees, we have all the unfavourable disorders of the system 
already described, as concomitants of the more acute stages of 
splenic disease. When the disease seizes upon the children of 
indigent Europeans, who are unable to command change of air, 



288 ON THE ENDEMIC CONGESTION OF THE SPLEEN. 

or removal to Europe, we find every function in life the develop- 
ment of the mental faculties the building up of the corporeal 
frame every constituent part stunted and retarded in growth ; 
and without any precocity in youth, there is an actual precocity 
of old age. 

In the chronic enlargement of the spleen, measures of depletion 
can but very seldom be required ; and even those of a local nature 
should be used but sparingly. The general practice in Bengal is 
a steady use of the tonic aperient of Mr Shulbred, formerly sur- 
geon to the Native Hospital of Calcutta, aiding its operation by 
quinine, chalybeates, stimulant and rubefacient liniments to the 
affected region, and change of air. The formula of Mr. Shulbred, 
and the watery imitation of it by Mr. Twining, are as given 
below : 

MR. SHULBRED. MR. TWINING. 

Pulveris Jalapae. Pulveris Jalapae. 

Rhei. Rhei. 

Calumbae. Calumbse. 

Scammoniae. Zingiberis. 

Potassse Bitartrat. aa 3j. Potassae Bitartrat. aa jj. 

Ferri Sulphatis, 3ss. " Ferri Sulphatis, 9j. 

Tinct. Senme, 3iv. 

Aq. Mcuth. Sativac, x. 

Of Mr. Shulbred's powder a sufficiency is given to move the 
bowels twice or thrice daily. It has for half a century been a 
favourite remedy in Bengal ; and Mr. T wining' s formula is given 
tf? those who prefer the fluid manner of exhibition. He recom- 
mends a chalybeate with purgative extract over night, followed in 
the morning by powder of myrobalan and the black salt of the 
bazar ; this as a change of treatment. The kala-nimuk, or black 
salt of the bazars throughout India, is composed of the following 
ingredients in one ounce : 

Muriate of Soda . . . 444 grains. 

Sulphur 14 

Muriate of Lime . . . 12 

Black Oxide of Iron . 6 

The natives have long been aware of the beneficial effects acids 
as well as of chalybeates and bitters in the treatment of the com- 
mon tumid spleen, for which the bazar doctors prescribe the undi- 
luted sulphuric acid in doses of one drop at a time placed on a 
bit of plaintain, or more generally five drops in cold water night 
and morning. Another native plan of treatment is by a mixture 
of aloes, vinegar, and garlic, with a small portion of the bazar 
sulphate of iron " kuzees :" this latter formula is said to be very 
successful. 



ON THE ENDEMIC CONGESTION OF THE SPLEEN. 289 

I found in treating both Europeans and natives, that severe irri- 
tation of the mucous digestive surface \vas often present, attended 
by a low irritative form of fever. Here the spleen medicines in 
ordinary use were altogether inadmissible, as causing increase of 
irritation, or dangerous diarrhoea. Tn such cases, and they were 
of frequent occurrence, after subduing intestinal irritation, I had 
recourse to pure chalybeates, as the saccharated carbonate of iron, 
the muriated tincture of iron with tincture of iodine frictions 
with croton oil warm baths, &c. In this manner cases having a 
very unpromising appearance recovered ; and the largest spleen I 
ever saw was cured by the iodide of lead internally administered. 
It was that of an European boy in poor circumstances. His 
health had been much reduced by an eruptive fever, when he 
was seized with ague, for neither of which diseases had he any 
treatment : the consequence was enormous enlargement of the 
spleen, and for which the iodide of lead alone was used, internally 
and externally. The treatment was continued mildly for four 
months, when the spleen was no longer to be felt ; and during the 
whole process of cure he never took so much as one aperient. 
The enlargement in this case had come on very suddenly; but 
when I first saw the patient it had existed during several 
months. 

In the case of a gentleman from Demerara, treated by me in 
consultation with Mr. Henry James Johnson, of London, and in 
whose management we had to contend with extreme cachexia, and 
sloughing ulceration of the penis, the iodide of lead was persisted 
in for two months, to the extent, indeed, of producing lead colic, 
when the spleen, previously of enormous bulk, was reduced to 
the natural size. Iodide of potassium, warm baths, gestation in the 
open air, stimulating frictions to the affected region, are all bene- 
ficial ; but in the chronic enlargement of the spleen, with cachectic 
states of the system, blisters are apt to slough ; and as to leeches 
and mercurials in such instances, they are certain death. 

In Europeans the liver is very often involved in disease along 
with the spleen; and then there is no remedy, which, in my 
experience, can at all be compared in power and efficacy to the 
persevering use of the nitro-muriatic acid bath, using the com- 
bined acids internally at the same time with bitter infu- 
sions, and keeping the bowels freely open. Here, owing to the 
hepatic complication, quinine and chalybeates prove ineffective 
to the cure of the splenic, while they injure the hepatic dis- 
ease. At page 179 will be seen a remarkable instance of rapid 
cure, by the acid bath, of enormous disease in both liver and 
spleen associated with universal dropsy. It was one of the 
earliest cases treated by me after this manner ; and I regard it as 
one of much interest and importance. 

u 



290 ON THE ENDEMIC CONGESTION OF THE SPLEEN. 

A practical fact of some importance, and which I found to have 
place in India as in this country, is this that the acid bath acts 
more speedily and with far greater power in the hotter than in the 
colder months. Following out the suggestion afforded by this 
fact, I always directed the use of a warm water or vapour bath 
twice or thrice a week at the commencement of the treatment in 
the winter months, with the view to open and purify the pores of 
the skin, and to increase its absorbent and exhaling functions. 

It is almost unnecessary to urge the necessity of attention to the 
diet in every stage of this disease. So long as heat of skin, or 
any febrile movement exists, the diet must be of the lightest and 
easiest of digestion, being limited to articles of a farinaceous 
nature ; and even in the chronic stage animal food should be used 
but once in the twenty-four hours. 

Some eminent French physicians have used large doses of 
quinine for the cure of enlarged spleen, exhibiting the salt to the 
extent of from forty to eighty grains in the twenty-four hours, the 
quantity of the drug used being in direct ratio to the extent of the 
disease. When the stomach did not retain the large doses 
exhibited, the continental doctors administered the quinine in the 
form of enemata carefully retained in the bowel. Dr. Elliotson, 
in his lectures, recommends a similar plan of treatment ; but I am 
not aware that this mode of cure has been anywhere established 
on the foundations of success. From all I have personally 
observed and studied I am disposed to look mainly to the 
fimulgent plan by nitro-muriatic acid internally and externally 
applied, for the cure of splenic diseases, aided and followed by 
purgatives, quinine, and chalybeates. This important subject is 
recommended to the careful attention of our intertropical practi- 
tioners ; recollecting that "some of the greatest improvements in 
medicine have resulted from researches made in hot climates, and 
that there is not a single fact observed, or a single disease investi- 
gated on the banks of the Ganges or the Mississippi, that does not 
bring its quota of utility to the practice of medicine in our own 
country." 

The following table but ill represents the prevalence of splenic 
diseases in any of the military commands specified, such affections 
being too often " lumped under the head of other diseases." I 
have been unable to procure any returns for the three Presiden- 
cies of India ; and in the naval force in the East Indies forming 
an aggregate strength, from 1830 43, of 40,512 men, only thirty- 
nine cases are returned under the head of splenitis. 

We may nowhere hope to find any record of the splenic com- 
plications of fever and dysentery, although these last form to- 
gether by far the most prevalent forms of the disease. 



ON THE ENDEMIC CONGESTION OF THE SPLEEN. 



291 



STATIONS. 


Period 
of 
Observation 
(inclusively.) 


Aggregate 
Strength. 


Number 
admitted 
into 
Hospital. 


Number 
Died. 


Proportion 
of deaths 
to 
admissions. 


Windward and Leeward ) 
Command .. .. ) 


181736 


86661 


104 


3 


1 in 34} 


Jamaica 


181736 


.51567 


59 




Oin 59 


Bahamas 


181736 


535 


5 




Oin 5 


Honduras 


182236 


320 











United Kingdom (Dra-> 
goon Gds & Dragoons) > 


1830-T-36 


44611 


5 


v 


in 5 


Gibraltar 


181836 


60269 


21 




in 21 


Malta 


181736 


40826 


21 


. . 


1 in in;, 


Ionian Islands 


181736 


70293 


133 


4 


1 in 33} 


Bermudas 


181736 


11721 


2 


. ' 


Oin 2 


Nova Scotia and New ? 
Brunswick .. .. 3 


181736 


46442 


19 


.. 


in 19 


Canadas 


181736 


64280 


25 




Oin 25 


Western Africa 


181936 


1843 


166 


7 


1 in 23f 




181821 1 












183637 I 


5908 


1 


. . 


Oin 1 




(6yrs.) J 










Cape of Good Hope"! 
(Cape District) . . J 


181836 


22714 


49 


. 


in 49 


Cape of Good Hope"! 
(Eastern Frontier) J 


182234 


6630 


5 


.. 


Oin 5 


Mauritius 


181836 


30515 


17 




Oin 17 


Ceylon 


181736 


42978 


50 




Oin 50 



In the very able report of a Committee assembled by order of 
the Governor- General of India, to ascertain whether the Great 
Ganges Canal, which now unites the Ganges and the Jumna, 
would tend to increase disease, and thus prove not a blessing but 
a curse to the inhabitants, we find a test proposed by Mr. T. E. 
Dempster, of the medical department of Bengal, which seems to 
yield positive and satisfactory conclusions, and the value of which 
appears to have been fully established. Mr. Dempster examined 
the spleen in a certain number of individuals, and by the presence 
or absence of an enlargement, he determined whether or not the 
resident in a certain locality had previously suffered from endemic 
fever. The following table contains a summary of the whole 
inquiry.* It will be observed that in each subdivision of the 
table, the smallest number of spleens and the corresponding small 
number of previous fever cases, occur in the inverse ratio of the 
proximity to the river or the canal. 

British and Foreign Med. Chir. Review for October, 1855, pp. 353, 54. 



u 2 



292 ON THE ENDEMIC CONGESTION OF THE SPLEEN. 



Per-centage of Per-centage of adults Average de 
enlarged spleens. suffering from fever. of water fr 
Adults and children -- -, surface 01 
of all classes. 1844. 1845. 1846. ground, in f 

le of the canal 58 51 .. 45 .. 41 .... 11 
an half a mile 49 .... 51 .. 49 .. 40 .... 18 

leof the canal 44 .... 47 .. 38 .. 27 28 
an half a mile 29 .... 34 .. 34 .. 27 .... 48 


l-t 
e* 


tO 

1-1 

03 

a 


i 

r-l l-l 

TJI CO 

o o 

OJ 00 
eO r-H 

Ii 

Ii 


00 eo 

0.0 

* eo 

O) t^ 
eo * 

<N eo 

O (M 
(N <N 

13 

s a 
s * 

S 


00 * 

>* CO 
eo O 

o > 

o -^ 

C v 

a a 

a 

J3 a 


c* eo e 

O O ^H 

^ eo eo 

^J* ^* CO 

tf) 00 OO 
(N .-H 

a 

a ^a 

s a 

V 03 

"8 ^3 
a) rt _ 

rt 8 


o o 

(N CO 
<N I 

Tj< 0> 

Tt< C4 


co to o o 

CO -q- !N 

f-H i-l C^ (M 

00 O N CO 
Ol CO ^* ^* 

(M (M ^ .0 

co co ^ co 

FH ' CO rH O 
I-H <M 

1 ' '1 

1 1 s 


ITS * 

* 1-1 

it5 CO 

(N 

O * 

(N 

^ * 



* -^ 
"1< CO 

'.S 

53 

1 

tfa 


M 

s 

1 

3 

1 

.a 
5 

! 

8 



10 as 







a^ 


II 




2'S 


"^ g 4- S 


"3 


< 


03 V 03 9} 


at more 


03 o 

21 


03 4^ 

^ o 

a 

c "a 


n half a 
nt more 


03 <u 

"al 


g-TS 

sl 

^1 

<u a 


^3 c r o *^ 
5 g oi 

5 >-< ^ 


T- 

S'S 

IB 


If ' 
. 


II II 


j 

- 


a 1 

Is 


11 

3 


II 


Is ^ 


8 


OP 


O f! fc) u^ 

s ^ i 

- So^: 


.ks 
?T 

^> 


a* j 

a>T3 

39 


^ _1 _1-,-^.' 








*--* 


* --* O 





* i 


^ ^ 


60.2 'I 


' 


. 


, 


. 







1 


. 




T3 












PH 






0) 


^ 9 8"* 




g 


a 


. 


B 


0) 


B 





a 


1*1 












5 






"3 


2 S' 
?" 












* 






J 


Mil 


. 


rt 


. 


d 

o 





g 5 


. 


2 


a 
.2 


iS > 
S 0-3 


3 


5 
a 


^2 


g 


.2 


g *i 





^ 1 


i 


*1J9- 



& 




.s 



14k 1 

_" o 

|a.g; 
-' 8 I' 

SOS'S 
3J.-S3 

S S- 
^39' 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

SKETCH OF THE EARLIER INDIAN HISTORY OF 
EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. From the contemporaneous writings 
of Hippocrates and the Chinese physicians, as well as from those 
of the later Hindu and Roman medical authors, it is evident that 
epidemic cholera was well known and accurately described in 
their respective times. 

The first notice of this disease we have, by an European 
writer, is that of Bontius, physician to the Dutch East India 
Company, and who wrote in 1629, in Batavia. " The cholera 
morbus," he says, " is extremely frequent : in the cholera, hot 
bilious matter irritating the stomach and intestines, is incessantly 
and copiously discharged by the mouth and anus. It is a dis- 
order of the most acute kind, and therefore requires immediate 
application." In its severer form " the animal spirits " are de- 
scribed as speedily "exhausted, and the heart, the fountain of 
heat and life, is overwhelmed with putrid effluvia ; those who 
are seized with this disorder generally die, and that so quickly, 
as in the space of four-and-twenty hours at most. This disease 
is attended with a weak pulse, difficult respiration, and coldness 
of the extreme parts : to which are joined great internal heat, 
insatiable thirst, perpetual watching, and restless and incessant 
tossing of the body. If, together with these symptoms, a cold and 
fetid sweat should break forth, it is certain that death is at 
hand."" Bontius treats of the " cholera morbus" and " spasm" as 
separate diseases ; yet it is presumed that both were frequently 
united, and that, in reality the spasm was a common complication 
with cholera, as indeed he describes it in the case of Cornelius 
Van Royen, who " was suddenly seized with the cholera, about 
six in the evening, and expired in terrible agony and convulsions 
before twelve o'clock at night." 

I shall now lay before the reader, in as condensed a form as 
possible, the results of inquiry instituted by order of the Govern- 
ments and medical authorities of Bengal, Madras, and Bombay, 
with a view to obtain the best possible information as to the his- 
tory, nature, and cure, of epidemic cholera. 

How ably the medical services of the three Presidencies re- 
sponded to this call, need not now be pointed out ; neither is it 



294 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 



necessary to dwell on the original merits of the author of the 
" Essay on the Influence of Tropical Climates on European Con- 
stitutions," further than by stating, on the authority of Dr. Cop- 
land, that " the nature and treatment of the disease were very im- 
perfectly known, until Dr. James Johnson described its symptoms, 
and pointed out a more successful method of cure, than had pre- 
viously been employed." 

In the reports of the medical boards of Bengal, Madras, and 
Bombay, we find the following notices : 



BENGAL REPORT. 

1781. In March of this year a disease, 
in all respects resembling the recent epi- 
demic cholera, seized on the Bengal force 
under Colonel Pearse of the Artillery, 
while marching through the Northern 
Circars to join Sir Eyre Coote's army. 
Seven hundred men died within the first 
few days, and three hundred convale- 
scents were left behind ; this out of an 
original force of five thousand men. 



" Men in perfect health dropt down 
by dozens : and those even less severely 
affected were generally dead, or past reco- 
very, within less than an hour. Spasms 
of the extremities and trunk were dread- 
ful ; and distressing vomiting and purging 
were present in all." 

1783. Cholera is said to have broken 
out at the sacred bathing spot of Hurdwar 
on the Ganges, in April of this year. 

It happened to be one of the twelfth 
years deemed peculiarly propitious by the 
Hindus, and the assemblage of pilgrims 
was consequently far beyond the common 
annual average, amounting, it is said, this 
year, to nearly two millions. 



" The disease broke out on the spring- 
ing up of an easterly land-wind during the 
night, and carried off innumerable per- 
sons." In less than eight days, twenty 
thousand victims are said to have fallen; 
yet so confined was its influence, that it 
did not extend beyond the place of bathing, 
and ceased on the dispersion of the mul- 
titude. 



MADRAS REPORT. 

1774. The " true cholera morbus " is 
described by Dr. Paisley, of Madras, as 
being " often epidemic " amongst the 
natives, whom it destroyed quickly. In 
the first campaigns, it proved very fatal to 
both the European and native troops. He 
describes it as " operating on the system 
as a poison, and brings on a sudden pros- 
tration of strength, and spasm over the 
whole surface of the body." The pulse he 
found to " sink suddenly, and bring on im- 
mediate danger." 

Sonnerat speaks of " an epidemic dis- 
order which reigns" on the Coromandel 
coast, and his observations embrace the 
period from 1774 to 1781. 

After describing the symptoms, and 
that the poorer and more negligent classes 
are most obnoxious to its seizure, he 
states that, " above sixty thousand people 
from Cherigan to Pondicherry perished." 
" The Indian physicians," he says, " could 
not save a single person." 

One epidemic is described as peculiarly 
severe. " Those who were attacked had 
thirty evacuations in five or six hours, 
which reduced them to such a state of 
weakness that they could neither speak 
nor move. 

" They were often without pulse ; the 
hands and ears were cold ; the face length- 
ened ; the sinking of the cavity of the 
socket of the eye was the sign of death ; 
they felt neither pain in the stomach, cho- 
lics, nor gripings. The greatest pain was 
a burning thirst." 

1787. A disease is reported as preva- 
lent this year at Arcot, " similar to an 
epidemic that raged amongst the natives 
about Palicola, and in the army of ob- 
servation in January of 1783, in the Ben- 
gal detachment at Ganjam in 1781, and 
several other places at different times. 

The characteristic marks were spasms of 
the precordia, and sudden prostration of 
strength. 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 



295 



BENGAL REPORT. 

1790. In the middle of April of this 
year, a fatal cholera of the spasmodic form 
attacked the detachment under Colonel 
Cockerell, marching from Bengal to Se- 
ringapatam, in the same country in which 
it had previously proved so fatal to the 
force under Colonel Pearse the Northern 
Circars. 

The above three notices, two of which 
refer to seizures heyond the bounds of the 
Bengal Presidency, are all of which any 
record could be obtained by the talented 
author of the Calcutta Report. Rumour, 
indeed, had spoken of severe cholera in 
Bundlekund some forty years previously 
to the date of Mr. Jameson's report, or 
about the year 1780, and of another some 
time near the end of the last century ; but 
as no authentic history exists respecting 
their nature, no attempt is made to trace 
them. 

The Bombay Report enters into no his- 
tory of epidemic cholera, beyond a casual 
reference to a letter from Dr. Taylor, who 
gives an account of a disease, taken from 
a Sanscrit work, " which leaves very little 
doubt that it has not only been long 
known to the natives, but proves its iden- 
tity." 



MADRAS REPORT. 



The treatment consisted of stimulants 
and hot baths, supporting the vis-vita;." 



1782 90. During this period, cholera 
under various names, but always with the 
same symptoms and results, would seem 
to have prevailed in various parts of In- 
dia. 

" The mort de chien, or cramp," pre- 
vailed in Sir Ed. Hughes's fleet in 1782. 
The sufferers were " soon brought to great 
weakness, coldness of the extremities, and 
a remarkable paleness, sinking and lividity 
of the whole countenance" There was 
" great thirst, or rather a strong desire 
for cold drinks, but there was no headache, 
or affection of the sensorium commune 
throughout." 

From July to September 1782, Mr. 
Curtis describes the same disease in the 
Madras Hospital, and in the fleet. 



1 782. Mr. Girdlestone describes a dis- 
ease exactly similar, as destructive to the 
newly arrived troops from England, more 
than 50 of whom were carried off by it 
"within the first three days after they were 
landed." 

1787. Dr. Duffins gives details of the 
symptoms and treatment of " cholera mor- 
bus," which then prevailed at Vellore with 
great violence a disease " so rapid in its 
progress, that many of the men are carried 
off in twelve hours' illness." 

The same epidemic prevailed fatally at 
Arcot, to which station Mr. Davis, mem- 
ber of the Hospital board, was deputed to 
investigate its nature. " He understood 
from the Regimental Surgeons that the 
last disease had proved fatal to all who 
had been attacked by it." 

Mr. Thompson gives a similar account 
to that of Mr. Davis's, both having re- 
marked on the singular contraction and 
emptiness of the bladder on dissection, it 
being found no larger than " a walnut." 

1814. Two notices of cholera are found 
in this year one by Mr. Wyllie of the 
24th Regt., and the other by Mr. Cruick- 
shanks of the 9th Regt., in which it ap- 
peared with great severity. 

" The disease in the 9th Regt., in 1814, 



296 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

BENGAL REPORT. MADRAS REPORT. 

resembled in every particular, with ex- 
ception to the heat at the praecordia, the 
cholera at present" (1.819) "so common, 
although it could not be called epidemic." 
It appears to have broken out in a brigade 
of N. I. while on the march from Jaulnah, 
about the 10th of June. The patients 
" exhibited all the symptoms rune so well 
known of persona labouring under the ad- 
vanced and fatal stage of the epidemic 
cholera, the skin cold, and covered with a 
cold perspiration, the extremities shrivelled, 
cold, and damp, the eyes sunk, fixed, and 
glassy, and the pulse not to be felt. These 
persons all died, and I find on referring to 
such notes as I have preserved, that, in- 
fluenced by consideration of the vascular 
collapse, and total absence of arterial pul- 
sation, I had denominated the disease, 
asphyxia" 

The report of Mr. Cruickshanks is pecu- 
liarly valuable on many grounds, as well 
as for an early notice of one of those sin- 
gular and unaccountable features which it 
has frequently manifested since, namely, 
that of the two corps composing the bri- 
gade, apparently under similar circum- 
stances, one only was attacked, while the 
other escaped altogether. 

Two distant and separate notices of the 
epidemic cholera, one 25 years, and the 
other 34, previously to 1817, are given by 
Mr. Staff-surgeon Hay. These visitations 
were in the Travancore country. 

Dr. Burke, also, in a report from the 
Mauritius in 1819, where he was chief of 
the medical staff, states that a disease in 
all respects similar to the recent epidemic 
is reported to have occurred in that island 
in the year 1775. " The symptoms, fatal 
and sudden effects, and duration of the 
disease would seem to be the same" 

It thus appears clearly, that epidemic cholera prevailed at 
various remote periods, and at many of the principal stations 
throughout British India, sometimes coming as a wide-spread 
pestilence, and at others, desolating only particular localities. 

That the disease, in its epidemic form, was not altogether un- 
known to our forefathers in Europe, is rendered more than 
probable also, by the writings of various of the older physicians ; 
and many of the cases described by Sydenham, in 1669, would 
seem to have been of the true spasmodic nature ; but, as none of 
the visitations described by former writers approached in dura- 
tion, extent, or severity that which took its rise in Bengal in 1817, 
no detailed record of them is preserved. From the date of its 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 297 

first outbreak on the shores of the Ganges, till in its course it 
embraced those of the Indus, Euphrates, Nile, Danube, Volga, St. 
Lawrence, and Mississippi, this great epidemic has visited every 
nation of the earth ; and whether it fastened on the delicate frame 
of the Hindu, or that of the robust European, the disease has 
been essentially of the same nature, nor have the results of medi- 
cal treatment differed much. Everywhere throughout Asia, Africa, 
Europe, and America, it has been thus, no difference of race, 
climate, or temperature exercising any very marked influence on 
its nature and progress. 

Condition of life, as in all other epidemics, has everywhere 
exercised its vast influence for good or evil ; amongst the poorer 
classes, in their greater liability to this deadly disease, and 
amongst the wealthier classes, in their comparative exemption 
from disease and death. 

In each and all the countries traversed by this scourge, certain 
low, damp situations, filth, destitution, and misery, have exercised 
their usually fatal power ; while the more comfortable conditions 
of life acted as powerful preventatives. 

It was amongst the poor, ill-fed, ill-clothed, and crowded in- 
habitants of Jessore that epidemic cholera made its first appear- 
ance ; and it is under similar circumstances, and in similar locali- 
ties, that the disease has ever since, and in every country, proved 
most rife, most virulent, and remained the longest. 

The cholera epidemics which have ravaged various parts of 
Hindustan since 1817, have always originated in, and issued 
forth from India. They have never, in any instance within my 
knowledge, been even supposed to have been imported into any of 
the ports of India, by ships from infected countries, or through 
any other manner of human intercourse. It may therefore be in- 
ferred, that the cause of the disease, however latent or submerged 
for a time, is never actually absent from the soil of India, or from 
some of its localities. 

Without disputing the possibility of contagion in cholera, even 
in the midst of and notwithstanding the thorough ventilations pre- 
valent throughout India, I am bound to say that although I may be 
said to have lived in the midst of the disease during many years, I 
have never seen anything which, in my opinion, warranted the be- 
lief ; nor have I ever communicated with any Indian medical officer 
who believed in the contagiousness of epidemic cholera in India. 

In the European General Hospital of Calcutta, in which I 
served as assistant-surgeon and surgeon, it was well known that of 
the five native keepers and washers of clothes who had, during 
twenty-five years, kept and washed the hospital clothing, not one 
li;ul cholera ; nor had those who assisted them. The same immu- 
nity attended the native dressers, averaging from twenty to thirty 



298 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 



men, who, during the same number of years, were in constant and 
close attendance on the cholera sick, all day and all night; nor 
were the sweepers who washed and dressed the patients, and 
who removed the matters vomited and ejected by stool, ever 
affected with cholera. 

I served in the General Hospital in March, 1827, the time 
referred to by Mr. Twining, when the house was filled with cholera 
patients, and when all of us, European as well as natives, including 
native medical students employed for the occasion, were exhausted 
with the labours of attendance on the sick ; but none of us suffered 
from the disease. To these facts many others of the like nature 
might be added ; but, in respect of contagiousness, who shall dis- 
pute the possibility of occasional exceptions, under peculiar sus- 
ceptibilities, and under different circumstances of climate and other 
contingencies. 

GEOGRAPHICAL PROGRESS OF EPIDEMIC CHO- 
LERA.* The epidemic cholera, which originated in the delta of 
the Ganges, in July, 1817, true to its birth-place the town of 
Jessore, with its low, marshy, jungly, crowded, and ill-ventilated 
conditions, spread rapidly from villages, towns, and cities, in no 
better sanitary state than their prototype ; and from that day to 
the present, epidemic cholera has proved greatly more fatal in 
Asia than in Europe. 

It commenced its march from Bengal in August, 1817, 
Reached Bombay . . . 10th August, 1818. 
And Astrakan, where it died away, 18th September, 1823. 

In Persia several local epidemics appeared at intervals in the 
seven years, 1823 30. The great epidemic that traversed 
Europe is said to have sprung up in June, 1830, on the low 
western shores of the Caspian Sea. The velocity of the two 
epidemics only differed in Asia; it was the same in Europe. 

The epidemics of 1830, 31, and of 1848, 49, travelled at the 
same rates westward, as appears from the following table : 

Astrakan 

Moscow 

Petersburgh 

Berlin . 

Hamburgh 

Sunderland 

Edinburgh 

The progress of the disease did not stop here ; it ravaged the 
nations again and again, its course, like that of the epizootics, 
blights, and mildews, being altogether unknown. Infection has 

* It will be seen that, in the body of the following article, I have made free use of, 
and copied largely from the admirable works of Dr. Fair, of the Registrar-general's office, 
and from those of Drs. Baly and Gull, framed by the desire of the College of Phy- 



July 20th, 1830 
September, 1830 
June 16th, 1831 
August 31st, 1831 
. October, 1831 
October 24th, 1831 
January 22nd, 1832 


June 
September 18 
June 
June 
September 
October 4th 
October 1st 


th 


1847 
1847 
1848 
1848 
1848 
1848 
1848 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 299 

not been proved to have had any share in its progress and propa- 
gation; on the contrary, it has marched onwards through an 
inscrutable atmospheric and terrestrial agency, uncontrolled by 
all opposing physical obstacles, and by all the efforts of man. 
Nor does there exist any means of modifying its force, other than 
such as are well known to lessen the power and duration of all 
epidemics, viz., the removal of all those conditions, whether 
natural or artificial, that produce and maintain impurity and 
stagnation in the atmosphere we breathe and in the water we 
drink, conditions that everywhere, and in all times, have opened 
the human frame to the admission of disease, endemic and 
epidemic. 

SYMPTOMS AND PROGRESS. There are two circum- 
stances which render the assault of true cholera both insidious and 
dangerous in the extreme : it is preceded by a painless diarrhoea 
of more or less violence and duration, according as the epidemic 
may be at its height or decline ; and its seizure is generally by 
night, or in the early morning. It thus happens that, too often, 
the real nature of the case is mistaken by the patient for some 
slight disorder of the bowels. 

When once the true cholera has fastened on the patient it 
proves the most unmistakeable of diseases one case being the 
counterpart of all others so that an error in diagnosis is here 
scarcely possible. The disease in its most malignant form is the 
same in all countries. It is ushered in by muscular debility, 
tremors, and vertigo, occasional nausea and spasmodic griping 
pains in the bowels, and marked depression of the functions of 
respiration and circulation, and sense of faintness. These signs 
are speedily followed by copious purging of serous fluid, and this 
again by vomiting, with sense of buniing heat at stomach cold- 
ness and sweating dampness of the whole surface of the body 
coldness and lividness of the lips and tongue cold breath a 
craving thirst a feeble rapid pulse oppressed and difficult re- 
spiration suppressed urinary excretion extreme restlessness 
blueness of the entire surface of the body a sunken and ap- 
palling countenance a sunken and peculiarly suppressed voice 
a peculiar and indescribable odour from the body partial heats 
of the prcecordia and forehead; such are the signs of a fatal 
collapse. 

Such is the ordinary course of this fatal disease in its most 
virulent form, or at the onset of its epidemic invasion. But in 
less concentrated visitations, or towards their decline, there will be 
found a premonitory diarrhoea, varying in duration from three to 
twelve hours, or more, to be followed by true cholera. During 
the stage of diarrhoea the quantity of serous fluid voided is some- 



300 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

times immense, and in one case noted by Dr. Parkes, in which 
the patient had but seven stools, eighty-eight ounces of fluid were 
discharged from the bowel. 

But the relation between purging, vomiting, and cramps, and the 
final algide collapse, is exceedingly variable. In some cases the 
patient will have been purging for twenty-four, forty-eight, or 
more hours, before vomiting, muscular cramps, and collapse 
occur ; while in other instances the whole duration of the disease 
will have been gone through unto death, in seven or eight hours, 
with marked collapse almost from the commencement of the seizure. 

A Hindu, attended by Dr. Parkes, lived 108 hours from the 
time of the first stool, and ninety-one hours after the positive de- 
velopment of algide symptoms the patient having voided alto- 
gether twenty-one stools. Another Hindu, in contrast with the 
above, and who had only four stools, died in ten hours from the 
first discharge. All observation in India goes to show that the 
more concentrated and malignant the disease the less purging 
and vomiting ; and so also in the worst and most rapidly fatal cases, 
muscular cramps are very rarely observed as prominent symptoms. 

After an indefinite duration, and varying infinitely in the de- 
grees of severity of the several symptoms, we find, in favourable 
cases, that the oppressed functions of respiration and circulation 
begin to show signs of more freedom of action ; feverish reaction 
commences, to be developed into actual and sometimes severe 
fever, accompanied by headache and gastric symptoms the results 
of previous congestions and arrested functions of secretion. 

PREDISPOSING CAUSES. Although it be quite true that 
the cholera poison requires no definite predisposing conditions in 
the system to enable it to produce its effects, and that it proves 
fatal at all ages, and nearly equally so to both sexes, and that 
neither the weakness of infancy, the vigour of manhood, nor the 
decrepitude of old age, are a safeguard against its inroads ; 
still, in common with fever and dysentery, it may be truly said 
that whatever depresses the constitutional powers will predispose 
to the invasion of cholera ; as the use of crude, indigestible, or 
ill-prepared food fatigue, want, filth, and misery, but, above 
all, intemperance in the use of spirituous liquors, so common to 
the lower orders of English in all parts of the world. It was 
found by Dr. Farr that on Saturday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wed- 
nesday, the deaths from cholera in London and other cities were 
above, and on Thursday, Friday, and Sunday below the average. 
The week's wages are generally paid on Saturdays ; and the Mon- 
days are days on which a certain proportion of the population in- 
dulge in intoxicating drinks the Fridays being days of compara- 
tive abstinence. 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 301 

It thus appears that the depression of the iiervous system and 
the derangement of the digestive organs following immediately 
upon occasional intoxication, had a marked predisposing in- 
fluence. But it is difficult to estimate separately the various 
noxious influences which in large cities are naturally associated 
with intemperance. This vice soon entails all those conditions 
which not only impair the vigour of the body, but favour the dis- 
semination, and probably the generation of the cholera poison. 
There is, indeed, sufficient evidence that not only habitual drunk- 
enness in itself, but also the immediate effects of an occasional 
carouse, will induce a predisposition to an attack. 

The influence of long marches in predisposing to cholera in 
India, would appear to indicate something more powerful than 
mere physical depression resulting from the labour of march- 
ing ; for, in the laborious trades and occupations of civil life, the 
mortality from cholera in England has not been proved to have 
been necessarily high, or to have been in any manner associated 
with excessive labour. 

It has been proved in India, and recorded by Mr. Orton, Drs. 
Balfour and Lorimer, that troops, both European and native, suffer 
more from cholera on the march, or soon after it, than they do at 
the military stations. Dr. Balfour has proved, that of the native 
soldiers of the Madras army 32 died of cholera in cantonment, 
and 86 when marching, to an average of 10,000 of strength. The 
attacks were respectively 85 and 200 in 10,000. Dr. Lorimer's 
reports show that the troops were more frequently attacked on 
long than on short marches : thus the troops in 219 marches of 
'20 40 days were attacked 39 times; while in 14 marches of 
100 120 days they were attacked seven times. If we take a 
hundred marches as the basis, they were attacked 18 times in 
about 30 days, in the one case ; while in the other case they were 
attacked 50 times in about 110 days that is, at the rate of 14 
times in 30 days. This is no proof, says Dr. Fair, that fatigue 
increases the liability to attack ; it only proves that, on the long 
marches, the men are exposed a longer time to the causes of dis- 
ease. We would assuredly expect more men to be wounded in 
a battle of three days', than in a battle of one day's duration. 
When a march is conducted with undue haste, in heavy order, or 
under direct solar exposure, in hot climates, it will produce 
fatigue and other injurious results : but in general a well-ordered 
march is conducive to health ; and there are well-known instances 
in which the health of an army has even improved materially on 
the line of march. 

Soldiers are exposed to many injurious influences during long 
marches, which frequently lie by rivers, on low marshes and 
jungly grounds ; and when to these circumstances we add sleep- 



302 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 



ing on the ground, we perceive many causes other than fatigue in 
operation. As elsewhere observed, camp beds, which should raise 
the men off the ground, would prove a great advantage ; and so 
would a light order of march, and short marches. 

But referring to the special subject of this section, I believe that 
we are seldom so much in error as when we would ascribe sick- 
ness and mortality to one cause only ; while in reality disease and 
death are always, and under all circumstances, justly to be re- 
ferred to the assemblage of many causes. In truth, the medical 
topographer, when investigating the difficult and obscure causes 
of disease, must ever hold in recollection the requirement of 
Cabanis to inquire into all the circumstances natural and phy- 
sical in the midst of which we live in a given place. 

COMPARATIVE DURATION OF FATAL DIARRHOEA, 
SUMMER CHOLERA, AND EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. The 

average duration of 4,045 fatal cases of diarrhoea in males, in the epi- 
demic of 1848, was 16'04 days of 3,851 females 16'69 days. 
The summer cholera, according to Dr. Farr, has an intermediate 
duration of about five days. The difference he exhibits in the 
subjoined table of cases taken indiscriminately from the returns 
of 1848: more than half the cases of Asiatic cholera terminated 
in less than a day ; half the cases of summer cholera did not ter- 
minate in three days; and half the cases of diarrhoea lasted 
more than six days. This is a new and important element in 
diagnosis. 

DURATION OF FATAL CASES OF DIARRHCEA, SUMMER CHOLERA, 
AND ASIATIC CHOLERA, IN LONDON, 1848. 






Total 
Deaths. 


Under 
one 
Day. 


Number of Cases terminating in the several Days. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


Diarrhoea . . . 
Summer Cholera 
Asiatic Cholera . 


116 

116 
129 


1 

9 
66 


1 
12 

21 


8 
14 
12 


16 
17 
4 


9 
23 
12 


5 
11 
6 


9 
6 

1 


13 
7 
5 


8 
4 


Diarrhoea . . . 
Summer Cholera 
Asiatic Cholera 


116 
116 
129 


Number of Cases terminating in the several Days. 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


1421 


2128 


2835 


35 & up. 


1 
4 


5 
1 





2 
1 


1 


12 
2 


13 
1 


7 
2 
1 


8 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 303 

Fatal diarrhoea is thus seen to be a disease of much longer du- 
ration ; and it agrees with cholera, being of somewhat longer 
duration in females than in males in both cases, between the age 
of 1535, than at ages further advanced. 

DURATION OP FATAL CASES OF DIARRHCEA AT VARIOUS AGES. 

Days. 

Males, all ages 16*044 

Females, all ages 16*692 

Males and Females, age 15 35 . . 18*668 

Males and Females, age 35 and upwards 17*544 

The duration of life, after well marked symptoms of fatal cholera 
have set in, appears to diminish as age advances. Dividing these 
cases into three groups, the following results are obtained : 

DURATION OF FATAL CASES OF CHOLERA AT VARIOUS AGES. 

Mean Duration. 



Days. Hours. 

Persons of the age of 15 35 . . 2*121 = 50*904 
Persons of the age of 35 55 . . 1*954 = 46*896 
Persons of the age of 55 and upwards 1*973 = 47*352 

The fatal cases of cholera were preceded frequently, if not 
invariably, by a stage of diarrhosa, which attracted little or no at-* 
tention. That stage is, it is believed, not included in the cholera 
duration, which is reckoned by the medical attendants who mado 
the returns, from the manifestation of the first characteristic symp- 
toms of the epidemic. 

Of 19,232 fatal cases of cholera in males, 315 terminated in 
six hours, leaving 18,917 alive ; 3,030 died in the next six hours, 
leaving 15,887 alive at the end of the twelfth hour ; 4,965 died in 
twelve and less than eighteen hours, leaving 10,922, or rather 
more than half the number of those who die, alive at the end of 
eighteen hours. If a man is to die of epidemic cholera, it is pro- 
bable that he will die in the first day (twenty-four hours), as out 
of 19,232 males who die, 10,187 die within, and 9,045 survive that 
period. 

RELATION OF ELEVATION OF THE SOIL WITH 
MORTALITY FROM CHOLERA IN LONDON. Dr. Fan- 
states that the elevation of the soil in London had a more con- 
stant relation with the mortality from cholera than any other 



304 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 



known element ; the mortality having been in the inverse ratio of 
the elevation. The mortality of the nineteen highest districts 
was at the rate of thirty-three in 10,000, and at the nineteen lowest 
districts 100 in 10,000. The elevation in the two groups was as 
seventy-one to ten feet above the high-water mark of the Thames, 
or as seven to one ; while the mortality was as one to three, or in 
the inverse ratio. 

In the two groups of the six districts, supplied with the waters 
of the Thames at Kew and Hammersmith, the mean elevation was 
35 and 175 feet, the mortality from cholera nineteen and eleven 
in 10,000. In the two groups of twelve districts, supplied with 
Thames water between Battersea and Waterloo Bridges, the mean 
elevations were one-eighth foot and ten feet; the mortality 168 
and 77 in 10,000. In the two groups of twenty districts, supplied 
with the waters of the New River and the Lea, the mean elevation 
was 24 and 59| feet ; the mortality from cholera was 59 and 37. 
While the effects of the water and of the wealth of the districts 
are apparent, we do not, in this analysis, conceal the effects of 
elevation. 



LONDON. 
GROUP OF DISTRICTS. 


Deaths from 
Cholera to 
10000 Per- 
sons Living. 


Density of 
Population 
(Persons to 
an Acre). 


Elevation in 
Feet above 
High Water 
Mark, 
(Trinity). 


Annual Va- 
lue of Houses 
(Year ending 
April 5th, 
1843). 


6 Districts supplied with Water"] 
taken from the Thames I 
above Battersea . J 


15 


72 


105 




82 


20 Districts supplied with Water"! 
from the New River, the I 
Lea, and the Ravenshourne J 


48 


137 


42 


44 


12 Districts supplied with Water "^ 
taken from the Thames, 1 
between Battersea and [ 


123 


73 


5 


31 


Waterloo Bridges . J 











Cholera was excessively fatal in all the four districts which lie 
on a level with, or below the Trinity high- water mark ; it destroyed 
144, 161, 164, and 205, in 10,000 inhabitants. The following 
diagram and description are from Dr. Fair's report : 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

A DIAGRAM. 



305 



representing the mortality from cholera in 
different elevations, 




London to 10000 of the population, at sixteen 
from to 350 feet. 



7f 



"The figures in the centre express the number of deaths from cholera to 10,000 inhabitants living 
at the elevations expressed in feet at the side of the diagram. 

The length of the black horizontal Unfit shows the calculated relative fatality of cholera in districts, 
at relative elevations indicated by the height from the base of the diagram. The dotted lines indicate 
the mean mortality observed in the elevations given. Thus : in districts at 90 feet above the Thames, 
the average mortality from cholera was 22 in 10,000 inhabitants. 



306 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

The relation discovered between the elevation of the soil, and 
the mortality from cholera, is so important that it was thought 
right after the above calculations were made to submit the prin- 
ciple to another test, by comparing the elevation and the mor- 
tality from cholera of each sub-district. The population of the 
sub-districts, in 1851, having been enumerated, it became possible 
to construct the tables which, although they make the mortality no 
the lowest level less, and are deranged by the deaths in hospitals 
and workhouses, entirely confirm the announced law. 

We must look with extreme interest to the confirmation, within 
our intertropical possessions, of the law here deduced by Dr. Fair ; 
the question being one of extreme importance as regards the wel- 
fare both of the native inhabitants, and of the European troops. 
The low-lying towns on the coast, says Dr. Farr, were all at- 
tacked by cholera ; and the disease proved three times more fatal 
on the coast than in the interior of the country. Cholera also 
appeared first in the ports of England, and gradually extended 
into the interior. 

The epidemic is stated by this authority " not to have been so 
fatal on the primary geological formations on the granite, the 
Silurian, or the Devonian systems ; while Herefordshire, however, 
on the old red sandstone, escaped, Cornwall and South DVvon, on 
the same formation, suffered severely. Plymouth, and the dis- 
tricts around the Sound into which the Tamar flows, were one of 
the principal cholera fields ; but it is a port, and the mouth of a 
river which rises partially in the millstone grit, forming a part of 
the carboniferous system." 

THE SIX THEORIES AS TO THE CAUSE AND PRO- 
PAGATION OF EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. The varieties of 
opinion as to the remote cause of Asiatic Cholera, according to 
Dr. Baly, and the causes of its spreading are very numerous, but 
all that need be referred to may be reduced to six principal 
theories which must be briefly stated, since it is only by reference 
to them that the value and import of the facts to be examined can 
be estimated. 

" 1. The first theory is, that the disease spreads by an ' atmo- 
spheric influence or epidemic constitution,' its progress consisting 
of a succession of local outbreaks, and that the particular localities 
affected are determined by certain ' localising conditions,' which 
are, first, all those well-knowu circumstances which render places 
insalubrious ; and, second, a susceptibility of the disease in the 
inhabitants of such places, produced by the habitual respiration of 
an impure atmosphere. 

" 2. The second theory, following the analogy known to be due 
to morbid poisons, regards the cause of cholera as a morbific 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 307 

matter which undergoes increase only within the human body, and 
is propagated by means of emanations from the bodies of the 
sick, in other words, by contagion. 

" 3. The third theory that propounded by Dr. Snow gives a 
more specific form to the doctrine of contagion. It supposes that 
the poison of cholera is swallowed, and acts directly on the 
mucous membrane of the intestines, is at the same time repro- 
duced in the intestinal canal, and passes out, much increased, 
with the discharges; and that these discharges afterwards, in 
various ways, but chiefly by becoming mixed with the drinking 
water in rivers and wells, reach the alimentary canals of other 
persons, and produce the like disease in them. 

" 4. The fourth theory assumes that the cause of cholera is a 
morbific matter or poison, but supposes that it is reproduced only 
in the air, not within the bodies of those whom it affects, and that 
its diffusion is due to the agency of the atmosphere. 

" 5. The fifth theory is a modification of the fourth. It admits 
that the cholera matter is increased by a species of fermentation, 
or other mode of reproduction in impure, damp, and stagnant air, 
but maintains that it, nevertheless, is distributed and diffused by 
means of human intercourse ; it being earned in ships and other 
vehicles, and even in the clothes of men, especially the foul clothes 
of vagrants, and the accumulated baggage of armies. 

" 6. The sixth theory combines the second and fourth, assum- 
ing that the material causes of the disease may be increased and 
propagated in and by impure air, as well as in and by the human 
body." 

Such are the theories ; and the object of Dr. Baly's Report to 
the College of Physicians is to inquire into the facts, and to learn 
which of these theories is most in accordance with them. The 
conclusions arrived at are as follow : 

1. The theory that the cause of the disease is a general state 
of the atmosphere a general " atmospheric influence," or " epi- 
demic constitution" has been found untenable. The wide extent 
which the epidemic soon attained in England in 1848, the obvious 
dependence of its increase in the summer of 1849, and of its de- 
crease and subsequent disappearance in the autumn and winter of 
that year, on some influence exerted throughout the country, and 
the association of the disease, when it was very rife, with those 
characters of site and defects of sanitary provisions, which have 
been termed " localising conditions," these three general facts 
constitute the sole support of the theory in question. Other facts, 
as general and as well established, are irreconcilable with it. The 
duration of the epidemic for many months in a country, and even 
in a single city, is obviously inconsistent with the belief that the 
cause is an influence belonging to the moving body of the atmo- 

x 2 



308 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

sphere ; and if the atmospheric influence is regarded as independent 
of the moving air, though acting through it some "electrical state" 
or " telluric influence " the following features of the epidemic are 
still difficulties little less than insuperable in the way of adopting 
this theory : first, the very partial distribution of the epidemic, 
even among places presenting equally the so-called " localising 
conditions;" second, the outbreak of the disease at different 
times, in several parts of a comparatively limited tract of country, 
in several parts of the same town, or even of the same building ; 
third, the cessation of the disease, also at different times in dif- 
ferent localities ; fourth, its lingering in a few spots where the 
general conditions favouring it have obviously ceased ; fifth, its 
extension from centres in different parts of the country ; and, 
sixth, the evident connection in many cases subsisting between 
the successive outbreaks in neighbouring places, and especially 
in different parts of a town or of a public establishment, where 
the occurrence of the first outbreak of the series has evidently 
been the condition detennining those which followed. Still more 
difficult it must be to explain satisfactorily by this theory, in any 
form which might be given to it, the comparatively slow and step- 
by-step progress of the epidemic in a determinate course over a 
continent ; its slower progress in winter than in summer ; its fre- 
quent arrest in the winter ; its often affecting a mere narrow tract 
of country, leaving unscathed the regions on either side ; its ex- 
tension through a country in different directions at the same time ; 
its march for months together against the direction of the winds ; 
the rapidity with which it has crossed the Atlantic Ocean, con- 
trasted in a striking manner with its slow progress on land ; the 
constancy with which, in invading an island or fresh continent, it 
has appeared at the largest seaports before extending inland; the 
great leaps it sometimes seems to make over entire countries in 
passing from one seaport to another ; and, lastly, many facts to 
be noticed presently, which clearly connect its extension with the 
intercourse and locomotion of mankind. 

2. The persistence of the epidemic for a certain time, even in 
localities of small extent, and its very partial distribution in a 
country, a town, and even parts of towns, are two facts which at 
once suggest the inference that the cause of the disease is a ma- 
terial substance, and that it is only partially distributed. This 
inference is confirmed by the characters above referred to, as 
those presented by the epidemic in its progress over a country, 
and by the fact that, within a limited area, many spots have re- 
mained free from it, which exactly resembled the localities at- 
tacked in respect of the supposed localising conditions. It is 
certain, however, that cholera is so far connected with the con- 
ditions of low site and defective sanitary provisions, that it is 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 309 

never very rife, except where they are present in a marked degree. 
Now, all these conditions alike tend to produce a damp and im- 
pure state of the air in the places where they exist ; while the 
variations of the intensity of the epidemic, attending variations of 
season and temperature, and the slighter effects of other known 
meteorological changes, are most easily explicable by referring 
them to the increase or decrease of moisture and impurities in the 
air, which necessary result from a rise or fall of temperature. The 
natural inference is, therefore, that the matter, which is the cause 
of cholera, increases and finds the conditions for its action, under 
the influence of foul or damp air with the aid of some degree of 
warmth ; and this being premised, other facts become intelligible, 
namely, the persistence of the disease in the winter, for the most 
part in the interior of large establishments, where there is warmth, 
together with impurity of the air produced by the accumulation of 
many human beings within a limited space ; die preference mani- 
fested by the disease throughout an epidemic for low and densely- 
populated districts, especially the tracts of countries about the 
mouths of rivers, and for crowded towns and dirty ill-ventilated 
parts of towns, or single dwellings of the same character even in 
elevated situations ; and likewise its appearing at the commence- 
ment of an epidemic, as a general rule, first in places of the cha- 
racter described, since in these places the impure and damp air 
would be found earliest and in greatest abundance. 

The increase of the epidemic at its climax results chiefly from 
the increased number of individual localities then affected ; and 
since this increase in the number of separate outbreaks takes 
place, as a general rule, most rapidly at that season when a high 
temperature, and other meteorological conditions, tend to increase 
the impurity of the air, and in those districts where local condi- 
tions affect the state of the air in the same way, it may be inferred 
that, while the increase and action of the cause of the disease 
depend on the state of the air in small localities, its transmission 
from spot to spot is facilitated by the state of the atmosphere over 
larger areas. This view is, of course, corroborated by the more 
rapid extension of the epidemic over the continent of Europe in 
the summer season, by its extension, especially along low tracts 
of country bordering on rivers, while it avoids mountainous 
regions ; and by the fact that in this country it was very late in 
attacking some districts lying far inland, and on a high level, 
though they were densely populated, and eventually, owing to 
their defective local sanitary conditions, were visited severely. 

The state of the atmosphere which thus favours the transmis- 
sion of the cause of cholera from one country to another, and that 
opposite state which, at other times, and in other places, prevents 
its transmission, thus arresting die progress of an epidemic, or- in 



310 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

a country or town where it already exists, causing it to become 
extinct, are in part known only by their effects. The former 
state is generally associated with a high temperature, the latter 
with a low or falling temperature ; but there occur very remarkable 
variations in the intensity of the epidemic not referable to tem- 
perature, which show that some unknown conditions of atmo- 
sphere, though not the cause of cholera, exert a powerful influence 
over it, either by acting directly on the material cause of the dis- 
ease, or by affecting other matters in the air which enable it to 
exist or increase. 

It may further be inferred from the very local and persistent 
character of the outbreaks of cholera, that its cause is not a 
gaseous, diffusible substance, but rather matter in the form of 
solid or liquid particles capable of attaching themselves to sur- 
faces of other bodies. 

3. The results arrived at with reference to the means by which 
this cholera poison is conveyed from place to place, have next to 
be noticed. A large body of evidence renders it certain that 
human intercourse has, at least, a share in the propagation of the 
disease, and that it is under some circumstances the most im- 
portant if not the sole means of effecting its diffusion. 

The progressive advance of the epidemic along great lines of 
human traffic, the rate of its progress varying according to the 
activity and means of human intercourse in different countries, but 
in no case surpassing the rate at which men travel; and its 
appearing first at the seaports of any island or continent which it 
is newly invading, are evidence only of the presumptive kind. A 
nearer approach to actual proof is made in the facts that in India 
the disease has travelled for some hundreds of miles, and during 
several months in the teeth of the monsoon, and is therefore, at 
least in some cases, independent of the influence of the wind ; 
and that it has continued to prevail in ships during voyages of 
many weeks after they had left the infected parts, and also among 
bodies of troops for several weeks, while they marched through 
districts till then healthy. 

Evidence of a more direct kind is afforded by the circumstance 
that the origin of the disease in the seaports of the British Isles 
and America has, in a large proportion of cases, been immediately 
by the arrival of ships from infected ports, and of ships actually 
bringing persons already affected with cholera. In several in- 
stances, too, the first patients attacked in these ports had had 
communication, more or less immediate, with sick persons brought 
in the ships ; and in some cases the facts have been such as to 
admit of no other explanation than that the disease was imparted 
by the infected ships. 

The information collected relative to the origin of the disease 



I I'll-: Ml< CHOLERA. 311 

in different towns, parts of towns, and public establishments in 
England, also leaves no reasonable room for doubt that the dis- 
ease is propagated by human intercourse on land as well as by 
sea ; and the published works, giving accounts of recent epidemics 
in France, Germany, and America, support the same view. 

The facts, however, by no means sanction the belief that cholera 
is always propagated in this way. On the contrary, it is certain 
that the extension of the disease over large towns, if not over large 
areas, may take place independently of communication between 
the sick and the healthy. This is proved by the frequent outbreak 
of the disease within public establishments, such as prisons and 
lunatic asylums, in almost every case without a source of infection 
being traced, and likewise by the rapidity with which the arrival 
of an infected ship, or the occurrence of the first indigenous case 
in a large city, is followed by the appearance of the disease in 
various and distant parts of the city; the extension of the epi- 
demic having, in some of these cases, been so rapid that several 
hundreds or even thousands of persons have perished in die 
course of between two and three weeks. 

In the cases where human intercourse cannot have been the 
means of diffusing cholera, the agent most likely to have conveyed 
the poison from one spot to another is the wind. The poison of 
cholera being so dependent on the states of the air for its exist- 
ence, increase, and power of action, and having the capability of 
passing from place to place, must, it would seem, not only be 
exposed to the air, but, even though it be in part attached to the 
surface of bodies, must, in part, also float in the air. The statis- 
tical facts, showing the extension of the disease from centres, and 
the successive attacks of different localities, though they might be 
owing to the transmission of the cause of the disease by human 
intercourse, are quite in accordance with the view that the poison 
is scattered by varying atmospheric currents from the foci in which 
it had been developed and increased ; while the extension of the 
disease through a large city with the rapidity above mentioned is, 
indeed, explicable by no other agency, if the cause of the disease be 
a substance of the nature supposed. There are, however, few direct 
observations which tend to confirm this view, by showing a corres- 
pondence between the position of a place newly attacked with 
regard to an existing focus of the disease, and the direction of the 
wind at the time or just previously ; and of the few observations 
which exist, the majority are unsatisfactory. 

If, however, the atmospheric currents, as is most probable, share 
\viih human intercourse the office of disseminating cholera, their 
part would seem, from the facts communicated to the Cholera 
Committee, as well as from theoretical considerations, to be rather 
the diffusion of the disease over limited areas, its transmission 



.'312 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 



from some spots to others near at hand, than its conveyance to 
distant places, which is probably effected, in a majority of cases, 
by the locomotion of men. But the proportion of instances in 
which the introduction of the epidemic into towns, parts of towns, 
and individual houses or public establishments has been due to 
the one or to the other mode of diffusion, cannot at present be 
determined. 

4. The propagation of the disease by human intercourse does 
not prove its contagious nature. If the poison of cholera in- 
creases in, or under the influence of, damp and impure air, and is 
likewise capable of attaching itself to the surfaces of bodies, to the 
walls of rooms, and to furniture, it will also be collected by the 
clothes of persons living in infected dwellings, will be carried by 
them from place to place, and, wherever it meets with the condi- 
tion favourable to its increase and action, will produce fresh out- 
breaks of the epidemic. That its propagation in such a mode as 
this is at least more frequent than its communication by virtue of 
true contagion is to be inferred from the impossibility of tracing 
communication between the first and subsequent cases at the com- 
mencement of the epidemic in a large city ; from the apparent im- 
possibility that any direct communication can have taken place in 
many of these cases ; still more decidedly from the great rapidity 
with which the disease sometimes spreads at once through the 
whole population of a city ; from the influence of season and 
temperature, and of the characters of localities on the rate of the 
diffusion of the epidemic ; and from the occasional alternations of 
its intensity during its prevalence in a town. The ultimate cessa- 
tion of an epidemic throughout a country, and even a continent, 
the restriction of its course in crossing a continent to a tract of 
comparatively limited extent, furnish, perhaps, still stronger objec- 
tions to the theory of contagion ; for not only are they, like most 
of those before mentioned, characters which diseases known to be 
in the strict sense contagious do not present, but they suggest the 
belief that the propagation of the disease cannot be maintained by 
any matter emanating from the bodies of the sick. 

Some facts, which constitute presumptive arguments, of more or 
less force, in favour of the dependence of the epidemic on conta- 
gion, namely, the relation, as a general rule, borne by the numbers 
of the population of a town, and even of a public establishment, 
to the duration of the epidemic there, the successive attacks of the 
different inmates of a house, or of the ward of a lunatic asylum, 
the ultimate cessation of the disease after a limited number of days 
in each house or ward, and the fact that, in the cases where the 
introduction of the disease into a locality has been traced to human 
intercourse, the supposed vehicle of the infection has usually been 
a person already suffering from the disease, or clothes or bedding 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 313 

which had been used by the sick in other places, all these facts 
have been found susceptible of explanations in other ways ; though 
the explanations offered have in some instances been necessarily 
of a conjectural nature. 

With reference to two other arguments which, if established, 
would only prove that cholera is in some cases contagious, the 
evidence examined has been found contradictory. 

The frequent communication of the disease by the clothes orbed- 
ding of the sick, to the persons who handle or wash them, under 
circumstances rendering other sources of infection, than emana- 
tions received from the bodies of the sick, improbable, appears to 
be by no means proved. The preponderance of evidence is, in 
fact, opposed to its occurrence. On the other hand, the evidence 
respecting the especial liability of nurses or others attending on the 
sick to suffer from cholera, though conflicting, is in some instances 
of such a character as to preclude the absolute rejection of the 
view that the disease has a contagious property, even though it 
does not usually spread by virtue of contagion. 

5. The question, whether the poison of cholera enters the body 
through the lungs, or through the alimentary canal, has not been 
conclusively solved ; but no sufficient reasons have been found 
for adopting the theory that the poison is swallowed with the food 
or drink, is reproduced in the alimentary canal, and being dis- 
charged with the secretions of the stomach and intestinal canal, 
propagates the disease by finding access in the same vehicles to 
the stomachs of other persons. This theory has been found es- 
pecially inconsistent with the great mass of evidence which estab- 
lishes the influence of the different conditions of the atmosphere, 
and with nearly all those facts which would be equally opposed to 
any view which regards the human body as the exclusive nidus for 
the reproduction of the morbific matter. So much, indeed, as at- 
tributes die extension of the disease among the inhabitants of 
groups of houses or of towns, to the contamination of the water used 
for drinking or culinary purposes, undoubtedly explains very 
readily some facts in the history of the epidemic in London ; but 
even this part of the theory is found to be supported by very scanty 
evidence, and to be contradicted by other facts which, if they do not 
prove that the character of the water dnmk is altogether destitute 
of influence with reference to the diffusion of cholera, at least show 
that its power and effects are very inconsiderable in comparison 
with those of other conditions. 

Of the six theories then, above-mentioned, that alone is sup- 
ported by a large amount of evidence which regards the cause of 
cholera as a matter increasing by some process, whether chemical 
or organic, in impure and damp air, and assumes that, although, of 
. oiirvc -, ditViiM-d with the air, it is also distributed and diffused by 
means of human intercourse. 



314 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

This theory explains much that would otherwise seem capricious 
in the course of cholera ; and it elucidates the relation subsisting 
between cholera and other epidemic diseases. Several epidemics 
of cholera have sometimes been immediately preceded in some 
countries or cities by the prevalence of fevers or of diarrhoea and 
dysentery ; and this has been made an argument in support of the 
vague notion of an " epidemic constitution." For it has been sup- 
posed that this epidemic influence, in the course of its develop- 
ment, gives rise at one time to fever or diarrhoea, and at another 
time to cholera. It has been imagined, therefore, that the preva- 
lent diarrhoea preceding cholera resulted from the slighter of the 
peculiar atmospheric influence which subsequently produced the 
more formidable epidemic. But it is not by any means a general 
rule that an increasing prevalence of diarrhoea, or of any other 
epidemic disease, precedes the appearance of cholera ; and the 
occasional association of cholera with such diseases is capable of 
being otherwise explained. The fact in question, and the simila- 
rity of the local conditions favouring cholera and epidemic diseases 
generally, together with other facts examined, seem to agree best 
with the view that these several diseases are caused by different 
poisons, all of which find their means of increase in similar states 
of the atmosphere, though there probably are modifications of the 
atmospheric conditions more essential or more favourable to some 
of these diseases than to others. 

In the statement that the theory above indicated is the only one 
supported by a large amount of evidence, it is not implied that this 
theory is adopted to the exclusion of all others. For the possibility 
that cholera is occasionally communicated by a virus produced in, 
and emanating from the sick, has already been admitted ; and 
other questions relative to the means by which the cause of the 
disease is disseminated, and its introduction into the human body 
effected, have been left open for further inquiry." 

PREVENTIVE MEASURES. The ultimate object of an 
inquiry into the subjects treated of, are stated by Dr. Baly to be 
the discovery of the means by which the onward progress of cho- 
lera may be stayed its increased diffusion moderated, and indivi- 
duals protected from its attacks. The partial attainment of this 
object is all that at present can be hoped for ; but the principles 
by which endeavours to attain it thus partially should be guided, 
are, for the most part, free from doubt. 

" From among the great features of a cholera epidemic three 
stand forth as of paramount importance : one, the undoubted in- 
fluence of locality and of the sanitary condition of towns and 
dwellings on the degree of severity with which the epidemic visits 
them ; a second, the equally certain influence of season and tern- 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 315 

perature, together with some unknown condition of the atmosphere 
on the general prevalence and rate of extension of the epidemic ; 
and a third, the share taken by human intercourse in determining 
not only the progress of the epidemic, and the direction of its ad- 
vance, across a continent, but also its extension from continent to 
continent, and most probably its communication from one town to 
another in the same country, and from one locality to another in 
the same town. This third feature of the disease is less generally 
admitted than the other two ; but the question here is not whether 
the evidence is so complete as to compel belief, but simply whether 
it amounts to so great a degree of probability that it cannot merely 
be neglected in the consideration of the measures to be taken for 
the prevention, arrest, or mitigation of a destructive pestilence. 

1. With regard to \hejirst of the features of the epidemic, there 
cannot be a doubt with regard to the course of action which it calls 
for, as the duty and interest of every portion of the community. 
The more fortunate classes are, it is true, exposed to proportion ably 
little danger, since they are often able to leave the neighbourhood 
of spots in which the disease is raging, and usually dwell in more 
elevated, open, and airy parts of towns, and in more spacious and 
cleanly and less crowded houses. 

But it is also true that the power of the disease through a town 
is increased in proportion to the degree in which the conditions of 
insalubrity referred to are present in various parts of it ; and not 
merely the poor, who live in the spots where moisture and foul air 
feed the cause of the disease, but all the inhabitants, are exposed 
by the existence of these evils to a greater risk of becoming its 
victims. And further, it is certain that the more intensely the 
epidemic prevails in a large town, the more does the whole dis- 
trict for miles around suffer, and the more danger is there of its 
being propagated to other districts. 

By improving the drainage in low parts of the town, opening 
close courts, thinning the buildings in the more crowded parts, 
putting a stop to the burial of the dead in large cities, keeping even 
the smallest streets constantly free from filth, covering drains and 
sewers, and abolishing cesspools, and other sources of foulness in 
the air and soil ; by improving the dwellings of the poor in 
respect of ventilation, giving them the means of maintaining a due 
warmth in their rooms, without excluding the external air, promot- 
ing the general substitution of good water-closets for open privies, 
inculcating cleanly habits among the poor, and affording them that 
most important requisite, an abundant and constant supply of 
good water, by means of which they may attain cleanliness ; by 
adopting these measures, it cannot be doubted that the ravages of 
the disease would not only be lessened among the people dwelling 
in the localities thus improved, but also greatly weaken the force 



316 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

of the epidemic over a far wider space. All tbese things 
should be done by the public authorities before the pestilence 
comes, and in the time of its presence, it would further be wise to 
enforce cleanliness and ventilation even in the interior of houses 
by a house-to-house inspection. 

These principles seem now to be more generally understood, 
and happily are being more widely acted upon than at any former 
period. But as public functionaries are apt to direct their efforts 
too exclusively to the removing evidences of dirt, and to think all 
must be well where the eye finds cleanliness, it may not be super- 
fluous to call special attention to the fact, that mere overcrowding 
and want of ventilation have in several instances enabled cholera to 
exert its worst effects. This want of ventilation is especially com- 
mon in workhouses and other pauper establishments, and in pub- 
lic lodging-houses, in which the number of inmates ought to be 
strictly limited, and in a time of pestilence reduced. 

2. The consideration of the second great feature of the epidemic, 
teaches that the efforts to restrain and overcome it, though less 
obviously needed, might be more successful in the cold than in the 
hot season. In the winter the diffusion of the disease takes place 
slowly and with difficulty, human intercourse being probably, in 
certain states of the atmosphere, the sole means by which its pro- 
pagation from place to place is effected. Hence the disease at 
this time gradually becomes limited to a few isolated spots ; its 
cause exists for the most part only in the interior of inhabited 
buildings, and in these it ought to be attacked. Wherever cases 
of cholera occur during the winter, those measures of purification 
which at all times would be proper, should be put in force with 
the more energy, from the consideration that during this season 
they are likely to be attended with greater success. 

Free ventilation is, perhaps, the most efficient means of destroy- 
ing the cholera poison, especially in winter, for there is reason to 
believe that in fresh cold air the poisonous matter soon becomes 
inert. The removal of all obvious dirt, and the thorough cleansing 
of every surface of wall, floor, or ceiling, with the unsparing appli- 
cation of lime and of disinfecting fluids, the washing of furniture, 
and the exposure of it to the open air, the destruction of foul 
clothes, even of those worn by inmates of the house who are yet 
healthy, as well as those which belong to the sick ; all these mea- 
sures might reasonably be enforced during the winter, since at 
that season so great a result as the entire eradication of the pesti- 
lence might possibly be attained. This result, however, can be 
hoped for only from the systematic adoption of such measures in 
all infected parts of the country simultaneously. For, if the dis- 
ease be allowed to maintain itself in a single district throughout 
the winter, and the early months of spring, it will most probably 



I I'll'! MM CHOLERA. 317 

increase there, and soon spread widely, in spite of all efforts to 
restrain it in the ensuing summer season ; the renewed warmth 
and other qualities of the air more frequently attendant on a high 
than on a low temperature, enabling the poison then to maintain 
its morbific power, or even to increase, in its passage through the 
atmosphere. 

May not other means of preventing the extension of the epide- 
mic, whether in the winter or the summer season, be suggested by 
the facts relative to the share borne by human intercourse in its 
diffusion ? 

If the march of the epidemic is dependent mainly on human 
intercourse, and if foul ships and barges, bodies of troops, dirty 
vagrants, and foul clothes, are the means by which the infection is 
most frequently carried from one country to another, surely some 
measures might be devised which would be at the same time 
effectual in checking the propagation and extension of the disease, 
and consistent with the other great interests of society. 

Quarantine can no longer be adopted as the means of prevent- 
ing the entrance of cholera into England, for it is incompatible 
with the present state of commercial intercourse, and with the 
well-being of a commercial country. Moreover, quarantine has 
undoubtedly often failed of its object, partly from its being evaded 
by the crews of infected ships, partly, perhaps, from the ships 
being placed so near to habitations on shore, that the infected 
air of the ship would be carried to them by atmospheric cur- 
rents ; and, in some cases, probably, because clothes still con- 
taining infectious matter were conveyed on shore during, or subse- 
quent to, the period of quarantine. 

For similar reasons sanitary cordons around towns are now im- 
practicable, and have at former times often, though apparently 
not always, failed to prevent the diffusion of cholera. But if tho 
ordinary regulations of quarantine and sanitary cordons are relin- 
quished, it is the more desirable to adopt other measures which 
shall oppose some obstacle to the importation of cholera, and to 
its propagation from one town to another in this country. 

It cannot be doubted that ships are more or less fitted to convey 
the disease or its cause from port to port, in proportion to their 
want of cleanliness, defective ventilation, and over-crowded state, 
and that if these evils, of which the two former are so flagrant in 
the smaller trading vessels, and the two latter in ships carrying 
passengers, could be removed, the danger of imparting cholera 
would be greatly lessened. While, therefore, it is much to be 
desired, on general grounds, that measures should be adopted for 
inculcating and enforcing attention to cleanliness and free ventila- 
tion in the whole mercantile marine, the especial application of 
measures of this kind to ships coming from ports where cholera 
prevails, as far as may be practicable, is imperatively called for. 



318 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

A close inspection of all such vessels should be made on arrival 
in port ; and it would not be unreasonable to require that, in con- 
sideration of the restrictions of quarantine being abrogated, there 
should be brought with each ship, coming from an infected port, 
an official certificate of its having been inspected, and found 
cleanly and not overcrowded, and the crew healthy at the time of 
its sailing. 

On the arrival of ships having persons ill of cholera on board, 
or having had deaths from that disease during the voyage, more 
active measures must be adopted ; and the best that have been 
recommended seem to be the removal of the sick to a hospital 
ship, moored at a distance from the other shipping in the harbour, 
or to a special hospital in an isolated and airy situation on shore ; 
2, permission to the rest of the crew to land after exchanging their 
dress for fresh clothes provided from the shore ; 3, the thorough 
exposure of all articles of dress and baggage to the air and dis- 
infecting agents before they are removed from the ship ; and 4, 
the thorough cleansing of the ship itself, with the free use of dis- 
infecting agents in every part of it, but especially in the parts 
occupied by the crew and passengers, or their baggage. 

If, notwithstanding such precautions as these, cholera finds its 
way into the country, then the low lodging houses frequented by 
vagrants and the vagrant-wards of workhouses should be narrowly 
watched. For these especially are the places in which the dis- 
ease is fostered, and whence it seems to be distributed widely to 
other localities. Tn these establishments, then, the most scrupu- 
lous cleanliness and free ventilation should be maintained, and 
even the personal cleanliness of the inmates as far as possible 
enforced. 

When cholera appears in the places referred to, or within 
dwellings of the poor, intercourse with the surrounding population 
cannot of course be interdicted. But still it is possible to adopt 
measures which would not only check the extension of the disease 
among the inhabitants of the infected houses, but greatly diminish 
the risk of its propagation to other localities. Of these the most 
important is the provision of spacious and well-ventilated build- 
ings in airy dry sites for the reception of the inhabitants of the 
infected spot, while their dwellings are cleansed and disinfected. 
These " Houses of Refuge," it cannot be doubted have saved 
many lives from destruction by cholera, both in this country and 
on the continent. No considerable town should be without one ; 
and several should be prepared in the environs of the larger cities. 
The " Houses of Refuge " would receive the healthy, but for those 
already labouring under cholera other asylums must be found. 

There has been much difference of opinion respecting the de- 
sirableness of establishing Cholera Hospitals. But it surely can- 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 319 

not be disputed that those struck with cholera amongst the poor, 
ought to be carried to some hospital, if they are at all in a fit 
state to be removed. They cannot be properly treated at their 
homes, and mere change to a purer air offers them a better chance 
of recovery. Moreover, in the rooms in which the poor are struck 
with cholera, those who nurse them, and in a less degree those 
who visit them, are exposed to danger, probably not from con- 
tagion, but in most cases from the pestiferous atmosphere of the 
locality ; while, if the sick are placed in the spacious and well- 
ventilated ward of a hospital, nearly all danger from approaching 
them is at an end. Wherever, therefore, general hospitals do not 
exist, or cannot afford sufficient space, Cholera Hospitals should 
be established. 

The buildings selected for the purpose should, if possible, be 
situated in the least crowded parts of the towns or districts in 
which they are needed. They should have spacious rooms, with 
provision for permitting the free circulation of air through them ; 
and during their occupation, the most strict attention should be 
paid to their ventilation and cleanliness : otherwise they may 
prove an injury rather than a benefit. 

In the general hospitals, too, the same conditions of ample 
space, free ventilation, and scrupulous cleanliness, are the essen- 
tial requisites. If they are provided, it is probably a matter of 
little moment whether the cholera patients are placed together in 
special wards, or dispersed among the ordinary patients in the 
general wards of these establishments. 

Whether the sick be removed to Cholera Hospitals, or to wards 
of general hospitals, it should equally be an object of care to pre- 
vent the accidental introduction 01 infection together with the 
patients, and with this object it is desirable that the clothes 
brought with the patients should be removed from them in a 
special receiving-room, or at once be either destroyed, or sub- 
jected to a disinfecting process. And even in the case of the 
nealthv removed from infected dwellings to houses of refuge, care 
should be taken that the foul clothes be not carried with them, 
and that the clothes they wear should as soon as possible undergo 
an efficient cleansing. 

The propriety of adopting measures founded on the belief that 
human intercourse aids in the dissemination of cholera, has been 
urged upon those who may still doubt the propagation of the 
disease in that way. And, on the same principle, other precau- 
tions, suggested by the view that the discharges from the stomach 
and intestines contain the cholera poison, must here be recom- 
mended, although the theory based on that view has been found 
generally untenable, and, at most, susceptible of very partial ap- 
plication. The precautions referred to are, the immersion of tne 



320 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

soiled linen of the patients, and subsequently of their bedding, in 
water to which some disinfecting liquid has been added ; care that 
neither the food nor the drinking water can in any way be conta- 
minated by the discharges of the patients, and especially that care 
on the part of nurses and others about the sick be taken to wash 
their hands before taking food ; to which may be added as a 
measure more feasible in hospitals than in the dwellings of the 
poor, the placing a small quantity of chemical decomposing liquid 
in all the vessels into which the discharges of the patients are re- 
ceived. 

One other method of combating the pestilence has been pro- 
posed and partially carried into effect ; namely, the house-to-house 
visitation of infected districts, with the view of discovering and 
treating all cases of diarrhoea, some of which may be presumed to 
be cases of cholera in an early stage. This measure, however, is 
based on principles which do not properly belong to the subject 
of this report. It would, therefore, be out of place here to in- 
quire into the amount of success with which it had been at- 
tended." 

PREVENTIVE MEASURES IN THE ARMY. The fol- 
lowing " Instructions," framed by desire of the Director- General 
of the Medical Department of her Majesty's Army, were issued 
under authority of the Secretary-at-War, and dated War Office, 
August 31st, 1848. " These Regulations are to be considered as 
General Orders, and are to be observed as such by all persons to 
whom they may apply : none of them are to be modified or dis- 
regarded, unless special reasons shall exist for so doing, and even 
not then, without the consent of the Director- General, unless the 
delay which would be necessary to obtain that sanction, was likely 
to be the occasion of injury, either to individuals or the public. 
In the event of there being reason to anticipate the latter, the 
alterations considered necessary may be effected, but their nature 
and extent must be immediately reported by the medical officer 
who adopts or advises them." 

" When Cholera shall have been officially reported to be prevailing 
in the country, but distant from Military Stations, the follow- 
ing INSTRUCTIONS are to have effect : 

I. Medical officers will exercise more than common vigilance 
in the discharge of their professional duties ; they will devote 
more than ordinary attention to the interior economy of their 
corps, the constitution of the men, and to every circumstance, 
however remotely affecting their health. They will be expected 



EPIDKMIC ( HOJ.KRA. 321 

to be cognizant of every military arrangement involving the health 
of the troops, and to put themselves in communication with their 
commanding officers on any alteration of arrangements in the 
ordinary duties, which they may consider beneficial or likely to 
afford greater security. 

2. Every possible precaution must be taken to guard against 
intemperance, crowding in small ill-ventilated rooms, use of un- 
wholesome food, deficiency of clothing, bedding, fuel, &c. : and, 
if found to exist, measures must be taken to correct or remove 
them. 

8. Medical officers are to attend the ordinary parades, and ob- 
serve the health of the men, without exciting suspicion. 

4. Great attention to personal cleanliness is to be enjoined, and 
the men cautioned carefully to avoid unnecessary night exposure 
and damp, and to change their clothes when wet. 

5. Especial care is to be observed in the cooking of vegetables ; 
and lamb, pork, and stale fish interdicted. 

6. Roasted or baked meat is to be provided twice a week, in- 
stead of boiled meat. 

7. Drains, dust-holes, privies, and the removal of accumulated 
filth, are to be specially attended to. 

8. The barrack-bedding is to be aired daily, but not in the 
open air in winter ; and great caution observed as to the perfect 
dryness of fresh supplies. 

9. As attacks of the disease seem to be frequently determined 
by exposure to wet, damp, unusual intemperance, and other irre- 
gularities, ever)' means should be taken to prevent those. 

10. At this period all ailments, particularly diarrhoea, require 
the strictest attention ; and the commanding officer should ex- 
plain to the men the importance of immediately reporting them- 
selves when they feel in any way unwell. 

11. Where there is any suspicion of the approach of cholera, 
immediate steps are to be taken to establish a separate ward in 
hospital, to which every case not strongly marked is to be sent on 
admission. 

12. An abundant supply of hospital bedding, dresses, and me- 
dicine, is to be kept in readiness. 

When the Disease has appeared among the Military of a Station, 
or the Inhabitants in its immediate vicinity. 

13. The avoidance of all unnecessary alarm cannot be too 
strongly enjoined ; and it is hoped that medical officers, by their 
own example, \\ill endeavour to allay apprehension in those suf- 
fering from, or in any way connected \\ith, tin- <lis. I 



322 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

14. On the appearance of cholera in a corps, health-inspections 
are to be made at morning and evening parades, and a daily in- 
spection of every individual attached to the regiment. 

15. Each soldier is to be provided with two cholera belts, as 
part of his necessaries. Flannel-waistcoats, if thought necessary 
for individuals, are to be provided at their own expense. 

16. Married men (if out of mess) should each be provided with 
a ration the same as the single men ; and it is also desirable, in 
barracks in which the disease exists, that the women and children 
should have sufficient and regular meals. 

17. Soldiers should be cautioned against intemperance; and 
drunkards and all men of weakly or susceptible habits, should be 
limited to a certain quantity of liquor at the discretion of the me- 
dical officer. 

18. As a precautionary measure, but particularly in infected 
localities, drills, parades, and duties generally, should, as much 
as consistent with discipline, be reduced, and favourable hours and 
weather chosen for them ; but, above all, the number of sentries, 
especially at night, should be diminished so that in no case shall 
the men have less than three nights in bed. 

19. Good fires are to be provided in the barrack-rooms, to in- 
crease ventilation, and to diffuse a cheerfulness, which last 
should be promoted in every way. 

20. Coffee or warm drinks are to be provided to the men before 
morning and night duties. A hot evening meal enforced, and 
breakfast, if possible, supplied at the usual hour to every man be- 
fore leaving his barrack-room. 

21. In the event of the appearance of cholera among the civil 
population in the neighbourhood, the troops should be confined 
to barracks, and all intercourse prevented. When the disease 
prevails in a corps, it may be found beneficial to encamp it a 
proper site being selected for the purpose. 

22. During confinement to barracks, the minds of the men 
should, as much as possible, be amused and occupied ; and, under 
proper regulation, occasional marches into the country, and trap- 
ball or other games in an adjoining field, permitted. 

23. Officers' servants are to be under the same restrictions as 
others, and no person from the town to be admitted into barracks. 

24. If practicable, a considerable reduction of the numbers in 
barrack should take place, as well to ensure a purer atmosphere 
and more thorough ventilation, as to make room for the accom- 
modation of women and children, and, if necessary, for a tempo- 
rary hospital, or observation ward. Over-crowding, under any 
circumstances, is to be avoided great attention paid to cleanli- 
ness and ventilation, and the floors and passages dry rubbed 
not washed. 



KI'IDKMIC CHOLERA. 323 

25. Personal washing, and that of clothes, is to be done in sheds 
or store-houses appropriated for the purpose, and not in the bar- 
r;i< k-rooms. 

20. The quality of the beer to be used by soldiers is to be 
ascertained by a competent person, and the acid in porter or ale, 
corrected by chalk or carbonate of soda. 

27. Where cholera is present in the neighbourhood, the women 
and children are to be accommodated in barracks, or aired houses 
in the vicinity, and to be put under similar restrictions as to in- 
tercourse. Where this cannot be done, soldiers with their fami- 
lies who are permitted to live out of barracks are to be excluded 
therefrom, or placed in a temporary barrack until it is considered 
safe to admit them their quarters during this separation being 
frequently inspected. 

28. Where a house is hired for the women, they may be re- 
quired to pay their usual rent, and coals supplied by Government 
at prime cost. 

29. Diarrhoja, either as precursory, co- existent, or prevailing 
by itself, should as a measure of safety, be regarded as closely 
allied to cholera ; and where bowel complaints prevail in a corps 
stationed in an infected district, a spare room should, if possible, 
be set apart for the accommodation of the healthy of any room 
that may become unusually subject to that complaint ; and the room 
iliu- vacated must be whitewashed, cleansed, and fumigated, so as 
to be ready for any similar occurrence. This applies still more 
strongly where cholera actually exists in a corps. Cases of com- 
mon cholera are to be removed to the Observation Ward. 

30. The regimental hospital is to be appropriated to the treat- 
ment of cholera, and the ordinary cases of sickness accommodated 
in barracks ; or where this cannot be done, in a hired house, the 
authority of the Director- General for the latter arrangement being 
previously obtained. 

31. The appearance of cholera in places where troops are sta- 
tioned is immediately to be reported to the Director-General, 
without waiting for it being officially announced by the local 
Board of Health. 

32. From the moment that a case of common or spasmodic 
cholera occurs, a daily report is to be forwarded to the Director- 
General until further orders. 

33. A full report of each case among the troops, with detail of 
previous habits, intercourse, diet, exposure to cold, wet, &c., and 
other particulars, is to be forwarded to the Director-General. 

34. Duilv reports of the progress of cholera among the civil 
population where troops may be stationed, will be required from 
medical officers, 

35. Cases among women and children in barracks are to U 



324 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

admitted into hospital ; those in quarters to civil hospital, under 
such regulations as may be adopted in parishes ; for the former, a 
separate ward, or barrack-room, is to be held in readiness. 

36. Cases among the troops of the East India Company are to 
be admitted into hospital, as also those specified as entitled to 
medical attendance in the hospital regulations. 

37. Medical officers are to visit their hospitals frequently, and 
to state the hours of visit in the monthly sick report. They will 
be required to be always available for any sudden call of the ser- 
vice ; and when cholera prevails in the corps, are not to leave the 
barracks, except on imperative duty. 

38. Smoking, to those habituated to the indulgence, may be 
permitted. 

39. Corpses are to be removed to the dead-house without delay, 
buried as soon as possible, and conveyed in a covered cart not 
on men's shoulders. 

40. Post mortem examinations are not to be discontinued, but 
performed under such modifications as the occasion will readily 
suggest. 

41. Bodies of patients dying of cholera are to be sprinkled with 
chloride of lime, to be wrapped in a coarse sheet steeped in a 
strong solution of the same, and some of the powder should be put 
into the coffin. 

42. Medical officers are not to visit civilian patients in town, 
and are to conform to the same regulations and instructions as 
other officers. 

43. In infected places, Divine Service should preferably be per- 
formed in barrack, instead of marching the troops to church. 

44. The old clothes of recruits are to be washed and fumigated ; 
or if necessary, destroyed, and new clothes issued. 

45. The clothes and bedding of cholera patients are to be im- 
mersed in cold water for forty-eight hours, then washed and 
steamed in boiling water, and dried in the open air. 

46. The place whence a patient is taken is to be thoroughly 
washed, the bedding and bedstead removed, and fumigation made 
by chlorine gas, if possible, if not, by nitric acid gas, or fumes of 
vinegar. 

47. The barrack bedding is to be removed with cholera or sus- 
picious cases to the hospital, or Observation Ward. 

48. Provisions brought from town should be delivered at the 
barrack gate. 

49. Deserters, recruits, and men from escort or furlough,~on 
rejoining, should be separated from the other soldiers for a period 
varying from seven to twenty-one days, according to circumstances. 

50. Attention is called to Her Majesty's orders, in the book of 
instructions for regimental hospitals, on contagious diseases, extra- 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 325 

ordinary sickness, inspection of barracks and quarters, ventilation, 
and fumigation. 

51. For the purification of drains, privies, clothes of recruits, 
&c., chloride of lime will be issued by the Ordnance Department, 
on the requisition of the commanding officer. 

52. Bearers are to be applied for to the Ordnance Department, 
and a horse and covered cart hired for the conveyance of the sick, 
should the distance from the hospital require it 



I purpose next to present such extracts as are deemed neces- 
sary, from the report of Dr. Gull, on the Morbid Anatomy, Patho- 
logy* and Treatment of Epidemic Cholera. " The design " of his 
portion of the work, "has been to set down the principal ascer- 
tained facts, and to draw such conclusions as were possible from 
them." 

MORBID APPEARANCES AFTER DEATH IN COL- 
LAPSE. In the former, as well as in the latter epidemic, it was 
noted by several observers, that the icy coldness of the body, in 
the stage of collapse, passed away after death. 

No precise thermometrical details were given ; but R* 86 of tempe- 
the surface of the body was observed to have become ire ' c * 
actually warm. Latterly, it was proved by Dr. Barlow, of West- 
minster Hospital, and others, by careful measurements, that a rise 
of temperature on the surface of the body did occur after death. 
In one case, in which the coldness of the surface during life was 
very marked, the thermometer indicated 102' 12 two hours after 
death ; in another case, ten minutes before death, the temperature 
in the axilla was 103*1, and five minutes after death, it rose to 
104; in a third case, the temperature of the uncovered body, 
t\\( iity-five minutes after death, was 89; forty-five minutes after 
death it was 90; and fifty minutes after death, it rose to 91. 

Among the phenomena presented by the body Muscular con- 
after death from cholera, are the well-known contrac- trmctioui. 
tions of the muscles, which often occur to so great an extent, and 
last for so long a period, as to excite horror in the ignorant, and 
add in such minds a further mystery to this disease. The mus- 
cles affected were principally those of the extremities, but con- 
tractions were occasionally observed in the other voluntary mus- 
cles ; the duration of the contractions varying from a few minutes 
to two hours. 

This phenomenon was observed more commonly in those \\lio 
died rapidly of the disease, in the middle period of life, when the 



320 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

muscular system was vigorous and well developed, which will, 
perhaps, account for their greater frequency in males than in 
females. 

Riiror Mortis Cadaveric rigidity often supervenes very quickly ; 

in one case it began at the end of an hour, and in an- 
other after forty minutes. Its occurrence was not retarded by the 
high temperature which the body retained. 

Cruveilhier says that putrefactive changes were 
slow, as in all cases where much blood has been 
lost, and adds, " In the alimentary canal, on the 
contrary, decomposition was rapid, as commonly occurs where 
the digestive organs are the seat of considerable sanguineous con- 
gestion." Most observers confirm the former part of this state- 
ment; but with respect to the intestinal canal, the conditions were 
variable, and often the contrary of that noted by this great autho- 
rity. 

The stomach was pale, and generally more or less 

stomach. ,. , , T \ ' ,, '. , . . 

distended. It contained turbid, mucoid fluid, grey 

or colorless, or tinged of a chocolate or reddish-brown hue, by 
admixture with blood. The surface of the mucous membrane was 
covered with tenacious mucus, having in some cases a puriform 
character, from the large amount of exfoliated epithelium. In 
some instances it was pale; in others, hyperacmia, in different 
degrees, existed. 

The membrane was generally rather thickened and opake, the 
texture firm, and the surface mammillated. 

Pharynx and The state of the O3sophagus and pharynx was not 

(Esophagus. generally reported. In one case, fatal after twelve 

hours of acute symptoms, it was observed that the 
lower part of the oesophagus was deprived of its epithelium. 
Peritoneum The sma ^ intestines had generally a pink or rose 

external tint from hyperaemia of the portal venous 
system. In some instances they had a remarkably dark color, the 
venous trunks being large, and full of pitchy blood. The different 
tints soon changed upon exposure to the air. 

Small int The coats of the small intestines were thickened 

tines. and pulpy, from oedema of the mucous membrane 

and sub-mucous tissue. The duodenum and ileum 
were more commonly affected, and to a greater extent than the 
jejunum. In some instances the mucous membrane was pale 
throughout ; in others, the lower part of the ileum only, or the 
duodenum only was hyperaemic. 

The vascularity of the mucous membrane presented itself under 
two conditions, as uniform arborescent venous injection, affecting 
large tracts of the intestine, particularly the lower part of the 
ileum ; or as patches of variable extent, in which the redness was 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 327 

punctate, and of a bright color, frequently with spots of ecchy- 
mosis, and an exudation of tenacious mucus. 

The villi were also small and prominent from oedema, especially 
throughout the jejunum. Their appearance, and the condition 
of the epithelium covering them, was minutely described by 
Bohm, during the last epidemic of 1832-33. Quoting Dr. Gaird- 
ner, the report says : " The most frequent of all the abnormal 
conditions of the mucous membranes, was the prominence of the 
intestinal glands, both of the aggregated and solitary, but especially 
of the latter. This condition, the * psorenteric ' of some French 
writers, was found in about two-thirds of the cases." 

The changes in the patches of Peyer were similar 
to those occurring in the villous surface of the mu- p^** 1 "* of 
cous membrane generally, and in the solitary glands. 
They were often thickened and prominent, from infiltration of 
serous fluid, and the included glands, when visible, presented the 
conditions found in the solitary glands of the mucous membrane 
elsewhere. There is no evidence that they were the seat of morbid 
changes, peculiar to them in kind or in degree. 

The large intestine was more rarely affected with 
. . '-,.. Large intestine. 

nyperaemia and ecchymosis than the small intestine. 

In many instances it presented nothing abnormal beyond a greater 
distinctness of the solitary glands. 

In only four, out of thirty-four cases, were the soli- ,, 

ii 11 *ii The solitary 

tar}- glands prominent throughout the whole extent glands. 

of the large intestine ; in eleven others they were 
slightly enlarged about the caecum and ascending colon. They 
were often translucent, from distension of their cavities with serous 
fluid ; sometimes their distension had been followed by rupture, 
producing an appearance of a small rounded ulceration. 

The state of the spleen is noted in twenty-three ._. 

f i'ii i f i i The spleen. 

cases fatal in the algide state : of those, in three it 

was of a natural size, and in eighteen it was small, or very small. 
It weighed but two ounces, two and a-half, and three ounces, in 
seven cases recorded. In most cases there was no obvious change 
in the tissue, beyond that arising from a want of blood, giving its 
capsule rather a wrinkled appearance, and enabling it to resist 
laceration, the texture being often described as pale, firm, and dry. 

After death in the algide stage, the liver was Tfae Uver 
generally diminished in bulk, the tissue flaccid, and 
tin- capsule finely wrinkled. The larger veins, both the hepatic 
and the portal, but especially the latter, were often full of dark 
viscid blood. The lobular appearance of the secreting structure 
was indistinct, and the whole tissue of rather a lighter red than 
usual ; but to this rule there were exceptions. 

The secreting structure, on a microscopical examination, pre- 
sented nothing abnormal. 



328 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

The gall-bladder was usually distended with dark bile, gene- 
rally viscid, but sometimes more watery than natural. 
Gall-bladder. T J *v 11 j \_ 

In most cases, the gall- ducts were not obviously 

affected. The mucous membrane of the gall-bladder and ducts 
was healthy, except in some rare cases, where it was the seat of 
morbid changes, similar to those occurring in the intestinal 
raucous membrane. In some cases, again, the gall-bladder was 
found very much distended with semi-transparent, slimy, pale 
orange-coloured fluid, rendered turbid by boiling, and by nitric 
acid. 

The kidneys were of the natural size, their surface was mottled 

Th kidne s ^y arborescent venous injection, and, on dissection, 

the same venous hyperaemia gave a dark colour to 

the cones. The secreting structure rarely presented any obvious 

morbid change. 

The contents of the pelvis were mostly turbid, with exfoliated 
epithelium and free nuclei. The mucous membrane was generally 
pale, but in some instances it presented patches of venous in- 
jection. 

The urinary bladder was empty, or contained but a small quan- 
tity of turbid fluid, like that in the pelvis of the kidneys, coagulable 
by heat. The mucous membrane was occasionally hyperaemic. 

In the majority of cases fatal in the algide stage, no other 

Thelun morbid change existed than engorgement of the 

lower and posterior parts of the lungs with dark 

blood. In some instances this was so complete as to cause 

portions of the pulmonary tissue to sink in water. The anterior 

and superior parts were drier than natural. In only one case 

reported was there any degree of oedema. In certain cases the 

pulmonary tissue throughout was full of dark blood. 

The pleura was healthy, or sometimes covered with a trace of 
slimy albuminous secretion, as in the peritoneum. 

The bronchial tubes were normal in appearance, or their 
mucous membrane was congested. They contained a small 
amount of frothy serum, sometimes tinged with blood. 

In the cases reported, the pericardium generally contained a 
small quantity of serum, varying from a drachm to 
half an ounce > or an ounce. The colour of the fluid 
was mostly a pale straw, or citron, but in some in- 
stances it was decidedly sanguinolent. On the adherent pericar- 
dium, about the base of the heart, small ecchymoses were not 
infrequent. 

The physical condition of the blood in the cavities of the heart 

TK M i an( J large vessels varied with respect to the degree 

The blood. i i / , , t 

and mode ot coagulation, but most observers admit 

that it was more commonly dark and fluid, or less coagulable than 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 320 

in other diseases. In nearly half the cases of fatal collapse 
tabulated, the blood was fluid, either entirely so, or with but a few 
masses of fibrin ; in less than one-fourth of the cases did the 
coagulation approach the normal condition. This accords with 
the observations made by Dr. Parkes upon cases in India. 

With respect to the chemical constitution of the blood, the 
committee was unable to institute any new series of observations ; 
but, according to Schmidt, the effects of the abnormal transudation 
of fluid from the capillaries of the intestine in cholera, upon the 
remainder of the circulating fluid, may be thus summed up : 

1. The density of the blood, and of its morphological elements 
(blood cells and intercellular fluid), is increased in proportion to 
the duration of the process of exudation from the intestinal capil- 
laries. It reaches its maximum in 36 hours, and then falls again 
as water is re-absorbed. 

2. The solids of the blood and of its morphological elements, 
left after evaporation at 248 Fahr., are relatively increased in a 
marked degree, according to the time from the commencement of 
the exudation of the saline fluid from the intestinal capillaries. 
They reach, after 36 hours, nearly one-half more than the nonnal 
proportion, and afterwards sink as fluid is again absorbed. 

3. This increase relates only to the organic constituents (albu- 
minates) of the blood and its morphological elements, and not the 
inorganic salts, the absolute quantity of which, although indeed 
increased directly after the onset of severe symptoms, appears to 
be subsequently diminished. 

The degree of concentration of the organic constituents, result- 
ing from the exudation of the saline fluid from the intestinal 
capillaries, regularly rises according to the interval from the begin- 
ning of the attack, and reaches the highest point 36 hours from the 
onset, after which, even in fatal cases, a re-absorption of fluid 
occurs. This increase of inorganic salts at the beginning of the 
disease, owing to the large amount of fluid poured out, reaches its 
maximum after four hours ; they afterwards, within a few hours, 
fall to the normal quantity ; after 1 8 hours, sink much below it ; 
and after 36 or 40 hours, are still further diminished, according to 
the time which has elapsed. 

The sinuses and veins of the meninges, were more or less loaded 
with dark blood. In most cases, this was the only nce hajon 
morbid appearance. In some cases the vessels of 
the pia mater were loaded with blood, while in others, effusion into 
the lateral ventricles, sub-arachnoid effusion, a soft watery con- 
dition of the brain, and o;dema of the pia mater, were observed. 

After the exposition, of which the above is an abstract, Dr. Gull 
I n c.< reds to describe the morbid appearances where death oc- 



330 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

curred after reaction ; but as, in general, these last do not appear 
to have had much of important distinctness and of difference from 
the morbid appearances already described, I must here refrain 
from quoting them. In the instances of persons dying during the 
febrile reaction consequent on the cholera collapse, \ve should 
naturally expect to find congestions of the gastro-intestinal 
mucous membrane, with hyperaemia and serous effusions in the 
brain. 

PATHOLOGY OF CHOLERA. " The first unequivocal 
symptoms of cholera indicate that the gastro-intestinal mucous 
membrane, with its ganglionic nervous centres, is the focus of the 
morbid action. 

The morbid appearances characteristic of cholera are most 

marked in the small intestine, duodenum, and 

Pathology of stomach, and the general symptoms indicate an early 

process iTthe an ^ severe depression of the ganglionic nervous 

intestines. centres of these parts. 

The principal phenomena which arrest attention 
are the osdematous state of the mucous membrane, and the more 
or less extensive patches of capillary and venous hyperaemia, 
and ecchymosis. These, together with the character and amount 
of the fluid effused, demonstrate an important lesion of the circu- 
lation through the affected parts. How this is produced, can at 
present be no further elucidated than by the hypothesis of a 
specific poison, acting upon the ganglionic nervous centres, or 
upon the mucous membrane itself. The former appears to us the 
more probable supposition, from being more in accordance with 
some other phenomena of the disease, as the profuse sweating and 
the sudden and severe collapse, which, as will be seen hereafter, 
is not in a necessary and constant relation to the discharges from 
the mucous membrane. Either would, however, suffice to explain 
the altered condition of the circulation, since it is well known that 
if one of the agencies in operation in the capillary circulation be 
abnormal, there will be a corresponding change in the ease and 
rapidity with which it is sent through the tissue. In this respect 
nearly the same result is produced, whether the blood be unfitted 
to stimulate and nourish, or the nutrition in the part itself be per- 
verted or defective, or the vessels be deficient in nervous supply. 
We no longer look for mere mechanical causes of vascular retar- 
dation ; and whatever light may hereafter be thrown upon this 
stage of cholera, it will no doubt come from a more intimate 
knowledge of the pathology of the capillary circulation. 

These morbid changes in the first stage of cholera are of the 
simplest kind ; the tissue is infiltrated, and the glandular follicles 
are distended with the same watery fluid as escapes into the 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 331 

cavity of the intestine ; the epithelium, by this maceration, 
readily separates after death, and to a certain extent during life, 
but not so largely as Bohm supposed. Exfoliation of the epithe- 
lium appeared to this excellent observer to constitute an essential 
part ot the primary morbid action, but further investigations show 
that during life it occurred to only a very limited extent, and was 
in itself an unimportant change. The coats of the capillaries and 
smaller veins are often ruptured, giving rise to ecchymosis ; this, 
with the punctate and stellate character of the hyperaemia, denote 
a want 01 tonicity in the vessels. 

As death occurs only when the phenomena reach their greatest 
intensity, and when the circulation in the nervous system generally 
is much retarded, the ramifications of the intestinal veins in par- 
ticular are often distended with dark blood. 

An examination of the fluids effused from the mucous membrane 
gives no evidence of active plasmatic changes taking place in 
them. On the contrary, the large amount of fluid thrown out, its 
low specific gravity, and its other physical characters, indicate an 
almost passive exosmosis, as through a dead membrane. Some 
observers have referred the morbid changes to a catarrhal con- 
dition, others have regarded the disease as a form of serous 
fi(emorrJi<tye, and the Berlin pathologists, whose attention was 
particularly arrested by the occurrence of amorphous granular 
fibrin in and upon the affected surface of the mucous membrane, 
designate it a destructive diphtheritic inflammation. We believe 
that, for the present, such generali/ations, however plausible, are 
of little value, and that we arrest inquiry by their adoption. The 
depression of the capillary power the extreme exhaustion of the 
great ganglionic nervous centres in the abdomen the passive cha- 
racter of the lesions of the mucous membrane its normal action 
being reversed to a fatal exosmosis are peculiar to cholera, and 
give it an individuality which forbids our merging it for the pre- 
sent in any general category. 

Although the intestinal tract is the principal seat of the morbid 
actions, they are not limited to it. The kidneys, at an early stage, 
are sometimes affected; the urine having been found albuminous 
prior to its suppression, and the secreting tissue and the lining 
membrane of the pelvis present occasionally, after death, lesions of 
the same character as those observed in the intestine. 

In the female the uterine organs are similarly affected, the 
lining membrane of the uterus and vagina being frequently much 
congested and ecchymosed, with commencing diphtheritic exuda- 
tion upon it. 

The liver is free from disease, except in some rare cases, where 
i lie lining membrane of the ducts and gall-bladder is the scat of 



332 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

the cholera process, their contents being then of the rice-water 
character. The distension of the gall-bladder with bile is nearly 
constant, but cannot be referred to as a pathological indication of 
any moment, as such a condition is common when the digestive 
function is long interrupted, and indicates a passive rather than 
an active state. 

There is a hypothesis regarding the nature of cholera, based 
upon the supposition of a suppression of the hepatic secretion 
and consequent congestion of the liver ; this is altogether unsup- 
ported by anatomical facts. The absence of bile from the evacua- 
tions is not a necessary phenomenon of the early stage of cholera. 
In a large proportion of cases the diarrhoea ceases to be bilious 
only when the more intense symptoms set in, and even then, the 
rice-water fluid often gives, with re-agents, distinct evidence of the 
presence of bile ; but when it is no longer passed in the evacua- 
tions, the secretion is not altogether suppressed, as shown in the 
contents of the gall bladder and ducts after death. The hepatic 
function does not appear to be subject to any further derangement 
than that which naturally follows upon the retardation of the cir- 
culation during the stage of collapse. 

It would have been unnecessary to advert to this hypothesis had 
it not widely influenced the treatment of the disease. Dr. Ayre, 
the great advocate of the administration of calomel, gives the 
following rationale of the cholera process. He says: "Now, 
there is one condition which is uniformly and conspicuously pre- 
sent in malignant cholera, and is, indeed, characteristic of it 
namely, a suppressed or suspended secretion of bile, as shown by 
the diminution, and at length the total disappearance of it from 
those watery discharges which are poured so profusely from the 
stomach and bowels. As a consequence of this cessation of the 
hepatic function, an accumulation," he adds, " will take place in 
the liver, of venous blood, and an impeded circulation result from 
it, producing a congested state of that organ, and subsequently, 
by a retention of the blood in its course through them, of those 
abdominal organs whose circulation is associated with it. Now 
the congestion thus produced in the portal venous system of the 
liver and its associated organs, constitutes the stage of collapse, 
and under various modifications and grades of intensity, whose 
real nature and amount are unknown, forms the essence of it in 
all." 

Such a train of reasoning is unsupported by any evidence. 
The serous rice-water character of the cholera stools is obviously 
due to special pathological changes in the mucous membrane, and 
not to any merely mechanical congestion of a secondary kind, as 
here stated. What these pathological changes are, we have 



EPIDEMIC CHOLF.KX. 383 

endeavoured to show, and have referred them to a specific action 
of the cholera poison operating through the blood ; a more minute 
account we are unable to give. 

The appearances, after death, in the chest and cranium show 
that the viscera in these cavities were not primarily affected. The 
occasional emphysema of the lungs, their emptiness of blood, ex- 
cept at the posterior and inferior parts, and the inelastic compressed 
character of their tissue observea in some cases, are explicable by 
the state of the respiration and circulation at the last stage of life. 
The congestion of the veins, and the effusions under the mem- 
branes and into the ventricles of the brain, are referrible to the 
same cause." 

Cholera has been classed among zymotic diseases, but its 
clinical history and morbid anatomy are opposed to Ig c j, i era a 
the theory of its being due to a zymosis, in a strict zymotic or con- 
sense of the term. In a zymotic disease, the 17117 in- tagious dis- 
duces certain plastic changes, from which results its ease ? 
augmentation. In cholera we have no evidence of such changes ; 
the alterations in the blood, so far as they are known, being refer- 
rible to the loss of its fluid parts, in accordance with the physical 
laws of exosmosis. The local morbid action appears to be of a 
negative rather than of a positive kind. The marked depression 
of the organic functions, and the morphological characters of the 
effused fluids, as well as their general physical properties, indicate 
a passiveness almost peculiar to cholera. In cholera, the onset of 
an attack is frequently sudden, and the effects apparently direct, 
such as would follow the immediate action of an extraneous 
poison upon the body. The zymotic process is more gradual, and 
the symptoms follow a more constant rule with respect to them. 

Cholera appears to consist of but one single series of actions, 
which may vary in intensity through every gradation, but, through- 
out, maintain the same character of passiveness. There is no 
febrile stage to which zymotic changes, as ordinarily observed, 
and the production of a materies morbi may be referred. 

Certain prodromata of a general kind have been enumerated as 
occurring prior to the symptoms which arise from the 
local morbid action in the intestinal mucous mem- dromat*. PP 
brane, such as vertigo headache general malaise 
muscular fatigue faintings wandering pains in the limbs 
cramps gripings in the abdomen sense of weight at the prse- 
cordia and nausea. A cursory inspection of such a category 
suffices to show that, even if generally present, these indications 
would be unsatisfactory. Many of them arise from mental emotion, 
so prevalent during an epidemic, and others are not so much pre- 
monitory of an attack as the first symptoms of its onset, and the 
result of the morbid action already begun in the abdomen. 



334 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

In most cases, a painless diarrhoea, lasting for a variable time, 

precedes the more characteristic symptoms. Although 

all observers admit the frequency of this precursory 

stage, there has been some difference of opinion, and 

much unfruitful discussion about its pathology, whether it be a 

part of the disease, and due to the action of the poison, or merely 

a common diarrhoea, upon which the specific effects may at any 

moment be engrafted. There are no characteristics which enable 

us to draw these distinctions with any certainty. 

Experience has sufficiently shown, that during the epidemic the 
stages from a mild and apparently simple diarrhoea to the rice- 
water purging and collapse are not definable, and that the former, 
if unchecked, does, in numerous instances, gradually pass into the 
latter, with its attendant collapse and fatal results. The diarrhoea 
which prevails when cholera is epidemic is due to the same cause 
as cholera itself. 

Numerous replies were received, all serving to establish the 

frequency of a stage of diarrhoea, lasting from a few 

Frequency of hours to several days. A table fixing the period 

dTarThoea. 0r: definitely of the duration of premonitory diarrhoea, 

exhibits a range of from one hour to ten days. 
The evacuations were generally more profuse and liquid than 
usual, but otherwise of a natural appearance, often 
nito^&an-hcea unaccompanied by pain, and passed without effort, 
characteristic ? the painlessness and passiveness giving a false secu- 
rity to the patient. It was not until the nervous 
system began to be depressed, and the feculent character of the 
stools was lessened or lost, and they became alkaline, watery, and 
flocculent, that they were distinctive. On this point, the expe- 
rience of the profession appears to be uniform, and hence we may 
draw the following conclusion that during the prevalence of the 
epidemic, every case of diarrhoea arising without obvious cause, 
may be regarded as a probable result of the specific poison. 

The cholera poison is not known to produce its fatal effects 
without the characteristic affection of the intestines. Cholera 
How far col sicca, in a strict sense, does not occur, for although 
lapse depends the disease may be fatal without any evacuation, the 
upon loss of intestines, after death in such cases, have been found 
fluids - to contain the rice-water fluid. In some cases which 

came under our observation, on a post-mortem examination, the 
larger intestines contained healthy fasces, whilst in the upper two- 
thirds of the small intestine, the mucous membrane presented the 
ordinary changes induced by the cholera process, and the rice- 
water effusion was abundant. 

As many of the symptoms of the stage of collapse depend upon 
the loss of fluid, it has been too absolutely inferred that the 



I I I DEM 1C CHOLERA. 335 

general phenomena of the disease are always in a necessary rela- 
to the amount of these effusions. 



THE TREATMENT OF CHOLERA. "It is well ascer- 
tained, that in the largest proportion of cases, at least in European 
countries, the poison of cholera produces its first effects on the 
system gradually, as indicated by diarrhoea, varying in duration 
from a few hours to several days before the intense symptoms 
supervene. This period may be called the period of invasion. 

The numerous communications received by the College establish 
the importance of recognising this stage at its com- 
mencement, and render it highly probable that the Treatment of 
morbid effects may then be often successfully com- ^^0". 
bated. 

The popular theory that the discharges are an effort of nature 
to throw off a materies morbi, is not only unsupported by any 
known facts of the disease, but, when applied to practice, is found 
to increase the violence of the symptoms. 

At present no antidote or specific medicine is known to neutra- 
lise the cause of cholera, or with certainty to arrest its early 
effects ; but the communications received, show that the diarrhoea 
was, in a large number of cases, arrested by various combinations 
of such remedies as generally suppress discharges from die intes- 
tines, and prevent the exhaustion of nervous energy. 

Opium was an almost constant ingredient, and was given in 
conjunction with astringents, aromatics, and diffusible stimuli. 

A recumbent position is proved by experience, and also from 
the nature of the case, to be a most important measure. It pre- 
vents exhaustion, favours the circulation, and lessens the frequency 
of the evacuations. It is highly probable that cases, which other- 
wise resisted the action of medicines, would have readily yielded, 
had the horizontal position in a warm bed been strictly enforced. 
Enematawere not, as might have been anticipated, of much service, 
since the small intestine and duodenum are the principal source of 
the effusion. 

The indications of treatment in this stage are formed entirely 
from the mucous membrane itself, independently of any hypothe- 
tical derangement of the liver. This organ does not appear to be 
in any way the cause of the symptoms ; the diminution of the bile 
in the evacuations, as they become more and more fluid, being an 
effect, rather than a cause of the disease. The character of the 
fluid thrown out the attendant symptoms the absence of pain 
the passiveness of the evacuations, and their occasional retention 
to a large amount in the intestine, indicate a depression of all the 
energies of the affected surface. 

The amount of success attained by early treatment is not \ . t 



336 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 



determined ; there is a general opinion that it was very great, but 
this must be received with some limitation, as the facts upon which 
it is founded are not unequivocal. By far the greater number of 
cases of diarrhoea would probably never have passed beyond this 
stage if no medicines had been administered ; and, on the contrary, 
in many instances the symptoms were uninfluenced by any treat- 
ment, and fatal collapse came on in spite of every effort to pre- 
vent it. 

Notwithstanding this uncertainty, the general results of pre- 
ventive measures were apparently very favourable, as shown by 
the small proportion of cases which passed into the severer forms 
of the disease subsequently to early treatment." 

The following are the results of the house-to-house visitation in 
the metropolis from September 1 to October 27, 1849: 



Cases of diarrhoea 
discovered. 


Cases approaching 
cholera discovered. 


Cases which passed in- 
to cholera discovered. 


43,737 


978 


52 



In various cities, as Dumfries and Glasgow, the same favourable 
results attended the system of house-to-house visitation ; and it is 
no longer matter of doubt that the earlier the disease is encoun- 
tered, the greater in an infinitely high ratio, are the advantages 
under which medicines are employed to counteract it. 

" On this division of our subject we can do little more than point 

, out, according to the evidence before us, what forms 
Treatment of ' ,. 

impending and of treatment seem to have been of some service, or 

complete col- useless, or injurious ; and by thus clearing the ground, 
la P se - prepare the way for better directed efforts. 

An enumeration of all the means proposed for the treatment of 
this stage would be useless ; it is, therefore, only upon the princi- 
pal of them that we shall make any report. 

Calomel stands foremost, from having in this country been 
more fully used than any other remedy. The theory 
of the disease which has chiefly led to its employ- 
ment, is not supported by anatomical facts. The absence of bile 
from the evacuations appears to be merely a subordinate result. 
Calomel can be administered only on empirical grounds, and its 
value must be determined by the results so obtained ; for there 
appears to be no argument in favour of its exhibition either from 
analogy or pathology. 

The results in 365 cases treated by this remedy in small and 
frequent doses were 187 deaths, and 178 recoveries. 



Use of calomel. 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 337 

The numbers given by Dr. Ayre to the College of Physicians, 
do not sustain his favourable opinion of the treatment of cholera 
by small doses of calomel. The deaths were 365 out of 725 unequi- 
vocal cases. 

Under various and opposite plans, the recoveries, even in 
severe cases, averaged from 45 to 55 per cent., according to the 
l<-riod of the epidemic; they should therefore exceed the highest 
of these numbers before they can be adduced in proof of the value 
of any particular method of treatment. 

In general, no appreciable effects followed the administration of 
calomel, even after a large amount in small and frequently repeated 
doses had been administered. For the most part it was quickly 
evacuated by vomiting and purging, or, wh^n retained for a longer 
period, were afterwards passed from the bowels unchanged. Sali- 
vation but very rarely occurred, and then only in the milder cases. 

We conclude that calomel was inert when administered in col- 
lapse ; that the cases of recovery following its employment at this 
period were due to the natural course of the disease, as they did 
not surpass the ordinary average obtained when the treatment 
consisted in the use of cold water only. 

This is termed the " rational method " of treatment, and was 
intended to combine those remedies which seemed 
Treatment by fe^ fitted to fulfil the supposed indications of this 
ancTstiinu! 11111 ' stage. The calomel was given to restore the func- 
lanu. tions of the liver, and as an alterative of the morbid 

action in the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane ; 
the opium to allay irritation and arrest the discharges ; and the 
stimuli to counteract the depression of the nervous system. Expe- 
rience did not confirm the theory : the results were unfavourable, 
and not altogether so indifferent as when calomel was exhibited by 
itself. 

Although opium and diffusible stimuli, brandy, camphor, and 
ammonia were useful at an early stage of the disease, as collapse 
set in, they not only failed to produce any favourable result, but 
often aggravated the symptoms. 

It seems well ascertained that opium in large doses was at this 
period injurious, by increasing the cerebral oppression, and em- 
barrassing the system during reaction. It was probably less and 
less applicable as the disease advanced to its characteristic deve- 
lopment. 

Stimuli, especially the various preparations of alcohol, did not 
act as restoratives in collapse, but even increased the irritability 
of the stomach, and added to the sense of oppression at the 
praecordia. 

The expectations excited by the early success apparently ob- 
tained by the use of chloroform, were not realised in its sul 

7. 



338 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

quent employment. It not unfrequently allayed the vomiting 
and cramps, but did not in any degree arrest the course of the 
disease. 

The perchloride of carbon in five or ten grain doses, and a so- 
lution of camphor in chloroform, acted as powerful stimuli, but 
the results did not indicate that they possessed any specific thera- 
peutic value. Although they produced symptoms of reaction, this 
apparent improvement was generally, in severe cases, but tran- 
sient, and their continued use seemed to exhaust the little re- 
maining power rather than to restore the patient. 

The obvious requirements of the system, and the urgent thirst, 

were sufficient indications for the use of diluents, 

cold water and anc ^ ^ e ex P er ience f tne profession appears to be 

ice. uniformly in favour of permitting patients to gratify 

their appetite for them. Cold water was generally 

preferred, and good results were often observed when it was 

taken freely in repeated and copious draughts, although it excited 

vomiting. In smaller quantities, and iced, it was refreshing to 

the system, and allayed the irritability of the stomach. 

Ice was generally grateful to many patients in impending or 
approaching collapse, and probably acted favourably upon the 
mucous membrane, and served to arrest the discharges. The use 
of ice and cold water appears, in most cases, to relieve the burn- 
ing thirst, while it favours reaction. Dr. Arnott administered a 
mixture of ice and salt in large quantities, and in the cases of two 
patients so treated, both recovered ; but there is no further expe- 
rience respecting this mode of treatment. 

Salines of low specific gravity were sometimes given instead of 
common water, the intention being to restore to the blood a fluid 
similar to that lost in the early stages of the disease. We have 
no evidence that they possessed any influence over 
t ^ ie ^ oca ^ morD 'd action in the mucous membrane. It 
was not until this surface had in part recovered its 
function of absorption, that any good resulted from their employ- 
ment. When given at an early period, and in a more concen- 
trated form, they appeared to favour the discharges. 
,, ,. Emetics were sometimes given at the onset of the 

kinetics. ,. .... "f, 

disease, with the intention of cutting short the mor- 
bid action, by distributing the blood to the surface,- and relieving 
the congestion of the intestinal mucous membrane. It is pro- 
bable that, when administered early, they were occasionally of 
service ; but the results appear to have been too uncertain to ad- 
mit of their forming any part of a routine system of treatment. In 
collapse they were inadmissible, being often followed by increased 
exhaustion ; and even when they appeared to produce symptoms 
of reaction, this effect was but of short duration. 



(ii. ,11 i:\. 339 

Bleeding was employed in the premonitory stage BI^ i ettin 
of cholera, for the purpose of arresting the discharges 
by relieving the congestion of the intestinal mucous membrane. 
This was not much resorted to in the last epidemic ; and the com- 
munications to the College contain but little mention of it. The 
only reports in its favour, by Annesley and other writers on the 
disease as it occurs in India, have not been confirmed by further 
observation; and hence, except in rare and exceptional cases, it 
is not usually had recourse to in the premonitory stage, or at the 
onset of the more severe symptoms. Its general inadmissibility 
is to be inferred from its almost entire disuse in the last epidemic. 

Even in the consecutive fever blood-letting in any form re- 
quires much caution. Leeching the epigastrium and temples, or 
cupping the back of the neck, were sometimes of service in ob- 
viating the cerebral congestion of this period ; but if carried to 
any great extent, were injurious by exhausting the patient. 

The general inference, from all we have observed of the disease 
and collected from the experience of others, is, that large losses 
of blood, in the consecutive fever, are injurious ; but that occa- 
sionally good results follow its local abstraction, according to the 
indications of the symptoms. 

Quinine, strychnia, arsenic, sesquichloride of 

iron, nitrate of silver, nitrous acid, chlorine water, Em P inc * 1 tre **- 
... . , , . , . .. mcnt. Specific 

sulphur, sulphuric acid, bichloride of mercury, remedies. 

charcoal, &c. &c. The failure of these methods of 
treatment, which, from being based upon some supposed indica- 
tions of the disease, may be called rational, led naturally to the 
employment of almost every active medicine in the materia medica. 

It is notorious that the results have been discouraging, notwith- 
standing the bold assertions to the contrary. The communica- 
tions made to the College contain no data for determining the in- 
quiry, nor is anything deserving the name of evidence in favour 
of the value of these means, to be gathered from the numerous 
journals and published treatises in this country and on the Con- 
tinent. This part of our report must, therefore, be defective, 
although an unlimited amount of time and labour has been be- 
stowed upon a perusal and comparison of the statements brought 
before us." 

The report goes on to say, that the therapeutic history of cho- 
lera leads the authors to guard against the submission of remedies 
to what is termed a " sysfcwntic trial in a .\rr/V.f of cow*," by ex- 
pressing their conviction that for empirical inquiry to be puixrn <! 
to a good end, the most favourable opportunitu -s are required for 
noting the state of the patient at the commencement, and at dif- 
ferent stages of tin treatment, by \\hieh alone <li>erepancies in 
the results can be reeoiieiled. 

/. '2 



340 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

Again, the employment, without definite scope, of one remedy 
after another, with the vague hope of at last finding a specific, is 
to be deprecated, not only because it can lead to no good result, 
but because it deprives the patient of that assistance which esta- 
blished experience affords. 

The state of the patient in the collapse of cholera is so unfa- 
vourable to the absorption of medicines, that even if we knew the 
remedy in itself most appropriate, we could not anticipate great 
results from its administration by the mouth at this period. Every 
consideration of this formidable malady urges upon us the para- 
mount importance of obviating the causes which give rise to it, 
and of arresting symptoms at the onset. 

External The application of heat to the surface has been 

means; beat, largely tried. The hot bath alone, or with mustard 
or salt, &c., the vapour bath and the hot-air bath, have been prin- 
cipally employed. It appears to be the uniform experience of 
the profession, that in collapse these means are but of little value. 

In the earlier stage of the disease, or when it is less severe, and 
the pulse indicates some degree of power, the hot and vapour bath 
may allay cramps, and prove grateful to the patient ; but when the 
nervous and vascular functions are greatly depressed, and the 
surface cold and clammy, although heat may be imparted to the 
body, it rarely excites reaction in the system itself; on the con- 
trary, it is oppressive to the patient, and increases the exhaustion. 

It is not found by experience that the degree of reaction, which 
may be sometimes excited by such means, and by internal stimuli, 
is of any permanent advantage, nor was this to be anticipated 
from a consideration of the conditions of the system in the col- 
lapse of cholera. The state of the blood, and the extreme de- 
pression of the nervous power, necessarily render abortive such 
attempts at restoring the circulation. The whole tendency of the 
evidence yet acquired from the treatment of this stage, is to- 
wards a more restricted use of powerful excitants of the kind 
alluded to. 

On the Continent, in the former, and in the last 
Cold affusion. . , ., _ '. ,. , ' - 

epidemic, cold anusion was highly spoken of as a 

means of producing reaction. The patient was placed in a warm 
hip-bath, and cold water poured or thrown over the head, back, 
and chest. This was done quickly, and the patient then placed 
between two warm blankets. If the first application was followed 
by any improvement, the operation was repeated every three or 
four hours. The results appear to have been, on the whole, more 
satisfactory than from the hot bath. 

The " wet sheet envelope" was more commonly 

The wet sheet. . r . . J 

used in this country. 1 he enect varied according 

to the state of the patient ; and in the milder cases it favoured re- 



KIMDEM1C CHOLERA. 341 

action, but when the disease was severe, it was useless or inju- 
rious. The sweating caused by it added to the exhaustion, and 
had no influence in arresting the intestinal discharges. 

In the milder cases, stimulating epithems of mus- 
tard and turpentine were of some use in relieving 
local symptoms, and for obviating nervous depres- 
sion. Frictions, chloroform liniments, and warm fomentations 
allayed the cramps. In severer cases these means were quite in- 
effective. 

Two cases are reported in which oxygen was inhaled in the 
stage of collapse with asphyxia, at the same time 
galvanism was employed to stimulate the respiratory 
function. The effects upon the circulation and re- 
spiration were such as might have been anticipated. The heart's 
action was, for the time, increased, and there were slight symp- 
toms of general reaction, but no permanently-favourable influence 
was exercised, by these means, upon the course of the disease in 
the majority of cases. 

This method of treatment was not much investi- 
gated during the last epidemic. The results were, as 
in 1832 33, generally unfavourable. Its nature, 
however, cannot be determined by statistics collected 
from various sources. The operation in all its details is a delicate 
one, and requires not only a careful discrimination of the cases to 
which it is applicable, but also an exact attention to the physical 
characters and composition of the fluid to be injected, and other 
collateral circumstances. Until these points receive greater elu- 
cidation, the results obtained can form no sound basis for an opi- 
nion respecting its merits. 

The arrest of the function of absorption in the 
stage of collapse, and the consequent inertness of all Te * " -^i^. 
medicines administered by the stomach at this pe- tions. 
riod, naturally led to the suggestion of injecting them 
into the veins. The trials which have been made in this way are 
too few to admit of any deduction from them. In the former epi- 
demic, laudanum, camphor, quinine, &c., were used unsuccess- 
fully. 

From the discovery of the circulation to the present time vari- 
ous experiments of this kind have been instituted by different ob- 
servers, which prove that medicinal substances can thus with 
safety be employed. 

Of those who resist the fatal influence of the cho- 
lera poison in the stage of collapse, a large number 
yet fall victims to its protracted effects. Probably 
half the cases fatal after the first forty- eight hours of 
severe symptoms belong to this category. 



342 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

We may, therefore, infer that much care is required during the 
early period of reaction, since circumstances, in themselves ap- 
parently trifling, may at this time determine the issue. A strict 
observance of the horizontal posture, moderate external warmth, 
stimulating applications to the extremities, region of the heart, or 
epigastrium, and the administration internally of diffusible stimuli 
in small quantities, with the free use of ice, cold water, and other 
diluents, appear to constitute the principal part of the treatment 
as far as it is yet determined. 

The cerebral oppression and delirium of this period are pro- 
bably due to exhaustion and the asphyctic condition of the capil- 
lary circulation, the blood being imperfectly aerated and deficient 
in water. The state of the brain which gives rise to these symp- 
toms is to be distinguished from that which occurs at a later stage 
from retention of the urinary excretions. It is not benefited by 
local or general depletion, but is slowly removed as the circula- 
tion is re-established. 

The fruitless search after specifics which occupies 
Treatment of the mind in the preceding stages of the disease is 
now tac ^^y given U P> an( ^ we are content to be 
guided by the pathological indications, as in other 
diseases. But whilst our attention is directed to the 
local and more tangible complications, it must not be forgotten that 
they are the effects of an agent which has remarkably depressed 
the whole of the vital powers, and, consequently, rendered ne- 
cessary modifications in the activity of the measures otherwise 
adapted to their removal. 

The next important indication for treatment is the depuration 
of the blood from the urinary excretions. The conditions fol- 
lowing collapse are favourable to their retention, viz. the blood is 
of high specific gravity, the circulation is embarrassed, and lesions 
of the kidneys are frequent. 

The treatment must include such means as allay irritability of 
the stomach and promote absorption, restore circulation, and re- 
move the lesions of the kidneys. Of these may be enumerated 
the use of ice and cold water, effervescing draughts, or weak solu- 
tions of the alkaline salts, the warm bath, emollient enemata, 
dry-cupping to the loins, and counter-irritation over the stomach. 

Stimuli are sometimes necessary for the purpose of counter- 
acting the nervous depression, but their employment, whilst the 
system is poisoned with urea, obviously requires careful regula- 
tion. Stimulating diuretics, as squills, cantharides, &c., are not 
adapted to the great majority of the cases. The spontaneous oc- 
currence of profuse diuresis, when the intestinal mucous membrane 
recovers its functions, shows that the matters to be excreted are, 
in themselves, sufficient to stimulate the kidneys, if the conditions 
favourable to their action be present. 



M'IDEMIC CHOLERA. 349 

Occasional doses of mercurials, followed by laxatives, were 
found to be useful, probably by quickening the circulation through 
the liver and promoting absorption, as well as depurating the 
blood, l>ut tlirir use was necessarily limited, whilst the excretive 
function of the kidneys was defective. 

During the consecutive fever, the intestinal tract Muco-enterite 
is frequently, in different parts, the seat of persistent 
congestion with diptheritic inilammation and ulceration. The ter- 
mination of the ileum is most commonly thus affected, and is the 
frequent source of the bloody stools observed during reaction. In 
some rare instances, limited sloughs of the mucous membrane re- 
sult from effusion of blood into the submucous tissue. Such have 
been observed in the large intestine and in the stomach. The 
character of the local action indicates a want of reparative power. 

The treatment of these lesions is probably that generally em- 
ployed with success in other forms of gastro-enterite, such as 
gentle support, ammonia, serpentaria, and a moderate allowance 
of wine. 

Such is an abstract, as copious as I could render it, of Dr. 
Gull's ably-conducted portion of the Report to the College of 
Physicians. 

EPIDEMIC CHOLERA IN CALCUTTA. There is no 

branch of medical inquiry more interesting, nor any more im- 
portant, than the history 01 epidemics, nor one, the accurate obser- 
vation of which would prove more useful to physicians, in every 
climate. How true it is iu our day, as in that of Sydenham, that 
no one has treated this great question in proportion to the dignity 
of the subject. 

An accurate history of epidemics in Bengal would prove of 
great value, as enabling us to trace their connection with changes 
of climate and condition of the surrounding localities, or with the 
social condition of the people, European and native. Had such a 
history existed, it would have helped to an earlier establishment 
of general principles, and to a more rational plan of treating the 
local fevers especially ; for, though all the epidemic fevers within 
my personal recollection differed from the ordinary endemics of 
the country, still, there was in most of them so much of the savour 
of the soil (if I may be allowed the expression), as to render a 
knowledge of their history and treatment a matter of interest and 
importance. 

It is these sweeping epidemics, aggravated by endemial and 
social influences, that swell the bills of mortality in our Eastern 
Metropolis, and that did so in former times more especially, to so 
frightful an extent : in truth, endemics are very often the parent- 
stock upon which epidemics arc engrafted. 



344 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

Under a system of local sanitary improvement, such as has for 
years past, at the original instance of the author of this work, been 
established in Calcutta, the endemic sources of disease will be 
gradually diminished, and along with them the force of epidemics 
may also be reduced, so as greatly to improve the health and en- 
hance the value of European and native life, within that rising 
emporium. Let want, filth, crowding, and misery be removed, 
and epidemics will have lost their chief power. It is these and 
other well-known sanitary defects that everywhere, but especially 
under tropical influences, give such destructive power to endemic 
and epidemic agencies, and that gave rise to the observation of 
Cabanis that the effects of climate are not the same with the 
rich as with the poor. 

CHOLERA FEVER OF 1834. As bearing on the subject of 
this article, I would briefly mention a form of epidemic fever 
which visited Calcutta in 1834, and which we termed the cholera 
fever. 

It arose in May the worst of the cholera months and con- 
tinued through that and the following month, disappearing only on 
the full establishment of the rainy season. 

Its symptoms were, heat and dryness of skin, frequent soft 
pulse, clammy white tongue, and generally a slight diarrhrea. 

So mild a fever I seldom recollect to have seen ; yet it was most 
dangerous to treat the irritable condition of the bowels, which 
formed so prominent a symptom of the epidemic, being readily 
aggravated into fatal cholera whenever purgatives of a saline or 
drastic nature were exhibited. 

At first the peculiar character of the fever was not known ; and 
I remember hearing at the time that several deaths occurred where 
strong purgatives had been exhibited over night; indeed, one 
such case came accidentally under my observation. It was that 
of a gentleman, the patient of a professional friend, into whose 
house I was called in haste on passing at 6 A.M. His countenance 
and voice at once testified to the collapse of cholera, and to his 
approaching end. He had been feverish during the previous day, 
and had taken a drachm of compound jalap powder at 9 o'clock of 
the previous night. 

Others fell victims, in like manner, to the hasty exhibition of 
purgatives; but within a few days, and when the nature of the 
epidemic became generally known, it proved a manageable form 
of disease, and after that few deaths occurred. 

A stout mercantile gentleman, whom I treated with a moderate 
dose of castor oil, had fifteen stools between 8 and 11 A.M. the 
former having been the hour of exhibition. Had the above dose, 
small as it was, been administered at bed-time, the resuli to the 
patient would have been fatal. 



I I'll. I MI< CHOLERA. 345 

Not only was the peculiar fever here noticed prone to merge 
into true cholera, but I had to remark on three several occasions 
in Calcutta, that, when the cholera poison was present in a con- 
centrated form, we were for the time precluded from treating the 
cases of ordinary remittent fever of Europeans in our usual 
manner. Moderate blood-lettings were now liable to be followed 
by extraordinary collapse, and purgatives could not be adminis- 
tered over night, lest the fever should be changed by morning into 
a deadly cholera. The state of the system here indicated, showed 
that the fevers, and also the diarrheas of the country did, under 
epidemic or other peculiar influences, merge into the true cholera, 
the cholera poison being at the moment the more powerful 
influence. In times like these, we found it difficult to persuade 
ourselves that the endemic and the epidemic diseases were abso- 
lutely " caused by different poisons." 

No fever of the nature of the epidemic just noticed had been 
known in Calcutta previously ; nor has it recurred since the year 
specified. The treatment I adopted was by mild doses of calomel 
and James's powder, with a grain of opium, exhibited at bed-time, 
and an occasional mild aperient in the forenoon. 

All the epidemics of which I could trace any record, occurred 
in the hot months of March, April, or May ; and thus they corres- 
pond, as to time of occurrence, with almost all the known 
European epidemics. Andral states, that of fifty epidemics known 
in Europe, thirty-six occurred in summer, twelve in autumn, one 
in winter, and one in spring. 

INFLUENCE OF HIGH TEMPERATURE. Independently 
of the proved influence of heat in promoting the existence and 
continuance of epidemic cholera, it is remarkable that this disease 
should have as frequently commenced in Bengal at the season 
during which ventilation is most free and effective. In Europe 
we are told that a free ventilation is the most efficient means of 
destroying the cholera poison ; yet, in Bengal, the epidemic has 
been seen very generally to commence about the middle of March, 
when the South-west Monsoon comes sweeping with power and 
purity over the plains, fresh off the Bay of Bengal. The freedom 
of ventilation at all seasons in India, will account, I think, for the 
circumstance, that so little suspicion of contagion has at any time 
arisen in that country from the first origin of the epidemic to the 
present day. It is a fact that, " of between 250 and 300 medical 
officers in Bengal, most of whom saw the disease largely, only 
three were attacked, and only one attack was fatal." In Calcutta, 
as in London, the highest range of temperature was that of greatest 
prevalence of cholera. " The reader of the meteorological tables," 
Dr. Fair, "will not fail to observe that in the thirty-sixth 



346 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 



week of 1854, when the cholera raged, and the deaths from all 
causes rose to their maximum (3413), the average daily range of 
temperature was 30' 9, consequently the greatest in the fifty-two 
weeks ; the highest temperature of the week was 81'2, the lowest 
was 43'l, therefore the entire range was 38'l." It is worthy of 
remark, says the same authority, that in the hot season of 1846, 
when the cholera epidemic acquired great force about the Indus, 
summer cholera and diarrhoea prevailed with great violence in 
England. 

THE INFLUENCE OF SEASON. The following tables are 
interesting, as exhibiting the influence of season on sickness and 
mortality from epidemic cholera amongst the inhabitants of 
Calcutta, native and European. 

Mortality by epidemic cholera of Hindus and Mahomedans 
for each month during seven years, from 1832/0 1838 inclusive: 







Maho- 






MONTHS. 


Hindus. 


medans. 


Total. 


REMARKS. 


In 7 Januarys . . 




572 


125 


696 


Mean temperature, 66.2. Dry. 


7 Februarys 




620 


196 


816 






69.8. Rain. 


7 Marchs 




1873 


439 


2312 






80.0. Dry. 


7 Aprils 




2707 


482 


3189 






85.4. Dry. 


7 Mays 




2170 


464 


2634 






85. Rain. 


7 Junes 




615 


217 


832 






83-7. Rain. 


7 Julys 




914 


133 


1047 






81.8. Rain. 


7 Augusts 




806 


146 


952 






82.0. Rain. 


7 Septembers 




785 


121 


906 






82.8. Rain. 


7 Octobers . . 




1030 


198 


1228 






794 Dry. 


7 Novembers 




1687 


230 


1917 






74.2. Dry. 


7 Decembers 




1425 


161 


1586 






66.6. Dry. 


Total . . 


15204 


2911 


18115 





It thus appears, that while the proportion between the Hindu 
and Mahomedau inhabitants of Calcutta is but 2 to l,the ratio of 
mortality amongst the former is, to that of the latter, as 5^ to 1, 
this great difference in favour of the Mahomedans can only be 
ascribed to their better habits of life to their better diet, clothing, 
habitations comparatively. 

The influence of the highest temperature of the year on epi- 
demic cholera is exhibited in a still more striking manner on the 
sickness and mortality of Europeans ; for, by the following table, 
it appears that for the twelve quarters, ending 30th June, there 



KIMDKMIC CHOLERA. 



347 



;idmittcd into the General Hospital of Calcutta, 492 cases of 
this disease, of whom 220 died ; while, for the remaining 36 
quarters, there were but 311 admissions, and 152 deaths. This is 
a remarkable fact. 

Table of admissions and deaths of Europeans from cholera into 
the General Hospital of Calcutta, for each month during twelve 
years: 



Range of Observation. 


Total 
Admissions. 


Total 
Deaths. 


In 12 Januarys 


28 


11 


, , 1 - Februarys 


g 


5 


i, 1 2 M archs 


56 


34 


,, 12 Aprils 


86 


57 


..12 Mays . 


268 


125 


1 2 Junes 


138 


38 


,,12 Julys 


32 


g 


,,12 Augusts 


37 


18 




10 


5 


12 Octobers 


49 


27 


,, 12 Novembers 


59 


32 


,,12 Decembers 


32 


14 








Grand Total 


803 


372 









It should be observed, that the patients admitted into the 
European General Hospital of Calcutta are soldiers belonging to 
detachments invalid soldiers from the Upper Provinces soldiers 
forming the garrison of Fort William European townsmen, and 
men belonging to the shipping in the river. With exception of 
soldiers on duty in garrison, all the Europeans sent into the 
General Hospital are exempted from that salutary regulation and 
discipline which prescribes that every man shall come under 
medical control the instant he falls sick ; and hence, doubtless, A 
great increase of deaths from cholera, as well as from all other 
acute diseases within this institution. 

The result of an extensive series of observations, ranging over 
twenty years, shows that, in the Presidency of Bengal, the annual 
mortality of European soldiers, from epidemic cholera, is about 
T15 per cent., while of the Bengal Sepoy army it is but 0'22. 
This remarkable difference so opposite to the popular belief is 
worthy our careful investigation. Here we perceive that the 
boasted strength of the European does not serve him. On tin; 
in his power to resist this terrible scourge, he stands 



348 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

vastly below his comparatively feeble native comrade. Why is 
this ? We can only refer it to the habits of life of the British 
soldier to his habitual indulgence in an over-full animal diet, and 
to his abuse of ardent spirits thus keeping the digestive, nervous, 
and vascular systems in a constant state of over-excitement. He 
is thus rendered more prone to collapse of the vital powers ; for, 
whatever lowers these last, reduces the general nervous energy, 
deteriorates the blood, or interferes with the processes of digestion 
and nutrition, will dispose to attacks of cholera. 

PREDISPOSING CAUSES. Some of the predisposing causes, 
as already stated, have been ascertained with some degree of 
accuracy but not yet the exciting cause. Here, despite our 
science, all is mystery alike in the fleet on the ocean, or in the 
army on the march all is inscrutable. Why does the epidemic 
come in one year and at one season, and not for years or seasons 
thereafter ? These and such questions no one can answer. 

The number of instances which I observed in Calcutta of Epsom 
or Seidlitz salts leading to profuse serous diarrhoea, and sub- 
sequent fatal cholera, is a circumstance worthy of notice. The 
dose was always taken in the early morning, and the patient has 
gone through his ordinary avocations throughout the day, mistak- 
ing for the operation of a saline aperient what was in reality the 
induction of choleraic diarrhea, true cholera, and deadly collapse. 

In the end of March, 1833, I was requested to visit the head 
partner of a large house of business a healthy and powerful 
man. The note, which was not expressed with any urgency, was 
delivered to me at 5 P.M., near to the house of the patient, so that 
I was with him within a few minutes of its being written. I found 
the gentleman at his desk, at work. His countenance and voice 
at once expressed fatal collapse, and he died at 8 o'clock that 
evening. He stated that at 5 of that morning he had taken a 
dose of seidlitz his health previously having been quite good. 

PREMONITORY DIARRHCEA. I have never attended a 
case of cholera in which premonitory diarrhoea, of longer or shorter 
duration, had not been plainly manifest ; but I have seen people 
villagers and camp followers struck down with sudden death on 
the line of march during April and May, in the deadly jungles of 
Gondwana, and there the relatives and attendants declared empha- 
tically that there had been no antecedent purging or vomiting 
whatever. All I observed personally was, that the persons lay 
dead by the road-side, and that there were no evidences about 
them of there having been any diarrhoea or vomiting. The cholera 
was raging at the time in our moving camp, of which I had charge. 

A gentleman of the civil service, describing to me the fatal out- 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 349 

break of cholera, which visited Calcutta in 1842, says : " It some 
time in March took quite a new character, those attacked had 
not the usual purging and vomiting, but it came on with a sort of 
faint sinking the strength was, without outward effort or apparent 
(HMM\ totally prostrated, and the patient died without suffering, as 
if labouring under the effect of poison." In the terrible epidemic 
which seized on Her Majesty's 86th Regiment, at Kurrachee, in 
June, 1846, and which destroyed, within sixteen days, 238 men 
out of .'*!>! \\ho were attacked, it was noted that " the peculiarity 
in many cases was, that there was neither vomiting nor purging, 
and in the latter cases, by no means profuse. Also, among some 
of the first cases, before the natural hue had been replaced by the 
livid look so characteristic of the disease, the pulse at the wrist 
was almost imperceptible, the eyes turned up, and the voice hollow 
and feeble. In an hour after, such cases were dead." Others are 
described as attacked of a sudden, "and the collapse preceding 
the vomiting and purging of serous fluid." Dr. Lindsay, of Perth, 
declares that " cases of cholera undoubtedly occur without any 
rice-water evacuations : nay, it does not appear essential to cholera 
that there should be intestinal evacuations of any kind." 

In the onset of many epidemics, we learn that sudden deaths 
occur, apparently from the concentration of the poison. Men are 
thus struck down at the outbreak of yellow fever and plague, as 
well as in cholera. During the onset of epidemic plague, almost 
all who are attacked with it perish death occurring in from 
twenty-four to forty-eight hours; while, after a little time, death is 
deferred to the fourth, sixth, fourteenth, and even to the twentieth 
day many cases recovering health: at length the pestilence 
loses its malignity altogether. 

PATHOLOGY. The first circumstance that will strike the 
observer in cholera is, the astonishing and fatuous prostration of 
the mental sensibilities, on all questions relating to the disease, 
and to the condition of individual danger belonging to it The 
person who, before the seizure, was all anxiety, alacrity, and alert- 
ness, on the subject of cholera, both as affecting himself and others, 
is now fatally apathetic ; the feelings of hope, sympathy, and fear 
having vanished, and that of self-preservation even being deadened 
l>v the morbid impression of the poison on the nervous system. 
With all this, the faculties of the mind are in perfect integrity 
for the arrangement of business, and the disposal of property the 
p;itirut making his will with a cold indifferent justice the mind 
being as benumbed and prostrated as the body. 

The first impression of the morbific cause would appear to be 
made on the system of the organic nerves and their functions ; for, 
almost immediately, we have the vital actions of circulation, respi- 



350 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

ration, the generation of heat, secretion and absorption, conspicu- 
ously depressed ; and that probably, amongst other causes, through 
some unknown changes in the proportion of oxygen, or in the 
electric condition of the atmosphere. We have here, to use the 
language of John Hunter, the death of the blood. This condition 
of the circulating fluid produces torpor of the brain : the voice is 
veiled, as when great haemorrhages occur, and very soon cyanosis 
becomes complete, the complexion assuming a lavender hue. 

Fevers, both symptomatic and idiopathic, are referred by Dr. 
Billing, to the loss of the functions of the nervous centres, and 
subsequently to that of the organs depending on them. 

In all the severer visitations of this epidemic, we have symp- 
toms at the very onset of the disease which, as it appears to me, 
can be referred to no other circumstance than this primary influ- 
ence of the poison of cholera on the great nervous centres giving 
the death-blow to the organic functions. All the secretions are 
suppressed ; and in their place we have a general and exhausting 
transudation from the bowels and skin. In short, all the great 
functions of life are first altered and perverted, and then com- 
pletely and fatally arrested. The very stomach and bowels seem 
dead-drained of their serum sanguinis ; all now tends, in fact, 
to death. 

The shock to the nervous system, paralysing its functions, 
causes the blood to be detained also in the great trunks, and thus 
the functions of secretion and excretion become additionally sup- 
pressed the power of generating heat to be lost and eventually 
the death of the blood, as John Hunter termed it. 

TREATMENT. It is impossible to say anything satisfactory 
on the treatment of a disease which would seem every year to be- 
come a subject of greater difficulty to medicine. Like the Pesti- 
lence of the fifth century before the Christian era, described by 
Dr. Arnold, this epidemic has in a manner travelled up and down 
over the habitable world, unaffected by human endeavours, return- 
ing often to the same place after a certain interval ; pausing some- 
times in its fury, and appearing to stop, but again breaking out on 
some point or other within its range, till, at the end of its appointed 
period, it disappears we dare not say altogether. 

Dr. Elliotson declares that " if, as respects this country, all the 
patients had been left alone, the mortality would have been much 
the same as it has been. We are not in the least more advanced 
as to the proper remedies than we were when the first case of 
cholera occurred." 

Certainly, every year makes us more and more familiar with the 
phenomena of the disease ; but this circumstance has in no way 
improved our acquaintance with the means of checking its progress 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 351 

in the human frame, or of effecting its cure. It is indeed in the 
prert'iitioii, rather than in the cure of cholera, as of plague and 
common typhus, that medical science will at all times prove most 
conspicuously beneficial in this disease. If measures of cure be 
in a large proportion of instances beyond the reach of the suf- 
ferers, or of but little avail when applied, we should devote our 
energies with redoubled force to the prevention of cholera ; for 
here it is ascertained that our power of beneficial action is great. 

In the stage of collapse, the disease has too often proved to 
physicians what traumatic tetanus is to surgeons a disease, 
according to Ilennen, which once fully fonned, tended more to 
show him what he could not trust to, than what he could place the 
smallest reliance on. 

But we have every day presented to us, in every form and 
variety, what are termed new views of the causes, pathology, and 
treatment of cholera ; yet, of each and all of them, how small a 
portion, if any, is really true. It is better to argue from cause to 
effect, than from effects to infer causes ; and if we are to arrive at 
any just pathology, or successful treatment of this disease, it will 
probably be through such course of investigation. Certainly, the 
search after specifics does not appear to be a promising course. 

Reasoning, for instance, would lead us to expect some aid 
against the desperate stage of collapse from the conjoined use of 
the oxygenated gases and galvanism ; but it does not appear that 
any persevering trials have been made of them. 

lu 1827, at the General Hospital of Calcutta, I ordered the in- 
halation of pure oxygen gas in the case of a robust European 
soldier who was dying in the stage of collapse. The effect for a 
time appeared very promising, the skin becoming warm and the 
pulse being restored at the wrist ; but, from defective means, I was 
unable to pursue the experiment* 

After what has just been stated, it may appear almost beneath 
the dignity of medicine to speak of cures in such a disease ; yet, 
I believe the thing is to be done, with some degree of success, 
too, if only undertaken in time. Cholera being the most acute 
of all acute diseases, medicine, to have any chance of success, 
must be applied at the earliest moment of its invasion. 

If the first impression of the morbid cause be to sink the inner 
vation of the ganglionic nerves, and thus to paralyze all the great 
functions of life, the indication of treatment should be to excite 
and restore the healthy powers of the nervous centres. In my 
own experience, this indication has best been fulfilled by the exhi- 
bition, at the very onset of the disease, of large doses of calomel 

* Oxygen gas may easily be produced by intimately mixing chlorate of potash with 
one-sixth of its weight of black oxide of manganese, and throwing the mixture on an 
iron shovel heated to dull redness. 



352 EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 

and opium ; and where, nevertheless, the disease still proceeded, 
the repeated use of smaller doses of calomel with highly diffu- 
sible stimulants was persevered in, so as to rouse the nervous 
and vascular actions. 

It seems admitted in actual practice, in all portions of the British 
Empire, and by the great body of the medical profession, that 
during the premonitory stage, or that of simple diarrhoaa, opium is 
the sheet anchor of reliance. Some give this remedy alone some 
with chalk and aromatics some with calomel; but all give opium 
in some form or combination, thus following still the original prac- 
tice in India. Opium thus used acts at once as a cure of diarrhoea, 
and of the earlier stage of cholera, and as a prevention of the 
coming and fatal collapse. 

After all our experience, in all parts of the world, the treatment 
by calomel and opium at the commencement of the disease, and 
calomel with diffusible stimulants in its subsequent stages, as 
originally practised in the East, is that treatment which has been 
the most steadily and the longest approved, by the profession. 

In the report on the results of different methods of treatment 
pursued in Epidemic Cholera, and addressed to the President of 
the General Board of Health, by the Treatment Committee of the 
Medical Council, we find the following summary : 

" The evidence of these Tables condemns the eliminant treat- 
ment altogether, as a principle of practice. 

It testifies against the stimulant principle, excepting as a re- 
source in extreme cases. 

It displays a decided advantage in the alterative principle, 
especially as carried out by calomel and opium ; and it shows a 
still superior advantage in the astringent principle, as applied 
through the means of chalk and opium the general per-centage 
of deaths following each plan of treatment being 

OfEliminants . . 7 1*7 per cent. 

Stimulants . . 54* 

Alteratives, calomel and opium 36'2 

Astringents, chalk and opium . 20'3 

In order to judge correctly of the value of this evidence, it is 
necessary to examine, as far as may be possible, the degree of 
severity of the cases brought beneath this test. The only means 
at our command (on the present occasion at least) to make this 
examination, is to consider the relative proportion which the cases 
of collapse bear to the number of deaths of their own classes 
respectively. Examining, therefore, the collapse cases with the 
number of deaths, we find that calomel and opium stands highest 
in the scale of success, and the order of preference appears as 
follows : 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 353 

Calomel and opium . . 59*2 per cent. 

Calomel (larger doses) . 60'9 

Salines . . . 62'9 

Chalk and opium . . 63*2 

Calomel (small doses) . 73*9 

Castor oil . - . 77'6 

Sulphuric acid . . 78'9 

According to this result, the superior success of calomel and 
opium in severer cases, appears a distinct fact elicited by the 
present inquiry. It is accompanied by other facts, viz., the rela- 
tive advantages of those other modes of treatment which follow in 
their order of success. This order marks the use of calomel in 
small doses, of castor oil, and of sulphuric acid, as actually to be 
deprecated in severe cases. 

Chalk and opium, as shown above, stands at the head of the 
list, in the general per-centages, both in hospitals and in private 
practice ; but in the comparison of the collapse cases with the 
number of deaths, the average declines to the fourth rank." 

The names appended to the report, of which the above is an 
extract, are : John Ayrton Paris, President of the College of 
Physicians ; James Alaerson ; Benjamin Guy Babington ; Alex. 
Tweedie ; Nathaniel Bagshaw Ward ; all Fellows of the said 
College. In the " Report on the treatment of Epidemic Cholera, 
in the provinces throughout England and Scotland, in 1854, being 
Supplementary to the Metropolitan Report, addressed to the Pre- 
sident of the General Board of Health, by the Treatment Com- 
mittee," all the above facts are substantially corroborated. 

I have only to state, in conclusion, that in cholera, in common 
with the last stages of violent fevers and dysenteries as, in fact, in 
all diseases of great exhaustion the patient will always owe mucli 
to the horizontal position, and to careful and unremitting nursing. 
The most careful nursing, and the most attentive watching of the 
patient, are both of the utmost importance in this disease ; and so 
easily is the balance of circulation fatally overturned, that a strict 
attention to the recumbent posture is absolutely necessary to suc- 
cess. In no other diseases are these simple matters of so great 
importance to be attended to ; and in the disease under special 
notice, I have seen many a life apparently lost from inattention to 
them. 

For the following Tables 1 am indebted to my friend Dr. Bal- 
four, of the War Office. They exhibit the average sickness and 
mortality from Cholera in certain of our foreign possessions ; and 
show by how much more fatal Epidemic Cholera has proved in the 
country of its birth than in any other. 

A A 



354 



EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 



J 




* 00 


^ oo 


rH in in to co 


o .2 




^ * 


^ * 


rH tO O -* * 


M 

r- 1 








l- 


PL. T2 










.2 


^ 


o> < 


oo co 


oo co^ 


* | 


~ 


* CO 


If M 


oo oo in . . . 
1-1 eo 


. 




w- 1 t 


~- t 


", ,, ~i -j- -i 


<u 


in 




in CM 


eo in co CM QO co 


H 




1 1 




CM CM O <N * 


1 


*>. 


en O* oy 4) Oi> 
in o c d o 


o to u o 
^H m o a 


QJ QJ Oi CO OO O 

c a c CD oo o . . . 


5 




* <N 




<N !>. ~ . . 


4 




KK'K 


55 




V 

g ja 


in 


o ao * in oo 


CO CO "* P I 




to "So 


CO 




* eo * to 


n f~i ^ ft ^-^ CD en on f-4 




o 




(M t^ CO CO 


icencoinoincoosCM 


1 1 


CD 


O> CO C4 C4 


* in d oo 


in co * -" oo in o 




T3 '-5 
1*1 


CO 

I 


CO to CO to 

TTT-T 


to co co 


o to co co eo T* 
CO co co eo ^ ^* 

MINIM 5 


> 


CO 






~_, ^H ^ ^H 04 W * 




CO 


OO GO QO OD 


CO OO OO 




O 












, *- 


"7 ' * : TT 




: : : : : f : : : 




60 


. . . 




..... a ... 


i 


-a 
| 

-.s 

n 3 * 


. ' ' jto -0 


V V . 
73 . g. . 

. :K^ 

5-8 .o- 


& 
: : g : : U || 


i 


25 

g 


a >s 


8 '5 '0*81 

02 2 .. v- 3 g 

I-S ^ s 


iliigiHr 




C3 

p 




<? C es 01 'S O 

> pa c o. e o 
o * * S 
% OOpB 


a *" " "^"a '^ jn a 

^ m ^ S S '0 T '3 



KI'IDEMIC CHOLERA. 




H 
> 

W 

r 
w 



A A 2 



356 THE YELLOW FEVER. 



THE YELLOW OR H^MOGASTRIC FEVER. 



GENERAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL OBSERVATIONS. 

In most, if not in all, European countries, we find that fevers of 
the continued, typhoid, remittent and intermittent characters, pre- 
vail, with bilious remittents, in the autumnal seasons. In Egypt 
and Turkey, again, we find the plague ; on the West Coast of 
Africa, and in the West Indies, along with remittents, we have 
occasional outbreaks of destructive epidemic yellow fever ; in the 
East Indies, formidable bilious remittents. 

All these fevers, while they take their origin from peculiarities 
of soil and general climate, have certain features of resemblance, 
and yet many wide and essential differences and distinctions : they 
all unite under the common generic FEVER only to demonstrate 
to us, for the millionth time, the surpassing difficulties of this 
great subject. 

The yellow fever " the hurricane of the human frame," as Blane 
terms it would be as difficult to import into the climate of Eng- 
land, as would be the typhus of our crowded cities into those of 
Jamaica or Bengal ; such are the peculiar characters imparted by 
local circumstances to those pervading and dangerous diseases. 
The yellow fever, for instance, is altogether arrested by a moderate 
degree of cold, while plague is nipped by cold and dryness, as 
also by great heat and dryness of atmosphere. 

William Fergusson, speaking of the expedition to St. Domingo, 
in 1796, " as one of the survivors of that war," says : " Our head 
quarters were the town and its adjunct Brizoton, as pestiferous as 
any in the world ; and here we had constant yellow fever in all its 
fury. At the distance of a mile or two, on the ascent up the coun- 
try, stood our first post of Torgean, where the yellow fever ap- 
peared to break off into a milder type of remittent. Higher up 
was the post of Grenier, where concentrated remittent was rare, 
and milder intermittent with dysentery, prevailed; and higher 
still, was Fourmier, where remittent was unknown, intermittent 
uncommon, but phagedenic ulcers so frequent, as to constitute 
a most formidable type of disease; and higher still were the 
mountains above L'Arkahaye, of greater elevation than any of 



T1IK YKLLOW FEVER. 357 

/ 

them, far off, but within sight, low down, in what was called the 
bight of Leogane, where a British detachment had always enjoyed 
absolute European health, only it might be called better, because 
the climate was more agreeable than in higher latitudes. 

Here were the separate regions or zones of intertropical health 
mapped out to our view as distinctly as if it had been done by the 
draughtsman. Taking Port au Prince for the point of departure, 
we could pass from one station to the other, and with a thermo- 
meter, might have accurately noted the locale of disease according 
to the descending scale, without asking a question among the 
troops who held the posts. It was just as impossible, or more so, 
to carry a yellow fever up the hill to a post in sight, as it would 
have been to escape, had they been brought down and located 
amidst the swamps of Port au Prince." . . . "Even here at 
home, in certain peculiar seasons of heat and drought, yellow fever 
may not have been entirely unknown. The year 1807 was one of 
those, when two soldiers of a militia regiment, in the garrison of 
Sheerness, in Kent, died of a fever under my own inspection, 
whose cases might have passed muster for the endemic of St. 
Domingo." The opinion here suggested accords with that of 
Frank, who regarded yellow fever as an intense variety of the 
worst form of the autumnal bilious remittents of temperate 
regions. Dr. Dickson, speaking of the destructive epidemic 
yellow fever, of Marieglante, in 1808, says, that "the different 
types of fever were CONVERTED into each other, of the worst and 
most aggravated species he ever witnessed. Yellow fever, in the 
continued form, others with comatose remittents and intermittents, 
the exacerbations of which were so violent as to carry off a patient 
in two or three paroxysms, while others sunk into a low protracted 
character of fever resembling typhus" 

The yellow fever, like the remittents and intermittents of hot 
climates, would seem to take its origin from terrestrial exhalations 
with this further similarity also, that yellow fever may, under 
certain favourable conditions, be propagated as remittents have, 
1 believe, truly been said to have been, by contagion. This 
iimnner of regarding the subject, as stated by Dr. Alison, of 
Edinburgh, is the only means of reconciliug, not the conflicting 
and valueless opinions, but the apparently contradictory facts pre- 
sented during the various epidemics of yellow fever, recorded by 
so many able observers of those calamities. There is, as stated, 
reason to conclude that remittents "taay, like the continued fevers 
of temperate climates, be occasionally propagated by contagion ; 
and of all the accessories to such condition, crowding of the sick 
would appear the most efficient. 

Another circumstance of preliminary importance and interest 
in the natural history of yellow fever is, that " whether it spreads 



358 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

by contagion within certain limits, or not, it will in all probability 
be confined to a tainted district, even in that climate ; and that on 
careful inquiry, in almost every such case, it will appear that there 
are boundaries at no great distance from the spots first affected, 
beyond which the disease has not formerly spread, and need 
hardly now be apprehended."* As examples, the limits set in 
Philadelphia, half a century ago, and more recently, the Neutral 
Ground, Gibraltar, are adduced. These facts impress as a neces- 
sity, the principle of immediately abandoning a place where 
yellow fever exists, and not returning to the locality originally 
occupied until the disease shall have for some time altogether dis- 
appeared. 

But to continue the general comparison : Robert Jackson 
" considers endemic fever, whether it appears in the torrid or the 
temperate zones of the earth, to be radically one disease." 
" The forms of endemic fever are in fact so extremely diversified, 
the symptoms so opposite in their nature to each other on many 
occasions, as to produce the distinctions of inflammatory, putrid, 
nervous, bilious, simple, complicated, mild, malignant, &c., from 
the operation of a cause that is distinctly and demonstrably one." 

. . "The history of differences or distinctions constitutes 
what is called nosology, a study of much importance to medical 
science ; but, in so far as respects endemic fever, a study of 
more perplexity and loss than utility, as labouring to discriminate 
where there is no radical difference, or to bring the products of 
chance under a constituted law of nature." 

Of the Gastric or Bilious Remittent Fever, this celebrated writer 
says : " Bilious remittent fever is one of the most common, and 
one of the most important of the febrile forms which occur in 
armies, and even in civil communities. It belongs to all countries ; 
and it is endemic in the West Indies at all seasons of the year, 
especially among native subjects, and those who have been so 
long resident as to be acclimated. It owes its origin to emanations 
from the soil, more generally or more partially diffused." Besides 
its own febrile mode of final termination, favourable or fatal as 
may be, " it is prone to assume a new form and to acquire a new 
quality so as to constitute a new disease which has its own law of 
movement. It thus assumes the contagious character, or is readily 
convertible into contagious fever in protracted campaigns in tem- 
perate latitudes." 

This doctrine, held so long ago by Jackson and others, in re- 
spect of remittent and continued fevers, has recently been very 
ably expounded, as applicable to yellow fever also, by Dr. Alison, 

* British and Foreign Med. and Chir. Review for April, 1854. 



THE YELLOW FEVER. 359 

of Edinburgh, in the British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Re- 
view. 

In an article evincing an extended research and much ability, 
in this review for January, 1848, and in which the author offers a 
just tribute to the profound knowledge of fever possessed by 
Robert Jackson, he says : " It is to be remembered also that very 
considerable differences in type do not always disprove the exist- 
ence of a single and common cause. We should have some diffi- 
culty in believing that the mild scarlatina simplex had any alliance 
with the malignant sore throat with little or no eruption, if re- 
peated observation had not demonstrated the transition stages. 
What more unlike than a mild quotidian and the pernicious inter- 
mittent which kills in a single paroxysm ; or a slight case of true 
cholera, and the fatal and uncontrollable disease which devastates 
India. And if any one had seen only the milder forms of the re- 
mittent fever, and had had no opportunity of tracing up the several 
grades, he might well believe, when he saw suddenly the severest 
variety, that he had before him a distinct affection. A cause is 
not unalterable ; a morbid poison has not always the same con- 
centration : it is ever varying in its intensity, and in the action it 
exerts on the system, more or less susceptible of it And this has 
long been insisted on by writers on the endemic fevers of the tro- 
pics." After quoting Jackson's declaration that a malarious dis- 
ease " is subject to changes at shorter or longer, but unascertained 
intervals, without any visible material change in the qualities of 
the localities or climate," the reviewer justly observes that, " In 
this absence of a malarious disease for a term of years, a resem- 
blance is perceived with the absence of epidemics for a longer or 
shorter period." 

Another remarkable and important fact is, that while the 
coloured population and acclimated Europeans suffer only from 
remittents, or from the very milder forms of yellow fever, the un- 
acclimated European is everywhere and at all times the victim of 
the most virulent and fatal form of this epidemic. 

It may be said, in addition, that a first attack of yellow fever 
gives a certain degree of immunity from a second, and likewise 
tli.n a previous residence in a wann climate greatly lessens the 
susceptibility to yellow fever. 

Topographically then, yellow fever may be defined a disease 
not proved as yet to be a disease, sui generis endemic only in 
low districts on the sea-coast but, under certain circumstances, 
sporadic in other places ; never appearing beyond the 48 of 
north latitude, or above the elevation of 2,500 feet above the level 
of the sea, nor without a temperature of at least 72, or more, pro- 
moting its production and propagation; depending, in part, on 



360 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

causes yet unknown, but in circumstances favourable to its ex- 
tension, capable of being propagated by contagion.* 

Mason Good prefers the trivial name yellow to that of paludal 
fever, which is too limited to express its source in every instance. 

SYMPTOMS AND PROGRESS. The yellow, like all other 
fevers, makes its invasion with more or less severity according to 
age, sex, constitution, previous habits of life, and character of the 
prevailing epidemic; but the following symptoms will be found to 
characterize the slighter, the severe, and the more fatal seizures : 

It is ushered in suddenly and generally, as in cholera, in the 
night or early morning, by sense of coldness, a rigor, or actual 
shivering, followed by a vascular reaction proportionate to the 
amount and duration of the previous congestive cold stage ; heat 
and dryness of skin follow, with pain of the loins and limbs, head- 
ache, pain of the eye-balls, which are suffused, and of a glossy 
drunken-like aspect ; the tongue is loaded, the edges red there is 
nausea, with sense of rawness of the fauces and oesophagus, and 
uneasiness at the epigastrium. As in the remittent fever, these 
symptoms may not extend beyond twenty-four, or thirty-six hours 
terminating then, under proper means of cure, in the restoration of 
health. 

But this fair prospect of recovery too often proves only a decep- 
tive lull before the coming storm : nausea, eructations, faintness, 
vomitings, epigastric distress set in, with the ejection from the 
stomach of a fluid at first clear, and soon to become dirty, brown, 
and eventually the true black vomit. The complexion now be- 
comes, more or less generally, of a lemon yellow, which, as the 
disease proceeds, extends rapidly over the entire surface of the 
body. All the symptoms proceed from bad to worse, accompanied 
by a bloated, desponding, anxious, and inquiring countenance, in- 
cessant and distressing jactitation ending rapidly in exhaustion 
and death. 

As with scarlatina, one person will get the fever in its milder, 
while another will, at the same time and place, contract it in its 
most grave form. 

When again the epidemic is of a still more severe or fatal ten- 
dency, and where the subject is, from constitution, or previous 
habits of life, peculiarly susceptible to the impression of the mor- 
bid cause, then all the symptoms enumerated become fearfully 
urgent ; and the danger is imminent from the very onset of the 
fever. 

In youthful and plethoric Europeans the symptoms are now of 
exceeding violence and danger. The heat is of a burning pun- 
* Vide British and Foreign Med. Chir. Review for April, 1854. 



THE YELLOW FEVER. 361 

gency, while the skin is dry and constricted the headache intense 
the countenance bloated, oppressed, or agitated by the most 
fearful apprehensions, or by approaching delirium ; the bowels are 
constipated, the tongue red, clean, and tremulous, indicating 
increase of gastric and intestinal irritation, and consequent in- 
crease of danger the urine scanty and surcharged all the secre- 
tions are suppressed ; there is distension of both hypochondria, 
with pain, burning heat, and anguish of the epigastrium eructa- 
tions, hiccough, and vomiting, at first of a clear, glairy fluid, pre- 
sently altered to brown and dark matter like coffee-grounds the 
quantity of fluid brought up far exceeding any that has been used 
in drink. In persons of a sanguine complexion especially, the 
countenance is apt to assume a livid, yellow, and putrid appear- 
ance, with black incrusted tongue, while, in most cases, the whole 
surface of the body becomes more or less yellow ; and in this, the 
most severe and dangerous form.of the disease, the patient may be 
carried off, exhausted in all his functions, so early as the second, 
but more generally on the third day. The yellowness of the skin 
may be general or partial ; and even the black vomit may be said 
to be a very frequent, but by no means a constant occurrence. 

In some instances, the ejections from the stomach do not com- 
mence until the fever has almost subsided, and then the retching 
and vomiting are uncontrollably urgent, while in others, oozing of 
black dissolved blood takes place from the mouth, throat, and rectum. 
The type of yellow fever is continued, though occasionally exhibit- 
ing a partial exacerbation towards night ; remissions in the ordi- 
nary sense, can therefore hardly be said to occur in this disease. 
But there is a deceptive calm of which the inexperienced should 
have warning ; for, too often, it is followed by a fearful storm of 
black vomit ushered in by faintness, sinking of the pulse and 
temperature. This nearly hopeless condition may appear on any 
day from the third to the seventh, and sometimes, though rarely, 
even later. 

Stupor is found to vanish as the haemorrhages increase. This 
was remarked as universal in the epidemic yellow fever of Peru in 
1854. Bleeding of the gums is stated to have attended almost 
every case of the disease, not excepting the mildest fonns of it ; 
and stupor disappeared as the black vomit increased ; in other 
words cerebral congestion was relieved by the haemorrhages. 

But uniformity in the order and character of the symptoms 
must not be looked for in yellow fever ; for all the best writers on 
the subject, whether recording their experiences in the West Indies, 
the west coast of Africa, or the south coast of Spain, are uniform 
and unanimous to the contrary effect ; certain symptoms in certain 
epidemics, varying in their nature and in the time of their accession, 
\\hile others, common to former visitations, are generally wanting 



362 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

in this. It is, doubtless, this circumstance which has led to de- 
scriptions of "two or three, or even four forms of the disease." The 
French Commissioners state that " the Barcelona fever is the 
yellow fever of America, the same that we have in the Antilles 
and at Cadiz ;" but they add, it is a Proteus clothed with 
different forms, and which offers such strange anomalies, both in 
the slowness and rapidity of its march, in the combination, the 
succession, and the degree of its phenomena, that it is impossible 
to assign to it a fixed and invariable course."* One condition, 
however, would appear to be nearly uniform in the experience of 
British practitioners ; bile is absent, or nearly so, from the intes- 
tinal and renal secretions. 

Dr. Gillkrest states, that where neither yellowness nor haemor- 
rhage supervene, the fatal issue may occur in the shortest time. 
" The countenance of the patient may not indicate great danger ; 
but he is observed to lie with his limbs uncovered, his head hang- 
ing over the bed ; he becomes sensible when spoken to, and will 
assist to arrange the bed-clothes, which soon again become dis- 
placed." The symptoms in these cases, though wanting in the 
yellow complexion and black vomit, were all of the worst jkind ; 
often ending in a " low, incessant, and monotonous wailing, ex- 
tremely distressing to all within hearing." This distinguished 
medical . officer adds, that in the last epidemic in Gibraltar, " in 
these cases where copious haemorrhage took place from any of the 
natural orifices, black vomit and suppression of urine were much 
less likely to occur." 

Another deadly form of the fever, he says, was characterised 
from the commencement by a countenance shrunk and decom- 
posed the face having a mottled ash- coloured appearance the 
look sullen the eyes of a dull, red colour the tongue red and 
raw the temperature below the natural standard : the scene, he 
adds, is closed not unfrequently within forty eight hours. 

SEQUELAE. It is remarkable, considering the violence of 
this disease that so few sequelae are noted by authors on yellow 
fever ; and so trivial do they appear to Dr. Copland, that " he 
does not believe in their existence ;" while Dr. Gillkrest is silent 
on his own experiences, and quotes with expressed doubts, the 
observations 01 others. 

THE BLACK VOMIT." The vomitings at the beginning," 
says William Fergusson, " are always in themselves clear and clean," 
the white vomit of some writers ; " presently they become some- 
what ropy ; then brown, dark, and darker, till at last the attenuated 

* British and Foreign Med. Chir. Review for January, 1848. 



THE YELLOW FKVER. 303 

blood, escaping from its vessels, and mixing with the gastric 
fluids, comes up under the form of black vomit." 

Dr. R. La Roche, of Philadelphia, in his elaborate " Observa- 
tions on the Black Vomit," says : " The black vomit, being recog- 
nized to be blood acted upon by the acid contents of the stomach, 
we have no difficulty in perceiving that much of the difference it 
presents, in regard to its physical appearance, will depend on the 
manner in which the blood is effused into the stomach, whether 
drop by drop, or in a stream, and on the degree of acidity of the 
gastric secretion, or the quantity of serous fluid it meets with in 
that organ. 

2. It has been found, for example, that whenever blood is 
exhaled therein in a quantity proportionate to these secretions, it 
exhibits a black colour, while the aqueous portion is limpid, or 
clear green. 

3. If there be a slight excess of blood, more than enough to 
neutralize the acid, instead of black, we have a nut-brown, a 
chocolate or reddish matter, and the watery portion, when filtered, 
is of a rum, brandy, or red colour. 

4. If the haemorrhage be great, the fluid presents all the cha- 
racteristic marks of blood, either with or without admixture of 
black vomit." 

Dr. Hewson Bache, U. S., gives the following as the results of 
many microscopical examinations of the matter of black vomit : 

1. "Amorphous masses of coagulated mucus or serum, and the 
debris of blood-corpuscles, which gave the mass a red or brown 
colour. 

2. Numerous and irregular masses, sometimes presenting an 
imperfect crystalline form (probably altered hoematin), which 
were of different shades, from a reddish-brown to a deep black 
colour. 

3. Red blood-corpuscles, in different stages of alteration, 
which did not correspond to the degree of acidity of the vomit. 

4. Various forms of epithelial cells, as the squamous and 
conoidal. In one specimen, a perfect mucous crypt was observed. 

5. Brown oil globules, some of which bristled with fine crystals 
of margaric acid. 

6. Besides these constant elements, there were some occa- 
sional ones, such as the sarcina ventriculi, and the torula, the 
former more frequently than the latter, and some inflammation 
corpuscles." 

DIAGNOSIS. The black vomit has been regarded by some 
authors as the only true diagnostic sign of yellow fever, and in a 
large proportion of fatal cases it certainly is present ; but vomiting 
of matters, so nearly resembling those ejected from the stomach in 



364 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

yellow fever, occurs as an occasional symptom in the fevers of 
other countries, hence the following conclusions may, I think, be 
deduced from the recorded observations of American and other 
authors : 

1. That yellow fever may, and does occur without black 
vomit. 

2. That black vomit is not so exclusive and universal a feature 
of yellow fever as some authors have supposed. 

8. That black vomit, so called, has been witnessed occasion- 
ally in the course of fevers of the East Indies, of the Mediterra- 
nean, and even in fevers and other diseases within the British 
Isles ; and it is stated to be " an usual symptom in the yellow 
fevers of America, which are incontestably of marshy origin."* 

4. " That to regard black vomit as an invariable, and altogether 
exclusive feature of yellow fever, would be almost equivalent to 
asserting that none have been affected with this disease, but such 
as died in the stage of actual vomit. 

5. That in many yellow fever epidemics, in various countries, 
numbers have died of this disease without the occurrence of black 
vomit. 

6. With rare exceptions, those who have recovered from 
yellow fever have not presented the symptom of black vomit. 

7. On the other hand, the matter of black vomit has very 
generally been found, on dissection in the stomach and bowels of 
subjects, in whom no vomiting of black or other matter occurred 
during life. 

8. Black vomit constitutes, in the prevalence of an epidemic 
fever, the most unmistakeable sign of its being the yellow fever 
the black peculiar matter ejected during life, or discovered in the 
stomach and bowels after death, leaving no further doubt as to the 
nature of the disease. 

9. On the other hand, black vomit was remarkably absent in 
the fever of the Niger expedition, and in the Gibraltar epidemic of 
1814 it was seldom seen. 

Where, again, the disease is mild in its character and progress, 
the diagnosis becomes one of exceeding difficulty ; the resem- 
blances between certain forms of the yellow fever and the remit- 
tents of tropical climates being numerous. But there are distinc- 
tions which, on careful observation, mark the yellow fever ; and of 
these, the following are held by Drs. Gillkrest and Copland to be 
the most prominent : 

1. Yellow fever makes its invasion more insidiously, but runs 
its course more rapidly than the remittent, the latter being more 
open and phlogistic. 

2. The shock to the vitality of the body is manifested earlier in 

* British and Foreign Med. Chir. Review, for January, 1848, page 70. 



THE YELLOW FEVER . 365 

yellow fever, as is also the contamination of the circulating fluids 
and soft solids. 

3. Jactitation, mental depression, apathy or delirium, appear 
much earlier in yellow fever. 

4. The lemon-yellow of the skin appears much earlier in the 
yellow than in the remittent fever. 

5. Nausea and vomiting appear earlier in yellow fever the 
latter symptom being marked by more distress, and by the ejection 
of a greater quantity of fluid, unmixed with bile, and being com- 
posed of some exudation from the stomach, or of the serum of the 
blood. 

6. The vomitings in yellow fever are unaccompanied by retch- 
ings or apparent effort. 

7. The character of the pulse in yellow fever is distinctive, 
being rapid in its rise, then soft and asthenic, proceeding on to 
weakness, inequality, irregularity, and lastly, slowness. 

8. The suffused, red state of the conjunctivae, with more or less 
brilliancy of the eye, according to constitution and age of the sub- 
ject, and having sometimes a drunken-like appearance. 

9. The lurid redness of the countenance in many cases, and the 
depressed and anxious expression in all. 

10. The severe deep pain in the orbits. 

11. The clean, red, raw, or bloody state of the tongue; the 
soreness of the throat, pharynx, and along the ossophagus, an 
acrid burning sensation at the stomach ; the sense of constriction 
in the chest, and anguish at the praccordia. 

12. The thick compacted feeling furnished by the skin, its 
diminished sensibility at the advanced stage, and the dingy tint of 
it, with livid or leaden patches at last. 

13. The constipation, scanty secretion, complete suppression of 
urine, and absence of bile in the dejections. 

14. The leucophlegmatic, flaccid, swollen, and pallid appear- 
ance of the soft solids, without any very evident emaciation in 
most instances. 

15. The lemon-yellow of the skin is distinctive, and would 
seem to depend on a stagnation of dissolved blood in the capilla- 
ries, and not upon the colouring matter of bile, as in yellow remit- 
tent fever. 

16. The continued type of the yellow fever in general its 
origin, progress, and propagation, as compared to remittent fever. 

PROGNOSIS. The black vomit, although generally a fatal 
symptom, is far from being universally so numerous recoveries, 
after its occurrence, having been observed in every recorded 
epidemic. But prognosis, in yellow fever, is declared by Robert 



360 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

Jackson to be difficult and treacherous in the extreme, whatever the 
locality, or the prevalent character of the disease may have been. 
Referring to this disease, as last observed by him on the South 
Coast of Spain, he records the following symptoms as indicating 
danger : 

1. A sudden invasion by the fever, with intense pain of the 
head and eye-balls, accompanied by sickness and vomiting. 

2. The fever being ushered in by a fit, convulsions, apoplectic 
stupor, or outrageous delirium. 

3. A torpid, heavy, or statue-like aspect of countenance, gave 
strong suspicion of danger. 

4. A dry, rough, milky-white, or a swollen and red tongue, 
indicated danger. 

5. Distress and anguish at stomach, with pain at the epigas- 
trium, forcible eructations, or explosions of flatus from the stomach 
gave impression of much danger. 

6. Obscure hiccough marked danger. 

7. A ghastly appearance, with a faint nauseous odour from the 
body, indicated extreme danger. 

8. Yellowness of the skin, with turgid veins on the conjunctivae 
in the latter stage, " always decisive of a fatal issue." 

9. Torpor of the skin to such an extent as to be insensible 
to the stimulation of blisters and sinapisms is ranked among 
dangerous signs. 

10. Extreme dampness, or extreme dryness of the skin, indi- 
cate great danger. 

11. Petechiae are suspicious: streaks, or patches, if livid, 
green, or violet-colour, are almost certain indications of approach- 
ing death. 

12. Vomiting of black matter, like the grounds of coffee, is 
reported a sign of the highest danger. 

13. Vomiting of bitter bile, whether green or yellow, even 
with straining and severe retching, affords a sign of comparative 
safety. 

14. Black watery stools, with shreds, " are of the worst prog- 
nostic." 

MORTALITY. In common with cholera and other epidemics, 
the mortality from yellow fever has been observed to have gene- 
rally been greatest at its onset, although exceptions to this rule 
have been known ; insomuch that, even at an advanced period of 
the epidemic, the disease has made, as it were, a fresh start, 
acquiring fresh power and virulence. 

The violence of the disease, and its power of propagation, 
whether at sea or on land, have appeared to receive increase from 



THK YELLQW FEVER. 3G7 

a certain warmth, humidity, and stagnation of atmosphere from 
crowded localities and crowded apartments from absence of 
cleanliness and due ventilation from intemperance, and from 
dread of the disease. The following statistical details, which 
might be greatly enlarged, will be sufficient to exhibit the average 
mortality of Europeans from this disease : 

1. "In a period of little more than four years," says William 
Fergusson, " nearly 700 commissioned British Officers, and 80,000 
soldiers were swept away by the virulence of this disease." This 
was at St. Domingo, in 1795, where Fergusson served during the 
whole time. Referring to the fate of the French army in the same 
island, he says : " Witness St. Domingo, where one of the finest 
armies of France perished, at least for all the purposes of an army, 
within the year." Sir William Pym, speaking of the epidemic 
yellow fever, in the several islands in the West Indies in which 
he served, during 1794, '95, says that there died, "in the course 
of a few months, not less than 6,000 men." 

2. Sir Gilbert Blane states that, "in 1804, out of a population, 
civil and military, in Gibraltar, consisting of 16,000 persons, there 
died " a proportion considerably above the usual devastation of the 
pestilence of the Levant," or nearly 6,000 persons. 

3. " Under the mild, or what has been called the French and 
Spanish treatment, the mortality of Malaga, in 1804, was, 11,486, 
out of a population of 36,054. In the epidemic of the previous 
year, in the same place, 6,684 deaths occurred out of 16,517 
persons attacked." 

4. Dr. Rush admitted that " in the Civil Hospital of Philadelphia, 
where bleeding was sparingly used, the physician depending 
chiefly upon salivation, more than one-half died, of all the 
patients who were admitted." 

5. The yellow fever, which broke out at Brimston HiU, St. 
Christophers, in 181*2, is described as having been of great seve- 
rity. " The entire number of cases treated were 422, of which not 
fewer than 118 died, affording a mortality that treads closely upon 
the heels of that in the plague." 

6. At Barcelona, in 1821, according to Gillkrest, "scarcely a 
patient survived in the wards given up to the distinguished mem- 
bers of the French Commission ; and the mortality, under French 
and Spanish physicians, in the establishment called Seminaria, 
was 1,265, out of 1,739 cases treated." 

7. Dr. Townsend, of New York, states that, in 1822, the mor- 
tality in that city was in the proportion of three to four of those 
treated the virulence of the disease being continued into the 
month of October. 

8. During five visitations of yellow fever at Gibraltar, the mor- 
tality was as follows : 



368 THE YELLOW FEVER 

Years of the epidemics . 1804 1810 1813 1814 1828 

Military and their families 869 6 391 114 507 

Civil inhabitants 4864 17 508 132 1170 



Total 5733 23 899 246 1677 

9. On the island of Boa Vista, the ratio of mortality amongst 
the various races was as follows : 

Spaniards, Portuguese, and French ... 1 in 2.28 

English and Americans . . . . . . . 1 in 1'6 

Native population, Slaves 1 in 33*4 

Free 1 in 14'6 

10. It is necessary to add, however, that epidemics are recorded 
in the West Indies and America as having been of a comparatively 
mild character ; but it has been doubted whether some, at least, of 
these visitations were not in reality aggravated, or unusual forms 
of autumnal remittents. But, however this may have been, there 
were other instances in which the symptoms, and the rate of mor- 
tality left no doubt as to the disease having been of the true yellow 
fever nature. 

POST-MORTEM APPEARANCES. " If ever there was a 
disease," says William Fergusson, " which the humoral patholo- 
gist might claim as his own, it is yellow fever. The crasis of the 
blood is as much broken down before death, and its vitality 
destroyed, as it would be by introduction of poison of the serpent's 
tooth ; we may truly say it is killed by the poison, and in the 
language of John Hunter, that ' fatal yellow fever is the death of 
the blood.' It swells up in floods from the mucous surface of the 
stomach, in the form of black vomit; and it escapes from the 
gums, the nostrils, the eyes, the ears, even from the skin itself, in 
any and every part, and after death it will be seen to have lost all 
the character and composition of blood, being found in its vessels 
like the lees of port wine, and the grounds of coffee. But, as I 
know well, from dire experience, the affection from the first must 
be essentially gastric." 

Sir Gilbert Blane has " started a doubt whether the yellowness 
of the skin in this disease was owing to bile, but rather to some 
error loci, or depraved state of the red globules. 1st. This colour 
does not appear first in the eyes, as in jaundice. 2nd. Sir Isaac 
Newton observes, that the blood reduced to their lamina} assumed 
a yellow colour. 3rd. The colour appears in ecchymosis, some 
time after a contusion ; and the yellowness of the yellow fever 
sometimes does not come on till after death." 

In common with the bilious remittents of all climates, the force 



THE YEt.LOW FEVER. 309 

of the disease under consideration is directed almost exclusively 
on the abdominal organs, while occasionally, as observed by 
Robert Jackson, the brain is primarily affected, and the abdominal 
\i*cera secondarily. In those who die within forty-eight hours, it 
is no uncommon circumstance to find the liver softened and friable, 
while during life its function had been suspended, in common with 
that of the kidneys a serous discharge, indicative of anaemia, 
having taken the place of natural bile. 

During the epidemic at Gibraltar, in 1828, portions of liver 
were washed and bruised by Dr. Gillkrest, but without yielding 
any colouring matter. The organ he described as being pale, like 
box- wood. " No trace of bile has been observed in the pores ; 
and little or no blood exuded from the viscus, when deep inci- 
sions were made." 

The following summary of appearances, after death from yellow 
fever, is taken from Dr. Copland's great work, from Dr. Gillkrest, 
and others : 

In the most malignant and rapidly fatal epidemics, the body 
seldom suffers much diminution of bulk, while the abdomen 
appears tumid and enlarged there is a yellow tint of the surface, 
with livid blotches some parts becoming of a brown or dark hue. 
The muscles are of a dirty dusky hue, and flabby in texture, or 
friable on pressure. The abdominal viscera are more or less con- 
gested, indicating a remarkably rapid loss of vital cohesion of the 
several textures. Where diminution of the bulk of the body is 
perceptible, on the other hand, owing to previous large loss of 
blood from the digestive mucous surface, the viscera will be pale, 
softened, and somewhat shrunk. 

The post-mortem appearances in the liver, as in the other 
viscera, vary in proportion to the violence and duration of the 
fever, exhibiting at times congestion, softening, friability at 
others, a pale olive hue ; while the gall-bladder is generally 
shrunk, containing no bile, or else there is found in it a little tar- 
like fluid. The rhubarb colour of the liver has been remarked as 
characteristic of some of the most severe forms of epidemic yellow 
fever. The spleen and pancreas have generally been found in a 
softened condition. 

The oesophagus, stomach, and duodenum, present patches of a 
dark livid hue, with the epithelium of the mucous digestive surface 
detached in many places, while the mucous membrane is separated 
from the adjacent tissues. The stomach and small intestines con- 
tain more or less of the matter of black vomit: this matter, as 
also a black jelly-like substance, is frequently found in the intes- 
tines, even where no black vomit existed during life. Less fre- 
<|unnlv there is found in the intestines a fluid of a reddish tint, 
more nearly resembling blood. 

B it 



370 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

The appearances discoverable in the heart and lungs, will de- 
pend on the amount of blood which has been discharged in the 
form of black vomit, or which has oozed from the mucous passages ; 
and where death has occurred without such losses, both lungs and 
heart were found gorged and congested, the blood being more or 
less dark and grumous. False polypi are sometimes found in the 
cavities of the heart. 

Staff-surgeon Collins, in his report on the yellow fever in Bar- 
badoes, states that " in every case of decided yellow fever, he 
found the urine highly albuminous, a condition which it assumes 
about the second day, and maintains throughout, increasing as the 
disease advances, and, in cases of protracted convalescence, con- 
tinuing long after all symptoms but debility have left the patient." 

PREDISPOSING CAUSES. Of the causes or influences 
which are rather predisposing than determining, Dr. Copland 
enumerates the following as the more important : Adult age, the 
male sex, constitutional peculiarities, mental emotions, &c. The 
influences of these causes are apparent in a greater or lesser 
degree in all epidemics, in all countries ; while certain of them he 
states to be intrinsic, or appertaining to the individual, and others 
are extrinsic, and applicable more or less to whole communities. 

Besides the noted susceptibility of male adults, they are of 
necessity also more exposed, through their active habits and 
occupations, to the exciting causes of the disease, which Dr. Cop- 
land conceives to impress themselves upon the organic nervous 
system; " for," he says, "if this cause acted directly on the blood, 
the aged and debilitated, the susceptible and the non-susceptible, 
the protected and the unprotected, would be equally liable to the 
contamination ;" a course of reasoning quite as applicable to fevers 
remittent and intermittent, and to cholera. Whether owing to 
constitution, habits, social condition, or occupation, it is certain 
that females have generally been less frequently and less fatally 
affected by epidemic yellow fever. 

This is essentially "/ Jievre Europeenne" afflicting by a 
preference almost exclusively the fair race, and being most severe 
in the natives of cold climates ; the natives of the infected locality, 
and those of tropical regions generally, being but mildly, or very 
little affected by the epidemic. 

Depressing passions, irregular habits and modes of living, pro- 
longed abstinence, fatigue of mind or body, and absence of repose, 
excesses of every kind, act both as predisposing and determining 
causes. 

In temperate climates, the summer and autumnal seasons, cha- 
racterized by high temperature, humidity, and stagnant condition 
of atmosphere, have been observed to be most favourable to deve- 



THE VKF.I.oW FEVER. 371 

loping the effects of the cause ; and these extrinsic influences have 
proved powerful in all countries. 

ENDEMIC CAUSES. The question as to the origin and 
mode of propagation of yellow fever is matter of evidence, and 
that evidence ought, by this time, to be sufficient to reconcile con- 
flicting testimonies with each other, and with the truth. But, with- 
out troubling the reader with a long retrospect, I think it may 
be fairly said in respect of this much vexed question, that to 
maintain the disease now under consideration to be at all times 
and places propagated by contagion only, would be quite as erro- 
neous as to assert that it is never thus propagated, or vice versd. 

Yellow fever, then, appears to have two sources of extension 
1st, a peculiar endemic malaria ; 2nd, an atmosphere infected by 
aggregation of the sick. In this order I purpose here to continue 
the subject. 

The operation of the causes will, according to Mason Good, 
" depend partly upon the state of the body at the time of attack, 
but chiefly upon some modification in the power or qualities of 
the febrile miasm itself, by the varying proportions of the co-ope- 
rative agents of moisture, heat, stagnant air, and other auxiliaries 
which have not yet been detected, in their relation to each other 
in different places and seasons. 

How far the yellow fever is capable of origination from any 
other cause than febrile miasm from marshy lands, or places sub- 
ject to like decompositions and plays of chemical affinity, we can- 
not at present determine. Such places, however, are numerous, 
as damp unventilated stations, stagnant water, thick impenetrable 
jungles, and woods that arrest the miasm as it ascends ; even high 
arid hills, after heat and rain ; but above all, a foul state of the 
hold on board ships, whatever be the cause of such impurity." 
. . . " Heat alone, however high the temperature, is not a 
cause of the fever before us : there must be moisture, and, as the 
result of both, a rapid decomposition and exhalation of organic 
remains. Provided the air is dry, even tropical climates are 
found salubrious. The burning province of Cumana, says Hura- 
boldt, the coast of Cora, and the plains of the Caraccas prove, that 
excessive heat alone is not unfavourable to human life. 

It has been observed, however, that even high and arid situa- 
tions, after heat and rain, may also furnish, by chemical decom- 
position of their soil, the specific miasm of yellow fever ; and it 
may here be added that, if by the violence or redundancy of the 
rain, the swampy low grounds be at the same time overflowed, the 
latter will become an arena of health, while the heights are the 
seat of disease." 

This learned and accomplished physician, on a review of all 

B B 2 



372 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

the evidences before him, asserts that " the common remote cause 
of this fever is unquestionably marsh miasm." He further states 
that " Whatever be the original source of the fever before us, 
when once it has established itself and rages with severity, it is 
now very generally admitted that the effluvium from the body of 
the affected ' is loaded with miasm of the same kind, completely 
deteriorated as it passes off,' and that the disorder is from this 
time capable of communicating itself by contagion." 

" The true scientific point of view," says Dr. Alison, " in which 
we ought to regard the invisible cause of all such diseases, is 
simply as a part of the great science of Poisons of those agents, 
inorganic, vegetable, and animal, which, by the mysterious dispen- 
sations of Providence, are destined to exercise an injurious or 
destructive agency on living structures. Knowing, as we now do, 
that many such poisons are continually formed, both by vegeta- 
bles and animals, the effects of which, taken into the bodies of 
living animals, are very various, some of them truly morbific, i. e. 9 
exciting a long series of changes, constituting a true disease ; and 
that the function of excretion in animals, wherever carried on, is 
in fact the provision of Nature for the expulsion of matter which, 
having lost its vitality, has come under the influence, in all parts 
of the body, of ' destructive assimilation,' and, if not expelled, will 
speedily and surely act as a poison ; knowing, also, that it is in 
the course of destructive assimilation and excretion that almost all 
animal, perhaps all organic, poisons are formed, we cannot be sur- 
prised to find, and it is perfectly in accordance with what we have 
now stated to maintain, that although the chemical process of 
decomposition affords no explanation of febrile disease, yet, in 
the course of the decomposition continually going on in living 
bodies, in dead bodies, and in the excretions from living, under 
conditions not yet fully ascertained, compounds may be formed 
from time to time which will not only act as poisons, but exert 
peculiar morbific powers, and some of which may subsequently 
spread by contagion ; and that it is only by inductive study of the 
history of each of the peculiar diseases thus engendered, that we 
can learn, either what are the peculiar conditions essential to its 
development or propagation, or what other powers exist in Nature 
by which it may be opposed. Accordingly, we can refer to various 
facts as to several of such diseases, known only by observation, 
but which constitute of themselves, if we make no attempt to 
resolve them into others, an important and most useful body of 
science. 

The principle we have already stated, as applicable, certainly 
to several, perhaps to all such diseases, has a practical importance 
which justifies our dwelling on it a little farther, that the poison 
exciting them may have, even at this day, more modes of origin 



llll YELLOW FEVER. 373 

than one ; and therefore, that because we see such a disease 
spreading by contagion, i. e., by intercourse of the sick with the 
healthy, at one time and place, we are not entitled to infer that it 
must do so in all, or can have no other mode of propagation, or, 
vice versa, to draw the opposite inference. Without recurring to 
the subject of cholera in illustration of this, we have already stated 
that we have been satisfied by repeated personal observation, that 
dysentery, commencing only in the usual way, from exposure to 
cold and wet, and independently of any intercourse with patients 
already affected with it, may in some seasons assume the character 
of a specific inflammation, and spread from the sick to the healthy, 
e. </., from patients to nurses and attendants, long previously healthy, 
and exposed to no other cause, in an hospital. In such cases, 
there is nothing unreasonable in supposing that a specific poison 
is developed under our observation." 

These observations the suggestions of an extended experience, 
trained in scientific investigations go far to explain, and to 
reconcile, many angry disputes and controversies of former times. 

After stating his belief that the poison of cholera, although 
extending itself in ways not yet understood, independently of 
immediate intercourse of the sick with the healthy, in most parts 
of the world, does likewise in this country, and in others, spread 
at times distinctly by contagion, Dr. Alison says : " In like 
manner, it is thus only that we can learn whether the malaria arising 
from the earth's surface, and producing only intermittent or 
remittent fevers in general, may or may not, in certain circum- 
stances, and at certain times, excite fevers which may take the 
continued form, and may propagate their kind, as small-pox or 
measles do. It has been repeatedly stated in this journal, that 
this seems by far the most probable supposition as to the exten- 
sion of the Yellow Fever at Boa Vista, in 1845, 46. This doc- 
trine is the very same as has been repeatedly proposed by those 
who have studied the history of the various epidemics of yellow 
fever, as the only means of reconciling, not the conflicting opinions 
(which is a matter of little consequence), but the apparently con- 
tradictory facts presented by those calamities."* 

After quoting Sir Gilbert Blane's account of the progress of 
yellow fever in the Hussar, Dr. Alison concludes : " In the face 
of such facts, it would be wrong to assert, on the breaking out of 
yellow fever, or unusually virulent remittent fever, in any climate 
known to be fitted for its extension, that it will not spread by con- 
tagion ; but we are fully justified, by observation of that disease, 
in asserting on any such occasion, that whether it spreads by con- 
tagion within certain limits, or not, it will in all probability be 
confined to a tainted district, even in that country." 

* British and Foreign Med. Chir. Review, loc. cit. page 331. 



374 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

" What the yellow fever poison may be," says Dr. Blair, "has 
never been demonstrated. Whatever it be, it is probable that in 
all localities within the yellow fever zone, it is the same thing. 
The auxiliaries to it, however, may be different, as well as the 
vehicle of communication ; and perhaps it may be generated in a 
variety of soils." 

" The cause of yellow fever," says Robert Jackson, " is one ; 
the act assumes a variety of aspects according to contingent cir- 
cumstances." The great majority of observers in our day seem to 
regard yellow fever as of local or endemic origin, but as being 
capable also, under certain conditions, of being propagated by 
contagion. 

Dr. McKinlay, of the navy, speaking of the yellow fever of the 
Brazil Coast, says : " My own opinion is, that the disease was 
not imported into Brazil ; on the contrary, that it was of endemic 
origin. Whether it spread afterwards by contagion, or through 
the atmosphere, I do not profess to determine, but I feel inclined 
to adopt the latter view. Of this, however, I feel convinced, that 
people arriving, more especially from a cold country, in a harbour 
like Rio, Bahia, or Pernambuco, when the disease is prevalent 
there, will almost to a certainty get the disease, even if they never 
touch a human being or susceptible agent in those places. I may 
add that this is infection, or indirect or modified contagion." 

" We think we are justified in concluding," says the reviewer 
already quoted, " that the presumed " ha)mogastric pestilence " has 
no pathognomonic signs, and presents no peculiarities which may 
not be explained by supposing it to be the result of the most con- 
centrated action of a particular cause. In other words, the severe 
fevers resulting from all the admitted causes are not distinguish- 
able by symptoms from each other.'" 

In the Report of the Sanitary Commission of New Orleans, on 
the Origin and Spread of the Epidemic Yellow Fever of 1853, 
we find the following resolutions : 

1 . " That there is no just or tenable ground for the opinion that 
our fever was imported. 

2. That to none of the sources to which general impression 
ascribes its origin, have we been able to trace even colourable pre- 
sumption of truth. 

3. That from analogous phenomena happening at the same 
moment of time, and over an unlimited space in the city, and from 
what we certainly know of contagion and its mode of action, the 
inference is made inevitable that the fever was one of indigenous 
origin, resulting from local influences developed and intensified 
by peculiar atmospheric states." 

The Reporters, finally, arrived at the following conclusions : 



THE YELLOW FEVER. 375 

1 . " That the late epidemic has not been derived from abroad, 
but is of spontaneous origin. 

2. That there existed here, as attested by our records, very 
peculiar meteorological conditions, known, by general experience, 
to be capable of producing, in co-operation with local causes, fatal 
and malignant forms of fever. 

3. That these conditions were present in an exaggerated 
degree, and impressed upon the prevalent type of disease, suscep- 
tibilities and habits of assimilating it to another and distinct form 
of fever. 

4. That this showed in all the localities within the range of 
the meteorological state or influence, an iufectiousness not neces- 
sary to, or characteristic of the fever, but purely casual and acci- 
dental, the result of physical causes, and which it loses as soon as 
these causes are changed or disappear." 

INFECTION. To reconcile the extreme and opposite views 
entertained by so many able and honest writers, on the subject of 
the propagation, or otherwise, of this disease by effluvia from the 
sick crowded together, it is necessary, as already stated, to enter 
on a careful comparison of all the evidences as to the facts in 
each epidemic, which rest on individual observation and expe- 
rience discarding all opinions. 

It results, I think, from such a systematic inquiry, that those 
authors who, on their experience during a long life of active ser- 
vice, as Robert Jackson, William Fergusson, Gillkrest, and others, 
declared that they had not been able to discover any instance of 
propagation of yellow fever by infection, under the order, cleanli- 
ness, and freedom of ventilation of military hospitals, were as 
honest and truthful, and therefore as deserving of our considera- 
tion, as those others who, like Lind, Blane, Chisholm, Pym, and 
others, found that under other and opposite conditions of filth, 
crowding, and defective ventilation on board ships, and in other 
unfavourable situations, this fever assumed a different a con- 
tagious character. Here, as it appears to me, each party spoke 
to the absolute truth, on their observation and experience ; and 
they reported the facts which presented themselves in each epi- 
demic, as they occurred. It is at least but fair to say that we owe 
something to bygone discussions, however much we may lament 
their unnecessary acrimony ; for from them we learn that yellow 
fever is sometimes propagated by infection, but more generally 
not so. 

Robert Jackson admits that, in respect of vessels " having a 
great number of persons ill of the yellow fever, a contagious 
fever will thus be produced, and carried to whatever port the 
ship may be destined to go ;" but he adds that, although the im- 



370 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

ported fever is contagious, " it is not the yellow fever, though 
the yellow fever may be the source whence it originally springs." 

Speaking of infected ships, Dr. Wilson of the navy asserts, on 
the other hand, that " nearly every person who joins a ship in 
such a condition has the prevalent disease sooner or later ; but 
no number of persons from such a ship, labouring under the dis- 
ease in any stage, or in any force, and placed in a situation where 
the disease does not exist, though in the centre of a mass of healthy 
people, can excite it in a single instance." 

There are situations and circumstances under which yellow fever 
has not been found to propagate from person to person, and they 
have generally been on land, where the sites have been favour- 
able, and cleanliness and ventilation carefully secured; and there 
are other conditions which occasionally obtain on board ship, and 
other unfavourable situations, under which it is certain that this 
disease has proved highly contagious. To understand the actual 
causes of these differences in effect, so as to enable us to antici- 
pate and prevent the worst of them, is a subject deserving our 
most serious consideration. And, not to refer to the artificial em- 
barrassments caused by vague and voluminous discussions, the 
natural difficulties of the subject the anomalies of the disease 
itself, everywhere and at all times have actually been great and 
perplexing to the inexperienced. We find, for instance, that not 
only have many of the symptoms of yellow fever varied in dif- 
ferent epidemics, at different times, but they have varied in the 
same epidemic, in the same localities or towns nay, in the same 
ward of an hospital. The writers who have differed in their his- 
tories and descriptions of different epidemics, must not therefore 
be charged with inaccuracies. 

The result, then, of the most extended inquiries leads to the 
conclusion that, in by far the greater number of epidemic yellow 
fever visitations on shore, the disease has not been propagated by 
contagion ; while on board ship, and occasionally on shore also, 
under circumstances of crowding, damp, and impure air, and 
neglect of general and personal cleanliness, it has proved other- 
wise, as in the well-known instance of her Majesty's ships Bann 
and Eclair. 

The primary source of the pestilential fevers, in the two ships 
named, is still matter of dispute ; some contending that the ori- 
ginal fever, in both instances, and as received into each ship, was 
but the endemic of the African coast while others assert with 
equal confidence that the disease on shore and on board was, 
from first to last, the true yellow fever. The question is one of 
the highest interest and importance ; but, on reference to the 
official reports of Sir William Burnett and Dr. Bryson, the sub- 
ject would appear to be settled, in the estimation of those able and 
experienced officers. 



THE YELLOW FEVER. 377 

Dr. Bryson, while introducing the subject of the fever on board 
the Bann, states that in 1823, "fever of an epidemic character 
began to manifest itself in the colony of Sierra Leone, and speedily 
extended to vessels in the harbour, in the river, or in the adjacent 
rivers or creeks, and to the different settlements along the coast. 
In the latter part of March it first assailed the crew of the Bann." 
Dr. Bryson goes on to say, that Sir W. Burnett was unable to ac- 
count with certainty for the origin of the fever, either in the colony 
or in the Bann, " but distinctly proves that it was not, as had been 
supposed, imported by a vessel named Caroline." 

Sir William expressly states, " that it was, in the first instance, 
merely the common endemic of the country, brought on by hard 
labour and exposure to the sun, not possessing, under these cir- 
cumstances, any contagious properties, and continued so until 
after the middle of February ; that it subsequently, by the state of 
the weather preventing ventilation, and from a great number of 
sick being confined in a small space, became contagious ; and 
although it became impossible to trace the fever in question 
directly from the Bann to any individual of the garrison of Ascen- 
sion, yet there is just reason to believe that the disease was intro- 
duced into the island by the ship." 

Dr. Bryson, after enumerating the symptoms generally, includ- 
ing the black vomit, in the ships serving on the African coast 
during 1823 25, says that " in almost every instance where the 
disease assumed a formidable character, its origin could be traced 
to one or more of the common well-known predisposing and ex- 
citing causes. He concludes that in none of the ships " does it 
appear to have assumed a contagious form but in the Bann." 

In the second instance, her Majesty's steam-vessel Eclair quitted 
Plymouth on the 2nd of November, 1844, and after touching at 
Teneriffe, Ascension, and various other places on the African 
coast, she reached Sierra Leone on the 22nd of February, 1845. 
Here the crew was employed " variously " fresh meat, vegetables, 
and fruits being served to them in abundance. " The general 
standard of health in the colony, as well as in the Eclair, was con- 
sidered high ; nothing in the form of endemic disease having yet 
made its appearance amongst the crew of the latter, nor any of 
that mental depression which subsequently affected them." 

Between the 15th of February and the 16th of March the crew 
were employed along the coast, principally in boats, exploring 
creeks, and they were thus " exposed much to all the vicissitudes 
of the weather, to malarial exhalations from the muddy banks of 
the rivers, and from contagious mangrove swamps : they slept 
sometimes on shore, but generally in beds; they experienced 
much fatigue, disappointment, and mental depression. While 
this duty was being performed, diarrhoea affected many of the 



378 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

crew ; and on the 3rd of April " the first case of fever occurred." 
Then followed, up to the 15th of June, twelve cases of fever, seven 
of which proved fatal ; while, of those who remained on board the 
ship, two fatal cases of fever occurred. " From these facts one 
important inference at least seems clearly deducible, namely, that 
the disease was contracted from local causes exterior to the ship ; 
for although the two cases occurred in persons who had not been out 
of her, still, from her close proximity to the land, the whole crew 
must have been more or less exposed to the same malarious ema- 
nations as the men employed in the boats, although perhaps in a 
less concentrated form, while not having suffered from privation 
and fatigue, they were not so susceptible of the disease." 

Notwithstanding the sufferings and death here recorded, the 
labour of the men was continued up to the 2nd of July, the Eclair 
returning on the 4th to Sierra Leone, with her crew " compara- 
tively speaking healthy the last case of fever advancing favour- 
ably to convalescence." 

From the last named date till the 15th of August, the men were 
employed in surveying the stores of the Albert, and in clearing 
out her hold, in which was found " a strange collection of rubbish 
and dirt," which had remained in her hold since leaving England 
on the Niger Expedition. Leave to go on shore at Sierra Leone 
was at this time given to the men, followed by all the exposures 
and irregularities common to such occasions ; and thus, says the 
surgeon of the ship, "were our people, previously reduced in 
health by exposure in one of the worst situations on the coast, 
employed at an unhealthy period, and in the worst month of the 
year, in very disagreeable work, which they knew was quite thrown 
away, the vessel being worn out, and utterly useless for any pur- 
pose whatever." 

Here, in this simple record, we perceive that the conduct of 
the officer in command was as reprehensible as it was without ex- 
cuse ; indeed, he was signally wanting in his first duty that of 
care for the helpless men placed under his orders. 

During the passage from Sierra Leone to the Gambia, fourteen 
persons were seized, of whom, including a gentleman passenger, 
seven died. " The fever," says the surgeon, " appears to have 
been " (quaere^ originally) " as distinctly remittent as that con- 
tracted at the Sherbro ; and some of the men had " (quaere subse- 
quently) " unequivocal black vomit ; whilst several of the bodies, 
it is said, became yellow after death, although in the Medical 
Journal the latter appearance is not mentioned." The report adds 
that the obscure light on the deck, where the men were treated, 
must have rendered changes of complexion less obvious. 

Between the 15th and 17th August, the fever continuing, and 
two more deaths having occurred, the Eclair, after taking in coals 



THE YELLOW FEVER. 379 

at Gorce, stood across to Boa Vista, where she anchored on the 
21st of the same month. It being the opinion of Dr. Kenny, a 
resident practitioner at Boa Vista, as well as of the medical 
officers of the Eclair, that the two or three cases of fever now on 
board the ship were " the common African fever," pratique was at 
once given by order of the authorities on the island. 

On the 30th August, sixteen new cases being added to the list, 
and five deaths, since the ship anchored at Boa Vista, the com- 
mander had the crew, sick as well as healthy, removed on shore 
the disease being still regarded by Dr. Kenny, the Portuguese 
colonial surgeon, and the medical officers of the ship, as " common 
African fever." 

" A report, however, had gone abroad," says the surgeon, " that 
black vomit had occurred in some of the fever cases, and I men- 
tioned the fact to Captain Estcourt, who assured me that he had 
heard nothing to cause foundation for such a report." 

Dr. Bryson goes on to state that " from the day of landing the 
sick, until they were re-embarked on the 13th September, 1837, 
additional cases of an aggravated type occurred, twenty-five of 
which proved fatal." It was now that, in the fatal seizure of Dr. 
M'Clure, who nobly volunteered to serve on board, it began to be 
suspected " that the disease had acquired contagious properties ;" 
yet, even then, Dr. Bryson suggests that as Dr. M'Clure had but 
recently left Sierra Leone, he might have imbibed the poison 
there. 

From the departure from Boa Vista to the 12th October at 
Stangate Creek quarantine station, to which the ignorant fears of 
the quarantine officers consigned this ill-fated ship, the record is 
one immense course of suffering and death, including that of the 
heroic young surgeon, Sidney Bernard. 

Dr. Bryson, who considers the fever on board the Eclair to 
have been " merely of a typhoid character," concludes as follows : 

" Having thus traced the fever of the Eclair from its first ap- 
pearance on board at the island of Sherbro, until it ceased pre- 
viously to her arrival at Sierra Leone, and from its re-appearance 
there in a more concentrated form, until it finally disappeared 
some time after her arrival in England, it is impossible not to be 
struck with the close similarity it bore to that of the Bann. Both 
vessels contracted the disease at Sierra Leone, and apparently 
from the same cause or causes, and under similar circumstances. 
In both vessels, in the course of a few weeks, it assumed an epi- 
demic character, if it did not acquire contagious properties ; the 
one vessel proceeded to the barren rocky island of Ascension, a 
few degrees south of the equator, where a disease of the same cha- 
racter made its appearance amongst the inhabitants, and com- 
mitted great ravages ; the other proceeded to the nearly equally 



380 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

barren island of Boa Vista, a few degrees to the north of the 
equator, where, in like manner, a disease a short time afterwards 
broke out and raged with equal severity. This is not the place, 
however, to trace the progress of the fever on the island of 
Boa Vista, nor is it, perhaps the time, considering that the sub- 
ject is still under investigation." 

The investigation here referred to was soon afterwards con- 
cluded by Dr. M' William of the navy, in a manner alike honour- 
able to his reputation, and satisfactory to the great body of the 
medical profession. Two points have been established by Dr' 
M'William; namely, that the fever on board the Eclair had be- 
come contagious ; and, secondly, that the disease was propagated 
from the ship to the inhabitants of Boa Vista. We thus find that 
the similarities between the case of the Bann and that of the 
Eclair, are highly interesting and important. 

1. " In both instances the fever became increased in violence 
from the influence of the shore. 

2. At Ascension, the mortality in the garrison was over 50 per 
cent, of those attacked, while it was but 16 per cent, in the crew of 
the Bann, although they were under the most unfavourable circum- 
stances of ventilation, cleanliness, &c. 

3. At Boa Vista, the sick list became rapidly augmented when 
the sick were landed. 

4. In both cases also the coloured people on board escaped, or 
nearly so. 

5. If these cases of the Eclair and the Bann be taken together, 
agreeing as they do in all their main features, it is logically impos- 
sible to doubt the existence of a multiplying or contagious virus." 

Thus far the able reviewer already quoted, who now arrives at 
the following conclusions from the whole course and tenor of the 
argument : 

"1. That yellow fever is decidedly contagious on some occa- 
sions. 

2. That the proofs of the universality of this property are de- 
fective. Importation can seldom be proved ; inoculation is impos- 
sible, and the disease requires a peculiar susceptibility of condi- 
tion in order to act. 

3. That it is not safe to generalize from the first observation, 
and to conclude that yellow fever is at all times contagious, because 
it is undoubtedly so sometimes; for these reasons: 

a. Because there are fevers undistinguishable by symptoms 
from contagious yellow fever, which certainly are not contagious. 

b. Because we are not sure how far contagion may not be an 
accidental property impressed on a poison by contingent circum- 
stances, or may be only the development of a property of self-re- 
production always possessed by the morbid poison, but generally 



THE YELLOW FEVER. 381 

in so slight a degree as to be unappreciable. If the former opinion 
be correct, yellow fever is both contagious and non-contagious ; if 
tin; latter, it is also in the majority of cases, non-contagious, in the 
conventional meaning of the term. 

4. That contagion is only a property accidentally impressed on 
the yellow fever appears probable. 

a. Because in no other way can we explain the extraordinary 
discrepancies and opposing statements of men, whose honesty of 
purpose is undoubted. 

b. Because it is almost a necessary assumption, in order to ex- 
plain certain facts in the history of yellow fever. 

c. Because it is in accordance with analogous phenomena ma- 
nifested by other morbid poisons. 

<l. Because there is really some direct proof of it in the appa- 
rent development of fever on board ships with clean holds, and 
removed from the influence of the land. 

5. That if this conversion of a non-contagious into a contagious 
poison be denied, there is no alternative but to admit the exist- 
ence of a specific contagious yellow fever. 

6. That the doctrine of a specific contagious yellow fever is 
alone supported by the fact, that it destroys the necessity of ad- 
mitting the convertibility of poisons, a circumstance considered by 
many observers as in the highest degree unlikely and unphiloso- 
phical." 

The following is Dr. M'William's summary of the questions re- 
lating to the fever on board the Eclair, and that which prevailed 
subsequently at Boa Vista : 

" In my humble opinion, the history of the epidemy of Boa Vista 
comprehends every condition upon which the proofs of the infec- 
tiousness of a disease are supposed to rest, namely : 

TJte healthiness of t/ie island before the arrival of the Eclair, 
with Yellow Fever on board. 

The outbreak of the same disease among the inhabitants of 
the island within a reasonable period afterwards. 

The immunity of distant villages for long periods until the 
arrival of infected persons, and the radiation of the disease in 
i i<r if district from infected foci. 

The comparative immunity from the disease obtained by per- 
sons who adopted common but partial precautionary measures 
against infection. 

Tlie absolute immunity from the disease procured by persons 
who adopted strict measures of isolation and segregation" 

On a careful review of this question, we receive the following 
additional authority in support : 

On the 31st December, 1850, the Royal College of Physicians 
of London delivered a Report to the Lords of Her Majesty's most 



382 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

Honourable Privy Council, respecting the Bulam, or yellow fever, 
which had been drawn up by the President and Fellows of the 
College in consequence of a communication from their Lordships. 
The points investigated by the College were as follow : 
"1. As to the Bulam fever being sui generis, and distinct from 
remittent or the marsh fever of warm climates. 

2. As to its being an infectious disease; that is, communica- 
ble from person to person, and likewise capable of being imported. 

3. As to the non-liability of persons to a second attack of that 
disease. 

After a very careful consideration of all the facts and argu- 
ments adduced on both sides, with reference to the first question 
proposed, the College are of opinion, that sufficient grounds 
have not been laid for stating, that " yellow fever" is a disease 
sui generis. 

With regard to the second question, it appears to the College 
to be sufficiently proved, that this disease is, under certain circum- 
stances, infectious, and, consequently, that it may be imported. 

The principal circumstances under which the infectiousness 
of the disease is likely to be developed, would seem to be a high 
temperature and moisture of the atmosphere, particularly in un- 
healthy seasons, and when the influence of these causes is ag- 
gravated by local insalubrity of site, and by the absence of free 
ventilation 

That the disease has been in some instances imported, the 
history of the epidemic fever which occurred in her Majesty's ship 
Eclair, and at Boa Vista, in 1845, affords conclusive evidence. 

The third question proposed respecting the non-liability of 
persons to second attacks, does not admit of being settled in a 
decided manner. Strictly speaking, there is no disease of which 
it can be affirmed, absolutely, that one attack renders a person in- 
susceptible of a second. 

The College are unwilling to conclude their report without 
strongly recommending to their Lordships, that, on any future 
appearance of this formidable malady, persons should be sent 
out, thoroughly qualified by education and by habits of observa- 
tion, to collect evidence on the important questions which have 
now been proposed to the College. This was done in the case of 
the Eclair, and most valuable information was thus obtained." 
(Signed) " FRANCIS HAWKINS, M.D., Registrar. 

" Royal College of Physicians, 
December 31st, 1850." 

PREVENTION. Dr. Alison justly observes that, we may do 
more for the prevention of sickness and suffering among mankind, 
by studying the mode of propagation of epidemic diseases, even 



THE YELLOW FEVER. 388 

so far as yet known, and giving that advice by which they may be 
shunned, than we should do by die discovery of a new remedy, 
more powerful than any that is known in medicine. The truth of 
this declaration ought to be deeply impressed on all who enter the 
medical departments of the public service ; for it is with yellow 
fever, as with cholera, and other concentrated forms of disease ; 
whatever will prove most effective must rest on measures of pre- 
vention ; and of these, the immediate removal from the place 
where the yellow fever may prevail, and the not returning to the 
locality, or to the ships, originally occupied by troops, inhabitants 
of towns, or seamen, constitute the first necessity of the case. 
The most eligible localities to choose will be found in elevated 
and well drained situations, to windward of the infected spots. 

Dr. Alison further states, that the most important principle 
ascertained in this department of medicine is " that as to several 
of the most virulent of the epidemics which have been permitted 
to afflict mankind, the means of effectually restraining their diffu- 
sion are known, but cannot be carried into effect without both 
trouble and expense to the community that is to benefit by them ; 
and that these means are very considerably different in the case 
of these different diseases in the case, particularly of small pox, 
of erysipelas, of puerperal fever, of plague, of cholera, of continued 
fever, and of yellow fever. 

As to yellow fever, regarding it as originating in an aggravated 
form of the remittent from malaria, and therefore affording illus- 
trations of the natural history of that destructive agent in its most 
virulent form we can go somewhat farther. Recollecting what 
has been stated of the very limited origin of the Sausage poison, 
and of the cadaveric poison exciting erythematic inflammation 
not in putrefaction generally, but in a certain stage of the decom- 
position of certain matters only we shall be prepared to hope 
that a somewhat similar limitation may be ascertained for the 
development of this poison likewise ; more particularly as we have 
already stated, that both in this climate, where it (in general at least) 
only excites ague, and in hot climates where, under a temperature of 
80 or more, of some duration, it excites so much more formidable 
diseases, all the conditions which we can as yet point out as 
essential to its development may exist without its showing itself. 

On this point the experience of the medical officers of the anny 
and navy, for the reasons already given, being the result of obser- 
vations on organized masses of men, is the most valuable ; and facts 
are already known which may often be applied to practical use, 
and promise to lead hereafter to more minute and more uniformly 
applicable information. Not only is the general measure of 
removing the population of a district known to be malarious 
always to be recommended when the yellow fever shows itself, but 



384 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

precise limits may sometimes be assigned. It seems certain that 
the poison often originates in parts of the timber of certain ships, 
and is long confined in them." * 

That on board ship, as on shore, the limits of putrefaction or 
other processes of decomposition are confined within narrow limits 
of space, seems more than probable ; and the special investigation 
of such limits constitutes a branch of inquiry of the utmost im- 
portance, and one in which many facilities are afforded to the 
medical officers of our fleets and armies. 

The most speedy means of prevention, in respect to towns and 
garrisons, will always be found in the removal of both the sick 
and the healthy to a locality where the temperature is sufficiently 
low, such as a neighbouring elevated range, or dry well ventilated 
ground : the next most ready means is segregation. 

1. In Gibraltar, in 1810, the infectious character of the prevail- 
ing yellow fever being suspected, " the infected were segregated 
and removed to an airy locality, communication with them was 
prevented, the healthy protected, and the mischief was very soon 
arrested. 1 ' 

2. In 1813, this disease again made its appearance there, when 
nearly 8,000 persons left the garrison and encamped on the 
neutral ground. The open nature of the ground, and the strong 
breezes, arrested the progress of the epidemic, very few cases 
having occurred after this removal. 

3. Upon a review of all the facts and circumstances observed at 
different times, at Gibraltar, Dr. Hennen concludes, that they 
were demonstrations of the value of " segregation and moderate 
quarantine." 

4. " The disease will stop" says Dr. Copland, " as soon as the 
susceptible are separated from contaminated places, persons, and 
things" 

5. Let houses, barracks, and hospitals be purified by water and 
air; but no attempt be made, during the prevalence of the 
epidemic, to cleanse sewers, drains, or privies, for such measures 
have always proved mischievous, when practised at the time 
stated. 

6. Tents, boarded sheds, and temporary hospitals should be so 
separated from each other as to admit of the most free circulation 
of air, in every direction. 

The prophylactic influence of bark or quinine has often been 
observed during service in unhealthy countries, but nowhere more 
emphatically than on the West Coast of Africa. 

" In the North Star," says Dr. Bryson, " twenty men and one 
officer were employed on boat duties at Sierra Leone ; they all 
took wine and bark with the exception of the officer ; he was the 
* British and Foreign Med. and Chir. Review, April, 1854. 



THE YELLOW FEVER. 385 

only person who suffered an attack of fever. Two boats were 
detached from the Hydra, in 1844, to examine the Sherbro river; 
the whole of the men were supplied with bark and wine, and not 
one of them was taken ill, while the whole of the gig's crew, with 
the exception of the captain, who were similarly exposed for two 
days only, without being supplied with either, contracted fever of 
a dangerous character. Facts like these are not to be mistaken." 

Dr. Bryson suggests that a daily prophylactic dose be adminis- 
tered, and that its use should be continued for at least a fortnight 
after the return of the men on board their ship. He gives a 
decided preference to quinine over the bark. 

Whenever fever of a formidable nature makes its appearance on 
board ship, she should at once proceed to sea, and into the coolest 
atmosphere within reach. 

With seamen, as with soldiers, the first and most immediate 
measures of prevention should obviate direct solar exposure, 
fatigue, and excesses in the use of spirituous and fermented 
liquors. 

2. Seamen, when employed on unhealthy coasts, should be 
kept as remote from the shore as is consistent with duty anchor- 
ing some miles out, during the night especially. 

3. The duties in boats should be conducted as much as pos- 
sible in the mornings and evenings avoiding alike the noon-day 
heats, and the deadly emanations from the shores common to 
the night. 

4. The labour in boats should be conducted with as much care 
to the men, and absence from fatigue as possible, avoiding ex- 
hausting perspiration. 

5. The seamen should not land, unless under urgent necessity ; 
and then the more high and dry lands should be carefully selected 
for encampment. 

6. The meals should be regularly served, and carefully cooked 
no more spirit-ration being issued than is customary. 

7. Under necessary fatigue, cold, wet, and mental depression, 
the issue of extra spirit-rations will be proper. 

8. Coffee should be given early in the morning, as a habit. 

9. One or two doses of quinine should be given daily as a pro- 
phylactic. 

10. The rendezvous boat should have an ample tarpaulin for 
the protection of the men against night dews and noon-day heats. 

1 1 . Besides a complete set of blanket-clothing, each man should 
have a duck-dress and flannel waistcoat 

12. Where the nature of the service can admit of it, no boats* 
crews should be absent from the rendezvous boat, or from the ship 
during the night. This would constitute, of itself, the greatest 
safeguard of all. 

c c 



386 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

13. Dry-cleaning of the decks attention to cleaning out the 
holds and great attention to the personal cleanliness of the crew 
should be carefully observed. 

14. The free ventilation of every part of the ship should be 
carefully maintained. 

15. The labour of the men should be sparingly used, and they 
should, when possible, not be exposed to wet or damp ; and they 
should not be put to work till the sun shall have dissipated the 
early morning fogs, and till after the serving of coffee. 

16. The holds of ships should not be cleansed on the spot 
where the fever has originated, or during its prevalence, but should 
be deferred till the arrival of the vessel in a colder latitude. 

17. Green wood should not be placed on board ship in hot 
climates. Wood for ship use should be stripped of the bark, cut 
into moderately sized pieces, and partly charred. These direc- 
tions are chiefly taken from the admirable Report of Dr. Bryson, 
already quoted. 

CURE. Previously to entering on a consideration of the 
means of cure, the physician should determine, with the utmost 
care, both the type of the prevailing fever, and the age, constitu- 
tion, and habits of life of the individual. There are, beyond 
question, pervading characters in every epidemic one being of an 
adynamic, another of a somewhat sthenic, or phlogistic nature ; 
and it is obvious, that on the right determination of these prelimi- 
nary questions, very much must depend. But, with all the care which 
we can employ, it must be confessed that, as regards the essen- 
tial nature, causes, and treatment of this terrible disease, the amount 
of our real knowledge is lamentably defective. In the yellow fever, 
as it appeared on the coast of Spain, the brave Robert Jackson 
speaks hopelessly as to the influences of all means of cure ; and 
he was in all things the very opposite of a despairing physician. 

" From the wide range which the symptoms take," says Dr. 
Gillkrest, " so wide that but for the black vomit being liable to 
occur as a connecting link, in the various forms during the preva- 
lence of an epidemic, we should, from the symptoms, as well as 
from post mortem appearances, often have reason to suppose that 
different remote causes were giving rise to different impressions. 
It is obvious that in no disease is it more difficult to lay down rules 
of practice, and in none can the medical officer's tact and atten- 
tion be more needed." 

" All medicine," says Rostau, " consists in diagnosis ;" but he 
adds, as justly as emphatically, that " the medicine of symptoms 
is the worst of all medicines." We must, therefore, beware of a 
false diagnosis ; and recollect also that, as regards the important 
question of treatment, it too often happens that " What is new is 



THE VKI.I.OW PKVKK. 387 

not true, and that what is true is not new." Holding in recollec- 
tion these preliminary cautions, we shall be the better prepared to 
enter on the question of the little that is known, therapeutically, 
of yellow fever, 

The history of the treatment of this disease, like that of the 
bilious remittents of hot climates generally, is found stamped 
with the characters of the doctrines taught in our medical schools, 
rather than on any ascertained etiology or pathology. 

As in the remittents of the East, at different times, so in the 
Western epidemic yellow fever emetics and purgatives formerly 
preceded a systematic course of Peruvian bark, wine and opium ; 
blood-letting being used only where violent reaction, and conse- 
quent inflammation was supposed to exist. 

But this plan of treatment not proving satisfactory to Dr. Rush, 
of Philadelphia, he had recourse to repeated blood-lettings, seldom 
exceeding sixteen ounces at a time, pursued into the fifth and 
even the seventh day of the disease, or so long as the pulse re- 
tained any firmness. Calomel with jalap powder was freely ad- 
ministered throughout, as a purgative and cholagogue ; and this 
course of treatment Dr. Rush declared to be the most successful 
in his time. 

In the West Indies, Robert Jackson abstracted blood even 
more freely still to the amount of thirty to forty ounces at a 
time, and repeated until a powerful impression was made on the 
disease. Then followed Dr. Chisholm, with " bleeding to the 
extent necessary, plentiful alvine evacuations, MERCURIAL 
PTYALISM, and cold affusion." 

Different as such means of cure may appear to have been, they 
were not in reality so different as they seemed ; for the yellow 
fever epidemics, observed and described by so many able men, 
differed as to time, character, circumstances, and localities, so as 
very greatly to reconcile certain differences in their treatment. 
Such influences on health and on disease must ever be held in 
recollection in passing judgment on the conduct of those who 
have gone before us ; otherwise, we should be doing injustice to 
their memories. 

Referring now only to the experiences of our own day, and of 
epidemic visitations such as we see them, it must be confessed 
that it is not here as in remittent fever : we must not have re- 
course to heroic measures of cure ; for we cannot cut short the 
yellow fever. 

In more recent times blood-letting has not proved needful or 
useful, whether in this epidemic as it prevails on the African coast, 
or that of Spain, or yet in the West Indies. As in cholera, the 
shock to the organic nervous system, and the injury to the blood, 
especially when the subjects of treatment are placed in low, damp, 

c c 2 



388 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

or crowded localities, induce so great a prostration of the nervous 
and vascular functions, even in the young, t and in those apparently 
of a phlogistic habit, as to render any considerable abstraction of 
blood from the arm a more than questionable operation. Where 
general or local depletion promises relief, it will be found of ad- 
vantage amongst the newly arrived and plethoric, and in those 
placed in favourable, open, and airy localities, and where the 
character of the epidemic fever is more of a phlogistic character 
than otherwise. 

Having duly considered the individual circumstances of the 
patient the stage of the disease, and its degree of severity he 
should be placed in a position which secures a free ventilation, 
and he should be made to look with a confident hope to the re- 
sult. The following means should then be put in practice : 

The warm bath will be found grateful and useful as a prelimi- 
nary measure, having in view the objects of purifying the skin 
and promoting a determination to the surface of the body. The 
temperature should be such as to prove graeful to the patient, 
and gentle frictions with oil should follow the use of the bath. 

Of internal remedies our list is necessarily limited ; for there is 
so much irritability of stomach, with such dangerous vomiting in 
prospect, that even the most useful and agreeable medicine may 
be rejected. With a view to anticipate and allay this distressing 
and dangerous disposition, effervescing drinks in moderate and 
repeated doses should be given; such as soda or seltzer water 
flavoured with champagne ; spruce or ginger beer all which are 
grateful to the stomach. 

As in remittents, so in this disease, the bowels should be freely 
evacuated by means of jalap powder with calomel, or by calomel 
followed by senna and salts mixture. Throughout the progress of 
the fever, indeed, and whatever the degree of its severity, the de- 
purative functions must be kept in activity by alterative doses of 
mercury, purgatives, and diuretics. In this manner, by mild 
means, and with the aid of farinaceous diet and demulcent drinks, 
the severer forms of the disease may be somewhat mitigated, while 
the milder degrees of it will in a few days be advanced into con- 
valescence : but, too often, we have to deal with more grave ills. 

If, in the severe cases now contemplated, blood-letting be had 
recourse to, it should be abstracted from the epigastrium previ- 
ously fomented, and by means of leeching or cupping carefully 
avoiding the induction of vascular and nervous depression. We 
have now to regard black vomit and the death of the patient as 
probable contingencies in the progress and termination of the 
case ; and we must, with such means as we know, proceed to an- 
ticipate and prevent them. Of these, turpentine exhibited by the 
stomach and in the form of enema, and applied to the whole ab- 



THE YELLOW FEVER. 380 

domen as an cpithem, has been for many years past recommended 
by Dr. Copland, as holding forth a favourable prospect assisting 
its operation by wine, brandy, camphor, and opium, as diffusi- 
ble stimulants. 

In the epidemic yellow fever of Peru, described by Dr. Archi- 
bald Smith, and which took three years to attain to its full deve- 
lopment, one attack formed no security against a second. From 
the very gradual manner in which this epidemic acquired matu- 
rity, so as at length to constitute unequivocal yellow fever, the 
Spanish physicians compared it to the tender cub which, as it 
grew up, became the voracious beast of prey. 

The treatment found successful in this epidemic, after the 
failure of other remedies, was turpentine in one drachm doses by 
the mouth, or half-ounces in the form of enema " several times 
daily" using it also as an epithem to the abdomen. In this 
manner fifty per cent, of the Indian race are stated to have been 
saved, even " in the last stage with black vomit." This course of 
treatment was not so successful with the other coloured and mixed 
races, and it was least successful with the European. Dr. Smith 
" can only recal to mind three decided instances of a white man 
having reached the stage of full homogeneous black vomit, and 
yet to have survived that danger." 

On the decline of the febrile stage, the infusion of valerian with 
ether, camphor, and musk, was generally used, as were the car- 
bonate of ammonia, opium with creasote, camphor and opium, 
and capsicum with opium, in form of pill. Two minims of creo- 
sote and half a grain of opium in pill, and administered every 
four or six hours, were very effective in preventing the accession of 
black vomit. 

Very recently also this practice has been very favourably re- 
ported upon by Mr. Laird, of her Majesty's ship Medea, who ex- 
hibited the turpentine in doses of fifteen minims, with a little 
nitric ether and camphor mixture, every three or four hours, 
which course of treatment was pursued until a remission of symp- 
toms ensued ; when quinine and a nutritious diet concluded the 
treatment. 

As adjuvants, occasional doses of blue pill followed by castor- 
oil sinapisms cupping blisters evaporating lotions to the 
head, &c., were employed ; and, out of sixty cases treated, only 
four deaths occurred. This was indeed a remarkable, and I be- 
lieve an unique amount of success ; and should it prove in other 
epidemic visitations of yellow fever equally true, we shall no 
longer approach this disease with hesitation, the result of dread. 

Blood-letting Mr. Laird found to be " extremely hazardous," 
and an operation which, " except in some particular cases, might 
be safely dispensed with ;" but local depletion by cupping, from 



390 THE YELLOW FEVER. 

the epigastrium and nape of the neck, appears to have been occa- 
sionally useful. 

The action of the turpentine on the skin and kidneys is rated 
highly by Mr. Laird, who found the medicine seldom to disagree 
with the stomach, or induce strangury. Turpentine exhibited in- 
ternally did not excite the pulse ; and applied to the" abdomen in 
friction, along with olive-oil, " seemed to act better than if it had 
been taken by the mouth," in the instance of " a sailor-lad, with 
black vomit and suppression of urine, who would not take the 
draught." The report of this interesting case goes on to say that 
" three hours after the frictions were applied, this patient made a 
pint of healthy-looking urine, and, after an interval of eight hours, 
he passed a pint and a half more urine of the same character. 
Early next morning black vomit, which had been present for 
about thirty-six hours, entirely ceased, and the lad appeared 
otherwise much improved." The frictions were continued ; but, 
while struggling against the administration of a nutritive enema, 
he was seized with convulsion, and died. 

"On dissection, no trace of black vomit could be detected, 
unless a little dark green matter found in the ileum might be con- 
sidered as such. The mucous lining of the stomach was much 
congested, and discoloured dark-red ; but its epithelium was per- 
fectly intact; and although the liver presented the usual fawn 
colour, the skin was not tinged yellow, as was the case with the 
other patients who died with black vomit. This case, I might be 
excused saying, ought to have been a recovery from black vomit, 
had not the unlooked-for head affection come on. 

In another case of black vomit, I gave turpentine in doses of 
forty minims, combined with hydrocyanic acid, with the evident 
effect of controlling this fatal symptom, although the patient was 
carried off soon afterwards by profuse and uncontrollable haemorr- 
hage of fluid-looking blood from the mouth and nose."* 

Dr. Blair, of British Guiana, another recent writer on yellow 
fever, was sparing in the use of blood-letting, even as a local mode 
of abstraction, and which he had recourse to only for the relief of 
severe and early cerebral and epigastric distress. 

His treatment consisted in twenty-grain doses of calomel, with 
twenty-four of quinine, followed by castor oil. In severe cases 
he repeated the calomel and quinine every six hours ; and never 
had occasion to exhibit more than six such doses to one patient ; 
and ptyalism did not result from this treatment. " Emesis was 
frequently moderated or checked by the exhibition of drop doses 
of creasote made into a light emulsion with mucilage and sugar." 

This gentleman used cold ablutions, sinapisms, and blisters ; 
while he exhibited as adjuvants Rhenish wine, chalk mixture, 
* Medical Gazette, April 14, 1855. 



THE YELLOW FEVEK. 391 

with essential oil, creosote, liquor potassae, ammoniacal paste, 
musk, carbonate of ammonia, spirit of Mindererus, magnesia, lax- 
ative enemata, lemonade. The diet consisted in barley-water, 
sago, arrowroot, tea, chicken- broth, beef-tea, and toasted bread. 

The treatment of the epidemic yellow fever, as described and 
treated by Dr. McKinlay, was as follows : 

Purgatives, calomel and antimony every three or four hours, 
cooling saline diaphoretics, sponging with vinegar and water, 
quinine and bitter infusions during convalescence, with barley 
and rice-water for drink. To alleviate and overcome vomiting, 
he used effervescing draughts, with tincture of opium, enemata 
containing turpentine, sinapisms and blisters to the epigastrium. 

Such is a fair exposition of the most recent means of cure 
adopted in the treatment of yellow fever. That all or any of them 
may prove very generally effective to the cure of other epidemic 
visitations, is more than present experience will warrant us to con- 
clude ; but that they present subject-matter worthy the attention 
of the tropical practitioner, may, I think, be admitted. 

Desiring to attract and to concentrate the attention of the reader 
to the little that appears to be practically ascertained respecting 
the modes of treating yellow fever, I have purposely avoided the 
entanglement which might result from an enumeration of all the 
adjuvants which have at different times found a place in the lists 
of authors, and which are common to the treatment of yellow 
fever as to the remittents of tropical climates. The truth is, that 
many remedies have been recommended for the cure of both 
diseases not on the ground of proved experience, but simply as 
unreasoned opinions. We have been oftener told what they were, 
than what they signified. 



DELIRIUM TREMENS. 



WITHOUT calling in question the occasional occurrence of acute 
delirium, as an affection connected with inflammatory irritation of 
the arachnoid membrane the conjoined result of "a drunken 
bout," and of insolation I purpose here to notice only the true 
delirium tremens, as it generally appears amongst European sol- 
diers in the East Indies. It is usually seen as the indirect result 
of the temporary withdrawal of the accustomed stimulating drink, 
or it arises, in a more or less subdued or masked form, when the 
soldier has for some days been subjected to the abstinence of the 
hospital system of discipline, on account of a wound or accident, 
or for the treatment of acute disease as fever, dysentery, or 
hepatitis. 

The importance and interest attaching to delirium tremens, or the 
brain fever of drunkards, will be rendered apparent by a reference 
to the numerical table at the end of this article, and with which I 
have been favoured by Colonel Tulloch. The disease, as already 
suggested, is important also, as forming a very frequent complica- 
tion with many of the acute diseases of tropical climates a fact 
not sufficiently noticed by the generality of authors. 

In a report on the statistics of Delirium Tremens among the 
troops in Canada, during 30 years, by the Inspector General 
Henry, we find the following general results : 

Number of cases of Delirium Tremeus in 30 years . . 1769 

deaths 143 

Ratio of cases to strength, first 15 years . . as 1 to 175 

second 15 years . as 1 to 75 

whole 30 years . as 1 to 93 

deaths to cases, first 15 years . . as 1 to 16 

second 15 years . . as 1 to 12 

whole 30 years . . as 1 to 



SYMPTOMS AND PROGRESS. Delirium tremens appears 
in forms more or less acute and complicated, as the disease may 



DELIRIUM TREMENS. 393 

occur in the newly-arrived or in the old seasoned soldier. In the 
cases of young soldiers, we find that occasional courses of drinking, 
with insolation, will produce great perturbation and excitement of 
the nervous and vascular functions, amounting, in some instances, 
to maniacal fury the most strange illusions, violence, and hurry 
of manner, with incessant muttering and general irritability, the 
face being flushed, and the head hot. There is great anxiety, 
with oppression of the praecordia, vomiting, spasmodic pains, and 
occasional headache ; the urinary and intestinal excretions being 
scanty and depraved, the tongue foul and tremulous. While this 
earlier stage continues, the skin is harsh and dry, the pulse fre- 
quent ; but if the disease proceed, symptoms of exhausted nervous 
and vascular energies take the place of the previous tumult and ex- 
citement, even in the youthful and newly-arrived soldier. 

In the old soldier, again, habituated to the abuse of intoxicating 
liquors, every debilitating cause even the withdrawal of the 
accustomed bane, is followed by collapse of the vital powers, as 
indicated by nervous depression, excessive gastric and intestinal 
irritation, a feeble pulse, sometimes frequent, but more generally 
slow, a cold and clammy skin, a hurried and imperfect respiration. 
The manner, though wild, is more subdued, and the temper 
melancholy, the mind being in a perpetual anguish haunted 
with imaginary alarms and illusions; but when the attention is 
aroused by a question, the answer is generally rational. The 
wretched sufferer, deprived of half his reason, is yet miserably 
conscious of his condition ; in short, the moral and physical ills 
produced by habitual inebriety, are here concentrated. 

After a time sleep is entirely banished, with aggravation of all 
the symptoms ; until at length, as the disease advances, and the 
energies sink, a complete exhaustion of the vital powers announces 
the immediate approach of danger. I have seen men walking 
about in a frenzied state, muttering and chattering, whose death 
took place within a few minutes, instantaneously, and as if struck 
by lightning ; while in other instances, death was preceded by 
aggravated tremor, ending in general enervation and convulsion. 

Mr. Playfair, of Bengal, describes a soldier as insisting on being 
discharged from the hospital, because the guard had conspired against 
his life ; or, he saw his comrades attempting to shoot him through 
the windows. He then collected his bedding, and everything he 
could find, and piled them against the door, to guard against the 
supposed attack, crying aloud for justice or revenge. With the 
fury and strength of a madman, he then threw everything about 
the room ; after which he seated himself in the corner, and with 
eyes fixed on vacancy, he listened to and conversed with imaginary 
beings. In this latter mood he would injure no one ; indeed, 
such is not the general desire, though there is usually some 



394 DELIRIUM TREMEN8. 

person of whom the patient complains. As in ordinary insanity, 
so in this disease, personal fear predominates. 

The patient often calms on finding himself under the restraint 
of the strait-waistcoat, and begins to relate his grievances ; and 
then only can he be prevailed on to take medicine ; at other times 
restraint only seems to increase the fury of the patient, who foams 
at the mouth with rage, blaspheming in the most horrible manner. 

A patient supposed himself a messenger sent from Heaven to 
save the souls of those who sought his protection, and pointed to 
die heavenly hosts on the wall, with " the devil looking round the 
corner, afraid to advance." Another soldier imagined himself 
charged with the most unnatural crimes, but asserted his inno- 
cence in the most pathetic manner ; while a third believed himself 
condemned to be shot for a crime he never committed. But 
though he was to suffer innocently, he called for instant execution, 
and, placing his back to the wall, requested that a file of men 
might be ordered to despatch him. A fourth complained that his 
wife's honour was in danger from the designs of villains ; and, 
lifting up the corner of the quilt, pointed to Mr. Playfair the place 
of her imagined concealment. 

A soldier of the Bengal Artillery is mentioned by Dr. Spry, 
who required six men to secure him in the strait-jacket. He had 
stripped himself naked during the night, burst from the hospital 
into the adjoining dead-house, barricading the door with tables, 
on which the bodies of four deceased comrades were lying. Here 
an appalling scene was presented the raving drunkard being in 
close conflict with the dead, uttering at the same time the most 
dreadful imprecations that language can afford. Such are some 
of the effects of spirit drinking on die European soldier. 

CAUSES. With soldiers habituated to excesses, the sudden 
privation of die accustomed drinks die absence of sufficiendy 
nourishing food the debility caused by acute diseases, as fever, 
dysentery, diarrhoea, and cholera active measures of depletion 
these are all frequent causes ; as are, the abuse of tobacco-smok- 
ing the use of opium, and of drugged beverages. 

But while it is admitted that, in young men, occasional courses 
of drunkenness, with or without solar exposure, constitute the 
most frequent causes of the more acute forms of delirium tremens ; 
there can be no doubt that, with the older soldiers of protracted 
residence in tropical climates, the habitual tippling and tobacco- 
smoking, especially when, of a sudden, one or all of the long used 
stimuli have been withdrawn fonns by far the most general cause 
of the disease in its true and more frequent examples. 

The truth of this is seen in the relative statistics of the army 
and navy. In the latter, tiiough delirium tremens is found to re- 



DELIRIUM TREMENS. 395 

suit from excessive debauches in harbour, the disease is neither of 
such frequent occurrence, nor so fatal in its results by many 
degrees, as in the army, and especially amongst soldiers who are 
paid daily ; for with these last, in place of the periodical drunken 
bout following upon the receipt of the month's pay, after the 
olden custom, there is now prevalent a far more injurious course 
of excitement in the daily tippling of ardent spirits. 

COMPLICATIONS. The complications of delirium tremens 
would alone constitute this disease one of much importance in 
military practice ; for not only is it, in this form, very prevalent, 
but it is both insidious and dangerous in the hands of the inex- 
perienced. 

In the soldier habituated to the use of ardent spirits, nervous 
symptoms arise as frequent complications in course of treat- 
ing him for other diseases, and such symptoms will always be 
found, varying in degree, in persons of better condition who in- 
dulge freely in wine, spirituous liquors, and tobacco. After the 
free use of depletory means for the removal of fever, dysentery, 
or hepatitis, how often do we find the patient exhibit at first a 
latent or subdued nervousness, soon to be unmasked in all the 
illusory and real horrors of delirium tremens :* in other words, 
when febrile or inflammatory symptoms have yielded to the use 
of blood-letting, purgatives, sudorifics, and low diet, how often do 
we see the patient become low, desponding, tremulous, agitated, 
and sleepless ; symptoms which, if disregarded, become sources 
of aggravated suffering and danger in the sequel : in short, life 
may here be sacrificed, if the enervated condition under consider- 
ation be mistaken for, or treated as, cerebral inflammation. 

It is here then, when, under the depressing influences of the 
measures of cure indicated, room has been afforded for the display 
of nervous irritability and exhaustion, that other quieting means 
of a special nature become really necessary to the successful 
treatment of the case ; and many a physician has found the safety 
and advantage of such means, under such circumstances, without 
having been sufficiently alive to the reason of his success. 

PATHOLOGY. Congestion of all the secreting organs, and 
consequent arrest of all the depurative functions, would appear to 
constitute the most ordinary results of excessive spirit-drinking. 
When delirium tremens has actually set in, the urine is declared 
by Dr. Bence Jones to present an extraordinary diminution in the 
total amount of phosphatic salts excreted, as compared with the 
vast increase of the same in inflammation of the brain. 

Delirium treiueiis is always designated by the European soldiers as ''the korron." 



396 DELIRIUM TREMENS. 

" Alcohol," says Dr. Bence Jones, " hardens the skin when 
applied locally. It hardens and thickens the stomach. When 
long continued it thickens the cellular tissues of the liver. It passes 
off by the lungs and kidneys, and affects both organs. Ultimately 
it lessens the amount of carbonic acid expired, and hinders the 
removal of the products of decomposition by the urine. It changes 
the composition of the blood, and affects the nutrition of every 
organ and structure in the body. It has its own peculiar poison- 
ous action on the muscles and nerves. As a poison it has been 
placed by its effect on nerves and muscles between ergot of rye 
and arsenic." 

" Alcohol is the chief poisonous ingredient of unadulterated fer- 
mented liquids. Like all poisons, when not taken in too large a 
quantity, or too long continued, it has a medicinal action, on 
which its dietetic value depends. This action may be summed up 
in one word, stimulant." 

Alcohol, according to Dr. Docker, diminishes the excretion 
both of the solid and fluid constituents of the urine. 

2. Alcohol does not increase the cutaneous perspiration. 

3. Alcohol does not augment the faecal excretion. 

4. Alcohol diminishes not only the absolute quantity of carbonic 
acid exhaled by the lungs, but also the relative proportions of it 
in the products of respiration. 

Dr. Ogston of Aberdeen, in his pathological observations on the 
bodies of known drunkards, gives the following results of the in- 
spection of the bodies of 44 persons : 

1. Cranium. Abnormal appearances within the cranium, -in 
43 cases, 97' 7 per cent, of the whole. 

2. Chest Abnormal appearances in the respiratory organs, in 
all, in 33 cases, or in 75 per cent, of the whole. Simultaneous 
abnormal appearances in the head and respiratory organs in 32 
cases. 

Abnormal appearances in the pericardium, heart, aorta, or pul- 
monary artery, in all, in 26 cases, or in 59 per cent of the whole. 

Abnormal appearances within the chest, in all, in 38 cases, or 
in 86 "3 per cent, of the whole. 

3. Abdomen. Abnormal appearances in the stomach, in all, in 
24 cases, or in 54 5 per cent, of the whole. 

Intestines. Abnormal appearances in the intestines, in all, in 
8 cases, or in 18*18 per cent, of the whole. 

Liver. Abnormal appearances in the liver, in all, in 36 cases, 
or in 81 '8 per cent, of the whole. 

Spleen. Abnormal appearances in the spleen, in all, in 18 
cases, or in 40.9 per cent, of the whole. 

Kidneys. Abnormal appearances in the kidneys, in all, in 28 
cases, or in 63'6 per cent, of the whole. 



DELIRIUM TBEMENS. 397 

Entire absence of morbid appearances existed in none of the 
oases. (British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review for 
October, 1854.) 

Such have been the post-mortem appearances. But, during 
life, besides the contamination of the blood from the generally 
pent-up and vitiated state of the secretions the result of universal 
congestion there is reason to conclude that, as a direct conse- 
quence of spirit-drinking, the circulating fluid is dissolved, and 
otherwise depraved. The result altogether is a severe irritation of 
the entire nervous system followed by nervous and vascular col- 
lapse. 

PREVENTION. Doses of two grains of emetic-tartar, or half- 
drachm doses of powdered ipecacuanha, have been exhibited as 
means of prevention of habits of drunkenness ; some practitioners 
recommending that the emetic be given at the moment that craving 
for strong drinks comes on, while others add the medicine to the 
intoxicating potation with a view to excite nausea, or cause vomit- 
ing, and thus produce a feeling of disgust. 

Dr. Gilbert, of Lurgan, administers tartar emetic " secretly, in 
occasional doses of from five to ten grains, as soon as convenient 
after the person commences drinking strong liquors in tea or in 
any other proper vehicle. It generally produces such nausea, 
vomiting, and fear of death, as completely to frighten the person 
from going on in his drunken course of life, for that time at least ; 
and, much to the joy of friends, ultimately produces, in many in- 
stances, what nothing else would effect, a complete change of life, 
one from drunkenness to temperance." 

Mr. Higginbottoni, of Nottingham, considers the ipecacuanha 
more safe, and altogether preferable to tartar-emetic; and that 
from its " extraordinary power of stimulating the whole system, 
equalizing the circulation, promoting the various secretions, and 
indeed of assisting each organ of the body to perform its function, 
and to restore it to its normal state " ipecacuanha should always 
have the preference. He gives the powder in half-drachm doses. 

The inspector- general, Henry, on an extensive observation of 
delirium tremens as it appeared in Canada, says : " As the diar- 
rhoea, which so often warns of malignant cholera, may be readily 
cured by proper medicine, and the dangerous attack averted ; so, 
in the premonitory stage of this malady, a manly effort, aided by 
a little medicine, may save both the reason and the life. When 
the tippling of the sot, or the outright intemperance of the drunkard, 
are about to end in this disgraceful disease, the poor slave of evil 
habits will sometimes be induced to make great efforts to break his 
chain ; but at first he will feel himself most miserable : relaxation 
and debility have succeeded artificial tension and strength, whilst 



398 DELIRIUM TREMENS. 

the stomach craves its customary stimulus, and some substitute 
must be found. 

According to my experience, gentian, as below, is the best me- 
dicine under these circumstances : 

B: Infus. Gentianae comp. ^xij. 
Tincturae ejusdem, 3v. 
Magnesias sulphatis, 3iv. 

A common wine-glassful the first thing in the morning, again at 
mid-day, and in the evening. 

If the patient can be persuaded to take it regularly for a week, 
his morbid craving for stimulating drink will be abated, the tone of 
his stomach improved, his moral dejection lessened, and he will 
feel himself a new man. Of course this applies only to persons 
in whom organic mischief has not yet taken place." 

CURATIVE TREATMENT. Before entering on the treat- 
ment of this dangerous disease, the medical officer should insti- 
tute a rigid scrutiny into all the antecedent circumstances relating 
to the soldier's health ; such as, his constitution age length of 
residence in a tropical climate previous diseases, and especially 
if the present be the first seizure of delirium habits of life 
whether he is at the moment a sufferer from an actual drinking 
bout, or whether the intoxicating drink has been withdrawn for 
two or more days whether the patient is a habitual and confirmed 
drunkard. From a careful consideration of these circumstances, 
together with an examination of the skin pulse tongue con- 
dition of the nervous system of the secretions and of the nature 
and degree of the delirium the observer is enabled readily to 
determine whether the condition of the patient be one of gastric 
and vascular excitement, or of nervous irritation and exhaustion. 

When the case is not acute delirium tremens from a drunken 
bout, the patient being young, plethoric, and recently arrived in a 
hot climate, cold should be applied to the head and face, while 
the body is immersed in a warm bath. On removal from the 
bath, a full dose of calomel and opium should be administered, 
followed in two hours by a powerful cathartic, composed of com- 
pound decoction of aloes, infusion of senna, sulphate of magnesia, 
and tincture of senna. After the free action of this purgative, or 
of croton-oil, which many prefer to every other form, it will be ne- 
cessary to quiet the nervous agitation ; and this is best done, in 
the acute form of the disease, by a combination of tincture of 
opium with antimonial wine, exhibited every two hours until a 
tranquil sleep is secured. 

When the symptoms, as here supposed, are the direct and im- 



DELIRIUM TREMENS. 399 

mediate results of a fit of drinking no inflammatory action being 
present within the cerebral cavity the course of treatment sug- 
gested will generally prove of speedy effect. In the true delirium 
tremens, however, or that resulting from the withdrawal of an ac- 
customed stimulus, with exhaustion of the nervous and vascular 
systems, the treatment becomes at once more complex and 
difficult. 

Here, as in the former instance, we should commence by the 
exhibition of a full dose of calomel and opium, followed by 
a powerful aromatic and stimulating cathartic, with a view to 
remove retained and vitiated intestinal accumulations, and to act 
as an energetic cholagogue. After the free operation of the 
cathartic, opium in moderate doses conjoined with camphor or 
ammonia, should be given every two hours, until evidence of 
abated nervous irritability and nervous exhaustion be made appa- 
rent, in a tranquil sleep. For the purpose of allaying nervous 
agitation and sleeplessness, very large, and very unwarrantable 
doses of opium have been exhibited ; but it should at all times be 
the object of the attentive physician to obtain his objects by a 
moderate use of direct narcotics ; and happily, in the use of chlo- 
roform, internally exhibited, we possess a powerful and harmless 
means of commanding nervous perturbation and depression. 
Chloroform, in very severe cases, may be conjoined with small 
doses of laudanum, and so as to command sleep. Chloroform is 
thus valuable in itself, and as enabling us to dispense with large 
and repeated doses of opium. 

As stated in the article on fever, Doctors Corrigan and Gordon, 
of Dublin, have, for some time past, been in the habit of using 
chloroform in delirium tremens. One drachm is given by the 
stomach at first, and it is often increased to two drachms, or even 
larger doses. The dose is repeated every two or three hours, 
until sleep results ; and, unlike opium, this medicine does not 
lock up the secretions. 

But to aid the actions of opium and chloroform, the use of active 
cholagogue purgatives, of warm baths, of spiced negus, and of well 
made soups, will materially advance the solution of the symptoms ; 
by such means we emulge the depurative organs, while we support 
the nervous energy. 

Personal restraint and coercive measures are seldom called for, 
and should not be used without a necessity. The disposition of 
the patient is generally harmless ; and by careful and constant 
attention on the part of the attendants, and by judicious manage- 
ment, he can be induced to comply with all the requisite orders 
of the hospital. 

In the hands of exclusive practitioners, I have often seen means, 
apparently opposite in their nature and influences, followed by 



400 



DELIRIUM TREMEN8. 



successful results: for instance, a late friend of mine, a surgeon 
of the Bengal army, and one of the most able men whom I have ever 
known, entertained a positive dislike of opium, from its well 
known quality of locking up the secretions. He treated delirium 
tremens with very large doses of calomel, followed by purgatives ; 
and his success was, according to his impression, equal to that of 
his brother officers. But this instance only proves how much the 
use of cholagogue purgatives has to do with the treatment of this 
disease, and how necessary it is that they should always consti- 
tute a prominent part in its treatment. 

It is here, as in other complicated diseases ; it is not by one 
favourite remedy, or fancied specific, that disease is to be over- 
come, but by the just applications of all the known remedies. 

TJie following table exhibits the relative prevalence and mor- 
tality from delirium tremens amongst the European troops of 
Her Majesty's army in the several Commands mentioned : 











Proportion 




Aggregate 






of deaths 


DELIRIUM TREMENS. 




Admitted. 


Died. 


to 




Strength. 






admissions. 


West Indies 


86661 


1426 


175 


1 in 8 




51567 


191 


42 


1 in 1 .', 


Cape of Good Hope . . . 


22714 


13 


3 


1 in 1 1 




30515 


514 


50 


1 in 10J 




42978 


35 


7 


1 in 5 




11721 


102 


9 


1 in 11 


Nova Scotia and New Brims- \ 


46442 


207 


18 


1 in 12 


Upper and Lower Canada . 


64280 


296 


18 


1 in 16 


Gibraltar 


60269 


44 


5 


1 in 9 


Malta 


40826 


38 


5 


1 in 8 


Ionian Islands 


70293 


192 


30 


1 in 6* 


United Kingdom .... 


44611 


27 


4 


1 in 6J 


Bengal, 1836 to 1840 . . . 


36286 


672 


14 


1 in 48 


Madras, 1832 to 1836 . . 


31267 


496 


21 


1 in 24 


Bombay, 1836 to 1840 . . 


18073 


113 


15 


1 in 7i 


Tenasserim Provinces, 1836-37 


7000 


34 


5 


1 in 7 



The above table suggests many inquiries, but which cannot be 
answered without entering into a variety of circumstances affecting 
the moral and physical condition of the soldier. 

Why the mortality by delirium tremens in Madras should be 
double that of Bengal, for instance, and why that of Tenasserim 



DELIRIUM THi:\II \v 401 

and of Bombay should so very far exceed that of both the sister 
presidencies, arc points of much interest. Again, so far as ordi- 
nary tropical influences are concerned, the colonies of the Cape of 
Good Hope, Mauritius, and the provinces of Tenasserim, enjoy a 
remarkable exemption, the deaths by fever, dysentery, and hepa- 
titis being few in these colonies, as compared to the other British 
possessions ; yet in these most favoured climates, delirium tremens 
proves most fatal. 

Even within the British islands, we find that, though delirium 
treinens is comparatively a rare disease, the ratio of deaths to 
cases treated is nearly eight times as great as in the unhealthy 
countries under the Bengal presidency. 

It may be that, as in the instance of mercury, a certain amount 
of injury is prevented by so much of the alcohol being removed 
from the system by the copious perspirations prevalent throughout 
India generally, and in Bengal especially, during so many months 
out of every year. That the excessive transudations which occur 
in the hot and rainy seasons have such a tendency, appears to me 
more than probable ; for, in the instance of mercury, we have a 
demonstration of the fact. 

Through the same channel of the skin, but by means of active 
exercise in the open air, the " three-bottle-men," the fox-hunting 
squires of old, " carried off" their port wine. The hunting during 
three days of every week kept the depurative functions in activity, 
and thus they lived on to a lusty old age, while, without such 
active habits, they must have died in youth or in middle life from 
visceral disease and delirium tremens the inevitable fate of the 
sedentary lot. 



b D 



402 HABITS OF THE BRITISH SOLDIERY, 



HABITS OF THE BRITISH SOLDIERY, AND THEIR 
INFLUENCE ON HEALTH. 



THE helpless, listless condition of organized bodies of men, as 
compared to the active, independent condition; the free agency 
and private enterprise, of civil communities, is a subject which, 
with its moral and physical results, has not yet been appreciated 
either by official bodies, or by the public, which pays for all the 
labour of naval and military organization. 

In civil life, men are very much masters of their actions, and of 
their habits of life ; while in the army and navy a man is neither 
master of his diet, exercise, clothing, fuel, hours of rest, or of 
anything else, in short. The government that employs the seamen 
and soldier is the sole arbiter of his habits and customs, and of 
everything that relates to his condition. In all this the governing 
power incurs an obvious responsibility ; and it would prove a 
mournful as well as unprofitable labour to trace, since the days of 
Charles the Second, how this responsibility has been used for the 
soldier's and seamen's moral and physical welfare. 

The barrack life of the British soldier ; what a world of 
wretchedness and misery, moral and physical, does that term 
bring to the memories of all who have witnessed it in our tropical 
possessions ! Here we find men at the mean age of twenty-six, 
" at the healthiest period of life, and selected from the healthiest 
of the population," yet " fallen below the health level of their 
native country, where all the chances are in their favour;" and 
this, amongst other causes, owing "to the reckless dissipation 
incident to all military bodies," as we have managed them. 

The late Inspector-General of Hospitals, William Fergusson, 
says : " I never saw a barrack that was not too crowded, or in 
other words, where, if the men had been lodged in separate 
cottages, or even hovels, they would not have been healthier." 

" Of the soldiers' life within these barracks there is much to be 
said, and much to be amended. To take his guards, to cleanse 
his arms, and attend parade, seems to comprehend the sum total 



AND THEIR INFLUENCE ON HEALTH. 408 

of his existence ; amusement, instruction, beyond the drill, mili- 
tary labour, and extension of exercises, would appear to be 
unthought of; as it is impossible that the above duties can fully 
occupy his time, the irksomeness of idleness, that most intoler- 
able of all miseries, must soon overtake him, and he will be driven 
to the canteen, or the gin-shop, for relief. 

labour in every shape seems to have been strictly interdicted 
to the soldier, as water for his drink. All, or nearly all, must 
have been bred to some trade or other before they became soldiers, 
but they are to work at them no longer. Labour, the labour of 
field works and fortifications, strengthens the limbs and hardens 
the constitution, but that is never thought of in our military life at 
home ; so thought not the ancient Romans, whose military high- 
ways still exist, and who never permitted their soldiers to grow 
enervated in idleness during peace. Better, surely, would it be, 
that every one should work at his own craft, or be employed on 
the public works, in regulated wholesome labour, than thus to 
spend his time in sloth and drunkenness. 

But his exercises, without even going beyond the barrack pre- 
mises, may be made manifold ; running, wrestling, gymnastic 
games of every kind, swimming, leaping, pitching the bar, the 
sword exercise, that of the artillery, all that hardens the muscles 
and strengthens the limbs, should be encouraged ; and when the 
weather forbids out-door pastimes, the healthful exercise of single- 
stick, in giving balance and power to the body, quickness to the 
eye, and vigour to the arm, may properly be taken as a substitute 
for the drill, which, after the soldier has been perfected in his ex- 
ercise, is always felt to be a punishment. So is the unmeaning 
evening parade, and perpetual roll-calling. 

Surely, if the soldier present himself once every morning, cor- 
rectly equipped and in order, the most teasing martinet ought to 
be satisfied, and then no more should be required than to see that 
the men are all in their quarters on the beating of the tattoo. 
Surelv the use of the sword has been too much frowned down, as if 
it had been a forbidden thing. In the night attack, the musket is 
worse than useless, its fire leading to every kind of confusion ; and 
at the breach it is little better, for it can only be presented against 
stone walls and ramparts that conceal the defenders ; but it would 
cover the swordsman advancing to the breach, and a couple of 
chests of ship's cutlasses furnished to every regiment as regimental 
baggage a single horse-load provided the men had been taught 
to use them, would generally supply all that could be wanted for 
the exigency of the service. 

Let any one reflect on the fearful expenditure of life at the 
breaches at Badajos and St. Sebastian, and say if some means 

I) D 2 



J04 HABITS OF THE BRITISH SOLDIERY, 

should not, if possible, be devised, to render it less costly here- 
after. One is almost tempted to regret the times " when," accord- 
ing to the old song, " our leaders marched with fuzees, and we 
with hand-grenades :" and could the good grenadier have carried 
a sword by his side, to use after he had tossed the ball, he would, 
I believe, have done much more execution than with a musket and 
bayonet : and why should the artillery be to him a closed book, as 
if in the course of his service he was never destined to handle or 
to suffer from it? A couple of guns, even if wooden ones, in 
every barrack-yard, with an old invalid bombardier to teach the 
use of the rammer, and the sponge, and the match, would fill up 
many a vacant dreary hour, and open his mind to a most useful 
professional lesson. 

The lesson, moreover, would be as useful to the infantry officers 
as to the privates. He would then, should he ever prove the 
captor of a prize gun, at least know what it was, and be able to 
turn upon the enemy the engine that had just been used for the 
purpose of destroying himself. Every sailor, even on board a 
merchant ship, where there are no idlers, must become more or 
less an artilleryman, and why should not the too often idle soldier ? 

Foot-racing too, the art of running, so little practised, and so 
supremely useful, should be held amongst the qualities that con- 
stitute military excellence. It was so held at the Isthmian games 
of ancient Greece, and deserves a better place than has hitherto 
been assigned to it in the military pastimes of modem Britain. 
In our school books we are told that the youth of ancient Persia 
were taught to launch the javelin, to ride the war-horse, and to 
speak the truth. Let the young British warrior be taught to use 
his limbs, to fire ball-cartridge, to cook his provisions, and to 
drink water. The tuition may be less classical, but it will sjand 
him in far better stead during every service, whether at home or 
abroad. 

Barracks, from time to time, should be evacuated for purifi- 
cation. The evils and dangers of accumulation will otherwise 
beset them, inducing disease ; and to obviate this, it would be 
well, whenever practicable, to march out their inhabitants, in the 
summer season, to the nearest heath or common always, however, 
without tents and there make them hut themselves. No military 
lesson could be more useful than this. Every man so hutted 
would be advanced in soldiering to the full instruction of the 
campaign. The change, breaking the monotony of barrack-life 
the novelty, would animate ; he would be taught how to live in a 
camp, how to cook and to forage, to use the mattock, the shovel 
and the axe. 

Tents, when the soldier lies upon the cold ground, with a crowd 



AND THEIR INFLUENCE ON HEALTH. 405 

of comrades enclosed within a superficially heated atmosphere, 
loaded with animal exhalations, can only be considered hot-beds 
for the generation of dysentery. On their return to barracks, they 
\\ill find everything healthy and refreshed, and they will know 
that they have been made better soldiers. 

Some have strenuously recommended barrack libraries; and 
surely, when we think of the dismal monotony that hangs over the 
soldier in barrack-life, no one with good feelings could object to 
them. Still, I must confess that 1 never knew or heard of a 
reading army. The military exercises and pastimes would seem 
better adapted to the soldier's character; and I acknowledge I 
would rather see him a cook than a student, for on that art his 
very existence may depend ; but if he feel disposed to read, let 
him have every advantage and opportunity that the rules of the 
service can admit. 

Music would seem far better adapted than even books to fire the 
soldier's mind, for when played in national airs, it awakens a 
chord which has often electrified armies ; and amongst all nations, 
at some period or other of their history, it has been the accompa- 
niment and incentive to war. The highly civilized English soldier 
now fights, and can fight, without it ; but if taught to feel its 
powers, would he not fight better with it ? To the Irish and 
the Scotch soldier it still speaks the language of the heart, and the 
Highlander, when he hears the gathering of his clan blown from 
the mountain war-pipe, becomes elevated and transported beyond 
himself; he will then encounter anything in human shape, un- 
appalled by all the forms of death that the engines of war can 
inflict." This admirable military physician concludes : " Regular 
bodily pleasurable exercise has been said to be worth a host of 
physicians for preserving military health ; and occupation, without 
distress or fatigue, is happiness. The philosopher can make no 
more of it ; and every idle hour is an hour of irksomeness, and 
every idle man is, and must be, a vicious man, and to a certain 
extent an unhealthy one ; for the mind preys upon the body, and 
either deranges its functions in a direct manner, or drives the pos- 
sessor to seek resources incompatible with health." 

Thus spoke William Fergusson, after an experience of actual 
war of twenty years, and thus had spoken before him Robert 
Jackson ; but in everything relating to the soldiers' welfare, Jackson, 
Fergusson, Hennen, Henry Marshall, and Ballingall, will be found 
to have been half a century, or more, in advance of all opinion, 
and especially in advance of military authority. That the warn- 
ings of such men should for so long have been unheeded is but 
another instance out of many of the utter disregard of the subject 
by the authorities of the state, both civil and military, who for ages 
regarded the soldier as but a red -coated pariah. In France it is 



406 HABITS OF THE BRITISH SOLDIERY, 

well understood that " the degree of perfection of military medical 
science is the true measure of the importance attached to the pre- 
servation of the soldier." 

It was with a rare sagacity and penetration of the subject in all 
its hearings, belonging only to an officer of the highest order of 
talent, that Sir John Moore the intimate personal friend of 
Robert Jackson declared, in addressing Sir Ralph Abercromby, 
that " a Roman army would have gone through their military exer- 
cises in the West Indies and have been healthy." The same 
distinguished commander added : " The troops, I observe, which 
have been most active, are the most healthy ; a proof that the sun 
is not the cause of sickness. .But in general the greater part of 
the sickness proceeds from want of interior discipline and economy 
in regiments. 

Great attention should be paid in this country to the cleanli- 
ness and even neatness of the soldier's person and the regularity 
of his diet, an addition to the eating part of his ration instead of 
rum ; sea or river bathing, constant activity and movement. In 
short, General, (excuse the pedantry of the expression,) but with a 
Roman instead of a modern exercise and discipline, the troops in 
the West Indies might, I am convinced, be kept healthy. 

A parade twice a day, consisting merely of an inspection and 
exercise of arms, is easy for officers ; it leaves them what they call 
more time, but it leaves the soldier also to lounge the whole day 
in barracks, where the air cannot be good, and where, from indo- 
lence, his body becomes enervated and liable to disorder." How 
much that is preventive of disease do these short sentences enjoin, 
and how applicable is the entire reasoning to the condition of the 
European soldier in the East Indies as well. No wonder that, 
living in the miserable manner here described, condemned for- 
merly to a residence of twenty years in the East Indies moving 
from bad stations to worse hope should shed but a feeble influ- 
ence over the soldier's enjoyment or future prospect, and that he 
should thus yield to the temptation of momentary gratification. 

Robert Jackson states, that " Planters, who may be said to work 
hard, experience good health comparatively ; even soldiers are 
healthy when actively employed ; they suffer when they remain 
immured in barracks in ease and apathy." Again : " The writer 
ventures to say, by fair induction from fact, that if the soldier in 
the West Indies, instead of being restricted from labour, were 
permitted to do for himself whatever he is capable of doing, his 
health would suffer less than it now does; the mind would be 
occupied, there would be satisfaction, and fewer of those causes of 
temptation which in idleness lead him into error." 

The most complete army of modern times in health, discipline, 
and equipment, was that mustered by Napoleon in 1805, on the 



AND THEIR INFLUENCE ON HEALTH. 407 

shores opposite to England, and which a popular historian declares 
to have " acquired a degree of perfection, in point of discipline, 
organization, and military habits, unprecedented since the days of 
the Roman Legions." 

This notable army amounted to one hundred and fourteen 
thousand combatants ; and it is highly deserving of remark, that 
its exemption from disease was ascribed by its incomparable 
leader, to habitual light and cheerful occupation of mind and body, 
short of fatigue. 

" Constant employment," says one of his Generals, " was the 
true secret both of their good health and docile habits ; neither 
officers nor soldiers were ever allowed to remain any time idle ; 
when not employed in military evolutions, they were constantly 
engaged either in raising or strengthening field-works, or in level- 
ling down eminences, draining marshes, or filling up hollows, to 
form agreeable esplanades in front of their habitations, and where 
their exercises were performed." The same army, according to 
Tardien, marched from the sea-coast without halt to the field of 
Austerlitz, over nearly 400 French leagues, leaving hardly any 
sick behind. 

What the "interior discipline and economy" of Marlborough, 
England's greatest commander, may have been, I have no means of 
knowing; but there must have been something notable in that order 
which, according to one who served under him, made his camp re- 
semble "a well governed city. Cursing and swearing were seldom 
heard among the officers ; a sot and a drunkard were the object of 
scorn ; and the poor soldiers, many of them the refuse and dregs of 
the nation, became, at the close of one or two campaigns, tractable, 
civil, sensible, and clean, and had an air and spirit above the 
vulgar." How melancholy to look on the reverse of this picture, 
and to reflect that, in the middle of the nineteenth century, so much 
should remain to be done to render the British soldier healthy and 
happy. On the abuse of ardent spirits in our various colonies it 
were almost in vain to speak. Before that terrible vice can be 
overcome, something far more powerful than medical reasoning on 
facts, or the warnings of experience founded on them, must be 
brought into active operation. Discipline must still fiirther alter its 
direction in place of being active only to punish wrong, it ought 
and must be exerted further and further in the encouragement to 
good conduct. 

Henry Marshall, speaking of the British soldier in the East 
Indies in his day, says : " By the daily custom of imbibing 
spirituous potations, a new want is created, intemperance is estab- 
lished as a habit, and frequent intoxication is the consequence. 
The wretched drunkard must now have a large supply of liquor in 
the morning to recover him from the effects of the quantity drunk on 



408 HABITS OF THE BRITISH SOLDIERY, 

the previous night. He perhaps has neither money nor credit, 
and his clothes are then sold at a small portion of their value. 
Some do not stop here ; for, after having sold all their clothes, 
they will rob their comrades, and with the proceeds of their dis- 
honesty, provide the means of intoxication. Confinement follows 
upon confinement, court-martial upon court-martial, and punish- 
ment upon punishment, until the worn-out wretch dies in hospital 
of the " horrors," fever, or dysentery ; or if he should for a time 
resist the fatal effects of disease, his constitution becomes broken 
down by the combined influence of the poison of spirits, an ex- 
hausting climate, and repeated attacks of illness, so that in a few 
years he is found unfit for further service in India, and he is sent 
home to be invalided. 

Death is the last, but perhaps not the worst consequence of 
intemperance. This description of the life of a British soldier 
in India is by no means highly-coloured. But the evil does not 
fall on the heads of the unfortunate sufferers; military discipline 
in all its branches becomes deeply affected by habits of intem- 
perance. To the generally prevailing vice of drinking are to 
be attributed almost every misdemeanor and crime committed 
by British soldiers in India. 

The catalogue of these, unhappily, is not a scanty one ; for, by 
rapid steps, first from petty, and then more serious neglects and 
inattentions, slovenliness at, and absence from parades, follow 
disobedience of orders, riots, and quarrels in barracks, absence 
from guards and other duties, affrays with the natives, theft, and 
selling of their own and their comrades' necessaries, robberies, 
abusive language, and violence to non-commissioned officers, and 
last of all desertion, mutiny, and murder may be traced to this 
source. This frightful picture is not exaggerated. I have seen 
thirty-two punished men in a regimental hospital at one time, 
perhaps not a single individual of that number suffered for a crime 
which was not a direct consequence of the immoderate use of 
spirits. 

I recollect attending to the punishment of seven men of the 
same regiment, who received among them four thousand two 
hundred lashes. They had been all tried for crimes arising from 
habits of intemperance. Since the institution of the Recorder's 
and Supreme Court, at Madras, no less than thirty-four British 
soldiers have forfeited their lives for murders, and most of them 
were committed in their intoxicated moments." 

How, it may be asked, can courts-martial and officers in com- 
mand, altogether reject the excuse of intemperance, so long as a 
soldier is furnished by Government with the means of depriving 
him of his reason as part of his daily subsistence, all of which he 
is directed to use ? Becaria is of opinion that the punishment of 



AND THEIR INFLUENCE ON HEALTH. 409 

crime cannot be just, or, in other words, necessary, if the laws 
have not endeavoured to prevent that crime, by the best means 
which times and circumstances would allow. 

We instil the moral and physical poison with one hand, and 
hold out the lash with the other, as the antidote against indul- 
gence. Coercive measures have at all times been found very in- 
effectual for preventing the evils arising from intemperate habits, 
partly because the soldiers do not generally regard drunkenness as 
an ignominious vice. Where punishment has no influence in 
checking a man from repeating a breach of discipline, or in pre- 
venting others from committing a like offence, it is worse than 
useless. 

Where endemic fevers prevail, the temperate, it is true, are 
attacked as well as the intemperate ; but it is universally admitted 
by medical men, that the former has a much better prospect of 
recovery than the latter. Desgenettes, in his medical history of 
the French army in Egypt, observes that daily experience demon- 
strates that all the soldiers who indulge in intemperate habits, and 
that are attacked with fevers, die ; nay, we may go still further and 
say, that they have been more liable to an attack of disease. Sir 
James McGrigor repeats the same observations even more em- 
phatically. 

The obvious purport of Henry Marshall's able report is, to re- 
commend an abolition in the East Indies, and everywhere, of the 
indiscriminate 'and uniform issue of spirit rations to the troops, 
with a view of abating the extent of crime, of lessening the pro- 
portion of sick, of reducing the rate of mortality, diminishing the 
numbers discharged on account of disabilities, and of promoting 
the welfare, efficiency, and discipline of corps. 

But there is another habit respecting which I shall venture to 
say a few words, because it is both a bad one, and a comparatively 
new one, I mean the immoderate use of tobacco a habit brought 
amongst us from the continent of Europe, on the cessation of the 
French revolutionary war. Young military men are apt to regard 
the habit as a manly one, until severe dyspepsia, shattered nerves, 
sallow complexion, disturbed action of the heart, and other symp- 
toms, show themselves, and then it is frequently too late to stop. 
" The sallow complexions, black, broken and unsound teeth " of 
the Germans, are matters of notoriety to all travellers. " You 
may," says one of them, "smell a German in any part of the 
room, or scent him at a quarter of a mile's distance in the open 
air, if the wind be favourable." 

Much is talked of the good effects of tobacco-smoking in damp 
localities, by persons who, in defiance of geographical differences, 
carry the habit wherever they go from the marshes of Aracan to 
the arid plains of Delhi ; but 1 think there is good reason to qucs- 



410 HABITS OF THE BRITISH SOLDIERY, 

tion the benefits of this habit of smoking even in the fatherland of 
fog and damp, or that tobacco ever acts as a preventative to any 
disease, and least of all to fever. 

The truth is that many persons puff themselves into the good 
graces of snobs and spoonies like themselves, and use cigars by 
the score now, as Lord Chesterfield drank and smoked in his time, 
notwithstanding his aversion to wine and tobacco "because he 
thought such practices very genteel, and made him look like a 
man." How his lordship may have looked, under the united in- 
fluence of wine and tobacco, his biographers have failed to relate ; 
but we all know how cur modern " spoonies " and " snobs " in our 
thoroughfares look, after a course of cigar-smoking alone. 

Damp and cold climates may confer a greater tolerance of, or 
partial immunity from, the evil effects of the drug, but this is per- 
haps all that can justly be admitted. Dr. A. T. Thomson, speak- 
ing of the medicinal effects of tobacco, says : " Its narcotic 
power, when it is employed in excess, weakens the digestive 
organs, obtunds the nervous sensibility, and depresses the whole 
vital energy." 

Of the empyreumatic oil of tobacco, which is produced in 
minute quantities in the ordinary process of smoking, the same 
author says that, when introduced into a wound, "it causes instant 
death." Of the other active principle, the nicotina, he states that 
it is a direct sedative ; and that, medicinally, under all circum- 
stences, tobacco must be employed with the utmost caution. 

If such checks and cautions are necessarily put on the use of 
this powerful drug, in the hands of the physician, what need be 
added on the continuous and unlimited use of it by the reckless 
and ignorant soldier. 

Of hookah-smoking I need say nothing, as happily its day is 
nearly gone ; but I have seen many cases of severe constitutional 
and cardiac disturbance from its abuse, with perfect recovery of 
health on the discontinuance of the habit; the digestive functions, 
those of the heart and nerves, having been seriously affected in 
the most inveterate smokers. Of the miseries, mental and bodily, 
which I have witnessed in the persons of young officers, from the 
abuse of cigars, I will only say that they very far exceed those 
detailed in the " Confessions of an Opium-eater." 

Many persons flatter themselves that by long use such habits 
become a harmless second nature the truth being that they can 
never become a second nature, for they have nothing to do with 
the first, as has been said of graver matters. 

Lallemand has reported, on an extensive personal observation, 
that the use of tobacco deadens the generative functions. " I am 
convinced," he says, " that this must be much more frequent than 
is generally believed, if I may judge by the torpor into which the 



AND THEIR INFLUENCE ON HEALTH. 411 

organs of generation fall, as soon as the narcotic action of the to- 
bacco is experienced, and by the habitual indifference evinced by 
confirmed smokers for the society of women." 

Professor Lizars of Edinburgh, after enumerating the modes in 
which syphilitic ulcerations of the lips, mouth, and throat are pro- 
pagated by the short-pipe and cigar, and how carcinomatous ulcer- 
ation of those parts is produced by the same cause, states that the 
constitutional effects of tobacco are numerous and varied, and 
occasionally truly deplorable. Amongst these he enumerates; 
dyspepsia, vitiated taste, a loose condition of the bowels, con- 
gestion of the brain, loss of memory, amaurosis, deafness, 
nervousness, palsy, emasculation, and cowardice, or want of 
moral courage. 

Dr. Prout states that " tobacco disorders the assimilating func- 
tions in general, but more particularly, as I believe, the assimila- 
tion of the saccharine principle. I have never, indeed, been able 
to trace the development of oxalic acid to the use of tobacco ; but 
that some analogous and equally poisonous principle, probably of 
an acid nature, is generated in certain individuals by its abuse, is 
evident from their cachectic looks ; and from the dark and often 
greenish yellow tint of their blood. The severe and peculiar 
dyspeptic symptoms sometimes produced by inveterate snuff 
taking are well known ; and I have more than once seen such 
cases terminate fatally with malignant disease of the stomach and 
liver. Great smokers also, especially those who employ short 
pipes and cigars, are said to be liable to cancerous affections of 
the lips." Dr. J. P. Murphy states most truly that there is nothing 
more injurious to a flaccid heart than smoking, many cases being 
traceable to this cause alone. 

Were I to relate but a small portion of the results of my personal 
observation, as to the effects of the abuse of tobacco, I might be 
suspected of exaggeration, I therefore prefer to place before the 
reader the results of other men's observations. 

It must not be supposed from what is here stated that I would 
place the stout British soldier on a diet of vegetables, treacle, and 
tea : far from it, I would take nothing from him which constitutes 
a liberal, nutritious, and wholesome diet ; not even a moderate 
spirit ration to the seasoned soldier especially when in work or in 
full exercise. Cooped up in barracks, however, the present 
plan of dieting in the East Indies is too uniform and unvarying, 
and much too highly stimulating ; and the spirit-ration constitutes 
" a pernicious bounty " to the men. The entire of the dieting of 
the army requires revision and regulation so as to adapt it to the 
wants of the soldier under the various climates in which he is 
called upon to serve. 

William Fergusson justly observes, that a great physiological 



412 HABITS OF THE BRITISH SOLDIERY, &.C. 

principle seems always to have been overlooked, and that is, the 
natural appetite for change and variety. " It is ever the same, 
and no man, even if he will, can be satisfied with this. His 
stomach and digestive organs will be heard in their own cause ; 
and if they be not attended to, their owner will fly to alcohol 
in solace of his disappointment. There is a mistake here ; for 
if we wish to wean the soldier from drunkenness, we should be 
careful to place within his reach more wholesome indulgencies, of 
which a diet suited to his taste (and it cannot be suited without 
variety), must ever be the first. Were he allowed to cater for his 
own mess (always, however, under due superintendence), there 
can be little doubt of his better relish for his meal, besides learn- 
ing that most useful of all lessons, the art of subsisting himself. 
In the case of the soldier, to cook is to live ; for if he cannot pre- 
pare his food, he will be poorly fed, even with flocks and herds at 
his command." ..." In all this the soldier ought to 

have been trained and supported by the wisdom of the country. 
But has it been so ? " 

These most excellent because practical suggestions, if they 
evince less learning than some chemical rules of diet which I have 
seen, nevertheless contain more knowledge. They are also highly 
important and interesting in another sense, as showing how far 
the author was in advance of what is called professional opinion. 
While naval and military men, scouting and scorning all opinion 
but their own unauthorized dicta, and asking the old worn-out ques- 
tion " not being a naval or military man, what can he know of naval 
or military affairs," we have here a most eminent and experienced 
army surgeon calling upon " the wisdom of the country" to " train 
and support" the soldier. The miseries and horrors of the 
Crimea, with their disastrous results, have at length roused the 
people to a sense of the national danger ; and the common sense 
of the country, guided by the common interests of self-preserva- 
tion, in other words, " the wisdom of the country" is brought 
at length to bear on naval and military organization not, however, 
before it had become an urgent state necessity. 

Referring, in conclusion, to the more especial subject of this 
article, we find that Dr. William Fergusson, whose " Notes and 
Recollections of Professional Life" were published in 1846, says: 
" The exceeding vulgarity of the prejudice that ardent spirits 
impart strength and vigour to the human frame, is disgraceful to 
educated men ; yet true it is that many of our most experienced 
commanders of the army 'and navy still attempt to justify and 
continue the practice." 



ON THE SELECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF LOCALI- 
TIES FOR THE EUROPEAN TROOPS IN OUR INTER- 
TROPICAL POSSESSIONS : LOCALITIES TO CHOOSE 
LOCALITIES TO AVOID, &c. 



IT has been justly observed by an able military surgeon of old, 
that " where the hygiene of an army is judiciously regulated, the 
soldier may be kept in health and vigour ; but allow an ignorant 
general to encamp on a marsh, let filth stagnate, fatigue exces- 
sively the men, crowd them in low damp rooms, and, despite of 
drugs, they will fall as unripe and blasted fruit, not by the sword, 
but by the fever." Frederick of Pnissia has stated that fever cost 
him as many men as seven battles. What between the fever and 
the battles together, it must have fared badly with " the tyrant's 
counters " in those days. It were well if we could be assured that 
in our time the external causes of fever have become less rife in 
our camps, and that our commanders by sea and land have become 
more vigilant and better informed as to the means for preventing 
them ; but I fear that neither can be affirmed with any confidence. 
As to commanders, we would appear often to have clung to men 
ignorant of, and disinclined from learning the most simple rules 
affecting health, as to a prescriptive right. 

We have lost an army in every quarter of the globe, and prece- 
dent has consoled us : it has always been so in our campaigns, 
and in our colonies. We have often appointed unproved men, 
and men of proved insufficiency ; and we have retained them in 
their places, because it has always been so with us. But a better 
order of things is at hand : in truth matters could not continue 
much longer as they have been. 

To the neglect of healthy localities for camps, cantonments, and 
stations to the absence of proper structural arrangements in bar- 
racks and hospitals to inattention to the suitable feeding and 
clothing of the men the neglect in promoting and cultivating 
better habits of life the absence of instruction in cooking, hut- 
ting, exercising, and bathing to the neglect of change of air and 
of climate in the remote stages of the diseases of seamen and sol- 
diers; to these neglects, which it must at all times rest with 



414 SELECTION OF LOCALITIES FOR EUROPEAN TROOPS 

governments and commanders to remedy, we must refer the con- 
stant and terrible losses of the British army, in our intertropical 
possessions. 

I venture to say that, from the causes here briefly enumerated, 
we have in every score of years during the last century and up- 
wards, lost unnecessarily, in our fleets and armies, more men than 
have fallen in our battles from the landing of Julius Caesar to the 
present time. 

Colonel Tulloch has stated to me, as the result of his investiga- 
tions in the War Office, that of British soldiers of the Queen's and 
Company's armies, in the East Indies alone, there perished unne- 
cessarily, from 1815 to 1855 inclusive, about one hundred thousand 
men. "During the years," he says, "between 1815 and 1855, 
there died of Europeans belonging to Her Majesty's and the East 
India Company's army in India, very nearly 100,000 men, the 
greater portion of whose lives might have been saved, had better 
localities been selected for military occupation in that country." 

Nor are the causes of such destruction of life difficult of being 
discovered and prevented. Robert Jackson says that, " There are 
instances where the sick-list in armies amounts to one-third of the 
total force, and others, where it does not exceed one-fiftieth, even 
one-hundredth part. The causes of such difference are sometimes 
visible and obvious. To discover their sources, and to prevent 
their operations, is important ; and it is frequently a work of no 
great difficulty." 

Samuel Johnson, referring to the contests of his time with France 
and Spain, states, that " the wars of civilized nations make very 
slow changes in the system of empire. The people perceive scarcely 
any alteration but in an increase of debt ; and the few individuals 
who are benefitted are not supposed to have the clearest right to 
their advantages. 

The life of a British soldier, he adds, is ill represented by heroic 
fiction. War has means of destruction more formidable than the 
cannon and the sword. Of the thousands and tens of thousands 
that perished in our late contests with France and Spain, a very 
small part ever felt the stroke of an enemy ; the rest languished 
in tents and ships, amidst damps and putrefactions : pale, torpid, 
spiritless, and helpless ; gasping and groaning, unpitied among 
men, made obdurate by long continuance of helpless misery ; and 
were at last whelmed in pits, or heaved into the ocean, without 
notice and without remembrance. 

By incommodious encampments and unwholesome stations, 

where courage is useless, and enterprise impracticable, fleets are 

silently dispeopled, and armies sluggishly melted away. Thus is 

a people gradually exhausted, for the most part, with little effect." 

. In the last war Havauna was taken ; and at what expense 



IN OUR INTERTROPICAL POSSESSIONS. 415 

is too well remembered. May my country be never cursed with 
such another conquest. 

The attack on Carthagena is yet remembered, where " the 
Spaniards, from their ramparts, saw their invaders destroyed by 
the hostility of the elements ; poisoned by the air, and crippled by 
the dews ; where every hour swept away battalions ; and in the 
three days that passed between the descent and re-embarkation, 
half an army perished." POLITICAL TRACTS, 1771. 

Nor can these events be regarded as matters of a bygone history ; 
for Walcheren, the Peninsula, Arakan, Rangoon, China, Sindh, 
Varna, and Sevastopol, have brought them back to our very doors, 
and they have occurred always from the same causes. Sir Gilbert 
Blane, speaking of the neglect of the seamen's health in his earlier 
experience, says : " In former times they had not the attention 
paid to them which would have been due even to inanimate 
machines of equal utility ; for there seemed to be much more 
anxiety about preserving arms from rusting, and cordage from 
rotting, than about maintaining men in an effective state of health." 

We have, in the instances cited, witnessed our armies scourged 
and wasted away as of old, through the ignorances and incapacities 
of authorities at home and abroad ; but a higher order of intelli- 
gence is drawing upon us, having its origin in the sanitary investi- 
gation of our naval and military surgeons. " The wisdom of the 
country," too, invoked to her soldiers' aid by men like Robert 
Jackson, William Fergusson, and Henry Marshall, is being mani- 
fested through a free press, and a Parliamentary inquiry ; sharp- 
ened, perhaps, by a sense of the common danger resulting from 
abuses and ignorances without end. We are said to have acted 
hitherto as if armies had been made for generals, and not generals 
for armies ; but let us hope that the time is not distant when sol- 
diers and seamen shall cease to perish without necessity, and 
without results. 

Let us hope also that Englishmen may not again witness, as in 
the instance of Walcheren, the degradation of the sovereign's 
grant of " approbation " for " perseverance and celerity for the 
promptitude with which he had commenced, and the vigour with 
which he conducted " and consummated the destruction of an 
army. One such humiliation one such shameless laudation of a 
commander who ought in justice to have been cashiered by sen- 
tence of a court-martial ought to be enough for one century. 

The pestilential island of Walchereii received the largest ex- 
jHilition which had ever, up to that time, left the shores of 
England, amounting in seamen and soldiers to seventy thousand 
men. 

The climate into which this most powerful and admirably disci- 
plined force was thrust during the months of its utmost insalu- 



416 SELECTION OF LOCALITIES FOR EUROPEAN TROOPS 

brity, those of summer and autumn, was such that the Scotch 
regiment in the Dutch service had been known to bury their whole 
numbers in three years ; a climate in which the French army lost 
annually one-third of those employed, or 33 per cent. ; and in 
which a Dutch corps, which on arrival, three years previously to 
the British landing, amounted to 800 strong, numbered but eighty- 
five men on this occasion. Such was the country and such the 
climate all within sixty hours' easy sail of us in which our mi- 
nisters and commanders proceeded to make war. 

The climate and its diseases had been accurately described by 
Sir John Pringle so long ago as 1764; yet nothing was known to 
our ministers. 

The conduct of our enemy was characteristic of his surpassing 
genius : " Only keep them in check," said Napoleon, " and the bad 
air and fevers peculiar to the country will soon destroy their army." 

The forces sailed on the 28th July, and were landed on the 31st 
July and 1st August, and by the 10th October, 587 per thousand 
of the strength had fallen sick ; while there died 142 per thou- 
sand. Such inquiries as these ought certainly to " contribute 
greatly to direct us to the best means of promoting the welfare, im- 
proving the efficiency and preserving the health of the soldiers," 
as stated by Henry Marshall ; but, somehow or other, governments 
and commanders are slow of deriving lessons from experience. 

Marshall concludes with the following quotation from the Edin- 
burgh Review : " TJie expedition to Walcheren, planned and 
conducted as it uas, teas the fruit of statistical ignorance in every 
one; every where from the prime minister to the commander -in- 
chief, and from him to the surgeon's mate. That ignorance which 
every Middleburghian and Dutchman could have enlightened or 
dispelled, cost us ten thousand brave men, not a little money, and 
not a little credit, and not a few tears and inconveniences to those 
whom statesmen never consider.' 1 '' This miserably conducted ex- 
pedition cost the country twenty millions sterling, and imposed a 
burthen of one million of annual taxes. 

In round numbers, there were treated in the Peninsular and 
other hospitals, according to Sir James M'Grigor, for disease and 
wounds, from the 21st December, 1811 to 24th June, 1816 
346,108 men, of whom 232,553 were discharged cured. Of these last 
how many thousands were harassed and distressed, during the 
whole course of the war, by the habitual recurrences of the fevers 
of Walcheren and the Guadiana, so as to weaken them and render 
them frequently unfit for duty ? How many, in after years, or in 
various colonies, suffered cruelly and perished miserably and pre- 
maturely, from sicknesses resulting from the same original ills ? 

Thus death is the last but not the only result of " incommo- 



IN OUR INTK1U Kol'H \l POMBSlIONi, 117 

lions encampments, and unwholesome stations, where courage is 
useless and enterprise impracticable." 

Dr. William Maclean, of the medical department of the Madras 
Army, writing in 1854, says in reference to India generally: 
" Barracks have been built, and costly repairs wasted on others that 
for half-a-century have been mere pest-houses. Our cantonments, 
for the most part, are to this day in a most disgraceful condition, 
\\t-ll-known causes of disease being rife and abounding on every 
hand ; and all for want of some person, or body of persons, who 
can speak out on the subject so as to compel a respectful atten- 
tion." But to return to our narrative : 

It had long been subject of complaint and remonstrance on the 
part of Robert Jackson and other military surgeons, that, in the 
West Indies, facilities of accommodation for trade the polar star 
of British policy had condemned the soldier to the scourge of 
disease without a necessity ; and whoever looks at the distribution 
of the European military force in the East Indies will come to 
the conclusion that the soldiers have been exposed to disease 
there on grounds even less justifiable than have held sway with 
the authorities in the West 

" It is positively true," says Robert Jackson, " proved to a de- 
monstration, in numerous instances, but proved by accident, not 
by avowed experiment that European troops may be so stationed 
in the Islands of the West Indies as to retain health nearly as well 
as they could be expected to retain it in their native country. The 
air of the interior and mountainous parts of the larger of the inter- 
tropical Islands is comparatively cool and pleasant, and not un- 
friendly to the European constitution. 

The expense of rilling up the military ranks, thinned by sick- 
nesses which arise from bad position and badly constructed quar- 
ters, actually amounts, in course of a few years, to a greater sum 
of money than would be required to erect barracks of the best 
form of construction at the most eligible sites in the country, even 
at the extravagant price of government contract." 

The truth of what was here, many years ago, advanced, Jackson 
proved in a statistical summary of the Inspection Reports of Mili- 
tary Positions, Barracks, and Hospitals, submitted to the Com- 
mander of the Forces on the West India station. His representa- 
tions though so true and so easy of comprehension, met with no 
attention whatever ; and after a public life of the highest honour 
and of the most noble labour and usefulness, extending over half- 
a-century every day of which, during peace and during three 
great wars, was devoted to the moral and physical good of 
the soldier, Jackson concludes with a prophetic appeal to " the 
legislative branch of the government;" there being " a pre- 
sumption amounting almost to proof that it. has no chance of 

E K 



418 SELECTION OF LOCALITIES FOR EUROPEAN TROOPS 

obtaining it from the executive ;" that is, from military or naval 
authority.* 

Referring to the fact that in England " much opposition was raised 
by the subordinate authorities," to his suggestions for compiling 
statistical reports on the sickness, mortality, and invaliding among 
the troops in the colonies, Henry Marshall adds that, " igno- 
rance of the principles of military hygiene, and an inveterate 
prejudice in favour of former usages, seemed to be the leading 
cause of the opposition to the measures recommended, the adop- 
tion of which has proved so singularly beneficial." 

Very different was the conduct of the generals of Napoleon. On 
the landing of the British forces on Walcheren, and on the capture 
of Flushing, there was found a Memoir by the French commander, 
General Monnet, on the preservation of the soldier's health. It 
was a document full of interest, and of much scientific and practi- 
cal value. 

But the removal of the British troops from the pestilential 
plains to the healthy mountain regions of Jamaica was at length 
ordered by a man who united the most active and enlarged bene- 
volence to the most invincible firmness and resolution in carrying 
out every measure that was right Sir Charles, afterwards Lord 
Metcalfe. And, strange to say, the result has been to the very 
letter as Jackson foretold ; the British soldiery now retaining their 
health in the mountains, " nearly as well as could be expected in 
their native country." 

The result as regards the mortality of British troops is, in sim- 
ple figures, as follows: From 1803 to 1816, and for how long be- 
fore we do not know, the soldiers perished in Jamaica at the rate 
of 130 per thousand per annum, while by the simple and easily 

* I have already suggested that if, by the usages of war, the punishment of death 
be applicable to a disgraceful capitulation, on the part of a commander, some heavy 
punishment ought in justice to await the man who, through wilful neglect, and a 
wanton ignorance, causes his army to perish. 

In these days of canting speculative humanity, and maudlin morality, death must not 
be so much mentioned for the holocaust even of a fine array ; yet death has been 
awarded, and suffered too, for very minor crimes comparatively. Certain am I, that the 
very first Sir Michael or Sir Peregrine who shall be made to suffer the mild sentence of 
cashiering for such a crime, under the award of a court-martial, composed of medical 
and military officers in equal numbers, will prove the last of his class who will venture 
on the same course of criminal neglect in time to come. From the day that this act of 
common justice shall be done, we may hope never thenceforth to hear again of armies 
being planted in marshes, there to die, while the surgeons had for fifty years urged their 
removal to the hills, where they would have lived well and happily ; of soldiers being 
thrust into barracks and hospitals unfit for the reception of convicts. Let this be done, 
and we shall no more be told by a statesman in Parliament that " nearly one half of the 
lives that used to be sacrificed in the West Indies, was sacrificed through neglect," and 
that " this mortality might have been prevented by the most ordinary precautions ;" that 
" while the soldiers, who were unstained by crime, were condemned to five days' salt 
provisions weekly, the convicts were allowed five days' fresh meat; and that while the 
troops were suffering, the convicts were in good health." I say, let the right judgment 
be brought to bear on the right man, and we shall hear no more of such atrocities. 



IN OCR INTERTROPICAL POSSESSIONS. 

arranged measure ordered by Sir Charles Metcalfe, the mortality 
has, since 1S4'2, been reduced to 85 per thousand per annum. 

This beneficent act, so becoming the generous and noble nature 
of the Governor of Jamaica, was " characteristic of Metcalfe. He 
made the first movement on his own responsibility, and offered 
himself to pay the expense. He saw that the troops under his 
command were being sacrificed to ignorance, negligence, and false 
economy ; and he exerted himself, not without success, to establish 
a new order of things, by locating on the high healthy grounds of 
the island, the European regiments which perished miserably on 
the plains." Kaye's Life of Lord Metcalfe. 

Detachments of British troops were stationed at Maroon Town 
at different and uncertain times between 1795 and 1839, by direc- 
tion of Lord Grey and others ; but nothing fixed or determinate 
was arranged until Lord Metcalfe gave the final order. When will 
any of our great foreign possessions fall under the charge of such 
another governor ? 

Robert Jackson speaks also of the value of military labour in 
securing military health a subject not yet taken into consideration 
by our authorities. Fort King George, he says, in 1803, stood 
in lee of a swamp, and the exhalations from it being considered 
by Colonel Macdonald, commanding the Royal Scots Regiment, to 
be injurious to the health of his men, he ordered them to drain it. 
" The planters lent the tools the soldiers of the Royals drained 
the bog ;" and Fort King George, which formerly stood noted for 
uuhealthiness, is now " one of the healthiest quarters in the 
Windward and Leeward Island Station, as appears by a compara- 
tive view of the sick returns of the army." 

In Jackson's various writings there are numerous instances of 
similar results from the gratuitous labour of the soldier ; and, what 
is very important also, this most eminent military physician always 
concludes by declaring that u the thing was done with obvious 
effect upon health, morals, and happiness, while the work was 
under execution." 

With reference to the purposes for which British soldiers are 
sent to the East Indies, and to the efficient exercise of their 
powers when called into action, it has always surprised me that so 
large a portion of the European army has been retained in the 
plains of Hindustan. With urgent political reasons or state ne- 
cessities I do not pretend to deal ; but if these do not exist, I 
know of no defence that can be set up, on the score of humanity 
or of expense in plea of the cruel and unnecessary sickness and 
mortality of " the serious loss in the balance of national ac- 
counts," consequent on the loss of men. 

" The case is important, and the sovereign power will be false 
to its own interests, if it do not apply a remedy when t'unii>hol 

K J -J 



420 SELECTION OF LOCALITIES FOR EUROPEAN TROOPS 

with proof that a remedy is attainable, and particularly when in- 
formed that it is not difficult of attainment." 

But the evils resulting from neglect in choosing proper sites 
for our colonial emporiums do not end here. The choice of such 
sites having, as stated, reference to trade only, and not to health, 
the sickness which is ever present is not referred to its true cause, 
the inherent unhealthiness of the place, but to the arrival of some 
trading vessel from some other equally insalubrious locality ; and 
hence quarantine, with all its evils. 

Sickness is always prevalent in such places ships are always 
arriving; and people always dislike to believe that they are 
living in a pestilential locality; so, disease is readily ascribed 
to importation. With the unreasoning many, the suppositions 
foreign ill is always more dreaded than the real home-bred pest. 

In the East, as in the West Indies, the loss of military life from 
endemic and epidemic diseases has always been unnecessarily 
great sometimes enormous. " If the subject be viewed correctly 
and without prepossession, the loss sustained will be found to 
have been principally owing to mistake, that is, to inattention 
to truths furnished by experience for the choice of healthy po- 
sitions." 

These just and manly sentiments are quoted from the celebrated 
work of Robert Jackson on the " FORMATION, DISCIPLINE, AND 
ECONOMY OF ARMIES," and especially from that portion of it 
which is devoted to a general view of service in Tropical Climates; 
wherein, though he speaks in special reference to the West Indian 
Colonies, there is necessarily much which applies with equal jus- 
tice to all hot countries. This admirable work ought to be in the 
hands of every officer, whether military or medical.* 

I may here mention that I prepared, by desire of the late Lord 
Metcalfe, without previous notice, a memorandum relating to arrange- 
ment for constructing barracks and hospitals, and which he handed 
to Lieutenant General Sir George Murray at a meeting, held by 
desire of Lord Stanley at the Colonial Office, on the 16th of July, 
1842. This note was of a purely suggestive character, no time 
having been allowed me for entering into details ; and the follow- 
ing quotations are here presented : 

1. " The author of this note has satisfied himself, from an ex- 
tensive range of observation in the East Indies, that great loss of 

* The great military work of Robert Jackson, is not sufficiently known to the British 
or to the Indian anny ; and as I am desirous that military men should have a better 
warrant for its excellence than my opinion, I subjoin that of one of the highest and 
brightest of military critics that of Sir John Moore : 

" My dear Jackson, 

I have perused your military book, with which I am much delighted. There 
are none of us, even the most experienced, who may not derive instruction from it ; and 
I only regret that you, who possess a soldier's mind, had not been a soldier by pro- 
fession." 



IN OUR INTERTROPICAL POSSESSIONS. 421 

life, injury to health, and sacrifice of the public money, have re- 
sulted from the present modes of locating and constructing bar- 
racks and hospitals for the European troops there ; and his infor- 
mation, derived from printed and other sources, leads him to 
conclude that similarly injurious results are also produced in 
various of her Majesty's colonies, from similar causes. 

4. To obviate for the future such extensive waste of life and 
money, and with a view likewise to improve such existing build- 
ings as may admit of amendment, it is proposed that standard or 
model plans be prepared for barrack and hospital accommoda- 
tion, in scale proportioned to certain given numbers of men, and 
suited to the various climates occupied by British troops. The 
most cursory observation will satisfy us, that of certain given plans 
one only will prove excellent ; whereas now, all over the British 
Possessions, we find in existence every conceivable plan, ending 
in no approved or fixed plan whatever ; so that, in fact, that which 
ought to be settled, and is very easily capable of being settled by 
regulation is, up to this day left, as I have stated, to the fancy of 
individuals. 

5. It is not apprehended that either difficulty or the expendi- 
ture of much time would be encountered in carrying out the pro- 
posed plan, provided it were undertaken by persons competent to 
the task ; for the same plan of barrack and hospital accommoda- 
tion would suit the climates of the East and West Indies, the 
Cape of Good Hope, Mauritius, Ceylon, China, and Australia 
the Stations of Gibraltar, Malta, and the Ionian Isles while plans 
for the other colonies would be easy of settlement. 

6. To arrange and complete so desirable an object, it is re- 
spectfully suggested that a committee of engineers and medical 
officers be assembled in London, and that power be given, in fur- 
therance of the purposes in view, to call in evidence such persons 
as may be supposed to possess experience and a knowledge of 
the subject." 

Sir George Ballingall, in the last edition of his admirable 
" Outlines of Military Surgery," says of the memorandum just 
quoted : " This excellent suggestion has not been as yet acted 
upon, and consequently no established plan has been adopted for 
the construction of barracks either at home or abroad." 

It is impossible to overrate the influence of structural arrange- 
ments, of an abundant supply of pure air and water, whether in 
military or civil communities. Dr. Fair has the following table of 
mortality in town and country throughout the changing seasons 
of the year. It is derived from the returns of the ten years 
1843 52 ; and contains comparative estimates of deaths in towns 
and in the country, concluding with statements of the numbers de- 
stroyed in towns by matters which are poisons in houses, streets, 
and streams : 



42*2 



SELECTION OF LOCALITIES FOR EUROPEAN TROOPS 



In the months of 
January, February, March . . 
April May, June ..... 


Average annual number of Deaths. 


Deaths to 
every 10,000 
persons living 
in Towns. 


Deaths to 
every 10,000 
persons living 
in the 
Country. 


Lives destroyed by 
the matters which 
are poisons in 
houses, streets, and 
streams, but are 
fertilizing manures 
in fields. 


69 
62 
63 
64 


56 
52 
46 
49 


13 
10 
17 
15 


July, August, September . . . 
October, November, December . 
The Year . . . 


258 


203 


55 



" The population of England is, there is reason to believe, col- 
lectively healthier than any equal amount of population in any 
other kingdom ; but the rapid increase in the proportion of the 
town population, in which the mortality is 27 per cent, higher 
than it is in the country, and the sickness, the suffering, the debi- 
lity, the physical degeneracy of race are in an equal excess, 
makes this question of the health of towns and the fertilization of 
the surrounding fields one of the great questions of the day de- 
manding immediate solution. It is difficult for the imagination 
to conceive all the beneficent effects that would flow from the 
possible diminution of the mortality which the above figures ex- 
press." 

The practical question may now be asked, have we not within 
our Eastern Possessions, almost everywhere, mountain tracts con- 
veniently situated wherein the European soldier might live in 
health and vigour through the advantages of a better climate, and the 
proper application of his own labour ; and, if so, why are they not 
made use of ? That such favourable localities abound throughout 
India, no one can doubt ; and I am disposed to hope that the 
calling the attention of authority* to their sanitary advantages, for 
the benefit of all classes, civil and military, will prove one out of 
the many valuable results which may accrue from the detailed and 
systematic plan of requiring from military surgeons serving in 
India, Reports on the Medical Topography of the Country ge- 
nerally, and of its Districts, Stations, and Cantonments in par- 
ticular.* 



* The plan here referred to was a measure submitted by the author, on the 26th 
of March, 1835, to the Governor-General of India, Sir Charles Metcalfe, Bart., and 
sanctioned and ordered by him for the three Presidencies of India and the Dependencies 



IN OUR INTERTROPICAL POSSESSIONS. 423 

Such courses of investigation can hardly fail of important 
sanitary results. It is probable that some of the lower ranges of 
hills may prove available for military stations, and that medium 
degrees of elevation may be found which, while not so lofty as to 
cause bowel and other disorders, may yet prove of sufficient 
height to place the soldier above fever-level. This would be an 
important topographical discovery. Maroon Town, Jamaica, is 
elevated but little more than two thousand feet above the level of 
the sea; yet this has proved a sufficient protection against the 
deadly fevers of the country ; and even against the yellow fever, 
a rise of 2,500 feet is everywhere found to be a sufficient pro- 
tection. 

The same security is obtained in Constantinople and in Cairo, 
in the instance of plague, by the elevation of Alem-Daghe in the 
former, and of the citadel in the latter. 

Nor are the moral influences of the mountain climates to be 
disregarded by the medical philosopher. Montesquieu and Malte- 
Brun have assigned topographical reasons why the inhabitants of 
the plains should of necessity be weak, effeminate, idle, and timid, 
while the elevated and cold regions are inhabited by their con- 
querors ; regions wherein the severer forms of fever are un- 
known. It would seem, indeed, that the diseases of tropical 
climates, like certain vegetable productions, are restricted to cer- 
tain altitudes and particular degrees of temperature. 

" If British Colonies," says Horace Wilson, " be ever formed 
in the East, with a chance of preserving the moral and physical 
energies of the parent country, it is to the vales and mountains of 
the Indian Alps that we must look for their existence." 

The removal of troops even to short distances from their sta- 
tions and encampments has, I am happy to learn, been acted on 
systematically in various of our colonies since the publication of 
the Army Medical Statistics, and in every instance with a most 
satisfactory result. I trust this important subject will continue to 
be present to the minds of both military ana medical authority, 
and that no narrow contracted notions of economy will anywhere 
be allowed to stand in the way of a duty imposed alike by con- 
siderations of humanity, and of the best interests of the State. 

I had continually to treat the* ailments of men of business in 
Calcutta, which I often found to be of an anomalous and perplex- 
ing nature, affecting both mind and body. In such cases mere 
medical treatment very often proved vain, until the sufferer was 
released from the cares of official duty, by a trip to sea (which I 

to the Eastward. The order hears date 23rd November, 1835, and was a direct act of 
the Government the medical authorities of Bengal having afforded the measure a very 
equivocal support, or rather no support at all. 

This great question is now in the hands of a highly-intelligent body of medical 
officers ; the field is almost untouched before them, and we must not doubt the even- 
tual results, whatever obstruction may be offered by the tit inertia of old men. 



424 SELECTION OF LOCALITIES FOR EUROPEAN TROOPS 

always preferred), or by a removal to the Upper Provinces: in- 
deed, where the circumstances of the patient admit of it, this last 
resource of medicine should never be neglected. It acts as a 
general tonic, invigorating the whole frame, improving the quality 
of the blood, and stimulating every organ to a more healthy per- 
formance of its office. 

Of the advantages of an apparently trivial change of position on 
health we have a very interesting example in the instances of 
Augusta in the southern division of the United States. Prior to 
18*29 this arsenal was situated on the Savannah, and fever pre- 
vailed to such an extent that, in the third quarter of 1825, all the 
garrison except two men suffered from it ; while, by a removal to 
Sand Hills, three miles from Augusta and two from the Savannah 
River, where the soil was hard, dry, and sandy, with no marshes 
in the vicinity, the ratio of cases of intermittent fever was reduced 
to 150, and of remittent fever to 156 per 1,000 annually. British 
and Foreign Medical Review, July, 1848. 

The selections of localities for barracks and hospitals are very 
generally faulty throughout the East Indies, while the cost of their 
erection has sometimes been enormous. " The different erections 
of the Company for the accommodation of their troops," says Ten- 
nant, " have cost several millions, and may be regarded as splendid 
instances of their economical principles giving way to the comfort 
of their army. The sums thus expended, laid out at the com- 
pound interest of this country, would, at a determinate period not 
very remote, have equalled the national debt." 

The buildings for the European troops at Berhampore in Bengal, 
lately abandoned on account of the unhealthiness of the station, 
are stated to have cost, including capital and interest, the enor- 
mous sum of 16,891,206. The details are from the office of the 
Accountant-General, and that of the Military Board, Calcutta.* 

Happy the condition of the European soldier in the East as in 
the West Indies, had a tithe of the sums wasted in erecting bar- 
racks and hospitals in low and marshy sites, been applied to pur- 
poses of preparing less costly but yet suitable accommodation in 
positions of ascertained salubrity ; but, instead of that, we have 
everywhere throughout our intertropical possessions, buildings 
occasionally of good construction* erected at enormous cost, which 

* The military buildings of Berhampore were estimated, in the 

year 1757, at 302,278, or Rupees 3,823,65714 8 

Compound interest on this sum for 77 years, at 5 per cent. . 163,702,404 
Average annual charges for repairs, &c. during 77 years, at the 
annual average of Rupees 18,000 1,386,000 

Total . 168,912,061 14 8 



Total . . . 16,891,206 3 10 
Gxcliange at 2*. per Rupee. 



IN OUR INTERTROPICAL POSSESSIONS. 425 

are eventually abandoned because, from their improper posi- 
tions, and proved insalubrity, their inmates are found to die in 
a proportion to shock even the humanity of Governments. 

By a table furnished me by the late Inspector-General Macleod, 
the average annual admissions into hospital during thirteen years, 
at Berhampore, was 2,196 per 1,000 ; while the deaths averaged 
106 per 1,000 per annum. The proportion of deaths to cases 
treated in hospital was, during five years, as follows : 

In Fever, one in . . . .21 and a fraction. 
Dysentery, one in . 10 
Hepatitis, one in . . ,9 

Secunderabad, Madras Presidency, now also in course of aban- 
donment, has long been noted for its bad locality bad barracks 
and hospitals all which have long operated destructively on the 
health of British soldiers ; yet it is surrounded by stations which 
are noted for their healthiness. The barracks are described by 
Dr. Burke as " composed of two squares enclosing one another, 
so as to make assurance doubly sure against the possibility of 
perfect ventilation ;" and added to all this we have defective 
drainage and sewerage. 

In no station in the south of India, the old abandoned one of 
Massulipatam excepted, has the mortality been so great; and it 
is produced, as might be anticipated, by fevers and dysenteries of 
fonnidable characters, principally : in short, it would be difficult 
to determine which is most to be lamented in this unhappy 
station the defects of nature or those of art. There died at 
Secunderabad, between 1804 and 1835, the large number of 
2,620 men and officers, women and children, inhabiting the bad 
locality and buildings described. 

According to a return made by the Madras Medical Board, the 
average annual deaths amounted to 84*89 per 1,000 of strength, or 
96*89, according to other corrections. These are melancholy 
reckonings ; but they will continue to be the rule of the British 
army " until," according to Robert Jackson, " physicians have 
the place in the councils of military commanders that is due to 
science. The health history of the late wars in Europe is de- 
monstrative in proof of the important fact that military life has 
been sacrificed in an enormous proportion to ignorance ; that is, 
to the unwillingness of commanders to be advised on subjects 
which they could not themselves be supposed to know." 

So serious a charge as this against the commanders of his coun- 
try, by one so far-seeing so just so learned and experienced 
so humane and virtuous as Robert Jackson, is deserving the most 
serious consideration. The declaration of this celebrated army 
physician was not only true when it was made, some fifty yt>ars 
ago ; but it remains emphatically true to the present hour, not- 



426 SELECTION OF LOCALITIES FOR EUROPEAN TROOPS 

withstanding the unremitting labours of such men as Jackson, 
Blane, Hennen, Trotter, Fergusson, Ballingall, and Henry Mar- 
shall, and their endeavours to bring about a more enlightened, 
just, and humane treatment. 

While all the horrors related by Earl Grey, in his celebrated 
speech in the House of Lords, on the Administration of the Army, 
8th April, 1854, were in full and destructive existence, the Duke 
of Wellington was all-powerful in this country : he was Master- 
General of the Ordnance, Commander-in-Chief, Prime Minister, 
&c. ; but if he had held no official station during the forty years 
of peace the time for perfecting military institutions, as well as 
improving the condition of the soldier his power to ameliorate 
(had he been so minded), was without limit. That he did not 
move more actively in the cause of improvement, or cause others to 
do so, must always be subject of regret to those who can appre- 
ciate the Duke of Wellington's military services in actual war. 

During the period of his active field career in India, and in 
Europe, he rendered vast services to his country ; but in the forty 
long years of peace which followed, and when the military institu- 
tions of the empire, as well as the locating, housing, clothing, 
feeding, and anning of the soldier, might have been leisurely and 
most appropriately perfected, "the Duke" did not sufficiently con- 
sider those easy, obvious, and incumbent duties, for the discharge 
of which his previous course of life and experience might at least 
have been supposed to qualify and prepare him. 

In place of pursuing a course so becoming, and one apparently 
so natural, his Grace took to politics, in which he could not suc- 
ceed : he not only did nothing, or but very little, so far as I 
can discover, to improve the moral and physical condition of the 
soldier to whom he owed so much, but he is said to have opposed 
many vitally important suggestions for the improvement of our 
military organization and administration. 

Here we perceive, for the hundredth time, how much that relates 
to the soldier's welfare how much for good or for evil depends 
on the character of the commander. 

If our commanders will not be instructed betimes if they can- 
not be made to look before them and pay a just regard to the 
warnings of the medical staff of the army it is quite within the 
range of possibility that the soldier may some day be induced to 
take the question into his own hands for this is essentially a 
soldier's question and thus bring it to a summary conclusion. 
One month's arrest of the voluntary enlistment, and matters would 
arrive at a most unpleasant issue. 

If we would look well to our recruiting, and to the maintenance 
of our old superiority by sea and land, we must bring this sanitary 
question to " an immediate solution." 

The disasters of the Crimea have at length opened wide the 



IN OUR INTERTROPICAL POSSESSIONS. 427 

eyes of the public to some of the necessities of the case. " The 
worst waste of all," says a popular writer, " the waste that can 
least be afforded the waste the most extravagant is the waste of 
the soldier's life ; and no means which can contribute to keep him 
in health and condition should be spared. The best economy 
now is to make the most of our men, and to furnish freely what- 
ever will contribute to their health, their strength, and their effi- 
ciency. For this they will not fail to make a return in action 
which must conduce to the restoration of peace." 

The greatest of all commanders was most careful of military 
health ; and being Emperor as well as General, he ordered so that 
all the arrangements of the military hospitals were excellent 
throughout the armies of France ; the historian, Napier, declares 
that Napoleon " furnished his hospitals with all things requisite, 
even with luxuries." 

He also knew how to appreciate and reward the difficult and 
dangerous services of the military surgeon: he acted on the prin- 
ciple urged by Robert Jackson, that as " the medical staff shares 
the fatigues and dangers of war, in just reason it is entitled to a 
share of advantages." 

Napoleon designed that there should be rewards for every rank 
from the common soldier to the field marshal ; and he bestowed 
the highest grade of the Legion of Honour on the field of battle, 
on Barons Larrey, Desgenettes, and Percy. The commanders of 
the French army considered that the Legion of Honour derived 
lustre and renown from the enrolments of such names in its 
ranks ; while, in the British army and navy, neither mental sym- 
pathy, nor material aid, has ever come from our admirals or 
generals always excepting the honoured names of Abercromby 
and Moore, the friends of Robert Jackson, and of Sir Howard 
Douglas, and Sir De Lacy Evans, in our own day. 

It would seem to have resulted as a matter of course that, from 
the systematic neglects of the army and navy, the friends of the 
seamen and the soldier the Trotters and Jacksons of our fleets 
and armies should also have met with ill-usage: persecution 
was the persevering lot of Jackson, while the equally long and 
meritorious services of Trotter, on his element, were treated with 
a cruel neglect. It was not thus with their contemporary, Larrey, 
whose memory received in France the highest honours but the 
other day.* 

* MILITARY SURGEONS IN FRANCE. " In last week's ' Lancet ' we gave some 
details touching the inauguration of the statue erected in honour of Baron Larrey. in 
the great entrance court of the Val de Grace, in Paris. We subjoin the speech of M. 
Dupin, President of the National Assembly. The President spoke as follows, in a very 
impressive tone of voice : 

' I have the honour of addressing the military surgeons of the French army, and I tell 
you if any one were bold enough still to dispute your right to proportionate rank in 



428 SELECTION OF LOCALITIES FOR EUROPEAN TROOPS 

If in France, " the degree of perfection of military medical 
science, is held to be the true measure of the importance attached 
to the preservation of the soldier," so, in England, the neglect, by 
the authorities, of the science of military medicine, and of those 
who, under such great discouragements, so ably and disinterest- 
edly professed and cultivated it, may be taken as the true measure 
of the disregard shown in this country for the soldier's health and 
comfort. Such it has been for ages with us : our soldiers have, 
on too many occasions, been condemned to the worst miseries of 
defeat in the very midst of their triumphs and glories. In the 
olden times it was " famine and the ague ;" at Rangoon, in China, 
and the Crimea, it was scorbutic dysentery a term which ought 
to be expunged from the registers of our fleets and armies. 

But let us hope that a better order of things is at hand ; that 
the soldier is about to receive the cares and attentions that are due 
to him, and that harshness may not in future be the reward of the 
army surgeon. 

" Harshness," says the historian Napier, " is the essence of the 
aristocratic principle of government." 

The " Examiner," remarking upon Lord Raglan's censure of two 
medical officers, says : " We should be glad to see some praise 
as well as blame, and that the meritorious services of medical 
officers do not escape notice more than their faults. Was a word 
of honour given to the memory of Dr. Thomson, for a noble ex- 

the army, proudly answer by pointing to this statue, and by citing the life of the man it 
represents the life of the worthy Larrey. 

' I have said it elsewhere, and I will repeat it whenever an opportunity offers 
the military surgeon, fearless in epidemics, fearless in the field of battle, possesses 
all kinds of courage. He has military courage, because he faces death offered on 
all sides by fire and sword ; and another courage, far superior to this, for he 
preserves his calm coolness and presence of mind when his life is in the greatest peril. 
The blow which is aimed at him, and which he sees threatening, cannot, and even were 
he able, would not, be returned by him. He knows his hazardous situation, and does 
not hesitate to fulfil his dangerous duties. 

'Kneeling by the side of the disabled, with as firm a hand as when he is studying 
Nature in the anatomical rooms, he dresses their wounds. But with these two kinds of 
courage he reaps two kinds of glory ; and Larrey, who has shown his courage equally in 
both, now deserves to be honoured with double glory. He has proved, when twice 
wounded, that the dangers which the military surgeon runs, are not imaginary. He 
was wounded once in Egypt, in times of glorious memory, and another time at Water- 
loo, on that mournful day for France. 

' You heard, from those who addressed you before me, what the life of Larrey has 
been, and what services he has rendered to science ! It is not for me to enter into the 
details of this noble career. I am, besides, not prepared for it ; I speak, carried away 
by momentary impulse, and by the admirable speeches which have just been uttered. I 
judge this learned man, this defender of mankind, by considering, as a whole, his 
useful life, marked by the most enlightened and noble services, and I bow before this 
statue which so worthily represents him. Yes, I greet Larrey ! the virtuous, devoted 
man, whose self-denial and devotion triumphed even over the elements, and who has 
been among us as an incarnation of genius and humane feelings. He deserves the 
thanks of Science, the Army, France, and the whole civilized world !" 

What would they have said in France to the memory of " that hero of the morrow of 
Alma, the Surgeon Thomson ?" 



IN OUR INTERTROPICAL POSSESSIONS. 429 

ample, who volunteered the charge of 700 wounded Russians on 
the field of the Alma, assisted only by a single servant as devoted 
to duty as himself ? This hero, in the cause of humanity, died of 
cholera, immediately referable to his exertions and exposure 
among putrefying bodies. Had he lived, would he have obtained 
the praise which is bestowed en a staff officer for galloping with a 
message on the field of battle, or for helping the Commander-in- 
Chief in doing nothing in a soldier's battle and victory ? The 
smallest services of the men with names and positions are over- 
weeningly prized the noblest services of the unconnected and 
humble are unnoticed and unhonoured." MEDICAL GAZETTE. 

Napoleon, on the other hand, in a manner for ever memorable, and 
^^llile in the agonies of a disease which he knew to be incurable, 
remembered with kindness the surgeons of the Grand Army. He 
bequeathed " To Baron Larrey, Surgeon-in-Chief, one hundred 
thousand francs. He is the most virtuous man I have known." 
Again, he bequeathed " To Surgeon Emery, one hundred thousand 
francs." Nor should the conduct of this illustrious patient to Dr. 
Archibald Arnott, of His Majesty's 20th Regiment, be forgotten. 
" The Emperor, on his death-bed, desired that a valuable gold 
snuff-box might be brought to him ; and having, with his dying 
hand, and last effort of departing strength, engraved upon its lid 
with a pen-knife the letter * N,* he presented it to his kind and 
valued friend, as a parting memorial of his deep esteem and heart- 
felt gratitude." Not satisfied with this mark of personal kindness 
and regard, the dying Emperor bequeathed to Dr. Arnott a sum of 
money also. 

The treatment of the army surgeon by this incomparable com- 
mander and statesman, is not only important and interesting in 
itself, but also for the memorable reasons which he urged in sup- 
port of his conduct reasons which ought to be known to, and 
appreciated by, the medical profession. 

Napoleon deemed the honours conferred on such men to be called 
for alike by justice and necessity, in any plan which should pre- 
tend to give " consistence to the system of recompenses" granted by 
the State to its servants. He considered their exclusion from 
honorary distinctions as founded on the " injustice of feudalism." 
In the awarding of honorary distinctions, he acted promptly, and 
upon the standard of true merit : " Returned to Paris, Napoleon 
gave the gold cross he had worn through the Russian campaign to 
his physician, Corvisart." With him the cross of the Legion of 
Honour was but a symbol which expressed the gratitude of the 
country the outward sign by which the State recognized equality 
of merit. 

In the Council of State, held to frame the code Napoleon, it was 



430 SELECTION OF LOCALITIES FOR EUROPEAN TROOPS 

proposed by Count Mathieu Dumas, that the orders of the Legion 
of Honour should be confined to military men. 

" Such ideas," said Napoleon, " might be well adapted to the 
feudal ages, when the chevaliers combated each other man to man, 
and the bulk of the nation was in a state of slavery ; but when the 
military system changed, masses of infantry and phalanxes, con- 
structed after the Macedonian model, were introduced, and after 
that, it was not individual prowess, but science and skill, which 
determined the fate of nations." . . " What is it now which con- 
stitutes a great general ? It is not the mere strength of a man of six 
feet high, but the coup-cFceil, the habit of foresight, the power of 
thought and calculation ; in a word, pacific qualities, not such as 
we find in a lawyer, but such as are founded on a knowledge of 
human nature, and are suited to the government of armies. The 
general, who can now achieve great things, is he who is possessed 
of shining civil qualities ; it is the perception of the strength' of 
his talents which makes the soldiers obey him." . . "We must not 
reason from ages of barbarity to these times. France consists of 
30,000,000 of men, united by intelligence, property, and commerce. 
Three or four hundred thousand soldiers are nothing in such a 
mass ; not only does the general preserve his ascendancy over his 
soldiers, by civil qualities, but when his command ceases, he be- 
comes merely a private individual. The soldiers themselves are 
but the children of citizens. The tendency of military men is to 
carry every thing by force ; the enlightened civilian, on the other 
hand, elevates his views to a perception of the general good. The 
first would rule only by despotic authority, the last subject every- 
thing to the test of discussion, truth and reason, t have no hesi- 
tation, therefore, in saying, that if a preference was to be awarded 
to one or the other, it belongs to the civilian. If you divide 
society into soldiers and citizens, you establish two orders in what 
should be one nation. If you confine honours to military men, 
you do what is still worse, for you sink the people into nothing." 

" Moved by these profound observations, the council agreed 
that the proposed honours should be extended indiscriminately to 
civil and military distinctions;"* while, in our country, such men 
as the Earl of Chatham, Whitelock, Murray, Keane, England, and 
Prevost, have been deemed more deserving of honours, than public 
benefactors like Pringle, Blane, Robert Jackson, Macgrigor, Bur- 
nett, James Johnson, Wm. Fergusson, Ballingall, Hennen, Guthrie, 
and a host of distinguished officers, who have bravely encountered 
every kind of danger, in all climates and situations, and who have 
conferred incalculable benefits on the fleets and armies of England, 
as well as on mankind at large. 

After a digression, which I trust may not appear altogether irre- 
Alison's History of Europe. 



IN OUR INTERTROPICAL POSSESSIONS. 431 

levant, but rather as excused by the occasion, I return to the con- 
cluding subject of this article : 

LOCALITIES TO CHOOSE. Where military circumstances 
do not imperatively forbid it, an elevated and dry soil should always 
be selected for bivouacs, camps, and cantonments, on undulating 
ground or the declivity of a hill, the most healthy sites being 
such as do not, from the natural fall, or from the quality of the soil, 
retain moisture. 

2. Open downs, so called, are healthy. 

3. Such grass-lands as have a sufficient fall, or inclination, are 
healthy. 

4. The elevated banks of rivers that have a sufficient fall either 
way. 

5. Tongues of land, or slender promontories jutting well into 
the sea. 

6. It is said that wherever pure spring water is procurable, there 
the ground is generally fit for encamping or cantoning troops. 

7. When marching: to halt, during wet weather, on ground 
somewhat elevated and sloping, and sheltered from the wind. 

8. In such case to increase the number of fires, and to keep 
them up to the starting time. 

9. To make frequent halts, selecting places where the water is 
good, and to take care that the men do not drink cold water when 
heated by the march. 

10. In marshy localities, to encamp on the highest ground pro- 
curable. 

LOCALITIES TO AVOID. All damp ground to be carefully 
avoided ; and even where the surface may appear parched up and 
destitute of vegetation, if it be moist underneath, as by previous 
rains, it may be found charged with the worst exhalations. 

2. Half-dried beds of rivers, of canals, tanks, or ditches ; narrow 
gorges. 

3. Marshy grounds, and such as are elevated immediately above 
marshes, and grounds which are exposed to winds and currents 
passing over marshes. 

4. Ground covered with underwood, or the vicinity of such 
ground. 

5. The low, jungly, or marshy banks of rivers and lakes. 

6. The best ground, if long occupied by masses, becomes con- 
taminated : it is therefore an established rule to change the ground 
of encampment frequently. 

Though not in perfect relevancy to the subject of this article, I 
shall conclude with the following directions for the guidance of 
medical officers, and of such as may be placed in command of 



432 SELECTION OF LOCALITIES FOR EUROPEAN TROOPS 

troops about to embark on board ship, and who should attend to 
the following circumstances : 

1. The condition of the transport vessel the state of health of 
the crew. When ships of war are used, a frigate to be preferred 
to a ship of the line. 

2. That all old and foul ballasting be changed, and no fresh or 
green wood be allowed in the ship's hold, or any matter capable of 
readv decomposition. 

3. The state of health of the troops to be carefully examined, 
and cases of contagious disease, or of old or extensive ulcers, to 
be left behind. 

4. The crowding of the men to be especially guarded against, 
and care taken that berths are secured for the sick and married. 

The most vigilant care to be taken that the aggregate number of 
men do not exceed the proportion of one man to two tons of mea- 
surement. 

5. That the men be not allowed to quit the ship, or to be on 
deck after sunset, when navigating rivers, or proceeding along 
level marshy sea-coasts. 

6. Careful and special examination of the provisions should be 
made, and it should be seen that the salted meat and biscuit are not 
old : the same care in regard to the water which, when possible, 
should be taken from springs, and kept in iron tanks. Quick-lime 
should be provided for purifying the water. 

7. For distant expeditions, there should be hospital ships, well 
provided and cleansed, to allow of the separation of the sick from 
the healthy. 

8. Cold and damp in the ship's hold are to be guarded against, 
and the pumps to be frequently worked, so as to leave but a few 
inches in the well. 

9. Ventilation and cleanliness to be promoted by every means, 
and in bad weather, when wind-sails cannot be used, portable 
stoves or fire-pots should be carried between decks. 

10. In fair weather, the men should be much on deck, and they 
should be made to bathe daily. 

11. Moderate exercise and amusement of every kind should be 
encouraged by every means during a voyage ; and an union of 
discipline, with humanity and indulgence towards the men should 
characterize the conduct of all classes of officers. 

To conclude : were it desirable even, which it is not, to dis- 
pense with our Native Indian army, it is financially impossible, 
with the revenues of England and of India united, to maintain in 
Hindustan an European force adequate to the support of the 
British rule there. 

" Our force," says Lord Metcalfe, " does not operate so much by 
its actual strength as by the impression which it produces, and 



IN OUR INTERTROPICAL POSSESSIONS. 438 

that impression is the opinion by which we hold India." If, again, 
the declaration of Colonel Sutherland be correct, that the ground- 
work of our power in India consists in our substantial British 
soldiers, then are they deserving our most serious care, in every- 
thing which relates to their moral and material welfare. 

Their highest qualities may at any moment be subjected to the 
severest trials ; and it behoves the nil ing power to see that these 
men are at all times and places maintained in the most complete 
readiness for action. 



F F 



DURING a long and varied course of service in India, I had 
extended opportunities of observing the effects of climate, as 
well on the moral as on the physical nature of Europeans " the 
slow blight of the constitutional power " but especially amongst 
the military classes ; and the result, so far as I can judge from an 
unusually wide range of observation at home as well as in India, 
is, that the term of thirty years of actual residence in the East is 
the very utmost during which persons under ordinary health, and 
of an average constitution, may be expected to retain their British 
vigour of thought and action. 

Of the precocity described by Doctors Moseley and Aiuslie, I 
have never seen any evidence : they would seem to have found in 
every other British youth within the tropics a second Grotius : 
Reliqui mri tandem, fuere ; . GROTIUS vir natus est. Cabanis 
speaks of but one form of precocity in hot countries that of old 
age (vieillesse precoce) , and I fear this last is nearer the truth ; for, 
if the age of forty-eight be the stage of highest intellectual power 
in Europe, that period would appear to be anticipated in tropical 
climates ; and, after the maximum has been attained there, the 
decline of the mental and corporeal powers is both silent and 
rapid. Of hot climates it may be said in an especial degree, that 
" We may stop when we are rising, but never when we are going 
downwards." 

Certainly, all of my profession, and I think I may say of the 
Indian public services generally, who have attained to eminence in 
the East, have done so long before the term of thirty years' service ; 
and few indeed have retained much of it for long after that term. 

We are glad to see in general society occasional exceptions to 
this melancholy rule ; but how rarely ? One may, perchance, see 
the veteran of forty years' service, in all the mental freshness of 
youth, and beside him the officer of thirty years' service, superan- 
nuated and enfeebled in all respects ; but the first is the exception ; 
the last is the rule that must ever govern the mass, or, more pro- 
perly speaking, the average of Europeans. 

In India we are too much attached to the absolute rule of 



ON THE TERM OF EFFICIENT SERVICE IN INDIA. 435 

seniority in military promotion, a rule which does not work well 
for command. It may serve the interested purposes of individuals, 
but it ill serves the interests of the State. 

The disposition to rise by the rule of the muster-roll, rather than 
by the exercise of knowledge, diligence, and discernment, is inju- 
rious in many ways : it brings men who never were fit to com- 
mand into the list of generals ; while it causes others, who were 
once efficient, to linger in the army, and to look to the rewards 
which seniority may bring them after their energies have faded. 
Any system, therefore, which should induce young officers to look 
to the acquisition of rank rather than rupees, would prove an ad- 
vantage to themselves and to the service. The Marquis Wellesley 
said, forty years ago : " The army in India rested too much on the 
footing of profit, without reference to honours at home ;" and this 
owing to circumstances over which the army had no control : its 
officers " were not held forward to public view as much as other 
officers in other parts of the world" persons whose " services were 
not more meritorious or important than their own." Rank has been 
withheld from the officers of the Indian army until too late in life 
to be of use to the recipient, or to the State. Nor can education 
and experience united counterbalance the deteriorating influences of 
age. The officers of the Indian army are, as a body, remarkably 
well educated. Lord De Ros, in his work for the guidance of 
young officers, states that the superior education of the officers of 
the Indian army has become an object of remark during the late 
campaigns in India, where the talent and services of many of the 
younger ranks have frequently attracted the notice and praise of 
the most distinguished authorities. 

Here, again, we perceive that it is in " the younger ranks " that 
the benefits of education produce the most efficient results ; while 
Brigadier Hodgson, of the Bengal army, assures us that the 
" average age of the Major-Generals of the Indian army is some- 
what above sixty-five years, and the average length of service 
alone of the Lieut-General is about sixty years. This is alto- 
gether a state of affairs most unjust to the Indian army, and poli- 
tically criminal as regards the great national interests at stake, and 
which are indeed perilled by a great standing army being kept in 
so palpably inefficient a state with respect to its senior grades, 
the members of which are already unfit from physical decrepitude 
to exercise energetic command in the field." 

It is evident, from all that is here set forth, that a superannuation 
list has become a necessity to the Indian army. 

The promotion by absolute rule of seniority so injurious in so 
many ways often causes our older Indian officers to be super- 
seded in command ; and thus their experience even is made to 
give way, and is set at nought, under an arrangement grounded on 
a hard necessity. F F 2 



43G ON THE TERM OF EFFICIENT SERVICE IN INDIA. 

Nor is this important subject to be regarded as foreign to medi- 
cal investigation ; for the moral qualities, age, and physical capa- 
bilities of the commander do not involve military and political con- 
siderations and results only, but also the moral and physical wel- 
fare of the army under his orders its health, comfort, and efficiency 
everything, in short, depends on the character of the commander. 

Governments may confer material power on a general, but if he 
do not wield moral power, he is as nothing. When Lord Chatham 
read over the list of British generals, with a view to employment 
in the first American war, he observed : " I know not what effect 
the reading of those names may have upon the enemy, but for my 
own part, I confess it makes me tremble." Seniority had at that 
time done its worst for our commanders. 

" The arguments in favour of purchase," says the " Times," " all 
assume as their basis the pre- existence of a system of seniority, 
and derive their force from the necessity of remedying the intole- 
rable abuses to which the unmitigated system of seniority, as we 
have it in the Artillery and Engineer Corps, gives rise. Seniority 
has in it a certain degree of fairness, since it is the fate of all men, 
noble or plebeian, rich or poor, to grow old, but it buys this single 
advantage at the expense of every other defect to which a criterion 
of promotion can be liable. 

For the first twenty years of military service, increased age may 
be some indication of increased efficiency, but after that period, 
this congruity gradually ceases, till every year that is added to the 
age of the officer detracts from his utility, and seniority declares 
him fit for the highest command just when the inexorable hand of 
time has stripped him of his last qualification for any. Moreover 
seniority, by annexing the highest rewards to the longest service, 
strengthens the inducement to continue in the army after health, 
strength, and faculties have failed, thus keeping down rising merit, 
and applying the strongest incentives to old men to undertake 
duties which they cannot fulfil. 

It is a vivid perception of these enormous evils which has 
induced mankind to betake themselves to the system of purchase, 
as involving, with all its absurdity and injustice, a less practical 
mischief than seniority ; and certainly, if the alternative lies wholly 
between the two, we shall not be disposed to doubt the wisdom of 

the selection We believe that the assumption that 

there is no alternative between purchase and seniority is falla- 
cious ; and that in war with much ease, and in peace without in- 
surmountable difficulties, a system of promotion by merit might be 
devised which would supersede both the one and the other." 

In the French army I believe the system of promotion consists 
in giving one-third to seniority, one-third at the recommendation 
of the officer in command, and the remaining third under direction 



ON THE TERM OF EFFICIENT SERVICE IN INDIA. 437 

of the Minister-at-War. This system gives satisfaction to all 
classes; and it gives to the armies of France Commanders-in- 
Chief of the age of five-and-forty. 

The retiring pensions of public sen-ants in India have been 
ordered as follows : 

For the Civil Service, Pension on 22 years actual service. 
Military 22 
Medical ,,17 
Clerical 15 

In reference to the respective ages on entering the several 
public services, this scale must be admitted to be fairly fixed : but 
all the annuity funds, whether civil or military, are founded on 
the general expectation of a longer course of service than that 
which earns the government pension ; and such expectation is 
verified in the result but few indeed being in a position to retire 
on completion of the government term. It therefore would seem 
as if some term intermediate between twenty-five and thirty 
years' service, had been in contemplation both of the government 
and of the founders of the annuity funds, in respect of the civil 
and military servants at least ; and such an idea is justified by toe 
actual influence of the climate of India on the European constitu- 
tion. 

This article formed part of a Report on the Medical Topography 
of Calcutta, presented by me to the government of Bengal, and 
published by its order at the public cost in Calcutta, in 1839. I 
am now gratified in the support afforded to the opinions I have so 
long entertained, by so eminent a public functionary as Mr. Welby 
Jackson, of the Bengal Civil Service, who, in a Memoir submitted 
to the Government of India, states as follows : 

" In appointing persons to offices of high trust and responsi- 
bility, though no positive and distinct reservation be made as to 
the time they are to hold the appointments, it is tacitly understood 
that they are not to occupy them longer than they are able to dis- 
charge die duty efficiently. 

This is evidently a part of the contract between the State and 
the nominee; and where public opinion exists, and can make 
itself heard through the press, or the delegates to a national 
assembly, the condition is sufficiently enforced. No one, under 
such circumstances, can long continue to hold an office for which 
he has become unfit by reason of old age, or other fortuitous 
circumstance incapacitating him, or impairing in a material degree 
his ability to perform the duty. In India there is no public voice. 
The people, as a body, know little or nothing of the administration 
of the government ; they take no part in it, either directly or by 
deputation. It is therefore incumbent on the government, and 



488 ON THE TERM OF EFFICIENT SERVICE IN INDIA. 

more especially on the Honourable Court of Directors (who in 
some measure supply the place of the public by acting as a check 
on the Executive), to frame and adopt such rules as may prevent 
incapable and inefficient persons from continuing to occupy 
offices of public trust. 

In regard to the chief offices in India, the principle is fully 
acknowledged and acted upon. The appointments to the offices 
of Governor-general, of Governor, of Member of Council, as well 
as of Brigadier, and General of Division in the army, are made for 
a limited period of five years. There is no rule against a second 
appointment, though it is of rare occurrence. Apparently, it is 
considered probable that at the age when these dignities are con- 
ferred, the efficiency of the nominee will not last much longer; 
and, further, it is perhaps thought advisable to have periodical 
opportunities of correcting any error of judgment which may have 
taken place in the selection. 

The principle is applicable to all offices, of every description, 
high or low, ministerial, judicial, fiscal, or representative ; but 
more particularly to offices held by an exclusive service, the 
members of which rise by seniority, and become eligible to pro- 
motion as they grow older. It is true, that the government which 
appoints has always the authority to dismiss ; but, in practice, this 
has been found insufficient, and hence the custom of appointing 
for a definite period to the high offices above mentioned. There 
is one standing reason why the period should be defined ; it is 
quite certain that, in every instance, official capacity is impaired 
after a certain time of life ; the period may vary with individuals, 
but an average may be fixed beyond which the services of very 
few would be worth retaining." .... 

" The Civil Service Annuity Fund is framed on the principle, 
and with the expectation that civil servants will, one with another, 
remain twenty-five years in the country ; this includes three years 
passed on furlough. It is expected that by that time their means 
will permit their retirement, and that their physical and mental 
powers will require it. I believe that the period is very properly 
fixed ; but there can, at all events, be little doubt that, after thirty 
years' service in India, the proportion of civil servants, who are 
worth keeping, is very small indeed. I will assume, therefore, 
thirty years as the average efficient portion of a man's life in 
India." 

The truth and justice of what is here so ably set forth cannot be 
gainsaid ; yet, happily, the evils of the seniority system do not 
press with such severity on the civil service as might, a priori, be 
t \pected safety being found in selection for all the higher offices 
throughout the country. 

But the unmitigated application of the absolute rule of seniority 



ON THE TERM OF EFFICIENT SERVICE IN INDIA. 1-W 

promotion, staff and regimental, to a scientific corps, like the 
medical department of the army of Bengal is, as might be antici- 
pated, attended with the worst and most disastrous results of all 
the necessary detention of the whole administrative staff till alto- 
gether worn out in mind and body ; till long after the term of 
efficient sen-ice in India has passed away. 

The three senior members of the medical service of Bengal, 
forming what is called the medical board of that presidency, 
number between them about 120 years of service, or an average 
of 42 years each ; while the next ten officers on the list, consti- 
tuting the administrative staff of the service, are not far behind in 
this groove of seniority. 

To speak of such a system as this is to waste time ; for a board 
so constituted must be superannuated by science as much as by 
years the ebb of opinion having everywhere left this pernicious 
rule of seniority high and dry on the drift of old custom. An 
institution which is not respected has lost its salt, and in these 
days it cannot last. A slavish adherence to the principle of 
seniority is, in truth, only a pretence for avoiding a modern 
reality. 

Henry Marshall observes that " Under certain circumstances, 
competition is as necessary to promote intellectual exertion as it 
is to effect mechanical production. Where persons are remune- 
rated by time, instead of according to the beneficial results of 
application, or where there is a uniformity of reward without refer- 
ence to that which is produced, competition may take a wrong 
course, and he who labours least thinks he has gained the prize. 
Establishments in which the enrolment and advancement in rank 
are chiefly awarded in accordance with length of service, or where 
the advantages are professedly administered on that principle, 
involve a spirit of COMMUNISM which is very unfavourable to 
zealous intellectual industry beyond those routine duties which 
cannot be evaded ; and without the energetic exertions of indi- 
viduals, we are not warranted in expecting much progress towards 
the cultivation of science, and the diffusion 01 information ; a 
result which rarely occurs except from competition, honestly, 
impartially, and widely administered." 

Robert Jackson, speaking on this subject, says, that " If reward 
or emolument be the portion of a man borne so many years on the 
muster-roll, rather than of a character distinguished for activity, 
diligence, and discernment, the purpose of bounty is mistaken." 

The sedative effect of a fixed situation, with a fixed salary, is 
nowhere so thoroughly exemplified as in the Bengal medical 
M-rvice; it surpasses the hop-pillow in its results. 

The subject of this article, I repeat, is proper for the considera- 
tion of the medical officer, and it has not been sufficiently before 



440 ON THE TERM OF EFFICIENT SERVICE IN INDIA. 

authority; but it demands the most serious attention, so long as 
we may be expected to hold India by what, in Europe, is termed 
the power of opinion. There is no country in the world where so 
much depends on the PERSONS of the functionaries, and on the 
spirit which animates them, as in India, and consequently, where 
the RIGHT SELECTION OF PERSONS is of so much importance. 
Asiatics always look to the persons, and never to the departments. 
The Sepoy, for instance, whose own " idea of loyalty," according 
to Lord Metcalfe, " is loyalty to his ' salt,' a sense of what is due 
to the hand that feeds him," knows right well who and what his 
Colonel is who the General of Division, and who the Commander- 
in-Chief ; but he has only a very vague notion of what our depart- 
ments are. 

Thirlwall observes, that " the character of every people is more 
or less closely connected with that of its land ;" and we should 
take but a limited view of the effects of climate, and especially of 
localities abounding in marsh poison, if we considered only the 
more familiar effects of those agents on the European constitution, 
such as the various forms of fever, anaemia, &c. The states of the 
air affect the mental energies and moral feelings of many indivi- 
duals, to a degree inconceivable to those who have not thus been 
subject to their influences, or who have not watched their varied 
effects. Even in Europe, the long application of such causes, as 
in Tuscany and Switzerland, affects the mind to very idiocy ; and 
I have seen a complete, but temporary prostration of the mental 
powers result from a residence in our tiraees and jungly districts in 
India, as in Gondwana and Aracan, but especially after the fevers 
of such districts. 

Finally, and independently of the influences of climate, I believe 
with Mr. Macaulay, that official aptitude is everywhere acquired at 
the expense of the general powers, and that in all countries a fixed 
limit in years should be ordered, beyond which public service 
should not extend. 



ON THE MORTALITY AND PHYSICAL MANAGEMENT 
OF EUROPEAN CHILDREN IN BENGAL. 



FOR children of struraous habit, or for the offspring of parents 
that are what is termed weak-chested, the climate of Bengal, and 
of India generally, is favourable. Under ordinary precautions, 
they may be freely exposed to the open air at all seasons, during 
the early morning and evening, without risk of being chilled; an 
inestimable advantage, and one for the absence of which hardly 
any other circumstance will compensate. 

The diseases of childhood run their courses also very mildly in 
Bengal ; and, upon the whole, it cannot be said that under proper 
management of diet, and with precautions against extremes of 
temperature, the climate of Bengal is unfavourable to European 
infant life, up to the age of five or six years, when they begin to 
exhibit the necessity for change of climate by emaciating, and by 
out-growing their strength. 

The climate of Italy has in like manner been found beneficial 
in the instances of weakly children, who in England suffered from 
swellings of the lymphatic glands, gastric irritation and catarrhs ; 
and there can be no doubt that at the tender age here spoken of, 
and also at the more advanced age of puberty, the removal for a few 
winters to the south of Europe would tend powerfully to the pre- 
vention of pulmonary diseases in weakly children, and those in 
whom a hereditary disposition to them is suspected. 

Of accurate or statistical record, bearing on this interesting 
question, we have as yet little in India; but I believe that the 
results of a close observation would afford corresponding facts to 
those obtained in England and France, as to the greater mortality 
among infants under the extremes of temperature the very cold 
and the hotter months. The winter and spring seasons have been 
observed at the Military Asylum, Chelsea, to be very productive 
of tuberculous disease in the children born in the East and West 
Indies especially. 

Dr. Duncan Stewart, of Calcutta, states, that amongst the 
Kuropfaii inhabitants of that city, the ratio of mortality of adults 
is greater than that of infants in the proportion of five to one , 



442 ON THE MORTALITY AND PHYSICAL MANAGEMENT 

while, with the poor degenerate Portuguese, the mortality of chil- 
dren exceeds that of adults in the proportion of four to one. The 
late Inspector-General, Burke, states Fort William, Calcutta, to be 
" one of the worst, if not the very worst, of the military stations in 
India for children," the average annual mortality per cent, being 
16*29. Here we perceive the difference in the fate of the British 
soldier's child, in the Garrison of Fort William, and that of the 
better classes of his countrymen, residing within half-a-mile of 
him. 

The observations of Dr. Edwards on the differences of constitu- 
tion at different periods of life are of the highest importance as 
relating to children ; and if more generally understood, and more 
carefully put in practice, they would considerably reduce one of the 
greatest sources of mortality. The power of generating heat is so 
feeble in the infant system, probably from a smaller consumption 
of oxygen in proportion to the bulk, that it is impossible to be too 
guarded in the important article of clothing, during the cold season ' 
in Bengal, where scarcely a year passed in which I had not occa- 
sion to witness the most serious, and sometimes fatal results from 
the exposure of infants, imperfectly clothed, to the piercing N. E. 
wind. It may be concluded that the younger the infant, the more 
necessary does caution become on this head. 

But where the opposite system is adopted, or that of hardening 
by means of half-clothing, or the equally unreasonable system of 
strengthening by means of a double diet, the results are even more 
speedily destructive than in Europe, and they are brought about 
by the supervention of gastric fever, with cerebral determination 
severe diarrhoea, or the more slow process of mesenteric fever. 
In respect of the management of infant health, and referring to 
the theories and empiricisms brought to bear on it, I have every- 
where observed, that even the fatal results of mismanagement but 
rarely cures the mother of her theory or her quackery so much 
stronger are ignorance and prejudice than death. 

It may be said that, under ordinary care in diet and clothing, 
the operation of the teething process proceeds kindly in the 
climate of India; and speaking of my personal experience, I 
should say that severe teething irritation is seldom a primary 
affection, but that, on the contrary, it generally follows upon pre- 
viously existing gastric, intestinal, or febrile disorder; and it is 
not too much to say that, in eighteen cases out of twenty, these 
last are but the results of mismanagement in diet and clothing 
errors of ignorance and weakness more common to the most 
civilized than to the most barbarous communities. To read some 
books, and to hear some people talk, one might be led to suppose 
that the teething process of infancy is a morbid one from begin- 
ning to end. 



OP EUROPEAN CHILDREN IN BENGAL. 443 

I believe that the seasons in which the greatest mortality occurs 
amongst European children in Calcutta are the cold season of 
December and January April and May of the hot season. In 
the former, congestive and catarrhal fevers prevail, and in the 
latter, remittent fever, occasionally of an ardent character, and 
diarrhrea. Altogether, the deaths are not numerous as compared 
to the births ; and this circumstance is mainly due to the gene- 
rally rational plan of rearing the children of the better classes, 
where the wet-nurses, the aliment, clothing, cleanliness, air, and 
exercise, are carefully attended to. 

I did not see one case of small-pox amongst the children of the 
better classes of Europeans during my residence in India; a fact 
which speaks powerfully in favour of the protecting influence of 
vaccination ; for not a year passed that small-pox did not prevail 
in the native portion of the city. 

It is stated by Lind that " European women in general enjoy a 
much better state of health than the men ;" but that " child-bear- 
ing is peculiarly fatal to them in Calcutta ; on which account it 
would be advisable for them to retire to a more healthy situation 
at the approach of their delivery. Dr. Clark observes that, on the 
coast of Coromandel, parturition " is not attended with such great 
danger as in Bengal; neither is the puerperal fever of such a 
putrid nature." 

From whatever cause it arise, the very contrary of the above holds 
at present, parturition being unattended with even so much risk 
as in Europe. Puerperal fever I never saw in Calcutta ; and dur- 
ing sixteen years in which I was familiar with the state of health 
among the better class of Europeans there, I heard of but one 
death connected with child-bearing, independently of previous 
disease ; and I remember but very few instances of children being 
born dead. Some three or four instances of fever or of dysentery, 
inducing premature delivery and death, I heard of during the time 
specified ; and that was all. I would therefore ascribe the fata- 
lity spoken of by Drs. Lind and Clark to the circumstance that, 
in the olden times, the management of parturition was left to 
ignorant native nurses ; indeed, in Hickey's Journal, published in 
Calcutta in 1780, the public is frequently warned against per- 
mitting what the editor terms, the improper interference of Euro- 
pean physicians ! 

On the subject of rearing children in Bengal I would observe 
that all experience is against it that it is altogether a cruel and 
an impracticable endeavour and that I have seen several deaths 
to result from the unnecessary attempt to wage war with the 
climate. 

The late Mr. Twining states that, after much and careful in- 
quiry, he was not able anywhere to find a sample of the third ge- 



444 



ON THE MORTALITY OF EUROPEAN CHILDREN. 



neration from unmixed European stock. I believe that such is 
scarcely to be found in any part of India, and least of all in 
Bengal Proper : so much for the question of European coloniza- 
tion, respecting which much has been said and written regard- 
less of the fact that Nature has set her ban a blighting interdict 
upon it. 

Volney, the eloquent historian of Egypt, states " that neither 
the Mamelooks, who were a Caucasian race, nor the Turks, who 
are Mongolians, unless they married native women, which the 
Mamelooks never did, could continue their race in Egypt ; all 
their offspring perishing in the first or second generation." 

Without an accurate census, and correct tables of mortality, re- 
turns such as the following can be of little use ; but I could obtain 
no better information on the spot : 



Burials in Calcutta of Protestant Christians. 



Yean. 


Adults. 


Children 


Total. 








under 5 years. 






1820 


239 


43 


282 




1821 


196 


50 


246 




1822 


275 


47 


322 




1823 


215 


55 


270 




1824 


209 


63 


272 


i 


1825 


240 


54 


294 




1826 


234 


36 


270 




1827 


190 


45 


235 




1828 


157 


77 


234 




1829 


128 


32 


160 




1830 


180 


28 


208 





PART II. 



PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS 



ON THE 



NATURE AND TREATMENT 



OF 



THE DISEASES OF EUROPEANS 

ON THEIR BETDEN FROM TROPICAL CLIMATES. 



NOTE. 

In the following attempt to explain the physiological influences 
under which the balance of European health is disturbed in hot 
climates, as well as the counter-effects of the climate of Europe, 
there are certain inevitable repetitions of matters which have 
already been set forth in the chapter on medical climate. But 
many persons will peruse this second part of the present work to 
whom the first will not possess the same interest ; and it is better 
to repeat than to be misunderstood. 



INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 



IN the foregoing portion of this work, I have endeavoured to 
explain the origin of those formidable diseases which, under tro- 
pical influences, affect the stranger European, and to trace them 
to the altered physiological actions induced by an unnaturally 
high range of temperature and other causes which, during a resi- 
dence generally protracted, disturb the various functions on whose 
just balance health must everywhere depend. 

I purpose now to examine the converse of all this the reverse 
of everything that holds under tropical influences to describe the 
flow and ebb of excitement the inertia, approaching to a collapse 
of the various functions of the body, which follows as a necessary 
consequence of the previous tumultuous action and to describe, 
both the condition and the treatment of the tropical invalid on his 
return to his native climate. I design, in short, to trace the pecu- 
liar physiological circumstances that have led to the state of ill 
health common to tropical invalids, and also to explain the real 
or essential nature of their diseases ; and, finally, I shall detail 
the special conditions to be regarded in their treatment. As in 
the previous portion of this work, I venture with much diffidence 
to approach the subject by the high but difficult road of phy- 
siology. 

The courses of investigation here spoken of are surrounded 
with the difficulties inherent in everything that relates to climate 
as a science ; but fully impressed with these great disadvantages, 
I am nevertheless more and more persuaded, by every-day expe- 
rience, of the necessity of prosecuting such inquiries in the manner 
here proposed. I believe it to promise a superior usefulness in 
result, whether we regard the advancement of the preventive or 
the curative departments of our profession. 

A familiar acquaintance with the most concentrated forms of 



448 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

disease, as they prevail in tropical climates, assists materially to- 
wards a just appreciation of those that lie between, or of minor 
degrees of disease, as they prevail in more temperate regions. 
Observation of the nature and power of external causes in the 
production of disease within the tropics assists us also to form a 
more just estimate of the power of other and different circum- 
stances of climate, whether morbific or sanative, in our native 
country. In other words the antecedent circumstances being 
known, the consequents become more easy of being appreciated. 
This counter-experience, acquired in the observation of invalids 
on their return to Europe from hot climates, ought to be of much 
value by extending the circle of our acquaintance with the con- 
ditions of health resulting from the influences of tropical climates. 

Without a knowledge of the antecedent circumstances which, 
under tropical heats, disturbed the functions of the stranger Euro- 
pean, as well as a knowledge of the converse present conditions 
which, under the cold and damp of Europe, disturb his functions 
in a different and opposite manner, it is impossible to obtain a 
just or comprehensive view of the history of his health, to ap- 
preciate his actual condition, or to regulate his medical manage- 
ment. " To know the cause of disease is sometimes to be able 
to cure, often to be able to prevent it." * The subject is of great 
and of increasing importance also, seeing that the numbers are 
annually increasing who, from choice or necessity, betake them- 
selves to the intertropical possessions of this empire. This con- 
sideration, as well as the great difficulties above alluded to, renders 
it a matter of serious regret to me, that in such an undertaking I 
am not aided by the experience and observations of other and 
more competent authorities. 

With the exception of the admirable " Observations" of my late 
friend, Dr. James Johnson, the subject as here proposed to be 
treated is almost, if not altogether, new. It is incumbent on me, 
therefore, to explain the grounds on which I pretend to undertake 
the discussion of it. 

During a residence of two-and-twenty years in various parts of 
India, and in some of its worst climates, I had extended oppor- 
tunities, in peace and in war, during seasons of prosperity and 
adversity, in hospital and in private practice, of witnessing the in- 
fluences that affect the health of both Europeans and natives. For 
many years I was a severe sufferer from fevers, remittent and in- 
termittent. In Gondwana, in Upper Ava, and in Calcutta, I 
nearly fell under the violence of malignant remittents. I have 
seen how the masses and how the individuals were affected, how 
they lived and prospered, how they sickened, recovered, or died ; 
the habits of life and the causes of death, in short, of the 

* Lectures on the Principles and Practice of Physic. By Thomas Watson, M.D., &c. 



INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 449 

Asiatic and European races. I have had the further advantage of 
witnessing the influences that tend to produce like results in the 
native climate of the European on his return home, and it is this 
last circumstance that specially encourages me to make the pre- 
sent attempt, trusting that, ere long, I may be followed by other 
experienced and more competent observers from amongst my 
brother officers of the medical departments of the Indian army. 

In proceeding to treat an European invalid just returned from 
Jndia, it will be found that a consideration of all the antecedents, 
within the tropics, is quite as necessary to a just appreciation of 
his condition, as that of the present influences of an English 
climate. Both circumstances of climate have in fact so strict a 
relation, one to the other, that a consideration of either, examined 
apart, must fail to lead to a thorough understanding of those im- 
portant agencies and changes which modify and stamp the habit 
and constitution of the individual, so as to render him a special and 
peculiar subject of medical care. These truths, which can admit 
of no denial, will, it is hoped, be received, in excuse of the fol- 
lowing details. And let uo one consider these subjects tedious, 
or unimportant, but rather that the manner of their exposition 
may be so.* 

It is necessary to hold in recollection, in reference to the sub- 
ject-matter of the following Essays, that of the sufferers from the 
diseases treated of, a large proportion always consists of young 
officers belonging to every branch of the Indian services, civil, 
military, and naval. They generally present in their persons, on 
their arrival in Europe, examples of the severer ravages of acute 
tropical disease, or of those which from their original violence, 
from their frequent recurrence, or from the consequence of severe 
treatment, have baffled alike the endeavours at immediate cure, 
and those intended to promote convalescence by recourse to the 
many changes of climate attainable by a removal to the Hill 
Ranges and the Seas of the East. None of the servants of the 
Government are sent home but such as have resisted all the 
known means of cure ; for none can, under existing regulations, 
obtain sick leave but through the most strict medical scrutiny, 
and through a succession of different checks ; there must be exhi- 
bited in every case a proved and certified necessity for so pro- 
tracted an absence from duty as is involved in a return to 
England. 

Of the other class of sufferers, or those who have retired from 

* The object of these cursory remarks is, to point out the injurious results following 
upon exposure to extremes of climate. Were it proposed here, to speak of the remedial 
powers of climate, I should quote largely from the valuable scientific and practical 
work of Sir James Clark, on " The Sanative Influence of Climate" a work deserving 
the careful consideration of all classes of the community. 



450 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

the public services of India, in middle or more advanced life, it 
may be said generally that, from their longer residence in India, 
and from their comparatively increased years, their ailments are 
of a more chronic character. The peculiar circumstances here 
mentioned render it evident that, in treating persons of either class 
in England, the duties and cares of the physician are increased 
and complicated in no ordinary degree. 

The return of the tropical sojouraer to the land of his fathers, 
strange as it may seem, is not unaccompanied by serious risks to, 
his health, and by many moral considerations of a painfuKand 
distressing character. x 

Since the day when, as a mere youth, he bade adieutjb his sor- 
rowing relatives, quitted the protection of the patern^d roof, and 
his native climate, he has undergone changes in h.Vs moral and 
physical nature but little considered or understood/by his kinsmen 
and countrymen in general, amongst whom he now finds himself, 
in middle, or more advanced life, differing iivhabits, associations, 
and pursuits, from those around him his nearest relatives de- 
parted, and he an invalid and a stranger in the land of his birth. 
This is a great and sad revolution in life, whether we regard it in 
a moral or a physical sense, and the medical officer who has ob- 
served its violently acute causes abroad, and its chronic and pro- 
tracted consequences at home, can bear testimony to severe and 
complicated sufferings on the part of a highly intellectual portion 
of our community. 

The youth, on his arrival in India, is at once placed in a society 
wherein the social affections and the domestic habits of our native 
country are cherished and cultivated with a luxuriance charac- 
teristic of the climate, and of which no other country, perhaps, has 
offered so distinguished an example. 

At a distance of twelve thousand miles from the British shores, 
and separated for more than half our lives from all those who, in 
our early youth, were most cherished, it is but natural that in 
India we should cling together the closer that all feel in common 
the old Indian and the new comer the utter uncertainty of 
again revisiting the homes of our youth. Such is the state of 
feeling in the East ; and throughout the whole period of an 
Indian's career, whatever his line of service, he lives in a society 
whose generous kindness in prosperity, and whose soothing atten- 
tions in adversity, or in sickness, are unequalled in any other 
quarter of the world ; and it may be said with truth, that no one 
who deserved its consideration was ever otherwise treated by the 
community of the Indian presidencies. 

If we look to the physical condition of the youth, it is at first, 
under favourable circumstances, no less cheering. All the func- 
tions of life receive an impulse from the agency of heat, while the 
susceptibility to impression is increased in the like proportion. 






INTRODUCTORY CIIAPTRR. 451 

The comforts, and even luxuries, of life, are within his reach if he 
will be but pnident ; for want of any kind in India is unknown, 
except to the heedless or the profligate. Disease, tropical disease, 
too, is as yet a stranger to him ; and should he be in the army, 
and that he has not campaigned, or served in unhealthy countries, 
or during the most unhealthy seasons, the equable determination 
to the surface of the body, produced by an elevated range of tem- 
perature, tends, along with the increased excitability of the nervous 
and vascular systems, to raise the animal spirits, and impart a feeling 
of invigoration and health delightful to the senses. But time 
passes on, and even if, through the contingencies of service in 
various regions, or through his own imprudence, disease has not 
ensued, the lengthened application of these operations of climate, 
which at first appeared beneficial, are sure to impair the health, and 
that, too often, with a termination so suddenly dangerous or fatal, 
as at once to shock and terrify all who behold it. Loss of time in 
the climates of the East, implies loss of opportunity to save life ; 
for an omission or a mistake in the treatment admits of no future 
correction or remedy. As an example of the amount of disease 
which may occur in India within a brief space of time, I will 
quote the report on Ensign F., of the Bengal Army : " Has been 
in India only three years and a few months, and has already had 
four separate attacks of hepatitis, two of dysentery, one of con- 
tinued fever, and two severe tertian intermittent fevers, besides 
numerous other illnesses." This officer bore the marks of his 
stormy career of disease, being greatly shattered ; but he was 
young, and he recovered his health. In tropical climates the 
attentive observation of the early stages of disease is of the utmost 
importance, for then we can both prevent and cure with ease ; we 
now can cure by mild remedies, while by such simple and easily 
applied means of cure, we prevent severe ill consequences. In 
the East, diseases of every kind, when once established, proceed 
with a tumultuously rapid course to the destruction of certain 
organs; and exactly as may be the judgment and power with 
which remedies are applied, so will the result prove a complete 
cure, with speedy restoration of vigour, or a partial and imperfect 
cure, ending in chronic disease. 

The distinctive value of the two courses here indicated, is most 
important to the welfare of fleets and armies ; for by early and 
just measures of cure, the men are restored to service, while, by 
feeble and inert courses, they are consigned to the hospitals, there 
to linger and die, as mentioned, of chronic disease. 

It will now be proper to look in some detail to the operation of 
those causes which tend, by their protracted application, to dete- 
riorate or destroy the best of European constitutions ; because a 
practical acquaintance with these causes, and with their modes of 

G O 2 



452 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

operation, is absolutely necessary to a right understanding of their 
effects. In India, we find that no amount of talent, or of general 
and professional knowledge, can compensate for the absence of 
local experience in the treatment of its diseases ; and it is hardly 
necessary to say that the same kind of experience is quite as 
necessary to the just management of their sequelae in Europe. A 
careful consideration of all the influential circumstances, moral 
and physical, under which the European lived within the tropics, 
(" Whilst he did climate there," as Shakspeare expresses it,) v iii 
go far, however, to supply the want here mentioned ; and it is in 
the hope of contributing in some degree to this end that I venture 
to submit the following observations. 

The most immediate of the tropical influences on European 
constitutions are evidenced in the excited conditions of the ner- 
vous and vascular systems, while the most important are those 
affecting the functions of the skin, liver, lungs, and kidneys; and 
owing to the extraordinarily high range and rapid changes in the 
temperature, humidity, and other qualities of the atmosphere, all 
these important influences are exemplified in extreme degrees. 

The transmission of the nervous influence, according to Eck- 
hard, is more rapid when the temperature is higher. 

During the hot and rainy seasons, which in Bengal extend from 
the beginning of March to the end of October, the determination 
of the fluids generally is to the surface, accompanied by an in- 
crease of the nervous excitability and animal heat ; by an accele- 
ration of pulse, and a prodigious increase of the pulmonary and 
cutaneous exhalations, the latter amounting, in the rainy season, 
to an exhausting discharge, as if the very serum of the blood were 
exuded. At this latter season, through the saturation of the 
atmosphere, its vivifying properties are diminished, while the ex- 
cessive decomposition of animal and vegetable matter gives to the 
air in some of the most unhealthy localities the properties of a 
tainted vapour bath. The perspiration is not carried off by eva- 
poration, while the transudation is enormously increased thus, 
heat accumulates in the body, and the local action of cold pro- 
duces serious consequences, rendering the system susceptible of 
the least impression from cold, or malarious influences, with a 
strong tendency to congestion in all the abdominal organs. 

When the atmosphere is saturated with moisture, there can be 
no cooling relief to the body by evaporation. The air, according to 
Professor Smith, of Edinburgh, expanding with the heat, while the 
lungs remain of the same capacity, they must take in a smaller 
quantity by weight, though the same by measure, of oxygen, the 
supporter of life. This, he adds, is one of the reasons of the lassi- 
tude felt in warm climates : " but, if in addition to the air being 
ratified, it be also still further distended by the vapour of water 



INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 453 

being mixed with it, it is evident that a certain number of cubic 
inches by measure, or lungsful, will contain a less weight of oxy- 
gen than ever ; so little, indeed, that life can hardly be supported, 
and we need not wonder at persons lying down almost powerless 
in the hot and damp atmosphere, and gasping for breath." It has 
been supposed by some observers, indeed, that in hot climates 
both 4 the volume and the weight of tjie lungs are diminished, as 
compared to those properties in Europe. 

The Natives of India, of the higher classes, avoid all exertion 
during the rainy season ; while the working classes, at all seasons, 
are sparing of extra labour, and when compatible with the work in 
hand, sitting is ever the posture of the artisan in the East. 

The excessive watery discharge from the skin during the rainy 
season must of necessity have the effect of rendering the venous 
blood unnaturally dense, and of thus causing the European to be 
more liable to congestive forms of disease. Dr. C. J. B. Williams 
refers the disposition to liver complaints, dysentery, and cholera, 
to the stimulating properties of the blood, deprived, as we have 
seen, of more than its usual amount of water, and of less of its 
hydro-carbon. 

Such, briefly, are the hot and rainy seasons of tropical climates, 
and such are some of the reasons for their proverbial unhealthiness. 
The mind even seems to partake in the general relaxation and 
lassitude, being unfitted for vigorous or sustained efforts of any 
kind. During the eight months here under consideration, the 
sleep is seriously disturbed a circumstance in itself sufficient to 
account for many of the attendant evils. 

The " cutaneo-hepatic sympathy " of Dr. James Johnson is well 
known, and so is the theory which considers that, while respiration 
is less perfectly carried on, owing to the rarefaction of the air, a 
vicarious decarbonization of the blood is established by a great 
increase of the biliary secretion. If, as supposed by Liebig, the 
function of the bile is " to support respiration and produce animal 
heat, by presenting carbon and hydrogen in a very subtile form to 
the oxygen of arterial blood," how greatly must the condition of 
the vital functions respiration, the generation of heat, circulation, 
and secretion be influenced by the palpably increased secretion 
of bile in tropical climates, followed as that excited action of the 
hot and rainy season is by a proportionately diminished action, 
and consequent tendency to congestive disease in the cold season ? 
Indeed, we are everywhere, in hot climates, thrown back on the 
observation of that acute and accurate pathological observer, Dr. 
John Clark, that of all the viscera in the human body the liver is 
the most subject to disease. 

The condition of the atmosphere, during the hot and rainy 
seasons, produces in reality many of the results of an insufficient 



454 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

supply of air, or of air despoiled of a portion of its oxygen. The 
heated and rarefied states of the air produce a double result ; for 
the introduction into the blood, through respiration, of a limited 
supply of vivifying property, impedes and retards the disengage- 
ment of putrescent effluvia from the lungs and sliin ; and thus the 
imperfect oxidation of the blood causes not only a correspondingly 
imperfect elimination of effete matters from the circulating fluids, 
but also the return of poisonous matters into the blood all which 
circumstances predispose the system for the reception of malarious 
and epidemic poisons, and to their consequences. All these cir- 
cumstances, however difficult of proof, are of vast importance to 
be well considered; and there seems at length some reason to 
hope that the vicarious nature of the relations existing between 
the depurative functions of the liver, kidneys, mucous surfaces, 
skin, and lungs, may receive demonstration from chemistry. 

The blood being less arterialized in proportion to the elevation 
of temperature, it is evident that in tropical climates, according to 
Dr. Reid, the systemic circulation becomes decidedly venous, 
and consequently unfit for carrying on the process of nutrition, 
and that it passes less freely through the capillaries into the veins. 
The lungs, too, are, in hot climates, relieved from some of the 
labour performed by them in temperate or cold regions ; and thus 
it happens that many persons enjoy good health in hot climates, 
who, from tendency to pectoral disease, could not have lived in 
Europe ; indeed, many persons in the curable stage of consump- 
tion that is, labouring under the preceding stage, or that of 
" tuberculous cachexia," regain their health and survive their rela- 
tives at home. Those, on the other hand, who go to India with 
softened tubercles, or even in the stage approaching it, are only 
hurried into their graves. 

Mr. Curtis states that in his time, 1782, 83, " diseases of the 
thoracic viscera were exceedingly rare, or rather never appeared 
at all in India, under an idiopathic form. Pulmonary consump- 
tion was wholly unknown." The correctness of these observations 
are confirmed by modern statistics. 

In the instance of Europeans desiring to proceed to India, or in 
those of officers wishing to return to their duties there, I always 
rest the question of their fitness to encounter the climate on the 
existence or otherwise of organic disease in any of the three cavi- 
ties. Where, on careful examination, none such is discoverable, 
I determine at once that such person may proceed to a tropical 
climate with an average probability of enjoying health. When 
any considerable degree of functional disturbance is apparent, 
within the cerebral or abdominal cavities especially, I call for 
delay, and await their removal. 

On the other hand, where there exists a hereditary or other 



INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 455 

disposition to morbid affections of the chest, I recommend such 
persons to proceed to India, as offering the best prospect of escape 
from a condition of disease which, in England, terminates too 
frequently in hopeless pulmonary consumption. Such, in a few 
words, are the principles on which I have been in the habit of 
resting this important question. 

During the hot and rainy seasons here referred to, the function 
of the kidneys is always diminished, while at the same time the 
urine is surcharged with saline and other impregnations. 

Unnatural and over-excited in all his functions as the European 
subject has hitherto been viewed, we soon find him, under the 
influence of the cold seasons, affected in a manner completely the 
reverse. The blood, owing to the larger proportion of oxygen 
used in respiration, now becomes more arterialized, while its con- 
sistence is rendered more viscid. In the cold season, a larger 
quantity of oxygen is consumed in maintaining the temperature of 
the body. The now altered balance of the circulation and ner- 
vous function ; the entire drying up of the surface, and the cor- 
responding congestion of all the viscera ; the consequent diminu- 
tion of the biliary, and the enormous increase of the renal secre- 
tions ; the oppressed state of the cerebral, thoracic, and abdominal 
functions, leading to the most formidable and complicated diseases,- 
and to the suppression of chronic eruptions in a previous state of 
development ; all these circumstances render the cold season of 
Bengal the reverse of healthy, except to those of sound constitu- 
tion, or the newly -arrived European, or such as have not suf- 
fered from the previous unhealthy seasons. 

The fevers of this season, unlike those of the hot weather and 
rains, approach gradually, insidiously, but not less dangerously, 
than those more ardent and concentrated types of fever last named. 
It will be seen that congestion has repeatedly been mentioned as 
participating in the most dangerous of our diseases. That climate 
has a principal share in producing this unfavourable state there 
can be no doubt ; but admitting this, we must consider also that 
the absence of all exhilarating exercise of mind and body, with 
their animating, varied, and healthful influences, on all the func- 
tions, predisposes much, when aided by a too full and stimulating 
diet, to this end ; unhappily, too, the European resident in tropical 
climates, has no sufficient remedy against the evils of this double 
inaction, except moderation in diet, which many will not adopt; 
for during the hot and rainy seasons, the amount of exercise 
necessary to health in temperate regions would here be impossible, 
and would be hurtful even if possible. Those who would preserve 
their health, therefore, must be temperate use such bodily exer- 
cise as each season admits of, and relieve their minds from the 
monotony of routine official duty by the inexhaustible resources 



456 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

of European literature, science, and elegant accomplishments. It 
is only thus that health, happiness, and reputation can be insured 
under the accumulated disadvantages of our position in India, 
where too commonly the whole time is given up to business. 

I shall now enumerate the diseases peculiar to each season, pre- 
mising that it is to a long continuance of exposure to the various 
causes stated, more than to their intensity, that we must refer the 
greater portion of the injurious influences of tropical climate on 
European constitutions. 

It has been seen that in hot climates the lungs are relieved of a 
portion of carbonic acid through the increased activity of the 
cutaneous exhalations, while the kidneys and mucous surfaces are 
alike relieved of uric acid, urea, salts, and water. This state of 
activity, which holds during eight months of every year, will ex- 
plain how it is that in such climates diseases of the air-passages, 
lungs, and kidneys, are of but rare occurrence, while, on returning 
to Europe, dangerous diseases of these organs are liable to occur. 

In many persons, on their return home, the disturbed balance of 
function between the skin and kidneys gives much trouble, and 
requires an attentive medical care ; for, owing to the more or less 
partial arrest of the cuticular discharge, during the English winter 
and spring seasons especially, the urea and other salts, earned off in 
part through the skin in India, can only pass off vicariously through 
the kidneys in our native climate. The processes of accommodation 
and adjustment, under the cold of Europe, are of much difficulty to 
some constitutions, requiring alterative and sudorific medicaments, 
aperients, and warm baths, for their eventual accomplishment 

Fever is by far the most common result of the high temperature 
of our hot season in the East, complicated with disturbance of the 
nervous centres and occasional determination to the liver. This 
fever is generally of the continued, occasionally of the remittent 
form, and of an ardent character. It demands experience and 
care in the treatment. Cholera is most prevalent and fatal in the 
hot months of April, May, and June. 

In the succeeding rainy months, fever assumes a remittent cha- 
racter, with diminished vital action generally, and a dangerous 
abdominal congestion. In place of the burning dry skin and 
racking headache of the fever of the hot season, we have here a 
moist, cool surface, indicating a want of action in the sudatory 
vessels, an oppressed pulse, and a tendency to the most formidable 
collapse. As the season advances, dysenteries as well as fevers 
become more frequent, severe, and complicated, the former impli- 
cating the whole of the abdominal organs. 

The diseases peculiar to the cold season are, congestive fever, 
of the continued form ; intermittents, with the sequelae of tumid or 
indurated spleen or liver ; insidious, subacute, hepatic inflamma- 



INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 457 

tion, terminating rapidly in abscess ; dysenteries, frequently com- 
plicated with hepatic disease, all more or less acute, according 
to individual habit, or length of service in India. Apoplexies of 
the most fatal form known in India occur at this season, as do the 
paralytic affections so commonly associated with them. Chronic 
eruptions, in active development during the two previous seasons, 
are now suddenly repelled, and are followed by congestion of some 
of the viscera. 

Having exhibited, in the rapid manner here sketched, the 
diseases to which the European stranger is liable in the East, and 
the powerfully deteriorating influences to which he is exposed 
during each year of residence, we shall now suppose him, 
after a sojourn of from twenty-five to forty years, returned to his 
native country. Here he enters at once, and without preparation, 
on a season of eight months' cold and moisture, in exchange 
for the same period of excessive tropical heat, and excessive 
moisture conjoined. I am here speaking of the English season, 
from the beginning of October to the end of May. This is a great 
revolution in climate, and it at once induces a corresponding phy- 
siological change in the system, stamping the individual with a 
peculiar physical character. The exhalent organs of the skin, 
which for so long a succession of years had been called into the 
most violent action, now become sealed, as if with a coating of 
varnish ; from the extreme of transudation he comes at once, under 
the rigour and vicissitude of an English winter, to constriction 
and dryness of the entire surface of the body. The result of such 
changes it is easy to perceive. 

From the previous extensive, equable, and sometimes violent 
detennination to the surface of the body, he is suddenly subjected 
to an opposite action an extreme dryness of the surface, amount- 
ing, occasionally, to a furfuraceous desquamation of the cuticle, 
and at other times to a miliary eruption, accompanied by deter- 
mination of the entire mass of the blood inwards ; a loaded condi- 
tion of the great venous trunks of the abdominal, thoracic, and 
cerebral cavities, with diminished power in the heart and arteries. 

This is by far the most common result of exposure to the cold of 
an European winter and spring ; but we occasionally find its op- 
posite a relaxation of the surface, inducing a copious and clammy 
sweat on the least exertion, accompanied by extreme languor of 
the circulation, with cold, damp extremities. This state, which is 
generally confined to persons of leucophlegmatic habit, is only to 
be removed by a complete restoration to health. 

The nervous function, highly exalted during the earlier period 
of residence in the East, becomes now proportionately obtunded 
and depressed. These are great changes, and it is next to impos- 
sible that any man shall go through them with impunity ; indeed, 



458 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

the first inspection of the Indian, on his return home, proves that 
he has been subjected to changes foreign to his original nature. 
He has now to undergo others which, through long acquired habit, 
have become almost equally foreign to him. 

The effects of a long-continued application of heat, by promoting 
both the undue extrication and expenditure of the nervous ener- 
gies, as evinced in the primary increase and subsequent diminu- 
tion of their actions, must eventually disturb and debilitate the 
functions of the cerebro- spinal and organic systems, so as, sooner 
or later, to affect the integrity of every function of the body. 

The children, again, of the upper classes of Europeans in India, 
and who remain there during the first five or six years of infancy 
only, exhibit a restlessness and mobility of the nervous system a 
busy idleness beyond their age, as compared to the habits of 
children of the same ages, born and bred in England. This excited 
state of the nervous function is associated with a comparative inca- 
pacity for long-continued application to study, or for sustained 
effort of any kind ; but this disadvantage, complained of to me by 
many schoolmasters in and around London, gradually yields to 
time and a temperate climate, until it finally disappears, between 
the ages of fourteen and eighteen. There is likewise a marked 
disposition to muscular relaxation in such children, and to conse- 
quent lateral curvature of the spine, especially amongst girls ; but 
1 have seen several cases of the same nature even in boys. An 
acquaintance with these facts is of much importance, as bearing on 
the moral and intellectual training of such children. 

Passive congestion is the condition most prevalent, under the 
circumstances of European cold ; and no matter what his previous 
disease in India, the morbid condition now superadded proves a 
serious difficulty to the invalid. If the patient suffered from tro- 
pical dysentery, his distresses are greatly aggravated during the 
long English winter and spring. The sufferers from fever, hepatic 
or splenic disease, are similarly distressed by severe abdominal 
congestion ; and if the tendency, through plethora or other cause, 
be towards the cerebral cavity, apoplexy is produced by exposure, 
or the absence of care, during the season of cold and damp in 
Europe. When the liver becomes the seat of congestion, this 
morbid condition may be confined to the venous trunks, or to the 
whole secreting parenchyma ; or it may extend to both. In either 
case it is a serious state of disease. 

I have seen many persons also, whose relatives at home were 
weak-chested and consumptive, become subject to severe chest 
diseases from the same cause. In short, if the sufferings were 
great, under the long continued exposure to the tropical heats, they 
are neither small nor unimportant under its opposite in Europe 
especially under exposure to damp cold, which exercises a pecu- 



INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 459 

liarly baneful influence. My experience here in the last twelve 
years, would lead me to conclude that, if there really be any such 
immunity from cold during the first year of residence in England, 
as we hear spoken of so generally in India, it is enjoyed only by 
the healthy, the youthful, and the robust Numberless examples 
have satisfied me as to the truth of this observation. A dry, or even 
frosty cold is well borne, comparatively, even by the enfeebled tro- 
pical invalid ; but the damp cold produces sensations of indescri- 
bable distress and depression in persons possessed of considerable 
powers of resistance. Many invalids, again, arriving in England in 
an enfeebled state, seek what they call "the bracing air" of 
Brighton and other such places during the winter and spring 
months, in forgetfulness, or in ignorance, that without a previous 
restoration to health, this said bracing is impossible of attainment. 
Many valuable lives are annually sacrificed in this vain endeavour. 
The truth is, that in general, the cold which a tropical invalid can 
bear without injury for a year or two after his return to Europe, is 
not of a low degree ; and in extreme cases of disease, the in-door 
temperature, carefully regulated during the winter and spring 
seasons, is that alone which is safe to him. He must now be treated 
with a climate very different from such as may in a year or two, 
and when health is restored, be suitable to him. Common sense 
points out that the delicate and the sick must be prepared for in- 
vigoration, and not forced into it. We cannot " comfort " such a 
person "with cold," as the Americans do their English customers 
with ice. 

The truth is that it depends on the state of the health and con- 
stitution at the time whether cold is to prove salutary or injurious. 
Certain moist winter and spring seasons are followed in temperate 
climates by increase of sickness and mortality in summer. "The 
proverb, ' a green yule makes a fat churchyard,' says Dr. Farr, 
probably expresses a scientific fact, notwithstanding the evident 
fatality of cold ; and we may hope that the population will escape 
some of the epidemics which germinate in mild winters, and burst 
out suddenly in summer." Referring, however, to the dangers 
arising from cold, the authority quoted adds that, " as age increases 
the system rapidly loses the power of producing internal heat; and 
the resulting fatality by reduction of temperature is doubled every 
nine years after the age of twenty to forty." 

In India all our numerous and excellent appliances are directed 
towards the counteracting of heat, while here, in England, they 
ought to be directed, especially in the case of the tropical invalid, 
so as to defy cold. The applications of the former to health and 
comfort are well known in the East ; but amongst the returned 
Indians, the necessity for the last is not so generally or so well 
understood. 



460 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

More unfounded still is the prevalent notion amongst inexpe- 
rienced and thoughtless lay persons, that on returning to England 
from hot climates they are to take leave of all their ailments, at the 
same time that they need take no care whatever as to their habits. 
This is only another out of many examples of the facility with 
which the mass of men receive mere opinions as established facts. 
It is but the " It is true, they say it" of the Spaniards, and that is 
enough for the unreflecting many. "A moderate acquaintance 
with mankind," says Dr. James Johnson, " is sufficient to stamp 
the truth of the remark, that experience seldom instructs the mass." 
This is quite as true as the observation of the older doctor of the 
same name, the moralist and lexicographer viz., that there are 
some men who are incapable of acquiring experience. In nothing 
are both remarks so just as in all that popularly relates to health, 
whether private or public. 

A gentleman of the civil service came home after twenty years' 
residence in India, on private leave, not being considered sick. He 
arrived in October, and early in the following month he made a 
journey of four hours on a railway, with the window open. The 
lung next the window became that night completely engorged ; 
and owing to the impoverished condition of the blood, and to the 
deficient powers of the system, the substance of the lung rapidly 
filled with serum. He died in a few days. 

Engorgement of the lungs of a fatal character is no infrequent 
result of exposure to cold, in feeble and anaemic persons, on their 
arrival from hot climates, during the English winter especially, and 
three such instances have lately come under my observation all 
modes of treatment proving vain. " It is really lamentable," says 
Dr. James Johnson, " to see men returned from a tropical climate, 
walking about the streets of London, or going to places of amuse- 
ment, in the cold raw evenings of winter, while the hacking cough, 
emaciated figure, and variegated countenance, proclaim a condi- 
tion of the lungs which ill comports with this exposure to the vicis- 
situdes of a northern climate." Sir James Clark justly observes of 
the natives of tropical climates, and of children in this country, 
that owing to their habit of body being disposed to tuberculous 
affections the most nearly allied to tuberculous cachexy pulmo- 
nary diseases are prevalent and rapid with them in our " cold and 
humid atmosphere." The same may be said with truth of the tro- 
pical invalid in general, but of the anaemic class more especially. 
Catarrhal affections, more or less severe, are almost universal with 
tropical invalids on first coming to England ; and many become 
thus affected on their passage through Egypt and the Mediterra- 
nean, weeks before their arrival at home. 

A captain of cavalry, while in India, had discharged a large 
hepatic abscess through the bowels. He consulted me on account 



INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 461 

of apthous diarrhooa, from which after a few weeks he seemed to 
recover rapidly. A drive through the streets of London on a cold, 
foggy November afternoon, in an open carriage, brought back the 
diarrho3a with great violence, and he died at Guernsey in a month. 

Major arrived in England in October, worn to the bones by 

diarrhoea of ten months' duration. By the end of November his 
health had greatly improved ; but on the 27th of that month he 
went out in a hard frost. The result was remarkable. He passed 
some hours of the night deprived of the powers of speech and of 
swallowing ; and though the surface of the body and the extremi- 
ties were warm, he felt all night " as if his inside had been filled 
with ice." A dangerous recurrence of diarrhcea was the result. It 
is needless to multiply instances. 

If the temperature of the cold season of Bengal be such as to 
prove unfavourable to the European invalid, and to the old Indian 
to all, indeed, excepting the newly arrived and the robust of 
constitution, how careful ought all who have resided long in 
warm latitudes to be on coming at once from a climate in which 
they are annually exposed to eight months of great heat, to ano- 
ther where they are subjected to eight months of comparatively 
great cold, in which the conjoined humidity is most injurious by its 
more rapid abstraction of animal heat. Such persons should 
recollect that though the compensating powers of nature are great, 
they have their limits. Referring to the unpleasant impression 
produced by the cold season of Bengal on the skin of the older 
residents, I would here mention that a dislike, or horror of this 
season, I invariably observed to form the first indication that 
the individual was " climate-struck ;" in other words, that the 
general powers had become enfeebled, while the nervous and 
vascular systems had become morbidly sensitive to all the changes 
of season, but most so to the damp cold of the night. Truly has 
it been observed that cold and damp together are noxiously 
sedative. Cold indeed, as a chill, or night exposure after the day's 
heat, or after fatigue, constitutes the most frequent cause of some 
of the most formidable of our acute diseases within the tropics. 

The medium temperature of the English summer and autumn is 
favourable to the health of the general population, and it is espe- 
cially so to that of persons arriving from tropical climates ; for, even 
amongst resident Englishmen, the winter and spring seasons cause 
a rapid increase of sickness and mortality from those diseases 
which contribute most to the ordinary annual mortality of the 
climate congestive and inflammatory diseases being most pre- 
valent also in the seasons last mentioned. These are obvious cir- 
cumstances, but I see them continually disregarded by invalids 
from India. 
A gentleman in the second year of his residence in Calcutta, 



462 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

suffered from acute inflammation of the liver, but came home soon 
afterwards in what he deemed perfect health. On getting into the 
English Channel he was exposed to a cold easterly wind, which 
caused violent congestion of the liver and right lung, from which 
he nearly lost his life. 

A friend of mine who had resided twenty- six years in India, on 
being asked how he got through the winter and spring seasons at 
home, replied : " A tight band drawn round the head, and another 
round the belly, with indescribable sensations in the skin of the 
whole body, represent my feelings during the cold weather." 

There is another influence, though seldom of a serious nature, 
which often proves injurious to the returned Indian ; I mean over- 
exertion of the muscular powers. Men who for years used no 
other exercise in India than an evening and morning ride of a few 
miles, at a gentle pace, will, under the counter-influence of cold, 
make great and prolonged exertions at home in riding and walk- 
ing. The exhaustion of the nervous and muscular energies, 
resulting from such imprudence, is very injurious, and weakly per- 
sons do not recover from it for months subsequently. I have seen 
permanent disturbance of the heart's action follow upon such over- 
exertion. 

An Indian officer of a stout habit, but of previously good health, 
ran, he said, for a quarter of a mile only, to overtake a railway 
train. From the time of making this exertion he never enjoyed an 
hour's comfort, both the circulation and respiration being now 
permanently disturbed. His death which took place two years 
afterwards, was one of unusual suffering. 

We have seen that in hot climates the lungs are relieved of a 
portion of carbonic acid through the increased activity of the cuta- 
neous exhalations, while the kidneys and mucous surfaces are 
alike relieved of uric acid, urea, salts, and water. These condi- 
tions, which hold during eight months, or more, of every year in 
Bengal, will explain how it is that, in such climates, diseases of 
the lungs, air-passages, and kidneys, are of but rare occurrence ; 
and how, on returning to Europe when the complete converse of 
all the above-named physiological actions is taking place, or has 
been established, dangerous diseases of the lungs, bronchi, liver, 
kidneys, and mucous surfaces generally, are so liable to occur. 

It is but natural to conclude, also, that both in India and in 
Europe material and opposite changes take place in the chemical 
constituents of the blood, as well as in those of all the excreted 
fluids. I entertain no doubt on this head, but we must look to 
animal chemistry for the demonstration of the facts. 

If in hot climates the animal heat rises from 2'7 to 3'6 above 
that of temperate climates: if for years the functions of the 
system arc adapted to this increased temperature, what disorder 



INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 463 

must be produced when circumstances render the stimulus of this 
temperature impossible when the tropical invalid, or the old 
Indian, returns to his native climate ? 

The process of respiration under the tropical rarefaction of the 
air, and under the condensing cold of an English winter and 
spring, must also be materially affected, so as to cause corresponding 
changes in the amount of oxygen absorbed, and in that of carbonic 
acid expired. The increase of the animal temperature in hot 
climates is dependent, to a certain extent, on the more rapid 
circulation and metamorphosis of the blood, for less oxygen is 
inspired in hot than in temperate regions, owing to the rarefied 
state of the air in the former. 

The relation between the functions of the lungs and liver, un- 
naturally disturbed in hot climates, becomes again on a sudden 
disturbed in a direction towards the restoration of the balance of 
health, on our return to temperate climates. This is a difficult 
process to the tropical invalid, and one that is attended with risk 
to both health and life. In addition to these hazardous circum- 
stances, the dangers from excesses in diet, from close and over- 
heated rooms, and from subsequent exposure to night-cold, are not 
to be overlooked. 

Anaemia is common to fifteen out of twenty of tropical invalids 
on their return to Europe. In this morbid state, the paucity 
of blood corpuscles causes a diminished absorption of oxygen, 
a quicker circulation, and consequently a diminished animal 
heat. I have no doubt, that by long-continued exposure to 
tropical heats, and to malaria, the nervous and muscular systems 
of the heart and uterus are relaxed and weakened, becoming 
thus irritable, and defective in contractile power. I believe that 
to these circumstances we must, in a great measure, refer the 
diminished power of the forces that circulate the blood, and the 
intermitting character of the pulse so common to old Indians ; 
also the frequency of uterine haemorrhage in females who have 
been long in India. 

We have now viewed the European from his arrival in India, 
during his career of active service in the tropics, to the termina- 
tion of his public life, and his return home. How vast the range 
of the physical and moral influences to which he has been ex- 
posed, and how changed does he find himself on his return, which 
is, in fact, his first settlement in life ; how altered are those of his 
nearest relatives who remain to greet him, and how many more of 
them have been gathered to their fathers ! 

The depressing influence of the great and long-continued flux 
and reflux of the functions of all the causes, in short, just enu- 
merated will go far to account for the hypochondriasis and other 



464 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

disorders, not to speak of the graver ills to which our countrymen 
are prone on their return to Europe. Tf the returned Indian be 
the father of a family, he has seen his children removed from the 
care of a mother and his own control, at the tender age of five 
years or earlier, their education, moral and intellectual, being 
consigned to relatives in England, perhaps to utter strangers ; and 
thus we occasionally find that the children of the absent grow up 
without that deep instinct of filial reverence, those family affec- 
tions, and that self-respect, which are so necessary to preserve 
youth in the trying passages and ordeals of life. He has again seen 
these children return to India, the land of their birth, at the age 
of eighteen, knowing their parents only by name, their natural 
affections being fixed on those at home who had the care of them, 
the domestic ties having been broken in infancy, never to be re- 
paired. Truly has the Hindu poet said, " There is no remedy 
for a soul wounded by the sharp sword of separation." The sons 
have been rendered strangers in the house of their father, the 
daughters have never known the care of a mother ; and it may so 
happen, that before either has been allowed time to cultivate the 
acquaintance even of their children, they are again doomed to 
separate, the father being driven home to repair his shattered con- 
stitution, while the sons and married daughters remain in India. 
No wonder that, under such unnatural circumstances, the home of 
his youth should be to him cheerless. 

It has been seen that all the conditions of life, in the instance 
of the European resident in tropical climates, tend to ultimate 
depression of the constitutional powers, whether we regard the 
influences of an unnatural climate, aggravated by an unsuitable 
regimen, or the moral circumstances. In warm regions, more- 
over, there is a precoce development and maturation of the Euro- 
pean constitution, while, unhappily, the tendency to decay is, in 
proportion, unnaturally and prematurely accelerated. 

Curtis says that " persons returning from either India often 
bring home with them a constitution wasted and debilitated by the 
diseases of those climates ; from which they recover with diffi- 
culty, or not at all." 

Let it not be supposed that I here present an exaggerated view 
of those disorders and diseases, or of the social and moral disad- 
vantages to which an European is subject, during a residence, 
more or less protracted, in a tropical climate ; or yet of such as 
may visit him at home. I do not relate a mere description ; for I 
have personally, largely, and repeatedly shared in the sufferings 
I detail both in India and in this country. Mine is not a pic- 
ture drawn from the imagination. 

It must be recollected that I am not speaking of the healthy old 



INTRODUCTORY CHAPTKR. 4(>5 

Indian a select life in any country nor of the youthful and 
healthy officer on furlough ; for to both the cold of an English 
winter may prove tonic and agreeable. Such men may control, 
through their superior power of resistance and of accommodation, 
the influences of one law of nature, by the operations of another. 
These observations refer to such only as have suffered from pro- 
tracted residence in hot countries, and to those who have laboured 
under the diseases incident thereto. And here I must bear testi- 
mony to the manly fortitude and cheerful resignation of the Indian 
officer under suffering. We find in him no peevish, fretful, or 
presumptuous intolerance of sickness. He does not expect an 
instant cure of all his diseases : and failing of this, he does not 
flee in ignorant fancy to the empiric. He has generally seen and 
suffered so much as to render him considerate at once of what is 
rightly due to himself and to others. He is therefore, and under all 
circumstances, an object of interest to his physician and surgeon. 
The highest professional authority in this country has spoken to 
me emphatically on this remarkable characteristic of the Indian 
officers, and on this account, as well as on that of their great in- 
telligence, he designated them a " peculiar class." 

I know not a better test of good sense, or of a well-regulated 
mind, than that furnished by our conduct in sickness. Under 
suffering are exhibited in the most marked manner the results of 
a sound education, religious, moral, and intellectual. The prac- 
tised physician detects at once the sensible, firm, and well-trained 
mind; and with the same speed he discovers the senseless, frivo- 
lous, and ill-regulated tendencies of his patient's disposition. I 
have everywhere observed that the same absence of principle 
which leads weak minds into extravagancies in religion, renders 
the same persons also prone to follow quackeries of every other 
kind. 

We come now, in conclusion, to the practical issue as to the 
medical treatment of the European in the Eastern and Western 
hemispheres. In the first, we have had to overcome, by the most 
powerful remedial means known in medicine, the most acute and 
dangerous forms of disease, and that under the continuous disad- 
vantages of a high range of temperature, and other injurious in- 
fluences ; while, in the latter instance, we have to deal with the 
sequelae of these formidable diseases, in a temperate climate, and 
under the sedative influence of cold. 

It is obvious that under these opposite circumstances of climate 
and of disease, our means of cure must have corresponding dif- 
ferences. Inasmuch, however, as the injurious influences of tro- 
pical climates, in the great majority of instances, have an exact 
relation to their duration, so also do those favourable operations 
of temperate climates require time for the demonstration of their 

ii n 



46 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

results. The sick furlough, which allows of but two years' actual 
residence in Europe, is not sufficient to numbers of those who 
seek relief from it ; and I have strong reason for concluding that 
the remarkable proportion of casualties amongst officers on their 
return to the East and West Indies, is not referable so much to 
their second process of acclimation, as to the circumstance that 
many are forced to return too soon, and before their diseases have 
been effectually removed. If we could be furnished with the sta- 
tistical results of lengthened residences in the West Indies, under 
the old rules, and with the then difficulties of obtaining leave of 
absence, as compared to the now existing short residence, with 
facilities for procuring leave, we should have, I am sure, a demon- 
stration of the justice of the observation here offered. 

It must be obvious, that with a large proportion of invalids 
from the East Indies, nothing but care in diet, clothing, and in 
all the habits of life, along with a judicious use of medicines cal- 
culated to restore the healthy balance of function, and thus to as- 
sist the influence of their native climate, can avail to their re- 
covery. 

With all these aids, too, the object in view must be a work of 
time. I seldom see those who have suffered much, restored to 
health under the two years of furlough ; and I have in many in- 
stances been constrained to postpone the return to India to the 
utmost limit ; but such cases have been examples of extraordinary 
suffering and danger. It is an old observation in the British army, 
that the " East Indies takes more out of a man than the West ;" 
but the observation is true only because of the long residence of 
the European in the former countries. In the olden times even, 
European regiments were seldom kept in the West Indian Islands 
above half the time they served on the Indian continent ; and of 
late the time of service in the former countries has been further 
shortened : hence the real cause of the difference in the compa- 
rative injury to constitution in the two hemispheres. 

When British regiments are ordered home from the East Indies, 
those soldiers who have served above seven or eight years, gene- 
rally volunteer to other corps sen-ing in India, in the hope of 
completing their time there. They have domesticated in the East, 
and prefer the ease and comfort of their position in that country, 
and the luxury of having native servants, to the rough chances of 
service in Europe, or in our other colonies. 

Comparatively few return with regiments except those who have 
only been exposed for a short period to the climate, or men who 
are what is termed in military language, " worn out," having com- 
pleted the usual period of service exacted from soldiers. Yet, even 
amongst the youngest of these subjects, there is an excess of mor- 
tality over that of soldiers serving in the United Kingdom, of 



INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 467 

llircc per thousand annually, during the first three years after 
tlii-ir return from India ! If this be so with the youthful and com- 
paratively healthy soldier, what must be the influence of the vari- 
able climate of England on the exhausted and more aged invalid, 
during what may be termed his probationary residence in it, and 
how insufficient must be the ordinary sick furlough of two years 
for the restoration of health in all cases of tropical diseases, and 
how dangerous must be the cold of our winter and spring to the 
broken-down tropical invalid ? 

British soldiers who have served in India entertain an extreme 
aversion from home service, especially during the winter and 
spring seasons ; and pensioners who have served in hot climates 
volunteer cheerfully to settle in the Australian possessions. The 
very deprivation of the accustomed sensations derivable from 
heat, will account for many of the discomforts and personal suf- 
ferings complained of by every healthy European, during their 
probationary acclimation on return to their native climate ; but 
the Indian invalid finds in the homeward voyage round the Cape 
of Good Hope, and nowhere else, that equable temperature, to 
quote the words of Lord Halifax, between " the climate in which 
men are roasted and the climate in which they are frozen," which 
is alike agreeable and necessary to him. 

Among the older soldiers who return home, the excess of morta- 
lity beyond that of the same class in the United Kingdom of the 
same age, does not much exceed three or four per thousand an- 
nually, notwithstanding their longer service in the East ; but they 
are me survivors of hundreds who have sunk under the same 
course of sen-ice, and must obviously have possessed uncommon 
vigour of constitution originally, to have stood the trial of tropical 
service for the greater part of twenty-one years. 

Referring once more to the influence of protracted residence in 
tropical climates, it has always been remarked in the East Indies 
that Europeans are frequently carried off in what is there termed 
" the one year more" the last year of residence. It is a pe- 
culiarly melancholy event ; for the deceased has all but completed 
his term of years, and all but accomplished the object of his hopes, 
and of his long- cherished ambition. With a view to insure com- 
fort at home, he remains a year or two longer in India ; and, with 
the goal in sight, he is cut off, and all his fond anticipations end 
but in death. All statistical evidence goes to prove the increase 
both of sickness and mortality in relation to length of residence; 
yet, with these proofs before them, we see in India that every 
season brings with it instances of Europeans, broken down by 
long residence, and who fall victims to the unnatural struggle 
against the fatal " one year more." 

The Dutch, who are not given to jesting, appear nevertheless 

H H 2 



468 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

to have been aware of the uncertainties and dangers of deferring 
the departure from the East till " next year ;" for in one of their 
older settlements there was found an inscription over the grave of 
a Dutchman to the following effect : 

" Here lies Minheer, 

Who was to have gone home next year." 

In Mr. Neison's Report on the Bengal Military Fund, and 
referring to the mortality of retired officers of the Indian army, as 
given by Mr. Christie, it appears, that as compared to the mortality 
of England, that of retired officers is uniformly in excess, age for 
age ; being for the ages of forty-eight and under sixty, about one- 
third more. After the age of sixty, the mortality of both retired 
officers and soldiers but little exceeds that which prevails even in 
civil life amongst persons of the same age, who have never left 
this country. But while the mortality amongst retired officers is 
proved to be as stated, that of the widows of deceased officers, on 
their return to Europe, is found to differ so little from the mortality 
of females of like ages in England and Wales, as to be hardly 
appreciable. This fact can, as I conceive, only be attributed to 
the circumstances, that firstly, the European female is not sub- 
jected to the hardships and direct solar and other exposures to 
which military officers are liable ; and secondly, to the perfectly 
temperate habits of ladies in India, which save them from many of 
those formidable diseases which there deteriorate the health, and 
destroy the lives, of their husbands. Thus the widows of our 
officers come to England in the enjoyment of health, and they live 
as well and as long as those who have never been absent from 
their native country. * 

I would urge, in conclusion, one other important consideration, 
which should be held in recollection, before entering on the 
medical treatment of the retired Indian viz., that, though not old 
in years, or, least of all, in mental character or habit, he has 
become prematurely aged in his physical constitution. The 
general principles of medical management must therefore be care- 
fully modified and specially adapted to this condition of the 
system. 

Under no circumstances of disease can such a man be treated 
with the vigour that may be safe, or even proper, in persons of 
the same age, but who have passed their lives in England. 
Indeed, no contrasts can be greater than such as are exhibited in 
the moral and physical constitution of the European newly arrived 
within the tropics, and in the same person on his return to his 
native climate after an absence of thirty years. 

* For these interesting and important statistical facts in corrohoration of my views, 
I am indebted to Colonel Tulloch and Mr. Neison. They were obtained long after this 
article was written. 



I VI KOIUCTOKY CHAPTER. !<>!> 

In the first case we have a youth, buoyant with health and 
animal spirits, with all his functions exalted, through the stimulus 
of heat, and with the mind eager for employment and for distinc- 
tion ; while, in the last, we perceive, but too often, premature age, 
with obtunded sensibilities and depressed functions, coupled with 
profound mental depression, amounting, in some cases, to the 
most severe form of hypochondriasis all resulting from the oppo- 
site states of the nervous, vascular, hepatic and other excretory 
functions, brought about, at first, by an unnaturally high and con- 
tinued range of temperature, and now, by the sudden application 
and sedative influence of cold. 

It is true that the Indian, coming home at the middle or more 
advanced stage of life, approaches the land of his fathers with 
hopes and expectations quite as exalted, though by no means pos- 
sessing the same glow of enthusiasm and buoyancy, as when in 
mere youth he quitted the paternal roof : 

" And from the dregs of life hopes to receive 
What the first sprightly running could not give." 

Lord Clive, though but forty-two years of age on his final retire- 
ment from India, writes to his friends whom he left in the 
East: "I have suffered so much ever since my arrival in 
England, that I have not been able to interfere so much with 
public affairs as I could wish. Parliamentary concerns have 
embroiled me more than is good for my health, and I really 
begin to grow tired of them." He then exhorts his friends to be 
satisfied with a moderate competency, and return to England while 
they have youth to enjoy it, rather than by staying longer lose that 
youth, and sacrifice that constitution which no riches can possibly 
compensate for. Olive's disease is spoken of by his biographer, 
Sir John Malcolm, as " a severe bilious complaint, attended with 
spasms from gall-stones, loss of appetite, and indigestion ; a con- 
tinuation, or consequence of that derangement of the liver from 
which he has already suffered so much in Bengal." This great 
commander, in a letter to his friend George Granville, describes 
his personal sufferings as " very distressing to the mind and to the 
body;" and on hearing of Granville's death, he expresses "his 
indifference, not only to the world's politics, but to tne world in 
general." 

To give a more concentrated view of the physical circumstances 
above related, it may be said, that in hot climates, the air being 
expanded, less oxygen is taken in at each inspiration. The 
necessity for hydrocarbonaceous food is therefore lessened. Less 
of the " elements of respiration " ought to be taken in the food 
than \\uuld be taken iu colder climates. lu consequence of 



470 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

the external increase of temperature, less internal heat is re- 
quired. 

Exercise increases the heat of the body by increasing the rate 
of circulation and respiration. In a very hot climate, all increase 
of heat is undesirable. Moreover, the excessive heat renders 
muscular action impossible, because the circulation is chiefly 
directed (in consequence of the activity of the skin) to the surface, 
in order that fluid may be furnished for evaporation, to keep down 
the heat of the body, and to prevent the parching of the surface 
which must otherwise ensue. 

In consequence of the lessened muscular action, less of the 
albuminous constituents of the food are required to supply the 
waste of the muscles. Hence, in hot climates, less of both kinds 
of food should be taken, and Nature points this out in the absence 
of appetite ; to force an appetite, stimulants are taken, and then 
the system is loaded with nourishment. The excessive perspira- 
tion requires an excess of liquids; but, instead of water alone, 
sugar and spirit, the elements of respiration, are taken with the 
water, in the form of beer, and the spirit, by its stimulating pro- 
perties, is doubly injurious. 

The excessive flow of blood to the surface the consequence of 
the high temperature no doubt prevents, for a time, the evils 
resulting from an excess of the two kinds of food. The chemical 
changes and evaporation going on in the skin draw the circulation 
to the surface of the body, just as the flame of the lamp draws the 
oil up the wick. Whilst the high temperatui'e lasts, this increased 
action of a flow to the surface is kept up. It is probable that the 
action of the heart is thereby made feeble by the excessive suction 
of the skin, as we see it frequently is, temporarily, by the perspi- 
ration bath. As soon as the temperature falls the blood ceases to 
flow in excess through the skin. According to the degree of cold, 
it is almost driven from the surface. It accumulates within, and 
congestions and inflammations are produced. Free action on the 
inner or outer surface of the body lor a time relieves the conges- 
tions and enables the circulation to proceed. 

After such alternations for years, the resident in the hot climate 
returns to a far colder home. There no heat leads the blood to 
the surface ; it accumulates in the vessels and capillaries of the 
internal viscera. The outward appearance is that of anaemia, 
whilst in reality an internal plethora frequently exists. 

The more frequent and severe the temporary congestions of the 
viscera have been, whilst in the hot climate, the more permanent 
does the internal congestion become when the surface is con- 
stantly exposed to cold. Though the face and extremities may 
look void of blood, the capillaries of the liver and spleen will often 
be full, and the engorgement of the venous trunks, which was the 



INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 471 

effect of previous congestion for years, becomes permanent when 
the coldness of the atmosphere leaves the blooa to be circulated 
by the enfeebled heart alone. 

If the nervous influence be the power which regulates the con- 
traction and relaxation of the capillaries, by how much must this 
important part of the circulation be affected first, by the long 
continued heat of the tropics and secondly, by the cold and damp 
of the climate of Europe, so as, under both agencies, to disturb 
alternately, and conversely, this great function ? 

Tropical heat has had the effect of exalting for a time, and then 
diminishing the nervous energy, and thus of eventually relaxing 
and diminishing the circulating power of the capillaries; while 
cold, on coming to England, will have the contrary effect of con- 
stringing the capillaries, and thus of determining the great mass 
of the circulating fluid upon the internal organs : such power, 
acting on the enfeebled European on his return from tropical 
climates, must prove of extremely injurious effects. 

Dr. Billing concludes his admirable " Principles of Medicine " 
by stating that they " have been deduced from physiology ; and for 
tin explanation of the pathological phenomena he has referred to 
the action of the capillaries and nerves nerves and capillaries 
together, not artificially separated, but as they exist in nature 
ramifying and supporting each other throughout ; for by their 
combined action upon the blood sent to them by the heart, they 
produce the phenomena of health in their deranged actions they 
originate disease." 

Dr. James Johnson justly observes that, " The powers of the 
constitution, however plastic, cannot immediately accommodate 
themselves to great and sudden changes of climate, even when the 
translation is from a bad to a good one ; and the tropical invalid 
requires full as much caution and prudence in approaching the 
shores of England, as he did in landing at the former period on 
the banks of the Ganges." Speaking of the beneficial influences of 
the voyage home, round the Cape of Good Hope, the same autho- 
rity states that, " When the European has become much debili- 
tated by liver affection, dysentery, or fever, and its consequences, 
the mam hope of recovery rests on change of climate, ana, under 
such circumstances, the sea-voyage often effects a cure. Indeed, 
tht: instances are not few where more benefit is obtained by the 
voyage home than by the subsequent residence in England." But 
this voyage, with its uniformity and salubrity of the sea air, aided 
by the mental exhilaration of a hometcard voyage, producing 09 
it often does, " surprising effects on the animal economy," is not 
now nearly so much resorted to as it ought to be. 

The overland journey, as it is termed, subjects the invalid to 
numerous discomforts, both by sea and land often to insufficient 



472 INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. 

accommodation, always to a more or less hurried meal to a 
hurried and uncomfortable journey through Egypt; and if, un- 
happily, he arrives in England in the winter or spring, he has to 
encounter their rigours within six weeks, with very imperfect, or 
with no preparation, instead of the four months' voyage round the 
Cape of Good Hope, with its rest, ease, and comforts, and with its 
unequalled climate. 

The clothing with which invalids are supplied in India is alto- 
gether insufficient to protect them against the cold of an easterly 
wind in the English Channel ; and hence the frequency of chest 
affections, diarrhrea, and abdominal congestions, even before they 
set foot on shore. 

In a moral and physical point of view, and more through the 
agency of moral and physical influences of an extraneous character 
than through age, no two persons could present contrasts greater 
than may every day be recognised in the very individual under 
our consideration, as compared to the youth of five-and-twenty 
years back. 

The average age at which the Indian, whether civil or military, 
retires, may be taken at fifty to fifty-five years. Many of those 
who thus return home are, to all public purposes, worn-out men ; 
and but few of those even who are equal to the exertion, make any 
effort to enter upon public duties in England duties for which 
their official aptitude, their administrative experience, and their 
varied abilities, so eminently qualify many of them. 

I would now refer to a question of great importance, and one in 
which I have often had to interfere. Officers of all classes 
frequently leave India in such a state of ill health and exhaustion 
as to feel hopeless of recovery within the time allowed by regula- 
tion for ordinary leave of absence. In this state of moral and 
physical depression, despairing of health, they often express their 
purpose to retire from public service and enter into private life. 
The advice I have almost invariably given in such cases has been 
to the following effect: "You have at least two years' absolute 
leave, at the expiration of which come to me and I will then tell 
you what you had better do. At present, borne down by mental 
and bodily suffering, you are altogether unequal to the determin- 
ing of any important question in life, and, for the rest, your case 
is not hopeless." Often have I been warmly thanked in after 
times for this counsel, and that not seldom, before the expiration 
of the two years ; many declaring with much feeling that " I had 
saved them from ruin." 

" We're not ourselves 
When nature opprest commands the mind 
To suffer with the body." 

However desperate the case may appear, provided there is 



ANAEMIA. 473 

youth on the side of the patient, we ought not to despair ; a cir- 
cumstance which I would strenuously urge on the attention of all 
medical officers throughout India, as well as on that of the pro- 
fession at home when dealing with this description of patients. 
Resignations, under the circumstances mentioned, ought seldom to 
obtain the sanction of the physician, whether civil or military. 

The series of converse actions and reactions is thus far com- 
pleted. We have seen that up to a certain stage, for a limited 
period, and under temperate habits, the functions of the body, as 
well as the mental energies of the stranger European, are exalted 
in the intertropical heats, to be again seriously depressed by dis- 
ease, or by a protracted exposure to the same influences which at 
first proved stimulating. But on his return to his native climate 
all the functions, mental and corporeal, of the tropical invalid, are 
about to be subjected to new trials to depressing moral influences, 
and to the sedative influences of cold ; and this state of double 
depression continues to afflict him, until, through the restoration 
of health, this same cold shall become to him a powerful tonic, 
bracing the mind and the body proving a source alike of vigour 
and of enjoyment. 

ySuch, in brief, are the widely extended successions of changes 
id of profound impressions, of which but a sketch is here pre- 
3iited. That so happy a termination as health that to accora- 
lodate the system to the last of its numerous changes that to 
restore the long-lost balance of the functions should, for its con- 
summation, require time, much care and management, must be 
sufficiently evident. In truth, a more important subject, whether 
regarded in a physiological, pathological, or therapeutic sense, can 
hardly engage the attention of the physician. 



ANJEMIA. 

OP all the conditions incident to tropical invalids, anaemia is 
the most general. It presents the sequel most common to 
fevers, whether remittent, intermittent, or continued; indeed, 
whatever may have been the nature of his previous acute disease 
whether it was fever, dysentery, diarrhoja, hepatitis, or cholera 
we are pretty sure to find, in the tropical invalid, that ill state of 
the general habit termed cachexia. All the diseases just men- 
tioned tend, directly or indirectly, to spoil the blood. 

Where organic lesions are present, as the results of previously 
acute disease, or of a long residence in hot climates, they will 
generally be found associated with an anaemic condition of die 



474 ANAEMIA. 

system, so as seriously to complicate the case, and add to the dif- 
ficulties of treatment. These considerations have induced me to 
select ANAEMIA as the first subject for attention ; for the cachectic 
state now referred to must be very generally kept in view in the 
treatment of the European invalid, on his return from tropical 
climates. It has an important bearing on much that relates to the 
history, nature, and treatment of most of his disorders and diseases. 
The depraved state of the blood, in diseases of the spleen, has 
been noticed in the first part of this work, and there the sub- 
ject has received a separate and special consideration. 

Anaemia is frequently produced by long residence in the mala- 
rious districts and stations of tropical climates, even in persons 
who have not been sufferers from other actual disease, acute or 
chronic, such as the fevers and fluxes of their more unhealthy 
localities. This is what may be termed the cacliexia loci ; more 
properly paludal cachexia. European females of the better class, 
though far less subject to the more formidable of the tropical dis- 
eases than males, are yet, through long continued disturbance of 
the nervous, vascular, and secreting functions, very liable to 
become anaemic. The excessive perspiration will of itself produce 
anaemia in weakly constitutions. The very treatment necessary to 
the cure of acute disease, especially bloodletting, mercury, and 
drastic purgatives, along with the most rigid abstinence, tends 
powerfully, even in young persons, to produce a deficiency of red 
particles ; while the same course of treatment, in persons of more 
advanced age, along with their more protracted exposure to mala- 
rious influences, are sure to diminish the old blood-globules, and 
to prevent the formation of new. The " debility" spoken of by all 
writers who have noticed the condition of tropical invalids, as one 
of their main characteristics, will be found, in the great majority of 
cases, to be none other than the debility of the cachectic habit 
of anaemia, in fact. 

Owing to this impoverished state of the circulating fluid, all the 
functions of the body are enfeebled all the secretions defective, 
diluted, and depraved; the patient is wanting in the power to 
repair any serious injury. I often find severe and protracted 
anaemia to result from the unguarded application of leeches. 
Three hundred leeches, and in one instance five hundred, were 
mentioned to me as having been applied to the abdomen in remit- 
tent fevers, attended with gastric or hepatic complications, and in 
dysenteries. 

Mr. E , then a youth of sixteen, fell into the hold of a ship, 

upon his loins. He writes: "I was bled three times; hot 
fomentations were used for ten days, and I had seventeen dozen 
leeches on (204), and was bled once more." 

Lieutenant S says: "I had three different times sixty 

leeches applied, and I think twenty more afterwards, making in all 



ANEMIA. 475 

two hundred in loss than ten days." This officer was tall, slender, 
and of delicate frame, and only nineteen years of age. If, as 
generally believed, the Indian leech abstracts an ounce of blood 
nay, if it be allowed to abstract but half the quantity, how large 
must be the aggregate amount of depletion in these cases ? 

Annesley ascertained that the Indian leech abstracts, on the 
average, one ounce and a quarter, " besides what flows from the 
bites." This simple fact should prove a warning not to apply 
leeches in the careless or indiscriminate manner witnessed by me 
in its results, a few more examples of which I will adduce. 

Mr. , a mercantile gentleman from one of the Indian Pre- 
sidencies, states, January 3rd, 1855, that after a fall from his horse 
he had twenty-two dozen of leeches applied at once, by order of 

Dr. , while Lieutenant states, that in the course of two 

months he had thirty-six dozen of leeches applied to the abdomen, 
while suffering from fever. 

Lieutenant was seized in August, 1849, with diarrhoea, 

followed by intermittent fever and enlargement of both liver and 
spleen. By order of his regimental surgeon "he was bled to 
twenty ounces, and about a hundred leeches were applied during 
the subsequent five days." This officer is described in the Medical 
Report of his surgeon as "of weak constitution." The patient 
went to another station, where another surgeon states that he sub- 
jected him to " depletion, keeping up a drain from the organ " (the 
liver), and occasionally a large number of leeches have been 

applied, as indicated by symptoms. Lieutenant concludes : 

" I had altogether applied to my side, from December, 1 849, to 
January, 1851, fully 1,200, at the very least." 

But all wonder must cease regarding the leechings of lay persons, 
when we come to the following case of a medical officer : " When I 
went to India, my constitution was excellent, and I was able to with- 
stand any amount of fatigue ; but within three months of my arrival, 
I suffered from an attack of Bengal remittent fever, with great de- 
termination to die liver and colon, accompanied by spasms of the 
stomach and gall-duct ; and the treatment of the early stages of 
the disease having been inactive and inert, it was the opinion of 
the late Mr. Twining that 1 would remain a martyr to the ill effects 
of the climate of Bengal for life. This opinion has been fully 
verified disorders of the liver, spleen, mucous digestive surface 
and bronchial tubes being the result. Early in my illness, or- 
ganized lymph tubes were voided from the bowels; and this state 
tiring regarded as purely inflammatory, leeches were applied in 
vast numbers. Occasionally fifty leeches were applied in the 
twenty-four hours; and for weeks in succession the number of 
leeches expended amounted to upwards of 150 per week. Gnat 
exhaustion followed, \\ith a high degree of anasarcu of the lod\ 
and limits 1 .-am. home mi sick leave, and I was told 1>\ I M 



476 AN.EMIA. 

Marshall Hall, and your friend, the late Dr. James Johnson, to 
whom, under the providence of God, I owe my life, that there was 
not on record a case of such extreme depletion an opinion in 
which Dr. Abercrombie, of Edinburgh, fully concurred. I rather 
resembled a model of wax than a being endued with life. On 
summing up the extent of local depletion which was employed in 
my case, to the best of my judgment and belief, I am under the 
mark when I state that the number of leeches which were applied 
within the space of six years amounted to 3,000." It is almost 
unnecessary to say that this excellent officer was constrained to 
abandon the service early in life. 

Mr. Twining, speaking of the congestive fever of the cold season 
in Bengal, observes : " The altered appearance of the blood, in 
many of those fevers which arise from exposure to the malaria 
of the jungles, is very remarkable, and merits careful investigation. 
Connected with this morbid condition of the blood there appears, 
occasionally, some corresponding disorder of the solids, and par- 
ticularly of the vascular system, which favours prolonged and pro- 
fuse oozing of blood from leech-bites." The condition of the 
blood here mentioned is the anaemic; and without stopping to 
inquire as to the author's meaning on the other points of pathology 
here only hinted at, it may be questioned whether, in such a con- 
dition of the system, bloodletting ought at all to be practised. Cer- 
tainly no one can doubt the unhappy consequences of the " pro- 
longed and profuse oozing of blood, from leech-bites," in such 
cases. Some men never recover from the effects produced on the 
blood, and on all the functions, nervous and vascular. 

The anaemic patient generally presents a pale, sallow, or dingy, 
bloated, and exsanguine complexion, the eye being of a morbid, 
pearly whiteness, the pupil relaxed, irritable, and often much 
dilated ; the expression dull and inert ; the mind being irresolute, 
feeble, and despondent, the memory impaired ; in extreme cases, 
the mind is fatuous, but more generally we perceive a peculiar and 
and characteristic peevishness. The abdomen is tumid, inelastic, 
and congested ; the skin harsh and constricted to the touch, and 
of a temperature generally below the natural standard. 

The digestion is feeble and depraved ; the processes of depura- 
tion are imperfectly performed ; the feet swell. In anaemic 
patients, I have found the temperature in the mouth to be generally 
below the natural standard. The mean of eighteen observations, 
by insertion of the thermometer in the mouth of an anaemic 
patient, during the months of November and December, afforded a 
temperature of 90. On four days the temperature was taken 
before he left home, and after his return from a walk ; the mean 
temperature was 85 before going out, and 88 on his return. 
After a journey to Scotland, the temperature remained at 98 for 
two days, on the two following days it fell, and was observed at 



ANEMIA. 477 

97. The patient was an officer of engineers, a man of high 
scientific and practical attainments. 

How, and to what extent an anaemic condition of the brain, 
spin;il cord, and nervous central ganglia, may affect the functions 
of the nervous system generally, the present state of our know- 
ledge does not enable us to determine ; but that such a condition 
of the blood must have an extensive influence, no one can doubt. 
I have seen an instance of what could only be termed nervous 
apoplexy from anaemia of the brain. 

Neuralgic pains of the abdomen are very commonly to be found 
on exploration of that cavity ; and when they are present in the 
epigastric, or in either or both the the hypochondriac regions, 
there is a risk of their deceiving the inexperienced as to their 
cause : thus leading to very grave errors in treatment. The pains 
here spoken of, when of a neuralgic character, will always be found 
to disappear on the return of health ; and I would seriously urge 
the necessity of care in explorations, lest the pains in question be 
mistaken for those produced by organic disease in either liver or 
spleen. These abdominal neuralgic pains are common to chlo- 
rotic females in all countries, and they seem to depend on a 
morbid sensibility of the nervous system induced by depravation 
of the blood, which in its normal condition is the natural support 
of the nervous system. Here, in Europe, the patient presents the 
complete reverse of the order of his original acute state of disease 
under the sun of the tropics to the acute disturbance of all the 
functions of life, a torpor and feebleness of corresponding extent 
have succeeded. 

There is now a general cachexia, with atony of all the vital 
functions. The motions of the heart, along with those of respira- 
tion, are feeble and perturbed on the least exertion, and a blowing 
murmur in the direction of the pulmonary artery, and frequently a 
loud venous murmur in the neck, can be discovered. Palpitations 
and throbbings in the head are common, accompanied by giddi- 
ness and tinnitus aurium. The voluntary muscles are attenuated, 
feeble, and relaxed, and there is a disinclination from all exertion. 

The excretory functions are imperfectly performed ; the bo\\ds 
are torpid, the tongue being coatea and exsanguine. It is evident 
that here, owing principally to an altered condition of the 
organic constituents of the blood, a corresponding alteration has 
taken place in the nutrition of the various tissues of the body. 
We find, in short, that the functions of the stomach, bowels, kid- 
neys, liver, lungs, organic nerves, and brain, are seriously <1U- 
ordered, through deficiency of blood, or through blood of a de- 
praved quality, or both. I have frequently seen a temporary 
fatuity to result from anaemia general and cerebral ; but it occurs 
more generally in that form of the disease which follows upon 



478 ANEMIA. 

malignant fevers, remittent and intermittent. The fevers of the 
Indian tiraees, of the provinces of Aracan and Gondwana, and of 
the Crimea, have been observed to terminate in mental enfeeble- 
ment, which looks as if the malarious influences had much to do 
with the nervous depression, as well as with the anaemic condition. 
Again we find that 

" We're not ourselves 

When Nature being opprest, commands the mind 
To suffer with the body." 

Anasmic patients, especially if advanced in life, are prone to 
haemorrhages, and to passive congestions of a serious nature in 
the abdominal or thoracic cavities, according to individually ac- 
quired, or to hereditary tendencies. The state of disease here 
under consideration demands much care in the treatment. The 
heroic remedies, originally required to save life, are no longer 
possible to the cure. In their place must now come those agents 
calculated to restore enfeebled functions to a healthy vigour, and 
then we have to rebuild the sunken and shattered frame. We 
have to impart tone to the organs of supply, by attention to diet, 
air, exercise, the various habits of life, and by the proper use of 
medicines, while we have a due regard, by these various means, to 
the regulation of the excretory functions of the skin, liver, bowels, 
and kidneys. Such are the conditions that hold in the instances 
of vast numbers of persons arriving from our intertropical posses- 
sions, and such I conceive to be the indications, which, for a 
longer or shorter period, according to the duration and severity of 
symptoms, should be followed in their treatment. Without such 
care, the climate of England will do but little for them. When a 
young man presents the conditions here mentioned, I am never 
satisfied with merely prescribing medicines for him. I advise his 
passing as much of his time as possible in the open air, under the 
most gentle exercise, and far from the temptations and from the 
atmosphere of our great towns. I recommend " the best of tonics, 
relaxation of mind, with exercise in good air" that is to say, not 
what Dr. Billing calls a London life. The patient must be taught 
that time is as essential to his cure as medical treatment, and 
that the attempt to forestall the one is to lose the other, and thus 
sacrifice the health which it is our endeavour to restore. 

There are many considerations which will suggest themselves 
to the medical observer why invalids should not be kept within 
the atmosphere of great cities. Every thing within them tends to 
retard convalescence ; and there are even districts in England 
which appear unfavourable to the restoration to health of tropical 
invalids especially those whose atmosphere is humid. 



ANEMIA. 479 

"The health of different parts of the country differs widely," 
says Dr. Fair, " and the difference is greatest in summer. In the 
summer of 1841 50, the mortality in 506 districts, comprising, 
when the census was taken, 10,126,886 people, was at the rate of 
18*15 in a thousand annually ; while in 117 districts, comprising 
the chief towns, and 7,795,882 people, the mortality was at the 
rate of 25 in a thousand annually. Thus at least 7 in every 25 
deaths which occur in towns are the result of artificial causes.' 1 

Ever since my return from India, I have remarked that the 
most rapid, as well as effective restoratives to health, have resulted 
from a visit to the Highlands of Scotland. Doubtless the moorland 
exercises of walking and riding, with the cheering accompaniment 
of sport, and the general prevalence of temperance in diet, have, 
in this instance, contributed largely to the benefits derivable from 
inspiring pure air. But the peculiar local properties of the air 
have appeared to me to aid likewise in the beneficial results ; I 
mean the union of the ocean air to that of the mountains, such as 
we everywhere find it in the Highlands. A pure mountain air we 
appreciate in many countries ; but the proximity of the Atlantic 
and German Oceans to the mountains of Scotland cannot fail to 
constitute a powerful and peculiar accessory. 

Those who have to remark on the difficult and tedious con- 
valescence of invalids in certain unfavourable localities, will re- 
quire no arguments as to the importance of this subject ; " but 
few have a clear conception," says Liebig, " of the influence of air 
and temperature on the health of tin- human frame." I seriously 
impress on the anaemic patient the necessity of avoiding all occasion 
for the use of mercury. If benefit does not accrue within a given 
time, I recommend travel, and it is surprising what an impetus this 
simple measure gives to the flagging functions, and to the restoration 
of the blood. With no class of invalids is the medicina mentis of 
more importance than here the benefits to be derived from a 
well-regulated course of " dietetics of the mind " being second 
only to a proper adjustment of the ordinary medical appliances. 
" A journey," says Sir James Clark, " may indeed be regarded as 
a continuous change of climate, as well as of scene, and constitutes 
a remedy of unequalled power in some of those morbid states of 
the xvMem in which the uiind suffers as well as the body." 

With the aids to be derived from a temperate climate, the 
medical management of these cases is generally easy: that is, 
when the patient is not advanced in life, and the anannic condition 
is not complicated with organic disease. The various salts of iron 
may almost deserve to be termed specifics: this is so much the 
case that we can hardly go wrong in prescribing the citrate of 
in.n, the i mail of inn and quinine, the compound iron niixtun . 
the protoxide and sesquioxide of iron, the old wine of iron, with 



480 ANEMIA. 

or without the addition of tincture of the sesquichloride, the am- 
monio citrate of iron, &c., while the regulation of the bowels may 
be effectively promoted by the use of the aloetic pill with myrrh, 
or aloes with iron. By these means we promote the development 
of the blood. 

To obviate the tendencies to headache, and to excitement of the 
heart's action, often arising from the use of chalybeates, I am in 
the habit of ordering the sesquioxide of iron, in the first instance, 
and as a preparation for the other stronger salts. When carefully 
prepared, it is an admirable tonic and sedative. A few cases will 
best illustrate this portion of the subject. 

CASE 1. Capt. T , aged thirty-two, originally of plethoric 

habit, has resided fourteen years in the Presidency of Bengal. 
Four years ago he had a severe attack of remittent fever, followed 
ever since by annually recurring attacks of intermittent fever. 
During the first illness he was bled from the ann, and by leeches 
to the temples and the epigastric region ; he used calomel to 
slight salivation, with a continuous course of powerful purgatives, 
the diet consisting of sago and arrowroot. From this violent sei- 
zure he recovered but slowly, and only after a residence of six 
months in the mountain ranges of the Himalayahs. On his return 
to his corps in the plains, however, he soon became subject to 

tertian ague. For this last disease, Captain T took mild 

mercurials, purgatives, and quinine. He was occasionally, and 
for months together, able to perform his duty ; but in the rainy 
and cold seasons his fever recurred, and he was at length, and 
after much suffering and emaciation, ordered home. He is now 
in a state of complete anaemia, with a pale, bloated, and lemon 
complexion ; and mossy, dry, and scanty hair. There is no en- 
largement of the spleen or liver ; the abdomen is doughy and in- 
elastic ; the skin harsh, dry, and constricted ; the pulse feeble and 
slow ; the tongue pale and flaccid ; the bowels are constipated. 
His appetite is good, but he feels distressingly inflated after meals, 
and he is unable to bear the slightest pressure on the abdomen 
after food. There is great debility and emaciation. He was 
ordered to take two pills of watery extract of aloes, with sulphate 
of quinine and iron, every night. These had the effect of regulat- 
ing the bowels, and of imparting tone to the digestive organs, 
while, as a general tonic, he used the old wine of iron with the 
tincture of the sesquichloride three times a day. He was allowed 
a light but generous diet, with bitter ale at dinner. He was 
directed to use warm baths at 96, three times a week, just before 
going to bed, and to use friction to the skin night and morning, 
when dressing and undressing. He improved rapidly in health, 
even while in London ; and by communications from him I learned 



AN.ttMIV. 481 

that, in the country, he became so much improved in health that 
in eight months he was enabled to discontinue all medicine. 
During eighteen months that I was in occasional communication 
with this officer, he continued to report favourably of his health 
and strength ; and at the end of two years he returned to India. 

Remarks. This is an example of simple uncomplicated anaemia, 
resulting from remittent and intermittent fevers, and their neces- 
sary treatment by bloodletting, mercury, purgatives, and low diet. 
The patient had been under able and experienced medical manage- 
ment, but the malarious influences proved too powerful to be re- 
sisted even by his robust European constitution. By a careful 
attention to his habits of life, and to the simple rules of medical 
treatment mentioned, Capt. T left England in perfect health. 

CASE II. Lieut. M , aged twenty-six, of vigorous frame, 

served nine years in India, and latterly in Sindh, where he con- 
tracted severe intermittent fever. He was leeched largely and 
repeatedly, and took calomel, purgatives, and quinine. After ten 
months' residence in this unhealthy province he became so en- 
feebled by repeated accessions of fever, that a return to Europe 
was at length considered necessary to his recovery. He is now in 
the pale and bloated state characteristic of the diseased condition 
of the blood under consideration ; being in what may be termed 
an acute state of anaemia. The pulse is hurried and feeble ; the 
abdomen hard, full, and tense ; but I cannot discover, on the most 
careful exploration, that there exists any enlargement of either 
liver or spleen. He had two attacks of ague on the way home ; 
one in Egypt, and the other at Southampton. The complexion is 
very pale and bloodless ; the mind feeble and desponding ; the 
appetite is wanting, and the bowels constipated ; the entire surface 
is harsh, dry, and heated. He is a cigar smoker, and I attribute 
much of the disturbance of the heart's action to this circumstance, 
having observed the same result in hundreds of instances in India. 
To regulate the bowels, he was directed to take, every morning, a 
solution of the sulphate of magnesia and quinine, with dilute sul- 
phuric acid : and as a general tonic he took, twice a day, two 
ounces of a mixture containing the sulphates of quinine and iron, 
with dilute sulphuric acid. When, by these means, the tendency 
to fever had been subdued, the frequency of the circulation mode- 
rated, and the bowels brought into regularity, the more simple 
chalybeates were employed. He was then ordered a light diet, 
\\ith a little wine or bitter ale, and no cigars. He used wann 
baths, with powerful friction to the entire surface of the body night 
ind morning. In a few weeks he was able to proceed into the 
country. 

This officer recovered but slowly, being subject to 

i i 



482 ON THE TREATMENT OF INVALIDS 

aguish attacks whenever exposed to cold or damp. He owed 
much to his own good sense, for he carefully avoided everything 
that he perceived to be injurious. By persisting in the use of 
chalybeates, by travelling, and by regulated exercise, he at length 
completely recovered his health, and was enabled to return to his 
duty in India at the expiration of his furlough. 



ON THE TREATMENT OF INVALIDS SUFFERING FROM 
THE SEQUELAE TO THE FEVERS OF TROPICAL 
CLIMATES. 

FEVERS, remittent, intermittent, and continued, are the diseases 
most frequently seen amongst Europeans in India. Next to fevers 
stand the formidable bowel complaints, as dysentery, diarrhea, 
and cholera. These together form the chief scourges of our 
Indian armies, European and Native. There is not a district, 
station, or cantonment, in the vast extent of Hindustan and the 
dependencies to the eastward, or in Ceylon, in which malarious 
fever in some form, dependent as to type and intensity on local 
circumstances, will not be found to prevail, either as an occasional 
epidemic, or as the endemic of the soil. Of the better classes of 
Europeans, many escape attacks of dysentery, diarrhoea, cholera, 
and hepatitis, during even a long residence in the East Indies ; 
but they are of the very few who do not at some time suffer from 
some form or other of fever. 

Out of an aggregate European force of 25,43 1 men of H. M.'s 
army serving in periods of eight and ten years respectively, 
between 1823 and 1836, in the stations of Calcutta, Chinsurah, 
and Berhampore, for instance, all in Bengal Proper, there oc- 
curred, according to Colonel Tulloch, 13,596 cases of fever ; and 
though the climate of Lower Bengal is very inimical to European 
health, comparatively to that of many parts of India, and though 
the years included within this return were subsequent to the first 
Burmese war, still the proportion of fever cases is enormous, making 
every allowance for such unfavourable and contingent influences 
during one or two years of the period under consideration. It 
must not be forgotten, that of the soldiers engaged in the Burmese 
war, seventy-three per cent, perished at Rangoon and Upper Ava, 
and that in Arakan " three-fifths of the whole perished in the 
course of eight months ;" so that, of the few survivors, the admis- 
sions into the hospitals of the three named stations could not 
materially affect the results. In the Mysore division of the Madras 
Native army alone, out of an aggregate force of 194,170 men serv- 



SUFFERING FROM THE SEQUELS TO FEVERS. 488 

ing there during twenty-four j r ears, there occurred 63,810 cases of 
fever ; and out of an aggregate British force of 82,342, serving in 
the Presidency of Madras generally, from 1842 to 1848, there 
occurred 22,923 cases of fever. Amongst officers and the better 
classes of Europeans, who, from their better habits of life, are not 
so subject to hepatitis and dysentery as soldiers, it will very gene- 
rally be found that fever in some fonn has been the first disturbing 
cause of illness, and that to recurrences of fever are to be referred 
many of their subsequent more local diseases on their return to 
Europe, whether these last be seated in the liver or in the bowels. 

The experience of the West Indies confirms the statistics of 
fevers in the Eastern hemisphere. Out of that portion of the 
inhabitants of George Town, Demerara, who are likely to resort 
to public institutions the total population of the town amounting 
only to 20,000 there were admitted into the colonial hospital, 
from June, 1846, to June, 1847, 2938 cases of remittent and inter- 
mittent fever ; and the annual consumption of quinine in Deme- 
rara and Essiquibo countries somewhat resembling Lower Bengal 
in medical topography and climate averages 3000 ounces ! 

If we look to the embouchures of the Mississippi, we shall find 
a state of public health, and a prevalence of fever especially, not 
less remarkable. The New Orleans Charity Hospital is one of 
the most extensive fever hospitals in the world. It appears from 
the records that, in a period of nine years, from the 1 st of January, 
1841, to the 1st of January, 1850, there were admitted into this 
hospital 73,216 patients; of which number were admitted, for all 
the different forms of fever, 33,381 ; and among these last, for 
intermittent fevers, 17,217. 

Great as are the advantages possessed, in India, by the officer 
over the common soldier, as to habits of life, accommodation, &c., 
it is still matter of every-day observation, that even amongst the 
better classes of Europeans there, both civil and military, the se- 
quelae to malarious fevers are both severe and frequent. Some of 
these I have already noticed ; but here I shall confine my obser- 
vations to the slighter forms of organic diseases, and to the func- 
tional disturbances and ill-health which follow on tropical fevers, 
remittent, intermittent, and continued : those conditions, in fact, 
which are common to the three types, and which are most fre- 
quently observed in England, as the results of tropical fevers. 
It should be held in recollection, also, in reference to the subject 
of this article, that most of our tropical remittent fevers are in a 
great degree, and very generally, of a gastric character, one of the 
prominent conditions consisting in acute congestion of the mucous 
digestive surface ; so much so, as to cause Robert Jackson to 
designate the bilious remittent fevers of the West Indian Islands 
by the term "gastric, or bilious remittent fever." This profound 

i i 2 



484 ON THE TREATMENT OF INVALIDS 

observer considers the fevers of all countries to be more or less 
of this nature ; and practically, although the thoracic and cerebral 
viscera are occasionally affected in a serious degree, and although 
the cerebral and spinal systems are always disturbed in their func- 
tions, still we find, in tropical fevers at least, that almost all the 
symptoms exhibited during life, and almost all the lesions dis- 
coverable after death, are to be referred to, and centre in, the 
organs of the abdominal cavity. The importance of a constant 
and due regard to these considerations, as bearing on the condi- 
tion of persons who have suffered from the fevers of the East and 
West Indies, must be manifest. 

The liability to the recurrence of fever, on exposure to slight 
causes, is also an important and very distressing consideration. I 
have known many young officers, originally of strong constitution, 
so harassed with fever, recurring again and again, that after com- 
ing to England two or three times, for the recovery of health, they 
have, on repeated and desperate trials of Indian climate, been 
compelled to resign the service. Some of them have never regained 
sound health at home, and of those who strive on, many fall a 
sacrifice to relapses on their return to the tropics. 

Patients who come to England for the recovery of health, after 
having suffered from tropical fevers, present morbid appearances, 
varying according to form and constitution of body, or as the 
fevers may have been of long continuance, and more or less con- 
centrated, and according to the severity of treatment. Some are 
puffed and bloated, having a leaden, yellow, or copper-yellow 
complexion, while others are emaciated and lemon- coloured. 
Many present the purely anaemic condition described in the last 
article. In fact, the distressing state of broken health which fol- 
lows on protracted tropical fevers, appears under separate and 
distinct specification, according to the special organs affected, 
and to the degree of anaemia which may be present. But 
whatever the configuration or complexion may be, we are sure to 
find the pathological condition centered in the abdominal organs, 
so as sometimes to involve their structure, but at all times to dis- 
turb their functions. When the patient has been a sufferer from 
intermittent fever, we find that, owing to the repeated and violent 
congestions attendant on the frequent recurrences of ague, with 
its severe and protracted cold stages, the vessels of the abdomen, 
but especially the venous trunks, become dilated, and the blood, 
already spoiled by use, is detained in them, so as to be still fur- 
ther deteriorated. The vital energy and vascular tone of all the 
abdominal viscera are more or less impaired in cases of this nature, 
according as the previous fever has been of longer or shorter dura- 
tion ; in other words, the nervous centres, and all the organs 
depending on them, share in the general injury and depression. 



SUFFERING FROM THE SEQUELS TO FEVERS. 485 

The obstructed and depraved state of the blood, and consequent 
depravation of all the secretions and excretions, and of assimila- 
tion also, must not be overlooked.* We sometimes find the heart 
impaired in its functions, through long-continued and often-re- 
peated engorgements of the great venous trunks during the cold 
or congestive stages of remittent and intermittent fevers, and from 
the violence of the subsequent bounding reactions. Through the 
operation of these causes, associated, as they often are, with an 
ui i,i i ii i < condition of the system, the heart is occasionally found to 
be flaccid in its texture, and dilated in its cavities, while its action 
is feeble and irregular. In every form of malarious fever, but 
more especially in " the tremendous remittents of hot climates," it 
is manifest that the sensibility and energy of the entire nervous 
system are blunted and enfeebled, and that the muscular system, 
voluntary and involuntary, is relaxed and enfeebled also, in con- 
sequence both of the lesion of the nervous system and of the 
altered condition of the blood, so common to tropical fevers, and 
as resulting from their treatment. 

These disturbances, repeated during years, in a climate more- 
over which, of itself, and without the intervention of actual dis- 
ease, disturbs greatly the functions of the nervous, vascular, and 
muscular systems, will go far, I think, to account for the inter- 
mitting/ state of the heart's action, so often noticed in these essays 
as characteristic of a large proportion of returned Indians. A 
long residence in the East, without the intervention of fever, may 
alone induce the irregular state of the pulse now under considera- 
tion ; but a lengthened stay in India, together with repeated 
fevers, is almost certain to cause it. 

From many of the symptoms indicative of disturbed function of 
the heart's action, witnessed in malarious countries, and from the 
periodical nature of some of them, I have long entertained no 
doubt that they often have their origin in the efficient cause of 
fevers, remittent and intermittent. A cause which operates so 
seriously to the disturbance of the nervous and vascular functions 
generally, which induces paroxysmal fevers of the most deadly 
nature, visceral congestions, and neuralgic affections ; a cause 
which produces most serious disturbances of the cerebral and 
organic nervous functions, may well be believed to aid at least, 
along with the general enervation and muscular relaxation, in oc- 
casioning the feeble and intermitting states of the heart's action, 
the epigastric pulsation, and the other nervous and vascular dis- 
turbances so frequently observable in the persons of returned Indians. 

* To such as would inquire more at large into the causes and consequences of tropical 
fevers, I would recommend the perusal of the admirable articles in Dr. Copland's " Dic- 
tionary of Medicine" a great work that should be placed, by authority, in the hands 
of all naval and military surgeons. 



486 ON THE TREATMENT OF INVALIDS 

Sufficient attention has not been given to the lesions discoverable 
in the heart and great vessels, in persons who have died of the 
concentrated fevers of hot climates. The observations of Maillot, 
of Antoniui, and Monard, would show that softening of the heart 
is a frequent accompaniment and sequel of algid fevers, and the 
post mortem examination of the French surgeons in Algeria tend 
to the same conclusion as to the result of malarious fevers there. 
The importance of the subject demands a more careful attention 
than it has hitherto obtained. 

Dr. Barlow states (Guy's Hospital Reports) that a very feeble 
state of the ventricular parietes may, by causing delay in the cir- 
culation, give rise to irregular or intermittent pulse; also that 
dyspepsia and other diseases associated with irritation or with 
lesions of the brain and upper part of the spinal chord, will ma- 
terially affect the action of the heart, so as to render that action 
feeble or irregular. The conditions requisite for the regularity of 
the pulse, he describes to be a regular supply of blood to the 
left ventricle, and a due supply of nervous influence ; and, on the 
other hand, the chief, if not the only, cause of intermittent pulse 
is a want of due supply of blood to the left ventricle. 

1 have all my life been familiar with this disturbance of the cir- 
culation, and suffered very severely from it in person, as the re- 
sult of numerous malarious fevers, and of over-wrought nervous 
system during my residence in Calcutta. One of the first in- 
stances that came under my notice, on my return to England, was 
that of an aged general officer of the Bengal army. On remark- 
ing to him that his pulse intermitted very much, he said, " Yes, I 
know it does, and it has done so for about fifty years." This 
gentleman died at the age of ninety-three. 

Another officer of plethoric habit, who had resided long in 
India, and in whom a distressing irregularity of pulse existed, was 
largely bled at his country residence on account of cerebral con- 
gestion ; and from that day, 1840, to the present time, the inter- 
missions have entirely disappeared, and his health has in all re- 
spects been good. 

Complicated with all these morbid conditions, alterations in the 
structure and functions of the mucous digestive surfaces are fre- 
quently observable, with their train of irritable dyspepsias and 
constipations. 

In the great majority of persons suffering from the sequelae of 
tropical fevers, we find that the whole abdomen is tumid, doughy, 
and inelastic, with evident venous congestion of all its viscera, 
while the action of the heart and arteries is feeble. There is, in 
fact, such a stagnation of the venous blood as to weaken the func- 
tions and spoil the secretions of the stomach, liver, bowels, and 



SUFFERING FROM THE SEQUELS TO FEVERS. 487 

functions of the spleen, while the general circulation, and the 
functions of the skin in particular, are oppressed and enfeebled. 

All these conditions become aggravated when the sufferer from 
tropical fever arrives in England in the winter or spring seasons. 
In other instances we find congestive enlargement, with the com- 
mencement of interstitial deposits, more or less chronic, of the 
liver, spleen, and mesentery, accompanied, as in the former case 
of simple abdominal congestion, by torpor of the digestive powers, 
depravation of all the secretions, a feeble and oppressed circula- 
tion, and marked derangement of the cuticular functions. In both 
instances there is great sensitiveness to the impression of cold. 
The medical management of such cases, whether functionally or 
structurally affected, is always a matter requiring care, and the cure 
may occasionally, in persons greatly debilitated by fever, or by 
long residence in India, be protracted. We have to emulge with 
one hand, while we impart tone with the other. We have to 
maintain a gentle but persistent action in all the depurative organs, 
at the same time that by medicine, proper diet, free exposure to 
the air, and by exercise, we improve the quality and augment the 
quantity of the blood. 

CASE I. A gentleman of robust frame and short stature, aged 
thirty-eight, had resided sixteen years in India as an indigo 
planter, and during that time he had been continually, and in all 
seasons, much exposed to direct solar heats, to excessive rains, 
and to cold. His habits of life had been moderate, and for four- 
teen years his health had been excellent. Two years ago, while 
exposed to cold and damp weather, he was seized with severe in- 
termittent fever, the stage of rigor lasting frequently for three 
hours. Medical aid was obtained from a distance, and but irre- 
gularly. Calomel and antimony, followed by brisk purgatives, 
and by quinine, overcame the immediate violence of the fever, but 
he has ever since been out of health. The least exposure to the 
sun, to damp or cold, circumstances never considered when in 
health, now excited him to fever, especially if such exposure 
occurred about the full and change of the moon. His fever by 
degrees, and under the influence of quinine, lost the severity of 
the rigor, until that symptom entirely ceased, and on the accession 
of the cold season it assumed the continued form. At length he 
became worn out by repeated irregular attacks of fever. His mus- 
cular system, which had been powerful, fell away, while the ab- 
domen became large, full, and tense. In this state he was recom- 
mended to return to England, where he arrived in the month of 
March. 

He now presents the true physconia, or parabysma, of syste- 
matic writers, in the sense of " morbid congestion." 



488 ON THE TREATMENT OF INVALIDS 

Among the causes of this state of stagnation, Dr. Mason Good 
justly considers the absence of valves in the abdominal veins as 
prominent, owing to that want of support to the returning column 
of blood which belongs to the veins distributed to more superficial 
parts. That the cold stage of severe intermittent fever, or the 
stage of congestion, must, when often repeated, tend powerfully to 
produce, and to maintain, stagnation in the abdominal venous 
trunks, seems evident. It proved so in this case. The abdomen 
is now full, hard, and round as a barrel, but percussion affords no 
evidence of enlargement of either liver or spleen. The complexion 
is of a copper-yellow hue. The skin is harsh, dry, and cool, and 
when the integument is pressed between the finger and thumb, 
the marks are long in regaining the colour of the surrounding 
parts, owing to the feebleness of the capillary circulation. The 
sublingual and conjunctival surfaces look pale, and exhibit a defi- 
ciency of red particles in the blood ; there seems to be an entire 
suspension of the exhalent and absorbing functions ; the pulse is 
feeble, slow, and oppressed ; the respiration hurried on the least 
exertion, and impeded by the fulness and tension of the abdomen. 
Abdominal congestion would seem to be the sole cause of his 
weakness and his sufferings. The bowels never act without the 
aid of medicine ; the intestinal secretions are pale and scanty ; 
the urine natural in appearance. The muscular frame is so en- 
feebled that he cannot walk an hundred yards without fatigue. 
His sleep is broken, uneasy, and unrefreshing. 

The patient was directed to take a tablespoonful of the follow- 
ing mixture every morning in a small tumbler of cold water, or so 
much as should produce two evacuations daily : Saturated solu- 
tion of sulphate of magnesia, seven ounces and a half; dilute 
sulphuric acid, half an ounce ; sulphate of iron, sulphate of qui- 
nine, of each a drachm. He was directed at the same time to use 
two doses daily of a mixture composed of fluid extract of taraxa- 
cum with bitartrate of potash. These medicines after a time acted 
freely on the bowels and kidneys, while the functions of the skin 
were promoted by warm baths twice a week, immediately before 
going to bed. Frictions to the surface were prescribed ; and horse 
exercise advised. The diet was ordered to be light and spare ; 
and as all food produced a sense of weight and oppression, he 
was allowed to take a small tumbler of weak brandy-and-water at 
dinner. On this plan the patient improved steadily, though 
slowly, during six weeks, when he wrote to me from the country 
that he could walk for an hour without fatigue or hurried respira- 
tion, his waist being now reduced by seven inches. The biliary 
secretion became abundant, and the appetite and digestion liad 
greatly improved. The taraxacum was now exchanged for a 



SUFFERING PROM THE SEQUEL*: TO FEVERS. 489 

pure chalybeate, and the purgative was directed to be used every 
other day only. When the weather became warm in May, the 
convalescence was rapid; and in the following month he pro- 
ceeded on a tour to the continent He used the waters of Horn- 
burg ; but in his own opinion the change of air and the continued 
exercise were of most effect He returned to England in Septem- 
ber, in perfect health. 

Remarks. This was a case of excessive abdominal congestion 
resulting from fever, accompanied by anaemia. This state of the 
blood was doubtless maintained by the stagnation of so large a 
portion of the circulating fluid in the abdominal venous trunks. 
The whole machinery of life was clogged. By the removal of in- 
tense abdominal congestion the general circulation was liberated, 
the quality of the blood improved, while the nervous system was 
thereby invigorated. Perspiration, digestion, and secretion were 
also set free towards the restoration of the general health. Youth, 
a robust constitution, and temperate habits of life, favoured the 
patient and aided his recovery. His treatment was simple but 
effective. In a case such as this, a persistent course of tonic pur- 
gatives is always necessary ; and I believe that purgative medi- 
cines, when conjoined with tonics and chalybeates, as in the 
present instance, do not injure the functions of the colon, as they 
are too apt to do when given singly in large or repeated doses, or 
where given with or after calomel. 

When this gentleman arrived in England, it was supposed by 
his medical attendant in the country, that effusion had taken place 
within the abdominal cavity, but this I was unable to verify, owing 
to the extreme fulness and tension of the entire region. Certainly 
the case wore a very unfavourable aspect, and dropsy, general or 
local, might well have been apprehended. 

CASE II. Major , of the Indian army, aged forty, had 

served twenty-two years in India. For the first sixteen years his 
health had been good ; but during the last six years he was em- 
pln\ed in field-surveying, the duties of which necessarily exposed 
him to great variations in temperature and humidity, as well as to 
the malarious influences. His constitution, originally delicate, 
appeared indeed to have been improved and invigorated during 
tin* lirst ten years of residence in India. After that his health re- 
mained stationary till six years ago, when he was seized, in the 
month of May, with the ardent remittent fever of the hot dry sea- 
son. Violent determination to the head, with tumidness and pain 
of the right hypochondrium, took place immediately, accompanied 
by delirium. Me was freely bled, generally and locally, and took 
calomel, Mulorilic*, and purgatives, in large doses. Mix recovery 
irai rapid, anil apparently complete. By the month of August h< 



490 ON THE TREATMENT OF INVALIDS 

had regained his usual health, when acute bilious diarrhoea came 
on, rendering mild mercurials, with ipecacuanha, laxatives, and 
low diet, necessary. Again he recovered rapidly, and in the end 
of October proceeded on his duties of surveying. 

The country was jungly, and the soil remained moist and marshy 
from the previous annual rain. His public establishment and pri- 
vate servants contracted intermittent fevers, but by the aid of small 
doses of quinine, and by selecting elevated grounds of encamp- 
ment, Major hoped to escape. He did escape until the 

end of January, when he was attacked with severe fever of the 
continued form, accompanied by jaundice. He was again bled 
moderately, and used calomel, antimony, purgatives, and low diet ; 
but his recovery was slow. From this time to the present, he has 
never been in good health. Every year he has been more or less 
harassed by fevers, sometimes continued in type, at others inter- 
mittent, and his health and strength have been gradually reduced. 
He was urged to go to sea, or to return to Europe, but circum- 
stances of a private nature prevented his doing either. At length, 
and after years of distress and suffering, he came home in the 
month of February, worn out with fever. He was now greatly ex- 
hausted in all the functions of the body and mind, and in a state 
of great emaciation. The abdomen was hard and flattened, the 
abdominal muscles being in a state of extreme tension all over, 
and this state, owing to neuralgic pains, was rather increased by 
tactile examination and percussion. All seemed hard beneath, 
but I could not perceive that any one region was more indurated 
than another, and there was no tumidness in either hypochon- 
drium. The pulse and respiration were slow and feeble, the heart 
flaccid, and sluggish in its movements; there was a frequent 
hacking, dry cough. The complexion was of a dingy parchment 
hue, the skin being extremely harsh and dry to the touch ; the 
hair was of a mossy dryness, its growth being imperceptibly slow ; 
the nails were exfoliated, and crumbling off all indicating that 
nutrition was at the lowest ebb. The intestinal secretions were 
scanty, pale, and fretid ; the urine of a natural appearance, occa- 
sionally limpid. For years the bowels had not acted without the 
aid of medicine. He had no appetite, and experienced great op- 
pression, with sense of distension, after the smallest meal. The 
sleep was disturbed and unrefreshing ; the general habit was 
anaemic, and the mind greatly depressed. 

To promote the functions of depuration, and to impart tone to 

the digestive organs, Major was directed to use the nitro- 

muriatic acid bath three times a week, just before going to bed, 
while a combination of the nitro-muriatic acid with tincture of 
sesquichloridc of iron was taken in water, three times a day. The 



SUFFERING FROM THE SEQUELS TO FEVERS. 491 

gentle action of the bowels was promoted by the pilula aloes et 
Jerri of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia. Animal food was used 
but sparingly, while fruits and vegetables were allowed ; also weak 
branay-and-water to dinner. He took gentle exercise on horse- 
back daily, or whenever the weather admitted ; but the cold 
easterly winds of March he could not face. Such days were 
passed, huddled up in coats and blankets, by the fireside. Yet, 
with care and attention, his health amended, though very slowly, 
so that by the end of June he was able to ride ten miles on end, 
the appetite and power of digestion having greatly improved. 
By this time he had gained eleven pounds in weight, while his 
mind had become cheerful and hopeful. The medical treatment 
was continued till the end of August, by which time the Major ac- 
quired seventeen pounds in weight, along with considerable in- 
crease of vigour in all his functions. The bowels now acted with- 
out medicine, the biliary secretion being abundant. By the middle 
of September he proceeded to the Highlands of Scotland, where, 
with the aid of a pony, he was enabled to ascend the mountains, 
and enjoy grouse shooting ; but he was incapable of any sustained 
muscular exertion. With little further aid from medicine, Major 

continued to regain health and strength during two years 

that I was in occasional communication with him, and he returned 
to India at the end of three years " as well as ever he was." 

Remarks. A torpid discharge of all the functions of the body 

was the character of Major 's case on his arrival in England. 

To the previous excitation, within the tropics, of the various func- 
tions, and to the tumult and disturbance of tropical fever, had then 
succeeded a torpor and impaired tonicity of the circulation, respi- 
ration, and of the nervous functions, with interrupted and depraved 
secretion and excretion. The gastric and intestinal digestion ap- 
peared paralyzed, with characteristic dryness of the mucous sur- 
faces, and atony of the muscular layer of the stomach and bowels. 
He did not appear to labour under any organic disease of the 
liver or spleen, nor could I discover through exploration, or 
through the symptoms, that any anatomical changes existed in the 
other abdominal viscera. 

Major was so exhausted on his first arrival at home, 

that, viewing his recovery as hopeless within the time allowed by 
the regulations of the Indian army, he desired to resign his com- 
mission, and retire into private life. I objected to this resolution, 
urging that his mind was enfeebled, and that he was consequently 
not in a fitting frame for coming to the determination of that or of 
any other important step in life. He yielded to my reasoning, 
and thus a valuable appointment, useful to himself and his family, 
has been i>iLM-rved. By similar advice, given in India and at 



492 ON THE TREATMENT OF INVALIDS 

home, to officers both civil and military, I have saved many a 
valuable public servant from the commission of a hasty and irre- 
trievable mistake. 

The cases just related furnish fair examples of the average re- 
sults of tropical fevers. The first presented pure abdominal con- 
gestion of the passive form, and the last a general torpor and loss 
of power in all the abdominal functions. Many more examples 
might be added ; but those now furnished appear to me, together 
with the two cases about to be briefly noticed, sufficient to illus- 
trate the subject under consideration. 

CASE III. While writing this article, the following cases came 
under my care ; and as they represent a state of disease not in- 
frequent, owing to the present rapid transit to Europe from India, 
I here present them. 

Lieutenant , Madras cavalry, aged twenty-three, had 

served four years in India, during which he enjoyed good health, 
with the exception of occasional headache and an irregular state 
of the bowels. Towards the end of November, 1850, he obtained 
a year's leave of absence to visit his family in England, and 
marched to Bombay for that purpose. When half-way, he was 
seized with jungle (remittent) fever. In nine days, though 
feeble and exhausted, he was enabled to resume his march, and 
arrived in Bombay in the end of December. Here he was attacked 
with tertian intermittent fever, the cold stages being severe and 
long-continued, and followed by an imperfect reaction. As in the 
first seizure, Lieutenant was treated with calomel, purga- 
tives, and quinine. On board the steamer, both in the Red Sea 
and Mediterranean, he suffered from repeated attacks of ague, and 
when the day was in the least degree cool, he was obliged to take 
to his bed. He is now (February 9th) in London, in an extremely 
emaciated and enfeebled state, and though five feet ten inches in 
height, he weighs but nine stone and three pounds. The liver 
and spleen are greatly engorged and tumid, their regions bulging 
out perceptibly, and feeling tender on the least pressure. The 
complexion is of a dull leaden yellow; pulse, 112; bowels con- 
stipated ; urine madder- coloured ; tongue clean ; skin warm, moist, 
and relaxed. The little food he is able to take causes great op- 
pression and distension at the stomach, and he is unable to bear 
the pressure of his dress over the abdomen. The cold is most 
distressing to his feelings, and he shivers whenever he quits the 
fireside. There is complete and general anaemia, and the circula- 
tion is distressingly hurried in ascending the stairs. 

He was ordered to take of the saturated solution of sulphate 
of magnesia, combined with dilute sulphuric acid, the sulph- 



SUFFERING FROM THE SKQfL! l TO FEVERS. 493 

ates of quinine and iron, so much every morning as should pro- 
cure two free evacuations from the bowels ; while he used two 
doses in the day of the sulphates of iron and quinine, with dilute 
sulphuric acid, as a tonic and febrifuge. His diet to be carefully 
regulated, using animal food to dinner, but sparingly ; no wine or 
fermented liquor allowed. Warm baths were directed to be used 
twice a week at bedtime. 

Feb. 15th. Great improvement has already taken place ; the 
bowels and kidneys act freely, and he is not so much distressed by 
the cold nor by gastric oppression ; pulse 94. 

26th. Bowels violently moved m the night, when enormous 
quantities of frothy, foetid matter were voided. This discharge has 
afforded great abdominal relief, and his waist is reduced four 
inches. Urine copious and less charged, the complexion clear- 
ing, while the shiverings have nearly disappeared. 

Hitherto the bowels have acted but twice a day, under the 
influence of the tonic purgative, and the present discharge is 
viewed as the liberation of pent-up bile, rather than an ordinary 
purgative effect. The medicines and diet as before. 

28th. Continues to improve in all respects, and is able to walk 
a little in the open air on dry days; pulse 78. The appetite is 
becoming keen, and requires restraint. Urine copious, and nearly 
natural ; bowels freely moved twice a day. Treatment continued. 

March 4th. Has acquired nine pounds in weight, while the 
tumidness of the abdomen is greatly reduced. Pulse 76 ; urine 
copious and natural in appearance. The bowels continue to act 
freely twice a day. 

1-Jth. Getting well; complexion nearly natural and the waist 
of the usual dimensions. He is now able to wear his fonner 
clothes, buttoned, with ease. He takes long walks in the open air 
and increases daily in strength. The tonic aperient to be taken 
every other day, then every third and fourth day, so as to be gra- 
dually discontinued, while a pure chalybeate is substituted for the 
quinine and iron mixture. 

Remarks. The case just related affords an example of the 
acute and immediate consequences of malarious fever. The rapid 
transition to Europe, by steam, brought the sufferer home with his 
tropical ills fresh upon him, with the addition that his fever had 
now assumed a low continued form. " Visceral disease," savs 1 >r. 
Hilling, " converts ague into continued pyrexia ;" and in further 
illustration of this principle, the same authority adduces the hectic 
fever of pulmonary consumption, and the irritative fever of surgical 
EMM, \\hich latter he considers "a mixture of morbid sensibility 
and pyrexia from inflammation." It has appeared to me both in 
India and in England, that quinine, when given in large doses, 



494 ON THE TREATMENT OF INVALIDS 

and for a continuance, has occasionally had this same effect 
namely, the conversion of ague into continued fever. Blood-letting 
in the cold stage of intermittent fever, has been found to produce 
a like result. This young officer had been altogether ill but little 
more than two months, yet the powers of the constitution were 
completely subdued by malarious fever and abdominal congestion. 
But the duration of his illness having been but brief, his recovery 
was rapid. No mercury was exhibited in this case, the general 
anaemia and splenic engorgement prohibiting the use of that 
mineral. 

CASE IV. Lieutenant , of the Bombay army, aged twenty- 
nine, had served eight years in India. The medical report of his 
case by the surgeon of his corps, represents him to be " of a 
naturally delicate constitution, with a predisposition to liver com- 
plaint." In Nov. 1849, after two years of "bad health, suffering 
constantly from fever and hepatic derangement," in Guzerat, 
Scinde, and Moultan, he quitted the latter station for Kurrachee. 
" Deriving no benefit at this place, he was sent to Bombay, and 
eventually to Mahabaleshwar," a mountain station for sick and 

convalescents. " He rejoined his regiment at , in Feb., 1850, 

apparently in improved health; but soon after he suffered another 
attack of fever, which has since returned regularly at the spring 
tides, and been invariably attended with congestions of the liver, 
and incessant bilious vomitings." Calomel and opium, saline pur- 
gatives, quinine, and tonics, procured relief " for a few days," but 
" the obstinacy with which the complaint returns has greatly debili- 
tated the constitution." " The influence of the moon, too, is 

very remarkable." In another statement, dated in May, Lieut. 

is reported to be continually harassed with fever, while 

" quinine has lost its power." He was then ordered to return to 
Europe for the recovery of his health, and arrived in England in 
July, 1850. 

Feb. 26th, 1851. The patient states that ever since his arrival 
he has resided in the north of England, but that his health has in 
no way improved ; fever, accompanied by a dull heavy pain in 
both hypochondria, having recurred about the full and change of 
the moon every month, since July last. There is now pain and 
some slight fulness of both liver and spleen, with a hard tumid 
state of the whole abdomen ; the bowels are constipated, and the 
urine generally high-coloured ; the pulse is feeble and slow ; the 
surface relaxed, cool, and damp to the touch ; the tongue is loaded 
with a thick white fur. He is much distressed by aguish feelings 
in cold and damp days. The general condition is anaemic. 

On the plan of treatment prescribed in the last case this officer 



SUFFERING PROM THE SEQUEUB TO FEVERS. 495 

recovered rapidly ; and from the time when the bowels were made 
to aot freely, his disposition to fever daily subsided. In a month 
he returned to the country, greatly improved in health and strength, 
using only the tonic and febrifuge treatment 

Remarks. In both the cases just described the tendency to 
fever disappeared in remarkable coincidence with the subsi- 
dence of abdominal congestion, through the use of gentle but 
persistent evacuants, combined with tonics. That a temperate 
climate and the absence of malaria, may have materially aided in 
these results, I entertain no doubt, although in the last recorded 
very obstinate instance, climate alone proved insufficient ; and so 
it proved also in the case of a gentleman from the south of Spain, 
whom I lately treated, and who was much distressed by ague, until 
brought under the influence of the emulgent treatment here de- 
scribed. He had taken enormous quantities of quinine without 
effect. 

Every one has seen intermittents, on the other hand, which re- 
sisted the influence of ordinary purgatives, and of every anti- 
periodic remedy, until mercurial purgatives were exhibited; in 
other words, until the necessary degree of freedom was given to 
the abdominal circulation, through powerfully emulgent means. 
Dr. Watson states that in Zealand, the biliary functions suffer so 
much during the intermittents of the country, that they are called 
by the inhabitants gall-fevers. 

That the partial stagnation of the venous and arterial circulation 
in the liver, spleen, and other abdominal viscera, tends, by the 
detention of the blood, to unfit it for the purposes of the general 
circulation, and to dispose also to attacks of intermittent fever, 
would appear highly probable. Dr. Prout goes so far as to de- 
clare that the blood in the portal system is deprived of a portion 
of its vitality. A condition of the blood exists in the cases here 
under consideration similar to that in varicose veins ; and it has 
been observed by Mr. Bransby Cooper that the discharge of such 
blood by puncture of the diseased vessels " does not produce any 
constitutional effect, the blood contained within the varicose veins, 
being to a certain extent thrown out of the general mass of the 
circulation, and retained in a half-stagnant state within them." 



CHRONIC DIARRHOEA. 

THE late Dr. Matthew Baillie, who had seen much of the dis- 
eases of tropical invalids, describes a diarrhoea, of an " almost 
constantly fatal" character, in persons of a sallow complexion, 
" who have resided for a considerable time in warm climates." It 
consists " of an evacuation of a matter resembling in its appear- 
ance a mixture of water and lime, which is generally frothy on its 
surface. When this kind of purging has once taken place, it is 
hardly ever radically removed, although it may for some time be 
occasionally suspended." Dr. Baillie, who was rather of a despair- 
ing disposition, as a physician, had " no opportunity of examining 
the condition of the liver and bowels in such patients after death ;" 
and his treatment consisted of very small doses of mercury, with 
astringents and bitters, and great care in diet. My object in the 
present paper is to exhibit the pathology and set forth the treat- 
ment of this complicated and dangerous disease. 

In tropical invalids, suffering, on their return to Europe, from 
chronic diarrhoea, we perceive, along with the cachexia so gene- 
rally characteristic of the class, an excessive irritability of the 
mind and body, an anxious countenance, and a blanchea condi- 
tion of the entire surface, conveying an impression that the patients 
have been drained of all their fluids, and thus become dried up 
and attenuated. The vis vitas appears in such cases to be abso- 
lutely washed out of the body. 

The abdomen is generally tumid, but occasionally, in common 
with the muscles and integuments of the entire frame, it is shrunk 
and shrivelled. Pain I have seldom been able to trace in this 
cavity, on the most careful exploration of its various regions by 
tactile examination and percussion. 

The skin will generally be found dry, cool, and sometimes 
harsh to the touch; occasionally of a soft, velvety character: all 
indicating a diminished vitality. The state of the system, as 
already stated, is usually anaemic. There is much restlessness, 
the little sleep that is obtained being unrefreshing. The intes- 
tinal secretions are sometimes of the appearance and consistence 
of pea-soup, and at others serous or watery, or, as some patients 
describe them, like soap-and-water, or semi-fluid and yeast-like, 
with little or no colouring matter. The evacuations are generally 
voided without any pain. They are always copious and exhaust- 
ing, especially during the night or in the early morning. The 
urine, in all the instances in which I have examined it, con- 



CHRONIC DIARRIICKA. 1!>7 

taincd nxalate of limo in greater or loss quantity. The appe- 
tite is sometimes voracious, at others defective and capricious. 

The secondary or chronic diarrhoeas of Europeans who li.m 
resided long in hot climates are always difficult of cure ; and when 
<>f long standing, they constitute a class of disease dangerous and 
intractable beyond most others. 

Whether the disease under consideration presents itself in the 
form of diarrho3a originally contracted as such in India, or as one 
of the sequela) to acute tropical dysentery, as the result of hepatic 
disease, fevers, cholera, malaria, the abuse of mercury, and purga- 
ti\es, or from errors in diet and habits of life, we sel'dom find the 
disease simple in its pathological nature that is, confined to the 
mucous digestive surface alone. On the contrary, a careful explo- 
ration of the abdominal regions, coupled with an attentive conside- 
ration of all the antecedent and attendant circumstances, will gene- 
rally show that diarrhoea, in a large proportion of instances, is 
complicated with, if not mainly dependent on, chronic disorders 
and diseases of the liver. Ana here it is worthy of remark, that in 
India diarrhoea is a frequent and immediate evidence of dangerous 
congestion, or of inflammation of the parenchyma of the liver, and 
sometimes it results both in India and in Europe from abscess of 
that, organ. The first approach of congestion or of inflammation 
of the liver suspends its secreting power, and diarrhoea is the re- 
sult. An entire suspension, or its converse, an excessive flow of 
the biliary excretion, will generally produce diarrhoea.* That 
there are in India, on the other hand, diarrhoeas of a simple and 
uncomplicated nature, is a fact well known ; but they are mostly 
acute and comparatively easy of cure, the subjects of them recover- 
ing on the spot, so that in effect none are sent home but the most 
evtw, protracted, and complicated cases. 

Although chronic diarrhoea generally follows on previous tropical 
disease, 1 have seen it affect persons on their return to England, 
\\lio, during their residence in India, had never suffered from any 
of the diseases of that country. The health of such patients, how- 
\. T, liiul been enfeebled, and they wore thus rendered susceptible 
to the influence of cold or damp, or to what is always more inju- 
rious to the returned Indian to both conjoined. The returning 
Indian is often sei/.ed with diarrhoea from exposure to cold on boanl 
ship, especially if exposed to the spring easterly winds. Diarrhoeas, 
of course, vary in their nature with their causes, and those last con. 

* Dr. James Lind, describing hepatitis in Calcutta in 17C2, says " The cure of in- 
flammation ni" tlu> !i\i i |.in\i .1 urn i it. mi nnil tedious, as it was frequently followed by 
rolli(|iiati\e ill, mlm . i, whirh |ieedily put .in end to tin- patient's life;" so that, whether 
In piitir disease may he more immediately or more remotely antecedent, diarrluca is fre- 
<|inntl\ found to be its result. 

K K 



498 CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 

stitute the most necessary points for primary consideration in prac- 
tice. One will depend on disorder or disease of the liver; another 
will result from fever ; a third from dysentery ; a fourth has for its 
cause an hypersemia of the mucous digestive surfaces ; while a fifth 
is associated with ansemia of the same textures, as well as of all 
the abdominal organs. I have seen cases in which the abuse of 
purgative medicines appeared to produce chronic diarrhoea, and 
others in which the same effect seemed to result from the large or 
the protracted use of calomel. 

A morbid state of the biliary secretion, and its injurious influ- 
ence in producing and maintaining the chronic bowel complaint 
here noticed, have been mentioned emphatically by some writers 
on the diseases of tropical climates, as a fact of most frequent oc- 
currence ; and so also, with more justice, has the total absence of 
hepatic secretion, constituting what is termed the white flux. 
This latter form of diarrhoea, whether associated with intermittent 
fever or not, often recurs in paroxysms, more or less distant. 
On such occasions it is common to find the tongue assume a 
more or less red, abraded, or even ulcerated state; but it is worthy 
of careful remark that, on the restoration of the hepatic function, 
all these indications of mucous-intestinal irritation gradually 
subside. 

Those who have visited Simla, and some of n the stations near it 
on the hill ranges of the Himalayas, have very generally observed 
a change to a pale, colourless state of the intestinal secretions soon 
after their ascent into those regions, resulting, it is presumed, from 
the comparative cold and damp of the mountain air. Diarrhoea is, 
in fact, a frequent result of this change of climate ; so much so, 
indeed, as to have received from the British residents there the 
name of " the hill trot" Exposure upon active field service, or 
during the night and the early morning marches in India, especially 
during the cold season, often produces the same result. Both the 
conditions here mentioned, the pale secretion and the diarrhoea, 
would appear to result from hepatic congestion, the consequence 
of the sudden application of cold and damp to the surface of the 
body, previously relaxed by the heat of the plains. The result is, 
a diminished or suspended secretion of bile, and a consequent dis- 
order in the entire process of digestion, the matters voided from 
the bowels being colourless, acrid, and irritating. Officers of the 
Bengal army who marched from Sindh, where the thermometer 
rose to 135, to Cabul, where it fell below 75, have stated to me 
that, soon after exposure to this relative cold, they all became 
more or less jaundiced: some were seized with diarrhoea, but all 
were jaundiced. By some very observant patients, I have been 
told, on the other hand, that in their instances diarrhoea com- 



CHRONIC DIARRHOEA. 499 

tncnced in India by enormous and long-continued " discharges of 
pure bile," which would appear to have exhausted the functions of 
the liver : then came the " white flux," with its complete suspen- 
sion of the nutritive processes ; the anaemia of all the organs and 
tissues of the body ; the aneemic ulcerations (chronic aphthae) of 
the mucous digestive surface ; and all the attendant difficulties and 
dangers, so as to call into trying exercise the toilsome and difficult 
requirements of the physician. 

As an example of diarrhoea very formidable in its nature, and of 
very frequent occurrence, I adduce the following : 

Colonel , aged sixty-three, served forty-three years in India, 

where during many years he enjoyed an average share of good 
health. In 1840 he came home intending to resign the service, 
being possessed of a competent fortune; but the call made by 
the Indian government in 1842, on all military officers then on 
furlough to return to their duty in India in consequence of the 

disaster at Cabul, induced Col. , out of pure military zeal, 

to proceed to join his corps, despite of a certificate from myself, 
and from another medical friend, to the effect that he was not fit to 
serve in India. An accomplished and distinguished officer, he 
was soon placed in positions of varied and important trust, and he 
served in the campaigns of the Sutlej in 1 845-6, and in that of the 
Punjab in 1849. 

Colonel had previously been twice on sick leave to England, 

and by the recent exposures and exertions he began again to feel the 
exhausting influences of severe and unremitting duty, as well as 
those of climate, when, in January, 1850, he was unfortunately 
induced to accept a mission into a malarious district. Here he 
was seized with an acute attack of intermittent fever, from which he 
recovered but slowly, and he arrived in Calcutta from the N. W. 
provinces in April, 1850, weak and exhausted. The season and 
the opportunities for departure to England being considered unfa- 
vourable, Colonel was induced to remain in Bengal, making 

an occasional trip to sea ; but the climate still proved inimical. In 
August, that being the height of the rainy season, he was seized 
with a wasting diarrhoea, which harassed him even after his em- 
barkation for England, by the Cape route, in the end of January, 
1851. 

During a four months' voyage no improvement took place, not- 
withstanding the most prudent care in diet. He was, on the 
average, purged eight times every twenty-four hours after leaving 
Calcutta; and on reaching lat. 30 north, a great aggravation of 
purging, accompanied by vomiting, took place. The cold to which 
he had looked as a friendly and bracing agent, " penetrated into 

K K 2 



500 CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 

his bowels," as he described it, and he landed in the middle of 
May, 1851, at Torquay, in a state of great exhaustion. He passed 
a night at Exeter, during which he was purged twelve times, 
and from Clifton he wrote me: "My nerves are dreadfully shat- 
tered ; indeed, at this instant, I am a sad wreck." 

May 24th. Visited Colonel , on his arrival in London, 

when he presented me with a brief statement of his case from Mr. 

, of Calcutta, who died of fever a few days after the date of 

his addressing me. This was the second time within the year that 
the same melancholy circumstance had occurred to me ; and in 
both instances the patients presented their letters in ignorance of 
the death of their medical friends. 

The following are my notes of the present case : 

Colonel is reduced to the bones. The exterior appearance 

is completely blanched, the integument having a velvet-like cha- 
racter, while the mouth, throat, and conjunctives, exhibit a better 
condition of the blood than could have been anticipated. It is my 
practice, in such cases, to evert the lower eyelid, and to examine 
the mouth and fauces, as affording the truest indices to the con- 
dition of the blood. The edges and tip of the tongue are red and 
irritable, but there are no aphthae. The patient describes the 
evacuations as copious, thin, " and of that colour," pointing to a 
white marble chimney-piece. The abdomen is flabby and yield- 
ing in all its regions, and the liver is found on exploration to be 
smaller than natural. Pulse 72, jerking, and irritable. There is, 
as he believes, a febrile movement about the full and change of the 
moon, which he says is perceptible only to himself, and it is always 
attended with aggravation of the diarrhoea. The urine first voided 
had a green hue, and being desirous to know whether it contained 
bile, I requested a friend, an eminent physician and chemist, to 
examine it. Next day he reported to me as follows : " I consi- 
der it certain that your patient has B right's disease in a very 
quiescent state, or else he is very near death. I am not sure of 

bile ; it may be there in a small quantity." Colonel was 

treated with the vegetable and mineral astringents, conjoined with 
opium, with a view to restrain the discharges : he was directed 
to use a bland, unirritating diet, and to be very careful at all times to 
avoid quantity. By the 28th June the number of motions in the 
twenty-four hours had been thus reduced from six and eight to 
one, but the matter voided remained as colourless as ever. Two 
grains of mercury and chalk, with one of opium, were now given 
night and morning, with a view to elicit biliary secretion, over- 
action of the bowels being restrained by the use of astringents at 
the same time. In about twelve days this course of treatment 
produced the desired effect, the bowels becoming tranquil; the 



CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 501 

skin being now perspirable for the first time since he left India, 
and much desquamation of the cuticle having taken place under 
friction with the Indian hair glove, while the pulse, from being 
hard and jerking, became soft and natural. 

By the 18th of July, when Col. left London for the 

country, the secretions had become quite natural in appearance ; 
the appetite, digestive power, and strength having greatly improved. 
Within a month from his departure he wrote me : " I have not, 
after the manner of snuff-takers, rapped at the lid of a pill-box 
since 1 saw you, and I am almost persuaded I advance in convale- 
scence daily, and that I gain strength, at least I feel that I walk 
more at ease, as the pilgrim said who boiled his peas." But 
convalescence did not continue to advance at this rate. On the 
4th of November he wrote " I am tolerably well, but I have not 
quite attained the point I could wish. There are but few things I 
can do with impunity. Over exercise prostrates me ; a deviation 
in diet and beverages from strict regimen upsets me ; and I cannot 
venture upon wine out of my own house, and then not daily, so 
that my customary strong drink is brandy-and-water. Pickles, pre- 
serves, and even honey disturb me. I have no pain nor uneasiness 
of any kind, but just a sense of a delicate state of the stomach and 
bowels. It is most sensible about the pit of the stomach that is, 
the lower orifice of the stomach, on indulging in any kinds of 
acids. I take only two meals daily a full though plain breakfast 
at half-past eight, and a spare dinner at five." Referring to the 
distressing irritability of temper so common in cases of this nature, 

Col. says : " Whilst I was nervous, wayward, and irritable, it 

was a great relief to me to sit down and pen a few lines to a friend 
or relative. Now, however, that I have become composed, and 
somewhat settled and at ease, it is an effort to me to place myself 
before a writing-desk, and forego the pleasure of whiling my time 
with books or wandering about." 

In the beginning of December, Col. came to London on 

private business, when I was glad to find him of quite his ordinary 
appearance of condition and of health. The bowels now acted but 
once in twenty-four hours, and the secretions were healthy. Being 
desirous to know the state of the urine, I had it again examined by 

my friend, Dr. , who was so kind as to send me the following 

very satisfactory report : " I find nothing excepting the excess of 
nrate of ammonia, and possibly the very slightest trace of albumen. 

But I am not sure of this, there is so little present." Col. 

returned immediately to the country, where he was directed to use 
the fluid extract of Bael with a view to give tone to the stomach 
and bowels. 

On the 26th January, 1852, the Colonel writes : "Some time 
ago, owing to imprudent exposure and very cold feet, my bowels 



502 CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 

became affected. As they did not of themselves return to their 
natural state, I had recourse to the Bael. For a day or two I took 
a dessert- spoonful three times a day. Thinking this too much, I 
reduced the quantity to twice a day. The taste was rather mawk- 
ish at first, but afterwards became agreeable. It has produced 
the beneficial effect of removing the laxity of the bowels. My 
appetite is much better than it was before I had this slight return 
of complaint, and I can venture on both beverage and diet that 1 
dared not touch previously." 

This gentleman is now (October, 1852,) quite well as regards 
diarrhoea, but is affected with chronic gout in the hands as an 
hereditary complaint. 

Remarks. Colonel - 's case affords a good illustration of the 
fact that chronic diarrhoea of the most formidable character may, 
and often does, depend on suspended function of the liver. The 
danger of the case also was extreme ; and I believe that, but for 
the action of mercury, this valuable and accomplished officer must 
have died ; indeed, he very nearly died on landing in England. 
This kind of diarrhoea, like some forms of ague, cannot be cured 
without mercury, or without nitro-muriatic acid, the action of which 
is similar. Referring to the gradual subsidence of albumen in the 
urine, I may here mention that in several instances in which dis- 
eased states of the liver or spleen, or of both, existed, I have found 
albumen in the urine as a functional affection, and it always disap- 
peared on the restoration of health ; in other words, on the removal 
of the visceral affections. 

Astringents, it will be observed, were of no radical avail in this 
instance, nor was anything more expected from their use than to 
arrest excessive serous discharges, and thus obtain time for the in- 
troduction of the appropriate remedy, which in event proved radical 
of cure. 

In the next case a wasting diarrhoea was associated with a great 
enlargement of the liver of many years' standing. 

Esq., originally of a powerful constitution, but a bon vivant, 

had resided twenty-seven years in India; and till August, 1840, 
had enjoyed good health. At this time, torpor of the liver with 
distressing dyspepsia harassed him, and these disorders were 
speedily followed by diarrhoea. " Mercurials had always removed 
these symptoms for a time, but they invariably returned after a few 
days. Slight ptyalism had been induced, but without rendering 
convalescence in the least degree more satisfactory." 

Mr. - - sailed for the Cape of Good Hope in January 1 841, and 

eturned to Bombay in January, 1842. At the Cape he had been 

treated with " direct astringents, in various forms and of various 



CHRONIC DIARRHOEA. 503 

kinds," but change of climate and medical treatment left him 
much altered for the worse, being greatly attenuated, with conside- 
rable oedema of the lower extremities the discharges from the 
bowels being copious, frequent, watery, and of a light buff colour." 
Alteratives and astringents, with opium, having failed of doing any 

good, Mr. was sent to England in the end of 1842. Here he 

consulted the late Dr. James Johnson ; but though receiving bene- 
fit from treatment, he has never during more than six years passed 
a day without astringent and opiate medicine. He was therefore 
compelled to resign the service. 

In April, 1849, I found Mr. worn to the bones with diarr- 
hoea, and with an immense enlargement of the liver. Dr. M'Lennan, 
from whose experienced and able direction the patient had derived 
much benefit while in India, being now in England, I felt desirous 
to have the advantage of his concurrence in the treatment by the 
nitro-muriatic acid bath, by immersion of the whole body. Dr. 
M'Lennan writes : " When I first saw him the whole appearance 
was so cachaemic as fully to bear out the description of one of his 
friends, that he was dropping into his grave ; or, to use the very 
words of another friend, that he seemed like one who had been in- 
terred and exhumed again." He was emaciated to a great degree, 
with cheeks and eyes sunken, voice hollow, and debility so great, 
that I fully expected from that cause, to find the presence of 
anarsarca or ascites ; the former only was present to a slight de- 
gree. His complexion was of an ashy colour, deeply tinged with 
green skin yellow, dry, and harsh digestion greatly impaired 
appetite gone. Bowels harassed by incessant purging, which 
was only kept in check by vegetable and mineral astringents, 
aided by large doses of opium. The liver extended from the seventh 
to considerably below the margin of the false ribs, particularly in 
front. 

In this state he commenced the use of the mtro-muriatic-acid 
bath to the whole body i. e. to the trunk and extremities ; and 
by a steady perseverance therein for several months, he very 
greatly improved. The enlargement of the liver steadily and pro- 
gressively decreased fulness and weight of the body increased 
complexion became clear, and at length even pinkish skin soft, 
of natural colour, and perspirable. Subcutaneous veins showed 
the presence of blood in sufficient quantity. He became cheerful 
and even active ; and in this state of improvement embarked for 
Malta, whence I have just heard from him to the following effect : 
" I have been examined thoroughly by my medical man, and 
he says all enlargement of the liver has disappeared, and that my 
secretions arc in every respect natural and healthy. I am increased 
considerably in si/e, and have got a plump rosy face such as I 
have not had for these many years past." 



504 CHRONIC DIARRHOEA. 

" There can be no question," adds Dr. M'Lennan, " that in this 
case the improvement was solely attributable to the bath ; for the 
other medicines taken were palliatives to arrest the course of the 
ingesta, for such time as to afford opportunity for some nutriment 
to be given to the system ; and one of them at least, the opium, 
was antagonistic of improvement of the secretion, and thus of the 
hepatic recovery." 

Remarks. Whether we consider the duration of disease in this 
instance, or the severity of the symptoms, the case is remark- 
able, as proving the remedial powers of the nitro-muriatic acid. 
When the patient first came under its influence, he was all that Dr. 
M'Lennan describes him a man in an apparently hopeless state of 
exhaustion. Beyond six feet in height, and largely proportioned, 
he weighed but ten stone two pounds. In six months his weight 
had increased to twelve stone seven pounds ; and when he last 
wrote to me, he said " that he was still getting stouter." The 
rapid improvement in the condition of the blood was no less con- 
vincing. Here, also, as observed by Dr. M'Lennan, the counter- 
acting astringent influences of opium were overcome by the supe- 
rior emulgent power of the acids. In this respect, their eliminat- 
ing actions are shown to be superior to those of any other medicine, 
mercurials not excepted ; but, as often stated in the present 
Essays, these last mineral preparations were contraindicated, 
owing to the cachectic state of the patient's constitution. In this 
interesting case the nitro-muriatic acid removed the diarrhoea, by 
reducing the hepatic enlargement and restoring the integrity of 
the functions of the liver. 

Recurring now to the general subject, I may observe that the 
pathology of chronic diarrhoea, whether simple or complicated, is 
but ill-understood. Sir James Annesley states that where chronic 
diarrhoea and dysentery were, during life, associated with organic 
disease of the liver, this last was usually found " of a slow nature, 
and most frequently implicating the internal structure of the 
viscus; while Mr. Twining, in his post-mortem examination of 
such cases, found " the liver of a grayish colour, occasionally ap- 
proaching to drab; its size decreased; its structure soft and 
friable, but tough ; and when cut, the section was almost blood- 
less, unless some of the veins were divided." Here we perceive 
an anaemic state of the liver. 

Chronic dysentery is, in all cases, the result of an inflammation, 
more or less extensive, of the mucous surface of the large intes- 
tine, with liberation more or less extensive of this texture, and of 
the solitary glands, frequently associated with inflammatory and 
stive states of the liver, spleen, and other abdominal organs ; 
whereas chronic diarrhoea generally, as it occurs in Europe, pre- 



CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 505 

sents no appreciable inflammation of any portion of the mucous 
digestive surfaces; indeed, when diarrhoea has existed for any 
length of time, we find an opposite state of the general system, 
and of the bowels, to that of inflammation an atony of the system, 
and consequent atony of the digestive functions, and a specially 
atonic condition of the discharges from the whole of the secreting 
organs of the abdomen, including those of the mucous mem- 
branes. The brain and nervous centres are likewise in a state of 
complete anaemia. These circumstances have not been suffi- 
ciently considered, either in the pathology or in the treatment of 
the disease. 

I have observed, both in India and in England, that a very 
severe form of chronic diarrhoea frequently followed upon inter- 
mittent forms of malarious fever, and it was found in the general 
hospital of Calcutta, that amongst the European soldiers who had 
served in China, the diarrhoea, which was then always a sequel 
to the agues of the country, proved very generally fatal. Out of 
one detachment of twenty-eight cases of chronic diarrhoea ad- 
mitted into the above-mentioned hospital from China, and of 
whose cases I have received reports, twenty-five men were noted 
as having previously suffered from intermittent fever, and eleven 
men were noted as suffering from pain in the epigastric region, 
and of the liver. These poor soldiers were in the last stages of 
chronic diarrhoea of the worst kind, and but few of them could 
have survived to reach their native country, fourteen out of the 
twenty-eight admitted into the Calcutta General Hospital having 
died there ; in truth, their complicated state of disease left little 
or no chance of recovery. 

The following post-mortem appearances are recorded in the 
hospital reports: Excessive emaciation of the whole body ; ana- 
sarca more or less general ; serous effusion occasionally found in 
the cavities of the pleura and pericardium ; a flaccid, flabby state 
of the heart ; omentum " perfectly transparent, without a particle 
of fat ;" in other cases, " omentum absorbed and shrivelled up ;" 
pylorus and commencement of the duodenum abraded and gra- 
nular ; " pancreas hard and gritty ;" the liver large, soft, and 
flabby, sometimes blue, together with occasional enlargement of 
the spleen, this organ being " softened like grumous blood," while 
in other cases it was " small and indurated." A pale, attenuated, 
" diaphanous" condition of the small intestines was generally ob- 
served ; caecum frequently ulcerated and thickened, exhibiting 
marks of former disease ; colon sometimes attenuated, but more 
generally thickened, occasionally " cartilaginous," its mucous 
membrane being often found ulcerated in many places; mesentrrir 
glands generally much enlarged, meseutery sometimes containing 
( ulcurt'ous deposits " as largo as peas." 



506 CHRONIC DIARRHOEA. 

If we refer to European writers for a more intimate pathology 
of this chronic form of diarrhoea, our knowledge is but little ex- 
tended. But however defective our appreciation of the more in- 
timate and essential lesions observable after death in the liver, 
stomach, intestines, spleen, and mesentery, there is abundant evi- 
dence during life that, added to other morbid conditions, the cir- 
culating fluid is depraved, and that consequently there is a depra- 
vation of all the secretions and excretions of the body. I have 
known instances of chronic diarrhoea which ensued upon large 
losses of blood, as in the parturient state ; and also from super- 
lactation, in the case of a lady who nursed twins. Both instances 
occurred in persons of a previously constipated habit. These cir- 
cumstances, together with an irritated and an occasionally ulce- 
rated state of the mucous membrane of the bowels, and also an 
irritated and perverted state of the nervous functions, constitute 
important and appreciable characteristics of chronic diarrhoea. 
To the contamination of the blood caused by visceral disease, and 
the consequent passive venous congestions within the abdomen, 
we have superadded occasional congestion of the mucous mem- 
brane of the bowels, and an imperfect performance of the assi- 
milative and depurative functions. Altogether this is a dangerous 
and often an intractable disease. 

Such patients are rarely allowed to die in India, a change to 
sea, or to Europe, being sought long before the advent of immi- 
nent danger. But with all the dangers confessedly attendant 
upon chronic diarrhoea, it is surprising how some cases, appa- 
rently hopeless in their nature, will recover in England ; and 
those, on the other hand, who ultimately sink from the disease 
pass their last days with their families, out of notice of the medical 
men who originally treated them on their arrival at home. This 
is the explanation why Dr. Baillie had never seen a post- 
mortem examination of this kind. Since my return to England 
I have witnessed but eight deaths from this disease, opportunity 
for examination of the body having been allowed in five in- 
stances. 

There can be no doubt, I think, from many of the symptoms 
presented to us during the treatment of the cases here contem- 
plated, that in a large proportion of those who recover, the mucous 
surfaces have been throughout in the blanched and anaemic con- 
dition mentioned by some authors who have had opportunities of 
making post-mortem examinations, and that the mucous follicles 
were enlarged, patulous, and excoriated or ulcerated. , When to 
these states of disease we have so often superadded the antece- 
dents of structural alterations, or severe disorders of the liver, or 
enlargements of the spleen and mesentery all inducing general 
anaemia it must be evident that the case is one of a grave cha- 



CHRONIC DIARRHOEA. 507 

racter. It is, in fact, in many instances, but the last inevitable 
stage, or symptom, in the progress of complicated tropical disease. 

Anaemia in its most aggravated form exists as the result, but 
certainly as the concomitant also of nearly all chronic diarrhoeas 
of tropical invalids ; and this attenuated and depraved state of the 
blood, and of all the secretions derived from it, tends greatly to 
keep up diarrhoea : the serum of the blood appears to transude 
through the intestine. The diminution of the general mass of the 
blood, and its depravation in quality, must also produce an anaemic 
condition of the mucous membrane of the bowels, with occasional 
gelatinous softening of its texture, either or both of which condi- 
tions offer serious impediments to our curative endeavours, im- 
pediments often increased by hepatic and other complications. In 
the instance of an officer of the Indian army, who had been 
brought to the verge of the grave by diarrhoea of long standing, 
recovery appeared to be materially promoted by his living in the 
open air during summer and autumn. Could we in these cases 
impart oxygen to the blood, and thus impart to that fluid more 
life and consistency, we should, I think, assist the cure in a very 
material degree ; and I make it an invariable rule with all such 
patients that they occupy a chair or couch, during temperate 
weather, in the open air, taking care that they are well-clothed at 
the same time. Where, as here, the blood-forming processes are 
suspended, no means should be neglected which can tend to vivify 
the circulating fluid. 

In considering the best means of cure, it is absolutely neces- 
sary first, to ascertain minutely the previous states of health and 
the habits of the patient ; and, secondly, whether the diarrhoea be 
simple in its nature, or associated with hepatic or splenic disease. 
Along with these considerations, a careful examination of the 
matters voided is always requisite. Much will depend on the 
judgment and care given to these preliminaries, for much of the 
perplexity, differences of opinion and of practice, result from in- 
attention to them. But of all the difficulties encountered in the 
treatment of chronic diarrhoea, one of the greatest is that which 
relates to the due regulation of the diet, especially when the 
patient is of the male sex. In this most simple and all-important 
matter it is truly astonishing how unreasonable and unreasoning 
we often find the most able and excellent men. With females I 
have rarely known much difficulty, on the contrary ; while with 
men I have often noticed a morbid craving amounting to fatal in- 
fatuation, requiring the active and vigilant guidance of others to 
counteract ; for here the mind is greatly enfeebled, the power of 
self-control lost. In these unhappy instances men may in truth 
be said to " pepper tlicinsilves into appetite, that they may eat 
and drink ami die." The climax of devotion to the luxuries of 



508 CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 

the table, related of an old Indian, is believed to be suppositions ; 
but, however this may be, it is characteristic of certain individuals 
everywhere to be seen : " True, I have lost my health in India, 
my liver is gone, and I have nothing before me but a few years of 
suffering ; but I have eaten mango fish." This would realise the 
picture of Hogarth's voluptuary, who dies with an oyster on his 
fork. The state of the mind in these unhappy cases amounts in- 
deed at times to complete insanity on matters relating to diet, 
while in others we perceive the most uncontrollable irritability 
and morbid sensitiveness about the merest domestic trifles. I have 
known men of the most amiable and placable disposition, to fly 
into a fury of rage, and to threaten their wives with everything 
short of personal violence and ill-treatment, when they have ven- 
tured the gentlest remonstrance against irregularities at table. 
The circumstances of the death by chronic diarrho3a, at the Cape 
of Good Hope, of a gentleman whom I had known well in India, 
were related to me by a common friend ; and one of these was 
that up to the last day of existence the deceased continued to eat 
enormously of everything which he could bribe his servants to 
procure. He actually concealed mutton-pies under his bed- 
pillows, where they were found after death ! A gentleman from 
India, naturally of a good temper, but afflicted with chronic diar- 
rhoea, got into a paroxysm of rage with his native valet, and the 
result was apoplexy y and consequent incurable hemiplegia. It 
would seem that in these cases the morbid sensibility of the or- 
ganic system of nerves supplying the mucous surfaces extended 
by irritation to the brain, and this the more readily in persons 
from India, in whom the previous exaltation of the nervous func- 
tion within the tropics, coupled as that often is with anaemia, may 
render them more liable to such dangerous sympathies and com- 
plications. 

I have known two persons who, on discontinuing the use of 
opium, fell into an epileptic condition. The first was a surgeon 
of the Indian army, who, for a time, conducted his own treatment ; 
the other was a distinguished general, who had been treated with 
opiates for the cure of his diarrhoea on the voyage homewards by 
the Cape of Good Hope. 

I am anxious to impress the fact that, in the disease now under 
consideration, the first step in the treatment is the enforcement of 
the strictest rule of diet, for without that all else is useless. This 
rule of rigid strictness applies to all stages of diarrhoea, and so 
satisfied am I of its justice, that I believe most cases of the dis- 
jase, of the simple and uncomplicated nature, would require but 
ttle treatment, other than rigid abstemiousness, provided it were 
applied at the very commencement of the disease. But, in the in- 
stances of tropical invalids on their return to Europe, we are ne- 



CHRONIC DIARRH05A. 509 

cessarily called to the treatment when the diarrhoea has existed 
long and made great progress ; and even here how often do we 
see patients sliding into their graves through their own negligence, 
or that of relatives, whom we feel assured that we might save if 
they could but be placed within the systematic control of an 
hospital ? 

In matters that relate to the conduct of the patient the circum- 
stance next in importance to rigid care in diet is attention to the 
clothing ; and here his sensations and wants will generally be 
found on the side of safety. The sufferer should be incased in 
flannel in all weathers, sometimes with the addition of a silk 
covering, and a double layer of flannel should invariably cover 
the abdomen, the apartments being maintained of a high and 
equable warmth, especially in the winter season. In every form 
and variety of chronic diarrhoea, warm baths, used occasionally at 
bed-time, will be found of much service ; indeed, every means 
which determine to the surface of the body is most efficacious. 
In the instance of two officers under my care, who contracted 
diarrhoea in England, and who were forced to return to India 
when but half-cured, I predicted that the equable determination to 
the skin, resulting from external heat in India, would restore their 
healths, and so it proved in both cases. 

In determining the strictly medical treatment of chronic diar- 
rhoea we ought to be guided by our knowledge of its nature and 
cause, for without this our measures are apt to become variable 
and uncertain in their aim and result. For practical purposes we 
shall do well to ascertain, by the most careful and minute exami- 
nation, whether the disease be confined to the mucous membrane 
of the bowel, or whether, with or without anatomical changes in 
the intestine, there be disordered function, or actual disease, in 
the liver. This is indeed a matter of the first importance, as re- 
gards the selection of remedies, and the safety of the patient. 
Where the case is simple and uncomplicated in its nature that 
is, confined to the mucous surfaces, we shall find it advantageous 
to begin our treatment by means calculated to allay general irrita- 
bility and irritation of the mucous membranes. For these pur- 
poses the combination of mild opiates with alkalies will be found 
both grateful and useful. I sometimes found the liquor taraxaci, 
with soda or potash, and a sufficiency of opium to restrain over- 
action of the bowels, very beneficial ; while, in other instances, 
the cretaceous preparations, combined with sudorifics, and with 
opium in larger proportions, and with aromatics, succeed better. 
In this, as in other morbid affections where acidity and rancidity 
of the stomach and bowels are so liable to exist together, it is re- 
markable how often we find the mineral acids fulfil all the indica- 
tions ordinarily accomplished by alkalies. So much is this the 



510 CHRONIC DIARRHfEA. 

case that nothing but observation and experience can enable us to 
decide on the remedy most suitable to each case. 

While these means are being used, it is generally necessary at 
the same time to repress excessive secretion from, and excessive 
action of, the bowels ; and here the mineral and vegetable astrin- 
gents are most powerful towards the cure, combined, as above re- 
commended, with more or less opium, according to the urgency of 
the symptoms. The sulphates of copper, of iron, and of quina, 
combined with opium ; the nitrate and oxide of silver, alone, or 
with opium in the form of pill, in solution, with nitric acid and 
laudanum ; the nitric and nitro-muriatic acids, the sulphuric acid, 
acetate of lead, bismuth, kino, catechu, krameria, simarauba, 
hsematoxylon, tannic and gallic acids, nux-vomica, when com- 
bined with opium or with Dover's powder, will each in its place 
be found of value in the cure of chronic diarrhoea in its simple 
form. 

. Much of the indiscriminate disparagement thrown by some 
authors on the mineral and vegetable astringents has arisen, I 
think, from exclusive views respecting the pathology and conse- 
quent treatment of chronic diarrhoea, the pathology being too ex- 
clusively hepatic, and the treatment too exclusively mercurial ; 
for there are cases of chronic diarrhoea in which mercury proves 
extremely mischievous, and others in which this mineral, or else 
the nitro-muriatic acid bath, will be found the chief or only means 
of cure. Astringents, again, even where they cannot cure, are of 
great use by moderating or arresting serous discharges, thus saving 
the powers of the constitution, and giving time for the operation 
of the more special remedies, such, for instance, as address them- 
selves to diseased states of the liver, in diarrhoea with hepatic 
complication. Where the seat of diarrhoea is confined to the 
mucous intestinal surfaces, astringents and tonics are indeed the 
chief remedies proper to the case, aided by a well regulated diet. 
When, by restraining serous discharges from the bowels, through 
the constringing influence of the proper mineral or vegetable 
astringent, we see the number of evacuations reduced to one or 
two formed motions in the twenty-four hours, instead of ten or 
twelve fluid discharges, while the patient regains flesh and strength 
apace, we are surely warranted in believing that the means are 
tending to the end.* 

* Dr. W. Lempriere, physician to the army depot, and who had served in the West 
Indies, in his report on the Aluminous Chalybeate Spring at Sandrock, Isle of Wight, 
1812, states that he has used the chalybeate and astringent in chronic dysentery and 
diarrhoea, in general debility, especially in the cases of invalids from tropical climates, 
in hypochondriasis and dyspepsia, and it was used by Dr. William Saunders, of London, 
and others, in uterine and vaginal discharges. Dr. Lempriere exhibited this water also 
as a tonic and chalybeate to numerous soldiers from Walcheren, suffering from anaemia 
and visceral congestions, with marked and beneficial results. In the cases of soldiers 



CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 511 

Astringents, in certain appropriate cases, constringe the relaxed 
vessels and mucous surfaces, and heal the aphthous ulcerations of 
these structures, in much the same manner, and apparently as 
efficaciously, as when applied in similar states of the mouth and 
fauces in the infant, provided always (I would repeat over and 
over again) that the diet be carefully regulated. The same may 
emphatically be said of the mineral acids. I have no doubt that 
the nitric acid, for instance, given freely, has a most beneficial 
effect on irritable and on ulcerated mucous surfaces ; and there 
seems no reason to question that similar benefits result from the 
free use of the sub-acid fruits. 

A gentleman who had resided long in India suffered from severe 
diarrhoea on his return to England, first in the winter of 1842, and 
secondly, in the winter of 1846. On both occasions the discharges 
were fluid and enormous in amount and frequency, the entire 
mouth and fauces being one mass of aphthous ulceration. Alkalies 
with opiates were used night and morning, while three or four 
doses were given during the day of the compound powder of kino 
and ipecacuanha, with a grain of sulphate of iron, and one-fourth 
of a grain of sulphate of copper. The recovery was in both in- 
stances complete and rapid ; but had the liver been diseased, the 
medicines here exhibited would have proved but palliative. 

When structural disease of the liver exists, or when its function 
is defective or depraved, provided anaemia be not excessive, mer- 
cury in minute doses, conjoined with opium or Dover's powder, 
will be found valuable towards the cure. The anaemic condition 
of the system may, however, preclude the use of mercury, or it 
may cause mercury to disagree ; and this last is more likely to 
occur when aphthae are present. Under such untoward circum- 
stances I am in the habit of prescribing the internal use of nitric 
acid, with or without the infusion of simarauba, and shielded by 
opium. Where an immediate and powerful effect on the function 
of the liver is desired, I use the nitro-muriatic acid in the form of 
a bath, as detailed in a previous essay. " The sulphuric, nitro- 
muriatic, and other acids," says Dr. Billing, " have been recom- 
mended by many experienced practitioners in fevers as well as 

from Trinidad, prostrated by aggravated malarious anaemia, with dropsical effusions, this 
same water effected a cure where all previous means had failed. " It should be under- 
stood,'' says this officer, " that iron, under its various preparations, not only increases 
the tone of the muscular fibre, but also the action of the circulating vessels, even to 
their remotest ramifications, and that when combined with alum, as is the case with 
the Sandrock water, this property is very considerably augmented." 

In the fashion for continental waters I have no doubt that many of the valuable pro- 
perties, and much of the important results, of our home waters have been overlooked by 
the profession, and consequently by the public. A water that should combine at once 
astringency, with good chalybeate properties, is a desideratum in the cases of many of 
the greatest sufferers from tropical diseases. 



612 CHRONIC DIARRH(EA. 

for gargles ; and I may observe that their utility, when applied to 
the mucous membrane within view, as in the fauces, will explain 
the efficacy of the vegetable or mineral lemonades in relieving the 
tenesmus, griping, nausea, &c., of bilious diarrhoea, more quickly 
in the first instance than opiates alone, as they not merely con- 
stringe and relieve the congested or inflamed capillaries of the 
mucous membrane, but help to wash away the acrid bile." 

But in this capricious disease, so difficult of cure, the mineral 
acids may in their turn prove ineffective. We shall then do well 
to have recourse to the vegetable acids, which often exercise a 
signal power over chronic diarrho3a and dysentery. The subacid 
fruits have long been used in such cases in the south of Europe, 
in the East and West Indies, and the grapes of the Cape of Good 
Hope, where the husk is swallowed as well as the fruit, have 
during many years been celebrated for their efficacy in the chronic 
bowel disorders of the numerous invalids who annually resort to 
that colony from the Indian presidencies. 

" The prejudice," says Tissot, " against fruits in dysentery is 
erroneous and pernicious." He adds : " Ripe fruits of every 
sort, but particularly summer fruits, are a preservative against this 
disease." This writer then states that a Swiss regiment in the 
south of France being attacked with the dysentery, " the officers 
purchased the produce of several acres of a vineyard, and gave 
the soldiers the grapes, which cured all those that were ill, 
and prevented any of the others from being attacked." Curtis 
states of the European hospitals of Madras in 1782 83, that the 
medical officers never forbade the use of fruits in the chronic 
stages of dysentery and diarrhoea, and especially of such fruits as 
were astringents, as the mango, guava, and pomegranate, and a 
portion of the rind was always directed to be eaten along with 
them, doubtless with the view to include the astringent property, 
tannin, contained in the rind, along with the acid of these fruits. 
Curtis adds, that when personally as reduced by chronic bowel 
complaint " as ever any European in India, the first turn towards 
recovery was found by him at the hospitable tables of Vizaga- 
patam, where all the tropical fruits were in plenty." They were, 
he says, " grateful and useful antiseptics." 

Within these few years the Bale, or Bael fruit of Bengal, has 
been held to be very efficacious in the treatment of chronic dysen- 
tery and diarrhoea. This fruit, incorrectly termed the Bengal 
quince, for in reality it is of the orange tribe, is imported into 
England in its unripe dried state, and, also, in the state of sugared 
preserve made of the ripe fruit. The bark of the root, and the 
stems of the fresh leaves, are all said to contain medicinal proper- 
ties. " As to the Bael fruit," says a professional friend in Cal- 
cutta, " I consider it the most certain remedy we possess for 



CIIItONIC DIARKHCKA. 513 

clironic dysentery and diarrhoea. I have frequently seen it arrest 
tin* progress of these diseases in twenty-four hours, after all other 
medical treatment had failed. On what the curative property of 
the fruit depends I know not ; it is certainly not astringent to the 
taste, or, at all events, very slightly so. I am inclined to believe 
that much of its efficacy may reside in the thick mucilage which 
surrounds the seeds of the fruit. A singular/ property of the fruit 
is this, that it does not merely restrain undue action of the bowels, 
a> in diarrhoea and dysentery, but also in cases of obstinate habi- 
tual constipation acts as a mild and certain laxative. It may be 
said in all cases to regulate the bowels." On the other hand, an- 
other brother officer and friend, who went from Calcutta to Egypt, 
suffering from chronic dysentery, writes me : " The figs and 
grapes of Egypt have done more for me than ever the Bael fruit 
of Bengal ;" but here, doubtless, the climate of Egypt proved a 
powerful agent in aid of the fruits, which are everywhere con- 
fessedly beneficial in such cases. 

I am indebted to Mr. Henry Pollock for the following account 
of his examination of the preserved ripe fruit, as imported in its 
dried and preserved forms from Calcutta, by several of our best 
chemists : " The pulp and the dried shell of the fruit do not ap- 
pear to me to differ chemically in any respect, except as to 
quantity. They both contain 1. tanuic acid ; 2. a concrete 
essential oil ; 3. a bitter principle, which is not precipitated by 
tribasic acetate of lead, and a vegetable acid. The pulp, as I 
received it, also contained a considerable quantity of sugar, in 
which it was preserved. All three of the substances I have men- 
tioned exist in the largest quantity in the dry rind. There is most 
acid in the pulp." 

Mr. Pound, of Oxford Street, states that in the fruit, as im- 
ported by him, the mucilage exists in about the proportion of 
twenty per cent. 

The preceding observations contain all that appears to the writer 
to be necessary towards establishing the principles of treatment 
in the chronic diarrhoea of tropical invalids. But as each indi- 
vidual case will present its special peculiarities, so it will require 
also special modifications of remedies in its treatment. I proceed 
now to another branch of this interesting subject. 

The following cases are here presented with a view to illustrate 
tin- pathology of chronic diarrhoea: 

CASE I. Mrs. , the subject of the following case, was 

M. n l.y me about six weeks previously to her death. Sin- \\,i^ 
twenty-nine years of age, and had resided seven years in India. 
Very soon after her arrival there, she was M-i/.ed with intermittent 
fe\er, \\hich disordered her health, disturbing the functions of the 

L L 



514 CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 

stomach and bowels especially. She married in her fifth year of 
residence, and had then no ailment, other than an irregular state 
of the bowels, which were alternately constipated and relaxed. 

Soon after marriage, she went into a district of a very jungly and 
malarious character, and there her intermittent fever recurred with 
diarrhoea. She miscarried in the fifth month of her first gestation. 
From this time ague and diarrhosa never left her ; and after con- 
tending with both during nearly two years, she was sent home, and 
arrived in England eighteen months ago. She was visited by se- 
veral of the most able physicians of this country, and resorted to 
many of the provincial towns both for advice and change of air, 
but in all respects her disease became worse than ever, and her 
emaciation extreme. There was now severe diarrhoea, with feverish- 
ness towards evening, and cold, clammy sweat towards three A.M. ; 
the liver was much enlarged ; but, with the exception of a good 
deal of mucus, occasionally streaked with blood, the appearance 
of the intestinal discharges was natural. There was a sufficient 
appearance of bile. I suggested my suspicion that chronic abscess 
existed in the liver. No treatment afforded relief, and the patient 
died in six weeks. 

For the following statement I am indebted to her able and at- 
tentive medical attendant, Mr. J. H. Hutchins, of Trinity Square, 
Tower Hill : 

" External appearances : The body much emaciated ; the 
cuticle of a pale lemon colour, and some slight bulging noticeable 
of the ribs on the right side. Thorax : The cavity very small, the 
diaphragm being high up, reaching to the fourth rib on the right 
side, the enormous size of the liver having encroached upon the 
usual position of the lungs and heart. The lungs were collapsed, 
crepitant, and healthy in structure, but pale and almost bloodless. 
There were no tubercles in the apices ; the heart very small, and almost 
bloodless : its walls thin, and without any coagulable blood. Abdo- 
men : The peritoneum slightly thickened, containing about six ounces 
of serum. Directly it was divided, the liver came into view, stretch- 
ing four inches below the margin of the ribs, the entire right lobe 
adhering to their edges, and having two-thirds of its structure 
merging into a large abscess, containing two pints of purulent 
matter. This was protected by a firm sac, formed by adhesions 
of the peritonaeum, which was entire. The remaining portion of 
the right lobe was much increased in weight and bulk, and its 
texture was very soft. The spleen was pale and soft; kidneys 
small and healthy ; the stomach having slight patches of a dark 
colour, especially the mucous membrane. The intestines had 
slight patches of inflammatory appearance on their peritonaea! 
surface ; the large, especially the caecum, having some plastic 
lymph on its exterior surface, the colon and rectum abounding 



( IIKONir DIAIIRIKF.A. 515 

with ulccrations on their mucous coats. The gall-bladder was 
empty ; the mesenteric glands free from tubercle or other dis- 
ease." 

Remarks. The conduct of this lady, under great and protracted 
suffering, excited the anxious interest of every one who approached 
her. She expressed " a wish that her remains should be ex- 
amined," it is believed from a desire that her husband in India 
might know the actual cause of her death. The case itself is re- 
markable, as illustrating the pathology of chronic diarrhoea, in 
which, I believe, chronic abscess of the liver to be a not infrequent 
cause of death. Here, I venture to conclude, that the hepatic ab- 
scess was of about two years' existence ; in other words, that it 
had been formed in India, and had existed during twenty months 
of residence in England. The anaemic condition was adverse to 
all progress in the abscess, and the " firm sac" was all that nature 
was capable of performing in its conservative endeavour to bring 
about absorption. 

CASE II. The subject of the following notice survived but nine 
days from his landing in England, and his case, like the preced- 
ing, is placed in the front rank, in order to exhibit the pathology 
of the disease under consideration. , Esq., aged forty- 
six, resided twenty-eight years in India, eighteen of which were 
I it^sed at sea, and the rest in Calcutta, in mercantile business. 
He states that in 18*26 he suffered from a severe dysentery of 
llengal, from which his convalescence was but slow, the bowels 
being irregular, sometimes constipated, and at other times loose, 
for a long time afterwards ; but looseness ultimately became the 
dominant condition. Twelve years ago he had a severe attack of 
diarrhoea, and four years ago he suffered from a still more severe 
attack, after which he made a voyage to the Isle of France for the 
recovery of his health. For two years after his return to Bengal 
from this last-mentioned voyage, his health remained compara- 
tively good; but in July, 1850, he was seized with the remittent 
1'i'ver of Bengal, since which his general health gradually de- 
clined, while the bowels became much relaxed, accompanied by 
extreme prostration of strength and anaemic giddiness. He strug- 
gled on for months, in the vain hope that a once powerful consti- 
tution would serve him ; but tropical disease pays no respect to 
1 European vigour of body, and he was in the end constrained to 
come home. 

He is now (August 23rd, 1851) in the last stage of emaciation 
and exhaustion from chronic diarrh<ra. 'I lie entire >kin is of a 
dirty mahogany colour, dry. and cold; the tongue is |ale and 
bloodies, \sitli ulcerated ed^e> ; tlie pulse extremely feeble and 
slow. The erect posture occasions 1'ainine^s, and for months lie 

I. i. -2 



516 CHRONIC DIARBHOU. 

has had increasing deafness. The intestinal discharges are fre- 
quent, copious, serous, and yellow-coloured, apparently well 
tinged with bile ; no mucus or blood. There is no enlargement 
of the spleen or liver ; the urine is natural. It is needless to de- 
tail the attempts at relief, for all such failed of any real benefit, 
and the patient expired, as stated, on the ninth day from his laud- 
ing at Southampton. 

From Mr. Newberry, the medical gentleman in attendance on 
the family, and whom I met in consultation on this case, I received 
the following statement of pout -mortem appearances : " Nothing 
abnormal in the thoracic viscera. In the abdomen the stomach 
and duodenum were healthy ; jejunum in patches, highly vascular, 
but no ulceration in the mucous coat. In the lower part of the 
ileum the peritoneal coat was studded with ash-coloured spots, and 
in parts highly congested, the internal coat being of a chocolate 
colour, and in many places deeply ulcerated, but this was more 
particularly the case in the colon. In the descending portion of 
the colon there appeared to be old disease ; the coats were much 
thickened, and for about three inches the calibre was not more 
than that of the small intestines, with numerous ulcerations. 
There was a large quantity of mucus secreted, and the follicles 
appeared much elongated, in many places containing pus. The 
rectum was also diseased, though not to such an extent as the 
caecum and colon ; the mesenteric glands were enlarged, and 
harder than usual ; the liver, spleen, and bladder were of natural 
appearance." 

Remarks. Here, as in a large proportion of cases of chronic 
diarrho3a, fever had its prominent original share, but dysentery 
had its greatest share. Functional disorder, and then structural 
disease of the small and larger intestines, resulting from the ori- 
ginal dysentery, and both subsequently aggravated by fever, all 
terminated in that form of chronic diarrhoea which so often proves 
fatal. Extensive and irremediable disease of the mucous surfaces 
was here the cause of death ; and it would appear clearly that it 
had its origin in the severe inflammatory dysentery of 1826, ag- 
gravated, no doubt, by more recent fever. 

Here, in all the stages of the diarrhoea, mercurial treatment 
would have been injurious, for the structure and function of the 
liver were unimpaired. 

CASE III. Mrs. , aged thirty-four, of a fair complexion 

and delicate appearance, resided fourteen years in India, and 
states that her mother, and a brother aged twenty -four, both died 
of hepatic disease. She married within two years of her arrival 
in India, and has but one child, now ten years of age. 

In 1845, her husband's health being much impaired, she accoin- 



CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 517 

panied him during a long sea voyage, and on her return to India 
she was, for the first time, seized with fever, which, however, lasted 
but a few days. After this she enjoyed very good health in all 
respects until July, 1848, when she contracted tertian intermittent 
fever, which, in the September following, was succeeded by what 
was considered erysipelas of the throat, face, and scalp. During 
eight days in which this disease continued, she writes that " one 
thousand leeches were applied, a lady at the station having taken 
the trouble of counting them." It resulted from all this that Mrs. 
- suffered from the usual consequences of large depletion, 
including violent palpitations of the heart, and she recovered but 
slowly, and with difficulty, a sufficiency of strength to enable her 
to undertake a journey to Simlah, in the Himalayan mountains ; 
and here she arrived for the benefit of climate and change of air, 
in February, 1849. The anticipations of an improved state of 
health from the mountain air were not destined to be accom- 
plished ; for ague recurred severely, accompanied by diarrhoea, of 
which she had had a slight attack along with the original inter- 
mittent, and during a heavy fall of snow which took place soon 
after her arrival, the diarrhoea assumed a dysenteric character, 
and it has ever since become aggravated under the influence of 
cold weather. 

During more than a year that Mrs. remained at this 

mountain station she made no progress towards recovery, ague, 
and diarrhoea, with occasional severe vomiting continuing to harass 
her, so that during the whole period of her residence in the hills, 
she was capable of leaving her house but twice. A medical report 
of her case, written at this time by an able and attentive observer, 
concludes as follows : "At times she progresses pretty satisfac- 
torily for a few days ; but an attack of fever, however partial, in- 
variably brings back again all her ailments aches, pains, diar- 
rhoea, sickness, leucorrhcea, &c." She quitted Simlah in Novem- 
ber, 1850, in company with her still very sickly husband, travel- 
ling as best she could over more than a thousand miles, to the 
port of Calcutta, whence she took passage for England in January, 
1851, by the Cape of Good Hope, and arrived in London in June 
of the same year. 

During the homeward voyage her disease did not abate ; for 
she says that, besides much suffering from continued sea-sickness, 
she was purged, on the average, from six to eight times in the 
twenty-four hours, in a passage of four months, the matter ejected 
being fluid, copious, frothy, and generally devoid of colour. Here, 
for the first time during her protracted illness, she ceased to men- 
struate.* 

* The frequency with which women cease to menstruate during the voyage to India, 
and back to Europe, is a remarkable circumstance, and one that continually pre- 



M8 CHRONIC DIARRHOEA. 

Night-sweats were also occasionally distressing to her, both in 
India and during the passage home, and they occurred chiefly at 
the feverish, and at the menstrual periods. The purging has 
always been most severe during the night, and in the early morn- 
ing. She complains much of irritability of temper, and of want of 
self-control. For instance, she will sometimes eat of things 
which she knows to be injurious, and says she cannot help doing 
so. During a year or more, there has been an occasional hacking 
dry congh. 

Since her arrival in England, Mrs. has resided some- 
times in the country, and then returned to London, her health re- 
ceiving no benefit from change of air, and as yet but very little 
from various measures of treatment. Once, and sometimes twice 
in every month, she is seized with sense of cold followed by fever- 
ishness, and accompanied by vomiting, and much increase of 
diarrhoea, while her emaciation increases. The pulse, usually na- 
tural, rises to 100 during the paroxysms, and the urine becomes 
much loaded, being of a deep red-and-yellow colour. 

On these occasions, when, after long-continued and distressing 
retching, the smallest quantity of bile is ejected from the stomach, 
the febrile movement, diarrhoea and vomiting, cease, and a partial 
and imperfect convalescence sets in. It would seem as if the 
vomiting were an effort of nature to elicit a flow of bile, and thus 
restore the lost balance of the hepatic function. The liver is en- 
larged, and extends far into the right cavity of the chest. 

The case of this lady is a sad one, for she has had to contend 
during two years, not only with most severe and distressing 
personal illnesses, but she has besides had to guide and to tend 
an invalid husband, suffering from the results of remittent fever, 
coup-de-soleil, and now from diarrhoea of a very severe nature. 

November 22nd, 1851. The patient is returned from a month's 
visit in the country, where she was most dangerously ill, and now 
she is suffering from one of her periodical attacks of feverishness, 
with sense of cold, but no rigor, vomiting, and diarrhoea. On one 
of my casual visits, two months ago, I ordered a nightly dose of 

blue pill and opium ; but as Mrs. quitted London soon 

afterwards, this medicine was discontinued. In consultation with 
Dr. Billing to-day, it was determined to resume the use of mercury 
very sparingly every other night, omitting the opium, and exhi- 
biting three times during the day the decoction of the bark of the 
pomegranate root. 

From this time to the 4th of March, 1852, when she died, her 
sufferings were great and varied. Attacks of feverishness, with 

scntetl itself to me when in Calcutta. I observed that this temporary suspension 
and suppression of the uterine function was common alike to the married and the un- 
married. 



( I1KONIC DIARRHOEA. 519 

aphtha; of the mouth and throat, vomitings, occasional pain in the 
regions of the liver and of the caecum, and excessive diarrhcea, 
occurred twice in every month, and latterly more frequently even. 
Thus she became gradually wasted and exhausted. 

On these distressing occasions, one circumstance always excited 
the attention of the patient ; viz., that after many hours of retching 
and vomiting, if even the most minute streak of bile was percep- 
tible on the side of the basin, an immediate remission of fever, 
vomiting, and diarrhoea took place, followed by a few days of com- 
parative ease. But no real amendment resulted from any plan of 
treatment. Everything failed in succession, and at length she 
sank, emaciated and worn out. The following report of the post- 
mortem appearances was recorded by my friend, Mr. Pollock, of 
St. George's Hospital : 

" The body was extremely emaciated. Abdomen : The liver 
was not much enlarged ; its colour was very different from the 
natural healthy condition, and instead of the dark red appearance, 
it was of a yellowish red colour ; the peritonaeal coat peeled off its 
surface most readily, and the structure was soft, fatty, and easily 
lacerated, as if rotten. The vessels were not unusually filled. The 
gall bladder was not distended, but was filled with bile ; the peri- 
tonaea! membrane covering it was much thickened, and of a pearly 
whiteness, and the sensation given to the finger when the bladder 
was pressed upon was that of a thick india-rubber ball, elastic, as 
if its contents were not capable of escaping. On cutting into it, 
some dark fluid bile escaped, also a large number of gall-stones 
about the size of the common pea, and granular on their surfaces. 
Under the blow-pipe they were entirely consumed. On examining 
the cystic duct, it was found contracted and thickened externally, 
and at the point of junction with the hepatic duct, where the two 
unite to form the common duct, one of these calculi were so 
firmly impacted, that it appeared as if very little bile would pass 
into the intestine The stomach was contracted, contained very 
little fluid, and was apparently healthy. The small intestines were 
also rather empty ; their muscular walls were attenuated. The 
lower portion of the ileum was laid open ; the mucous membrane 
was thickened, but the glands were not affected. A darkish-red 
appearance presented itself in the inner surface, which was partly 
occasioned by the vascular condition of the lining membrane, and 
partly by its being covered with tenacious mucus tinged with blood. 
The caecum and ascending portion of the colon were much dis- 
tended with most offensive and acrid flatus, and also contained 
some dark fluid faeces ; small isolated patches of congestion were 
observed on the mucous membrane, but no vestige of ulceration. 
Tin- transverse and descending colon was contracted, and the 
small quantity of solid faeces contained in the bowel was of a light 



520 CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 

clay colour. The spleen was small and healthy. The kidneys 
rather large, and soihewhat coarse in structure. The bladder was 
nearly filled with urine. The uterus and ovaries were healthy." 

Remarks. Here, as in a large proportion of cases of chronic 
diarrho3a that have come under my observation, intermittent fever 
was the first disturbing cause ; hepatic disease was the concluding 

or final event. Referring to the history of Mrs 's case, and to 

the whole train of symptoms during two years of great suffering, 
it would appear that impaction of the biliary ducts had constituted 
the first permanent hepatic lesion. The ducts once impervious, or 
nearly so, the circulation and the secreting power of the liver be- 
came in a manner obstructed and locked up, and disease of its 
entire texture rapidly supervened until, through fatty degeneration, 
the organ became null. The common duct having been com- 
pletely closed, or nearly so, for so long a time, the hepatic cells 
must have been more or less destroyed, and the secreting power of 
the liver was thus interfered with, and ultimately destroyed also, 
Fatty degeneration was the result. In this lady's case there never 
had been any appearance of jaundice. Regarded in this manner, 
it seems as if fatty degeneration, which ultimately destroyed life, 
became for a time the means of protracting existence ; for had 
the power of secretion continued, the ducts must have yielded to 
distention, and the patient must have died speedily from extrava- 
sation into the peritona;al cavity. We now perceive also how it 
was in this distressing case that vomiting and purging resulted 
periodically as an effort of nature to overcome hepatic and tubular 
obstruction and disease, and how it was that enormous congestion 
of the mucous surfaces was produced. 

Postxcript. It is worthy of remark here, that the husband of the 
lady, whose case has just been described, nearly fell a sacrifice to 
the same disease which proved fatal to his wife. He suffered from 
chronic diarrhoaa most extremely during three years, and to the 
extent of being reduced to a mere skeleton. He had suffered also 
severely from intermittent fever, and his diarrhoea recurred in 
paroxysms, accompanied by an excoriated and aphthous state of 
the mouth and fauces. 

Byra persevering use during many weeks, of minute doses of 
blue pill, added to Dover's powder and gallic acid, the function of 
the liver was restored, and he became in the course of three 
months stouter than he had been at any period of his life, no ves- 
tige of his diarrhoea remaining. This officer's health was restored by 
the use of alterative doses of mercury ; but the gentleman whose 
case is related at page 502-3, suffered during several years from 
diarrhoea, the result of an enlarged liver, received no benefit from 
mercury, given repeatedly and for a long time under direction of 
the most able physicians in this country. lie was eventually 



CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 521 

cured by the nitro-muriatic acid bath. Such are some of the 
exceeding difficulties in treating so complicated a disease as that 
under consideration. 

CASE IV. The result of the following post-mortem examination, 
by Mr. Pollock, was exhibited in the case of the wife of a surgeon 
of the Indian army. As in the majority of the other instances, 
this lady's first illness was intermittent fever ; after which, hepatic 
enlargement, distressing and irregular feverish attacks, general 
anaemia, aphtha), and excessive wasting of the entire frame, at 
length wore her out. 

Mrs. , aged thirty-two. Examination of the body forty-eight 

hours after death : The body was extremely emaciated, and de- 
composition rapidly advancing. Thorax : The cavities of the 
pleurae contained a small quantity of fluid. The apex of the left 
lung was adherent to the walls of the thorax, and in its substance 
were a few crude tubercles. The remainder of the lungs was 
healthy. The cavity of the pericardium contained a small quantity 
of fluid. The heart was pale and flabby, but healthy. Abdomen : 
A small quantity of turgid fluid was contained in the cavity of the 
peritonaeum, especially observed in the pelvis. The liver was 
flattened and spread over a large surface. It was much less red 
than natural, and mottled on its surface by numerous pale spots 
and marks. On cutting across these marks, they were found to 
consist of deposits of lymph and pus, some of them being situated 
in deeper portions, but for the most part confined to the surface 
immediately under the peritonaeal covering. The gall-bladder was 
distended with dark thick bile. Some old and very firm adhe- 
sions existed between the surface of the liver and the walls of the 
abdomen on the right side. The stomach was contracted and 
healthy. The spleen was dark-coloured, and its surface and its 
substance studded with deposits of lymph and pus, in size varying 
from a pea to a pin's head. The surface of the lower portion of 
the small intestine showed increased vascularity of the peritonajal 
coat in patches, and also was marked by dark-blue spots every 
here and there, as if from some mischief to the interior of the 
bowel. On laying open the small intestine, these discoloured 
spots were found to correspond to ulcerations of the mucous mem- 
brane, some being the si/e of a sixpence, others much smaller ; 
some healing, others quite cicatrized ; while some had nearly per- 
forated the peritonaeum. The ulcers were all smooth on the sur- 
face, and the edges not raised, and confined to the lower portion 
of the small intestine. The large intestine was healthy. 

CASE V. , a surgeon of eminence in the Indian army, 

fifty-eight, had served thirty-eight years in India, during 



522 CHRONIC DIARRH(EA. 

which time he suffered from various tropical diseases, and the 
latter years he laboured through with difficulty. His first illness, 
in 1822, was a severe attack of epidemic cholera, from which, being 
then young and healthy, he recovered rapidly. In 1824 he was 
seized with violent remittent (jungle) fever, and this was soon fol- 
lowed by intermittent fever, which latter continued to trouble him, 
at longer or shorter intervals during the ten following years. In 
1832 he had again an attack of epidemic cholera, followed by 
severe pain in the hepatic region, for which leeches and blisters 
were repeatedly and largely applied ; he also used mercury and 
purgatives. From 1842 to 1848, he suffered from dysenteric 
attacks, of more or less violence ; and in November of the latter 
year (1848) he came to England on sick leave, suffering at that 
time from general anaemia and tendency to diarrhoea. There was 
the usual anaemic murmur loudly perceptible in the heart and 
large venous trunks, with much debility and muscular relaxation. 
He was treated by me with chalybeates, and was seen by Dr. 
Watson, who concurred with me in my view of his case. 

Circumstances, unfortunately, obliged Mr. to return to 

India, in October, 1849, still in the ill state of health described; 
and he served in the higher grades of the administrative medical 
staff during 1849-1850, returning to England in April, 1851. He 
was now extremely emaciated from actual diarrhoea, irregular at- 
tacks of intermittent fever, and aggravated anosmia. He resided 
on the Continent until March, 1852, when he came to England, 
reduced to the last stage of exhaustion from aphthous diarrhoea and 
anaemia, the discharges being large, colourless, and serous. There 
was slight enlargement of the liver, and anasarca of the lower ex- 
tremities. Minute doses of blue pill were ordered night and 
morning, and under this treatment the function of the liver was 
completely restored in about a fortnight, the dejections being 
charged with healthy bile ; but nevertheless diarrhoea, though now 
bilious in character, went on to great exhaustion, and there were 
occasional rigors, followed by feverish reaction. Quinine, with 
sulphate of copper and opium were used ; but after a time they 
failed to produce any result, and then I ordered salicin, with nitric 
acid and laudanum, which checked the diarrhoea and feverishness 
completely, the motions being now limited to one in twenty-four, 
sometimes to one in forty-eight hours. The diet all this time was 
composed of milk and farinaceous articles, soups, and the occa- 
sional use of weak brandy-and-water ; but nutrition did not take 
place to the extent that might have been hoped for, and months 
passed without any real amendment In August, 1852, the bowels 
being in a perfectly tranquil state, all medicine was discontinued 
at his own urgent request. The mildest chalybeates appeared to 
him t> disagree, and he was thus left to the influence of diet. 



CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 523 

Still no disposition to an improved nutrition manifested itself, and 
in the middle of October he contracted a severe bronchial cold, 
followed by copious viscid expectoration, some slight oppression, 
and gradual increase of debility. In the first week of November, 
then- was a slight recurrence of diarrhoea, and on the 5th of that 
month he sank from utter exhaustion. 

The following post-mortem appearances are recorded by Mr. 
Pollock: "The body was extremely pale, exsanguine and ema- 
ciated. Thorax : Each of the cavities of the pleurae contained 
rather more than a pint of serum. The structure of the lungs 
was perfectly healthy, and crepitant, except that they were slightly 
eraphysematous at their margins. The pericardium contained a 
small quantity of serum. The heart was rather large, and its sur- 
face somewhat covered with fat ; the latter structure was infiltrated 
with serum to a very great extent. The muscular structure of the 
heart was pale-coloured (exsanguine) but firm. The right ventricle 
was somewhat dilated. The left ventricle was much hypertrophied ; 
its lining membrane was somewhat thickened and whitish ; the 
aortic valves were thickened, opaque, and contained spots of athe- 
roma; their edges were slightly contracted. The root of the aorta 
was roughened by deposit of atheroma, as also other parts of that 
artery to its bifurcation. The blood was extremely thin, and per- 
fectly fluid, no trace of coagula or stain being perceived in the 
heart's cavities. Abdomen : The liver was rather large, of a healthy 
colour, and smooth on its surface, its structure presenting the 
natural conditions. The gall-bladder was much distended ; its 
coats were very thin ; its contents were simply serum, with two or 
three small particles of inspissated bile. The spleen was healthy, 
The stomach was natural. The coats of the intestines were ex- 
tremely thin, and their contents fluid, and like yeast in consistence 
and colour. There were no indications of recent ulceration of the 
large or small intestines ; the mucous membrane of the caecum was 
rather more congested than in health, and more so than the rest of 
the large intestine. The kidneys were very exsanguine, but not 
unhealthy in structure. 

llrnmrks. A long succession of severe tropical diseases 
ana-mia of several years' duration, chronic anaemic diarrhrea, 
defect of nutrition inanition, in fact, destroyed this excellent 
officer. Could circumstances have admitted of his remaining at 
home in 1849, so as not to return any more to India, a valuable 
life might have been saved to his family; but two additional years 
of tropical service, in his then miserable state of health, left no 
hope on his last return to England, either from his native climate 
or from any other remedial means. 

(icncnil Remark*. The post-mortem appearance above re- 
corded, while they exhibit tin- irremediable lesions of structure 



524 CHRONIC DIARRHfEA. 

frequently existing as the cause of chronic diarrhoea, and thus 
establish the justice of the character of danger so often attaching 
to this disease, still afford no information which could have led to 
the effective treatment of the subjects. All the cases had been of 
an incurable nature for a long time previously to dissolution, and 
so far pathological investigation led to no practical results. I 
must here repeat, that in many of the cases sent home from hot 
climates diarrhoea is but, in fact, the last stage in the progress of 
complicated abdominal disease. We are, in medicine, always 
disparaging theory, pure observation, and opinion, and aiming at 
exactness. In pathology we hope to find this last, on the principle 
that the value of all observation or opinion ends where demon- 
stration begins. But how difficult often how impossible is this 
demonstration which we justly aim at; for it does not at all follow 
that because we see and examine we therefore understand. In 
anatomy, natural or morbid, in physiology, in general pathology, 
in therapeutics, where are we to find mathematical demonstrations ? 
We can with great exactness, it is said, ascertain every alteration 
in the function of the kidneys, through chemical analysis ; but no 
one has as yet determined the actual nature of granular degenera- 
tion of those organs. Notwithstanding these discouraging circum- 
stances, I venture to hope that something has here been done to 
exhibit the true pathology and the just treatment of such cases of 
diarrhoea as are of a curable nature. It will be seen that in four out 
of the five fatal cases of this disease here detailed, the liver was 

more or less seriously involved. In the case of Colonel , and 

in several of those successfully treated by me, this organ was evi- 
dently the principal seat of morbid action. Whether the ante- 
cedent may have been the cold and damp of the Himalayahs, or 
the protracted cold stages of intermittent fever, the morbid results 
have generally been the same viz., congested, or permanently 
diseased liver, and consequent diarrhoea. 

The circumstance that intermittent fever, and not remittent, has 
been so generally the antecedent the most pervading or the 
most frequently recurring disease prior to the advent of diarrhoea, 
with complicated abdominal disease, cannot fail to have attracted 
the reader's notice. But why intermittent fevers, which at their 
onset are incomparably less dangerous to life than remittents, 
should in after years found abdominal disease so much more fre- 
quently and dangerously, can only be referred to the greater seve- 
rity and the longer duration of the cold, congestive, stage of the 
former, disturbing very frequently, and during a succession of 
years, the functions of the liver, spleen, stomach, bpwels, and 
kidneys. I am here speaking of the ordinary malarious intermit- 
tent*, and not of the malignant types. 

Congestion of a chronic nature I have long regarded as one of 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 525 

the conditions most certainly conducive to the destruction of an 
organ ; for if the mere retardation or detention of the blood in the 
larger venous trunks be sufficient to spoil the circulating fluid, and 
render it unsuitable for admission into the general mass, and 
a source of its contamination, what must be the consequences, both 
general and local, of a protracted state of congestion of so large 
and of such important organs as die liver and spleen ? 

Postscript. After this essay was written, the following confir- 
mation of many of the facts and views here contained was received 
from an unexpected quarter : 

Dr. Stillman, of New York, writing of the diseases of Cali- 
fornia, says of the chronic diarrhoea of that region : " Many cases 
of Californian diarrhoea were preceded by intermittents ; and al- 
though many do not appear to have suffered in that way, still it 
must be admitted that all were exposed to the intermittent malaria. 
The discharges " (he says) " were copious, liquid, and voided 
without pain, or but momentary griping. The appetite was so 
insatiable that no opportunity of devouring whatever food could 
be obtained was neglected. By nothing was this affection more 
distinguished than by its fatality. Of twenty-five cases of chronic 
diarrhoea fourteen died before the 1st of April (in three months), 
and most of those remaining are known to have died since. Be- 
fore death, emaciation and anaemia became extreme, and the 
mind, which in most cases had been cheerful and hopeful, at last 
gave way to the most childish imbecility." 

Dr. Schulhof, writing of the diseases of the Delta of the Danube, 
says justly : " Where there is ague, dysentery is not far off, the 
former predisposing for the latter by the disorders which it pro- 
duces in the abdominal organs That ague on the 

one hand, and dysentery on the other, will leave behind them 
tokens of their visits by liver affections, every one will readily 
believe." That ague predisposes to diarrhoea even more imme- 
diately, would seem to be established. 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

CURTIS, writing on the Diseases of India in 1782-3, says: 
" The stomach and intestines, the liver, and mesentery, are here 
the grand sources of almost every disease ; or, what amounts 
nearly to the same tiling, in every standing complaint, if the 
radical affection does not lie in these organs, they are sure to be- 
come the principal sufferers in the issue." The justice of this 
observation is confirmed by modem statistics; for we find that 
there occurred, according to Colonel Tulloch, out of an aggregate 



5-26 CH110NIC DYSENTERY. 

European force of 25,433 men of Her Majesty's army sen-ing in 
periods of eight and ten years respectively, between 1823 and 
1836, in the stations of Calcutta, Chinsurah, and Berhampore, all 
in Bengal Proper, 8,499 cases of dysentery and diarrho3a ; and 
though the years included within this return were, as formerly 
stated, subsequent to the first Burmese war, still the proportion of 
dysenteric cases is excessive, making every proper allowance for 
such unfavourable influence. The climate of Lower Bengal is, 
and has always been, very unfavourable to European health also, 
as compared to other portions of our Indian empire ; but making 
every allowance for all circumstances, including the soldier's ill 
habits of life, the amount of sickness from dysentery and diar- 
rhea here exhibited is enormous. 

In the Madras Presidency, out of an aggregate British force of 
82,342 men serving there, from 1842 to 1848, there occurred 
10,531 cases of dysentery, and 9,189 cases of diarrhoea, making a 
total of 19,720 cases of bowel diseases, exclusive of cholera. It 
thus appears that next to the malarious fevers of India, bowel 
complaints are there the most prevalent diseases, while the dan- 
gers to health and to life from these last are even greater than 
from fevers. 

Robert Jackson justly regards dysentery as " one of the most 
important of the maladies that occur amongst troops, parti- 
cularly in the West Indies, where" he says that " in some of the 
islands it amounts to one-half, even to more than half of all the 
forms of acute disease which appear in the hospital return of sick." 
This great physician adds : " It is dangerous in itself more fatal, 
in fact, amongst the military in the West Indies, either primarily 
or secondarily, than any other, the concentrated fever, as incident 
to strangers, excepted." 

I am now to consider the sequela of acute tropical dysentery, 
as it is exhibited in the European returned from hot climates. It 
differs materially from the results of tropical fevers, inasmuch as 
the former involves structural disease, or the most severe disorder 
along the caecum, colon, and rectum, and occasionally involves 
even the whole or greater part of the mucous digestive surfaces, 
and ulcerations and thickenings of these structures are much more 
common to chronic dysentery than to the disease last considered 
viz., chronic diarrhoea. 

I regard chronic dysentery to be, in fact, the special and proper 
sequela to the acute stage of that disease, and as consisting of an 
irritated state, an imperfectly cicatrized or ulcerated condition, 
more or less extensive, of the mucous surface of the caecum, colon, 
or rectum, sometimes of all three. This state of irritation, partial 
cicatrization, or remaining ulceration of the mucous membrane of 
the large bowel, constitutes what I believe to be the essential 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 



527 



nature of chronic dysentery, as contra-distinguished from chronic 
diarrhoea, which latter is proved to be the sequela of fevers more 
frequently than of any other disease. As seen in Europe, chronic 
dysentery has ceased to possess any inflammatory character, even 
of the most chronic nature. 

It may sometimes be difficult to assign the reason, but chronic 
dysentery, whether complicated or otherwise, has always appeared 
to me to be a more manageable disease in this country than 
chronic diarrhoea. I find that the process of healing an ulcerated 
bowel in chronic dysentery is much more readily brought about 
than is the restoration of the hepatic function in cases of chronic 
diarrhoea. The history of this latter disease given in the last 
article will in some measure explain the different degrees of diffi- 
culty and danger to be apprehended in the treatment of the two 
diseases. I have certainly not seen chronic dysentery the sequela 
to the acute forms of the disease, so frequently associated with 
incurable diseases of the liver as is the chronic diarrhrea, notwith- 
standing the great frequency of the hepatic complication in the 
former disease. But though I state this fact as the result of my 
personal experience of the chronic dysentery as it appears amongst 
the returned Indians, I am very far from desiring to underrate its 
occasional dangers here in England. 

In order to exhibit the relations of the dysentery of India to dis- 
eases of the liver, I need only quote the following important facts 
from the statistics of Dr. Macpherson, of the General Hospital, 
Calcutta : 





A.CUTE DYSENTERY 


CHRONIC DYSEN- 




OF BENGAL. 

Observation in tHc 


TERY. 




cases of 


' ' ' )s(T\ i'lt 1'Ml m till' 

cases of 




160 Europeans. 


55 Europeans. 




Cases. 


Cases. 


Liver found to be altered in .... 


84 


31 


contain abscess in . . 


21 


6 


be enlarged in ... 
be gorged and turgid in 
be small in .... 


40 

4 
7 
26 


5 

"s 

11 


be granular in ... 
be softened in ... 


22 
12 


i 


be indurated in ... 


5 


4 


contain cicatrices in . . 


3 


1 


contain hydatids in . . 
be nutmeg in . . . . 
be cirrhosed in ... 





1 

6 

1 



528 CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

Dr. Macpherson is doubtful whether the cicatrices were the 
sequelae of hepatic abscess. This able officer adds that, on a com- 
parison of acute with chronic dysentery, it appears " the liver is 
most frequently altered in the latter ; that abscess is about equally 
frequent in either form ; that in acute dysentery the liver is fre- 
quently enlarged and soft, while in the chronic it is more generally 
small and indurated." 

The stomach and small intestines also suffer more frequently 
in the chronic form, and the mesenteric glands are more frequently 
altered in it. 

Referring to the complications of hepatic disease with dysentery, 
at the other Presidencies, Dr. Macpherson finds as follows : 

In Madras, out of 51 cases, there were found 26 hepatic ab- 
scesses ; and in Bombay, out of 30 cases, there were found 12. 

In New Orleans, hepatic abscess was found by Dr. Robertson 
" the common cause of death in dysentery." 

Sir James Annesley observes that, "Although both chronic 
dysentery and chronic diarrhoea are, in India, occasionally met 
with in simple and uncomplicated forms, and even terminate 
fatally without any appearance of disease being detected in the 
liver, yet such complications are much more frequent than simple 
fonns of these diseases ; and not only is disease of the liver asso- 
ciated with organic changes in the large and small intestines, but 
the mesenteric glands, pancreas, spleen, and omentum, frequently 
also present signs of altered structure." 

" It is worthy of remark," says Dr. Macpherson, " that the liver 
has been found, in the General Hospital of Calcutta, to have been 
altered in 111 out of 215 cases ; in the Medical College Hospital, 
in 13 out of 30 cases ; while Sir James M'Grigor found it, in India, 
altered 16 times in 21 cases ; and in Egypt, as in India, he found 
it diseased." If it be thus, upon examination after death in India, 
in respect of an organ so large as the liver, and generally so un- 
mistakable in the morbid appearances which it presents, what pro- 
portion of hepatic disorder and of disease also, may we not expect 
to find in the living sufferers from fevers, chronic dysentery and 
diarrhoea, on their return to Europe. That the liver is largely- 
involved in such persons there is not, and never has been, any 
doubt in my mind ; and every day's observation and practical 
experience proves its truth. It should be noted of chronic dysen- 
tery as of chronic diarrhoea, that none but the worst cases are sent 
to England those which have resisted every means of cure 
within the tropics, including voyages to sea and other climatic 
changes. 

It is necessary now to look to the lesions of the intestinal canal 
and other organs; and we find that, in the 160 cases of acute 
dysentery already mentioned, the following facts are recorded : 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 529 

Cues. 

The il 'in n is noted as over- vascular or congested in .21 
Slight ulceration and abrasion are seen in . . .3 
In a state of sphacelus in . . . ; .1 

Mucous coat of the stomach over-vascular or sof- 
tened in ........ 4 

Mucous coat of the stomach ulcerated in . .. . 1 

Large intestine, chiefly caecum, sigmoid flexure, and 

rectum ulcerated in all the cases. 
Caecum, transverse and descending colon, free from 

ulceration in . . ' . . . . , .3 only 

Large intestine, but generally the caecum, perforated in 8 
Ileo-ccecal valve ulcerated and destroyed in . .3 
Suppuration of appendix venniformis not uncommon, 

recorded in 1 only 

Thickening and stricture of intestine . , .4 
Dilatation ......... \ 

Mesenteric glands enlarged or inflamed in . . .17 
Spleen enlarged in ; . . . *. * . .6 
Kidneys diseased in . . . . .2 

In the 55 cases of chronic dysentery, the following facts are 
recorded : 

Cases. 

Large intestines were ulcerated in . . .50 

Colon contracted in . * . . . .3 

Caecum nearly closed in . . . . .1 

Colon perforated in . . . . .. .1 

Stomach noted as unhealthy in . . . . .6 

Chronic inflammation and softening in ; . . 2 
Increased vascularity in ..... 2 

Pylorus in a state of abrasion in . . . . .3 

cancer in . . . 1 

Small intestines noted as unhealthy in .. . . .12 

Ulceration or abrasion of the ileum in . . . .2 

Mesenteric glands enlarged in . .;. . .10 

Spleen enlarged ....... 4 

After this summary, we shall be prepared to learn, that out 
of 2,044 admissions from dysentery into the General Hospital of 
Calcutta, from 1830 to 1850, there occurred, according to Dr. 
Macpherson, 457 deaths, or 22'3 per cent. ; and " the extremes 
of mortality have been 14'8 in 1833, and 34 in 1845. 

Having shown so much of the antecedents of the cases of 
Knropean sufferers from tropical dysentery, we have now to con- 
template their condition as they present themselves in England. 

M M 



530 CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

But I would again observe, in a prefatory way, that how dangerous 
soever acute tropical dysentery may be (and few have witnessed 
more of its dangers and complications than the writer of these 
Essays), still its sequelae in the chronic form, as they present 
themselves in Europe, are neither so difficult of cure, nor so fatal 
by many degrees, as the chronic diarrhoea of the same class of 
persons viz., the returned Indians. In my personal experience, 
and speaking of all the cases of chronic dysentery that I have 
treated in England, I should say that some have recovered slowly, 
and with much trouble, some recovered rapidly, but, excepting the 
very complicated cases, few died. But it must be remembered that 
many of the cases of severer hepatic complication die speedily 
in India ; for they are not often seen in England, even in the 
persons of those who come home by the more expeditious route 
through Egypt. 

The sufferer from chronic dysentery presents himself in a state 
of impaired nutrition : there is emaciation, dryness and harshness 
of skin, with an anxious or irritable expression of countenance, 
and pallor or sallowness of complexion. The hair, as in fevers of 
long standing, and in chronic diarrhoea, is scanty, dry, and mossy. 
The tongue is generally coated, the edges being red and irritable. 
The pulse is feeble, and sometimes frequent; the respiration 
natural. Where no enlargement of the liver or spleen exists, the 
abdomen will generally be found flattened, and free from tender- 
ness ; but the conditions of this cavity, on exploration, will neces- 
sarily depend on the existence, or otherwise, of structural disease, 
or of severe disorder or irritation in any or all the organs contained 
in it. In short, we must be prepared to witness, in the returned 
Indian, the consequences of previously acute disease more or 
less violent and extensive ; the stages of fever and of inflamma- 
tion having long passed away, we have now to deal with their more 
or less severe remote results. 

The symptoms of chronic dysentery vary only in degree from 
those of the acute disease. The motions, in the former dis- 
ease, will be voided with tormina and tenesmus, and will 
contain mucus with blood, and purulent matter with blood, ac- 
cording as the mucous membrane of the large intestine is more 
or less injured in its structure; but when the motions are 
passed without tormina or tenesmus, and only contain mucus, 
the condition will be found one more of irritation than of a 
serious character. When, on the other hand, we find chronic 
enlargement of the liver associated with chronic dysentery, the 
anatomical changes, and consequent disturbances of various im- 
portant functions already described, will prepare us for much 
increase of severity in the symptoms, with corresponding diffi- 
culty in the treatment. We have here to deal, not only with 



CHKONIC DYSENTERY. 581 

disease of the larger bowel, but with actual disease also, or great 
disturbance in the functions, of all the associated organs. As in 
chronic diarrhoea, the discharges are most frequent in the night 
and early morning. 

A knowledge of the functional and structural changes existing 
during life is of the greatest importance, and those last are best 
ascertained in their nature, extent, seat, and complication, by a 
careful examination of the abdominal regions, and an inspection 
of the matters voided. Without such examinations we can 
neither arrive at a just diagnosis, nor at a treatment proper to 
each case. 

A more or less extensively ulcerated state of the mucous mem- 
brane and glands of the large intestine, with thickening of its 
coats, and narrowing of the bore of the bowel through deposit of 
fibrin between its coats, with or without complication ; these con- 
stitute the essential conditions of chronic dysentery, and the resto- 
ration to health can only be affected by cicatrization and absorp- 
tion ; and that these favourable processes are in progress is best 
ascertained by observation of the more natural appearance of 
the evacuated matters. 

In considering the means of cure in chronic dysentery, there is 
no one consideration of more serious importance than the diet a 
diet which barely sustains the system, and which is bland and un- 
irritating, being all that ought, in any case, to be allowed. Neglect 
of proper diet not only retards the progress of cicatrization, but it 
tends to reproduce and to extend ulceration, and thus to cause 
dangerous and even fatal relapse. A deprivation to the very verge 
of starvation would, in many cases, prove salutary, by calming 
peristaltic irritation, and thus affording time for the healing of 
ulcerated or abraded surfaces. Robert Jackson forcibly condemns 
" a form of diet termed generous, where the intestinal canal is 
ulcerated, its coats thickened, the mesenteric system obstructed, 
and other of the abdominal organs contingently diseased." Next 
to diet, we should enjoin care in clothing, and in abstaining from 
exercise. The clothing should, in all cases, be such as to ensure 
an equable determination to the skin, and, in bad cases, the rest 
should be absolute. 

Having to deal with relaxation, with thickening, or with actual 
ulceration of the mucous surface of the large intestine, along with 
various complications, our medical appliances must be apportioned 
accordingly. In illustration of this part of the subject, I would 
adduce the following cases: 

CASE I: December 29th, 1848. Lieut. , of the Indian 

anny, aged twenty-one, is stated in the report of the regimental 
surgeon to have resided but two years in India, and to have been 

M M 2 



53'2 CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

of regular and temperate habits. But, shortly after his arrival in 
India, in March, 1846, he was seized with acute dysentery ; and 
from that date to February, 1847, he experienced three several 
attacks of the same disease. The second attack was of a danger- 
ous acute nature, " and he passed a large sphacelus on the seventh 
day of the disease. During the period between these grave attacks, 
he has never passed a week without recourse to the aid of medicine, 
in some shape or another, for uneasiness and derangement of the 
bowels. His liver is subject to constant great functional irregu- 
larities; and I have sometimes observed a fulness of the right 
hypochondrium ; but this organ has never been the subject of the 
patient's complaint. He appears to have a constitutional scorbutic 
tendency ; for when in his best health, his gums and teeth are 
invariably coated with blood on first waking in the morning." 
These official details extend from the 26th of August to the 8th 
of October, 1848. The attacks of dysentery commenced at 
the former date, with severe griping and cutting pains across the 
belly ; and during the day he voided several offensive frothy stools, 
with mucus and some blood ; " there was likewise frequent vomit- 
ing and much tenesmus." The treatment consisted of leeches to 
the abdomen, fomentations, blue pill with ipecacuanha and opium, 
and occasional doses of castor oil. This course of treatment, 
varied only by the occasional use of a drastic purgative, was con- 
tinued up to the 2nd of October, when the bowels are described as 
"excessively torpid," the matters voided being tinged with "muco- 
purulent matter, but otherwise the evacuations are healthy." 

On the 29th of December, 1848, I first saw the patient in Lon- 
don. His manner indicated great nervous excitement; the com- 
plexion was dark and muddy, and there was much emaciation ; 
the skin was perspirable ; the pulse natural ; the tongue clean. The 
bowels were still lax, the motions numbering from three to five in the 
twenty-four hours, and were voided principally during the night and 
early morning. He voided much ropy colourless mucus, but with- 
out griping or straining. There was no tenderness on pressure in 
any part of the abdomen ; no enlargement of the liver or spleen. 
He was ordered to take an ounce three times a day of a mixture of 
infusion of simaruba, with dilute nitro-muriatic acid and lauda- 
num ; while the diet was directed to be very spare, and to consist 
of farinaceous articles with milk; he was directed to use warm 
clothing, the warm bath occasionally on going to bed, and to avoid 
all exercise. 

February 5th, 1849. The lax state of the bowels continues, but 
there is much less mucus voided. Ordered a fourth o^ a grain of 
sulphate of copper, with half a grain of opium, mixed with extract 
of gentian, in the form of a pill, three times a day. 

March 9th. Much improved. Has but two motions in the 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 533 

t \\i-nty-four hours. Thinks the pills cause nausea, and I there- 
fore substituted two grains of gallic acid for the sulphate of cop- 
per. The complexion and general condition are improved, and lie 
is allowed solid animal food. 

May 19th. He says he feels quite well, with the exception of 
" a sensation of cold in the bowels, and of a feeling that they would 
be moved by the use of cold drinks." Has but one consistent 
motion in the twenty-four hours. Ordered four grains of pow- 
dered nux vomica three times a day in pill, and allowed a tumbler 
of bitter ale at dinner. 

June 5th. He declares himself now " really well in all respects, 
and that he has acquired his ordinary condition and weight ;" com- 
plexion much improved. Ordered a vinous solution of quinine 
and citrate of iron twice a day ; and in the event of the bowels 
becoming constipated, he was directed to use an enema of cold 
water; when a more effective aperient became necessary, he 
was ordered to take a mild dose of magnesia and rhubarb with 
ipecacuanha. 

Remarks. The case of this young officer had in India been of 
a dangerous character, for he voided exudation-tubes of the croup- 
ous character, and frequently also shreds or dark-coloured flakes of 
dead mucous membrane. The nervous temperament and the scor- 
butic complication also added greatly to the difficulties of early 
treatment. But, on arrival in England, the health had somewhat 
improved. There were then but slight traces or remains of ulcera- 
tion of the mucous surface of the larger bowel, and there was no he- 
patic or scorbutic complication. The treatment was therefore simple 
and freed from difficulty. I believe that the formula originally 
prescribed would have conducted his case to a successful and 
safe conclusion ; but such were his terrors of what he would desig- 
nate " dysentery " that I felt constrained to use active mineral and 
vegetable astringents in order to appease his fears. The powdered 
nux vomica appeared to act very beneficially, and I generally find 
it so in the irritable state of the colon, which so frequently follows 
the ulcerative dysentery of tropical climates. 

In the instance of this young officer, as in so large a proportion 
of all who come home sick from India, the appropriate winding-up 
to the treatment consisted of chalybeates, given with a view to 
remove the anannic condition ; but in this completion, as in the 
curative endeavour, the salutary effect was greatly retarded by the 
temptations of the London clubs. 

CASE II. October 18th, '1849. Assistant-Surgeon , of the 

Indian Army, aged thirty-eight, had resided eight years in India. 
His complexion \\;is naturally sallow, temperament phlegmatic, 
habit abstemious. "From childhood," he says, "until shortly 
previous to the present dysenteric attack, he had been subject to 



534 CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

occasional bilious vomitings, and in 1840, while with his regiment 
in Singapore, he was seized with hemiplegia of the left side, 
from the effects of which he almost, but never quite recovered. 
In 1847, he was stationed at Masulipatam, and in May was seized 
with slight diarrhoea, to which sufficient attention was not paid. 
Dysentery supervened, from which, in spite of all treatment, he 
has, with the exception of an interval of seven months, been suffer- 
ing ever since, more or less." During this interval he took no 
medicine, the purging stopping and returning in the same sudden 
and unaccountable way. The acute symptoms had lasted three 
months, during which leeches to the abdomen and anus, fomenta- 
tions, blue pill with ipecacuanha, and mild aperients were used : 
then, as acute disease subsided, the mineral acids with opium, 
nitrate of silver and acetate of lead with opium, in the form of pill 
and enema, and change of air, were successively had recourse to, 
but the patient was " gradually losing ground," and in October, 

1847, he embarked for England; having, at the time, "twelve 
motions in the twenty -four hours, watery, with a little blood." 
Opiates and astringents were used during the voyage home, by the 
Cape of Good Hope, and he arrived in England in February, 

1848. From this date he consulted various medical gentlemen, 
and, amongst others, " a practitioner who devoted his attention 
more particularly to the diseases of that region," i. e., the rectum. 
No real benefit having resulted from any of the various courses of 
treatment, the patient was recommended by his friends to consult 
me, and he did so on the 18th of October, 1849. At this time he 
describes the " calls to stool as very frequent, particularly in the 
morning," the discharge consisting " of a thin, watery looking fluid, 
often tinged with more or less blood." The stools amounted to 
six or eight daily, and were voided with " griping and attended 
with scalding of the anus." The liver was apparently free from 
disease, and there was little or no pain on pressure in any of the 
abdominal regions. From the date of his consul ting me to the 30th 
May, 1850, the patient experienced occasional but never complete 
relief. He used the nux vomica, bismuth, gallic acid, the mineral 
acids with opium in bitter infusion, chalybeates with opium, &c. ; 
but all without further result than moderating the symptoms. 

At the date last mentioned, the patient came under the observ- 
ation of Mr. Bottomley, of Croydon, whose kindness and attention 
were unremitting. This gentleman now recommended the use of 
mercury and chalk, with Dover's powder, of each three grains at 
bed-time. This treatment was persisted in till the 6th of June, 
when, feeling more weakly, being much griped, and passing " gela- 
tinous-looking motions," cascarilla infusion was ordered. 

June 20th. At my desire the patient this day consulted Dr. 

son, of London, who regarded the case " as Mr. Martin had 

always done, as one of the larger bowel only, uncomplicated with 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 585 

any serious organic change in the liver, or other viscus." Dr. 
Watson ordered nitro-muriatic acid conjoined to gallic acid, the 
use of which he continued until the 30th of August, when there 
was very copious purging of thin, watery, and bloody fluid, which 
was " squirted out with violence." 

Towards the end of December, not having derived benefit from 
any treatment, the patient went to Hastings, where the late Dr. 
Mackness directed him to take bismuth, logwood, opiates, &c. ; 
but no improvement resulting, he returned to Croydon at the end 
of March, 1851, in a very feeble and exhausted condition, from the 
constant drain of large fluid bloody motions. By the 20th of 
April, he was actually sinking, and could not turn in bed without 
assistance. I now visited him at Croydon, and found him voiding 
enormous quantities of bloody serum. In consultation with Mr. 
Bottoinley, a pill, composed of diacetate of lead and opium, with 
a solution of the same medicines in the form of enema after each 
motion, were ordered. On the 23rd of April Mr. B. reported to 
me that the patient was " living only from hour to hour," and cer- 
tainly neither of us looked upon his recovery as at all probable ; 
so far from it, indeed, that we spoke of the desirableness of a 
post-mortem examination. The patient had deliberately made up 
his mind to death, and he took what he thought to be a final leave 
of me. The means last used, however, were strictly persevered in 
against all disadvantages ; and the result was remarkable. Reco- 
very took place from this hour. On May 13th the patient states, 
in his notes of the case, that " the remedies last ordered seemed 
at once to check the purging, and the injection was only used 
twice or thrice, and retained for a short time. The bowels had 
now become so costive that tepid-water enemata were requisite in 
order to relieve them." On the 9th of July the patient visited me 
in London, when I ordered twenty minims of the pernitrate of iron 
to be taken in water three times a day, and which was afterwards 
changed for the sesquioxide. 

Under this treatment, aided by a nightly anodyne, the anaemic 
condition of the system was gradually overcome ; the bowels were 
moved by enemata, sleep was secured, and the anaemic state of 
the pulse disappeared. By the 24th of March, 1852, the patient 
had increased in weight from eight to twelve stone, while he and 
his family declared his then condition of health better than it had 
been for years. His necessities, as well as his inclinations, pointed 
to his return to India, " where," he said, " I flatter myself I know 
my duties as surgeon in the service ; and I feel sure that I am at 
any rate much better qualified to discharge them than I am for 
private practice in this country, of which 1 have seen little and 
like less." He proceeded to India, and enjoyed good health for a 
year or more, when he was cut off by epidemic cholera. 



536 CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

Remarks. This officer passed through years of suffering of 
every kind, moral and physical, and he bore all with admirable 
fortitude. The character" of the dysentery was severe from its 
commencement ; but, towards its termination, it assumed a deadly 
form and appearance. The cure, too, was retarded by an ill con- 
dition of the general habit, of which anaemia formed but a part. 
With the utmost possible care on the part of the patient (an officer 
of great intelligence), all remedies failed in succession; and in 
April, 1851, he appeared absolutely to be dying. From this ap- 
parently hopeless state of disease, voiding enormous quantities of 
a fluid resembling the washings of raw meat, he recovered under 
the use of lead and opium, exhibited in the manner described 
remedies which had been administered in India without effect. 
But such are the everyday incertitudes, the difficulties, and the 
dangers of medicine. 

It will be seen that mercury had no share in the treatment of 
the cases quoted ; indeed, it is seldom that I have recourse to it 
in the treatment of the chronic form of dysentery as it appears in 
Europe. When there is recent congestion of the liver, from the 
application of cold, for instance, a few mild doses of mercury with 
sudorifics and purgatives, aided by the warm bath at bed-time, 
will be found useful ; but such cases are exceptional. 

" In the more advanced stage of the disease," says Sir James 
Macgrigor, " particularly where there is hectic fever, with exten- 
sive ulceration of the intestine, mercury is invariably found to 
hurry on the fatal termination." Where there is ulceration of the 
mucous surfaces, mercury is extremely mischievous when persisted 
in, or when used to the extent of affecting the salivary glands. Of 
the evil consequences of such treatment I have seen many in- 
stances. Where a more continuous use of mercury, with a view 
to its specific influence on the liver, is called for, I find the fol- 
lowing formula useful: compound ipecacuanha powder, gallic 
acid, mercurial pill, of each one scruple ; oil of cinnamon, four 
drops : make into twelve pills. One or two of these may be given 
at bed-time for so many days as may be necessary, while tonics 
and astringents may be exhibited during the day. When, on the 
other hand, chronic enlargement of the liver is associated with 
chronic dysentery, the condition of the system being anaemic, I 
always have recourse to the nitro-muriatic acid bath in preference 
to mercurials, and of its effects in such instances many striking 
examples will be found in this part of the work. The hepatic and 
splenic complication have each its peculiar danger. In the hepatic 

J have a direct and immediate interference with the functions of 
the stomach and bowels, through circumstances of vascular, nervous, 

cretory actions, and associations ; and in the splenic cornplica- 

<>n NVC perceive the peculiar cachectic influence, affecting all the 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 537 

fluids and tissues, so as to prove a serious detriment and hindrance 
to cicatrization. Thus we perceive how both the complications 
here noticed must be attended with dangers and difficulties. 

Whether the condition of the mucous membrane of the intestine 
be that of relaxation, thickening, or ulceration, we shall find our 
best means of cure in the mineral or vegetable astringents and 
tonics, with or without opium. 

Robert Jackson says, that where ulcerated surfaces are healed, 
or in a healing state, the foundations of congestion having been 
removed, and where purging continues from relaxation or irritabi- 
lity, kino, catechu, and simaruba have appeared to him " the most 
useful." But be found it necessary " to vary the form of tonic," 
as the effect, " often considerable for a few days at the first trial, 
is soon lost." . . . " It is to this condition of disease that the 
arsenical solution particularly applies ; and it is here a remedy of 
the greatest value." In the great majority of instances, I find it 
necessary, in order to secure the full effects of both astringents 
and tonics, to conjoin them with opiates, in more or less minute 
proportions, according to the urgency of the symptoms. 

Whether we employ the mineral astringents such as the diace- 
tate of lead, sulphate of copper, nitrate of silver, or quinine, 
arsenic, or mercury, the mineral acids, the vegetable tonics or 
astringents, the rule of shielding them with one or other of the 
preparations of opium, is equally applicable. 

In every stage of dysentery, whether acute or chronic, we must 
endeavour, by every means, to quiet irritation and movement of 
the bowels, as by such quieting means we most certainly guide 
the patient towards the healing of abrasions or ulceration of the 
intestinal mucous membrane. I repeat that astringents and tonics, 
mischievous in the inflammatory stage, are here much to be relied 
upon. A bland and spare diet, proper medicaments, including 
warm clothing and warm baths, mental and bodily rest these are 
the rational means found on experience to secure the end in view. 
But though this principle and these means ought never to be lost 
sight of, we shall have occasionally, in the management of chronic 
dysentery, to use gentle aperients, with a view to remove accumu- 
lations of matters in the caecum and colon, organs often thickened, 
narrowed, and weakened by previous disease. 

These last means will be more specially necessary as we approach 
the period of cure ; and I have found castor-oil, in small doses, very 
useful. Occasionally, however, the oil produces griping and 
tenesmus, and thus proves very mischievous ; so that the question 
of the agreement or disagreement should always be ascertained 
beforehand. The aperient which I have found most generally to 
agree, is a combination of rhubarb powder and magnesia, with 
those of columba and ipecacuanha, and bicarbonate of soda ; a 
combination of magnesia, sulphur, and ipecacuanha, with some 



538 CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

aromatic tonic, is likewise useful ; and so is the washed sulphur, 
made into pills, with balsam of copaiba ; but even such mild means 
as these should be exhibited but seldom, and active cathartics 
should never be employed. The inflammatory and congestive 
irritations of the larger bowel, during acute dysentery, cause the 
rapid and frequent expulsion of all the contained matters ; whereas, 
in the chronic stage, there exists a diminution of both the irritative 
and natural muscular actions ; and hence the necessity for the oc- 
casional removal of matters retained through torpor and inaction 
of the larger bowel. 

Sudorifics, so powerful in the acute disease, I have seldom been 
able to use with the emaciated and exhausted patients who come 
home from hot climates suffering from chronic dysentery, the en- 
feebled mucous membrane and skin of such persons being unable 
to bear any medicine producing nausea and cuticular discharge. 

An irritable state of the sigmoid flexure of the colon is common 
to both diarrhoea and dysentery in their chronic forms. This 
condition is caused by the frequent draining of vitiated, and there- 
fore irritating matters through the angle of the bowel. It is a 
painful and distressing affection, and requires much attention in 
the way of mild aperients and soothing enemata. Thickening of 
this portion of the bowel, and a consequent narrowing, more or 
less partial, is no unfrequent occurrence in persons who have 
suffered long from such ailments. Here, as in similar conditions 
of the rectum, enemata of acetate of lead, of nitrate of silver, of 
copaiba balsam, all conjoined with opium, will be found of 
much service. The value of finely-powdered charcoal, exhi- 
bited by the mouth, and in the form of an enema, was very fa- 
vourably spoken of by the army medical officers during the late 
war, both in the Mediterranean and West Indian commands. It 
was used by Dr. Borland and others in the remittent and inter- 
mittent fevers of those countries as well ; but its best effects were 
manifested in the acute and chronic forms of dysentery. Robert 
Jackson gave the charcoal in scruple doses by the mouth, adding 
a few grains of rhubarb and ipecacuanha powder, and in drachm 
doses, in rice-water or arrow-root, as an enema, and that with 
signal effect. One case is here recorded, in which the charcoal 
acted most beneficially in the form of an enema. Under every 
form of treatment, warm baths, used at bed-time, and continued 
for half an hour or an hour, will prove powerful in aid of internal 
remedies. 

Owing to the muscular relaxation, so common to persons who have 

jsided long in tropical climates, and to tropical invalids, hrcmor- 
rhoidal tumours, relaxation, and descent of the mucous membrane 
the rectum, are very liable to occur ; and when to this condi- 
tion the muscular system we add the general and local results 

f chronic diarrhoea or dysentery, with their anaemic states, and 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 589 

the tenesmus of months, or even years, no wonder that the sphincter 
and the entire perinaeum should prove inordinately flaccid. This 
state of perinaeal relaxation causes very distressing uterine descent 
likewise, even in very young females. The pain and irritation 
from haemorrhoidal tumours keep up a disposition to void the con- 
tents of the bowels, and to ineffectual straining, while the loss of 
blood so frequently attendant on these affections greatly aggra- 
vates the concomitant anaemia. Along with relaxation and anaemia 
there exist here immediate mechanical sources of injury : the de- 
scending mucous lining, or the tumours, as may be, from within or 
without the bowel, and the hypertrophied integument external to 
the sphincter, keep that muscle in a permanently relaxed or half- 
closed state, impairing its tone ; and the haemorrhoids, whether 
blind or bleeding, proceed from bad to worse. In general, it will 
be found proper to wait for some improvement in the general 
health before any kind of operation is had recourse to ; but where 
the bleeding from the hsemorrhoid is depressing, the application 
of nitric acid to the bleeding point or points is advisable. In other 
cases, and where the habit is in a better condition, I recommend 
the operation of Hey and of Abernethy that preferred also by 
Listen and Mr. Fergusson. This operation, always safe, and 
generally successful, consists first, in replacing the obtruded in- 
ternal pile, or relaxed mucous membrane, with the oiled finger ; 
and secondly, in drawing out the loose hypertrophied external 
integument with a common vulsellum, and in clipping off por- 
tions of it with strong scissors, the directions of the excisions 
corresponding with that of the bowel the blades of the scissors, 
according to Mr. Synie of Edinburgh, being directed from the 
circumference towards the centre of the anus. This operation at 
once removes the mechanical external impediment to the natural 
contractile action of the sphincter, while the cicatrices resulting 
from the wounds afford permanent buttresses to support both the 
sphincter and perinaeum, or parts immediately external to and 
around the anus. 

In cases where the relaxed, thickened, or otherwise altered 
mucous membrane, with or without condylomata, protrudes, the 
application of nitric acid, as first recommended by Dr. Houston 
of Dublin, or else the galvanic cautery, should be made. Like 
every operation for the cure of haemorrhoids, the galvanic cautery 
and the nitric acid require care in the application ; and so 
does the ligature, which some operators still prefer. The acid 
should be of the strongest, so as utterly and at once to destroy the 
vitality of the parts to which it is applied ; and it is better to 
repeat the application to small points at a time than to cover too 
large a surface at once with the acid. The same rule applies to 
the use of the actual cautery, likewise a safe remedy when used in 
the manner recommended by Mr. Henry Lee, of King's College 



540 CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

Hospital. Mr. Lloyd, at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, has for years 
been in the habit of smearing the whole surface of protruded 
membrane, and likewise the congested hgemorrhoidal tumours, 
with solid lunar caustic, it is said with uniform success ; and he 
rarely finds it necessary to repeat the application above three or 
four times. 

But whatever operation may be preferred for the removal of 
haemorrhoids, condylomata, or altered and prolapsed mucous mem- 
brane, the clipping of the hypertrophied loose folds of integument 
around and external to the anus is a measure of absolute necessity 
to the cure. It should constitute the first and earliest operation, 
too, whatever else may be ultimately required in respect of morbid 
conditions within the sphincter. The clipping external operation, 
by restoring the free action of the sphincter, is very often curative 
of what are termed internal piles, and this circumstance should of 
itself secure for it a priority and a preference ; but where it hap- 
pens otherwise, the early removal of loose and thickened folds of 
integument, impeding the contractile action of the sphincter, is 
necessary to the eventual success of any and every means of cure 
directed to within the anus. 

I state these circumstances upon observations of an extended 
nature, both in India and at home. But I would observe further 
of these cases, and, indeed, of all cases of returned Indians 
requiring surgical operations, that to treat them with justice 
requires a careful regard to their peculiar habit care beforehand 
and care in the after-treatment being necessary. The nervous 
system of the returned Indian is excitable, and, if but recently 
from the East, he is often anaemic conditions of the system 
which obviously require much attention. I saw a lady, but recently 
arrived in England, in whom the opening of a small encysted 
tumour nearly proved fatal ; and, in the case of a gentleman, the 
same dangerous symptoms resulted from the removal of a small 
internal hannorrhoidal tumour, by ligature. 

The benefits derivable from horse exercise, in the prevention 
and cure of haemorrhoidal affections, are not generally understood ; 
yet they are very great. Riding on horseback acts beneficially by 
accelerating the course of circulation along the veins, while it 
brings the sphincter and adjoining muscles into alternate action, 
thus contributing, the one action with the other, to prevent venous 
engorgement, and to impart tone to the relaxed muscles. 

I propose now to conclude with the histories of some cases of 
interest, with a view further to illustrate the treatment of chronic 
dysentery. 

CASE III. April, 1854. Captain , aged thirty, had served 

iia six years, enjoying excellent health. In April, 1852, his 
orps was ordered to Rangoon, where he underwent much expo- 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 541 

sure and fatigue, being indifferently fed at times. In September, 
1853, while serving at Prome, he was seized with acute dysentery. 
He was actively treated, with mitigation of suffering ; but purging 
continuing, he was ordered home, and arrived in England in 
February, 1854. Purging still continued to distress him, and he 
obtained leave to reside with his relatives. Here he took calomel 
to salivation, with apparent benefit at first; but after three weeks 
all his distresses returned, and he came to London on the 18th of 
April, 1854. 

He was then pale and anaemic, and much emaciated ; skin cool 
and damp ; pulse feeble and slow ; tongue clean. He was purged 
from eight to ten times in the twenty-four hours, with much strain- 
ing, voiding quantities of mucus streaked with blood. There was 
no hepatic complication, but he had tenderness on exploration 
along the caecum and colon, with feeling of soreness in the course 
of the rectum. Ordered the following mixture, of which two table- 
spoonfuls were used three times a day, and five grains of Dover's 
powder, with two of gallic acid, at bed-time : Infusion of sima- 
ruba, seven ounces and a half ; extract of logwood, and tincture 
of krameria, of each, two drachms ; dilute nitric acid, and dilute 
hydrochloric acid, of each, one drachm ; tincture of opium, one 
drachm and a half. The patient was at the same time enjoined to 
avoid all exercise, to observe great caution in diet, especially as to 
quantity, and the use of warm clothing and the warm bath at bed- 
time. 

April 28th. Had a visit from the patient, stating that though he 
had walked out daily during cold weather, he felt then " quite well," 
and that after the fourth day he had discontinued the night pills, 
contenting himself with the mixture. He added that he had but 
one formed motion in the twenty-four hours, and that unattended 
by either blood or mucus in the discharges, and that straining and 
all uneasiness had disappeared. Ordered the continuance of the 
mixture twice a day, with a view to obviate any tendency to relapse. 

July 18th. Says he has been living in the country, and that 
by exposure to cold while fishing, and by irregularities in diet, he 
has brought back " looseness of the bowels on several occa- 
sions, but no dysenteric feelings." He then had recourse to his 
mixture, and always with complete success. He was again ordered 
to take five grains of Dover's powder, with two of gallic acid, every 
night, and urged to use temperance in diet. This course of medi- 
cine he continued for a month, with how much temperance, how- 
ever, I know not; but he became well. 

Hcnntrks. It were unsafe to conclude that, in a case such as 
this, because it yielded so readily to treatment, it was therefore 
free from ulceration, and from the more grave dangers of secondary 
purulent deposit in the liver. The appearance of the intestinal 



542 CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

discharges, together with the feeling of soreness along the course 
of the large intestine, gave me the impression that ulceration did 
exist, and in such cases there is always a certain amount of con- 
tingent danger. That the symptoms gave way so rapidly was 
more than, under the circumstances, could have been expected, 
and the cure was effected, not by the employment of any specific, 
but by means suggested by experience. 

CASE IV. April, 1854. Major , aged forty-six, went to 

India in 1 828, his actual residence there being twenty-five years. 
He enjoyed good health till 1 832, when he had a severe attack of 
intermittent fever, which has recurred at intervals ever since. 
While in Calcutta, in 1839, he was seized with a diarrhoea, which 
resisted treatment during eight months, but he regained health in 
the heats of April, 1840. 

In November, 1843, while serving at Delhi, he was seized with 
a low form of remittent fever, which emaciated and enfeebled him 
much, and for the cure of which he was sent to the Himalaya 

mountains, where he recovered. In the statement of Major 's 

case by the surgeon of his regiment, it is reported, that "in 1844, 
he had a severe attack of acute hepatitis, for which he was then 
actively treated, and subsequently sent to Simla. He has since, 
at irregular intervals, been under treatment for dysentery, and on 
account of attacks of fever attended with much disposition to 
visceral congestion." 

In 1847-48, while serving at Lahore, he had a recurrence of 
diarrhoea, during two cold seasons, but which disappeared in the 
hot season of the latter year. 

In May, 1851, in consequence of repeatedly recurring febrile 
attacks, he was recommended to proceed to the hills again, where 
he regained good health. 

In November, 1852, Major rejoined his regiment, and con- 
tinued well till February, 1853, when dysenteric symptoms recurring 
with severity, he was, after a time, ordered home, and arrived in 
England in April, 1854. 

He was now in a state of extreme emaciation and distress ; the 
complexion dark and sallow ; the spirits prostrated ; much pain 
along the colon and rectum, with severe tenesmus ; pulse feeble, 
and 82 in the minute. The tongue and fauces are described by 
the medical gentleman in attendance as " red and angry, as if 
stripped of epithelium ; " the motions white, fluid, and frothy, 
containing muco-purulent matter. 

From April to the middle of August I saw the patient at inter- 
vals of two or three weeks ; and Dr. Billing visited him occasionally 
in consultation. The treatment was obliged to be varied about 
every ten days; those medicines which appeared to agree best 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 548 

losing all effect, each in succession. Most of the vegetable and 
mineral astringents were used in conjunction with Dover's powders, 
morphia, simple opium, and bitter tonics, including the nitro- 
rauriatic acid with opium and quinine, all apparently with no other 
result than arresting the progress of the disease. On two occa- 
sions a grain of blue pill with morphia, given at bed -time, appeared 
to promote the function of the liver, to improve the secretions, 
and to correct the irritable condition of the mucous membrane ; 
but at length extreme rectal distress supervened, with straining 
and inability to retain the contents of the bowels for an instant, 
when once the disposition to void arose ; the matters discharged 
being extremely offensive, and containing mucus and pus. A 
drachm of finely-powdered charcoal in barley-water was now exhi- 
bited night and morning in the form of enema, with a remarkably 
soothing effect, while gallic acid and morphia in pill were continued 
three times a day. The effect of the charcoal was the most marked 
of all, the relief being very decisively evident ; and by the middle 
of August the patient was sent into the country for change of air. 

In February, 1855, Major called on me to ask my opinion 

as to his fitness to accept a command in Turkey. I then found 
that for some time previously his bowel complaint had been 
changed for constipation, and that he had gained considerably in 
flesh and strength, although not to the extent to permit of his 
entering on the active duties of his profession. 

Remarks. The case of Major is remarkable for the seve- 
rity of succeeding tropical diseases during two-and-twenty years, 
and for the severity of the eventual dysentery. Originally of a 
powerful constitution, he went through an enormous amount of 
illnesses, one after another, without sinking. On arrival in 
England, and for months subsequently, his case appeared hope- 
less ; but by a persevering course of treatment, frequently changed 
to meet the altering circumstances of the case, by home nursing, 
and by the utmost attention to diet, clothing, &c., this excellent 
officer eventually recovered. 

CASE V. June, 1847. Lieutenant-General had served 

in India about forty years, and had enjoyed more than an average 
share of good health. In 1825-26, he suffered from occasional 
attacks of diarrho3a, but I had personal knowledge that he passed 
through the two campaigns in Ava, during the first Burmese war, 
without any material aggravation of his disorder. 

In 1827, he came to England, ailing, and returned to India in 
1830 restored to health. He served in the Affghan war of 1842- 
43, and returned to India in the enjoyment of good health. On 
being removed to Calcutta, however, in 1844, he was speedily 
seized with dysentery. Two short voyages to sea " did him some 



544 CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

good ;" but a voyage to the Cape of Good Hope being determined 
on, he went to that colony early in 1846. Here, he states, that 
" several relapses, and one of a serious nature, having occurred," 
he returned to Bengal merely to arrange his affairs, and embarked 
thence for England, where he arrived in June, 1847. During the 
voyage, he says, " I had several attacks ; but latterly I became so 
much worse that I don't think 1 could have survived another month 
on board ship." He adds, that " the treatment pursued during the 
voyage, which consisted of lead and other astringents, with opium, 
was entirely changed after landing, and that his recovery was from 
that time very rapid." It was so ; but the symptoms at first wore 
an unfavourable aspect. There were frequent discharges, with 
much distress, referred to the rectum, especially in the early 
morning, all containing pus and blood, the latter being sometimes 
voided in considerable quantities. There was much emaciation 
and debility indeed, great exhaustion, whenever three or four 
motions were voided in rapid succession. The treatment con- 
sisted in the use of the nitro-muriatic acid and laudanum, in infu- 
sion of simaruba adding great care as to diet and clothing, and 
the rigid observance of the recumbent posture. 

On this plan, General improved so rapidly that in a 

fortnigh the was allowed the use of animal food, after which time 
the progress towards recovery was uninterrupted ; and during some 
months, when any appearance of recurrence was manifested, his 
medicine, which he carried about with him, always arrested 
morbid progress, until at length his health was completely restored. 

Remarks. The favourable issue in this instance was more 
speedy and permanent than I could have anticipated, for the dis- 
ease had been of two and a half years' duration, and had resisted 
all medical means, both in India and at the Cape of Good Hope, 
aided by two voyages to sea. The Bael fruit of Bengal did some 
good ; but neither this, nor the grapes of the Cape, proved of avail 
to the cure, and mercury, whenever used on board ship, did per- 
ceptible injury. This case, in fact, looked unfavourable, for ulce- 
ration of the rectum was evident, and perhaps this state of disease 
extended higher up the intestine ; but the course of treatment 
agreed at once, resulting in speedy and permanent recovery of 
health. It proved, unhappily, otherwise, in the instance now to 
be recorded in conclusion. 

CASE VI. Lieutenant-General , aged seventy, had served 

much in hot climates, and had an attack of jaundice at the age of 
twenty-six. He served twice in the East Indies, suffering, on 
the first occasion, from slight attacks of intermittent fever, one 
severe attack of coup-de-soleil, and latterly from chronic dysen- 
tery, but which speedily gave way on coming to England. After 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 545 

two years' residence at home, he returned to India, and ar- 
rived there in the height of the hot season, making a long 
journey into the interior without injury to his health, which con- 
tinued good for about fifteen months under various exposures. 
At the end of the period last named, General having ex- 
perienced a slight recurrence of dysenteric symptoms, such as he 
had formerly suffered from, he returned to England, and I saw 
him in the end of spring. His symptoms were then far from 
urgent : he had lost flesh, and was much depressed in spirits, but 
in so far as the affection of the bowels was concerned, appearances 
promised a speedy recovery. He used to say that " he had never 
felt like the same man since the coup-de-soleil." 

I saw the patient, in all, five or six times only, in the early 
summer of his arrival. The bowels were at this time irregular 
sometimes relaxed, and again constipated, blood and mucus being 
occasionally observed mixed with the contents of the bowel ; but 
there was neither pain nor straining in the act of defecation. The 
skin and pulse were natural ; the tongue clean ; the appetite 
good ; the intestinal and renal excretions were natural. There 
was no tenderness on pressure in any of the abdominal regions 
no enlargement of the spleen or liver ; and the disorder, slight as 
it appeared, was confined to the rectum. 

Great care in diet and clothing was enjoined, avoiding all 
exercise, other than a gentle drive in a carriage ; and in the way 
of medicine, he was directed to take compound powder of kino in 
infusion of simaruba, confection of senna with sulphur and bitar- 
trate of potash being used when the bowels required aid. An 
enema, to be retained in the bowel, was directed to be used at 
bed- time, composed of alum in decoction of oak -bark. 

It was six months from this time that I next saw General , 

by accident, when he told me that he had been residing in the 
country, and been there " treated for the liver, by means of calo- 
mel, which had done him much good." 

The greater part of the following year was passed in barely 
tolerable health, interrupted every six weeks or two months by 
actual recurrences of his disorder, for which calomel or blue -pill 
was always used in the country. Supposing that there was some- 
thing haemorrhoidal in his case, General now consulted a 

person who advertised to cure such diseases " without operation." 
From whatever means were here used, no benefit resulted, bowel 
complaint, on the contrary, becoming more troublesome. 

He now consulted an eminent physician in London, under 
whose care " he rallied much during the winter of 1852-53." In 
the spring of the latter year the patient was attended in the 
country by another practitioner, who, on careful examination, found 

N N 



546 CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 

him at first in a feeble, broken state of constitution depressed, 
anremic, dyspeptic, suffering from chronic dysentery, faecal matter 
being retained, and the evacuations being very offensive, and 
accompanied by muco-purulent matter and blood. There was no 
tenderness or enlargement of the liver, some tenderness with 
slight enlargement of the spleen, tenderness with tympanitic dis- 
tention along the whole course of the colon, especially at its 
sigmoid flexure. Examination of the rectum disclosed conges- 
tion of the mucous membrane, with ulceration ; no haemorrhoidal 
tumour. 

The treatment consisted at first of rhubarb, hyoscyamus, and 
alterative doses of blue pill, followed by mild aperients; then 
nitrate of silver, with opium and quinine, were administered with 
excellent effect, followed by enemata containing oil of turpentine. 
Under this treatment, General appeared for a time to im- 
prove much, but the amendment was not of long duration. 

In the early summer the patient returned to London, and 
consulted his former physician there. This gentleman reports 

General as " much thinner ; much tenesmus, with extreme 

pains at times in the rectum." The condition of the patient was 
now such as to excite much alarm ; the motions were dark and 
fo3tid, and contained shreds of decayed mucous membrane ; there 
were occasional rigors, and towards evening marked accessions of 
fever. In a month the symptoms greatly increased, with much pain 
across the lower belly, the motions being putrid and mixed with 
blood and pus. Towards the end of summer the pain in the rectum 
became excruciating, with total loss of appetite, and feeling of sick- 
ness and exhaustion, the patient declaring that " it was all up with 
him." Towards the middle of autumn, feeling " infinitely better," 
he quitted London for the country, and came a second time under 

the care of his former medical friend. General complained 

now, for the first time, of pain in the right side, which increased 
towards night; and, on examination, there was found considerable 
swelling in the hepatic region, with bulging of the ribs of that 
side, and dry cough. " These were new symptoms and the patient 
became anxious for me to explain the cause of them. I told him 
that I thought hepatic abscess was forming during the last week. 
There was constant and excessive expectoration, purulent and 
bloody." Mercurial inunction was now recommended by the 
medical gentleman who had originally prescribed this mineral, and 
it was " carried to the extent of producing ptyalism." The patient 
expired in a fortnight, or about two years and a half from the date 
of his return to England. 

On examination after death, the mucous membrane of the colon, 
sigmoid flexure, and rectum was found softened and ulcerated ; 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY. 547 

the spleen dark, indurated, and enlarged ; the liver containing a 
large abscess. The physician who saw most of this case in London 
gives it as his opinion, that " the suppurative action in the liver 
was, in a great measure, if not entirely, secondary to the ulcera- 
tion of the lower bowel ;" while the other physician, who was con- 
sulted early, gives the following summary : 

" 1st. Injury to the intestinal surface, from tropical influences 
of long standing. 

" 2nd. Injured surface ulcerating in the last attack. 

" 3rd. Abscess of the liver derived from absorption of pus from 
the ulcerated intestine." 

This gentleman adds, that when he was consulted, he could, 
"on a careful examination, detect no sign whatever of liver 
abscess ;" nor was there indeed at the time of my first seeing him, 
any indication of hepatic disturbance, functional or structural. 

Remarks. The two cases here last recorded present a remark- 
able contrast the first being immeasurably the severer of the two. 
The patient was in the last stage of exhaustion bedridden ; and 
when he stood erect, there was an instant call to void by stool. 

In the last case, on the contrary, the symptoms, on arrival in 
England, were so trifling as to constitute to all appearance but a 
slight indisposition, the patient having been in London a fortnight 
before he thought of consulting me respecting his state of health ; 
yet his disease proved eventually fatal. Here we perceive, in one 
out of many cases, the dangers attaching to chronic dysentery, 
even when it appears to be of the mildest character. 

Suppurative phlebitis, and consequent purulent deposit, to use 
the ordinary but unsatisfactory expressions, may here be in- 
ferred, but what the actual morbid process consists in, does not, 
as yet, appear to be demonstrated. Purulent secondary deposits 
are mentioned by many surgeons as resulting from the applica- 
tion of ligatures to haemorrhoidal tumours ; and this is but another 
instance of the so-termed purulent deposit from ulceration of the 
mucous membrane of the large intestine. Nor are such abscesses 
in the liver limited to cases in which ulceration exists in the 
mucous digestive surface ; for they are observed to result from 
other lesions as well. On the 15th of March, 1854, a stableman, 
aged forty-four, died in St. George's Hospital, of " phagedasna of 
the great toe ; secondary deposits in the liver, and pleurisy." 

On questions relating to the medical treatment of the case of 

General I shall offer no opinion, as the patient came 

under my personal observation in the very earlier stage of his 
disease only, and at a time when his condition promised a speedy 
recovery. 



N N 2 



CONGESTION OF THE LIVER. 



CONGESTION of the liver, whether of an acute or chronic nature, 
and regarded as it occurs in practice, is but an intermediate con- 
dition, or state of transition between mere functional disorder and 
organic disease ; for, in general, and under appropriate treatment, 
all cases of hepatic congestion, whether active or passive, will end 
in the restoration of health. For instance, we continually see in 
India that tumidness of both liver and spleen occurs during the 
cold stage of intermittent fever, and that this form of congestion 
even recurs for weeks and months together ; and yet, under proper 
measures of cure, the patient ultimately escapes from organic dis- 
ease of either organ. In these cases, the blood is still presumed 
to be in a healthy condition ; that is, uncontaminated by the pro- 
tracted stagnation of passive congestions in the great abdominal 
viscera. But, on the return of the tropical invalid to his native 
country, we have seen that all the natural and physical circumstances 
constituting climate are greatly altered, and, moreover, that the 
blood is, through these very passive congestions, and the other 
causes stated, frequently and materially degraded in quality.* 
The anaemic depravation of the circulating fluid is here, as in 
every other disease, a source of embarrassment and of difficulty 
in the treatment. In India, acute congestion passes on rapidly to 
inflammation : but of this transition I have not seen one instance 
in England. The passive form of congestion, however, is very 
frequent amongst Europeans, on their return to their native cli- 
mate ; and one such, presently to be related, proceeded into acute 
congestion, and thence into inflammation and its results. 

In this disease the complexion will be of a muddy-sallow, or 
lemon-yellow hue, livid or venous, according to the age and 
powers of the constitution, temperament, and length of residence 
in hot climates, of the individual. Congestion of the liver is ge- 
nerally produced by the application of cold to the surface of the 
body, and not unfrequently by errors in diet. Cold thus applied 
to the skin of persons who have resided long in hot climates, and 
in whom the fluids had for so long been derived to the surface of 
the body, and in whom therefore a determination of the fluids in- 
wards, by cold, is peculiarly liable to take place, must necessarily 
prove a powerfully exciting cause. This disposition to conges- 
Vide Dr. C. J. B. Williams's Principles of Medicine, second edition, p. 118, 196. 



CONGESTION OF THE LIVER. 549 

t ion, through the agency of cold, is also much increased where the 
individual has suffered from malarious fevers, and from consequent 
disturbance of the balance of circulation. The feeling of the 
patient is one of epigastric fulness, uneasiness, and oppression, 
rather than of pain of the region of the liver. The organ is op- 
pressed by an accumulation and stagnation of blood, while its 
function is paralysed. With all this we have frequently a 
weakened condition of the heart and arteries, and a diminished 
power of reaction, consequently. It is only, however, when the 
hepatic congestion is associated with a similar condition of the 
cerebral organs, or of the lungs, that danger to life need, under 
careful management, be apprehended. In the cerebral, and in the 
thoracic complication, there is indeed a pressing and immediate 
danger, even under the best remedial means known to us. 

I find that in the first part of this work, when speaking of the 
congestive fever of the cold season in Bengal, the following obser- 
vations occur ; and I here quote them, to show how prevailing must 
be the liability to hepatic congestion in European invalids coming 
at once from hot climates into -the winter and spring seasons of 
England : " It is believed, that in animals whose pulmonary sys- 
tem is less perfect, there is a greatly increased quantity of blood 
transmitted through the liver. In hot climates, then, where respi- 
ration is less perfectly carried on than in cold ones, owing, ac- 
cording to Tiedemann and Gmelin, to the greater rarefaction of 
the air in warm regions, a vicarious decarbonization of the blood 
is established by an increased flow of bile ; and hence it is that 
the function of the liver, weakened and torpid, in proportion to 
the excitement of the hot and rainy seasons, becomes disposed to 
congestion, or inflammation of its parenchyma, during the cold 
season ; and thus are produced the dangerous states of disease 
noticed. An irritable or inflamed state of the mucous digestive 
surface is also a frequent complication ; and these two together 
constitute the great dangers of our congestive fevers of the cold 
season, as well as of those of the autumnal fevers of the more un- 
healthy countries of Europe." 

There is no more efficient cause of congestion of the liver 
than antecedent torpor of its function especially where this last 
disorder has been of long duration. To the tumult of the nervous, 
vascular, and secreting functions, within the tropics, has now suc- 
ceeded an exhausted condition of all three. The system at large, 
and the organ now principally at fault, have lost their power of 
resisting the cold and damp atmosphere of Europe. To be more 
precise, the circulation through the skin, and also its function, 
which had been raised to the greatest degree by the high tempe- 
rature of the tropics, is reduced to the opposite extreme by the 
cold and damp atmosphere of our northern climate. The blood 



550 CONGESTION OF THE LIVER. 

which had long been drawn to the periphery, is now driven to the 
centre. Vascular reaction seldom ensuing, the congestion is of a 
passive nature. There is stagnation of the portal circulation, and 
a consequent contamination of the blood, with languor and op- 
pression of all the abdominal functions. 

When hepatic congestion is recent, the stagnation of the venous 
circulation is confined principally to the special organ, but it must 
be evident that a duration of no great extent will engorge the 
whole of the abdominal viscera as well thus causing impairment 
of function in each and all of them but more particularly in the 
original seat of disease the liver. In truth, most of the diseases 
of persons who have resided long in hot climates should be care- 
fully observed in connexion with the distribution, functions, and 
disorders of the portal system a due regard to which, says Sir 
Henry Holland, will aid us much in interpreting many obscure 
points in pathology. 

CASE I. , Esq., of fair complexion and slender frame, 

thirty-five years of age, has served sixteen years in India, and 
during the first twelve years his health was good. Five years ago, 
while on official duty in an unhealthy district, and living in tents, 
he was seized with severe intermittent fever, in which the cold 
stages were oppressively distressing, lasting at first for two hours 
and upwards, accompanied by fulness and dull pain in the regions 
of the spleen and liver. He got well in three weeks, under the 
use of mild mercurials, active purgatives, and quinine. His fever 
recurred every cold season since his first seizure, his general 
health and digestive power becoming annually more enfeebled, 
and at last he was ordered home on sick leave. He arrived in 
England in the month of March, as he thought, much improved in 
health by the sea voyage. The state of the general habit was 
anaemic. 

April 3rd. He states that six days ago, while standing in an 
easterly wind, in a race-stand, he felt chilled, but had no rigor ; 
he has been much indisposed ever since. The surface of the body 
is now pale, cold, and harsh to the touch ; the pulse feeble, slow, 
and oppressed ; the bowels are constipated, and the urine scanty 
and turbid. The hypochondrium is seen to bulge out ; the left 
lobe of the liver is found, on exploration, to extend three inches 
beyond the margin of the ribs, the organ being enlarged in all 
directions. There is no pain on the most free pressure, and all 
that he complains of in reference to the hepatic region is a 
sense of weight and uneasiness. 

Calomel in small doses was given every night for a week, in 
combination with compound extract of colocynth, the acetous ex- 
tract of colchicum and ipecacuanha, followed in the morning by a 



CONGESTION OF THE LIVER. 551 

purgative draught of compound decoction of aloes, infusion of 
senna, and jalap powder, with aromatics. After the third exhibi- 
tion, these medicines produced copious biliary discharges, so as 
rapidly to diminish the volume of the liver. This plan of treat- 
ment was accompanied from the beginning by sinapisms to the 
hepatic region, warm baths every other night, and friction to the 
entire surface of the body. On the ninth day congestion had so 
far subsided, through copious excretion, that the treatment was 
concluded by the nitro-muriatic acid, in combination with fluid 
extract of taraxacum, given three times a day, and purgative pills 
were continued at bed-time, composed of compound extract of 
colocyuth, compound galbanum pill, each half a drachm, with two 
minims of croton oil, made into twelve pills. Of these, two were 
given at first, and then one, until they were gradually discon- 
tinued. Warm baths and friction were used at longer intervals, 
till every symptom had vanished, when exercise in the open air, 
and mild chalybeates, concluded the treatment. The diet at first 
consisted of farinaceous articles, with thin soup, vegetables, and 
fruit ; but, as health improved, animal food with diluted wine was 
allowed. 

CASE II. Lieutenant , of the Indian cavalry, states that 

soon after parting with his wife and child, who were obliged to 
leave India on account of ill health, he became depressed in 
spirits, and lost his appetite and flesh rapidly. Pain and tumour 
in the right side soon indicated inflammation of the liver, for 
which he was very largely bled, followed by a course of calomel 
purgatives, and blisters. Abscess, however, resulted, and the 
matter was discharged into the colon. He arrived in England in 
the month of April, in a very enfeebled and emaciated state, 
having slight cough, with little appetite, the digestion being 
much impaired, and the bowels constipated. There was no fever, 
the pulse being languid, the skin cool, dry, and harsh to the touch. 
The general condition was anaemic. 

I ordered the decoction of taraxacum with dilute nitro-muriatic 
acid, mild aperient pills devoid of mercury, warm baths, and 
powerful friction to the skin ; the diet to be spare, light, and nutri- 
tious, with a little bitter ale to dinner. Strict injunctions were 
given to avoid exposure to cold. 

On this plan he rapidly recovered flesh, and by September his 
appearance indicated returning health. 

I was requested to visit Lieutenant in the January fol- 
lowing, in consultation with Mr. Squibb, of Montague Place. I 
then learned that, three weeks previously, the patient had taken a 
long walk, after which, while still heated, he went to hear the 
afternoon service in a neighbouring church. Here he felt chilled, 



552 , CONGESTION OF THE LIVER. 

and the result was an attack of bronchitis, from which I found him 
recovering. The object of the consultation was to determine the 
state of the liver, and here there existed passive congestion, with 
all its concomitants. 

Lieut. , was now ordered every night to take pills composed 

of three grains each of calomel and compound extract of colocynth, 
and a grain each of the acetous extract of colchicum and ipeca- 
cuanha powder, while warm baths and fomentations to the side were 
used daily. The effect of the pills was to cause copious discharges 
of black vitiated bile, rapid reduction of the previous bulging of the 
hepatic region, and great general relief. After a few days the 
quantity of calomel was diminished, and a quarter grain of morphia 
substituted for the colchicum. Presently, and as the secretions be- 
came healthy, all mercurial preparations were omitted, and the nitro- 
muriatic acid with fluid extract of taraxacum were substituted. Under 

this latter plan, which was continued for two months, Lieut. 

recovered condition. His cough, which had been constant, accom- 
panied by coloured expectoration, ceased, and after a residence of 
two months at Hastings, he returned to London, looking stout, and 
feeling well. 

CASE III. Major , a distinguished staff officer, aged forty- 
two, served upwards of twenty years in India. About twelve years 
ago he suffered from intermittent fever ; but a furlough to Europe 
completely restored his health. Had lately been much exposed 
to alternate heat by day and severe cold at night in the campaigns 
on the Sutlej, but did not suffer from fever. At Bombay, however, 
while living in tents, he was severely chilled, and this was followed 
by a sense of weight in the right side and epigastrium, which did 
not leave him till he got to Alexandria. He arrived in England 
in April, in apparently good health, so as to be able to use violent 
country exercises. In the end of May, after a long day's riding and 
cricketing, he was exposed to night cold, and this was followed by 
symptoms similar to those he experienced when at Bombay. There 
was a sense of weight and oppression in the epigastric region, 
with loss of appetite and constipation of the bowels. A fortnight 
passed in this state of indisposition, during which he was treated 
for ordinary dyspepsia. Severe rigors followed by reactive fever 
now came on. This fever was treated as ague, by large doses of 
quinine, of which he took twenty grains for days together. This 
treatment arrested the rigors, but fever, with hot dry skin, conti- 
nued, and the abdomen began to enlarge, with oppression and un- 
easiness in the right side and epigastrium. He now removed to a 
provincial town, where his disease was still pronounced to be in- 
termittent fever. Quinine was there continued, with occasional 
aperients, and latterly he used tonics and chalybeatcs, the diet 



CONGESTION OF THE LIVER. 558 

having all along been but little restricted. For the last month he 
has been residing near London, suffering greatly from pain of the 
right side and shoulder. His days have been passed sitting by 
the fire side, supporting his head on his hands, while his elbows 
rested on his knees. His nights have passed in a burning fever, 
but he has had neither rigors nor perspirations. 

He drove to my house on the 16th of September, and walked 
with the body bent forward on the pelvis, sitting in the same atti- 
tude, and breathing rapidly. His complexion was of a leaden 
yellow hue ; the skin dry, and of a pungent heat ; the pulse feeble, 
and at 108 ; the abdomen was tense, round, and hard as a barrel, 
with an enormous bulging of the right hypochondrium, the liver 
extending four inches downwards from the margin of the false ribs, 
and pushing up into the right cavity of the chest. Percussion and 
exploration of every kind gave no pain but only a slight uneasiness. 
He complained of headache, the eyes being suffused, yellow, and 
muddy ; the tongue deeply coated, and red at the edges , the urine 
was of a madder-colour ; the bowels constipated. The nature of 

his case was explained to Major , and he was urged to remain 

in bed, to which he seemed averse. He was ordered to take two 
pills composed of extract of colocynth, calomel, and ipecacuanha, 
with a quarter of a grain of morphia at bed-time, followed by a 
purgative draught, using a warm bath every other night ; the diet 
to be purely farinaceous. 

On the 19th September, the patient again visited me, expressing 
himself as being much relieved. For the first time during months 
past he had had refreshing sleep ; the skin was somewhat relaxed ; 
the pulse 94 ; pain of the liver, head, and shoulder, somewhat 
diminished. The medicines had acted powerfully on the bowels, 

the urine remaining as before. Major was now informed 

that his treatment could not be safely or effectively conducted 
abroad ; and that, in such cold weather, it was dangerous to 
leave his house, or even his bed. The former medicines were 
directed to be continued. 

Sept. '21st. Called to see Major at his residence, where I 

requested a consultation with two medical officers who had lately 
been in attendance on him. It was here agreed that mild mercu- 
rials, with sudorifics, and small doses of morphia, should be exhi- 
bited over night, followed by active purgatives in the morning, 
while warm baths were used at night, with frequent hot fomenta- 
tions to the side during the day. The rapid and feeble state of 
the circulation, and the general exhaustion, precluded bloodletting 
in any form,, either general or local. 

27th. On this plan of treatment great relief of symptoms en- 
sued ; the complexion improved; the skin became soft; the pulse 
was reduced to 80 ; while the tumid and tense state of the abdomen 



554 CONGESTION OF THE LIVER. 

subsided apace, exposing the full extent of the hepatic enlarge- 
ment and induration. But night fever recurred, accompanied by 
pain in the shoulder, as before. There were no rigors or night 
perspirations ; the urine exhibited no change, being almost blood- 
red. The course of treatment already described was continued, 
gradually diminishing the amount of calomel, until, in the tender 
state of the gums, and the odour of the breath, the gentle influence 
of mercury was apparent. The tumidity of the abdomen, and en- 
largement of the liver had now subsided greatly ; the tongue had 
cleaned, and the pulse was reduced to 84, yet no healthy secretion 
passed from the bowel, and the urine remained unchanged. The 
nightly exacerbations of fever continued to recur, though much 
diminished in duration and force ; no rigors or night-sweats. The 
gums were retracted, white, and disposed to ulcerate at their edges. 
Under these unfavourable circumstances, as regarded the antici- 
pated results of the mercurial treatment, mercury was discontinued, 
and immersion of the whole body, night and morning, in the nitro- 
muriatic acid bath, was substituted, continuing the daily exhibition 
of purgatives. The diet, which had hitherto consisted of farina- 
ceous articles and soup, was further improved by the addition of a 
little solid meat, game, &c., the appetite having greatly improved. 

Under this treatment, the tumidness of the abdomen and liver 
still further diminished, so that the latter could no longer be felt 
under the margin of the ribs, though still considerably enlarged on 
its convex surface towards the chest; the night fever was reduced 
to an hour's duration, and the sleep was refreshing ; the tongue 
clean, but no improvement in the intestinal or renal secretions. 
With the exceptions stated, general improvement continued ; when 
of a sudden, diarrhoaa, with a furred, dry tongue, hot and parched 
skin, feverishness, and absence of rest, came on, accompanied by 
great and rapid emaciation, a sunken countenance, and great 

anxiety. In this condition, Major was seen by Dr. Watson 

in consultation ; and though I had previously expressed a suspi- 
cion of hepatic suppuration, it was agreed, that even now, though 
highly probable, the direct evidence of this was wanting. Ten 

days from this time, November 13th, Major died, in great 

suffering from pain and oppression of the right chest, and in the 
act of coughing up a thick, greenish pus, mixed with blood, of 
which some spoonfuls were exhibited next morning. There was 
no post-mortem examination. 

Remarks. I have placed the case of Major in the present 

article, because I believe congestion, on two occasions, constituted 
the original disorder, proceeding, in the last instance, into acute 
congestion or subacute inflammation of the liver, and terminating 
in abscess of that organ. The congestive state at Bombay was 
overcome by the warm and equable temperature, and by the ges- 



CONGESTION OF THE LIVER. 555 

tation of the sea voyage, aided, perhaps, by nausea and sea-sick- 
ness. But in the second congestive attack no such favourable 
influences existed. I have confined my narrative of this interesting 
and instructive case to a bare recital of facts, such as they were 
reported by the patient, and to a detail of the symptoms, which I 
personally witnessed, avoiding all comment on antecedent circum- 
stances ; but I feel bound to state, that I received the most candid 
co-operation and able assistance from the two medical men with 
whom I consulted in the treatment of this distinguished but unfor- 
tunate officer. Up to the time when the mild influence of mercury 
was evidenced by the action on the gums, and by the mercurial 
fcetor, so much improvement had taken place as to warrant the 
balance of opinion to lean towards a favourable result ; and so, 
also, with respect to the action of the nitro-muriatic-acid bath, up 
to the fourteenth day before death, the unfavourable circumstances 
being, that by none of the means used was a healthy secretion 
obtained either from the liver or kidneys. This was the result 
anxiously looked for, and never obtained. The important practical 
question here was, When did the suppurative process commence ? 
My own impression was, first, that the formation of abscess had 
taken place within the fortnight before death ; and secondly, that 
the abscess was of but small extent ; for in India, in the instances 
of large hepatic abscesses, I have never seen one case in which 
rigors, colliquative sweat, and a permanently furred tongue, were 
all absent, as in this instance. The pain of the right shoulder, 
amounting, during several weeks of July and August, to agony, 
indicated the seat of the active inflammation to have been centred 
in the upper convex surface of the liver, involving its peritonaeal 
covering, for there is seldom much pain, and very often none at 
all, when the parenchyma alone is the seat of the inflammation. 
In general, these circumstances point to the actual seat of the 
subsequent abscess. 

Major-General , aged seventy-one, served thirty-six years 

in Bengal, and has resided fifteen years in England. Eight or 
ten years ago he is reported to have suffered from repeated attacks 
of intermittent fever, and for which quinine was administered 
largely. These attacks were finally overcome by the use of 
calomel and purgatives, quinine having proved of no avail. His 
habit is spare but muscular, and in diet he has been through life 
al.Mrnfioiis to the degree of extreme, having avoided wine and 
malt liquors altogether for years, and used animal food during the 
last two years but sparingly, once in twenty-four hours. He has 
been used to active walking exercise all his life ; but during the 
la^t year oflicial duties have interfered much with this salutary 
habit, while they have agitated and over-excited his mind. Within 



55G CONGESTION OF THE LIVER. 

the last month he has been often exposed to severe cold at night, 
when returning from dinner parties. He relates that his habit has 
always been to use cold ablution in the morning ; but owing to the 
severity of the last winter and spring, and to'the cold water proving 
ungrateful to his feelings, he has for some months substituted 
ablution with warm water. 

On getting out of bed this morning, April 4th, he felt giddy to 
staggering, with nausea, and some degree of faintness; and, as 
the weather was warmer than of late, he bathed in cold water, 
took his usual breakfast, and drove to his office, where, during the 
last two days, his mind was unusually excited and agitated. To 
add to this distress he states, that for more than an hour of the 
forenoon he was persecuted by solicitations with which he could 
not comply. At noon he was seized with a violent rigor, accom- 
panied by extreme pallor and shrinking of the surface of the 
body, which was soon followed by vomiting. In this state he 
drove to my house. Violent shivering, with sense of extreme 
cold, lasted for two hours, but by warm drinks, and warmth applied 
externally, imperfect reaction was established, accompanied by 
moisture of the surface. The tongue is loaded with a thick white 
fur: urine for some time past scanty and surcharged; bowels 
habitually regular, but of late the excretions have been scanty and 
clay coloured. 

On examination of the abdomen, the region of the liver was 
found tumid, bulging, and very painful on pressure, so much so, 
that he started when it was touched, the abdomen throughout being 
puffed and inelastic. He felt no pain any where else. A full 
dose of calomel, with James's powder, was given immediately. 
At 7, p.m., reaction still continued moderate, with a warm gentle 
perspiration. Ordered two pills, composed of compound extract 
of colocynth and calomel, to be taken at bed-time, and a purgative 
draught for the early morning. 

At midnight I was summoned to the patient, and found that, on 
getting out of bed, he had fallen on the floor without the power to 
recover himself. The face and neck were of a reddish livid hue, 
with deep somnolency, and difficulty of being roused ; skin hot 
and dry ; pulse full, but easily compressed. I found that another 
medical gentleman had been summoned at the same time with me, 
and we agreed at once that the patient should be cupped from the 
neck, while a blister was applied to the right hypochondrium. 
The cupping abstracted twelve ounces, with marked relief from 
cerebral oppression ; but it was not till copious and repeated dis- 
charges of vitiated bilious evacuations from the bowels, that the 
patient was so far restored as to reply to questions. 

April 5th, 10, a.m. General is now perfectly restored to 

consciousness, and expresses himself as much relieved, especially 



CONGESTION OF THE LIVER. 557 

from the sense of pain and weight in the side. No headache ; skin 
moist and warm ; pulse 90 ; secretion of urine copious, but of a deep 
porter colour. Ordered a pill, composed of two grains each of calomel 
and colocynth, to be given every two hours. Diet farinaceous. 

9, p.m. General was seized with a violent rigor, accom- 
panied by stupor, but both speedily gave way to diffusible stimuli, 
ammonia, and the use of warm drinks. The following reaction 
was but trifling, and it now became apparent that ultimate recovery 
might be regarded as more than ever doubtful. In consultation 
with Drs. Chambers and Watson, simple calomel was ordered to 
be given frequently during the night, while a blister was applied 
to the nape of the neck. 

April 6th. After midnight, relaxation of the surface with flag- 
ging circulation rendered the use of wine and soup necessary. 
The powers of life are now (10, a.m.) sinking, and he is dependent 
on the frequent use of stimulants; consciousness but partial. 
Died at 6, p.m. 

Remarks. Here we perceive hepatic congestion of the most 
severe character, followed by the same condition of the brain, and 
accompanied by diminished power in the heart and arteries, all 
taking place fifteen years after the return to the native climate of 
the patient. The organ primarily affected was the liver that 
which, during youth and manhood, had been most excited in its 
function and that, too, in a person of unusually abstemious and 
active habits of life. It would seem that with some persons no 
amount of care will prove a sufficient protection against hepatic 
disease. All the circumstances of constitution, and of habit of 
life, mental and bodily, were in favour of this gentleman's living 
in health to an advanced age ; yet were they all frustrated by the 
antecedent circumstances of service, and of long exposure to the 
influence of a tropical sun. In these respects, and in respect of 
the influence of mental excitement on a nervous system, very im- 
pressible in its nature, the case is most interesting. From the 

time that General experienced discomfort in the use of the 

cold bath, it may be inferred that hepatic congestion and functional 
disturbance were present ; and there can be no doubt that the 
great and repeated mental excitements of the past year laid the 
foundation of the cerebral complication, which proved fatal, and 
but for which the hepatic disease would easily have been over- 
come. It is remarkable how often we find, towards the decline of 
life, and when the vigour and the balance of the functions have 
been impaired, that the liver the organ most excited in hot 
climates assumes disease, and that in persons who had not pre- 
viously suffered from actual disease of that organ, either while 
residing in hot climates, or during a protracted residence at home. 
Numerous such instances have come under my observation, and 



558 TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 

have been reported to me by various medical men since my return 
to England. In March, 1851, an old gentleman who had resided 
long in the East Indies, and enjoyed excellent health there, died 
in London of influenza. He had resided in England since 1814, 
and till lately he carried his age well ; but during his last illness 
the liver became enlarged, and for the last ten days of his life the 
whole body was deeply jaundiced. 



TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 

TORPOR of the hepatic function under the cold and damp 
of an European climate would seem, pritnd facie, and naturally, 
to follow on the former frequent disturbance and general over- 
excitement of that function under tropical heats; and so we 
find it in fact, hepatic torpor being a very frequent disorder, 
both in its idiopathic and complicated states, especially amongst 
those who have resided many years in the East Indies, who have 
undergone much direct solar exposure, and who have been neg- 
lectful of the habits of life proper to the climate. 

To the increased biliary secretion of the hot and rainy seasons 
in India, followed by proportionate diminution of the hepatic 
function in each succeeding cold season alternations extending 
over many years a more enduring impairment of function has 
now succeeded, accompanied generally by great reduction in the 
reparative powers of the constitution. 

The violent and repeated congestions resulting from the recur- 
ring fevers of many years' duration, and following on those of the 
remittent and intermittent types especially, seldom fail to produce 
functional disorders or structural alterations of the liver, spleen, 
or bowels almost all the complications in the fevers of India, and 
almost all their sequelae in Europe, being abdominal. The milder 
results, in young persons, generally consist in congested states, 
more or less acute, of the abdominal circulation, but more espe- 
cially of the portal circulation, giving a tumid, inelastic, or doughy 
impression to the explorer. The opposite or converse influences 
of the climates of India and of Europe, and the converse disorders 
resulting from them, must be held in constant recollection in 
examining and prescribing for the tropical invalid, for they explain 
much that is common to each. 

It may here be observed of the disorder under consideration, 
as, indeed, of all the ailments, functional and structural, to which 
this class of invalids is liable, that the season for most effective 



TORPOR OF THE LIVER- 559 

treatment, in so far as the influences of medicinal and external 
agents are concerned, is that of moderate warmth, or during our 
English summer and autumn. It is then that medical manage- 
ment may be carried out with the best results, because of the 
more equable determination of the fluids to the surface of the 
body, because of the naturally increased development of the 
hepatic function, and because of the diminished tendency to abdo- 
minal congestion during those seasons. I continually find that 
the treatment which proves but slow in its results, or but palliative, 
in the winter and spring seasons, becomes effective and curative in 
June, July, and August. This is especially true of the nitro- 
muriatic-acid bath. 

It is during the English winter that the Indian suffers most 
severely from torpidity of the liver, and it is in summer or autumn 
that he obtains the most sure relief. 

In persons who have passed many years in hot climates, the 
evidence of torpidity of the liver is generally found in the 
emaciated figure, sallow complexion, and constricted skin of the 
patient. He will be found of a " sallow, miasmatic, melancholy 
aspect." There is, in some persons, a remarkable and peculiarly 
offensive bilious odour issuing from the skin and lungs, which no 
amount of attention to personal cleanliness can overcome. Others, 
again, in addition to these unpleasant exhalations, see every object 
through a yellow medium. The patient is harassed with dyspeptic 
ailments, varying in degree according to circumstances of consti- 
tution, previous habits of life, and length of residence in hot 
climates. There is in all cases a reluctance to exertion, mental or 
bodily, and frequently we find the mental faculties depressed to 
an extent that is truly distressing. The patient generally com- 
plains of headache or vertigo, accompanied by coldness of the 
lower extremities, the headache being sometimes severe, and occa- 
sionally paroxysmal. The sleep is dreamful, disturbed, and unre- 
freshing the temper capricious, peevish. Occasionally there is a 
short, hacking cough, and the bowels are always irregular, the 
functions of the co3cum and colon being much disturbed, the 
excretions being depraved, ash-coloured, and scanty; while the 
urine, in all the instances in which I have examined it, contained 
an excess of urea, uric acid, or phosphate of lime, but most fre- 
quently of all the oxalate of lime in considerable quantities. 
The lithic, phosphatic, or mulberry diathesis may predominate, 
but some renal disturbance is almost invariably met with in this 
class of cases. Bile is sometimes present in the urine of such 
patients. Indeed, nature seems, in all forms of hepatic disease, 
in all climates, to establish a vicarious action in the kidneys, in 
compensation of the defective powers of the liver. This inter- 
change of function also affords an important indication in treating 



560 TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 

the various hepatic derangements, by directing our attention to the 
use and value of diuretics, and to the judicious selection of them. 
In truth, we require, in the management of the cases under con- 
sideration, continually to hold in recollection the relative de- 
pendence and the compensating powers of the skin, lungs, liver, 
bowels, and kidneys, in reference to the constant relations and 
interchanges of their actions, one upon the other. In this disease 
too little bile is secreted, and the blood is consequently in a 
habitual state of impurity. There is acidity of the stomach and 
bowels, with a vitiated state of the digestion and assimilation. 
Prout thought he could discover in these cases an excessive acidity 
of the co3cum. There was always intense headache ; but on the 
restoration of the biliary secretion, and on its reaching the ccecum, 
" the headache at once vanished." More 'than twenty years ago, 
in the General Hospital of Calcutta, I observed and recorded the 
fact of morbid action being co-existent in the liver and ccecum. 

An anaemic state of the general habit is common to patients 
suffering from torpor of the liver ; so much is this the case, that 
anaemia of the liver might possibly be a more proper term than 
that chosen for the head of this article. If, according to Rokitansky, 
anaemia of the liver takes place in European climates, " accom- 
panied by a diminution of its consistency," as " the result of 
haemorrhages, exhaustion, or a reduction of the mass of the blood 
by extensive exudatory processes," how much more readily must 
such conditions hold in the instance of tropical invalids, taking 
into view the many deteriorating influences to which they have 
been exposed ? 

The frequency of anaemia, and of its complication with general 
atony, amongst this class, I have had ample means of verifying. 
The vulgar expression, " He is a white-livered fellow," conveys a 
real significance beyond what might at first appear to attach to it, 
both as regards the depressed condition of the bodily and mental 
powers. Shakespear's idea of the anaemic liver is perfect : " For 
Andrew" (Sir Andrew Ague-cheek), " if he were opened, and you 
found so much blood in his liver as will clog the foot of a flea, I'll 
eat the rest of the anatomy." Elsewhere Shakespear asks why a 
man should " creep into the jaundice by being peevish." 

" The liver," according to a popular writer " is the seat of the 
affections throughout Hindustan. My liver is bursting (in grief) ; 
or, my liver is burning (in love), are the usual expressions." 
Fabian, when he suggests that Olivia only desires to rouse the 
dormant valour of Sir Andrew Ague-cheek, says, she " put fire in 
your heart, and brimstone in your liver." " The ancients," says 
Mr. Wallace, " believed that the liver was the organ of sangui- 
fication, the source of animal heat, and the seat of the natural 
faculties." 



TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 561 

Anaemia, and consequent torpor of the liver, often follow on long- 
continued hypenemia of that organ. 

In all cases of torpor of the hepatic function we find the process 
of digestion and assimilation much impaired. Owing to defective 
quantity and quality of the gastric, biliary, and pancreatic fluids, 
the nutritive functions are manifestly impaired. The arrest of the 
cuticular discharge, so abundant within the tropics so powerful, 
too, in carrying off acids and other redundancies from the blood 
occasions in many persons, on their return to Europe, an exces- 
sive acidity of the stomach, not to speak of the other more import- 
ant alterations of functions already referred to. 

It may be said, truly, that most of the influences of climate 
that most of the diseases resulting from these influences and that 
many of the habits of life of Europeans in India, and other hot 
climates, tend powerfully to disturb the functions of the liver, and 
thus lead ultimately to serious disorders, and to actual disease of 
that organ. The summary offered by way of introduction to these 
essays will have furnished the reader with examples of numerous 
climatorial causes of hepatic disorders and diseases ; but there is 
one other efficient cause, much overlooked, but which, on the 
score of extensive influence, must not here be omitted viz., mer- 
cury, internally exhibited. It has been observed in Europe that 
persons who have used mercury, either in the liberal or rapid 
manner, or as a protracted alterative course, have frequently been 
afflicted subsequently with severe forms of hepatic disease. There 
can be no doubt that, through the repeated use of this mineral, 
even when necessarily exhibited, the hepatic function is inordi- 
nately stimulated, to be proportionately enfeebled thereafter. 
The action of mercury on the liver may be viewed as having a 
close analogy to the primary excitement, and subsequent exhaus- 
tion, of the functions of the stomach, produced by dram-drinking. 

In referring to the treatment of the troublesome and obscure 
affection now under consideration, we must recollect, not only that 
we have to deal with torpor of the secreting and excreting power, 
but with viscidity and adhesiveness of the secreted fluid, and also 
with diminished power in the gall-bladder and ducts to eliminate 
their contents, with the addition, perhaps, of thickening of the 
parietes of the vesicle and its canals thus affording additional 
and mechanical obstruction to the discharge of the bile. In some 
persons this torpor of function is so great, and the case proves so 
little amenable to treatment, that we are forced to suspect some 
alteration, more or less extensive, or some permanent injury to the 
elementary secreting structures of the liver. 

The slightest reflection on the physiological and pathological 
changes, here but hinted at, will show the great difficulties that 
meet us in our endeavours at effective treatment. What little bile 

o o 



562 TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 

is secreted being vitiated, our indications of treatment should be 
directed to the production of a more abundant and more healthy 
action, and to the attenuation and elimination of the fluid secreted. 
A favourite remedy of this class has of late been found in the 
fluid extract of taraxacum. I believe it to be an alterative of 
some efficacy, especially when combined with the bicarbonate of 
soda, as exercising a solvent power on viscid bile, on fatty and 
other animal substances, while it supplies one of the declared 
offices of bile the correction of the acidity of the chyme. This 
combination, but more certainly that with the bitartrate of potash, 
affects the excretion from the kidneys, increasing it in quantity, 
and modifying it in quality. When I have recourse to this plan 
of treatment, I direct its continuance for a month or six weeks, 
diminishing or omitting the alkalies after a time, but using the 
vegetable alterative in increasing quantities ; and where I desire 
to increase the diuretic effect, I prescribe the acetate or the bitar- 
trate of potash along with the taraxacum. 

Alkalies, given singly, or combined with tonics, have long been 
in esteem for their solvent power over interstitial deposits. For- 
merly natron, subcarbonate of soda, was prescribed with the 
Peruvian bark, and the success of this treatment has given rise, in 
our own time, to the more general exhibition of alkalies in combi- 
nation with the numerous bitter tonics. Alkalies and chalybeates 
exist in finer, because natural chemical union in the mineral 
springs of various countries, and this union tends, by its com- 
bined effects, to produce the favourable results we now everywhere 
witness from the use of these waters. 

Dr. Budd states that the soluble alkalies, potash and soda, have 
more remote effects than as mere antacids, by increasing the 
secretions of the liver and the kidneys, and perhaps by otherwise 
modifying the processes of nutrition. The effect of soda is different 
from that of potash, the latter acting more especially on the kid- 
ney. " The salts of soda, on the contrary, act more especially on 
the liver, increasing the secretion of bile, of which soda is a 
natural constituent, and are little esteemed as diuretics. In indi- 
gestion soda is more generally useful than potash, probably from 
its more direct effect on the liver." Dr. Budd concludes by 
stating that in common forms of indigestion, in which there exists 
" a furred tongue, defective action of the liver, and costive bowels, 
no remedy is more effectual than the bicarbonate of soda, in doses 
of fifteen grains three times a day, before meals, in conjunction 
with an occasional small dose of blue pill, to increase further tin- 
secretion of the liver, and with colocynth or aloes to keep up a 
regular action of the large intestine." 

When alkalies prove cold or ungrateful to the stomach, I am in 
the habit of substituting the dilute nitric and hydrochloric acids. 



TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 

This addition to the dandelion proves in many cases powerful in 
effect as regards the function of the liver, and generally tonic to 
the digestive organs. The addition of the acids proves specially 
useful in cases where tropical dysentery, or diarrhrea, has pre- 
viously existed, or where an irritable state of the mucous mem- 
brane is present. In this latter instance, however, its use is not 
borne long, and, in many persons, not at all, without the addition 
of the tincture of opium. Such means, though slow in their 
effects, are infinitely more appropriate and safe than mercurials, 
in these chronic forms of disease. They slowly but safely pro- 
mote increase of secretion, while they impart tone to the functions 
of digestion. 

In treating torpor of the liver, with its complications, it must be 
borne in mind that our object is to solicit rather than to urge the 
restoration of the impaired functions, and that such can only be 
effected with safety by gentle and persistent means, always holding 
in view the improvement in the nutritive qualities of the blood. 
We must here be content to look to the actions resulting from the 
means in use, however gradually brought about, rather than to 
specific operations. We must even be careful not to push reme- 
dies too far. 

Whether exhibited as an aperient, or in purgative doses, 1 have 
found aloes in its several forms, superior to other purgatives. We 
are familiar with its irritant effects on the mucous surface of the 
rectum, and it is my opinion that such a drug cannot be other than 
active in the duodenum. In effect it is so, and it will be found, 
when given with ox-gall, taraxacum, the alkalies, the salts of iron, 
and ipecacuanha with colchicum, that its exhibition is at all times 
useful in stimulating and evacuating the duodenum, and that it 
thereby excites the secretion, and facilitates the discharge of bile. 

Anaemia is uniformly productive of torpidity of the liver, the 
biliary secretion being depraved in common with its source, and 
having, in some cases, more of the character of serum than of bile. 
It ought here to be evident, that the endeavour to elicit a more 
abundant and healthy secretion, by mercurials and drastic purga- 
tives, while the nutritive functions are impaired, and the blood re- 
mains impoverished, must be alike vain and injurious. 

The most cursory inspection of such a patient, the most super- 
ficial examination into the history of his case, ought at once to 
satisfy the medical observer that with mercury especially, he 
should, in this instance, have nothing to do. The tropical invalid 
will generally be found to have had quite enough of that mineral 
during the acute stage of his disease, and when it was necessary to 
his cure. The true remedies in the anaemic complication are, 
the alteratives already mentioned, bitter tonics, chalybeates, mild 

o o 2 



564 TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 

aperients conjoined to chalybeates, great attention to the diet, and 
to the habits of life so as gradually to invigorate the system. 

" It cannot be too often repeated," says Dr. Billing, " that per- 
sons frequently give much too large doses of remedies in chronic 
diseases and thereby fail. Medicine and dietetic directions fail 
merely from being too energetic :" in other words, where in 
chronic disease remedies and diets fail, we should consider 
whether they may have been used too freely. It is impossible 
indeed to be too much on our guard against such errors in the 
treatment of tropical invalids. 

It is not here as in convalescence from acute disease. Where 
debility has been of long duration, the beneficial results of tonic 
treatment can only be obtained by gentle and slow degrees. 
This is not a case for heroic remedies, nor is the cure to be 
effected by a coup de main. So much for the medical management 
of these obstinate disorders.* 

When, on the other hand, I have reason to conclude that organic 
changes have taken place in the liver, or that its torpor is associated 
with induration or enlargement of the spleen, I have recourse at 
once to the nitro-muriatic-acid bath. It is a very powerful remedy ; 
it acts powerfully in promoting the depurative functions of the 
liver, kidneys, bowels, and skin. I have therefore, during more 
than twenty years, in India and in England, used it in many 
of the chronic affections of the liver, functional and structural, 
believing it, on the ground of my experience, to be an agent of the 
first order of importance. 

The form and manner of preparing and using the acid-bath are 
as follow : 

Take of hydrochloric acid, three parts ; nitric acid, two parts ; mix 
the two acids very carefully and slowly, so as to avoid any evolu- 
tion of heat, and then, having waited for twenty minutes, add of 
distilled water five parts, and mix the whole carefully. 



FOR THE GENERAL BATH WHEN IT IS NECESSARY TO IMMERSE THE 

WHOLE BODY. 

1. Pour into the bath about five pailfuls of cold water; add two 
auart bottles, containing sixty-four fluid ounces of the prepared 
dilute nitre-muriatic acid, and then sufficient boiling water to raise 
the temperature to 96 or 98. 

* When in the very act of writing, I received the following note, from a seafaring 
gentleman in Cornwall . " My dear Sir, The source of all my misery arises from a 
hot climate. Liver complaint, perfectly torpid. Mercurials serve only to increase the 
disease. If you can think of anything that will relieve the aforesaid state of inaction, I 
shall he very grateful." 



TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 505 

2. The patient should remain in the bath from fifteen to twenty 
minutes, a can of hot water being kept at hand and added in small 
quantities at a time to maintain the temperature. 

.'{. While the patient is in the bath, hot and dry towels should 
be provided, in order that immediately he leaves it, the body may 
be quickly and thoroughly dried ; after which the patient should at 
once retire to a well-aired and wanned bed. To prepare the 
second and the following baths, remove on each occasion about 
one-third of the liquid, then add one quart bottle of the dilute acid, 
and sufficient hot and cold water to raise the temperature to the 
proper degree. Should the bath excite too much irritation of the 
skin, less than one bottle of acid may be employed on each suc- 
ceeding occasion. 

(ii.) 

THE FOOT AND SPONGING BATH. 

1. Two gallons of water are generally sufficient for an ordinary 
foot and sponging bath, which should be kept by frequent addition 
of hot water at a temperature of from 98 to 100 . To the two gal- 
lons of water, six ounces by measure of the prepared dilute acid are 
to be added and thoroughly mixed. While the feet are immersed, a 
warm sheet or some other suitable covering to protect the patient 
from draughts should be thrown over the shoulders. By means of 
a large soft sponge, the insides of the thighs, the right side under 
the ribs (the region of the liver), and the arm-pits, should be con- 
stantly bathed ; at the same time, several folds of flannel may be 
immersed in the hot acid bath, and wrapped round the body. 
These baths should be used from fifteen to twenty minutes, night 
and morning, and on each occasion it is necessary to attend 
to the usual precautions of thoroughly drying the body and legs 
with hot towels before dressing or retiring to bed. 

2. It must be remarked that earthenware or wooden baths 
should be employed, as all other materials destroy the efficacy of 
the prepared acid. The sponges and towels should after each 
bath, be thoroughly washed in cold water to prevent their being 
destroyed by the acid. 

1 have been so much in the practice of prescribing this remedy, 
that, in order to save trouble to the patient and to myself, I have 
had the above directions printed ; and I invariably place a copy in 
the hands of such as are to be treated. A course of two months of 
this bath is found generally to restore the healthy action of the 
liver ; nor does it interfere with the use of bitter tonics, or even 
with mild chalybeates, but, on the contrary, it rather gives effect to 
their operations. In the severer instances, hereafter to be consi- 
dered, I have continually to use this means for a much longer 
period. The use of the bath should be discontinued whenever 



566 TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 

tenderness of the gums, or general malaise occurs ; and the same 
rule should be observed in regard to the internal use of the mineral 
acids. 

The varying and relative influences of the nitro-muriatic acid 
bath, like the results of mercurial and other fumigations and inunc- 
tions, will depend on the more or less active condition of the cuti- 
cular functions in different persons. There is no greater consti- 
tutional difference in different persons than that which relates to 
the functions of the skin ; and this circumstance will naturally 
account for the varying effects of remedies employed in the der- 
mic manner. But the greater power and more uniform effect of 
this remedy on persons in health have in a vast number of cases 
been manifested. Servants both male and female have complained 
of bilious diarrhosa from the immersion of the right forearm merely 
in the bath ; and others have requested to be relieved from attend- 
ance on patients while using it declaring that the inhaling of the 
steam issuing from the heated mixture has purged them actively. 

The cuticular irritation which is occasionally seen in persons 
who are using this means has generally appeared to me to retard 
rather than promote and advance the cure; and when the irrita- 
tion has been severe, it has been found necessary to suspend the 
use of the baths for a time : even when moderate in degree, the 
papular irritation, or chronic rash, as Mr. Wallace terms it, has 
always appeared to me to counteract absorption, on which the 
virtues of the bath principally depend. I am aware that the great 
benefactor of mankind, Jenner, ascribed much virtue to counter- 
irritants in chronic diseases of the liver, and that Mr. Wallace of 
Dublin was of the same opinion in respect to "permanent cuta- 
neous irritation," but in a long course of observation of the effects 
of nitro-muriatic acid in emulging the liver, and as a general altera- 
tive, the curative result has invariably appeared to depend prin- 
cipally on absorption, and independently of any cutaneous irrita- 
tion. But the chronic rash, although a hindrance, is by no means 
a permanent impediment to the cure ; for in some persons who 
were distressed in this way, evidence of the most powerful emul- 
gent action was manifested in biliary vomiting and purging. 

In treating torpor of the liver, after the cessation of other 
means of cure, I recommend warm and tepid baths, and especially 
those of sea-water, in aid of other tonic medical treatment, re- 
ducing the temperature as the patient approaches health. 

The neglect of the uitro-muriatic-acid treatment in cases of the 
nature here treated of, and in which mercury, in every form, proves 
not only insufficient but pernicious, is much to be regretted. 

Dr. C. J. B. Williams, who considers nitric acid the best medi- 
cine he knows for the state of convalescence from inflammation, 
and in the various cachectic states following on acute disease, or 
on habits of intemperance, offers the suggestion that its beneficial 



TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 567 

influences may be referred to its possessing a large proportion of 
oxygen in loose combination, and that it thus promotes a more free 
circulation through diseased parts, or through effused solids, by 
further oxygenating them. This distinguished physician, speaking 
of the nitro-muriatic acid, and chlorate of potash, says : " It seems 
most probable that these agents are chiefly useful in supplying to 
the blood the oxygen necessary for the formation of fibrin or deut- 
oxide of protein ; the respiration in its weakened state being unable 
to furnish a due amount." It seems to me, likewise, that nitric 
acid could never have attained to so great a reputation amongst 
surgeons in the cure of secondary and tertiary forms of syphilis, 
if its actions had not been found by them analogous to those of 
mercury, and that without the disadvantages of mercury. A " cor- 
respondence in the effect of the two remedies " was observed by 
Dr. Helenus Scott, of the Bombay army, the original author of this 
plan of treatment. The nitro-muriatic-acid is found to act power- 
fully, though slowly, on all the secretory and depurative functions, 
and on that of the liver especially ; and it can only be thus, and 
through the other influences ascribed to the acids, that they and 
mercury operate in curing syphilis and other chronic diseases. 

Another valuable quality of the nitro-muriatic acid is this that 
whether exhibited internally or externally, its influence in pro- 
moting the secretions is not in any sensible degree counteracted by 
opium, even when exhibited in the largest doses. Of this fact I 
continually receive examples in treating chronic diarrhoea compli- 
cated with disease of the liver. We obtain, in short, from the use 
of the mineral acids in the treatment of chronic disease, all the 
remedial aids which can be obtained from mercury in the treatment 
of acute disease ; and that, without any of the injurious conse- 
quences that so frequently ensue from the exhibition of the last- 
named agent. Persons of anaemic or of scrofulous habit are liable 
to serious injury from the use of mercury, whether given in large 
doses, during a few days, or in alterative doses during weeks or 
months. It is quite otherwise in respect to the acids, the most 
marked and lasting improvement of the general health being the 
ordinary result of their exhibition. 

The rule, says Dr. Bence Jones, is, sulphuric acid to astringe, 
hydrochloric acid to promote digestion, nitric acid to promote 
secretion. 

The good effects of nitric and muriatic acids in the treatment of 
some kinds of stomach disorder, are stated by Dr. Budd to have 
" been fully established by Dr. Prout." 

" Prout found them of especial efficacy in the gastric disorder 
that occurs in what is termed the oxalic diathesis, and that is 
marked chiefly by distressing flatulence and palpitation, or irregular 
action of the heart, occurring some time after meals, and by the 
jnvsence of oxalate of lime in the urine. 



568 TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 

The mineral acids are often useful to persons in whom digestion 
is habitually slow and feeble, from a scanty secretion of gastric 
juice, and who have a sense of weight or oppression at the stomach 
after meals. 

They are often useful also, as Pernberton showed, in the indi- 
gestion, attended with excessive formation of lactic acid that occurs 
in weak and nervous persons, and when the stomach has been for 
some time disordered and weakened by a source of irritation else- 
where." 

Dr. Prout is then quoted on the proper regulation and use of 
the mineral acids. " In cases of oxalic diathesis, where the patient 
lives at a distance in the country, 1 commonly recommend the use 
of the muriatic acid, or nitro -muriatic acid, as the case may be, to 
be persisted in, till the lithate of ammonia, or the lithic acid, begins 
to appear in the urine, or for a month ; and by adopting such a 
course of acids three or four times in the year, and by a carefully 
regulated diet, I have seen the diathesis gradually subdued, and 
at length removed altogether." This authority adds that the 
best time for exhibiting the acids is half an hour or so before 
meals. 

CASE I. Major , aged forty-two, originally of powerful 

constitution, has served twenty-five years in India, and has never 
till now been absent from duty. He has been a keen sportsman, 
and been therefore much exposed to direct solar influence, inde- 
pendently of the exposures incident to active service. His habits 
of life have heen " free," but with the exception of one severe 
attack of jungle (remittent) fever, followed by a protracted ague, 
in the early period of his service, his health has been generally 
good. Three years ago, while serving in a low malarious district, 
he became severely dyspeptic, falling off rapidly in appetite and 
in condition. He became pale and sallow, suffering great distress 
from oppressive distension after meals. At length he became so 
enfeebled that he was ordered home. 

There is now (September 25th) much debility, emaciation, and 
mental depression, the general appearance indicating premature 
old age. The complexion is of a lemon yellow ; the integument 
is dry, loose, and inelastic, as if wanting in vitality, and feels like 
chamois leather : the abdomen is flattened ; the state of the ge- 
neral habit is anaemic ; the appetite is very defective, the dyspeptic 
symptoms, accompanied by excessive acidity, having greatly in- 
creased during the cold of the last ten days. There is cough, 
with a sense of dull pain and weight in the head. He suffers 
from what he terms " a dry state of the bowels," the excretions 
being pale, sometimes white, and always scanty. The tongue is 
foul, with bitter taste in the mouth. The urine is now pale and 



TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 569 

abundant, but it is sometimes high-coloured and surcharged. 
There is no organic disease discoverable ; the pulse is feeble and 
slow. 

He was ordered to take a pil) every night, composed of watery 
extract of aloes, with a grain each of the sulphates of quinine and 
iron. The gentle action of the bowels being thus obtained, he 
took, during nearly two months, the fluid extract of taraxa- 
cum, with bicarbonate of soda, using a light but nutritious diet, 
and taking exercise on horseback daily. The warm bath, at 96, 
was used twice a week, at the bed-side, and just before retiring to 
rest, while active friction with the Indian hair-glove was applied 
to the surface of the body,* great care being observed at the same 
time to avoid exposure to the cold and damp of our winter and 
spring seasons. All these directions were rigorously attended to 
by the patient, but the progress towards recover}' was slow. On 
the return of warmer weather, however, in April, the digestive 
power improved, along with the secretions, the complexion having 
assumed more of the European hue. The weight of the body, 
though much under the average of health, was gradually augment- 
ing, while the power of increasing his exercises, with the enjoy- 
ment in them, steadily returned. Mild chalybeates were now or- 
dered, and these, along with an improved diet and increased ex- 
ercise, brought a more rapid increase of health. The hepatic and 
digestive functions acquired tone perceptibly under this course of 

treatment, and in the month of August Major went to the 

moors. In October he returned to London, on his way to travel 
on the continent, and if his weight was still some pounds under 
his Indian standard of health, he nevertheless admitted that he 
was more muscular and energetic than when he last enjoyed tiger- 
hunting. 

Remarks. In this case, as in many others of the like nature, 
the anaemic condition was the pervading injury, and the liver par- 
took largely of it ; indeed, I believe that the proper pathology of 
torpor of the liver, in the instance of tropical invalids in general, 
and where actual disease is not present, may more justly be ex- 
pressed by anaemia of the organ than any other phrase ; and the 
term becomes important if, as I conceive, it represents a true 

condition. Certain it is, that in the case of Major , the 

most marked and decided improvement took place under the 
appropriate operation of chalybeates, and so I continually find 
it to be in such cases. 

* This glove, made from goat-hair cloth (very superior to the common horse-hair 
glove, which frets the skin severely), is manufactured by Mr. Savory, of New Bond 
Street, at my suggestion, after the pattern of those in universal and immemorial use in 
Hindustan, the country of all others where the purification of the skin is most and best 
attended to. 



570 TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 

The benefits derivable from the persistent use of the natural 
saline and chalybeate waters can only be referred to their joint 
operation, as alteratives and diluents, in exciting the action of the 
depurative functions, while they improve the quality of the blood 
by the iron contained in them. There can be no doubt, also, that 
the important accessories of the wanner season of the year pure 
air, regulated diet, exercise, and mental relaxation, tend materially 
to promote the remedial actions of all the mineral waters so much 
resorted to of late years. 

CASE II. Captain , of a delicate and dyspeptic habit, 

has served twenty-one years in India. During his service, he had 
two attacks of remittent fever, for which he was moderately bled, 
generally and locally, and used calomel and purgatives. His re- 
covery from the first was slow, and on the last occasion his debi- 
lity was so great, that he was ordered to the Cape of Good Hope 
for change of air. He returned to his duty, after an absence of 
eighteen months, in his ordinary state of health, and continued so 
during three years, when the bowels became irregular, with alter- 
nate states of constipation and diarrhoea. From this time his 
health sank, and, notwithstanding a voyage to Prince of Wales' 
Island, and a short residence in the mountain ranges, dyspeptic 
symptoms and diarrhoea increased upon him, so that at length he 
was ordered to Europe, and arrived in England in the month of 

August. Captain visited me in the end of October, having 

since his arrival been under alterative mercurial treatment, which 
has induced a painful and irritable recurrence of diarrhoea. He 
is pale and exsanguine, his general appearance giving the impres- 
sion of very defective nutrition. The muscular system is flattened, 
relaxed, and extremely enfeebled, the integument being harsh 
and cold to the touch. The abdomen is tumid, but there is no 
enlargement of either liver or spleen. The pulse is frequent 
(eighty- six) and feeble. He complains of severe headache, loss 
of appetite, and of want of power to digest other than farinaceous 
food, on which he has principally subsisted on the voyage home 
round the Cape of Good Hope. The diarrhoea had ceased by the 
time of his arrival in England, but his dyspeptic symptoms had 
increased, accompanied by excessive flatulence, short dry cough, 
and swelling of the feet and ankles. The excretions from the 
bowels are pultaceous, clay-coloured, and sometimes chalky, the 
urine being clear and scanty. The mental despondency is most 
distressing. Ordered to take, three times a day, a mixture com- 
posed of the fluid of taraxacum, with dilute nitric and hydrochloric 
acids, with aromatics. It became necessary, on three occasions, 
to add tincture of opium to this preparation, the bowels being still 
irritable. A warm bath at night twice a week, with frictions to the 



TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 571 

surface night and morning, were ordered, and gentle horse-exer- 
cise was used on fair days, while a moderate allowance of animal 
food and stale bread composed his dinner. In little more than a 
month under this treatment, the discharges from the bowels be- 
came so consistent as to amount to constipation, when a pill, con- 
taining a small quantity of aloes, with the sulphates of iron and 

quinine, was taken every night. Captain then proceeded to 

the country, whence he wrote me, in January, that his digestive 
power and the alvine secretions had much improved. He was 
now directed to use a weak solution of quinine and sulphate of 
iron, with dilute sulphuric acid, while the diet and exercise were 
increased. 

During the spring and summer months, pure chalybeates, gra- 
dually increased in quantity, were exhibited, and by the middle of 
autumn he was so much improved in health and strength as to 
proceed on his travels. It required three years' residence in Eng- 
land to restore this officer to health, when he returned to India 
full of high hope and expectation ; and after four years he writes 
me that his health continues excellent. 

Remarks. Looking to the previous fevers, and the diarrhoea 
that followed them, and also to the existing febrile condition 
(which latter state I considered as referable to intestinal irritation), 
I directed the use of the nitre-muriatic acid treatment, as being 
febrifuge, emulgent, tonic, and refrigerant. In such cases it also 
proves, along with the taraxacum, an excellent preparative for 

more active tonics. Captain 's condition appeared at first to 

promise an unfavourable result. 

Torpor of the liver, like congestion of that organ, is frequently 
associated with very severe cerebral disturbance. Of this fact the 
two following cases will afford illustrations : 

CASE III. Lieut.-Col. served twenty-eight years in India, 

and has been throughout of carefid and regular habits. In 1831 
he came to England at my recommendation, suffering dangerously 
from remittent fever, and consequent enlargement of the liver. 
He remained two years at home, and regained health despite an 

attack of bronchitis. Colonel returned a second time to 

England on sick leave, in 1849. The official statement of his 
case, from the surgeon of his regiment, sets forth that, for some 
years after his first sick furlough to Europe, "he had enjoyed good 
health," but that latterly he became l subject to frequent attacks 
of pain in the head, the slightest irregularity in diet producing it." 
On the 6th of January, 1849, the weather being cold, and his corps 

encamped before Moultan, Colonel became jaundiced, his 

urine being of a blood-red appearance, and the head heavy and 
oppressed. While under the influence of active purgative treat- 



572 TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 

ment he was, on the 8th of January, seized with a fit. " He sud- 
denly fell back in his chair in a state of insensibility," and was 
found by his surgeon lying on the floor of his tent, " his face 
tinged of a leaden hue, pupils dilated, breathing oppressed and 
laboured, skin cold and clammy, and his pulse slow and full. He 
was immediately bled in the right arm, but the blood not flowing 
very freely the vein of the other arm was opened, and a large 
quantity of blood was abstracted, when his pulse became small, 
soft, and more frequent. During the bleeding he had two very 
severe attacks of convulsive movements of the right side, with 
throbbings of the right corner of the mouth and winking of the eye 
of that side, the pupils becoming very much contracted. These 
convulsive fits lasted three minutes." 

For three hours he remained insensible, after which sinapisms, 
fomentations, large doses of calomel, followed by purgatives, were 
used, and he recovered. Though but forty-seven years of age he 
now appeared (September, 1849), prematurely old, and much 
emaciated. Hepatic torpor, and torpor of all the functions of the 
body, accompanied by severe headaches, were now the symptoms 
complained of. He was completely anaemic, and no wonder, for 
the blood-letting he declared to have been enormous. In the first 
winter and spring seasons after his arrival at home he suffered 
severely after meals from sleepiness, uneasiness, and occasional 
pain in the head, accompanied by sense of weight and oppression 
of the epigastric region, and fits of coughing. These symptoms 
after four or five hours disappeared ; but it was long before he re- 
gained proper digestive power, healthy secretions, or muscular 
condition, sufficient to enable him to take exercise without fatigue. 

Remarks. This officer was seen by many physicians in various 
quarters, and various remedies were prescribed. I directed the 
use of the mineral acids, chalybeates, and latterly of the cod liver 
oil. All three were followed by some improvement ; but two 
years and a half of furlough proved insufficient to restore the vigour 
of the digestive functions, and he returned to India in a condition 
which did not promise that he could render effective service. 

CASE IV. Major , aetatis fifty, served thirty years in 

India, and had enjoyed an average degree of good health until 
within the last six or seven years, when, according to the statement 
of his surgeon, he suffered " at periods, varying from a week to a 
month, from severe headaches of a most intense character. The 
affection commences primarily with a weight and heaviness in the 
head, which gradually increasing, ceases not until it assumes a de- 
gree almost insupportable. During the attack, and until the ope- 
ration of medicine, he is incapable of moving, and often of lying 
down, the only relief experienced being in the sitting posture. 



TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 573 

From the previous history, present state, and observing the action 
of medicine on the case, I came to the conclusion that the dis- 
ordered functions of the brain are entirely caused by torpidity of 
the liver, and derangement of the digestive organs generally, the 
retention, in fact, of some of the component parts of the secre- 
tion of bile, which are not eliminated from the blood under defi- 
cient action of the hepatic apparatus. 

In the intervals between the attacks, irregularity of the bowels 
and extreme torpidity of the liver have always been present, 
evinced by great dryness of the skin, sallow countenance with 
loaded conjunctivas, occasional pains in the right shoulder, and 
heaviness in the hepatic region, &c. 

The disposition to torpor, and consequent disturbance in the 
sensorium, has always been here increased, and brought on, by the 
slightest change in the seasons or weather, by change of habits 
from cantonments to camp, and vice versa, while the slightest 
irregularity of diet, or even a change of the dinner hour, has 
always produced its punishment." 

Such is the statement of the able surgeon of Major 's 

corps. " The treatment," he says, "was in the first instance, and 
between the attacks, to restore due actions of the hepatic system, 
by mercurial alteratives and purgatives, particular attention being 
paid to the habits and mode of living ; but the treatment during 
the attack has never been altered. On the warning of his head- 
ache approaching, pills, containing a large dose of calomel and 
colocyuth, were immediately taken, followed, some hours after, by 
an aperient draught of salts and senna, and after copious dark 
evacuations the headache has generally subsided, leaving him 
however pallid and depressed in spirits for some days. The 
action of mercurial purgatives in this case was remarkable, the 
earlier their operation on the biliary system was affected, the less 
severe the attack ; and if by any delay the medicine was not 
directly taken the more severe the affection." Seeing that length 
of residence in India produced " increased severity and frequency" 
in the disease, and that a return to Europe was deemed " the only 
means now in his power for the due restoration of the hepatic 

function," Major obtained sick leave, and arrived in England 

in the spring season. 

Remarks. Major came under my observation only at 

intervals. He visited Brighton, Bath, Cheltenham, and other 
places, and sought various opinions. For the first year he con- 
tinued exactly as described in India, headache attacking him on 
an average once a month. The fluid extract of taraxacum with 
alkalies appeared to me to be of much service to him, and had he 
persevered in their use his recovery, I think, would have been 
more rapid and progressive. 



574 TORPOR OF THE LIVER. 

In the treatment of all the disorders and diseases affecting per- 
sons who have resided in hot climates, I endeavour to impress on 
the patient the vast importance of attention to the habits of life 
to the diet, to the clothing, especially in the winter and spring 
seasons, to exercise in a pure air, to the functions of the skin, &c. ; 
and that without such care no medical treatment whatever can 
avail them ; in short, that all those means which are preventive of 
disease are also curative. 

Dr. Budd, in his admirable treatise on Diseases of the Liver, 
speaking of the injurious effects of indulgence at table, and of the 
neglect of exercise, especially in persons of middle age, in whom 
respiration has therefore become less active, says : 

" We may often see inverse evidence of those relations in the 
effect of pure air and active exercise in relieving various disorders 
that result from repletion and from the retention of principles, 
which, if burnt out in respiration, should pass off by the liver as bile. 
Every sportsman must have remarked the effect of a single day's 
hunting in clearing the complexion. It has no doubt much the 
same effect on the liver as on the skin." 

If the truth and force of these important observations were more 
generally appreciated in practice, we should have fewer hepatic 
disorders, and fewer still of those hepatic diseases, which, taken 
together, render the days of many amongst us, presently as miser- 
able, as they are sure ultimately to shorten them. Exercise in the 
open air must also prove powerfully beneficial in another manner 
viz., by accelerating the actions of respiration, it thus increases 
the power of the circulation, and thereby promotes a more active 
return of blood from the liver, spleen, and other important organs, 
so often engorged and oppressed in the instances of invalids from 
hot climates. 

" Exercise on horseback," says Dr. Billing, " has innumerable 
advantages over every other kind, as it gives motion to the viscera 
without fatiguing the limbs; very little motion is given to the 
viscera in walking or in carriages." 

If it be true that " the portal circulation is carried on in a great 
measure by the pressure of the abdominal muscles," how great 
must be the benefits resulting from well regulated exercises in the 
open air in such cases. The quantity of carbonic acid exhaled 
from the lungs is proved to be greatly increased under active exer- 
cise, and thus we possess another channel of powerful depuration, 
the active promotion of which should never be neglected. The 
same result under exercise is found by Lehmann in the depu- 
ration by the kidneys ; for, while the proportion of uric acid to 
urea in a state of rest was 1 to 38, after active exercise it fell to 1 
in 77. The truth is that the amount of good that may be effected, 
in the way of prevention and cure of disease, by pure air and 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 575 

water, proper diet and active exercise, is a matter which up to this 
day has not received all the attention that is due to it. 

In no class of disease is the most rigid adherence to strict rule 
of diet more necessary than in such as affect the function and 
structure of the liver ; and this truth should be strenuously im- 
pressed on the attention of the returned Indian: he should be 
made to understand that no cure can be effected without it. 

Dr. Budd observes justly that by increasing the activity and 
effect of the respiratory process, that in the vast power we have in 
modifying them by regulations having reference to the great con- 
ditions of air, exercise, temperature, and food, we have means 
much more effectual than any other, in dealing with biliary dis- 
orders. 

Patients, in their ignorance of their present condition, and 
referring only to our heroic measures of cure, under directly oppo- 
site circumstances, in India, will sometimes look anxiously to 
" active treatment," and to speedy and substantive results. They 
must be made to understand that there are many morbid condi- 
tions for which we cannot pretend to find any direct and imme- 
diate remedies ; and that even in withdrawing things that tend to 
injury, or to retard the curative operations of Nature, the physician 
does much ; much more than can be hoped for by random attempts 
at rapid or " decided" measures of cure, by powerful medicinal 
agents applied to an exhausted constitution. They must, in short, 
be induced to look hopefully to the future, and to judge of the 
power and value of their medical management by the result by 
the gradual restoration of health. It is seldom, indeed, that we 
shall find reasoning such as this disregarded. 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

NEXT to the liability to periodical fever and bowel complaints, 
such as dysentery and diarrhoea, engendered by residence in 
malarious countries, stands the liability to disorder and disease of 
the liver, engendered by antecedent circumstances of climate and 
of habit of life. It is well known to such as are acquainted with 
the health history of the British army, that the soldiers employed 
on the expedition to Walcheren never afterwards proved service- 
able in the Spanish campaigns, or when sent to the intertropical 
colonies. 

The least exposure to malaria, to cold and damp, night duties, 
a shower of rain, or wet feet, was sure to induce fever of an inter- 



576 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

mittent character. The same latency of disposition, and subse- 
quent liability to fever on the application of slight causes, has at 
all times been remarked, in the East Indies, of Europeans who 
have once been affected with remittent (jungle) fever. 

The chronic enlargement of the liver will generally be found in 
persons who have suffered from previous acute inflammation, or 
from repeated congestions of that organ, from fevers, both remittent 
and intermittent, and from dysentery and diarrho3a. This form of 
hepatic disease is often associated also with dysentery, acute and 
chronic, and with diarrhoea ; so that, in fact, it may be said to 
precede, to accompany, and to follow those bowel diseases. 

In the East Indies we find that acute hepatic disease stands in 
the Hospital Returns as third in order of frequency, fevers and 
dysenteries being in the first and second relations. But though 
this order will be found generally correct, it must be remembered 
in addition that, in the course of fevers, dysenteries, and diarrhoeas, 
hepatic diseases are very apt to arise, and to follow upon them, 
so as, in fact, to render the total amount of cases of hepatic 
disease which occur in the East very great in the aggregate far 
greater than can be exhibited in any Hospital Returns. Out of 
an aggregate European force of 25,431 men of her Majesty's army, 
serving during ten, eight, and ten years respectively, between 1823 
and 1826, at the stations of Calcutta, Chinsurah, and Berhampore, 
all in Bengal Proper, there occurred, according to Colonel Tulloch, 
1,354 cases of original and uncomplicated hepatitis ; but if we 
could to this enumeration add the amount of consecutive hepatic 
disease, the grand total would be very great. Whether the 
Returns made from the Madras Presidency be more accurate than 
those of Bengal, I know not ; but we find that out of an aggregate 
British force of 82,342 men, serving in the former Presidency, 
from 1842 to 1848, there occurred 5,911 cases of liver diseases. 
" In India," says Sir James M'Grigor, " the liver seems to be the 
seat of disease, in nearly the same proportion that the lungs are 
in England." 

I have, on the other hand, treated numerous cases of hepatic 
enlargement at home, in persons who had never suffered from any 
tropical disease, nor yet from any functional disorder, or from 
structural disease of the organ in question, so far as could be 
ascertained, but who had nevertheless been exposed in India to 
the general influences explained in the opening chapter of these 
essays. 

The history of these latter instances is very generally as follows : 
The patient has been enfeebled by many years of residence in hot 
climates : he comes to England in an impaired state of general 
health, with torpor of the liver: he is exposed to cold; and 
along with this, perhaps, are associated excesses in food and drink. 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 577 

Passive congestion results from all these influences ; and years 
may intervene before alteration of structure, with enlargement of 
the liver, calls for the notice of the patient or his friends. 

Where, as in the disease before us, actual enlargement is so 
easily recognisable by the senses, it seems hardly necessary here 
to dwell on a minute detail of the symptoms, especially as most 
of them are common to the disease under consideration, and to 
the hepatic affections noticed in the two last Essays. But I 
would mention that an excited or a disturbed state of the heart's 
action is frequently present, as a complication, in the chronic 
enlargement of the liver, and albumen is likewise occasionally 
discoverable in the urine ; but, according to my experience, these 
derangements disappear on the removal of the hepatic disease ; 
thus showing that the functions of the heart and kidneys are but 
temporarily disturbed in these cases. 

In chronic enlargement, with induration of the liver, the heart 
becomes excited, apparently through the constant exertion of its 
muscular textures in propelling the blood through an indurative 
mass so near to the heart, and of so large a size as the liver. This 
state of the heart's action, unless relieved by the removal of its 
cause, terminates in disease of the cardiac structure. In such 
cases there will likewise be found a hurried and imperfect respira- 
tion ; and it will necessarily follow, from all these impediments 
to the operation of the vital functions, that dropsies shall often 
ensue. 

The influence of antecedent climatic circumstances of preceding 
seasons, prolonged into succeeding seasons, and even into years, 
is pointedly commented on by Hippocrates, as influencing morbid 
manifestations. It is a sort of latent disposition, created by a 
cause which has operated in previous force, or by previous dura- 
tion. " At the same time," says M. Budin, " that a certain time 
intervenes between the introduction into the system of the morbid 
cause, and its manifestation in the form of disease, it happens also 
that certain diseases are developed far from the places where they 
were contracted, and long after the action of the causes which gave 
them birth." Applying these doctrines to facts, this eminent 
military surgeon instances regiments which have passed into Africa, 
carrying along with them for a certain time, varying in duration, a 
disposition to be afflicted by the fevers and intestinal diseases that 
had prevailed amongst them in France ; and, conversely, of other 
corps returned from Africa, and which exhibited, for a longer or 
shorter period, according to length of residence, or to circum- 
stances of exposure during active service, the fevers and fluxes of 
hot and malarious regions, thus preserving, for a time, in both 
cases, the dominant medical constitution of the previous seasons, 
and of the countries from which they had taken their departure. 

p P 



578 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

The utility of such diagnostic considerations must be evident; for, 
in a practical point of view, " it is of the highest importance," he 
observes, "never to lose sight of the pathology proper to the 
localities to which masses of men have been previously habituated, 
and to observe, in relation to places, the celebrated precept of 
Celsus in relation to time, ' Neque solum interest quales dies sint, 
sed etiam quales praecesserint.'" * 

All our experiences derived from the intertropical possessions of 
the British empire go to confirm the doctrines and facts here re- 
ferred to ; and to no diseases do they apply with more justice than 
to those of the liver. 

The actions of the nitre-muriatic acid, the manner of preparing 
and using the bath, &c., have already been detailed. The late 
Dr. Helenus Scott, of the Bombay army, was the first to use this 
remedy in the form of bath, in chronic diseases of the liver. He 
says that, in a constitution broken down by disease, by the use of 
powerful remedies, such as mercury, or by the long-continued 
action of the poison of syphilis, the acid treatment was quite as 
beneficial in this climate as in that of India. " I know of no 
other means that are capable of producing effects at once so salu- 
tary and so considerable, so free from injury, with so little incon- 
venience or disturbance. ... As with mercury, the system 
should be charged with it for a longer or shorter time, according 
to circumstances. In short, and as a general rule, I have found 
the acid bath advantageous and salutary in all cases where mercury 
is useful, and with the additional advantage that the acid treatment 
is attended by neither injury nor disadvantage." Dr. Scott adds : 
" By the harmless remedies that I now recommend much good 
may be done in some diseases that are acknowledged to be beyond 
the ordinary means of relief;" and my personal experience in 
India, and in England, amply confirms this able and excellent 
officer's declaration. " Even in irremediable eases of chronic 
enlargement of the liver," says Dr. Christison, " it proves useful 
in cleaning the tongue, improving the appetite, abating thirst, and 
sometimes in retarding the progress of disease." 

The disuse of this powerful means must be mainly ascribed to 
the imperfect, brief, and desultory manner in which it has gene- 
rally been used, whether internally or externally prescribed. It 
is only by those who have attentively observed the effects of this 
remedy, whether exhibited internally or externally, during months 
together in many cases, that its powerful influences in bringing 
about the removal of chronic disease, and in maturing conva- 
lescence, can be justly appreciated. Certainly, had mercury been 
used in the desultory and irregular manner spoken of, in the 
treatment of acute and chronic disease, without regard to rational 
* (Euvres Completes d'Hippocrate, par E. Littre. 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 579 

persistence, or to curative effect, it never could have attained to 
any repute in the practice of medicine. 

N.B. Should the bowels not act with sufficient freedom of them- 
selves, or should the bath not excite them to sufficient action, I 
am in the habit of ordering a mild aperient draught of Epsom 
salts in some bitter infusion, every other morning, so long as the 
use of the bath may be in progress. 

CASE I. , Esq., had served thirty-eight years in India, 

and there enjoyed excellent health, terminating his official career 
as member of one of the medical boards. His constitution had 
been robust ; but he was now seventy years of age. He had never 
suffered from fever, dysentery, or hepatitis, though his habits had 
always been those of one who is said to " live well." He had 
retired from the service, and resided in England twelve years, and 
until eight months previously to his consulting me his health had 
continued good. At the time now stated he began to fall off in 
condition, was observed to look sallow, and complained of dyspep- 
tic ailments with fulness in the epigastrium ; but there was no 
pain. Latterly tumidness of the whole abdomen attracted his 
notice, and that of his family. I found the liver enormously 
enlarged, and extending down to the umbilicus, accompanied by 
considerable serous effusion into the abdominal cavity, and by 
oedema of the lower extremities. The bowels were constipated, 
the excretions being clay-coloured, the urine turbid and scanty. 
There was no disturbance of the heart's action. 

In consultation with Dr. Chambers it was determined to use the 
nitro-muriatic-acid bath by sponging the limbs and abdomen, 
using a mild and aperient draught every second morning. This 
was done by the patient's wife and her female attendant, but after 
ten days they were obliged to desist, both of them being seized 
with bilious diarrhoea. The person next employed in sponging 
used gloves of oiled cloth, and the remedy was continued for more 
than three months, with a powerful effect on the secretions of the 
liver, bowels, and kidneys. The liver was now not to be felt 
under the margin of the ribs, and the patient rapidly acquired 

appetite, condition, and strength. Mr. now proceeded to 

his country residence, returning to London for the winter season, 
and enjoying excellent health, which he retained for upwards of 
two years. At the expiration of this time he complained of nausea 
after meals, accompanied by great languor and distress at the 
stomach. Vomitings after meals soon succeeded, the matters 
rejected being latterly of a dark coffee colour, and he died greatly 
emaciated, three months from the accession of his latter illness, in 
his seventy-third year. 

The contents of the abdomen were examined by Mr. Pollock, 

P p 2 



580 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

of St. George's Hospital, thirty hours after death. He describes 
the liver as "quite healthy in structure and appearance; rather 
smaller than natural ; the diminution of size appeared as if occa- 
sioned by the viscus being less congested than is generally the 
case. The cells of the liver, when examined under a high power, 
were found to be very distinct, and almost empty much more so 
than is generally seen. The gall bladder was filled with small 
pieces of black matter, which crumbled easily under the pressure 
of the finger, and were found to be composed of pure bile." 

The stomach was quite healthy, but " distended with fluid of a 
dark blackish colour. An ulcer,' about the size of a shilling, was 
found in the duodenum, where it lies in contact with the head of 
the pancreas, its edges much thickened and elevated. Spleen 
healthy." 

Remarks. This case shows how, after the lapse of many years 
of residence in a temperate climate, disease will arise in the liver, 
and that in persons who have never suffered in hot clinfates either 
from functional or structural affections of that organ. It was long 
before the latent disposition was here roused into actual disease ; 
but more generally it happens otherwise, and within a few years 
sometimes within a few months from arrival in England. In re- 
spect of the treatment, we perceive, first, the power of the nitro- 
muriatic acid on those whose hands merely were, while in a state 
of good health, wetted by it ; and secondly, its power to remove 
an enormous enlargement of the liver, and the consequent dropsy, 
in the instance even of an aged person. His general health re- 
mained excellent during two years and upwards from this point of 
time ; and but for the ulcer in the duodenum, his life might have 
been extended for a term of years. 

CASE II. , Esq., aged thirty-eight, originally of a robust 

habit, had resided nineteen years in India, and chiefly in the upper 
and healthier parts of the Bengal Presidency. He had not suffer- 
ed from tropical disease up to the time referred to in his statement. 
" I was first taken ill in the hot weather of 1840, with indigestion, 
nervousness, and very slight fever, and was sent to the Himalayan 
mountains. I returned in November, well. In the hot weather of 
the following year, 1 was again seized, and again returned to the 
Himalaya. I remained over the winter in the hills, and also in the 
summer of 1 842, in tolerable health. Towards the close of it, 
however, I suffered very much from indigestion and nervousness, 
stoppage of the pulse, out of spirits, no appetite, cross and unhappy 
with myself, and everybody else. On coming down the country 
in November, 1842, I was ordered home. Up to this time I had 
taken very little medicine merely small doses of opening stuff 
occasionally. Now my legs began to swell, my breathing to be 
difficult, and I got alarmed. In coming down the Ganges 1 had 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 581 

but little advice. A medical man I saw at , said there was 

not much the matter with me, and I wanted a change to sea. On 
reaching Calcutta, Mr. Nicolson said my liver was much enlarged. 
I was now almost unable to leave my room almost my bed. Mr. 
Nicolson gave me, I believe, calomel and opening medicines, and 
something to operate upon my kidneys. I did not get worse in 
Calcutta, and was put on board ship. Here I took lots of calomel 
three times a day, and digitalis. On reaching the Cape of Good 
Hope I was much better, and a month afterwards very much im- 
proved indeed in fact, I considered myself well. On board ship, 

Dr. latterly gave me some sort of acid to rub into my side, 

but he had not much in store, and I used it sparingly. On reaching 

England, I consulted , who attended me for three months, and 

during that time I grew as bad, or worse than I had been on leaving 
Calcutta. I had calomel and digitalis. After that, I was treated 
by Mr. J. R. Martin with acid baths, and occasional medicine at 
night, and in three months grew very much better, with the constant 
use of the bath night and morning, and in about six months be- 
came a sound man, I hope. My internal organization has worked 
soundly for about two years, and I embark to-morrow, July 30th, 
1846, again for India, without apprehension of a return of my dis- 
ease. I think I took eight hundred grains of calomel between 
November, 1842, and August, 18431" 

At the time here last referred to, this gentleman's condition was 
most unpromising. The abdomen was full of serum, and there 
were signs of commencing effusion into the cavities of the pleura 
and pericardium, the heart being slightly enlarged. The liver was 
of enormous size, and anasarca had extended to the face and eye- 
lids. 

It was under these circumstances that the nitro-muriatic acid 
bath was commenced, using daily various diuretics, and a draught 
composed of compound powder of jalap in aromatic water, every 
other morning. 

The result of this plan of treatment is stated above by the patient. 

He landed in Calcutta in November 1846, as he wrote to me, " in 
excellent health." During the voyage by the Cape of Good Hope 
from England, he added that he had been " remarkably well, and 
never troubled the doctor or his chest." 

Unhappily, Mr. remained for months in lower Bengal, 

where he was seized with remittent fever. The result was ruinous 
to his general health. The abdominal functions became torpid and 
depraved ; the heart became perceptibly enlarged, with a return of 
dropsy of the abdominal cavity, and general anasarca. He died in 
August, 1847 nine months from the date of his return to Bengal. 

On examination after death, the heart was found by Dr. of 

Calcutta, to be enlarged, but all the valvular structures were sound. 
The abdomen " contained an enormous quantity of fluid." The 



582 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

liver was " small, hard, tuberculated ; studded in its whole surface 
with white cartilaginous deposits of very old formation, giving it 
quite a rough granular feel ; adherent for about a hand s breadth 
to the diaphragm by a horny cicatrix, as if from an old abscess. 
The spleen small, hard, and heavy ; its outer coat of a dirty white 
colour, and a cartilaginous appearance, tough, and hard, like the 
sole of a shoe ; the inner structure fleshy and firm, hepatized, and 
almost black. Kidneys of a natural appearance in every respect, 
except a few small granulations in the pelvis of one ; not larger 
than pin-heads, of a soft cheesy character." 

Remarks . The interest attaching to this case is great on 
various points especially as showing how insidiously the most 
dangerous hepatic diseases may arise, when they assume the pas- 
sive form ; but 1 must here confine my observations to the results 
of treatment. Mercury during the homeward voyage, and during 
the first three months' residence in England had its full trial in 
the first instance, with some temporary benefit, but in the second, 
with none. 

With a view to obtain a rapid and powerful effect, I desired 
that the nitro-muriatic acid bath should be used by immersion ; 
but the patient was too feeble to bear the exertion, faintness being 
produced by any sudden effort or change of posture. The more 
tedious course of sponging was therefore used. In about five 
weeks darting pains were experienced in the region of the liver ; 
and this result of the bath I have always viewed as a favourable 
indication ; for here, as in other cases, the pains were coincident 
with increase and activity of the hepatic function, as evidenced by 
a great discharge of vitiated bile. From this extreme state of dis- 
ease and of depression he gradually and steadily regained health, 
and for two years he remained stout, ruddy-faced, and capable of 
using active exercise. Had this estimable officer escaped fever, 
he might have completed the object of his desire three years of 
additional service with safety to his health. 

In both the cases now related atrophy of the liver had succeeded 
to previous enlargement, and several instances of cirrhosis, from 
this cause, have come under my observation. Such, indeed, we 
may infer to be a necessary consequence of inflammatory and con- 
gestive states of long standing, the matters effused, according to 
Dr. C. J. B. Williams, swelling some parts, compressing others of 
the textures, and by preventing a due supply of blood, and by in- 
terfering with the nutrition and other functions, causing a subse- 
quent atrophy. Contraction and condensation of the natural tex- 
tures are the necessary consequences, " whilst the new deposit 

itself forms a granular or nodulated texture, of low vitality 

This is the chief mode in which contractile diseases of the liver 
and kidneys gradually infringe on the circulation and secretion of 
i hose organs, and thus may eventually prove fatal." 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 588 

Professor Bennett, states, that this morbid change in the liver 
consists of hypertrophy of the fibrous element between the lobules 
of the organ, and its subsequent contraction whereby its volume 
is diminished, and the secreting cells compressed and atrophied. 
As a further result, the large venous trunks are also compressed, 
and their commencing ramifications so congested that effusion into, 
or dropsy of the peritonaeal cavity is induced. 

Dr. Handfield Jones, on the other hand, regards the thickening 
and condensation of the fibrous tissue of the liver, not so much the 
effect of inflammatory action, as of a low degenerative process. 
He states that there are two forms of cirrhosis ; " the one depending 
on thickening of the Glissonian Capsule, and the other, in which 
the capsules themselves are involved in fibroid degeneration, the 
abolition of tissue, and of function being much more complete in 
the latter !" 

More than sixty years ago, Dr. Dick, an intelligent physician 
of Calcutta, noted that, " In chronic cases, where there is no fever, 
but only an obtuse pain in the side and shoulder, with a fulness 
in the side and about the pit of the stomach, keeping up a con- 
stant uneasiness, mercury seems to me to have but little good 
effect. When used freely it removes the symptoms for the time, 
but they generally return as soon as the mercury is left off." Dr. 
Dick states, also, that " such liver attacks very often succeeded 
long courses of mercury." Mercury, in the case here last related, 
as in other similar cases, did no good, but, on the contrary, much 
harm, though tried in various ways, and for longer and shorter 
continuance. 

Dr. Girdlestone made the same observation in Madras in 1781 
83. He ascribes hepatic disease to the abuse of calomel, even 
when used " as a prophylactic," but not so in any degree to mer- 
curial frictions, which, however long- continued, did not, he thought, 
produce such results. He also declares that " after the hepatitis 
is removed, the constant but cautious use of acids, in hot climates, 
proves the best means of preventing a relapse." 

Dr. - - had never been in a hot climate, and he stated that 
his case had originally been one of syphilitic ulceration, treated 
without mercury. Secondary and tertiary forms of syphilis fol- 
lowed, and for these three protracted courses of mercury were 
had recourse to, with no benefit. When I saw him his constitution 
was entirely destroyed, and his liver was of enormous size, having 
become so after the last mercurial course. 

For the following interesting case I am indebted to Mr. Pollock, 
of St. George's Hospital : 

" 27, Grosvenor Street, January 5, 1850. 

CASE III. " I send you the particulars of the case I men- 
tioned to you of scrofulous disease of the hip-joint and enlarged 



584 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

liver, the recovery from which I attribute solely to the use of the 
nitro-muriatic-acid bath, used as recommended by yourself. 

In July, 1848, I was requested to see a boy (Walter M -), 

fifteen years of age, with extensive scrofulous disease of the hip. 
The region of the joint was externally marked by numerous deep 
cicatrices, and several sinuses still discharged their pus from the 
interior. The thigh was contracted on the body, and the pelvis 
much distorted. His aspect was very unhealthy ; countenance 
delicately pallid. It was impossible to ascertain the exact condi- 
tion of the joint, or position of the head of the femur, from the 
consolidation of the surrounding soft parts, and also from the suf- 
fering any movement of the parts produced in the child, but there 
was no doubt that considerable mischief had occurred in the joint, 
and had been going on for some time. 

The abdomen was also found to be very large ; there was a 
small quantity of fluid in the cavity of the peritonaeum, but the 
enlargement was chiefly dependent on the great size of the liver, 
which was very prominent, reached down below the crest of the 
ileuni, and filled up the greater part of the abdomen. He was un- 
able to sit up, and moved with difficulty. Pulse weak and quick ; 
appetite good ; tongue clean ; but every structure marked his ex- 
sunyiiine condition. 

When six years of age, and nine years before I was consulted, 
he had a fall down stairs. Some months subsequently, his parents 
observed him walking lame, and, as they describe it, " he was at- 
tended by a doctor for the disease of the hip." He became worse 
by degrees, and for the symptoms referred to the hip ; he had an 
issue made in the back part of the thigh, which was kept open for 
some eighteen months. He appeared to improve under this treat- 
ment, but soon after an abscess formed in the side of the thigh, 
which was opened, allowing the escape of much pus. From this 
time until I saw him many abscesses opened and healed, but a 
constant discharge continued from the hip, and occasionally pieces 
of carious bone came through the openings. Within twelve 
months of my seeing him his parents observed the increased size 
of the abdomen. About a week after I saw him, he commenced 
using the nitro-muriatic-acid foot-bath, and spunging the body 
with the nitro-muriatic acid, as recommended by you. In the 
Jirst week of its application, the size of the abdomen, by measure 
diminished one inch and a hatf, and during the four subsequent 
weeks, one inch every week. After this the parents ceased to 
keep the measure accurately ; but during the whole of the time, 
from the commencement of the use of the bath, he rapidly im- 
proved in every respect ; he gained strength, and health, and 
colour, and all the sinuses healed up rapidly ; and he was shortly 
afterwards able to move about upon crutches. I saw him again in 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 585 

April, 1849, so much improved that I did not know him again. 
Every sinus was closed round the joint, and quite sound; he could 
place his foot to the ground, and even bear some weight upon it. 
He had gained flesh, and could walk about with the help of one 
crutch only, and wished much to have a high-heeled shoe, which, 
however, I recommended not to be tried too soon. The liver 
could not be detected larger than natural. The bath was used 
for some three or four months, being omitted for the interval of a 
week or a fortnight occasionally ; and in the interval he took in- 
ternally small doses of the nitro-muriatic acid. The entire treat- 
ment consisted in this ; and to the use of the bath I cannot but 
attribute the favourable result of the case. 

I enclose you a letter from the parents, of which you can make 
any use you may think proper. 

(Signed) GEORGE D. POLLOCK. 

To J. R. Martin, Esq." 

CASE IV. Mr. , a surgeon of eminence, states that, when 

fourteen years of age, he had an attack of jaundice. In January, 
1840, " after being much worried and fatigued," he had a severe 
bilious attack, with incessant vomiting of bile, followed by jaun- 
dice. During a month, his health was not " improved by any sort 
of treatment ;" but on his " mind being powerfully acted on by 
agreeable intelligence, and stimulated by hope, the jaundice, from 
that day, began to give way, and in a week it disappeared." 

With exception to occasional bilious attacks, one of which was 
caused by anxiety, he enjoyed good health from this time till 
March, 1849, when he was " worried about professional matters, 
and underwent great fatigue." 

On the 29th of April of this year he was seized with rigors, 
and sense of cold in the back, headache, and tenderness of the 
eyes, followed by much fever ; and while still suffering from 
anxiety and depression of mind, he had profuse and offensive 
perspirations From this time till the 1 8th of October, 1849, 
when I first saw the patient, the " wave chills" as he calls 
them, increased, followed by fever, pain of the right hypochon- 
drium and epigastrium. The bowels were constipated, the ex- 
cretions depraved. For this he took purgatives, and large 
doses of quinine, which removed the rigors ; but fever, followed 
by profuse and offensive night-sweats, harassed him. The ab- 
domen had for some time been much enlarged, and " a hard ill- 
defined swelling at the epigastrium" was perceived by his friends 
(16th of September). By this time, great emaciation had taken 
place ; the pulse ranged from 84 to 90 ; the complexion was " of 
a dusky yellowish white ; the lips were pale and dusky ; the 
tongue covered with white pasty fur; urine, like porter dregs." 



586 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

There were lancinating pains of the abdomen, but especially of 
the epigastric region. " The countenance had assumed a drawn, 
haggard look, the scaffolding of his face standing out in bold re- 
lief" Quinine had been largely used, and when " congestion of 
the left lobe of the liver" became apparent, "and that the rigors 
might indicate suppuration," the nitro-muriatic acid with taraxa- 
cum was exhibited, and he took blue pill, with henbane, every 
other night. Two leeches were applied to the epigastric region, 
" and the swelling was painted over with tincture of iodine ;" but 
this last produced increase of "febrile excitement; the pulse, 
which was never under 85, frequently rose to 100." Mr. - 
had, since his first illness, sought relief in change of air at Brighton, 
Ramsgate, Derbyshire, and Berkshire, but, after the last trip, he 
" decidedly retrograded." The liver was now ascertained by two 
eminent surgeons, friends of the patient, to be greatly increased 
in volume, extending plainly downwards and forwards for many 
inches ; and there was a hard tumour in the left hypochondrium ; 
fever and emaciation, with great mental depression, having ac- 
quired a distressing height. 

I saw the patient on the 18th of October, 1849, and on careful 
examination I perceived the tumour in the left hypochondrium to 
arise from enlargement and induration of the spleen. By pressing 
the fingers in a vertical direction they fell into a sulcus, marking a 
separation between the two masses, that of the liver and the spleen. 
Both organs occupied two-thirds of the abdominal cavity, and the 
hand could be made to slip off their margins as from the rounded- 
off corner of a table ; the spleen was more painful on pressure 
than the liver. 

Mr. was recommended to use the nitro-muriatic-acid 

bath, by immersion of the whole body, night and morning, for 
fifteen minutes. This course was commenced on the 23rd of 
October, and on the 27th a very copious discharge took place 
from the bowels. " On the 29th, the effect of the baths was made 
manifest by a smart diarrhoea, the bowels being acted on seven 
times in twelve hours. On the 30th, the bowels were acted on 
four times before ten A.M." The effect being thus powerful, and 

Mr. havingduties to perform, the use of the bath was omitted till 

November 3, when it was resumed once only in the twenty-four 
hours, in the morning. A draught containing forty grains of com- 
pound powder of jalap was the only medicine exhibited internally, 
and that but on the first day of using the bath. On the 12th of 
November, when suffering from inflamed haBrnorrhoids, he took a 
drachm of confection of senna, and by ten A.M. of the following 
morning he passed six copious motions of vitiated bile, " like 
molten lead." On the 17th of November, I made a careful exami- 
nation of Mr. 's abdomen, and found the liver and spleen 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 587 

softened and flattened, but still nearly of the same extent as be- 
fore. The tumour of the abdomen had much subsided ; the com- 
plexion had improved ; the urine had become less turbid ; and the 
frequency of the pulse was reduced. The circumference of the 
body had undergone " a diminution of four and a half inches in 
less than a month, and this in spite of a considerable increase of 
fat, for his ribs were now decently covered, and his arm measured 
an inch more in circumference. The excretions were now nearly 
natural, with exception of an abundant deposit of lithates in the 
urine, which was passed in very large quantities. The sleep was 
good, and the appetite excellent." 

Dec. 4th. Had slight bilious diarrhea. The spleen scarcely 
perceptible, and the liver greatly diminished. 

December 7th. Took a seidlitz powder, which was followed 
by " a copious discharge of pure, honest, laudable bile." 

28th. " During the last few days I have felt some irritability 
and depression of spirits; my gums are red and turgid, and bleed 
on the least suction. Mr. Martin made a careful examination, and 
finding that the spleen is no longer perceptible, and that the liver 
has also recovered its natural size, and being of opinion that ma- 
laise, and the condition of the gums, indicated that the system was 
fully under the influence of the nitro-muriatic acid, permitted me 
to leave off bathing, which has been steadily pursued day after day, 
with one or two exceptions only, since the 23rd October. 

January 5th, 1850. I now feel in every respect in excellent 
health ; stronger in body and more cheerful than I have been for many 
months ; I may almost say for twelve months. I have gained con- 
siderably in bulk ; the functions of the alimentary canal are healthily 
performed; the pulse is firm and natural ; the skin soft and healthy ; 
the muscles firm ; and I am equal to a great amount of exertion. 

I cannot conclude without expressing my conviction that, under 
Providence, I owe my life to the treatment directed by Mr. Martin. 
On reviewing my case, it will be seen that there was a steady pro- 
gress from bad to worse. There were amendments from time to 
time, but each amendment was succeeded by symptoms more severe 
and more intractable than had before appeared. It will be further 
seen that the ordinary treatment, under the direction of most able 
physicians (whose friendly attention I can never forget), although 
producing temporary lull, quite failed in removing the cause of the 
mischief. The state of debility to which I was reduced by the 
fearful night sweats forbad depletion. The enlarged and tumid 
spleen put mercury out of the question. Quinine had been tried 
most fully, and had disappointed us. The mineral acid and tarax- 
acum, though affording some relief at first, soon ceased to produce 
a beneficial effect, and iodine absolutely disagreed. Thus the line 
of treatment still open was so circumscribed that the most skilful 



588 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

physician to whom the enderraio use of the nitro-muriatic acid 
was not familiar might well be embarrassed; and the patient, 
keenly alive to his condition, might well regard the prospect be- 
fore him with dismay. Happily for me the one remedy appropriate 
was employed, and by the blessing of God I have been restored to 
health in the brief period of two months." 

One of the medical friends, already mentioned, who saw Mr. 
just before my return to town in October, ;writes as follows : 

" The countenance was anxious ; he had emaciated a good deal 
of late, and his appearance was that of a man seriously ill. The 
tongue was red at the edges, and covered with a white thick fur, 
and but slightly moist. Pulse quick ; no appetite, and much lan- 
guor. He complained chiefly of pain in the region of the liver, 
but pain also was referred to the epigastrium and left hypochon- 
drium. On examination, the abdomen appeared very full ; consi- 
derable enlargement of the liver was felt, not extending downwards 
to the pelvis, but pressing forwards as if it was greatly and gene- 
rally enlarged from congestion. The enlargement extended so 
much to the left side, that I imagined the left lobe was occupying 
a large space in the left hypochondrium. This was, however, what 
you considered to be the spleen considerably enlarged. 

The pain over all this enlarged mass was so great, and so little 
able to submit to pressure, that I was almost afraid, that if abscess 
had not already commenced, there was sufficient reason to antici- 
pate such might very probably be the result. I was especially 
more fearful of this, as Mr. had suffered from recent rigors. 

The case was of so anxious a nature that I asked Mr. to 

see him with me till you returned. We agreed to give him small 
doses of blue pill daily, and attend to the bowels with gentle ape- 
rients ; on your return to town a few days after, you took charge 
of the case. When I recollect what was his condition when he 
first came to me, and the rapid improvement that took place under 
the use of the nitro-muriatic-acid bath, under your advice, and 
from what I have seen of the efficacy of the bath in some other 
instances, I cannot but consider the use of it as one of the most 
important modes of treatment in a vast number of cases both 
medical and surgical." 

^ This gentleman's case had some points of great interest in it. 

The rigors in his, as in Major 's case (page 552), were arrested 

by the quinine ; but the fever only assumed a more continued 
form, with increased tumidness and tenderness of the abdomen 
generally, and of the liver in particular. More than seventy years 

,go it was observed by the medical officers in India, and by Curtis 
amongst others, that the Peruvian bark changed the fevers symp- 
tomatic of jaundice, and other affections of the liver, "into a con- 
tinued fever." 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 589 

Mr. also used the acid bath under grave disadvantages. He 

commenced this course of treatment in the end of October, and 
continued it through winter cold of the two following months ; and 
with all this he was in continual and active professional exercise, 
exposed to weather and other injurious influences ; yet, despite 
such serious disadvantages, the result was complete in curative 
effect; and he is now, November, 1855, in perfect health. 

CASE V. Through the kindness of the late Mr. Dalrymple 
the following case has been brought to my recollection : 

" I have great pleasure in giving you an account of the case of 
hepatic disease about which I consulted you some few years ago ; 
although the relation wants the precision of accurate notes taken 
at the time. 

Captain W., then about thirty-six years of age, had already 
made several voyages to India and China, and had usually enjoyed 
excellent health. He was a well-built, muscular man, exceedingly 
temperate, and of very active, energetic habits. During his last 
voyage to the East, he had suffered from bilious fever and dysen- 
tery, which had been checked, though not cured, by some American 
physician whom he consulted in his voyage back round Cape 
Horn, in the Brazils. 

On his arrival in London, I was called to see him, and I found 
him greatly emaciated in his limbs, but protuberant in the abdo- 
men. His complexion was that of a pale lemon, no red blood even 
in his lips. His bowels were obstinately costive ; the evacuations 
clay-coloured, without a trace of bile. He suffered grievous pain 
all over the upper part of the abdomen ; his strength was gone ; 
and his spirits, in spite of his natural firmness and energy, de- 
pressed to the last degree. 

On examination of his abdomen, I found the hypochondria ex- 
panded, the epigastric region bulging, the liver extending upwards, 
as determined by percussion, and invading the right thoracic 
space. The pain produced by even moderate pressure over the 
hepatic region was exquisite. Under these circumstances, I 
believed he had acute inflammation of the liver, and that mer- 
cury energetically given was indispensable to his recovery. It 
was fortunate, however, for my patient, that I determined to fortify 
myself by the advice of another, and before beginning the treat- 
ment I asked the opinion of the late Dr. James Johnson. On his 
first examination of the patient's abdomen, and from observing 
pressure and percussion produced pain amounting to agony; he 
told me he feared that abscess of the liver had already formed ; but 
he declined to prescribe, and advised us to consult you, giving me 
an introduction to yourself for that purpose. 

After you had heard our history, and had made a careful exa- 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

initiation, you gave as your opinion that the case was one of active 
congestion of the liver ; that no suppuration had probably taken 
place, though disorganization was threatened, unless means could 
be found to emulge this great viscus. Mercury you denounced, 
saying you believed it would produce the very consequences we 

were anxious to avert. Captain W was advised to use the 

nitro-muriatic-acid sponging bath twice a day ; and I well remember 
the only medicine he was directed to take was some simple aloetic 
aperient, to .maintain a free state of the bowels. The recital of the 
rest of the case need require but few words. No other means were 
used from first to last, but the bath was most honestly persevered 
in, and a few short weeks sufficed to render the stools again bilious. 
The pale yellow gave place to a more healthy colour in the cheeks, 
as the food once more became assimilated, and red blood again 
elaborated. In less than three weeks all pain had vanished, even 
on firm pressure. His appetite increased ; his spirits became 
elastic ; his limbs were evidently more muscular, and a remarkable 
diminution in the size and prominence of the upper part of the 
abdomen took place. In six weeks he was well, and required 
only that additional vigour that change of air gives to the conva- 
lescent. 

Since the period I have referred to, Captain W made two 

voyages to China, and returned in perfect health. He has been for 
the last three years, and is now, in China, and I heard of him 
only a few days back, from Hong Kong, stating that he has 
been uniformly well during this his last residence in these 
climates. 

In this history I have not dwelt upon any but the more promi- 
nent symptoms, nor have I thought it necessary to state the day 
by day progress. The case is mainly valuable as showing the 
exact adaptation of the treatment to the exigencies of the case ; 
for like as a ship once within the influence of the trades has no 
need to trim her sails for weeks perhaps together, so, here, no alter- 
ation of treatment was required from the time Captain W set 

out upon his voyage of recovery until he arrived at the haven of 
health." 

(Signed) J. DALRYMPLE. 

60, Grosvenor street, Jan 22, 1850." 

CASE VI. For the following interesting case I am indebted to 
Mr. Donald Dalrymple, of Norwich: 

* iiT 16 Rev> T ' C ' a & ed fify' the subject of this case, is a 

ill, bony man, nearly six feet high. His father is alive, and very 

vigorous, at an advanced age ; his mother suffered from, and died 

1-stones. He has lost some of his family from phthisis. 

e was very active in his habits, a teetotaler by habit and convic- 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 591 

tion, and in addition to his clerical duties, earnestly and energeti- 
cally performed, kept a school, and has been unremittingly over- 
worked. As a youth, while at college and since, he was subject to 
bilious headaches, and about five years ago, having previously 
suffered from indigestion (so-called), had a regular fit of gall-stones. 
These attacks recurred at longer or shorter intervals, with greater 
or less intensity and frequency, but always yielded to calomel and 
opium, warm baths, &c. ; yet, though during the attack there was 
a total suppression of bile, no biliary calculus was detected, though 
very accurate search was made, and nothing more than a dark 
debris could be found in the stools. On the 19th of March, 1849, 
he was seized with one of his usual attacks ; the pain, sickness, 
&c., yielded, as before, to the ordinary remedies, but he quickly 
became jaundiced, attended with fever, high pulse, and great 
prostration. He was put on a course of calomel, with mercurial 
liniment rubbed in over the liver, and this was persisted in till the 
7th of April, when bile re-appeared in the stools, and his jaundice 
lessened. 

For a week he improved, but on the 16th all his symptoms 
returned, beginning as before ; from this time his condition was as 
follows : he was universally jaundiced ; skin a yellow brown ; 
nails and conjunctive orange ; urine, deep mahogany colour ; pulse 
130; tongue dry and cracked; respiration rapid, abdomen dis- 
tended, but not painful, even on deep pressure ; brain confused, 
occasionally delirious ; great emaciation, and he presented the 
appearance of a man poisoned with bile. 

On the 30th of April I wrote to Mr. Martin, who, taking a very 
unfavourable view of the case, advised the use of croton oil purga- 
tives, to emulge the bile ducts ; this advice was, at a consultation 
held with Dr. Hull, Mr. Cope, my brother, and myself, rejected, on 
the ground that the patient was not strong enough to bear it. 
Medicines were confined to obtaining an evacuation daily, which 
was perfectly while ; and he was freely supplied with stimulants, 
and the most nutritious food, in spite of which he got worse, till 
the 20th of May, when he appeared to be sinking. From this 
period, when all prospect of recovery seemed lost, he gradually 
improved, and it is needless to occupy time and space in describ- 
ing it ; but in one and the most essential point no alteration took 
place no bile appeared in his stools, they were as white as ever. 
About this time he began to cough, and, knowing his family ten- 
dencies, I became very uneasy about this new symptom. 

On June 3rd, Dr. C. J. B. Williams, being in Norwich to see a 
patient of ours, he kindly visited this case, and, though unable to 
detect the existence of pulmonary disease, entertained serious 
fears that, in a system so shattered, such might be developed, and 
that possibly there existed tuberculous disease of the liver ; at that 



592 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

time the right thoracic cavity was encroached upon by the liver 
very much, and the air with some difficulty permeated the inferior 
lobe. The doctor's suggestion was the use of cod-liver oil, a sus- 
taining but non-stimulant diet, and occasional aperients, but no 
mercurials. The same gradual improvement took place as had 
been witnessed before, till the 20th of June, when all his worst 
symptoms returned, and on the 25th of June he was nearly, if not 
quite, as bad as ever. 

Our patient ran through, as nearly as possible, the same course, 
and again, without any obvious reason, rallied and continued to 
improve. His pulse, which never had been under 110, and com- 
monly 115, fell to 105 or 100; his tongue cleaned, his strength 
returned to a certain degree, and he regained his appetite. He 
continued to improve till he was able to ride in a pony-chaise, but 
yet no signs of bile appeared in his stools, which were either of a 
white chalk or a dull putty colour. On or about the 15th of 
August he was well enough to go to London, to consult Mr. 
Martin, and at the time he went this was his condition : He was 
greatly emaciated, weighing scarcely nine stone (fourteen pounds 
to the stone) ; his skin was of a dusky, tawny hue ; his pulse from 
100 to 106 in the minute ; his tongue white, pasty, and fissured ; 
his abdomen, between the umbilicus and ensiform cartilage, dis- 
tended and drum-like, only slightly tender, however (nor, indeed, 
throughout was there much tenderness on pressure), below the 
umbilicus, and the abdomen was hardly more prominent than 
natural ; the feeling conveyed to the touch was that of a bladder 
distended to the verge of bursting. 

Mr. Martin ordered him to begin the nitro-muriatic-acid bath 
daily, and to procure, by means of the croton oil, one or two daily 
evacuations, which system he commenced about the 20th of August, 
and in addition he kept on the use of the cod-liver oil. From 
this time, for six weeks, he continued steadily to improve, his skin 
became brighter, bile gradually appeared in his stools, first scantily, 
latterly more abundantly ; his pulse fell to 95, and then to 90 ; his 
cough abated, his feet (which I had forgot to mention as swollen) 
became less so, and, above all, he made fifteen pounds of flesh in 
seven weeks. At this time, still continuing his treatment, he re- 
ceived, as the reward of his long and zealous Christian labours in 
the ministry, a living from the Crown, which raised him from the 
difficulties which had terribly weighed upon him, to a state of 
humble though comparative competence. 

This good fortune had an evident and considerable influence 
upon him, and he continued to improve in all points, and was 
able to superintend in great measure the removal of his family 
and household to his new abode, in October, since when I have 
not seen him. 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 593 

In conclusion, I would add, that during the course of this long 
and interesting case, no remedy or plan of treatment that could 
be devised was left untried, though it would be impossible, in the 
limits of a case, to detail it at length." 

The patient reports, on the 30th of Jan., 1850, that his eyes 
and skin are clear of all yellow tinge, and that his urine is of a 
healthy appearance, the intestinal secretions having the same cha- 
racter. " The abdominal enlargement, as far as visible to the eye, 
is quite gone." 

" I attribute the improvement in our patient's health," says Mr. 
Dalrymple, " to the action of the acid bath, and to the emulgent 
effect of the croton oil." 

Mr. C , on my recommendation, used the bath again during 

part of June and July, and he now writes : " I feel as if I never 
was in better bodily health," while the weight of the body has 
increased from nine stone four pounds to about twelve stone. 

This gentleman is now, November, 1855, reported to be " stout 
and well." 

CASE VII. April 6th, 1853. I was requested by Mr. Fergusson, 

of King's College Hospital, to visit Colonel , of the Indian 

army, an officer of about 65 years of age, having gone to India in 
1 805. During his course of service, which exceeded thirty-five years 
of actual residence in India, he had been a keen sportsman, and had 
consequently been continually exposed to direct solar influence, 
while his habits were what is called free. He had had three severe 
attacts of remittent, jungle fever, which were followed by often re- 
peated attacks of intermittent fever. He also suffered from severe 
rheumatism, for the cure of which he came to England in 1812, 
returning to his duty in good health, after fourteen months' resi- 
dence at home. By constitution he was gouty, his mother having 
died of that disease. He came home again, on sick leave, in 1842, 
suffering from emaciation and debility, and returned to his duty 
in India in November, 1846. 

While at his presidency, he was nearly destroyed by a large 
quantity of arsenic, administered by one of his servants, with a 
view to murder and robbery. From this poisoning he recovered 
rapidly, and returned to England finally, in March, 1847. From 
this time he describes his health as always indifferent ; but it has 
been more especially so, during the last three years. In India, 
from 1835, he had occasional slight attacks of gout, but in En gland 
they have become more severe, and more frequent of occurrence, 
especially since exposure to wet and cold, while shooting in the 
Highlands of Scotland two years ago. 

In January, 1853, Colonel , became seriously indisposed, 

and confined altogether to his house. His skin became of a lemon 

Q Q 



594 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

yellow, hard and dry to the touch. The pulse became rapid, and 
he had no natural sleep ; the appetite failed, accompanied by a 
most violent "burning pain" in the epigastric region, increased, 
even on swallowing the most bland food, as milk, sago, or arrow- 
root. The mine was scanty and blood-red, the alvine excretion 
being clay-coloured. He had greatly emaciated since January. 
The liver was, on April 6th, found greatly enlarged, extending 
down to near the umbilicus, hard, and very painful on pressure, 
especially in the epigastric region : pulse one hundred ; tongue 
much coated. Ordered, in consultation with Mr. Fergusson, the 
nitro-muriatic acid bath for the whole body, to be used night and 
morning, followed every other morning by a mild aperient draught. 
To secure sleep, a mild anodyne of solution of morphia was 
used every night, while the dilute nitro-muriatic acid was exhibited 
internally three times a day, in bitter infusion. By this means 
the fever, pain, and restlessness were in some degree relieved ; but 
on the fifth day, the treatment was discontinued, owing to a violent 
gouty inflammation in the knee-joint: on April 25th, the bath was 
resumed, and about May 12th, its action on the liver and bowels 
became perceptible, in two or three largo bilious motions from 
the bowels in the twenty-four hours, and in a copious excretion of 
straw-coloured urine. By this time also the pulse had become 
natural, the tongue clean, the skin perspirable, and free from 
jaundice ; and food of every kind was borne, not only without 
pain, but it was taken with appetite. The anodyne and aperient 
draughts were now discontinued, as were the internal doses of 
dilute acid ; and the bath was used only once in the twenty- 
four hours, viz. at bed-time. The fever had now been subdued., 
and there was but slight uneasiness in the hepatic region on 
pressure, none in the epigastrium. After a few more days the flow 
of green and yellow bile became more copious, the number of mo- 
tions averaging from five to six in the twenty-four hours, accompanied 
by slight malaise, with redness and tenderness of the gums and 
tongue, so that on May 23rd, all treatment was discontinued. By 
this date, Colonel had used thirty-seven baths. 

May 26th. Owing to the frequent passage of acrid green bile, 
he felt griped and uneasy, and had but little inclination for food. 
Ordered, bicarbonate of soda in bitter infusion, and a magnesian 
aperient in the morning. 

28th. Draught acted twice, and he now feels much better, appe- 
tite returning; has improved in condition. 

June 6th. Has continued improving in all ways until to-day, 
when owing to overloading of the stomach, he was seized with 
epigastric pains of a severe character : the bowels have continued 
open twice or thrice a day, without medicine, the discharges con- 
taining a greenish-yellow bile ; urine high coloured, tongue furred. 



CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 595 

Ordered a repetition of the bath every night, and a magnesian 
draught in the morning. 

June 7th. Two dark green motions followed by much relief 
from pain. Urine examined carefully, and found nothing unnatural. 

June 8th. Much better. Had three dark green motions, fol- 
lowed by much relief from pain. Urine abundant and straw- 
coloured. To continue the bath at bed-time only. 

Towards the end of June, Colonel had so far recovered 

in condition and strength as to take regular and daily active exer- 
cise, and he then went into the country. I saw no more of him 
till the 10th September. He stated that 'for some three weeks 
previously, the epigastric pain had returned, with frequent vomit- 
ing, and some tendency to diarrhoea. All food, even the most 
bland, caused excessive pain. He had again fallen off in condi- 
tion ; the pulse was frequent, and the countenance had become 
extremely pallid. 

Sept. 12th. Visited Colonel in company with Mr. Pollock. 

The patient was now much exhausted from constant vomiting and 
pain, the matter vomited being streaked with blood, as were the 
contents of the bowels. Having left London at this time, I saw no 
more of the patient, who died on the 1 1th October, 1853. 

For the following report of the post-mortem examination by Dr. 
Quain, I am indebted to Mr. Fergusson : 

" Stomach. There was no disease of this organ, save some thick- 
ening of the coats over the pylorus. The mucous membrane was 
everywhere sound. 

Liver. The whole of this organ was throughout paler than 
natural the tissue was tolerably firm towards the anterior margin 
there was some contraction, rounding and puckering, giving it to a 
limited extent, the appearance of cirrhosis. 

Spleen. This organ was small, firm x and traversed by an 
unusual number of fibres, or trabeculae. 

Kidneys. These organs appeared healthy. 

The small intestines were healthy. 

Large Intestine. This bowel appeared elongated much con- 
voluted distended at some points contracted at others. On 
laying the bowel open, it was found filled with a chocolate coloured 
viscid substance, about the consistence of treacle. This substance 
was bounded above by the ileo-co3cal valve, and occupied the 
bowel to the anus. On washing the surface of the intestine, the 
mucous membrane was seen to be of a deep chocolate colour 
the follicular structure of the coecum was particularly well marked 
the membrane in some parts was extremely thin in others 
presenting marked vascularity. There were seen also the perfect 
cicatrices of some old ulcers." 



596 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER. 

Remarks. The subject of this very interesting record would 
seem to have died, after all, from the depressing influences of irri- 
tation, pain, and vomiting, on a worn-out, gouty, and anemic 
constitution. Separated from the general ill habit, there was no 
structural disease to cause death or indeed, under more favour- 
able circumstances, to preclude the recovery of health. The re- 
stored health of the liver, under the use of the acid bath, is here 
again remarkable, as occurring after great previous enlargement 
with induration. The appearance of cirrhosis, in cases where the 
liver had previously been much enlarged, has already been com- 
mented on in these essays, and at page 582 3, it is stated on the 
authority of Professor Bennett, that hypertrophy of the fibrous 
element exists between the lobules of the organ, and its subse- 
quent contraction, whereby its volume is diminished, and the secre- 
ting cells compressed and atrophied, necessarily results. 

The perfect cicatrices of some old ulcers too, exhibited the 
reparative power of nature in tropical dysentery, in which disease 
extensive portions of the large intestines are known to be 
abraded and ulcerated. 

The disappearance of gout, and of epigastric pain, under the 
influence of the acid bath, is another feature in this case worthy 
of notice. 

The following case has just been handed to me, in conclusion: 

MEMORANDUM ON THE HEALTH OF MR. DE C L. 

" The patient came under my observation during the voyage 
from Calcutta to England, on board the ship Hotspur, his aspect 
was anaemic to the greatest extent, besides being jaundiced. I 
learned from him that for the latter disease he had undergone 
most active treatment in the shape of purgatives, mercurials, nitro- 
muriatic acid baths, taraxacum, &c., &c., that he had lost four 
stone in weight ; examination of the abdomen gave me clear 
indication of induration and great enlargement of the liver, the 
organ extending below the ribs very considerably. The tongue 
was flabby, gums scorbutic, bowels uncertain in their action, the 
colour of the evacuations light, the urine deeply tinged with bile." 

(Signed) H. D N, M.D. 

Off the British Coast, April 13, 1855." 

Eugene de C 1, setatis 40, resided all his life in India, in 

Bengal Proper, and chiefly in the district of Moorshedabad. The 
following is his own account of his case : 

1 enjoyed good health until March, 1854, when I became 
suddenly jaundiced, a state of health which had been preceded 



CONCLUSION. 597 

during two years by occasional spasms in the pit of the stomach. 
In October, 1854, I came down to Calcutta for medical advice, 
when a great enlargement of the liver was discovered, the jaundice 
having by this time become intense, the spasms recurring monthly, 
and the complexion being a deep green and yellow. Treatment 
having fail jd of doing me good, I embarked, by the advice of my 
medical attendant, for England in January, 1855. During the 
voyage round the Cape I had partly the assistance of the surgeon 
of the vessel, but without any avail, and in April of the same year 
I arrived in England, and on the 26th of that month consulted 
Mr. J. R. Martin of Grosvenor Street, and formerly of Calcutta. 
At this time I was emaciated and enfeebled to the last degree ; 
my stomach was large and tumid ; my urine was like porter, thick 
and dark, and the motions from my bowels were white. I was 
instantly put under a course of acid baths which I continued 
without intermission for four months. I am now in a state of 
feeling of comfort and health, such as I have not experienced for a 
couple of years ; I eat with an appetite and sleep well ; my com- 
plexion is very clear, and the urine apparently healthy looking. 
The liver, my medical adviser in the country says, is not now to 
be felt, and my strength is rapidly returning, so much so that I 
can walk six and seven miles with ease. Formerly, my friends 
and medical attendant, who had not seen me for some years, did 
not recognize me, so emaciated and altered had I become in every 
way ; my sister, whom I had not met for eight months, received 
me as a stranger; and even my wife declared she would have 
passed me in the street without recognition. When I first put 
myself into Mr. Martin's hands, which was at the end of April last 
as above stated, I weighed only nine stone (my original weight in 
health having been thirteen stone ten pounds), and in August last, 
when I again weighed myself, I weighed ten stone. I now weigh 
about eleven stone." 
November 15th, 1855. 



CONCLUSION. 

IT will be seen that in the management of convalescence from 
acute diseases, and for the treatment of those of a chronic kind, I 
have seldom had recourse to mercury as a therapeutic agent ; 
believing that the powerful actions of this mineral are most appro- 
priately applied to acute and dangerous maladies. To use mer- 
curials perseveringly for disorders of the health, or for the cure of 
chronic affections, is to confound that which is appropriate to 



598 CONCLUSION. 

acute, with what is applicable to protracted forms of organic lesion. 
In this our climate a sparing application of the means in question, 
for a short time, may be justly made where congestion threatens 
greatly to disturb the function, or to affect the structure of the 
liver ; but I know nothing so greatly to be reprehended as the in- 
discriminate or inconsiderate use of so powerful a class of remedies. 

In India, whether we have to treat an European suffering from 
remittent fever, dysentery, hepatitis, or cholera, the symptoms and 
progress of disease are so acutely violent as to leave but a very 
few days between recovery or death : the means of cure, therefore, 
to be effective must be energetic, that is, if we would save life, and 
prevent the occurrence of dangerous organic diseases. In fever, 
dysentery, and hepatitis, the patient, as a first measure, is bled to 
an extent proportioned to the severity of the disease, reference 
being had to age, constitution, habits of life, and length of resi- 
dence in India ; and blood-letting is repeated, generally, or locally, 
or in both forms, until a sufficient abatement is obtained in the 
force and frequency of the actions of the heart and arteries. The 
disease still proceeding with dangerous force and rapidity, we have 
next to employ calomel in aid of blood-letting, followed by purga- 
tives, sudorifics, and diuretics, so as to excite all the depurative 
functions, and thus bring about a solution of acute and dangerous 
disease. These means we gradually abate as symptoms yield, and 
generally no injury is done to the patient's constitution, conva- 
lescence being rapid ; but they are heroic remedies nevertheless, 
which demand much knowledge, discernment, and experience, for 
their just application, and even for their withdrawal. In the pre- 
sent state of our knowledge we possess no other means of cure 
than those here briefly described, aided by antiperiodics and 
tonics. 

Under the sanction of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical 
Society of London, in its Thirty-eighth Volume, just issued, Dr. 
Garrod, in contrasting the actions of alkalies and mercurials in 
the treatment of acute rheumatism, expresses his belief that mer- 
curials " have more power in causing absorption of recently 
deposited lymph, than alkalies or any other known remedies. 
This point he has recently had opportunities of testing in cases of 
pleuritis, in which it appeared that the alkaline treatment by the 
bicarbonate of potash, possessed great influence in preventing 
deposition, but that when the lymph was already deposited, its 
value in causing its absorption was far inferior to that of mer- 
curials ; he believes that the same holds good in peri- and endo- 
carditis of a rheumatic character." 

I believe this statement to be essentially true ; and I quote it 
here as being altogether confirmatory of what is set forth in page 
267 of the present work. The day may come when we shall be 



CONCLUSION. 599 

enabled effectually to cure acute tropical and other diseases, with- 
out the assistance of mercury ; but it has not as yet arrived. In 
the mean time, and in the absence of a better knowledge, what we 
should try to obviate is not the use of mercury, but its abuse. 

Of the sufferers who have passed through the storms of tro- 
pical disease described in this work, it will be seen that many 
recover immediately on the spot, a certain proportion sinks, while 
others come to their native country for the restoration and confir- 
mation of health. In the cases of these last, it is evident that a 
careful consideration of all their antecedent circumstances is 
absolutely necessary to their just management, and that we must 
understand the nature of their acute diseases in India, and their 
treatment there, to appreciate aright their chronic ailments on 
their return to Europe. Such a review will, I think, generally 
satisfy the medical observer at home, that with mercury in any 
form his emaciated, relaxed, enfeebled, and generally anaemic 
tropical patient need now have but little to do. 

I have seen more mercury administered in this country, for what 
may be termed the disorders of health in adults, and more " gray 
powder" given persistently to children, by female relatives, gover- 
nesses, and nurses, than is ever seen in India ; and in many in- 
stances the results have been more lasting and lamentable than 
anything I witnessed in the East. It ought to be made a rule in 
families that no preparation of mercury should be used, excepting 
under competent and careful medical advice ; and I feel assured 
that the carrying out so salutary a domestic reform would confer a 
greater benefit on young women especially, than all those lighter 
accomplishments with the acquisition of which their earlier years 
are teazed. 

These circumstances I think it right to mention ; and certainly I 
do so in no arrogant controversial spirit, or with a view to finding 
fault. 

Angry criticisms and unseemly wranglings, on the subject of 
the efficacy, or otherwise, of certain remedies, and on the merits 
of certain kinds of practices, I have ever seen to be prejudicial 
at once to the character of the profession of medicine, and to in- 
dividual credit and reputation for usefulness. 

If we cannot carry our point by justice, truth, and reason, we 
must wait till they come to our aid, as eventually they are sure to 
do. Cabanis said, more than half a century ago : " Let us unite 
our efforts, and endeavour to introduce into the study and practice 
of our art that superior reason and philosophy, without which so 
far is it from affording useful aid, that it becomes a real public 
scourge." 



LONDON : 
O. J. PALMER, SAVOY STREET, STRAND. 



London, New Burlington Street, 
January, 1859. 




MEDICINE, SURGERY, 

AND 

SCIENCE. 




" It would be unjust to conclude this notice without saying a few words in favour of 
Mr. Churchill, from whom the profession is receiving, it may be truly said, the most 
beautiful series of Illustrated Medical Works which has ever been published." Lancet. 

" All the publications of Mr. Churchill are prepared with so much taste and neatness, 
that it is superfluous to speak of them in terms of commendation." Edinburgh 
Medical and Surgical Journal. 

" No one is more distinguished for the elegance and rer.herrM style of his publica- 
tions than Mr. Churchill." Provincial Medical Journal. 

"Mr. Churchill's publications are very handsomely got up: the engravings are 
remarkably well executed." Dublin Medical Press. 

"The typography, illustrations, and getting up are, in all Mr. Churchill's publi- 
cations, most beautiful." Monthly Journal of Medical Science. 

" Mr. Churchill's illustrated works are among the best that emanate from the 
Medical Presa." Medical Times. 

" We have before called the attention of both students and practitioners to the great 
advantage which Mr. Churchill has conferred on the profession, in the issue, at such a 
moderate cost, of works so highly creditable in point of artistic execution and scientific 
merit." Dublin Quarterly Journal. 



MR. Cm RCHII.I. is the Publisher of the following Periodicals, offering to Authors a 
wide extent of Literary Announcement, and a Medium of Advertisement, addressed to 
! all Classes of the Profession. COMMI-XICATIOXS, BOOKS for REVIEW, addressed to the 
respective Editors, are received and duly forwarded by Mr. Churchill. 



/ 



THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN MEDIGO-GHIRURGIGAL REVIEW; 

OR, 

QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 

Price Six Shillings. Nos. I. to XLV. 



THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF MICROSCOPICAL 
SCIENCE. 

Edited by EDWIN LAKKESTER, M.D., F.R.S., F.L.S., and GEORGE BCSE, F.R.C.S.E., 
F.R.S., F.L.S. Price 4s. Nos. I. to XXVI. 



THE MEDICAL TIMES AND GAZETTE. 

Published Weekly, price Sevenpence, or Stamped, Eightpence. 
Annual Subscription, 1. 10s., or Stamped, 1. 14s. 8d., and regularly forwarded to all parts 

of the Kingdom. J. 

The MEDICAL TIMES AXD GAZETTE is favoured with an amount of Literary and Scientific T 
support which enables it to reflect fully the progress of Medical Science, and insure for it a 

character, an influence, and a circulation possessed at the present time by no Medical Peri- \) 

odical. & 

THE HALF-YEARLY ABSTRACT OF THE 
MEDICAL SCIENCES. 

Being a Digest of the Contents of the principal British and Continental Medical Works; f 
together with a Critical Report of the Progress of Medicine and the Collateral Sciences. ~ 
Edited by W. H. RAKKISG. M.D., Cantab., and C. B. RADCLIFFE, M.D., Lond. Post 8vo. 
cloth, 6s. 6d. Vols. I. to XXVIII. 

THE JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE 
AND MENTAL PATHOLOGY. 

Being a Quarterly Review of Medical Jurisprudence and Insanity. Edited by FORBES 
WIXSLOW, M.D. Price 3s. 6d. Nos. I. to XIII. New Series. 

THE PHARMACEUTICAL JOURNAL. 

EDITED BY JACOB BELL, F.L.S., M.R.I. 

Published Monthly, price One Shilling. 
V Vols. I. to XVII., bound in cloth, price 12*. 6d. each. 



THE DUBLIN MEDICAL PRESS. 

Pnbluhed Weekly, Stamped, price Sixpence, free to any part of the Empire. 



.--,-. 

THE LONDON AND PROVINCIAL MEDICAL DIRECTORY. 1 

Published Annually. 12mo. cloth, 8s. 6d. 



A CLASSIFIED INDEX 




ANATOMY. 


I \ A*. M. J*J. JHJ. J '\f. JTJk > 


MATERIA MEDICA and 


DENTISTRY. 


MM 

Anatomical Remembrancer . . 3 


FiOl 

Blnndell's Painless Extraction . 7 


PHARMACY. 

rici 


Hawaii's Micros. Anatomy .. 14 
Holden's Human Osteology . . 15 
Jones' and Sieveking's Patho- 


Clark's Odontalgist 9 
Gray on the Teeth 13 
Odontological See. Transactions 21 


Bateman's Magnacopia . . . . 4 
Beasley's Formulary 5 
Da Receipt Book . . . . 5 


logical Anatomy 17 


MMOBM 


Da Book of Prescriptions 5 


Maclise's Surgical Anatomy . . 19 
Paget's Catalogue 21 


DISEASES of the URINARY 


Lane's Materia Medica . . . . 18 
Pereira'sSelectae Prsescriptis 22 


Sibson's Medical Anatomy . . 25 
Toynbee's Catalogue 28 
Wheeler's Handbook 30 


and GENERATIVE ORGANS, 
and SYPHILIS. 


Pharmacopoeia Londinensis . . 22 
Prescriber's Pharmacopoeia . 22 
Royle's Materia Medica . . .24 


Wilson's Anatomy 31 


Acton on Reproductive Organs 3 


Spurgin's Materia Medica.. . 26 




Coote on Syphilis 9 


Squire's Pharmacopoeia . . .26 


~ ~--~ 


Coulson on Bladder 10 


Steggall's Materia Medica . 26 


CHEMISTRY. 


Do. on Lithotomy . . . . 10 
Egan on Syphilis 11 


Da First Lines for Chemists 26 
Stowe's Toxicological Chart . . 26 


Abel & Bloxam's Handbook . . 3 
i Bowman's Practical Chemistry 7 
Da Medical da ..7 
Chalmers' Electrc-Chemisrry . . 8 
1 Fownes' Manual of Chemistry . . 12 


Judd on Syphilis 17 
Milton on Gonorrhcea . . . . 20 
Parker on Syphilis 91 
Todd on Urinary Organs . . . . 28 
Wilson on Syphilis 31 


Taylor on Poisons 27 
Wittstein's Pharmacy .. ..30 

MEDICINE. 


| Da Actonian Prize .. ..12 


v~ -~~ 




r Da Qualitative Analysis . . 12 
L Do. Chemical Tables .. .. 12 


DISEASES OF WOMEN 


Adams on Rheumatic Gont . . 3 
Addison on Supra-Renal Capsules 4 


: Fresenins' Chemical Analysis. . 12 


AND CHILDREN. 


Addison on Cells 3 


Galloway's First Step .. ..12 


Bennet on Uterus 5 


Alexander on Rheumatism . . 3 


Do. Analysis 12 
Do. Diagrams .. ..12 


Da on Uterine Pathology., ft 
Bird on Children 6 


Barclay on Diagnosis . . . . a 
Barlow's Practice of Medicine 4 


Griffiths' Four Seasons . . . . 13 


Brown on Women 7 


Basham on Dropsy 5 


Horsley's Chera. Philosophy .. 16 


Da on Scarlatina 7 


Beale on Urine 5 


Jones. Mulder on Wine . . . . 17 


Eyre's Practical Remarks ..11 


Billing's First Principles . . .6 


Odling's Practical Chemistry .. 21 


Hood on Crowing 16 Bird's Urinary Deposits .. . f 


Plattner on Blowpipe . . . . 22 


Lee's Ovarian A Uterine Diseases 18 Bird on Charcoal ( 


Speer's PathoL Chemistry .. S6 


Lee on Diseases of Uterus . . 18 Brinton on Ulcer 1 




Da on Speculum 18 | Bndd on the Liver 7 


-- - 


Roberton on Women 24 j Da on Stomach 7 




Rowe on Females 24 Camplin on Diabetes 


CHOLERA. 


Smith on Lencorrhoea . . . . 25 Chambers on Digestion . . 8 


Acland on Cholera at Oxford . . 3 
Baly and Gull Reports . . . . 4 
Snow on Cholera 25 


Tilt on Diseases of Women . . 27 
no. on Change of Life . . . . 27 
Underwood on Children . . . . 28 
West on Women 29 


Davey's Ganglionic .. . - 10 
Eyre on Stomach . . . .11 
Fuller on Rheumatism . .12 
Gairdner on Gout .. . .12 






Gran ville on Sudden Death .. 13 


*~ 


~~ 


Gully's Simple Treatment .. 13 


CLIMATE. 


HYGIENE. 


Habershon on Stomach .. .13 
Hall on Apnoea 14 


Francis on Change of Climate . . 12 
Hall on Torquay 14 


Armstrong on Naval Hygiene 3 
Beale's Laws of Health . . . . 4 


Hall's Observations 14 
Harrison on Lead in Water . 14 


HavUand on Climate 14 


Da Health and Diseases . . 4 


HaasaU on Urine 14 


Lee on Climate 18 


Bennet on Nutrition 6 


Headland on Medicines . . .15 


Martin on the Undercliff . . . . 19 


Blundell's Mediclna Mechanica 7 


Hooper's Medical Dictionary . 16 


Martin (J. R.) on Tropical . . 20 


Carter on Training 8 


Hooper's Physician's Vade- 




Cornaro on Long Life . . . . 9 


Mecum 13 




Hartwig on Sea Bathing . . . . 14 


Jones' Animal Chemistry . . 17 




Do. Physical Education 14 Lngol on Scrofula 19 


DEFORMITIES, &c. 


Hufeland's Art 16 
Lee's Watering Places of England 18 


Peacock on Influenza .. ..21 
Da on Heart 21 


Bigg on Deformities 6 


Do. da Germany, 


Pym on Yellow Fever . . .22 


Bishop on Deformities . . . . 6 


France, and Switzerland .. 18 Roberts on Palsy ** 


T Do. Articulate Sounds .. 6 


Lee's Rhenish Watering Places 18 Robertson on Gout 23 


Brodhurst on Spine 7 


Pickfbrd on Hygiene . . . . 22 Savory's Compendium . . .24 


Da on Clubfoot . . . . 7 


Robertson on Diet 23 Scmple on Cough . . . .24 


V Hare on Spine 14 


Rumsev's State Medicine . . . . 24 Shaw's Remembrancer . . .25 


V Hugman on Hip Joint . . . . 16 


Van Oven's Decline of Life . . 29 Steggall's Medical Manual . 26 


vj Inman on Spine 16 


Wilson on Healthy Skin .. ..31' Da Gregory's Conspectus 26 


Vy" Tamplin on Spine 26 


Do. on Mineral Waters .. SI | Da Ce'.sus 26 



; 




CLASSIFIED INDEX. 




MEDICINE continual. 

not 
Thomas' Practice of Physic . . 27 
Thudichum on Urine . . . 27 
Wong's Observations 2D 
Wells on Gout 30 
What to Observe 19 


OPHTHALMOLOGY. 

Cooper on Near Sight . . . 
Dalrymple on Eye J^ 
Dixon on the Eye }' 
Hogg on Ophthalmoscope . . 15 
Holthouse on Strabismus .. .. 15 


SCIENCE. 

Bird's Natural Philosophy . . 6 
Burnett's Philosophy of Spirits 8 
Garner's Entherapeia .. ..13 
Havdwich's Photography .. .. 14 
Hinds' Harmonies 15 


Whltehead on Transmission . . 30 
Williams 1 Principles 30 
Wright on Headaches . . . . 30 


Jacob on Eye-ball 16 
Jago on Ocular Spectres . . . . 16 
Jones' Ophthalmic Medicine . . 17 


Do. on Body, Sense, and Mind 17 
Mavne's Lexicon 19 
Price's Photographic Manipula- 
tion 22 


MICROSCOPE. 


Do. Eye and Ear 17 
Nunneley on the Organs of Vi- 


Nourse's Students' Tables . . 21 
Rainey on Shells 23 
Reymond's Animal Electricity 23 


Beale on Microscope in Medicine 5 
Do. How to Work . . . . 5 
Carpenter on Microscope . . . . 8 
Schacht on do. .... 24 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Acton on Prostitution . . . . 3 
Atkinson's Bibliography . . . . 4 
Ba.scome on Epidemics . . . . 4 
Bryce on Scbastopol 8 
Cooley's Cyclopaedia 9 
Davy's (Sir H.) Remains . . ..11 
Forbes' Nature and Art In Disease 1 2 
Gully on Water Cure 13 
Guy's Hospital Reports .. ..13 
Haycock's Veterinary .. ..15 
Lane's Hydropathy 18 
Marcet on Food 19 


Walton on Ophthalmic . . . . 29 

PHYSIOLOGY. 

Carpenter's Human 8 
Do. Comparative . . . . 8 
Do. Manual 8 
Cottle's Human 10 
Hilton on the Cranium . . . . 15 
Richardson on Coagulation . . 23 

PSYCHOLOGY. 

Bucknill and Tuke's Psycholo- 
gical Medicine 7 
Burgess on Madness 7 
Burnett on Insanity 9 
Conolly on Asylums 9 
Davey on Nature of Insanity . . 10 
Dunn's Physiological Psycho- 


Taylor's Medical Jurisprudence 27 
Vestiges of Creation 28 
Sequel to ditto 28 
Unger's Botanical Letters . . 28 

| 

SURGERY. 

Ashton on Rectum 4 
Bellingham on Aneurism . . . . 6 
Bigg on Artificial Limbs . . . . 6 
Bishop on Bones 6 * 
Chapman on Ulcers 9 V 
Do. Varicose Veins . . . . 9 
Cooper (Sir A.) on Testis . . . . 10 I 
Cooper's (B.) Surgery .. ..9 \ 
Do. (S.) Surg. Dictionary 9 gj 
Curling on Rectum 10 \S 


Part's Case Book 21 
Pettigrew on Superstitions . . 22 


Hood on Criminal Lunatics .. 16 
Jacob! on Hospitals, by Tuke . . 28 
Knaggs on Criminal Lunatics. . 17 
Millingen on Treatment of In- 
sane 20 


Druitt's Surgery 11 * 
Fergusson's Surgery 11 ^j 
Harrison on Stricture .. ..13 i 
Higginbottom on Nitrate of Silver 15 


NEBVOUS DISEASES AND 
INDIGESTION. 

Anderson on Nervous Affections 4 
Carter on Hysteria 8 
Child on Indigestion . . . . 8 


Monro on Insanity 20 
Do. Private Asylums .. ..20 
Noble on Psychology . . . . 20 
Do. on Mind 20 
Williams (J.) on Insanity . . 30 
Williams (J. H) Unsonndness of 
Mind 30 


Jordan's Clinical Surgery ..17 , 
Laurence on Cancer 18 
Lawrence on Ruptures .. ..18 
Lee on Haemorrhoids .. ..18 
Liston's Surgery 18 
Macleod's Surgery of the Crimea 19 


I>owning on Neuralgia . . ..11 
Hunt on Heartburn 16 
Lobb on Nervous Affections .. 19 
KadcllfTe on Epilepsy . . . . 23 
Reynolds on the Brain . . . . 23 
Rowe on Nervous Diseases . . 24 
Slevektng on Epilepsy . . .25 
Todd on Nervous System . . . . 28 
Turnbull on Stomach . . . . 28 


Window's Lettsomian .. ..31 
Do. Law of Lunacy .. 31 

PULMONARY and CHEST 
DISEASES, &c. 

Addison on Healthy and Dis- 
eased Structure 3 
Rilling on Lungs and Heart . . 6 
Blakiston on the Chest . . . . 6 


Nottingham on the Ear . . . . 20 
Nunneley on Erysipelas .. ..21 
Pemberton on Melanosis . . . . 22 
Pirrie on Surgery 22 
Smith on Stricture 25 
Snow on Chloroform 25 
Steggall's Surgical Manual . . 26 
Teale on Amputation . . . . 27 
Thompson on Stricture . . . . 27 
Do. on Prostate 27 


OBSTETRICS. 

Barnea on Placenta Pncria . . 4 
Dart* on Parturition 11 
Johnston fc Sinclair's Midwifery 17 
Lee' Clinical Midwifery .. ..18 
Pretty's Aids during Labour . . 23 
Banubotham's Obstetrics . . .. 23 
Do. Midwifery.. .. 23 
SmelUVs Obstetric Plates.. .. 25 
Smith's Manual of Obstetrics .. 25 
Swayne'i Aphonnns . . . . 26 
Waller's Midwifery 29 


Bright on the Chest 7 
Cotton on Consumption .. ..10 
Do. on Stethoscope .. ..10 
Davies on Lungs and Heart . . 10 
Dobell on the Chest 11 
Fenwick on Consumption . . ..11 
Laennec on Auscultation .. .. 17 
Madden on Consumption .. .. 19 
Markham on Heart 20 
Richardson on Consumption . . 29 
Skoda on Auscultation . . . . 20 
Thompson on Consumption . . 27 
Wardrop on the I Iran . . . . 29 
Weber on Auscultation .. ..29 


Wade on Stricture 29 
Watson on the Larynx . . . . 29 
Wilson on the Skin 31 
Do. Portraits of Skin Diseases 31 
Yearsley on Deafness . . . . 31 
Do. on Throat 31 

': 




H ? 





MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 3 

* jo 

DR. ACLAND. 

MEMOIR ON THE CHOLERA AT OXFORD IN THE YEAR 

1854; with Considerations suggested by the Epidemic. 4to. cloth, with Maps, 12s. 



MR. ACTON, M.R.C.S. 

I. 

THE FUNCTIONS AND DISORDERS OF THE REPRODUC- 
TIVE ORGANS IN YOUTH, IN ADULT AGE, AND IN ADVANCED 
LIFE. Considered in their Physiological, Social, and Psychological Relations. Second 
Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 

ii. 

PROSTITUTION : Considered in its Moral, Social, and Sanitary Bearings, 
v/ith a View to its Amelioration and Regulation, iivo. cloth, 10s. Gd. 



DR. WILLIAM ADDISON, F. R.3. 
I. 

CELL THERAPEUTICS. 8vo. cloth, 4.. 
H. 

ON HEALTHY AND DISEASED STRUCTURE, AND THE TRUE 

PRINCIPLES OF TREATMENT FOR THE CURE OF DISEASE, ESPECIALLY CONSUMPTION 
AND SCROFULA, founded on MICROSCOPICAL ANALYSIS. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 



DR. ALEXANDER, F.R.C.S. BY EXAM. 

RHEUMATISM : its Nature, Causes, and Cure. 
GOUT : its Nature, Causes, Cure, and Prevention. 
Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 



THE ANATOMICAL REMEMBRANCER; OR, COMPLETE 

POCKET ANATOMIST. Fifth Edition, carefully Revised. 32mo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 



DR. ALEXANDER ARMSTRONG, R.N. 

OBSERVATIONS ON NAVAL HYGIENE AND SCURVY. 

More particularly as the latter appeared during a Polar Voyage. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. F. A. ABEL, F.C.S., & MR. C. L. BLOXAM. 

HANDBOOK OF CHEMISTRY: THEORETICAL, PRACTICAL, 

AND TECHNICAL. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. 



DR. ADAMS, A.M. 

A TREATISE ON RHEUMATIC GOUT; OR, CHRONIC 

RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS. 8vo. cloth, with a Quarto Atlas of Plates, 21s. 



2 



4 MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 

* > 

** 



ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL AND' LOCAL EFFECTS OF 

DISEASE OF THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 4to.cloth. Coloured Plates, 21.. 
MR. ANDERSON, F.R.C.S. 

THE CAUSES, SYMPTOMS, & TREATMENT OF ECCENTRIC 

NERVOUS AFFECTIONS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. T. J. ASHTON. 

ON THE DISEASES, INJURIES, AND MALFORMATIONS 

OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 



MR. ATKINSON. 

MEDICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY, Vol. I. Royal 8vo. ie. 



DR. WILLIAM BALY, F.R.S., &, DR. WILLIAM W. GULL. 

REPORTS ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA; its Cause and Mode of 

Diffusion, Morbid Anatomy, Pathology and Treatment. Drawn up at the desire of the ( p 
Cholera Committee of the Royal College of Physicians. With Maps, 8vo. cloth, 16s. 

DR. BARLOW. 

A MANUAL OF THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE, Fcap. 8vo. $ 

f cloth, 12s. 64. 

DR. BARNES. 

i THE PHYSIOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF PLACENTA 

PRJEVIA; being the Lettsomian Lectures on Midwifery for 1857. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 
MR. BATEMAN. 

MAGNACOPIA : A Practical Library of Profitable Knowledge, commu- 
nicating the general Minutiae of Chemical and Pharmaceutic Routine, together with the 
generality of Secret Forms of Preparations; including Concentrated Solutions of Camphor 
and Copaiba in Water, Mineral Succedaneum, Marmoratum, Silicia, Terro-Metallicum, 
Pharmaceutic Condensions, Prismatic Crystallization, Crystallized Aromatic Salt of Vine- 
gar, Spa Waters ; newly-invented Wrting Fluids ; Etching on Steel or Iron ; with an 
extensive Variety of etcastera. Third Edition. 18mo. 6s. 



DR. BASCOME. 

A HISTORY OF EPIDEMIC PESTILENCES, FROM THE 

EARLIEST AGES. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 

MR. LIONEL J. BEALE, M.R.C.S. 

THE LAWS OF HEALTH IN 'THEIR RELATIONS TO MIND 

AND BODY. A Series of Letters from an Old Practitioner to a Patient Post 8vo. 
cloth, 7i. 6</. 



HF ^H? 4 AND DISEASE, IN CONNECTION WITH THE 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF HYGIENE. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6<f. 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 5 



DR. BEALE, F.R.S. 

HOW TO WORK WITH THE MICROSCOPE. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5*. 
THE MICROSCOPE, IN ITS APPLICATION TO PRACTICAL 

MEDICINE. With a Coloured Plate, and 270 Woodcuts. Second Edition. 8yo. 
cloth, 14s. 

in. 

ON THE ANATOMY OF THE LITER, illustrated with 66 Pho- 

tographs of the Author's Drawings. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE SALTS OF URINE, URINARY 

DEPOSITS, and CALCULI. 37 Plates, containing upwards of 170 Figures copied 
from Nature, with descriptive Letterpress. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 6d. 



DR. BARCLAY. 

A MANUAL OF MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 8,. 




DR. HENRY BENNET. 
I. 

NUTRITION IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. Post 8vo. cloth, 5.. 
A PRACTICAL TREATISE "'ON INFLAMMATION AND 

OTHER .DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. Third Edition, revised, with Additions. 
8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

in. 

A REVIEW OF THE PRESENT STATE OF UTERINE 

PATHOLOGY. 8vo. cloth, 4. 



DR. BASHAM. 

ON DROPSY, CONNECTED WITH DISEASE OF THE 

KIDNEYS (MORBUS BRIGHTII), and on some other Diseases of those Organs, ( 
associated with Albuminous and Purulent Urine. Illustrated by numerous Drawings 
from the Microscope. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 

MR. BEASLEY. 

THE BOOK OF PRESCRIPTIONS I containing 3000 Prescriptions. 

Collected from the Practice of the most eminent Physicians and Surgeons, English 
and Foreign. Second Edition. 24mo. cloth, 6s. 

THE DRUGGIST'S GENERAL' RECEIPT-BOOK : comprising a 

copious Veterinary Formulary and Table of Veterinary Materia Medica ; Patent and 
Proprietary Medicines, Druggists' Nostrums, &c. ; Perfumery, Skin Cosmetics, Hair 
Cosmetics, and Teeth Cosmetics ; Beverages, Dietetic Articles, and Condiments ; Trade 
Chemicals, Miscellaneous Preparations and Compounds used in the Arts, &c. ; with 
useful Memoranda and Tables. Fourth Edition. 24mo. cloth, 6s. 

THE POCKET FORMULARY"' AND SYNOPSIS OF THE 

BRITISH AND FOREIGN PHARMACOPOEIAS; comprising standard and 
approved Formulae for the Preparations and Compounds employed in Medical Practice. 
Sixth Edition, corrected and enlarged. 24mo. cloth, (is. 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. BURGESS. 




TTTF MEDICAL AND LEGAL RELATIONS OF MADNESS; 

showin a clt Thtry Mind, and of Nerve Force, and also of Vegetative Vital 



showing a 

Force. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 



DR. BURNETT. 



THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO MATTER, 

8m INSANITY TESTED BY' SCIENCE. 8vo. doth, 5,. 

DR. BRYCE. 

ENGLAND AND FRANCE BEFORE SEBASTOPOL, looked at 

from a Medical Point of View. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

DR. JOHN M. CAMPLIN, F.L.S. 

ON DIABETES, AND ITS SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT. Fcap. 

8vo. cloth, 3$. 

MR. ROBERT B. CARTER, M.R.C.S. 

ON THE INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 

IN PREVENTING DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fcap. 8vo., 6s. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF HYSTERIA, Post 

8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 



DR. CARPENTER, F.R.S. 
I. 

PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY, With numerous nius- 

trations on Steel and Wood. Fifth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 26s. 

PRINCIPLES OF COMPARATIVE PHYSIOLOGY, illustrated 

with 300 Engravings on Wood. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 24s. 

in. 

A MANUAL OF PHYSIOLOGY, With numerous Illustrations on 
Steel and Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

IV. 

THE MICROSCOPE AND ITS REVELATIONS, With nume- 

rous Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 
MR. CHARLES CHALMERS. 

ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY, with Positive Results; and Notes for Inquiry on 
the Sciences of Geology and Astronomy: with a Tract of Miscellanies. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

DR. CHAMBERS. 

DIGESTION AND ITS DERANGEMENTS, Post 8vo. doth, 10.. 6* 

DR. G. C. CHILD. 

ON INDIGESTION, AND CERTAIN BILIOUS DISORDERS 

OFTEN CONJOINED WITH IT. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 




MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 



MR. H. T. CHAPMAN, F.R.C.S. 
I. 

THE TREATMENT OF OBSTINATE ULCEES AND CUTA- 

NEOUS ERUPTIONS OF THE LEG WITHOUT CONFINEMENT. Second 
Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

n. 

YAEICOSE YEINS : their Nature, Consequences, and Treatment, Pallia- 
tive and Curative, Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 



MR. J. PATERSON CLARK, M.A. 

THE ODONTALGIST; OR, HOW TO PRESERVE THE TEETH, 

CURE TOOTHACHE, AND REGULATE DENTITION FROM INFANCY 
TO AGE. With plates. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



DR. CO NOLLY. 

THE CONSTRUCTION AND GOVERNMENT OF LUNATIC 

ASYLUMS AND HOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE. With Plans. PostSvo. 
DR. TOOGOOD DOWNING. 

o NEURALGIA: its various Forms, Pathology, and Treatment. THE 
JACKSONIAN PRIZE ESSAY FOR 1850. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



IN CHRONIC DISEASE : an Exposition of 




MR. HOLMES COOTE, F.R.C.S. 

A REPORT ON SOME IMPORTANT POINTS IN THE 

TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



COMPREHENSIVE SUPPLEMENT TO THE PHARMACOPEIA^ ~ 

THE CYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL RECEIPTS, AND COL- 

LATERAL INFORMATION IN THE ARTS, PROFESSIONS, MANU- 
FACTURES, AND TRADES, INCLUDING MEDICINE, PHARMACY, AND 
DOMESTIC ECONOMY ; designed as a Compendious Book of Reference for the 
Manufacturer, Tradesman, Amateur, and Heads of Families. Third and greatly 
enlarged Edition, 8vo. cloth, 26s. 

MR. BRANSBY B. COOPER, F.R.S. 

LECTURES ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF SUR- 
GERY. 8vo. cloth, 21s. 

MR. W. WHITE COOPER. 

ON NEAR SIGHT, AGED SIGHT, IMPAIRED VISION, 

AND THE MEANS OF ASSISTING SIGHT. With 31 Illustrations on Wood. 
Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 



MR. COOPER. 

A DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL SURGERY; comprehending ail 

the most interesting Improvements, from the Earliest Times down to the Present Period. 
Seventh Edition. One very thick volume, 8vo., II. 10s. 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 






THE MEDICAL AND LEGAL RELATIONS OF MADNESS; 

B Ling a Celiut Jhtory of Mind, and of Nerve Force, and also of Vegetate Vital 
Force. 8vo. cloth, It. 



DR. BURNETT. 
I. 



THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO MATTER, 
8V ' Cl INS 9 ANITY TESTED BY 'SCIENCE. 8vo. cloth, 5,. 



DR. BRYCE. 

ENGLAND AND FRANCE BEFORE SEBASTOPOL, looked at 

from a Medical Point of View. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

DR. JOHN M. CAMPLIN, F.L.S. 

ON DIABETES, AND ITS SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT. Fcap. 

8vo. cloth, 3s. 



MR. ROBERT B. CARTER, M.R.C.S. 

ON THE INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 

IN PREVENTING DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fcap. 8vo., 6s. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF HYSTERIA. Post 

8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 



DR. CARPENTER, F.R.S. 

I. 

PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY, with numerous nius- 

trations on Steel and Wood. Fifth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 26s. 

PRINCIPLES OF COMPARATIVE PHYSIOLOGY. Illustrated 

with 300 Engravings on Wood. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 24s. 

HI. 

A MANUAL OF PHYSIOLOGY. With numerous Illustrations on 
Steel and Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

THE MICROSCOPE AND ITS REVELATIONS. With nume- 

rous Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 
MR. CHARLES CHALMERS. 



ivirt. v^nni_c.o vsnm-ivic.no. 

ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY, with Positive Results; and Notes for Inquiry on 
the Sciences of Geology and Astronomy : with a Tract of Miscellanies. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

DR. CHAMBERS. 

, DIGESTION AND ITS DERANGEMENTS. Post 8vo. cloth, 10.. <K 

i .-.,.-.-.- 

DR. Q. C. CHILD. 

ON INDIGESTION, AND CERTAIN BILIOUS DISORDERS 

OFTEN CONJOINED WITH IT. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 




DAMAGED 
PAGE(S) 



^ 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



SIR ASTLEY COOPER, BART., F.R.S. 

ON THE STRUCTURE AND DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 

Illustrated with 24 highly finished Coloured Plates. Second Edition. Royal 4to. 
Reduced from 3. 3s. to 1. 10s. 

DR. COTTLE. 

A MANUAL OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY FOR STUDENTS; 

being a Condensation of the Subject, a Conservation of the Matter, and a Record of 
Facts and Principles up to the present Day. Fcap. 8vo., 5s. 

DR. COTTON. 

ON CONSUMPTION: Its Nature, Symptoms, and Treatment. To 
which Essay was awarded the Fothergillian Gold Medal of the Medical Society of 
London. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 

PHTHISIS AND THE STETHOSCOPE : a concise Practical Guide 
to the Physical Diagnosis of Consumption. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. Sd. 

IVIK. ROBERT~~BTCARTER, M.R.C.S. 

ON THE INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING f 

IN PREVENTING DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fcap. 8vo., 6s. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF HYSTERIA. P 0i 

8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 



ION DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 8vo. In the Press. 
i 

MR. CURLINGS, F.R.S. 

OBSERVATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE RECTUM, Second 

Edition. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE TESTIS, 

SPERMATIC CORD, AND SCROTUM. Second Edition, with Additions. 8vo. 
cloth, 14s. 

MR. JOHN DALRYMPLE, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. 

PATHOLOGY OF THE HUMAN EYE, Complete in Nine Fasciculi: 

imperial 4to., 20s. each; half-bound morocco, gilt tops, 91. 15s. 
DR. D A V E Y. 

THE GANGLIONIC NERVOUS*" SYSTEM: its Structure, Functions, 
and Diseases. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 

ON THE NATURE AND PROXIMATE CAUSE OF IN- 

SANITY. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 



DR. HERBERT DAVIES. 

ON THE PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE 

LUNGS AND HEART. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 



MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 11 



DR. HALL DAVIS. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF DIFFICULT PARTURITION. Post 8vo. 

cloth, 6s. 6d. 

DR. JOHN DAVY, F.R.S. 

FRAGMENTARY REMAINS, LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC, 

of SIR HUMPHREY DAVY, Bart., LL.D., late President of the Royal Society; 
with a Sketch of his Life, and Selections from his Correspondence. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

MR. D 1X0 N. 

A GUIDE TO THE PRACTICAL STUDY OF DISEASES OF 

THE EYE. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. 

DR. DOBELL. 

DEMONSTRATIONS OF DISEASES IN THE CHEST, AND 

THEIR PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. Illustrated with Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 
12s. 6d. 

DR. TOOGOOD DOWNING. 

o NEURALGIA: its various Forms, Pathology, and Treatment. THE ^ 
JACKSONIAN PRIZE ESSAY FOR 1850. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



THE WATER CURE IN CHRONIC DISEASE: an Exposition of 

the Causes, Progress, and Terminations of various Chronic Diseases of the Viscera, Nervous 
i T _!_, nnA nF t ^ a \ r Treatment hv Water and other Hvcienic Means. 
MR. DUNN, F.R.C.S. 

AN ESSAY ON PHYSIOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY. 8vo. cloth, 4*. 

DR. JOHN C. EGAN. 

SYPHILITIC DISEASES: THEIR PATHOLOGY, DIAGNOSIS, 

AND TREATMENT : including Experimental Researches on Inoculation, as a Diffe- 
rential Agent in Testing the Character of these Affections. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 



SIR JAMES EYRE, M. D. 

THE STOMACH AND ITS DIFFICULTIES, Fourth Edition. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. 

PRACTICAL REMARKS ON SOME EXHAUSTING DIS- 

EASES. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 



DR. FENWICK. 

ON SCROFULA AND CONSUMPTION. Clergyman's Sore Throat, 
Catarrh, Croup, Bronchitis, Asthnrs. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. 

MR. FERGUSSON, F.R.S. 

A SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL SURGERY; with numerous nius- 

|i trations on Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth. 12s. 6<Z. 





MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



-JO- 




SIR JOHN FORBES, M.D., D.C.L. (OXON.), F.R.S. 

NATURE AND ART IN THE CURE OF DISEASE, Second 

Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, (is. 

DR. D. J. T. FRANCIS. 

CHANGE OF CLIMATE J considered as a Remedy in Dyspeptic, Pul- 
monary, and other Chronic Affections ; with an Account of the most Eligible Places of 
Residence for Invalids in Spain, Portugal, Algeria, &c., at different Seasons of the Year; 
and an Appendix on the Mineral Springs of the Pyrenees, Vichy, and Aix les Bains. 
Post 8vo. cloth, 8*. 6d. 

C. REMIGIUS FRESENIUS. 

ELEMENTARY INSTRUCTION IN CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, 

AS PRACTISED IN THE LABORATORY OF GIESSEN. Edited by LLOYD 
BULLOCK, F.C.S. 

QUALITATIVE. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 
QUANTITATIVE. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. 



MR. FOWNES, PH.D., F.R.S. 
I. 

A MANUAL OF CHEMISTRY; with numerous Illustrations on Wood. X 

Seventh Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 
Edited by H. BENCE JONES, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. HOFMANN PTT .T).. F.R.S. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF HYSTERIA. P O 

8vo. cloth, 4*. 6rf. 



INTRODUCTION TO QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS. Post8 TO .cio,h,2, 
CHEMICAL TABLES. Polio, price 2.. M. 

DR. FULLER. 

N MEWATISM, R HEUMATIC GOUT, AND 

tW P.,1,.1^ Symptoms, and Treatment. Second Edition. 1 ,, 



DR. QAIRDNER. 



Third fflttta. P Mt 



MR. GALLOWAY. 

T^FIRST STEP IN CHEMISTRY, s 



for 



MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 13 

MR. ROBERT GARNER, F.L.S. 

EUTHERAPEIA; or, AN EXAMINATION OF THE PRINCIPLES 

OF MEDICAL SCIENCE, including Researches on the Nervous System. Illustrated 
with 9 Engravings on Copper, and Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 

DR. GRANVILLE, F.R.S. 

ON SUDDEN DEATH. Post 8vo., 2s. Gd. 



MR. GRAY, M.R.C.S. 

PRESERVATION OF THE TEETH indispensable to Comfort and 
Appearance, Health, and Longevity. 18mo. cloth, 3s. 



MR. GRIFFITHS. 

CHEMISTRY OF THE FOUR SEASONS -Spring, Snmmcr, 

Autumn, Winter. Illustrated with Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. Foolscap 
8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

DR. GULLY. 

THE WATER CURE IN CHRONIC DISEASE : an Exposition of 

the Causes, Progress, and Terminations of various Chronic Diseases of the Viscera, Nervous 
System, and Limbs, and of their Treatment by Water and other Hygienic Means. 
F'ifth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. sewed, 2s. 6d. 

THE SIMPLE TREATMENT OF DISEASE; deduced from the 

Methods of Expectancy and Revulsion. 18mo. cloth, 4s. 



DR. QUY. 

HOOPER'S PHYSICIAN'S VADE-MECUM; OR, MANUAL OF 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF PHYSIC. New Edition, considerably 
enlarged, and rewritten. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 



GUY'S HOSPITAL REPORTS. Third Series. Vols. I. to IV, 8vo., 
7s. <!</. each. 

DR. HABERSHON. 

OBSERVATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE ALIMENTARY 

CANAL, (ESOPHAGUS, STOMACH, CAECUM, and INTESTINES. 8vo. cloth, 
10s. 6d. 



MR. HARRISON, F.R.C.S. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF STRICTURE OF 

V* THE URETHRA. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 




ffi 



14 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. MARSHALL HALL, F.R.3. 



i. 



PROXE AND POSTURAL RESPIRATION IN DROWNING 

AND OTHER FORMS OF APNffiA OR SUSPENDED RESPIRATION. 
Post 8vo. cloth. 5s. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS IN MEDI- 

CINE. SrronD Ser(t. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6J. 

DR. C. RADCLYFFE HALL. 

TORQUAY IN ITS MEDICAL ASPECT AS A RESORT FOR 

PULMONARY INVALIDS. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 
MR. HARDWICH. 

A MANUAL OF PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMISTRY. Fourth 

Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

MR. HARE, M.R.C.S. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE PREVENTION, ;; 

CAUSES, AND TREATMENT OF CURVATURES OF THE SPINE; with * 
Engravings. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6's. 

MR. JAMES B. HARRISON, F.R.C.S. 

ON THE CONTAMINATION OF WATER BY THE POISON 

OF LEAD, and its Effects on the Human Body. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, '6s. 6d. 

t 

DR. HARTWIQ. 

I. 

ON SEA BATHING AND SEA AIR. reap. 8vo., 2.. 6<& 

ON THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN. Fcap. 

8vo., 2. 6J. 

DR. A. H. HASSALL. 
I. 

THE MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY, 

IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. Illustrated with Several Hundred Drawings in 
Colour. Two vols. 8vo. cloth, 1. 10s. 

ii. 

THE URINE, IN HEALTH AND DISEASE; or, a Simple Ex- 

plnnation of the Physical Properties, Composition, and Uses of the Urine, of the Functions 
of the Kidneys, and of the Treatment of Urinary Disorders. With Twenty-four En- 
gravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. ALFRED HAVILAND, M.R C.S. 

CLIMATE, WEATHER, AND DISEASE; being a Sketch of the 

Opinions of the most celebrated Ancient and Modern Writers with regard to the Influence 
of Climate and Weather in producing Disease. With Four coloured Engravings. 8vo. 
cloth, 7. 






? 



MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 




X MR. WILLIAM HAYCOCK, M.R.C.V.3. 

A TREATISE ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF 

VETERINARY MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 8vo. boards, 6a. 6d. 



OR. HEADLAND. 

ON THE ACTION OF MEDICINES IN THE SYSTEM, 

Being the Prize Essay to which the Medical Society of London awarded the Fother- 
gillian Gold Medal for 1852. Second Edition. Hvo. cloth, 10s. 



MR. HIQQINBOTTOM, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. 
I. 

AN ESSAY ON THE USE OF THE NITRATE OF SILVER 

IN THE CURE OF INFLAMMATION, WOUNDS, AND ULCERS. Second 
Edition. Price 5s. 

II. 

ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE NITRATE OF SIL- 

VER; with full Directions for its Use as a Therapeutic Agent. 8vo., 2s. 6d. 
MR. JOHN HILTON, F.R.S. 

ON THE DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN OF CERTAIN POR- 

TIONS OF THE CRANIUM. Illustrated with Plates in Lithography. 8vo. cloth, Gs. 



THE HARMONIES OF PHYSICAL SCIENCE IN RELATION 

TO THE HIGHER SENTIMENTS; with Observations on Medical Studies, and on 
the Moral and Scientific Relations of Medical Life. Post 8vo., cloth, 4s. 



DR. DECIMUS HODGSON. 

THE PROSTATE GLAND, AND ITS ENLARGEMENT IN 

OLD AGE. With 12 Plates. Royal 8vo., cloth, 6s. 
MR. JABEZ HOGG. 

THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE : an Essay on its value in the Exploration 
of Internal Eye Diseases. Second Edition. Cloth, 3s. fa't/. 



MR. LUTHER HOLDEN, F R.C.3. 

HUMAN OSTEOLOGY : with Plates, showing the Attachments of the 
Muscles. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 1 6s. 



MR. C. HOLTHOUSE. 

ON SQUINTING, PARALYTIC AFFECTIONS OF THE EYE, 

and CERTAIN FORMS OF IMPAIRED VISION. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 
LECTURES ON STRABISMUS,"delivercd at the Westminster Hospital. 

8vo. cloth, 4s. ; 



le MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. W. CHARLES HOOD. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE FUTURE PROVISION OF CRIMI- 
NAL LUNATICS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. 



MR. P. HOOD. 

THE SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT OF SCARLET FEYER; 

also, OBSERVATIONS ON THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF 
CROWING INSPIRATIONS OF INFANTS. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



DR. HOOPER. 

THE MEDICAL DICTIONARY ; containing an Explanation of the 
Terms used in Medicine and the Collateral Sciences. Eighth Edition. Edited by 
KLBIN GRANT, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 30s. 



MR. JOHN HORSLEY. 

A CATECHISM OF CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY; being a Familiar 

Exposition of the Principles of Chemistry and Physics. With Engravings on Wood. 
Designed for the Use of Schools and Private Teachers. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 



DR. HUFELAND. 

THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE, A New Edition. Edited 

by ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 6d. 



MR. W. CURTIS HUQMAN, F.R.C.S. 

ON HIP- JOINT DISEASE; with reference especially to Treatment 
by Mechanical Means for the Relief of Contraction and Deformity of the Affected Limb 
8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

DR. HENRY HUNT. 

ON HEARTBURN AND INDIGESTION. 8vo. cloth, 5*. 

DR. INMAN. 

THE PHENOMENA OF SPINAL IRRITATION AND OTHER 

FUNCTIONAL DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM EXPLAINED 
and a Rational Plan of Treatment deduced. With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

DR. ARTHUR JACOB, F.R.C.S. 

A TREATISE ON THE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE EYE-BALL 

FooUcap 8vo. cloth, 5*. 

DR. JAMES JAQO, A.B., CANTAB.; M.B., OXON 

SPECTRES AND STRUCTURES AS MUTUAL EXPO- 

IlluBtrated with Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 





MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 17 

DR. JOHNSTON AND MR. SINCLAIR. 

PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY: Comprising an Account of 13,748 Deli- 
veries, which occurred in the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, during a period of Seven Years. 

8vo. cloth, 15s. 

DR. HANDFIELD JONES, F.R.S, &, DR. EDWARD H. SIEVEKINQ. 

A MANUAL OF PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, illustrated with 

numerous Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

MR. WHARTON JONES, F.R.S. 

A MANUAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF 

OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY; illustrated with Engravings, plain 
and coloured. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

THE WISDOM AND BENEFICENCE OF THE ALMIGHTY, 

AS DISPLAYED IN THE SENSE OF VISION; being the Actonian Prize Essay 
for 1851. With Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

in. 

DEFECTS OF SIGHT : their Nature, Causes, Prevention, and General 
Management. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. Gd. 

A CATECHISM OF THE MEDICINE AND SURGERY OF 

THE EYE AND EAR For the Clinical Use of Hospital Students. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

A CATECHISM OF THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY 

OF BODY, SENSE, AND MIND. For Use in Schools and Colleges. Fcap. 8vo., 

DR. BENCE JONES, F.R.S. 
I. 

MULDER ON WINE. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

II. 

ON ANIMAL CHEMISTRY, in its relation to STOMACH and RENAL 
DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 



MR. FURNEAUX JORDAN, M.R.C.S. 

AN INTRODUCTION TO CLINICAL SURGERY; WITH A 

Method of Investigating and Reporting Surgical Cases. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. JUDD. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON URETHRITIS AND SYPHI- 

LIS : including Observations on the Power of the Menstruous Fluid, and of the Dis- 
charge from Leucorrhoea and Sores to produce Urethritis : with a variety of Examples, 
Experiments, Remedies, and Cures. 8vo. cloth, 1 

MR. KNAGGS. 

UNSOUNDNESS OF MIND CONSIDERED IN RELATION TO 

THE QUESTION OF RESPONSIBILITY IN CRIMINAL CASES. 8vo. cloth, 
4s. 6d. 

DR. LAENNEC. 

A MANUAL OF AUSCULTATION AND PERCUSSION. Trans- 

latcd and Edited by J. B. SHARPE, M.R.C.S. 3*. 




is MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. HUNTER LANE, F.L.S. 

A COMPENDIUM OF MATERIA MEDICA AND PHARMACY; 

adapted to the London Pharmacopoeia, 18.51, embodying all the new French, American, 
and Indian Medicines, and also comprising a Summary of Practical Toxicology. Second 
Edition. 24mo. cloth, ">.*. Gd. 

DR. LANE, M.A. 

HYDROPATHY ; OR, THE NATURAL SYSTEM OF MEDICAL 

TREATMENT. An Explanatory Essay. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6rf. 
MR. LAURENCE, M.B., F.R.C.S. 

THE DIAGNOSIS OF SURGICAL CANCER. The Listen Prize 

Ebsay for 1854. Second Edition. Plates, 3vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 
MR. LAWRENCE, F.R.S. 

A TREATISE ON RUPTURES. The Fifth Edition, considerably 

enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 

DR. EDWIN LEE. 

THE EFFECT OF CLIMATE ON TUBERCULOUS DISEASE, 

with Notices of the chief Foreign Places of Winter Resort. Small 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

THE WATERING PLACES OF ENGLAND, CONSIDERED 

with Reference to their Medical Topography. Third Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 
5s. Gd. 

in. 

THE BATHS OF GERMANY, FRANCE, & SWITZERLAND, 

Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6</. 

THE BATHS OF RHENISH GERMANY. Post 8vo. cloth, 4*. 

MR. HENRY LEE, F.R.C.S. 

PATHOLOGICAL AND SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS; including 

an Essay on the Surgical Treatment of Hemorrhoidal Tumors. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 







DR. ROBERT LEE, F.R.S. 

A TREATISE ON THE SPECULUM; with Three Hundred Cases. 

8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

CLINICAL REPORTS OF OVARIAN AND UTERINE DIS- 

EASES, with Commentaries. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

in. 

CLINICAL MIDWIFERY : comprising the Histories of 545 Cases of 
Difficult, Preternatural, and Complicated Labour, with Commentaries. Second Edition. 
Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

IV. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE 

UTERUS. \\ ith coloured Plates. Two Parts. Imperial 4to., 7s. 6rf. each Part. 



MR. LISTON, F.R.S. 

PRACTICAL SURGERY. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22*. 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 19 

< T t* 

MR. H. W. LOBB, L.S.A., M.R.C.S.E. 

ON SOME OF THE MORE OBSCURE FORMS OF NERVOUS 

AFFECTIONS, THEIR PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT. With an 
Introduction on the Physiology of Digestion and Assimilation, and the Generation and 
Distribution of Nerve Force. Based upon Original Microscopical Observations. With 
Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

LONDON MEDICAL SOCIETY OF OBSERVATION. 

WHAT TO OBSERVE AT THE BED-SIDE, AND AFTER 

DEATH. Published by Authority. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 
M. LUQOL. 

ON SCROFULOUS DISEASES. Translated from the French, with 
Additions by W. H. RANKING, M.D., Physician to the Suffolk General Hospital. 
8vo. cloth, I Os. 6d. 

DR. GEORGE H. B. MACLEOD, F.R.C.S. (EDIN.) 

NOTES ON THE SURGERY OF THE CRIMEAN WAR; with 

REMARKS on GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6rf. 

MR. JOSEPH MACLISE, F.R.C.S. 

I. 

SURGICAL ANATOMY. A Series of Dissections, illustrating the Prin- 
cipal Regions of the Human Body. 

The Second Edition, complete in XIII. Fasciculi. Imperial folio, 5s. each; bound in 
cloth, 3. 12*.; or bound in morocco, 4. 4s. 

ON DISLOCATIONS AND FRACTURES, This Work will be Uni- 

form with the Author's " Surgical Anatomy ; " each Fasciculus will contain Four beautifully , . 
executed Lithographic Drawings, and be completed in Nine Numbers. Fasciculi I. 
to VII., imperial folio, 5s. 

DR. MAYNE. 

AN EXPOSITORY LEXICON OF THE TERMS, ANCIENT 

AND MODERN, IN MEDICAL AND GENERAL SCIENCE, including a com- 
plete MEDICAL AND MEDICO-LEGAL VOCABULARY, and presenting the 
correct Pronunciation, Derivation, Definition, and Explanation of the Names, Analogues, 
Synonymes, and Phrases (in English, Latin, Greek, French, and German,) employed in 
Science and connected with Medicine. Parts I. to VIII., price 5s. each. 

DR. WM. H. MADDEN. 

THOUGHTS ON PULMONARY CONSUMPTION ; with an A PP en- 

dix on the Climate of Torquay. Post 8 vo. cloth, 5s. 
DR. MARCET. 

ON THE COMPOSITION OF FOOD, AND HOW IT IS 

ADULTERATED ; with Practical Directions for its Analysis. 8vo. cloth, 6*. 6d. 

OR. MARTIN. 

THE UNDERCLIFF, ISLE OF WIGHT: it s Climate, History, A 



and Natural Productions. Post 8vo. cloth, 1 Os. (M. 



. 



b2 






MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. * 

i<a . 

i 



DR. MARKHAM. 

DISEASES OF THE HEART:' THEIR PATHOLOGY, DIAG- 

NOS1S, AND TREATMENT. Post. 8vo. cloth, 6*. 

SKODA ON AUSCULTATION AND PERCUSSION, Post 8vo. 

cloth, 6s. 

MR. J. RANALD MARTIN, F.R.S. 

THE INFLUENCE OF TROPICAL CLIMATES ON EURO- 

PF \N CONSTITUTIONS. Originally by the late JAMES JOHNSON, M.D., and now 
entirely rewritten; including Practical Observations on the Diseases of European Invalids 
on their Return from Tropical Climates. Seventh Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 



DR. MASSY. 

ON THE EXAMINATION OF RECRUITS; intended for the Use of 

Young Medical Officers on Entering the Army. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. MILLINGEN. 

ON THE TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF THE IN- 

SANE; with Considerations on Public and Private Lunatic Asylums. 18mo. cloth, 
4s. 6d. 



MR. JOHN L. MILTON, M.R.C.S. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON A NEW WAT OF 

TREATING GONORRHCEA. With some Remarks on the Cure of Inveterate Cases. * 
8vo. cloth, 5s. 



DR. MONRO. 
I. 



REMARKS ON INSANITY : its Nature and Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

REFORM IN PRIVATE LUNATIC ASYLUMS. 8vo. cloth, 4,. 



DR. NOBLE. 

ELEMENTS OF PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE: AN INTRO- 

DUCTION TO THE PRACTICAL STUDY OF INSANITY. Second Edition. 8vo. 
cloth, 10.i. 

THE HUMAN MIND IN ITS RELATIONS WITH THE 

BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d, 



MR. J. NOTTINGHAM. F.R.C.S. 

DISEASES OF THE EAR, Illustrated by Clinical Observations. 
8 vo. cloth, 12. 



MR. CHURCHILLS PUBLICATIONS. 




MR. NOURSE, M.R.C.S. 

TABLES FOR STUDENTS, Price One Shilling the Set. 

1. Divisions and Classes of the Animal Kingdom. 

2. Classes and Orders of the Vertebrate Sub-kingdom. 

3. Classes of the Vegetable Kingdom, according to the Natural and Artificial Systems. 

4. Table of the Elements, with their Chemical Equivalents and Symbols. 



MR. NUNNELEY, F.R.C.S.E. 
I. 

ON THE ORGANS OF VISION: THEIR ANATOMY AND PHY- 

SIOLOGY. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, 15. 

A TREATISE ON THE NATURE, CAUSES, AND TREATMENT 

OF ERYSIPELAS. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



DR. ODLING. 

A COURSE OF PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY, FOR THE USE 

OF MEDICAL STUDENTS. Arranged with express reference to the Three Months' 
Summer Course. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

TRANSACTIONS OF THE ODONTOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF 

LONDON. With Plates. Vol. I., 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. 



MR. P A Q E T. 

A DESCRIPTIYE CATALOGUE OF THE ANATOMICAL 

MUSEUM OF ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. VOL. I. Morbid Anatomy. 
8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DITTO. Vol. II. Natural and Congenitally Malformed Structures, and Lists of the 
Models, Casts, Drawings, and Diagrams. 5*. 



MR. LANQSTON PARKER. 

THE MODERN TREATMENT OF SYPHILITIC DISEASES, 

both Primary and Secondary; comprising the Treatment of Constitutional and Confirmed 
Syphilis, by a safe and successful Method. Third Edition, 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

MR. JAMES PART, F.R.C.S. 

THE MEDICAL AND SURGICAL POCKET CASE BOOK, 

for the Registration of important Cases in Private Practice, and to assist the Student of 
Hospital Practice. Second Edition. 3s. 6d. 



DR. THOMAS B. PEACOCK. M.D. 
I. 

ON MALFORMATIONS, ETC. OF THE HUMAN HEART, 

with Original Cases. With Eight Plates. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 

ON THE INFLUENZA, OR EPIDEMIC CATARRHAL FEYER 

OF 1847-8. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. 




t<ate-^ 

M MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS 

MR OLIVER PEMBERTON, M.R.C.S. 

OBSERVATIONS ON THE HISTORY, PATHOLOGY, AND 

TREATMENT OF CANCEROUS DISEASES. Part I. - MELANOSIS. \\ith 
coloured Plates. Royal 8vo. cloth, 4*. 6d. 

DR. PEREIRA, F.R.S. 

SELECTA E PRJ^SCRIPTIS, Twelfth Edition. 24mo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. PETTIGREW, F.R.S. 

ON SUPERSTITIONS connected with the History and Practice of 
Medicine and Surgery. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 

DR. PICKFORD. 

HYGIENE; or, Health as Depending upon the Conditions of the Atmo- 
sphere, Food and Drinks, Motion and Rest, Sleep and Wakefulness, Secretions, 
Excretions, and Retentions, Mental Emotions, Clothing, Bathing, &c. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 

- MR. PIRRIE, F.R.S. E. 

1 THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY, With 

numerous Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 21s. 

PHARMACOPEIA COLLEGII REGALIS MEDICORUM LON- 

DIN EN SIS. 8vo. cloth, 9s.; or 24mo. 5s. 

IMPRIMATUR. 

1 Hie liber, cui titulus, PHARMACOPEIA COLLEGII REGALIS MEDICORUM LONDINENSIS. 
^ Datum ex JEdibus Collcgii in comitiis censoriis, Novembris Mensis 14' 1850. 

JOHANNES AYRTON PARIS. Prases. 

PROFESSORS PLATTNER &, MUSPRATT- 

THE USE OF THE BLOWPIPE IN THE EXAMINATION OF 

MINERALS, ORES, AND OTHER METALLIC COMBINATIONS. Illustrated 
by numerous Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

THE PRESCRIBER'S PHARMACOPEIA ; containing all the Medi- 

cines in the London Pharmacopoeia, arranged in Classes according to their Action, with 
their Composition and Doses. By a Practising Physician. Fourth Edition. 32mo. 
cloth, 2*. 6</.; roan tuck (for the pocket), 3s. 6d. 



i 
?> 



. . 

PHOTOGRAPHIC MANIPULATION: Treating of the Practice of 
be Art, and its various appliances to Nature. With Fifty Engravings on Wood. Post 
OTO. cloth, 6*. 6a. 

SIR WM. PYM, K.C.H. 

OBSERVATIONS UPON YELLOW FEVER, with a Review of 



MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 23 




30- 



DR. JOHN ROWLISON PRETTY. <j> 

AIDS DURING LABOUR, including the Administration of Chloroform, 

the Management of Placenta and Post-partum Haemorrhage. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 



DR. RADCLIFFE. 

EPILEPSY, AND OTHER CONVULSIVE AFFECTIONS; their 

Pathology and Treatment. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 
MR. R A I N E Y. 

ON THE MODE OF FORMATION OF SHELLS OF ANIMALS, 

OF BONE, AND OF SEVERAL OTHER STRUCTURES, by a Process of 
Molecular Coalescence, Demonstrable in certain Artificially-formed Products. Fcap. 8vo. 
cloth, 4s. <>(/. 

DR. F. H. RAMSBOTHAM. 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF OBSTETRIC MEDI- 

CINE AND SURGERY. Illustrated with One Hundred and Twenty Plates on Steel 
and Wood; forming one thick handsome volume. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22s. 

DR. RAMSBOTHAM. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON MIDWIFERY, with a Selection 

of Cases. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 



DR. DU BOIS REYMOND. 

RICITY ; Edited by H. BE* 
With Fifty Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6's. 



DR. REYNOLDS. 

THE DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE BRAIN, SPINAL 

CORD, AND THEIR APPENDAGES. vo. cloth, 8s. 



DR. B. W. RICHARDSON. 

ON THE CAUSE OF THE COAGULATION OF THE BLOOD. 

Being the ASTLEY COOPER PKIZK ESSAY for 1856. With a Practical Appendix. 
8vo. cloth, 16s. 

THE HYGIENIC TREATMENT OF PULMONARY CONSUMP- 

TION. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. 

DR. W. H. ROBERTSON. 

THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF GOUT. 

8vo. cloth, 10*. 6d. ' 

A TREATISE ON DIET AND REGIMEN. 

Fourth Edition. 2 vols. post 8vo. cloth, 12s. 




ANIMAL ELECTRICITY ; Edited by H. BENCE JONES, M.D., F.R.S. 



3-0 






1 MR. ROBERTON. 

OX THE PHYSIOLOGY AND DISEASES OF WOMEN, AND 

A ON PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 

MR WILLIAM ROBERTS. 

AN ESSAY ON WASTING PALSY; being a Systematic Treatise on 
the D? hiierto detribod as ATROPHIE MUSCULAIBB PROGRESSIVE. 
With Four Plates. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 



DR. ROWE, F.S.A. 

ON SOME OF THE MOEE " IMPORTANT DISEASES OF 

WOMEN and CHILDREN. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

II. 

NERYOUS DISEASES, LIVER AND STOMACH COM- 

PI \INTS LOW SPIRITS, INDIGESTION, GOUT, ASTHMA, AND DIS- 
ORDERS 'PRODUCED BY TROPICAL CLIMATES, with Cases. Fifteenth 

Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

DR. ROYLE, F.R.S. 

A MANUAL OF MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. 

With numerous Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 
MR. RUMSEY, F.R.C.S. 

ESSAYS ON STATE MEDICINE 8vo. cloth, io. 6* 



MR. SAVORY. 

A COMPENDIUM OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE, AND COMPA- 

NION TO THE MEDICINE CHEST; comprising Plain Directions for the Employ- 
ment of Medicines, with their Properties and Doses, and Brief Descriptions of the 
Symptoms and Treatment of Diseases, and of the Disorders incidental to Infants and 
Children, with a Selection of the most efficacious Prescriptions. Intended as a Source 
of Easy Reference for Clergymen, and for Families residing at a Distance from Profes- 
kional Assistance. Fifth Edition. 12mo. cloth, 5s. 



DR. SCHACHT. 

THE MICROSCOPE, AND ITS APPLICATION TO VEGETABLE 

ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Edited by FREDERICK CURREY, M.A. Fcap. 
8vo. cloth, 6*. 

DR. SEMPLE. 

ON COUGH : its Causes, Varieties, and Treatment. With some practical 
Remarks on the Use of the Stethoscope as an aid to Diagnosis. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 




MR. CHURCHILLS PUBLICATIONS. 




MR. SHAW, M.R.C.S. 

THE MEDICAL REMEMBRANCER ; OR, BOOK OF EMER- 

GENCIES : in which are concisely pointed out the Immediate Remedies to be adopted 
in the First Moments of Danger from Poisoning, Apoplexy, Bums, and other 
Accidents; with the Tests for the Principal Poisons, and other useful Information. 
Fourth Edition. Edited, with Additions, by JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, M.R.C.S. 32mo. 
cloth, 2s. <;./. 



DR. SIBSON, F.R.S. 

MEDICAL ANATOMY. With coloured Plates. Imperial folio. Fasci- 
culi I. to V. 5*. each. 



DR. E. H. SIEVEKINQ. 

ON EPILEPSY AND EPILEPTIFORM SEIZURES: their 

Causes, Pathology, and Treatment. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 
DR. SMELLIE. 

; OBSTETRIC PLATES ! being a Selection from the more Important and 
Practical Illustrations contained in the Original Work. With Anatomical and Practical 
Directions. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. HENRY SMITH, F.R.C.S. 

ON STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 8vo. cloth, 7.. 



DR. W. TYLER SMITH. 

A MANUAL OF OBSTETRICS, THEORETICAL AND PRAC- 

TICAL. Illustrated with 186 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF LEUCORRHCEA. 

With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 7. 



DR. S N O W. 

ON CHLOROFORM AND OTHER ANESTHETICS: THEIR 

ACTION AND ADMINISTRATION. Edited, with a Memoir of the Author, by 
Benjamin W. Richardson, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

ON THE MODE OF COMMUNICATION OF CHOLERA. 

Second Edition, much Enlarged, and Illustrated with Maps. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 



* DR. STANHOPE TEMPLEMAN SPEER. 

PATHOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY, IN ITS APPLICATION TO 

THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Translated from the French of MM. BBCQCEREL 
and RODIER. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 




MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 

w*- 

DR. S P URGI N. 

LECTURES ON MATERIA MEDICA, AND ITS RELATIONS 

TO THE ANIMAL ECONOMY. Delivered before the Royal College of Physicians. 
8vo. cloth, 5*. 6</. 

TMR. SQUIRE, F.L.S. 

THE PHARMACOPEIA, (LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND 

DUBLIN,) arranged in a convenient TABULAR FORM, both to suit the Prescriber for 
comparison, and the Dispenser for compounding the formulas; with Notes, Tests, and 
Tables. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 

DR. SWAYNE. 

OBSTETRIC APHORISMS FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS 

COMMENCING MIDWIFERY PRACTICE. With Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 
8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

DR. STEQQALL. 
STUDENTS' BOOKS FOR EXAMINATION. 

A MEDICAL MANUAL FOR APOTHECARIES' HALL AND OTHER MEDICAL f 

BOARDS. Twelfth Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. 

n. 

A MANUAL FOR THE COLLEGE OF SURGEONS; intended for the Use 

of Candidates for Examination and Practitioners. Second Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. 

in. 

. GREGORY'S CONSPECTUS MEDICINE THEORETICS. The First Part, con- n 

taining the Original Text, with an Ordo Verborum, and Literal Translation. 12mo. 
cloth, 10s. 

IV. 

THE FIRST FOUR BOOKS OF CELSUS; containing the Text, Ordo Verb- 

orum, and Translation. Second Edition. 12mo. cloth, 8s. 

v. 

A TEXT-BOOK OF MATERIA-MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. 12mo. cloth, 7*. 

VI. 

FIRST LINES FOR CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS PREPARING FOR EX- 
AMINATION AT THE PHARMACEUTICAL SOCIETY. Second Edition 
lltmo. cloth, 3. 6d. 

MR. STOWE, M.R.C.S. 

A OXICOLOGICAL CHART, exhibiting at one view the Symptoms 
Treatment, and Mode of Detecting the various Poisons, Mineral, Vegetable, and Animal. 
To which are added, concise Directions for the Treatment of Suspended Animation. 
Eleventh Edition. On Sheet, 2s.; mounted on Roller, 5s. 



MR. TAMPLIN, F.R.C.S.E. 

LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE: its Causes, Nature, and 
Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 4. 



MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 27 



OE 



DR. ALFRED 8. TAYLOR, F.R.S. 

A MANUAL OF MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. Sixth Edition. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

n. 

ON POISONS, in relation to MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE AND 
MEDICINE. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 



MR. TEALE. 

ON AMPUTATION BY A LONG AND A SHORT RECTAN- 

OULAR FLAP. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 
DR. THEOPHILUS THOMPSON, F.R.3. 

CLINICAL LECTURES ON PULMONARY CONSUMPTION. 

With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

LETTSOMIAN LECTURES ON PULMONABY CONSUMPTION; 

with Remarks on Microscopical Indications, and on Cocoa-nut Oil. Post 8vo., 2s. 6d. 
DR. THOMAS. 

THE MODERN PRACTICE OF PHYSIC; exhibiting the Symp- 

toms, Causes, Morbid Appearances, and Treatment of the Diseases of all Climates. 
Eleventh Edition. Revised by ALGERNON FRAMPTON, M.D. 2 vols. 8vo. cloth, 28s. 



MR. HENRY THOMPSON, M.B. LOND., F.R.C.S. 
I. 

STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA; its Pathology and Treatment. 

The last Jacksonian Treatise of the Royal College of Surgeons. With Plates. Second 
Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

II. 

THE ENLARGED PROSTATE ; its Pathology and Treatment. With 
Observations on the Relation of this Complaint to Stone in the Bladder. With Plates. 
8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

DR. THUDICHUM. 

A TREATISE ON THE PATHOLOGY OF THE URINE, 

Including a complete Guide to its Analysis. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, 14. 



DR. TILT. 



ON DISEASES OF WOMEN AND OVARIAN INFLAM- 

MATION IN RELATION TO MORBID MENSTRUATION, STERILITY, 
PELVIC TUMOURS, AND AFFECTIONS OF THE WOMB. Second Edition. 
8vo. cloth, 9*. 



THE 

\V Pn 

5 of! 



THE CHANGE OF LIFE IN HEALTH AND DISEASE: a 

Practical Treatise on the Nervous and other Affections incidental to Women at the Decline 

of Life. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. -J - 



/ 




as MR. CHURCHILL'S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. ROBERT B. TODD, F.R.S. 

I. 

CLINICAL LECTURES ON PARALYSIS, DISEASES OF THE 

BRAIN, and other AFFECTIONS of the NERVOUS SYSTEM. Second Edition. 
Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

II. 

CLINICAL LECTURES ON CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE 

URINARY ORGANS, AND ON DROPSIES. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 



MR. JOSEPH TOYNBEE, F.R.S. 

A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF PREPARATIONS ILLUS- 

TRATIVE OF THE DISEASES OF THE EAR, IN HIS MUSEUM. 8vo. 
doth, &. 



MR. SAMUEL TUKE. 

DR. JACOBI ON THE CONSTRUCTION AND MANAGEMENT 

OF HOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE. Translated from the German. With In- 
troductory Observations by the Editor. With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 9*. 



DR. TURNBULL. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISORDERS OF THE STOMACH 

with FERMENTATION; and on the Causes and Treatment of Indigestion, &c. 8vo. < ' 
cloth, 6. 



DR. UNDERWOOD. 



TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN, Tenth Edition, 

with Additions and Corrections by HKNRY DAVIES, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 15s. 



VESTIGES OF THE NATURAL HISTORY OF CREATION, 

Tenth Edition. Illustrated with 100 Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

EXPLANATIONS: A SEQUEL TO "VESTIGES," 

Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



DR. UNGER. 

BOTANICAL LETTERS, Translated by Dr. B. PAUL. Numerous 
\\ oodcuts. Post 8vo., 5. 




MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. VAN OVEN. 

ON THE DECLINE OF LIFE IN HEALTH AND DISEASE; 

being an Attempt to Investigate the Causes of LONGEVITY, and the Best Means of 
Attaining a Healthful Old Age. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



MR. WADE, F.R.C.S. 

STRICTUEE OF THE URETHRA; its Complications and Effects. 
With Practical Observations on its Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment; and on a Safe 
and Efficient Mode of Treating its more Intractable Forms. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



DR. WALLER. 



ELEMENTS OF PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY; or, Companion to 

the Lying-in Room. Fourth Edition, with Plates. Fcap. cloth, 4s. 6d, 



MR. HAYNES WALTON, F.R.C.S. 

OPERATIYE OPHTHALMIC SURGERY, With Engravings on 

Wood. 8vo. cloth, 18. 



DR. WARDROP. ^ 

ON DISEASES* OF THE HEART. STO. doth, 12,. 



DR. EBEN. WATSON, A.M. 

ON THE TOPICAL MEDICATION OF THE LARYNX IN 

CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE RESPIRATORY AND VOCAL ORGANS. 
8vo. cloth, 5s. 



DR. WEBER. 

A CLINICAL HAND-BOOK OF AUSCULTATION AND PER- 

CUSSION. Translated by JOHN COCKLE, M.D. 5s. 



DR. WE GO. 

OBSERVATIONS RELATING TO THE SCIENCE AND ART 

OF MEDICINE. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 



DR. WEST. 

> LECTURES ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN, 8vo. cloth, i 6 .. 

** Part II., 8vo. cloth, 6s., may be had separately. 



30 



MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 



! 



MR. T. SPENCER WELLS, F.R.C.S. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON GOUT AND ITS COMPLI- 

CATIONS, and on the Treatment of Joints Stiffened by Gouty Deposits. Foolscap 8vo. 
cloth, ">*. 



MR. WHEELER. 



HAND-BOOK OF ANATOMY FOR STUDENTS OF THE 

FINK ARTS. New Edition, with Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. 



DR. WHITEHEAD, F.R.C.S. 

ON THE TRANSMISSION FROM PARENT TO OFFSPRING 

OF SOME FORMS OF DISEASE, AND OF MORBID TAINTS AND 
TENDENCIES. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



DR. WILLIAMS, F.R.S. 

PRINCIPLES OF MEDICINE : An Elementary View of the Causes, 

Nature, Treatment, Diagnosis, and Prognosis, of Disease. With brief Remarks on 
Hygienics, or the Preservation of Health. The Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. 



DR. JOSEPH WILLIAMS. 

IJS SANITY : its Causes, Prevention, and Cure; including Apoplexy, 
Epilepsy, and Congestion of the Brain. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



DR. d. HUME WILLIAMS. 

UNSOUNDNESS OF MIND, IN ITS MEDICAL AND LEGAL 

CONSIDERATIONS. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 



I 



DR. Q. C. WITTSTEIN. 

PRACTICAL PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY: An Explanation 

Chemical and Pharmaceutical Processes, with the Methods of Testing the Puritv of 
I reparations, deduced from Original Experiments. Translated from the Second 
(..nnan Edition, by STKPHKN DARBY. 18mo. cloth, 6s 




DR. HENRY Q. WRIGHT. 

J their Causes and their Cure. Second Edition. Fcap. 




1 



, >> 

MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 31 

i 



MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. 
I. 

THE ANATOMIST'S VADE-MECUM: A SYSTEM OF HUMAN 

ANATOMY. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Seventh Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 
cloth, 1-Js. <;</. 

n. 

DISEASES OF THE SKIN: A Practical and Theoretical Treatise on 
the DIAGNOSIS, PATHOLOGY, and TREATMENT OF CUTANEOUS DIS- 
EASES. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 

THE SAMK WORK ; illustrated with finely executed Engravings on Steel, accurately 
coloured. 8vo. cloth, 34s. 

in. 

HEALTHY SKIN : A Treatise on the Management of the Skin and Hair 
in relation to Health. Fifth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

IV. 

PORTRAITS OF DISEASES OF THE SKIN, Folio. Fasciculi I. 

to XII., completing the Work. 20s. each. 

v. 

ON SYPHILIS, CONSTITUTIONAL AND HEREDITARY; J 

AND ON SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. With Four Coloured Plates. 8 vo. cloth, J 
16s. 

VI. 

A THREE WEEKS' SCAMPER THROUGH THE SPAS OF <( 

GERMANY AND BELGIUM, with an Appendix on the Nature and Uses of i 
Mineral Waters. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 



DR. FORBES WINSLOW, D.C.L. OXON. 
I. 

LETTSOMIAN LECTURES ON INSANITY, 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

ii. 

A SYNOPSIS OF THE LAW OF LUNACY; as far as it relates 
to the Organi/ation and Management of Private Asylums for the Care and Treatment of 
the Insane. In the form of a Chart, varnished, mounted on canvas and rollers, price 6s. 



MR. YEARSLEY. 
I. 

DEAFNESS PRACTICALLY ILLUSTRATED; being an Exposition 

of Original Views as to the Causes and Treatment of Diseases of the Ear. Fifth 
Edition. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. Gd. 

n. 

ON THE ENLARGED TONSIL AND ELONGATED UYULA, 

and other Morbid Conditions of the Throat Sixth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 5*. 






CHURCHILL'S SERIES OF MANUALS. 

We here give Mr. Churchill public thanks for the positive benefit conferred on tfie 
Medical Profession, by the series of beautiful and cheap Manuals which bear his imprint - 
ilritiik and foreign Medical Itevieu: 

AOOBEOATB BAX.B 1O2,OOO COPIES. 
DR. BARLOW. 

A MANUAL OF THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 
DR. OOLDING BIRD, F.R.S., and CHARLES BROOKE, M.B. Cantab, F.R.S. 

ELEMENTS OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY; 

Being an Experimental Introduction to the Study of the Physical Sciences. With numerous 
Illustrations on Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6</. 

DR. CARPENTER, F.R.S. 

A MANUAL OF PHYSIOLOGY. 

With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

THE MICROSCOPE AND ITS REVELATIONS. 

With numerous Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 
MR. FERGUSSON, F.R.S.E. 

A SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL SURGERY. 

With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 
MR. FOWNES, PH.D., F.R.S. 

A MANUAL OF CHEMISTRY. 

With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Seventh Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 



I 



MR. WHARTON JONES, F.R.S. 

MANUAL OF OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE & SURGERY. 

With Coloured Engravings on Steel, and Illustrations on Wood. 
Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Gd. 

Dr. HANDFIELD JONES, F.R.S., & Dr. EDWARD H. SIEVEKING. 

A MANUAL OF PATHOLpGICAL ANATOMY. 

Illustrated with numerous Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo., cloth, 12s. 6d. 
DR. ROYLE, F.R.S., and DR. HEADLAND, F.L.S. 

A MANUAL OF M ATERI A-M ED 1C A. 

With numerous Illustrations on WooJ. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6rf. 
Dr. W. TYLER SMITH. . 

A MANUAL OF OBSTETRICS. 

Illustrated with 186 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 



i 
I 



DR. ALFRED TAYLOR, F.R.S. 

A MANUAL OF MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 

Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

II Y rilK SAME AUTHOR. 

ON POISONS. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12*. fid. 
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. 

THE ANATOMIST'S VADE-MECUM; 

A SYSTEM OF HUMAN ANATOMY. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Seventh Edition. 
Fcap. dvo. cloth, 12*. (!</. 

Printed by W. BL^CHABD & SONS, <fe, Millbank Street, Westminster. 




University of Toronto 
Library 





Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pit M Ref . lada File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



BOUND BY 



