WHAT I KNOW; 



OB, 



lints m % iailg ^utm 0f a |0 



COMPRISING 



NEAELY FIVE HUNDRED RECEIPTS, 



FOR COOKING, PRESERVING, PICKLING, WASHING, IRONING, 

GARDENING, PLAIN AND FANCY NEEDLE-WORK, 

PUTTING UP OF WINTER STORES, 



AND NUMEROUS OTHER RECEIPTS, USEFUL AND NEEDFUL IN 
EVERY WELL-REGULATED HOUSEHOLD. 



BY ELIZABETH NICHOLSON. 



Who sweeps a room as by Thy laws, 
Makes that and the action fine. — Herbert. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

WILLIS P. HAZABD, 

NO. 190 CHESTNUT STREET. 

1856o 



He 



0& ¥ 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, by 

ELIZABETH NICHOLSON, 

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and 
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 



Pat. Offlo«liik. 
4|irU 1914. 

ELECTROTTPED BY GEORGE CHARLES, 

9 Sansom St., Philadelphia. 



PEEFACE, 



-«♦«- 



*'In the days of other years," when persons in the 
middle walks of life were in the habit of keeping but one 
"maid of all work," the daily thought of " what we shall 
eat," &c., was not only the province of the female head of 
the family, but her occupation also. That is, to a certain 
extent ; on any extra occasion, or the arrival of an unex- 
pected guest, her hands prepared the fitting dessert, or 
the evening refreshment. And ably and well did she per- 
form the task. Flinging rules to the winds, her judgment, 
skill and experience, stood her in good stead. Now, we 
have fallen on other days. If, as C. M. Sedgewick says, 
" the division of labor is the perfection of the system," 
then in cities we have it, truly. And, in many cases, it is 
well. Mothers of rising families can command much 
more leisure for higher and nobler duties. The sciences, 
heretofore brought to bear only upon massive machinery, 
have descended to aid woman in the thousand details of 
her daily task-work. Philosophy and chemistry have come 
to our preparation and preservation of food. Instead of 
the cooking range, with its bushel of coal, to prepare our 
dinners, while the thermometer ranges at 90 degrees, we 
shall ere long forget, in our beautifully systematized gas 
cooking, that our houses were heated from the kitchen, 
through our protracted summers ; just as we now forget, 
in our brilliantly lit rooms, the vexation of the astral. 

(3) 



4 PREFACE. 

Still, work does not do itself. We admit many a ser- 
Tant into our houses to find that profession is not posses- 
sion. The author of this volume considered, that an 
inexpensive little hook, [so inexpensive as to render the 
inconvenience of lending unnecessary,] would be accept- 
able. It will be found to contain none but tested receipts, 
adapted to every-day doings, given in as brief a manner 
as possible, yet adapted to the smallest capacity ; as she 
intends it for a Kitchen Book. It contains very few 
receipts under each head adapted to great occasions, 
because, under our present system, hired waiters are 
expected and expect to have all under their supervision. 

To the women of America, therefore, I commend this 
volume, confident that its purchase, perusal and use, will 
be found a true economy, enabling them to devote more 
time to works which will minister to a higher need. 

E. N. 

Philadelphia, 10th mo., 1855. 



THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 



BREAD. 



This staff of life, on which we lean for hodily 
support thrice every day, should never be made but 
of the best materials, — our health and comfort 
depending much thereupon. Many a confirmed 
dyspepsia has been induced by the habitual par- 
taking of heavy, sour, or ill-baked bread: ow- 
ing, in some cases, to the ignorance or indiffer- 
ence of the maker and baker — in others, from the 
want of the best materials, and the use of a poor 
stove or range. If, however, the following rules 
are observed closely, a wholesome, beautiful Bread 
will be the result. 

An improvement in baking bread will be found 
in a porcelain lined pan, which can be obtained at 
262 Chestnut street, at various prices and sizes. 
The English porcelain lined ware is cheapest in 
the end. 

Yeast. — Take 1 handful good hops, put them 
in a little bag in 1 quart of water, to boil. Pare 
6 large potatoes and put in the water. When the 
latter are soft, pass them through a colander, 
(moistening the while with a little of the hot water.) 
Now, squeeze out the bag, and return the pulp 
made to the water, and let the whole be stirred, 
1* 5 



6 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

and just come to a boil. In this hot state pour 
it on suflBcient flour to make a thinish batter. 
When tepid, add i pint yeast. This is fit for use 
in the evening, if made in the morning. Put it 
in a crock with a lid, in a cool place. [Those 
who are near a baker^s, may save this work by 
purchasing, each baking day ] 

Dry Yeast. — Boil 1 pint hops well in 1 quart 
water: strain it hot on 1 pint flour and table- 
spoonful of salt : stir it well, and cool. After it 
has risen enough, add as much Indian meal as will 
make a stiff dough. Roll it into rolls. When they 
are light, cut them up in thin cakes and dry them 
in the shade ; turning them several times a day. 
Keep in a dry place : 2 cakes, soaked in tepid 
water an hour, and water all used, makes the 
quantity named, under Bread. I have eaten ex- 
cellent bread made thus in summer. It is port- 
able, and every way desirable for warm weather. 

Hop Yeast, — 1 quart water, 1 handful lively 
hops, boiled in a bag ^ hour. Pour this scalding 
water over sufficient wheat flour to make a thin 
batter : add 1 table-spoonful salt ; set it to rise. 
When light, add 1 tea-cup yeast. Keep in a co- 
vered crock, cool. [A little soda improves yeast 
when it is not very lively, put in when using the 
yeast.] 

Wheat Bread. — Boil 1 quart milk: let it be- 
come coolish: then mix with it flour enough to 
make a very stiff batter: add J pint of the above- 
named Yeast, beat it very smooth, add 2 table- 
spoonfuls salt. Let it stand till light ; then knead 
it well : [the old saying of " bread is poison that is 
not kneaded," was put out as a frightener, I pre- 
sume.] Let it rise. Mould and put it in pans. 



BRAN BREAD — RYE BREAD BUTTER. 7 

J hour. If milk is not convenient, water 
will do. The above quantity makes 4 medium 
sized loaves. If mush is desired, there may be a 
pint of it (when made) put in. Better Bread than 
the above rules will show need not he, if properly 
baked. The oven should be very warm, not very 
hot, and slowly getting hotter. Bake 1 hour. 

Bran Bread. — Take 1 lb. fresh Indian meal, 
1 handful salt, and make into a thin mush. When 
tepid, mix in 1 wine glass yeast, 2 lbs. bran flour, 
[which may be had at the feed stores,] a table- 
spoonful of sugar or molasses ; mix all together, 
and form a loaf without kneading. Bake in a pan 
ready greased, longer than the same quantity of 
wheat bread. Let it stand to rise in this greased 
pan, and bake. s. l. [Rye Bread, ditto.] 

Rye Bread. — Make a pot of mush with coarse 
yellow Indian meal — season it with salt to taste, 
and let it boil well for an hour, then stir in more 
Indian until it is quite stiff — ^let it cool until it is 
milk-warm, then add yeast enough to raise it, and 
knead rye flour into it, until it is a stiff dough — 
let it rise — when light, mould it into loaves. 
Let it stand till quite light again, and bake as 
other bread. Made into small cakes it is very 
good hot for breakfast. 

Wheat flour used instead of rye makes a bread 
which is excellent, and preferred by many : should 
be baked in cakes size of a tea-cup top, an inch 
thick. 

Butter. — There is much bad butter brought 
into our markets. The following receipt is from 
Everet G. Passmore, whose butter always com- 
mands the highest market price. '' In each pan of 
milk put enough sour milk to make it very sour 



8 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

and thick in 36 hours : in moderate weather 2 or 
3 table-spoonfuls will answer ; in cold weather it 
should be kept in a room at summer heat. Skim 
it every night and morning, in a pot, and before 
putting it into the churn, scrape off the top with 
a knife, as it will make the butter strong. Work 
most of the buttermilk out — then salt it — then 
work it well with a cloth, till there is no more milk 
in it — print it — throw it in water a while, and set 
away in a cool place." 

To Cure Butter that •will keep for a 
length of time. — Reduce separately to a fine 
powder 2 lbs. of the best fine salt, 1 lb. of loaf- 
sugar and ^ lb. saltpetre. Sift these ingredients 
one above another, on a large sized sheet of paper, 
then mix them well together ; keep this mixture 
covered up close in a nice jar, and placed in a dry 
closet. 

When your butter is worked and salted in the 
usual way, and ready to put in the jars, use one 
ounce of this composition to every pound of but- 
ter ; work it well into the mass. 

Butter cured in this way (it is said), will keep 
good for several years. I have never kept it 
longer than from the fall until late in the spring : 
it was then very sweet and good. 

It will not do to use for a month, because ear- 
lier, the salts will not be sufiQciently blended with it. 
It should be kept in wooden vessels, or nice stone 
jars. Earthenware jars are not suitable for but- 
ter, as during the decomposition of the salts, they 
corrode the glazing, and the butter becomes rancid 
and unhealthy. — e. e. l. 

Grafton Milk Biscuit. — Boil and grate 
2 white potatoes j add 2 tea-spoonfuls of brown 



M. A B 'S MILK BISCUIT. ETC, 9 

sugar ; pour boiling water over these, enough to 
soften them. When tepid, add 1 small tea-cup 
of yeast ; when light, warm 3 oz. of butter in 
1 pint of milk, a little salt, and flour enough to 
make a stiff sponge — when risen work it on the 
board — put it back in the tray to rise again : 
when risen roll into cakes and let them stand half 
hour. Bake in a quick oven. These Biscuit are 
'perfect, 

M. A. B.'s Milk Eiscuit. — Mix 1 pint 
milk with 6 oz. butter, ^ tea-cup pulverized sugar, 
1 tea-spoonful salt, IJ tea-cup yeast, and flour 
enough to make a sponge. Let it stand till per- 
fectly light ; knead it into a loaf, return to the 
tray and rise again. Then roll out the dough, cut 
it into small cakes, and stand ^ hour. Bake in a 
quick oven \ hour. Leave them in the pans till 
wanted for tea, to prevent the under-crust harden- 
ing. Yeast for these must be made the day 
previous — thus : Boil 4 large potatoes in 1 quart 
water ; pour off the water and strain them through 
a colander ; then add water enough to thin them, 
with 1 tea-spoonful salt and 1 table-spoonful brown 
sugar : let it cool and add nearly 1 tea-cup good 
yeast. 

A Simpler Biscuit. — Save from the bread 
dough ^ of the quantity named under wheat bread; 
cut up in small pieces 3 oz. butter or lard, or ^ each, 
and work in. Make it up into small cakes, and put 
to rise in a cool place till time to bake for tea. 
These are good. 

Potato Rolls. — Boil 2 lbs. potatoes, pass 
through a colander, or mash them well; add 2 
oz. butter and a pint milkj a little salt, 1 gill 



10 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

yeast, and as much flour as will make a soft dough ; 
set them to rise ; when light cut them in cakes ; 
let them rise ^ hour, and bake. Sweet potatoes 
make beautiful biscuit, mixed as above. 

French Rolls. — Boil 1 pint milk ; cut up 2 
oz. butter into it, add a little salt ; when tepid, 
sift in 1 lb. flour, 1 egg beaten, 1 table-spoonful 
yeast ; beat these well together ; when risen, form 
into rolls, with as little handling as possible. 
Bake on tins. 

Patent Flour. — Pulverize 6 lbs. wheat flour, 
mix 5 tea-spoonfuls dry carb. soda carefully 
through it ; then 1 do. cream tartar, and 6 do. of 
salt. Incorporate these, and you have risen cakes 
at hand, to which add either milk or water, short- 
ening or not, as suits, and you have several kinds 
of what is called soda cake. To this quantity of 
flour J lb. butter would answer. 

I find this flour good for crust of any kind : 
constant reference will be found in the volume to 
the use of it, in various ways. 

C. B.'s Soda Cake. — Three pints flour ; 3 tea- 
spoonfuls dry cream tar. ; butter the size of a wal- 
nut ; soda, 1 tea-spoonful dissolved in milk. Make 
a soft dough with milk and bake immediately i 
hour. 

Batter Cakes. — Muffins. — One quart milk ; 
4 eggs ; dessert spoonful salt ; 1 cup yeast. Beat 
the eggs well ; add all the ingredients ; make the 
batter very stiff by flour ; grease muffin rings after 
the batter is light, and bake ; fill the rings ^ full. 
Turn them over when brown below. 

Flannel Cakes. — One quart milk ; 4 eggs ; 1 
cup yeast; 1 dessert spoonful salt; flour enough 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES WAFFLES, ETC H 

for a tliinisli batter. Set to rise as above ; bake 
like Buckwheat Cakes. Cakes -J Indian and ^ 
wheat, are very nice. Quite good cakes may be 
made by leaving out the eggs. 

Buek'wheat Cakes. — One quart ouckwheat 
meal ; 1 handful Indian meal ; 1 cup yeast ; some 
warm water and salt. When ready to bake, ^ tea- 
spoonful soda, and 1 cream of tartar, lightens them. 
Extempore Buckwheat Cakes may be made by leav- 
ing out the yeast, and substituting 1 tea-spoonful 
soda ; 2 cream of tartar. 

Wafiies. — Take two tea-cups hot hominy ; 1 
table-spoonful butter : when cold, add I tea-cup 
wheat flour, salt, as much milk as will make a stiff 
batter, and 3 eggs, beaten well. Mix, adding a 
mite of soda ; do. cream of tartar. Bake in Waf- 
fle irons. 

Quick Waffles. — One pint milk ; 3 eggs, bea- 
ten ; enough wheat flour to make a thick batter : 
add a table-spoonful butter melted, and a little 
salt, soda and cream of tartar. 

Best Waffles. — One quart milk ; ^ lb. melted 
butter ; 3 eggs ; 2 large spoonfuls yeast : let it 
rise 4 hours. Serve them, when baked, with sugar 
and cinnamon. 

Rice Waffles. — Beat 3 eggs; stir them into 
1^ pints flour, adding by degrees 2 pints milk : 
add 1 pint boiled rice with 1 large spoonful butter, 
put in while the rice is hot. Salt, and add 2 large 
spoonfuls yeast. 

As Waffles are rather slow baking, they will be 
nearly as good, if baked awhile befpre wanted, 
and put in the oven to keep warm. 



12 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Buttermilk Cakes. — Make a smooth batter 
of 1 quart buttermilk and flour : then add 2 large 
spoonfuls corn meal ; 2 eggs, beaten ; salt ; 1 tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in milk ; (no cream of tar- 
tar.) These are most excellent. 

Mush, Mush Cakes, and Fried Mush. — 

Stir corn meal into boiling water till suflBciently 
thick. Add salt ; keep stirring it to prevent its 
being lumpy. It should boil nearly 1 hour. Pour 
it out in pans, and when cold it makes a whole- 
some and good dessert, if sliced and fried. Eat it 
with sugar and cream, or batter and molasses. 

Mush Cakes. — Take 1 quart cold mush, mix 
in it ^ pint wheat flour, and a little butter or lard ; 
make it in little cakes with your hands. Flour 
them and bake on a griddle as slab cake, or in the 
oven. 

Corn Batter Cakes. — One quart milk; 3 
eggs; salt, and as much sifted corn meal as will 
make a thin batter; beat well together, with 1 
table-spoonful wheat flour; bake in small cakes, 
and serve hot. 

Cornmeal Cake, in tins. — One quart meal ; 

1 pint boiling milk ; 1 tea-spoonful salt ; a tea- 
spoonful soda ; set it to rise in a warm place ; beat 
3 eggs and put in ; a little cream of tartar. Bake 
in tins, and cut in squares for the table. 

Cake, ■without Eggs. — Pour sufficient boil- 
ing water over stale bread to soften it ; mash 
it through a colander, and add as much wheat 
flour as bread, and as much milk as will make it 
as thick as batter usually is ; 1 tea-spoonful soda ; 

2 cream of tartar. Bake immediately. 



TO SEASON SAUSAGE MEAT TEA. 13 



BREAKFAST RELISHES. 

To Season Sausage Meat. — To 40 lbs. 
meat add I lb. salt ; i black pepper ; 12 oz, red 
pepper ; ^ the quantity of sage in measure. This is 
for common Sausage, to fry — to those designed for 
Tom Thumbs, to boil, add a little of each, except 

the sage. — a. h. 

® \ 

Tea. — The Chinese have a method of prepar- 
ing different from ours. They have a tea-kettle 
boiling on the table, and put the tea into an or- 
dinary tea-pot, upon which they pour the boiling 
water, and allow it to stand only a few seconds 
before it is used. If a second cup is wanted a 
fresh infusion is made. It would be considered 
a meanness to offer a guest tea that was not that 
instant prepared. This is their rule for all kinds 
of tea. 

The most approved method in this country for 
black tea, is to pour a small quantity of boiling 
water on the tea — let it stand on a hot stove (not 
to boil) for 20 minutes, then put it into the tea- 
pot intended for the table, and fill it up with boil- 
ing water. In pouring out black tea into the cup 
always put in the sugar first — then the cream — and 
the tea last. It alters the flavor entirely to add 
the sugar or cream afterwards. 

Green tea, made in the same manner, but al- 
lowed to remain on the stove only 5 minutes in- 
stead of 20. In pouring out into the cup let each 
person add cream and sugar to suit themselves. 
Many persons omit cream — the Chinese never use 
it in any of their teas. They admire the scented 
2 



14 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

tea — but never use the colored poisons prepared 
for this and the English market. 

There is a very neat article, (to be had at 256 
Market street,) for boiling tea. It consists of a 
small wire box, into which you put the black tea 
dry, then place it into the vessel in which tea is 
boiled; the advantage of this method is — no tea 
leaves can escape into the tea-cup, and you secure 
all the leaves compact. 

Coffee. — Many purchase bags of costly Coffee 
and have it roasted as wanted. In my opinion the 
cheapest and most satisfactory method of having 
the very best coffee always, is to purchase a few 
pounds at a time, of Elwood Shannon's Roasted 
Coffee, at 16 cents per lb. His store is in Jayne's 
Building, Chestnut street. 

Boiling Coffee. — A large tea-cupful of un- 
ground coffee will be sufficient for 6 persons, unless 
they take it very strong, (which is injurious to 
health ;) grind it, and put it in the tin pot, with ^ a 
tea-cup of cold water, and the white of ^ an egg ; 
shake it till it is mixed ; then pour boiling water 
on it, and let it stand close to the fire, and just 
come to a boil; stir it, and do not let it boil over; 
let it keep at boiling heat 5 or 10 minutes ; then 
take it from the fire, and put in ^ a tea-cup of 
water to settle it; let it stand 5 minutes, and pour 
It off; — if you wish it particularly nice, strain it 
through a thin linen cloth, kept for the purpose; 
keep it by the fire till it goes to table. If you 
boil coffee too long, the aromatic flavor flies off*.— 

E. E. LEA. 

Boiled Eggs. — Put them in boiling water with 
a 3 minute glass in sight. If you wish only 



OMELETS. 15 

the white hardened, allow 3 minutes — 5 and 8 for 
a hard boiled egg. Another, and more delicate 
way, and far more graceful to eat, is to break them 
into boiling water and let them boil 3 or 4 min- 
utes; then take them up with a skimmer on a 
plate where is buttered toast. Put a little butter 
on the eggs. The most convenient way to have 
eggs done to your mind is, to purchase one of the 
*' Extempore Cooks," an affair connected with the 
gas-burner over head. They may be had at Mur- 
phy & Yarnall's, 262 Chestnut street. 

Omelet. — Break 8 or 10 eggs into a pan ; add 
pepper, salt, and 1 spoonful cold water ; beat them 
up to a stiff froth ; meanwhile, put some butter in 
a frying pan, and when it nearly boils put in the 
eggs. As it fries, take up the edges, that all may 
be properly done. When cooked, double it; serve 
hot. 

Baked Bread Omelet. — Ingredients : 6 oz. 
of stale bread, without hard crust ; 5 eggs ; ^ oz. 
of parsley, and \ oz. of lemon thyme. Instruc- 
tions: Soften the bread thoroughly in a dish, 
with a little boiling water, covering it over, 
and let it soak for an hour — then mash it up with a 
fork, picking out the hard pieces, and adding the 
parsley and lemon thyme, chopped fine, with salt 
and pepper, as seasoning. Beat the eggs well, mix 
them intimately with the other ingredients, and 
bake in a buttered dish, (buttered cold,) for about 
40 minutes. Turn it out of the dish, garnished 
with parsley, and serve with brown sauce. 

A Simpler Omelet. — Beat up 4 eggs ; add 
1 pint milk or less, season this ; put butter in fry- 
ing pan, when hot pour in the q^^ ; cover the pan 



16 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

and let it steam a little while ; then turn it up and 
up, and over into the dish, to serve. 

Clam Fritters. — Strain them from the juice ; 
chop the clams ; put pepper and salt ; add an egg 
or two ; a little cream or milk ; sift in flour enough 
to make them stick together. This is the most de- 
licate way of cooking clams. 

Corn Fritters. — Six ears of corn cut off the 
cob ; salt ; 3 eggs, beaten well separately ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls patent flour. Fry brown. 

Frizzled Beef, or Liver dried as Beef. — 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a 
skillet ; sliver up some beef and put in, turning 
nearly all the time, till done. Put the meat to one 
side of skillet, and put in a little cream, milk or 
water, for gravy. 

Fried Ham. — This is good served in the same 
way ', or, instead of cream, &c., 6 eggs broken 
into the gravy and served on the ham. 

Salsify, or Oyster Plant. — Wash and scrape 
and grate it ; season and make up into cakes ; 
fry in lard ; either use bread crumbs or not. 

Egg Plant. — Cut it in slices an 8th of an inch 
or more ; lay it 3 hours in salt and water ; have a 
dressing of bread crumbs, egg with plenty of salt 
and pepper. Fry brown and serve hot. 

Tomato Omelet. — Select 1 quart ripe to- 
matoes; pour boiling water over to remove the 
skin ; chop them fine ; put them into a saucepan 
without water, cover closely and simmer 1 hour ; 
then add salt and cayenne, 1 large spoonful bread 
crumbs, and cover tightly ; beat up 3 eggs to a 
stiff froth J have ready a heated pan with a piece 



A RELISH — SOUPS. It 

of butter just large enough to grease it ; stir the 
eggs into the tomatoes ; beat all together, and 
pour it into the hot buttered pan ; brown it on one 
side ; fold it over and serve. This is nice with 
beef-steak. 

Sweet Potatoes, left at dinner, make a delicate, 
wholesome relish, by placing them, sliced, into an 
oven to warm, and meanwhile heating and salting 
some cream or rich milk to pour over them. Serve 
hot. 

A Relish. — Put bread crumbs into a sauce- 
pan with cream, salt and pepper ; when the bread 
has absorbed the cream or milk, break in a few 
eggs and fry as Omelet. — c. b. 



SOUPS. 



The delicate and proper blending of savours is 
the chief art of good soup-making. Be sure and 
skim the grease off the soup when it first boils, or 
it will not become clear. Throw in a little salt to 
bring up the scum. Remove all the grease, 
[This may be best done by boiling the soup the 
day previous, and then the grease all comes off in 
a cake. To do so is often more convenient if you 
have bones, &c., which may not keep uncooked.] 
1 quart water to 1 lb. meat is a pretty good rule. 
If it boils away — soup should not boil hard — add 
boiling water. The water in which poultry, or 
fresh meat has been boiled, should be saved for 
gravies or soup next day. If you do not need it, 
the poor do. And in connection with this remark 
I would say it is much better for all families to 
2* 



18 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

"seek out" some worthy poor in their own neigh- 
bourhood, to whom all their food, not presentable 
again on their own tables, shall be sent before it 
has become fit for the slop ; and to insist that the 
cook shall take or send it thither. By this means 
nearly every poor family could count on at least 1 
meal a day : and that nuisance in our courts and 
alleys — street begging — be abated. 

The proper way to make soup is to use a soup- 
digester : the flavour of the meat being retained 
almost entirely. They may be had at Murphy & 
YarnalPs, 262 Chestnut street. 

Beef-shin Soup — Mutton and Veal 
Soup. — Crack the shin in several pieces, and wash 
it through 3 waters ; put it into a pot of water 4 
hours before dinner — when it begins to boil, take 
off the scum as it rises, and keep it covered; 1 
hour before it is done skim off all the fat, and put 
in potatoes, 1 onion, 1 carrot — either beat up dump- 
lings, as given below, or roll them out of pie- 
dough, or bread-dough, if you have it, and put in — 
a few minutes before dinner, stir in thickening 
enough, with parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt, and 
tomatoes, if in season. A shin will make a good 
dinner for a large family, and will do to warm over 
for the poor (if any left) next day. To eat pickles 
with it, or pour a little catsup or vinegar on your 
plate, is good. Soup made of mutton, veal, and 
lamb, does not require many vegetables — carrots 
and potatoes are best. 

Gumbo Soup. — Take 2 lbs. fresh beef; put 
this in a pot with 2 gallons water ; after boiling 2 
hours, throw in ^ peck okra cut in thin slices, and 
1 quart ripe tomatoes cut up ; slice 4 onions, fry 
them brown, and dust into them, while frying, sev- 



OKRA SOUP CHICKEN SOUP, ETC. 19 

eral spoonfuls flour ; add these with pepper, salt, 
parsley, or other herbs, to your taste, about 1 
hour before dinner — it requires 6 hours, moderate 
boiling. 

Okra Soup.' — Take a shin of beef and put in 
1 gallon water after an early breakfast, and let it 
boil till 12 o'clock; then cut up 1 onion, parsley, 
•J peck okra, and 1 quart tomatoes ; let these boil 
until dinner time, say 2 o'clock. This is delicious 
soup. 

Hashed Beef for second course. — The 

boiled beef will make a very good dish, by cutting 
the meat into small pieces ; a little cloves, part of 
an onion, some of the soup fat with crumbs of 
bread over the top-adding ; bake ^ hour in a quick 
oven. 

Chicken Soup. — Cut up the fowl ; cut each 
joint, and let it boil 1 hour ; then stir in thick- 
ening, pepper, salt, and parsley enough to season ; 
put in a few dumplings (made as elsewhere di- 
rected) f let it boil up ^ hour, and serve. 

Pea Soup.' — Leave 1 pint peas in the pot with 
the water boiled in ; make a thickening of flour 
milk, and butter, season with salt, pepper, parsley, 
and thyme ; boil 10 minutes, and serve. Children 
are fond of this. 

Clam Soup. — Wash 50 small sand-clams very 
clean ; put them in an iron pot — set it in a hot 
place and cover it up. When they become hot, 
the clams open ; then take them from the shells. 
Put the clams aside in a pan, and pour the juice 
into a stew-pan ; let it simmer 5 minutes, strain 
it, and rub 2 table-spoonfuls butter and 1 flour 



20 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

smoothly together ; put the juice on to cook, and 
slowly add the flour and butter ; stir it well to- 
gether; add "I tea-spoonful salt, -J nutmeg, and 1 
pint cream or milk ; stir this well, let it simmer 
10 minutes, chop up parsley and add, then clams. 
One boil-up finishes, as clams require very little 
cooking. If you use the large clams, they must 
be chopped. 

Drop-Dumplings for Soup. — Beat 1 egg, 
add 2 spoonfuls milk, salt — beat in flour to a thick 
batter, drop them in the soup and boil 20 minutes 
before serving. 

A good dumpling may be made of " patent flour" 
mixed with the top of the soup into a batter. 

Okra will improve any soup. It is well to pur- 
chase it, while in season, a little every market-day ; 
slice thin and dry on earthen plates about the fire. 

Be sure to take only young ones. These can be 
put in boxes for winter use ; putting in one hand- 
ful for soup. 

Portable Soup. — Boil down the meat to a 
thick jelly, season highly with spices ; dry in the 
sun. Put it away out of the air, and to 1 inch 
square put one quart boiling water — vegetables 
added. 



MEATS. 



When a joint of meat comes from market, it is 
well to cut it up at once. Separate your roasting 
piece. Cut up the part for steaks, and put away 
in your coolest place what is left to cook after- 
ward. Take out the bones you mean to make a 



BOILEAU BEEF A-LA-MODE. 21 

soup of, and boil them soon, as they will not keep 
as well as the meat. 

It is impossible to say how long meat must be 
cooked — -much depends on the fire ; coal gives out 
more heat than wood ; beside, persons dififer in 
what meat well done means. Bed meat, like beef, 
must be cooked rarer than white meat, as pork. 
A good way to find how much done it is, is to 
stick a skewer in near the bone : if blood follows it, 
it is not done. Gravy for roast meat is made by 
putting some browned flour in, also salt and pep- 
per and boiling water. 

In frying meat, lard is better than butter. Mut- 
ton and beef suet are good : when the lard seems 
hot, try it by throwing in a mite of bread. 

When boiling meat or poultry, skim it often, or 
the meat will be dark : keep it boiling. Put fresh 
meat into boiling water, salt meat into cold ; allow 
^ hour for every lb. meat. 

In roasting poultry or birds, be careful to baste 
and turn often. The back, having little flesh, 
requires little cooking. 

Boileau. — 5 lbs. 2nd cut rump beef — take out 
the bone — put 1 tea-spoonful of cloves and all- 
spice mixed, a little sweet basil cut fine ; rub these 
well into the meat ; roll it up in a cloth tightly, 
and tie it — put in the pot some water with 2 pota- 
toes, 1 carrot, 1 onion. Stew 3 hours. 

Beef A-la-mode. — To a piece of beef 10 lbs. 
take 6 blades of mace, 12 cloves, half nutmeg — 
pound them fine, then rub the spice well into the 
beef : after the beef has been rubbed with salt and 
saltpetre, for 12 hours, roast it. 

Hoast Beef. — A brisk fire, baste often, season 



22 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

well with pepper and salt — dredge flour. 20 min- 
utes for each lb. 

Roast Veal. — If a fillet, take out the little 
bone ; make a filling of bread, butter, sweet mar- 
joram or parsley. Lay the flank round the lean 
part, putting filling between, and skewer and tie 
it round. Put filling where the bone was. 
Sprinkle over all with salt, pepper, and flour, and 
bake. 

A Roast Pig. — Clean it again after coming 
from market. Cut out the eyes with a penknife, 
clean the ears, take out the tongue, singe ofl" hairs, 
&c. Make a filling as above, adding sage and 
more pepper. Stuff the pig and sew it up. 
Roast 2j hours, watching to prevent burning ; if 
in danger of this, put paper between it and the 
fire. Baste frequently with salt and water. 

Gravy. — Boil the tongue, liver and feet with 
salt and pepper till they are tender, in water 
enough to cover them when they are done. 

Just before dishing up, take out the liver, chop 
or mash it up, work some flour into a small piece 
butter, stir all in — put over fire again, and come 
to a boil ; take it off and pour into a gravy tur- 
reen. For sauce — stewed or baked apples, boiled 
onions, &c. 

Roast Turkey. — Cut off the tips of the 
wings, the neck, gizzard, liver and heart, and lay 
them aside for gravy. Wash it thoroughly ; filling 
as for veal (given above). Cook it 2 or 3 hours. 

Gravy. — Boil the neck, &c., tender, with salt, 
pepper, &c. Thicken with flour just before din- 
ner. Chickens — the same. An hour generally 



BROILED CHICKENS, ETC. 23 

cooks them. For sauce — cranberry sauce, currant 
jelly, oyster sauce, &c. 

Boiled Turkey or Fowls. — Clean and wash 
your turkey, as above — stuff with bread, butter, 
&c., as above, and, if you have them, some oysters. 
Have the water boiling, with a little salt ; put in 
the fowl, breast downwards. Skim the pot often. 
Do not let it boil till the skin breaks, as it is then 
disfigured. Oyster sauce. 

Roast Mutton and Lamb. — If a shoulder 
or leg, stuff as veal, sprinkle also do., and cook. 
Serve with asparagus, peas, lettuce, beans, &c. 

Pudding under Meat. — Take 6 table- 
spoonfuls patent flour, 1 tea-spoonful salt, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, and 1 pint milk ; beat this to a stiff 
batter; put a dish beneath the meat, which is 
roasting, to catch the drippings ; when well 
greased, pour in the batter, and when brown, and 
set, turn it. A pudding an inch thick requires 2 
hours at a good fiire. Eat as a dessert or not. 

Broiled Chickens. — Take those that are 
young and tender, cut them down the back and 
breast bone — wash and dry them. Lay them flat 
and skewer them down ; season with pepper and 
salt, and broil ^ hour on hot coals. Stew the gib- 
lets in water enough to cover them. When done, 
mix flour and butter and a little parsley chopped 
line, stir it in, and come to a boil. Take off — dish 
the chickens and pour the gravy over. 

Fricassee. — Stew a large fowl in water, cov- 
ered close, till tender — seasoning it with salt and 

pepper. Thicken the water with flour and butter 

pour in some cream — boil and dish it. 



24 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

To Boil a Ham. — A large ham should boil 
very slowly 3 or 4 hours ; should be pat in cold 
water, and kept covered during the process. A 
small ham will boil in 2 hours. Keraove the skin 
and save it for the soap-fat crock. Save the water 
and skim it, when cold, for the same purpose. 

To Bake a Ham. — Boil it J hour for every 
lb. ; then bake it in the same proportion. Serve 
hot. 

Tomato Ste"W. — Take 8 lbs. plate-rib of beef, 
put it on to boil in 1 gallon water, with 12 toma- 
toes, the same of okras, 6 potatoes cut small, 2 
carrots cut longwise, 2 onions ; season it with salt 
and pepper ; let it stew slowly 4 hours ; skim all 
the fat off the gravy, and garnish the meat with 
the potatoes, carrots, and tomatoes. This is a 
cheap, good dish. 

To Dress a Calf's Head. — Procure a large 
pelted head (that is, one having the skin on) ; 
let the butcher cut it open, and remove the nose 
and eyes. Wash it well through many waters, 
into which put some salt to bring out the blood — 
clean the head well, removing the swallow and 
other things. Let the brains remain in the head, 
and soak all night. The next day remove the 
brains and skin them — wrap them in a little cloth ^ 
by themselves, and the head in a towel (clean one), 
fastened up tightly. Let the head boil about 2 
hours, and the brains about 1 or J of an hour. 
When done, take it up, and remove all the bones, 
and take out the tongue, which you may put back 
in the water to keep hot. Season the meat well 
with pepper, salt, and sweet marjoram. Lay it on 
a dish and cover it with the skin — on the top of 



TO DRESS THE BRAINS OF A CALF's HEAD, ETC. 25 

which put the yelk of a raw egg. Sprinkle dry 
crumbs of bread on the top of this, with some 
lumps of butter laid here and there — season the 
top of this well, and put it into the oven to browa 
for about 20 minutes. 

To Dress the Brains of the above. — 

Take the brains while hot and mash them in a 
bowl, add pepper, salt, and butter — chop a hard- 
boiled egg fine, and mix with it, and set it to keep 
warm — then slice the tongue through the middle, 
and lay it on a small plate by itself, and garnish it 
with the brains laid neatly around it. 

Force-meat Balls. — Chop 1 pound of lean 
veal, very fine, season it with pepper, salt and sweet 
marjoram — add a little flour to make them stick 
together — roll into balls the size of a hickory nut, 
and fry them brown. 

Gravy for the Head. — Mix butter and 
flour together, and brown it — add pepper and salt 
— add some of the water in which the head was 
boiled to thin the gravy. Serve the head on a 
plate, and lay the force-meat balls around it with 
a little gravy. 

Veal Cutlets. — Cut the veal in slices near an 
inch thick ; wash, drain, and season it ; beat up an 
egg, and have ready some pounded crackers or 
bread-crumbs ; dip the slices first in the egg, and 
then in the bread, and fry them in hot lard ; mix 
a gravy of flour and water, with salt, pepper, and 
parsley ; when the veal is taken up, pour it in ; let 
it boil a few minutes and pour it over the dish, and 
grate a little nutmeg over. — e. e. l. 

To Roast a Goose. — Make a stuffing of bread, 
butter, salt, pepper, sage, thyme, and onions j it 
3 



S6 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

requires but little butter, as geese are generally- 
fat ; wash it well in salt and water, wipe it, and 
rub the inside with salt and pepper. A common- 
sized goose will roast in an hour, and a small one 
in less time ; pour off nearly all the fat that drips 
from the goose, as it will make the gravy too rich. 
Make hash gravy of the giblets, the same as for 
turkey. — e. e. l. 

Ducks. — Wild ducks are generally cooked with- 
out stuffing ; and for those that like them rare, 15 
or 20 minutes will be long enough ; for com- 
mon ducks, a stuffing should be made the same as 
for a goose ; they will roast in -J hour. Currant 
jelly and apple sauce should be eaten with ducks 
and geese. — e. e. l. . 

Rabbits and Squirrels. — Rabbits and squir- 
rels, or birds, may be fried as chickens, or stewed 
in a pot with a little water. If you make a pie 
of rabbits or squirrels, they should be stewed first 
to make them tender, and then made in the same 
way as chicken pie. Rabbits are very good 
cooked with chopped onions, in a pot with a little 
water, and thickening of milk and flour stirred in 
when they are nearly done. Squirrels make very 
good soup. — E. E. L. 

To Fry Ham. — Slice the ham, and if it is 
very salt, pour boiling water on it, and let it soak 
a while ; then fry it with a small piece of lard ; 
when done, dish it ; mix together flour, milk, 
parsley, and pepper ; let it boil, and pour it over 
the ham. — e. e. l. 

To Cook Pigeons. — Pigeons should be roasted 
about 15 minutes before a quick fire ; as the meat 



SIDE DISHES MUTTON CHOPS, ETC. 27 

is dry, they should have rich stuffing, and be basted 
with butter. ' 

You may bake them in a Dutch oven, or stew 
them in a pot, with water enough to cover them, 
and some crumbs of bread or flour dusted over 
them ; let them cook slowly ^ hour ; mix together 
flour and water, with salt, pepper, and parsley, to 
season, and a lump of butter ; stir this in and let 
it boil up ; put them in a deep dish and pour the 
gravy over. Pigeons make a very nice pie in the 
same way as chickens. — e. e. l. 



SIDE DISHES. 

Fried Oysters or Clams. — Beat up an egg 
and grate a cracker or two, sprinkle pepper on your 
oysters or clams, dip them one by one into the 
egg, then into the grated cracker. Fry in butter 
and lard in equal proportions. They take but a 
few minutes. 

On the occasion of many guests, it is better to 
purchase cracker-crumbs, ready for use, at the bis- 
cuit bakery. 

Mutton Chops. — Cut the ribs, season them, 
have a dressing as for fried oysters, and broil or 
fry. Make gravy. 

Fried Liver. — Liver should be cut across 
the grain ; pour boiling water over it, drain and 
season with salt, pepper, and a little sage — flour 
each piece and fry a very short time, or it will be 
hard. Make gravy. 

Meat Cakes. — Chop any kind of fresh, cold 



28 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

meats, season — make a batter of patent flour ; lay 
a spoonful on the greased griddle, then a spoonful 
of the chopped meat, and then one of batter. 
Turn when browned. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Toast several pieces of 
bread brown, and butter them on both sides; 
take a baking-dish and put the toast round the 
sides, instead of a crust ; pour your oysters into 
the dish, and season with salt, pepper, butter, and 
mace or cloves. Crumb bread on the top, and 
bake in a quick oven J hour. 

Another Way. — Grease well a baking-dish with 
butter, throw fine bread-crumbs about in it until 
they adhere on all sides — have a bowl of seasoned 
bread-crumbs ready, and lay oysters into the dish, 
so as to cover the bottom of it ; then sprinkle 
crumbs over them and a small piece of butter — 
then another layer of oysters, covered in the same 
way with crumbs, until the dish is full — cover the 
last layer rather more thickly with crumbs, and 
lay several pieces of butter here and there over it ; 
bake it until it is nicely brown — not too long, or 
the oysters will be hard. 

N. B. — Do not drain the oysters, but lift them 
with a spoon out of their liquor. 

Fried Halibut. — Have the slices seasoned 
some hours before frying, as it makes it less liable 
to break in turning. Prepare egg-crumbs, sea- 
soned — dip it in, and fry brown. Turn over. 
Make a drawn-butter sauce for this. 

Cold Meat Turnovers. — Make a little 
dough of patent flour ; roll very thin in a circle, 
and put in like a turnover — cold meat chopped 



BREAKFAST RELISHES. 29 

fine and seasoned with salt, pepper, catsup and 
sweet herbs : either fry in lard or bake in oven. 

Croquetts. — Take a cold chicken, roast or 
broiled ; mince it very fine, or it will not adhere — 
moisten it with a rich gravy — season with pepper, 
salt, and a little mace ; make it up in small forms 
in a jelly-glass, done over with egg and fine bread- 
crumbs — fry slowly in lard or butter. — r. 

Beef Croquetts. — Take cold roast-beef or 
veal ; mince it fine ; put an onion chopped fine, 
sweet marjoram, a little powdered cloves ; moisten 
with the beef gravy, make it into balls like saus- 
age ; put the yelk of an egg over them ; flour and 
fry them in lard. 

Chicken Croquetts. — 1 pair fowls weighing 
10 lbs. ; boil them — mince it, very fine indeed ; add 
1 pint cream, J lb. butter, salt and pepper to taste ; 
shape them oval by a jelly-glass, as mould ; boil 
in lard, and serve brown. I know nothing in this 
way so delicious. 

To Bake a Ham. — Make a dressing of bread, 
&c., moistened with three eggs. Take a ham 
which has been cut, fill up the place, and cover the 
top with this dressing ; bake ^ hour, and garnish 
with parsley. Eat hot. 

Many of these side dishes are good relishes. 



BREAKFAST RELISHES. 

Beefsteak. — Choose the tenderest part of 
beef, an inch thick, broil it over good coals, covered 
with a plate j have butter, salt, pepper, and a little 
3* 



30 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

water in a dish ; when you turn the beef, dip it in 
this ; be careful to have as much of the juice as 
you can. When done, put it in a warm dish and 
pour the basting over. Some lilce beef fried better. 

Sausages. — To 10 lbs. finely-chopped pork, 
put 4 oz. salt (scant), 2 oz. pepper, good weight, 
1 table-spoonful ground cloves, and 1 oz. sage. 

Scrapple. — Take a pig's haslet and as much 
offal lean and fat pork as you wish, to make 
scrapple ; boil them well together in a small quan- 
tity of water until they are tender ; chop them 
fine, after taking them out of the liquor ; season, 
as sausage : then skim off the fat that has arisen 
where the meat was boiled, to make all soft, throw 
away the rest of water, and put this altogether in 
the pot ; thickening it with ^ buckwheat and J In- 
dian. Let it boil up, then pour out in pans to 
cool. Slice and fry it in sausage-fat, after the 
sausage is done. 

Souse. — Boil the feet till the bones come out 
easily, and pick out all the bones. Pack them in 
a pan with pepper and salt, and cover it with vine- 
gar or not, as you choose. Fry in lard for dinner. 

Head-Cheese. — Boil in salted water the ears, 
skin, and feet of pigs till the meat drops off. Chop 
like sausage ; season with pepper, salt, cloves, and 
herbs ; mix all together ; put it under pressure to 
cool. Cut in slices for the table, cold. 

To Broil Tomatoes for Breakfast. — Take 
large round tomatoes, wash and wipe them, and 
put them on the gridiron over lively coals — the stem 
side down ; when this is brown, turn them and let 
them cook till quite hot through ; place them on a 
hot dish and send them quickly to table, where 



FISH. 31 

each one may season for himself with pepper, salt, 
and butter. 

To Bake Tomatoes for Breakfast. — 

Season them with pepper and salt ; flour and bake 
them in a stove, in a deep plate with a little butter 
over them. 

♦ 

FISH. 

To Ste"W a Rock Fish. — Hub the fish with 
salt and pepper, and a little cayenne on the inside ; 
put it in an oval stew-pan. To a fish that weighs 
6 lbs., put a pint of water; when it is about half 
done, season it well with salt and pepper, and a 
little mace or cloves ; rub ^ lb. butter in ^ tea-cup 
of flour, with a little parsley and thyme ; stir this 
in with a pint of oysters. Serve it with the gravy 
in the dish. A large fish should be allowed an 
hour, small ones half an hour. — e. e. l. 

To Broil Shad. — Soak a salt shad a day or 
night previous to cooking ; it is best to drain an 
hour before you put it to the fire ; if it hangs long 
exposed to the air, it loses its flavour ; grease the 
gridiron to keep it from sticking ; have good coals, 
and put the inside down first. Fresh shad is bet- 
ter to be sprinkled with salt an hour before it is 
put to broil ; put a plate over the top to keep the 
heat in. In broiling shad or other fresh fish you 
should dust them with corn meal before you put 
them down. — lb. 

To Bake a Fresh Shad.—Make a stuffing 
of bread, butter, salt, pepper and parsley ; fill a 



82 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

large shad with this, and bake it in a stove or 
oven. — lb. 

To Fry Fresh Fish. — Have the fish well 
scalded, washed and drained ; cut slits in the sides 
of each ; season them with salt and pepper, and 
roll them in corn flour ; have in your frying-pan 
hot lard or bacon drippings ; dip them in q^q;^ be- 
fore rolling them in corn flour, to keep them from 
breaking. — Ih. 

To Boil Salt Shad, Mackerel or Her- 
ring. — Wash the fish from the pickle ; put it in 
a frying-pan ; cover it with water, and let it boil 
15 minutes ; take it up and drain it between two 
plates ; put a little butter over, and send it hot to 
the table : or, after boiling, you can flour, and fry 
it in drippings of any kind. — lb. 

To Boil Salt Salmon. — Let salmon soak 
over night, and boil it slowly for 2 hours ; eat it 
with drawn butter. To pickle salmon after it has 
been boiled, heat vinegar scalding hot, with whole 
peppers and cloves ; cut the fish in small square 
pieces ; put it in a jar, and pour the vinegar over. 
Shad may be done in the same way. — tb. 

To Boil Fresh Fish. — After being well 
cleaned, rub the fish with salt, and pin it in a 
towel ; put it in a pot of boiling water, and keep it 
boiling fast ; — a large fish will take from | to | of 
an hour — a small one from 15 to 20 minutes. A 
fat shad is very nice boiled, although rock and 
bass are preferred generally ; when done, take it 
up on a fish- dish, and cover it with egg sauce or 
drawn butter and parsley. Pickled mushrooms 
and walnuts, and mushroom catsup, are good with 
boiled fish. — lb. 



VEGETABLES. 33 



VEGETABLES. 

For cooking vegetables, always have your water 
boiling before you put them in, and keep them 
boiling till done — standing after they are done 
will injure their colour. 

Potatoes. — The medium size potato boils in 
20 minutes. They should have the water drawn 
off them directly they are done, and put in a 
hot place a few minutes to dry — waiting spoils 
them. When old and not very mealy, to peal and 
wring them in a napkin improves them much. 
When neiD, serve with cream and butter in the 
sauce-dish. Sweet potatoes take rather longer to 
boil than white. Old potatoes are made white 
and mealy by paring them 4 hours beforehand and 
laying them in cold water : drop them into boiling 
water ; and the moment they are done, pour it off 
and let them stand in the steam awhile. 

Asparagus. — Tie it in bunches, the tops all 
one way ; put some salt in boiling water ; put in 
the asparagus, and boil ^ hour. Toast some 
bread, dip it in the water for an instant ; take out 
the asparagus and put on the bread. Make drawn 
butter. 

To Boil Rice. — Pick a pint of rice, wash it 
clean — put in three pints of boiling water : it 
should boil fast, and by the time the water evapo- 
rates, the rice will be sufficiently cooked ; set it 
where it will keep hot, until you are ready to dish 

it. E. E. L. 

Hominy. — Large hominy, after it is washed, 



34 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

must be put to soak over night ; if you wish to 
have it for dinner, put it to boil early in the 
morning, or it will not be done in time ; eat it as 
a vegetable. 

Small hominy will boil in an hour ; it is very 
good at breakfast or supper, to eat with milk or 
butter, or to fry for dinner. 

Both large and small hominy will keep good in 
a cool place several days. Be careful that the 
vessel it is cooked in, is perfectly clean, or it will 
darken the hominy. — lb. 

To Fry Hominy. — Put a little lard in your 
frying-pan, and make it hot ; mash and salt the 
hominy ; put it in, and cover it over with a plate ; 
let it cook slowly for ^ hour, or longer if you like 
it very brown ; when done, turn it out in a plate. 
If you do not like it fried, mash it well, with a 
little water, salt, and butter, and warm it in a fry- 
ing-pan. — Ih. 

To Boil Green Corn. — Pick out ears near 
the same size, and have the water boiling when 
you put them in ; -J hour is long enough for young 
corn ; that which is old and hard will take an hour 
or more ; if young corn is boiled too long, it be- 
comes hard and indigestible. — Tb. 

To Fricassee Corn. — Cut green corn off the 
cob ; put it in a pot, and just cover it with water; 
let it boil J hour ; mix a spoonful of flour with ^ 
pint of rich milk, pepper, salt, parsley, thyme and 
a piece of butter ; let it boil a few minutes, and 
take it up in a deep dish. Corn will do to cook 
in this way when too old to boil on the cob. — Ih. 

String Beans. — String beans, if boiled in salt 
and water, will require fully 2 hours ; but if boiled 



LIMA BEANS — PEAS, ETC. 35 

in a net, in a pot with bacon, they will not take 
so long ; if they are cooked in the same pot with 
cabbage, it will injure the flavour. It is a good 
way to boil a very small piece of pork or bacon, or 
a ham-bone in the pot with beans ; when they are 
done, season them with cream, butter, salt, and 
pepper. — Ih. 

Lima Beans. — Shell them, and wash them in 
cold water ; let them boil about an hour ; when 
done, dip them from the water, and season with 
salt, pepper, cream or butter \ keep them hot till 
they are sent to table. 

Dried Lima beans should be soaked over night, 
and boiled 2 hours or longer, if they are not 
soft.— i6. 

Peas. — Early peas require about J hour to 
boil, and the later kinds rather longer ; the 
water should boil when they are put in ; when 
they are tough and yellow, they may be made ten- 
der and green, by putting in a little pearl-ash, or 
ashes tied up in a rag, just before they are taken 
up ; this will tender all green vegetables, but do 
not put too much ; — when done, dip them out ; 
drain and season them with butter, pepper, and 
salt ; put a bunch of parsley in the middle of the 
dish.— /6. 

Cold Sla"W. — Cut hard white cabbage across 
the leaves, and put it in a deep plate ; scald 2 
large spoonfuls of vinegar with a piece of butter, 
some pepper and salt ; pour this over the slaw ; 
have an Qgg boiled hard ; chop it fine, and spread 
it over the top. Some persons like it heated in a 
pan with vinegar and water, and the yelk of a raw 
Qg^ mixed through it. — Ih. 



36 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Cauliflowers, &c. — Have a pot with half 
milk, and the rest water ; when this boils, put in 
the cauliflowers, and let them boil till tender ; put 
in some salt just before you take them up ; have 
ready drawn butter and parsley, to pour over 
them, or a sauce of cream and butter. Good 
heads of yellow Savoy cabbage, cooked in this 
way, resemble cauliflowers. Brocoli is a delight- 
ful vegetable, and may be cooked in the same 
manner. — Ih. 

To Boil Cabbage. — In summer, you should 
allow a large head of cabbage an hour to boil, but 
w^hen it has been tendered by the frost, it will boil 
in half that time. Most persons prefer cabbage 
boiled with ham ; the pot should be well skimmed 
before it goes in, or the grease will penetrate the 
cabbage, and make it unwholesome ; take it up 
before it boils to pieces. It is very good boiled 
with corned beef or pork, or with milk and water, 
with a little salt added. Some like it with a little 
salaeratus thrown in while boiling, as that tenders 
it and makes it of a more lively green. — lb. 

Parsnips. — Scrape and split them, and boil 
until quite soft, either in salt and water, or with 
meat ; they are very good served up in this way, 
with plenty of butter. They may, when boiled, 
either be baked with a few slices of salt meat, and 
require no seasoning but pepper, or made into 
small round cakes, seasoned with butter, pepper, 
and salt, and fried. — Ih. 

Carrots.— Carrots should be scraped, and 
boiled till soft in plenty of water ; when they are 
done, take them up, and slice them thin ; season 



TURNIPS — ONIONS — BEETS, ETC. 31 

them with salt, pepper, and butter. They are 
suitable to eat with boiled meat or fowls. — lb. 

Turnips. — Pare and quarter the turnips, and 
put them in a pot of clear water, or with fresh 
meat; boil them ^ hour; drain, and season them 
with butter, pepper, and salt ; mash them. — lb. 

Onions. — After they are peeled, boil them in 
milk and water; if small, they will cook in ^ 
hour; when they are done, pour off the water; 
put in cream, butter, and salt, and let them stew 
a few minutes. Small onions are much better for 
cooking, as they are not so strong. — lb. 

Beets. — Wash the beets ; cut the tops off, and 
put them in boiling water ; the early turnip beet 
is best for summer, and will boil in less than an 
hour; the long winter beet should be boiled 2 
hours ; — when they are done, drop them in cold 
water for a minute ; peel and slice them ; season 
with butter, pepper, and salt ; send them hot to 
table. < 

To pickle beets, put them in a jar after they 
have been boiled ; fill it up with weak vinegar ; 
put in salt, cayenne and black pepper. — 76. 

To Ste^w Tomatoes. — Wash and pour boil- 
ing water over them ; peel off the skins, and cut 
them up ; season them with pepper and salt ; put 
in a lump of butter, and boil them in their own 
juice for -J- hour ; stir in enough crumbs of bread 
to thicken them ; let them cook slowly 10 minutes 
longer; be careful that the bread does not 
burn. — lb. 

To Bake Tomatoes. — Take out the inside 
of large tomatoes, make a stuffing of bread, but- 
4 



88 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

ter, pepper, salt and aa egg ; fill them with this, 
and set them in a deep pie-plate ; let them bake 
slowly -J hour. — lb. 

Tomatoes. — If you wish to bake tomatoes in 
the oven with bread, pour boiling water on, and 
skin them ; cut them in small pieces ; season with 
salt and pepper, and put them in a pan with 
crumbs of bread and butter ; cover the pan with 
a plate, and bake j of an hour ; when done, mash 
them and take them out on a dish. — lb. 

To Fry Tomatoes. — Slice them, season with 
pepper and salt, and fry in hot butter ; if they 
are green, dip them in flour after being sea- 
soned. — lb. 

Tomato Omelet. — Pour boiling water on 
the tomatoes, skin and cut them fine ; to 1 
quart of this, put 2 chopped onions and a lump 
of butter the size of an egg ; let them boil ^ 
hour, then mash them ; put in grated bread, pep- 
per, salt, and the yelks of 2 eggs. — lb. 

Spinach. — Wash it well ; put it into a pot 
and sprinkle salt over it : cover it close, and hang 
over the fire to stew — a very little water. Stir it. 
Poach a few eggs, slice and put over it, with drawn 
butter last. 

Egg Plant.' — Cut it in thin slices ; let it soak 
in salt water (or put salt between the slices) for 
several hours : wipe the pieces dry, pepper then, 
dip each piece in an egg which has been beaten 
a little, then dip them in grated crackers ; fry 
them in drippings, or -^ lard and -^ butter. 



CAPER SAUCE — MACARONI, ETC. 39 



SAUCES. 

Caper Sauce. — Put some capers in your 
butter-boat, and pour drawn butter over them. 
Nasturtions make aUnost as good a sauoe as capers, 
and is prepared in the same way — a few. of them 
pickled are put in a butter-boat, and drawn butter 
poured over them. 

Macaroni. — Boil it 1 hour : drain all the wa- 
ter off ; add a little cream (or milk), stir in some 
flour and butter mixed, and let it boil 5 minutes. 
When dished, grate over it Parmesian cheese. 

Another. — Lay as much macaroni as will fill a 
quart bowl in cold water ; let it soak -J hour, 
then put it into a deep baking dish, add a pint of 
rich milk, \ lb. butter and a tea-spoonful of salt, 
cut in pieces ; over the top grate hard old English 
or American cheese. Bake an hour — it should 
be brown as a loaf of bread, and served in the 
baking dish. — e. w. t. 

Dra"wn Butter.' — Put |- pint of water in a 
skillet, rub \ lb. butter in a large spoonful of 
flour ; when the water boils, stir it in and let it 
boil a few minutes ; season it with parsley, chop- 
ped fine. — E. E. L. 

Stuffing or Dressing. — Stuffing for poultry 
is made of bread and butter, an egg, salt, pepper, 
chopped parsley or thyme, mixed together ; if the 
bread is dry, it should have a little boiling water 
poured on it. — Ih. 

Egg Sauce. — This is made as drawn butter, 



40 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

with one or two eggs boiled hard and chopped into 
it, and a little salt. — Ih. 

Celery Sauce. — Take a large bunch of celery, 
cut it fine, and boil it till soft, in a pint of water ; 
thicken it with butter and flour, and season it with 
salt, pepper and mace. — Ih. 



PICKLES AND CATSUP. 

To insure good cider-vinegar, it is safest to 
purchase it of some farmer who is known to have 
a cider-press, as so much of the beautiful vinegar 
we see is made from a weed, which eats and de- 
stroys the pickles. 

Cucumbers. — Procure the smallest size ; lay 
them in a wash-tub of cold water 3 days, changing 
them into another tub and fresh water 3 times a 
day : then wipe them dry and put them in the 
jars with whole peppers, allspice, and mustard- 
seed, and a handful of salt to each jar. Boil the 
vinegar 3 days in succession, and pour over them 
hot, till quite covered. 

Martinoes.— Gather them when you can run 
a pin-head into them, and, after wiping them, keep 
them 10 days in weak brine, changing it every 
other day. Then wipe them, and pour over boil- 
ing spiced vinegar. In 4 weeks they are ready 
for use. 

Cauliflo"wer. — Keep them 24 hours in strong 
brine; take them out and heat the brine, pour- 
ing it on scalding hot; let them stand till next 



PEPPER SAUCE — UNIVERSAL PICKLE, ETC. 41 

day. Drain them and throw them into spiced 
vinegar. 

Pepper Sauce. — Take 25 peppers without, 
seeds; cut them pretty fine, then take more than 
double the quantity of cabbage, cut like slaw ] 1 
root horse-radish grated, 1 handful salt, a heaping 
table-spoonful of mustard-seed, and ground cloves 
do., allspice do., boil enough vinegar to cover it, 
and pour over boiling hot, mixing it well through. 

Universal Piekle. — To 3 quarts vinegar, ^ 
lb. salt, ^ lb. ginger, ^ oz. mace, 1 tea-spoonful 
cayenne pepper, 1 oz. mustard-seed ; boil these 
with the vinegar, and when cold put into a jar 
You may put in whatever green fruit or vegetables 
you choose, from time to time. 

Tomatoes. — To 1 gallon jar take 2 table- 
spoonfuls salt, 1 black pepper (whole), 1 cloves do., 
1 of mustard, 1 red pepper the size of an egg ; 
mix these together and sprinkle over them, layer 
by layer, in the jars ; let them stand 3 or 4 days, 
and then pour over boiling vinegar, 

India Pickle.' — 15 old cucumbers; pare, 
seed, and cut them in thin strips ; spread them on 
a board, strewn thickly with salt ; let them stand 
12 hours ; then expose them to the sun, turning 
until perfectly dry, avoiding the night air : wash 
them in vinegar ; put a layer of mustard-seed, 
onions, a stick grated horse-radish. Simmer in 1 
quart vinegar, -J- oz. tumeric, §• oz. race ginger, 
(both tied in a bag) allspice Y/hole, a few cloves 
and cinnamon. When cool, pour it over the cu- 
cumbers. Excellent, and improves by age. 

To Pickle Mangoes. — Take Musk-melons at 
4* 



42 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

a proper age, before they get too hard ; make a slitin 
the sides, and take out the seeds with a tea-spoon ; 
boil a pickle of ground alum salt, that will bear an 
egg, and let the melons lay in this a week ; then 
make a new pickle, and let them lay in it another 
week ; then wash them, and scald them in weak 
vinegar, or sour cider, with cabbage leaves around 
the kettle ; put them in a jar, and put the vinegar 
and leaves in with them ; leave them 2 days, then 
wipe them carefully, and to 2 dozen mangoes, 
have an ounce of mace, 1 of cloves, some nastur- 
tions, small onions, scraped horse-radish, and mus- 
tard-seed sufficient to fill them ; fill up the inside 
of each one, and tie them round with strings. 
Put them in your kettle with strong vinegar, and 
let them scald a few minutes ; then put them in a 
wide-mouthed jar, and pour the vinegar over; 
have them covered close, and they will keep good 
for several years. — e. e. l. 

English Walnuts. — Gather them when nearly 
full grown, but not too hard ; pour boiling salt and 
water on them; let them be covered with it 9 
days, changing it every 3d day ; then take them 
out on dishes, and put them in the sun to blacken, 
turning them over ; then put them in a jar and 
strew over them pepper, cloves, garlic, mustard- 
seed and scraped horse-radish ; cover them with 
cold strong vinegar, and tie them up. — lb. 

Onions. — Peel small white onions, and pour 
boiling milk and water over them ; when cold, put 
them in a jar, and make a pickle of strong vine- 
gar, a little mace, ginger, white mustard-seed, and 
horse-radish ; boil it and pour over them. 

If you want them to be white, do not put in 
black pepper or cloves. — lb. 



SPICED PEACHES, ETC. 43. 

Spiced Peaches. — Take 9 lbs. of good ripe 
peaches, rub them with a coarse towel, and halve 
them ; put 4 lbs. sugar and a pint of good vine- 
gar in your preserving kettle, with cloves, cinna- 
mon, and mace ; when the syrup is formed, throw 
in the peaches, a few at a time, so as to keep them 
as whole as may be ; when clear, take them out 
and put in more ; boil the syrup till quite rich, 
and then pour it over the peaches. Cherries may 
be done in the same way.. — lb. 

Pickled Beans. — Procure young ones from 
the late crop ; boil them in water, slightly salted, 
till tender ; throw them in a colander with dish 
over to drain ; when done dripping, lay them^ out 
on a dry cloth and wipe. Pour boiling vinegar, 
spiced, over them, and you have an excellent 
pickle. These are delicate for tea. 

Tomato Ketchup. — To ^ bushel of toma- 
toes strained through a sieve, add \ oz. ground 
cloves, \ oz. mace do., \ oz. ground ginger, -^ 
this quantity of cayenne pepper, and a small tea- 
cup salt : these must be boiled in the juice. Put 
these in the juice after the tomatoes are skinned 
and strained, and let it boil 2 hours. The -J 
bushel of tomatoes I boil awhile first. 

To Pickle Green Tomatoes. — Slice 1 peck 
green tomatoes; take 1 gallon vinegar, 6 table- 
spoonfuls whole cloves, 4 of allspice, 2 of salt, 1 
of mace, 1 of cayenne pepper; boil the vinegar 
and spices 10 minutes; put in the tomatoes and 
boil all together \ hour longer ; when cold put in 
jars. There is no nicer pickle. 



44 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 



SPICED SWEET PICKLES. 

Cherries. — 4 quarts cherries, 1 lb. sugar, 1 
quart vinegar: boil some spice with the sugar 
and pour over hot. 

Peaches. — Pare, stone and halve the fruit : 
put 9 lbs. peaches to 4 lbs. sugar, 1 pint vinegar : 
boil the peaches in water till tender, then put in 
vinegar and sugar, with a little whole allspice — i 
hour, or till done. — r. b. 

Pickled Plums.— 4 quarts plums, 1 pint 
vinegar, 1 lb. sugar : boil the vinegar, spices and 
sugar together, and then put in plums, and boil 
awhile longer. 



■' SALTINa MEATS. 

To Pickle Pork. — Take out all the ribs, and 
cut it in pieces of about 3 lbs. each ; pack it in a 
tight barrel, and salt it well with coarse salt ; boil 
a very strong pickle made of coarse salt, and when 
it is cold pour it over the meat, and put a weight 
on the top ; if you wish pork to keep, do not put 
saltpetre in, as it injures the flavour. — e. e. l. 

Pork pickle may be boiled over again and used. 
Keep a potato in it to test the strength. The 
*' Burlington Herring," so famous, are cured in 
this way. 

Beef. — To 100 lbs. beef take 6 gallons water, 
6 lbs. salt, 4 oz. saltpetre, \\ brown sugar : the 
beef to remain in 11 days, then hang to dry. 



DRIED LIVER — HAMS. 45 

Pour tliis brine over cold. Better dried beef than 
this makes, need not be. There is no real need of 
smoking dried beef; it is often inconvenient to do 
it, and smoke houses are not always near. 

Dried Liver. — Engage a butcher to bring a 
whole fresh liver, put it in a pickle made as above, 
let it be in about 2 weeks, hang to dry. It is to 
be frizzled like beef. 

Hams. — Take as much water as will cover your 
hams ; salt enough to bear an egg, so that the egg 
will show above the pickle as large as a shilling, 
1^ heaping table-spoonfuls for each ham, and mo- 
lasses enough to make it the colour of cider or of 
good molasses and water : let them lay in pickle 6 
weeks. Do not pack them too tight ; keep them 
well covered with pickle, and remove all scum. 
Take them out and hang to dry. When dry out- 
side commence smoking : a light mahogany colour 
is best, and bag before the flies come. Hickory 
or apple-tree chips are best for smoking. The 
above are superior to the mode of dry salting and 
rubbing, as practised by some ; also less trouble, 
and making a more juicy and highly flavoured 
ham. — s. p. N. 

The following is the method of curing Hams, 
which took the first Premium of the Maryland 
Agricultural Society, in 1854 : To each green 
ham of 18 lbs. 1 dessert-spoonful saltpetre, and ^ 
lb. brown sugar, applied to the fleshy side of the 
ham and about the hock : cover the fleshy side 
with fine salt, an inch thick, and pack away in tubs : 
to remain from 3 to 6 weeks, according to size. Be- 
fore smoking rub off any salt that may remain on 
the ham, and cover well with ground black pepper, 
particularly about the bone and hock. Hang up 



46 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

and drain for 2 weeks. Smoke with green wood 
8 weeks, or till the rind is a light chestnut colour. 
Pepper prevents the fly. I never bag hams. 



TEA RELISHES. 

Chicken Salad.— Take a pair of fowls : boil 
them (saving the water for soup next day) ; when 
entirely cold remove all the skin and fat, and dis- 
joint them ; cut the meat from the bones in very 
small pieces, not exceeding an inch ; wash and 
split 2 large heads of celery, and cut the white 
part into pieces an inch long, and having mixed 
the chicken and celery together, put them in a 
deep China dish, cover and set it away. Just be- 
fore the salad is to be eaten the dressing is to be 
put on, which is thus made: Take the yelks of 8 
hard-boiled eggs, put them into a flat dish, and 
mash them to a paste with the back of a spoon : 
add to the egg a tea-spoonful fine salt, do. cayenne 
pepper, ^ gill made mustard, 1^ wine-glass French 
vinegar, and 2 wine-glasses sweet oil ; then add 
the yelk of 1 raw egg, well beaten, or 1 table- 
spoonful cream ; mix all these ingredients tho- 
roughly, stirring them a long time, till quite 
smooth. After you pour it on the chicken and 
celery, mix the whole well together with a silver 
fork. — M. A. B. 

Clay's Chicken Salad. — To 2 pair large 
chickens 1^ bottles fresh sweet oil, 2^ table-spoon- 
fuls mustard ; begin by breaking the yelks of 3 raw 
eggs into a deep plate, add the mustard : mix it 
well round and round the dish : add about one 



TO STEW AND PICKLE OYSTERS, ETC. 4T 

tea-spoonful vinegar, then a very little oil at a 
time till all the oil is used : during all this time it 
must be long and well stirred, and always the same 
way. Have ready the yelks of 18 hard-boiled 
eggs, mix in very lightly into this about 1 tea-cup 
vinegar ; let this second dressing be lightly stirred 
into the former, a spoonful at a time, then season 
the chickens with pepper and salt, add the celery ; 
mix the dressing well through it, leaving enough 
to garnish the dish when served. The celery 
should be nicely cleaned, cut fine and put to soak 
in cold water till wanted, then turn on a cloth and 
wipe it quite dry. 

To Ste'W Oysters. — Strain the liquor and 
put it on the fire in a nice vessel to simmer. To 
the liquor of 100 oysters take ^ lb. butter and 2 
table-spoonfuls flour ; mash the flour into the but- 
ter till it is a smooth paste, then stir it into the 
liquor : season the whole with mace, salt and pep- 
per. When the liquor simmers put in the oysters, 
and when the thin end curls up take them off the 
fire : they are done. — a. m. m. 

To Pickle Oysters. — Take 150 oysters, put 
them in a nice vessel, with salt to your taste, over 
the fire. Allow the oysters to simmer, not boil : 
take them out and put them into a stone jar, leav- 
ing the liquor in the saucepan : add to it 1 pint 
good vinegar, a large tea-spoonful blades of mace, 
36 whole cloves, do. whole pepper. Let it come 
to a boil, and when the oysters are cold pour the 
liquor over them. 

Tongue, &e. — If the tongue is dry let it soak 
several hours before boiling it, slowly ; if just out 
of pickle the water should boil when it goes in. 
A tongue-presser (which costs 15 cents) soon 



48 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

saves itself in making the small end go farther, 
and causing no waste. 

Salsify or Vegetable Oyster. — Boil it till 
tender, then pour off the water, and add a little 
milk, salt, and butter. 

Another way. — Parboil it, scraping off the out- 
side, cut it in slices, dip it into beaten q^^ and fine 
bread-crumbs, and fry it in lard. 

Another. — Make a batter of wheat flour, 
milk, eggs, and a little salt. Cut the salsify in 
slices : after it is boiled tender put it in the batter, 
and drop this mixture into the hot fat by spoon- 
fuls. 

Sandi^v'iehes. — Spread nice butter over a loaf 
fresh bread, then cut it with a sharp knife very thin 
indeed ; cut a slice of ham or dried beef, put it in 
the middle, roll the bread over it, and send to the 
tea-table. These are delicate and convenient for 
lunch, or a pic-nic. 

Pickled Shad. — Clean them well and wipe 
them with a dry cloth, cut them in pieces of con- 
venient size for the tea-table : then add as much 
salt, whole pepper, allspice, cloves and mace as you 
choose : season it properly, sprinkle the spice be- 
tween each layer of shad in a new earthen or stone 
vessel, fill it up with vinegar ; if strong cider vinegar 
it should have one-third water, and then tightly close 
the jar with dough, put it in the oven of a baker 
after the bread has come out, at noon, and let it 
stand till 10 o'clock, at eve ; do not open it till 
cool through j bruise the spices, but not grind 
them. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES, ETC. 49 



CAKES. 

The cost of Cake is so much lessened by being 
home-made, that it is a saving of time to make 
such as will keep awhile, by the plentiful use of 
good butter and eggs. The richest cake costs 
never more than 13 cents per lb., even when made 
at a time when butter and eggs are dearest. Be- 
sides, it is pleasant to feel assured of one's own 
skill in the matter, as we are liable to be called 
upon to exercise it at times and in places where 
money cannot purchase so good an article. There 
are few fancy cakes given, because there is no 
economy in making these at home. 

Weights and Measures. — It is well to as- 
certain how much in weight certain cups and bowls 
hold, and keep them for that purpose. One quart 
sifted flour, or sifted loaf sugar, or softened butter, 
each weigh about 1 lb. A pint equals 8 ozs. ; -J pint 
4 oz. ; 1 gill 2 oz. A quart of brown sugar or of 
Indian meal, equals 12 oz. of the same. One large 
spoonful flour, loaf sugar or melted butter, equals 
^ oz. of the same, a little heaped ; 4 spoonfuls 1 
oz. A medium sized tea-spoon holds 60 drops of 
water; 10 eggs weigh 1 lb. 

Mountain Gingerbread. — 6 cups flour, 2 
do. butter, 2 do. sugar, 2 do. molasses, 4 eggs, 1 
tea-cup ginger, 1 tea-spoonful soda, 2 tartaric acid. 
This is a batter, and if baked in a Turk's Head or 
bread pan, keeps a long time, and is very nice. 

Ginger Nuts. — H lbs. flour, 1 pint molasses, 
-J lb. butter, -J oz. ginger, J oz. of cinnamon and 
5 



50 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

allspice mixed, 1 tea-spoonful ground cloves, ^ 
tea-spoonful soda, 1 cream of tartar. 

Hard Gingerbread. — 2 lbs. flour, i lb. but- 
ter, 1 pint molasses, j lb. sugar, 1 oz. ginger, i 
tea-spoonful soda, 1 tea-spoonful cream of tartar. 

Lady Cake. — k lb. butter, | sugar, whites of 
16 eggs, 40 drops essence of bitter almonds, ^ gill 
rose water, 3 lbs. flour. Mix as pound cake. 

Tea Biscuit. — IJ lbs. flour, | sugar, f lb. 
butter, 1 tea-spoonful caroway seed, dissolve I 
tea-spoonful soda into a scant s pint tepid milk. 
This makes a dough, which roll in thickish cakes, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Cinnamon Loaf. — Sift into a pan 1 lb. flour, 
put into i pint warm milk i lb. butter ; stir the 
milk and butter into the flour, a wine-glass of good 
yeast, and a little salt. Mix these well and set in 
a warm place to rise for an hour. Then add J lb. 
fine sugar, i a nutmeg, 1 large spoonful ground 
cinnamon, and one wine-glass rose water. Mix 
these well into the sponge, pour it into baking 
pans, and let it rise again i hour. 

Jumbles. — 1 lb. flour, | butter, | sugar, 
whites of 4 eggs well-beaten, rose water. Bake ^ 
an hour in a slow oven. 

Golden Cake. — k lb. flour, i lb. sugar, 6 oz. 
butter, yelks of t eggs, yellow of 1 lemon and 
juice. Beat butter and sugar together, and add 
yelks, lemon, flour, i tea-spoonful soda, 1 cream 
tartar. Bake in flat pans, and ice it while warm, 
if possible. 

Silver Cake. — i lb. flour, i lb. sugar, J lb. 
butter, whites of T eggs, a little almond or peach 



POOR man's cake, etc. 51 

water. Ice as above. These 2 cakes can be best 
made at the same time — are but little more trouble 
than one, and, cut in squares iu a silver cake basket, 
make a pretty appearance. 

Poor Man's Cake. — 2 cups flour, 1 cream, 
1 of sugar, 1 egg, 1 tea-spoonful soda, 2 cream 
tartar : the latter dry. 

Cocoanut Pound Cake. — 3 cups flour, 1 
do. butter, 2 do. sugar, whites of 6 eggs, J tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 cream tartar, 1 cup milk : grate 
1 small cocoanut, and put in two-thirds of it last. 

Prime Bread Cake. — 2 tea-cups risen dough, 
J tea-cup sugar, J do. butter, 2 eggs, a few rai- 
sins. Mix these, and add -J tea-spoonful soda and 
1 cream tartar. Rise awhile, after putting in 
Turk's Head. 

Buena Vista Buns. — i lb. white sugar, i- lb. 
butter, 4 eggs, f lb. flour, nutmeg to taste, J tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 cream tartar, currants or not, as 
convenient. 

Cocoanut Cakes. — Grate 1 cocoanut, mix 
the milk with it, sweeten to taste. Form into lit- 
tle balls, put on white paper, and stand in a warm 
place. 

Burlington Buns. — Rub i lb. sugar and 6 
oz. butter into 2 lbs. flour: add 1 gill baker's 
yeast and 1 pint of warmed milk. Let the dough 
be soft as possible to mould. Make this at 6 P. 
M. Let it rise in a warm place till 10, then mould 
it over. Next morning it will be light. Make 
into cakes and rise awhile. Bake 20 minutes. 

Philadelphia Buns. — 1 pint milk, 1 cup 
butter, 1 pint yeast, 3 cups sugar, 1 egg. Make 



62 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

a soft dough at night. Early in the morning add 
not quite i tea-spoonful soda, and 2 tea-spoon- 
fuls ammonia. Now put in a little more flour, 
mould it well, and return it to rise. When light, 
make into cakes, and let them stand 2 hour. Bake 
them. 

N. B. — Either of these two receipts, faithfully- 
followed, will make Buns which cannot be excelled. 

Sponge Cake. — 6 eggs, same weight sugar, 
^ weight of flour, i a lemon squeezed in, the 
whole of the lemon-skin grated. Beat the yellow 
to a froth, then add the sugar : when well-beaten 
add the white, (which must be very light,) then 
put in the juice, then grating, last flour, a tea- 
spoonfal of salt. 

Another way. — 5 eggs, -J lb. sugar, 6 oz. flour, 
(leaving out 2 table-spoonfuls.) Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a froth : add the sugar and unbeaten 
yelks alternately, leaving out 1 yelk : add flour last. 

Coeoanut Jumbles. — Grate 1 large cocoanut ; 
rub ^ lb. butter with 1 lb. sifted flour, and wet it 
with 3 eggs, beaten, and a little rose water ; add 
by degrees the nut, so as to make a stiff dough : 
bake in a quick oven from 5 to 10 minutes. 

Grafton Cake. — 1 pint flour, 5 pint sugar, 
1 table-spoonful butter, 2 tea-spoonfuls cream 
tartar, 1 soda, 1 ^^^. Make a batter of milk 
mixed, until quite thin. This is the best cake for 
the materials used in the whole collection. 

Albany Cake. — Cream, 1 lb. sugar, and J lb. 
butter : take 3 eggs well-beaten, 1 tea-spoonful 
soda, do. cream tartar; add IJ lbs. sifted flour. 
This is a dough. 

Pound Cake. — 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. butter, 10 



POUND CAKE CUP CAKE, ETC. 53 

eggs, 1 nutmeg, grated, IJ flour, 1 wine-glass rose- 
water ; cream the butter and sugar, (I put the 
butter and sugar into a stove-oven till it becomes 
a little melted,) beat It some and add, by de- 
grees, the ingredients named, — 1st the yelks, well 
beaten, nutmeg, rose-water, whites, lastly flour. 
Make this now very smooth, put in -J tea-spoonful 
soda, and 1 do. cream tartar ; the latter dry, 

I always bake such cake in a " Turk's turban," 
to secure lightness. 

Baking is a nice point. The oven must be 
warm, and getting warmer, not hot to be cooled. If 
the latter, it is sure t'o be heavy, the cake browning 
rapidly prevents the inner part rising. 

Cup Cake. — Cream, -J cup butter and 4 cups 
sugar together ; stir in 5 well-beaten eggs ; dis- 
solve 1 tea-spoonful soda in a cup of milk or 
cream ; nutmeg, 6 cups flour, a tea-spoonful cream 
tartar, dry. 

Black Cake. — 1 lb. butter, 1 do. sugar, beaten 
to a cream ; stir in 12 eggs beaten well ; sift in 1 
lb. flour, add 3 lbs. stoned raisins, 3 do. cleaned 
currants, 5 nutmegs, -J oz. cinnamon, 1 tea-spoon- 
ful cloves, 1 lb. citron cut in small thin slices ; 
these must be well mixed ; baked in a moderate 
oven. This improves by keeping. 

Queen Cake. — 1 lb. flour, I sugar, ^ do. but- 
ter, 4 eggs, nutmeg, ^ tea-spoonful soda, 1 do. 
cream tartar. Bake in small tins. 

Crullers. — ^^ lbs. flour, rub in a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, beat 3 eggs to a froth, and 
add 1 lb. sugar, nutmeg, 1 tea-spoonful soda dis- 
solved in milk, do. cream tartar. This makes a 
dough which is to be formed into twists, and fried 
5* 



54 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

in goose-drippings. These are cheap and ex- 
cellent. 

1, 2, 3, 4 Cake. — 1 cup butter, 2 sugar, 3 flour, 
4 eggs, nutmeg, 1 tea-spoonful soda, 2 cream tartar. 

Kisses. — Take the whites of 4 eggs, beat them 
very lightly, and mix with them enough sifted 
sugar to make them very stiff ; then drop on paper 
half the size you want them, and put them in a 
slow oven 20 minutes. Take them off the paper 
with a knife, and put 2 together. 4 eggs make a 
cake-basket full. 

Jelly Cake.-^Make a batter as for pound cake ; 
bake it in cakes on a griddle, and while warm 
spread jelly between each layer. Trim with a 
knife. 

A Good Cake "without Eggs. — 1 cup su- 
gar, 1 butter, nutmeg, 1 cup milk, 2 oz. currants 
(or not), 1 tea-spoonful dry cream tartar, ^ do. 
soda dissolved in milk, flour enough to make a 
batter. 

Scotch Cake. — 1 lb. brown sugar, 1 do. 
flour, J lb. butter, 2 eggs, cinnamon. Koll very 
thin to bake. 

Doughnuts.' — li pints milk, | lb. sugar, i lb. 
butter, and 1 nutmeg ; make a sponge of these 
over night. Fry in lard. They are as good as 
possible. 

Extempore Doughnuts. — 1 tea-spoonful of 
soda, 2 cream tartar, 2 cups sugar, 1 pint milk, 5 
nutmeg, flour enough to make a soft dough. 

Loaf Cake. — 3 lbs, flour, 1 J sugar, IJ butter, 
4 eggs, 1 pint milk, 2 lbs. fruit j raise with yeast 



GOpDFELLOW's SPANISH BUNS, ETC. 55 

Another without eggs. — 3 lbs. flour, 1 J butter, 1^ 
sugar, IJ lbs. raisins, 1 nutmeg, 1 table-spoonful 
cinnamon, J pint yeast, 1 pint milk. Put the milk, 
butter, and yeast into the flour, and let it rise. 

Groodfellow's Spanish Buns. — (Original 
Receipt.) — | lb. flour, 6 oz. butter, cut up tine in 
it; 4 eggs beaten well, 1 tea-spoonful of mixed 
nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon, 3 wine-glasses baker's 
or brewer's yeast, 3 wine-glasses milk ; mix it with 
a knife ; add the sugar. Place it in the tins, and 
let it rise 2 or 3 hours ; then sprinkle 2 oz. cleaned 
currants over the batter, pressing them lightly 
below the surface. Bake in a slow oven ; when 
done, ice, or sprinkle sugar over, and cut in 
squares. 

Icing. — This elegant finish, is made by beating 
the whites of 2 eggs to a very stiff froth, and add- 
ing, little by little, fine pulverised sugar, till quite 
thick. Flavour with essence of Yanilla, or a mite 
of cream tartar. Lay it on with a broad knife, 
and smooth with another knife dipped in water. 
Set it in a cool oven with the door open, to dry. 
I prefer on the hearth under the oven. If you 
wish figures or flowers, make up 3 eggs, reserving 
a third till the cake has become dried after icing, 
then insert a clean new glass syringe into the 
remainder, and direct it as you choose over the 
iced cake. Dry again. It is said that ripe fruit 
may be laid on the icing when about half dry, 
with a very pretty effect, such as strawberries, &c. 

Save a little icing out, dilute with rose-water, 
and put on when that first done is dry ; makes it 
smooth and glossy. This is more trouble, however. 



56 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 



ELAYOURS. 

Peach Kernels. — Crack the stones, take out 
and scald the kernel to take ofif the skin ; put 
them into wine for use. 

Rose Flavour. — Put rose leaves into wine 
for use. 



PASTRY 



The proper making and baking of paste is a very 
lady-like accomplishment, and is often found an 
indispensable one. There is a mistaken notion 
that rich crust is not only indigestible, but costly. 
If the following directions are adhered to, the re- 
verse will be found the fact. 

Paste for Shells and Puddings. — Take 1 
lb. flour, cooled and sifted, and 1 lb. butter : use 
no salt ; make the flour into a stiff paste with very 
cold water, mixing it with a strong spoon : throw 
it out on the pie-board and roll very thin : cut the 
butter [which must be very cold] into small pieces 
and lay half of them on the paste : flatten each 
down by a quick pressure of the hand, dredge very 
much flour lightly over the whole surface, fold to- 
gether lengthwise and crosswise, into a small lump : 
roll out again thinly, lay on the rest of the butter 
in the same way, sprinkle again with flour, fold 
together, and roll as thin as possible : dredge 
again, fold together, and roll into a wafer-like 
sheet, which, having dredged, fold lightly into a 
roll about 3 inches wide ; cut the whole of this 



A PLAIN CRUST OYSTER PIE, ETC. 51 

into squares, flatten each square with the rolling- 
pin, and cut out with a shell-cutter; having pre- 
pared 2 of these, take, with a small round cutter, 
a piece from the centre of one, and put it upper- 
most in a tin which will hold several. Bake 15 
minutes in a very quick oven : watch them care- 
fully, as much depends on baking. When properly 
made, these will rise to the height of 2 or 3 inches. 
The above quantity makes 12 shells, 5 inches in 
diameter. 

A Plain Crust. — 1 bowl lard, 1 do. waiter 
(scant), 3 do. flour : mix all well together, and roll 
out, using "patent flour" (if convenient). In 
the preparation of puddings baked in crust, the 
under part of the crust can be made by the plainer 
method, and |- lb. of the richer used as an edge. 

Oyster Pie. — 50 oysters : strain the liquor: line 
a dish with paste, take 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped 
fine, 2 oz. butter : mix these with 1 slice dry 
bread crumbled fine ; add pepper, salt and nutmeg 
to your taste ; then to each layer of oysters 
sprinkle some of the mixture ; it is best to reserve 
some of the oyster juice for gravy, which thicken 
and serve in a boat. Cover it with paste and 
bake. 

Chicken Pie. — Cut up a chicken, and if old 
boil 15 minutes in water, which save, to put in the 
pie : make paste and put in the dish, cutting out 
the middle lay in the chicken, dust flour over and 
put in butter, pepper, and salt; cover them with the 
water, roll out the top crust quite thick, and close 
the pie round the edge : make an opening in the 
middle with a knife ; let it bake an hour. If 
warmed over next day, pour off the gravy and 
warm separately ; add it to the pie to serve. 



58 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Pot Pie. — Cut up 1 large cliicken, grease a 
dinner pot with lard : roll out crust enough, [of 
"plain crust,"] to line it, cutting out the bottom. 
As you put in the pieces of chicken, strew in 
flour, salt, and pepper, a few pieces of the crust 
rolled thin, and a few potatoes : cover this with 
water, and put on it a covering of paste, with a 
slit in the middle. Let this cook slowly 2 hours ; 
have hot water at hand, to add in case it be too 
dry. Yeal, lamb, &c., may be made thus. Also, 
peach or apple pot pie. 

Vol Au Vent. — Make up -J- lb. flour into 
paste, roll out one-third of it oval shape. Take 
one of your dish covers and cut out two, leaving 
the bottom crust whole, but cutting the middle 
out of the second ; lay them on a tin : cut out a 
third one, making a distinct line with a cover 
of smaller oval. Put it in a quick oven, a light 
brown : take out with a knife this inner circle, fill 
in the centre with stewed oysters, fricasseed chicken 
or minced veal, hot. It is well to put in a napkin, 
to bake. 

Mince Pies. — 1 lb. finely-chopped roast beef, 
•| lb. suet do., ^ peck apples do., 1 lb. raisins, ^ 
lb. cleaned currants, 1 nutmeg, 2 table-spoonfuls 
ground cinnamon, 1 do. ground cloves, the juice 
of 2 lemons and rinds grated, mace, 1 lb. sugar, 
sweet cider to moisten it. Let this stand mixed, 
all night : when using, put in 2 oz. citron, cut in 
very thin strips. 

Apple Pie. — Pare, core and wash ^ peck 
apples. Put them in 4 pie plates with a little 
water. Make a crust, and cover them. While 
hot from the oven put in sugar, a small piece of 



PIE-PLANT PIE, ETC. 59 

butter, cream, or the yellow of an egg, stirred in. 
Turn out into a China plate. 

Pie-Plant Pie. — Cut it up, skinning the 
stronger stalks, and strewing sugar over before 
the crust is put on. A little water. All juicy 
fruit like currants prepare in this way also. One 
lemon to 4 pies, grated all in, is good. 



PUDDINGS, &c. 

Apple Puddings, in crust. — Ij pint stewed 
apples, 1 tea-cup rich cream, ^ lb. butter, 4 eggs, 
nutmeg, grated lemon skin, sugar to taste. Put 
in the butter while the apples are hot, the re- 
mainder when cool. Dried apples will do. 

Pumpkin Puddings. — 1 pint stewed pump- 
kin, [it comes now powdered,] 1 quart milk, 4 or 
6 eggs, J lb. butter, sugar and mace, nutmeg and 
grated lemon peel, or ginger, or other spice. 

Potato Puddings. — J peck white ones, boiled. 
Beat them up : add j butter, 1 pint cream, grate 
3 lemons, all across, [take out seeds,] 8 eggs, 1 
tea-spoonful soda. 

Green Corn Pudding. — Grease a deep earth- 
en baking dish with butter : grate with a coarse 
grater 2 dozen ears of corn, selecting such as are 
of equal ripeness : add tea-spoonful salt, table- 
spoonfal white sugar, a quart of milk, and lastly, 
2 eggs well-beaten : lay a piece of butter rather 
larger than an egg on top of all, put it into a 
slow oven, bake 4 hours ; if the oven is too quick 
it will make the pudding curdle; when done it 
should be nicely brown all over, and the consis- 



60 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

tency of warm mush : good for tea or dinner : may 
be eaten with sugar, but a little butter is better. 

Another way. — Grate corn from 12 ears of young 
corn : add -J- gill milk, 1 table-spoonful white su- 
gar, 1 Qgg beaten. Mix all, and bake IJ hours. 

Flemish Pudding. — 1 pint milk, 4 eggs, ^ 
pint flour, salt : boil -J an hour. 

Save- all Pudding. — Weigh out of your crock 
of dry bread ^ lb. bread : put it on the stove with 
1 pint milk to soften : let it remain 3 hours, then 
beat it up fine : cool awhile, and add 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, 2 do. Zante currants, 2 eggs 
beaten : pare, core and cut 2 apples and add : but- 
ter a "Turk's turban" and put it in : sprinkle 2 
table-spoonfuls chopped suet on the top, and bake 
J hour. Eat with butter and a little sugar 

Cocoanut Puddings. — Grate the nuts, sav- 
ing all the milk : to a pound of cocoanut add \ lb. 
butter, and f lb. sugar; let the butter and sugar 
be mixed ; the whites of 9 eggs [or the whole of 4] 
beaten well, 6 crackers, or same of dry bread 
rolled fine, wet with 1 wine-glass rose water, and 
all the milk of nuts : 3 nuts make 12 small pud- 
dings, or 1 1 lbs. of the grated nuts. 

Cocoanut Custard. — 1 nut grated into 1 
pint milk, 3 eggs, sugar to taste, butter as large 
as a walnut, the outside of a lemon and nutmeg. 

Soda Cracker Pudding. — 4 soda crackers 
soaked in 3 tea-cups water, 2 lemons grated in, 
and 2 tea-cups sugar. These taste like apple pie. 

Apple Custard. — Pare tart apples, core 
them with an an apple corer, put them in a deep 
dish with a small piece of butter, and 1 tea-spoon- 



APPLE MERINGUE RICE PUDDING, ETC. 61 

ful sugar in the opening of each apple. Pour in 
water enough to cook them : when soft, cool them, 
and pour over an unbaked custard so as to cover 
them, and bake till custard is done. 

Apple Meringue. — Pare, core and stew 10 
tart apples, in a very little water : season as for a 
pie, and put it in a fruit pie dish, into a cool oven. 
Beat up, meanwhile, the whites of 4 eggs as you 
would for icing : piling it on the apple like rocks, 
or irregular, avoiding the edge of dish. Keturn 
it to a warm oven, and brown macaroni colour. 
Slip all out carefully, by aid of knife or' spoon, 
into a China dish, and serve with cream, which if 
you have not, make a custard of the yellows, fla- 
voured with essence of Yanilla, &c. 

Custard may be used instead of apple ; it may 
be a soft one, and in cups. 

Rice Pudding. — Wash 3 heaping table-spoon- 
fuls rice : put it into 1 quart milk, a pinch of salt, 
white sugar to taste, a little nutmeg and butter. 
Put it in the oven directly after breakfast, in a 
warmish oven : let it simmer, and when a brown 
skin begins to form stir it in. Do this 3 times. 
You will thus have a creamy pudding. Raisins 
or not. 

Macaroon Pudding. — Boil 1 quart milk, dis- 
solve the weight of 4 cents' worth Russian isin- 
glass in as little water as possible : add it to the 
boiling milk. Roll 12 macaroons, (chocolate if 
you choose,) to a fine powder : stir it in the milk, 
and pour it into a mould. Eat cold, with cream. 

— E. W. T. 

Iced Apples.' — Pare, core, and spice 10 apples 
of a large tart kind. Bake them till nearly done. 
6 



62 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Put them away to get entirely cold : then prepare 
some icing as for Apple Meringue, and, first pour- 
ing off all the juice, lay the icing thickly on the tops 
and sides as much as you can. Return them to the 
oven to just harden and be set. Serve with cream. 
This is very beautiful, either for dessert or an 
evening. 

Apple Tapioca.' — Core some tart apples : 
fill up the opening with butter and sugar, strew 
some sugar around them. Put 1 dessert-spoonful 
dry Tapioca on each apple. Put water around, 
nearly up to the top of apples : bake, and serve 
as the above. 

Apple Float. — Prepare 12 tart apples as for 
sauce : when cold, add 2 whites of eggs, beaten : 
then beat the whole till quite stiff. Have made 
previously a soft custard, with the 2 yelks. Put 
the apple on the custard. 

Adelaide's Pudding. — Pare and core, and 
fill up with nutmeg, sugar and butter, 6 apples. 
Make a batter of 1 egg, patent flour, ^ pint milk, 
and pour round. A little salt in batter. [These 
varieties of apple dessert are healthful, cheap, ea- 
sily made, and excellent.] 

Cup Batter Pudding. — 6 eggs, 6 table- 
spoonfuls flour, 1 pint milk, 1 tea-spoonful salt. 
Beat the yelks apart well, and mix them with the 
flour : then add the milk. Lastly, whip the white 
stiff, mix and bake at once, -J- hour. 

Boiled Batter Pudding. — 6 eggs, 1 quart 
milk, 12 table-spoonfuls sifted flour, (or more, if 
preferred,) 1 tea-spoon salt. Mix as other batter ; 
have water boiling. Dip your bag into the hot 
water ; take it out, and sift flour inside. Pour in 



BREAD PUDDING FRITTERS, ETC. 63 

the batter and tie it tightly, leaving room for the 
pudding to swell. Put it in now and boil IJ 
hours. To be eaten hot with sauce No. 1 or 4. 
A pound of currants, or any fruit preferred : boil 
awhile longer for them, and turn over frequently, 
or the fruit will settle to one side. 

A Bread Pudding. — 1 quart milk, 4 eggs, ^ 
lb. dried currants, a few slices stale bread, 1 tea- 
spoon salt. Bake in a quick oven ^ hour. Eat it 
with sauce l^o. 2 or 4. Another way is to put 
alternate slices of apple and bread, and bake. 

Fritters, "with Yeast. — Make a batter of 1 
pint milk, and as much flour as will form it, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, and 5 table-spoons yeast. Put 
this in a warm place 3 hours. Just before dinner 
beat up 1 egg well, and add. These fritters are 
quite wholesome, being light, and do not absorb 
much lard. Boil them in lard. 

Delightful Pudding. — 1 quart boiled milk, ^ 
lb. mashed potatoes, J lb. flour, a small piece butter, 
and when cold add 3 eggs, beaten. Bake ^ hour. 
Eat with sauce No. 2. 

Cottage Pudding. — 1 pint flour, ^ pint su- 
gar, 1 lb. butter, 2 eggs, -J pint milk, 2 tea-spoon- 
fuls cream tartar, 1 do. soda, a few currants or 
stoned raisins. Bake J hour in a Turk's turban. 
This is very good to put on at tea as a cake, if 
left at dinner. Sauce No. 2. 

Stale Bread Fritters. — Make as the above- 
named fritters, substituting bread for flour. These 
are more tender. 

Cold Custard. — To 1 quart milk, (sweetened 
with white sugar to taste,) add 3 table-spoonfuls 



64 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

wine, in which rennet has been placed. Ponr it 
immediately into custard caps, and let it stand in 
a cool place several hours before dinner. Grate a 
little nutmeg over each, and eaten with cream, 
you have a dessert often more acceptable than a 
more elaborate and costly one. Put 1 calf's rennet, 
cut in strips, into 1 quart wine : let it remain a 
week, and use as directed. n 

Custard Pudding. — Beat the yelks of 4 eggs 
smooth, adding, (little by little,) 1 quart milk, 
scant. Sweeten to taste: a pinch of salt, slice 
stale bread very thin, spread butter over it, then 
nutmeg, and lay on the top. Bake till custard is 
thick. [Salt enriches any kind of custard or bat- 
ter: put in 1 tea-spoonful to 2 quarts.] 

Trifle. — Break rusk or sponge cake into a 
dish, pour a boiled custard over it, and put a sylla- 
bub over that. Garnished with jelly and flowers, 
this makes a handsome dessert. 

Syllabub. — Make 1 quart rich cream very 
sweet, grate i nutmeg over it, put it into a China 
bowl, and milk a cow into it, that it may be very 
frothy. 

Floating Island. — Take the whites of 3 eggs, 
beat them to a froth : put 4 spoonfuls any kind of 
jelly, or roast apple ; beat them together till it 
becomes a substance that will heap on a spoon. 
Meanwhile, have made a boiled custard of H 
pint milk to the 3 unused yelks. Put the island 
on, and pile up like rocks. 

AnotJie?^ Way. — The whites of 8 eggs in a deep 
earthen bowl : add a small tea-cupful of currant 
jelly, beaten altogether until it forms a stiff froth 
in a cold place ; (the eggs should be at least 2 



bird's nest pudding, etc. 65 

days old, and very cold.) Pour cream into a glass 
bowl, and drop the island from a large spoon on 
to the surface of the cream. 

Bird's Nest Pudding. — Make the founda- 
tion of the nest of blancmange, or calf's foot 
jelly, or prepared corn : rasp the skin of 3 lemons 
and preserve it; then lay it round and on the 
mange like the straw : take out the contents of 4 
eggs through a small hole, and fill the shell with 
hot blancmange, or prepared corn ; when cold, 
break off the shells and lay mange in the nest. A 
beautiful dessert. 

Delicious Apple Pudding. — Yery conve- 
nient, as it may be made several hours before it is 
baked, or when a nice addition is wanted unex- 
pectedly. Pare and chop fine i a dozen or more, 
according to their size, of the best cooking apples ; 
grease a pudding dish, cover the bottom and sides 
I an inch thick with grated bread, and very small 
lumps of butter : then put a layer of apples with 
sugar and nutmeg, and repeat the layer, which 
must be of bread and butter : pour over the whole 
a tea-cup of cold water. Put into the oven as 
soon as the dinner is served, and bake it 25 or 30 
minutes. It may be baked the day before it is 
wanted : when it must be heated thoroughly, 
turned into a shallow dish, and sprinkled with 
powdered sugar. It requires no sauce. — American 
Agriculturalist. 

V 

Tapioca Pudding. — 2 oz. to 1 pint milk, 
softened in the oven, and when nearly cold add 3 
eggs, and a little butter and sugar. Bake or boil 
1 hour 

Baked Indian Pudding. — Cut up i lb. but- 
6* 



1^8 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

ter in 1 pint molasses, warm them till melted. 
Boil 1 quart milk, and pour over a pint corn meal, 
and stir in the molasses gradually : when cold, 
beat 6 eggs and stir them in : add the peel of a 
lemon, grated, or other spice : stir very hard, pour 
into a buttered dish, and bake 2 hours.. — j. g. 

lee Cream. — To 1 gallon cream 2J lbs. white 
sugar, 4 Yanilla beans. For freezing this quan-- 
tity, pound 5 lbs. ice, mixed with 2 lbs. coarse salt. 

The new " Cylinder Freezer" makes it in 10 
minutes, and may be had at Murphy & Yarnall's, 
262 Chestnut street. The above receipt is from 
B. H. Fassell, of whom it is better for Philadel- 
phians to order it, as he makes a very good, rich 
cream, at 31 cents, plain, and 31 cents in moulds, 
at corner Race and Jacoby, above Twelfth street. 

Snow Cream. — Take the richest cream you 
can procure, season it with a few drops of essence 
of lemon, or syrup of lemon peal, and powdered 
white sugar, and if you choose a spoonful of pre- 
serve syrup, and just as you send it to table, stir 
in light newly-fallen snow till it is nearly as stiff 
as ice cream. 

Carrageen or Irish Moss Blancmange. — 

Wash in 3 waters i an ounce of Carrageen moss ; 
drain and put it in 2 quarts of new milk, let it 
boil for a few minutes, strain it in a pitcher, wet 
the moulds, and pour it in while hot ; let it stand 
till it becomes thick, when it may be eaten with 
sugar and cream, seasoned with peach or rose water, 
or with a lemon rolled in the sugar. Some prefer 
seasoning the blancmange before putting it in the 
moulds. It will keep in a cool place 2 days, and 
is better to be made the day before it is eaten. 



SNOW FRITTERS— EICE FLUMMERY, ETC. 6Y 

Snow Fritters. — Take of light new-fallen 
snow, 3 table-spoonfuls for every egg you would 
otherwise use — that is, if you would wish the quan- 
tity that 3 eggs would make in the usual way, take 
9 table-spoonfuls of snow, and stir in a quart of 
rich milk that has been setting in a very cold place, 
so that it will not melt the snow, and destroy its 
lightness ; put in a tea-spoonful of salt, and enough 
wheat flour to make a stiff batter ; have ready a 
frying-pan with boiling lard, and drop a spoon- 
ful in a place, as with other fritters, and set the 
remainder in a cold place till the first are done. 
Eat them with wine sauce, or sugar, butter and 
cream, or any thing you fancy. 

Rice Flummery. — Rice that is ground 
coarse, in a hand-mill, is much better for making 
flummery than the flour you buy ; put 3 pints of 
milk to boil, mix with water 2 tea-cups of ground 
rice, and stir it in the milk when it boils ; while 
the milk is cold, put in it 2 dozen peach kernels, 
blanched, and rolled with a bottle ; wet your 
moulds with cold cream or water ; keep stirring 
the rice till it is thick, when pour it out in the 
moulds ; just before dinner turn them out on 
dishes, have cream, sugar and nutmeg mixed, to 
eat with it. 

Whipped Cream. — Take 1 pint rich cream, 
1 tea-cup sifted sugar, essence of lemon or the 
grated rind, to taste ; put this into a large pitcher, 
churn it with a whipped-cream churn, (which you 
may get at a tinman's for 25 cents,) until all of it 
comes to a froth : then place it with a spoon upon 
any mould dessert. This is very delicate and 
pretty, and will double the cream used. — a. p. 



68 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Sauces. No. 1. — Mix 1 tea-spoonful flour in 
1 tea-cup water, with 2 spoonfuls sugar and 1 but- 
ter : stir this in i pint boiling water, let it boil a 
few minutes ; when add 1 glass wine and nutmeg. 

"No. 2. — Beat equal quantities of butter and 
white sugar to a cream, grate nutmeg into it. 
Beat all well together, and put to harden before 
serving it. 

No. 3. — Melt molasses, butter and vinegar to- 
gether. 

No. 4, Cream Sauce. — Boil i pint cream, 
thicken it very little, put in a lump of butter : 
sweeten to taste, and when cold add 1 glass wine, 
or a lemon rind and juice. 



JELLIES. 



Calf |s Foot Jelly.— Clean 6 feet : put them 
on to boil in 21 quarts water and J tea-spoonful salt : 
boil down one-half, strain it, and when cold scrape 
off all the fat, using a piece of silk paper last. Put 
it into a porcelain kettle, add sugar and wine to 
the taste, the rind of 2 lemons and juice, the 
whites of 4 eggs and shells : let it boil hard 20 
minutes, without stirring ; strain it through a 
flannel bag into moulds. It is more likely to turn 
out perfectly if made the day before used. 

Tapioca Jelly. — Soak 3 table-spoonfuls pearl 
Tapioca in 1 quart water, several hours : put it in 
a saucepan with the same water, and let it boil 
slowly till clear and thick. Season with wine or 
lemon, and white sugar. Turn out in moulds. 



GELATINE JELLY — CURRANT JELLY, ETC. 69 

G-elatine Jelly. — Take 3 oz. Gelatine, 2 
quarts water, 1 pint wine, (or lemon juice enough 
to flavour,) l^ white sugar, whites of 3 eggs and 
shells ; boil 20 minutes, and pour as above. 

Currant Jelly. — 4 quarts ripe currants mashed 
in both hands, till nearly all are broken ; squeeze 
out the stems and remove them. Put the pulp 
into a strong bag and squeeze very tightly, and 
there will be nearly 3 pints juice. Put 3 lbs. white 
sugar to this, and boil ^ hour. 

Apple Jelly. — Slice whole apples, (cores, 
parings and all,) cook them with just water enough 
to cover them, till reduced to a soft pulp. Take the 
rind and juice of 4 lemons ; strain this pulp, (not 
squeezing much or going over it twice,) add the 
lemons, measure pint for lb. white sugar ; let it 
boil -J hour, and turn into forms, Quince &c., 
the same way. 

Rice Jelly. — Boil i lb. whole rice with J lb. 
loaf sugar, in 1 quart water, till it becomes a glu- 
tinous mass. Strain off the jelly and let it cool, 
in moulds. 

Quince Jelly. — ^Wash and wipe the quinces ; 
cut them in small pieces, and take out the seeds 
carefully ; have your kettle cleaned and half full 
of water; throw the quinces and seeds in till you 
get it full ; cover them over, and let them boil till 
very soft ; mash them well and strain them ; to 
every pint of juice put a pound of sugar ; clean 
the kettle again, pour in the juice and sugar, and 
let it boil till it forms a jelly ; it should be put 
into tea-cups, if you want it to turn out whole, 
with brandy papers on the top, and pasted over. 
It is a nice jelly to use with whips or trifle. 



YO THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Molasses Candy or Taffy. — Put a quart of 
good molasses (not sugar-house) in a Dutch oven or 
iron pot, having previously greased it with butter ; 
let it boil very fast, stirring it all the time for 15 
minutes ; then put in a tea-cup of sugar and let it 
boil 15 minutes longer, stirring all the time ; take 
a little out on a plate, and when it is brittle, pour 
it while hot into tin plates rubbed with butter ; 
put it in a cold place and break it up when you 
want it for use ; never put taffy in China or earth- 
en plates, as they would probably be broken in 
taking it out. Some think it an improvement to 
add the kernels of black walnuts, nicely picked ; 
put them in just as you take up the taffy and give 
it one stir ; a tea- cup of kernels to a pint of mo- 
lasses is a good proportion. 
/ 



PRESERVES. 

These are costly affairs in every way : not done 
without fatigue, time and patience — to say nothing 
of their unwholesomeness for some. We give a 
few. 

Cocoanut Preserved. — Grate 1 nut, save 
the milk and put in ; sweeten to taste with pow- 
dered loaf, and cook ^ hour, stirring all the time 
to prevent burning. This is very pretty for puffs, 
but sickish. 

Preserved Pine Apple. — Take lb. for lb. 
of sugar ; boil the slices in water a few at a time, 
till clear. Then make a syrup with the water, 
and cook the apples 15 minutes in it. If the 
syrup is not slightly thick, boil it longer. 

Grated Pine Apple. — Grate the apples 
whole, and take lb. for lb. ; boil 20 minutes, stir- 
ring often. 

Common Cherries. — Stone the light-coloured 
common cherries, and to every pound of fruit allow 
a pound of sugar, which boil up with the juice ; 
after you have skimmed it throw in the cherries, 
and let them boil till the syrup is rich. 

Cherries for common use. — Stone 12 lbs. 
of good cherries; allow i lb. of brown sugar to 
each pound of fruit, after it is stoned ; let them 
cook slowly for 2 hours ; examine them through 
the summer, and if they show any signs of fermen- 
tation set them in a brick oven, after the bread is 

(U) 



T2 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

done, or in a Dutcli oven of hot water, which keep 
at boiling heat for an hour. 

It is a good plan to know the weight of your 
preserving kettle, as you can then weigh the fruit 
in it, with a pair of steelyards. — lea. 

Gooseberries. — Take the large gooseberries, 
pick off the stems and blossoms, give them their 
weight in sugar ; put them in the kettle alternately, 
with the sugar, and pour over them a pint of water 
to 4 lbs. of /ruit ; let them boil gently till the 
scum arises ; when this is taken off, let them cook 
faster ; when clear, take them up on dishes, and 
boil the syrup longer. 

Peaches. — Have sweet, white clingstone peach- 
es, pare and stone them ; to each lb. take a pound 
of sugar made in a syrup, put the peaches in, 
and when they look clear take them up on dishes ; 
let the syrup boil longer. 

Quinces. — Pick out the finest quinces, pare 
them, and cut them in halves, or in rings ; take 
the best of the parings and the seed, and boil them 
in water till they are very soft ; strain the liquor, 
and have the kettle cleaned again ; wash and weigh 
the quinces, and give them their weight in sugar ; 
put the sugar in the water the parings were boiled 
in ; skim it, and put in the quinces ; let them boil 
very slowly till clear ; take them up on dishes, and 
boil the syrup longer. 

Citron Melon. — Cut it in pieces the size you 
wish, take out the soft centre and seeds, pare off 
the green rind, then throw the pieces in cold water 
and let them stand all night. Next day boil them, 
in water enough to cover them, for 20 minutes, 
adding alum the size of a walnut to each quart 



LIMES PEACHES WITHOUT COOKING, ETC. tS 

of water, to green them ; | sugar to 1 lb. fruit, 
slice some lemons, and put in also essence of gin- 
ger to taste. Boil till clear. — a. p. 

Limes. — Green limes are found in our stores 
but for about 6 weeks in the middle of summer. 
Purchase them by the 100 ; put them in salt and 
water strong enough to bear an egg, (closely cov- 
ered,) till the warm weather is over. Make an 
incision, take out all the seeds, and put them in 
cold water 24 hours, changing the water several 
times : then boil them in soda water till tender 
enough to put a straw through — say 1 tea-spoon- 
ful soda to 6 quarts water. Put them again in 
cold water for 24 hours, changing the water several 
times. To each pound limes 2 J lbs. white sugar, 
and 3 pints water. Boil the syrup 15 minutes, 
then put in the limes ; boil them 5 minutes. They 
are then clear. Let syrup boil i hour, and they 
are all done — 100 limes make about 2 lbs. weight. 
These are delicious, and will keep always. 

Peaches "without Cooking. — To 4 lbs. fruit 
add 1 lb. sugar ; place the sugar and peaches in 
a kettle over the fire, long enough to melt the su- 
gar without cooking the fruit. Then remove them 
from the kettle, place them in Arthur's jars, and 
put them in a pot, (of warm water, if glass ; hot, 
if tin,) letting the water boil several minutes. — 

M. L. N. 

Damsons. — ^Weigh out as much sugar as you 
have fruit ; if it is brown you must clarify it ; put 
a pint of water to 3 lbs. of sugar, make a syrup, 
wash the damsons, put them in and let them cook 
slowly for ^ an hour; then take them out on 
dishes, and let them dry in the sun for 2 days, tak- 
ing them in the house at night j boil the syrup i 
1 



tJr THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

an hour after the fruit is taken out ; when done in> 
this way they will be whole and clear. You can 
make a jam by boiling them slowly for 2 hours ; 
or a jelly, as currants. 

Quince Marmalade. — Pare the quinces and 
cut them up fine ; put the parings and cores to 
boil ; then strain them ; put in the quinces, and 
let them boil till soft ; when mash them fine, and 
put in J lb. of sugar to a lb. fruit ; let them cook 
gently for 2 hours, and take them up in pint bowls ; 
when cold, put brandy papers on the top of each, 
and paste them over ; they will turn out whole to 
put on table. 

Marmalade of Mixed Fruits. — Pare equal 

quantities of peaches, apples, pears and quinces ; 
cut them fine, and put them to boil with a pint 
of water to 6 lbs. of fruit ; let them cook tho- 
roughly, but do not let them burn ; take them out 
and mash them well ; clean the kettle, and put 
them back, with half their weight in sugar; let 
them cook very slowly for 2 hours. 

To Conserve Peaches. — Take the yellow 
peaches, pare them, and cut them from the stone 
in one piece ; to 6 lbs. of peaches have 2 lbs. of 
sugar ; make a syrup of f lb. of sugar, and a little 
water ; put them in, and let them stay till they are 
quite clear ; then take them up carefully on a dish, 
and set them in the sun to dry ; pound the sugar 
fine, and strew over them, turning them over to 
let each part have some ; do not put much on at a 
time, and if any syrup is made remove them to 
fresh dishes ; when they are sufficiently dry, lay 
them lightly in a jar, with a little sugar between 
each layer. 



ROASTED FRUIT, ETC. Y5 

Frosted Fruit. — Take large ripe cherries, 
apricots, plums or grapes ; if cherries, cut off 
half of the stem ; have in one dish some white 
of an egg beaten, and in another some pow- 
dered loaf-sugar ; take the fruit, one at a time, and 
roll them first in the egg, and then in the sugar ; 
lay them on a sheet of white paper in a sieve, and 
set it on the top of a stove, or near a fire, till the 
icing is hard. 

Crystalized Plums. — Stone them and put 1 
lb. plums to ^ lb. sugar : cook them to a pulp : 
then spread on broad dishes to dry : pack them 
away in glass jars. When wanted to serve, take a 
little and roll in powdered sugar the shape of 
plums. M. L. N. 

Peach Leather.' — Stew peaches as if for pies, 
taking out the stones and making into a pulp : put 
this on planed boards on a roof in the sun ; in a 
few days it will be dry enough to peel off the 
boards. Roll it, and put away dry. 

Cranberries. — For every quart cranberries put 
1 lb. full white sugar : make a syrup first, skim it, 
and stew the cranberries ; 1 dessert-spoonful of 
sup. car. soda put in after they are taken off the 
fire, takes off the acidity. 

Cranberries are said to be nearly, or quite as 
good, if to 1 of stewed dried apples, 3 quarts 
of cranberries ; or 1 of cranberries, and 2 apples. 

Preserves keep with less cooking, if after being 
boiled awhile, they are taken out of their syrup 
and dried in the sun : the juice being put in glass 
jars, and standing also in the sun. — e. r. p. 

Quinces and peaches are better and far less 
troublesome, preventing burning, by chipping 



T6 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

them, and letting them boil till clear, doing the 
jelly longer and taking them out before going to 
pulp. 

Pears. — Take sound medium-sized pears : re- 
move nearly all the stem, and boil them in water just 
enough to cover them till soft ; take each out care- 
fully, and lay on a sieve to drain ; put equal weight 
of sugar, the juice and rind of lemons ; make a 
syrup of ^ pint water to 1 lb. sugar, and boil 
them, (with green ginger, in a book-muslin bag,) 
till clear. If the syrup is not thickish, boil it 
longer. 

Quinces, just as above, leaving out lemons and 
ginger. 

Crab Apples. — Select perfect ones ; pour boil- 
ing water over them, which removes the skin : lay 
them in water enough to cover them ; let them 
simmer slowly till soft ; take them out and drain ; 
make a clean syrup, pound for pound ; boil them 
in it till clear, lay them on dishes to cool, and place 
in jars ; cook the syrup a little longer, and pour 
it over the apples when hot. Seal. 

Peaches. — These may be done to taste even 
better than the hermetically sealed uncooked arti- 
cle, by taking half sugar, (or less,) to 1 lb. peaches. 
Cook them 5 minutes, the syrup somewhat longer. 
Seal them perfectly. 

A Simpler Way.< — Take the fruit, either quinces 
or peaches, which is not so nice, and cut off the 
whole peach or quince, in small pieces, sugar to 
taste ; cook 20 minutes, and seal entirely from the 
air. Any kind of fruits we have in our markets 
may be thus preserved, at quarter the cost, time 
and trouble, and they will be found far better eat- 
ing than preserves. Method. — Let the ^lass jars 



Arthur's self-sealing cans and jars. 77 



_be warming near the fire, while the fruit is stewing ; 
have corks to fit, bladder lined, put in the fruit a 
little at a time, boiling hot ; warm your cement, 
meanwhile, insert the cork, taking care to have 
the glass full to the cork, press down tightly ; then 
put another piece of wet bladder over the cork, 
tieing it down tightly ; invert the glass into the 
cement, then stand it up to harden ; when hard^ 
roll the edge of the glass again in the hot cement, 
and you have a perfectly air-tight vessel. The 
very best and safest mode, however, and one which 
servants must be doubly-refined stupid not to 
succeed in, is Arthur's Patent Self-sealing Cans 
and Jars. We give, below, an engraving of one 
of these valuable vessels. 

For some purposes, as 
for putting up tomatoes, 
the tin cans are prefer- 
able ; for others, the glass 
jars, with many house- 
keepers, will have the 
preference. It has been 
proved, however, that all 
kinds of fruits may be 
kept unchanged in the 

Arthur's Self-Sealing Can. tin CaUS. 

These vessels were used during the last summer 
in incredibly large quantities, and with the most 
complete success. They may be obtained in most 
of the principal cities and towns in the country, 
of the agents. They are accompanied with ex- 
plicit directions for use, and valuable recipes for 
putting up fruits and vegetables. 

We are glad to be able, from actual trial, to 
give this strong testimonial in favour of so useful 
an invention. 
7* 




•78 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

It will be seen that they are constructed with a 
channel around the mouth. Into this channel a 
very adhesive cement is poured at the time they 
are manufactured, and allowed to harden, so that 
when they are purchased they are ready for use, 
obviating entirely the necessity of melting or pour- 
ing wax or cement of any kind. In order to seal 
one of Arthur's Cans or Jars, when filled with hot 
fruit, it is only necessary to put on the cover, and 
lay upon it a weight of a few pounds to keep it in 
place, until the vapour on the inside condenses. 
It is strictly, when heated substances are enclosed 
in it, a self-sealing vessel. If the article is cold, 
or only warm, it is merely necessary to heat the 
cover and put it in place. The whole operation is 
so exceedingly simple, that the vessel will at once 
commend itself to every intelligent housekeeper. 

The tin cans, made after this plan, are free from 
the defects which render all tin cans with a small 
opening objectionable, and entirely prevent their 
use more than a single time. All the cut edges of 
the tin are covered with solder, so that no part of 
the iron is exposed to contact with the con- 
tents, and cannot become rusted, as must occur 
with the ordinary can ; and as this is so entirely 
open, it can be cleansed as easily and thoroughly 
as a tin cup. 



SYRUPS. 

Strawberry Syrup. — Juice 1 pint, water 
do., white sugar 3 lbs. After squeezing the juice 
from berries, take the pulp and pour the measured 
water over it, and let it come to a boil ; strain 
this, and make up the pint with water, if wanting. 
Pour this on the sugar, put it over the fire, and 
heat till the sugar is dissolved and come to a boil ; 
take it off the fire, add strawberry juice, stir well ; 
place on the fire 5 minutes, remove, and when cool 
strain and bottle. Same for Raspberry, Pine 
Apple, &c. : 3 quarts ripe berries make the above. 

Vanilla Syrup. — Boil 3 lbs. white sugar ia 
1 quart boiling water, J hour ; then put in 2 Y.a- 
nilla beans and 1 tea-cup water, and boil until 
reduced to 1 quart again. Then strain it through 
a flannel bag and bottle close. 

This is rendered needless by a highly concen- 
trated article sold at corner Fifth and Cherry, the 
Pree Produce Store of G. W. Taylor, called Allin- 
son's Essence Yanilla. 

Ginger Syrup.^ — 1 lb. sugar to 1 pint water : 
boil 20 minutes — when cool, add essence of ginger 
to taste. 

Cherry Vinegar. — 6 quarts cherries, broken 
up, and 1 quart vinegar ; let it stand 3 days : then 
press the juice from them through a jelly bag, and 
to 1 pint juice f lb. white sugar : boil it 12 min- 
utes, and skim. This makes 8 porter bottles full. 
Blackberries done in this way are also good as a 
drink. — a. r. 

(19) 



PLEASANT DRINKS. 

Lemonade.' — To 1 pint juice 4 lbs. sugar, 2 
quarts ice-water. It makes more to soak the 
halves of lemons that have been squeezed in a 
little water, a few at a time, using the water. 

Mock Lemonade. — J oz. tartaric acid, 6 oz. 
sugar, 4 drops essence lemon dropped on the su- 
gar, 1 quart boiling water. 

Carbonated Drink.- — 2 quarts ice-water, 4 
table-spoonfuls vinegar, 2 tea-spoonfuls ground 
ginger. Sweeten to taste, and add 1 tea-spoonful 
soda, 1 do. cream tartar. 

Penny Beer. — } oz. cream tartar, 1 cts. worth 
sassafras, 1 do. sarsaparilla, 1 do. pipsissaway. 
All these are bought in the market. Put 1 gallon 
water to the sassafras, pipsissaway and sarsaparilla, 
and boil H hours Then pour it off and add an- 
other gallon of water, and boil until the strength 
is out of the herbs Pour it boiling on the cream 
tartar : when about milk warm put in 1 cts. worth 
yeast. Sweeten with molasses and sugar. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Pour 1 quart vinegar 
on 1 quart fresh- picked raspberries : the next day 
Strain it through a sieve on another quart of rasp- 
berries, and so on 5 or 6 days ; then to every pint 
juice add 1 lb. white sugar, set it in a jar, which 
must be placed in a pot of boiling water, until 
scalded through. Bottle. 

Ginger Beer. — 1 gallon cold water, 1 lb. 
white sugar, i oz. race ginger, 1 sliced lemon, 1 
(80) 



HOARHOUND BEER, ETC. 81 

tea-cup yeast. Let it stand all night to ferment ; 
then pour it off without stirring, bottle it, and add 
1 raisin to each bottle. — m. m. 

Hoarhound Beer. — Take 1 handful flour, 
pour 1 quart boiling water over it, 4 table-spoon- 
fuls of yeast, and put in when cool enough ; when 
risen, add 3 lbs. brown sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls 
ground ginger, 1 pint strong hoarhound, (4 cents' 
worth,) steep it in boiling water : stir this all up, 
let it be for 12 hours, strain through a linen cloth 
into bottles. 

Portable Lemonade. — Tartaric acid ^ oz., 
loaf sugar 3 ounces, essence of lemon ^ drachm. 
Powder the tartaric acid : also the sugar. Mix 
them, and pour the essence of lemon upon them a 
few drops at a time ; when all is mixed, divide 
into 12 equal parts, and put them in white paper. 
When wanted, dissolve 1 in a tumbler of water, 
and lemonade will be the result. 



WINES. 

Currant Wine. — To 1 quart juice add 2 
quarts water, 1 lb. sugar ; mix well together, and 
let it stand 24 hours, without stirring : then skim 
it, putting it in a jug or keg, leaving out the cork, 
and let it ferment in a cool place for a week, or 
till done fermenting : then cork tightly, and when 
clear it is fit to bottle. 

Quince Wine. — Grate whole quinces, (cut- 
ting out rot and worms,) squeeze the juice through 
a flannel bag, and to each quart juice put 1 lb. su- 
gar. Let it work long enough to clear out the 
pugs : when clear bottle it. — m. p. 

P. S. These two wines are inserted with some 
hesitation ; but there are occasions when wine is 
needed, and these are easily and cheaply made by 
persons living in the country. 

A Pleasant Wine. — 2 quarts morel cherry 
juice, 1 quart water, and 2 lbs. sugar : boil and 
skim it, and when cool add 1 pint brandy. 
(82) 



GAS cooKma. 

In regard to cooking with gas, our experience 
is just 3 months old. As far as that experience 
goes, we give it a decided preference over every 
other kind of cooking. 

The best apparatus for the purpose is Gleason's 
Patent, to b,e had of Gleason & Sons, No. 463 
Market street. There are two sizes ; one of them 
small enough for the smallest family — very com- 
pact and convenient, and not unsightly — they cost 
from 20 to 30 dollars. 

The usual objection made to the use of gas for 
cooking, has been, that it is expensive. We have 
not found it so — and for labour-saving and clean- 
liness, nothing can equal it. 

Bread baked by gas is not to be surpassed for 
its delicate taste ; and meats retain their flavour 
and tenderness more perfectly than when roasted 
by any other means — for steaks and chops it equals 
''the good hickory coals," of which this genera- 
tion is often reminded by the one which is passing 
away ; and when it is remembered that the heat is 
only generated while the stove is in actual use, 
its superiority over every other mode of cooking 
is obvious for the summer months. 

One of our friends, who has used gas for this 
purpose for 15 years, both summer and winter, 
and who is acquainted with the methods pursued 
in Paris and London, assures us that it is as much 
cheaper than either coal or wood, as it is better. 
If that is so, there is really nothing to be desired 
but some improvement in the apparatus, which 
could be easily made to make cooking a pleasure, 
instead of a temper-trying burden. — e. w. t. 

(83) 



KURSING THE SICK. 

Next to the gift of healing comes, in importance, 
the office of nurse. Yery few families are so cir- 
cumstanced as to be sufficiently strong-handed or 
skillful to nurse in cases of protracted illness, 
without great weariness and loss of sleep, even if 
the aid of kind neighbours and friends be proffered. 
In our city a most useful institution exists, called 
the " Nurses' Home," where, at any hour of day 
or night, competent nurses may be obtained at 
reasonable rates, as very many can attest. " The 
Home" is located at 341 Race, above 9th street. 

Medicine. — The only medicine which seems 
needful to insert, is one which is of great benefit 
in slight ailments, such as constipation, sick sto- 
mach, headache, &c., and which is not, I believe, 
disavowed even by that much-obtaining system — 
"Homeopathy." I allude to "citrate of magnesia." 
S. Simes, corner Chestnut and 12th sts., has a very 
palatable article for sale. It is really a pleasant, 
sparkling potion. 

(84) 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 

Let every thing be sweet and clean, as their 
senses of taste and smell are very acute. Let it be 
presented in an inviting form ; fine China, silver, 
&c., used. Be careful not to over-flavour their 
food. Always have a shawl at hand ; also, a clean 
towel, clean handkerchief, and a small waiter, when 
you present food or drink. Many of the articles 
under "dessert" are good for the sick. It is well 
to have a stand or small table by the bedside, that 
you can set any thing on. A small silver strainer 
that will just fit over a tumbler or tea-cup, is very 
useful to strain lemonade, panada, or herb tea. 
If you want any thing to use through the night, 
you should prepare it, if possible, beforehand ; as 
a person that is sick, can sometimes fall asleep 
without knowing it, if the room is kept perfectly 
still. 

A Vegetable Soup. — Take an onion, a tur- 
nip, 2 pared potatoes, a carrot (a head of celery, 
or not) : boil them in 3 pints water till the vege- 
tables are cooked ; add a little salt ; have a slice 
of bread toasted and buttered, put into a bowl 
and pour soup over. When in season, tomatoes, 
or okra, or both, improve this. 

Gum Water. — J oz. to 1 oz. dissolved in 
1 quart cold water. Sweeten it. 

Slippery Elm Bark. — Yery good for weak 
or inflamed eyes. 

Coffee. — Sick persons should have their coffee 
8 (85) 



86 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

made separate from the family, as standing in the 
tin pot spoils the flavour. Put 2 tea-spooufuls of 
ground coffee in a small mug, and pour boiling 
water on it ; let it set by the fire to settle, and 
pour it off in a cup, with sugar and cream. 
Care should be taken that there are no burnt 
grains. 

Chocolate. — To make a cup of chocolate, grate 
a large tea-spoonful in a mug, and pour a tea-cup 
of boiling water on it; let it stand covered by 
the fire a few minutes, when you can put in sugar 
and cream. 

Black Tea. — Black tea is much more suitable 
than green for sick persons, as it does not affect 
the nerves. Put a tea-spoonful in a pot that will 
hold about 2 cups, and pour boiling water on it. Let 
it set by the fire to draw 5 or 10 minutes. 

Rye Mush. — This Is a nourishing and light 
diet for the sick, and is by some preferred to mush 
made of Indian meal. Four large spoonfuls of 
rye flour mixed smooth in a little water, and stirred 
in a pint of boiling water : let it boil 20 minutes, 
stirring frequently. Nervous persons who sleep 
badly, rest much better after a supper of corn, or 
rye mush, than if they take tea or coffee. 

Boiled Custard. — Beat an e^g with a heaped 
tea-spoonful of sugar ; stir it into a tea-cupful of 
boiled milk, and stir till it is thick ; pour it in a 
bowl on a slice of toast cut up, and grate a little 
nutmeg over. 

Panada. — Put some crackers, crusts of dry 
bread or dried rusk, in a sauce-pan with cold wa- 
ter, and a few raisins ; after it has boiled half an 
hour, put in sugar, nutmeg, and J a glass of wine, 



EGG AND BARLEY PANADA, ETC. 8t 

if the patient has no fever. If you have dried 
rusk, it is a quicker way to put the rusk in a bowl 
with some sugar, and pour boiling water on it out 
of the tea-kettle. If the patient can take no- 
thing but liquids, this makes a good drink when 
strained. 

Egg Panada. — Boil a handful of good raisins 
in a quart of water ; toast a slice of bread and cut 
it up ; beat 2 eggs with a spoonful of sugar, and 
mix it with the bread ; when the raisins are done, 
pour them on the toast and eggs, stirring all the 
time ; season to your taste with wine, nutmeg and 
butter. 

Barley Panada. — ^Boil a small tea-cup of 
barley in water till it is soft, with a tea-cup of rai- 
sins ; put in nutmeg and sugar, and break in it 
toast or dried rusk. 

Calf's Foot Blancmange. — Put a set of 

nicely- cleaned feet in 4 quarts of water, and let it 
boil more than half away ; strain through a colan- 
der, and when it is cold scrape off all the fat, and 
take out that which settles at the bottom ; put it 
in a sauce-pan, with a quart of new milk, sugar to 
your taste, lemon peal and juice, and cinnamon or 
mace ; let it boil 10 minutes and strain it ; wet 
your moulds, and when it is nearly cold, put it in 
them ; when it is cold and stiff, it can be turned 
out on a plate, and eaten with or without cream. 
This is very nice for a sick person, and is easily 
made. 

Chicken Water. — If you have a small 
chicken, it will take half of it to make a pint of 
chicken water. Cut it up and put it to boil in a 
covered skillet with a quart of water j when it has 



88 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

boiled down to a pint, take it up, and put in a 
little salt and slice of toasted bread. This is va- 
luable in cases of dysentery and cholera morbus, 
particularly when made of old fowls. 

Beef Tea, &e. — Take a piece of juicy beef, 
without any fat, cut it in small pieces, bruise it till 
tender, put it in a wide-mouthed bottle, and cork it 
tight ; put this in a pot of cold water, set it over 
the fire, and let it boil an hour or more. When a 
person can take but a small quantity of nourish- 
ment, this is very good. Mutton may be done in 
the same way. 

Mutton and Veal Broth. — Boil a piece of 
mutton till it comes to pieces ; then strain the 
broth, and let it get cold, so that the fat will rise, 
which must be taken off ; then warm it, and put in 
a little salt. Yeal broth may be made in the same 
way, and is more delicate for sick persons. 

Wine Whey. — Boil a pint of milk, and put 
to it a glass of white wine ; set it over the fire till 
it just boils again, then set it off till the curd 
has settled, when strain it, and sweeten to your 
taste. 

Oat-meal G-ruel.—Mix 2 spoonfuls of oat- 
meal with as much water as will mix it easily, and 
stir it in a pint of boiling water in a sauce-pan 
until perfectly smooth ; let it boil a few minutes ; 
season it with sugar and nutmeg, and pour it out 
on a slice of bread toasted and cut up, or some 
dried rusk. If the patient should like them, you 
can put in a few raisins, stoned and cut up. This 
will keep good a day, and if nicely warmed over, 
is as good as when fresh. 

Corn Gruel. — Mix 2 spoonfuls of sifted corn- 



ARROW-ROOT BLACKBERRIES, ETC. 89 

meal in some water ; have a clean skillet with a 
pint of boiling water in it, stir it in, and when 
done, season it with salt to your taste, or sugar, if 
you prefer it. 

Arrow-Root. — Moisten 2 tea-spoonfuls of 
powdered arrow-root with water, and rub it smooth 
with a spoon ; then pour on a half pint of boiling 
water ; season it with lemon juice, or wine and 
nutmeg. In cooking arrow-root for children, it is 
a very good way to make it very thick, and thin it 
afterwards with milk. 

Blackberries. — Allow a pint of currant juice 
and a pint of water to 6 lbs. of blackberries ; give 
them their weight in brown sugar ; let them boil 
till they appear to be done, and the syrup is rich. 
Blackberry jelly can be made as currant jelly, and, 
is good for sick children, mixed with water. 

Blackberry Syrup. — The following is the 
recipe for making the famous blackberry syrup. 
No family should be without it. All who try it 
will find it a sovereign remedy for bowel com- 
plaints : — '' To 2 quarts blackberry juice add J oz. 
each of powdered nutmeg, cinnamon and allspice, 
^nd J oz. powdered cloves. Boil these together 
to get the strength of the spices, and to preserve 
the berry juice. While hot, add a pint of fourth 
proof pure French brandy, and sweeten with loaf 
sugar. Give a child 2 tea-spoonfuls 3 times a day, 
and if the disorder is not checked, add to the quan- 
tity." 

Barley Water. — Take 2 oz. of pearl barley, 

wash it in clean cold water, put it into ^ pint 

boiling water, and let it boil for 5 minutes : pour 

off this water, and add to it 2 quarts of boiling 

8* 



90 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

water ; boil it to 2 pints, and strain ; flavour it 
with lemon juice; sweeten with white sugar to 
your taste. 

^ For Chapped Lips. — Put a tea-cupful of 
rich cream over some coals to stew, with 3 table- 
spoonfuls of powdered loaf-sugar. This has a 
healing effect. 

Another remedy, equally good, is to a tea-cupful 
of honey, add half the quantity of mutton tallow, 
and stew together till well mixed ; pour it out in a 
cup, and keep stirring till cold. 

For chapped hands, mix together equal quanti- 
ties of rich cream and strong vinegar, and rub it 
over every time you wash your hands. 

Cold Water for Burns.— Mr. Seth Hunt, 
of Northampton, gives the following statement of 
the success of treating with cold water a severe 
burn and scald in his family : — " Cold water was 
applied, by immersion, till the pain ceased ; the 
water being changed as often as it became warm. 
The part was then kept swathed with wet banda- 
ges, a dry woolen one enveloping them, until the 
injury was healed. The healing was rapid, and 
effected without leaving a scar. The instant relief 
which the cold water gave from the excruciating 
pain, was highly gratifying." 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Dentrifiees. — White's Tooth Powder is very- 
good. The common strawberry is said to be a 
natural dentrifice, and its juice dissolves the tartar 
and makes the breath agreeable. Honey and 
charcoal make a good dentrifice. 

To Prevent Corns. — Wear easy shoes : fre- 
quent bathing the feet in warm water, with a 
little salt, or potash, dissolved in it. The corn 
itself may be completely destroyed by rubbing it 
daily with a little caustic solution of potash. Lu- 
nar caustic, touched with a hair pencil, night and 
morning, also is good to cure corns. 

To Remove Warts. — Sal ammoniac will 
remove them ; also, lunar caustic. 

For a Weak Back. — Take a beef's gall, 
pour it into 1 pint alcohol, and bathe frequently. 
It acts like a charm. 

Cure for Corns. — Bind a piece of sponge, 
moistened* in a weak solution of pearlash, on go- 
ing to bed. It is said that the skin may be 
brushed off in the morning, having been dissolved 
by the action of the caustic. I have been entirely 
cured by a poultice of bread and water, with a 
little laudanum and paregoric put in, putting it on 
2 nights at bed-time. 

Another Cure. — Take equal parts pulverized 
indigo, common brown soap and tallow : of these 
make a soft ointment, by rubbing well together. 

(91) 



92 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Spread it on soft leather and apply : keep it on 
till relieved. 

Court Plaster. — Put 4 beeves' feet into a 
large quantity of water: let them boil until the 
meat will leave the bone : then take them out, skim 
the oil carefully off, put the liquor on again in a 
smaller vessel, and boil it till it is of a suitable 
consistence to spread on silk (say the thickness of 
molasses) with a brush. 



WINTER AND OTHEH STORES. 

Yegetables are best kept on a stone floor, if the 
air be excluded. Meat in a cold, dry place. Sugar 
and sweetmeats require a dry place — so does salt. 
Candles cold, but not damp. Dried meats, hams, 
&c., the same. All sorts of seeds for puddings, soups, 
&c., are best in glass jars, with close lids. I prefer 
glass for every household purpose for which it is 
at all suitable, its contents being seen at a glance. 
It is quite cheap, if bought in quantity. Whit- 
alls, Race St., near Fourth, keep jars and bottles. 

Corn. — There are several methods. Cutting 
off the cob after cooking 5 minutes, is one — ^then 
drying in the sun. Another is to make a pickle 
instead of drying it, and put in "Arthur's Cans." 
The Shakers have the art. 

Another Way to keep Green Corn. — Make 
pickle in a barrel, as for meat. Throw into it, 
from time to time, ears of unhusked sugar corn. 
When you have enough, put weights to keep the 
corn under, and cover the barrel. When used, 
soak the ears all night, (after taking off the husk,) 
and boil in a large portion of water, which must 
be changed once, in boiling. 

Okra. — This very desirable vegetable for soups, 
should be purchased when young and small, sliced, 
and dried on plates, in a cool oven, or about a 
stove. Put it away in glass jars, dry. 

Herbs should be gathered when they are in 
blossom. 

(93) 



94 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

There are various ways of keeping eggs : all 
those given below are good. 

Greased Eggs. — Warm some fat of almost 
any kind, put the eggs in ; cover them quite, take 
them out and lay them in an old tin or earthen 
vessel : paste them up, or better, cement with the 
tin, as named elsewhere, and they will be found 
good all winter. 

Eggs in Lime. — Pour 2 gallons hot water 
over 1 pint lime, and ^ pint salt ; when cold put 
some eggs in a jar, and pour it over them ; be sure 
there are no cracked ones. — r. h. 

Keeping Eggs. — Having tried many ways of 
preserving eggs, I have found the following to be 
the easiest, cheapest, surest, and best. Take your 
crock, keg, or barrel, according to the quantity 
you have, cover the bottom with half an inch salt, 
and set your eggs close together on the small end ; 
be very particular to put the small end down ; for 
if put in any other position, they will not keep as 
well, and the yelk will adhere to the shell : sprinkle 
them over with salt, so as to fill the interstices, 
and then put in another layer of eggs, and cover 
with salt, and so on, till your vessel is filled. Cover 
it tight, and put it where it will not freeze, and 
the eggs will keep perfectly fresh and good any 
desirable length of time. 

S^weet Potatoes. — These are the greatest 
luxury in the way of vegetables, our tables can 
offer in winter. Engage a Jersey man, in whom 
you have confidence, to bring them at the proper 
time in a proper state. Let them be put in the 
garret of a house which has a furnace, in barrels 
or boxes : let them be uncovered for several days, 



TO KEEP APPLES AND PEARS. 95 

with a circulation of air constantly kept up. At 
the end of 4 or 5 days cover them with newspa- 
pers, if the boxes have no covers. I find the 
temperature most adapted to them is 60. We have 
them till they come again. — e. n. 

White Potatoes are hardy, and will bear the 
cellar. 

Lima Beans, picked ripe, and put on a garret 
floor to dry; then shelled and put in bags in a 
dry place, will keep. Soak them over night. 

To keep Apples and Pears. — Put them 
in air-tight vessels, and place them in the cellar 
in a temperature between 32 and 40. In this way, 
sa3'-s the " Horticulturist," these fruits may be 
preserved, in perfect order for eating, all winter. 

Another Way. — Wrapping each apple or pear 
in paper, answers well also. 



SUPPLEMENT. 

Calves' Feet Pudding. — Boil the feet as for 
jelly ; take 1 quart of stock, 5 eggs, cinnamon, 
sugar, lemon and wine, to taste : strain it through a 
thin cloth and pour it in a mould : the eggs must 
be beaten light. Serve it with cream. 

Winter Pudding. — 1 pint flour, 2 oz. butter, 
1 tea-cupful sugar, do. milk, rind and juice of 1 
lemon, 1 egg, 1 tea-spoonful soda, 2 oz. cream tar- 
tar : bake -J hour. 

Quince Jam, — Grate quinces which have been 
pared, cored and halved : to 1 lb. quince, after 
grated, | sugar : boil 20 minutes. This is very 
light coloured, and if put in moulds or bowls turns 
out well. 

Blancmange in Eggs. — Have ready some 
egg-shells, which have been broken as little as 
possible ; dissolve ^ oz. gelatine in a very little 
warm water, and then stir in 1 pint good milk ; 
sweeten and flavour it. Boil it ^ hour, stirring 
frequently. Strain it, and put it into the egg-shells 
to cool. When congealed, have ready a China 
or glass dish of calves' feet jelly ; break the shells 
from off the mange, cut them in half, scoop out a 
little of the middle, and insert some of the calves' 
feet jelly to imitate the yelk. These placed over 
the surface of the dish have a pretty birds'-nest 
look. Cream served with it is good, but not 
needful. 

(96) 



PEACHES UNCOOKED, ETC. 9t 

Peaches Uncooked. — Procure glass jars, 
(with a rim at the top, and not too thick bottoms.) 
Pare and halve ripe peaches, put them into the jars, 
(which must be warmed previously,) packing as 
close as possible in the jars. Make a syrup of 1 
lb. sugar to 1 quart water ; let it come to a boil, 
then pour it over the peaches, filling the jars quite 
full. Have ready some white muslin, and ^ yard 
gum elastic cloth. Dip the muslin, which may be 
cut in squares of one-eighth yard size, into the 
syrup : then have the gum cloth ready cut, and 
tie the two together with strong twine tightly 
over the bottle. This was tried with entire suc- 
cess, the concave lids proving the absent air. I 
should think tomatoes would do well thus, if 
cooked, especially. This gum cloth may be had at 
gum elastic stores, at $1 25 per yard, and it will 
last years, with care. — s. l. 

Apple Pudding. — Take 10 eggs, beat them 
very light : add 1 pint stewed and strained apple, 
stir in ^ lb. butter, the juice and grated rind of 
2 lemons : sugar to your taste. Bake this. 

Sauce for the above. — To ^ lb. butter, 8 
tea-spoonfuls white sugar, 1 egg, 1 glass of wine : 
put all into a nice saucepan, and beat well toge- 
ther. Set it on the fire, and stir constantly a few 
minutes. 

Baked Custard. — Whites and yelks of 5 
eggs, 4 table-spoonfuls flour, 1 pint milk, salt ; 
beat this light, then bake. Eat with sauce. 

Bun Fritters.— Dip stale sliced buns in milk, 
with 2 or 3 eggs beaten well, and stirred in till 
completely saturated ; then fry them a light brown, 
and dip them immediately in powdered cinnamon 
and sugar. Serve hot. — r. j. 
9 



USEFUL IMPLEMENTS. 

The preparation of fruit for pies is often a te- 
dious operation. There is a recently invented 
" Apple Parer," which pares 4 bushels of apples 
per hour, and may be had at 414 Market street, 
for $1 50 cents. 

Milk Boiler. — It is difficult to boil good milk 
without burning. A very complete article may be 
had at Williams', 256 Market street, for t5 cents. 
Farina Boilers are another convenience. 

Roll Pans. — A very nice way of baking rolls 
or bread for immediate eating, is a roll pan, hold- 
ing 6 rolls — to be had at 256 Market street, for 
62 cents. 

Potato Masher. — There is a method of 
mashing potatoes, which has an elegant effect, by 
using a French article, to be had at 256 Market 
street. 

A Tongue Presser soon saves its own cost, and 
may be had at Williams', 256 Market street, for 
88 cents. 

Cylinder Sausage Cutter. — Simple and 
convenient. One person can cut 100 lbs. of meat 
per hour with it. Wooden Cylinder, price $4 50, 
warranted to work well. 

Also, a Sausage Stuffer, which works with great 
rapidity — costs about $4 00. 

These may be had at P. Morris & Co.'s, K E. 
corner Seventh and Market streets. 
(98) 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Table Knives and Forks. — Steel knives 
are injured by being wrapped in woolen — ^brown 
paper is better. The Nickel silver forks, which 
are now in such general use, are very desirable, 
and not expensive. They will bear constant use 
for a long time, and are cleanly and labour-saving. 
A beautiful article, which I know to bear constant 
use, may be had at $10 per dozen, at 436 Market 
street. 

Plated steel knives are also a far more pleasant 
implement than iron ones. In a family where 
careful and neat housekeeping is observed, I be- 
lieve them to be a saving of 25 per cent. They 
are spared the daily scouring on a board, and need 
not go into the kitchen at all, but be washed in 
soap-suds, rinsed, dried on a soft napkin, and put 
in the spoon and fork basket. A superior article 
of the above described knife, may be had at H. 
Filley's, 436 Market street, at a cost of $10 for 
dinner, and $8 50 for dessert sizes. 

Castors. — The best castor, for the price, which 

1 know of, may be had at the above-named store. 
Of course the treble plating, of either new or re- 
newed ware, is always cheapest. 

A Very Celebrated Cologne Water. — 

6 drachms of oil of lemon, do. bergamot, 3 do. 
lavender, 10 drops cinnamon, 20 drops cloves, i 
drachm rosemary, 40 drops neroli, 20 drops rose, 

2 drachms tincture of musk, 6 pints deodorized al- 
cohol. Shake up well ; let it stand 4 hours be- 

(99) 



100 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

fore filtering. This recipe costs 3t cents per pint : 
may be had at 311 Market street. 

Cologne Water. — 60 drops oil of lavender, 
60 do. bergamot, 60 do. essence lemon, 60 do. 
orange water, 60 drops musk : put tliese in 1 pint 
alcohol. This is a very delicate fragrance, and 
may be had at 30 cents per pint, at Savery's, 311 
Market street. 

Bandoline. — Pour over 1 oz. quince seeds 1 
pint of boiling water. Let it stand over night ; 
next morning slightly boil it and strain it ; when 
cold, add 4 table-spoonfuls of alcohol, and 2 or 3 
of cologne, and flavour it with the oil of almonds, 
or whatever you prefer. — m. e. w. 



HINTS FOR WASHma AND IRONINa 
DAYS. 

CONCENTRATED LYE. 

Hard Soap. — To 1 lb. of the Saponifier add 3 
gallons of water, dissolve in an iron or copper 
kettle, heat to boiling : add 4 lbs. of tallow, soap- 
fat, lard or olive oil, until a clear solution of uni- 
form consistency is obtained ; when the solution 
has attained this point, keep on a simmer, and add 
salt, in small portions, until the soap, separating 
first into hard grains, ceases to froth, and forms 
slabs and flakes through which the steam puffs, 
when it is finished and ready to mould. If you 
want to make rosin or yellow soap, take one-third 
of clean rosin and two-thirds of the above quan- 
tity of fat : add the rosin first, and when it is all 
dissolved and taken up by the Saponifier, put in 
the fat and finish up as the other. 

Hard Fancy Soap. — Dissolve 1 lb. of Sapo- 
nifier in 3 lbs. of water, and add thereto, stirring 
the same rapidly, 4 lbs. of tallow or soap-fat, 
merely liquefied — or that much lard or olive oil, 
cold ; keep stirring and beating until all has as- 
sumed the appearance of thick honey, cover it up 
and set the batch in a warm place, or better, cover 
it with a woolen blanket or a feather bed, to keep 
up the heat, and let it stand for 24 hours, when it 
will have set into a fine, hard soap, which may be 
perfumed and variegated with colours by stirring 
the desired colours or perfume into the mixture, 
just before covering. 

9* (101) 



102 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Soft Soap.— To 1 lb. of the Saponifier add 3 
gallons of rain or soft water: set it boiling, and 
then put in 4 lbs. of soap-fat or tallow. When the 
solution is clear and the fat all combined, which is 
seen by the disappearance of all fatty eyes or spots 
on the liquid, add 12 gallons of soft or rain water; 
when cold, your soap is ready for use. 

For all other purposes in which potash is used, 
the Saponifier will prove a cheap substitute. 

Pump water softened and made fit for washing : 
— dissolve 1 lb. of the Saponifier in 1 gallon of 
water, and keep it for use in a well-corked demi- 
john or jug ; to a tub full of pump or hard spring 
water add from one- eighth of a gill to a pint of 
the clear solution ; the quantity of course varies 
according to the size of the tub and nature of the 
water, some taking more and some less ; a table- 
spoonful will generally be found enough to make 3 
to 5 gallons of water fit for washing. 

In all the above operations it should be remem- 
bered to replenish the water, which may evaporate 
while dissolving the Saponifier, or while boiling. 
The soft soap, made as above, I know to be ex- 
cellent. To be had at corner Chestnut and 12th 
streets. 

Soap for Washing Clothes, &e. — Ammo- 
nia Soap. — Ammonia is a wonderfully cleansing 
principle, and I am inclined to believe, enters 
largely into all soaps vended, as " warranted to 
take out soil and grease in silk cloth," &c. Pur- 
chase 5 lbs. strong country soap, or else the home- 
made soap named on preceding page, cut it into 
thin pieces and put it into 1 quart strong lye : let 
it get hot enough to melt, not boil; when dissolved 
take it off the fire, and add 5 oz. pearl ash, and 1 



SOAP FOR WASHING CLOTHES, ETC. 103 

gill liquid ammonia. Have a crock or stone pot 
with a lid, into which pour the hot liquid before 
ammonia is put in. Cover it quickly, and- stir 2 
or 3 times while cooling, keeping it covered the 
while. When about to use it, take 1 lb. of it and 
dissolve in a basin of warm (not hot) water, 
meanwhile putting water for washing hot enough 
to bear your hands ; put all together, stirring with 
hand, and put in as many clothes as the water will 
cover. Cover over the tub with a soiled sheet, 
and let it stand 20 minutes. When you wash the 
articles you will find the soil not removed, but 
loose, and very little rubbing needful. The wash- 
board need not be used for the ''first boil." Let 
all the clothes go through this tub, adding a little 
hot water, and they will be found surprisingly 
clean and white. Nearly all colours in calico and 
mousselines will bear it, but 'tis better to try a 
piece of it first. A little beef's gall put in, sets 
colours. When every article has gone through it, 
do not pour it under the gate, but set it aside till 
evening : water grape vines, and vegetables, and 
flowers with it, and a better fertilizer is not. Also, 
you may make a very useful soap of sand, by tak- 
ing a pint of the soap while cooling, and mixing 
enough pewter sand to adhere. Make it in cakes 
and put to dry. This is good for scrubbing grease 
spots, &c., and invaluable on the wash-stand to 
take ink-spots from hands. 

Tinware, passed through such suds, is cleansed 
and polished by the process, and washbasins, &c., 
may be rinsed after, and look well. 

Flannels are best put into the suds when it is 
nearly or quite cold : it prevents their fulling, 
somewhat. Boiling suds must be improper for 



r 104 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

woolen goods, as fullers use that method to thicken 
their woolen fabrics. 

The great cause of flannel shrinking is, I believe, 
the oil and perspiration from the pores of the 
body ; therefore an article half cotton is preferable. 

To make Calicoes Wash Well. — Infuse 3 
gills of salt in 4 quarts of boiling water, and put 
the calicoes in while hot, and leave it till cold ; 
in this way the colours are rendered permanent, 
and will not fade by subsequent washing. 

Bleaching Liquid. — Although the ammonia 
soap does not yellow clothes, it is easy to have 
them new-looking, by putting into the blue rinse 
water ^ tea-cupful of *' Eau de Javette," or bleach- 
ing liquid — an inexpensive article, to be had at 
Simes', corner Chestnut and 12th streets. If there 
are stains of fruit or iron mould, put a few drops 
(undiluted) on the spots, rubbing and washing off 
immediately. Liquid Blue is both economical and 
convenient. A good article may be had at Save- 
ry's, 311 Market street. 

The Patent Clothes-Drying Machine. — 

This is the most simple and useful machine ever 
yet invented for drying clothes. It is simply a 
post erected in the centre of the yard, about 6^ 
feet above the surface, or of a proper height to be 
out of the way of the head. In the centre of the 
upper end of the post is driven an iron pin, pro- 
jecting about 3 inches. A cast-iron hub, having a 
hole in the centre of the lower arch of the size of 
the pin, with 6 mortices or recesses at equal dis- 
tances around the periphery ; the hub is placed 
upon the pin in the post, the arms, 6 in number, 
are placed one in each mortice or recess. The 



STARCH. 105 

clothes line is run from arm to arm around the 
machine from 6 to 8 times, and about 8 inches 
apart. The washerwoman stands on a chair, hav- 
ing her basket of clothes by her side, and hangs 
the small ones first on the inner line, moving the 
machine around until she has hung out her entire 
washing without moving her chair. Every little 
breath of air causes it to revolve around ; thus the 
clothes are constantly changing position — allowing 
the sun and air to come to all of them alike. The 
advantages are — 

1. That when there are no clothes on the ma- 
chine, it is out of the way of the head, and can all 
be unshipped and put away, leaving nothing but 
the post in the yard. 

2. It will dry the clothes in a much less time. 

3. There is no necessity for treading down the 
plants in the yard, as only one position is neces- 
sary. 

4. Clothes can be hung out in much less time. 

5. A person can pass around the machine to 
any other part of the yard without stooping under 
the clothes, as is the case when the line is strung 
across the yard. 

6. Their cheapness, as one can be furnished, 
complete and erected, for $5 00 — if turned post 
and painted, $6 00. To be had at 262 Chestnut 
street 

Starch. — It is economy to use two kinds of 
clear starch in a wash. The Pearl starch is best 
for shirts and collars, &c. Let it be smoothly 
made, and well boiled. Put in a piece of sperm 
the size of a walnut, to 1 quart starch. [It is a 
good way to use the ends of candles, oil having 
become so high ; it is cheaper and pleasanter to use 



106 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

them, even for "go-about" light, where there is 
gas.] The other articles in a wash do as well 
with a cheaper starch, made in the above manner. 
Collars may be made to look extremely well by 
sprinkling them down with the other clothes the 
evening before ironing, and, just as you iron them, 
dipping them, one by one, for a moment in cold 
water ; wring and iron them — there will be a polish 
on them. 

Another Way. — Put 2 oz. of gum arable to 1 
pint water; when dissolved, strain it through a 
cloth and bottle. Put 1 table-spoonful to each 
pint of starch after it is made. This gives lawns 
a new appearance : it makes laces and muslins 
stiffer. When you bottle the gum, put in a piece 
of corrosive sublimate the size of a pea, to prevent 
its becoming sour. 

Ironing. — This has, through all time, been a 
wearisome, worrying process, at times, in the ex- 
perience of all. The day has, I hope, nearly gone 
by, when " good fires" will be kindled and kept 
up, (perhaps through a whole day, while the ther- 
mometer ranges at 90,) just that a family ironing 
may be accomplished. In cities, where we have 
gas, an elastic tube is introduced into a flat iron 
made for the purpose ; and at a cost of about four 
cents an hour, we have a perpetually heated flat 
iron. Por those who have not gas, an equally 
pleasant spirit iron, with a wick lit by alcohol, 
performs the labour. They are for sale at Wil- 
cox's, 273 Chestnut st. The cost is about $6. 

To Cleanse Carpets. — 1 tea-spoonful liquid 
ammonia in 1 gallon warm water, will often re- 
store the colour to carpets, even if produced by an 
acid or an alkali. If a ceiling has been white- 



STAINING FLOORS, PIAZZAS, ETC. lOt 

washed v/ith carpet down, and a few drops are 
visible, this will remove it. 

Another Way. — After the carpet is well beaten 
and brushed, scour with ox gall, which will not 
only extract grease but freshen the colours — 1 pint 
of gall in 3 gallons warm water, will do a large 
carpet. Table floor-cloths may be thus washed. 
The suds left from a wash, where ammonia soap is 
used, even if almost cold, cleanses these floor- 
cloths well. 

For Staining Floors, Piazzas, &e. — Make 

a strong lye of boiled wood ashes, add as much 
copperas as will stain the floor a light shade of 
oak : try a little first. Put on the wash with a 
mop dipped in the lye, and wet the boards well. 
When varnished, this lasts a season. 

For Cleansing Brushes and Combs. — 

Put 1 tea-spoonful liquid ammonia into 2 quarts 
warm water ; put in 1 brush at a time, rub it 
about quickly, dip it all over, rinse in clear tepid 
water, and wipe dry. Put in your combs several 
at once (as they are not varnished), and rinse and 
dry them ; fine tooth combs thus cleansed, and 
just before using, cut a piece of v/hite flannel the 
length of comb, and stick it through the whole 
length, about half-way up. Kemove this when 
your hair is combed — will keep them so. 

Ants. — The large black ants may be routed by 
a wet sponge, sugared : the small ones, by honey 
set aboutr 

Soap for Mouse Holes. — A lump of hard 
soap is good to stop a rat, mouse, cockroach or 
ant hole. They all hate soap. 



108 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Several Methods of Cleaning Silver 

and Brass. — Cleanse silver with hot water : make 
a solution of equal parts of ammonia and spirits 
turpentine. Put it on with a soft cloth : while 
wet, have another cloth dipped in prepared chalk, 
or whiting, and go over the article : have a third 
clean dry cloth to polish. 

Rotten stone and camphene are good, but the 
surrounding paint generally suffers if used on doors. 
The very best method is to wash the articles, whe- 
ther gold chains, silver teapots or plated ware, in 
soft warm water, with 1 tea-spoonful liquid am- 
monia to J- gallon water ; dry it, and have a lea- 
ther dipped in rouge and burnish. A little rouge 
goes very far. Have a tooth brush for chased 
work. 

There are also many good polishes sold in pow- 
ders, under various names. 

Another Method. — Dissolve a piece of alum the 
size of a shell-bark in 1 quart strong lye : scum it 
well, add soap, and wash the silver with it. — m. p. 

Where the front door plates and knobs are 
cleansed every morning, a little fine whiting, with 
a soft rag, the breath blown a moment previously 
on it, keeps them bright, and saves paint and 
labour. 

To take Stains out of Silver Plate. — 

Steep the plate in lye 4 hours : then cover it over 
with whiting wet with vinegar, a thick coat, and 
dry ; after which rub off the whiting, and pass it 
over with dry bran, and the spots will not only 
disappear, but the plate will look exceedingly 
bright. 

To Eject a Cork from a Bottle.—If the 

cork has been pressed into a bottle, take a strong 



TO CLEAN WHITE MARBLE MANTLES, ETC. 109 

twine and pass it in double ; a little turning and 
the twine will enclose the cork, and so may be 
drawn out. 

To Clean White Marble Mantles.— 

Brush them well with a brush, such as painters use, 
daily, and wipe with a soft dry towel. If soiled, 
dip a sponge in clean warm water and wash it, 
drying with a soft towel. To clean the carved 
part, wet a sponge with pumice stone, and gently 
rub on, washing off with pure water, drying with 
a towel: for the interstices, use a stick covered 
with a towel. 

To Wash Oil Cloth. — Oil cloth may be made 
to have a fresh, new appearance, by washing it 
every month with a solution of sweet milk with 
the white of 1 beaten egg. Soap, in time, injures 
oil cloth. A very little " boiled oil" freshens up an 
oil cloth : very little must be used, and rubbed in 
with a rag. Equal parts of copal varnish I put ; 
it gives a gloss. 

To Red a Yard.— Many persons put red on a 
yard to cover green bricks. The green may be 
removed by pouring boiling water, in which any 
kind of vegetables (not greasy) have been boiled. 
Persevere in this a few days, and all green will 
disappear. For red colour, make a solution of 1 
oz. common glue to 1 gallon water : while hot, put 
in alum the size of an egg, ^ lb. Venetian red, and 
1 lb. or more Spanish brown. Try a little on a 
brick, let it dry, and add colour, if too light : wa- 
ter, if too dark. 

To Wash Silk and Ribbons in Cam- 
phene. — Put a flat-iron to heat. Take 2 tea- 
cups, into which put 3 table-spoonfuls fresh pure 
10 



110 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

camphene. Have an old tooth-brush, and a small 
planed board laid on a newspaper on the table. 
Lay the ribbon or tie-shawl along the board, 
wetting tooth-brush with the camphene, and rub- 
bing it all over the article : hardest where it is 
most soiled : do this for a minute, turn over and 
do likewise : put it in the tea-cup used out of, pass 
it through your fingers to clean it, put it in the 
other tea-cup a minute ; now have a clean cloth at 
hand, on which lay the ribbons. Have your iron- 
ing cloth ready, the iron just warm enough to pass 
rapidly over the silk. Iron it on both sides, when 
a few hours hanging in the air takes off all smell, 
and they resemble new ribbon. Do not iron your 
ribbon when it is too wet, but sop it a moment in 
the dry cloth, and it is ready. 

Durable Ink. — 100 grains lunar caustic, 1 
drachm gum arable, into 1 oz. soft water. Pre- 
paration water. — 1 oz. sal soda, 2 oz. soft water : 
a little gum arable to stiffen the linen. 

Horw to Paper a Wall.— Cut off the right 
side of the pieces, measure one the height of the 
wall : cut up one piece in lengths, leaving any odd 
pieces for windows. Have a pine table, across 
which lay several of the lengths. Begin to paste 
by laying the one nearest you to the edge : paste 
it well all over : double it to within ^ yard of the 
top : carry it there, and have a clean towel over 
your shoulder : match the figure first at the ceiling, 
and use the cloth to smooth it as you pass your 
hand over the whole width : let the ends of the 
doubled part now fall, and keep on down smoothing 
as you go, till at the wash-board cut off the paper 
to fit snugly. When you wish to turn a corner, 
measure what is wanted : after wetting, cut the 2 



PASTE — PAINTING A ROOM, ETC. Ill 

ends a bit, and crease it between the ends on the 
edge of the table. Now you are ready for the 
border, when the room is covered. Cut it into 
lengths of Ij yards, paste it, and go up the ladder 
with towel : be sure you are careful, matching it 
as it belongs. 

Paste. — Mix wheat flour in a pail with tepid 
water. Pour boiling water on this, and it will 
thicken. Before you begin the room, paste at all 
the ins and outs of the wood-work little bits of the 
paper. Papering a room is much less trouble and 
fatiguing than many women imagine ; and there 
are cases where it will be found a great conve- 
nience to feel assured of success. 

Painting a Room. — Get a painter to mix 
the quantity of paint required. Purchase such a 
brush as is sold for 20 cents ; have the surface you 
intend painting thoroughly cleansed from grease 
or spots ; stir the paint well, and you can proceed. 
There is very little labor in this, and often may be 
done to advantage by a woman. If much of a job 
is undertaken, it is needful to have oil and turpen- 
tine added. 

Economical Paint. — Skim milk 2 quarts, fresh 
slacked lime 8 oz., linseed oil 6 oz., white burgundy 
pitch 2 oz., Spanish white 3 lbs. The lime to be 
slacked in water, exposed to the air, mixed in one- 
fourth of the milk : the oil in which the pitch is pre- 
viously dissolved, to be added a little at a time ; 
then the rest of the milk, and afterwards the Spa- 
nish white. This quantity is sufficient for 2t 
square yards, 2 coats, and the expense not more 
than 25 cents. 

Liquid ammonia 2 tea-spoonfuls, and a piece of 



112 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

alum the size of a shell-bark, will insure light 
bread. 

Stale bread is freshened by steaming it -J hour. 

Never try a Ne'W Dish for Company. — 

Keep a receipt book yourself, and write in it the 
improvements of your own experience. 

Oxalic acid will remove all stains from hands 
or clothing. But it must be used with great care, 
being not only a deadly poison, but tendering 
every fabric, if not wetted very soon. 

For rough hands in winter, rub pumice stone 
gently over them. (Sand soap is better.) 

Take glove fingers for vials. 

To Eradicate Roaches. — I know of but 
one method. Purchase a tin box of a sort of 
phosphorous paste, to be had only at Glentworth's, 
corner Race and Jacoby streets. 

Cold Cream. — Take -J oz. white wax, do. of 
spermaceti, and 3 oz. of almond oil. Put the whole 
into a basin, and place it in hot water till fused : 
then gradually add 3 oz. rose water, elder water, 
or orange flower water, stirring all the time with 
a fork or small whisk. "When cold it is fit for use. 

—A. M. M. 

For Colouring Sea Weed Red.— Dip the 
moss into a boiling solution of 1 oz. alum in 1 
pint water. Dry it. Make a solution of ^ oz. 
cochineal, l oz. cream tartar, one table-spoonful 
spirits hartshorn to ^ tumbler water. Dip in the 
moss, wring, and dry in the shade. 

Crystalized Grasses. — 9 oz. alum heated 
till dissolved. Put in the grass when the alum 



FOR COLOURING SEA WEED RED. 113 

water is cool enough to bear the hand ; watch it, 
and take it out when the crystals are large as you 
wish : dry them on papero If you wish colours, 
get a few powdered paints and sprinkle over, di- 
rectly it comes from the water : heat alum over 
when it becomes cold. — m. l, n>. 
10* 



CEMENTS. 

Cement for the Tops of Bottles or Jars. 

—Take equal parts of rosin and brick dust 
pounded fine, a lump of beeswax : stew them to- 
gether, and keep in an old tin, melting it when 
you want to seal your bottles or jars. 

To Stop Cracks in Iron Vessels. — Mix 

wood ashes and salt into a paste, with a little wa- 
ter : apply them, whether the vessels are cold or 
hot. 

Cement. — 3 parts ashes, 3 parts clay, and 1 
sand, is said to make a cement as hard as marble, 
and impervious to water. 

Liquid glue is good for vases, &c. 

Loose handles of knives and forks may be re- 
fastened by making a cement of rosin and brick 
dust. Heat the handle, and pour in the cement 
very hot. Seal engravers do this. 

Melt a little isinglass in spirits of wine, adding 
one-fifth water, and using a gentle heat ; when 
perfectly melted and mixed it will form a transpa- 
rent glue, which will unite glass so fast that the 
fracture will hardly be seen. 

To take out Fruit Spots. — Let the spotted 
part imbibe a little water without dipping, and 
hold the part over a lighted common ]3rimstone 
match, at a proper distance. The sulphurous gas 
which is discharged, soon causes the spot to dis- 
appear. 

(114) 



TO PRESERVE PENCIL DRAWINGS, ETC. 115 

To Preserve Pencil Dra-wings. — Lay 

them on the surface of skimmed milk : then take 
up one corner till it drains and dries. The milk 
must be perfectly free from cream, or it will grease 
the paper. 

Renovation of Manuscripts. — Take a 
hair pencil, and wash the effaced part with a solu- 
tion of prussiate of potash in water, and the wri- 
ting will again appear, if the paper has not been 
destroyed. 

Cleaning Prints. — Prints which have ex- 
isted for years, and perhaps centuries, transmitted 
from hand to hand, passing through auctions, ex- 
posed in shop windows, turned over and over 
again in dealer's folios, necessarily acquire an ac- 
cumulation of the dirt of ages ; and yet may not 
have the ill-luck to be actually stained or soiled, 
otherwise than by this gradual effect of exhibition 
and use. In such cases, the chief part of the soil- 
ing thus acquired, may be removed by pure water 
pierely. To effect this, the print is laid, face down- 
wards, in a vessel large enough to admit of the 
whole paper lying quite flat ; water boiling hot is 
then poured over it, sufficiently to cover it to the 
depth of an inch or more. The print is allowed 
to soak in the water, more or less time, according 
to circumstances. By degrees the dirtiness disen- 
gages itself from the surface into the water ; the 
print is then taken out, and passed through fresh, 
clear water, and lield or hung up, for the super- 
fluous moisture to run from it : and, when this has 
sufficiently taken place, it is laid between sheets 
of white French blotting-paper, and covered by a 
thick mill-board, weights being laid on it, so as to 
have the effect of a moderate press j and it is thus 



116 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

left till dry. Where there is mucli soiling to be 
removed, and of old standing, it may be allowable 
to use, gently and carefully, a soft hair brush, while 
the print is saturated with the water, to assist in 
the disengagement of the impurities. 

To Colour White Ribbons. — They should 
first be passed through water a little acid, to whiten 
them. For blue, put 1 oz. indigo into a bottle, with 
3 oz. blue vitriol. Fill the bottle one-third full to 
allow for fermentation : leave out the cork. Let it 
stand 2 weeks before using : shake it once a day 
for a week, and if too thick add water. 

This mixture, with warm water and alum, will 
colour any shade of blue in 5 minutes. 

A little tumeric, mixed with boiling water and 
alum, colours any shade of yellow ; scarlet lake 
and cream tartar, any shade of pink. 

A few drops of blue mixed with the pink, makes 
dove colour. 

To Mix White'wasli. — Pour a kettle of 
boiling water on a peck of unslacked lime ; put 
in 2 lbs. whiting, and i pint salt ; when all are 
mixed together, put in J oz. of Prussian blue, 
finely powdered ; add water to make it a proper 
thickness to put on a wall. 

White"wash for Buildings or Fences. — 
Put in a barrel 1 bushel of best unslacked lime ; 
pour on it 2 buckets of boiling water, and when it 
is mixed put in 6 lbs. fine whiting ; fill up the bar- 
rel with water, stir it well, and keep it covered 
from the rain ; let it stand several days before 
you use it, when stir it up ; thin it with milk as 
you use it, and put J a pint of salt to each bucket- 
ful. This makes a durable wash for a rough-cast 
or frame house, or for fences ; the salt prevents it 
from peeling off. 



USEFUL 



AND 



OEMENTAL WORK. 



(lit) 



LEATHER WORK. 

The leather used for this purpose is called 
Blank Leather, by dealers. It can be had at any 
Leather and Morocco store, at from 50 to 15 cents 
a skin. The leaves or flowers are to be drawn 
with a black lead pencil on the smoothest side of 
the leather, and then cut out with a small pair of 
pointed scissors — they are then to be thrown into 
a cup of clear cold water until they are saturated 
with moisture, when they are to be laid on a 
towel, and are ready for being shaped or veined, 
according to the shape and veiniug of the leaf or 
flower they are meant to represent (but never, as 
you love nature, according to your fancy) ; use your 
ingenuity to the utmost in devising modes of im- 
itating accurately, but do not try to invent other 
forms than her gracious hand supplies. Most 
leaves can be shaped by the finger, after the veins 
have been drawn upon the damp surface, which is 
best done with a rather blunt point of any thing 
almost — knitting needle or steel stiletto. Many 
flowers should be veined in the same manner, and 
most of them can be shaped by the finger — others, 
such as jasmin or convolvulus can be made cup- 
shaped, by pressing a round piece of leather into 
the mouth of a bottle, and drawing the edges 
down tightly over the lip of it — varying the size 
of the bottle to suit the size of the flower from the 
smallest homeopathic, up to any size required — 
they should be laid gently on a paper to dry, and 
are then ready for use. 

To ornament frames of all kinds, for mirrors, 

(119) 



120 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

pictures, &c., for brackets, baskets, bonnets, &c., 
&c., they can be fastened on surfaces by nailing, 
sewing (which is best when possible) or gluing. 
The arrangement of them, for different purposes, 
gives room for the exercise of nice taste and dis- 
crimination ; be careful to use the foliage proper 
to the flower, and do not surround grapes with 
rose leaves, nor jasmine with grape tendrils. 

If intended to represent carved wood, they may 
be varnished, but they lose something of delicacy 
and beauty in the process. 

The varnish should be best copal, applied with 
a camel's hair paint brush. 

The easiest way to draw the outlines, is to cut 
the intended shape out of thin pasteboard, (a visit- 
ing card, for instance;) lay it on the leather and 
trace round it with a pencil. — e. w. t. 

To make Twigs look like Coral. — Take 
clear rosin, dissolve it, and to every ounce of 
whicli add 2 drachms of the finest vermilion ; 
when stirred well together, choose the twigs and 
branches, peeled and dried; then take a pencil 
and paint the branches all over while the com- 
position is warm : afterwards shape them in imi- 
tation of natural coral. This done, hold the 
branches over a gentle fire till all is smooth and 
even, as if polished. White coral may be imi- 
tated with white lead, in the same manner. 

To take Impressions of Medals and 
Coins, &e. — Melt a little isinglass glue with 
brandy, and pour it thinly over the medal, so as to 
cover its whole suface ; let it remain on for a day 
or two, and then taking it off, it will be clear, and 
have an elegant impression of the coin. It will 
not soften in damp weather, as other glue. 



LAMP SHADES, ETC, 121 

Lamp Shades. — A variety of tasteful and 
beautiful shades may be made, by procuring large 
sheets of Bristol board, or fine map paper, cutting 
it the shape of the wire frame, making a scalloped 
edge and bottom, by placing a 25 cent piece on 
the edge and passing a pencil round it : then, 
when you have repeated this all along on both 
sides, cut half of the mark away. Now, with a 
shoemaker's punch strike holes in these scallops, 
and you are ready to make the wreath. Autumn 
leaves are elegant for this purpose : also, summer 
flowers. Sea. weed has been used, and is very de- 
licate and graceful. After putting on a few leaves, 
&c., with gum tragacanth, put large flat-irons on 
the work, and proceed. Some begin by painting 
a stem all across, and attaching the leaves, break- 
ing off their stems. "When you have completed 
the leaves, let them lie under pressure some hours. 
Cut coarse Tarlton muslin the shape, and with a 
little gum tragacanth, paste it to the scallops on 
both edges. Pare when dry. Join the shade care- 
fully last, with gum, pressing it with a flat-iron. 

Rustic Baskets. — Take a piece of wood four 
inches square ; have four pieces the width of tape 
three inches long. Tack these to the middle of 
each side of this square, in an inclined position : 
drive a tack through the top of each of these up- 
rights, take a piece of wire, pass it round these 
tacks and all around the basket, throw a handle 
over the top of the same, secure, and break it off; 
paint all green ; when dry, put arbae vitse around 
inside, and on the handle, intersperse flowers, 
and you have a very pretty shaped extempore 
vase of flowers ; if wet, it will last long. A 
piece of sponge, inserted below the flowers, keeps 
11 



122 THE HOUSE BOOK. ' 

up moisture. A novel basket for cut flowers may 
be made by cutting a ripe sun-flower with quarter 
yard of stem, inverting it, placing a wet sponge 
below, flowers and green above, two or three toy 
birds and real butterflies down the handle ; and, if 
you choose, varnishing the under part. It is then 
entirely water proof. 

Picture Frames. — There are several ways of 
making inexpensive frames. One is to have a 
bookbinder's board cut into any form the picture 
demands, pasting dark paper or muslin over it, 
and using the Norway fir cones for covering. 
Shell the larger leaves off the cone, cut them 
smooth and glue them over the frame, to lie as 
the shingles of a roof — or with the points inner, 
and overlying each other. You may purchase 
wall paper imitating several woods, and paste 
neatly over a pine or other picture frame. When 
dry, varnish with two coats copal, and at a dis- 
tance the illusion is almost complete. Toy cot- 
tages may be made in this way, of binders^ board 
cut into cottage form, with deep gables, glass 
pasted inside for windows, papering the sides, &c., 
then gluing on the roof, and afterwards the cones. 
Give two coats of copal varnish, when dry. 

Moss Basket. — Procure the beautifully green 
hanging moss from trees. Make a shallow flang- 
ing basket of pasteboard : sew this moss within 
and without ; keep it as a receptacle for the choice 
autumn gatherings of wood and field. It is very 
pretty. 

Potichomania. — Potichomania is the art of 
giving glass the appearance of ornamented porce- 
lain. Cut out carefully the designs which you 



COTTAGE FURNITURE. 123 

wish to employ. Arrange them on a table as you 
wish them to appear in your Potiche. Apply 
with a brush some gum in the inside of the Po- 
tiche, over the whole surface you wish to fix your 
cutting ; put in your cutting with care, and press 
every portion of it firmly to the glass, being care- 
ful to press out every particle of air. When your 
Potiche is entirely decorated, you will see that 
every thing is well secured ; apply a coat of gum, 
and smooth down the paper ; let it dry at least 
six hours, and again assure yourself that all is per- 
fectly smooth ; give the inside of the Potiche an- 
other thorough coat of gum ; let it dry again, during 
at least 6 hours. It may then be painted any colour 
desired, by either pouring the paint into the Po- 
tiche, and running it around, or using a brush. 
If a second coat of paint should be desired, let 
the first become perfectly dry before the second is 
applied. When carefully made, as handsome 
vases can be produced as the imported, and at 
one-tenth the cost. All the materials may be pro- 
cured at Keller & Bright's, S. W. corner Fourth 
and Chesnut streets. These vases cost from 20 
cents to $5. Pictures, per sheet, from 25 cents to 
$2 50. Paint and gum, 25 cents per bottle. 
Brushes 25 cents. 

Cottage Furniture — A number of inexpen- 
sive, convenient articles, may be 'made with a little 
ingenuity and calico, or mousseline, or moreen. 
If you have cane-seat chairs, which have become 
broken in the canes only, old merino or cloth may 
be tacked over, (putting thick muslin between,) 
then narrow gimping over the tacks. Give the 
chairs previously a washing in ammonia soap-suds, 



124 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

and a coat of copal varnish, and you have reno- 
vated them at little labour and cost. 

For Seats, — If you have an old hair trunk, it 
may be converted into a pretty and useful seat, by 
covering it with merino or moreen ; one on either 
side of a bed is useful for shoes and bonnets. You 
can get a neat table, and place for soiled clothes, 
by dressing a barrel with pink or blue chintz and 
lace over it, or furniture calico. Another way, is 
to get a carpenter to make you the frame for an 
hour-glass table. Dressed with furniture chintz, 
and pockets all round the top, it makes a very 
useful sewing table, for city or country. 

A Divan. — An exceedingly useful couch may 
be had at small cost, by having a carpenter to 
make a frame of common stuff, 6 feet long, 28 
inches wide, and 12 inches high. Have a sloping 
side-piece and head-piece cut out of a board : let 
the head-piece be 1 foot high, tapering to the 
whole width of couch : let the side-piece taper 
from the head : let this be 3 feet long. Have 
slats nailed across the bottom, or girth passed 
through holes bored in the sides. Let the side- 
piece and end be upholstered first, and nailed on : 
make a thick mattress of hay or straw for the 
bottom, and another of hair top. Cover with 
calico — a frill to reach the floor. There must be 
castors. One half of this divan may run under a 
bed, if the room is small. The best way to make 
a comfortable affair of it, is to let an upholsterer 
stuff it, and put in springs. This makes an addi- 
tional cost of 3 dollars. 

Bonnet Cases. — On leaving home, the trans- 
fer of a dress bonnet is often a difficulty. A neat 
article to carry a bonnet with caps inside of it, is 



MAKING SHOES. 125 

made Tby cutting a thick pasteboard into a half 
circle, first cutting a paper pattern that shape, 
which will enclose the face : cut 2 of these alike : 
cut a strip deep enough to enclose the bonnet : 
try it by putting in your bonnet. Get dark quiet 
coloured glazed paper, baste it over the paste- 
board, bind with ribbon the colour, make a lid 
to fit of the same, sew all together, and a loop or 
two, with button, will secure it from dust or wet. 
If you do not mind size, a bag of silk could be 
sewed to the top to hold any small light article, 
thereby avoiding the risk, in travelling, of losing 
small parcels. 

Another way is to procure a square box, with 
lid; make sides of Holland the height required 
for bonnet, have 4 pieces of wood the same height 
to stand in the comers, and you have a box which 
can be flattened at pleasure ; put into a trunk, and 
used at sea-side hotels, &c., where closets, &c., 
are not. 

Making Shoes. — ^Women may make slippers 
and gaiters, by purchasing a last, and the imple- 
ments sold at "Finding stores." Rip up an old 
gaiter ; cut out and make your uppers like it ; sew 
on tips of patent leather. Wet your sole, tack it 
wrong side out to the last, in three places. Tack 
the middle of your upper to the middle of instep 
of last, have a borer and a waxed end, and sew all 
round the shoe. When done, pound down the 
stitches with a hammer, turn the shoe, put it on 
the last again, pound the edges hard all round, 
and leave till dry. Next day you can make the 
other. Paste a linen sole lining ; or better, put 
in old thin soles, as the ones you make must ne- 
cessarily be so. One can make satin or kid slip- 
11* 



126 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

pers very easily, at a most trifling cost : they will 
do for the parlour of an evening. 

Making a Dress. — " Machine sewing" will 
do all parts of a dress, except button-holes ; and you 
may make your own body linings fit, by ripping 
the baste out of one on which your dressmaker is 
at work, laying it on strong brown paper, cutting 
and creasing, just where her seems are, and next 
time doing it yourself. 

Children's Toys. — It is interesting, when on 
a journey, or in the country, to gather moss, 
acorns, shells, sea grass, &c., and on returning 
have a cottage made of binders' board, and these 
glued or sewed on. They serve the double pur- 
pose of a remembrance for yourself, and a plea- 
sure for children. 

Toy Scrap Books. — It is well to save child- 
ish pictures, and wood-cuts of various kinds, (many 
of which give children an excellent idea of places,) 
and paste them into one of those large calico or 
worsted pattern books, which are called sample cards, 
and are of little use at the stores, after their season 
has passed. These books are lasting, and give 
much pleasure to children. Another way is, to 
select fancy-coloured muslin, then forming into 
leaves hemmed at the edges, upon which pictures 
may be pasted. Sew six of these together, and 
then join them. A stiff piece of pasteboard, co- 
vered with muslin, forms a nice binding. 

Dolls' Hats and Bonnets. — These articles 
may be made in gay coloured crotchet cotton, or 
wool, by the same receipts as are given for larger 
size in this book. A doll boy's hat is made by 
putting two stitches in one, when you come to the 



GUTTA PERCHA, ETC. 12T 

rim, then going round a few times, and finish. 
Starch them, and dry a bonnet on a tea-cup or 
bowl, and a hat on any circular article the size. 

Gutta Pereha. — A great amusement, blend- 
ed with design, may be offered children, by pur- 
chasing a piece of gutta pereha, and allowing them 
to melt it in hot water, and form it into shapes of 
animals, &c. It will teach, while it amuses. 

For Knitting Pitcher Purses. — Set on 8 

stitches to form 8 points : knit a round plain, 
then another, throwing the silk before the needle 
at each stitch. The next plain, putting on 8 
beads, which must be pulled through the stitch 
on to the right side. The next widen again 8 
times, then a plain round with 2 beads at each 
point, and so on, until 9 heads are on. 'Now you 
are done widening. Then another plain round, 
and another of 9 beads : when you begin to de- 
crease, 2 at every point, till it is finished. 

Knit 2 plain rounds before beginning purse 
stitch, putti^jg on 2 beads at once, every other 
one, so as to form diamonds, until 20 rows are 
knit: then 2 rows of beads round and round, 
knitting a plain round after each. Kib 2 and 2 
to form the neck, 26 rounds : then take off 6 
stitches for the handle to form the spout ; knit 
backwards and forwards ; take off 2 stitches at 
the end of the needle till but 18 remain, narrow- 
ing twice every other round as the beginning of 
each needle, just as you finish. Knit to the place 
for the handle, make 6 stitches ; then a plain 
round, a row of beads, another plain round, an- 
other row of beads, and then take them off. For 
handle knit the first stitch, then put on 5 beads, 
slip to the other end of needle, and a plain row, 



128 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

and so on till long enough. Put on the ring and 
sew just below the 2 rows; sew up the side; put a 
tassel on the bottom. — m. a. c. 

To Knit a Boy Doll.— Of zephyr i oz. for 
jacket : i oz. for pants : 3 skeins for cap — 3 flesh 
colour, 2 black, 1 white. Set on 35 stitches for 
the pants : knit 20 rounds plain. Narrow alter- 
nately at each end of needle. Narrow 4 times, 
knitting 3 rounds between each. Narrow t times, 
knitting 2 rounds between each. Narrow every 
round till there are 18 stitches. Take 9 stitches, 
and join on the white zephyr ; knit 1 row plain, 
the next seam, till there are 11 rows. Join the 
black to the other 9, and knit T rounds for the 
heel. Take up 8 stitches on each side, and nar- 
row every other round till there are 10 stitches. 
Knit as long as the white, and then knit round 
and round, one round seam and one plain, narrow- 
ing off at the toe. Knit 2 of these, sew each one 
up separately as far as it is narrowed, and join 
them together by the other part. 

For the jacket set on TO stitches ; knit 4 rounds 
for the polka ; knit this to the top of the pants, 
with 4 needles : knit 1 row plain, the next seam, 
and so on. Narrow 4 on each side to form the 
hips ; knit 18 rounds, then divide in half, and 8 
rounds will form the arm-hole. To form the 
shoulders, narrow 1 at each end of the needle, till 
there are 14 stitches. Take up 6 stitches at the top 
of the arm-hole, and widen by throwing the thread 
before the beginning of the needle, till there are 24 
stitches. Knit 13 rounds. Narrow 6 times, knit- 
ting 2 rounds between each. Narrow every round 
till there are 12 stitches. Head-knit 5 rows to 
the thumb, widening 2 under it. Take 4 middle 



TO KNIT A BOY DOLL. 129 

stitches, and knit on 2 needles, like guard chain, 

7 or 8 rows. Knit 2 or 3 rows, and then knit 4 
fingers like the thumb. Head-knit on 4 needles 
6 or 8 rows ; widen 4 under the mouth ; widen 1 
on each side behind, till there are 54 stitches. 
Knit plain up to the top of the nose, then take 3 
stitches with 2 other needles, and widen by throwing 
the thread before the needle, till there are 8 stitches ; 

8 or 9 rows make it long enough. Take up the 
3 stitches at top of nose, and knit round 6 rounds 
till high enough for the forehead. Work the eyes, 
cheek and mouth, with suitable colours ; then stuff 
with cotton. Hair is knit with 5 stitches plain, 
and binding off 2 ; press it with a wet cloth, and 
unravel the other 3 ; 2 or 3 rows of this sewed on 
the back of head. 

The cap, set up 50 stitches; knit 4 rounds, and 
then narrow one at each end of needle till none left ; 
sew up and trim with cord. Or a crotchet cap is 
pretty. Collar : 40 stitches, 5 or 6 rounds ; then 
a strip for the front of jacket, 32 stitches, 4 rounds, 
and knit on it, and 6 buttons put on it. — m. a. c. 



KNITTING, NETTING, 



AND 



CROTCHET. 



(130) 



A FEW EECEIPTS FOR KNITTING. 

A Sha"wl. — Purchase 4 oz. of split zephyr, 
(some prefer the Shetland wool.) Get 1-J oz. of 
this, of some quiet colour, for border : the rest, 
white. Cast on 400 stitches (upon large needles) 
of the colour ; narrow once in the middle of these 
stitches, which are all placed on 1 needle ; narrow 
also at the end of every row ; have your coloured 
zephyr divided into 4 parts ; use up ^ at first, 
then knit in as much white as you have coloured ; 
then use the other I of coloured, return to the 
white, and go on ; it is better to put in a red 
string to note the middle, as the narrowing in the 
middle must be regular. You finish with 1 stitch ; 
now ^ the shawl is made ; begin, and do another 
like it. Sew them together, it does not show, 
and your job is far less burly and discouraging. 
A split zephyr shawl, 2 yards square, costs little 
over one dollar — a Shetland, half that. A col- 
oured one made thus, of whole zephyr, would be 
strong and beautiful, but heavier. Small ties 
for head are made as above, casting on 150 
stitches, and finishing the neck by taking up the 
loops and putting on a border all round. 

Another. — A very pretty stitch for small work 
is made thus — Knit 1, knit 2 together : then draw 
the first stitch over the second, throw the thread 
over the needle : knit 3, throw the thread over 
the needle. Wrong side, heel. In the third 
round take care to knit for the 3 plain stitches, the 
2 loops, with the narrowed stitch, between them. 

Another. — Knit 3 plain stitches ; draw the first 
(132) 



A STAR PURSE, ETC. 133 

over the other two, throw the thread over the 
needle, knit three, draw the first over the second, 
and throw the thread over the needle. Wrong 
side, heel. In third round, put the hole in middle 
of the three plain stitches. 

A Star Purse. — 57 stitches on the needle, of 
green purse silk ; knit 1 row, heel ; second row, 
knit the first 8 plain, bind the first of these 3 
over the other 2, put the thread in front of the 
needle, and so on, in the same manner. Change 
the colour to white, after every seam row. — m. a. b. 

Mufflers. — Cast on 66 stitches of zephyr; rib 
it 2 and 1 ; knit thus for about 3 inches. Cast 
off, and net into the top 66 nets ; go around the 
second time by putting 2 into one j make a few 
more, and finish. — m. m. 

Gaiters. — Cast on 90 of dark or black tapes- 
try ; knit a few rows garter, and make holes for 
strings. (You do this by knitting two together, 
throwing over the thread ;) put it into ribs, 2 and 
2, narrowing every 9 rows at each end, till long 
enough to reach ankle ; then divide the whole into 
3 parts, leaving ^ front, the rest on either side ; 
put in another needle, cast on 46 stitches on the 
instep, and shape the front piece to your shoe, 
narrowing off at the side. 

Infant's Socks. — Cast on 24 stitches on each 
3 needles ; rib 1, slip and bind ; make T, and knit 
t also ; narrow 1 and rib ; do this times enough 
to have 11 holes deep ; put in coloured zephyr, 
rib every 5 rounds ; make 5 ribs deep for heel, 
narrowing it as in a tiny stocking. When the heel 
is taken up, let there be narrowing to 38. Nar- 
row 9 on the white instep before joining it to 
12 



134 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

zephyr. Make 4 ribs before narrowing off toe, 
beginninj^ with 6 and 6 betw^een ; let there be 20 
holes from top to end of instep.. — a. b. 

A pretty quick-made Sock. — Cast on 81 
stitches; knit 11 rows like garter, narrow and 
widen all across for holes ; knit 2 rows more ; knit 
9 rows and bind off ; commence at the back of 
sock, knit the 11, take up the 9 on instep, then 
cast on 1 1 at the end of needle ; knit 9 more rows, 
narrow on the 10th, 11th and 12th; bind off. 
Commence at the toe and take up 11 ; take up 1 
on instep, draw the Uth over 12th, leaving 11 ; 
knit 9 rows across, take up tte 9 on the opposite 
side : then knit the 11 rows, then the 9 ; narrow 
on the 10th, 11th, 12th. Bind off.— m. e. 

A Round Guard. — Cast on 4 stitches ; knit 
them, then slip them to the other end of needle, 
and pull the first stitch tightly. This makes a 
round string, and soon done. 

For Knitting Shoes. — Cast on 24 stitches, 
3 rows thrown up and 4 knit plain, for 31 ribs. 
Throw on 24 for the instep, finishing the toes with 
19 ribs. Commence narrowing the 4th rib from 
the instep, narrow once at each end of the needle 
on every plain row, for 3 rows ; then narrow every 
plain and every rib until it is small enough, leav- 
ing 27 stitches at the end. Take up the stitches 
at the top for the edge, according to fancy. 1 oz. 
of worsted for a pair of shoes. 

Directions for Knitting an Infant's 
Cap. — Cast 45 stitches of double zephyr on a 
wooden needle ; knit 4 times across the needles ; 
then slip off the first stitch, turn the zephyr twice 
round the needle, and knit two together ; continue 



WASH MITTEN, ETC. 135 

this to the end of the needle, then 4 times across ; 
then the narrowing and widening row, or the. 
zephyr wound twice round the needle, and the 
stitches, after you knit 4 rows of holes, and 4 
plain rows, then take 10 stitches off each end 
of the needles, and tie them up to prevent them 
running down ; then knit the remaining 25 
stitches with the 4 plain rows, and the row of 
holes between ; on the third row of holes narrow 
1 stitch, on the middle of the needle; on the 
fourth row of holes, narrow 1 stitch on the middle 
of the needle ; on the fifth row of holes, narrow 2 
stitches on the middle of the needle ; on the sixth 
row of holes, narrow 2 stitches on the middle of 
the needle. Then knit 3 rows of plain knitting, 
when you come to the end of the third row ; then 
take up the stitches along the side of the crown 
and knit up the 10 stitches you tied up ; then 
knit back, and take up the stitches on the oppo- 
site side of the crown, and the 10 stitches you 
tied up ; then knit a row of holes, and 4 plain 
rows ; continue this until you arrive at the sixth 
row of holes, when you widen 1 stitch on each 
side of the needle ; then widen two stitches on 
the seventh needle, widen 3 stitches on the eighth 
row of holes, and widen 4 stitches on the ninth 
row of holes ; then knit 4 rows of holes, and the 
4 plain rows between — 4 plain rows complete the 
cap. Put cotton in the hem. 

Wash Mitten.—Cast on 50 of IS'o. 8 tidy 

cotton : make it J yard long, narrowing 4 or 5 

times at the end of last rows. Sew it up, all but 
a thumb-hole. — e. n. 

Tidy Edging.— Cast on 9: knit the first 3 
stitches plain, leaving 6 at the left end : turn in the 



136 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

cotton, knit 2 together, do again and again : turn in 
the cotton, and the 2 last, plain : next row plain : 
continue the above till 9 holes are made ; then 
knit 2 plain rows between, and reverse it, by nar- 
rowing after the first stitch is knit, where you wi- 
dened before, and throw over the thread just as 
above. — m. e. 

Chair Tidy. — Cast on 11*7 stitches : knit the 
first 3 rounds like a stocking : slip the first stitch 
loosely, narrow the next 8 to 4 : make a stitch, knit 
a stitch, and so on till there are 1 made stitches : 
make a stitch, narrow 1, and go on as it is com- 
menced : knit 3 rounds between this. Get No. 8 
cotton — ^ lb. makes 2. 

Honey-comb Stitch.— Knit 3 rows so as to 
be all pearled (or heeled) on the right side : then 
slip off 2, and knit 3 all across : do this 5 times 
in succession : then again pearl the 3 rows, knit- 
ting all the stitches, when these 3 rows are made. 
There will be occasional widening or narrowing 
needful in this stitch, at the end of needle, as it is 
not right without there are 3 on the end, when 
commenced with 3 ; or narrowed to 2, when 2 is 
the commenced number. Upon beginning every 
other figure, you must reverse it, as above said. 
This makes a rich bureau or table cover, but is 
tedious. — L. A. s. 

Lily Bell. — 6 plain, 4 seamed between them, 
go all across : begin by seaming 4 ; then cast 
on 6, knit 4, seam, and so on across. Do this for 
9 rows : then narrow each side of bell till there is 
but 1. Begin another row of bells by seaming 
4 : cast on 6, as above : then seam 1, narrow 1. 
and there are 4 between, as above. Go on in this 
way till the toilet cushion is done. This is a very 
beautiful stitch. 



NETTma. 

This is convenient for pick-up work, or parlour, 
evening or conversation work ; the operation be- 
ing only mechanical, and not requiring much sight 
or attention. 

A Sha"wl. — 60 loops cast on : 2 rows of a 
colour, using 6 shades of zephyr : the same num- 
ber of white, make 10 stripes for centre. For the 
border in the first row put 3 loops in each mesh : 
on the fourth and fifth from the point behind, put 3 
in each mesh : then the first, second and third from 
point, put 4 in each mesh : in the point, put 5. 
At the commencement of each row of the border 
widen 1. This shawl takes T oz. tapestry; the 
centre one has a mesh three-fourths of an inch 
deep : that which goes round last but one, being 
two and a half do. 

A Very Elegant Tidy — Is made by casting 
on 60 loops, and narrowing down to 1 ; break it 
off and begin at the 60, tapering off that side. 
The mesh used first row should be a degree less 
in size, to allow for the loop being removed. If 
40 sewing cotton is used, and the tidy darned in 
figures or flowers, you have a lace-like affair. 

Bottle Stand. — Put on 25, with a mesh the 
size of a dress whalebone : 6 rows of these ; then 
put two into every one, and make 10 rows ; then 
do not widen, but put in a large mesh ; make 16 
rows with 8 shades — 1 row of each shade, and re- 
verse it ; finish it off as you commenced. This 
made of green, shaded, is moss-like and beautiful. 
12* (13t) 



138 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

A Tidy, which has an unusual effect, may be 
made by netting straight along (the size you wish), 
with a small whalebone, and every row missing 1 
loop, and taking and netting the next ; being care- 
ful to alternate at the beginning of row. It is best 
to put in a red mark, which you did last. Use 40, 
spool cotton. 



CROTCHET. 

It is impossible to enumerate the beautiful and 
useful articles which may be made with this little 
implement — the crotchet needle. It is peculiarly 
convenient — takes up no room, and mostly can be 
when and where no other work would be admis- 
sible. It may be made to fill up those tedious 
" waiting" moments known to all our experience. 

A Table Cover. — Procure ^ lb. 'No. 8 tidy 
cotton : cast it on by making a chain of 5, link- 
ing it, widening as for a mat, and putting in any 
patterns to form a variety. These are pleasant be- 
neath a gas-burner, and either save a costly cover, 
or hide a shabby one. 

Crotchet Bonnet. — 5 spools, No. 8 crotchet 
cotton ; begin at crown, widen till 14 rounds are 
completed ; then do 9 plain rounds ; then widen 1 
in every 10, on the tenth round ; then put in a 
black thread to mark the middle of the back. 
There must be 12 stitches left in the middle of 
back, and the thread begun on the right side — 
commencing the first 3 or 4 stitches in single 
crotchet, break off the thread at the end of the 
rows. Begin next row 2 off from the last, stop- 
ping do. : do this T times, which gives slope 
enough for the neck. Now the face is to be 
begun, by beginning at the first stitch and widen- 
ing 1, also at the last : break off the thread each 
row : do this while making 18 rows. You are 
now ready for finish of face and cape. Crotchet 
all round the bonnet 10 times, widening once in 

(139) 



140 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

every 10 stitches on each row ; also, when you 
come to the ears, doing all behind single crotchet. 
The bonnet is double, and looks more chip-like 
made on wrong side. This bonnet can be done 
up at home to look well. Borrow a block from 
your milliner, first putting the bonnet in the wash, 
then starching stiffly and rough-dry: save some 
of the starch, and when dry dip again, and rough- 
diy. Then have the block ready, put the bonnet 
in clear cold water a moment, wring it out dry and 
block it, putting pins at the ears and ends. Set 
in a chair in the sun, throwing a lace over it to 
save soil, while drying. 

Another, open work. — Cast on 4 loops, widen 
for 18 rows : then do 20 rows without widening : 
then drop It loops and do 32 rows, widening at 
each ear : then 4 rows all round the i3onnet, (save 
just behind :) then 1 round the face of larger 
loops. — c. s. 

A very pretty finish to crotchet table covers and 
cake tidies is, to make a chain of 5 : then make a 
bag in single crotchet large enough to hold a 
cherry stone ; put it in and work over it. 

Crotchet Shawl. — 5 oz. Shetland wool ; cast 
on a chain as long as you wish the shawl in size. 
Put 4 double crotchet into 1 : leave 2 between, 
and repeat this all across : next row do the very 
same into the centre of the 4 double crotchet 
stitches all across. You will find a very coarse 
needle will make the work more open and elegant. 
Crotchet all round any pattern you wish, in any 
colour. Here is a useful shawl for 62 cents. 



STRAY RECIPES AND USEFUL 
ARTICLES. 

One of the " minor miseries," in our houses, is 
an army of ants. A chemist informs me they may 
be routed by making a solution of corrosive su- 
blimate 1 oz., sal ammoniac 1 oz., water 8 oz. 
Mix and dissolve. Apply this with a hair pencil, 
to all the places where they "most do congregate." 

Flies. — It is all a mistake — ^the use of cobalt 
and fly paper, &c. They like it, eat it, and die ; 
but scores of other flies come to the funeral, who 
else would not. It is far better, on pleasant days, 
to burn pepper, or any spice, on a shovel, in the 
room. They hate spices, and will flee. 

Hints for Seamstresses. — Sewing cotton, 
such as comes for the use of " Wilson's Sewing 
machines," and called " waxed cotton," is very 
pleasant to sew with, there being no need of wax. 

Needles. — The best sewing needles now in 
use, are said to be "Bate's." 

Moths. — Drawers or wardrobes, where wool- 
ens are kept, should be occasionally emptied, and 
left open to the influence of fresh air and sun- 
shine, and all the corners cleared from dust. 
This, and taking care never to put away clothes 
damp, will be most likely to prevent the moth. 

Bake Irons. — The smell of griddle cakes 
baking, may be avoided by the use of a soap-stone 
griddle, it requiring to be greased once, and only 
once. Costs $1. 

(141) 



142 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

Nuts at Table. — These may be cracked easily 
and rapidly, by the use of Blake's Nut Cracker. 
Costs 50 cents. 

Moist Bread. — There is a nice box of Ja- 
panned tin, now in use, for keeping bread and 
cake from the air, (which always dries both.) 
Costs from $1 to $3. 

Laundry Iron. — This is a complete iron for 
small articles, both ends pointed, and the face 
highly polished. Costs 31 cents. 

Iron Holders. — Sheet iron next the handle ; 
stuffed, and buckskin next the hand. Cost 25 
cents. 

Liquid Polish. — Embrie's liquid polish, for 
brass, Britannia and tin-ware, performs what it 
promises. It is excellent. Costs 25 cents per 
bottle. — All the above named articles may be had 
at E. W. Carryl's House Furnishing store, 162 
Chestnut street. 

Clough's Premium Furniture Polish. — 

In use by some of our best cabinet makers. Costs 
3Y cents per bottle, and may be had of J. S. 
Clough, 138 Chestnut street. 

Premium Liquid Stove Polish. — This is 
not only more convenient than the powder, but 
will bear to be applied while the stove is hot, 
easily taking a polish, and emitting a pleasant 
smell. For grates or portmantles, thin it a little 
with soft water. Costs 25 cents. 

Almanac. — This fancy instrument is about 
the size of a ten dollar gold piece, and richly gilt. 
It is so constructed, that by adjusting on the first 
day of the month, you can tell at an instant's 



SILVER GLASS DOOR KNOBS, ETC. 143 

glance the day of the month and week. It answers 
for not only a year, but for all coming time. It 
is pretty for a Caba. Costs 25 cents. Can be 
purchased at J. S. Clough's, 138 Chestnut street. 

Silver Glass Door Knobs. — These are a 
most desirable article for street and parlour doors. 
Requiring no cleansing, they are always bright and 
elegant. Being covered with glass, however, 
they will not bear a blow, but with care will last 
for years. They cost $1 15 for front door, and $1 
12^ for bell pull. May be purchased at Dilworth, 
Branson & Co.'s, IS Market street. 

Cooking Extracts. — These, in a highly con- 
centrated form, are both economical and conve- 
nient. Rose, lemon, vanilla and bitter almond, are 
desirable in cooking. They may be had at Rush- 
ton's, 170 Chestnut street. 

Rose and Teaberry Tooth Paste.^ — These 
are said to contain nothing injurious to the teeth, 
and are purifying and fragrant. 

Antimephitic Aromatic Vinegar. — This 
is desirable for sick rooms and crowded halls, be- 
ing fragrant and reviving. Yerbena water is also 
a desirable article for the sick room. 

Chapped Hands. — There is a nice prepara- 
tion called "Amandine," which is very desirable 
for the toilet in winter. 

The Transparent Ball Soap is the best for ordi- 
nary use on the toilet. For shaving, the " Sa- 
ponaceous Compound" finds great favour, where 
used. These may all be had at Rushton's, (late 
Jules Hauel,) 110 Chestnut street. 



144 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

Potiehomania — Is the art of imitating the 
painting on glass or China, and it is truly the imi- 
tation of the most elegant of the Chinese porce- 
lain, Sevres, Japanese or Etruscan vases, and with 
care they are so closely imitated that none but 
connoisseurs can discover, at first sight, the differ- 
ence. The work is very beautiful and very simple, 
and the materials far its manufacture are few and 
inexpensive. First choose some coloured figures, 
representing birds, flowers, &c., rich and clear in 
their colours. The ground colour of the Chinese 
porcelain, is, in general, a greenish white: the 
Sevres, a bluish white : while the Etruscan is almost 
a cane colour. A pair of very fine pointed scis- 
sors will be needed, and a sharp penknife. Have 
ready your vase, select your figures, and proceed 
to cut them out of the sheet with the scissors, 
keeping very close to the work ; a trifle within is 
better, for no white edges must be seen. After 
they are all cut, arrange them on a sheet of paper 
in the way and the place they are to occupy in the 
vase ; afterwards gum them very evenly and care- 
fully on the coloured side. Let them lay until 
the gum rather thickens, and the paper softens : 
then take them up carefully, and place them in 
their proper place on the inside of your vase. 
Press them carefully, with a bit of old linen rag, 
tight to the glass, and exclude all air from be- 
tween them and the glass ; otherwise bubbles will 
be formed and the work will be spoiled. When all 
are arranged, wipe away the gum that has touched 
the glass, and all soil and finger marks. After all 
is dry and clean, varnish the back of the prints 
with the gum ; when this is quite dry, paint the 
inside of the vase the colour you have selected, 
not by using the brush in the ordinary way, but 



POTICHOMANIA. 145 

by gently touching the inside, as if by a constant 
succession of taps; if not, the prints may be 
loosed from their places. The antennae of the 
butterflies, and many other parts, may be put in 
gold, or by drawing the parts in gum-water, and 
passing gold bronze over them. This must be 
done before the ground is laid. Use all your 
colours clear and bright : the brighter they are the 
better they will appear, and where gold is used, 
the shell, or prepared gold of the artists' kind.— 
ANN s. STEPHENS. (See page 121.) 
13 



HINTS FOU MAKING A CITY GARDEN. 

Many of the yards in cities are small, and not 
much visited by the sun. By a little attention, 
even a shady yard with " raoss-covered" bricks, 
may be made to show other signs of verdure than 
this, by planting such shrubbery as will not only 
bear the shade, but do better there. To remove 
the green from bricks, as well as directions for 
reddening them, see page 109. 

The garden implements needed, are^ — a light 
hoe, a garden trowel, a watering pot, and a vari- 
ety of seeds, roots and bulbs, which can be ob- 
tained at any of the florists'. 

Prepare the soil, if clayey, by putting on a cov- 
ering of sand 3 inches deep, and the same depth 
of well-rotted manure. Spade it in as deep as 
possible, and mix it well. Ashes are good for all 
kinds of soil, as they loosen those which are close, 
hold moisture in those that are sandy, and destroy 
insects. The best kind of soil is that which will 
bold water the longest, without becoming hard 
when dry. 

For Pot Plants. — Take one-fourth common 
soil, one-fourth well- decayed manure, and half ve- 
getable mould from the woods. Break up the 
manure, sift it .through a coarse sieve, mix the 
materials thoroughly. 

Planting Seeds. — Never plant when the soil is 

very wet. When the seeds are small many should 

be planted together, that they may assist each 

other in breaking the soil. Never water with very 

(146) 



TRANSPLANTING, ETC. I4t 

cold water. It is best to plant seeds at two dif- 
ferent times, lest the first should fail, owing to wet 
or cold weather. 

Transplanting. — Transplant at evening, or 
just before a shower. Set them a little deeper 
than before, and press the soil firmly round them. 
Water and cover them a day or two. If the soil 
just around has not been removed, transplanting 
retards but little. 

To Re-pot House Plants. — Renew the soil 
every year, soon after the time of blossoming. 
Prepare soil as above. Loosen the earth from the 
pot by passing a knife round the sides. Turn the 
plant upside down, remove the pot, and remove all 
the matted fibres at the bottom, and all the earth 
except that which clings to the roots. From 
woody plants, like roses, shake off all the earth. 
Take the new pot and put a piece of broken earth- 
enware over the hole at the bottom, and then 
hold the plant in a proper position, shake in the 
earth around it. Now pour in the water to settle 
the earth, and heap in fresh soil till the pot is full. 
Small pots are better than large ones, as the roots 
are not so likely to rot from excess of moisture. 

Bulbs, &c. — Plant the crocus in 10th mo. 
(Oct.) ; cover 2 inches deep and 4 apart. Hya- 
cinths at the same time, 8 inches apart and 3 or 
4 deep, in a rich soil, jonquils at the same time, 
2 inches deep. These should not be taken up oft- 
ener than once in 3 years. Narcissus also, in this 
month, 4 inches deep, covered with straw and 
leaves through the winter, and uncovered the 
middle of 3d mo., (March.) Plant tulips in rich 
soil at this time, 3 inches deep. Plant tube roses 



148 THE HOUSE BOOK. ^ 

late in the 4tli mo,, (April,) in a rich soil. They 
are delicate and should be covered, in case of 
frosts. Daffodils should be planted 2 inches deep. 
Bulbs, in glasses, must have the water changed 
every week. 

When they have done flowering, they should be 
dried, and put in a dry place till 10th mo., (Oct.,) 
when they are to be re-planted, taking off the off- 
sets, and putting them in a bed by themselves. 

Annuals. — These should be so planted that 
the tallest may be behind, and flowers of similar 
colour should not be near each other. Many of 
one kind are prettiest together. 

Verbenas. — These flowers are now very po- 
pular. It is best to plant them out in 4th mo., 
(April,) watering them in dry weather, and they 
will flower profusely, lifting some of the plants be- 
fore frost, for winter flowering. They ought to 
be allowed to run according to their nature, for if 
tied up, they will not do so well, being in that 
way much exposed. The purple kind, left out, 
wdll survive the winters of Philadelphia. 

Pot Plants. — The best situation for plants, in 
pots, is to shade them from the sun, and fully ex- 
posed to the air while blooming. Myrtles and 
Oleanders are very subject to the white scaly in- 
sect, and before the heat of summer begins they 
should be well cleansed. 

Plants coming into Flo"wer. — Examine 
the beds and keep down the weeds. A garden 
well kept is easily kept. Paint green all the sticks 
which are to be used as props. Sixpence worth 
of green paint refreshes thrice its cost. 

Daisies may be planted out in shady places : the 



CLIMBERS ANNUAL CLIMBERS, ETC. 149 

sun destroys them during summer, if exposed. 
Hydrangeas do well in the shade, and will bloom 
in summer, even if left out in the winter. 

Climbers. — The most beautiful perennial climb- 
ers are sweet-scented monthly honeysuckle, white, 
yellow, and coral do., clematis, purple glycene and 
pea. 

Annual Climbers. — The most desirable are 
white and buff thunbergia, morning glory, red and 
white cypress. The latter two are very pretty, 
planted thickly round the bare trunk of a tree, 
and trained upon strings to the branches above ; 
planted in a line, and trained on a net, these two 
vines look well also. 

Scarlet sage, snowberries and chrysantheums 
pay better for their keep, than almost any other 
products of our city gardens — coming after nearly 
all other flowers have gone, and bearing slight 
frosts, if covered at nightfall. 

Roses. — Uoses in a garden are "a joy for- 
ever." The most desirable for cities, are — the 
grevillie, which will bear any Philadelphia winter : 
the tea, which, with a slight protection, will also : 
the daily, than which no rose is hardier : the moss, 
somewhat difficult of culture, if not in a rich sandy 
soil ; but if fairly established in a rich deep loam, 
its permanency is sure : the prairie rose, "whose 
constitution is such," says Buist, "that it will 
bear the icy breezes of the St. Lawrence, or the 
melting vapours of the Mississippi." It is adapted 
for covering rock-work, old buildings, &c. It 
also delights in a procumbent posture, and can be 
used to make a flowery carpet of every shade of 
colour. Last, but not least, I can recommend the 
hermosa as being most desirable. The exquisitely 
13* 



150 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

cupped form of the flower, blooming on and on, 
through the autumn, renders it a perfect charm 
round a cottage, or in a city yard. 

These varieties may be obtained of Landreth & 
Son, 21 South Sixth street. 

Grape Vines. — Every one can, with ease, have 
a rich supply of grapes. A grape vine is orna- 
mental, even without its fruit. But a few feet of 
ground are needed — ^under a window, beside a 
door or lattice, in a corner of the yard, close under 
a fence : or, if in the country, near the roots of 
some old stump or tree, or on some hill-side, amid 
rocks and ledges, where, for other purposes, the 
ground is useless ; on the bank of some dancing 
brook, or down on the sunny side of some old 
rock, where beneath its grey mossy side gushes 
forth a spring of crystal water, near which the 
grape almost always does well. Many kinds of 
them are so easily cultivated, and so hardy, that it 
seems wrong to find a dwelling without one. 

The Isabella, Catawba and Elsinburg, best repay 
culture. Previous to planting the vines, care 
should be taken that the ground be well prepared 
for some distance around, for the roots to spread. 
The soil should be deep and dry, and some rich 
compost, or vegetable mould, should be used 
around the roots in filling in : a handful or two of 
wet ashes may be added : plant in 3d mo. (March.) 
It has been proved repeatedly, that the best ma- 
nure for vines, is the branches pruned from the 
vines themselves, cut into small pieces, and mixed 
with the soil by means of a garden hoe. Dr. Lie- 
big mentions several instances of vines being 
kept in a thriving condition for from ten to thirty 
yearSj by the trimmings of vines alone. If guano 



APPLES, PEAES AND PEACHES, ETC. 151 

is used, 4 lbs. to 33 gallons of water is quite 
strong enough. A very good manure for vines is 
said to be made by saving all the leaves, and dig- 
ging them in. In the vicinity of Philadelphia, a 
southern exposure is best. There are various me- 
thods of training and pruning the vine : it having 
a tendency to produce its most vigorous shoots at 
the extremities of the branches, and particularly 
so at those which are situated highest ; it generally 
happens when it is trained high, that the greater 
portion of the fruit is borne near the top : and 
the fruit produced on the vigorous shoots is gene- 
rally more abundant, and of finer quality than that 
produced on the short lateral ones, from which 
circumstance high training seems best calculated 
for city gardens. It is said that ripe grapes, 
gathered in dry weather, if placed between layers 
of cotton, and kept at a temperature just above 
the freezing point, will keep till spring. 

Apples, Pears and Peaches. — Having 
visited an orchard near Philadelphia, where the 
yield of fine apples and peaches was wonderful, I 
was induced to inquire the method of culture. 
The owner (Edward Garrett) informed me, that 
in the spring he bathes the trunk, and far into the 
branches, with soft soap thinned with lye. When 
the late frosts (which destroy the peach blossoms 
in so many parts of our country,) touch the open- 
ing flowers, he sprinkles plaster upon these flowers, 
carefully going over the whole orchard. These 
peach trees have been in fine bearing for 1*7 years ! 
He finds that corn and potatoes do well in this 
orchard, while wheat, sown in a corner of it one 
season, he believes was the means of killing several 
fine peach trees. 



152 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

Garden Vases. — Purchase the earthenware 
garden vases, which may be had at the principal 
potteries ; paint them several coats of white, mar- 
bling at the last, if you like it, and you have 
vases which are just as beautiful as the costliest 
ware. 

Another. — Take empty kegs in which white lead 
comes, have two colours paint ready, (one white,) 
paint the hoops on both ends white, and half the 
staves alternately ; when three coats of this are 
dry, paint the other staves drab or green : drab is 
prettiest ; and you have a neat garden tub, which, 
in the country, has a pretty effect, and serves 
either for plants, or as a receptacle for weeds, 
which may be pulled up about the grounds. 

The wire and iron garden furniture, are great 
embellishments to our city yards : from the grape- 
vine arbour to the flower stand and cypress trainer : 
while the iron sofas add much to comfort and 
beauty. Yery elegant articles in this line may be 
had at No. 233 Market street. 

Rock Work. — This has a very pleasing effect 
in our city yards, especially if a fountain be the 
central ornament. There is, in Philadelphia, a 
most refreshing one, where the water, dripping 
over and through the rock work, moistens and 
keeps alive a variety of mosses and ferns gathered 
from interesting localities in Europe. These rock- 
eries are made by arranging stones or rocks in 
such shapes as will be agreeable to the eye, leav- 
ing room between them for the growth of ferns, 
climbers, mosses, and other plants, which natu- 
rally flourish among rocks. 



INDEX. 



-*♦>- 



PAGE 

Acid, Oxalic 112 

Apples, Iced 61 

Tapioca 62 

Float 62 

Crab 76 

to Keep 95 

Pare 98 

Apples, 151 

Ants, to Kill 107 

Annuals, 146 

Almanac, 142 

Arrow Root, 89 

Asparagus, 33 

Bark, Slip. Elm 85 

Baskets, Rustic 121 

Bandoline, 100 

Barley Water, 89 

Basket, Moss 122 

Bake Irons, 141 

Beer, Penny 80 

Ginger 80 

Horehound 81 

Bee^ Frizzled and Liver 16 

Hashed 19 

Boileau 21 

Alamode 21 

Boast 21 

Steak 29 

Pickled 44 

Beans, String 34 

Lima 85 

Pickled 43 

Biscuit, Milk 8, 9 

Tea 60 

Blancmange in Eggs, 96 

Bleaching Liquid, 104 

Blackberries, 89 

Blackberry Syrup, 89 

Broth, Mutton and Beef. 88 

Bonnet Case, 124 

Bread, Moist 142 

Wheat 6 

Rye and Bran 7 

Butter, 7 

Drawn 39 



PAGE 

Buns, Philadelphia 51 

Burlington 51 

Buena Vista 51 

Buns, 55 4 

Bulbs, 147 

Burns, Cold Water for 90 

Cake, Soda 10 

Batter 10 

Flannel 10 

Buckwheat 11 

Buttermilk 11 

Corn Batter 12 

Cornmeal 12 

without Eggs 12 

Lady 50 

Golden 50 

Silver 50 

Poor Man's 51 

Cocoa Pound 61 

Bread... 51 

Cocoa-Nut 51 

Sponge 52 

Grafton. 52 

Albany 52 

Meat 27 

Pound 52 

Cup 53 

Black 54 

1, 2, 3, 4 54 

Kisses 54 

Jelly 54 

Scotch 54 

Loaf. 54 

without Eggs 54 

Crullers 54 

Calf's Head, 24 

Cauliflower,..., 35, 40 

Carrigen, 66 

Cabbage, Boil 35 

Calicoes, to Wash 104 

Cap, Infant's 134 

Candy, Molasses 70 

Cans, Self-Sealing 77 

Carbonated Drink, 80 

Carpets, Cleansed 106 

(153) 



154 



INDEX. 



PAGE I PAGE 

Cherry Vinegar, 79 'Flavors, Peach and Rose 56 

Cherries, Sweet Pickled 44 'Floating Island, r4 

Chocolate, 86] Flour, Patent 30 

Chops, Mutton 27 I Flummery, Rice C7 

Cheese Head, 30 [ Floors, &c., staining 107 



Flies, 141 

Fowls, Boiled 23 

Fricassee 31 

Fritters, ciam 16 

Corn 16 

?tale Bread 63 

Snow 67 

Bun 97 



Chapped Hands, 143 

Lips 90 

Chicken Fricassee, 34 

Chicken, Broiled 23 

Clams, Fried 27 

Climbers 149 

Clothes Dryer, 104 

Corns, to Prevent 91 

Court' Plaster, 92 

Cottage Furniture, 123 

Cologne, 100 Furniture, Polish- 
Corn, to Keep 93 

Coffee, 14 

Cork from a Bottle, IDS 

Coral Twigs 120 

Combs, Cleansing 107 

Corn, Green, to Boil 34 

Cookery for the Sick >. 85 

Croquettes, 29 

Cream, Ice 66 

Snow 66 

Whipped 67 



Fruit, Frosted 75 

142 



Cold 112!Gravy, Turkey 



Gas Cooking, 83 

Gaiters, to Make 133 

Gingerbread, Hard 50 

Mountain 49 

GJngerlbreadNuts, 49 

Goose, Roast 25 

Gruei; Corn 88 

Oatmeal 88 

Grasses, Crystalize 112 

Grape Tines, 150 



Cutlets, Veal 2 

Cucumbers, Pickled 40 

Custard, Apple 60 

Cold 63 

Boiled 86 

Baked 97 

Custard Pudding,...: 63 

Dentrifices, 91, 143 

Divan, 124 

Dolls' Hats, 126 

Dolls, Boy 12S 

Door Knobs, 143 

Doughnuts, 54, 55 

Dress, Make 126 

Drawings, to Preserve 115 

Dressing, 39 

Dumplings, Drop 20 

Ducks, Roast 26 

Edging, Tidy 135 

Eggs, Boiled 14 

to Keep 94 

Egg Plant 16 

Extracts, Cooking 143 

Fish, Rock 31 

Fry Fresh 32 

Jioil 32 



22 

Gutta Percha, 127 

Guard, a Round 134 

Ham, Fried 16, 24= 

Bake a 24 

Hams, Salt 45 

Premium 45 

House Plants, Re-pot 145 

Hominy, Boil 33 

Fry. 33 

Icing, 55 

Ironing, 106 

Iron Holders, 142 

Ink, Durable 110 

Jam, Quince 96 

Jelly, Calves' Foot 68 

Gelatine 69 

Tapioca 68 

Currant 69 

Apple 69 

Rice 69 

Quince 69 

Jumbles, 60 

Ketchup, Tomato 43 

Lamp Shades, 121 



INDEX. 



155 



PAGE 

Laundry Iron, 1*2 

Leather Work, 119 

Lemonade, 80 

Mock 80 

Portable 81 

Liver, Fried 27 

Dried 45 

Liquid Polish, 142 

Loaf, Cinnamon 50 

Macaroni, 39 

Marmalade, Quince 74 

Mixed 74 

Marble Mantles Cleansed, 109 

Manuscripts Renovated, 115 

Mangoes, Pickled 41 

Martinoes, Pickled 40 

Meat Pudding under, 23 

Measures, 49 

Meringue Apple, 61 

Medicine, 83 

Medals, to take Impression of 120 

Mitten Wash, 135 

Milk and Earina Boiler, 98 

Moths, 141 

Mutton, Roast 23 

Mufflers, 133 

Needles, 141 

Nuts at Table, 142 

Nurse's Home,.....* 83 

Nursing, 84 

Oil-cloth Wash, 109 

Okra, 93 

Omelet, Baked 15 

Tomato 16 

Onions, Boil 37 

Pickle 42 

Oysters, Stew 47 

Plant 16 

Fry 27 

Scalloped 28 

Pickled 47 

Parsnips, 35 

Pastry, 56 

Another, simpler, 57 

Paste for Papering, HI 

Painting, HI 

Paint, Economical HI 

Panada, 86 

Panada, Egg 87 

Barley 87 

C. F. B. M 87 

Chicken Water 87 

Peas, 35 



PAGE 

Peaches, Spiced 43 

Pickled 44 

Uncooked 97 

Pears,. 151 

Peaches, 151 

Picture Frames, 122 

Pigeons, 26 

Pig, Roast 2-2, 

Pie, Oyster 57 

Pot 5S 

Mince 58 

Apple 58 

Pie Plant 59 

Planting Seeds, 144 

Plants coming into Flower, 146 

Plant, Egg 38 

Plums, 44 

Plums, Crystalized 75 

Pork, Pickled 44 

Potatoesj Sweet 94 

White 95 

Potato Masher, 98 

Potochomania, 122 

Pot Plants 144, 146 

Preserved Limes, 73 

Cocoa-Nut, 71 

Pine Apple, 71 

" " grated,.. 71 

Common Cherries,... 71 

Gooseberries, 72 

Quinces, 72 

Citron Melon, 72 

Pears, 76 

Peaches, 76, 151 

" Uncooked,.. 97 

Prints, Cleaning 115 

Pudding, C. Feet 96 

Winter 96 

Apple ,..97, 59 

Pumpkin 59 

Potato 59 

Green Corn 59, 60 

Flemish 60 

Save All 60 

Cocoa-Nut eo 

Custard 60 

Soda Cracker 60 

Rice 61 

Macaroon 61 

Adelaide's 62 

Cup Batter 62 

Boiled Batter 62 

Bread 63 

Delightful 63 

Cottage 63 

Bird's Nest 65 

Apple 65 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at jhttp : //books . qooqle . com/ 



I 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 



Howard R. Kemtole 

404 Belmont Avenue 
Haddonfield, N. J. 08033 




WHAT I KNOW; 



OB, 



|ints m ijjt gailg $v£ts at s $mtkt$tx> 



comprising 



NEARLY FIVE HUNDRED RECEIPTS, 



FOR COOKING, PRESERVING, PICKLING, WASHING, IRONING, 

GARDENING, PLAIN AND FANCY NEEDLE-WORK, 

PUTTING UP OF WINTER STORES, 



AND NUMEROUS OTHER RECEIPTS, USEFUL AND NEEDFUL IN 
SYSRY WELL-REGULATED HOUSEHOLD. 



BY ELIZABETH NICHOLSON. 



Who sweeps a room as by Thy laws, 
Hakes that and the action fin*— Hibbiri. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

WILLIS P. HAZARD, 

NO. 190 CHESTNUT STREET. 
1856. 



CoMo 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, by 

ELIZABETH NICHOLSON, 

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and 
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 



■UCTROTTND BY GIOR0S CHABXBS, 

9 Sansom St, Philadelphia. 



V ' t\°\Z 



PREFACE. 



" Ik the days of other years," when persona in the 
middle walks of life were in the habit of keeping bnt one 
"maid of all work," the daily thought of " what we shall 
eat," &c., was not only the province of the female head of 
the family, but her occupation also. That is, to a certain 
extent ; on any extra occasion, or the arrival of an unex- 
pected guest, her hands prepared the fitting dessert, or 
the evening refreshment, And ably and well did she per- 
form the task. Flinging rules to the winds, her judgment, 
skill and experience, stood her in good stead. Now, we 
have fallen on other days. If, as G. M. Sedgewick says, 
" the division of labor is the perfection of the system," 
then in cities we have it, truly. And, in many cases, it is 
well. Mothers of rising families can command much 
more leisure for higher and nobler duties. The sciences, 
heretofore brought to bear only upon massive machinery, 
have descended to aid woman in the thousand details of 
her daily task-work. Philosophy and chemistry have come 
to our preparation and preservation of food. Instead of 
the cooking range, with its bushel of coal, to prepare our 
dinners, while the thermometer ranges at 90 degrees, we 
shall ere long forget, in our beautifully systematized gas 
cooking, that our houses were heated from the kitchen, 
through our protracted summers ; just as we now forget, 
in our brilliantly lit rooms, the vexation of the astral. 

(3) 



4 PREFACE. 

Still, work does not do itself. We admit many a ser- 
Tant into our houses to find that profession is not posses- 
sion. The author of this yolume considered, that an 
inexpensive little book, [so inexpensive as to render the 
inconvenience of lending unnecessary,] would be accept- 
able. It will be found to contain none but tested receipts, 
adapted to every-day doings, given in as brief a manner 
as possible, yet adapted to the smallest capacity ; as she 
intends it for a Kitchen Book. It contains ytry few 
receipts under each head adapted to great occasions, 
because, under our present system, hired waiters are 
expected and expect to have all under their supervision. 

To the women of America, therefore, I commend this 
volume, confident that its purchase, perusal and use, will 
be found a true economy, enabling them to devote more 
time to works whioh will minister to a higher need. 

E. N. 

Philadelphia, 10th mo., 1855. 



THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 



BREAD. 



This staff of life, on which we lean for bodily 
support thrice every day, should never be made but 
of the best materials, — our health and comfort 
depending much thereupon. Many a confirmed 
dyspepsia has been induced by the habitual par- 
taking of heavy, sour, or ill-baked bread: ow- 
ing, in some cases, to the ignorance or indiffer- 
ence of the maker and baker — in others, from the 
want of the best materials, and the use of a poor 
stove or range. If, however, the following rules 
are observed closely, a wholesome, beautiful Bread 
will be the result. 

An improvement in baking bread will be found 
in a porcelain lined pan, which can be obtained at 
262 Chestnut street, at various prices and sizes. 
The English porcelain lined ware is cheapest in 
the end. 

Yeast. — Take 1 handful good hops, put them 
in a little bag in 1 quart of water, to boil. Pare 
6 large potatoes and put in the water. When the 
latter are soft, pass them through a colander, 
(moistening the while with a little of the hot water.) 
Now, squeeze out the bag, and return the pulp 
made to the water, and let the whole be stirred, 
1* 5 



6 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOS. 

and just come to a boil. In this hot state pour 
it on sufficient flour to make a thinish batter. 
When tepid, add i pint yeast. This is fit for use 
in the evening, if made in the morning. Put it 
in a crock with a lid, in a cool place. [Those 
who are near a baker's, may save this work by 
purchasing, each baking day ] ' 

Dry Yeast. — Boil 1 pint hops well in 1 quart 
water : strain it hot on 1 pint flour and table- 
spoonful of salt : stir it well, and cool. After it 
has risen enough, add as much Indian meal as will 
make a stiff dough. Boll it into rolls. When they 
are light, cut them up in thin cakes and dry them 
in the shade ; turning them several times a day. 
Keep in a dry place : 2 cakes, soaked in tepid 
water an hour, and water all used, makes the 
quantity named, under Bread. I have eaten ex- 
cellent bread made thus in summer. It is port- 
able, and every way desirable for warm weather. 

Hop Yeast. — 1 quart water, 1 handful lively 
hops, boiled in a bag £ hour. Pour this scalding 
water over sufficient wheat flour to make a thin 
batter: add 1 table-spoonful salt; set it to rise. 
When light, add 1 tea-cup yeast. Keep in a co- 
vered crock, cool. [A little soda improves yeast 
when it is not very lively, put in when using the 
yeast] 

Wheat Bread. — Boil 1 quart milk : let it be- 
come coolish: then mix with it flour enough to 
make a very stiff batter : add } pint of the above- » 
named Yeast, beat it very smooth, add 2 table- 
spoonfuls salt. Let it stand till light ; then knead 
it well : [the old saying of " bread is poison that is 
not kneaded," was put out as a frightener, I pre- 
sume.] Let it rise. Mould and put it in pans. 



BRAN BREAD — RYE BREAD— BUTTER. f 

Stand J hoar. If milk is not convenient, water 
will do. The above quantity makes 4 medium 
sized loaves. If mush is desired, there may be a 
pint of it (when made) put in* Better Bread than 
the above rules will show need not be, if properly 
baked. The oven should be very warm, not very 
hot, and slowly getting hotter. Bake 1 hour. 

Bran Bread. — Take I lb. fresh Indian meal, 
1 handful salt, and make into a thin mush. When 
tepid, mix in 1 wine glass yeast, 2 lbs. bran flour, 
[which may be had at the feed stores,] a table- 
spoonful of sugar or molasses ; mix all together, 
and form a loaf without kneading. Bake, in a pan 
ready greased, longer than the same quantity of 
wheat bread. Let it stand to rise in this greased 
pan, and bake. s. l. [Rye Bread,' ditto.] 

Rye Bread. — Make a pot of mush with coarse 
yellow Iudian meal — season it with salt to taste, 
and let it boil well for an hour, then stir in more 
Indian until it is quite stiff— let it cool until it is 
milk-warm, then add yeast enough to raise it, and 
knead rye flour into it, until it is a stiff dough — 
let it rise — when light, mould it into loaves. 
Let it stand till quite light again, and bake as 
other bread. Made into small cakes it is very 
good hot for breakfast 

Wheat flour used instead of rye makes a bread 
which is excellent, and preferred by many: should 
be baked in cakes size of a tea-cup top, an inch 
thick. 

Butter.— There is much bad butter brought 
into our markets. The following receipt is from 
Everet Q. Passmore, whose butter always com- 
mands the highest market price. " In each pan of 
milk put enough sour milk to make it very sour 



8 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

and thick in 36 hours : in moderate weather 2 or 
3 table-spoonfuls will answer ; in cold weather it 
should be kept in a room at summer heat. Skim 
it every night and morning, in a pot, and before 
putting it into the churn, scrape off the top with 
a knife, as it vrill make the butter strong. Work 
most of the buttermilk out — then salt it — then 
work it well with a cloth, till there is no more milk 
in it — print it — throw it in water a while, and set 
away in a cool place." 

To Cure Butter that 'will keep for a 
length of time. — Reduce separately to a fine 
powder 2 lbs. of the best fine salt, 1 lb. of loaf- 
sugar and £ lb. saltpetre. Sift these ingredients 
one above another, on a large sized sheet of paper, 
then mix them well together ; keep this mixture 
covered up close in a nice jar, and placed in a dry 
closet. 

When your butter is worked and salted in the 
usual way, and ready to put in the jars, use one 
ounce of this composition to every pound of but- 
ter ; work it well into the mass. 

Butter cured in this way (it is said), will keep 
good for several years. I have never kept it 
longer than from the fall until late in the spring : 
it was then very sweet and good. 

It will not do to use for a month, because ear- 
lier, the salts will not be sufficiently blended with it. 
It should be kept in wooden vessels, or nice stone 
jars. Earthenware jars are not suitable for but- 
ter, as during the decomposition of the salts, they 
corrode the glazing, and the butter becomes rancid 
and unhealthy. — e. e. l. 

Grafton Milk Biscuit. — Boil and grate 
2 white potatoes ; add 2 tea-spoonfuls of brown 



H. A B % MILK BISCUIT. ETC. 9 

sugar ; pour boiling water over these, enough to 
soften them. When tepid, add 1 small tea-cap 
of yeast ; when light, warm 3 oz. of butter in 
1 pint of milk, a little salt, and flour enough to 
make a stiff sponge — when risen work it on the 
board — put it back in the tray to rise again: 
when risen roll into* cakes and let them stand half 
hour. Bake in a quick oven* These Biscuit are 
perfect 

M. A. B.'s Milk Biscuit.— Mix 1 pint 
milk with 6 oz. butter, £ tea-cup pulverized sugar, 
1 tea-spoonful salt, 1£ tea-cup yeast, and flour 
enough to make a sponge. Let it stand till per- 
fectly light ; knead it into a loaf, return to the 
tray and rise again. Then roll out the dough, cut 
it into small cakes, and stand £ hour. Bake in a 
quick oven £ hour. Leave them in the pans till 
wanted for tea, to prevent the under-crust harden- 
ing. Teast for these must be made the day 
previous— thus : Boil 4 large potatoes in 1 quart 
water ; pour off the water and strain them through 
a colander ; then add water enough to thin them, 
with 1 tea-spoonful salt and 1 table-spoonful brown 
sugar : let i£ cool and add nearly 1 tea-cup good 
yeast 

A Simpler Biscuit. — Save from the bread 
dough £ of the quantity named under wheat bread; 
cut up in small pieces 3 oz. butter or lard, or \ each, 
and work in. Make it up into small cakes, and put 
to rise in a cool place till time to bake for tea. 
These are good. 

Potato Rolls. — Boil 2 lbs. potatoes, pass 
through a colander, or mash them well; add 2 
oz. butter and a pint milk; a little salt, 1 gill 



10 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

yeast, and as much flour as will make a soft dough; 
set them to rise ; when light cut them in cakes ; 
let them rise £ hour, and bake. Sweet potatoes 
make beautiful biscuit, mixed as above. 

French Rolls. — Boil 1 pint milk; cutnp 2 
oz. butter into it, add a little salt ; when tepid, 
sift in 1 lb. flour, 1 egg beaten, 1 table-spoonful 
yeast ; beat these well together ; when risen, form 
into rolls, with as little handling as possible. 
Bake on tins. 

Patent Flour. — Pulverize 6 lbs. wheat flour, 
mix 5 tea-spoonfuls dry carb. soda carefully 
through it ; then 1 do. cream tartar, and 6 do. of 
salt. Incorporate these, and you have risen cakes 
at hand, to which ,add either milk or water, short- 
ening or not, as suits, and you have several kinds 
of what is called soda cake. To this quantity of 
flour £ lb. butter would answer. 

I find this flour good for crust of any kind : 
constant reference will be found in the volume to 
the use of it, in various ways. 

C. B.'s Soda Cake. — Three pints flour ; 3 tea- 
spoonfuls dry cream tar. ; butter the size of a wal- 
nut ; soda, 1 tea-spoonful dissolved in milk. Make 
a soft dough with milk and bake immediately i 
hour. 

Batter Cakes. — Muffins. — One quart milk ; 
4 eggs ; dessert spoonful salt ; 1 cup yeast. Beat 
the eggs well ; add all the ingredients ; make the 
batter very stiff by flour ; grease muffin rings after 
the batter is light, and bake ; fill the rings ^ full. 
Turn them over when brown below. 

Flannel Cakes. — One quart milk ; 4 eggs ; 1 
cup yeast; 1 dessert spoonful salt; flour enough 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES — WAFFLES, ETC 11 

for a thinish batter. Set to rise as above ; bake 
like Buckwheat Cakes. Cakes £ Indian and £ 
wheat, are very nice. Quite good cakes may be 
made by leaving out the eggs. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — One quart ouckwheat 
meal ; 1 handful Indian meal ; 1 cup yeast ; some 
warm water and salt. When ready to bake, £ tea- 
spoonful soda, and 1 cream of tartar, lightens them. 
Extempore Buckwheat Cakes may be made by leav- 
ing out the yeast, and substituting 1 tea-spoonful 
soda ; 2 cream of tartar. 

Waffles. — Take two tea-cups hot hominy ; 1 
table-spoonful butter : when cold, add 1 tea-cup 
wheat flour, salt, as much milk as will make a stiff 
batter, and 3 eggs, beaten well. Mix, adding a 
mite of soda ; do. cream of tartar. Bake in Waf- 
fle irons. 

Quick Waffles. — One pint milk ; 3 eggs, bea- 
ten ; enough wheat flour to make a thick batter : 
add a table-spoonful butter melted, and a little 
salt, soda and cream of tartar. 

Best Waffles. — One quart milk ; £ lb. melted 
butter ; 3 eggs ; 2 large spoonfuls yeast : let it 
rise 4 hours. Serve them, when baked, with sugar 
and cinnamon. 

Rioe Waffles. — Beat 3 eggs ; stir them into 
1£ pints flour, adding by degrees 2 pints milk : 
add 1 pint boiled rice with 1 large spoonful butter, 
put in while the rice is hot. Salt, and add 2 large 
spoonfuls yeast. 

As Waffles are rather slow baking, they will be 
nearly as good, if baked awhile before wanted, 
and put in the oven to keep warm. 



12 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Buttermilk Cakes. — Make a smooth batter 
of 1 quart buttermilk and flour : then add 2 large 
spoonfuls corn meal ; 2 eggs, beaten ; salt ; 1 tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in milk ; (no cream of tar- 
tar.) These are most excellent. 

Mush, Mush Cakes, and Fried Mush. — 

Stir corn meal into boiling water till sufficiently 
thick. Add salt ; keep stirring it to prevent its 
being lumpy. It should boil nearly 1 hour. Pour 
it out in pans, and when cold it makes a whole- 
some and good dessert, if sliced and fried. Eat it 
with sugar and cream, or butter and molasses. 

Mush Cakes. — Take 1 quart cold mush, mix 
in it £ pint wheat flour, and a little butter or lard ; 
make it in little cakes with your hands. Flour 
them and bake on a griddle as slab cake, or in the 
oven. 

Corn Batter Cakes. — One quart milk; 3 
eggs ; salt, and as much sifted corn meal as will 
make a thin batter; beat well together, with 1 
table-spoonful wheat flour; bake in small cakes, 
and serve hot. 

Cornmeal Cake, in tins. — One quart meal ; 

1 pint boiling milk; 1 tea-spoonful salt; a tea- 
spoonful soda; set it to rise in a warm place; beat 
3' eggs and put in ; a little cream of tartar. Bake 
in tins, and cut in squares for the table. 

Cake, -without Eggs. — Pour sufficient boil- 
ing water over stale bread to soften it; mash 
it through a colander, and add as much wheat 
flour as bread, and as much milk as will make it 
as thick as batter usually is ; 1 tea-spoonful soda ; 

2 cream of tartar. Bake immediately. 



TO SEASON SAUSAGE HEAT — TEA. 13 



BREAKFAST RELISHES. 

To Season Sausage . Meat.— To 40 lbs. 
meat add I lb. salt; \ black pepper; 12 oz. red 
pepper; £the quantity of sage in measure. This is 
for common Sausage, to fry — to those designed for 
Tom Thumbs, to boil, add a little of each, except 
the sage. — a. h. 

Tea. — The Chinese have a method of prepar- 
ing different from ours. They have a tea-kettle 
boiling on the table, and put the tea into an or- 
dinary tea-pot, upon which they pour the boiling 
water, and allow it to stand only a few seconds 
before it is used. If a second cup is wanted a 
fresh infusion is made. It would be considered 
a meanness to offer a guest tea that was not that 
instant prepared. This is their rule for ail kinds 
of tea. 

The most approved method in this country for 
black tea, is to pour a small quantity of boiling 
water on the tea — let it stand on a hot stove (not 
to boil) for 20 minutes, then put it into the tea- 
pot intended for the table, and fill it up with boil- 
ing water. In pouring out black tea into the cup 
always put in the sugar first — then the cream — and 
the tea last. It alters the flavor entirely to ad4 
the sugar or cream afterwards. 

Green tea, made in the same manner, but al- 
lowed to remain on the stove only 5 minutes in- 
stead of 20. In pouring out into the cup let each 
person add cream and sugar to suit themselves. 
Many persons omit cream*— the Chinese never use 
it in any of their teas. They admire the scented 
2 



14 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

tea — but never use the colored poisons prepared 
for this and the English market. 

There is a very neat article, (to be had at 256 
Market street,) for boiling tea. It consists of a 
small wire box, into which you put the black tea 
dry, then place it into the vessel in which tea is 
boiled; the advantage of this method is — no tea 
leaves can escape into the tea-cup, and you secure 
all the leaves compact. 

Coffee. — Many purchase bags of costly Coffee 
and have it roasted as wanted. In my opinion the 
cheapest and most satisfactory method of having 
the very best coffee always, is to purchase a few 
pounds at a time, of El wood Shannon's Roasted 
Coffee, at 16 cents per lb. His store is in Jayne's 
Building, Chestnut street. 

Boiling Coffee. — A large tea-cupful of un- 
ground coffee will be sufficient for 6 persons, unless . 
they take it very strong, (which is injurious to 
health ;) grind it, and put it in the tin pot, with £ a 
tea-cup of cold water, and the white of £ an egg ; 
shake it till it is mixed ; then pour boiling water 
on it, and let it stand close to the fire, and just 
come to a boil ; stir it, and do not let it boil over; 
let it keep at boiling heat 5 or 10 minutes ; then 
take it from the fire, and put in ^ a tea-cup of 
water to settle it ; let it stand 5 minutes, and pour 
it off; — if you wish it particularly nice, strain it 
through a thin linen cloth, kept for the purpose ; 
keep it by the fire till it goes to table. If you 
boil coffee too long, the aromatic flavor flies off.— 

£. E. LEA. 

Boiled Eggs. — Put them in boiling water with 
a 3 minute glass in sight. If you wish only 



OMELETS. 15 

the white hardened, allow 3 minutes — 5 and 8 for 
a hard boiled egg. Another, and more delicate 
way, and far more graceful to eat, is to break them 
into boiling water and let them boil 3 or 4 min- 
utes; then take them up with a skimmer on a 
plate where is buttered toast. Put a little butter 
on the eggs. The most convenient way to have 
eggs done to your mind is, to purchase one of the 
" Extempore Cooks," an affair connected with the 
gas-burner over head. They may be had at Mur- 
phy & YarnalPs, 262 Chestnut street. 

Omelet. — Break 8 or 10 eggs into a pan ; add 
pepper, salt, and 1 spoonful cold water ; beat them 
up to a stiff froth ; meanwhile, put some butter in 
a frying pan, and when it nearly boils put in the 
eggs. As it fries, take up the edges, that all may 
be properly done. When cooked, double it; serve 
hot. 

Baked Bread Omelet. — Ingredients : 6 oz. 
of stale bread, without hard crust; 5 eggs; £ oz. 
of parsley, and ^ oz. of lemon thyme. Instruc- 
tions: Soften the bread thoroughly in a dish, 
with a little boiling water, covering it over, 
and let it soak for an hour — then mash it up with a 
fork, picking out the hard pieces, and adding the 
parsley and lemon thyme, chopped fine, with salt 
and pepper, as seasoning. Beat the eggs well, mix 
them intimately with the other ingredients, and 
bake in a buttered dish, (buttered cold,) for about 
40 minutes. Turn it out of the dish, garnished 
with parsley, and 6erve with brown sauce. 

A Simpler Omelet. — Beat up 4 eggs ; add 
1 pint milk or less, season this ; put butter in fry- 
ing pan, when hot pour in the egg) cover the pan 



16 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

and let it steam a little while ; then tarn it up and 
up, and over into the dish, to serve. 

Clam Fritters. — Strain them from the juice ; 
chop the clams ; pnt pepper and salt ; add an egg 
or two ; a little cream or milk ; sift in flour enough 
to make them stick together. This is the most de- 
licate way of cooking clams. 

Corn Fritters. — Six ears of corn cut off the 
cob; salt; 3 eggs, beaten well separately ; 2 table* 
spoonfuls patent flour. Fry brown. 

Frizzled Beef, or Liver dried as Beef. — 

Put a piece of butter the size - of an egg into a 
skillet ; sliver up some beef and put in, turning 
nearly all the time, till done. Put the meat to one 
side of skillet, and put in a little cream, milk or 
water, for gravy. 

Fried Ham. — This is good served in the same 
way ; or, instead of cream, &c, 6 eggs broken 
into the gravy and served on the ham. 

Salsify, or Oyster Plant. — Wash and scrape 
and grate it ; season and make up into cakes ; 
fry in lard; either use bread crumbs or not. 

Egg Plant. — Cut it in slices an 8th of an inch 
or more ; lay it 3 hours in salt and water ; have a 
dressing of bread crumbs, egg with plenty of salt 
and pepper. Fry brown and serve hot 

Tomato Omelet. — Select 1 quart ripe to- 
matoes; pour boiling water over to remove the 
skin ; chop them fine ; put them into a saucepan 
without water, cover closely and simmer 1 hour ; 
then add salt and cayenne, 1 large spoonful bread 
crumbs, and cover tightly ; beat up 3 eggs to a 
stiff froth; have ready a heated pan with a piece 



▲ RELISH— SOUPS. IT 

of butter just large enough to grease it ; stir the 
eggs into the tomatoes ; beat all together, and 
pour it into the hot buttered pan ; brown it on one 
side; fold it over and serve. This is nice with 
beef-steak. 

Sweet Potatoes, left at dinner, make a delicate, 
wholesome relish, by placing them, sliced, into an 
oven to warm, and meanwhile heating and salting 
some cream or rich milk to pour over them. Serve 
hot. 

A Relish. — Put bread crumbs into a sauce- 
pan with cream, salt and pepper ; when the bread 
has absorbed the cream or milk, break in a few 
eggs and fry as Omelet. — c. b. 



SOUPS. 



The delicate and proper blending of savours is 
the chief art of good soup-making. Be sure and 
skim the grease off the soup when it first boils, or 
it will not become clear. Throw in a little salt to 
bring up the scum. Remove all the grease. 
[This may be best done by boiling the soup the 
day previous, and then the grease all comes off in 
a cake. To do so is often more convenient if you 
have bones, &c, which may not keep uncooked.] 
1 quart water to 1 lb. meat is a pretty good rule. 
If it boils away — soup should not boil hard — add 
boiling water. The water in which poultry, or 
fresh meat has been boiled, should be saved for 
gravies or soup next day. If you do not need it, 
the poor do. And in connection with this remark 
I would say it is much better for all families to 
2* 



18 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

"seek out" some worthy poor in their own neigh- 
bourhood, to whom all their food, not presentable 
again on their own tables, shall be sent before it 
has become fit for the slop ; and to insist that the 
cook shall take or send it thither. By this means 
nearly every poor family could count on at least 1 
meal a day : and that nuisance in our courts and 
alleys — street begging — be abated. 

The proper way to make soup is to use a soup- 
digester : the flavour of the meat being retained 
almost entirely. They may be had at Murphy & 
YarnalPs, 262 Chestnut street. 

Beef-shin Soup— Mutton and Veal 
Soup. — Crack the shin in several pieces, and wash 
it through 3 waters ; put it into a pot of water 4 
hours before dinner — when it begins to boil, take 
off the scum as it Tises, and keep it covered; 1 
hour before it is done skim off all the fat, and put 
in potatoes, 1 onion, 1 carrot— -either beat up dump- 
lings, as given below, or roll them out of pie- 
dough, or bread-dough, if you have it, and put in — 
a few minutes before dinner, stir in thickening 
enough, with parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt, and 
tomatoes, if in season. A shin will make a good 
dinner for a large family, and will do to warm over 
for the poor (if any left) next day. To eat pickles 
with it, or pour a little catsup or vinegar on your 
plate, is good. Soup made of mutton, veal, and 
lamb, does not require many vegetables — carrots 
and potatoes are best. 

Gumbo Soup. — Take 2 lbs. fresh beef; put 
this in a pot with 2 gallons water ; after boiling 2 
hours, throw in £ peck okra cut in thin slices, and 
1 quart ripe tomatoes cut up ; slice 4 onions, fry 
them brown, and dust into them, while frying, sev- 



OKRA SOUP— CHICKEN SOUP, ETC. 19 

eral spoonfuls flour ; add these with pepper, salt, 
parsley, or other herbs, to your taste, about 1 
hour before dinner — it requires 6 hours, moderate 
boiling. 

Okra Soup. — Take a shin of beef and put in 
1 gallon water after an early breakfast, and let it 
boil till 12 o'clock ; then cut up 1 onion, parsley, 
£ peck okra, and 1 quart tomatoes ; let these boil 
until dinner time, say 2 o'clock. This is delicious 
soup. 

Hashed Beef fbr seeond course. — The 

boiled beef will make a very good dish, by cutting 
the meat into small pieces ; a little cloves, part of 
an onion, some of the soup fat with crumbs of 
bread over the top-adding ; bake £ hour in a quick 
oven. 

Chicken Soup. — Gut up the fowl ; cut each 
joint, and let it boil 1 hour ; then stir in thick- 
ening, pepper, salt, and parsley enough to season ; 
put in a few dumplings (made as elsewhere di- 
rected) ; let it boil up J hour, and serve. 

Pea Soup. — Leave 1 pint peas in the pot with 
the water boiled in ; make a thickening of flour, 
milk, and butter, season with salt, pepper, parsley, 
and thyme ; boil 10 minutes, and serve. Children 
are fond of this. 

Clam Soup. — Wash 50 small sand-clams very 
clean ; put them in an iron pot — set it in a hot 
place and cover it up. When they become hot, 
the clams open ; then take them from the shells. 
Put the clams aside in a pan, and pour the juice 
into a stew-pan ; let it simmer 5 minutes, strain 
it, and rub 2 table-spoonfuls butter and 1 floor 



20 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

smoothly together ; put the juice on to cook, and 
slowly add the flour and butter ; stir it well to- 
gether ; add £ tea-spoonful salt, £ nutmeg, and 1 
pint cream or milk ; stir this well, let it simmer 
10 minutes, chop up parsley and add, then clams. 
One boil-up finishes, as clams require very little 
cooking. If you use the large clams, they must 
be chopped. 

Drop-Dumplings for Soup. — Beat 1 egg, 
add 2 spoonfuls milk, salt — beat in flour to a thick 
batter, drop them in the soup and boil 20 minutes 
before serving. 

A good dumpling may be made of " patent flour" 
mixed with the top of the soup into a batter. 

Okra will improve any soup. It is well to pur- 
chase it, while in season, a little every market-day ; 
slice thin and dry on earthen plates about the fire. 

Be sure to take only young ones. These can be 
put in boxes for winter use ; putting in one hand- 
ful for soup. 

Portable Soup. — Boil down the meat to a 
thick jelly, 6eason nighly with spices ; dry in the 
sun. Put it away out of the air, and to 1 inch 
square put one quart boiling water— vegetables 
added. 



MEATS. 



When a joint of meat comes from market, it is 
well to cut it up at once. Separate your roasting 
piece. Cut up the part for steaks, and put away 
in your coolest place what is left to cook after- 
ward. Take out the bones you mean to make a 



BOILEAU — BEEF A-LA-MODE. 21 

soup of, and boil them soon, as they will not keep 
as well as the meat. 

It is impossible to say how long meat mast be 
cooked — much depends on the fire ; coal gives out 
more heat than wood; beside, persons differ in 
what meat well done means. Bed meat, like beef, 
must be cooked rarer than white meat, as pork. 
A good way to find how much done it is, is to 
stick a skewer in near the bone : if blood follows it, 
it is not done. Gravy for roast meat is made by 
putting some browned flour in, also salt and pep- 
per and boiling water. 

In frying meat, lard* is better than butter. Mut- 
ton and beef suet are good : when the lard seems 
hot, try it by throwing in a mite of bread. 

When boiling meat or poultry, skim it often, or 
the meat will be dark : keep it boiling. Put fresh 
meat into boiling water, salt meat into cold ; allow 
£ hour for every lb. meat. 

In roasting poultry or birds, be careful to baste 
and turn often. The back, having little flesh, 
requires little cooking. 

Boileau. — 5 lbs. 2nd cut rump beef — take out 
the bone — put 1 tea-spoonful of cloves and all- 
spice mixed, a little sweet basil cut fine ; rub these 
well into the meat ; roll it up in a cloth tightly, 
and tie it — put in the pot some water with 2 pota- 
toes, 1 carrot, 1 onion. Stew 3 hours. 

Beef A-la-mode. — To a piece of beef 10 lbs. 
take 6 blades of mace, 12 cloves, half nutmeg — 
pound them fine, then rub the spice well into the 
beef : after the beef has been rubbed with salt and 
saltpetre, for 12 hours, roast it. 

Roast Beef. — A brisk fire, baste often, season 



22 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

well with pepper and salt— dredge flour. 20 min- 
utes for each lb. 

Roast Veal. — If a fillet, take out the little 
bone ; make a filling of "bread, butter, sweet mar- 
joram or parsley. Lay the flank round the lean 
part, putting filling between, and skewer and tie 
it round. Put filling where the bone was. 
Sprinkle over all with salt, pepper, and flour, and 
bake. 

A Roast Pig. — Clean it again after coming 
from market. Cut out the eyes with a penknife, 
clean the ears, take out the tongue, singe off hairs, 
Ac. Make a filling as above, adding sage and 
more pepper. Stuff the pig and sew it up. 
Roast 2 J hours, watching to present burning ; if 
in danger of this, put paper between it and the 
fire. Baste frequently with salt and water. 

Gravy. — Boil the tongue, liver and feet with 
salt and pepper till they are tender, in water 
enough to cover them when they are done. 

Just before dishing up, take out the liver, chop 
or mash it up, work some flour into a small piece 
butter, stir all in — put over fire again, and come 
to a boil ; take it off and pour into a gravy tur- 
reen. For sauce — stewed or baked apples, boiled 
onions, &c. 

Roast Turkey. — Cut off the tips of the 
wings, the neck, gizzard, liver and heart, and lay 
them aside for gravy. Wash it thoroughly ; filling 
as for veal (given above). Cook it 2 or 3 hours. 

Gravy. — Boil the neck, &c, tender, with salt, 
pepper, &c. Thicken with flour just before din- 
ner. Chickens — the same. An hour generally 



BROILED CHICKENS, ETC. 23 

cooks them. For sance — cranberry sauce, currant 
jelly, oyster sauce, &c. 

Boiled Turkey or Fowls. — Clean and wash 
your turkey, as above — stuff with bread, butter, 
&c, as above, and, if you have them, some oysters. 
Have the water boiling, with a little salt ; put in 
the fowl, breast downwards. Skim the pot often. 
Do not let it boil till the skin breaks, as it is then 
disfigured. Oyster sauce. 

Roast Mutton and Lamb. — If a shoulder 
or leg, stuff as veal, sprinkle also do., and cook. 
Serve with asparagus, peas, lettuce, beans, &c. 

Pudding under Meat. — Take 6 table- 
spoonfuls patent flour, 1 tea-spoonful salt, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, and 1 pint milk ; beat this to a stiff 
batter; put a dish beneath the meat, which is 
roasting, to catch the drippings; when well 
greased, pour in the batter, and when brown, and 
set, turn it. A pudding an inch thick requires 2 
hours at a good fire. Eat as a dessert or not. 

Broiled Chickens. — Take those that are 
young and tender, cut them down the back and 
breast bone — wash and dry them. Lay them flat 
and skewer them down ; season with pepper and 
salt, and broil £ hour on hot coals. Stew the gib- 
lets in water enough to cover them. When done, 
mix flour and butter and a little parsley chopped 
fine, stir it in, and come to a boil. Take off — dish 
the chickens and pour the gravy over. 

Fricassee. — Stew a large fowl in water, cov- 
ered close, till tender — seasoning it with salt and 
pepper. Thicken the water with flour and butter — 
pour in some cream — boil and dish it. 



24 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

To Boil a Ham. — A large ham should boil 
very slowly 3 or 4 hoars ; should be put in cold 
water, and kept covered during the process. A 
small ham will boil in 2 hours. Remove the skin 
and save it for the soap-fat crock. Save the water 
and skim it, when cold, for the same purpose. 

To Bake a Ham. — Boil it £ hour for every 
lb. ; then bake it in the same proportion. Serve 
hot. 

Tomato Stew. — Take 8 lbs. plate-rib of beef, 
put it on to boil in 1 gallon water, with 12 toma- 
toes, the same of okras, 6 potatoes cut small, 2 
carrots cut longwise, 2 onions ; season it with salt 
and pepper ; let it stew slowly 4 hours ; skim all 
the fat off the gravy, and garnish the meat with 
the potatoes, carrots, and tomatoes. This is a 
cheap, good dish. 

To Dress a CalTs Head. — Procure a large 
pelted head (that is, one having the skin on) ; 
let the butcher cut it open, and remove the nose 
and eyes. Wash it well through many waters, 
into which put some salt to bring out the blood- 
clean the head well, removing the swallow and 
other things. Let the brains remain in the head, 
and soak all night. The next day remove the 
brains and skin them — wrap them in a little cloth, 
by themselves, and the head in a towel (clean one), 
fastened up tightly. Let the head boil about 2 
hours, and the brains about 1 or f of an hour. 
When done, take it up, and remove all the bones, 
and take out the tongue, which you may put back 
in the water to keep hot. Season the meat well 
with pepper, salt, and sweet marjoram. Lay it on 
a dish and cover it with the skin — on the top of 



TO DRESS THS BRAINS OF A CALF'S HEAD, ETC. 25 

which put the yelk of a raw egg. Sprinkle dry 
crumbs of bread on the top of this, with some 
lumps of butter laid here and there— -season the 
top of this well, and put it into the oven to brown 
for about 20 minutes. 

To Dresa the Brains of the above. — 

Take the brains while hot and mash them in a 
bowl, add pepper, salt, and butter — chop a hard- 
boiled egg fine, and mix with it, and set it to keep 
warm — then slice the tongue through the middle, 
and lay it on a small plate by itself, and garnish it 
with the brains laid neatly around it. 

Foroe-meat Balls. — Chop 1 pound of lean 
veal, very fine, season it with pepper, salt and sweet 
marjoram — add a little flour to make them stick 
together — roll into balls the size of a hickory nut, 
and fry them brown. 

Gravy fbr the Head. — Mix butter and 
flour together, and brown it — add pepper and salt 
— add some of the water in which the head was 
boiled to thin the gravy. Serve the head on a 
plate, and lay the force-meat balls around it with 
a little gravy. 

Veal Cutlets. — Cut the veal in slices near an 
inch thick ; wash, drain, and season it ; beat up an 
egg, and have ready some pounded crackers or 
bread-crumbs ; dip the slices* first in the egg, and 
then in the bread, and fry them in hot lard ; mix 
a gravy of flour and water, with salt, pepper, and 
parsley ; when the veal is taken up, pour it in ; let 
it boil a few minutes and pour it over the dish, and 
grate a little nutmeg over. — e. e. l. 

To Roast a Goose. — Make a stuffing of bread, 
butter, salt, pepper, sage, thyme, and onions ; it 



26 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

requires but little butter, as geese are generally 
fat ; wash it well in salt and water, wipe it, and 
rub the inside with salt and pepper. A common- 
sized goose will roast in an hour, and a small one 
in less time ; pour off nearly all the fat that drips 
from the goose, as it will make the gravy too rich. 
Make hash gravy of the giblets, the same as for 
turkey. — e. e. l. 

Ducks. — Wild ducks are generally cooked with- 
out stuffing ; and for those that like them rare, 15 
or 20 minutes will be long enough; for com- 
mon ducks, a stuffing should be made the same as 
for a goose ; they will roast in £ hour. Currant 
jelly and apple sauce should be eaten with ducks 
and geese. — e. e. l. 

Rabbits and Squirrels. — Rabbits and squir- 
rels, or birds, may be fried as chickens, or stewed 
in a pot with a little water. If you make a pie 
of rabbits or squirrels, they should be stewed first 
to make them tender, and then made in the same 
way as chicken pie. Babbits are very good 
cooked with chopped onions, in a pot with a Tittle 
water, and thickening of milk and flour stirred in 
when they are nearly done. Squirrels make very 
good soup.— E. E. L. 

To Fry Ham. — Slice the ham, and if it is 
very salt, pour boiling water on it, and let it soak 
a while ; then fry it with a small piece of lard ; 
when done, dish it; mix together flour, milk, 
parsley, and pepper ; let it boil, and pour it over 
the ham. — e. e. l. 

To Cook Pigeons. — Pigeons should be roasted 
about 15 minutes before a quick Are ; as the meat 



8IDE DISHES — MUTTON CHOPS, ETC. 27 

is dry, they should have rich staffing, and be basted 
with butter. 

Too may bake them in a Dutch oven, or stew 
them in a pot, with water enough to cover them, 
and some crumbs of bread or flour dusted over 
them ; let them cook slowly £ hour ; mix together 
flour and water, with salt, pepper, and parsley, to 
season, and a lump of butter ; stir this in and let 
it boil up ; put them in a deep dish and pour the 
gravy over. Pigeons make a very nice pie in the 
same way as chickens. — e. e. l. 



SIDE DISHES. 

Fried Oysters or Clams. — Beat up an egg 
and grate a cracker or two, sprinkle pepper on your 
oysters or clams, dip them one by one into the 
egg, then into the grated cracker. Fry in butter 
and lard in equal proportions. They take but a 
few minutes. 

On the occasion of many guests, it is better to 
purchase cracker-crumbs, ready for use, at the bis- 
cuit bakery. 

Mutton Chops. — Cut the ribs, season them, 
have a dressing as for fried oysters, and broil or 
fry. Make gravy. 

Fried Liver. — Liver should be cut across 
the grain ; pour boiling water over it, drain and 
season with salt, pepper, and a little sage — flour 
each piece and fry a very short time, or it will be 
hard. Make gravy. 

Meat Cakes. — Chop any kind of fresh, cold 



28 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOS. 

meats, season— make a batter of patent flour ; lay 
a spoonful on the greased griddle, then a spoonful 
of the chopped meat, and then one of batter. 
Turn when browned. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Toast several pieces of 
bread brown, and butter them on both sides; 
take a baking-dish and put the toast round the 
sides, instead of a crust ; pour your oysters into 
the dish, and season with salt, pepper, butter, and 
mace or cloves. Crumb bread on the top, and 
bake in a quick oven £ hour. 

Another Way. — Grease well a baking-dish with 
butter, throw fine bread-crumbs about in it until 
they adhere on all sides — have a bowl of seasoned 
bread-crumbs ready, and lay oysters into the dish, 
so as to cover the bottom of it; then sprinkle 
crumbs over them and a small piece of butter — 
then another layer of oysters, covered in the same 
way with crumbs, until the dish is full — cover the 
last layer rather more thickly with crumbs, and 
lay several pieces of butter here and there over it ; 
bake it until it is nicely brown — not too long, or 
the oysters will be hard. 

N. B. — Do not drain the oysters, but lift them 
with a spoon out of their liquor. 

Fried Halibut. — Have the slices seasoned 
some hours before frying, as it makes it less liable 
to break in turning. Prepare egg-crumbs, sea- 
soned — dip it in, and fry brown. Turn over. 
Make a drawn-butter sauce for this. 

Cold Meat Turnovers. — Make a little 
dough of patent flour ; roll very thin in a circle, 
and put in like a turnover— cold meat chopped 



BREAKFAST BRUSHES. 29 

fine and seasoned with salt, pepper, catsup and 
sweet herbs : either fry in lard or bake in oven. 

Croquette. — Take a cold chicken, roast or 
broiled ; mince it very fine, or it will not adhere — 
moisten it with a rich gravy — season with pepper, 
salt, and a little mace ; make it up in small forms 
in a jelly-glass, done over with egg and fine bread- 
crumb*— fry slowly in lard or butter. — r. 

Beef Croquetts. — Take cold roast-beef or 
yeal; mince it fine; put an onion chopped fine, 
sweet marjoram, a little powdered cloves ; moisten 
with the beef gravy, make it into balls like saus- 
age ; put the yelk of an egg over them ; flour and 
fry them in lard. 

Chicken Croquetts.— 1 pair fowls weighing 
10 lbs. ; boil them — mince it, very fine indeed ; add 
1 pint cream, £ lb. butter, salt and pepper to taste ; 
shape them oval by a jelly-glass, as mould ; boil 
in lard, and serve brown. I know nothing in this 
way so delicious. 

To Bake a Ham. — Make a dressing of bread, 
Ac., moistened with three eggs. Take a ham 
which has been cut, fill up the place, and cover the 
top with this dressing ; bake $ hour, and garnish 
with parsley. Eat hot. 

Many of these side dishes are good relishes. 



BREAKFAST RELISHES. 

Beeffeteak. — Choose the tenderest part of 
beef, an inch thick, broil it over good coals, covered 
with a plate ; have butter, salt, pepper, and a little 
3* 



30' THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

water in a dish ; when yon turn the beef, dip it in 
this ; be careful to have as much of the juice as 
you can. When done, put it in a warm dish and 
pour the basting over. Some like beef fried better. 

Sausages. — To 10 lbs. finely-chopped pork, 
put 4 oz. salt (scant), 2 oz. pepper, good weight, 
1 table-spoonful ground cloves, and 1 oz. sage. 

Scrapple. — Take a pig's haslet and as much 
offal lean and fat pork as you wish, to make 
scrapple ; boil them well together in a small quan- 
tity of water until they are tender ; chop them 
fine, after taking them out of the liquor ; season, 
as sausage : then skim off the fat that has arisen 
where the meat was boiled, to make all soft, throw 
away the rest of water, and put this altogether in 
the pot ; thickening it with £ buckwheat and -£ In- 
dian. Let it boil up, then pour out in pans to 
cool. Slice and fry it in sausage-fat, after the 
sausage is done. 

Souse. — Boil the feet till the bones come out 
easily, and pick out all the bones. Pack them in 
a pan with pepper and salt, and cover it with vine- 
gar or not, as you choose. Fry in lard for dinner. 

Head-Cheese.— Boil in salted water the ears, 
skin, and feet of pigs till the meat drops off. Chop 
like sausage ; season with pepper, salt, cloves, and 
herbs ; mix all together ; put it under pressure to 
cool. Cut in slices for the table, cold. 

To Broil Tomatoes for Breakfast.— Take 
large round tomatoes, wash and wipe them, and 
put them on the gridiron over lively coals — the stem 
side down ; when this is brown, turn them and let 
them cook till quite hot through ; place them on a 
hot dish and send them quickly to table, where 



FISH. 31 

each one may season for himself with pepper, salt, 
and butter. 

To Bake Tomatoes for Breakfast. — 

Season them with pepper and salt ; flour and bake 
them in a stove, in a deep plate with a little butter 
oyer them. 

FISH. 

To Stew a Rook Fish.— Rnb the fish with 
salt and pepper, and a little cayenne on the inside ; 
put it in an oval stew-pan. To a fish that weighs 
6 lbs., put a pint of water ; when it is abont half 
done, season it well with salt and pepper, and a 
little mace or cloves ; rnb £ lb. butter in £ tea-cap 
of flour, with a little parsley and thyme ; stir this 
in with a pint of oysters. Serve it with the gravy 
in the dish. A large fish should be allowed an 
boar, small ones half an hoar. — e. e. l. 

To Broil Shad. — Soak a salt shad a day or 
night previous to cooking ; it is best to drain an 
hour before yon put it to the fire ; if it hangs long 
exposed to the air, it loses its flavour ; grease the 
gridiron to keep it from sticking ; have good coals, 
and put the inside down first. Fresh shad is bet- 
ter to be sprinkled with salt an hoar before it is 
put to broil ; pat a plate over the top to keep the 
neat in. In broiling shad or other fresh fish you 
should dust them with corn meal before you put 
them down. — lb. 

To Bake a Fresh Shad. — Make a stuffing 
of bread, batter, salt, pepper and parsley ; fill a 



32 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

large 6had with this, and bake it in a stove or 
oven. — lb. 

To Pry Fresh Fish.— Have the fish well 
scalded, washed and drained ; cut slits in the sides 
of each ; season them with salt and pepper, and 
roll them in corn flour ; have in your frying-pan 
hot lard or bacon drippings ; dip them in egg be- 
fore rolling them in corn flour, to keep them from 
breaking. — lb. 

To Boil Salt Shad, Mackerel or Her- 
ring. — Wash the fish from the pickle ; put it in 
a frying-pan ; cover it with water, and let it boil 
15 minutes ; take it up and drain it between two 
plates ; put a little butter over, and send it hot to 
the table : or, after boiling, you can flour, and fry 
it in drippings of any kind. — lb. 

To Boil Salt Salmon. — Let salmon soak 
over nighty and boil it slowly for 2 hours ; eat it 
with drawn butter. To pickle salmon after it has 
been boiled, heat vinegar scalding hot, with whole 
peppers and cloves ; cut the fish in small square 

Eieces ; put it in a jar, and pour the vinegar over, 
had may be done in the same way. — lb. 

To Boil Fresh Fish.— After being well 
cleaned, rub the fish with salt, and pin it in a 
towel ; put it in a pot of boiling water, and keep it 
boiling fast ; — a large fish will take from £ to f of 
an hour — a small one from 15 to 20 minutes. A 
fat shad is very nice boiled, although rock and 
bass are preferred generally ; when done, take it 
up on a fish- dish, and cover it with egg sauce or 
drawn butter and parsley. Pickled mushrooms 
and walnuts, and mushroom catsup, are good with 
boiled fish.— lb. 



VEGETABLES. 33 



VEGETABLES. 

For cooking vegetables, always have your water 
boiling before you pat them in, and keep them 
boiling till done— standing after they are done 
will injure their colour. 

Potatoes. — The medium size potato boils in 
20 minutes. They should have the water drawn 
off them directly they are done, and put in a 
hot place a few minutes to dry — waiting spoils 
them. When old and not very mealy, to peal and 
wring them in a napkin improves them much. 
When new, serve with cream and butter in the 
sauce-dish. Sweet potatoes take rather longer to 
boil than white. Old potatoes are made white 
and mealy by paring them 4 hours beforehand and 
laying them in cold water : drop them into boiling; 
water ; and the moment they are done, pour it off 
and let them stand in the steam awhile. 

Asparagus. — Tie it in bunches, the tops all 
one way ; put some salt in boiling water ; put in 
the asparagus, and boil £ hour. Toast some 
bread, dip it in the water for an instant ; take out 
the asparagus and put on the bread. Make drawn 
butter. 

To Boil Rioe. — Pick a pint of rice, wash it 
clean — put in three pints of boiling water: it 
should boil fast, and by the time the water evapo- 
rates, the rice will be sufficiently cooked ; set it 
where it will keep hot, until you are ready to dish 
it. — B. E. L. 

Hominy.— Large hominy, after it is washed, 



34 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

must be put to soak over night ; if you wish to 
have it for dinner, pat it to boil early in the 
morning, or it will not be done in time ; eat it as 
a vegetable. 

Small hominy will boil in an boor; it is very 
good at breakfast or snpper, to eat with milk or 
butter, or to fry for dinner. 

Both large and small hominy will keep good in 
a cool place several days. Be careful that the 
vessel it is cooked in, is perfectly clean, or it will 
darken the hominy. — 76. 

To Fry Hominy. — Put a little lard in your 
frying-pan, and make it hot ; mash and salt the 
hominy ; put it in, and cover it over with a plate ; 
let it cook slowly for £ hour, or longer if you like 
it very brown ; when done, turn it out in a plate. 
If you do not like it fried, mash it well, with a 
little water, salt, and butter, and warm it in a fry- 
ing-pan.— Ik 

To Boll Green Corn. — Pick out ears near 
the same size, and have the water boiling when 
you put them in ; £ hour is long enough for young 
corn ; that which is old and hard will take an hour 
or more ; if young corn is foiled too long, it be- 
comes hard and indigestible. — lb. 

To Fricassee Corn. — Cut green corn off the 
cob ; put it in a pot, and just cover it with water; 
let it boil £ hour ; mix a spoonful of flour with £ 
pint of rich milk, pepper, salt, parsley, thyme and 
a piece of butter ; let it boil a few minutes, and 
take it up in a deep dish. Corn will do to cook 
in this way when too old to boil on the cob. — lb. 

String Beans. — String beans, if boiled in salt 
and water, will require fully 2 hours ; but if boiled 



LIMA BKANS — PEAS, ETC. 35 

in a net, in a pot with bacon, they will not take 
bo long ; if they are cooked in the same pot with 
cabbage, it will injure the flavour. It is a good 
way to boil a very small piece of pork or bacon, or 
a ham-bone in the pot with beans ; when they are 
done, season them with cream, butter, salt, and 
pepper. — lb. 

Lima Beans. — Shell them, and wash them in 
cold water ; let them boil about an hour ; when 
done, dip them from the water, and season with 
salt, pepper, cream or butter ; keep them hot till 
they are sent to table. 

Dried Lima beans should be soaked over night, 
and boiled 2 hours or longer, if they are not 
soft— lb. 

Peas. — Early peas require about ^ hour to 
boil, and the later kinds rather longer; the 
water should boil when they are put in; when 
they are tough and yellow, they may be made ten- 
der and green, by putting in a little pearl-ash, or 
ashes tied up in a rag, just before they are taken 
up ; this will tender all green vegetables, but do 
not put too much; — when done, dip them out; 
drain and season them with butter, pepper, and 
salt ; put a bunch of parsley in the middle of the 
dish. — lb. 

Cold Slaw. — Cut hard white cabbage across 
the leaves, and put it in a deep plate; scald 2 
large spoonfuls of vinegar with a piece of butter, 
some pepper and salt ; pour this over the slaw ; 
have an egg boiled hard ; chop it fine, and spread 
it over the top. Some persons like it heated in a 
pan with vinegar and water, and the yelk of a raw 
egg mixed through it. — lb. 



36 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Cauliflowers, &e. — Have a pot with half 
milk, and the rest water ; when this boils, pat in 
the cauliflowers, and let them boil till tender ; pot 
in some salt just before yon take them np ; have 
ready drawn butter and parsley, to poor over 
them, or a sauce of cream and batter. Good 
heads of yellow Savoy cabbage, cooked in this 
way, resemble cauliflowers. Brocoli is a delight- 
ful vegetable, and may be cooked in the same 
manner. — lb. 

To Boil Cabbage. — In summer, you should 
allow a large head of cabbage an hoar to boil, bat 
when it has been tendered by the frost, it will boil 
in half that time. Most persons prefer cabbage 
boiled with ham ; the pot should be well skimmed 
before it goes in, or the grease will penetrate the 
cabbage, and make it unwholesome ; take it np 
before it boils to pieces. It is very good boiled 
with corned beef or pork, or with milk and water, 
with a little salt added. Some like it with a little 
salaeratns thrown in while boiling, as that tenders 
it and makes it of a more lively green. — lb. 

Parsnips. — Scrape and split them, and boil 
until quite soft, either in salt and water, or with 
meat ; they are very good served up in this way, 
with plenty of batter. They may, when boiled, 
either be baked with a few slices of salt meat, and 
require no seasoning but pepper, or made into 
small round cakes, seasoned with batter, pepper, 
and salt, and fried. — lb. 

Carrots. — Carrots should be -scraped, and 
boiled till soft in plenty of water ; when they are 
done, take them np, and slice them thin ; season 



TURNIPS — ONIONS — BEETS, ETC. 37 

them with salt, pepper, and butter. They are 
suitable to eat with boiled meat or fowls. — lb. 

Turnips.— Pare and quarter the turnips, and 
put them in a pot of clear water, or with fresh 
meat; boil them £ hour; drain, and season them 
with butter, pepper, and salt ; mash them. — lb. 

Onions. — After they are peeled, boil them in 
milk and water; if small, they will cook in £ 
hour; when they are done, pour off the water; 
put in cream, butter, and salt, and let them stew 
a few minutes. Small onions are much better for 
cooking, as they are not so strong.— 16. 

Beets. — Wash the beets ; cut the tops off, and 
put them in boiling water ; the early turnip beet 
is best for summer, and will boil in less than an 
hour; the long winter beet should be boiled 2 
hours ; — when they are done, drop them in cold 
water for a minute ; peel and slice them ; season 
with butter, pepper, and salt ; send them hot to 
table. * 

To pickle beets, put them in a jar after they 
have been boiled ; fill it up with weak vinegar ; 
put in salt, cayenne and black pepper. — 16. 

To Stew Tomatoes. — Wash and pour boil- 
ing water over them ; peel off the skins, and cut 
them up ; season them with pepper and salt ; put 
in a lump of butter, and boil them in their own 
juice for £ hour ; stir in enough crumbs of bread 
to thicken them ; let them cook slowly 10 minutes 
longer; be careful that the bread does not 
burn. — 76. 

To Bake Tomatoes. — Take out the inside 
of large tomatoes, make a stuffing of bread, but- 
4 



38 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

ter, pepper, salt and an egg ; fill them with this, 
and set them in a deep pie-plate ; let them bake 
slowly i hour.— 26. 

Tomatoes. — If you wish to bake tomatoes in 
the oven with bread, pour boiling water on, and 
6kin them ; cut them in small pieces ; season with 
salt and pepper, and put them in a pan with 
crumbs of bread and butter ; cover the pan with 
a plate, and bake | of an hour ; when done, mash 
them and take them out on a dish. — lb. 

To Fry Tomatoes,— Slice them, season with 
pepper and salt, and fry in hot butter ; if they 
are green, dip them in flour after being sea- 
soned. — lb. 

Tomato Omelet.— Pour boiling water on 
the tomatoes, skin and cut them fine; to 1 
quart of this, put 2 chopped onions and a lump 
of butter the size of an egg ; let them boil £ 
hour, then mash them ; put in grated bread, pep- 
per, salt, and the yelks of 2 eggs. — lb. 

Spinach. — Wash it well; put it into a pot 
and sprinkle salt over it : cover it close, and hang 
over the fire to stew — a very little water. Stir it. 
Poach a few eggs, slice and put over it, with drawn 
butter last. 

Egg Plant. — Cat it in thin slices ; let it soak 
in salt water (or put salt between the slices) for 
several hours : wipe the pieces dry, pepper then, 
dip each piece in an egg which has been beaten 
a little, then dip them in grated crackers ; fry 
them in drippings, or £ lard and £ butter. 



CAPER 8AT7CE— MACARONI, ETC. 39 



SAUCES. 

Caper Sauce. — Put some capers in your 
butter-boat, and pour drawn butter over them. 
Nasturtions make almost as good a sauce as capers, 
and is prepared in the same way — a few of them 
pickled are put in a butter-boat, and drawn butter 
poured over them. 

Macaroni. — Boil it 1 hour : drain all the wa- 
ter off ; add a little cream (or milk), stir in some 
flour and butter mixed, and let it boil 5 minutes. 
When dished, grate over it Parmesian cheese. 

Anotfier.—Lay as much macaroni as will fill a 
quart bowl in cold water; let it soak £ hour, 
then put it into a deep baking dish, add a pint of 
rich milk, J lb. butter and a tea-spoonful of salt, 
cut in pieces ; over the top grate hard old English 
or American cheese. Bake an hour — it should 
be brown as a loaf of bread, and served in the 
baking dish. — s. w. t. 

• Drawn Butter. — Put £ pint of water in a 
skillet, rub £ lb. butter in a large spoonful of 
flour ; when the water boils, stir it in and let it 
boil a few minutes ; season it with parsley, chop- 
ped fine. — e. e. l. 

Stuffing or Dressing. — Stuffing for poultry 
is made of bread and butter, an egg, salt, pepper, 
chopped parsley or thyme, mixed together ; if the 
bread is dry, it should have a little boiling water 
poured on it. — lb. 

Egg Sauce.— This is made as drawn butter, 



40 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

with one or two eggs boiled hard and chopped into 
it, and a little salt. — 76. 

Celery Sauce. — Take a large bunch of celery, 
cut it fine, and boil it till soft, in a pint of water ; 
thicken it with butter and flour, and season it with 
salt, pepper and mace. — lb. 



PICKLES AND CATSUP. 

To insure good cider-vinegar, it is safest to 
purchase it of some farmer who is known to have 
a cider-press, as so much of the beautiful vinegar 
we see is made from a weed, which eats and de- 
stroys the pickles. 

Cucumbers. — Procure the smallest size ; lay 
them in a wash-tub of cold water 3 days, changing 
them into another tub and fresh water 3 times a 
day : then wipe them dry and put them in the 
jars with whole peppers, allspice, and mustard- 
seed, and a handful of salt to each jar. Boil the 
vinegar 3 days in succession, and pour over them 
hot, till quite covered. 

Martinoes. — Gather them when you can run 
a pin-head into them, and, afte? wiping them, keep 
them 10 days in weak brine, changing it every 
other day. Then wipe them, and pour over boil- 
ing spiced vinegar. In 4 weeks they are ready 
for use. 

Cauliflower. — Keep them 24 hours in strong 
brine; take them out and heat the brine, pour- 
ing it on scalding hot; let them stand till next 



PEPPER SAUCE — UNIVERSAL PICKLE, ETC. 41 

day. Drain them and throw them into spiced 
vinegar. 

Pepper Sauce. — Take 25 peppers without* 
seeds; cnt them pretty line, then take more than 
doable the quantity of cabbage, cut like slaw ; 1 
root horse-radish grated, 1 handful salt, a heaping 
table-spoonful of mustard-seed, and ground cloves 
do., allspice do., boil enough vinegar to cover it, 
and pour over boiling hot, mixing it well through. 

Universal Piokle. — To 3 quarts vinegar, £ 
lb. salt, £ lb. ginger, £ oz. mace, 1 tea-spoonful 
cayenne pepper, 1 oz. mustard-seed; boil these 
with the vinegar, and when cold put into a jar 
You may put in whatever green fruit or vegetables 
you choose, from time to time. 

Tomatoes. — To 1 gallon jar take 2 table- 
spoonfuls salt, 1 black pepper (whole), 1 cloves do., 
1 of mustard, 1 red pepper the size of an egg ; 
mix these together and sprinkle over them, layer 
by layer, in the jars ; let them stand 3 or 4 days, 
and then pour over boiling vinegar. 

India Piokle. — 15 old cucumbers; pare, 
seed, and cut them in thin strips ; spread them on 
a board, strewn thickly with salt ; let them stand 
12 hours ; then expose them to the sun, turning 
until perfectly dry, avoiding the night air : wash 
them in vinegar; put a layer of mustard-seed, 
onions, a stick grated horse-radish. Simmer in 1 
quart vinegar, £ oz. tumeric, £ oz. race ginger, 
(both tied in a bag) allspice whole, a few clovtes 
and cinnamon. When cool, pour it over the cu- 
cumbers. Excellent, and improves by age. 

To Piokle Mangoes. — Take Musk-melons at 



42 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

a proper age, before they get too hard ; make a slitin 
the sides, and take oat the seeds with a tea-spoon ; 
boil a pickle of ground alum salt, that will bear an 
egg, and let the melons lay in this a week ; then 
make a new pickle, and let them lay in it another 
week; then wash them, and scald them in weak 
vinegar, or soar cider, with cabbage leaves around 
the kettle ; pat them in a jar, and pat the vinegar 
and leaves in with them ; leave them 2 days, then 
wipe them carefully, and to 2 dozen mangoes, 
have an ounce of mace, 1 of cloves, some nastur- 
tions, small onions, scraped horse-radish, and mm* 
tard-seed sufficient to fill them ; fill up the inside 
of each one, and tie them round with strings. 
Put them in your kettle with strong vinegar, and 
let them scald a few minutes ; then put them in a 
wide-mouthed jar, and pour the vinegar over; 
have them covered close, and they will keep good 
for several years. — b. e. l. 

English Walnuts.— Gather them when nearly 
full grown, but not too hard ; pour boiling salt and 
water on them; let them be covered with it 9 
days, changing it every 3d day ; then take them 
out on dishes, and put them In the sun to blacken, 
turning them over ; then put them in a jar and 
strew over them pepper, cloves, garlic, mustard- 
seed and scraped horse-radish ; cover them with 
cold strong vinegar, and tie them up. — lb. 

Onions.— Peel small white onions, and pour 
boiling milk and water over them ; when cold, put 
them in a jar, and make a pickle of strong vine- 
gar, a little mace, ginger, white mustard-seed, and 
horse-radish ; boil it and pour over them. 

If you want them to be white, do not put in 
black pepper or cloves — J& 



fiPICSD P&LC&I8, wo. 43 

Spiced Peaches. — Take 9 lbs. of good ripe 
peaches, rub them with a coarse towel, and halve 
them; pat 4 lbs. sugar and a pint of good vine- 
gar in your preserving kettle, with cloves, cinna- 
mon, and mace ; when the syrup is formed, throw 
in the peaches, a few at a time, so as to keep them 
as whole as may be ; when clear, take them out. 
and put in more ; boil the syrup till quite rich, 
and then pour it over the peaches. Cherries may 
be done in the same way.— lb. 

Pickled Bean*.— Procure yotmg ones front 
the late crop ; boil them ia water, slightly salted, 
till tender; throw them in a colander with dish 
over to drain ; when done dripping, lay them out 
on a dry cloth and wipe. Pour boiling vinegar, 
spiced, over them, and you have an excellent 
pickle. These are delicate for tea. 

Tomato Ketchup. — To £ bushel of toma- 
toes strained through a sieve, add £ oz. ground 
cloves, £ oz. mace do., £ oz. ground ginger, £ 
this quantity of cayenne pepper, and a small tear 
cup salt : these must be boiled in the juice. Put 
these in the juice after the tomatoes are skinned 
and strained, and let it boil 2 hours. The £ 
bushel of tomatoes I boil awhile first. 

To Pickle Green Tomatoes. — Slice 1 peck 
green tomatoes; take 1 gallon vinegar, 6 table- 
spoonfuls whole cloves, 4 of allspice, 2 of salt, 1 
of mace, 1 of cayenne pepper ; boil the vinegar 
and spices 10 minutes ; put in th6 tomatoes and 
boil all together £ hour longer ; when cold put in 
jars. There is no nicer pickle. 



44 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 



SPICED SWEET PICKLES. 

Cherries. — 4 quarts cherries, 1 lb. sugar, 1 
quart vinegar: boil some spice with the sugar 
and pour over hot. 

Peaches. — Pare, stone and halve the fruit: 
put 9 lbs. peaches to 4 lbs. sugar, 1 pint vinegar : 
boil the peaches in water till tender, then put in 
vinegar and sugar, with a little whole allspice — i 
hour, or till done. — r. b. 

Pickled Plums. — 4 quarts plums, 1 pint 
vinegar, 1 lb. sugar : boil the vinegar, spices and 
sugar together, and then put in plums, and boil 
awhile longer. 



SALTING MEATS. 

To Fickle Pork. — Take out all the ribs, and 
cut it in pieces of about 3 lbs. each ; pack it in a 
tight barrel, and salt it well with coarse salt ; boil 
a very strong pickle made of coarse salt, and when 
it is cold pour it over the meat, and put a weight 
on the top ; if you wish pork to keep, do not put 
Baltpetre in, as it injures the flavour. — s. e. l. 

Pork pickle may be boiled over again and used. 
Keep a potato in it to test the strength. The 
"Burlington Herring, " so famous, are cured in 
this way. 

Beef. — To 100 lbs. beef take 6 gallons water, 
6 lbs. salt, 4 oz. saltpetre, 1£ brown sugar : the 
beef to remain in 11 days, then hang to dry. 



DRIED LIVBB— HAMS. 45 

Pour this brine over cold. Better dried beef than 
this makes, need not be. There is no real need of 
smoking dried beef; it is often inconvenient to do 
it, and smoke houses are not always near. 

Dried Liver. — Engage a butcher to bring a 
whole fresh liver, put it in a pickle made as above, 
let it be in about 2 weeks, hang to dry. It is to 
be frizzled like beef. 

Hams. — Take as much water as will cover your 
hams ; salt enough to bear an egg t so that the egg 
will show above the pickle as large as a shilling, 
1} heaping table-spoonfuls for each ham, and mo- 
lasses enough to make it the colour of cider or of 
good molasses and water : let them lay in pickle 6 
weeks. Do not pack them too tight ; keep them 
well covered with pickle, and remove all scum. 
Take them out and hang to dry. When dry out* 
side commence smoking : a light mahogany colour 
is best, and bag before the flies come. Hickory 
or apple-tree chips are best for smoking. The 
above are superior to the mode of dry salting and 
rubbing, as practised by some ; also less trouble, 
and making a more juicy and highly flavoured 
ham.— s. p. n. 

The following is the method of curing Hams, 
which took the first Premium of the Maryland 
Agricultural Society, in 1854: To each green 
hail of 18 lbs. 1 dessert-spoonful saltpetre, and £ 
lb. brown sugar, applied to the fleshy side of the 
ham and about the hock : cover the fleshy side 
with fine salt, an inch thick, and pack away in tubs : 
to remain from 3 to 6 weeks, according to size. Be- 
fore smoking rub off any salt that may remain on 
the ham, and cover well with ground black pepper, 
particularly about the bone and hock. Hang up 



46 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

and drain for 2 weeks. Smoke with green wood 
8 weeks, or till the rind is a light chestnut colour. 
Pepper prevents the fly. I never bag hams. 



TEA RELISHES. 

Chicken Salad. — Take a pair of fowls : boil 
them (saving the water for sonp next day) ; when 
entirely cold remove all the skin and fat, and dis- 
joint them ; cut the meat from the bones in very 
small pieces, not exceeding an inch; wash and 
split 2 large heads of celery, and cut the white 
part into pieces an inch long, and having mixed 
the chicken and celery together, put them in a 
deep China dish, cover and set it away. Just be- 
fore the salad is to be eaten the dressing is to be 
put on, which is thus made : Take the yelks of 8 
hard-boiled eggs, put them into a flat dish, and 
mash them to a paste with the back of a spoon : 
add to the egg a tea-spoonful fine salt, do. cayenne 
pepper, £ gill made mustard, 1£ wine-glass French 
vinegar, and 2 wine-glasses sweet oil ; then add 
the yelk of 1 raw egg, well, beaten, or 1 table- 
spoonful cream; mix all these ingredients tho- 
roughly, stirring them a long time, till quite 
smooth. After you pour it on the chicken and 
celery, mix the whole well together with a silver 
fork. — if. a. b. 

Clay's Chicken Salad. — To 2 pair large 
chickens l£ bottles fresh sweet oil, 2£ table-spoon- 
fuls mustard ; begin by breaking the yelks of 3 raw 
eggs into a deep plate, add the mustard : mix it 
well round and round the dish : add about one 



TO 8TEW AND PICKLE OYSTERS, ETC. 4t 

tea-spoonful vinegar, then a very little oil at a 
time till all the oil is used : during all this time it 
must be long and well stirred, and always the same 
way. Have ready the yelks of 18 hard-boiled 
eggs, mix in very lightly into this about 1 tea-cup 
vinegar ; let this second dressing be lightly stirred 
into the former, a spoonful at a time, then season 
the chickens with pepper and salt, add the celery ; 
mix the dressing well through it, leaving enough 
to garnish the dish when served. The celery 
should be nicely cleaned, cut fine and put to soak 
.in cold water till wanted, then turn on a cloth and 
wipe it quite dry. 

To Stew Oysters. — Strain the liquor and 
put it on the fire in a nice vessel to simmer. To 
the liquor of 100 oysters take \ lb. butter and 2 
table-spoonfuls flour ; mash the flour into the but- 
ter till it is a smooth paste, then stir it into the 
liquor : season the whole with mace, salt and pep- 
per. When the liquor simmers put in the oysters, 
end when the thin end curls up. take them off the 
.fire : they are done. — a. m. m. 

To Pickle Oysters. — Take 150 oysters, put 
them in a nice vessel, with salt to your taste, over 
the fire. Allow the oysters to simmer, not boil : 
take them out and put them into a stone jar, leav- 
ing the liquor in the Saucepan : add to it 1 pint 
good vinegar, a large tea-spoonful blades of mace, 
36 whole cloves, do. whole pepper. Let it come 
to a boil, and when the oysters are cold pour the 
liquor over them. 

Tongue, Ac. — If the tongue is dry let it soak 
several hours before boiling it, slowly ; if just out 
of pickle the water should boil when it goes in. 
A tongue-presser (which costs 75 cents) soon 



46 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOS. 

saves itself in making the small end go farther, 
and causing no waste. 

Salsify or Vegetable Oyster.— Boil it till 
tender, then ponr off the water, and add a little 
milk, salt, and butter. 

Another way. — Parboil it, scraping off the out- 
side, cut it in slices, dip it into beaten egg and fine 
bread-crumbs, and fry it in lard. 

Another. — Make a batter of wheat flour, 
milk, eggs, and a little salt. Cut the salsify in 
slices : after it is boiled tender put it in the batter, 
and drop this mixture into the hot fat by spoon- 
fuls. 

Sandwiches. — Spread nice butter over a loaf 
fresh bread, then cut it with a sharp knife very thin 
indeed ; cut a slice of ham or dried beef, put it in 
the middle, roll the bread over it, and send to the 
tea-table. These are delicate and convenient for 
lunch, or a pic-nic. 

Pickled Shad. — Clean them well and wipe 
them with a dry cloth, cut them in pieces of con- 
venient size for the tea-table : then add as much 
salt, whole pepper, allspice, cloves and mace as you 
choose : feeason it properly, sprinkle the spice be- 
tween each layer of shad in a new earthen or stone 
vessel, fill it up with vinegar ; if strong cider vinegar 
it should have one-third water, and then tightly close 
the jar with dough, put it in the oven of a baker 
after the bread has come out, at noon, and let it 
stand till 10 o'clock, at eve ; do not open it till 
cool through ; bruise the spices, but not grind 
them. 



WEIGHTS AND MHASTJBES, ETC. 49 



CAKES. 

The cost of Cake is so much lessened by being 
home-made, that it is a saving of time to make 
such as will keep awhile, by the plentiful nse of 
good butter and eggs. The richest cake costs 
never more than 13 cents per lb., even when made 
at a time when butter and eggs are dearest. Be- 
sides, it is pleasant to feel assured of one's own 
skill in the matter, as we are liable to be called 
upon to exercise it at times and in places where 
money cannot purchase so good an article. There 
are few fancy cakes given, because there is no 
economy in making these at home. 

Weights and Measures. — It is well to as- 
certain how much in weight certain cups and bowls 
hold, and keep them for that purpose. One quart 
sifted flour, or sifted loaf sugar, or softened butter, 
each weigh about 1 lb. A pint equals 8 ozs. ; £ pint 
4 oz. ; 1 gill 2 oz. A quart of brown sugar or of 
Indian meal, equals 12 oz. of the same. One large 
spoonful flour, loaf eugar or melted butter, equals 
£ oz. of the same, a little heaped ; 4 spoonfuls 1 
oz. A medium sized tea-spoon holds 60 drops of 
water; 10 eggs weigh 1 lb. 

Mountain Gingerbread. — cups flour, 2 
do. butter, 2 do. sugar, 2 do. molasses, 4 eggs, 1 
tea-cup ginger, 1 tea-spoonful soda, 2 tartaric acid. 
This is a batter, and if baked in a Turk's Head or 
bread pan, keeps a long time, and is very nice. 

Ginger Nuts. — 1} lbs. flour, 1 pint molasses, 
£ lb. butter, £ oz. ginger, i oz. of cinnamon and 
5 



50 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

allspice mixed, 1 tea-spoonful ground cloves, £ 
tea-spoonful soda, 1 cream of tartar. 

Hard Gingerbread. — 2 lbs. flour, } lb. bat- 
ter, 1 pint molasses, i lb. sugar, 1 oz. ginger, J 
tea-spoonful soda, 1 tea-spoonful cream of tartar. 

Lady Cake. — I lb. butter, f sugar, whites of 
16 eggs, 40 drops essence of bitter almonds, £ gill 
rose water, 3 lbs. flour. Mix as pound cake. 

Tea Biscuit.— 1} lbs. flour, £ sugar, i lb. 
butter, 1 tea-spoonful caroway seed, dissolve i 
tea-spoonful soda into a scant J pint tepid milk. 
This makes a dough, which roll in thickish cakes, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Cinnamon Loaf. — Sift into a pan 1 lb. flour, 
put into } pint warm milk i lb. butter ; stir the 
milk and butter into the flour, a wine-glass of good 
yeast, and a little salt. Mix these well and set in 
a warm place to rise for an hour. Then add i lb. 
fine sugar, i a nutmeg, 1 large spoonful ground 
cinnamon, and one wine-glass rose water. Mix 
these well into the sponge, pour it into baking 
pans, and let it rise again i hour. 

Jumbles. — 1 lb. flour, } butter, f sugar, 
whites of 4 eggs well-beaten, rose water. Bake £ 
an hour in a slow oven. 

Golden Cake. — i lb. flour, } lb. sugar, 6 oz. 
butter, yelks 'of T eggs, yellow of 1 lemon and 
juice. Beat butter and sugar together, and add 
yelks, lemon, flour, i tea-spoonful soda, 1 cream 
tartar. Bake in flat pans, and ice it while warm, 
if possible. 

Silver Cake. — i lb. flour, } lb. sugar, i lb. 
butter, whites of ? eggs, a little almond or peach 



poor man's cake, etc. 51 

water. Ice as above. These 2 cakes can be best 
made at the same time — are but little more trouble 
than one, and, cut in squares in a silver cake basket, 
make a pretty appearance. 

Poor Man's Cake. — 2 cups flour, 1 cream, 
1 of sugar, 1 egg, 1 tea-spoonful soda, 2 cream 
tartar : the latter dry. 

Cocoanut Pound Cake. — 3 cups flour, 1 
do. butter, 2 do. sugar, whites of 6 eggs, i tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 cream tartar, 1 cup milk : grate 
1 small cocoanut, and put in two-thirds of it last. 

Prime Bread Cake. — 2 tea-cups risen dough, 
i tea-cup sugar, i do. butter, 2 eggs, a few rai- 
sins. Mix these, and add £ tea-spoonful soda and 
1 cream tartar. Rise awhile, after putting in 
Turk's Head. 

Buena Vista Buns. — i lb. white sugar, } lb. 
butter, 4 eggs, i lb. flour, nutmeg to taste, i tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 cream tartar, currants or not, as 
convenient. 

Cocoanut Cakes. — Grate 1 cocoanut, mix 
the milk with it, sweeten to taste. Form into lit- 
tle balls, put on white paper, and stand in a warm 
place. 

Burlington Buns. — Bub i lb. sugar and 6 
oz. butter into 2 lbs. flour: add 1 gill baker's 
yeast and 1 pint of warmed milk. Let the dough 
be soft as possible to mould. Make this at 6 P. 
M. Let it rise in a warm place till 10, then mould 
it over. Next morning it will be light. Make 
into cakes and rise awhile. Bake 20 minutes. 

Philadelphia Buns. — 1 pint milk, 1 cup 
butter, 1 pint yeast, 3 cups sugar, 1 egg. Make 



52 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

a soft dough at night Early in the morning add 
not quite i tea-spoonfal soda, and 2 tea-spoon-* 
fuls ammonia. Now put in a little more floor, 
mould it well, and return it to rise. When light, 
make into cakes, and let them stand J hour. Bake 
them. 

N. B. — Either of these two receipts, faithfully 
followed, will make Buns which cannot be excelled. 

Sponge Cake.— 6 eggs, same weight sugar, 
J weight of flour, J a lemon squeezed in, the 
whole of the lemon-skin grated. Beat the yellow 
to a froth, then add the sugar : when well-beaten 
add the white, (which must be very light,) then 
put in the juice, then grating, last flour, a tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

Another way — 5 eggs, \ lb. sugar, 6 oz. flour, 
(leaving out 2 table-spoonfuls.) Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a froth : add the sugar and unbeaten 
yelks alternately, leaving out 1 yelk : add flour last. 

Cocoanut Jumbles. — Grate 1 large cocoanut; 
rub £ lb. butter with 1 lb. sifted flour, and wet it 
with 3 eggs, beaten, and a little rose water ; add 
by degrees the nut, so as to make a stiff dough : 
bake in a quick oven from 5 to 10 minutes. 

Grafton Cake. — 1 pint flour, I pint sugar, 
1 table-spoonful butter, 2 tea-spoonfuls cream 
tartar, 1 soda, 1 egg. Make a batter of milk 
mixed, until quite thin. This is the best cake for 
the materials used in the whole collection. 

Albany Cake. — Cream, 1 lb. sugar, and i lb. 
butter : take 3 eggs well-beaten, 1 tea-spoonful 
soda, do. cream tartar] add 1} lbs. sifted flour. 
This is a dough. 

Pound Cake. — 1 lb, sugar, 1 lb. butter, 10 



POUND CAKE — CUP CAKE, ETC. 53 

eggs, 1 nutmeg, grated, 1£ flour, 1 wine-glass rose- 
water; cream the butter and sugar, (I put the 
butter and sugar into a stove -oven till it becomes 
a little melted,) beat it some and add, by de- 
grees, the ingredients named, — 1st the yelks, well 
beaten, nutmeg, rose-water, whites, lastly flour. 
Make this now very smooth, put in £ tea-spoonful 
soda, and 1 do. cream tartar ; the latter dry. 

I always bake such cake in a " Turk's turban," 
to secure lightness. 

Baking is a nice point. The oven must be 
warm, and getting warmer, not hot to be cooled. If 
the latter, it is sure to be heavy, the cake browning 
rapidly prevents the inner part rising. 

Cup Cake. — Cream, £ cup butter and 4 cups 
su *ar together ; stir in 5 well-beaten eggs ; dis- 
80.76 1 tea-spoonful soda in a cup of milk or 
cream ; nutmeg, 6 cups flour, a tea-spoonful cream 
tartar, dry. 

Blaok Cake. — 1 lb. butter, 1 do. sugar, beaten 
to a cream ; stir in 12 eggs beaten well ; sift in 1 
lb. flour, add 3 lbs. stoned raisins, 3 do. cleaned 
currants, 5 nutmegs, £ oz. cinnamon, 1 tea-spoon- 
ful cloves, 1 lb. citron cut in small thin slices; 
these must be well mixed ; baked in a moderate 
oven.' This improves by keeping. 

Queen Cake. — 1 lb. flour, | sugar, £ do. but- 
ter, 4 eggs, nutmeg, £ tea-spoonful soda, 1 do. 
cream tartar. Bake in small tins. 

Crullers. — 2 J lbs. flour, rub in a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, beat 3 eggs to a froth, and 
add 1 lb. sugar, nutmeg, 1 tea-spoonful soda dis- 
solved in milk, do. cream tartar. This makes a 
dough which is to be formed into twists, and fried 
5* 



54 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

in goose-drippings. These are cheap and ex* 
cellent. 

1, 2, 3, 4 Cake.— -1 cup butter, 2 sugar, 3 flour, 
4 eggs, nutmeg, 1 tea-spoonful soda, 2 cream tartar. 

Kisses. — Take the whites of 4 eggs, beat them 
very lightly, and mix with them enough sifted 
sugar to make them very stiff; then drop on paper 
half the size you want them, and put them in a 
slow oven 20 minutes. Take them off the paper 
with a knife, and put 2 together. 4 eggs make a 
cake-basket full 

Jelly Cake. — Make a batter as for pound cake ; 
bake it in cakes on a griddle, and while warm 
spread jelly between each layer. Trim with a 
knife. 

A Good Cake 'without Eggs.— 1 cup su- 
gar, 1 butter, nutmeg, 1 cup milk, 2 oz. currants 
(or not), 1 tea-spoonful dry cream tartar, £ do. 
soda dissolved in milk, flour enough to make a 
batter. 

Scotch Cake.— 1 lb. brown sugar, 1 do. 
flour, i lb. butter, 2 eggs, cinnamon. Roll very 
thin to bake. 

Doughnuts. — H pints milk, | lb. sugar, i lb. 
butter, and 1 nutmeg ; make a sponge of these 
over night. Fry in lard. They are as good as 
possible. 

Extempore Doughnuts. — 1 tea-spoonful of 
soda, 2 cream tartar,.2 cups sugar, 1 pint milk, £ 
nutmeg, flour enough to make a soft dough. 

Loaf Cake. — 3 lbs. flour, 1£ sugar, 1£ butter, 
4 eggs, 1 pint milk, 2 lbs. fruit ; raise with yeast 



OOODVXLLOW'8 SPANISH BUNS, BTG. 6$ 

Another without eggs. — 3 lbs. flour, 1£ batter, li 
sugar, l£ lbs. raisins, 1 nutmeg, 1 table-spoonftu 
cinnamon, J pint yeast, 1 pint milk. Put the milk, 
butter, and yeast into the flour, and let it rise. 

Goodfellow's Spanish Buns.— (Original 
Receipt.) — f lb. flour, 6 oz. butter, cut up fine in 
it; 4 eggs beaten well, 1 tea-spoonful of mixed 
nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon, 3 wine-glasses baker's 
or brewer's yeast, 3 wine-glasses milk ; mix it with 
a knife ; add the sugar. Place it in the tins, and 
let it rise 2 or 3 hours ; then sprinkle 2 oz. cleaned 
currants over the batter, pressing them lightly 
below the surface. Bake in a slow oven ; when 
done, ice, or sprinkle sugar over, and cut in 
squares. 

Icing. — This elegant finish, is made by beating 
the whites of 2 eggs to a very stiff froth, and add- 
ing, little by little, fine pulverised sugar, till quite 
thick. Flavour with essence of Vanilla, or a mite 
of cream tartar. Lay it on with a broad knife, 
and smooth with another knife dipped in water. 
Set it in a cool oven with the door open, to dry. 
I prefer on the hearth under the oven. If you 
wish figures or flowers, make up 3 eggs, reserving 
a third till the cake has become dried after icing, 
then insert a clean new glass syringe into the 
remainder, and direct it as yon choose over the 
iced cake. Dry again. It is said that ripe fruit 
may be laid on the icing when about half dry, 
with a very pretty effect, such as strawberries, Ac. 

Save a little icing out, dilate with rose-water, 
and put on when that first done is dry ; makes it 
smooth and glossy. This is more trouble, however. 



56 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 



FLAVOURS. 

Peach Kernels.*— Crack the stones, take out 
and scald the kernel to take off the skin ; pat 
them into wine for use. 

Rose Flavour. — Put rose leaves into wine 
for use. 



PASTRY. 



The proper making and baking of paste is a very 
lady-like accomplishment, and is often found an 
indispensable one. There is a mistaken notion 
that rich crust is not only indigestible, but costly. 
If the following directions are adhered to, the re* 
verse will be found the fact. 

Paste for Shells and Puddings.— Take 1 
lb. flour, cooled and sifted, and 1 lb. butter : use 
no salt ; make the flour into a stiff paste with very 
cold water, mixing it with a strong spoon : throw 
it out on the pie-board and roll very thin : cut the 
butter [which must be very cold] into small pieces 
and lay half of them on the paste : flatten each 
down by a quick pressure of the hand, dredge very 
much flour lightly over the whole surface, fold to- 
gether lengthwise and crosswise, into a small lump : 
roll out again thinly, lay on the rest of the butter 
in the same way, sprinkle again with flour, fold 
together, and roll as thin as possible: dredge 
again, fold together, and roll into a wafer-like 
sheet, which, having dredged, fold lightly into a 
roll about 3 inches wide ; cut the whole of this 



A PLAIN CRUST — OTSTKB PIE, ITC. 57 

into squares, flatten each square with the rolling- 
pin, and cut out with a shell-cutter ; having pre- 
pared 2 of these, take, with a small round cutter, 
a piece from the centre of one, and put it upper- 
most in a tin which will hold several. Bake 15 
minutes in a very quick oven : watch them care- 
fully, as much depends on baking. When properly 
made, these will rise to the height of 2 or 3 inches. 
The above quantity makes 12 shells, 5 inches in 
diameter. 

A Plain Crust. — 1 bowl lard, 1 do. water 
(scant), 3 do. flour : mix all well together, and roll 
out, using "patent flour" (if convenient). In 
the preparation of puddings baked in crust, the 
under part of the crust can be made by the plainer 
method, and £ lb. of the richer used as an edge. 

Oyster Pie. — 50 oysters : strain the liquor : line 
a dish with paste, take 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped 
fine, 2 oz. butter: mix these with 1 slice dry 
bread crumbled fine; add pepper, salt and nutmeg 
to your taste; then to eaoh layer of oysters 
sprinkle some of the mixture ; it is best to reserve 
some of the oyster juice for gravy, which thicken 
and serve in a boat. Cover it with paste and 
bake. 

Chicken Pie. — Cut up a chicken, and if old 
boil 15 minutes in water, which save, to put in the 
pie : make paste and put in the dish, cutting out 
the middle lay in the chicken, dust flour over and 
put in butter, pepper, and salt; cover them with the 
water, roll out the top crust quite thick, and close 
the pie round the edge : make an opening in the 
middle with a knife ; let it bake an hour. If 
warmed over next day, pour off the gravy and 
warm separately ; add it to the pie to serve. 



58 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Pot Pie. — Cut up 1 large chicken, grease a 
dinner pot with lard : roll out crust enough, [of 
" plain crust,"] to line it, cutting ont the bottom. 
As you put in the pieces of chicken, strew in 
flour, salt, and pepper, a few pieces of the crust 
rolled thin, and a few potatoes : coyer this with 
water, and put on it a covering of paste, with a 
slit in the middle. Let this cook slowly 2 hours; 
have hot water at hand, to add in case it be too 
dry. Yeal, lamb, <fec, may be made thus. Also, 
peach or apple pot pie. 

Vol Au Vent. — Make up £ lb. flour into 
paste, roll out one-third of it oval shape. Take 
one of your dish covers and cut out two, leaving 
the bottom crust whole, but cutting the middle 
out of the second ; lay them on a tin : cut out a 
third one, making a distinct line with a cover 
of smaller oval. Put it in a quick oven, a light 
brown : take out with a knife this inner circle, fill 
in the centre with stewed oysters, fricasseed chicken 
or minced veal, hot. It is well to put in a napkin, 
to bake. 

Mince Pies. — 1 lb. finely-chopped roast beet 
£ lb. suet do., i peck apples do., 1 lb. raisins, J 
lb. cleaned currants, 1 nutmeg, 2 table-spoonfuls 
ground cinnamon, 1 do. ground cloves, the juice 
of 2 lemons and rinds grated, mace, 1 lb. sugar, 
sweet cider to moisten it. Let this stand mixed, 
all night : when using, put in 2 oz. citron, cut in 
very thin strips. 

Apple Pie.— Pare, core and wash £ peck 
apples. Put them in 4 pie plates with a little 
water. Make a crust, and cover them. While 
hot from the oven put in sugar, a small piece of 



HE-PLANT PIE, ETC. 59 

butter, cream, or the yellow of an egg, stirred in. 
Turn out into a China plate. 

Pie-Plant Pie. — Cat it up, skinning the 
stronger stalks, and strewing sugar over before 
the crust is put on. A little water. All juicy 
fruit like currants prepare in this way also. One 
lemon to 4 pies, grated all in, is good. 



PUDDINGS, Ac. 

Apple Puddings, in crust.— 1£ pint stewed 
apples, 1 tea-cup rich cream, £ lb. butter, 4 eggs, 
nutmeg, grated lemon skin, sugar to taste. Put 
in the butter while the apples are hot, the re- 
mainder when cool. Dried apples will do. 

Pumpkin Puddings. — 1 pint stewed pump- 
kin, [it comes now powdered,] 1 quart milk, 4 or 
6 eggs, \ lb. butter, sugar and mace, nutmeg and 
grated lemon peel, or ginger, or other spice. 

Potato Puddings. — £ peck white ones, boiled. 
Beat them up : add f butter, 1 pint cream, grate 
3 lemons, all across, [take out seeds,] 8 eggs, 1 
tea-spoonful soda. 

Green Corn Pudding. — Grease a deep earth- 
en baking dish with butter : grate with a coarse 
grater 2 dozen ears of corn, selecting such as are 
of equal ripeness : add tea-spoonful salt, table- 
spoonful white sugar, a quart of milk, and lastly, 
2 eggs well-beaten : lay a piece of butter rather 
larger than an egg on top of all, put it into a 
slow oven, bake 4 hours ; if the oven is too quick 
it will make the pudding curdle; when done it 
should be nicely brown all over, and the consis- 



60 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

tency of warm mush : good for tea or dinner : may 
be eaten with sugar, but a little batter is better. 

> Another way.— Grate corn from 12 ears of yonng 
corn : add £ gill milk, 1 table-spoonful white su- 
gar, 1 egg beaten. Mix all, and bake l£ hours. 

Flemish Pudding. — 1 pint milk, 4 eggs, £ 
pint flour, salt : boil £ an hour. 

Save-all Pudding. — Weigh out of your crock 
of dry bread \ lb. bread : put it on the stove with 
1 pint milk to soften : let it remain 3 hours, then 
beat it up fine : cool awhile, and add 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, 2 do. Zante currants, 2 eggs 
beaten : pare, core and cut 2 apples and add : but- 
ter a ''Turk's turban 11 and put it in: sprinkle 2 
table-spoonfuls chopped suet on the top, and bake 
f hour. Eat with butter and a little sugar 

Cocoanut Puddings. — Grate the nuts, say- 
ing all the milk : to a pound of cocoanut add £ lb. 
butter, and f lb. sugar: let the butter and sugar 
be mixed ; the whites of 9 eggs [or the whole of 4] 
beaten well, 8 crackers, or same of dry bread 
rolled fine, wet with 1 wine-glass rose water, and 
all the milk of nuts : 8 nuts make 12 small pud- 
dings, or li lbs. of the grated nuts. 

Ooooanut Custard. — 1 nut grated into 1 
pint milk, 3 eggs, sugar to taste, butter as large 
as a walnut, the outside of a lemon and nutmeg. 

Soda Craoker Pudding.— 4 soda crackers 
soaked in 3 tea-cups water, 2 lemons grated in, 
and 2 tea-cups sugar. These taste like apple pie. 

Apple Custard. — Pare tart apples, core 
them' with an an apple corer, put them in a deep 
dish with a small piece of butter, and 1 tea-spoon- 



APPLE MERINGUE — BICE PUDDING, ETC. 6l 

ful sugar in the opening of each apple. Ponr in 
water enough to cook them : when soft, cool them, 
and pour over an unbaked custard so as to cover 
them, and bake till custard is done. 

Apple Meringue. — Pare, core and stew 10 
tart apples, in a very little water : season as for a 
pie, and put it in a fruit pie dish, into a cool oven. 
Beat up, meanwhile, the whites of 4 eggs as you 
would for icing : piling it on the apple like rocks, 
or irregular, avoiding the edge of dish. Return 
it to a warm oven, and brown macaroni colour. 
Slip all out carefully, by aid of knife or spoon, 
into a China dish, and serve with cream, which if 
you have not, make a custard of the yellows, fla- 
voured with essence of Vanilla, Ac. 

Oustard may be used instead of apple ; it may 
be a soft one, and in cups. 

Rice Pudding. — Wash 3 heaping table-spoon- 
fuls rice : put it into 1 quart milk, a pinch of salt, 
white sugar to taste, a little nutmeg and butter, 
tut it in the oven directly after breakfast, in a 
warmish oven : let it simmer, and when a brown 
skin begins to form stir it in. Do this 3 times. 
Ton will thus have a creamy pudding. Raisins 
6r not. 

Macaroon Pudding. — Boil 1 quart milk, dis- 
solve the weight of 4 cents' worth Russian isin- 
glass in as little water as possible : add it to the 
boiling milk. Roll 12 macaroons, (chocolate if 
you choose,) to a fine powder : stir it in the milk, 
and pour it into a mould. Eat cold, with c?eam. 

— E. W. T. 

Iced Apples.— Pare, core, and spice 10 apples 
of a large tart kind. Bake them till nearly done. 
6 



62 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Put them away to get entirely cold : then prepare 
some icing as for Apple Meringue, and, first pour- 
ing off all the jnice, lay the icing thickly on the tops 
and sides as much as you can. Return them to the 
oven to just harden and be set. Serve with cream. 
This is very beautiful, either for dessert or an 
evening. 

Apple Tapioca.— Gore some tart apples: 
fill up the opening with butter and sugar, strew 
some sugar around them. Put 1 dessert-spoonful 
dry Tapioca on each apple. Put water around, 
nearly up to the top of apples : bake, and serve 
as the above. 

Apple Float. — Prepare 12 tart apples as for 
sauce : when cold, add 2 whites of eggs, beaten : 
then beat the whole till quite stiff. Have made 
previously a soft custard, with the 2 yelks. Put 
the apple on the custard. 

Adelaide's Pudding. — Pare and core, and 
fill up with nutmeg, sugar and butter, 6 apples. 
Make a batter of 1 egg t patent flour, £ pint milk, 
and pour round. A little salt in batter. [These 
varieties of apple dessert are healthful, cheap, ea- 
sily made, and excellent.] 

Cup Batter Pudding.— -6 eggs, 6 table- 
spoonfuls flour, 1 pint milk, 1 tea-spoonful salt. 
Beat the yelks apart well, and mix them with the 
flour : then add the milk. Lastly, whip the white 
stiff, mix and bake at once, £ hour. 

Boiled Batter Pudding. — 6 eggs, 1 quart 
milk, 12 table-spoonfuls sifted flour, (or more, if 
preferred,) 1 tea-spoon salt. Mix as other batter; 
have water boiling. Dip your bag into the hot 
water ; take it out, and sift flour inside. Pour in 



BREAD PUDDING FRITTERS, ETC. 63 

the batter and tie it tightly, leaving room for the 
padding to swell. Pat it in now and boil 1} 
hoars. To be eaten hot with sauce No. 1 or 4. 
A pound of currants, or any fruit preferred : boil 
awhile longer for them, and turn over frequently, 
or the fruit will settle to one side. 

A Bread Pudding. — 1 quart milk, 4 eggs, £ 
lb. dried currants, a few slices stale bread, 1 tea- 
spoon salt. Bake in a quick oven £ hour. Eat it 
with sauce No. 2 or 4. Another way is to put 
alternate slices of apple and bread, and bake. 

Fritters, with Yeast. — Make a batter of 1 
pint milk, and as much flour as will form it, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, and 5 table-spoons yeast. Put 
this in a warm place 3 hours. Just before dinner 
beat up 1 egg well, and add. These fritters are 
quite wholesome, being light, and do not absorb 
much lard. Boil them in lard. 

Delightful Pudding.— 1 quart boiled milk, J 
lb. mashed potatoes, £ lb. flour, a small piece butter, 
and when cold add 3 eggs, beaten. Bake £ hour. 
Eat with sauce No. 2. 

Cottage Pudding. — 1 pint flour, £ pint su- 
gar, J lb. butter, 2 eggs, £ pint milk, 2 tea-spoon- 
fuls cream tartar, 1 do. soda, a few currants or 
stoned raisins. Bake i hour in a Turk's turban. 
This is very good to put on at tea as a cake, if 
left at dinner. Sauce No. 2. 

Stale Bread Fritters. — Make as the above- 
named fritters, substituting bread for flour. These 
are more tender. 

Cold Custard. — To 1 quart milk, (sweetened 
with white sugar to taste,) add 3 table-spoonfuls 



64 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

wine, in which rennet has been placed. Pour It 
immediately into custard caps, and let it stand in 
a cool place several hours before dinner. Grate a 
little nutmeg over each, and eaten with cream, 
you have a dessert often more acceptable than a 
more elaborate and costly one. Put 1 calf s rennet, 
cut in strips, into 1 quart wine : let it remain a 
week, and use as directed. 

Custard Pudding. — Beat the yelks of 4 eggs 
smooth, adding, (little by little,) 1 quart milk, 
scant. Sweeten to taste: a pinch of salt, slice 
stale bread very thin, spread butter over it, then 
nutmeg, and lay on the top. Bake till custard is 
thick. [Salt enriches any kind of custard or bat- 
ter : put in 1 tea-spoonful to 2 quarts.] 

Trifle. — Break rusk or sponge cake into a 
dish, pour a boiled custard over it, and put a sylla- 
bub over that. Garnished with jelly and flowers, 
this makes a handsome dessert. 

Syllabub. — Make 1 quart rich cream very 
sweet, grate i nutmeg over it, put it into a China 
bowl, and milk a cow into it, that it may be very 
frothy. 

Floating Island. — Take the whites of 3 eggs, 
beat them to a froth : put 4 spoonfuls any kind of 
jelly, or roast apple ; beat them together till it 
becomes a substance that will heap on a spoon. 
Meanwhile, have made a boiled custard of 1} 
pint milk to the 3 unused yelks. Put the island 
on, and pile up like rocks. 

Another Way. — The whites of 8 eggs in a deep 
earthen bowl : add a small tea-cupful of currant 
jelly, beaten altogether until it forms a stiff froth 
in a cold place ; (the eggs should be at least 2 



bird's nest pudding, etc. 65 

days old, and very cold.) Pour cream into a glass 
bowl, and drop the island from a large spoon on 
to the surface of the cream. 

Bird's Nest Pudding. — Make the founda- 
tion of the nest of blancmange, or calf's foot 
jelly, or prepared corn : rasp the skin of 3 lemons 
and preserve it; then lay it round and on the 
mange like the straw : take out the contents of 4 
eggs through a small hole, and fill the shell with 
hot blancmange, or prepared corn ; when cold, 
break off the shells and lay mange in the nest. A 
beautiful dessert. 

Delicious Apple Pudding. — Very conve- 

/ nient, as it may be made several hours before it is 

I baked, or when a nice addition is wanted unex- 

/ pectedly. Pare and chop fine I a dozen or more, 

j according to their size, of the best cooking apples ; 

grease a pudding dish, cover the bottom and sides 

I an inch thick with grated bread, and very small 

lumps of butter : then put a layer of apples with 

sugar and nutmeg, and repeat the layer, which 

must be of bread and butter : pour over the whole 

j a tea-cup of cold water. Put into the oven as 

' soon as the dinner is served, and bake it 25 or 30 

. minutes. It may be baked the day before it is 

wanted: when it must be heated thoroughly, 

turned into a shallow dish, and sprinkled with 

powdered sugar. It requires no sauce.— -American 

Agriculturalist. 

/^Tapioca Pudding. — 2 oz. to 1 pint milk, 
/ softened in the oven, and when nearly cold add 3 
I eggs, and a little butter and sugar. Bake or boil 
I 1 hour 

V. Baked Indian Pudding.— Cut up i lb. but* 
6* 



66 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

ter in 1 pint molasses, warm them till melted. 
Boil 1 quart milk, and ponr over a pint corn meal, 
and stir in the molasses gradually: when cold, 
beat 6 eggs and stir them in : add the peel of a 
lemon, grated, or other spice : stir very hard, pour 
into a battered dish, and bake 2 hours. — j. a. 

Ioe Cream.— To 1 gallon cream 2£ lbs. white 
sugar, 4 Vanilla beans. For freezing this quan- 
tity, pound 5 lbs. ice, mixed with 2 lbs. coarse salt. 

The new "Cylinder Freezer" makes it in 10 
minutes, and may be had at Murphy & Yarnall's, 
262 Chestnut street. The above receipt is from 
B. H. Fassell, of whom it is better for Philadel- 
phians to order it, as he makes a very good, rich 
cream, at 31 cents, plain, and 3? cents in moulds, 
at corner Race and Jacoby, above Twelfth street 

Snow Cream.— Take the richest cream yon 
can procure, season it with a few drops of essence 
of lemon, or syrup of lemon peal, and powdered 
white sugar, and if yon choose a spoonful of pre- 
serve syrup, and just as you send it to table, stir 
in light newly-fallen snow till it is nearly as stiff 
as ice cream. 

Carrageen or Irish Moss Blancmange. — 

Wash in 3 waters i an ounce of Carrageen moss ; 
drain and put it in 2 quarts of new milk, let it 
boil for a few minutes, strain it in a pitcher, wet 
the moulds, and pour it in while hot ; let it stand 
till it becomes thick, when it may be eaten with 
sugar and cream, seasoned with peach or rose water, 
or with a lemon rolled in the sugar. Some prefer 
seasoning the blancmange before putting it in the 
moulds. It will keep in a cool place 2 days, and 
is better to be made the day Before it is eaten. 



SNOW FRITTKKS— BICE 7LUMHEBT, ETC. 6t 

Snow Fritters. — Take of light new-fallen 
snow, 3 table-spoonfuls for every egg you would 
otherwise use — that is, if you would wish the quan- 
tity that 3 eggs would make in the usual way, take 
9 table-spoonfuls of snow, and stir in a quart of 
rich milk that has been setting in a very cold place, 
so that it will not melt the snow, and destroy its 
lightness ; put in a tea-spoonful of salt, and enough 
wheat flour to make a stiff batter ; have ready a 
frying-pan with boiling lard, and drop a spoon- 
ful in a place as with other fritters, and set the 
remainder in a cold place till the first are done. 
Eat them with wine sauce, or sugar, butter and 
cream, or any thing you fancy. 

Rice Flummery.— Rice that is ground 
coarse, in a hand-mill, is much better for making 
flummery than the flour you buy ; put 3 pints of 
milk to boil, mix with water 2 tea-cups of ground 
rice, and stir it in the milk when it boils ; while 
the milk is cold, put in it 2 dozen peach kernels, 
blanched, and rolled with a bottle ; wet your 
moulds with cold cream or water ; keep stirring 
the rice till it is thick, when pour it out in the 
moulds; just before dinner turn them out on 
dishes, have cream, sugar and nutmeg mixed, to 
eat with it. 

Whipped Cream. — Take 1 pint rich cream, 
1 tea-cup sifted sugar, essence of lemon or the 
grated rind, to taste ; put this into a large pitcher, 
churn it with a whipped-cream churn, (which you 
may get at a tinman's for 25 cents,) until all of it 
comes to a froth : then place it with a spoon upon 
any mould dessert. This is very delicate and 
pretty, and will double the cream used. — a. p. 



68 TBS ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Sauces. No. 1. — Mix 1 tea-spoonful floor in 
1 tea-cup water, with 2 spoonfuls sugar and 1 but- 
ter : stir this in i pint boiling water, let it boil a 
few minutes; when add 1 glass wine and nutmeg. 

No. 2.— Beat equal quantities of butter and 
white sugar to a cream, grate nutmeg into it. 
Beat all well together, and put to harden before 
serving it. 

No. 3. — Melt molasses, butter and vinegar to- 
gether. 

No. 4, Cream Sauce.— Boil } pint cream, 
thicken it very little, put in a lump of butter : 
sweeten to taste, and when cold add 1 glass wine, 
or a lemon rind and juice. 



JELLIES. 



Calf's Foot Jelly. — Clean 6 feet : put them 
on to boil in 21 quarts water and i tea-spoonful salt : 
boil down one-half, strain it, and when cold scrape 
off all the fat, using a piece of silk paper last. Put 
it into a porcelain kettle, add sugar and wine to 
the taste, the rind of 2 lemons and juice, the 
whites of 4 eggs and shells : let it boil hard 20 
minutes, without stirring; strain it through a 
flannel bag into moulds. It is more likely to turn 
out perfectly if made the day before used. 

Tapioca Jelly. — Soak 3 table-spoonfuls pearl 
Tapioca in 1 quart water, several hours : put it in 
a saucepan with the same water, and let it boil 
slowly till clear and thick. Season with wine or 
lemon, and white sugar. Turn out in moulds. 



GELATIN! JELLY — PUBRANT JELLY, ETC. 69 

Gelatine Jelly.— Take 3 oz. Gelatine, 2 
quarts water, 1 pint wine, (or lemon jnice enough 
to flavour,) l£ white sugar, whites of 3 eggs and 
shells ; boil 20 minutes, and pour as above. 

Currant Jelly. — 4 quarts ripe currants mashed 
in both hands, till nearly all are broken ; squeeze 
out the stems and remove them. Put the pulp 
into a strong bag and squeeze very tightly, and 
there will be nearly 3 pints juice. Put 3 lira, white 
sugar to this, and boil £ hour.. 

Apple Jelly. — Slice whole apples, (cores, 
parings and all,) cook them with just water enough 
to cover them, till reduced to a soft pulp. Take the 
rind and juice of 4 lemons ; strain this pulp, (not 
squeezing much or going over it twice,) add the 
lemons, measure pint for lb. white sugar ; let it 
boil $ hour, and turn into forms. Quince Ac, 
the same way. 

Rice Jelly. — Boil £ lb. whole rice with i lb. 
loaf sugar, in 1 quart water, till it becomes a glu- 
tinous mass. Strain off the jelly and let it cool, 
in moulds. 

Quinee Jelly. — -Wash and wipe the quinces ; 
cut them in small pieces, and take out the seeds 
carefully ; have your kettle cleaned and half full 
of water; throw the quinces and seeds in till you 
get it full ; cover them over, and let them boil till 
very soft ; mash them well and strain them ; to 
every pint of juice put a pound of sugar ; clean 
the kettle again, pour in the juice and sugar, and 
let it boil till it forms a jelly ; it should be put 
into tea-cups, if you want it to turn out whole, 
with brandy papers on the top, and pasted over. 
It is a nice jelly to use with whips or trifle. 



f THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Molasses Candy or Taffy. — Put a quart of 
good molasses (not sugar-house) in a Dutch oven or 
iron pot, having previously greased it with butter; 
let it boil very fast, stirring it all the time for 15 
minutes ; then put in a tea-cup of sugar and let it 
boil 15 minutes longer, stirring all the time ; take 
a little out on a plate, and when it is brittle, pour 
it while hot into tin plates rubbed with butter ; 
put it in a cold place and break it up when you 
want it for use ; never put taffy in China or earth- 
en plates, as they would probably be broken in 
taking it out. Some think it an improvement to 
add the kernels of black walnuts, nicely picked ; 
put them in just as you take up the taffy and give 
it one stir ; a tea-cup of kernels to a pint of mo- 
lasses is a good proportion. 



PRESERVES. 

These are costly affairs in every way : not done 
without fatigue, time and patience — to say nothing 
of their unwholesomeness for some. We give a 
few. 

Cocoanut Preserved. — Grate 1 nut, save 
themilfand put in ; sweeten to taste with pow- 
dered loaf, and cook £ hour, stirring all the time 
to prevent burning. This is very pretty for puffs, 
but sickish. 

Preserved Pine Apple. — Take lb. for lb. 
of sugar ; boil the slices in water a few at a time, 
till clear. Then make a syrup with the water, 
and cook the apples 15 minutes in it. If the 
syrup is not slightly thick, boil it longer. 

Grated Pine Apple. — Orate the apples 
whole, and take lb. for lb. ; boil 20 minutes, stir- 
ring often. 

Common Cherries. — Stone the light-coloured 
common cherries, and to every pound of fruit allow 
a pound of sugar, which boil up with the juice ; 
after you have skimmed it throw in the cherries, 
and let them boil till the syrup is rich. 

Cherries for oommon use. — Stone 12 lbs. 
of good cherries; allow i lb. of brown sugar to 
each pound of fruit, after it is stoned ; let them 
cook slowly for 2 hours ; examine them through 
the summer, and if they show any signs of fermen- 
tation set them in a brick oven, after the bread is 



72 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

done, or in a Dutch oven of hot water, which keep 
at boiling heat for an hour. 

It is a good plan to know the weight of your 
preserving kettle, as you can then weigh the fruit 
in it, with a pair of steelyards. — lea. 

Gooseberries. — Take the large gooseberries, 
pick off the stems and blossoms, give them their 
weight in sugar ; put them in the kettle alternately, 
with the sugar, and pour over them a pint of water 
to 4 lbs. of fruit; let them boil gently till the 
scum arises ; when this is taken off, let them cook 
faster ; when clear, take them up on dishes, and 
boil the syrup longer. 

Peaches. — Have sweet, white clingstone peach- 
es, pare and stone them ; to each lb. take a pound 
of sugar made in a syrup, put the peaches in, 
and when they look clear take them up on dishes ; 
let the syrup boil longer. 

Quinces. — Pick out the finest quinces, pare 
them, and cut them in halves, or in rings ; take 
the best of the parings and the seed, and boil them 
in water till they are very soft ; strain the liquor, 
and have the kettle cleaned again ; wash and weigh 
the quinces, and give them their weight in sugar ; 
put the sugar in the water the parings were boiled 
in ; skim it, and put in the quinces ; let them boil 
very slowly till clear ; take them up on dishes, and 
boil the syrup longer. 

Citron Melon. — Cut it in pieces the s»^you 
wish, take out the soft centre and seeds, pate^ff 
the green rind, then throw the pieces in cold water 
and let them stand all night. ;JN6*fcday boil them, 
in water enough to cover jfchem, Tor 20 minutes, 
ailing alum the size of a walnut to each quart 



LIKES — PEACHES WITHOUT COOKING, ETC. 73 

of water, to green them ; { sugar to 1 lb. fruit, 
slice some lemons, and pat in also essence of gin- 
ger to taste. BoU till clear. — a. p. 

Limes.— Green limes are fonnd in our stores 
bnt for about 6 weeks in the middle of summer. 
Purchase them by the 100 ; put them in salt and 
water strong enough to bear an egg f (closely cov- 
ered,) till the warm weather is over. Make an 
incision, take out all the seeds, and put them in 
cold water 24 hours, changing the water several 
times : then boil them in soda water till tender 
enough to put a straw through — say 1 tea-spoon- 
ful soda to 6 quarts water. Put them again in 
eold water for 24 hours, changing the water several 
times. To each pound limes 2^ lbs. white sugar, 
and 3 pints water. Boil the syrup 15 minutes, 
then put in the limes ; boil them 5 minutes. They 
are then clear. Let syrup boil t hour, and they 
are all done — 100 limes make about 2 lbs. weight. 
These are delicious, and will keep always. 

Peaches -without Cooking.*— To 4 lbs. fruit 
add 1 lb. sugar ; place the sugar and peaches in 
a kettle over the fire, long enough to melt the su- 
gar without cooking the fruit Then remove them 
from the kettle, place them in Arthur's jars, and 
put them in a pot, (of warm water, if glass ; hot, 
if tin,) letting the water boil several minutes. — 

M. L. N. 

Damsons.— Weigh out as much sugar as you 
have fruit ; if it is brown you must clarify it ; put 
a pint of water to 3 lbs. of sugar, make a syrup, 
wash the damsons, put them in and let them cook 
slowly for i an hour; then take them out on 
dishes, and let them dry in the sun for 2 days, tak- 
ing them in the house at night; boil the syrup i 



74 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

an hour after the fruit is taken out ; when, done in 
this way they will be whole and clear. You can 
make a jam by boiling them slowly for 2 hours j 
or a jelly, as currants. 

Quince Marmalade. — Pare the quinces and 
cut them up fine ; put the parings and cores to 
boil ; then strain them ; put in the quinces, and 
let them boil till soft ; when mash them fine, and 
put in | lb. of sugar to a lb. fruit ; let them cook 
gently for 2 hours, and take them up in pint bowls ; 
when cold, put brandy papers on the top of each, 
and paste them over ; they will turn out whole to 
put on table. 

Marmalade of Mixed Fruits. — Pare equal 
quantities of peaches, apples, pears and quinces ; 
cut them fine, and put them to boil with a pint 
of water to 6 lbs. of fruit ; let them cook tho- 
roughly, but do not let them burn ; take them out 
and mash them well ; clean the kettle, and put 
them back, with half their weight in sugar; let 
them cook very slowly for 2 hours. 

To Conserve Peaches. — Take the yellow 
peaches, pare them, and cut them from the stone 
in one piece ; to 6 lbs. of peaches have 2 lbs. of 
sugar ; make a syrup of f lb. of sugar, and a little 
water ; put them in, and let them stay till they are 
quite clear ; then take them up carefully on a dish, 
and set them in the sun to dry ; pound the sugar 
fine, and strew over them, turning them over to 
let each part have some ; do not put much on at a 
time, and if. any syrup is made remove them to 
fresh dishes ; when they are sufficiently dry, lay 
them lightly in a jar, with a little sugar between 
each layer. 



BOASTED FBUIT, ETC. 1 5 

Frosted Fruit. — Take large ripe cherries, 
apricots, plums or grapes ; if cherries, cat off 
half of the stem ; have in one dish some white 
of an egg beaten, and in another some pow- 
dered loaf-sugar ; take the fruit, one at a time, and 
roll them first in the egg, and then in the sugar ; 
lay them on a sheet of white paper in a sieve, and 
set it on the top of a stove, or near a fire, till the 
icing is hard. 

Crystalized Plums. — Stone them and put 1 
lb. plums to £ lb. sugar : cook them to a pulp : 
then spread on broad dishes to dry : pack them 
away in glass jars. When wanted to serve, take a 
little and roll in powdered sugar the shape of 
plums. — i. l. n. 

Peach Leather. — Stew peaches as if for pies, 
taking out the stones and making into a pulp : put 
this on planed boards on a roof in the sun ; in a 
few days it will be dry enough to peel off the 
boards. Boll it, and put away dry. 

Cranberries. — For every quart cranberries put 
1 lb. full white sugar : make a syrup first, skim it, 
and stew the cranberries ; 1 dessert-spoonful of 
sup. car. soda put in after they are taken off the 
fire, takes off the acidity. 

Cranberries are said to be nearly, or quite as 
good, if to 1 of stewed dried apples, 3 quarts 
of cranberries ; or 1 of cranberries, and 2 apples. 

Preserves keep with less cooking, if after being 
boiled awhile, they are taken, out of their syrup 
and dried in the sun : the juice being put in glass 
jars, and standing also in the sun. — e. r. p. 

Quinces and peaches are better and far less 
troublesome, preventing burning, by chipping 



76 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

them, and letting them boil till clear, doing the 
jelly longer and taking them out before going to 
pulp. 

Pears.— Take sound medium-sized pears : re- 
move nearly all the stem, and boil them in water just 
enough to cover them till soft ; take each out care- 
fully, and lay on a sieve to drain ; put equal weight 
of sugar, the juice and rind of lemons ; make a 
syrup of i pint water to 1 lb. sugar, and boil 
them, (with green ginger, in a book-muslin bag,) 
till clear. If the syrup is not thickish, boil it 
longer. 

Quinces, just as above, leaving out lemons and 
ginger. 

Crab Apples. — Select perfect ones ; pour boil- 
ing water over them, which removes the skin : lay 
them in water enough to cover them; let them 
simmer slowly till soft ; take them out and drain ; 
make a clean syrup, pound for pound ; boil them 
in it till clear, lay them on dishes to cool, and place 
in jars ; cook the syrup a little longer, and pour 
it over the apples when hot. Seal. 

Peaches.— These may be done to taste even 
better than the hermetically sealed uncooked arti- 
cle, by taking half sugar, (or less,) to 1 lb. peaches. 
Cook them 5 minutes, the syrup somewhat longer. 
Seal them perfectly. 

A Simpler TFay.— Take the fruit, either quinces 
or peaches, which is not so nice, and cut off the 
whole peach or quince, in small pieces, sugar, to 
taste; cook 20 minutes, and seal entirely from the 
air. Any kind of fruits we have in our market* 
may be thus preserved, at quarter the cost, time 
and trouble, and they will be found far better eat- 
ing than preserves. Method.— Let the glass jars 



Arthur's self-sealing cans and jars. 77 

be warming near the fire, while the fruit is stewing ; 
have corks to fit, bladder lined, pat in the fruit a 
little at a time, boiling hot ; warm your cement, 
meanwhile, insert the cork, taking care to have 
the glass full to the cork, press down tightl j ; then 
put another piece of wet bladder over the cork, 
tieing it down tightly ; invert the glass into the 
cement, then stand it up to harden ; when hard, 
roll the edge of the glass again in the hot cement, 
and you have a perfectly air-tight vessel. The 
very best and safest mode, however, and one which 
servants must be doubly-refined stupid not to 
succeed in, is Arthur's Patent Self-sealing Cans 
and Jars. We give, below, an engraving of one 
of these valuable vessels. 

For some purposes, as 
for putting up tomatoes, 
the tin cans are prefer- 
able ; for others, the glass 
jars, with many house- 
keepers, will have the 
preference. It has been 
proved, however, that all 
kinds of fruits may be 
kept unchanged in the 

Jtrthur't Stlf-Sealing Chn. tin Cans. 

These vessels were used during the last summer 
in incredibly large quantities, and with the most 
complete success. They may be obtained in most 
of the principal cities and towns in the country, 
of the agents. They are accompanied with ex- 
plicit directions for use, and valuable recipes for 
putting up fruits and vegetables. 

We are glad to be able, from actual trial, to 
give this strong testimonial in favour of so useful 
an invention. 
7* 




78 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

It will be seen that they are constructed with a 
channel around the month. Into this channel a 
very adhesive cement is ponred at the time they 
are manufactured, and allowed to harden, so that 
when they are purchased they are ready for use, 
obviating entirely the necessity of melting or pour- 
ing wax or cement of any kind. In order to seal 
one of Arthur's Cans or Jars, when filled with hot 
fruit, it is only necessary to put on the cover, and 
lay upon it a weight of a few pounds to keep it in 
place, until the vapour on the 'inside condenses. 
It is strictly, when heated substances are enclosed 
in it, a self-sealing vessel. If the article is cold, 
or only warm, it is merely necessary to heat the 
cover and put it in place. The whole operation is 
so exceedingly simple, that the vessel will at once 
commend itself to every intelligent housekeeper. 

The tin cans, made after this plan, are free from 
the defects which render all tin cans with a small 
opening objectionable, and entirely prevent their 
use more than a single time. All the cut edges of 
the tin are covered with solder, so that no part of 
the iron is exposed to contact with the con- 
tents, and cannot become rusted, as must occur 
with the ordinary can ; and as this is so entirely 
open, it can be cleansed as easily and thoroughly 
as a tin cup. 



SYRUPS. 

Strawberry Syrup Juice 1 pint, water 

do., white sugar 3 lbs. After squeezing the juice 
from berries, take the pulp and pour the measured 
water over it, and let it come to a boil ; strain 
this, and make up the pint with water, if wanting. 
Pour this on the sugar, put it over the fire, and 
heat till the sugar is dissolved and come to a boil ; 
take it off the fire, add strawberry juice, stir well ; 
place on the fire 5 minutes, remove, and when cool 
strain and bottle. Same for Raspberry, Pine 
Apple, Ac. : 3 quarts ripe berries make the above. 

Vanilla Syrup. — Boil 3 lbs. white sugar in 
1 quart boiling water, J hour; then put in 2 Va- 
nilla beans and 1 tea-cup water, and boil until 
reduced to 1 quart again. Then strain it through 
a flannel bag and bottle close. 

This is rendered needless by a highly concen- 
trated article sold at corner Fifth and Cherry, the 
Free Produce Store of Q. W. Taylor, called Allin- 
son's Essence Vanilla. 

Ginger Syrup.— 1 lb. sugar to 1 pint water : 
boil 20 minutes — when cool, add essence of ginger 
to taste. 

Cherry Vinegar.— -6 quarts cherries, broken 
up, and 1 quart vinegar ; let it stand 3 days : then 
press the juice from them through a jelly bag, and fc 
to 1 pint juice i lb. white sugar ; boil it 12 min- 
utes, and skim. This makes 8 porter bottles full. 
Blackberries done in this way are also good as a 
drink. — a. b. 

0») 



PLEASANT DRINKS. 

Lemonade.— To 1 pint juice 4 lbs. sugar, 2 
quarts ice-water. It makes more to soak the 
halves of lemons that have been squeezed in a 
little water, a few at a time, using the water. 

Mock Lemonade. — £ oz. tartaric acid, 6 oz. 
sugar, 4 drops essence lemon dropped on the su- 
gar, 1 quart boiling water. 

Carbonated Drink. — 2 quarts ice-water, 4 
table-spoonfuls vinegar, 2 tea-spoonfuls ground 
ginger. Sweeten to taste, and add 1 tea-spoonful 
soda, 1 do. cream tartar. 

Penny Beer. — } oz. cream tartar, 1 cts. worth 
sassafras, 1 do. sarsaparilla, 1 do. pipsissaway. 
All these are bought in the market. Put 1 gallon 
water to the sassafras, pipsissaway and sarsaparilla, 
and boil l£ hours Then pour it off and add an- 
other gallon of water, and boil until the strength 
is out of the herbs Pour it boiling on the cream 
tartar : when about milk warm put in 1 cts. worth 
yeast. Sweeten with molasses and sugar. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Pour 1 quart vinegar 
on 1 quart fresh- picked raspberries : the next day 
strain it through a sieve on another quart of rasp- 
berries, and so on 5 or 6 days ; then to every pint 
juice add 1 lb. white sugar, set it in a jar, which 
must be placed in a pot of boiling water, until 
scalded through. Bottle. 

Ginger Beer. — 1 gallon cold water, 1 lb. 
white sugar, i oz. race ginger, 1 sliced lemon, 1 
(80) 



( 



HOARHOUND BEEB, ETC. 81 

tea-cup yeast. Let it stand all night to ferment ; 
then pour it off without stirring, bottle it, and add 
1 raisin to each bottle.— m. m. 

Hoarhound Beer. — Take 1 handful flour, 
pour 1 quart boiling water over it, 4 table-spoon- 
fuls of yeast, and put in when cool enough ; when 
risen, add 3 lbs. brown sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls 
ground ginger, 1 pint strong hoarhound, (4 cents' 
worth,) steep it in boiling water : stir this all up, 
let it be for 12 hours, strain through a linen cloth 
into bottles. 

Portable Lemonade. — Tartaric acid £ oz., 
loaf sugar 3 ounces, essence of lemon $ drachm. 
Powder the tartaric acid : also the sugar. Mix 
them, and pour the essence of lemon upon them a 
few drops at a time ; when all is mixed, divide 
into 12 equal parts, and put them in white paper. 
When wanted, dissolve 1 in a tumbler of water, 
and lemonade will be the result 



WINES. 

Currant Wine. — To 1 quart juice add 2 
quarts water, 1 lb. sugar ; mix well together, and 
let it stand 24 hours, without stirring : then skim 
it, putting it in a jug or keg, leaving out the cork, 
and let it ferment in a cool place for a week, or 
till done fermenting : then cork tightly, and when 
clear it is fit to bottle. 

Quince Wine. — Grate whole quinces, (cut- 
ting out rot and worms,) squeeze the juice through 
a flannel bag, and to each quart juice put 1 lb. su- 
gar. Let it work long enough to clear out the 
pugs : when clear bottle it. — m. p. 

P. S. These two wines are inserted with some 
hesitation ; but there are occasions when wine is 
needed, and these are easily and cheaply made by 
persons living in the country. 

A Pleasant Wine. — 2 quarts morel cherry 
juice, 1 quart water, and 2 lbs. sugar : boil and 
skim it, and when cool add 1 pint brandy. 
(82) 



GAS COOKING. 

In regard to cooking with gas, our experience 
is just 3 months old. 4-s far as that experience 
goes, we give it a decided preference over every 
other kind of cooking. 

The best apparatus for the purpose is Gleason's 
Patent, to be had of Gleason & Sons, No. 463 
Market street. There are two sizes ; one of them 
small enough for the smallest family — very com- 
pact and convenient, and not unsightly — they cost 
from 20 to 30 dollars. 

The usual objection made to the use of gas for 
cooking, has been, that it is expensive. We have 
not found it so — and for labour-saving and clean* 
liness, nothing can equal it. 

Bread baked by gas is not to be surpassed for 
its delicate taste; and meats retain their flavour 
and tenderness more perfectly than when roasted 
by any other means — for steaks and chops it equals 
" the good hickory coals," of which this genera- 
tion is often reminded by the one which is passing 
away ; and when it is remembered that the heat is 
only generated while the stove is in actual use, 
its superiority over every other mode of cooking 
is obvious for the summer months. 

One of our friends, who has used gas for this 
purpose for 15 years, both summer and winter, 
and who is acquainted with the methods pursued 
in Paris and London, assures us that it is as much 
cheaper than either coal or wood, as it is better. 
If that is so, there is really nothing to be desired 
but some improvement in the apparatus, which 
could be easily made to make cooking a pleasure, 
instead of a temper-trying burden. — s. w. t. 

(83) 



-<G IB* ^^ .t^cc. 







NURSING THE SICK. 

Next to the gift of healing comes, in importance, 
the office of nurse. Very few families are so cir- 
cumstanced as to be sufficiently strong-handed or 
skillful to nurse in cases of protracted illness, 
without great weariness and loss of sleep, even if 
the aid of kind neighbours and friends be proffered. 
In our city a most useful institution exists, called 
the " Nurses' Home," where, at any hour of day 
or night, competent nurses may be obtained at 
reasonable rates, as very many can attest. " The 
Home" is located at 841 Race, above 9th street 

Medicine. — The only medicine which seems 
needful to insert, is one which is of great benefit 
in slight ailments, such as constipation, sick sto- 
mach, headache, Ac, and which is not, I believe, 
disavowed even by that much-obtaining system— 
" Homeopathy." I allude to "citrate of magnesia." 
S. Simes, corner Chestnut and 12th sts., has a very 
palatable article for sale* It is really a pleasant, 
sparkling potion. 

(84) 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 

Lett every thing be sweet and clean, as their 
senses of taste and smell are very acute. Let it be 
presented in an inviting form ; fine China, silver, 
Ac, used. Be careful not to over-flavour their 
food. Always have a shawl at hand ; also, a clean 
towel, clean handkerchief, and a small waiter, when 
yon present food or drink. Many of the articles 
under " dessert" are good for the sick. It is well 
to have a stand or small table by the bedside, that 
you can set any thing on. A small silver strainer 
that will just fit over a tumbler or tea-cnp, is very 
useful to strain lemonade, panada, or herb tea. 
If you want any thing to nee through the night, 
you should prepare it, if possible, beforehand ; as 
a person that is sick, can sometimes fall asleep 
without knowing it, if the room is kept perfectly 
still. 

A! Vegetable Soup. — Take an onion, a tur- 
nip, 2 pared potatoes, a carrot (a head of celery, 
or not) : boil them in 3 pints water till the vege- 
tables are cooked ; add a little salt ; have a slice 
of bread toasted and buttered, pnt into a bowl 
and pour soup over. When in season, tomatoes, 
or okra, or both, improve this. 

Gum Water.— J oz. to 1 oz. dissolved in 
1 quart cold water. Sweeten it. 

Slippery Elm Bark. — Very good for weak 
or inflamed eyes. 

Coffee. — Sick persons should have their coffee 
8 (85) 



86 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

made separate from the family, as standing in the 
tin pot spoils the flavour. Put 2 tea-spoonfuls of 
ground coffee in a small mug, and pour boiling 
water on it ; let it set by the fire to settle, and 
pour it off in a cup, with sugar and cream. 
Care should be taken that there are no burnt 
grains. 

Chocolate. — To make a cup of chocolate, grate 
a large tea-spoonful in a mug, and pour a tea-cup 
of boiling water on it; let it stand covered by 
the fire a few minutes, when you can put in sugar 
and cream. 

Black Tea. — Black tea is much more suitable 
than green for sick persons, as it does not affect 
the nerves. Put a tea^spoonful in a pot that will 
hold about 2 cups, and pour boiling water on it Let 
it set by the fire to draw 5 or 10 minutes. 

Rye Mush. — This is a nourishing and light 
diet for the sick, and is by some preferred to mush 
made of Indian meal. Four large spoonfuls of 
rye flour mixed smooth in a little water, and stirred 
in a pint of boiling water : let it boil 20 minutes, 
stirring frequently. Nervous persons who sleep 
badly, rest much better after a supper of corn, or 
rye mush, than if they take tea or coffee. 

Boiled Custard. — Beat an egg with a heaped 
tea-spoonful of sugar ; stir it into a tea-cupful of 
boiled milk, and stir till it is thick ; pour it in a 
bowl on a slice of toast cut up, and grate a little 
nutmeg over. 

Panada. — Put some crackers, crusts of dry 
bread or dried rusk, in a sauce-pan with cold wa- 
ter, and a few raisins ; after it has boiled half an 
hour, put in sugar, nutmeg, and i a glass of wine. 



EGG AND BARLEY PANADA, ETC. 8 T 

if the patient has no fever. If you have dried 
rask, it is a quicker way to put the rusk in a bowl 
with some sugar, and pour boiling water on it out 
of the tea-kettle. If the patient can take no- 
thing but liquids, this makes a good drink when 
strained. 

Egg Panada. — Boil a handful of good raisins 
in a quart of water ; toast a slice of bread and cut 
it up ; beat 2 eggs with a spoonful of sugar, and 
mix it with the bread ; when the raisins are done, 
pour them on the toast and eggs, stirring all the 
time ; season to your taste with wine, nutmeg and 
butter. 

Barley Panada. — Boil a small tea-cup of 
barley in water till it is soft, with a tea-cup of rai- 
sins ; put in nutmeg and sugar, and break in it 
toast or dried rusk. 

Calf's Foot Blancmange. — Pot a set of 
nicely-cleaned feet in 4 quarts of water, and let it 
boil more than half away ; strain through a colan- 
der, and when it is cold scrape off all the fat, and 
take out that which settles at the bottom ; put it 
in a sauce-pan, with a quart of new milk, sugar to 
your taste, lemon peal and juice, and cinnamon or 
mace ; let it boil 10 minutes and strain it ; wet 
your moulds, and when it is nearly cold, put it in 
them ; when it is cold and stiff, it can be turned 
out on a plate, and eaten with or without cream. 
This is very nice for a sick person, and is easily 
made. 

Chicken Water. — If you have a small 
chicken, it will take half of it to make a pint of 
chicken water. Cut it up and put it to boil in a 
covered skillet with a quart of water ; when it has 



88 THE XOONOXIOAL COOK BOOK. 

boiled down to a pint, take it up, and pat in a 
little salt and slice of toasted bread. This is va- 
luable in cases of dysentery and cholera morons, 
particularly when made of old fowls. 

Beef Tea, &o. — Take a piece of juicy beef, 
without any fat, cut it in small pieces, bruise it till 
tender, put it in a wide-mouthed bottle, and cork it 
tight ; put this in a pot of cold water, set it oyer 
the fire, and let it boil an hour or more. When a 
person can take but a small quantity of nourish- 
ment, this is very good. Mutton may be done in 
the same way. 

Mutton and Veal Broth. — Boil a piece of 
mutton till it comes to pieces; then strain the 
broth, and let it get cold, so that the fat will rise, 
which must be taken off] tben warm it, and put in 
a little salt. Yeal broth may be made in the same 
way, and is more delicate for sick persons. 

Wine Whey. — Boil a pint of milk, and put 
to it a glass of white wine ; set it over the fire till 
it just boils again, then set it off till the cord 
has settled, when strain it, and sweeten to your 
taste. 

Oat-meal Gruel. — Mix 2 spoonfuls of oat- 
meal with as much water as will mix it easily, and 
stir it in a pint of boiling water in a sauce-pan 
nntil perfectly smooth ; let it boil a few minutes ; 
season it with sugar and nutmeg, and pour it out 
on a slice of bread toasted and cut up, or some 
dried rusk. If the patient should like them, you 
can put in a few raisins, stoned and cut up. This 
will keep good a day, and if nicely warmed over, 
is as good as when fresh. 

Corn Gruel. — Mix 2 spoonfuls of sifted corn- 



ARROW-ROOT — BLACKBERRIES, ETC. 89 

meal in some water ; have a clean skillet with a 
pint of boiling water in it , stir it in, and when 
done, season it with salt to your taste, or sugar, if 
you prefer it. 

Arrow-Root. — Moisten 2 tea-spoonfuls of 
powdered arrow-root with water, and rub it smooth 
with a spoon ; then pour on a half pint of boiling 
water ; season it with lemon juice, or wine and 
nutmeg. In cooking arrow-root for children, it is 
a very good way to make it very thick, and thin it 
afterwards with milk. 

Blackberries. — Allow a pint of currant juice 
and a pint of water to 6 lbs. of blackberries ; give 
them their weight in brown sugar ; let them boil 
till they appear to be done, and the syrup is rich. 
Blackberry jelly can be made as currant jelly, and 
is good for sick children, mixed with water. 

Blackberry Syrup. — The following is the 
recipe for making the famous blackberry syrup. 
No family should be without it. All who try it 
will find it a sovereign remedy for bowel com- 
plaints : — " To 2 quarts blackberry juice add i oz. 
each of powdered nutmeg, cinnamon and allspice, 
and J oz. powdered cloves. Boil these together 
to get the strength of the spices, and to preserve 
the berry juice. While hot, add a pint of fourth 
proof pure French brandy, and sweeten with loaf 
sugar. Give a child 2 tea-spoonfuls 3 times a day, 
and if the disorder is not checked, add to the quan- 
tity." 

Barley Water. — Take 2 oz. of pearl barley, 

wash it in clean cold water, put it into £ pint 

boiling water, and let it boil for 5 minutes : pour 

off this water, and add to it 2 quarts of boiling 

8* . 



90 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

water ; boil it to 2 pints, and strain ; flavour it 
with lemon juice; sweeten with white sugar to 
your taste. 

For Chapped Lips.— Put a tea-cupful of 
rich cream over some coals to stew, with 8 table- 
spoonfuls of powdered loaf-sugar. This has a 
healing effect. 

Another remedy, equally good, is to a tea-cupful 
of honey, add half the quantity of mutton tallow, 
and stew together till well mixed ; pour it out in a 
cup, and keep stirring till cold. 

For chapped hands, nix together equal quanti- 
ties of rich cream and strong vinegar, and rub it 
over every time you wash your hands. 

Cold Water for Burns.— -Mr. Seth Hunt, 
of Northampton, gives the following statement of 
the success of treating with cold water a severe 
burn and scald in his family :— " Cold water was 
applied, by immersion, till the pain ceased ; the 
water being changed as often as it became warm. 
The part was then kept swathed with wet banda- 
ges, a dry woolen one enveloping them, until the 
injury was healed. The healing va§ rapid, and 
effected without leaving a scar. The instant relief 
which the cold water gave from the excruciating 
pain, was highly gratifying," 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Dentrifioes. — White's Tooth Powder is very 
good. The common strawberry is said to be a 
natural dentrifice, and its juice dissolves the tartar 
and makes the breath agreeable. Honey and 
charcoal make a good dentrifice. 

To Prevent Corns.— Wear easy shoes : fre- 
qnent bathing the feet in warm water, with a 
little salt, or potash, dissolved in it. The corn 
itself may be completely destroyed by rubbing it 
daily with a little caustic solution of potash. Lu- 
nar caustic, touched with a hair pencil, night and 
morning, also is good to cure corns. 

To Remove Warts. — Sal ammoniac will 
remove them ; also, lunar caustic. 

For a Weak Back.— Take a beef's gall, 
pour it into 1 pint alcohol, and bathe frequently. 
It acts like a charm. 

Cure fbr Corns. — Bind a piece of sponge, 
moistened in a weak solution of pearlash, on go- 
ing to bed. It is said that the skin may be 
brushed off in the morning, having been dissolved 
by the action of the caustic. I have been entirely 
cured by a poultice of bread and water, with a 
little laudanum and paregoric put in, putting it on 
2 nights at bed-time. 

Another Cure. — Take equal parts pulverized 
indigo, common brown soap and tallow : of these 
make a soft ointment, by rubbing well together. 

(91) 



92 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Spread it on soft leather and apply : keep it on 
till relieved. 

Court Plaster. — Put 4 beeves' feet into a 
large quantity of water: let them boil nntil the 
meat will leave the bone : then take them out, skim 
the oil carefully off, put the liquor on again in a 
smaller vessel, and boil it till it is of a suitable 
consistence to spread on silk (say the thickness of 
molasses) with a brush. 



WINTER AND OTHER STOKES. 

Vegetables are best kept on a stone floor, if the 
air be excluded. Meat in a cold, dry place. Sugar 
and sweetmeats require a dry place — so does salt. 
Candles cold, bat not damp. Dried meats, hams, 
Ac, the same. All sorts of seeds for paddings, soaps, 
Ac., are best in glass jars, with close lids. I prefer 
glass for every household purpose for which it is 
at all suitable, its contents being seen at a glanta. 
It is quite cheap, if bought in quantity. Whit- 
alls, Race st. 9 near Fourth, keep jars and bottles. 

Corn. — There are several methods. Cutting 
off the cob after cooking 5 minutes, is one — then 
drying in the sun. Another is to make a pickle 
instead of drying it, and put in "Arthur's Cans." 
The Shakers have the art. 

Another Way to keep Green Corn. — Make 
pickle in a barrel, as for meat. Throw into it, 
from time to time, ears of unhusked sugar corn. 
When you have enough, put weights to keep the 
corn under, and cover the barrel. When used, 
soak the ears all night, (after taking off the husk,) 
and boil in a large portion of water, which must 
be changed once, in boiling. 

Okra. — This very desirable vegetable for soups, 
should be purchased when young and small, sliced, 
and dried on plates, in a cool oven, or about a 
stove. Put it away in glass jars, dry. 

Herbs should be gathered when they are in 
blossom. 

(93) 



94 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

There are various ways of keeping eggs: all 
those given below are good. 

Greased Eggs. — Warm some fat of almost 
any kind, pnt the eggs in ; cover them quite, take 
them oat and lay them in an old tin or earthen 
vessel : paste them up, or better, cement with the 
tin, as named elsewhere, and they will be found 
good all winter. 

Eggs in Lime.— Pour 2 gallons hot water 
over 1 pint lime, and £ pint salt ; when cold pat 
some eggs in a jar, and pour it over them ; be sure 
there are no cracked ones. — r. h. 

Keeping Eggs. — Having tried many ways of 
preserving eggs, I have found the following to be 
the easiest, cheapest, surest, and best. Take your 
crock, keg, or barrel, according to the quantity 
you have, cover the bottom with half an inch salt, 
and set your eggs close together on the small end ; 
be very particular to put the small end do\jrn ; for 
if put in any other position, they will not keep as 
well, and the yelk will adhere to the shell : sprinkle 
them over with salt, so as to fill the interstices, 
and then put in another layer of eggs, and cover 
with salt, and so on, till your vessel is filled. Cover 
it tight, and put it where it will not freeze, and 
the eggs will keep perfectly fresh and good any 
desirable length of time. 

Sweet Potatoes. — These are the greatest 
luxury in the way of vegetables, our tables can 
offer in winter. Engage a Jerseyman, in whom 
you have confidence, to bring them at the proper 
time in a proper state. Let them be put in the 
garret of a house which has a furnace, in barrels 
or boxes : let them be uncovered for several days, 



TO KEEP APPLES AND PEARS. 95 

with a circulation of air constantly kept up. At 
the end of 4 or 5 days cover them with newspa- 
pers, if the boxes have no covers. I find the 
temperature most adapted to them is 60. We have 
them till they come again. — e. n. 

White Potatoes are hardy, and will bear the 
cellar. 

Lima Beans, picked ripe, and put on a garret 
floor to dry ; then shelled and put in bags in a 
dry place, will keep. Soak them over night. 

To keep Apples and Pears.— Put them 
in air-tight vessels, and place them in the cellar 
in a temperature between 32 and 40. In this way, 
says the "Horticulturist," these fruits may be 
preserved, in perfect order for eating, all winter. 

Another Way. — Wrapping each apple or pear 
in paper, answers well also. 



SUPPLEMENT. 

Calves' Feet Pudding.— Boil the feet as for 
jelly ; take 1 quart of stock, 5 eggs, cinnamon, 
sugar, lemon and wine, to taste : strain it through a 
thin cloth and poor it in a mould : the eggs must 
be beaten light Serve it with cream. 

Winter Pudding. — 1 pint flour, 2 oz. butter, 
1 tea-cupful sugar, do. milk, rind and juice of 1 
lemon, 1 egg, 1 tea-spoonful soda, 2 oz. cream tar- 
tar : bake £ hour. 

Quince Jam. — Grate quinces which have been 
pared, eored and halved : to 1 lb. quince, after 
grated, } sugar : boil 20 minutes. This is very 
light coloured, and if put in moulds or bowls turns 
out well. 

Blancmange in Eggs.— Have ready some 
egg-shells, which have been broken as little as 
possible; dissolve £ oz. gelatine in a very little 
warm water, and then stir in 1 pint good milk ; 
sweeten and flavour it. Boil it £ hour, stirring 
frequently. Strain it, and put it into the egg-shells 
to cool. When congealed, have ready a China 
or glass dish of calves' feet jelly ; break the shells 
from off the mange, cut them in half, scoop out a 
little of the middle, and insert some of the calves' 
feet jelly to imitate the yelk. These placed over 
the surface of the dish have a pretty birds'-nest 
look. Cream served with it is good, but not 
needful. 

(96) 



PEACHES UNCOOKED, ETC. 97 

Peaches Uncooked.— Procure glass jars, 
(with a rim at the top, and not too thick bottoms.) 
Pare and halve ripe peaches, pat them into the jars, 
(which most be warmed previously,) packing as 
close as possible in the jars. Make a syrup of 1 
lb. sugar to 1 quart water ; let it come to a boil, 
then pour it over the peaches, filling the jars quite 
full. Have ready some white muslin, and £ yard 
gum elastic cloth. Dip the muslin, which may be 
cut in squares of one-eighth yard size, into the 
syrup : then have the gum cloth ready cut, and 
tie the two together with strong twine tightly 
oyer the bottle. This was tried with entire suc- 
cess, the concave lids proving the absent air. I 
should think tomatoes would do well thus, if 
cooked, especially. This gum cloth maybe had at 
gum elastic stores, at $1 25 per yard, and it will 
last years, with care. — s. l. 

Apple Pudding. — Take 10 eggs, beat them 
Tery light : add 1 pint stewed and strained apple, 
stir in £ lb. butter, the juice and grated rind of 
3 lemons : sugar to your taste. Bake this. 

Sauoe fbr the above. — To \ lb. butter, 8 
tea-spoonfuls white sugar, 1 egg, 1 glass of wine : 
put all into a nice saucepan, and beat well toge- 
ther. Set it on the fire, and stir constantly a few 
minutes. 

Baked Custard. — Whites and yelks of 5 
eggs, 4 table-spoonfuls flour, 1 pint milk, salt; 
beat this light, then bake. Eat with sauce. 

Bun Fritters. — Dip stale sliced buns in milk, 
with 2 or 3 eggs beaten well, and stirred in till 
completely saturated ; then fry them a light brown, 
and dip them immediately in powdered cinnamon 
and sugar. Serve hot. — n. j. 
9 



USEFUL IMPLEMENTS. 

The preparation of fruit for pies is often a te- 
dious operation. There is a recently invented 
" Apple Parer," which pares 4 bushels of apples 
per hour, and may be had at 414 Market street, 
for $1 50 cents. 

Milk Boiler. — It is difficult to boil good milk 
without burning. A very complete article may be 
had at Williams', 256 Market street, for 75 cents. 
Farina Boilers are another convenience. 

Roll Pans. — A very nice way of baking rolls 
or bread for immediate eating, is a roll pan, hold- 
ing 6 rolls — to be had at 256 Market street, for 
62 cents. 

Potato Masher. — There is a method of 
mashing potatoes, which has an elegant effect, by 
using a French article, to be had at 256 Market 
street. 

A Tongue Presser soon saves its own cost, and 
may be had at Williams', 256 Market street, for 
88 cents. 

Cylinder Sausage Cutter. — Simple and 
convenient. One person can cut 100 lbs. of meat 
per hour with it. Wooden Cylinder, price $4 50, 
warranted to work well. 

Also, a Sausage Stuffer, which works with great 
rapidity — costs about $4 00. 

These may be had at P. Morris &, Co.'s, N. E, 
corner Seventh and Market streets. 
(98) 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Table Knives and Forks. — Steel knives 
are injured by being wrapped in woolen — brown 
paper is better. The Nickel silver forks, which 
are now in such general use, are very desirable, 
and not expensive. They will bear constant use 
for a long time, and are cleanly and labour-saving. 
A beautiful article, which I know to bear constant 
use, may be had at $10 per dozen, at 436 Market 
street. 

Plated steel knives are also a far more pleasant 
implement than iron ones. In a family where 
careful and neat housekeeping is observed, I be- 
lieve tbem to be a saving of 25 per cent. They 
are spared the daily scouring on a board, and need 
not go into the kitchen at all, but be washed in 
soap-suds, rinsed, dried on a soft napkin, and put 
in the spoon and fork basket. A superior article 
of the above described knife, may be had at H. 
Filley's, 436 Market street, at a cost of $10 for 
dinner, and $8 50 for dessert sizes. 

Castors. — The best castor, for the price, which 

1 know of, may be had at the above-named store. 
Of course the treble plating, of either new or re- 
newed ware, is always cheapest 

A Very Celebrated Cologne Water. — 

6 drachms of oil of lemon, do. bergamot, 3 do. 
lavender, 10 drops cinnamon, 20 drops cloves, i 
drachm rosemary, 40 drops neroli, 20 drops rose, 

2 drachms tincture of musk, 6 pints deodorized al- 
cohol. Shake up well ; let it stand 4 hours be- 

(99) 



100 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

fore filtering. This recipe costs 3? cents per pint : 
may be had at 311 Market street 

Cologne Water. — 60 drops oil of lavender, 
60 do. bergamot, 60 do. essence lemon, 60 do. 
orange water, 60 drops mnsk : put these in 1 pint 
alcohol This is a very delicate fragrance, and 
may be had at 30 cents per pint, at Savery's, 311 
Market street 

Bandoline. — Pour over 1 oz. qoince seeds 1 
pint of boiling water. Let it stand over night ; 
next morning slightly boil it and strain it; when 
cold, add 4 table-spoonfuls of alcohol, and 2 or 3 
of cologne, and flavour it with the oil of almonds, 
or whatever yon prefer. — u. s. w. 



HINTS FOR WASHING AND IRONING 
DAYS. 

CONCENTRATED LYE. 

Hard Soap.— To 1 lb. of the Saponifier add 3 
gallons of water, dissolve in an iron or copper 
kettle, heat to boiling : add 4 lbs. of tallow, soap- 
fat, lard or olive oil, until a clear solution of uni- 
form consistency is obtained; when the solution 
has attained this point, keep on a simmer, and add 
salt, in small portions, until the soap, separating 
first into hard grains, ceases to froth, and forms 
slabs and flakes through which the steam puffs, 
when it is finished and ready to mould. If you 
want to make rosin or yellow soap, take one-third 
of clean rosin and two-thirds of the above quan- 
tity of fat : add the rosin first, and when it is all 
dissolved and taken up by the Saponifier, put in 
the fat and finish up as the other. 

Hard Fancy Soap. — Dissolve 1 lb. of Sapo- 
nifier in 3 lbs. of water, and add thereto, stirring 
the same rapidly, 4 lbs. of tallow or soap-fat, 
merely liquefied— or that much lard or olive oil, 
cold ; keep stirring and beating until all has as- 
sumed the appearance of thick honey, cover it up 
and set the batch in a warm place, or better, cover 
it with a woolen blanket or a feather bed, to keep 
up the heat, and let it stand for 24 hours, when it 
will have set into a fine, hard soap, which may be 
perfumed and variegated with colours by stirring 
the desired colours or perfume into the mixture, 
just before covering. 

9* (101) 



102 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Soft Soap.— To 1 lb. of the Saponifier add 3 
gallons of rain or soft water: set it boiling, and 
then put in 4 lbs. of soap-fat or tallow. When the 
solution is clear and the fat all combined, which is 
seen by the disappearance of all fatty eyes or spots 
on the liquid, add 12 gallons of soft or rain water; 
when cold, your soap is ready for use. 

For all other purposes in which potash is used, 
the Saponifier will prove a cheap substitute. 

Pump water softened and made fit for washing : 
•—dissolve 1 lb. of the Saponifier in 1 gallon of 
water, and keep it for use in a well-corked demi- 
john or jug ; to a tub full of pump or hard spring 
water add from one-eighth of a gill to a pint of 
the clear solution ; the quantity of course varies 
according to the size of the tub and nature of the 
water, some taking more and some less ; a table- 
spoonful will generally be found enough to make 3 
to 5 gallons of water fit for washing. 

In all the above operations it should be remem- 
bered to replenish the water, which may evaporate 
while dissolving the Saponifier, or while boiling. 
The soft soap, made as above, I know to be ex- 
cellent. To be had at corner Chestnut and 12th 
streets. 

Soap for Washing Clothes, &e. — Ammo- 
nia Soap, — Ammonia is a wonderfully cleansing 
Erinciple, and I am inclined to believe, enters 
trgely into all soaps vended, as " warranted to 
take out soil and grease in silk cloth," Ac. Pur- 
chase 5 lbs. strong country soap, or else the home? 
made soap named on preceding page, cut it into 
thin pieces and put it into 1 quart strong lye : let 
it get hot enough to melt, not boil; when dissolved 
take it off the fire, and add £ oz. pearl ash, and 1 



SOAP FOR WASHING CLOTHES, ETC. 103 

gill liquid ammonia. Have a crock or stone pot 
with a lid, into which poor the hot liquid before 
ammonia is put in. Cover it quickly, and stir 2 
or 3 times while cooling, keeping it covered the 
while. When about to use it, take 1 lb. of it and 
dissolve in a basin of warm (not hot) water, 
meanwhile putting water for washing hot enough 
to bear your hands ; put all together, stirring with 
hand, and put in as many clothes as the water will 
cover. Cover over the tub with a soiled sheet, 
and let it stand 20 minutes. When you wash the 
articles you will find the soil not removed, but 
loose, and very little rubbing needful. The wash- 
board need not be used for the "first boil." Let 
all the clothes go through this tub, adding a little 
hot water, and they will be found surprisingly 
clean and white. Nearly all colours in calico and 
mousselines will bear it, but 'tis better to try a 
piece of it first A little beef's gall put in, sets 
colours. When every article has gone through it, 
do not pour it under the gate, but set it aside till, 
evening : water grape vines, and vegetables, and 
flowers with it, and a better fertilizer is not. Also, 
you may make a very useful soap of sand, by tak- 
ing a pint of the soap while cooling, and mixing 
enough pewter sand to adhere. Make it in cakes 
and put to dry. This is good for scrubbing grease 
spots, &c., and invaluable on the wash-stand to 
take ink-spots from hands. 

Tinware, passed through such suds, is cleansed 
and polished by ther process, and washbasins, Ac., 
may be rinsed after, and look well. 

Flannels are best put into the suds when it is 
nearly or quite cold : it prevents their fulling, 
somewhat. Boiling suds must be improper for 



104 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

woolen goods, as fullers use that method to thicken 
their woolen fabrics. 

The great cause of flannel shrinking is, I believe, 
the oil and perspiration from the pores of the 
body ; therefore an article half cotton is preferable. 

To make Calicoes Wash Well. — Infuse 3 
gills of salt in 4 quarts of boiling water, and put 
the calicoes in while hot, and leave it till cold ; 
in this way the colours are rendered permanent, 
and will not fade by subsequent washing. 

Bleaching Liquid. — Although the ammonia 
soap does not yellow clothes, it is easy to have 
them new-looking, by putting into the blue rinse 
water £ tea-cupful of " Eau de Javette," or bleach- 
ing liquid — an inexpensive article, to be had at 
Simes', corner Chestnut and 12th streets. If there 
are stains of fruit or iron mould, put a few drops 
(undiluted) on the spots, rubbing and washing off 
immediately. Liquid Blue is both economical and 
convenient. A good article may be had at Save- 
ry's, 311 Market street. 

The Patent Clothes-Drying Machine. — 

This is the most simple and useful machine ever 
yet invented for drying clothes. It is simply a 
post erected in the centre of the yard, about 6£ 
feet above the surface, or of a proper height to be 
out of the way of the head. In the centre of the 
upper end of the post is driven an iron pin, pro- 
jecting about 3 inches. A cast-iron hub, having a 
hole in the centre of the lower arch of the size of 
the pin, with 6 mortices or recesses at equal dis- 
tances around the periphery ; the hub is placed 
upon the pin in the post, the arms, 6 in number, 
are placed one in each mortice or recess. The 



STARCH. 105 

clothes line is run from arm to arm around the 
machine from 6 to 8 times, and about 8 inches 
apart. The washerwoman stands on a chair, hav- 
ing her basket of clothes by her side, and hangs 
the small ones first on the inner line, moving the 
machine aronnd until she has hung out her entire 
washing without moving her chair. Every little 
breath of air causes it to revolve around ; thus the 
clothes are constantly changing position—allowing 
the sun and air to come to all of them alike. The 
advantages are— 

1. That when there are no clothes on the ma- 
chine, it is out of the way of the head, and can all 
be unshipped and put away, leaving nothing but 
the post in the yard. 

% It will dry the clothes in a much less time. 

3. There is no necessity for treading down the 
plants in the yard, as only one position is neces- 
sary. 

4. Clothes can be hung out in much less time. 

5. A person can pass around the machine to 
any other part of the yard without stooping under 
the clothes, as is the case when the line is strung 
across the yard. 

6. Their cheapness, as one can be furnished, 
complete and erected, for $5 00 — if turned post 
and painted, $6 00. To be, had at 262 Chestnut 
street 

Starch. — It is economy to use two kinds of 
clear starch in a wash. The Pearl starch is best 
for shirts and collars, Ac. Let it be smoothly 
made, and well boiled. Put in a piece of sperm 
the size of a walnut, to 1 quart starch. [It is a 
good way to use the ends of candles, oil having 
become so high ; it is cheaper and pleasanter to use 



106 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

them, even for " go-about" light, where there is 
gas.] The other articles in a wash do as well 
with a cheaper starch, made in the above manner. 
Collars may be made to look extremely well by 
sprinkling them down with the other clothes the 
evening before ironing, and, jnst as yon iron them, 
dipping them, one by one, for a moment in cold 
water ; wring and iron them — there will be a polish 
on them. 

Another Way.— Put 2 oa, of gum arabic to 1 
pint water; when dissolved, strain it through a 
cloth and bottle. Put 1 table-spoonful to each 
pint of starch after it is made. This gives lawns 
a new appearance : it makes laces and muslins 
stiffer. When you bottle the gum, put in a piece 
of corrosive sublimate the size of a pea, to prevent 
its becoming sour. 

Ironing. — This has, through all time, been a 
wearisome, worrying process, at times, in the ex- 
perience of all. The day has, I hope, nearly gone 
by, when " good fires" will be kindled and kept 
up, (perhaps through a whole day, while the ther- 
mometer ranges at 90,) just that a family ironing 
may be accomplished. In cities, where we have 
gas, an elastic tube is introduced into a flat iron 
made for the purpose ; and at a cost of about four 
cents an hour, we have a perpetually heated flat 
iron. For those who have not gas, an equally 
pleasant spirit iron, with a wick lit by alcohol, 
performs the labour. They are for sale at Wil- 
cox's, 273 Chestnut st. The cost is about $6. 

To Cleanse Carpets.— 1 tea-spoonful liquid 
ammonia in 1 gallon warm water, will often re* 
store the colour to carpets, even if produced by an 
acid or an alkali If a ceiling has been white- 



STAINING FLOORS, PIAZZAS, ETC. 107 

washed with carpet down, and a few drops are 
visible, this will remove it 

Another Way. — After the carpet is well beaten 
and brushed, scour with ox gall, which will not 
only extract grease but freshen the colours — 1 pint 
of gall in 3 gallons warm water, will do a large 
carpet. Table floor-cloths may be thus washed. 
The suds left from a wash, where ammonia soap is 
used, even if almost cold, cleanses these floor- 
cloths well. 

For Staining Floors, Piazzas, &c. — Make 
a strong lye of boiled wood ashes, add as much 
copperas as will stain the floor a light shade of 
oak : try a little first. Put on the wash with a 
mop dipped in the lye, and wet the boards well. 
When varnished, this lasts a season. 

For Cleansing Brushes and Combs. — 
Put 1 tea-spoonfulliquid ammonia into 2 quarts 
warm water; put in 1 brush at a time, rub it 
about quickly, dip it all over, rinse in clear tepid 
water, and wipe dry. Put in your combs several 
at once (as they are not varnished), and rinse and 
dry them; fine tooth combs thus cleansed, and 
just before using, cut a piece of white flannel the 
length of comb, and stick it through the whole 
length, about half-way up. Remove this when 
your hair is combed — will keep them so. 

Ants. — The large black ants may be routed by 
a wet sponge, sugared : the small ones, by honey 
set about. 

Soap for Mouse Holes. — A lump of hard 
soap is good to stop a rat, mouse, cockroach or 
ant hole. They all hate soap. 



108 THK ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

Several Methods of Cleaning Silver 
and Brass. — Cleanse silver with hot water : make 
a solution of equal parts of ammonia and spirits 
turpentine. Pat it on with a soft cloth : while 
wet, have another cloth dipped in prepared chalk, 
or whiting, and go over the article : have a third 
clean dry cloth to polish. 

Rotten stone and camphene are good, bat the 
surrounding paint generally suffers if used on doors. 
The very best method is to wash the articles, whe- 
ther gold chains, silver teapots or plated ware, in 
soft warm water, with 1 tea-spoonful liquid am- 
monia to £ gallon water ; dry it, and have a lea- 
ther dipped in rouge and burnish. A little rouge 
goes very far. Have a tooth brash for chased 
work. 

There are also many good polishes sold in pow- 
ders, under various names. 

Another Method. — Dissolve a piece of alum the 
size of a shell-bark in 1 quart strong lye : scum it 
well, add soap, and wash the silver with it. — m. p. 

Where the front door plates and knobs are 
cleansed every morning, a little fine whiting, with 
a soft rag, the breath blown a moment previously 
on it, keeps them bright, and saves paint and 
labour. 

To take Stains out of Silver Plate.— 

Steep the plate in lye 4 hoars : then cover it over 
with whiting wet with vinegar, a thick coat, and 
dry ; after which rub off the whiting, and pass it 
over with dry bran, and the spots will not only 
disappear, but the plate will look exceedingly 
bright. 

To IQeet a Cork from a Bottle.— If the 

cork has been pressed into a bottle, take a strong 



TO CLEAN WHITE MABBLB MANTLES, ETC. 109 

twine and pass it in double ; a little taming and 
the twine will enclose the cork, and so may be 
drawn out. 

To Glean White Marble Mantles.— 

Brash them well with a brush, such as painters use, 
daily, and wipe with a soft dry towel. If soiled, 
dip a sponge in clean warm water and wash it, 
drying with a soft towel. To clean the carved 
part, wet a sponge with pumice stone, and gently 
rub on, washing off with pure water, drying with 
a towel: for the interstices, use a stick covered 
with a towel. 

To Wash Oil Cloth. — Oil cloth may be made 
to have a fresh, new appearance, by washing it 
every month with a solution of sweet milk with 
the white of 1 beaten egg. Soap, in time, injures 
oil cloth. A very little " boiled oil" freshens up an 
oil cloth : very little must be used, and rubbed in 
with a rag. Equal parts of copal varnish I put ; 
it gives a gloss. „ 

To Red a Yard.— Many persons put red on a 
yard to cover green bricks. The green may be 
removed by pouring boiling water, in which any 
kind of vegetables (not greasy) have been boiled. 
Persevere in this a few days, and all green will 
disappear. For red colour, make a solution of 1 
oz. common glue to 1 gallon water : while hot, put 
in alum the size of an egg, £ lb. Venetian red, and 
1 lb. or more Spanish brown. Try a little on a 
brick, let it dry, and add colour, if too light : wa- 
ter, if too dark. 

To Wash Silk and Ribbons in Oam- 
phene. — Put a flat-iron to heat. Take 2 tea- 
cups, into which put 3 table-spoonfuls fresh pare 
10 



110 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

caraphene. Have an old tooth-brush, and a small 
planed board laid on a newspaper on the table. 
Lay the ribbon or tie-shawl along the board, 
wetting tooth-brush with the camphene, and rub- 
bing it all over the article : hardest where it is 
most soiled : do this for a minute, turn over and 
do likewise : put it in the tea-cup used out of, pass 
it through your fingers to clean it t put it in the 
other tea-cup a minute ; now have a clean cloth at 
hand, on which lay the ribbons. Have your iron- 
ing cloth ready, the iron just warm enough to pass 
rapidly over the silk. Iron it on both sides, when 
a few hours hanging in the air takes off all smell, 
and they resemble new ribbon. . Do not iron your 
ribbon when it is too wet, but sop it a moment in 
the dry cloth, and it is ready. 

Durable Ink. — 100 grains lunar caustic, 1 
drachm gum arabic, into 1 oz. soft water. Pre- 
paration water. — 1 oz. sal soda, 2 oz. soft water : 
a little gum arabic to stiffen the linen. 

How to Paper a Wall.— Cut off the right 
side of the pieces, measure one the height of the 
wall : cut up one piece in lengths, leaving any odd 
pieces for windows. Have a pine table, across 
which lay several of the lengths. Begin to paste 
by laying the one nearest you to the edge : paste 
it well all over : double it to within ^ yard of the 
top : carry it there, and have a clean towel over 
your shoulder : match the figure first at the ceiling, 
and use the cloth to smooth it as you pass your 
hand over the whole width : let the ends of the 
doubled part now fall, and keep on down smoothing 
as you go, till at the wash-board cut off the paper 
to fit snugly. When you wish to turn a corner, 
measure what is wanted : after wetting, cut the 2 



PASTE — PAINTING A ROOM, ETC. Ill 

ends a bit, and crease it between the ends on the 
edge of the table. Now yon are ready for the 
border, when the room is covered. Cut it into 
lengths of 1^ yards, paste it, and go np the ladder 
with towel : be sure yon are careful, matching it 
as it belongs. 

Paste. — Mix wheat four in a pail with tepid 
water. Ponr boiling water on this, and it will 
thicken. Before you begin the room, paste at all 
the ins and oats of the wood-work little bits of the 
paper. Papering a room is much less trouble and 
fatiguing than many women imagine ; and there 
are cases where it will be found a great conve- 
nience to feel assured of success. 

Painting a Room. — Get a painter to mix 
the quantity of paint required. Purchase such a 
brush as is sold for 20 cents ; have the surface you 
intend painting thoroughly cleansed from grease 
or spots ; stir the paint well, and you can proceed. 
There is very little labor in this, and often may be 
done to advantage by a woman. If much of a job 
is undertaken, it is needful to have oil and turpen- 
tine added. 

Economical Paint. — Skim milk 2 quarts, fresh . 
slacked lime 8 oz., linseed oil 6 oz., white burgundy 
pitch 2 oz., Spanish white 3 lbs. The lime to be 
slacked in water, exposed to the air, mixed in one- 
fourth of the milk : the oil in which the pitch i&pre- 
viously dissolved, to be added a little at a time ; 
then the rest of the milk, and afterwards the Spa- 
nish white. This quantity is sufficient for 27 
square yards, 2 coats, and the expense not more 
than 25 cents. 

Liqnid ammonia 2 tea-spoonfuls, and a piece of 



112 THE ECONOMICAL COOK BOOK. 

alum the size of a shell-bark, will insure light 
bread. 

Stale bread is freshened by steaming it £ hour. 

Never try a New Dish for Company.— 

Keep a receipt book yourself, and write in it the 
improvements of your own experience. 

Oxalic acid will remove all stains from hands 
or clothing. But it must be used with great care, 
being not only a deadly poison, bnt tendering 
every fabric, if not wetted very soon. 

For rough hands in winter, rub pumice stone 
gently over them. (Sand soap is better.) 

Take glove fingers for vials. 

To Eradicate Roaches. — I know of bnt 
one method. Purchase a tin box of a sort of 
phosphorous paste, to be had only at Glentworth's, 
corner Race and Jacoby streets. 

Cold Cream. — Take £ oz. white wax, do. of 
spermaceti, and 3oz. of almond oil. Put the whole 
into a basin, and place it in hot water till fused : 
then gradually add 3 oz. rose water, elder water, 
or orange flower water, stirring all the time with 
a fork or small whisk. When cold it is fit for nse. 

— A. M. M. 

For Colouring Sea Weed Red.— Dip the 
moss into a boiling solution of 1 oz. alum in 1 
pint water. Dry it. Make a solution of £ oz. 
cochineal, } oz. cream tartar, one table-spoonful 
spirits hartshorn to £ tumbler water. Dip in the 
moss, wring, and dry in the shade. 

Crystalized Grasses.— 9 oz. alum heated 
till dissolved. Put in the grass when the alum 



FOR COLOURING SEA WEED RED. 113 

water is cool enough to bear the hand ; watch it, 
and take it ont when the crystals are large as you 
wish : dry them on paper. If you wish colours, 
get a few powdered paints and sprinkle over, di- 
rectly it comes from the water : heat alum over 
when it becomes cold. — m. l. n. 
10* 



CEMENTS. 

Cement for the Tops of Bottles or Jars. 

—Take equal parts of rosin and brick dust 
ponnded fine, a lump of beeswax : stew them to- 
gether, and keep in an old tin, melting it when 
yon want to seal your bottles or jars. 

To Stop Cracks In Iron Vessels. — Mix 

wood ashes and salt into a paste, with a little wa- 
,ter : apply them, whether the vessels are cold or 
hot. 

Cement.— 3 parts ashes, 3 parts clay, and 1 
sand, is said to make a cement as hard as marble, 
and impervious to water. 

Liquid glue is good for vases, Ac. 

Loose handles of knives and forks may be re- 
fastened by making a cement of rosin and brick 
dust. Heat the handle, and pour in the cement 
very hot. Seal engravers do this. . 

Melt a little isinglass in spirits of wine, adding 
one-fifth water, and using a gentle heat; when 
perfectly melted and mixed it will form a transpa- 
rent glue, which will unite glass so fast that the 
fracture will hardly be seen. 

To take out Fruit Spots.— Let the spotted 
part imbibe a little water without dipping, and 
hold the part over a lighted common brimstone 
match, at a proper distance. The sulphurous gas 
which is discharged, soon causes the spot to dis- 
appear. 

(114) 



TO PRESERVE PENCIL DRAWINGS, ETC. 115 

To Preserve Pencil Drawings.— Lay 

them on the surface of skimmed milk : then take 
up one corner till it drains and dries. The milk 
mast be perfectly free from cream, or it will grease 
the paper. 

Renovation of Manuscripts. — Take a 
hair pencil, and wash the effaced part with a solu- 
tion of prussiate of potash in water, and the wri- 
ting will again appear, if the paper has not been 
destroyed. 

Cleaning Prints. — Prints which have ex- 
isted for years, and perhaps centuries, transmitted 
from hand to hand, passing through auctions, ex- 
posed in shop windows, turned over and over 
again in dealer's folios, necessarily acquire an ac- 
cumulation of the dirt of ages ; and yet may not 
have the ill-luck to be actually stained or soiled, 
otherwise than by this gradual effect of exhibition 
and use. In such cases, the chief part of the soil- 
ing thus acquired, may be removed by pure water 
merely. To effect this, the print is laid, face down- 
wards, in a vessel large enough to admit of the 
whole paper lying quite flat ; water boiling hot is 
then poured over it, sufficiently to cover it to the 
depth of an inch or more. The print is allowed 
to soak in the water, more or less time, according 
to circumstances. By degrees the dirtiness disen- 
gages itself from the surface into the water ; the 
print is then taken out, and passed through fresh, 
clear water, and held or hnng up, for the super- 
fluous moisture to run from it : and, when this has 
sufficiently taken place, it is laid between sheets 
of white French blotting-paper, and covered by a 
thick mill-board, weights being laid on it, so as to 
have the effect of a moderate press ; and it is thus 



116 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

left till dry. Where there is much soiling to be 
removed, and of old standing, it may be allowable 
to use, gently and carefully, a soft hair brush, while 
the print is saturated with the water, to assist in 
the disengagement of the impurities. 

To Colour White Ribbons.— They should 
first be passed through water a little acid, to whiten 
them. For blue, put 1 oz. indigo into a bottle, with 
3 oz. blue vitriol. Fill the bottle one-third full to 
allow for fermentation : leave out the cork. Let it 
stand 2 weeks before using : shake it once a day 
for a week, and if too thick add water. 

This mixture, with warm water and alum, will 
colour any shade of blue in 5 minutes. 

A little tumeric, mixed with boiling water and 
alum, colours any shade of yellow ; scarlet lake 
and cream tartar, any shade of pink. 

A few drops of blue mixed with the pink, makes 
dove colour. 

To Mix White-wash.— Ponr a kettle of 
boiling water on a peck of unslacked lime ; put 
in 2 lbs. whiting, and £ pint salt ; when all are 
mixed together, put in i oz. of Prussian blue, 
finely powdered ; add water to make it a proper 
thickness to put on a wall. 

White-wash for Buildings or Fences. — 
Put in a barrel 1 bushel of best unslacked lime ; 
pour on it 2 buckets of boiling water, and when it 
is mixed put in 6 lbs. fine whiting ; fill up the bar- 
rel with water, stir it well, and keep it covered 
from the rain ; let it stand several days before 
you use it, when stir it up ; thin it with milk as 
you use it, and put £ a pint of salt to each bucket* 
ful. This makes a durable wash for a rough-cast 
or frame house, or for fences ; the salt prevents it 
from peeling off. 



USEFUL 



AND 



ORNAMENTAL WORK. 



<m) 



1 



t 



LEATHER WORK 

The leather used for this purpose is called 
Blank Leather, by dealers. It can be had at any 
Leather and Morocco store, at from 50 to 75 cents 
a skin. The leaves or flowers are to be drawn 
with a black lead pencil on the smoothest side of 
the leather, and then cut out with a small pair of 
pointed scissors— they are then to be thrown into 
a cap of clear cold water until they are saturated 
with moisture, when they are to be laid on a 
towel, and are ready for being shaped or veined, 
according to the shape and veining of the leaf or 
flower they are meant to represent (but never, as 
you love nature, according to your fancy) ; use your 
ingenuity to the utmost in devising modes of im- 
itating accurately, but do not try to invent other 
forms than her gracious hand supplies. Most 
leaves can be shaped by the finger, after the veins 
have been drawn upon the damp surface, which is 
best done with a rather blunt point of any thing 
almost — knitting needle or steel stiletto. Many 
flowers should be veined in the same manner, and 
most of them can be shaped by the finger — others, 
such as jasmin or convolvulus can be made cup- 
shaped, by pressing a round piece of leather into 
the mouth of a bottle, and drawing the edges 
down tightly over the lip of it — varying the size 
of the bottle to suit the size of the flower from the 
smallest homeopathic, up to any size required— 
they should be laid gently on a paper to dry, and 
are then ready for use. 

To ornament frames of all kinds, for mirrors, 

(119) 



120 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

pictures, Ac, for brackets, baskets, bonnets, Ac, 
Ac, they can be fastened on surfaces by nailing, 
sewing (which is best when possible) or gluing. 
The arrangement of them, for different purposes, 
gives room for the exercise of nice taste and dis- 
crimination ; be careful to use the foliage proper 
to the flower, and do not surround grapes with 
rose leaves, nor jasmine with grape tendrils. 

If intended to represent carved wood, they may 
be varnished, but they lose something of delicacy 
and beauty in the process. 

The varnish should be best copal, applied with 
a camel's hair paint brush. 

The easiest way to draw the outlines, is to cut 
the intended shape out of thin pasteboard, (a visit- 
ing card, for instance;) lay it on the leather and 
trace round it with a pencil. — e. w. t. 

To make Twigs look like Coral. — Take 
clear rosin, dissolve it, and to every ounce of 
which add 2 drachms of the finest vermilion ; 
when stirred well together, choose the twigs and 
branches, peeled and dried; then take a pencil 
and paint the branches all over while the com- 
position is warm : afterwards shape them in imi- 
tation of natural coral. This done, hold the 
branches over a gentle fire till all is smooth and 
even, as if polished. White coral may be imi- 
tated with white lead, in the same manner. 

To take Impressions of Medals and 
Coins, &o. — Melt a little isinglass glue with 
brandy, and pour it thinly over the medal, so as to 
cover its whole suface ; let it remain on for a day 
or two, and then taking it off, it will be clear, and 
have an elegant impression of the coin. It will 
not soften in damp weather, as other glue. 



LAMP SHADES, ETC. 121 

Lamp Shades. — A variety of tasteful and 
beautiful shades may be made, by procuring large 
sheets of Bristol board, or fine map paper, cutting 
it the shape of the wire frame, making a scalloped 
edge and bottom, by placing a 25 cent piece on 
the edge and passing a pencil round it: then, 
when you have repeated this all along on both 
sides, cut half of the mark away. Now, with a 
shoemaker's punch strike holes in these scallops* 
and you are ready to make the wreath. Autumn 
leaves are elegant for this purpose : also, summer 
flowers. Sea weed has been used, and is very de- 
licate and graceful. After putting on a few leaves, 
&c, with gum tragacanth, put large flat-irons on 
the work, and proceed. Some begin by painting 
a stem all across, and attaching the leaves, break- 
ing off their stems. When you have completed 
the leaves, let them lie under pressure some hours. 
Cut coarse Tarlton muslin the shape, and with a 
little gum tragacanth, paste it to the scallops on 
both edges. Pare when dry. Join the shade care- 
fully last, with gum, pressing it with a flat-iron. 

Rustic Baskets. — Take a piece of wood four 
inches square ; have four pieces the width of tape 
three inches long. Tack these to the middle of 
each side of this square, in an inclined position : 
drive a tack through the top of each of these up- 
rights, take a piece of wire, pass it round these 
tacks and all around the basket, throw a handle 
over the top of the same, secure, and break it off; 
paint all green ; when dry, put arb© vitas around 
inside, and on the handle, intersperse flowers, 
and you have a very pretty shaped extempore 
vase of flowers ; if wet, it will last long. A 
piece of sponge, inserted below the flowers, keeps 



122 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

up moisture. A novel basket for cat flowers may 
be made by cutting a ripe sun-flower with quarter 
yard of stem, inverting it, placing a wet sponge 
below, flowers and green above, two or three toy 
birds and real butterflies down the handle ; and, if 
you choose, varnishing the under part. It is then 
entirely water proof. 

Picture Frames.— There are several ways of 
making inexpensive frames. One is to have a 
bookbinder's board cut into any form the picture 
demands, pasting dark paper or muslin over it, 
and using the Norway fir cones for covering. 
Shell the larger leaves off the cone, cut them 
smooth and glue them over the frame, to lie as 
the shingles of a roof— or with the points inner, 
and overlying each other. You may purchase 
wall paper imitating several woods, and paste 
neatly over a pine or other picture frame. When 
dry, varnish with two coats copal, and at a dis- 
tance the illusion is almost complete. Toy cot- 
tages may be made in this way, of binders' board 
cut into cottage form, with deep gables, glass 
pasted inside for windows, papering the sides, Ac, 
then gluing on the roof, and afterwards the cones. 
Give two coats of copal varnish, when dry. 

Moss Basket. — Procure the beautifully green 
hanging moss from trees. Make a shallow flang- 
ing basket of pasteboard : sew this moss within 
and without ; keep it as a receptacle for the choice 
autumn gatherings of wood and field. It is very 
pretty. 

Potiohomania.— Potichomania is the art of 
giving glass the appearance of ornamented porce- 
lain. Gut out carefully the designs which you 



COTTAGE FUBNTTUBX. 123 

wish to employ. Arrange them on a table as yon 
wish them to appear in yonr Potiche. Apply 
with a brush some gum in the inside of the Po- 
tiche, over the whole surface you wish to fix your 
cutting ; put in your cutting with care, and press 
every portion of it firmly to the glass, being care* 
fill to press out every particle of air. When your 
Potiche is entirely decorated, you will see that 
every thing is well secured ; apply a coat of gum, 
and smooth down the paper ; let it dry at least 
six hours, and again assure yourself that all is per- 
fectly smooth ; give the inside of the Potiche an- 
other thorough coat of gum ; let it dry again, during 
at least 6 hours. It may then be painted any colour 
desired, by either pouring the paint into the Po- 
tiche, and running it around, or using a brush. 
If a second coat of paint should be desired, let 
the first become perfectly dry before the second is 
applied. When carefully made, as handsome 
vases can be produced as the imported, and at 
one-tenth the cost. All the materials may be pro- 
cured at Keller & Bright's, S. W. corner Fourth 
and Chesnut streets. These vases cost from 20 
cents to $5. Pictures, per sheet, from 25 cents to 
$2 50. Paint and gum, 25 cents per bottle. 
Brushes 25 cents. 

Cottage Furniture — A number of inexpen- 
sive, convenient articles, may bo made with a little 
ingenuity and calico, or mousseline, or moreen. 
If you have cane-seat chairs, which have become 
broken in the canes only, old merino or cloth may 
be tacked over, (putting thick muslin between,) 
then narrow gimping over the tacks. Give the 
chairs previously a washing in ammonia soap-suds, 



124 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

and a coat of copal varnish, and yon have reno- 
vated them at little labour and cost. 

For Seats, — If you have an old hair trunk, it 
may be converted into a pretty and useful seat, by 
covering it with merino or moreen ; one on either 
side of a bed is useful for shoes and bonnets. You 
can get a neat table, and place for soiled clothes, 
by dressing a barrel with pink or blue chintz and 
lace over it, or furniture calico. Another way, is 
to get a carpenter to make you the frame for an 
hour-glass table. Dressed with furniture chintz, 
and pockets all round the top, it makes a very 
useful sewing table, for city or country. 

. A Divan. — An exceedingly useful couch may' 
be had at small cost, by having a carpenter to 
make a frame of common stuff, 6 feet long, 28 
inches wide, and 12 inches high. Have a sloping 
side-piece and head-piece cut out of a board : let 
the head-piece be 1 foot high, tapering to the 
whole width of couch: let the side-piece taper 
from the head: let this be 3 feet long. Have 
slats nailed across the bottom, or girth passed 
through holes bored in the sides. Let the side- 
piece and end be upholstered first, and nailed on : 
make a thick mattress of hay or straw for the 
bottom, and another of hair top. Cover with 
calico — a frill to reach the floor. There must be 
castors. One half of this divan may run under a 
bed, if the room is small. The best way to make 
a comfortable affair of it, is to let an upholsterer 
stuff it, and put in springs. This makes an addi- 
tional cost of 3 dollars. 

Bonnet Cases. — On leaving home, the trans- 
fer of a dress bonnet is often a difficulty. A neat 
article to carry a bonnet with caps inside of it, is 



MAKING SHOES. 125 

made by catting a thick pasteboard into a half 
circle, first cutting a paper pattern that shape, 
which will enclose the face : cnt 2 of these alike : 
cat a strip deep enough to enclose the bonnet : 
try it by patting in your bonnet. Get dark quiet 
coloured glazed paper, baste it 'over the paste- 
board, bind with ribbon the colour, make a lid 
to fit of the same, sew all together, and a loop or 
two, with button, will secure it from dust or wet. 
If you do not mind size, a bag of silk could be 
sewed to the top to hold any small light article, 
thereby avoiding the risk, in travelling, of losing 
small parcels. 

Another way is to procure a square box, with 
lid; make sides of Holland the height required 
for bonnet, have 4 pieces of wood the same height 
to stand in the corners, and you have a box which 
can be flattened at pleasure ; put into a trunk, and 
used at sea-side hotels, &c, where closets, &c, 
are not 

Making Shoes.— Women may make slippers 
and gaiters, by purchasing a last, and the imple- 
ments sold at "Finding stores." Rip up an old 
gaiter ; cut out and make your uppers like it ; sew 
on tips of patent leather. Wet your sole, tack it 
wrong side out to the last, in three places. Tack 
the middle of your upper to the middle of instep 
of last, have a borer and a waxed end, and sew all 
round the shoe. When done, pound down the 
stitches with a hammer, turn the shoe, put it on 
the last again, pound the edges hard all round, 
and leave till dry. Next day you can make the 
other. Paste a linen sole lining ; or better, put 
in old thin soles, as the ones you make must ne- 
cessarily be so. One can make satin or kid slip* 
11* 



126 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

pers very easily, at a most trifling cost : they will 
do for the parlour of an evening. 

Making a Dress. — "Machine sewing" will 
do all parts of a dress, except button-holes ; and you 
may make your own body linings fit, by ripping 
the baste out of one on which your dressmaker is 
at work, laying it on strong brown paper, cutting 
and creasing, just where her seems are, and next 
time doing it yourself. 

Children's Toys. — It is interesting, when on 
a journey, or iri the country, to gather moss, 
acorns, shells, sea grass, &c, and on returning 
have a cottage made of binders' board, and these 
glued or sewed on. They serve the double pur- 
pose of a remembrance for yourself! and a plea- 
sure for children. 

Toy Sorap Books.— It is well to save child- 
ish pictures, and wood-cuts of various kinds, (many 
of which give children an excellent idea of places,) 
and paste them into one of those large calico or 
worsted pattern books, which are called sample cards, 
and are of little use at the stores, after their season 
has passed. These books are lasting, and give 
much pleasure to children. Another way is, to 
select fancy -coloured muslin, then forming into 
leaves hemmed at the edges, upon which pictures 
may be pasted. Sew six of these together, and 
then join them. A stiff piece of pasteboard, co- 
vered with muslin, forms a nice binding. 

Dolls' Hats and Bonnets. — These articles 
may be made in gay coloured crotchet cotton, or 
wool, by the same receipts as are given for larger 
size in this book. A doll boy's hat is made by 
putting two stitches in one, when you come to the 



GUTTA PERCHA, ETC. 127 

rim, then going round a few times, and finish. 
Starch them, and dry a bonnet on a tea-cup or* 
bowl, and a hat on any circular article the size. 

* Gutta Peroha.— A great amusement, blend- 
ed with design, may be offered children, by pur-, 
chasing a piece of gutta percha, and allowing them 
to melt it in hot water, and form it into shapes of 
animals, &c. It will teach, while it amuses. 

For Knitting Pitcher Purses.— Set on 8 
stitches to form 8 points : knit a round plain, 
then another, throwing the silk before the needle 
at each stitch. The next plain, putting on 8 
beads, which must be pulled through the stitch 
on to the right side. The next widen again 8 
times, then a plain round with 2 beads at each 
point, and so on, until 9 heads are on. Now you 
are done widening. Then another plain round, 
and another of 9 beads : when you begin to de- 
crease, 2 at every point, till it is finished. 

Knit 2 plain rounds before beginning purse 
stitch, putting on 2 beads at once, every other 
one, so as to form diamonds, until 20 rows are 
knit: then 2 rows of beads round and round, 
knitting a plain round after each. Bib 2 and 2 
to form the neck, 26 rounds : then take off 6 
stitches for the handle to form the spout ; knit 
backwards and forwards ; take off 2 stitches at 
the end of the needle till but 18 remain, narrow- 
ing twice every other round as the beginning of 
each needle, just as you finish. Knit to the place 
for the handle, make 6 stitches; then a plain 
round, a row of beads, another plain round, an- 
other row of beads, and then take them off. For 
handle knit the first stitch, then put on 5 beads, 
slip to the other end of needle, and a plain row, 



12$ THI 0OU8B BOOK. 

and so on till long enough. Pat on the ring and 
tie* jnst below the 2 rows ; sew op the side ; put a 
tassel on the bottom. — m. a. c. 

To l£nit a Boy Doll.— Of zephyr } oz. for 
jacket : i oz. for pants : 3 skeins for cap — 3 flesh 
colour, 2 black, 1 white. Set on 35 stitches for 
the pants : knit 20 rounds plain. Narrow alter- 
nately at each end of needle. Narrow 4 times, 
knitting 3 rounds between each. Narrow 1 times, 
knitting 2 rounds between each. Narrow every 
round till there are 18 stitches. Take 9 stitches, 
and join on the white zephyr ; knit 1 row plain, 
the next seam, till there are 11 rows. Join the 
black to the other 9, and knit 7 rounds for the 
heel. Take up 8 stitches on each side, and nar- 
row every other round till there are 10 stitches. 
Knit as long as the white, and then knit round 
and round, one round seam and one plain, narrow- 
ing off at the toe. Knit 2 of these, sew each one 
up separately as far as it is narrowed, and join 
them together by the other part. 

For the jacket set on 70 stitches ; knit 4 rounds 
for the polka ; knit this to the top of the pants, 
with 4 needles : knit 1 row plain, the next seam, 
and so on. Narrow 4 on each side to form the 
hips ; knit 18 rounds, then divide in half, and 8 
rounds will form the arm-hole. To form the 
shoulders, narrow 1 at each end of the needle, till 
there are 14 stitches. Take up 6 stitches at the top 
of the arm-hole, and widen by throwing the thread 
before the beginning of the needle, till there are 24 
stitches. Knit 13 rounds. Narrow 6 times, knit- 
ting 2 rounds between each. Narrow every round 
till there are 12 stitches. Head-knit 5 rows to 
the thumb, widening 2 tinder it Take 4 middle 



TO KNIT A BOT DOLL. 129 

stitches, and knit on 2 needles, like guard chain, 

7 or 8 rows. Knit 2 or 3 rows, and then knit 4 
fingers like the thumb. Head-knit on 4 needles 
6 or 8 rows ; widen 4 under the mouth ; widen 1 
on each side behind, till there are 54 stitches. 
Knit plain up to the top of the nose, then take 3 
stitches with 2 other needles, and widen by throwing 
the thread before the needle, till there are 8 stitches ; 

8 or 9 rows make it long enough. Take up the 
3 stitches at top of nose, and knit round 6 rounds 
till high enough for the forehead. Work the eyes, 
cheek and mouth, with suitable colours; then stuff 
with cotton. Hair is knit with 5 stitches plain, 
and binding off 2 ; press it with a wet cloth, and 
unravel the other 3 ; 2 or 3 rows of this sewed on 
the back of head. 

The cap, set up 50 stitches; knit 4 rounds, and 
then narrow one at each end of needle till none left ; 
sew up and trim with cord. Or a crotchet cap is 
pretty. Collar : 40 stitches, 5 or 6 rounds ; then 
a strip for the front of jacket, 32 stitches, 4 rounds, 
and knit on it, and 6 buttons put on it — m. a. c. 



KNITTING, NETTING, 



AND 



CROTCHET. 



(ISO) 



A PEW RECEIPTS FOR KNITTING. 

A Shawl. — Purchase 4 oz. of split zephyr, 
(some prefer the Shetland wool.) Get l£ oz. of 
this, of some quiet colour, for border : the rest, 
white. Cast on 400 stitches (upon large needles) 
of the colour ; narrow once in the middle of these 
switches, which are all placed on 1 needle ; narrow 
also at the end of every row ; have i your coloured 
zephyr divided into 4 parts ; use up £ at first, 
then knit in as much white as you have coloured ; 
then use the other i of coloured, return to the 
white, and go on ; it is better to put in a red 
string to note the middle, as the narrowing in the 
middle must be regular. You finish with 1 stitch ; 
now £ the shawl is made ; begin, and do another 
like it. Sew them together, it does not show, 
and your job is far less burly and discouraging. 
A split zephyr shawl, 2 yards square, costs little 
over one dollar — a Shetland, half that. A col- 
oured one made thus, of whole zephyr, would be 
strong and beautiful, but heavier. Small ties 
for head are made as above, casting on 150 
stitches, and finishing the neck by taking up the 
loops and putting on a border all round. 

Another. — A very pretty stitch for small work 
is made thus — Knit 1, knit 2 together : then draw 
the first stitch over the second, throw the thread 
over the , needle : knit 3, throw the thread over 
the needle. Wrong side, heel. In the third 
round take care to knit for the 3 plain stitches, the 
2 loops, with the narrowed stitch, between them. 

Another. — Knit 3 plain stitches : draw the first 
(132) 



A OTA* PURSE, ISC 133 

over the other two, throw the thread over the 
needle, knit three, draw the first over the second, 
and throw the thread over the needle. Wrong 
side, heel. In third round, pnt the hole in middle 
of the three plain stitches. 

A Star Purse.— 5 T stitches on the needle, of 
green purse silk ; knit 1 row, heel ; second row, 
knit the first 3 plain, bind the first of these 3 
over the other 2, put the thread in front of the 
needle, and so on, in the same manner. Change 
the colour to white, after every seam row.— m . a. b. 

Mufflers. — Cast on 66 stitches of zephyr ; rib 
it 2 and 1 ; knit thus for about 3 inches. Cast 
off, and net into the top 56 nets ; go around the 
second time by putting 2 into one ; make a few 
more, and finish. — m. u. 

Gaiters. — Cast on 90 of dark or black tapes- 
try ; knit a few rows garter, and make holes for 
strings. (You do this by knitting two together, 
throwing over the thread ;) put it into ribs, 2 and 
2, narrowing every 9 rows at each end, till long 
enough to reach ankle ; then divide the whole into 
3 parts, leaving £ front, the rest on either side ; 
put in another needle, cast on 46 stitches oh the 
instep, and shape the front piece to your shoe, 
narrowing off at the side. 

Infant's Socks. — Cast on 24 stitches on each 
3 needles ; rib 1, slip and bind ; make ?, and knit 
1 also ; narrow 1 and rib ; do this times enough 
to have 11 holes deep ; put in coloured zephyr, 
rib every 5 rounds ; make 5 ribs deep for heel, 
narrowing it as in a tiny stocking. When the heel 
is taken up, let there be narrowing to 38. Nar- 
row 9 on the white instep before joining it to 
12 



134 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

zephyr. Make 4 ribs before narrowing off toe, 
beginning with 6 and 6 between ; let there be 20 
holes from top to end of instep.— a. b. 

A pretty quick-made Sock. — Cast on 31 
stitches; knit 11 rows like garter, narrow and 
widen all across for holes ; knit 2 rows more ; knit 
9 rows and bind off ; commence at the back of 
sock, knit the 11, take up the 9 on instep, then 
cast on 1 1 at the end of needle ; knit 9 more rows, 
narrow on the 10th, 11th and 12th; bind off. 
Commence at the toe and take up 11 ; take np 1 
on instep, draw the 11th over 12th, leaving 11 ; 
knit 9 rows across, take np tte 9 on the opposite 
side : then knit the 11 rows, then the 9 ; narrow 
on the 10th, 11th, 12th. Bind off.— h. b. 

A Round Guard. — Cast on 4 stitches ; knit 
them, then slip them to the other end of needle, 
and pull the first stitch tightly. This makes a 
round string, and soon done. 

For Knitting Shoes. — Cast on 24 stitches, 
3 rows thrown np and 4 knit plain, for 31 ribs. 
Throw on 24 for the instep, finishing the toes with 
19 ribs. Commence narrowing the 4th rib from 
the instep, narrow once at each end of the needle 
on every plain row, for 3 rows ; then narrow every 
plain and every rib nntil it is small enough, leav- 
ing 27 stitches at the end. Take up the stitches 
at the top for the edge, according to fancy. 1 oz. 
of worsted for a pair of shoes. 

Directions for Knitting an Infant's 

< Cap. — Cast 45 stitches of double zephyr on a 

wooden needle ; knit 4 times across thl needles ; 

then slip off the first stitch, turn the zephyr twice 

round the needle, and knit two together ; continue 



WASH MITTEN, ETC. 135 

this to the end of the needle, then 4 times across; 
then the narrowing and widening row, or the 
zephyr wound twice round the needle, and the 
stitches, after you knit 4 rows of holes, and 4 
plain rows, then take 10 stitches off each end 
of the needles, and tie them up to prevent them 
running down; then knit the remaining 25 
stitches with the 4 plain rows, and the row of 
holes between ; on the third row of holes narrow 
1 stitch, on the middle of the needle; on the 
fourth row of holes, narrow 1 stitch on the middle 
of the needle ; on the fifth row of holes, narrow 2 
stitches on the middle of the needle ; on the sixth 
row of holes, narrow 2 stitches on the middle of 
the needle. Then knit 3 rows of plain knitting, 
when you come to the end of the third row ; then 
take np the stitches along the side of the crown 
and knit up the 10 stitches you tied np; then 
knit back, and take up the stitches on the oppo- 
site side of the crown, and the 10 stitches you 
tied up ; then knit a row of holes, and 4 plain 
rows ; continue this until you arrive at the sixth 
row of holes, when you widen 1 stitch on each 
side of the needle ; then widen two stitches on 
the seventh needle, widen 3 stitches on the eighth 
row of holes, and widen 4 stitches on the ninth 
row of holes ; then knit 4 rows of holes, and the 
4 plain rows between — 4 plain rows complete the 
cap. Put cotton in the hem. 

Wash Mitten.— Cast on 50 of No. 8 tidy 
cotton: make it £ yard long, narrowing 4 or 5 
times at the end of last rows. Sew it up, all but 
a thumb-hole. — e. n. 

Tidy Edging. — Cast on 9 : knit the first 3 
stitches plain, leaving 6 at the left end : turn in the 



136 THE HOUSE BOOS. 

cotton, knit 2 together, do again and again : torn in 
the cotton, and the 2 last, plain : next row plain : 
continue the above till 9 holes are made; then 
knit 2 plain rows between, and reverse it, by nar- 
rowing after the first stitch is knit, where yon wi- 
dened before, and throw over the thread just as 
above. — x. e. 

Chair Tidy. — Cast on 11T stitches : knit the 
first 3 rounds like a stocking : slip the first stitch 
loosely, narrow the next 8 to 4 : make a stitch, knit 
a stitch, and so on till there are T made stitches : 
make a stitch, narrow 1, and go on as it is com- 
menced : knit 3 rounds between this. Get No. 8 
cotton— £ lb. makes 2. 

Honey -comb Stitch. — Knit 3 rows so as to 
be all pearled (or heeled) on the right side : then 
slip off 2, and knit 3 all across : do this 5 times 
in succession : then again pearl the 3 rows, knit- 
ting all the stitches, when these 3 rows are made. 
There will be occasional widening or narrowing 
needful in this stitch, at the end of needle, as it is 
not right without there are 3 on the end, when 
commenced with 3 ; or narrowed to 2, when 2 is 
the commenced number. Upon beginning every 
other figure, you must reverse it, as above said. 
This makes a rich bureau or table cover, but is 
tedious. — l. a. s. 

Xily Bell. — 6 plain, 4 seamed between them, 
go all across : begin by seaming 4 ; then cast 
on 6, knit 4, seam, and so on across. Do this for 
9 rows : then narrow each side of bell till there is 
but 1. Begin another row of bells by seaming 
4 : cast on 6, as above : then seam 1, narrow 1. 
and there are 4 between, as above. Go on in.this 
way till the toilet cushion is done. This is a very 
beautiful stitch. 



NETTING. 

This is convenient for pick-up work, or parlour, 
evening or conversation work ; the operation be* 
ing only mechanical, and not requiring much pight 
or attention. 

A Shawl.— 60 loops cast on : 2 rows of a 
colour, using 6 shades of zephyr : the same num- 
ber of white, make 10 stripes for centre. For the 
border in the first row put 3 loops in each mesh : 
on the fourth and fifth from the point behind, put 3 
in each mesh : then the first, second and third from 
point, put 4 in each mesh : in the point, put 5. 
At the commencement of each row of the border 
widen 1. This shawl takes 7 oz. tapestry ; the 
centre one has a mesh three-fourths of an inch 
deep : that which goes round last but one, being 
two and a half do. ft 

A Very Elegant Tidy — Is made by casting 
on 60 loops, and narrowing down to 1 ; break it 
off and begin at the 60, tapering off that side. 
The mesh used first row should be a degree less 
in size, to allow for the loop being removed. If 
40 sewing cotton is used, and the tidy darned in 
figures or flowers, you have a lace-like affair. 

Bottle Stand. — Put on 25, with a mesh the 
size of a dress whalebone : 6 rows of these ; then 
put two into every one, and make 10 rows ; then 
do not widen, but pat in a large mesh ; make 16 
rows with 8 shades — 1 row of each shade, and re- 
verse it ; finish it off as you commenced. This 
made of green, shaded, is moss-like and beautiful 
12* (13T) 



138 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

A Tidy, which has an unusual effect, may be 
made by netting straight along (the size yon wish), 
with a small whalebone, and every row missing 1 
loop, and taking and netting the next : being care- 
ful to alternate at the beginning of row. It is best 
to put in a red mark, which you did last Use 40, 
spool cotton. 



CROTCHET. 

It is impossible to enumerate the beautiful and 
useful articles which may be made with this little 
implement — the crotchet needle. It is peculiarly 
convenient — takes up no room, and mostly can be 
when and where no other work wonld be admis- 
sible. It may be made to fill np those tediou? 
" waiting" moments known to all our experience. 

A Table Cover.— Procure £ lb. No. 8 tidy 
cotton : cast it on by making a chain of 5, link- 
ing it, widening as for a mat, and putting in any 
patterns to form a variety. These are pleasant be- 
neath a gas-burner, and either save a costly cover, 
or hide a shabby one. 

Crotchet Bonnet. — 5 spools, No. 8 crotchet 
cotton ; begin at crown, widen till 14 rounds are 
completed ; then do 9 plain rounds ; then widen 1 
in every 10, on the tenth round ; then put in a 
black thread to mark the middle of the back. 
There mast be 12 stitches left in the middle of 
back, and the thread begun on the right side — 
commencing the first 3 or 4 stitches in single 
crotchet, break off the thread at the end of the 
rows. Begin next row 2 off from the last, stop* 
ping do. : do this 7 times, which gives slope 
enough for the neck. Now the face is to be 
begun, by beginning at the first stitch and widen* 
ing 1, also at the last : break off the thread each 
row : do this while making 18 rows. Tou are 
now ready for finish of face and cape. Crotchet 
all round the bonnet 10 times, widening once in 

(189) 



140 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

every 10 stitches on each row ; also, when you 
come to the ears, doing all behind single crotchet. 
The bonnet is double, and looks more chip-like 
made on wrong side. This bonnet can be done 
up at home to look well, Borrow a block from 
your milliner, first putting the bonnet in the wash, 
then starching stiffly and rough-dry: save some 
of the starch, and when dry dip again, and rough- 
dry. Then have the block ready, put the bonnet 
in clear cold water a moment, wring it out dry and 
block it, putting pins at the ears and ends. Set 
in a chair in the sun, throwing a lace over it to 
save soil, while drying. 

Another, open work. — Cast on 4 loops, widen 
for 18 rows : then do 20 rows without widening : 
then drop If loops and do 32 rows, widening at 
each ear : then 4 rows all round the bonnet, (save 
just behind :) then 1 round the face of larger 
loops.— c. s. 

A very pretty finish to crotchet table covers and 
cake tidies is, to make a chain of 5 : then make a 
bag in single crotchet large enough to hold a 
cherry stone ; put it in and work over it. 

Crotchet Shawl. — 5 oz. Shetland wool : cast 
on a chain, as long as you wish the shawl in size. 
Put 4 double crotchet into 1 : leave 2 between, 
and repeat this all across : next row do the very 
same into the centre of the 4 double crotchet 
stitches ail across. You will find a very coarse 
needle will make the work more open and elegant. 
Crotchet all round any pattern you wish, in any 
colour. Here is a useful shawl for 62 cents. 



STRAY RECIPES AND USEFUL 
ARTICLES. 

One of the " minor miseries," in our houses, is 
an army of ants. A chemist informs me they may 
be routed by making a solution of corrosive su- 
blimate 1 oz., sal ammoniac 1 oz., water 8 oz. 
Mix and dissolve. Apply this with a hair pencil, 
to all the places where they " most do congregate." 

Flies. — It is all a mistake-— the use of cobalt 
and fly paper, Ac. They like it, eat it, and die ; 
but scores of other flies come to the funeral, who 
else would not. It is far better, on pleasant days, 
to burn pepper, or any spice, on a shovel, in the 
room. They hate spices, and will flee. 

Hints for Seamstresses. — Sewing cotton, 
such as comes for the use of " Wilson's Sewing 
machines," and called " waxed cotton," is very 
pleasant to sew with, there being no need of wax. 

Needles.— The best sewing needles now in 
use, are said to be " Bate's. "« 

Moths. — Drawers or wardrobes, where wool- 
ens are kept, should be occasionally emptied, and 
left open to the influence of fresh air and sun- 
shine, and all the corners cleared from dust. 
This, and taking care never to put away clothes 
damp, will be most likely to prevent the moth. 

Bake Irons.— The smoll of griddle cakes 
baking, may be avoided by the use of a soap-stone 
griddle, it requiring to be greased once, and only 
once. Costs $1. 

(HI) 



142 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

Nuts at Table. — These may be cracked easily 
and rapidly, by the use of Blake's Nat Cracker. 
Costs 50 cents. 

Moist Bread. — There is a nice box of Ja- 
panned tin, now in use, for keeping bread and 
cake from the air, (which always dries both.) 
Costs from $1 to $3. 

Laundry Iron. — This is a complete iron for 
small articles, both ends pointed, and the face 
highly polished. Costs 37 cents. 

Iron Holders. — Sheet iron next the handle ; 
stuffed, and buckskin next the hand. Cost 25 
cents. 

Liquid Polish. — Embrie's liquid polish, for 
brass, Britannia and tin-ware, performs what it 
promises. It is excellent. Costs 25 cents per 
bottle. — All the above named articles may be had 
at E. W. CarryPs House Furnishing store, 162 
Chestnut street. 

Clough's Premium Furniture Polish.— 

In use by some of our best cabinet makers. Costs 
37 cents per bottle, and may be had of J. S. 
Clough, 138 Chestrfut street. 

Premium Liquid Stove Polish. — This is 
not only more convenient than the powder, but 
will bear to be applied while the stove is hot, 
easily taking a polish, and emitting a pleasant 
smell. For grates or portmantles, thin it a little 
with soft water. Costs 25 cents. 

Almanac. — This fancy instrument is about 
the size of a ten dollar gold piece, and richly gilt 
It is so constructed, that by adjusting on the first 
day of the month, you can tell at an instant's 



SILVER GLASS DOOR KNOBS, ETC. 143 

glance the day of the month and week. It answers 
for not only a year, but for all coming time. It 
is pretty for a Gaba. Costs 25 cents. Can be 
purchased at J. S. Clough's, 138 Chestnut street. 

Silver Glass Door Knobs. — These are a 
most desirable article for street and parlour doors. 
Requiring no cleansing, they are always bright and 
elegant. Being covered with glass, however, 
they will not bear a blow, but with care will last 
for years. They cost $1 15 for front door, and $1 
12£ for bell pull. May be purchased at Dilworth, 
Branson & Co.'s, 73 Market street. 

Cooking Extracts. — These, in a highly con- 
centrated form, are both economical and conve- 
nient. Rose, lemon, vanilla and bitter almond, are 
desirable in cooking. They may be had at Rush- 
ton's, 170 Chestnut street 

Rose and Teaberry Tooth Paste. — These 
are said to contain nothing injurious to the teeth, 
and are purifying and fragrant. 

Antimephitio Aromatic Vinegar. — This 
is desirable for sick rooms and crowded halls, be- 
ing fragrant and reviving. Yerbena water is also 
a desirable article for the sick room. 

Chapped Hands. — There is a nice prepara- 
tion called "Amandine," which is very desirable 
for the toilet in winter. 

The Transparent Ball Soap is the best for ordi- 
nary use on the toilet. For shaving, the " Sa- 
ponaceous Compound" finds great favour, where 
used. These may all be had at Rushton's, (late 
Jules Hauel,) 170 Chestnut street. 



144 THE HOUSE BOOK. 

Potichomania — Is the art of imitating the 
painting on glass or China, and it is truly the imi- 
tation of the most elegant of the Chinese porce- 
lain, Sevres, Japanese or Etruscan vases, and with 
care they are so closely imitated that none but 
connoisseurs can discover, at first sight, the differ- 
ence. The work is very beautiful and very simple, 
and the materials far its manufacture are few and 
inexpensive. First choose some coloured figures, 
representing birds, flowers, &c, rich and clear in 
their colours. The ground colour of the Chinese 
porcelain, is, in general, a greenish white: the 
Sevres, a bluish white : while the Etruscan is almost 
a cane colour. A pair of very fine pointed scis- 
sors will be needed, and a sharp penknife. Have 
ready your vase, select your figures, and proceed 
to cut them out of the sheet with the scissors, 
keeping very close to the work ; a trifle within is 
better, for no white edges must be seen. After 
they are all cut, arrange them on a sheet of paper 
in the way and the place they are to occupy in the 
vase ; afterwards gum them very evenly and care- 
fully on the coloured side. Let them lay until 
the gum rather thickens, and the paper softens : 
then take them up carefully, and place them in 
their proper place on the inside of your vase. 
Press them carefully, with a bit of old linen rag,, 
tight to the glass, and exclude all air from be- 
tween them and the glass ; otherwise bubbles will 
be formed and the work will be spoiled. When all 
are arranged, wipe away the gum that has touched 
the glass, and all soil and finger marks. After all 
is dry and clean, varnish the back of the prints 
with the gum ; when this is quite dry, paint the 
inside of the vase the colour you have selected, 
not by using the brush in the ordinary way, but 



POTICHOMANIA. 145 

by gently touching the inside, as if by a constant 
succession of taps; if not, the prints may be 
loosed from their places. The antennae of the 
butterflies, and many other parts, may be put in 
gold, or by drawing the parts in gum-water, and 
passing gold bronze over them. This must be 
done before the ground is laid. Use all your 
colours clear and bright : the brighter they are the 
better they will appear, and where gold is used, 
the shell, or prepared gold of the artists' kind.— 
ann s. Stephens. (See page 121.) 
13 



HINTS FOR MAKING A CITY GARDEN. 

Many of the yards in cities are small, and not 
much visited by the sun. By a little attention, 
even a shady yard with "moss-covered" bricks, 
may be made to show other signs of verdure than 
this, by planting such shrubbery as will not only 
bear the shade, but do better there. To remove 
the green from bricks, as well as directions for 
reddening them, see page 109. 

The garden implements needed, are — a light 
hoe, a garden trowel, a watering pot, and a vari- 
ety of seeds, roots and bulbs, which can be ob- 
tained at any of the florists'. 

Prepare the soil, if clayey, by putting on a cov- 
ering of sand 3 inches deep, and the same depth 
of well-rotted manure. Spade it in as deep as 
possible, and mix it well. Ashes are good for all 
kinds of soil, as they loosen those which are close, 
hold moisture in those that are sandy, and destroy 
insects. The best kind of soil is that which will 
hold water the longest, without becoming hard 
when dry. 

For Pot Plants. — Take one-fourth common 
soil, one-fourth well- decayed manure, and half ve- 
getable mould from the woods. Break up the 
manure, sift it through a coarse sieve, mix the 
materials thoroughly. 

Planting Seeds. — Never plant when the soil is 
very wet. When the seeds are small many should 
be planted together, that they may assist each 
other in breaking the soil. Never water with very 

* (146) 



TRANSPLANTING, BTC. 14T 

cold water. It is best to plant seeds at two dif- 
ferent times, lest the first should fail, owing to wet 
or cold weather. 

Transplanting. — Transplant at evening, or 
just before a shower. Set them a little deeper 
than before, and press the soil firmly round them. 
Water and cover them a day or two. If the soil 
just around has not been removed, transplanting 
retards but little. 

To Re-pot House Plants. — Renew the soil 
every year, soon after the time of blossoming. 
Prepare soil as above. Loosen the earth from the 
pot by passing a knife round the sides. Turn the 
plant upside down, remove the pot, and remove all 
the matted fibres at the bottom, and all the earth 
except that which clings to the roots. From 
woody plants, like roses, shake off all the earth. 
Take the new pot and put a piece of broken earth- 
enware over the hole at the bottom, and then 
hold the plant in a proper position, shake in the 
earth around it. Now pour in the water to settle 
the earth, and heap in fresh soil till the pot is full. 
Small pots are better than large ones, as the roots 
are not so likely to rot from excess of moisture. 

Bulbs, &c. — Plant the crocus in 10th mo. 
(Oct.) ; cover 2 inches deep and 4 apart. Hya- 
cinths at the same time, 8 inches apart and 3 or 
4 deep, in a rich soil. Jonquils at the same time, 
2 inches deep. These should not be taken up oft- 
ener than once in 3 years. Narcissus also, in this 
month, 4 inches deep, covered with straw and 
leaves through the winter, and uncovered the 
middle of 3d mo., (March.) Plant tulips in rich 
soil at this time, 3 inches deep. Plant tube roses 



148 THX HOUSE BOOK. 

late in the 4th mo., (April,) in a rich soil. They 
are delicate and should be covered, in case of 
frosts. Daffodils should be planted 2 inches deep. 
Bulbs, in glasses, must have the water changed 
every week. 

When they have done flowering, they should bo 
dried, and put in a dry place till 10th mo., (Oct.,) 
when they are to be re-planted, taking off tnc off- 
sets, and putting them in a bed by themselves. 

Annuals. — These should be so planted that 
the tallest may be behind, and flowers of similar 
colour should not be near each other. Many of 
one kind are prettiest together. 

Verbenas.— These flowers are now very po- 
pular. It is best to plant them out in 4th mo., 
(April,) watering them in dry weather, and they 
will flower profusely, lifting some of the plants be- 
fore frosty for winter flowering. They ought to 
be allowed to run according to their nature, for if 
tied up, they will not do so well, being in that 
way much exposed. The purple kind, left out, 
will survive the winters of Philadelphia. 

Pot Plants. — The best situation for plants, in 
pots, is to shade them from the sun, and fully ex- 
posed to the air while blooming. Myrtles and 
Oleanders are very subject to the white scaly in- 
sect, and before the heat of summer begins they 
should be well cleansed. 

Plants coming Into Flower. — Examine 
the beds and keep down the weeds. A garden 
well kept is easily kept. Paint green all the sticks 
which are to be used as props. Sixpence worth 
of green paint refreshes thrice its cost. 

Daisies may be planted out in shady places : the 



CLIMBERS-— ANNUAL CLIMBERS, ETC. 149 

sun destroys them during summer, if exposed. 
Hydrangeas do well in the shade, and will bloom 
{n summer, even if left out in the winter. 

Climbers. — The most beautiful perennial climb- 
ers are sweet-scented monthly honeysuckle, white, 
yellow, and coral do., clematis, purple glycene and 
pea. 

Annual Climbers. — The most desirable are 
white and buff thunbergia, morning glory, rtffi and 
white cypress. The latter two are very pretty, 
planted thickly round the bare trunk of a tree, 
and trained upon strings to the branches above ; 
planted in a line, and trained on a net, these two 
vines look well also. 

Scarlet sage, snowberries and chrysantheums 
pay better for their keep, than almost any other 
products of our city gardens — coming after nearly 
all other flowers nave gone, and bearing slight 
frosts, if covered at nightfall. 

Roses. — Roses in a garden are "a joy for- 
ever." The most desirable for cities, are — the 
grevillie, which will bear any Philadelphia winter: 
the tea, which, with a slight protection, will also : 
the daily, than which no rose is hardier: the moss, 
somewhat difficult of culture, if not in a rich sandy 
soil ; but if fairly established in a rich deep loam, 
its permanency is sure : the prairie rose, " whose 
constitution is such," says Buist, "that it will 
bear the icy breezes of the St. Lawrence, or the 
melting vapours of the Mississippi." It is adapted 
for covering rock-work, old buildings, Ac. It 
also delights in a procumbent posture, and can be 
used to make a flowery carpet of every shade of 
colour. Last, but not least, I can recommend the 
hermosa as being most desirable. The exquisitely 
13* 



150 THE HOUSE BOOK. * 

■ 

capped form of the flower, blooming on and on, 
through the autumn, renders it a perfect charm 
round a cottage, or in a city yard. • 

These varieties may be obtained of Landreth & 
Son, 21 South Sixth street ! 

Grape Vines. — Every one can, with ease, have j 

a rich supply of grapes. A grape vine is orna- t 

mental, even without its fruit. But a few feet of 
ground are needed — under a window, beside a j 

door or lattice, in a corner of the yard, close under j 

a fence : or, if in the country, near the roots of f 

some old stump or tree, or on some hill-side, amid 
rocks and ledges, where, for other purposes, the 
ground is useless ; on the bank of some dancing 
brook, or down on the sunny 6ide of some old 
rock, where beneath its grey mossy side gushes 
forth a spring of crystal water, near which the 
grape almost always does well. Many kinds of 
them are so easily cultivated, and so hardy, that it 
seems wrong to find a dwelling without one. 

The Isabella, Catawba and Elsinburg, best repay 
culture. Previous to planting the vines, care 
should be taken that the ground be well prepared 
for some distance around, for the roots to spread. 
The soil should be deep and dry, and some rich 
compost, or vegetable mould, should be used 
around the roots in filling in : a handful or two of 
wet ashes may be added : plant in 3d mo. (March.) 
It has been proved repeatedly, that the best ma- 
nure for vines, is the branches pruned from the 
vines themselves, cut into small pieces, and mixed 
with the soil by means of a garden hoe. Dr. Lie- 
big mentions several instances of vines being 
kept in a thriving condition for from ten to thirty 
years, by the trimmings of vines alone. If guano 



APPLES, PEARS AND PEACHES, ETC. 151 

is used, 4 lbs. to 33 gallons of water is quite 
strong enough. A very good manure for Tines is 
said to be made by saving all the leaves, and dig- 
ging them in. In the vicinity of Philadelphia, a 
southern exposure is best. There are various me- 
thods of training and pruning the vine : it having 
a tendency to produce its most vigorous shoots at 
the extremities of the branches, and particularly 
so at those which are situated highest; it generally 
happens when it is trained high, that the greater 
portion of the fruit is borne near the top : and 
the fruit produced on the vigorous shoots is gene- 
rally more abundant, and of finer quality than that 
produced on the short lateral ones, from which 
circumstance high training seems best calculated 
for city gardens. It is said that ripe grapes, 
gathered in dry weather, if placed between layers 
of cotton, and kept at a temperature just above 
the freezing point, will keep till spring. 

Apples, Pears and Peaches. — Having 
visited an orchard near Philadelphia, where the 
yield of fine apples and peaches was wonderful, I 
was induced to inquire the method of culture. 
The owner (Edward Garrett) informed me, that 
in the spring he bathes the trunk, and far into the 
branches, with soft soap thinned with lye. When 
the late frosts (which destroy the peach blossoms 
in so many parts of our country,) touch the open- 
ing flowers, he sprinkles plaster upon these flowers, 
carefully going over the whole orchard. These 
peach trees have been in fine bearing for 17 years ! 
He finds that corn and potatoes do well in this 
orchard, while wheat, sown in a comer of it one 
season, he believes was the means of killing several 
fine peach trees. 



152 THE HOUSE BOOK* 

Garden Vases. — Purchase the earthenware 
garden vases, which may be had at the principal 
potteries ; paint them several coats of white, mar- 
bling at the last, if you like it, and yoa have 
vases which are just as beautiful as the costliest 
ware. 

Another. — Take empty kegs in which white lead 
comes, have two colours paint ready, (one white,) 
paint the hoops on both ends white, and half the 
staves alternately ; when three coats of this are 
dry, paint the other staves drab or green : drab is 
prettiest ; and you have a neat garden tub, which, 
in the country, has a pretty effect, and serves 
either for plants, or as a receptacle for weeds, 
which may be pulled up about the grounds. 

The wire and iron garden furniture, are great 
embellishments to our city yards : from the grape- 
vine arbour to the flower stand and cypress trainer : 
while the iron sofas add much to comfort and 
beauty. Yery elegant articles in this line may be 
had at No. 233 Market street. 

Rook Work. — This has a very pleasing effect 
in our city yards, especially if a fountain be the 
central ornament. There is, in Philadelphia, a 
most refreshing one, where the water, dripping 
over and through the rock work, moistens and 
keeps alive a variety of mosses and ferns gathered 
from interesting localities in Europe. These rock- 
eries are made by arranging stones or rocks in 
such shapes as will be agreeable to the eye, leav- 
ing room between them for the growth of ferns, 
climbers, mosses, and other plants, which natu- 
rally flourish among rocks. 



rat 
ipsi 
w> 
iwre 

U 



INDEX. 



ti 

M 

■Is 
r* 

r 

be 
i 



PAGl 

Add, Oxalic 112 

Apples, Iced. 61 

Tapioca. 62 

Float 62 

Crab 76 

to Keep. 96 

Pare. 98 

Apples, 151 

Ante, to KilL 107 

Annuals^ 146 

Almanac, 142 

Arrow Boot, 89 

Asparagus, 88 

Bark, Slip. Elm 86 

Baskets, Rustic. 121 

Bandoline, 100 

Barley Water, 89 

Basket, Moss. 122 

Bake Irons, 141 

Beer, Penny 80 

Ginger. 80 

Horehound. 81 

Beet, Frissled and Liter 16 

Hashed 19 

Boileau M 21 

Alamode 21 

Roast 21 

Steak 29 

Pickled 44 

Beans, String 84 

Lima 86 

Pickled 43 

Biscuit, Milk 8, 9 

Tea 60 

Blancmange in Eggs, 96 

Bleaching Liquid, 104 

Blackberries, 

Blackberry Syrup 

Broth, Mutton and Beet 88 

Bonnet Case, 124 

Bread, Moist 142 

Wheat 6 

Bye and Bran 7 

Butter, 7 

Brawn. 89 



Buns, Philadelphia... 

Burlington.... 

Buena Vista... 

Buns, 

Bulbs,... 



PAGI 
... 61 
... 61 

... 61 

... 65 

. 147 



Burns, Gold Water for 90 

Oake, Soda 10 

Batter. M 10 

Flannel 10 

Buckwheat 11 

Buttermilk 11 

Corn Batter 12 

Cornmeal 12 

without Eggs. 12 

Lady 60 

Golden. 60 

SUrer. 50 

Poor Man's ...... 61 

Cocoa Pound. 61 

Bread. 61 

GocoarNut 61 

Sponge 62 

Grafton 52 

Albany 52 

Meat 27 

Pound 62 

Cup 68 

Black 64 

1,2,8,4. 64 

Kisses 64 

Jelly 64 

Scotch. 64 

Loaf. 64 

without Eggs. 64 

Crullers. 64 

Calf's Head, 24 

Cauliflower, 36,40 

Carrigen, 66 

Cabbage, Boil 36 

Calicoes, to Wash 104 

Cap, Infant's. 134 

Candy, Molasses 70 

Cans, Self-Sealing*. 77 

Carbonated Drink 80 

Carpets, Cleansed 106 



(153) 



154 



INDEX. 



PAOSl PAG* 

Cherry Vinegar, 79 1 Flavors, Peach and Rose 66 

Cherries, Sweet Pickled 44, Floating Island C4 

■ Chocolate, 86, Flour, Patent 10 



Chops, Mutton 27 < Flummery, Rice.. 

Cheese Head, 30 Floors, Ac, staining... 

Chapped Hands, H3 — 

Lips, 90 

Chicken Fricassee, 34 

Chicken, Broiled 23 

Clams, Fried 27 

Climbers, '. 149 

Clothes Dryer 104 

Corns, to Prevent 91 

Court Plaster, 92 

Cottage Furniture, 123 

Cologne, 100 

Corn, to Keep 93 

Coffee, 14 

Cork from a Bottle, 108 

Coral Twigs 120 

Combs, Cleansing 107 

Corn, Green, to Boil 34 

Cookery for the Sick,. 85 

Croquettes, 29 

Cream, Ice 66 

Snow 66 

Whip] 67 

Cold.... "" 112 

f-Mets, Veal.... 25 

Cucumbers, Pickled 40 

Custard, Apple 

Cold 63 

Boiled. 86 

Baked 97 

Custard Pudding*. 63 

Dentrifices, 91, 143 

Divan, 124 

Dolls' Hats, 126 

Dolls, Boy 128 

Door Knobs, 143 

Doughnuts, 54, 55 

Dress, Make 126 

Drawings, to Preserve 115 

Dressing, 

Dumplings, Drop. 20 

Ducks, Boast 

Edging, Tidy. 135 

Eggs, Bolted. 14 

to Keep 94 

JCgg Plant 16 

Extracts, Cooking 143 



C7 
107 
. 141 



Fish, Book „.. 

Fry Fresh*.. 
Boil 



Flies,.. 

Fowls) Boiled. 23 

Fricassee 31 

Fritters, tlam 16 

Corn 16 

Stale Bread ., 68 

Snow 67 

Bun 97 

Fruit, Frosted 75 

Furniture, Polish 142 

Gas Cooking, 83 

Gaiters, to Make 139 

Gingerbread, Hard 50 

Mountain 49 

Gingerbread Nute, 49 

Goose, Roast 25 

Gruel, Com 88 

Oatmeal 88 

Grasses, Crystalixe..... 112 

Grape Vines, 150 

Gravy, Turkey 22 

Gutta Percha, 127 

Guard, a Bound 134 

Ham, Fried -.16, 24 

Bake a 24 

Hams, Salt 45 

Premium 45 

House Plants, Re-pot 145 

Hominy, Boil S3 

Fry S3 

Icing, 55 

Ironing, 100 

Iron Holders, 142 

Ink, Durable 110 

Jam, Quince., 96 

Jelly, Calves' Foot 68 

Gelatine 69 

Tapioca 68 

Currant «... 69 

Apple ~ 69 

Rice.. 69 

Quince 69 

Jumbles, 50 

Ketchup, Tomato. 43 

Lamp Shades, 121 



INDEX. 



155 



m 

... ji 

-fl 

.» 

.5 
.1 
.M 
.8 

.a 
.1( 

!• 
a 

113 

s 

I 

I 



PAOB. 

Laundry Iron^........... 142 

Leather Work, 119 

Lemonade, 80 

Mock 80 

Portable 81 

Liver, Fried 27 

Dried 45 

Liquid Polish, 142 

Loaf; Cinnamon—,,..,. 60 

Macaroni, 

Marmalade, Quince 74 

Mixed 74 

Marble Mantles Cleansed, 109 

Manuscripts Renovated, 115 

Mangoes, Pickled 41 

Martinoes, Pickled 40 

Meat Pudding under, 23 

Measures, 49 

Meringue Apple,... 61 

Medicine, 83 

Medals, to take Impression of 120 

Mitten Wash, 135 

Milk and Farina Boiler, 98 

Moths, 141 

Mutton, Roast. 23 

Mufflers, 183 

Needles, 141 

Nuts at Table, 142 

Nurse's Home, 83 

Nursing, 84 

Oil-doth Wash, 109 

Okra, 93 

Omelet, Baked. 15 

Tomato 16 

Onions, Boil 37 

Pickle 42 

Oysters, Stew 47 

Plant 16 

Fry ....... 27 

Scalloped. 28 

Pickled. 47 

Parsnips, 35 

Pastry, 56 

Another, simpler,* 57 

Paste for Papering, *. Ill 

Painting, Ill 

Paint, Economical Ill 

Panada^ - 86 

Panada, Egg 87 

Barley. «.... 87 

C. F. B. M 87 

Chicken Water 87 

Peas, M 35 



PAQB 

Peaches, Spiced 48 

Pickled . 44 

Uncooked 97 

Pears, 151 

Peaches, 151 

Picture Frames, 122 

Pigeons, 26 

Pig, Roast 22 

Pie, Oyster. 67 

Pot 53 

Mince 58 

Apple 58 

Pie Plant 69 

Planting Seeds,... 144 

Plants coming into Flower, 146 

Plant, Egg 88 

Plums, 44 

Plums, Crystalized.. 76 

Pork, Pickled 44 

Potatoes, Sweet 94 

White 95 

Potato Masher, 98 

Potochomania, 122 

Pot Plants, .*. 144, 146 

Preserved Limes, 73 

Cocoa-Nut,- 71 

Pine Apple, .74 

<ft , « grated,.. 71 
Common Cherries,... 71 

Gooseberries, 72 

Quinces, 72 

Citron Melon, 72 

Pears, 76 

Peaches, 76, 151 

" Uncooked,.. 97 

Prints, Cleaning 115 

Pudding, C. Feet 96 

Winter 96 

Apple ; 97, 59 

Pumpkin 59 

Potato 59 

Green Corn 59, 60 

Flemish 60 

Save All 60 

Cocoa-Nut 60 

Custard 60 

Soda Cracker 60 

Rice 61 

Macaroon 61 

Adelaide's 62 

Cup Batter.- 62 

Boiled Batter 62 

Bread 63 

Delightful 63 

Cottago 63 

Bird's Nest 66 

Apple , <• 



156 



INDEX. 



Podding, 



Tapioca. 
Baked! 



PAG* 

.. 66 
.. 06 



Raspberry Vinegar, 80 

ReIirti,AVrr"/rZ'"Z!.'!'.'.'.'..' 17 

Re-pot Plants, 147 

Ribbons, to Color. 116 

Rolls, Potato. 

French 10 

Roll Pan*, 98 

Rosea 149 

Roaches, Eradicate 112 

Rock Work,*. 162 

Sauce, Pepper 41 

Sandwiches^ ~ 48 

Salmon, to Boil. 32 

Sausage, 18,90 

Sauce, Gaper 1 80 



40 



Celer 



wery 

1, 2, 3, 4, 

Sausage Gutter and Staffer,.... 08 

Salad, Chicken 20, 46 

Scrapple, 80 

Sea-weed, Colored. 112 

Seats, 124 

Shad, Broil 31 

Pickled 48 

Bake. 31 

Boil 

Shews, to Make 126 

Shawl, to Net 137 

Crotchet 140 

Silrer Cleansed, 108 

Slaw, Cold. 86 

Souse, 30 

Soap for House-holes, 107 

Soaps, 101, 102, 143 

8oeks, Infants* 183 

Soup, Beef, Ac., 18 

Gumbo 18 

Okra 19 

Chicken 19 

Pea. 19 

Clam 10 

Vegetable 86 

Portable 20 

Spinach, Boil 88 

Spots, Take Out 114 

Starch, 106 

Stains, Take Out 108 

Stand, Bottle 137 



FA0S 

Store PoH*b*.~........„... 142 

Syllabub, 64 

Syrup, Vanilla- 79 

Strawberry 79 

79 



Table Knives and Forks^. 99 

Table Coyer, to Crotchet. 139 

Tea, .13,86 

Tea, Beef. 88 

Tidy, Chair. 136, 137 

Tomato, Stewed ~ 37 

Broiled. 30 

Baked 31 

Stew 24 

Fried 38 

Omelet 88 

Pickled. 41 

Tooth Paste,.. 143 

Tongue-Preaser,.. 98 

Toy Scrap-Book, 126 

Toys, Children's 126 

Transplanting, 146 

Trifle,^ 64 

Turkey, Roast 22 

TurnoTers, Cold Meat 28 

Vases, Garden 162 

Verbena*. 146,148 

Vegetables, to Keep. 93 

Veal, Roast 22 

Vol au Vent........................... 22 

Waffles, - 11 

Quick 11 

Best 11 

Rice , 11 

Walnuts, Pickled 42 

Water, Gum. 85 

Wall, to Paper 110 

Wash, Camphine 109 

Warts, to Bemore 91 

Weights, 49 

Weak Back, 91 

Whey, Wine. 88 

Whitewashes, 116 

Wine, Currant 82 

Quince 82 

Cherry...... M 82 



Yard, to Red 

Yeast, 

J*7 «• 

Hop ... ... ... ...... ... 



109 
5 
6 
6 



fid 

-MS 

- » 



.: \yjc 



II 


HI 
10 
CI 

91 


m 








I 

I 
I 






r 



%£bC\>Nt> 

MAR 9 8 1959 



